
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
National leaders debate immigration 
Speakers collaborate, differ on reform proposals, economic impact, social justice 
By KAITLYNN REILY Assistant News Editor 
four leading voices in the national debate about immi­gration reform spoke to the Notre Dame community Monday about showing com­passion for the illegal aliens living within American bor­ders while enforcing immigra­tion laws. 
Hay Suarez, a senior corre­spondent for The Newsllour with Jim Lehrer and the mod­erator for the third annual Notre Dame Forum, opened the event in the Joyce Center with a film that provided a face for one of the roughly 12 million immigrants who have come to the U.S. illegally. 
The Mexican immigrant 
knew she was breaking the law but entered the U.S. any­way to live and work so she could pay for her daughters' educations. But the immi­grant, the video showed, was caught, and is certain she will face deportation. 
In the film, Notre Dame the­ology professor Father Daniel Groody spoke about Catholic social teaching on immigra­tion. 
"A nation has a right to con­trol borders," he said. "But it's not an absolute right. In controlling its borders, it must respect human rights." 
Balance between the humanitarian aspects of the immigration debate and its economic, political and legal 
see FORUM/page 4 


ORLH boasts plans for Duncan Hall 
New dorm scheduled to open nextfall; committee encourages students to browse info on Web site 
The ladder system 
Students can view the floor plans of Duncan Hall on the home page of the Office of Residence Life and Housing's Web site. 
Color-coded rooms on the floor plan indicate "super­quads" and "super-doubles," which will have personal bath­rooms. 
The decision to incorporate these features is part of a design envisioned by the Future of Residence Life Committee, ORLH Director Jeff Shoup said. The committee was created three years ago and was co­chaired by Ann Firth, associate vice president of Student Affairs, and Bill Kirk, associate vice president of Residence Life. 
see DUNCAN/page 3 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Professor lectures on Aquinas 
Scholar encourages a skeptical reading 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
A professor from Boston College said St. Aquinas writ­ings should not be taken liter­ally and should be read skepti­cally in the opening of the Philosophy Lecture Series at Saint Mary's Monday. 
Eileen Sweeney spoke on "Reading Thomas Aquinas: Myths, Dangers and Virtues" to about thirty audience mem­bers in Haggar Hall. 
"Aquinas is still, among Catholics, a weapon in the cul­ture wars," she said, adding that, because his writings aren't Scripture, "we should be even more skeptical of him." 
Sweeney's lecture focused on Aquinas' theories and writings -especially his Summa Theologica. She compared her lecture idea to a "top-1 0 list." Sweeney presented three top­six lists -one each on the myths, dangers and virtues of Aquinas' teachings. 
Throughout the lecture, she made various references to the Jesuits' idea of a verbal exami­nation, referencing her father, who underwent such an exam­ination during his youth. She said she thought her father would be proud since, while teaching at Marquette, she "served on a board of examin­ers for young .Jesuits." 
Sweeney also analyzed Aquinas' views on humanity before and after the "fall" from the Garden of Eden. He 
see AQUINAS/page 6 

TeaclUngchange needed, ND theology chair says 
By DAVIS RHORER, Jr. 
News Writer 
If some students find it diflicult to engage in catechetieal study, hearing doctrinal lessons from a peer teacher might solve the prob­lem, the chair of Notre Dame's theology department said Monday. 
John Cavadini addressed ways to revitalize teaching theology, including the two-year Echo faith­formation leadership program. The program aims to allow new students of Catholicism to connect with other young people in the faith. 
Cavadini spoke to a small audi­ence, consisting primarily of theol­ogy students, in the Oak Room in South Dining Hall. He stressed the importance of having a clear belief in Catholic doctrine ­rather than simply a distant knowledge. 
"What's at stake is the revela­tion of God's love to us," he said. 
Experience in high school and college theology classrooms indi­cated to Cavadini how little U.S. students understand of Catholic doetrine, he said. He singled out poor instruction from parish cate­chetical programs. The age differ­ence between students and their catechetical teachers -which averages 55 years -does not always facilitate classroom con­nections. 
see THEOLOGY/page 6 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Self-defense class discussed 
Group deliberates merits of co-sponsoring workshops for women 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) debated Monday becoming a co-sponsor of an upcoming self-defense workshop for women. 
Maura Clougherty, a member of the Residence Hall Association, introduced plans to host Erin Weed, the founder of Girls Fight Back. a safety and self-defense group for women. 
Weed founded Girls Fight Back in 2001 after her friend was murdered, Clougherty said. 
"She is teaching you the 
knowledge and to have the con­fidence to protect yourself." Clougherty said. "Erin Weed shows that women are their best protectors." 
Weed travels and speaks to more than 100,000 women per year for the group, which pro­vides free information to women who could not other­wise afford books or seminars on self-defense. 
Weed's courses are somewhat unconventional, Clougherty said. 
"It's different from other self defense classes," she said. "She is in a business suit and heels." 
The program will be held on Nov. 6 in Carroll Auditorium at 7 p.m. and is free to students. 
Barry Bowles. general man­ager of dining facilities, also spoke to BOG. He anwered some of the board's questions about nutritional information for meals in Noble Family Dining I !all. 
"If you are looking for a nutri­tional source, it's there," Bowles said, referring to the Dining Hall's Web site. 
The site includes nutrition facts and allergy information for all the meals at Saint Mary's, he said. 
see BOG/page 6 


By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 

It doesn't have a mascot yet -but Notre Dame's newest res­idence hall will be in a class of its own, blending the notable qualities of other residence halls on campus. 
When Duncan Hall opens next fall, it will mark the first time the University has added a new residence hall on campus in more than 10 years. 
Located south of Pangborn Hall and east of McGlinn Hall, Duncan will be the newest addi­tion to West Quad. 
Duncan will boast a mixture of single, double, triple and quad-· style rooms, but its most talked­about features are personal bathrooms and bay windows. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 9, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
I -wantn1y 
s-weatshirt 


back 
When I was first told last February 
that I was required to write an 
Inside Column at some point during 
tho snnwster to reeeive a payehnck 
from this nnwspaper, our former 
news nditor told me that the easiest 
thing to write about is something I 
care about. 
So naturally, I John Tiemey 
decided to write 
News Wire 
about skydiving. 
Editor
That might 
havn been a 
good dwiee if I had ever actually 
gone skydiving, but since I hadn't, it 
was slightly sketr.h. 
So today, I'm going to ar.tually fol­
low my editor's advice and writn 
about tho baseball playoffs. 
For those of us who vinw football 
season as a filler from the World 
Serins to Spring Training, the base­
ball playoffs arP the greatest thing to 
hit Ameriea since tlw Deelaration of 
lndep1~mienee. And this year's play­
ofTs arn looking pretty good so far. 
At lnast bntlnr than thn latest ehia 
pnt alarm doek that some spammer 
trine( to snllnw last wonk. 
Wn'vn hnen treated to some great 
games so far, if not necessarily great 
series. (;ames likn (;;une 2 of the 
Yank1ws-lndians snries-which was 
a groat pitchers' duPI (Fausto 
Carmona is a bailer) and gavn us 
two innings of bonus baseball -arn 
any baseball fan's drnam. 
Best o(all. it ended with a bunch of angry New Yorkers whining about tlw angry bugs swarming the field and conspiring to lix the gam11, as if gnats wern NBA refs or something. 
Games like Game 3 of the Cubs­
Diamondbacks series turn me on 
too. Especially since I'm aD-Backs 
fan. And we won. When Livan 
llernandez got Mark DeHossa to hit 
into a DP in the bottom of the fifth, 
even someone who was in my room 
to wateh the NO-UCLA game and 
who was a self-described "very 
small Twins fan" got excited about 
it. 
While we're talking about the D­Backs, I'd like everyone to know that Stephen Drew is a future Hall of Farner. 
You heard it here first. 
lie's a great defensive shortstop, and if this series was any indication, he's putting it together offensively too (not that three games can really indicate anything). 
The Hed Sox's 6-3 win over the Los Angeles Angles of Anaheim in Game 2, which the Sox won on a ninth inning three-run. walk-off homer by Manny Hamirez ofT the great closer Frankie Hodriguez, was a classic too. I'm no Sox fan, but Manny's homer was orgasmic. 
So what's the moral of this story'? 
Well. as I'm sure you've probably gathered by now, I'm not smart enough to come up with a moral. So there mally isn't one. 
Uut if you're not watching the playoffs. you should. Because they're amazing. And if you are, keep it up. 
And go Diamondbacks! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact John Tierney at jtil'rne 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editing error, rhe from-page photo of rhe Ocr. !! Irish Insider was amihured to Vanessa Gem pis. Jessica Lee rook rhe photograph. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SHOULD THE NOTRE DAME FORUM FOCUS ON NEXT YEAR? 



Tiffanie lng  Brier Steenberge  Mary Saxer  Kevin Healey  Rob Lindley, Jr.  
freshman  sophomore  junior  freshman  senior  
Badin  Dillon  Lewis  Sorin  Keough  
"Global  "Texas."  "Poverty. "  "Healthcare."  "National  




warming. 


Golden retriever nurses stray kitten 
STEPHENS CITY, Va. -A stray kitten has found a new mother in a golden retriever, who began producing milk for the gray tabby after hearing its cries. 
The hungry kitten, found in an old tire at a concrete plant, refused to drink from a bottle and her rescuers feared she would die. That's when Honey, the family dog who hadn't given birth in 18 months, stepped in with her motherly instincts. 
"She started licking her and loving her. Within a couple of days. Honey started naturally lactating," said Kathy Martin, whose husband, Jimmy, brought the kitten home six weeks ago. "The kitten took right to her." 

Initially, the family worried such a big dog would be too rough for the tiny feline named Precious. 
Man faces prison for doughnut thefth 
FARMINGTON, Mo.-It's a hefty price for a pastry: A man accused of stealing a 52­cent doughnut could face time in jail. Authorities said Scott 
A. Masters, 41, slipped the doughnut into his sweatshirt without paying, then pushed away a clerk who tried to stop him as he fled the store. 
The push is being treated as minor assault, which transforms a misdemeanor shoplifting charge to a strong­armed robbery with a poten­tial prison term of five to 15 years. Because he has a crim­inal history, prosecutors say they could seek 30 years. 
"Strong-arm robbery? Over a doughnut'? That's impossi­ble," Masters told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch from jail. He admitted that he took the pastry but denied touching the employee. "There's no way I would've pushed a woman over a doughnut." 
Information compiled by the AssociatedPress. 

politics." 
IN BRIEF 
The exhibit "The Camera and the Hainbow: Color in Photography" will bB showing today from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery, Snite Museum of Art. Admission is free. 
The dance performance "Pilobolus" will be held tonight at 7::~0 at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Decio Mainstage Theatre. Tickets are $15 for students. 
There will bo a lecture titled, "Shakespeare's Dark Matter" today at S p.m. in 155 DeBartolo. Clare Asquith, author of "Shadowplay: The Hidden Beliefs and Coded Politics of William Shakespeare," will speak as part of this year's Catholic Culture Lecture Series. 
Schola Musicorum will per­form "Abend Musique" Wednesday at 8:30 p.m. in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3. 
The 5 Browns will perform a piano concert Thursday at 
7:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Student tickets are $15. 
Nick Shepherd, senior exec­utive vice president and COO of Blockbuster, will speak at the Jordan Auditorium Friday at 10:40 a.m. as part of the Mendoza School of Business' Boardroom Insights lecture series. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

. \ '--;\lt· 
. '\.y--""/\~.
,, 
~~ ~~ 
~' /~ 
~ff~ 

HIGH 59 HIGH 61 LOW 39 LOW 41 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: LLI :::z::: 
,,\~:~\~~tt ' 
~ 
~~/ \~
LLI 
.;;;;.,..( ~~ 
..,;..,.\ -~ 

•• & $
~ 
·~--~--~ 
..... 
"'lN
<( 
CJ 

....0 HIGH 74 HIGH 70 HIGH 55 HIGH 58 LOW 47 LOW 45 LOW 47 LOW 43 
Atlanta 86 I 59 Boston 62 I 54 Chicago 75 I 47 Denver 88 I 51 Houston 92 I 67 Los Angeles 76 I 54 Minneapolis 67 160 New York 77 I 62 Philadelphia 85 I 63 Phoenix 99 I 76 Seattle 58 I 53 St. Louis 71 I 67 Tampa 88 175 Washington 70 162 
---------------------------------------------------------------• 
Tuesday, October 9, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Symposium focuses on energy 
Event to highlight environmental research during green week 
Special to The Observer 
The sixth annual symposium on Notre Dame Environmental Education and Research (NDEER) will be held Wednesday from 8:15 a.m. to 
4:15 p.m. in the McKenna Hall auditorium. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Energy Center, the Office of Research, the Seng Foundation Endowment for Market Based Programs and Catholic Values, and Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, NDEEH 2007 will focus on energy and the environ­ment. 
Since its inception in 2001, the purpose of NDEER has been to highlight the depth and diversity of environmental research occurring through­out the University and to develop closer ties among the large, multidisciplinary groups of faculty on campus. 
Plenary speakers for the 2007 program include John Ledyard, Allen and Lenabelle Davis Professor of Economics and Social Sciences at the California Institute of Technology and Rodney Ewing, Donald R. Peaeor Collegiate Professor of the Department of Geological Sciences at the University of Miehigan. 
Michael J. Mudd, chief exec­utive officer of FutureGen Alliance, a public-private partnership working to build the world's first coal-fueled, near-zero emissions power plant, was originally sched­uled to be a plenary speaker, but will be unable to attend due to an unexpected conflict. Frank lncropera, H. Clifford and Evelyn A. Brosey Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Matthew H. McCloskey Emeritus Dean of the College of Engineering, will deliver Mudd's talk. 
Ledyard pioneered work on the theoretical foundations and applications of mecha­nism design and contributed greatly to the understanding of the roles of incentives and information in markets and organizations. His more applied work has included the development of computer­assisted markets for trading pollution rights, managing resources for spacecraft and instrument design, acquiring logistics contracts, and swap­ping portfolios of thinly traded securities and decision mar­kets. 
Ewing's research involves issues related to nuclear waste disposal. He also is an emeritus regents' professor at the University of New Mexico, where he was a member of the faculty from 197 4 through 1997. He will present a fea­tured lecture focusing on nuclear energy issues in the 21st century. 
Each guest speaker also will participate in a special break­out session facilitated by Notre Dame faculty and in a moderated panel discussion at the end of the conference. 
NDEER 2007 occurs during the University's first ever Energy Week, a student-spon­sored event promoting respon­sible energy use and high­lighting the energy research occurring on campus. The week's theme is "Get Your Green On." 
According to Joan F. Brennecke, the Keating­Crawford Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and Director of the Energy Center, it is vital that students understand and participate in finding solutions for the energy challenges they will face. Activities focused on energy education and aware­ness are planned for each day and include a display of elec­tric cars and hybrid motorcy­cles, solar charge stations for students to power small elec­tronic devices, a calories-to­kilowatts display, carbon diox­ide footprint calculators that students will use to measure their impact on climate change, a wind turbine display constructed by students, infor­mation on renewable energy sources, tours of the Notre Dame power plant, and show­ings of documentaries and energy focused movies such as "A Crude Awakening: The Oil Crash," "Kilowatt Ours" and "An Inconvenient Truth." 

Duncan 
continued from page 1 
The committee gathered a group of faculty members, rec­tors, students and assistant rec­tors to suggest how Duncan would continue the tradition of a rich dorm life at Notre Dame, Shoup said. As a group, they agreed Duncan should model the residence life of older halls such as Morrissey, Alumni and Dillon, using the "ladder system" con­cept. 
"In the ladder system, you start off in a smaller room your fresh­man year, but the longer you stay in the hall, the bigger and better 
your room will get," Shoup said. 
"We feel that we've lost touch with that concept in the newer, more cookie-cut­ter dorms in Mod Quad or West Quad over the past few years, and we're happy to say that we are able to accom­plish that with Duncan." 
A community feel Built to accom­modate 234 male 
"In the ladder 
experience. If 

system, you start off in you talk to peo­a smaller room your ple at St. freshman year, but the Edward's, they 
like how the

longer you stay in the 
chapel is located

hall, the bigger and bet­
on the second 

ter your room will get." 
floor. By incorpo­rating some of Jeff Shoup these little things we've heard
director 
about into

Office of Residence Life 
designing

and Housing 
Duncan, we're 

residents at all four class levels, Duncan will also help eliminate some of the overcrowding in male dorms. Aside from the group of freshmen who will be living in Duncan next year, ORLH is. still finalizing how upperclassmen will enter a lottery to live in the dorm. 
"We're kind of in the beginning phases of talking to rectors on how to fill up Duncan Hall," Shoup said. "Of course, we don't want to make it just a freshman place, and so we're encouraging students to explore Duncan to a greater degree on the ORLH Web site." 
The three-story Duncan Hall will be air-conditioned and con­tain study rooms on each wing. It will also have an exercise room, kitchen, elevator and laundry facilities. To create a sense of community, there will be large social common areas on each floor. Like in St. Edward's Hall, the dorm chapel will be located on the second floor, 
"When you look at the way [West Quad] is set up, it seems more separated from the commu­nity," said Shoup. "But we want it to be more of a centerpiece for the community 
going to have it 

reach out into the greater community." 
As the building is being built, ResLife will continue to make progress in the upcoming months to determine how the Resident Assistants and Hall Government Council will be selected. A mascot has yet to be determined. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 9, 2007 
ForuiD 
continued from page 1 
considerations was a topic the panelists debatfld -with much disagreement -for nearly two hours. 
The panel members were Louis Barletta, the mayor of llazleton. Pa., Cardinal Hognr Mahony, the archbishop of Los Angeles, Sen. Mnl Martinez, H-Fla., and Gov. Janet Napolitano, D-Ariz. 
Napolitano said she eon­fronts tlw issue of immigra­tion daily in Arizona where, she said. 4,000 illegal immi­grants are apprehended daily. 
Napolitano said the U.S. needs bnttnr border security and bettnr documentation. but also must provide more visas to keep up with demand. 
The hard part of the debate, Napolitano said, is to decid11 what to do with the millions of illegal immigrants already in the country. 
"Dealing with those 12 mil­lion who are alrmuly IH1re and havn alrnady raised tlwir fam­ilios hen1 ... is a vPry dirtkult issun to confront," she said. 
It is an isstw that Barletta has alrnady tried to address. In 2006, Barlotta signed an ordinance that would punish businnssns and landlords in llazlnton that knowingly hired or harbored illngal immi­grants. The eity is currently fighting in court challenges to thP constitutionality of thn ordinanco, which has not yot gorw into dfert. 
llazlnton's grPatest asset is "tlw q u a I ity of I i fn that we enjoy," Barletta said. Criminal activities committed by illegal immigrants motivated him to enaet the ordinance to dis­courage illegal aliens from living in the town, he said. Barletta offered several examples of violent crime committed in Hazleton by ille­gal immigrants, including a domestic stabbing incident and murder. 
"It's unfortunate because not everyone who is here is working hard and a nice per­son," he said. 
Martinez, who is the 

The Catholic Church has "walked with every single wave of immigrants" -both legal and illegal -since the 1780s, said Mahony, the arch­bishop of Los Angeles. 
"We have a moral responsi­bility to deal with the 12 mil­lion people that are here," he said. ''I'm saddened and dis­appointed at the inability of our Congress to pass mean­ingful legislation." 
The division created by the issue of immigration was evi­
dent in 
several 
only immi-exchanges
"One ofthe sad legacies

grant in between 
the U.S. ofour failure to act is that panelists. Senate and cities across America will do Mahony, 
the first after lis­
what Hazleton has done 

Cuban­tening to 
American and the other cities will Barletta 
to hold a become sanctuaries. " describe Senate his city's seat, dis­ordinance,
Mel Martinez 

agreed told him w i t h the ordi-
U.S. senator 

Barletta's nance elaims and others about criminal tendencies of like it -are creating fear illegal immigrants. within immigrant groups 
"I rnalize that in any group across the country. there are going to be those The Catholic Church, who are here to work hard Mahony said, would not issue and those who are here to similar dictums. make trouble," he said. "We will serve anybody who 
The problem. he said, is comes," he said. "We will that the U.S. Congress failed never be asking for docu­to pass comprehensive immi­ments for our schools, our gration reform this summer. parishes, our sacraments, Congress needs to sign a bill, whatever. We are just not Martinez said, that secures going there." the country's borders while When Suarez asked if the recognizing U.S. labor needs. Catholic Church could take an The bill should also confront a Ia carte view toward the the problem of the millions of civil code, Mahony responded illegal immigrants living with­that if a law restricts the right in U.S. borders, Martinez of the Church to minister to said. the people, the Church has a 
"higher law that supersedesit... Mahony's statements gar­nered applause. Suarez then asked the audience to stop clapping for the remainder of 
the two-hour forum and "do moral reasoning on a some­what higher level than 'yeah,' 
'boo.'" 

Some audience members spoke toward the forum's end, when Suarez allowed several Notrfl Dame students to ask prepared questions. 
Michelle Saucedo, a sopho­more from Arizona, described how her father was deported to Mexico seven years ago, which left her mother in charge of supporting and rais­ing four children. 
Family separation was a familiar experienee for Martinez, who said he was away from his family for four years when he first arrived in the United States. lie agreed with Napolitano's earlier assessment that the govern­ment must issue more visas to keep up with the demand. 
Sophomore David VanEgmond asked a question that Napolitano said got to the basic point of the debate. The illegal immigrants who have entered the U.S. have commit­ted a crime, he said. 
"Why show them a dispro­portionate amount of compas­sion?" he asked. 
The simple answer to the question, Napolitano said, is if you are here illegally, you should go. But the complicat­ed reality, she said, is that the 
U.S. government can't just deport 12 million people. 
The real answer must be a compromise through which 
the government prohibits ille­gal aliens from gaining citi­zenship unless they fulfill spe­cific requirements, such as paying a fine, waiting in line behind those going through the process legally and learn­ing English, she said. 
The system must allow ille­gal immigrants to "gp,t out of the shadows," Napolitano said. 
The federal government has failed to reform thf1 immigra­tion system, Napolitano said, so state and city ort1cials like she and Barletta have had to move forward independently. 
Martinez said he recognized the stress the federal govern­ment's failurfl to enact reform would put on state legislators. 
"One of the sad legacies of our failure to aet is that eities across America will do what Hazleton has done and the othflr eities will become sanc­tuaries," he said. 
Barletta said that his town's proposfld ordinance has ere­ated a ripple efTeet, as many of the illP-gal immigrants in Hazleton have moved down the road to neighboring com­munities. 
According to a News and Information artiele, about 
3,000  people  attended  
Monday's forum.  
The forum  was  the third  

since Father John Jenkins was inaugurated as University president. The 2006 forum addressed the global health crisis, and in 2005 forum par­ticipants discussod the rolo of religion and faith in a plural­istic world. 
Contact Kaitlynn Reily at kreily@nd.edu 

NEW STUDY AE>ROAD OPPORTUNITY 



at Chinese Universit_y of 





Hong Kong 
Arts  "~  Medicine  
5usiness  '\ Science  
Engineering  " Social Science  

Learn about the possibilities on Monda_y, October 8 
or Tuesda_y, October 9 at 5:)0 PM 117 DE5ARTOLO 
No Chinese language re9uired 
---------------------------....., 
ORLD & NATION 
~ 


Tuesday, October 9, 2007 CoMPILED FROM TI-IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Sudan attacks key town in Darfur 
KIIAHTOUM -In a widening offensive, Sudanese forces on Monday attacked a southern Darfur town controlled by the only rebel group that has signod a peace deal with the government. 
The fighting could be a blow to peace talks due this month in Libya aimed at find­ing peace for Darfur. Organizers were already struggling to ensure the fragmented rebel factions would attend, and the new attack could deepen rebel mistrust of the govnrnment. 
It also appeared to be an expansion of an offnnsive the government military has been waging for the past month in northern Darfur, despite promises by President Omar ai-Bashir for a coase-fire ahead of the peace talks. 
Interpol hunts for pedophile suspect 
PARIS -He apparently traveled the world sexually abusing young boys, but remained unidentifiable -until now. 
Police in Europe have unscrambled digitally altemd images found on the Internet to reveal the face of a man shown abusing boys in Vietnam and Cambodia. 
Interpol released four reconstructed photos of the suspected pedophile on Monday in an unprecedented public appeal for help, hoping that someone, somewhere, will recognize the man whose identity and nationality remain a mystery. 
The response has been encouraging: about 200 messages in just over 12 hours, Interpol said. 
But the decision to unmask him is not with­out risk: Tipping criminals off to the techniques that police have at their disposal could also prompt them to better hide their identities. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

2 Americans, Briton win Nobel Prize 
NEW YOHK -As a child in Italy during World War II, he lived for years on the streets and in orphanages. Six decades later, as a scientist in the United States, Mario Capecchi joined two other researchers in winning the Nobel Prize in medicine. 
Their work led to a powerful and widely used technique to manipulate genes in mice, which has helped scientists study heart dis­ease, diabetes, cancer, cystic fibrosis and other diseases. 
The $1.54 million prize was awarded Monday to Capecchi, 70, of the University of Utah in Salt Lake City; Oliver Smithies, 82, a native of Britain now at University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, and Sir Martin J. Evans, 66, of Cardiff University in Wales. 
Their "gene-targeting" technique lets sci­entists deactivate or modifying individual genes in mice and observe how those changes affect the animals. That in turn gives clues about what those genes do in human health and disease. 

Boot camp guards charged in death 
PANAMA CITY, Fla. -An attorney for one of seven boot camp guards charged with killing a 14-year-old boy said Monday that the juvenile ofl'ender was kneed and hit "strictly according to procedure," and that guards had no way of knowing about the medical condition the defi:mse says caused his death. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Gunman surrenders, ends standoff 
HOCKPOHT, Ind. -A gunman who holed up in his van in downtown Hockport after a police chase is in jail after he surrendered to police. 
Indiana State Police Sgt. Chad Dick says William L. Hush. of Clover Port, Ky., surren­dered peacefully about 4:15 p.m. after a standoff that began about 1 p.m. 
Police were pursuing the man after a domestic disturbance when he stopped his van near a grocery store and refused to come out. Police say he was armed with a handgun. No one else was in the vehiele. 
There were no injuries. 

Young deputy kills six in Wisconsin 
Assailant flew into rage after rejection by ex-girlfriend, dies while shooting at police 
Associated Press 
CHANDON, Wis. -A young sheriff's deputy who opened fire on a pizza party and killed six people reportedly flew into a rage when he was rebuffed by his old girlfriend, and oth­ers at the .gathering called him a "worthless pig." 
A longtime friend told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel on Monday that 20-year-old Tyler Peterson eame to his door in the hours after the rampage and calmly explained what he had done. 
"IIe wasn't running around crazy or anything. lie was very, very sorry for what he did," Mike Kegley told the newspaper, adding that he gave Peterson cof­fee and food and later called 911. 
Peterson told Kegley that he had gone to his ex-girl­friend's house early Sunday morning in hopes of patching up the relation­ship after a recent breakup. But, he said, Peterson lost control when the meeting ended in an argument and other people started ridiculing him as a "worthless pig." 
Kegley declined to com­ment when reached by The Associated Press. 
Police, who declined to provide details of the argu­ment, said Peterson stormed out, retrieved an AR-15 rifle from his car outside and burst back into the house firing 30 shots that killed all but one of the people at the party. 
"We had no idea, obvi­ously, that anything like this would ever occur," Crandon Police Chief John Dennee said at a news con­ference Monday. 
Peterson, a deputy and part-time police officer, later died after exchanging gunfire with law enforce­ment officers. Whether Peterson was shot by police or took his own life was unclear. 
The rampage raised questions in the remote northern Wisconsin com-


munity of 2,000 about how Peterson could have met requirements to become a law enforcement officer, especially after police acknowledged Monday that Peterson received no psy­chological screening before he was hired. 
Some questioned the wis­dom of hiring someone so young. 
"No person that I've ever known at 20 years old was responsible enough to be a police officer," said Steve Bocek, of Oak Creek, whose nephew Bradley Schultz was killed. "It's unbelievable. You don't have the mind to be a police officer. It takes a lot." 
But Crandon city attor­ney Lindsay Erickson said age doesn't matter as long as officers do their jobs well. Peterson testified for her in several cases. He wrote good reports and was "true to his job," she said. 
"From what I saw of him, I didn't see any warning signs or red flags," Erickson said. 
Peterson was hired as full-time deputy sheriff on Sept. 11, 2006, at the age of 19, according to person­nel records released by the Forest County clerk. His yearlong probation ended last month. 
Dr. Phil Trompetter, a police psychologist in Modesto, Calif., estimated at least 80 percent of states require psychological test­ing of prospective officers. 

"Wisconsin must be in a very small minority of states," he said. 
The Wisconsin Department of Justice Law Enforcement Standards Board requires only that applicants be free of any emotional or mental condi­tion that might hinder them in their duties. It does not say how that is determined. 
No formal national stan­dards exist for hiring police, although individual states are adopting requirements such as mandatory psychological tests, said Craig Zendzian, author of several guide­books for police applicants. 
AFGHANISTAN 

Govern111ent executes 15; U.N. protests 
Associated Press 

KABUL-Ending a three-year mora­torium on the death penalty, Afghanistan executed 15 prisoners by gunfire, including a man convicted of killing three foreign journalists during the U.S.-led invasion, the prisons chief announced Monday. 
The United Nations protested the executions, which could complicate the missions of some NATO nations here. 
The mass execution took place Sunday evening according to Afghan law, which calls for condemned prison­ers to be shot to death, said Abdul Salam Ismat, who oversees Afghanistan's prisons. 
The crimes committed by those exe­cuted included murder, kidnapping and armed robbery, but officials said no Taliban or al-Qaida fighters were among the prisoners. 
Until it was ousted in late 2001, Afghanistan's hard-line Taliban regime carried out executions in public, many of them at the Kabul stadium. The new government pledged to the internation­al community it would halt executions, and had carried out only one previous­ly, in 2004. 
The 15 deaths could complicate rela­tionships between the government and some NATO countries with military forces here. Foreign troops often hand over captured militants to the Afghan government, raising the question of whether countries that do not use the death penalty might stop surrendering prisoners. 
The Netherlands was one of the first to criticize the Afghan announcement, calling the executions "extremely unwelcome." But it also said Dutch troops would continue to transfer mili­tants to the Afghan government, saying it had an agreement protecting those prisoners from execution. 
Anger over the executions also could prove a snag for NATO's efforts to get its member nations to send more troops to Afghanistan. NATO has some 40,000 soldiers here but commanders complain they need more helicopters, mobile troops and instructors to train the Afghan army. 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-

page 6 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 9, 2007 
BOG 
continued from page I 
BO<; membjers suggested put­ting more whole wheat pasta on Uw nwnu. adding frnsh fruit as a dinner option and having chi<:k­en nuggets on the menu from time to time. 
In other BOG news: 
• Cassie Calion, the Student Activities Board coordinator, announced there will be a pumpkin carving contnst on Oct. 
29. It will be held in the West Wing of Noble Family Dining /lalf from 7-<J p.m. Food and prizes will be awarded. 
+ 
Calion also said Sodexho will sponsor a "(;o Belles" tail­gatn today from 4-7 p.m. by the soccer fields, and that the dining half will be closed during those hours. 

+ 
Abby llinchy, the Student Diversity Board president, said l.atifa Oudghiri will discuss the Muslim holiday of Hamadan today at 6:30. Tho AI-Zahra Club is sponsoring the event, which will bn hnld on the first lloor of Cushwa-Leighton library. 


• llinchy discussed National Coming Out Day, which is Thursday. A panel of Saint Mary's students, faculty and alumni will discsuss tolnranc:e at Saint Mary's at Dalloways today at 7 p.m. There will also bn side­walk chalk decorating Wedrwsday at 7 a.m. The library will hand out rainbow pins Thursday. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @sai n tmarys.edu 

~tEO ~PifrnW"IGOrN 
Thursdoy October 11, • 7:30 pm Thv Stotv Thvotrv 
nckmK!'~.::!~a't t'!~h.JI!~. Box 
Olllce. all Tkketmast"' locations, Chart• by phone 269fl7l-7000 or online www.tlcketmastctr.<om 
Frldqy F•brUQry 29, 2008 • 8:00 pm Morris Performing Arts Center South Bend. lndlono 

Students said they attended both for class requirements
Aquinas 
and to support the philosophy continued from page 1 
and religious studies depart­
ments. believed that age, gender, "I'm a religious studies size and other features are minor and so ... to support all results of the "fall" and the majors initiative to put on that only certain aspects of beneficial lectures," senior these will s u z y be retained Swygart 
af'ter resur­"It's just really said. "It's rection. interesting because just really 
A f t e r interesting
Aquinas' theologies and
speaking at because 
length on philosophies have changed Aquinas' 
the dangers ethics, or heavily theologies and myths and philos­
influenced ethics and
assoeiated ophy have
philosophy. " 
w i t h changed Aquinas, ethics, or Sweeney Suzy Swygart heavily 
addressed inl'luenced
senior

the virtues. ethics and 
This por-philoso­tion of the lecture addressed phy." the many differences and The lecture series is sepa­similarities Aquinas' world rate from a series on Aquinas has with our own. presented by the religious 
"The medieval world is studies department. more active in our world than we would like to think," she Contact Mandi Stirone at said. astironeO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

"Watering ldoetrine] down is dimmmt from making it accessi­


Theology 

ble," Cavadini said. Cavadini asked the audience
continued from page I 

about fundamental difl'erences The Echo program is d11signed between living the faith and 
to train Notre Dame and Saint holding personal subjective Mary's students during the sum­views of it, a problem that he mer to become catechetical min­said is also an issue with mod­isters for other young students. ern interpretations of The program's period of mnntor Catholidsm. training in an area parish will "Catechesis must grant 
allow the students to be sure of access," he said. "It is the laying themselves in of information their teaching, that is also for­he said. mation at the 
"If you want "Watering {doctrine/ same time." to teach some­down is different lie joked 
one, the best about the diller­
from making it 
way is not to ence between hand them a accessible . " truly believing piece of paper, something in but to live a life one's heart and
John Cavadini 
that is so trans­engaging in
professor
formed by th~ impersonal 
creed, Department of Theology "cocktail party" Cavadini said, conversation. emphasizing "One of the the method of most salient fea­teaching he hoped his pro~,rram tures of our undergraduates is would provide to elementary that they don't know much students. about the Catlwlic faith," he He elaborated further on the said. difference between knowledge and belief -and stressed that good instruction does not mean Contact David Rhorer at simplifying doctrine. drhorer@nd.edu 
CRiTICAL THINKING AND SUCCESS 

The CONTRIBUTIONS of ARTS & LETTERS MAJORS to SOCIETY, BUSINESS & GLOBAL RELATIONS 
Keynote Presenter: JerryA. Castellini President & Founder CastleArk Management NO '79 Economics 
Wednesday, October 1Oth 6:00 -7:30 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
Joined by Alumni Panelists: Kate Lutkus, ND '04 Political Science I Sociology Mallory Brown, ND '06 Political Science I German Bethany Heet, ND '98 Spanish I Anthropology 
Co-sponsored by: 
~Ibe Career Center • The College ofArts and Letters 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, October 9, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  14,043.73  -22.28  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,502  88  812  3,049,159,208  
AMEX  2,400.52  -15.12  

NASDAQ 2,787.37 +7.05 NYSE 10,186J43 -61:50 S&P 500 1,552.58 -5.01 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 17,225.33 +160.29 FTSE 100 'London~ 6,540.90 -54.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS INC (JAVA) +4.31 +0.25 6.05 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.53 -0.83 155.02 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.63 -0.33 53.15 VONAGE HOLDINGS (VG) +123.48 +1.42 2.57 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -0.. 04 -0.002 4.638 13-WEEK BILL -0.13 -0.005 3.865 30-YEAR BOND -0.21 -0.010 4.861 5-YEAR NOTE +0.05 +0.002 4.338 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.20 79.02 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -8.50 738.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.43 87.43 

Exchange Rates 
YEN 117.3650 EURO 0.7120 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9863 BRITISH POUND 0.4914 


IN BRIEF 
Power generating firm settles lawsuit 
WASHINGTON -One of the nation's largest power generators has agreed to end a years­long federal lawsuit by paying $4.6 billion to reduce pollution that has eaten away at Northeast mountain ranges and national land­marks. The Associated Press has learned. 
The settlement requires American Electric Power, based in Columbus, Ohio, to reduce chemical emissions that cause acid rain by at least 69 percent over the next decade. 
It also lines AEP an additional $15 million in civil penalties and another $60 million in cleanup and mitigation costs to help heal parkland and waterways that have been hurt by the pollution. 
Details of the agreement were provided by two people familiar with its terms who spoke on condition of anonymity Monday because it had not yet been filed in federal court. Spokesmen for AEP declined comment Monday. 

Referendum seems to uphold CAFfA 
SAN JOSE, Costa Rica-Costa Ricans pre­pared on Monday to join a controversial free trade agreement with Central American neigh­bors, the Dominican Republic and the U.S. after a thin majority apparently backed the pact in a national referendum. 
But even Sunday's vote on the Central Amflrican Free Trade Agreement did not end a yearlong battle over the agreement. 
OpponenL'i said they will wait for a mandatory recount, set to begin Tuesday, before recognizing the referendum's results. The ballot-by-ballot recount is mquired by Costa Hican law. and can last no longflr than two weeks. 
With 97 percent of precincts reporting Monday, 

51.5 percent of Costa Hicans voted in favor of the trade deal, which is known as CAFTA. 
Costa Hiea was the lone holdout among the six Latin American nations that now constitute the trade bloc. The pact has already taken effect in the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and El Salvador. 

UAW sets deadline for concessions 
Wednesday strike date may be response to Chrysler's bold pushes for cost cutting measures 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Ifthere was a script that automakers were supposed to follow for UAW contract talks, Chrysler seems to have overlooked it. 
As negotiations contin­ued Monday at Chrysler LLC's Auburn Hills head­quarters, the United Auto Workers set a deadline of Wednesday morning to agree on a new contract, or else workers could strike. 
The deadline may be a tactic the union is using to squeeze some more con­cessions from the compa­ny. But it also may be that Chrysler isn't just going to agree to the same terms that General Motors Corp. did last week just beeause that's how it's traditionally done. 
Chrysler's needs are dif­ferent from GM's require­ments, analysts said. so a deal requires cost cuts in different places. 
The union may have set the strike deadline for its 49,000 hourly workers because of how far Chrysler wants to push for cost cuts. 

"We think that they may be holding out for some­thing more than GM got," said Aaron Bragman, an industry analyst for the consulting firm Global this time, analysts say, are an average of $75.86 per U.S. factories, and it wants Insight. health care givebacks hour in wages, pension to hire out parts trans­
The UAW went on strike granted to GM and Ford and health care costs, the portation rather than pay for nearly two days last Motor Co. in 2005 that highest among the Detroit full UAW wages for it, the month before coming to a Chrysler didn't get, worth automakers. analysts said. tentative agreement with approximately $340 mil­Several analysts also said Job security could be a GM on Sept. 26. Workers lion a year. the company and union tough issue because with the nation's largest A person briefed on the likely are apart on setting Chrysler and its new automaker are expected to negotiations said the two up a Chrysler-funded owner, Cerberus Capital wrap up voting on the sides have not agreed on union-run trust that would Management LP, would be agreement by Wednesday. giving the same deal to take on the company's reluctant to commit to 
The union normally set­Chrysler. The person roughly $18 billion in huge investments when the tles with one U.S. requested anonymity retiree health care costs. company is looking at automaker and then uses because the talks are pri­Unlike GM, Chrysler also potentially cutting some that deal as a pattern for vate. may be against giving spe­models, said David Cole, an agreement with the Higher health care costs cific job security promises chairman of the Center for other two. are one big reason why by guaranteeing new cars Automotive Research in 
Among the differences Chrysler pays its workers and trucks will be built at Ann Arbor. 

Obama calls for emission cutbacks 
Associated Press 

illustrating the nation's increasing able fuels that we can literally grow 
dependence on foreign oil. Obama right here in America, they said no," 
PORTSMOUTH, N~H. -Democrat suggested his rivals for the he said. 
Barack Obama is calling for sharp-ly Democratic nomination would pro­"As president, I will set a hard cap 
reducing .U.S. greenhouse gas emis­vide more of the same. on all carbon emissions at a level 
sions and forcing power companies "There are some in this race who that scientists say is necessary to 
and other businesses to pay for all actually make the argument that the curb global warming, an 80 percent 
of their pollution. more time you spend immersed in reduction by 2050," he said. 
He said Monday that he would get the broken politics of Washington, He proposed a modified "cap and 
results, unlike those whom he said the more likely you are to change trade" approach to reduce emis­
are bound by the unwritten rules it," he said. "I find this a little amus­sions, requiring businesses to buy 
and timidity of Washington politics. ing." allowances if they pollute, creating 
"Our energy problem has become Obama, who has been working to an incentive to reduce energy usage. 
an energy crisis because no matter overcome suggestions that he's too "No business will be allowed to 
how well-intentioned the promise, inexperienced to be president, said emit any greenhouse gases for free," 
no matter how bold the proposal, those with long Washington careers he said. "Businesses don't own the 
they all fall victim to the same have failed to act on issues such as sky, the public does, and if we want 
Washington politics," Obama said. higher fuel economy standards for them to stop polluting it, we have to 
lie spoke at the new, energy-effi­cars and trucks. put a price on all pollution." 
cient Portsmouth Public Library, "When they had the chance to Clinton has said she is intrigued 
where about 100 invited guests stand up and require automakers to by the carbon auction system but 
watched a short video featuring raise their fuel standards, they has stopped short of endorsing it. 
every president since Gerald Ford refused. When they had multiple Sen. Chris Dodd has proposed tax­
promising to curb the use of fossil chances to reduce our dependence ing polluters for their carbon emis­
fuels -contrasted with a graphic on foreign oil by investing in renew-sions. 

page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 9, 2007 
Officials suspend search for 111issing aviator 
A..sociated Press 
CAHSON CITY. Nev. -With winter dosing in. Pll'orts to lind aviator Stow hlssntt havn dwin­dlnd -along with hopes that his proven ability to clwat dnath enabled him to survivn a plane cntsh in tlw rugged dnsert of northnrn Nevada. 
Ml)rn than a month after hn IPI't fi1r a short llighL. no onn has fiJIInd any tracn of him, and authoritins have suspendnd the s1~arch, although somn private nl'l'orts finan1·nd by Fossntt's friends and 

family con­"/ have so many mixed canyons 
tinuo. feelings over this thing. looking for "My gut Fossett.
My gut j(wling tells me I want
fiH'Iing is N o w .
him to be alive ..)'ometimes
that he did­ther11's just n't survive realism says maybe he's not." onn hnlkop­tlw impaet. ter based at It's so llilton's
Gary Derks 

unliknly," ranch. along
state department of public safety 
said Maj. with a plane 
Cynthia Hyan of tlw Nevada Civil Air Patrol. Slw said if Fossntt won~ aliw but too injumd to walk. hn would have tried to signal s1~ardwrs in some mannnr. 
"lin's not tlw kind of guy to just sit and wait for lwlp to show up," Hyan added. 
Lyon County Slwrill' !\linn Veil said Fossntt's disappnarance rmnains undnr investigation as a missing-pnrson case, and authori­ties am not pn~pan~d to pmsume t.hn aviator is dead. 
"Wn will try to come to a condu­sion, but Wl~'re not there ynt," Veil said. 
Fossntt. 63, had pnwiously sur­vivnd a m~arly :m.OOO-fiJot plunge in a c.ripplnd balloon, a dangerous swim through the frigid English Channel and hours strandml in shark-infi~stml sna'i. 
Fossett. who made millions a<> a commodities broker in Chieago, also wmplntnd the lditarod sind­dog race, sealed some of' tho world's best-known peaks, sailed and flow around the world, and sot more than 100 aviation and distance n~eords. 

Fossdt's f'ri<mds are still looking filr him. flying out or hotel mogul Barron Hilton's sprawling ranch, about SO milns southn<L<>t of' Heno. That's whnn~ Foss1~tt and his wifh 
· 



JuesdaJs 


had bnnn staying on Sept. 3, when he took oil' alone to scout possible locations for an attempt to break a land spPnd reeord in a roeket­propnllml car. The eost or the pri­vate seareh has not been dis­dosed. 
"Only bm~ause ofSteve's charae­tm· do WP. hold out hope," Hilton spoknsman Pat Barry said. 
At 11110 point. more than 40 CAP, military and private pianos and lwlieopt!~rs were alof't over an area that covered 20,000 square miles, and scorPS of searelwrs went on foot into dePp, b r u s h y 
carrying 

high-tech cameras that photograph poten­tial wrnck sites fi.r later analysis. 
Barry and Fossett spokesman Brian Spanth said the wealthy advm1turcr's family isn't making any public eomment. "Not until we find him," Barry said. 
c;ary Derks, thn state Department of Public Safety ofli­r.ial in dmrge of the search, said nflhrL<> have been suspended until "additional en~dible leads become known." 
"I have so many mixed feelings ov1w this thing. My gut feeling tells me I want him to be alive. Somntimes realism says maybe he's not," he said. 
Derks said cosl<> to various gov­ernment agencies involved in the hunt now total nearly $1.4 million. 
With snow already falling in higlwr elevations, there's not much time lt1ft for searching. A big storm could blanket Fossett's singln-engine plane with snow, making it undetectable until spring. 
"Everything's going to shut down until spring," said Bill Ogle, whose father disappeared on a llight over Nevada in 1964. "I know that country, and you don't want to mess around up there in thn wintertime." 
Stz;,lc'ne (Sizzlelini®)­
Every Tuesday enjoy our Sizzlelini® Specialty (enough for two) for just $10.95 A siuling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B·J-fCt)C (Bellini)­A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2 
Ti.iz-dEz (Tuesdays) ­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 
II 

Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
511 0 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 
Reservations Accepted 

Church abuse resurfaces 
California bishop praised for handling cases becomes a suspect 
Associated Press 
SANTA ANA, Calif'. -Bishop Tod D. Brown was lauded three years ago for quickly handling Orange County's share of the nationwide ehurch abuse scandal. reach­ing S!lttloments totaling $100 million for some 90 victims. 
But a source of nearly a fifth of those cases -two presti­gious parochial high schools­continues to haunt the diocese and has now exposed Brown to old allegations of' child abuse and the possibility of being held in contempt of' court this week. 
The Homan Catholic Diocese of Orange settled four more lawsuits Friday fiJr just shy of $7 million. Three were liled by former students at Mater Dei and Santa Margarita high schools who said lay teachers sexually abused them. 
In a deposition in one of' the lawsuits, Brown acknowledged being accused of abusing a young boy more than 40 years ago when he was a priest in Bakersfield. lie said the aecu­sation, reported in 1997. is false, but poliee said they can lind no indication it was ever investigated. 
Despite the settlement, Brown still faces a hearing Tuesday to determine whether he should bn held in eontmnpt of court for snnding Msgr. John Urell to Canada for psychologi­cal treatment before he could eornplete a deposition. 
Urell, who was responsible for handling sexual abuse alle­gations against tho diocese, became distraught during a deposition in the case of a 27­year-old woman who said an assistant basketball coach had sox with her multiple times when she was a 16-y<iar-old student at Mater Dei. 
Brown told The Associated Press that he did not violate a court order and considers the hearing an assault on his good character. 

"My only eoneern was for Msgr. Urnll, who needed immediate attention," Brown said. 
Plaintiffs' lawyers say the case involving the eoad1, Jnff Andrade, shows why the two schools have boon a perennial problem: Warning signs were ignored and the abuse was allowed to continue. 
Another teadwr allegedly interceptnd a note that dis­cussed the sexual relationship between Andrade and his accuser, Christina Huiz, but officials did nothing after intervinwing Huiz, hnr best friend and Andrade, she said. Andrade later admitted to the relationship in his dnposition. 
"Thny made mo bnlieve that no one would believe 11111, they made nw believe that it was my fault. Tlwy told me that I was tho one who sedueed him," Ruiz said. 
WednesdayO~tober 1 Otfi 
:00 Pm I 4:30 Pm 
. :oth sessions located . In ontgomery Auditorium LaFortune Student Center' (across from Starbucks) 


-.--.~T CHANCE! 
. Tuesday, October 9, 2007 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ISRAEL 
Politicians debate dividingJerusale111 
Associated Press 
JEHUSALEM -Two senior Israeli politieians, including the prime minister's closest ally. talknd openly Monday about divid­ing Jerusalem, signaling a possi­ble shift in Israeli opinion about one of the Mideast's most con­tentious issues. 
The dispute over Jerusalem has derailed negotiations in the past, and the latest comments come at a time when Israeli and Pah1stinian teams are trying to agrne on prineiples guiding future peace talks. 
The ideas raised by Vice Premier !!aim Ramon still fall far short of Palestinian demands to establish their capital in all of the city's eastern sector, annexed by Israel after the 1967 Mideast War. 
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert. meanwhile, told parlia­ment he will not be deterred from snnking a pnace deal with the Palestinians. lie said Israel has missed opportunities in the past, and warned that continued failure would mean a "demographic 
'' ••• 

struggle steeped in blood and tears." 
Olmert was unusually impas­sioned but short on specifics. He made no mention of Jerusalem. 
Later Monday, Israeli and Palestinian teams met for the first time to start drafting a joint decla­ration of principles that would guide negotiators if peace talks were to resume after a seven-year freeze. 
Abbas aide Yasser Abed Rabbo said afterward that no results could have been expected from the first meeting, but he hoped a meaningful document would emerge. 
The document, which is to address the key disputes -bor­ders, Jerusalem, Israeli settle­ment<;, Palestinian refugees -will be the centerpiece of a U.S.-husted Mideast conference in November. 
Olmert's speech appP.ared to be a careful balancing act -sending an encouraging message to the Palestinians, while not giving his hardline critics at home too much ammunition by going into detail. 
His central theme was a pledge not to miss an opportunity to reach a long-elusive peace deal, even if it requires costly conces­sions. Olmert said Israelis will have to led go of some of the beliefs that "fed the national ethos for many years," a reference to giving up West Bank land. 
Olmert praised Mahmoud Abbas, whom he has met six times since the spring, as a trust­worthy partner, but at the same time portrayed the Palestinian president, known as Abu Mazen, as weak. "I know that the gap between the honest and fair inten­tions of Abu Mazen and [Palestinian Prime Minister1 Salam Fayyad, and their ability to translate that into reality is trou­blesome and arouses concerns," Olmert said. 
Olmert was heckled occasional­ly, but interruptions were mild for Israel's freewheeling parliament. "Is Jerusalem a dream?'' legisla­tor Reuven Rivlin shouted when Olmert, a former Jerusalem mayor, told parliament Israelis would have to forego some of their national dreams and aspirations. 
RUSSIA 
Journalists' slaying remains a mystery 
Investigators say murder motive still unknown 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -After a year and nearly a dozen arrests, the main mystery in the slaying of a Russian journalist strongly crit­ical of the Kremlin remains unsolved -who ordered her killed, the chief investigator said in an interview published Monday. 
Investigators know who pulled the trigger in the fatal shooting of Anna Politikovskaya at her Moscow apartment building, Petros Garibyan, a senior investigator in the Prosecutor General's Office, told the newspaper she worked for, Novaya Gazeta. 
"A'l for those who ordered it, we have interesting sugges­tions, let's put it this way," he was quoted as saying. But he would not reveal what, if any­thing, investigators know about who might have ordered the slaying. 
Politkovskaya's persistent reporting of atrocities by 

security forces "As for those who Ponikarov, against civil­
ordered it, we have who claims he 
ians in the was beaten
interesting suggestions, 
restive and tormented 
Chechnya let's put it this way." in 2002 by 
region Ryaguzov and angered the another sus­
Petros Garibyan 
Kremlin, but pect in

senior investigator 
won her inter­Politkovskaya's national He

Prosecutor General's Office 
acclaim. 
Her politi­cally charged killing widened the rift between Russia and the West, deepening concern abroad over the Kremlin's treatment of critics under President Vladimir Putin, while hardening his government's depiction of Russia as a nation beset by foes. 
Putin and his chief prosecutor have framed the killing as a plot to discredit Russia, saying the investigation will lead to a mastermind abroad. The editor of Novaya Gazeta, Dmitry Muratov, says the probe will point in the opposite direction, revealing deadly. deep-seated corruption in the security and law enforcement agencies that have gained prominence under Putin. 

In late August. Prosecutor General Yuri Chaika announced that Politkovskaya's killing was organized by a Moscow-based criminal group that specialized in contract killings and was led by an ethnic Chechen. He said 10 people had been arrested, including a handful of current or former law enforcement offi­cers. 
The Federal Security Service, or FSB -Russia's main securi­ty agency and the chief succes­sor to the Soviet KGB -later identified one of those arrested as FSB Lt. Col. Pavel Ryaguzov, and subsequent reports said he was suspeeted of giving Politkovskaya's killers her address. 
Alongside its interview with Garibyan, Novaya Gazeta pub­lished a story recounting the ordeal of Eduard 
slaying. 
said Ryaguzov 

tried to foree him to become an informant. 
Ponikarov took his aeeusa­tions to the Proseeutor General's Office, the FSB and the Interior Ministry, but no one was prosecuted, Novaya Gazeta said in an artiele meant to underscore the idea that Russia is plagued by rampant unpun­ished crime carried out by seeurity forces. 
"He appealed to all possible authorities, and nobody react­ed," the newspaper said. "If these two had been jailed in 2002, Anna Politkovskaya might still be alive." 

Gran Folklorico de Mexico 
Friday, October 12.7:30 P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Each region of Mexico 
has its own dances, 
corresponding to their 
physical climate and 
traditions. bur all are 
distinctly Mexican. All 
are pcrfimued with 
finesse and vigor by the 
ballet Gran J-dki<Jrico 
de Mexico. directly 
from Mexico City. Gran Folklorico de Mexico is 
a wnrldwide traveling 
company of 3S singers. 
dancers. and musicians. 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, October 9, 2007 
-----~========================================================================================== 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox 779, Notre Dame, IN 465)6 024 Somh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EmTOR IN CHIEI' Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 

Ass1~ MANAGING ED11UR: Kyle Cassity As.~1; MANAGING EmTOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EmroRS: Chris Khorey Chris I line SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EorroR: Katie Kohler 
Pumu EDITOR: Dustin Mcnndb1 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
An DF.SIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROI.I.ER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 63!-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-454 I obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.cdu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 63!-4543 sporrs.l @nd.cdu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.cdu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adveniscmcnrs, is nm governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurardy and objectively as possible. Uruigncd editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A'sistanr Managing Editors and department editors. Commcnrarics, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and nor nea.'ssarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vi<'Wpoinr space is available ro all readers. The free l'Xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumion.s rrgarding Observerpolici~ should be dirrcted to editor in (,..hie/Maddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'111c Oh.crvcr (USI'S '\91) l-4000) I.\ puhli~1ed Mu111L1y tbruugh !"rid.ay e1u;cpr dur111g rx.uu •.ud v--'~oulun V''''"'l,o.. A 'RIIl\l.fiJIIIIIII w The { lh~crvcr is $ill<l (ur une .a~:<ldclltic ~ar;$55fi,rm~e~~<mc:Rcr 
The Ol»crvcr •~ puhliU!eti .u· POHMA>TER OH Sv111h Dirunt!,llall StnJ JdJr~ corrtaiiJm w: Nntrc flame. IN ·ifi'SS6-077'J Tttcob~t!rvtr Pc:ruH.Ik;al ~~~)~Ul\t' p.tld ,u Nurre Do~me P.O. Ilox779 .and .tddiriun.t.l m.uling uffica. 024 Smnh Dimng ~hll 
Nurre D;~mc, IN 46')')(•.(1-nq 

The O~rvcr i\ a membe-r of rhc A-.K.u.u:J PreM. AU n~prndUI.:Iiun nWm ~rc ""'rnd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Karen Langley Jay Fitzpatrick Marcela Berrios Greg Arbogast Hoban Anand Peter Reisenauer Brian McKenzie Scene Graphics Tae Andrews 
Matt Hudson Viewpoint Michelle Johnson 
Vatican joins environmentalists 
The Vatican, led by Pope Benedict XVI himself, is the latest group to hitch up their cassocks and jump on the environmental bandwagon. In what may be a watershed year for the Church's nascent J earth-friendly mes-ames sage, the Pope has Dechant led several initia­
Foregone 
tiv(~S not only to 
Conclusion 
green up Vatican 
City but also to make Catholics more 
eco-conscious. Last month, the Church 
declared one Sunday "Save Creation 
Day" as the Pope led a youth festival in 
Italy with eco-friendliness foremost on 
its agenda. Earlier in the summer, 
Home announced plans to re-do the 
roof of the Paul VI Auditorium Hall 
with solar panels (imagine a roof cov­ering Notre Dame Stadium). 
Now the Vatican has taken on its most ambitious project yet: It plans to become the world's first carbon-neutral state. Earlier this year, the Church accepted a donation from a Hungarian firm to create a 3 7 -acre "Vatican Climate Forest." Trees planted in the ancient forested area in Hungary, now denuded and abandoned, will theoreti­cally absorb an amount of carbon diox­ide equal to the emissions of Vatican City throughout the year. The move sends a strong message about the "green culture" promulgated by Pope Benedict. 
The rosy picture painted by the theo­ry of carbon neutrality has its draw­backs, however. A Time Magazine piece by columnist Charles Krauthammer this March exposed some of the falla­cies of the "have your cake and eat it too" carbon philosophy. Krauthammer compared the practice to the selling of indulgences (his editorial, written before Rome's announcement. railed against trendy Hollywood eco-fadsters, not the Vatican). We think as long as we pay the piper, we have a free ticket to sin -or pollute, in this case. 
Therein lies the main problem: Carbon neutrality may create new green areas, but it cannot erase the damage you do simultaneously. The idea may even exacerbate the problem by encouraging a free-for-all attitude, spurring us to be carefree in our car­bon burning as we falsely assume it's all being taken care of by a forest somewhere on the other side of the world. 

A statement by the Pontifical Council of Culture equated the offsets to true pollution erasure. "To eliminate emis­sions,'' Monsignor Melchor Sanchez de Toea y Alameda said, "there are two ways: Either you reduce them by renouncing the use of cars or heating systems, for example, or you do some­thing good to compensate them, such as planting trees." Unfortunately, "compensating" is only a stopgap. It's a treatment, not a cure; penance without forgiveness. The real change comes when we actually reduce our negative output. Heliance on new forests won't get us there. 
Carbon neutral sites also have an impermanent eJI'ectiveness. For the first 50 to 150 years of forest growth, trees indeed absorb significant amounts of C02. But when the forest reaches maturity, the potency of this carbon vacuum cleaner declines signif­icantly due to the natural carbon out­put of dying trees. Furthermore, calcu­lations concerning these "offsets" are guesstimates at best -whether the Hungarian forest will really absorb the exact amount of carbon emitted annu­ally by the Vatican is highly specula­tive. 
Those complications may just reduce the luster of the cure-all that is carbon neutrality, but it can be worse. Sometimes, companies forcefully take the land used for offsetting sites from local farmers in economically disad­vantaged countries, even using threats and violence. Krauthammer mentions a Dutch company that has used scare tactics on local inhabitants near a Ugandan national park, all to clear the land so that Western companies may have a dear consdnnce while driving 
their SUVs. 

The Vatkan example avoids some of the pitfalls made by rich multination­als: The site was donated by a local company in Europe. uses free land, and may create jobs in th1~ indigent sur­rounding region. You could accusfl the Vatican of accepting thn Hungarian company's oll'er only to crnato a good public image, true, but the Church is backing up their action with further efforts (like the solar roof). 
More importantly, the Vatican distin­guishes itself from political phonies by embracing sound teaching about the duty to steward God's creation. Preaching a religious message about environmentalism isn't the same as politicizing faith or using it to back a particular philosophy of thn moment­Christianity has contributed to more than its fair share of appropriation. from slavery-backers to holy wars. But in this case, the message is valid, the intent is true, and the methods are sound -mostly. 
You need only wander Home to see the corrosion that its thousands of automobiles do to its church facades, to its air quality, to its trne-lined streets and piazzas. Pollution rears its ugly head in the Eternal City, but the Church can help adjust our course. First. it must wise up on carbon neu­trality. The Hungarian forest is an admirable first step, but it is not enough. The Vatican must then take further steps to set a worthy example, and it should continue its religious teachings about caring for the earth. It must move beyond being a carbon-neu­tral state and become a truly environ­mentalist state. 
James Dechant is a senior English and theology major. Questions. com­ments, and rude remarks can be sent to him at jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
If over 21, the final showdown: Keystone or Natural light? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The trouble with having an openmind, ofcourse, is that people znsist on coming alqng a_n~ t':,_ljing to putthzngs zn zt. 
Terry Pratchett author 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 9, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Don't storm the field 
Is nveryone excited about beating UClA Saturday night and enlebrating a victory for the first time this season? You should be. For the seniors, juniors and sophomores, it was a welcome reminder of what victories in South Bend are like on Saturdays. And it's the first time you freshmen have tasted an Irish win since coming to campus in August. 
But, please, as an alumnus and diehard fan of Notre Dame-the team, school and program-don't let the excitement spill over to embarrassment this weekend if the Irish knock off Boston College. Don't storm the field. 
Sure, beating BC would be a huge moment. It's the No. 4 team in the country. It's undefeated and energized. The Eagles have a lleisman Trophy candidate and likely NFL first-round pick in Matt Ryan. They will come into our sta­dium with a swagger, a sense of confidence that will piss oil' diehard Irish fans. 
And a win Saturday would be a huge moment in our season. Upsetting a top-S team would be another step in building the confidence of our younger guys, and it would give our upperclassmen another great memory about playing for the Irish. 
But there's a reason we refer to Boston College as Fredo, and bull-rushing the field against our weaker, infe­rior little brother would be embarrassing. We would be showing them a sense of respect that they don't deserve. Storming the court against BC in basketball was bad enough when we ended their 20-game winning streak in the 2005-06 season. Let's not surrender to the same temp­tation and make the same mistake in football. 
In 1993, Boston College came into Notre Dame Stadium and abruptly ended our National Championship aspira­tions. Let's do the same thing to them this season. Let's make a statement during the game and scream louder 
Audience behavior disappointing 

As a Notre Dame student, I was highly disappointed in the way that the majority of the Academic Forum's audience conducted itself at the beginning of the event. Implicit in the idea of an academic forum is the understanding that the issue to be discussed is of such eomplexity that it does not avail itself of any easy answers or swift resolutions. Yet, from the beginning of event, the forum audience demonstrated an unreflecting eagerness to apotheosize Senator Martinez and Cardinal Mahoney's positions, responding to their ambiguous opening ealls for "com­prehensive reform" with resound­ing applause. Conversely, the forum audience met Mayor Barletta's description of immigration's uglier side -and the reformative steps he took to combat it -with silent hostility. Later in the forum, Senator Martinez agreed that the punitive actions taken by Mayor Barletta against businesses that knowingly employ illegal immi­grants is a necessary component of the eomprehensive reform plan­an affirmation of the same tactics that were so coldly received at the beginning of the forum. I object not to audience members ultimately concluding that Senator Martinez's or Cardinal Mahoney's positions are correct, but to the audience's unwillingness to approach the immigration issue with a genuine spirit of good will and intellectual inquiry. What Notre Dame wit­nessed before moderator Ray Suarez's "yay-boo morality" chiding was a forum audience gathered together armed with emotional presuppositions, anxious to cele­brate in its own self-righteousness. While such back-slapping sancti­mony might make some feel good, it does nothing to help advance that infinitely popular, infinitely non­existent immigration reform plan. 
Conor McNamara 
seniOr 
Carroll Hall Oct. 8 
than we have since the 2005 game against Southern Cal, giving our team the seeond-half energy they will need to earn a win. 
But after we win, let's keep our excitement in the stands. Storming the field is about being an underdog, and Notre Dame is never an underdog against Boston College -regardless of our record. We should never expect to lose to Boston College. And when we beat them this week­end, let's act like we've done it before. 
Becausfl we have. 
The writer was assistant managing eqitor ofThe Observer during the 2006-07 term. 
Bob Griffin Class of2007 Oct.8 


Fans shovv class 
I was at the UCLA game on Saturday, and I don't think I was ever so proud to be a Notre Dame graduate and to have my three kids attend the University. Twenty-five thousand screaming and supportive Notre Dame fans to watch their 0-5 team play 2,000 miles from the University. Are you kidding me? I don't think I saw a single no-show! 
But what made me even more proud was when, during the second half, the entire Notre Dame seetion in the end zone where I was sit­ting stood and applauded, as three members of our military happened to walk by. Wow! That was truly amazing. 
Jim Blase 
Class of 1981 
Sr. Louis, Mo. 
Ocr. 7 




EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, October 9, 2007 

By CORBIN HICKS 
Scene Wrirt·r 
For Chamillionaire, slow and steady wins thn nu:n. 
Two years ago, llouston produced a hugo influx of music; artists likn Mike .Jones lod tho pad with his hugo hit "Still Tippin." .lonos, along with Paul Wall, Slim Thug and Bun B, were ablo to tap into this rnlatiV!~ly nnw market and capitalize on their relative anonymity to achinve massiv1~ album sales. To show how marketablo and suecossful thes1~ artists wnr·n at one point. Mike .Iones 
Ultimate Victory 

Chamillionaire Released by: Motown 
Recommended Tracks: 'Won't Let You Down," ''The Evening News" and "Pimp Mode" 
War .Journal. Day 40. 2300 hours: 
Somoono once said that a team of monkeys. givHn nnough tinw and nrwugh typewritors. could ovontually pump out the c:olleeted works of Shaknspnare. Unfortunately, some-Tae Andrews onn got tho story wrong; it turns out that a crack team of Scene Hditor monkoys is only capablo of producing a fortnightly nnwsiPtter. 
That's right. Hover. You mad rrw right. A fortnightly nPwslettor. Because when you produc:o but a lone, lame issue once overy two wt~nks, you loso nnwspaper status, and bt~come a newsletter. Put that in your crockpot and let it stew. 
Last Friday, I received a text mHssage from a frimul letting me know about your latost issue. At the dining hall I thought I had pickod up the wrong nowsletter. I thought it road "The Havnr" at tho top, insofar as you must bo stark raving mad to continue these ratlwr nne-sided literary smackdowns. 
In your spltmdid Chnors and Jeers sec­tion, you nntitlod your little blurb "Tan­rado." Whilo I appreciate the cute pun (a wordplay on "tirade"), once again you silly little Hoverites got the story wrong. My namn is pronouncnd so that it rhymes with tho word "hey," as in. "llny, had a guest spot on the TV show "Prison Break." However, one artist who was not part of this Houston revolution was Chamillionaire. 
Also from Houston, Chamillionaire was the former rhyming partner with .Iones, Wall and Slim Thug in the leg­endary southern faction known as the Swisha House. But he managed to obtain major levels of success even after he left the Swisha House and signed to a major label as a solo entity. He achieved lukewarm initial responses to his debut album "The Sound of Hevenge," but soon had an unmistakable hit on his hands with the anti-crooked cop anthem 
"Hidin." The song even led to a parody by "Weird AI" Yankovic called "White and Nerdy," which is a telltale sign of crossover success. 
While Wall, Jones and Slim Thug are all strug­gling to get their feet back in the door that was quickly closed on them, only Chamillionaire and UGK are still representing for the Houston rap scene. This says a lot about Chamillionaire's success considering that UGK 
nice job slamming the Rover!" Or per­haps the word "say," as in, "Say, have you read the Hover this week? Oh wait, 
no I couldn't because they don't publish 
for another waning moon." 
No, Tan-Hade sounds like a cus­tomized sports drink, custom-tailored for my biochemistry and probably chock-full of electrolytes. Tae-Hade gives me the energy I need to continue battling morons day in and day out. If Tae-Hade went on the market tomorrow it would be a best seller. 
The only thing the "Tae-Radc" blurb did was send me flying into a Tae Hage, which as anyone can tell you is one of the scariest phenomena in human histo­ry. In regards to your comments that I waste "tuition-subsidized" ink and paper, The Observer collects a separate fee from every student, which you can get back and have removed from your tuition payment if you so desire. Unfortunately, I can never get back the two minutes it took me to read your newsletter cover-to-cover, nor can I replace the atrophied brain cells that died in the cause of trying to read your stories. Evidently, you guys are still reading, given how your parasitic paper oftm1 consists of Observer knock-offs and criticism of our original stories. 
To paraphrase the comedy classic Happy Gilmore: "Hover, what you con-
MATT HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

became legendary following the cult sta­natural successor to "Hidin" in tus of "Free Pimp C" and the undeniable Chamillionaire 's take on crooked police hit with Jay-Z "Big Pimpin." Inevitably, officers. Chamillionaire would be forced to follow The album's songs tend to transition up this initial success with a sophomore smoothly from one to the next, except album, and his recent work does not for the totally unnecessary skit before disappoint at all. the song "Bill Collector." Other standout 
Chamillionaire's second effort, tracks include "Won't Let You Down," "Ultimate Victory," represents a turning "Pimp Mode" featuring Bun B, and "We point in his career. In Breakin' Up," a song 
an attempt to distance 
Chamillionaire's second 
himself from the post­
Don lmus hip hop effort, "Ultimate Victory, " world, Ch amillionaire represents a turningmade "Ultimate 
point in his career.
Victory" without any profanity -and the result is very different not only from the usual subject matter of most rap albums today. But the other difference is that this album is not what's expected from profanity-free hip hop, which is general­ly associated with Lil Homen, Will Smith and various other rap acts that lack any sort of lyrical credibility. By taking out the usual subjects of money, drugs, women and alcohol, Chamillionaire rests his hate· on more political subject matter, even going as far as to name two of his songs "The Morning News" and "The Evening News." "Hip Hop Police," which features a guest verse from the legendary Slick Hick, is the 
tinue to write is one of the most insanely idiotic things I have ever read. At no point in your rambling, incoherent responses were you even close to any­thing that could be considered a ration­al thought. Everyone on this campus is now dumber for having read your newsletter. I award you no shamrocks, and may God have mercy on your col­lective souls." 
I had originally wanted to challenge you to a friendly game of mumblety-peg in the quad, but given your lack of either: a. a dictionary, b. a common­sense understanding of the English lan­guage, or c. the capacity to run a spell­check, I think I'll change the game in question to either Scrabble or Boggle, although that might cause one or more of your staff members to suil'er from what I like to call "exploding brain syn­drome." 
I would also like to mention that you misspelled the name of President Ronald Heagan, your erstwhile hero and a former president of this great nation, on Page 2 of your newsletter, although I suppose I should commend you for spelling the month right this time around. 
Thanks for the memo, guys. As always, I'll hear from you in two weeks. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 
about Chami llionaire losing his love for the current state of superfi­cial hip-hop music. Another high notn of the album is the "Stuck In The Ghetto" interlude, 

where the featured artist Tony Henry sings about situations the average struggling person faces on a daily basis. He captures the hopelessness that socie­ty forces onto certain people, which leads perfectly into the two closing songs "Hocky Hoad" and "Ultimate Victory." 
Chamillionaire's sophomore effort is certainly not "Ultimate Victory," but there are many more rights than wrongs. Hopefully he continues this winning streak and keeps supplying lis­teners with quality music. 
Contact Corbin Hicks at chicks2@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of macktropolis.com Like American comic book hero The Punisher, Andrews fights a crusade. 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE

Tuesday, October 9, 2007 page 13 


Rocky Mountain men and women alike find themselves caught up in the Rocktober craze as the Rockies surge in the playoffs. 
Does anyone else feel like they're tak­ing crazy pills? I woke up this morning to lind Notre Dame 1-5, the University of South Florida football team ranked in the top 10 and a high of 91 degrees in South BP-nd in October. But thn most monumen­tally bizarre thing in Chris McGrady this topsy-turvy world isn't the back­
Assistant 

wards football polls, 
Scene Editor 

or tlw unreal ellects of global warm, but the fact that the Colorado Rockies seem to have a snrious casn of identity crisis. 
Apparently the Hockies have collective­ly fallen and knocked their noggins, thus forgetting they are in fact the Hackies and not the Boston Red Sox or the St. Louis Cardinals. Matt Holiday thinks he's Albert Pujols. rookie Franklin Morales thinks he's Nolan Ryan. Todd Helton version 2007 thinks he's Todd Helton version 2000. Together. the Hackies have made one of the most improbable runs in histo­ry. 
You see, the Hockies haven't made the playoffs in over a decade, and only once before in the club's fourteen year history. They have been the laughing stock of the MLB world, and just two years ago they lost 95 games. But everything has changed. The once-empty stands are sold out and the baseball-apathetic city of Denvflr is buzzing. Coors beer flows like watnr. And the Hackies keep winning. 
AftPr a three-game sweep of the Phillies (leaving Philly fans everywhere free to boo the Eagles), the Hackies are winners of 17 of 18 and are the hottest team in baseball and fans are filling the stadium for the first time since the club's inaugu-
The Hockies are finally bringing the heat, and I'm stuck in Indiana. I've been dealing with this fact lew the past lew weeks. I've lowd my Colorado Rockies since they played in Mile I ligh (the Broncos' old stadi­um), and now that I've gone oil' to college, 
Stephanie

they dedde to do well. 

DePrez

I'm learning to live as a satellite fan. 
Scene Writer 

You can lind Yankees fans any-wher(J in the world. Every other person in your class is a Cubs fan. But the Hackies? Obscure, bottom of the National League West Rockies fans are few and far between. Beyond the western states no one really knows or cares for the purple team. 
raJ season in 1993. 
I'm not afraid to admit it, ram a completely bandwagon fan of the Hackies. I'm a life-long resident of Colorado, but, you have to understand, the Hackies have been bad. I mean, epically bad. They lost games like trees lose leaves-in bunches. Colorado is Broncos coun­try, or Avalanche country, or Buffs country. It is not, and never has been, Rockies country. A large majority of Colorado sports fans are more apathetic about baseball than Americans are about the World Cup. That is, until this year. 
The Broncos are struggling and hockey season hasn't started, and the Hockies are playing better ball than they ever have. rstarted to take notice back in June when the Hackies swept the Yankees. Then I started to watch the Rockies whenever I could -and I liked what I saw. They play as a team, they hit patiently, and they play great defense. The team is impossibly young, and the biggest name on the team is semi-washed up All-Star first-baseman Todd Helton (who, by the way, is batting .320). The 
But a few weeks ago that all began to change. The Hackies started winning, and not just a few games here and there, but every game they played. Suddenly, dreaming of that Wild Card spot wasn't wishful think­ing. I went a week without changing my 
Photo courtesy . 
Brad llawpe jersey, doing my part to keep 
their winning streak going. And lo and behold, they did it. They tied the Padres. 
In one of the most intense evenings of my life, I watched Matt llolliday slide into home, achieving the impossible in the bot­tom of the 13th as I erupted into cheers. My RA ran out and gave me a hug. But there was no family to jump around with, no brother to high-five, and no local TV stations to cover every last victory moment. TBS went back to regular programming, and I went to bed. 
I have spent the last few weeks announc­ing what I believe to be the most remark­able comeback in baseball history. From an uncomfortable string of losses on the road to a magical winning streak and -gasp ­the posl<>eason, the Rockies have defied all expectations. I wake up each morning and Hackies have the 25th lowest payroll of any team in the majors. Despite over­whelming odds against them, this team has managed to make one of the most exciting runs in baseball history. 

They are the anti-Yankees. They are the underdogs in a battle to the top. They're fun and exciting. For goodness sake-they're the Hackies! So suit up in your purple and black and sit back and tap the Hackies, because as Coloradoans everywhere are saying, it's Hocktober, baby! 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd. edu 
think, "The Hockies are winning. We're in the playoffs. We get to play for the pen­nant!" These are my beloved Hackies who never win anything. They're even calling it ROCKTOBEH! 
I've devoted myself to making this phe­nomenal postseason known. I keep a run­ning chart of who's advancing in the play­offs outside my dorm door. I go to the Grotto before each game and pray for ... world peace, the poor, and Todd Helton. I sport my CH hat everywhere I go. 
When I think of what it would be like to be in Denver right now, living in the city that is, for the first time, more interested in baseball than football, I get extremely homesick. I would give anything to be there, hearing what the Denver Post has to say about the Hackies and feeling that soli­darity. But I know I am not alone. I know there are thousands of Hackies fans throughout the world (at least now with the bandwagon). 
It was hard, though, to watch the game last Saturday (while flipping back and forth to the UClA game) and know that my fami­ly was in the stands without me. I bet there are some Diamondback fans around the Dome who are rearing to go on Thursday. For now, I am content to get Denver arti­cles in the mail and phone calls from the game. And I must admit, it was cool to think about my dad walking out of Coors Field Saturday night and yelling to the crowd, "Notre Dame won!" 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd. edu 

Grisharrt fumbles with latest book 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Scene Wri rer 
John Grisham needs to go back to writ­ing legal thrillers. It's not that Grisham's new book is bad. "Playing for Pizza" is a story about a disgraced third-string quarterback for the Cleveland Browns who is forced out of the NFL and ends up playing football in Italy. Uke all his books, it's well written, with an interesting plot line and a sympathetic lead character. 
But Grisham's name is synonymous with thrilling legal battles, with idealistic lawyers struggling for justice against the forces of corruption. His books are best­sellers because readers know Grisham will sweep them away with tales of intrigue, and they will cheer for the pro­tagonist, despite his flaws, as he over­comes the odds. Grisham weaves a nice story in his new book, but it's not a page­turner like his 18 previous novels. 
"Pizza" still retains some Grisham­isms. The book's hero. Rick Dockery, fits the typical Grisham male character mold. He is young and attractive -an underdog with a weakness for women. Dockery becomes Cleveland's public enemy No. 1 after single-handedly losing an AFC Championship game for the Browns. Dockery's agent manages to find him a new team far away in Italy. Even in a land of soccer, there is a Super Bowl. 
So Dockery flees to Parma, Italy, away from the angry fans who tried to storm his hospital bed as he recovered from a concussion, and the Cleveland Post columnist who declares him the greatest goat in the history of professional spo_rts. 
Grisham knows a lot about football. The same attention to detail he once used to describe the murder of Supreme Court justices and a pelican brief is now turned to details about football. Parts of his book read like the sports section of a newspaper. 
By placing Dockery in Italy, Grisham gets a chance to tell his readers all he knows about the country -the food, the eultui"e, the churches and the opera. 
"The Broker," a legal thriller Grisham published in 2005, was also set in Italy. In "Pizza," the country is almost a support­ing character. When Dockery has a day off from practice, his lady friend drags him around Italy to accompany her on a quest to tour the whole country. At times, the reader feels as exhausted from trav­eling as Dockery does. 
Instead of partners or associates in a law firm, the supporting characters in "Pizza" are Dockery's teammates and coach, who play football for their love of the game and, as the title indicates, for the pizza and beer they feast on after the games and practices. 
A perpetual third-stringer in the NFL, Dockery finds his niche in Italy. In Italy he is a major player in a minor sport. Reek, as the Italians call him, becomes a hero for his teammates. Like most of Grisham's characters, he has his weak­nesses. He blows a game after drinking too much, he womanizes and he's arro­gant. In spite of these flaws, we still cheer for Dockery when he completes a pass and when he delivers a blow to the Cleveland Post's cruel sports columnist. 
But Dockery isn't battling for justice or defending Parma from corruption. He's just playing football. If "Playing for Pizza" had been written by someone other than Grisham, readers could close the book, satisfied after a good story. But from Grisham, what's expected is suspense, more suspense than a football game in Italy could provide. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
page I 4 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 9, 2007 
====~~~~==~~~====~====~==~==~==~~====~~======~==~==~==~ 
NHL 


Kolzig's 30 saves helps Washington stay perfect 
Senators dispatch of Devils for fourth straight win; Hasek stops 18 shots in Red Wings' victory over Oilers 
and a sold-out Columbus Day
Associated Press 
erowd rooting on the Islanders 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -Olin on Kids Opnning Day, Laich Kolzig did what lw usually dons spoilod the party at 7:58 with to t.lw New York Islanders. For his lirst goal in 21 gamns, dating tlw Washington Capitals, that is to Fnb. 27. simply perfect. "I know my role is to be a 
Kolzig stopped 30 shots dependable forward," Laich against his favorite opporwnt said. and earrind the Capitals to a 2-1 lin was that, but this win 
<~onwhack victory ovnr thn bneanw possible beeausP of the Islanders on Monday to knep :H-year-old Kolzig's effort. The Washington undnfoatnd. Capitals had won thnir lirst two 
Tlw Capitals improved to 3-0 gamns by outshooting Atlanta for tlw lirst Limn sinee tho 2002-and Carotina a combined 73-52. 0:{ season despitn being outshot "We've done a pretty good job :H -12. That was the last timn the lirst couple or games of not tlwy rnadwd tlw playolTs, and rnlying on our goaliP to be the with an improved roster around star." said Caps coach Glen young star Alex Ovnchkin, they llanlon, a netminder for 14 NIIL have every intention of going snasons. "We know that he is hack. back them and this was a good 
"Wn're going into gamns wminder. 
nxpecting to win, where last "If you givn him the opportu­year we'd go into games saying, nity where he's played enough 'Let's work hard and sen what games ... then in these types of 
happons," Kolzig said. "It's a gamns he'll come through all totally dill'erent mind-set. We've the time for us." put pressure on ourselvns, hut Hiehard Park scored for the it's pressure that's in a good Islandnrs. way." I.aich finished off the winning 
Al'tor fornwr Islandnrs for­swring play that started with a ward Viktor Kozlov tiod it in tlw dnfensive-zone turnover by Mike second poriod. Brooks Laich put Comrie, who scored four goals tho Capitals in front in tho third. in the lirst two games. 

Tlw Islanders wem looking for into an empty nnt to lead Ray Emery recovers from ofT­Cogliano scored Edmonton's thoir first 3-0 start sin co 200 I, Senators 4, Devils 2 Ottawa to a win ovnr the New season wrist surgery. goals. but wore done in again by The Ottawa Senators are Jersey Devils on Monday. "We've had more consistency Dominik Hasek made 18 saves Kolzig. Thn Capitals goalin, in enjoying a perfect start even The Senators have opened the this year," said Gerber, who for the Red Wings. his 17th NIII. season-all with though they feel like there's season with four wins, including struggled early last season Dwayne Roloson stopped 31 Washington -improved to 26-always some part of their game three straight at Scotiabank before losing the starting job to shots. 9-2 against tho Islanders. the th11y can improve. . Place. Ottawa lost its first four Emery in mid-November. "Against a team like that, most wins he's had against any Daniel Alfredsson got his sec­home games last season and that's a puck control team, opporwnt. ond assist on Wade Hedden's dropped nine of its first 15 at Red Wings 4, Oilers 2 they're going to possess the 
With hoards of enthusiastic power-play goal 5:33 into the home before linishing with a 25-The Detroit Hed Wings sur­puck," said Ilorcoff. "That's children, snveral NIII. maseots third period before he scored 13-3 home record. vived their defensive break­okay with us as long as we keep 
"We struggled with that early downs. them to the outside. When we last year and then we turned it Mikael Samuelsson had a goal got in trouble was when we let around," Alfredsson said. "It's and an assist to lift Detroit to a them inside." always a work in progress. You win over the Edmonton Oilers Cogliano's goal, with 10 sec­always try to tweak some things on Monday night. onds left in the second period, and I'm sure the coaches will Chris Cheiios, Tomas cut the Red Wings' lead to 3-2. come up with things we can do llolmstrom and Kris Drapnr also "We were in pretty good a lot better. but right now we're scored for Detroit. Nicklas shape aftHr two periods," said feeling pretty good." Lidstrom and Henrik ZettPrberg Oilers' coach Craig MacTavish. 
Hedden put the Senators up 3-each had two assists. But Detroit held off the Oilers 1, though only after a video Chelios, the NIIL's oldest play­in th_e third period and Draper review clearly showed that the er at 45, skated in his 1 ,550th added an empty-net goal with puck had crossed the goal line game, breaking a tie with Ilall 33 seconds left. before it was swiped away by of Farner Alex Delvecchio to The Hed Wings blew a third New Jersey defensernan Vitaly move into eighth place on the period lead in Saturday night's Vishnevski. career list. 4-3 shootout loss at Chicago, so 
Jason Spezza got his third The Hed Wings, who had 35 they were especially deter­assist of the game on shots, dominated the play most mined to not let it happen Alfredsson 's fifth goal of the sea­of the game, but allowed both again on Monday night. son into an empty net with 48.7 goals on rushes in which two "We didn't give them the seconds remaining. Detroit skaters went to the same neutral zone, didn't give them 
Dany Heatley got his fourth area of the iee in their own end too many chances," said goal of the season and Chris and left the eventual goal scorer Hasek. Kelly also scored for Ottawa, wide open. Holmstrom gave Detroit a 3-1 which is off to its second 4-0 "Defensively, we have to do a lead with a power-play goal 27 start in the past three snasons. better job of sorting out our own seconds into the second period. 
Martin Gerber made 27 saves end," said Lidstrom, the team's He shoved in a loose puck from for his fourth straight win. captain. a goal-mouth scramble for his Gerber is starting while No. 1 Shawn Horcoff and Andrew third goal in three games. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

CollegeGear.com social, outgoing, Moving on with my life Moving in Campus Rep wanted. Promoting with yours. Lake St. George is your WANTED www.collegegear.com 2 hrs before new home With an almost view of FoR RENT TICKETS PERSONAL each home game. the dome Sleep in one of three 
suites Taste the city water. It is Occasional babysitters wanted for $60 per hour. sweet New. New Everything You Cozy 3 bedroom house, walk to WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do our 1 0-year-old daughter. Mostly can have it for some bling Not too campus, washer/dryer, landlord PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 not go it alone. If you or someone weekends. maybe some week­Go to www.collegegear.com/reps/ badfor$345thousand does the yardwork. $750/month. No you love needs confidential support nights. We live on E. Wayne Street, pets. No section 8. 574-250-1266. FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. or assistance. please call Sr. Sue about 2 miles south of campus. If Call Jan Lazzara on her band ALL HOME GAMES. Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more interested, contact Alice at 574-287-Large house available for 2009· information, visit our website at:
FoR SALE

7655. 574-233-6141. 2010. Full renovations completed 57 4-232-0964. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­Leave message if. not home. this year. Great location on E www.victorytickets.com nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad 
Call me for a list of properties near ND Grad selling Granger home. Marion. Large common areas, 5 in THE OBSERVER. Need help clearing out a garage. ND. Open, spacious & newer. 4 br, 4 bathrooms. Also available: 5bdrm 2 ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. Sun,Oct.14. bth, + finished basement, 3 car g. bath and 3bdrm 2 bath for 2008-If you or someone you care about 
574-217-1557 Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. 2009. 57 4-288-2726. has been sexually assaulted, visit Call 312-560-5432 or http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. Kathy@ odinsight.com Tatiana Call Tim 574-271-3440. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659. shtml 
team Pittsburgh Baltimore Cleveland Cincinnati  record H 3-2 2·3 1-3  perc. .800 .600 .400 .250  PF 132 88 126 106  PA 47 97 152 129  
team Indianapolis Tennessee Jacksonville Houston  AFC South record perc. 5·0 1.000 3-1 .750 3-1 .750 3·2 .600  PF 164 84 63 116  PA 88 59 41 99  
team Oakland Denver Kansas City San Diego  AFC West record perc. 2·2 .500 2·3 .400 2·3 .400 2·3 .400  PF 102 75 63 109  100 136 83 105  
team Dallas washington N.Y. Giants Philadelphia  NFC East record perc. 4-0 1.000 3-1 .750 32 .600 1-3 .250  PF 151 87 123 84  PA 72 52 124 . 73  
team Green Bay Detroit Chicago Minnesota  record 4-1 3-2 2·3 1•3  
 
team Tampa Bay Carolina Atlanta New Orleans  record 3-2 .3-2 2·3 0-4  
team Seattle Arizona San Francisco St. louis  record a~z 3·2 2·3 1).5  





OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, October 9, 2007 CoMPILED rRoM THE OnsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
AP The Yankees removed starting pitcher Roger Clemens from their division series roster Monday due to a recurring hamstring injury. He was replaced by left-hander Ron Villone. 
Cletnens' career tnay, once again, be over 
NFL 
AFC East 

team record perc. PF 
Patriots 5·0 1.000 182 Buffalo 1-3 .250 41 N.Y. Jets 1-4 .200 96 Miami 0·5 .000 97 
AFC North 
NCAA Volleyball Coaches Top 25 
team te.cord 

1 Nebraska 14·0 2 Stanford 16·0 3 Penn State 14"2 4 UClA 1H 5 Florida 15-0 6 6 usc 14·2 4 1 Texas 10-3 .7 8 Washington 16·0 8 9 Wisconsin 14-1 g 10 California 12-4 10 11 Minnesota 12-4 11 12 Hawaii 14·3 12 13 Duke 12-3 13 14 Dayton 19-0 15 15 Michigan 15·3 16 



around the dial 
NHL 
Carolina at Toronto 7 p.m., Versus 
NBA 
Bulls at Bucks 8:30p.m., Comcast 
MLB 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Roger Clemens was removed from the New York Yankees' division series roster Monday, replaced by left-handed reliever Hon Villone. 
Clemens suffered an injured left hamstring Sunday in New York's 8-4 victory over Cleveland. The Yankees were elimi­nated, 6-4, Monday night. 
He met with manager Joe Torre and general manager Brian Cashman after the game. 
Under the new rule, Clemens would have been ineligible for the American League Championship Series if 
IN BRIEF 
Panthers quarterback out 
for the season . 
CHARLOTTE, N.C Jake Delhomme last week called surgery on his strained right elbow "a last resort." 
After experiencing pain trying to throw on Monday, the Carolina Panthers quarterback decided the worst-case scenario couldn't be avoided. 
Delhomme will have season-ending ligament-replacement surgery on his elbow next week, leaving the Panthers without their leader on offense and scrambling to find another quarterback. 
"Anytime you lose your starting quarterback it's a blow," coach John Fox said. 
Originally injured two weeks ago, Delhomme didn't show any improve­ment when trying to throw Monday. A day earlier he threw briefly on the side while sitting out Carolina's win over the Saints. 

the Yankees had advanced. The Rocket would have been able to return if New York had reached the World Series. 
"Normally, he'd fight," Cashman said. "But he didn't fight this one. He knows his body and he knows that he did enough damage in there that he wouldn't be ready." 
New York petitioned Major League Baseball for the roster switch Monday morning and it was granted hours later. Clemens declined com­ment through team spokesman Jason Zillo before the start of Game 
4. 

"He had some time try­ing to deal with his ham­
Toronto's Blake has treat­
able form of leukemia 
TOHONTO -Maple Leafs forward Jason Blake has a rare form of leukemia that he says is highly treatable. 
The 34-year-old player said Monday he has begun treatment and will still be able to perform at a high level. He announced his condi­tion after talking to teammates at practice. He said he has started tak­ing a pill daily that "has proven to be very effective in controlling this cancer." 
"The prognosis, and certainly the expectations of my physician, myself and my family, is that I will live a long, full and normal life," he said in a statement on the team's Web site. 
Team doctor Noah Forman said the disease -chronic myelogenous leukemia -is a slow-growing can­cer of the white blood cells. About 500 new cases are diagnosed each year in Canada. 
string, and he had a cou­ple of different instances last night in the first cou­ple of innings that he felt it," Torre said. "So the fact that he won't be eligi­ble for the championship series probably makes sense." 
Villone said Torre and pitching coach Ron Guidry gave him the news after he arrived at Yankee Stadium on Monday. New York did not have a lefty in the bullpen until it added Villone to its play­off roster. 
"If I can do anything to help us, that's what I'm here for," said Villone, who had no record and a 
4.25 EHA in 37 games this season. ''I'm excited, 
Marion Jones relinquishes
gold medals 
Marion Jones has given up the five medals she won at the Sydney Olympics, days after admitting she used performance-enhancing drugs. 
It wasn't immediately clear where the medals are now. Jones' lawyer, Henry DePippo, said Monday that she had relinquished them, but declined to say who had possession of them. The normal protocol would be for Jones to give them to the U.S. Olympic Committee, which then would return them to the International Olympic Committee, said Giselle Davies, IOC spokes­woman. 
"The IOC wants to move forward as quickly as possible in getting the facts and sorting out all the issues from the BALCO case," Davies said. 
A call to the USOC was not imme­diately returned, but the group has scheduled a 7 p.m. EDT news con­ference. 
but you've got to prepare just like every other game." 
Clemens' left hamstring started bothering him again when he broke for Kenny Lofton's bunt attempt in the second inning. 
He told a Yankees train­er about the problem after the inning. 
The seven-time Cy Young Award winner walked Travis Hafner leading off the third and struck out Victor Martinez before he was replaced by Phil Hughes. 
Clemens got an encour­aging pat on the chest from Alex Rodriguez before trudging toward the dugout.



MLB PLAYOFFS 

Torre era in NY possibly over after Yanks' loss 
Yankees' starter gives up four runs in two innings; Indians will play Boston in Cleveland's first ALCS since 1998 

when he made two trips to the of the way players battled. for the third straight year, strik­mound in the eighth inning, "I love Mr. T," said Derek Jeter, ing out with two on in the lirst handing the ball to Mariano whose Yankees career paralleled and again leading off the third. Rivera for perhaps the fmal time Torre's. "This is by far his best Rodriguez, who can opt of his in an era that brought the year. It goes without saying that I record $252 million, 10-year Yankees success they had not suppcrrt him." contract next month, did hit a enjoyed since the 1950s. A disappointed crowd of solo homer off Hafael Perez in 
"These fans are very special," 56,315 also might have seen the seventh -ending a streak of Torre sad. "You can feel their Rodriguez in pinstripes for the 57 consecutive postseason at­heartbeat." final time. A likely MVP during bats without an RBI since 2004. 
Torre spoke to the team after the regular season, A-Rod was He finished 4-for-15 in the the game and said he was proud largely AWOL in the postseason series. 

U.S. AIR FORCE 
R•O•T•C 

TO COMMUNICATE MORE EFFECTIVELY WITH OTHER COUNTRIES, WE MUST FIRST BE ABLE TO SPEAK THEIR LANGUAGE. 
•. 

If you speak a foreign language or are currently learning one, we have countless opportunities awaiting you in Air. Force ROTC. 
• 
Tuition assistance • Officer commission 

• 
Monthly living allowance • See the world. 


Our current language needs include Chinese, Persian, Hindi, Indonesian and countless others. 
Call1-866-4AF-ROTC or visit AFROTC.COM. 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Once Grady Simmorn hit a loadolr home run, the Clovoland Indians were head­nd to the AL championship series whilo tho New York Yankees were hracod for a showdown with thoir boss. 
Paul Byrd and the Indians bullpon elos1)d out New York 6-4 in (;anw 4 Monday night, com­pleting the third straight first­round dobadc for tho Yankees, one that might cost manager Joe Torrn his job. 
"This team hasn't had a cham­pionship in Clevoland for a long time," said Kenny Lorton. the Indians' veteran leadnr. "This is just an unbelievable feeling to be able just to start this process again." 
The Yankees came in streak­ing, ovnrcoming a 21-29 start to win tho AL wild card. But they worn done in by poor pitching, an insect invasion and the latest October vanishing act by Alex Hodriguez, whose bat was quint until a solo homo run in the sev­nnth inning. 
The posky Indians, who wasted a three-run lead in Game 3, chased Chien-Ming Wang in the second and burst ahead 4-0. Byrd kept wiggling out of trouble, and Victor Martinez's two-run single made it 6-1 in the fourth against reliever Mikn Mussina. 
A day after averting a sweep, New York put runners on in every inning except the eighth. But when it eounted, its high­octane offense fell flat once again, with late solo homers by Hod riguez, Hobinson Cano and Bobby Abrnu not enough. 
"I got some big oul'> with guys on basn," said Byrd. who strand­ed two runners in tho first and thrnn in the second. 
Cleveland moves on to its lirst ALCS since 1998, opening Friday night at Boston. The Indians were only 2-5 against the Red Sox this season. but will have aces C.C. Sabathia and Fausto Carmona fully rested for Fenway Park. 



The Indians, 0-6 against the Yankees during the regular sea­son, are seeking their first World Series title since 1948. The NL championship series starts Thursday night with Colorado at Arizona. 
Bnwildered New York opens yet another offseason of turmoil, another October over nearly as ~oon as it began. All eyes will be on owner George Steinbrenner, who said over the weekend that he didn't think he'd keep Torre as manager if New York bowed with another early exit. While the Indians celebrated in the infield, A-Hod stood alongside team­mates, one leg on the top step of the dugout, the other a step bnlow. 
Steinbrenner, looking grim, didn't speak as he left the ball­park. 
"llopefully there will be some reconsideration, but the Boss does what he wants," Johnny Damon said. 
Torre managed the Yankees to four World Series titles in his first live years and reached the play­oils in all 12 of his seasons. Yet, that might not be enough for Steinbrenner, impatient his team of multimillionaires has lost 13 of its last 17 postseason games and gone seven years in a row with no championship. If Torre does depart, Don Mattingly and Joe Girardi are the leading candi­dates to replace him. 
"This has been a great 12 years. Whatever the hell happens from here on out, I'll look back on these 12 years with great, great pleasure," he said. "The 12 years just felt like they were 10 minutes long, to be honest with you." 
Fans chanted Torre's name 
CENTF.R. FOR SPIRITUAI.lTY 
.. SAINT MARY'S ca:J.U ....... 
Education ofthe Mind and Heart 
Recognizing the Holy: Reflections on the Beatification of 
Basil Anthony Moreau. CSC 
Sister Mary Louise Gude, CSC Coordina.tnr. Beatification Ceremony, Lc Mans. France 
Wednesday. October IO, I2:00 NooN Vander Venner Theatre, Student Center 
Big C and little c: Expanding Our Understanding ofCatholicity in the Arts, Htunanities, and Sciences 
Dr. )ohnella Butler Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs Spelman College. A.tlanra. Georgia 
• Thursday, November 8, 12:00 NooN Stapleton Loungt'. Le Mans Hall 
Free dnd opt·n to the public. 
CrntC"r for Spiritu.llit) W\\'Ws:.lintmarvo; cdu -cfs (57-I) l84. -lhlh [ ntail a.'~trotma4i'saintmarys.cdtl 

Tuesday, October 9, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 

Cowboys shock Bills on last-second field goal 
Last-minute touchdown and ensuing onside-kick recovery help Dallas overcome five Tony Ramo interceptions 
fourth field goal, shocking the 

Associated Press 
sellout crowd that came to 

OI{CJIAHD PARK, N.Y. -celebrate the first Monday Tony Homo is nothing if not night home game for Buffalo resilient. And because he did­(1-4) in 13 years. n't let four interceptions in "I think our team, outside of thn first half, two returned for me, played an outstanding touchdowns, destroy his football game," Romo said. night, the Dallas Cowboys They dug me out of it. It was pulled off a stunning come­tough to grow through that, back victory. especially on Monday night. 
The Cowboys scored nine "No one is going to care points in the final 20 seconds when it's all said and done Monday night, with Nick how you won the game." Folk's 5:-l-yard field goal as And his recollection of all timn expirPd giving them an the picks? improbablfl 25-24 win over "Too many to remember," tho Buffalo Bills. he said with a smile. 
"Oh, it's great," Folk said. It was the second last-sec­"It shows you how good we ond loss on a field goal this can be and what we can do if season for the Bills; Denver wo don't make did almost the mistakns. And same thing in nvnn if we do the opener.
"We had 

make mistakes "It was
opportunities to put

and we stick embarrassing, together as a the game away,m put embarrassing," team, we still some points on the Bills receiver stay in thP Lee Evans, on
board, give us a little

game." the verge of Homo, aftnr more cushion. tears, kept being inter-Couldn't do it. It's repeating in the ceptPd fivfl somber locker
embarrassing."

times and also room. "We had losing a fum­opportunities to ble, drove Lee Evans put the game 
Dallas (5-0) 80 Bills wide receiver away, put some yards and bit points on the Patrick Crayton board, give us a with a 4-yard TD pass with 20 little more cushion. Couldn't 
seconds remaining. The 2-do it. It's embarrassing." point conversion try failed The win kept the Cowboys when Jabari Greer stripped as the NFC's only unbeaten of the most incredible in the 103-yard kickoff runback by But Dallas held, stopping 
Terrell Owens of the ball in team heading into a mega­Cowboys' illustrious history. Terence McGee. Marsh awn Lynch's fourth­the end zone. matchup with 5-0 New Buffalo made nearly all the In position to clinch it, Trent and-1 run. Then Romo recov­
But Tony Curtis recovered England next week in Texas big plays, including intercep­Edwards' pass from the Dallas ered nicely, throwing three the onside kick and after two Stadium. tions for TDs by George 11 was tipped by DeMarcus straight completions to Witten completions, Folk nailed his This latest victory was one Wilson and Chris Kelsay and a Ware and returned 70 yards and a 14-yarder to Owens 

by Terence Newman. Romo looked for tight end Jason Witten, his favorite receiver. Instead, he found linebacker John DiGiorgio at the goal line and DiGiorgio returned his first career pickoff 38 yards. 
It was the third time a pass intended for Witten was stolen by Buffalo. 
Yet the Cowboys didn't go away. And after their long drive to Crayton's 
touchdown, "No one is going to high into the air Sam Hurd at the Dallas 2,
care when it's all said
deflected the then caught it
and done how you 
onside kick in the end zone. ahead to Curtis. won the game." Moments 
Immediately, later, Romo Romo hit threw a weak
Tony Romo
Owens, but he sidearm pass

Cowboys quarterback 
couldn't hold that Greer 
before completing a 70-yard drive with a floater to the tight end for a 22-yard score early in the second period. 
It was a temporary reprieve. After Buffalo staged a superb 15-play, 73-yard drive to Rian Lindell's 24­yard field goal, Kelsay made his spectacular solo effort to give Buffalo a 17-7 lead. The defensive end deflected Romo's pass 

:.a........_~~~~~~...-.....~~~~-.......--~....._........-....:~__,..........._........-....._~-,..::-,.:::-..::--.-:::~-.., 
. . -~ 

~  
~ ~  ATHENS, GREECE  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  INFORMATION MEETING  
~  
~  
~  ***************************************************  
~  
~ ~  Tuesday, October 9, 2007  
~  5:30PM  
~  129 DeBartolo Hall  
~  
~  
~  
~  Application Deadline: November 15, 2007  
~  For Fall 2008, Spring 2009, and Academic -Year 2008-09  
~  Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/-ois/  
~  

t...-..: ~~~...,;,...~...A,..-.-~~~~~~~_,.,._....~__...,._.....~~~........'*If!""~....,.,..-.....-..:_ ........-: ~ ~............: 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 

onto a 20-yard pass to the Buffalo 25; officials needed a replay review_ to overturn the original call. 
Romo completed two more passes and Folk, after having his first try from 53 yards negated by a Bills timeout, won it. 
Folk also made field goals of 47, 29 and 37 yards. Buffalo built its lead on huge plays. 
Wilson spent most of last season on the practice squad before being converted to safety this year. He started in the injury-depleted secondary and his first NFL touch came when Romo badly overthrew Witten from the end zone. Wilson scooted in untouched for a 25-yard score. 
And when Romo went for Witten on his next pass attempt, Angelo Crowell inter­cepted. 
picked off at the 
Dallas 43. The four first-half picks were one more than the total that Romo had thrown in the previous four games. 
The Bills didn't capitalize, with Lindell missing a 54­yard field goal with 36 sec­onds to go in the half. That was enough time for the good Romo to emerge, and a 22­yard pass to Hurd set up Folk's 47-yarder to close the half at 17-10. 
Folk made a 29-yarder on the first drive of the third quarter, but McGee got his fifth career kickoff return TD, bursting untouched down the middle of the field. 
But just like in the early 1990s, when the great Bills teams that made four straight Super Bowls twice lost to Dallas in the title game, this one also would go the Cowboys' way. 


Tuesday, October 9, 2007
MLB 


Tulowitzki leads Rockies' avalanche 

Colorado shortstop is leading candidate for rookie ofyear award 
Associated Press 
I>I•:NVI·:H -Troy Tulowitzki could lw coiiPc:ting some snri­ous hardwarP soon: thn NL 
HookiP of' thP YPar award.  a  
<;old  (;JovP.  maybn  nvnn  a  
World SPrins ring.  

Yd, whPn tho Colorado HookiPs' 21-ytHtr-old star short­stop mPPls f'p)Jow major IPa­guPrs, lw's just likP any otlwr widP-nyPd youngstnr coming f'arP-to-l'arl' with a childhood lwro: lw wants an autograph. 
"I probably havP 20 or :10 in my lodPr," Tulowit.zki said. "But wlwn it's a playnr that I n~ally rnspPrt. I usually gnt a bat." 
So, l>nrPk .lnl!•r's signed bat is hanging on Llw wall of his Jon in downtown J)pnvnr nnxt to Nomar Garl'.iaparra's. 
Actually. Tulowi tzki had to get (;arr.iaparra to snnd a rnplael~­nwnt. bat lwcause thn Los AngPit~s l>odgPrs inlinldnr mis­S[JP lind his narn n whn n Tulowitzki sought out his unbnlievably good all year in big-game situations. lie did it again in the playoffs." 
Manager Clint llurdle, who missed Monday's workout with tlw flu. has called Tulowitzki tlw catalyst for the Hockies' spectacular season, which includ1~d a franehise-best 90 wins, its first playoff berth sinee I1J<J5 and its l'irst postseason series win in tlw dub's 15-year history. 
And third Baseman Garrett Atkins gave Tulowitzki the ulti­mate compliment: "Playing with him." he said. "made all of us bnttnr players. 
"You ean't teach what he has insidn of' him. and it's just been a plnasum for all or us to be a part or it." 
HPlievnr Matt IIerges, with his sevnnth major league team, added: "There's nobody that I played with that has that kind of body, that kind of power. that kind or rangn and that kind of arm. lie's in the same mold of a Nomar, A-Hod or Jeter." 
(;uys that need to go by just one namn. So, Tulo. 
It didn't start out that spee­tacular. In faet, Tulowitzki struggled so m ueh in the lirst f'nw weeks that llurdle benched him for threo. games in late 
signature al'tnr "You can't teach what April. rnarhing the Tulowitzki
he has inside (~{him.
majors last sPa­said he kept his 
son after just and it's just been a head up thanks 
12(1 ganws in pleasure j(Jr all ofus to guys like t.lw minors. llelton and Matt
to be a part ofit. " 
It wasn't his Holliday telling tricky last nanw, him they had nitlwr. Garrett Atkins been through 
"lin put Rockies third baseman something simi­

'Tony,'" Tu lowitzki said. "And he !'Pit rnally bad about that. So. evPry time I sen him, hi' says sorry and sends more bats over all the time. It's kind of funny, but I think it's gotten us a I i ttln eloser." 
Clutch hits and sparkling dnf'Pnse quickly made Tulowitzki a household name this season. 
IIn turned the 11th unassisted 
triple play in major league his­
tory. hit .291 with 24 homers 
and 99 HBis and led all major 
league shortstops in fielding 
pnrcnntage, total chancns, 
assists. putouts and double 
plays. 

!lis 24 home runs were the most nver by an NL rookin shortstop and second only to thn :w Garciaparra hit for Boston in 1997. No other rookie shortstop in tlw last half-centu­ry drovn in as many runs as Tulowitzki. 
lie also carnn up big in the biggnst or situations, collecting four hits in the Hockies' 9-8, I :1-inning win over San Diego in the Nl. wild-card tiebreaker. 
Although he went just 2-l'or­12 in Colorado's swnep of l'hiladnlphia in the NL Division Seri!~s. Tulowitzki's horner in (;arne 2, great glove work, strong arm and calming inllu­oncn lw Iped the Hockies advance to the NLCS against Arizona beginning Thursday night. 
"I look at Tulo, he doesn't know better." said slugger Todd llefton, who needed nearly I ,500 more major league gamos to reach the postseason than Tulowitzki. "lie's done lar early in their 
careers. 
"It made me realize it hap­pens to some of the best play­ers, and it made me feel bet­ter," said Tulowitzki, who hit the batting cage with a dogged determination. 
"It made me realize that maybe I wasn't as good as I thought I was. And it made me realize I needed to get better. I wont in the cage, worked hard, still played my solid defense, went out every day, took my ground balls. It wakes you up a little bit, and it's just another reminder that the game's not easy." 
Upon Tulowitzki's return, he was bumped from the seventh spot in the batting order to sec­ond, where he began getting bntter looks at pitches, moving runners over, hitting to the opposite field. 
"lie became a hitter," llurdle said. 
Fame soon followed. 
Tulowitzki lives in the same building as NBA star Allen Iverson, whose autograph he quickly obtained. 
"I met him at the beginning of the season when he was proba­bly saying the same thing: this guy's not very good,"' Tulowitzki said. "But things have changed a little bit. Now he wants tickets." 
Iverson, who joined the Denver Nuggets from Philadelphia last Deeember, said Tulo has turned him into a Hoekies fan. 
"I didn't know how good he was. I had never heard of him before," Iverson said. "And now I'm rooting for him." 
NFL 

Keith breaks out, quiets doubters 

AP 
Colts running back Kenton Keith, top, leaps over Buccaneers safety Jermaine Phillips during Indianapolis' 33-14 win Sunday over Tampa Bay. Keith ran for 121 yards and had 2 touchdowns. 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS-Colts run­ning baek Kenton Keith walked into a whole new world Monday afternoon. His cell phone was ringing and reporters surrounded his loeker. 
The former Canadian Football League player, who never had a serious ehanee 
before this, and the week before I was tired after run­ning live in a row. •· 
It's not that Keith didn't have talent. he simply got lost in the shufl'le. 
In four CFL seasons, hn ran for more than 3,800 yards, topped 1,000 yards twice, caught 52 passes in 2006 with Saskatchewan and had eight 
TD receptions 
in 2003. 
in the NFL till "I knew I could do it. He also want­
this season, ed to add to his
It was just a matter
had become an family lineage. instant star. offeeling comfortable One of his "I knew I with the game. '' eousins is for­could do it," mer NFL run­Keith said. "It ning back
Kenton Keith
was just a mat­Roger Craig, ter of feeling Colts running back the first player 
• comfortable with the game, the tempo or the offense and my position as a whole." For months, people around Indianapolis worried about the baekup to feature back Joseph Addai. Critics and online message boards con­stantly asked: Who is Kenton Keith, and why would the Colts go into the season with someone so untested? Keith heard everything, and Sunday he quieted all those doubts. Like unknown Colts running baeks before him, most notably James Mungro and Dominie Rhodes, Keith had an emphatic answer in his first career start. He ran 28 times for 121 yards and two toueh­downs, caught five passes for 37 yards and, perhaps most important, proteeted Super Bowl MVP Peyton Manning in passing situations. Nobody seemed to notiee that Addai was out with a bruised shoulder. 
''I'm more proud of me being in there and keeping my wind," said Keith, who never had more than 17 ear­ries in a pro game till Sunday. "''d not really had a chance to go more than six or seven plays in a row in a game 
in league histo­
ry to top 1,000 yards rushing and reeeiving in the same season. Another eousin is Ahman Green, who had six 1,000-yard seasons in Green Bay before joining Houston this year, and his father, Percy, like Green and Craig, was a running baek at Nebraska. 
Unlike his eousins and dad, though, Keith wound up going at New Mexieo State where he 
rushed for 2,134 yards in 39 career games and dropped orr the radar of most NFL teams. 
One, the New York Jets, signed him in 2004 -after his first CFL season. Buried behind Curtis Martin, LaMont 
'Tm pretty sure if they go with me or with me and Joe, yesterday gave them the confidence I can do it." 
Kenton Keith Colts running back 

Jordan and B.J. Askew, the Jets eut him before training eamp opened and Keith head­ed baek to Saskatehewan. 
"At the time, I didn't know what a training camp body was," Keith said. "When I left, I knew what it was. They did­n't really need me." 
One game changed every­
thing. Some contend thn Colts (5­
0) could put almost anyone in the baeklield and have a 100­yard rushnr, and there is a hint of truth to that. Mungro, primarily a short-yardage back during his five seasons with the Colts, ran for 114 yards and a touchdown in his starting debut against Philadelphia in 2002 and Hhodes ran for more 1,104 yards in 10 games -an NFL record for undrafted rookies -in 2001. 
Yet the Colts insist there's more to playing the position than impressive slats. 
"Most of the baeks that come into this league can run," Dungy said. "It's the other things where experi­ence comes into play, things like pass protection, audibles and route-running. We weren't really on the lookout for an experienced guy once we saw the guys in the pre­season. We felt they'd bP. fine." 
Now Keith is the toast of his native Omaha, Neb., and Indianapolis. 
He had 87 missed calls by the time he made it back to 
the loeker room Sunday, and heard tales of Omaha hangouts being l'illed with old fans watching the Colts game. 
But the 27­year-old isn't overwhelmed by his new fame. 
"I think peo­
ple are expeeting me to be overjoyed or whatever word you want to use," Keith said. "I just did what I've been doing. 
"I don't know what they'll do right now. I'm pretty sure if they go with me or with me and Joe, yesterday gave them the confidenee I can do it." 

Tuesday, October 9, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
The Belles will be looking to garbogas@nd.edu 




::t-

HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 

Fall Seminar: 
The Heart and Mind of' Blessed Basil Moreau 
Despite threats o:f persecution during the Reign of Terror in the French Revolution, Fr. Moreau had the courage and drive to carry on the Catholic Faith and grovv his ministry across the '\vorld. 
Speaker: Br. John Tryon., C.S.C. English pro:fessor and Director o:f the Writing Lab at Holy Cross College 
Date: October lOth., 2007 Time: 7:00 PM Location: Driscoll Auditorium 
Universitv... of Notre Dame's 


Study Abroad Progran1 in 

Angers, France 
''Should I stav 
"' 
or should l goT'' 

INFORMATION MEETING 
With Angers' Progran1 Coordinator and returnees of the progran1 
Wednesday, October 10,2007 ......! 5:30-6:45 PM 210 DeBartolo Classroom B..~.ilding 
NEXT AND FINAL INFO SESSION: THURSOAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2007 SAME TIME-118 DellARTOLO CLASSROOM BlHLDING 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2007 For Acaden1ic Year 2008-2009 Fall 2008 and Spring 2009 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~ois/ 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 


Belles top the field in 21 squad event 
Megan Gray wins individual title as team deals with heat 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer . 
Going into Friday's Eagle Invitational at Benedictine University in Lisle, Ill., Saint Mary's was just hoping to gauge how well it was pre­pared for a longer, six kilome­ter race. 
Coming out, the Belles have to be ecstatic after finishing first among the meet's 21 teams. Senior captain Megan Gray also claimed the individ­ual title by finishing in 23:59.2 in 8 7 -degree heat. 
"The girls were just amaz­ing," coach Jackie Bauters said. "Despite the heat, they ran very well. This is the toughest course !Benedictine's coach Jon Wolcott] has ever made for the invite, with two 
big hills in the first mile  ... so  
the girls ran very welL  
Though  Bauters  had  

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary's prepares to face last-place Olivet 
their seniors for some guid­

GREG ARBOGAST 
ance, especially setter 

Sports Writer 
Amanda David. David has been an honorable mention for 

Coming off a 3-0 loss to the MIAA conference player of Hope College, Saint Mary's will the week every week this sea­return to MIAA play today son. when the Belles face last-place The Comets will be far from Olivet in Olivet, Mich. the toughest team Saint Mary's 
The Belles are 7-11 overall, has played this year. Olivet and their 4-6 conference mark enters Wednesday's game with 
puts them in fifth place in the MIAA. 
"We need to bring our
Given that 
Saint Mary's is game. We need to get currently 2 112 excited about our 
games behind 
successes and build on
fourth-place Tri-State with 
those rather than let 
only six confer­our errors be our ence matches 
focus.''
remaining in the season, the contest with Julie Schroeder-Biek Olivet is close Belles coach to a must-win. 
"We need 
expressed some curiosity, if not concern, about the Belles prospects in the longer race (most races are 5K), they cer­tainly answered any doubts that might have been by edging second-place St. Joseph's by 10 points. 
The Belles had seven run­ners finish in the top 20: fresh­man Sam Wieczorek (fifth, 25:21.2). freshman Catie Salyer (ninth, 26:00). sopho­more Megan McClowry (11th, 26:15), senior Olenka Bilyk (26:21), freshman Stephanie Waite (26:44) and freshman Clare McVey (26:51). 
The significance of Friday's performance is not lost on Bauters, since the Belles' con­ference championship race on Oct. 27 will also be a 6K. 
"The girls responded pretty well [to both the heat and the course length]," Bauters said. "It was hard to tell if the slow­er times were the heat, the course or the longer race, but I'm thinking they can handle the race length adjustment." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
an overall record of 2-19, and their con­ference record of 1-11 is the worst in MIAA. Furthermore, the Belles and Comets met earlier this season with Saint Mary's walking away with a com­fortable 3-0 victory on Sept. 11. The 

more desire to play up to our ability," Saint Mary's coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "We need to bring our game. We need to get excited about our successes and build on those rather than let our errors be our focus." 
Belles won the games by scores of 30-17, 30-19 and 30­27. 
Samantha Leonard con­tributed to this report. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 9, 2007 
====---=========================================================================================-=================
~ --~----_-~-~-­

"It's the hardest we've played though, carne earlier. Connell sion. 13-0. all year." he said. "We were quiekly broke the huddle and, In the second half, Walsh sen­Despite the deficit, Lewis

Ducks 
missing three coaches coming seeing that the defense was not ior Julie Campbell intercepted a coach Perry Shoemaker had 
continued from page 24 
kept tlw drive alive. Two plays 
later. lloward freshman quar­
terback Kayla Bishop thrnw for 
a touchdown pass and thon con­
vnrtod tho two-point attempt, 
giving the Ducks a 8-0 lead. 
On the ensuing drive, the 

l'yros mardwd 65 yards in six 
plays, tying tlw game up on a 
touchdown pass from freshman 
quartnrbaek Caitlin Lynch to 
widn roctdver Tara l'illai. Lynch 
finished thn day 12-for-21 pass­
ing. 
But l'asquPrilla East dneided 

to go for tlw ram 3-point con­
vorsion and the win, rathnr than 
attnmpting to tie tho gamo at 8­
8. Lynrh's pass fell incompleto, and the 8-b margin would be tho final. I>Pspitn tho loss, which ondt~d l'asqw~rilla East's stmson, sonior captain Megan Boeker still has high hopes for tho futuro. 
"We foel like we laid the foun­dation for l'yro football and we arn on the rise now," Boeker said. 
Unfortunately for tiH~ l'yros, they will have to wait another yoar to lind out. 
Welsh Family 32, Badin 0 
l'erfeetion is the only way to 

doseribe Wnlsh Family. 
In thnir route over Badin 

Sunday, the Whirlwinds played a 
flawless game on both sides of 
tho ball. This win did not only 
solidify an undefeated 6-0 
rneord for the season, it also 
gave thn Welsh Family women 
the No. 1 seed in tho (;old 
League playolls. 
On offense, junior captain 
.lenni Cargula throw ew~ry pass 
right into her receivers' hands 
and deftly kept the ball away 
from the Bullfrog defenders. 
Welsh Family never punted and 
scored a touchdown on every 
possf1ssion. The receivers 
workP.d eflkif~ntly, running the 
routes perfectly and then turn­
ing down lield. 
On defense, Welsh Family did­
n't give Badin a chance to move 
the ball. Badin had only two first 
downs the whole game -both 
in the second half. The 
Whirlwinds played shutdown 
pass defense and managed to 
break up many Bullfrog passes. 
Welsh Family was too big and 
too quick for the entire Badin 
team. 
"The defense takes a lot of 
pressure ofT of me because you 
know that the team isn't going 
to scorn much," Gargula said. 
Gargula said the team-first spirit and the coaching quality was the difl'erence maker for the team. 
"Our coaches spend so much time with the team and give us so many different options with the oll'ense," Gargula said. 
"We will rnally be only work­ing on the same things as always," Gargula said. "OITnnsive plays, defense, the same things basically." 
The loss took Badin out of the Cold League playoll's. 
Cavanaugh 6, Farley 0 
Cavanaugh held on for a difli­cult win over Farley Sunday. 
Both Cavanaugh, at 3-3, and Farley, at 2-2-2, are guaranteed playoff lwrths. Both dnfenses played woll and limitnd the opposing oll'mlSPS. The first half' nndml scornlnss. 
Thn sneond half would not chango for the defenses. Chaos sophomorn Erin Dolan scored the only touchdown af't1~r an intnrception lef't hnr oiTensn at tlw 3-yard linn. 
Cavanaugh coach Aidan Jiitzgerald was very proud of his t.nam. 
in, and we just did a good job of 
working as a team." 
Farley's coach. Matt Barcus, 
said that dropped passes hin­
dernd his team's performance. 
"We played really well, espe­
cially the defense," Barcus said. 
"Dropped passes hurt. They 
wero the missing pieces. We had 
lintr in a row at one point." 
Pasquerilla West 25, Lyons 7 
As his offense ran out on the 
field Sunday, Pasquerilla West 
eoach Paul Wallenberg shouted 
one last bit of instruction: "Score 
early and score oftnn." 
It was with this mantra in 
mind that the Purple Weasels 
beat Lyons at Hiehle Field. 
Al'tPr punting on its first drive, 
l'asquerilla West got the ball 
back on a turnover on downs 
and did exactly what its coach 
instructed. Aftnr six plays cover­
ing 27 yards, freshman quarter­
back Grace Orians ran five 
yards for the 11rst score of tho 
game. 
The second half went much thn same way for the Weasels, as their captain, senior wide reeeiver and running back Tina Martinek scored two more touchdowns. one on a pass from Orians and the other on a two­yard run. 
Martinek said this was all part of the plan. 
"!Scoring early! had always lwen one of our game plans," she said. "It's ... nice to get up early and put it away and not have to worry about it at the end of the game. It f{1it good to be up by that much. Obviously it makes the rest of the game easi­
er." 
At the half, Lyons captain and snnior middle linebacker Judith Kaczmarek said the defense drew inspiration from a recent Notre Dame triumph. 
"We were trying to compare ourselves to the Notre Dame defense. We said that if Maurice Crurn, Jr. could make some interceptions and the defense could help win a game when the offense was having trouble, wo thought we could, too," Kaczmarek said. 
Lyons started the second half on the offensive side of the ball. The Lions finally got on the scoreboard with a 65-yard drive, capped by a 20-yard pass from sophomore quarterback Claire Connell to junior receiver Shannon Brady. 
The biggest play of the drive, 
yet settled, connected with soph­
omore receiver Maria Petnuch. 
"[That drivel turned our entire 
mood around," Kaczmarek said. 
"We were really quiet. It just 
brought a spark of hope into the 
second half. It didn't come 
through in the end, but we 
played a much stronger offense 
in the second half but we just 
couldn't get into the end zone." 
Lyons would not score again. 
The Pasquerilla West defense 
held the Lions scoreless for the 
remainder of the half, and 
Martinek added to her impres­
sive stat line by taking an inter­
ception back for a touchdown on 
the last play of the game. 
With the win, the Purple 
Weasels return to the playofl's, a 
goal Martinek said the team had 
in mind all along. 
"1 can speak for the seniors; we're all glad just to be play­ing," she said. " ... All season, [from I before the first game, we've told the freshmen [that! we've been really successful the last few years and we're looking to tho Stadium ... and I think we have a good shot of getting there and winning when we do." 
Walsh 12, McGlinn 12 
McGlinn only had eight play­ers Sunday -but that's all it needed. 
The Shamrocks entered their game with Walsh at 0-3, while the Wild Women were 4-0, but McGlinn managed a hard-fought tie. 
The Wild Women were with­out starting quarterback Mary Claire Sullivan, leaving fresh­man Lindsay Schanzer as the signal-caller. She threw four interceptions but ran for a 25­yard touchdown on an option right. 
"It was really great to see Lindsay step up as a freshman and lead the team. She deserves a lot of credit for going out there," Walsh offensive coordi­nator Miehael Wakim said. "She had some big shoes to fill, and I know she is going to be great in the future." 
The offense started ofT playing conservatively, sticking with short passes or the option, but expanded the playbook in the second half. Schanzer's touch­down gave Walsh an early 6-0 lead, but the Wild Women sur­rendered a touchdown pass late in the second half. The Shamrocks, however, failed to convert the one-point conver­pass and ran it back for a touch­down to put the Wild Women up 12-6. 

"We put a lot of pressure on our defense with the amount of offensive turnovers. Julie 
· Campbell comes up big for us every game," Wakim said. "She's the best cover corner in the league and the anchor of our defense. She plays with the heart of a champion and has a real nose for the ball." 
Wakim decided to go for the two-point conversion instead of' the easier one-pointer. Schanzer's overthrew a pass intended fm· wide receiver Siera Smith, leaving the Walsh lead at only six points. 
"I take full responsibility for the way we went out there today; there were mistakes on my part that led to the overall outcome of' the game," Wakim said. "Overall. this game gives us a chance to refocus and work even harder at practices to attain perfection." 
McGlinn drove down the lield with a combination of screens and long passes and evened the score on a long touchdown pass. The Shamroeks failed the con­version, leaving the limtl score at12-12. 
"As a team we were disap­pointed by a tie because we were undefeated, but it was an eye-opening experience," Walsh senior captain Marie Brenner said. "Now we know areas we can improve upon going into the playoffs." 
Pangborn 13, lewis 6 
From the opening whistle, it was all about No. 10. 
Pangborn's sophomore cap­tain, Meghan Bescher, who wears the number, took over on both sides of the ball as the Phoxes beat Lewis 13-6 Sunday at Riehle Field. 
Bescher began the game with a bang, intercepting a pass from Lewis sophomore quarterback Catherine Guarnieri on the Chicks' opening drive. On fourth-and-goal of Pangborn's drive, Bescher caught a six-yard touchdown pass from freshman quarterback Gabby Tate. She then scored the extra point, giv­ing Pangborn a quick 7-0 lead. 
Tate and Bescher hooked up for another score on the last play of the first half, this time on a 13-yard pass. After a failed extra point attempt, the half ended with Pangborn leading some eneouraging words lix his 
team in the huddle. 

"I just told tht~m that our 
defense was hanging tough. to 
keep it up, and that we could 
easily score on our own," he 
said. "I told them that they 
weren't out of the game by any 
stretch." 

The Chicks' defonse heeded its 
coach's advice; Pangborn's first 
drive of the second half was cut 
short after junior Sarah Trent 
intereopted a Tato pass. The 
subsequent drivo resultnd in a 
touchdown on a nine-yard 
scamper by Guarnitwi, bringing 
the score to 13-(>. 

Shoemaker and the rest of tlw 
team were happy to get on the 
board so quickly in the seeon9 
half. 
"It was good to sen, 

Shonmaker said. "We didn't . make any major changes; we just fine-tuned some of the routes to try to gd opnn. Getting the touchdown just conl1rrned 
that our scheme could work." 

The Chicks defense eame out 
strongnr in the st~cond half, 
holding the Phoxes scoreless 
and putting much more pres­
sure on Tate. The pressure was 
due in large part to senior cap­
tain Alnx Perslny, who recorded 
three sacks on thn defensive 
line. 

While Pangborn's season will 
continue in the playoffs, the 
Chicks played their last game 
Sunday. Despite the ending, 
Shoemaker was happy with his 
team's ell'ort this season. 

"This wasn't the 0-6 Lewis 
team from last year -this was 
the start of something great," 
Shoemaker said. "Our defense 
was outstanding all the way 
through, and our young ollense 
really eame together toward the 
end of the season." 

Beseher finished the game 
with eight catehes for 71 yards 
and two touchdowns on offense 
and two interceptions on 
defense. This efTort, though, was 
nothing spectacular in her mind. 
"There was obviously a little 
more weight on this last game, 
seeing as a win would ensure a 
playoff spot, but I played the 
same way I always do," she said. 
Contact Andy Ziccarrelli at 
aziccare@nd.edu, Kvein Henry 
at khenry@nd.edu, Anthony 
Conklin at aconklin@nd.edu, Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu and Griffin 
Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 

Live, learn, and \vork in the nation's capital 
during the fall or spring semester with the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 




WASHIN T GRAM 


INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, October 11, 2007 229 Hayes-Healy, 4:00 p.m. 
Deadline to apply for Fa112008 or Spring 2009 is November 15,2007. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; www.nd.edu/-wp 
Tuesday, October 9, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
interception as he and wide he tossed up a pass to Fernandez. In the second quarter, receiver Carl Anderson led the Anderson, who made an acro­Over the remaining 1:28, the Alumni intercepted a Castello
Fisher 
Manor to its second win of the batic one-handed catch to put ball was intercepted twice pass, but the defender fum­continued from page 24 season, a victory over O'Neill. the Manorites on the score­more, preventing either team bled, and Keenan recovered 
"We played a complete game board. from scoring. deep in Alumni territory. four-yard touchdown, extend­this week," sophomore full­When the teams came back Zahm coach T.J. Stouder was Shortly after that play, Castello ing Fisher's lead to 15-0. back and defensive end John onto the field for the second proud of how his defense connected with Zenker again 
The Green Wave focused on Saulitis said. half, Reynolds put together an played against the explosive and the Knights took a 12-0 the running game in the sec­Sophomore lineman Spencer identical drive that resulted in Ramblers offense. lead into the hall'. ond half and tried to keep the White said the team could be another touchdown pass to "The defense was great," he Keenan threw an intercep­clock moving. Fisher sopho­in better shape despite the Anderson. said. "They really came out tion on the opening drive of more running back Jamie win. "We came out and played strong and made some key the second half, but recovered Ellis, the Green Wave's fea­"The main thing we need to pretty well in the first half. But plays, especially in the second an Alumni fumble on the tured back, finished the game work on is our conditioning," in the second half, they made half. Dawgs' ensuing possession. with nine carries for 51 yards. White said. some big plays that put them "We played much better than After a long Keenan comple­
Forced to pa:?s, the Vermin The offensive production ahead," Forte said. last week." tion, the Knights punched the replaced sophomore quarter­was much better this week for For O'Neill, things started to The Zahmbies, now 1-1-1, ball into the end zone from back Jon Sarna with freshman Morrissey, which was held to go wrong from the very begin­are heading into a bye week inside the Alumni five-yard Kris Kast. Kast struggled, only six points last week ning. After forcing a punt on with the playoffs on their line to take an 18-0 lead. completing only one pass and against Keenan. To supple­Morrissey's first possession, minds. Siegfried, now 1-0-1, Keenan's offensive success throwing two interceptions. ment its passing attack, junior punt returner Nate is also looking to play in the continued into the fourth 
"We finally got [the Crooked Morrissey went with a running Forte was knocked out of the Stadium. quarter, as Castello and Stick I back. last year," Donovan back-by-committee game plan game after suffering a huge hit Siegfried's next opponent is Zenker connected on a long said. "It's our big rivalry game this week and split the carries from sophomore linebacker St. Ed's on Oct. 14, and Zahm touchdown pass for the third with Carroll, so to win and between power backs Saulitis Phil Yuhas during the return. will play Sorin on Oct. 17. time. Keenan converted its keep it at home means a lot to and senior captain Nick The Manor offense was first two-point conversion of us." Bencomo and change-of-pace aided by its tough defense, led St. Edward's 20, Knott 6 the game to cap off a dominat­
Fisher looks to continue its running back sophomore Mike by Yuhas. Morrissey forced St. Edward's continued its ing win over Alumni. win streak next week when it Fletcher. This three-headed two turnovers on downs and improbable run Sunday as it Keenan improved to 3-0 with takes on Knott. Carroll will monster accounted for two­two interceptions in its domi­defeated Knott. the win. The Knights have a face winless Sorin. thirds of Morrissey's offensive nating performance. Led by freshman quarter­bye this week, but they face 
production. "The defense played like back Matt Abeling and an Gold League co-leader Morrissey 12, O'Neill 0 Both of Morrissey's touch­their hair was on fire today," opportunistic defense, St. Ed's Stanford in their next game. 
Despite the absence of two­downs came as a result of long Yuhas said. "I felt like we shut improved its record to 3-0. Alumni fell to 0-2 with the year starting quarterback Joe drives that started deep in its down O'Neill's offense pretty "We got a good group of loss. The Dawgs look to earn McBrayer, the Morrissey pass­own territory. Just before half­well today and gave our freshman and good leadership, their first win of the season ing attack did not miss a beat time, Reyno Ids drove the offense good opportunities to and we put in the effort this next week against O'Neill. against O'Neill Sunday. Morrissey offense down the score." · year," Stedsman coach 
Backup quarterback Alvin· field and deep into Mob terri­Morrissey's stifling defense Cameron Hogue said. "It's a Dillon 12, Keough 6 Heynolds passed for two tory. held the Mob to only one first change in attitude. We had to In a battle between two touchdowns and only one With just a few seconds left, down on each of its five pos­change the attitude." teams that looked to keep 
sessions. Knott struck first on its their playoff hopes alive, 
Things look grim for O'Neill, opening drive when freshman Dillon was able to come out on which dropped to 0-3 on the running back Cameron Smith top against Keough Sunday season. This loss knocks the exploded through the line and with a win. Mob out of the playoff hunt, took the ball 65 yards for a "This win feels great," Dillon and it will only be able to play touchdown. St. Ed's next two captain Alex Duffy said. spoiler next week against drives resulted in intercep­"However, we don't really have Alumni. tions, requiring the defense to time to celebrate because we 
For Morrissey, this win puts step up. have defending champs it in good position to make the Senior Nick Strom intercept­Morrissey next week." playoffs and control its own ed a pass and returned it for a The game started slow, as destiny. It needs a win next touchdown to give St. Ed's a 7-both defenses controlled the week against Dillon to reach 6 lead going into halftime. game. Each team forced an the playoffs. "The defense is rock solid, interception in the first quar­
and they lead the way," Hogue ter. Dillon (1-1) was able to Siegfried 6, Zahm 6 said. force Keough (1-2) into a 
A first-hall' Siegfried touch­St. Ed's then came out turnover on downs as well. down was the Siegfried-Zahm throwing in the second half Keough put the first points of game's only offense until the and capped its first drive with the game on the board in the fourth quarter, when Zahm a 17-yard touchdown pass second quarter when a long senior quarterback and cap­from Abeling to sophomore touchdown pass from quarter­tain Sean Wieland tied Joe DeMott. back Matt Briggcman gave the Sunday's game at 6-6 on a "[Abeling] gives us flexibility. Kangaroos a 6-0 lead. quarterback sneak. He can throw every ball in the Dillon came out on the 
Then the game got interest­book and teams have to pre­attack on its next possession ing. pare for that," Hogue said. with a long drive that ended 
With less than 8 minutes left, Knott threatened once more, with a touchdown ran in by Siegfried regained possession. but the St. Ed's defense would­Duffy. The drive included a After a 28-yard, six-minute n't budge. Senior Corey diving catch by sophomore drive, junior quarterback Max Dinkins and freshman Chris wide receiver Chris Cugliari Young threw a long pass, Dinkins each recorded a sack, that jarred his helmet off his which was intercepted by and the defense forced a head. Dillon could not convert Zahm freshman Dylan turnover on downs. That set its two-point conversion 

QE.T YoUR 





· oN 
YOU HAVE 2DAYS LEFT TO TAKE THE ONLINE ENERGY QUIZ •.• http://energycenter.nd.edu 
TWELVE QUESTIONS TOTAL. GET THEM ALL RIGHT FOR ACHANCE TO WIN CASH! 
What is the windiest U.S. city? 
What country is the largest consumer of oil 

What percent of our domestic energy do idl electronics (TVs, VCRs, DVD and CD players)t7iJ!A NOTRE DAME k consume, even when they are not on~
\Uenergywee 
How much less energy does it take to Energy Week is sponsored by the Notre Dame Energy Centert the Energy and Environmental 
produce a ton of paper from recycled

Issues Committee, Students for Environmental Actiont the Joint Engineering Council, and 
paper than from trees?

Notre Dame Student Government. 
up a seven-yard touchdown run, putting the game out of hand. 
"[The defense] can set up the offense with short field and then we just have to go out and execute," Hogue said. 
Abeling finished the game with 12-of-21 for 147 yards. His No. 1 receiver, freshman Dan Crisman, caught seven balls for 95 yards in the game. St. Ed's looks to remain unbeaten as it takes on Siegfried next Sunday. Knott will face undefeated Fisher. 
Keenan 26, Alumni 0 
Keenan dominated Alumni from the opening play of Sunday's win, and with their third win of the season, the Knights clinched a playoff berth in the Gold League. 
On the first play of the game, Keenan intercepted an Alumni screen pass. On the ensuing possession, freshman quarter­back Brian Castello threw a touchdown pass to junior wide receiver Jim Zenker for the first of their three touchdown connections on the day. Keenan's two-point conversion attempt failed, leaving the score at 6-0. 
attempt, and the teams went into halftime with the score tied at six. 
In the third quarter, Dillon capitalized on a Keough mishap to take the lead. After Keough forced a Dillon punt, the punt was muffed, and jun­ior Luke Jarzynka recovered the muff for Dillon. Soon after the Keough miscue, Dillon took the lead on a touchdown pass from quarterback Joe Garigliano to Cugliari. Dillon's second failed two-point con­version made the score 12-6. 
Dillon's stout defense pre­served the win for the Big Red in the fourth quarter. Keough ran the ball well and found themselves with a first and goal late with just a few min­utes remaining in the game. 
Ho~ever, Dillon stopped four straight run plays from Keough, and after a long run from Garigliano on its ensuing possession, the Big Red ran out the clock to pick up their first win of the season. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd,edu, Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu, Laura Myers at lmeyers2@nd.edu and Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 9, 2007 
Junior Josh Sandman tied Hoek for the lowest individ­


Hock 
continued from page 24 
Chattanooga, who finished tied at 22-under. Finishing a stroke behind Notre Dame and tying for fourth were 
Virginia Teeh under par 
and Ohio "We started to pick up after a final­round 70.
State, who fin­momentum late in the 
ished at six­"We came
second round and that

under 858. out very 
"I'm so carried over so well focused and thrilled with into the final round." got some very 
the way our solid scores guys played from one
Jim Kubinski

this week," through four Irish coach Irish coach in the lineup," Jim Kubinski Kubinski said. said. "This is "That's the the kind of kind of depth performance I've been we've been looking for dur­expecting from them all sea­ing the past year or so, and son long, but it's the first we'll look to keep building on time we've really been able this the rest of the season." to put it all together." Sophomore Doug Fortner 
continued his exceptional end of the day. The Irish play this season, taking his passed North Carolina­third top 20 finish in as Wilmington and Eastern many events. Fortner tied for Carolina in the last four 20th at one-holes, and over par, their hot 
despite a "This is the kind of 
play contin­tough finish performance rve been ued in a Monday, strong finish.
expecting from them all 
when he "We start­
season long, but it's the 
bogeyed five ed to pick up of the final first time we've really momentum six holes. late in the
been able to put it 
Senior cap­second round
all together." 
tain Ed.die and that car­Peckels ried over so rounded out Jim Kubinksl well into the the Irish final round,"
Irish coach 
lineup, tying Kubinski for 80th at said. 17-over. The Irish will take a two­
Notre Dame opened the week break from competition tournament with a first before playing in the Mason round of one under, placing Rudolph Intercollegiate event the Irish in seventh. After from Oct. 21-23 in dropping several places mid­Tennessee. way through the second round Sunday, Notre Dame Contact Michael Bryan at rallied into sixth place by the mbryan@nd.edu 



Belles 
continued from page 24 

Whether it has been moving defenders such as Justine Iliggins or Bridget Ronayne up top or using freshmen Corissa Hart and Julia Gragtmans' fire­power to try to lind the back of the net, Saint Mary's has been adjusting well this season. 
"I think it is a very winnable game, but we will need to put two very solid halves together which we did not do against Hope on Saturday," MacKenzie said. "We need to step on the field and bring intensity and focus from the opening whistle. It should be a very good test for us. lt will be interesting to see how we bounce baek from the disappointing result on Saturday." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiOl @saintmarys.edu 
ual Notre Dame seore at three-under. It was Sandman's best performance this season. Senior captain Greg Hodgers also had a solid tournament for the Irish, tying for 15th at two­








Fremantle, Australia 
Information Meeting 
Thursday, October 11, 2007 5:30PM 141 DeBartolo 
!students in the College of AL & BA onl~ 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2007 for Fall2008 and Spring 2009 Apply Online: www.nd.edu/--ois 
Tuesday, October 9, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 



TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

{'GVUI!tiC  l V :l>liUW::>  
Favorite books:  Favorite books:  
books? hahahaba, who teads hooks? LOLl L\t\0!-.  uun:n, the Great ·Gatshy? aetuaUy... Spark.\'otes for the :(;i-~ar ci.t~h": _·_· · · · ·  
FavnritP nuntA~·  :FAvnr!tP mantP<;;'  

CROSSWORD 
Across 35 "Don't on Russian space me" (slogan of station the American 
Revolution)

4 ''The Song of _," old French 36Where San epic Diego is: Abbr. 
10 Spill the beans 37 Art 14 Half of dos 
39 Expensive coat 15 Blackboard 
41 Cravingsappurtenance 42 Not silently

16 Like hands after 44 Laughing
eating potato chips 46 Drivers' org. 1711's worth 47 Perfect shape listening to 
50 Building wing19 Info in a used 51 Sale markdown car ad indicator 

20 Toll 
54 Variety of rose

21 Conduct a survey 
60 Decorative sofa fabric

23 Republic from which 61 River of Montenegro Switzerland 
gained its 62 Where the first 
independence words of 17-. 26­25 __-jongg and 47-Across 26 Sherlock Holmes may be found 
portrayer 64 It may be in the 33 Nabokov heroine doghouse 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
65 Its alphabet starts with alit 66 Bard's "before" 67 Hightail it 68 Tennessee team 69"Help!" 
Down Scents used for 
perfume 2 Senseless 3 English 
philosopher called "Doctor Mirabilis" 
4 One who sees it like it is 
5 Fort _, former Army post on Monterey Bay 
6 Source of basalt 7 Purchase 
stipulation 8 Place for a crick 9 Imagined 
10 Cry of glee 11 Stead 12 Chester Arthur's 
middle name 13 Polar explorer 
Richard 18 Isle of exile 22 Sis-boom-bahs 24 Snobs put them 
on 27 Memorize, as 
lines 28 Raging mad 29 He lost to 
Dwight 30 They're controlled by the moon 31 "Peter Pan" dog 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

Favorite books: 
that hook from 8th grade•. ·:Catch Her ...in the.R\??-.... fil Favnrim nuntP~~ 
You'd think by college people might have 
real favorite books _. · 
·1putHustler Magazine that counts right? 
WILLSHORTZ 

32 Actress  43 Mid seventh­ 55 Where Bill and  
Lanchester, who  century date  Hillary met  
married Charles Laughton  45 Haberdashery items: Var.  56 La  Tar Pits  
33 "Madam. I'm  48 Dated  57 Hatcher or Garr  
34 Place to get a Reuben  49 Smell 52 Old Oldsmobile  58 Part of Q.E.D. 59 "I Do, I Do, I Do.  
38 Catcher of sound  53 They may be  I Do, I Do" group  
waves  dominant  63 Winning cry in a  
40 -­'acte  54 Knife handle  card game  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TUISE 
rJ 
1 

©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CLOON 
j 
1 ri ENJUKT 1 ri  j  I I I I  
www.jumble.com  
BRATIB  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHE:N HIS PAL.S MADE: FUN OF HIS BAL.DNE:SS, HE:--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 



[ J I [ J 
Answer: 
"r I I I I J" A rI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: STAID ABBOT PONCHO CUPFULYesterday's Answer: 
When his pals made fun of his baldness, he -PUT A "LID" ON IT 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Nick Cannon. 27; Matt Damon, 37; Sigour­ney Weaver, 58; Chevy Chase, 64 
Happy Birthday: Focus more on home, family and what you can do in your own com­munity. Travel may be enticing but problems and delays will prevail. Work on an idea you have that can lead to greater income or help you build an investment Pick up more skills, develop one of your talents or study something that will help you advance. Your numbers are 8, 14, 26, 33, 38,42 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Pay attention to detail and add your own special touch to whatever you do. You can impress as weB as advance if you focus on what needs to be done and do it your way. Travel wi11 entice you but be cautious. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You have everything under control, so finish what you start You can far exceed your expectations if you concentrate on the most important part of whatever you are doing. Children and older individuals will play a role and can add to your success. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Nothing is likely to run smoothly, especially if you have to rely on other people. Overindulgence may be a problem. Be prepared to walk away from a situation that doesn't feel right 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put effort into something you really enjoy doing or into a relationship you want to make better. Travel plans can be put into play and visiting someone you want to get to know better or who can help you get ahead will turn out welL 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't even think about all the little worrisome things you have on your mind. For now, concentrate on work, making money and changing whatever is holding you back or slowing you down. Network and brainstorm. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't get upset If someone you live with or that you are close to gives you a hard time, just walk away. Confronting situations will lead to an emotional breakdown that you cannot resolve at the moment 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Emotional matters concerning someone you work with or have to deal with will affect the outcome of what you are trying to accomplish. Use your intuition and creativity and you will impress and surprise everyone. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You have plenty to do but also the drive to put things to rest Do your thing regardless of what anyone says. You are on the right track, so take a unique route even if someone thinks it's wrong. 4 stars 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be cautious today. You aren't likely to make the best decisions or choices so take your time rather than rush into things. Travel and com­munication will both pose a problem for you. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make some personal as well as financial moves today. Money and commitment will go hand-in-hand. You can draw up legal papers, sign documents and sort through information of a sensitive nature. Change will be good. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may be faced with someone who wants to know how you feel about him or her. Be careful how you word things. You may be taken the wrong way. Be sensitive to his or her needs. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can expect to deal with other people's problems today. The.more empathetic and compassionate you are, the better. A deal that you are interested in can turn into extra cash. Some changes made around the house will add to your comfort. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are practical, a serious thinker, a communicator and a channing individual. People trust and respect you. You are sensitive, helpful and a team player. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consul­tations 

THE OBSERVER 








PORTS
'li.lcsday, October 9, 2007 
page 24 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Stretch runs 
Fisher tops Carroll to retain Crooked Stick 
By ERIC PRISTER, ALEX 
BARKER, LAURA MYERS and 
MIKE GOTIMER 
Sporrs Wricers 
Thn CrookPd Stiek will stay in Fisher for another year annr tlw CrPI'Il Wavn dnfnated tlw Ca r r o II Vn r m i n l 5 -0 Sunday. 
Fislwr's defPns11 was on1~n again stifling, intercnpting thren Vnrmin passns. 
"Wn'vn pitclwd two shutouts in a row," senior roach John Donovan said. "Basically, today, llw dni'Pnsn outscon~d thn ol'l'ense .... Heally, tlwy just camP to play. They'vp rnally bnnn till' backbone or our tnam so far." 
i\f'ler both tnams WPrn l'orcnd to punt on tlwir first drives, thn Fisher defensn stopped Carroll and then blocked a punt, which was retunwd l'or a touchdown by sophomore Cameron Compton. 
"That was hugn," Donovan said. 
l.atnr in tlw first half. the c;rnnn Wave defense killed an otlw r Vnrm in drive. This tinw, Fislwr stopped Carroll on fourth down and gave Uw oiTPnSI' gn~at liPid position. ll r.apitalizPd on the Pnsuing possnssion wlwn sPnior full­bark Tom Bul'alino ran l'or a 
see FISHER/page 21 
MEN'S GOLF 

Freslunan leads team to third place 
Hock's three-under tied for Notre Dame's best 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Spom Wriccr 
On a team full of talent hut short on expnrinnce, it was fitting that a freshman led the Irish to a third-plaee lin­ish in tlw Coca-Cola Duke c;olf Classic. 

Notre DamP shot a !'our­under 21'14 in thn f'inal round Monday to vault past three teams in Durham. N.C.. and take the bronze. thanks largnly to huge contributions l'rom froshman Tyler Hock, making his f'irst road a p p '~a ran e!' . II o e k shot a total of thn1e-under 213 and tied l'or No. 11 in the 1'14­player field. After an open­ing-round 76. Hoek firPd rounds of 61'1 and (,C) to play the f'inal 36 holes in seven­under, helping the Irish make a run up the leader­board. 
The tournanwnt title was shared by No. 13 Duke and unranked Tennessee-
see HOCK/page 22 


SMC SoccER 


Belles face Adrian in MIAA matchup 
Saint Mary's prepares for forward Chitwood 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's (1-1-2 Ml/\1\) hosts the Adrian Bulldogs (2-2­0 MIA/\) today at 4 p.m. in thn Belles' fifth conference match this season. 
This weekend, the Bulldogs beat conference opponent Olivet 1-0 -a week al'ter the Belles played the Comets to a double-overtime, scoreless draw -but lost to fellow con­fenmce foe Hope 3-0. 
The Belles earned a draw with the Bulldogs last season. 
"They are usually quite physi­cal so we need to be prepared to match or exceed that aspect of their play," Saint Mary's coach Caryn MacKenzie said of Adrian. "They have one for­ward, Lindsey Chitwood, who is quite skillful so defensively WP. will need to key on her." 
Chitwood has scored 10 of 

Adrian's 15 goals this season, on only 21 shots on goal. i\s a team, the Bolles have seorP.d 13 goals this season. 
Saint Mary's has had to over­come many ehallenges, with returning players suffering injuries and the incorporation of freshmen into an improving lineup. 
"I have been very pleased with the strength of' our eoro returners and what they bring to training as well as games," MacKenzie said. "But, my first year players have really stepped it up and showed tremendous improvements dun to all the playing time they have garnered beeauso or injuries... 
Sophomore forward Micki lledinger is out for the season because or a stress l'ractun~ in the hip area, and sophomore midf'ielder Colleen Ferguson will be baek on the field soon after missing the last five weeks. 
But the Belles have not let injuries defino their season. 
see BELLES/page 22 


Ducks hold off Pyros, Welsh Fam beats Badin 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI, KEVIN HENRY, ANTHONY CONKLIN, JAY FITZPATRICK and GRIFFIN DASSATTI Sports Writers 

l'asquerilla East gavn lloward all it could handle, but in the end, the Dueks were too much l'or the l'yros, pulling out an R-6 vietory Sunday. 
In spite of the loss, l'asqunrilla East eoaeh Brian Hyeyna was impressed with his team's efl'ort. particularly on the defen­sive side or the ball. 
"The defense showed up today," Hycyna said. "We had a key interception in the first half and played well the rest or the game." 
Freshman defensive back Jess Leiferman made the interct~p­tion with lloward in the red zone, threatening and to take the early lead. Both defenses dominated the rest of the first half, and the score was tied 0-0 going into the seeond. 
"We had a good drive in thB first half, but it was plagued with penalties," Hycyna said. 
Both teams scored on their first possessions of the second half. lloward struek first, going on a 12 play, 65-yard drive that was aided by two consecutive Pasquerilla East penalties, one of which was a pass interfer­ence eall on fourth down that 
sec DUCKS/page 20 





