
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Support ofCongressionalbiD debated 
Student govft. discusses backing legalization of immigrantsf children via higher education 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Student government may move to actively support the DREAM Act, a United States Senate bill that would open the doors of higher education to children of illegal immigrants, based on a discussion Tuesday at the Council of lkprosentatives (COR). 
"Maris and I are leaning toward taking this up," student body president Liz Brown said at the beginning of the discussion of whether or not the student body should be mobilized to support the bill. 
While Brown was in favor of supporting the bill, many COR members were less willing to put their names behind political leg­islation. 
"I don't feel like I know enough of the other side of this act. It would be important to survey the student body," chief executive assistant Sheena Plamoottil said. 
Junior class president Bob Reish also shared his hesitation with the council. 
"It's not as easy as us saying, 'We're all for it so let's do it,"' Heish said. "I worry about saying this is the right thing." 
Under the provisions of the DREAM Act, people who illegally entered the United States more than five years ago -and who were 15 years or younger at the time -would be eligible for a six-year conditional residency status to allow them to attend college or serve in the military, according to the National Immigration Law Center. During these six years, the person would be expected to graduate from a two-year college, complete at least two years tovyard a four-year degree or serve in the mili­tary for two full years. Permanent residence would be granted to the student if any of these three conditions were met. 
The National Immigration Law Center said every year about 65,000 high school graduates meet the DREAM Act's eligibility requirements. These students often face barriers getting into college as a result of their citizen­ship status. 
While many students may not agree with student government's 
see DREAM/page 4 

Current college students dubbed Generation Q 
Youths tend to talk more than actf columnist says 
By JOSEPH McMAHON News Writer 
In the Oct. 10 issue of the New York Times. columnist Thomas friedman said the current gen­eration of college students has replaced real political activism and demonstrations with passive online forums. Dubbing them "the quiet generation," Friedman said if in light of today's huge budget, Social Security and eco­logical deficits students are "not spitting mad, well, then they're just not paying attention." 
But arc students really not paying attention, or are they expressing their opinions in dif­fenmt ways? 
Friedman and several Notre Dame professors agree that 
today's generation of college stu­dents tends to choose Internet­based mediums like blogs and YouTube videos as their primary outlet, rather than protests or strikes. 
And that may not be such a bad thing, sociology professor Dan Myers said. 
"The Internet enhances, not hinders, the work being done by college activists," Myers said. "Things like blogs and forums allow people to learn more about an issue as well as engage in a discussion about that issue. The level of organization and com­munication that Internet allows for is unprecedented." 
His colleague, sociology profes­sor Gene Hamilton, however, 
see GEN Q/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Building to recieve solar panels 
GE donates $500f000 to engineering hall 
By BRIAN McKENZIE News Writer 
Stinson-Remick Hall, the new state-of-the-art engineering hall scheduled to open in early 2010, received a $500,000 donation for solar panels from General Electric, in an effort to stimulate research on harness­ing solar energy. 
Robert Cunningham, the director of budget and opera­tions for the College of Engineering, said the donation provided a "tremendous oppor­tunity to research solar ener­gy." 
He said the gift was "certain­ly the most significant" envi­ronmental contribution the hall had received so far. 
"GE stepped right up," he said. "They're making a major move into energy." 
He said GE is also the largest employer, both in terms of internships and careers, of Notre Dame's undergraduate engineers. 
In addition to providing ener­gy to offset the hall's energy consumption, Cunningham said the solar panels would help contribute to a "living learning environment, a building that will excite engineering stu­dents, like science students are excited by [the Jordan Hall of Science]." 
see SOLAR/page 6 


Race affects imtnigration policies 
Professor: Biases against ethnicities influence U.S. attitudesf federal laws 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
United States' immigration poli­cies throughout the country's his­tory have been driven by racial ways of thinking, and minorities have been. and continue to be, repeatedly subjugated as a result of that mentality, professor Bill Ong lling told a Saint Mary's audi­enee Tuesday. 
The seeond speaker in the Saint Mary's College diversity lecture series. !ling delivered the lecture "The llistory of Haec and Political Beliefs in U.S. Immigration Policy" in the VanderVnnnet theatre in the basement of the student center. 
see DIVERSE/page 6 


ACE teachers work to clean up froiTI Katrina 
Participants placed in damaged Catholic schools 
By JOSH LEEUW News Writer 
Two years after the destruc­tive waves of Hurricane Katrina flooded New Orleans, parts of the Gulf Coast remain in shambles and Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) remains at the forefront of the rebuilding efforts. 
"Many houses still have the red Xs on them, debris covers the yards and mold has taken over homes, but the Catholic schools have responded amazingly well to the situa­tion," said Professor John Staud. director of ACE. "Catholic schools are still going strong." 

Since 1994, ACE has been placing young college gradu­ates as teachers in under­privileged Catholic schools across the nation. 
Two of those schools are Louisiana's Cathedral Academy, in the French Quarter of New Orleans, and St. Peter Claver, about 10 blocks away from Cathedral. Hurricane Katrina consider­ably damaged both schools in 2005, Staud said. St. Peter Claver's parish sustained sig­nificant damage and is still collecting donations for its reconstruction. The Cathedral Academy suffered 
see ACE/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 17, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Atnerica's new-tean1 
I'm a baseball fan. 
I watch as many games as I can every 
year. mostly of my lwlovnd Orioles. and 
road and Jearn as much as I can about 
the sport. And as a baseball fan I can tell 
you mw thing. 
Jay Fitzpatrick
If you love base­
ball likn I do, go out 
and buy some pur­Associate 
ple and black. Sports Editor 
It's Ho1·ktoberfest. 
I've never 
daimnd to bn a Hockins fan and I am still 
not one-or at least I won't be by 
December. 
But this postseason, if you can't support 
this tnam. you just don't like baseball. 
This team used to lw the laughingstock 
of baseball. Most people outside of 
Colorado nnver took thnm seriously, what 
with thnir humidors and dino-mascot. 
That was r.lw past. Now the Hockins 
nwan business. 
Who would haw thought in April that a tnam made up of young no-nanws Troy TulowiL<>ki. nPwr-wpres likn Kaz MaL<>ui and old standbys like "Mr. Bo<:kin" Todd llelton could have won a pnnnant'! 
But tlwy did. 
The Hockins lwcanw thn lirst team ever 
to swePp its way to tlw World S1~ries, win­
ning 21 of 22 ganws along tlw way. Tlwy 
won games Pasily and tlwy won ganws 
excitingly. Th•~Y had traditional lwroes 
and unlikPiy mws. 
Ttu~ team with only ono truly grnat man in uni](,rm-IIPiton-gPIIPd togethPr to makn a gn•at tPam. 
.losh "Thn ( ;iant Killer" Fogg toppled sonw of tlw greatest pitdwrs in tlw game. hurlers like Curt Srhilling, Hoy Oswalt Brad l'nnny and .lakn Peavy. l'ogg man­aged to outduPI P1~avy-who linished the season with a 19-h rnconl and a 2.54 1-:HA-in tlw mw-gamn wildcard playoll' to rnad1 the poslo.;nason. 
Matt llolliday strnngthened his MVP candidtu:y by hitting .340/.405/.607 with 36 home runs and 137 HBI and won the NLCS MVP al'ter having a .733 slugging percentage and two home runs. 
Mal<>ui complntod his earner conwback with an amazing perlill'mancc against Philadnlphia. hitting a triple, a double and a grand slam against the Phillies in Game 2 of the NLDS. 
Manager Clint Hurdle-who the Hockies front ollice stuek with despite hack-back 90+ loss seasons in 2004-05­managed to mold talent into a ball club, and a ball dub into champions. 
But the most imprnssive so far has been I felton. 
Fittingly, llelton caught the pennant­dinehing out-a groundball to Tulowitzki ofl' a cheek swing from Diamondbacks left fielder Erie Byrnes. The Hockies first bas~muw looknd like a littln kid on Christmas when he caught that ball. and anyonn with a heart not made of stonn /'nit happy. 
Helton's emotion was well-deservnd. He was dral'ted in the first round by Colorado in the 1995 first-year players draft and has been with the big club since 1997­but this is the first time he has tasted dubhouse ehampagne. The Hoekics with llelton only have a .438 winning percent­ago before this sea<;on -but that all changed in 2007. 
So it doesn't matter if you are from downtown Denver, New England, Ohio or anywhere else in America. 
Start rooting for the Hoekies. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jjitza5CsPnd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The ( )bserver regards itself as a professional publication and strives lilr the highest standards of journalism ar all times. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comacr us at (,j l-4)41 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ACTIVIST MOVEMENT ARE YOU MOST PASSIONATE ABOUT AND WHY? 







Tim Spear  Scott Allen  Jonathan Toups  Britt Mawby  Robert Scully  
freshman Alumni  junior offcampus  junior Stanford  sophomore Badin  junior Alumni  
"Womens ' rights because the chicks will dig me."  "/ don't know. I'll have to check my facebook groups.  ''I'm actually a pacifist, not an actbist. "  "S.S.S.S. Safe Sidewalks for Students and Squirrels."  "Captain Planet for president because then the power is yours.  


IN BRIEF 
TIH~ play "The Kings of Kilbum lligh Hoad" will be performed today at S p.m. at thn DeBartolo Performing Ads Center, Dodo Mainstage Theatre. Student tieknts am $10. 
Today is lnte•·national Day for the Emdi(~ation of Poverty. Studnnts are askPd to wear o1·ange MDGS t­shirts today to show support for thn Millennium Development Goals. Tlwre will also be a Mass at 5:15 
p.m. in tho Basiliea to rec­ognize thn signif'ieanee of the day. 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team will play Indiana University tonight at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. 

Freshman Beth Simpson, left, and senior Brynn Byrne, a RecSports instructor, do 
Poet Michael Anania will

yoga exercises Tuesday in Farley Hall to relax during midterms week. 
present tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Gold Hoom of North Dining Hall. Anania will read from his latest work, Heat Lines. 

Scholar Anu Chakravarty will speak about Woman accused of being a I was yelling (for my Tuesday. 
OFFBEAT 
"Surrendering Consent: potty mouth daughter) to get the mop." When officers arrived, 
The Political Consequences SCHANTON, Pa. -Talk Herb doesn't recall they found him alert and 
of the Genocide Trials in about a potty mouth. A exactly what she said, but talking, but trapped in the 
Hwanda" on Thursday from Scranton woman who she admitted letting more car. They learned about 
12:30-2 p.m. in the allegedly shouted profani­than a few choice words the cell phone and text 
Hesburgh Center for ties at her overflowing toi­fly near an open bathroom message as they worked to 
International Studies. let within earshot of a window Thursday night. rescue him. neighbor was cited for dis­Gillespie, who had 
Mendoza Sehool of orderly conduct, authori­Man texting while driving turned 38 the day before, 
Business Dean Carolyn Woo ties said. Dawn Herb could hits train was charged with drunken 
will speak at 12::w p.m. in face up to 90 days in jail EUGENE, Ore. -When driving and careless driv­
the Coleman-Morse study and a line of up to $300. Robert Gillespie looked up ing. police spokeswoman 
lounge as part of the "It doesn't make any from his text message, he Kerry Delf said. His 
"Telling HEHstory" lecture sense. I was in my house. saw a freight train. EOM. injuries were described as 
series. It's not like I was outside ("End of message," that is, not life threatening, and or drunk," Herb told The for non-texters.) Eugene no members of the train 
To submit information to 

Times-Tribune of police say Gillespie's car crew were hurt. 
be included in this section of 

Scranton. "The toilet was crashed into the side of 
The Observer, e-mail overflowing and leaking the Union Pacific freight Information compiled by 
detailed information about down into the kitchen and train about 2 a.m. the Associated Press. 
an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY GAME DAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
1&.1 
:::c 
!ci: 
1&.1 
3: 
..... 
< 
(.) 


0 
..J LOW 53 LOW 45 LOW 50 LOW 48 LOW 50 LOW 45 
Atlanta 751 60 Boston 65 I 46 Chicago 72 I 51 Denver 67 I 41 Houston 87 I 70 Los Angeles 72 I 57 Minneapolis 63 I 48 New York 67 I 52 Philadelphia 76 I 56 Phoenix 86 I 63 Seattle 62 I 54 St. Louis 78 I 54 Tampa 87 I 75 Washington 81 I 54 
Wednesday, October 17, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Scholars debate Ireland's ability to learn from histoty 
Professors explore country's immigration experience, compare it to American and European pasts on issue 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Ireland's ability to avoid the mistakes of past immigration policies in the United States and Europe was questioned by two scholars Tuesday as part of the continued "Race and Immigration in the New Ireland" conference. 
Yale professor Matthew Frye Jacobson and Notre Dame professor Tony Messina explored the question of what Ireland can learn from the immigration experiences of other developed nations in front of an audience in the McKenna Hall auditorium. 
To begin the lecture, Jacobson -who focuses on American and African studies at Yale -gave a brief overview of the history of the United States' policies on immigration. lie delved into American history with the Naturalization Act of 1790, which stated that only free white persons should be granted citizenship. 
"The key phrase in this is 'free white persons' which existed in the books for 160 years," Jacobson said. 
He linked the subsequent mistreatment of different racial groups -including the internment of Japanese peo­ple during World War II and more recently, the militariza­tion of the U.S.-Mexico bor­der -with the racist men­tality behind the denial of cit­izenship found in the natural­ization act. 
"People say there is democ­racy here in this country, and over there, there is a little glut called racism. But it is over there, away from our democracy," Jacobson said. "However, racism and democracy have been com­pletely intertwined for 200 years". 
That relationship continues to influence modern immi­gration policies, which is why Jacobson said he is not sure Ireland can learn from American history and avoid similar pitfalls. 
"I am a little skeptical 
about one nation giving a les­son to another one, but the good news for Ireland is that some things that might be impossible in the United States might be possible in Ireland," Jacobson said. 
Messina, a political science professor, said he was also hesitant and unsure that Ireland could avoid immigra­tion policies that are rooted in racial thoughts by studying the history of both the United States and other European countries. 
"I conclude that Ireland can learn very little from Europe, so I change the question. The question I ask is. to 'To what extent does immigration in Ireland's case look like other cases?'" Messina said. 
He said one of the most important and most common forces behind immigration is the need for labor. 
"Contemporary immigration is an interest-driven phenom­enon. Ireland and the migra­tion to Ireland evolved in direct response to acute labor shortage," Messina said. 

The only difference, he said, is that "Ireland's expe­riences are 40 years removed from the experiences of other countries. And also, what has happened in these countries [in terms of immigration] is happening in half the time in Ireland". 
Messina said eastern European, African and Chinese immigrants that poured into Ireland settled down and began participat­ing in the country's cultural life a lot faster than immi­grants in other countries. This difference, he said, sets Ireland apart and conse­quently, reduces the applica­bility of the European and American immigration expe­riences to those of Ireland. 
Like Jacobson, Messina said he believes both the out­comes of past influxes and the future of immigrants in Ireland are promising. He showed opinion polls that said Ireland is more tolerant of other races than the native people of other countries. 
"I am actually beginning to suspect that the strong civic bonds of Irish society work toward acceptance of immi­gration and integration," Messina said. 
And although neither speaker assured that Ireland can learn from the mistakes and successes of American and European immigrations policies, they both have a positive outlook on Ireland's ability to become a diverse nation as a result of its peo­ple's openness and accept­ance of immigrants. 
"This is a road that has to travel itself out, and the Irish seem to be traveling on a more positive road," Messina said. 
The conference, hosted by the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies will conclude tonight with the presentation of the play "The Kings of The Kilburn High Road" in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

GOURMET TASTE, AT BUFFEl 




PROPORTIONS. 

MAIN & DOUGLAS 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 17, 2007 
line. "We're not all Catholic," she


DREAM 
said. "But we are all taxpayers. We must inf(}rm the student body 
continued from page 1 

before we go through with this." support of a political issue, stu­In the latter half of the debate, dent body vice president Maris it became apparent that COR Braun said that doing the right members would not agree on a 
thing is more important than speeific course of action regard­learning about student opinion of ing the DREAM Act bill. the bill. "There's definitely not a eon­"This is a time-sensitive act. A<> sensus in the eow1cil," Sorin sen­
much as I'm all fi>r establishing ator George Chamberlain said. consensus. we "We should try to might just have look for another, to do the best more definite thing and the means to gauge right thing," she the opinion of the 
"There are so many
said. "I just student body." 
worry we're other good issues we Sophomore going to run out could talk about in class president 
of time." Grant Schmidt
the world, and in our
Some COH said the council 
members country. Would we be doesn't necessar­exprnssed a setting a precedent?" ily have to come desire to provide to a consensus stud1mL<> with an but rather "pro­
Kelly Kanavy 
outlet to express vide an opportu­their vinws on Lyons senator nity for people the DIWAM Act who support it." before student Some COR representatives members were endorse the bill uncertain about on behalf of the entire student the precedent that taking action body. on behalf of the DREAM Act 
l'lamoottil said there are other would set. Adopting a firm ways in which student govern­stance on this particular bill ment can bring attention to the could open the door to future DHEAM Act and make a difl'er­student government endorse­enee that does not require the ments of other causes. couneil's full-fledged backing of "There are so many other the bill. good issues we could talk about 
"There's a difl'erenee between in the world, and in our country. saying 'We as Notre Dame sup­Would we be setting a prece­port this' versus saying 'Here are dent?" Lyons senator Kelly the resources if you want to sup­Kanavy said. port this,"' Plamoottil said. Late in the discussion, some 
Braun brought up the signifi­council members agreed it cance of supporting the DREAM would be up to the Student Aet in a Catholic setting. Senate to decide whether or not 
"Wn'ro called to follow Catholic it will endorse the bill. However, soda! teaching," she said. Heish does not think that turning 
Judicial council president the issue over to Senate would Ashley Weiss. however, thinks produce any resolutions. supporting the legislation for "This is getting nowhere [in religious rnasons might cross a CORI. and it won't get anywhere 
GenQ 
continued from page 1 
thinks the Internet has actually decentralized movements, as individuals ean express their opinions without ever meeting pnople who share similar thoughts. 
"Thn ovnr-inereasing array of devieos, especially those deal­ing with the Internet, supposed­
ly olli~rs morn two-way commu­nication between people. But really all we have done is devel­op more anonymous, imperson­al relationships," he said. 
In his soon-to-be-released 
book "The Great Brainsuck," 
llamilton argues that while "we 
think the teehno-culture of 
today's world is putting a lot of 
information into our brains. in 
actuality it is emptying them." 
Hamilton and Friedman's arguments have also been fea­tured prominently in the Sept. 21 episode of "The Colbert Hoport," where host Stephen Colbert sarcastically admon­islwd tho toenagers and college students who looked on as a University of Florida student was tasod by security forces. 
"Kids won't stand idly by. They'll go home and blog it," Colbert said during the broad­cast. 
"I wish they'd stop tasering this guy so I could go home and watch this guy getting tasered on YouTube," Colbert said, imi­tating the young adults' reae­tions to the taser incident. 

But the Internet-when used correctly -has the ability to advance traditional forms of protest, llamilton said. 
"You look at something like Moveon.org, which really would not be possible without the Internet, and you really have to be impressed with how they mobilize people through things like e-mails and blogs," he said. "In fact, many groups now are using the Internet to coordinate politieal meetings and rallies, so in that sense it can be a very go~d. thi~g for young politieal aetJvJsts. 

Moveon.org, founded in 1998, has more than 3 million mem­bers, according to its Web site. The organization began as a protest against the excessive news coverage and taxpayers' money that went into the inves­tigation of President Bill Clinton's affair with Monica Lewinsky. The group urged the government to "move on to pressing issues facing the nation," the Web site said. The site has continued to grow since, now focusing on various issues. 
And maybe that's how today's world addresses political debates. 
Sociology professor Omar Lizardo said that if compared to the civil rights protests of the 1960s, today's generation will inevitably -and unfairly ­look apathetic. 
"It really is the tyranny of the Baby Boomers," Lizardo said. "The movements of the 1960s and 1970s were unique grass­roots movements, whereas today everything is much more partisan. The idea that the cur­rent college generation is some­how more apathetic than previ­ous generations simply because the discussions are taking place online instead of in the streets in Senate either," he said. 
Club Coordination Council president Paul Robbins said he believes it's important to gener­ate discussion and take a stance, even without the full support of the student body. 
"People look to us for leader­ship," he said. 
Robbins also expressed an opinion that a heated discussion of the DREAM Act would not necessarily be a bad thing for the campus. 
"I want to read something more important in The Observer than what their comic strips are about," he said. 
Student government director of communications Will Kearney agreed with Robbins and said the dialogue that could arise from the representatives' back­ing of the DREAM Aet would be beneficial to the University's intellectual life. 
"We should let people fight it out a bit and see what goes on," Kearney said. 
Brown, who kept quiet for much of the debate, is in favor of doing something in support of the DREAM Act. 
"I am in agreement with some of you that it's important to take a stand on issues," she said. "Sometimes you need to take a stand because you believe it's right." 
She cited former University President Father 1-Iesburgh's support of controversial issues such as the civil rights movement as a precedent within the University for taking action. 
In other COR news: 
+ Jackie Sheridan, the co­chair for Alcohol Awareness Week, announced that it will take place the week following Fall Break. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 
of Washington is completely false." 
At Notre Dame, students con­tinue to show strong commit­ments to both political and non­political causes, but not with rallies or marches. Two weeks ago a demonstration was staged against abortion on South Quad, where 600 white crosses and 3600 blue and pink flags were erected. 
"Notre Dame students have always shown a strong commit­ment to service programs," sociology professor Robert Fishman said. "The level of political activity on the University's campus is compa­rable to any other college, and although it may not be as open as the in 1960s, many students here still have deep commit­ments to various political caus­es." 
But even today, rallies are still popular avenues for protest in some cases. This summer, Myers said, the vast majority of the 15,000 people in atten­dance at the U.S. Social Forum in Atlanta, whieh focused on the effects of globalization, were people of collegiate age. Similarly, he said, the Christian right wing constantly has chil­dren and adolescents mobilized to demonstrate against abortion and gay marriage. 
"There is a fair amount of activism out there," Lizardo said. "It is just impossible to compare it, or activism from any other generation in the past one hundred years, to the level of activity that was seen during the 1960's." 
Prayer from Around the World 


Christian Taize Prayer 
10:00 pm, Wednesday, October 17 Walsh Hall Chapel 
Sponsors: Walsh Hall, GSU, NO Muslim Student Association, FOG & International Student Services &Activities. 
CM 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
severe flooding and roof dam­
age -and it lost its play­
ground. 
But more important than the infrastructure, the two schools lost teachers that didn't return after the storm. 
Enter the Notre Dame ACE 

program. 
The Archdiocese of New 

Orleans requested ACE's help to 
send teachers to these schools. 
Staud said. Today there are 
four ACE teachers in Louisiana, 
he said, answering that call. 
Staud said many schools have told him "if it weren't for the ACE program, their schools would be closed." Besides Louisiana, ACE has over 175 teachers serving numerous communities across the coun­try. Most of the time, he said, the ACE program tries to place its teachers in dioceses where they can help under-privileged or minority children. 
"I think this really [exempli­fies] what ACE is about," Staud said. "We have a desire to work personally with the graduate students to make them the best teacher they can be." 
Liz Stowe, a former ACE teacher in Biloxi, Miss., said she tried to be the best teacher she could be in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. She said classes at her school, Resurrection Elementary, resumed "seven weeks after the storm and they had nothing in the classrooms." 
Resurrection was completely flooded during the storm and though the building didn't col­lapse, all the furniture and school supplies were lost. Stowe said at first it was a challenge teaching children with a broken morale -and without any sup­plies. But as donations came in throughout the year (in the form of crayons, notebooks and desks), she slowly returned to a more normal classroom rou­tine. 
"It wasn't until March that we got doors on the hinges," said Stowe, who is now the assistant director of the pastoral staff. 
But ACE's efforts in the South don't end there. This year, the program is sponsoring a service trip for undergraduates consid­ering the ACE program, Staud said. The group will spend two days in Biloxi in January, volun­
teering at Hesurrection 
Elementary. 
Some of the students' work 

will include landseaping, disin­
fecting the cafeteria, painting 
picnic tables and refurbishing 
the playground. Since it's hard 
to find accommodations in 
Katrina-torn Biloxi right now, 
the group will sleep in the high 
school gym. After their stay in 
Biloxi, the group will travel to 
New Orleans to work at St. 
Peter Claver and Cathedral 
Academy schools. 
At St. Peter Claver, the group will paint and possibly help con­struct service buildings for the severely damaged school, Staud said. At Cathedral Academy, the students will try to turn the empty parking Jot where the playground once stood into a space where children can spend their recesses by painting hop­scotch and four-square boxes on the cement Jloor. 
The grueling schedule, Staud said, is a taste of an ACE teacher's daily experience. 
"This is more than a service experienee, this is an immer­sion experienee." Stowe said. 
Founded in 1994 by Fathers Tim Scully and Sean McGraw of Notre Dame, ACE was created in response to the declining number of teachers in Catholic schools. In its inaugural year, ACE placed 40 students in under-privileged Catholic schools across the nation. 
An intensive two-year pro­gram that also allows its partic­ipants to receive a Notre Dame Masters in Education degree after its completion, ACE is now sending close to 200 teachers to over 100 Catholic schools all over the United States. ACE now boasts about 1,000 alumni, Staud said. 
"Many alumni that have gone through the ACE program have stayed in education. But many have also gone to get their Ph.D.s or have been accepted into law or med school," Staud said. "And even though some have gone on to different fields (besides education), the princi­ples they learned in ACE have helped them become better people not only in their fields, but in their lives." 
He said, ultimately, the pro­gram is not just aiming to "bring out the best possible teachers, but also to help peo­ple diseern their vocation." 
Contact Josh Leeuw at jleeuw@nd.edu 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 17, 2007 CoM:rruo FROA,1 T!-H OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Hezbollah open to prisoner exchange 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Hezbollah's leader said Tuesday there is "positive progress" in negotia­tions to swap two Israeli soldiers captured by the group for Lebanese prisoners held by Israel. 
On Monday, Israel returned a prisoner and the bodies of two Hezbollah guerrillas in exchange for the body of an Israeli who drowned at sea two years ago. The group's leader, Hassan Nasrallah, said that limited exchange provided "an impor­tant incentive" for a major prisoner swap in the future. 
Hezbollah's capture of two Israeli soldiers in July 2006, sparked a 34-day war between the Lebanese guerrillas and Israel. As many as 1,200 Lebanese, mostly civilians, and 160 Israelis, including 40 civilians, were killed. But Israel failed to win the freedom of the soldiers Ehud "Udi" Goldwa..'iser and Eldad Hegev. 
Increased piracy causes concern 
NAIHOBI. Kenya -Pirate attacks worldwide jumped 14 percent in the first nine months of 2007, with the biggest increases off the poorly policed waters of Somalia and Nigeria, an interna­tional watchdog reported Tuesday. Reported attacks in Somalia rose rapidly to 26 up from eight a year earlier, the London-based International Maritime Bureau said through its piracy reporting center in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. And some of those hijackings have turned deadly. 
"The seafaring industry is very concerned about this," said Cyrus Mody, a senior analyst with 1MB. "There is absolutely no regard for law in that area." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Indiana fugitive found after 35 years 
PULASKI, Tenn. -A 35-year hunt for an escaped Indiana inmate convicted of killing her husband has ended in a small Tennessee town, where the woman had remarried and raised a family, authorities said Tuesday. 
Linda Darby, 64, was arrested Friday in this town of about 7,800 people near the Alabama border living under the name Linda Joe McElroy. She waived an extradition hearing and was waiting to be moved to Indiana, Giles County Sheriff Kyle Helton said. 
I I elton said he was slightly acquainted with Darby and thought she had been living in Pulaski for at least 30 years. 
"As far as I know she never had any criminal history after she came here," he said. "She never got into any trouble. She led a flawless life." 

Rescuers seek out missing autistic hiker 
CHARLESTON, W.Va.-Shouting promis­es of candy and other food, search crews combed rugged terrain Tuesday in hope of luring out an 18-year-old autistic hiker who wandered away from his parents. 
More than 300 volunteers and trained rescuers were looking for Jacob Allen, who has been missing since Sunday after­noon. 
Searchers were focusing on a 10­squ are-mile are a of often steep and brush-covered terrain in a section of wilderness in the Monongahela National Forest. They hollered for Allen, who is essentially nonverbal, then paused, hop­ing to hear a rustle of leaves signaling his approach. 
LOCAL NEWS 

NIPSCO forced to refund customers 
LAPORTE, Ind. -Northern Indiana Public Service Co. has agreed to refund $33.5 mil­lion to electric customers as part of a settle­ment after LaPorte County challenged how it charges for power it buys on the open mar­ket. 
If the settlement is approved by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, a typical NIP­SCO customer would receive a $5 credit on their bills in February, March and April for a total refund of $15, NIPSCO spokeswoman Colleen Heilly said. 
The settlement also requires NIPSCO to purchase outside energy at the lowest possi­ble price, LaPorte County Attorney Shaw Friedman said. 
IRAN 

Putinpromotes Caspian Sea solidarity 
Russian president warns U.S. not to use former Soviet states as bases for any attack on Iran 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN -Russian leader Vladimir Putin met his Iranian counterpart Tuesday and implicitly warned the 
U.S. not to use a former Soviet republic to stage an attack on Iran. He also said countries bordering the Caspian Sea must jointly back any oil pipeline projects in the region. · 
At a summit of the five nations that border the inland Caspian Sea, Putin said none of the nations' ter­ritory should be used by any outside countries for use of military force against any nation in the region. It was a clear reference to long-stand­ing rumors that the U.S. was planning to use Azerbaijan, a former Soviet republic, as a staging ground for any possi­ble military action against Iran. 
"We are saying that no Caspian nation should offer its territory to third powers for use offorce or military aggression against any Caspian state," Putin said. 
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad also underlined the need for soli­darity. 
"The Caspian Sea is an inland sea and it only belongs to the Caspian states, there­

Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, descends the steps of his plane in Tehran at
fore only they are entitled to 


Mehrabad International airport on Tuesday for a Caspian Sea summit.
have their ships and military forces here," he said. May. backed efforts to build that each coastal nation 
A State Department At the same time, he said, pipelines to deliver hydrocar-receive an equal portion of spokesman, Tom Casey, said "We are not going to bons to the West, bypassing the seabed. Russia, the United States is not plan­renounce our obligations." Hussia. Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan ning military action against Putin's careful stance sug-"Projects that may inflict want the division based on Iran. gested that Russia is seeking serious environmental dam-the length of each nation's 
"We are pursuing a diplo­to preserve solid ties with age to the region cannot be shoreline, which would give matic course with respect to Iran without angering the implemented without prior Iran a smaller share. Iran that includes with West. A clear pledge by Putin discussion by all five Caspian Putin 's visit took place respect to its nuclear pro­to quickly finish the plant nations," he said. despite warnings of a possi­gram as well as with respect would embolden Iran and Other nations bordering ble assassination plot and to its support for terrorism could complicate intemation-the Caspian Sea and in atten-amid hopes that personal and otl1er issues that are out al talks on the nuclear stand-dance at the summit are: diplomacy could help offer a there," he said. off. Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan solution to an international 
Putin refused to set a date Putin, whose trip to Tehran and Azerbaijan. standoff on Iran's nuclear for the start-up of Iran's first is the first by a Kremlin The legal status of the program. nuclear power plant, to be leader since World War II, Caspian -believed to con-Putin has warned the U.S. built by Russia. warned that energy pipeline tain the world's third-largest and other nations against try­
"I only gave promises to my projects crossing fue Caspian energy reserves -has been ing to coerce Iran into reining mom when I was a small could only be implemented if in limbo since the 1991 Soviet in its nuclear program and boy," Putin told Iranian all five nations that border collapse, leading to tension insists peaceful dialogue is reporters, when asked the sea support them. and conflicting claims to the only way to deal with whether he could promise Putin did not name a spe-seabed oil deposits. Tehran's defiance of a U.N. that the plant that Russia is cific country, but his state-Iran, which shared the Security Council demand that building would be launched ment underlined Moscow's Caspian's resources equally it suspend uranium enrich­before his term ends next strong opposition to U.S.-with the Soviet Union, insists ment. 



JFK Airport drug sm.uggling ring busted 
cealed drugs in luggage on jets travel­them while taking care to avoid secu­
Associated Press ing from the Dominican Republic, then rity cameras. retrieved the bags at JFK before they "Conspiracies of this nature are par­NEW YORK -A ring of airline could be inspected by customs agents. ticularly effective in the smuggling of employees exploited weaknesses in The suspects include cargo and bag­contraband into the United States," security procedures to help a New gage handlers, an employee of a glob­senior special agent Meredith Leung York drug ring smuggle heroin and al courier service and a "lookout" for said in a court affidavit. cocaine through John F. Kennedy the group who had access to JFK's The agency said it began investigat­Airport, federal authorities charged tower through her job with Aramark, ing in 2005 after a suitcase containing Tuesday. a cleaning, maintenance and food cocaine and heroin was seized at JFK At least 18 people have b'een service company. after arriving on a Delta flight. Agents charged in the plot, including seven An Immigration and Customs built the case by tapping the phones of employees at Delta Air Lines, one at Enforcement agent said in a court fil­several suspects, including some who American Airlines, and two others ing that, in some cases, workers turned up to unload bags on shifts who worked at JFK. Several were whose jobs gave them "virtually unfet­when they weren't scheduled to work. arrested Tuesday in a roundup that tered and unsupervised" access to Agents also intercepted the ship­followed a two-year probe by customs arriving flights simply turned up, ments of more than 100 pounds of agents. removed the drug-filled bags from the cocaine, 55 pounds of heroin and 6.6 Prosecutors said the group con-jet's cargo hold, and walked off with pounds of the drug ecstasy. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 17, 2007 
~~~~~~~~==~~~~==~~~~~~~==~==~~~~~~~~==~~~~ 
person with Western European roots.

Diverse 
continued from page 1 
lling, a profnssor of law at Uw University of California at Davis told his audience that on Septemlwr II, 199H, eleven Moxican bodies wen~ found al'ter thoy attorn pted to cross the Unit~~ d Statn s bordor. Following those l'irsl devon. 4,000 morn bodies were found later that ynar dun to Oporation Gateskoepnr, the United Statf~s· oll'ort to reduce Moxican immi­grants. 
This tendency. he said, can be sonn as the "white doll" mentality, which he illustrated with an example from the days ol' Brown v. Board of Education. During this time, whenever ehildren w11re told to pick bctwnnn a whitn doll and a black doll, both black and white 1:hildron picked the white doll -tlw morn socially acceptable and expnet<~d ehoiee. 
The problem. he said, is that tho "white doll" mentality is 
still around 
today. 

"Think back to Snptnmbnr 11. thrno years later. Why do we not  "Many people think we are in the middle ofthe largest  " M a n y Americans still feel that way and that  
earn as much about September 11, IIJ9H'!" !ling asked.  surge ofimmigrants right now and that is false"  is a problem," !ling said. Bnsides African­ 
lling  said  Americans  
Amoriea doesn't earn as much about the IJ/11 in 1998 because its  Bill Ong Hlng law professor University of  a n d Hispanics, lling said Chinese and  
victims  were  California-Davis  Japanese peo­ 
Mnxican.  ple have also  
"What is your  been subject­ 

image of an American?" he ed to prejudice as a result of' asked the audience. lie gave their ethnicity. his listeners a ehance to think In the post-Civil War era, about the question and then America imported Chinese suggested most people were laborers to work on railroads probably picturing a Caucasian and other construction proj­
ects -but there were quotas limiting the number of work­ers that could enter the coun­try, in an nffort to minimize the Asian representation in tiH1 loeal communities. 
Chinese women wore partic­ularly limited to ensure the Chinese wouldn't reproduce, !ling said. 
A similar fear is palpable today, as many people fear the current inf'lux of immigrants threatens American culture as people presently know it, he said. 
"Many people think we are in the middle of the largest surge of immigrants right now and that is false," lling said. 
He said the biggest rush of immigrants to enter America was from 1900-1910 and, interestingly, it was mostly southern Europeans. The con­sequences of' that wave of immigrants, he said, included increased l~vels of' illiteracy, which gave way to the literacy act of 1917. The legislation said that in order to enter the country, a person must be lit­erate in at least one language. 
So every wave of' immigrants came with its pros and cons. 
But to be agaihst immigra­tion today, he said, is driven mostly by racial concerns. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Solar 
continued from page 1 
Joan Brennecke, the dirnetor of the Notre Dame Energy Center, agreed, saying the panels would provide "an exeellcnt research opportunity for studnnts to detnrmine what factors ­doudiness, dusk-to-dawn time, snow coverage, etc. -most alTect energy output." 
She said the panels would cover "virtually every available space on the roof" but would "only supply a very small frac­tion of the power for Stinson­Hornick." 
Under ideal conditions, she said, the array would provide roughly a quarter of the energy for the hall's learning center. She estimated that Stinson­Remick's learning center had between three and four times as much useable space as the Cushing learning center, the current study space for engi­neering students. 
She said the solar arrays might save as much as $5,500 each year in energy costs. 
"You can quickly calculate that the payback time for solar panels is very long, which is why it was important to get them donated from GE," she said. 
"This [low rate of return! 

emphasizes the need for solar energy research to develop new types of solar cells that have higher collection efliciency." 
She said current panels only eonvert about 15 percent of the ineident light to electricity. 
"Only if costs are reduced sig­nificantly will solar energy become a viabh~ alternative for ordinary people," Brennecke said. 
Notre Dame professors such as Prashant Kamat, Debdeep Jena and Graee Xing, she said, were already conducting research to makn solar energy a more competitive energy source. 
Additionally, Nisource Energy Technologies has agreed to donate a microturbine that will use natural gas to generate electricity, Brennecke said. The system will be "fully outfitted with instrumentation so that it will be appropriate for a wealth of student research projects," she said. 
She also said the University will install motion sensors that will turn off lights in unoccupied rooms. 
The price tag on Stinson­Remick Hall is $69.4 million and it will be built on the current site of University Club, which closed its doors permanently last month. 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 

, , Arambe Productions, Dublin, Ireland Presents 

The Kings of Kilburn High Road 
By Jimmy Murphy 
Tuesday, October 16 and Wednesday, October 17 8:00p.m. Decio Theater 
To celebrate the conference, 11 Race and Immigration in the New Ireland,// the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies will host two performances of Jimmy Murphy's The Kings ofthe Kilburn High Road in the Decio Theat~r of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts on Tuesday, October 16th and Wednesday, October 17th at 8:00.1n this highly acclaimed play, agroup of friends take ahilarious and tragic look back on their lives as they gather in apub twenty-five years after they left their homes in Ireland to make their fortunes in England. The play is the work of Arambe Productions, aprofessional Irish theater company led by director and performance artist, Bisi Adigun, who currently has a version of The Playboy ofthe Western World running in the Abbey Theatre, Dublin. 
For more information call the Box Office at 631-2800• 

Wednesday, October 17, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,912.94 -71.86
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
909 98 2,353 3,182,911,288 
AMEX 2.433.28 ;,'J20 NASDAQ 2,763.91 -4.10 NYSE t~~,~~t;AO '';~~~~S~ S&P 500 1,538.53 -10.18 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 1},137.92 <0.00 FTSE 100 (London) 6,614.30 -30.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.79 -1.23 153.78 
POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.47 -0.25 52.87 
LEVEL 3 COMM INC (LVLT) -2.29 -0.10 4.26 CITIGROUP INC (C) -3.14 -1.45 4·4:79 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.39 -0.018 4.655 13-WEEK BILL -0.84 -0.035 4.125 30-YEAR BOND +0.10 +0.005 4.912 5-YEAR NOTE -1.09 -0.048 4.342 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.48 87.61 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.20 762.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.18 85.08 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 116.8750 EURO 0.7056 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9791 BRmSH POUND 0.4919 
IN BRIEF 
E.W. Scripps announces plan to split 
CINCINNATI -Media company E.W. Scripps, searching to capitalize on its fast­growing cable and Internet-based busi­nesses, said Tuesday it plans to split its stagnant newspaper business into a sepa­rate company. The move comes two weeks after another media company, Belo Corp., said it would spin ofT its newspaper business, which has been struggling to keep readers and adver­tising dollars. Scripps signaled in January that it planned to focus on its growing businesses and might sell or spin off its newspaper opera­tions. Analysts said then that investors would respond well to some type of sepa­ration and they did Tuesday, pushing shares up nearly 8 percent. The Scripps split differs from Belo in that Scripps' television stations would be part of the newspaper company, which some analysts have labeled "old media" busi­ness. 
Madonna moves to Uve Nation label 
LOS ANGELES -Madonna and concert promoter Live Nation Inc. announced a deal Tuesday that will give the company an all-encompassing stake in the music of the Material Girl. the latest big-name artist to break ranks with a major record label. 
Financial terms were not disclosed in the joint statement released by Madonna and Live Nation. 
The deal is worth about $120 million over 10 years, a person who spoke on con­dition of anonymity because of the confi­dential nature of the matter previously told The Associated Press. 
The official announcement came after weeks of speculation that Madonna would abandon Warner Music Group Corp., which refused to match the Live Nation deal. 
Madonna said in the statement that she was drawn to the deal with Live Nation because of the changes the music business has undergone in recent years. 




THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Private flights increase in popularity 
Businessmen attracted to personal planes for more convenient, comfortable travel 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -When a meeting with clients runs late, Andy Davidson doesn't have to worry that his plane will leave without him. 
Instead of impatiently waiting in mile-long security lines or silently waging war over a shared airplane arm­rest, Davidson can walk straight to his own six­seater, climb into the cockpit and take off. 
Davidson, the owner of a New York-based financial consulting business, is a member of a small but grow­ing group of businessmen who have taken their pas­sion for flying and turned it into a more convenient -if less economical -form of transportation. 
Most of these executives either buy or lease small planes, called single-engine pistons, with seating room equivalent to a family sedan and the ability to fly up to about 1,000 miles. With many airlines cutting back flights to smaller destina­tions. small business owners and midlevel executives are realizing that flying them­selves might actually be fea­sible. 

According to the Federal Aviation Administration, the number of hours single­engine piston planes are tiona! training, are filling up the nation's air traffic and smaller airports, are also not flown each year is expected with executives. One congestion. subject to the same delays in to rise 17 percent by 2020, Atlanta-based club called But certainly, the benefits departures and arrivals as with growth of about 1 per­Airshares Elite, founded in of private-plane travel are all commercial flights using cent per year. Although 1999, caters specifically to too evident to anyone who's major airports. some of that increase may businessmen. ever been bumped from an "Most of us who travel on be due to pilots who fly for Airports have also started overbooked flight or waited business can tell stories of recreation, FAA spokesman to recognize the importance for takeoff at rush hour. sitting on the ground for four Hank Price said the govern­of the businessman pilot. Executive pilot Steven Hall, hours waiting for the plane ment anticipates that busi­Clark County, Nev. recently the managing director of his to be cleared for takeoff for ness use of private aircraft spent $30 million remodel­own executive compensation what was supposed to be a will grow faster than leisure ing Henderson Executive consulting firm, said he 90 minute flight," Hall said. use. Airport, outside of Las Vegas, leaves his house only 30 to Davidson agreed, saying 
Anecdotal evidence seems to appeal to executives. . 40 minutes before he plans that although the aetual time to confirm that more busi­Flying smaller planes -to take off rather than the in the air is about the same nessmen are seeing personal either by the executives two hours he budgets to go or possibly slightly longer in aviation as a transportation themselves or the pilots they through security lines when a private plane, flying your­option. Flying clubs, where sometimes hire -has taking a commercial flight. self allows you to set your pilots can share ownership become so popular that it He said private planes, own schedule and makes for of a plane or receive addi-has begun to contribute to which leave from much a much more relaxing trip. 

Drug companies, rned schools linked 
to medical students and others that tific advisory board; and 21 percent
Associated Press 

this is appropriate behavior, Campbell who headed departments of medical said. specialties closely related to patient 
CHICAGO -Nearly two-thirds of The survey went to all 125 accredit­care said they had served on speakers' academic leaders surveyed at U.S. ed medical schools and the nation's 15 bureaus for industry. medical schools and teaching hospitals largest teaching hospitals. About two­The results appear in Wednesday's have financial ties to industry, illus­thirds of the department heads Journal of the American Medical trating how pervasive these relation­responded. The study gave no specific Association. ships have become, researchers say. examples, nor did it name any institu­Alan Goldhammer of the industry 
Serving as paid consultants or tions. group, Pharmaceutical Research and accepting industry money for free Many studies have exammed doctor Manufacturers of America, said the meals and drinks were among the ties to drug companies. Campbell co­study results don't mean these rela­most common practices reported by authored research last year that found tionships are a problem. He said it the heads of academic departments. company ties were common among makes sense to reach out to academic 
Drug companies and makers of hospital review boards that oversee heads because they have the most medical devices often use these con­experiments on patients. expertise. nections to influence doctors to use The new study shows that drug com­But Dr. Jerome Kassirer, a former products that aren't necessarily in the panies "are involved in every aspect of New England Journal of Medicine edi­patient's best interest, said Eric medical care," Campbell said. tor and frequent critic of industry 
. Campbell, the study's lead author. He Overall, 60 percent of department influence over doctors, called the is a researcher at Massachusetts heads reported some type of personal study eye-opening. General Hospital and Harvard Medical financial relationship with industry. "I was appalled by the results," School. More than one-quarter -27 percent Kassirer said. "No one knew that so 
Since academic department heads -said they had recently served as a many chairs of medicine and psychia­set the tone for appropriate conduct at paid consultant. The same percentage try were paid speakers. We've never their institutions, their actions signal reported serving on a company scien-had that data before." 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, October 17, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Recipe for disaster 
1~0. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAl;ING ElliTOR 8USINF.SS MANAGER Kt•n Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EormR: Kyk· Cassity AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine ScENE EDITOR: 'lac Andrews 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
l'uoro EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIIC.~ EDITOR: Madeline Nies 

ADVEifi'ISINt; MANAGER: Jessica Correz 
Au DI~~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTIUli.I.ER: Tim Sobolewski SYS'Il\MS AllMINIHRAI'OR: Christian Sagardi:t 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 6.31-7471 
fAX (574) (J.l [-6927 ADVERTISING (574) C\3 I -6900 obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) C\3 I-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 63 l-4'i4 l obsmc@1nd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 63 I-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 6.3 I-531.3 NEWS DESK ('i74) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.cdu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(5 74) C\31-5303 viewpoint. l @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 63 l-4543 sports.! @nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.J@)nd.cdu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNmre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrituriun. The Observer reserves rhe right ro refuse advertisements bast-don content. 
The nl"WS is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and depanmenr'edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and nur necessarily those ofThe Observer. · 
Viewpoint space is avdilable to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ru the Editor must be signed and musr include contact inli1rmation. 
Qtmtiom Tr!garding Obsrrvn-policies should be dirtcud ttl F.ditor in Chit[Maddie Hanna. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

TI1c Ol'lacrYcr (USPS ";11"1 l·4flOU) ill puhiL\hcd Mmul.ty rhruuKh Frid.ty at::c:pt during C'Kllln .lilt! VliUltinn pcrtn~h. A uthK.ripuun 111 Thr Oh!oCrYc:r b $100 for nne: .ll.."allcrnic: yt'llr;$~'Sfilr1JIIt'K'Illt"\IC'I. 
"11tc t)l~rvn i,.puhll~tal.u: POSTM~TER 11}.4 Soudr Oimng f f:tll Send ;u{dm;.~ cnrf'OCtioWI ~u: Num l>arru:,IN 4(,\~-tl779 The (lbacrvcr l't'nudrcd l""''il~~· ~Mid 11 N,tU't• Pilmc P.O. Hox 77'J o~ntlo~ddiunn~lm.ulinte ulflu::~~ 024 Suuth Dini11~ Hall 
Nut~ I>Mm·, IN 46')~(>..0779 

Th< Oh4trwr l5 J m~mll(r ttf rhc Assnn.u~l P~. All rtpruduction righc1 J~ rncrvnl. 
Last month, the Army Corps of Engineers announced a buyout plan for 17,000 homes along the Gulf Coast in Mississippi. The Corps has plans to restore wetlands in this area, which is ironic considering that they are Zach Einterz sim ultannously destroying wet­
Bulletproof
lands in other 
Ideas

areas as they dredge canals and build levees. Congress is unlikely to approve the buyout due to strong opposition, yet the plan is symbolic of a greater movement aimed at encour­aging Americans to move away from the coasts. Expmts daim that global warming will lead to higher sea levels and more int<mse hurricanes in the f'uturn, and FEMA estimates that costal erosion could wipe out a quar­tm of' all homes within 500 !'net of' U.S. eoasts by 2060. 
In addition to tlw increasing risk of property destruction, dnvelopnwnt near the eoasts dnstroys ecologically snnsitive areas that provide protection against natural disastnrs. Barri11r islands and wetlands are considered lirst defenses against hurrieanns. Barriers islands are so-named becausn they provide a barrier against rising tides and each mile of' coastal marsh can absorb one foot of storm surge. University of Vermont economist Robert Costanza estimates that coastal wetlands in the U.S. pro­vide 23 billion dollars per year in storm protection services. 
Since residential and commercial development increases the risk of' property destruction and destroys valuable natural ecosystems, policy makers are left with a dilemma: What is the best way to dissuade individuals and businesses from locating in high­risk areas near the coasts? 

The Corps' buyout program, which comes at a cost of 10 billion dollars, is a reversal of the effects of federal polides over the last 40 years that have encouraged development near coasts and in flood-prone areas. In 1968, Congress created the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), making it easier for property owners to buy l'lood insurance. Congress hoped the NPIP would reduce the cost of natural disasters. If more property owners were covered by flood insur­ance, then less money would have to bP paid out in disaster relief. llowever, by making it easier to obtain flood insurance, the program created incentives for people to build their homes in flood-prone areas. 
In addition to the NFIP, the federal government spends billions of dollars a year on disastnr relief. To date, the federal government has provided 114 billion dollars for the Gulf Coast fol­lowing IIurricanes Katrina and Hita. Billions of dollars more are spent each year providing relief following l'loods, droughts, tornadoes, earth­quakes and just about any natural disaster imaginable. 
Congress has good intentions when it allocates money toward disaster relief or the NFlP, but these programs are ultimately counterproductive. Flood insurance and disaster aid pro­grams provide incentives for people to loeate in high-risk areas because they transfer the burden of risk from indi­vidual property owners to taxpayers. 
It seems as though very little thought has bnon given to retracting these disastrous I'Hderal incentives in order to dissuade individuals from locating in high-risk areas. Instead, policy makers have reverted to "com­mand-and-control" type polieies. advocating buyouts and prohibitions against developnwnt. The largest buy­out to date occurred after the Mississippi Hiver llood in 1993. Over 8,000 properties were purchased, ynt today many of these 8,000 properties arn being mdnvnloped. Moral of the story: Unlnss you change incentives, you won't sen a <~hange in behavior. 
Tlw best way to dissuadn develop­ment in high-risk areas is to rnmovn govnrnment interl'nrnJH:n in insurance and property markets. Get. rid of the NFIP, federal disaster aid and federal buyouts. High-risk arnas, whieh often are also the most ecologically sensi­tivP, will ganwr higlwr insurance pn~­miums. lligh costs may not convince peopln to move to Indiana from Florida, but it will givn thmn second thoughts about building a seaside villa. 
Zach Einterz is a senior majoring in economics and environmental sci­ences. lie will be spending his fall break at home, visiting the dentist and playing with his arthritic dog. Contact him at zeinterz@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Cliinate Control an invesbnent in the future 
A basic principle of micro-economics is that resources are limited. As a nation, we have limited resourees to fund many needs. Matt Gore, in "Climate control not best use of'f'unds,"Oet. 10, said climate eontrol should not be ranked higher than other issues. He makes the argument that nations should focus on disease pre­vention instead because averting climate change will carry high costs with few benelil'>. This statement leads Gore to conclude that "a realistic comparison of these eosts would show that in reality cli­mate change is among the least of humanity's problems." I strongly dis­agree. 
As concluded by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in their Fourth Assessment Report and the Stern Heview, elimate change will have far­reaching impacts from sea-level rise to more severe weather patterns. One of the many cons11quences will be the spread of and inereased resilience of many dis­eases, induding malaria. 
Today, we can already see the impacts of climate change. Hundreds of thou­sands of' people in Bangladesh have already been forced to leave their homes because of unusually high floods due to changing monsoon patterns. The govern­ment is struggling to avoid food shortages and outbreaks of water-borne diseases. Humankind's affect on climate is real and with us to stay. We must not wait to see how drastic these ehanges become before we take action. 

To postpone action addressing climate change will only exacerbate the costs to us in the future. Renewable energy tech­nologies may be expensive today, but these industries are growing at unprece­dented rates. With increasing research and development, these industries will develop to produce reliable and afford­able clean energy technologies. 
Another person who advocates increased spending on green research and development is Bjorn Lomberg, Director of the "Copenhagen Consensus," and Al Gore's apparent souree of infor­mation. In an article published earlier this year, Lamberg states "investing in the research and development of non­carbon-emitting energy technologies [whiehl would leave future generations able to make serious and yet economical­ly feasible and advantageous euts. A new global warming treaty should mandate spending 0.05 percent of GDP on research and development in the future" (Global Warming's Dirty Secret). 
Indeed, this foeus on rcseareh and development is exactly what Notre Dame is funding in various departments, and what Energy Week emphasized. Energy Week, whieh concluded Saturday, was an attempt to raise awareness about eurrent energy use, promote clean energy tech­nologies, and increase interest in energy conservation and education. To learn more about the Energy Center, visit ener­gycenter.nd .ed u 
Mitigating climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions is the foremost challenge of our generation. The more we seek to understand, limit, and reduce our impact on the environment, the bet­ter ofT we will all be. 
Lisa Bunn sophomore Lewis Hall Ocr.16 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Marcela Berrios Cassie Belek Mandi Stirone Viewpoint Dan Jacobs Bethany Who should be the Graphics Whitfield 
starting quarterba.ck? "If you don't run your own life,
Madeline Nies somebody else will." 
Sports 
John Atkinson

Jay Fitzpatrick Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
painter

Ellyn Michalak 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com

Meaghan Veselik 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 17, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Disrespectful mentality needs to go 
This article is in response to Saint Mary's independent, strong-willed, intelligent and here at school but in the real world as like Failure," and any other disrespectful freshman Katie Shea's critique of the intellectual women' -Ha, there is no such well. Many students probably remember comics from The Observer. Only then can comic "Tastes Like Failure" ('"Tastes Like thing!" I immediately chastised him to bite liam Moran's highly offensive we begin the healing process of learning to Failure' a failure," Oct. 15). I feel Shea is his tongue and retract the statement. "Kaleidoscope McDaniel's" comic strip respect women, for the betterment of our­right on in her approach to this tasteless There then cascaded a multitude of anti­from last year, and how it blatantly disre­selves as individuals and this University of comic's portrayal of Saint Mary's women female jokes in reference to Shea's article spected Saint Mary's women as well. It Our Lady as a whole. and women in general. What angers me so which made me disappointed in the anti­was unfortunate that strip was never much is the positive response this comic women mentality of my fellow peers. removed from publication, despite its poor Ryan Slaney garners from my own peers. A'l the former gender relations commis­taste. sophomore 
For example, a friend of mine reading sioner of Carroll Hall, I recognize the I would like to see a change in the Notre Carroll Hall Shea's letter said (quoting Shea): '"smart, importance of respecting women, not only Dame mentality by the removal of "Tastes Oct.16 
Belles: Give n1e a reason 
Dear Belles of Saint Mary's, 
I have a proposition for you. If you do not enjoy reading the comics that appear in The Observer, simply do not read them. Actually, I have an even better idea. How about you, once and for all, break ties from this University, and start to exist on your own? The formation of your very own newspaper would be sure to be seen as a big step. While you're on that little kick. how about you start attending your own team's football games? Oh, you say you don't have a team? Well, tough luck then, I guess. 
I. along with many others, am absolutely tired of hearing about how your feelings are hurt by a comic strip just about every month. Guess what? The same comics have made fun of just about everything here on campus in the past years, ranging from Charlie Weis and Monk Malloy to engineers and business students. I don't see two or three letters to the editor in this column every time a negative stereotype about engineering students is mentioned. Stop complaining and be happy that you are affiliated with the University of Notre Dame, before it is too late. 
Obviously I understand that not all students at Saint Mary's feel the need to complain at every step; there are always diamonds in even the thickest rough. That is why I am going to put my own dignity on the line here. If anybody can come up with a valid argument as to why Notre Dame and its student organizations should continue to pander to Saint Mary's students, I will wear a Saint Mary's shirt to the game on Saturday. Here is your chance, go ahead and prove me wrong. I'm pretty sure I'm still going to be sporting my finest anti­Trojans gear this weekend. 
Jordan Beltz 
senior 
off campus Ocr. 16 
TV tin1eouts fund scholarships 
In response to Dan Quirk's letter criticizing "exces­sive" TV timeouts during our football games ("TV timeouts a disruption," Oct. 16), in 2003-2004 (the most recent year I could find data for), the NBC con­tract funded 111 undergraduate scholarships averag­ing 17,600 dollars each. If you figure there are 16 TV timeouts a game and seven home games, that's 112 timeouts a season. That means each timeout means another one of my classmates gets the chance to go to school at Notre Dame. I'll wait considerably more than five minutes for that. 
Brian Holland 
senior 
Carroll Hall Ocr. 16 

Ph.D.s protnoted for -wrong reasons 
I I I I I 
• I I 
There has been a recent push by our administration for more undergraduates to consider earning a Ph.D. President .John Jenkins first made this appeal in an address to the faculty on Sept. 11. "We must do a better job of sPnding our grad­uates to Ph.D. programs," hP said. Since his address, The Observer has printed two front page articles reporting the administration's desire for more Ph.D.s and how they are trying to achieve it. 
The University wants more undergrad­uates to consider doctoral studies because "only" about five percent of Notre Dame undergraduates go on to enter Ph.D. pro­grams. The administration thinks that this number is too small compared with our "peer institutions" like Princeton and Stanford. So, Fr. Jenkins concluded in his speech, "that five percent number must rise." 
The justification for sending more Notre Dame students to Ph.D. programs is self­serving. It does not ask whether it is actually good for the students to get a doctorate. Notre Dame undergraduates probably are more likely to consider a life devoted to family or social work than undergraduates at Princeton would. Will our students flourish more with their Ph.D.s in hand than in these other alter­natives? The administration does not seem concerned with this question. "That five percent number must rise." 
The administration's position is also potentially misleading to undergraduates, since there are many good reasons not to enter Ph.D. programs. In the first place and most obviously, there are too many students already in Ph.D. programs and too few jobs, especially in the humanities and social sciences. Second, earning a doctoral degree poses its own set of chal­lenges and pressures. Most people would hate it. The thought of attending school for six or more years after being in school one's whole life is often unthinkable. 
When I was an undergraduate, I remember advice that one professor gave to a group of students interested in Ph.D. programs in the humanities: "If you think you will be just as happy doing something else, then do that thing." He did not nec­essarily intend to discourage students from considering Ph.D.s. Rather, he rec­ognized, in a way that Notre Dame's administration does not seem to, that at the very least Ph.D. programs should not be entered into lightly. 
In short, there's no reason to think that creating intellectual leaders or promoting the life of the mind requires a certain per­centage of students to earn Ph.D.s. Notre Dame should not pursue policies merely in order to make itself look better. And we should expect a university dedicated to liberal education to understand that. 
Philip Reed graduate student off campus Ocr. 16 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

.---------------~-----­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, October 17, 2007 

By STEPHANIE DePREZ Scene Wri tcr 
To many people in America, metal rnusie is a bit scary. 
It's loud, angry, relentless and doprnssing. It's jarring and hard to listen to. Tllfl problem with the metal scene in America is that it is limited. It began with Led Zeppelin, ran through Metalf.ica. and has emerged today as a formulaic genre as adventurous as mod­ern pop. 
But there is hope. All you have to do is look across the oeean. 
Dark Passion Play 
Nightwish Label: Roadrunner Records 
Recommended Tracks: "Amaranth" and '7 
Days to the Wolves" 
By MARK WITTE Scene Writer 
Hadiolwad's newest album "In Ha.inbows" probably won't hit the shelves until 200H, but listnnors don't have to wait that long to !war it -or pay a fixed prieo for it. 
On Oct. I 0, Hadiohead released "In Bainhows." its seventh album, on the lntornet for downloading via inrainbows.com. But this isn't your typi­cal <J<J-eents-a-track iTunes download. No. this is dill'f~rent. For Hadiohead's new album you can pay as much or as little as you like. 
In Rainbows 

Radio head Label: none 
Recommended Tracks: "Bodysnatchers," 'Weird Fishes!Arpeggi" and "Nude" 

Symphonic Metal is a genre of music refused to play in the United States that uses the metal sound to relay grand becausP. a former lead singer refused to stories and tragic romances, while often tour in countries where no one had baeked by a full orchestra and choir. The heard of her band. vocalists are not your She's been replaced. average chest-voiced, and the new Nightwish
Nightwish is still fully 
five-note singers, but are has decided to abandon
epic, with mind-blowing 
trained professionals. its conquered turf and In northern Europe, drums and thrashing strike up a fan base in metal is taken seriously. the States. 
guitars, but now it knows 
The music is meaning­The grand leap is
what it's doing. 
ful, and the impact is accompanied by a new 
album, "Dark Passion
great. It's seen as a criti­cal contributor to culture, as opposed to our own country, which sees metal as the underbelly of the disenchanted teen 
In a move that may have shattered the business model of record label compa­nies, Hadiohnad put up its latest work on the lnterm~t. giving its downloadcrs the option to pay 
any amount for In a move that may have It is with this album that "In the album. Hainbows" shares common
shattered the business model 
Currently oper­ground.
ofrecord label companies, 
ating without a "In Rainbows" opens with record label, an Radiohead put up its latest "15 Steps," featuring ofT­experience work on the Internet, giving beat drumming and bluesy frontman Thom guitar playing that climaxes
its downloaders the option to
Yorke has ealled into a trance of electronica. both "liberating pay any amount for "Bodysnatchers" is a catchy and terrifying," the album. piece built on driving 
Hadiohead is providing its 
scene. 
One of the great pio­neers of the genre has been Nightwish, a Finnish group that has consistent­ly served up top-10 hits and platinum albums in Europe. Yet few Amerieans have heard of them. 
For years Nightwish has sold out the largest ven­ues in Helsinki, and next week it will play the Chicago House of Blues during its first tour of America. The band had 
product directly to con­sumers without losing money to middlemen and without piracy worries for its downloading con­sumers. 
But how good is this essentially free music? llow well does "In Hainbows" line up against Hadiohead's previous work? The answer is maybe better than anyone thinks. 
The band has come a long way since its roek 'n' Play," featuring Nightwish's new vocal­in the melody. ist. It flew straight to No. 1 on the charts Nightwish delivers an album that you in Finland, Switzerland, ean fall into, rock out to, Germany, Hungary and The full orchestra or just listen to with Croatia, but it's No. 84 wide eyes. It's real

explodes as frantic 
in Ameriea. In the last music from a group that 10 years, Nightwish has instruments begin to has defined its genre for moved past grandiose build, but then becomes a decade. 
songs of epic length that To the average college
calm as the vocalist 
were too self-indulgent student, their stu IT is dif­for a band that takes begins to tell the story. ferent. It's wild, and it's 
itself so seriously. The group is cleaner and more driven now. 
Nightwish is still fully epic, with mind­blowing drums and thrashing guitars, but now it knows what it's doing. Most of Nightwish 's songs have become more accessible. The all-encompassing sound and full choirs still exist, but it adds to the intensity of the songs. 
roll beginnings with its hit single "Creep." Moving toward a denser, more artistic sound, the band found success with its third album, the Grammy-winning, "OK Computer" released in 1997. 
rhythms and a little of 
Yorke's signature falsetto with a good old-fashioned rock 'n' roll eli­max. "Nude" lays it back a little bit, rely­ing on the serene beau­
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 

The album opens with "The Poet and the Pendulum," a classic 14-minute track from the masters of epk metal. It's almost like listening to an opera written by Tim Burton and Danny Elfman. 
The full orchestra explodes as frantic instruments begin to build, but then becomes calm as the voealist begins to tell the story. If you can make it through the whole song, you will pass through every imaginable mood. The best track is "Amaranth," which screams (literally) hit single. It's hard not to get caught up 
hard to take seriously. But if you can suspend judgment for a track or two, you might realize that no matter who you are, how you dress or what you listen to, this is good music. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 

looks back, 11nishing with a masterful blend of orchestration in epie li>rin. 
"House of Cards" starts oil' in much the same way as "15 Steps," b11fore diving into a whirlpool of sound ell'ects. "Jigsaw Falling Into Place" is not to be missed as it begins with catehy drums and acoustic guitar before adding more instrumenta­tion, finally arriving at a splendid finish where sounds seem to fall into place. "Videotape" brings it home on piano as Yorke sings of "pearly gates" and "saying goodbye." 
"In Hainbows" may be the type of album Hadiohead fans have come to expect. It never gets ahead of itself, but refuses to drag as well. It creates an atmosphere of expressive appeal that overwhelms not only during its epic 
momnnts but during 

ty of Yorke's voice to "In Rainbows" may be the the quieter ones as 
carry the ballad along. well.
type ofalbum Radiohead 
The album kicks into While none of the high gear with "Weird fans have come to expect. It songs stand alone as 
Fishes/Arpeggi" where never gets ahead ofitself. individual hits, thn 
Hadiohead's unique album may be some­
but refuses to drag as well.
rhythms and creative thing special. It may lyrics set the band on a provide an experi­similar level to Pink Floyd of the early ence that has not benn felt since Pink 1970s. "All I Need" takes things into over­Floyd strummed along to the "Wizard of drive with a dense guitar finish reminis­-Oz." cent of Hadiohead's older work. "Reckoner" starts on· in falsetto and never Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, October 17, 2007 
page 11 
By TIM GALLO Scene Writer 
H&B prodigies K-Ci and JoJo once sang. "All my life, I prayed for someone like you ... and I pray that you feel the same way too." These lyrics could not capture how I, and thousands of other men, feel about one special woman. I think that I may love New York. 
For all the unlucky souls that have never met New York, I will explain why you must meet this goddess. New York, or Tiffany Pollard, was once a contest­ant on VHl 's "Flavor of Love." 
In the two seasons of the show, New York created drama and somehow fell in love with Flavor Flav, the old rapper whose affection a group of female con­testants tried 
even know how 20 Pack. to spell her 
name. 
Clearly, New York needed a man (or more attention) and VHl needed rat­ings. So "I Love New York" was born. But New York could not find someone worthy of her and was left heartbroken again. 
New York is back again for "I Love 
I Love New York 2 VH1 
Airing: Monday at 9 p.m. 
Starring: New York, Sister Patterson, Buddha, Midget Mac, Cheezy, Mr. Wise, Wolf, Man Man, 20 Pack, Punk, Pretty, The Entertainer, It and Tailor Made 
New York 2," where she will have her Love New York" says something very heart broken by some undeserving, important about our country. Racial, muscle-bound goon who calls himself gender and religious stereotypes are 20 Pack. the core of this program. New York 
This is inevitable, for a character like portrays a woman who is desperate for 
New York is not  the attention of men  
meant to find love. Yet to me she is per­haps the most fasci­ New York says she just wants "a real thug who drinks a  who see her as a sex­ual object. Sister Patterson is a Bible­ 
nating character on  lot.,, But it is clear that real  thumping zealot who  
one of television's most fascinating shows.  thugs (like me) will never be able to give New York what  we are meant to laugh at. There are thuggish,  
In a very strange  she wants and needs.  misogynistic black  

and twisted way, there is a little bit of New York in all of us. Everyone who watches New York on television has a specific idea of who he wants to see her choose. Most often, we will choose men who are either 
upstanding and boring or 

to win. But in absolutely ridiculous. 
New York is back again for "I
the end of the On the show, New York's 
Love New York 2, ,, where she 
second season, mother Sister Patterson Flav left New will have her heart broken by gives "advice" on who our York for some muse should select as her
some undeserving, muscle­
girl (Deelishis) man. Sister Patterson
bound goon who calls himself
who doesn't pushes New York to choose 
successful, handsome men -when she isn't preach­ing or cackling. New York 

says she just wants "a real thug who drinks a lot." 
men in backwards hats and bumbling white men in suits. No one on this show avoids the stereo­types. We watch the characters and laugh. 
In doing this, we also realize how ridiculous the stereotypes are, for no real person acts like the caricatures in this show. People of all races, genders and religions are far more complex than any of the characters in the show. By using characters that exist only as stereotypes, "I Love New York" makes us realize how absurd they are. 
I may never bear witness to New York's (surgically-enhanced) beauty. But I take comfort that underneath her makeup-coated, bikini-wearing exteri­
or is some­

But it is clear that real  I may never bear witness to  thing more.  
thugs (like me) will never  New York,s (surgically­ Maybe I am  
be able to give New York what she wants and  enhanced) beauty. But I take  crazy, but I see something  
needs. This is a situation  comfort that underneath her  more to her.  

we all She is some­
makeup-coated, bikini-wearing 
encounter one I have
exterior is something more.
at some never met, yet point in our is like every­lives. We all want what one I know. She surrounds herself with we cannot have. stereotypes to tear them down. To me, Everyone around us tells this makes her wonderful. I can only us what we should do, yet pray that she someday will feel the we want the opposite. same way too. 
In this way, New York is real, or at least more real The views expressed in this column are than anyone on "The Real those ofthe author and not necessarily World." those ofThe Observer. 
In addition to this, "I Contact Tim Gallo at tgallo@nd.edu 
New York's Men: A diverse group of men vie for New York's affection this season. 
Photo courtesy of vh1.com New York is putting her heart on the line for a second time in her own series. 

Photo courtesy of vh1.com New York's mother, Sister Patterson, is critical of her daughter's taste in men. 

Photo courtesy of vh1.com Photo courtesy of vh1.com Photo courtesy of vht.com Photo courtesy of vh1.com Cheezy once worked in a Christmas Midget Mac is a single father and Man Man has never been in a long­Punk is a lawyer, bodybuilder and a store in Disney World as an elf. impresses New York with his humor. term relationship before. Harvard graduate. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 17, 2007 
NHL 
Flyers shut out Thrashers 4-0 to stay in first place 
Panthers tying goal comes seconds before game's end, Stumpe! scores shootout winner to lead Florida over Canadiens 
Associated Pn:ss 
PIIILADELPIIIA -Martin Biron's acrobatic play in the net and a roster suddenly loaded with goal scorers has the Philadelphia Flyers back in a mon~ familiar position in the standings. 
First place. 

Too early to look at where they lit in the division? Don't tell that to the Flyers. 
"We want to be the best team in the league," Biron said. "We want to show we've nmlly made tlw dfort to work at it. It all mattnrs now." 
.Jell" Cartf~r and Sami Kapancn scon~d 34 seconds apart in the second period, and Biron was sensational again in leading the Flyers past the winless Atlanta Thrashers on Tuesday night. 
"You don't play for shutouts, but it's definitely nkn when they conw," Biron said. 
Biron made 31 saves in his first shutout since the Flyers acquired him from Buffalo in February to solidify the No. 1 goalt1md1~r spot. lin had his 1 <Jth NIIL shutout and his first since April 18, 2006, against Carolina. 
Mike Hichards and Handy .Jones also s<~ored for the J.."lyers, who arc alone in first place in the Atlantic Division. The Flyers (4-I I did n· t win their fourth ganw last season until Nov. 15. 
"It's definitely the way we wanted to start," Biron said. "We have four horne games where we really wanted to make a statement." 
The Flyers are getting contri­butions from everyone. Carter and Kapanen both scored for the second straight game. Carter and Danny Briere both have four goals, and eight oth­ers have scored -an impres­sivl1 stat for a team that last sea­son didn't get much production after the first line. 
"It's always nice when we get production outside the Briere line and we're starting to get it," coach John Stevens said. "We think our back end can start to contribute offensively and they really have." 
For every team that takes a leap in the standings, there's usually one that tumbles. This time, it's the woeful Thrashers. 
Even with Marian llossa back after a three-game absence with a groin injury, the Thrashers lost their sixth straight game and are the only team in the NIII. without a win. 
Because all the losses have come in regulation, the Thrashers -also swept in their first playoff appearance last spring-don't even have a point. 
One reason is their abysmal play on the power play. Atlanta was 2-for-21 entering the game, and failed to score on five chances against the Flyers. 

"I think we're just beating ourselves up," Thrashers center Bryan Little said. "We've got to kind of start the season all over again and just forget about it because if we keep thinking about it, it's just going to get worse." 
Johan Hedberg stopped all 12 shots in the first period and the Flyers seemed to be missing some zip. Those brief spells of lethargic play have gnawed at Stevens all season, but Philadelphia got it over with early. 
Hichards scored his third goal 1 minute, 21 seconds into the middle period, sneaking the puck past Hedberg on his glove side. 
Carter scored his fourth goal with 7:04 left on a wrister over Hedberg's left shoulder. The crowd was still celebrating and the goal was being announced when Kapanen made it 3-0. R.J. Umberger's shot from the circle bounced off Hedberg's pads and floated in front of the net, just enough time for a charging Kapanen to whip the puck into the empty net. 
"When we get those chances, we've been burying them this year and it's turning into wins for us," Carter said. 
AP 

AP 
Panthers defender Noah Welch, checks Canadians center Garth Murray during Florida's 2-1 victory over Montreal Tuesday. 
Panthers 2, Canadians 1 Kovalev got his seeond goal of' 
MONTHEAL Nathan the season on a power play 2:53 Horton's late goal earned in and it nearly held up as the Florida one point and Jozel' game's only score. Stumpel's shootout score lluet. who made 24 saves, secured another. Tomas protected the one-goal lead for Vokoun's strong play in goal was 56:56, falling just short of what gave the Panthers any recording his first shutout since chance at the two points and the last Nov. 28, a 1-0 win over the win. Panthers. That game was decid-
IIorton tied the game with ed on a shootout goal by 
10.2 seconds left in regulation Canadiens captain Saku Koivu and Stumpe! scored the only following a seornless lifl through shootout goal to give tho overtim1~. Panthers a 2-1 victory over thn "Obviously that's a little risky Montreal Canadiens on Tuesday to keep it at 1-0," Iluet said. night. "We outplayed them tlw wholP 
Vokoun made 36 saves and game, prntty much. We had a lot stopped shootout attempts by of' good scoring ehanees and we Chris Higgins, Saku Koivu and just eouldn't find a way to beat Alex Kovalev. Vokoun." 
"We were still in it because of' l'antlwrs captain Olli .Jokin1~n our goalie," llorton said. "lie played his 300th conseeutive played unbelievable and he gave regular season game, tying us a chance to have that oppor-Hobert Svehla's l'ranehise tunity at the end." record. Florida eontinues its 
StumpP.!, Florida's third shoot-three-game Canadian road trip er, beat Cristobal Huet after Thursday in Toronto. Ville Peltonen and Horton had "1 think I'll have to stay in the failed before him to give the room the next couple of days to Panthers the win. make sure I'll be able to play in 
"It's a team sport and some-Toronto," Jokinen said. times you help your team, and With Florida defenseman Mike sometimes your team helps Van Hyn off for holding, Kovalev you," Vokoun said. picked up a rebound to the left 
Horton's tying goal came just of the net and moved the puck seconds after Montreal killed a to his forehand before flipping a late penalty. shot over Vokoun's right pad. 
"It's nice to get two points Huet made a sensational glove when you didn't play very save on Richard Zednik's back-good," Horton said. hand 8:20 into the second. 
The Observeraccepts da.ssifieds e\-ery business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day cl=ified.or is 3 p.m. AI cl=ifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 ceuts per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all cl=ifieds lOr comenr without issuing refunds . 
CLASSIFIEDS 
.. :/ ;· 
------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Blue & Gold Homes Now Showing Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659. superproofer.com UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 2nd Semester & 08/09. 1-9 Do not go it alone. FoR SALE FoR RENT Bedrooms. bluegoldrentals.com Need 2 USC tix & parking pass. IS YOUR DAD A RADIOLOGIST IN If you or someone you love needs 
57 4-276-8507. BOSTON? confidential support or assistance, Moving on with my life Cozy 3 bedroom house. walk to Looking for ND student s father who please Moving in with yours. campus, washer/dryer, landlord TICKETS is a Radiologist in the Boston. MA call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. 
PERSONAL
Lake St. George is your new home does the yardwork. $750/month. No area. For more information, visit our web-With an almost view of the dome pets. No section 8. 574-250-1266. WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. This Dr. assisted my client with site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart-Sleep in one of three suites Large house available for 2009-PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-CPR on an airplane on 3/15/07 ments/pregnant.shtml Taste the city water. 2010. Full renovations completed ONE WHO IS? departing Detroit or see our bi-weekly ad in It is sweet New. this year. Great location on E FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. You do not have to be alone. We to So.Bend. THE OBSERVER. New Everything You can have it for Marion. Large common areas. 5 ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232·0964. want to help. Family would like to extend thank If you or someone you care about some bling Not too bad for $345 bathrooms. Also available: 5bdrm 2 www. victorytickets.com Call our 24 hour confidential hotline you and ask questions, has been sexually assaulted. thousand bath and 3bdrm 2 bath for 2008-at Please call visit Call Jan Lazzara on her band 2009. Contact ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 1·800·No Abort or visit our web site Mark Matthes at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. 574-233-6141 . MacSwain@ gmail.com 574-288·2726. at www.lifecall.org 800-261-2305. shtflll 

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, October 17, 2007 Cni\:1PtLED FROM THE OnsERVERs WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NCAA Women's Cross Country 
USTFCCA Rankings  
team  points  prel)iOlrs  
1  Stanford  390  1  
2  Oregon  368  3  
3  Florida State  365  11  
4  Princeton  358  8  
5  Arizona State  332  6  
6  Michigan  320  13  
7  Michigan State  317  g  
8  Minnesota  294  4  
9  Washington  280  12  
10  Illinois  264  10  
11  Georgetown  251  22  
12  Colorado State  234  14  
13  Arkansas  231  5  
14  Texas Tech  221  24  
15  Colorado  214  2  
16  Rice  202  7  
17  BYU  192  15  
18  Iowa  161  23  
19  West VIrginia  155  21  
20  Northern Arizona  151  NR  
21  Wisconsin  128  25  
22  Providence  109  18  
23  NC State  96  26  
24  UC Santa Barbara  92  27  
25  Virginia Tech  86  19  

NCAA Men's Cross Country 
USTFCCA Rankings 
team points 

1 Oregon 390 2 Northern Arizona 363 3 UTEP 357 4 lona 346 
previous 
1. 
1.5 T20 .4 
5  Colorado  342  
6  Wisconsin  325  
7  NC Stale  291  
8  Arkansas  284  
8  California  284  
10  Michigan  274  
11  Vfrglnia  248  
12  Alabama  229  
13  NOTRE DAME  224  
14  Texas  218  
15  Stanford  209  
16 17  Georgetown Tulsa  202 . 174  
18  Oklahoma Slate  171  
19  Louisville  148  
19  UCLA  148  
21  Portland  142  
22  Minnesota  139  
23  Providence  111  
24  Iowa Slate  98  
25  Arizona State  79  


MIAA Women's Volleyball Standings 

team  league  overall  
Calvin  12·0  21-3  
Hope  9·2  15"8  
Adrian  9-4  12-10  
Tri-State  8-5  11-12  
Albion  5-7  8-14  
SAINT MARY'S  5-7  10-14  
Kalamazoo  4-8  8-15  
Alma  2-10  6-18  

around the dial 
NBA CHINA GAMES Cavaliers vs. Magic 8 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Bill Stoneman spent so much time building the Angels into a perennial con­tender that he knew when he didn't have enough energy to stay on as the team's general manager. 
Stoneman stepped down Tuesday, saying he want­ed to spend more time with his wife, Diane. He was replaced by player development director Tony Reagins. 
"She didn't know when she married me that I would have a mistress," Stoneman said, alluding to the demands of his baseball career. "Right now, I'm leaving my mis­tress." 

The 63-year-old Stoneman, who will remain with Los Angeles as a senior adviser, became the Angels GM in November 1999 and the team improved by 12 wins in his first season. 
After making the play­offs only three times pre­viously, the Angels advanced to the postsea­son four times under Stoneman. They won their only World Series champi­onship in 2002. 
Los Angeles won the AL West this season for the third time in four years but was swept by Boston in the first round. 
Choking back tears at times at a news confer-
IN BRIEF 

Atlant& award~d WNBA
team, will start play in 2008 
ATLANTA-The WNBA will announce Wednesday that it has awarded a franchise to Atlanta, a person familiar with the deal said Tuesday. 
Atlanta real estate executive Ron Terwilliger will be the sole owner of the team, which will begin play in 2008, according to the person famil­iar with the deal, who requested anonymity because the new fran­chise hasn't been officially announced yet. 
Atlanta City Council president Lisa Borders, one of the leaders of the committee which organized the effort, is expected to attend Wednesday's news conference along with Terwilliger. 
Borders and WNBA president Donna Orender did not immediately return messages on Tuesday. 
ence, Stoneman said he wanted to have time for other things. 
''I'm getting older. You have to face that, and this job requires a ton of ener­gy. I really don't have the same energy I brought to the job," he said. 
"The main thing is, I was worn down and I did­n't think it would be right to continue." 
Stoneman will help Reagins make the transi­tion into the job but the switch shouldn't be too difficult. Reagins joined the Angels as an intern in 199 2 and was the organi­zation's player-develop­ment director for the past six years. 
"I've known Tony since 

The WNBA's Charlotte franchise was disbanded following the 2006 season, leaving the league without a team in the Southeast. 
Woods signs endorsement 
with Gatorade 
Tiger Woods will have his own brand of sports drink next year under an endorsement deal announced Tuesday with Gatorade that marks a couple of firsts for the world's No. 1 golfer -his first U.S. deal with a beverage company and his first licensing agreement. 
Gatorade said it will introduce "Gatorade Tiger" in March, with more products to follow. Woods even picked out the flavors himself, with the drink available in a cherry blend, citrus blend and grape. 
Terms of the deal were not dis­closed, although Golfweek magazine reported last month it was for five coming on the job here," Stoneman said. "This is one of the brightest, most energetic and dedicated guys I know. He's able to get things done." 
Owner Arte Moreno said the transition would be seamless. 
"Bill will be a direct adviser to me," Moreno said. "I've always felt it's important to keep our brain trust together." 
Reagins said the job carries "extreme respon­sibility, and I'm ready for the challenge." 
"I've worked for four GMs," he said. "Each one of them had talents and skills that were unique. I got the opportunity to pick their brains." 
years and could pay Woods as much as $100 million, moving him closer to the $1 billion mark in career endorsements. 
Injured Bills Rlayer using
specialized wa ker in reha6 
Injured Buffalo Bills player Kevin Everett has been able to walk to some extent as part of his rehabilita­tion after suffering a severe spinal cord injury during the team's season opener. 
Everett's agent, Eric Armstead, told ESPN that the player is now moving his legs and is able to stand upright with the help of a specialized walker. The walker stabilizes his upper body so that Everett doesn't have to support all of his body weight on his legs. With the use of that walker, Everett is able to move his legs on his own and technically take steps. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 17, 2007 
MLB 
Indians win 7-3 to take 3-1 series lead 

Associated Press 
CI.EVI·:LAND -Lnd by a throwback pitrlwr who looks as if lw slPppnd out of thnir 11J4H team photo. the Clnveland Indians moved orw win from anothnr crack at winning an Plusive World S1~riflS title. 
Pumping his arms with an old-sr.hool windup from yester­yoar. Paul Byrd blanknd Boston long nnough and tho Indians used a snven-run rampage in tho fifth inning to beat the Hed Sox 7-:{ Tuesday night for a 3-1 lead in the AL championship serins. 
Thn Indians, who knocked out the New York Yanknes and their monstrous payroll in the first round of llw playoll's, now have the frn11-spnnding Hed Sox on the ropns. Even throe straight homers eoufdn 't rally Boston. 
A victory in Garno 5 on Thursday night would send Clovnland baek to the World Snrins for tlw llrst t.imn sinee 1')97, wlwn the Indians lost a snven-gamn thrillor to the Florida Marlins. 
Aftnr a day ofT. tlrn Indians will turn to ace C.C. Sabathia, thnir lef't-handed leader. Boston's .Josh Beckett, who beat Clevnland in Game 1 at home, will try to send the sorios back to Flmway Park. 
Anothor Series first-timer ­tho amazing Colorado Hoekies -are patiently waiting for an opponent. 
And il just might be the Indians, who haven't won a world ehampionship sine11 '48, whnn they beat the Boston Braves. <:loveland's 59-year drought is only eelipsed by the Chicago Cubs, those lovable los­ers whose futility now extends to 99 years this fall after an early-Oetober flame out. 
These Indians are burning brightly. 
Casey Blake homered leading off the fifth inning against Boston knuckleballer Tim Wakelinld, whose now-you-see­it-now-you-don't pitch had Cleveland's hitters swinging at air for nearly four innings. 
But in the lifth, helped by a dropped foul pop and a ball seemingly destined for an inning-nnding doubln play that tipped ofT Wakl'finld's glove, the Indians blew it opnn by hanging a snvPn spot on tlw scowboard -just as thny did in tlw 11th inning at Fenway Park to win Garno 2. 
Cleveland batted for 35 min­utns in the fifth. and the down time seemed to hurt Byrd. who gave up baek-to-back homers in a seven-pitch span to Kevin Youkilis and David Ortiz to open the sixth before Indians manag­er Eric Wedge rescued him. 
As Byrd walked to the dugout in favor of rookie Jensen Lewis, Cleveland's towel-twirling fans saluted the 36-year-old, who instead of trying to blow pitches past hitters. uses ofT-speed stuff to fool them. 
Lewis gave up a homer to Manny Hamirez, who posed to admire his 451-foot shot, as the Hed Sox became the first team in ALCS history to hit three straight homers. 
They carne too late as the Hed Sox missed a ehanee to even the sories and now must hope they can eonjurn up some of thnir 2004 magie when they came baek from an 0-3 deficit, beat the Yankees four straight and swopt the St. Louis Cardinals in the Series. 
Byrd found his unique windup almost by accident. Following shoulder surgery in 2002, he began swinging his arms, hop­ing the momentum it created might give him more velocity. After trying it out during bat­ting practice, a few teammates told him they had a hard time picking up the ball. 
That's all he needed to hear. 
Hafael Betancourt needed just six pitches to get through Youkilis, Ortiz and Hamirez in the eighth, then the righty fin­ished off the Hed Sox in the ninth. 
Boston has been haunted by past Oct. 16 failures, and Blake's leadoff homer in the fifth must have stirred painful memories across Hed Sox Nation. It was on that date that New York's Aaron Boone opened the 11th inning of Game 7 of the 2003 ALCS with a series-clinching homer -off Wakefield. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Hall of fa111e coach returns as AD 
Osborne to decide if head coach will stay 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN -The future of Nebraska football is in the hands of its patriareh. 
Hall of Fame eoach Tom Osborne returned to Nebraska on Tuesday as interim athletic director, a day after the firing of Steve Pederson. 
The 70-year-old Osborne will determine whether Bill Callahan stays or goes as Nebraska eoach, but he won't make the decision until after the season. 
"I don't want to be someone who micromanages, watches over people's shoulders," Osborne said. "If they want me to come to practiee or go to meetings, I'll go. If they want to stay away, I'll stay away." 
It was 10 yoars ago that Osborne finished a eelebratnd 25-year coaching eareer that culminated with throe nation­al ehampionships in his last four seasons. 
But tho program has fallm1 on hard times -by Nebraska standards -having lost no fewer than four gamP.s a year in four seasons undor Callahan. The Huskers have lost their last two games by a combined score of H6-20, and 
their defense is  one  of the  
worst in the country.  
Osborne, who  was  in  the  

stadium for last week's 45-14 loss to Oklahoma State, didn't seem as panieked as some of the Huskers' fans about the team's play. 
"It's worth pointing out that we're 4-3. We've won more than we've lost," he said. "There are other programs ­some pretty good programs ­that haven't won more than one game. But we'd like the intensity level to pick up to what we're aeeustomed to." 
Osborne met with university chancellor Harvey Perlman on Tuesday morning to dis­euss the job, and Osborne agreed to serve until the ehancellor hires a permanent athletic direetor. 
Osborne said he took the job because he cares about Nebraska athletics. He'll stay on as long as it takes Perlman to hire a permanent athletic director, and his pay will be based on a $250,000 annual salary. 
"He'll be the lowest paid athletic director in the Big 12," Perlman quipped. 
Perlman said Osborne would be given "full authori­ty" to make decisions about football and other athletic matters. 
''I'm counting on him to do what needs to be done to move our program forward and make progress hnrn," Perlman said. 
Callahan said earlier Tuesday that he has no plan to resign. If Callahan is firnd, the university would lw forced to buy out his contract for more than $3 million. 
Callahan was not available al'ter the tr-1am 's practice to comment on Osborne's hiring. 
During his weekly nnws conference earlier in the day, Callahan said his confidence in his own abilities hasn't been shaken. 
"I know in my heart of hearts I'm doing an excellent 
job, a good job," Callahan said. 
lie said his self-evaluation was based on more than the wins and losses. 
"It's everything that has to do with organization, prepa­ration, game-planning, direc­tion of the starr. direction or the whole, entire program. I have no hesitation about that," he said. "There are so many things we've done in a positive nature. I'm confident we've done some great things here." 
Sinco leaving eoaching, Osborne has served three terms in Congress, made an unsuccessful gubernatorial run, taught in the university's business school and worked as a consultant for local eol­lege athletic departments. 
Though his name is on Nebraska's. athletie depart­ment headquarters, he has been mostly dissociated from thn Cornhuskers' program sinee Callahan bneame eoach in January 2004. 
The belovnd Osborne is SPPn as somnonn who can unify a fractured fan and donor basP. 
Osborrwjoinnd thn HuskPrs' coaching staff in 11J(>2 undPr Bob Dnvaney, who establislwd a culture that madn football a point of pride in this statP of 1.7 million. 
Osbornn beeame head coach in 197:{. lin built upon that DevanPy tradition and gave Nebraska a unique iden­tity with its powerful running attack and reliance on hard­working, homPgrown players. 
The triple option remairwd a staple under Osbourne's successor, Frank Solich, as did the tremPndously popular walk-on program. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall 2008, SPRING 2009, A Y 2008-9 University College Dublin Trinity College 
INFORMATION MEETING with 
Kevin Whelan, Director Keough-Naughton ND Center, Dublin Thursday, October 18, 2007 
5:30 pm 129 DBRT 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2007 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2008-09 Applications Available www/nd.edu/-ois 
Wednesday, October 17, 2007 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 

i 
L 
st.®h , An American ···~) (.} /1··· ···~<~~ 'I 
Master's Degree in ... · \~ .__. · . . ~.. . ..'.1 ~
Jq~rvEU~ 

It's possible at St John's University­ Government and Politics with a  
the only American University that  specialization in International  
offers this unique opportunity for  Relations, our expert  
graduate study in Rome. Whether  professors ancj the  
you are interested in pursuing an  Eternal City itself,  
M.B.A. degree in Finance,  will help you  
International Business or Marketing  prepare for the  
Management, or an M.A. degree in  global arena.  

NFL 
Bucs acquire RB Bennett from KC 
pro. He played sparingly for the
Associated Press 
Chiefs as a backup to Larry 
TAMPA, Fla. -Tampa Bay Johnson after joining Kansas acquired running back Michael City in 2006. Bennett from the Kansas City "We appreciate Michael Chiefs on Tuesday, hoping he Bennett's contributions to the helps them compensate for the Kansas City Chiefs during his loss of injured tailbacks Carnell short time with us," Chiefs presi­­"Cadillac" Williams and Michael dent Carl Peterson said. Pittman. "Michael conducted himself as a 
Bennett, a first-round draft professional as a member of the pick of the Minnesota Vikings in Chiefs and we wish him the best 2001, has in this oppor­rushed for 3,426 tunity with the yards and 12 Tampa Bay
"We believe that the 
touchdowns in Buccaneers."
addition ofMichael
seven NFL sea­Tampa Bay sons. He also Bennett will strengthen lost Williams, has 145 career the 2005 NFL
our running back 
receptions for Offensive
position.,,
1,164 yards and Rookie of the five TDs. Year, with a "We believe Bruce Allen season-ending that the addition knee injury
general manager
of Michael three weeks
Tampa Bay Buccaneers 
Bennett will ago. Pittman strengthen our took over as running back the starter, but position," Bucs general manager was carted off the field two Bruce Allen said in a statement. weeks ago with a high ankle 
Tampa Bay gives up undis­sprain that could sideline him up closed draft picks in 2008 and to two months. 2009 based on performance cri­To make room for Bennett, the teria. Bucs released running back 
The 5-for-9, 207-pound Lionel Gates. Rookie Kenneth Bennett was a Pro Bowl selec­Darby, released last Saturday tion in 2002 with the Vikings, when Gates was signed to the but injuries have prevented him active roster, was re-signed to from realizing his potential as a the practice squad. 

VOLVNTEER~ WANTED 
Do you want to make a difference in someone's life? 
Holy Cross House is looking for energetic, outgoing volunteers to assist with and or lead activity groups for our retired priests and brothers. Do you have an hour a week or couple hours a month to share your time and talents with us? 
Then join us for our open house Thursday, October 18, from 9:00-11:00 A.M. or 3:30-5:30 P.M. 
Holy Cross is located on Douglas Road just west of Juniper. 
Come tour our house, enjoy refreshments and see the faces of Holy Cross House. 
If you have any questions please call Tricia at 631-3957. Thank you! 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 17, 2007 
NFL 
Dolphins trade wide receiver to Chargers 
Associated Press 
SAN DIE<;O -The San Diego Chargers acquired Chris Chambers from the Miami Dolphins just bnl'ore Tuesday's trade deadlinn, giving quarter­baek Philip Hivnrs a veteran wide receiver to work with. 
In return, the winlnss 
-
Dolphins will rneeive a 2008 second-round dral't pick. 
The trade carne as tho Chargers put their No. 1 widn r11eniver, Erie Parker, on the injun~d reserved list with a bro­knn right big ton. Parker has bonn out since .June, and will miss the rest of tht~ season. 
Cham bnrs has 31 receptions for 415 yards and no touch­downs this sPason. lin was a seeond-rouilCI choice by Miami in 200 I and enjoyed his best stmson in 2005, when hn made 82 eatdws liw 1.11 H yards and I I st:ores. and was voted to the Pro Bowl. 
Thn durable Chambers, who has missed only two games in his career, is signed through 2009. Thn Chargnrs expect him to immediately bolstm· an other­wise young and undistinguishnd widn rneniving corps. 
"Chris is an explosive, talent­ed player and I'm thrilled to havn an opportunity to work with him again," Chargers t:oaeh Norv Turner said in a statement. Turner was Miami's offensive coordinator in 2002­03. 
"lie's a very collliistent player and he has big-play ability," Turner added. "We think he can add to what we're doing on ofl'ensn. The bonus for us is that he's familiar with the system. It should be a quick and easy adjustment for him. We expect him to come in and be produc­tive right away." 
San Diego's ofl'cnsn struggled through the first four games, when the Chargers went 1-3. Hivers had some poor perform­ances and reigning leagun MVP LaDainian Tomlinson struggled for yards. The Chargers rebounded by routing the Broncos 41-3 in Denver on Oct. 7, then beat the Oakland Haiders 28-14 last Sunday bt~hind Tomlinson's four touch­downs rushing. 
Tomlinson and tight end Antonio Gatos have provided the bulk of the Chargers' offense. Tomlinson has rushed for 527 yards and six touchdowns, and caught 25 passes for 210 yards. Tomlinson's receptions are sec­ond on the tnam bnhind Gates, who has 43 catches for 547 yards and three touehi:lowns. 
San Diego's leading wideout is Vincent Jackson, who has 20 catches for 320 yards and two scores. 
MLB 

Rockies fear long break 
Colorado has eight days offbefore World Series 
Associated Press 
DENVER -So, now what for the Colorado Hoe!Jes? 
The Hockies swept through their playoff bracket with such speed that their reward was a record eight-day wait for the World Series, by far the longest layoff in history. 
Having won 21 of 22 games, Todd llelton and his trmmmates hope they don't lose their momentum or this mojo. 
Still, that's sure to be the question over the next week ­rest or rust? 
The World Series starts Oct. 24, when Cleveland or Boston hosts the Hoekies, the charmed champions of the National League. Colorado has won 10 in a row overall, with sweeps of Philadelphia in the opening round of the playoffs and Arizona in the NL championship series. 
"We'll probably scrimmage ourselves," outf'ielder Ryan Spilborghs said. "And it'll be the first time in a while we'll lose." 
A day after finishing off the Diamondbacks 6-4 in Game 4 at Coors Field, the Hockies took Tuesday off to relax -and, quite possibly, to recuperate from the celebration that fol­lowed their first NL pennant in the franchise's 15-year history. 
"There's nothing wrong with a break,'! reliever Matt Berges said. "We played to end the series quickly." 
The Rockies will reconvene at Coors Field for a workout Wednesday afternoon and will take Thursday otT. 

But will this long layoff !nave the Hockies, losers of just one game since Sept. 16, out of sync? 
"They asked us the same question after the last layoff," Helton said of the four-day break that separated Colorado's playofl' sweeps. "We're going to relax and enjoy this for a while and then we're going to refocus and play who we have to play." 
A six-day pause sapped the magic from the Detroit Tigers' rush to the title last October, when they lost to the underdog St. Louis Cardinals in five games, leaving players and fans lamenting the interruption. 
"I don't know if it was a fac­tor," Tigers right-hander Jeremy Bonderman said. "We just didn't execute." 
In Colorado's champagne­soaked clubhouse early Tuesday morning, the possibility of rust corroding the Rockies' run was the least of their concerns. 
"No," pitcher Josh Fogg said, "we're not worried about any­thing right now." 
Believer LaTroy Hawkins said the team's heavily-worked bullpen was thrilled this series didn't go any longer than it had to. 

"Right now, the most impor­tant thing is we are in," Hawkins said. "At this time of the year, a pitcher can use a break. Guys like Jeremy Affeldt, who had 70 or so appearances, need one. The bullpen got a use down the stretch. A lot of guys con­tributed." 
Tigers closer Todd Jones, who used to pitch in Colorado, suggested the Hoekies would be wise to catch some sun in the Arizona desert while waiting for the first World Series in the Hocky Mountains. 
"The Hoekies should travel to their instructional site where they can get out of the weather and get some at-bats off live pitchers," Jones wrote in an e­mail to The Assoeiated Press. 'The only problem you run into is somn minor league kid, who gets all jazzed up facing Matt llolliday and llolliday could get hit. But. he could get hurt working out in the eold weath­er and pull a hammy in Denver just as easy." 
The Hockies haven't deter­mined their scheduln beyond Wednesday's workout. Team spokesman Jay Alves ~aid a trip to the club's spring training complex in Tucson "would be considered if it's something we determine is appropriate" should the warm weather in Denver take a turn for the worse. 
COLLEG 
BOWL 



Whatever your style, College Bowl is the place to put your brains to the test in a fast-paced game that'll let you prove your intellectual dominance. 



Tournament begins November& 6pm -10pm in LaFortune 
Sign up your team of four at the LaFortune Information Desk Deadline is tomorrow, October 18 
Winner will represent Notre Dame at the ACUI Regional Tournament in February 
STUDENT ACTIVInES
lAD 

Wednesday, October 17, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Sunday, improving its record to 3-0. The team relied
Zahn1 
almost completely on its passing game, with senior
continued from page 20 
quarterback Kevin Rabil con­close wins Sunday and hope necting with senior wide to continue their streaks into receiver Pat Gotebeski to 
the postseason. 
Green Wave sophomore captain Bill Whitaker attributed his team's success to its tough defense. 
" We ' v e forced turnovers in pretty much every game, he said. "We 
move the ball downfield.

"Our offense kind of 
Whitaker struggled, so expressed con­cern about the
hopefully we can 
Green Wave's

keep playing good 
running game, defense while we however. "We need to
work that out.,, 
get our run­ning game on Bill Whitaker track after last Fisher captain week," he said. "Our offense kind of strug­
want to keep doing the same gled, so hopefully we can against Siegfried." keep playing good defense Fisher battled its way to a while we work that out." 7-6 victory over Knott Si~gfried, which comes into 
the game 2-0-1, is also a defensive team. The Ramblers defense sacked St. Ed's freshman quarterback three times in a 13-12 victory Sunday. Siegfried had given up a total of six points in its two games prior to facing the Stedsmen. 
Both teams are likely to advance to the playoffs, which begin after fall break. If Fisher holds off the Ramblers, the Green Wave will most likely be the No. 1 seed in the Blue League. 
"We're still focused on this week," Whitaker said. "The best preparation we can get is to win this game." 
The two teams will meet at 7 p.m. at Riehle fields. 
Contact Peter Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu and Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
SMC SoccER 
Belles score season-high eight goals 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Belles' sophomore midfielder Katy Durkin and junior for­ward Lauren Hinton both scored hat tricks to lead the Belles to an 8-2 win Tuesday over Tri-State. 
Saint Mary's highest-scoring game of its season raised its overall record to 7-3-4 and 3­2-2 in the MIAA, as the Thunder drop to 0-12-2 overall and 0-5 MIAA. 
The Tri-State defense could­n't stop the Belles from scoring. Durkin started the game off strong for the Belles when she scored off an assist from Bridget Ronayne less than 10 minutes into play. Six minutes 



INFORMATION SESSION 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
!l 
MONTERREY, MEXICO 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 6:30 PM 202 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre­Professional Students; pre-medical internships available Business and Engineering courses offered in Monterrey 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2007 
;i 

,,..,,,,,,,,,;,;,;,·;;,,;···················,,,,,,.,.,'@ 
cially pleased with her junior middle blockers.
Belles 
"Our middle attack was very continued from page 20 
effective. So much of the time, 
we are too dependent on our an early 10-4 lead, but the outside attack -it was really Belles made a comeback. nice to see the middles mixing Neither team held a lead larg­things up," the coach said. er than three points the rest But the attack could not 
of the game. At 29-28, the freshmen duo 'This year has been of outside hitter 
going by way too fast. 
Jacee Watson 
It seems like we just
and" middle blocker Andrea started tryouts last Sasgen posted a 
week, but we are 
block against 
coming to the end of
sophomore out­side hitter our season. Morgan Watler to end the nail­
Amanda David 
biter. 
Belles setter
Saint Mary's dominated the beginning of game three, great that exist without Belles setter Amanda David. 
David, who 
has been a 
team leader 
throughout the 
season, played 
her final home 
match, with a 
team-high 43 
assists and con­

-
tributed to the 
defense with a 
13-dig effort. 
"It felt really my last home 

posting an 11-2 start over the Britons. Albion fought back to take-the lead at 20-19. Although it was a good fight, the Belles took over again and Albion could not catch up. 
It was a team effort by the Belles, with almost every starter for Saint Mary's con­match was a win, but it really didn't hit me until after the game when my dad brought me flowers" David said. 

Once the reality sunk in, David realized there was a lot she was going to miss about Saint Mary's and her team. 
"I am going to miss my vol­leyball family the most," she 
later she passed the ball to freshman midfielder Julia Gragtmans for the 2-0 lead. Durkin continued pushing the Tri-State defense as she scored again 18 minutes into play. 
The Thunder came back when senior forward Jackie Havenaar scored her sixth goal of the season off a penalty kick in the 29th minute to cut the game to 3-1. Much to Tri­State's dismay, Saint Mary's leading scorer Lauren Hinton scored in the 35th minute off an assist by junior midfielder Mandy Thompson, raising the Belles' lead to 4-1. Less than a minute later, Thunder forward Amy Ramiller scored off an assist by Havenaar, making it 4-2 Belles with 10 minutes to go in the half. 
Two minutes into. the second half Katy Durkin completed her hat trick with a goal assisted by Sarah DuBree. Hinton complet­ed her hat trick with goals in the 62nd and 63rd minutes off passes from Katie Werhli and Julia Gragtmans. The Belles weren't finished scoring though. Freshman Lauren Eaton scored the eighth goal for Saint Mary's in the 85th minute, her first of the season. 
Not only did the Belles post a season high of eight goals in a game, they had posted 49 shots, 29 ofwhich were on net. 
The Belles are back in action this Saturday at Illinois Wesleyan at 4:30 p.m. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @nd.edu 
tributing to the win. Junior middle blocker Cathy Kurczak was the leader of the attack with 16 kills on the night. Fellow junior middle blocker Kaela Hellmann posted a dou­ble-double with a 10-kill, 15-dig performance. Sophomore out­side hitter L o r n a Slupcnzyski also tallied a double-double 
"Julie [Schroeder­Biek] and [assistant coach] Stacey [Stark] have been there for me on and offthe court and my teammates truly are like my sisters -we alljust have the best time together. ,, 
Amanda David Belles setter 
with 10 kills and 18 digs. Sasgen had another standout performance with 11 kills on the night, a team-high five blocks and two service aces. 
"This was a very important win for us because when we played at their place, they beat us in four games," Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "This win tied us with them in league record but, because we beat them in three games it pulls us ahead of them head to head." 
Schroeder-Biek was espe­
said. "Julie [Schroeder­Biek] and [assistant coach] Stacey [Stark] have been there for me on and off the court and my teammates truly are like my sisters ­we all just have the best time together." 
David said she is sad to see the end is so near. 
"This year has been going 

by way too fast. It seems like we just started tryouts last week, but we are coming to the end of our season," she said. "I am trying to enjoy every last bit of it as much as I can before it is all over." 
The Belles now travel for their last five matches of reg­ular season play. After a four­day break, Saint Mary's will face off against Kalamazoo on Saturday. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
~flloifl!! tDitlb tlbe @';~ 
Hosted by the Notre Dame Ballroom Dance Team 
Wednesday, October 171h 
7-8pm 

LaFortune Ballroom 
Dancers include: Professor Dobrowolska-Physics department Professor Bualuan-Engineering department Anna Thompson-Executive Director of DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Featuring Tango & Cha-cha 
Come watch your professors dance! Everyone is invited! 
Admission: $3 for students $5 for non-students 

page 18 
Sharpley 
continued from page 20 
and Ihas been I banged around pretty good," Weis said. "But I think that the separation between thn two or them isn't big enough l'or a banged-up guy gntting a nod over a fresh guy, and that's why wn 're going in that direction." 
Weis said Clausnn took the news well. 
"lin's groat," Weis said. "Tlw one thing good with the playnrs, not that they like everything I say, but they know that I'm always going to
-
tell them the truth, and I don't havn any tainted views, and I just explained to him very elnarly that this gives us the b!lst chance of win­
ning this "/ think Evan this week M a t t 
week, and gives us the best chance LoVecchio, that's what Gary Godsey
ofwinning. And it's the 
wn're doing." and Arnaz 
exact same thing I told 
Sharpley Battle all 
said the rela­both quarterbacks." started under tionship center. bntwenn the 
Charlie Weis 
quartnrbacks Notes: 
Irish coach
won't change. +Weis said 
"lie's going to support me, and I'm going to support him. whoever's out there playing," hn said. 
So l'ar this season. Claus1~n has completed 57.4 pnrefmt or his passes for (, 1 S yards with onn touchdown and five inter­<:eptions. Sharpley has appeared in six games this season. completing 53.S p<~r­<:ent of his passes l'or 479 yards, with thn~e touchdowns and two intPrcnptions. 
Sharpley has thrown the hall downfield more often than Clausen. a trend We is attributed to him being in games after Notre Dame had !'allen behind and had to come hack. 
"Usually when he gets in the ganw it's been later in the game and we were losing," Weis said. "Usually when you're losing you try to throw the ball down the field more. That has a lot to do with it. When the gamn is close, you're not necessarily throw­ing as many passes vertically down the field." 
Wnis said Clausen's develop­ment as a quarterback will continue !'rom the sideline. 
"I think this gives you an opportunity to stand back and watch the game." he said. "The ganw slows down for you when you're not in. The game happens really fast when you're in there." 
The quarterback switch might not be permanent. Weis said he will continue to evalu­ate Sharpley and Clausen week to week. 
"We're just talking about USC," he said. "That's all 
we're talking about. Evan Sharpley is the quarterback for USC. That's all wn're talk­ing about. How would I know if it's permanent?" 
Sharpley said he told his family right after Weis told him. 
"I think they're more excit­ed than I am." he said. Sharpley will become Notre Dame's fourth different start­ing quarterback this season. Since-departed sophomore Demetrius Jones started the opener against Georgia Tech, freshman running back Armando Allen took the first snap against Michigan and Clausen started the other five games this season. 
The last time Notre Dame had three or mo·re starting 
quarterbacks 
in a single 
season was 
2000, when 
running back 
J a m e s 

Aldridge is unliknly to play in Saturday's game. 
"lie had a bit of a high ankle sprain, and he intends to play this week, but I'd say the odds of that happening aren't real high," Weis said. 
+ Weis said linebacker Maurice Cru m and wide rneeiver David Grimes both 
h a v e 
a "legitimate chance" at play­ing this week. Grimes has not played since the Purdue game beeause of a leg injury and Crum missed most of the Boston College game with an injury to his foot. 
+Notre Dame will wear throwback green jerseys on Saturday to commemorate its 1977 National Championship season. The Irish, under then­eoaeh Dan Devine, wore green for the first tim<~ that season in a 49-19 win over USC, then kept the jerseys for the rest or the season. 
The 2007 Irish will wear the same style uniform Saturday. 
"These uniforms are ugly," Weis said. "But what the play­ers like about tlwm is that they're throwbacks. Hemember what those jerseys looked like? Hemember those ugly pants? That's what they have to wear this week." 
Weis said the jerseys are not a motivational ploy. 
"This is in respect to honor that '77 team," he said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Indiana 
continued from page 20 
Dame lost three leads before a Joseph Lapira goal sealed the 5-4 overtime victory for the Irish. Lapira seored four goals in the game, jump­starting his campaign for the liermann Trophy. 
In addition to adding another chapter to the in­state rivalry, Wednesday's game holds importance for Notre Dame in terms of qualifying for the NCAA Tournament. Of the 48 teams in the NCAA Tournament field, 24 are automatic bids given to con­ference champions. The remaining 24 bids go to at­large teams, and regional rankings are a huge factor for the selection committee. 
"You just know they'll be there when its Tournament time, so you know you're in for a very big game." Clark said referring to the Hoosiers. "They have a eata­log of excellent players in their lineup." 
Defeating the Hoosiers, 
PARIS, FRANCE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2008-9 
lNTORI\1ATION MEETING ABOUT STUDYING POLITICAL SCJE:NCE, ECONOMICS, SOCIOLOGY ANO HISTORY IN PAIUS 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2007 
5:30 PM 202 DBRT Applkations due Novctnbcr 15, 2007 
run has improved the Hoosiers "You just know 
record to 8-4­

{Indiana will] be there 
1 on the sea­

son. when its tournament Two of the time, so you know 
players Notre 

you 're in for a
Dame will 

very big game." 
have to watch out for are junior forward 

Bobby Clark 
K e v i n 

Irish coach
Noschang and sophomore midfielder 

score goals," Clark said. "More impor­tantly, Joe's always going to give 100% during the game and be a tremendous player for our squad." 
The Irish e n t e r tonight's game with a record of 8-2­
always a tough task, will be a tall order for Notre Dame. Indiana comes to South Bond having won five of thoir last six games, including a 1-0 win Sunday over No. 6 Northwestern. The reeent Wednesday, October 17, 2007 
Connectieut Saturday, scor­ing two goals to double his season total. Lapira scored 22 goals last season, but Clark isn't worried about his star forward's statistics. 
"Joe's always going to 
Eric Alexander, who lead Indiana with four goals each. 
On offense, senior Ryan Miller leads the Irish. Miller has played defense, midfield and forward for Notre Dame this season and leads the team in goals with five and points with 13. 
Notre Dame will also be counting on Lapira -who had a breakout game against 
3 (5-0-2 Big East) on the season. The game will be their fourth against a ranked opponent in their last five with the only game against an unranked oppo­nent eoming against now­No. 6 Michigan State. 
Tonight's game starts at 7 
p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 


.......,..
, 

Wednesday, October 17, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Robbie Knievel's father
It may be held together by 38 Blow a mean twine horn 
5 Bit of broccoli 
40 Ruby's victim 10 Tussle 
42 Middle of the 15 _Turing, the question Father of 
45 Book before 

Computer Jeremiah
Science 46 Drink with 
16 Usher's domain tempura
17 Incinerator deposit 47 Antelope's playmate
18 Do a post office job 481nc., in St. lves 
19 Prenatal 
49 Insolence 20 It leaves the left 
51 Rover's pal ventricle 
53 Low-fat 

21 Start of an idle breakfast dish 
question 55 Cambria, today 
24 Long look 60 End of the 
25 Canasta plays question
26 Kon-Tiki Museum site 66 Tenth of a decathlon
30 Mid sixth-century year 67 Manhattan 31 -cow Project result 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

68 Contact at a hospital, say 
69 Pad paper? 70 Bottom line 71 Tropical spot 72 Went white 
731n need of middle management? 
7 4 "Bang Bang" singer, 1 966 
Down 
Groundwork 2 In the air 3 Pre-chrysalis 
stage 4 Record 5 Call at first 6 Painter 
Mondrian 7 Is, to Isabella 8 Chili rating unit? 9 Depended 
10 Miles from Plymouth 11 Boxing punch 12 Few and far 
between 13 Hammett pooch 14 Excellent, 
slangily 22 Prefix with 
thermal 23 Licit 27 Language from 
which "safari" comes 28 Part of a science course 29 Museum display 31 Final check 32 Ye follower 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Richard Silvestri 

33 Gas leak 43 Masterful 58 Top scout giveaway 
44 Runner with a 

59 Have the tiller 34 Satanic turned-up nose 
60 Fab Fo.ur film 

35 Endow with 50 Victim of ring rot authority 52 Have title to 61 Part of the eye 
36 "Zounds!" 53 Parson's place 62 Square thing 37 Luau favor 54 Big shot 
63 Learning method 39 Fall faller 56 Molded jelly 64 "···--· corny ... " 
41 Chewing gum 57 Collar mouthful attachment 65 Up to snuff 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DUSEE 
± 
@2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ATTIR 
J 
I rI I I
tHALIDA 


HOW THE FARMER KNEW THE COW'S
J (] I I 
WERE READY FOR 
www.jumble.com 

MIL-KING. HERNET J 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
(] [ () 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: HE 

rI I IIJTHE rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: SMOKY LOFTY GLOOMY LOTION Yesterday's Answer: When he was told about the hole in the wall, the cop said he'd-"LOOK" INTO IT 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kellie Martin, 32; Flea, 45; Tim Robbins. 49; Angela Lanshury, 82 
Happy Birthday: You may feel a h't like traveling and getting away thi' year but you .,hould be learning anJ focusing on getting ahead. The hard work you put in will pay o!I. Someone from your past may disrupt your life. Children may be the cause of some the changes yon make this year. Your numbers are 6, 19, 26, 33, 42, -13 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Activities that require some physical exertion will sat­isfy your need to keep nn tlw move. Trowel may entice you but ddays are likely to cause frustration. Talks will help you resolve issues, 5 stars 
·­
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't let anyone talk you out ofyour cash. A joint ven­
ture will go sour and leniling or paying for son1eone else will result in loss of friend­ship as well a-s funds. Listen and offer suggestions. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be confused about what to do or who to spend 
time with or whether or not to make a move, When in doubt sit still and observe. If you let your intuition he your guide. you will soon recognize your path. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Hard work will be required to get things done. Added responsibilities may be dumped on you but, if you are specific about what you can take on, you will be able to pass off some of these chores to someone else. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You've got what it takes to lead, enforce rules and influence others today. Aunique partnership can be formed. Protect what's yours so that it won't be questioned at a later date. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take some time to take care of your own personal mat­ters. A restful day will do you a world of good and hdp you formulate your next move in a practical and rational manner, You'll have a powerful impact on someone in need. 
2 stars 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Now is not the time to be lazy. Make special plans to hook up with someone you have an interest in. Talks will bring about some very good and possibly lucrative ideas. Consider a vocational move. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Yon can play your hand and win today, Your common sense will not let you down. You can make some interesting assessn1ents that will allow you to tweak and make last-minute changes to whatever you do. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov, 22-Dec. 21): Don't get ahead of yourself today. Do things in the proper order if you want them to turn out. Someone is likdy to oppose or challenge you if you try to do things differently. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec, 22-Jan, 19): You can talk your way in and out of anything today, Money can be made but go it alone --a joint venture isn't likely to turn out favorably. Do your O'\\·'D thing and you'll win. 3 stru·s 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Let your charm and originality carry you to \~ctory. 
Speak from the heart but don't leave yourself open for criticism, Protect your assets and your secrets. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may be confused, especially when dealing with co-workers. Change is heading your way and the best way to prepare is to keep all doors open so as not to hinder your chances for advancement. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are an adventurer, a thinker and a doer. You are unpredictable, engaging and very entertaining, Your ability to act quickly keeps you ahead of the crowd. 
Eugenia's Web sites: asrroadvice.com for ftm. eugenia/ast.com for confi.delllinl cousulrmions 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, October 17, 2007 
page 20 
fOOTBALL 
Sharpley to start vs. SC 
Weis announces junior as No. 1 quarterback 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Edi1or 
Notrn Damn coach Charlie Weis announced Tuesday that junior Evan Sharpley will start against No. !J/13 USC on Saturday over freshman Jimmy Clausen, who had sl.artnd the last f"ivn games under cnntnr for the Irish. 
"Both l•:van and Jimmy were told that yesterday afternoon after I had time to visit with our mndical starr and our eoaehing staff. and that's the way wn'rn going," Wnis said. 
Weds said that whiln Claus1~n has been bothered by injuries, hn is cleared to play on Saturday and will come off thn bench if Sharpley gets hurt. 
"That's not the sole reason why we're doing this," Weis said. "I think Evan this week gives us the best chance of winning. And it's the exact same thing I told both quar­terbacks." 
Clausen had suq{Pry on his elbow over the summer and was foreed out or the 33-19 loss to Purdue Sept. 29 with an apparent injury to his hip or side. 
"I think it's a combination or one guy has been in there 
see SHARPLEY/page 18 


MEN's SoccER 
Notre Datne clashes vvith Indiana 
Clark says matchup crucialfor Tournament 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
After Saturday's 3-3 tie with No. 1 Connecticut, No. 4 Notre Dame will takn a break from Big East play, but tonight's game against in­stall~ rival No. 12 Indiana will bn every bit as important as a eonfermH:e game for the Irish. 
"The Indiana game is always speeial because they have such a fantastic histo­ry," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "Then then~'s the fact they're an in-state rival, and the third thing is that they're always a very good rival." 
Tosponight will mark the 2Hth time the two schools have rnnt. with Indiana hold­ing a 21-5-1 advantage in the snries. Notre Dame, however, is 4-3 against tlw Hoosiers under Clark. and thn Irish won tlw latest meeting he t w e 1n1 t. h e t w o s r: h o o I s Sept. :~. 2006, in the IU/adi­das Credit Union Classic. 
In t h a t l h I' g a Ill e , No tr n JESS LEEfThe Observer 

Irish forward Kurt Martin dribbles past Huskies defender Kwame see INDIANA/page 18 WatsonSiriboe during Notre Dame's 3-3 tie with Connecticut Saturday. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles vvin last hotne tnatchup 
Saint Mary's sweeps fifth-place Bulldogs 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's had just lost two conference matehes and needed a win Saturday night against Albion in its final horne game of the season. 
The Belles came through with strong offense and tight defense in all three games of a 30-25, 30-28, 30-27 sweep. 
Saint Mary's (10-14, 5-7 MIAA) faced the fifth-place Bulldogs, who had already beaten the Belles on Sept. 19. In their last 10 meetings against each other, Albion held a 6-4 edge over the Belles. With all of this going against them, the Belles came out with a chip on their shoulder and a hunger to win. 
Each game was close, with scrappy play coming from both sides. 
In the first game, the Belles established a 22-15 lead and held on to take a 1-0 edge in the match. 
The Britons looked to take command of game two with 
see BELLES/page 17 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL-BLUE LEAGUE 
Zahm, Sorin need 
•

wtn for playoffs 
By PETER REISENAUER and 
LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writers 

One team moves on, the other sees its season end. 
That's what is at stake today when Zahm (1-1-1) takes on Sorin (1-2) at 8 p.m. at Hiehle Fields. Both teams looked like improbable playoff teams, but with help from others, they still have a chance to make the playoffs with a win. 
The Zahmbies know they will have to fix an anemic offense that has been able to seore only six points in the last two games. However, Zahm senior captain Sean Wieland was happy with the effort that he saw from his offense in their last game against Siegfried. 
"Siegfried was a pretty good team, and we hung in pretty well and fought hard in the trenches," Wieland said. "We ran the ball really well against them." 
Wieland also reeognized the passing game needs improve­mont. 
"Our offensive line did a pretty good job protecting our quarterback." he said. "We just need to continue to improve upon our passing game." 
Wieland believed that pas­sion is what the Zahmbies need to win. 
"As long was we come out and play hard, things will fall into plaee," he said. 
Sorin hopes to continue their success from last week. It came out with passion and was able to keep its slim play­off hopes alive with a 24-0 win over Carroll. 
The Otters hope to continue to rely on the power running game that helped tlwm man­handle the Vermin last week and to repeat somn of the passing they were able to use for great eiTect. 
Fisher vs. Siegfried 

Two undefeated teams will meet in their final regular season game tonight when Fisher takns on Siegfrind. 
Both teams are coming ofT 
see ZAHM/page 17 






