
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Campus reacts to Virginia Tech massacre 
ND students directly affected by shootings through ties to VT 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Virginia Tech is more than 500 miles from Notre Dame, but the effects of what reports call the dead­liest shooting rampage in U.S. history have been felt here on campus. 
A lone gunman shot and killed more than 30 peo­ple and injured dozens more on the Blacksburg, Va., campus before committing suicide Monday, accord­ing to Associated Press reports. Officials told AP that the gunman killed two people in a dormitory approx­imately two hours before staging a separate attack on a classroom building. 
Nearly 30 people were estimated to have been injured, according to area hospital officials, CNN reported. 
The Notre Dame community is saddened by the tragedy, Assistant Vice President of News and Information Dennis Brown said Monday. 
"Our prayers go out to any people affected," Brown said. Notre Dame will hold a memorial Mass for the vic­tims tonight at 10 at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Brown noted that members of the administration know people at Virginia Tech and said the University sends its support and prayers. 
Students reported hearing the news through vari­ous sources throughout the day Monday, with some hearing from friends and family directly tied to Virginia Tech. 
Graduate student Patrick LaFratta, a 2005 Virginia Tech alumnus who said one of his friends had died in the shootings, said he had been in contact with friends from the school throughout the day by phone and online. 
LaFratta said he first heard the news of the shoot-
see SHOOTING/page 8 






Law students show discontent 
Several voice strong criticism of school's administration, classes 
By KEN FOWLER News Wrirer 
Notre Dame's recent six-spot drop in the US News and World Report Law School rankings has highlighted feelings of discontent among Law School students for reasons ranging from ordinary to over arching. 
While many have questioned the leadership of Dean Patricia O'Hara, the dean said she under­stands why a conversation about the future of the Law School would be taking place after the release of the rankings, which knocked Notre Dame from 22 to 28 -the pro­gram's largest drop since 2000. 
"I can appreciate that for stu­dents it's very unsettling when there's a drop in the rankings," O'Hara said. "And so it's not at all -it's very understandable that students would be upset by that decline and that there be a certain amount of conversation and dia­logue going on within the Law School community as a result of that." 
In an e-mail to Law School stu-dents after the rankings were released, O'Hara said the Law School administration would fully evaluate the reason for the drop. However, she stressed that the schools in places Nos. 20 to 30 fin­ished with unusually close overall rankings, indicating the separation between 20th and 30th is minimal. 

One area in which Notre Dame's base score dropped for the rank­ings was in its selectivity rating. For the 2006 incoming class, the Law School's acceptance rate jumped to over 21 percent. But, O'Hara said, an analysis of other school's numbers showed similar jumps in acceptance rates around the country, minimizing whatever effect it would have had on Notre 
see LAW/page 4 
Above, officials evacuate victims from building. At left, Virginia Tech students react to tragedy.
•


APPHOTOS 

More than 30 victims killed in United States' deadliest mass shooting 
Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va. -A gun­man massacred 32 people at Virginia Tech in the deadliest shooting rampage in modern 
U.S. history Monday, cutting down his victims in two attacks two hours apart before the uni­versity could grasp what was happening and warn students. 
The bloodbath ended with the gunman committing suicide, bringing the death toll to 33 and stamping the campus in the pic­turesque Blue Ridge Mountains with unspeakable tragedy, per­haps forever. 
Investigators gave no motive for the attack. The gunman's name was not immediately released, and it was not known whether he was a student. 
"Today the university was struck with a tragedy that we consider of monumental propor­tions," Virginia Tech President Charles Steger said. "The uni­versity is shocked and indeed horrified." 
But he was also faced with dif­ficult questions about the uni­versity's handling of the emer­gency and whether it did enough to warn students and protect them after the first burst of gunfire. Some students 
see MASSACRE/page 3 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Task forces finish up year's initiatives 
Chairs give updates on progress as leadership terms draw near to close 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL News Writer 

Members of the Campus Life Council (CLC) spent their meeting Monday wrapping up initiatives the group's task forces began at the start of the year. 
Unlike other bodies in student government, the CLC did not undergo administrative turnover on April 1, so former student body president Lizzi Shappell and vice presi­dent Bill Andrichik still lead the meetings. 
Andrichik, the Conduct Awareness task force chair, explained how his committee proposes to address the issues of pornography and objectifi­cation on campus. 
Heather Rakoczy, direc­tor of the Gender Relations Center (GRC), met with the task force members "because we [committee members] wanted to make sure that our efforts would be complementary to the Center's current efforts," Andrichik said. 
Since current and future GRC programming through groups like Men Against Violence aim to confront the larger issue of objecti­fication, the Conduct Awareness committee decided to use its resources in another venue -hall staff training. 
DuLac does include a number of rules on pornography, and training hall staff should help con­front that issue, Andrichik 
see CLC/page 3 
-
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


What if...? 
I don't know how much you have been following the developments from the tragic shooting at Virginia Tech on Monday. Personally, I really haven't been, at least not as much as I probably should. 
John Tierney 
The television in my room is not glued to CNN and News Wlre I don't really Editor know all that much about what happened. 
But I know that at least 32 people died Monday, and at least 28 people are injured. I know that Monday's tragedy was the largest mass shoot­ing in United States history. 
It was the largest mass shooting in the history of the United States. 
I'm not going to be that guy who sits here lecturing about how our values and morals as a society have gone downhill, and how this shoot­ing is just more evidence that socie­ty needs to refocus religiously, as I heard some television pundits say yesterday afternoon. 
I'm not going to speculate on what compelled the gunman to do what he did, or on what could have been done to stop this tragedy from hap­pening. 
But, I am going to pose a couple of questions. What if this happened here? What if-instead of at Virginia Tech -this happened at Notre Dame? 
Could you imagine the panic that family and friends would be feeling, while they wait to see if you are alive? Could you imagine the panic that you would be feeling while you try desperately to find your friends, to see if they are still alive? What would you have done if you could have done something to stop some­thing like this? 
I can't really give you any answers. I can't really answer those questions myself. 
The entire situation seems so dis­tant to where I am, sitting in my dorm room, listening to the song "Twister," getting ready to go to din­ner and writing this column. 
I'm pretty comfortable right now -the most I have to complain about is my Residence Life-issued chair -and the whole idea of the largest mass shooting in United States history is pretty far from my immediate surroundings. 
President Bush gave an address a few hours ago, in which he called for prayers to go out to the victims of this tragedy. I'm not going to tell you how to spend your prayers (I think it's kind of silly for either me or President Bush to dictate what you do in your spiritual life), but I would recommend spending a few minutes thinking about this tragedy today. 
No, it's not on the grand propor­tions of 9/11, but it is the largest mass shooting in United States his­tory (I still can't get over that fact). What if this tragedy happened here? What if you were a victim? What if your best friend were a victim? What if someone you loved were a victim? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all cimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, Aprill7, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT OTHER MASCOT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE FOR NO? 

Jared Zenk sophomore Dillon  Pat Kennedy sophomore Morrisey  Corey Arvin sophomore Morrisey  Jimmy Wilson sophomore Alumni  Justine Duffy freshman Lyons  Caitlin McKinney junior Welsh Family  
"A priest.  "A can ofNatty  "Ghost riders.''  "The Lagoon  "A squirrel. "  ''According to  





Kaleidoscope McDaniels, a gremlin." 
IN BRIEF 
There will be cholesterol screenings today from 7:30 to 10 a.m. in 234 Grace Hall. No appointment is necessary. 
Bethany McLean, a senior editor and writer for Fortune magazine and the co-author of "The Smartest Guys in the Room: The Amazing Rise and Scandalous Fall of Enron," will speak tonight at 7 in the Jordan Auditorium of Mendoza about the lessons learned from the Enron scandal. 
Notre Dame women's softball will play a doubleheader against Western Michigan today at 3 
p.m. at Ivy Field. Admission is free. 
Notre Dame baseball will play Toledo today at 6:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Notre Dame women's softball will play Ball State Wednesday at 5 p.m. at Ivy Field. Admission is free. 
The Ballroom Dance Club will host "Merengue with Ramzi Bualuan" Wednesday from 8 to 
10:30 p.m. at 205 Rockne. Dancers of all skill levels are invited. Beginners are asked to come from 8 to 9, social dance from 9 to 9:30 and advanced from 9:30 to 10:30. The cost is $4 for the night or $35 for the semester. The club is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students, faculty and staff. 
"The Shirt" will be unveiled at 6 p.m. Friday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 60 HIGH 70 LOW 42 LOW 45 
Maybe Father Light." Creature." Hesburgh." 


Woman runs marathon in space 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -She traveled around the world almost three times and was harnessed to a treadmill so she wouldn't float away. 
NASA astronaut Sunita "Suni" Williams completed her version of the Boston Marathon on Monday ­more than 210 miles above Earth. 
''I'm done! Woo hoo!" Williams told Mission Control after running 26.2 miles on a treadmill at the international space station. 
Already traveling at 17,500 mph, Williams 
started the race on time at 10 a.m. EDT with race No. 14,000 taped to the front of the treadmill as the space station. passed over the Pacific Ocean. She fin­ished, unofficially, 4 hours, 23 minutes and 46 seconds later as the station trav­eled over Russia. 
The 41-year-old astro­naut, who grew up in the Boston area, had kind words for the tempera­mental treadmill, which has had its share of break­downs. 
Rabbits cause road block 
BUDAPEST, Hungary ­Five thousand rabbits blocked a highway Monday, tying up traffic after the truck that was carrying them collided with another vehicle and overturned. Neither driver was hurt, but some 500 rabbits were killed, authorities said. 

The M1 highway -the main road between the capitals of Hungary and Austria -was closed for hours while authorities gathered up the animals, Highway Patrol Spokeswoman Viktoria Galik said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
IJ.I 
:::E: 
ti 
IJ.I 
3: 
..... 
~ 

c( (,) 

.... 0 HIGH 65 HIGH 55 HIGH 62 HIGH 54 LOW 40 LOW 36 LOW 36 LOW 35 
Atlanta 73 I 45 Boston 42 I 39 Chicago 59 I 33 Denver 56 I 36 Houston 75 I 55 Los Angeles 71 I 54 Minneapolis 59 143 New York 52 I 39 Philadelphia 50 I 36 Phoenix 85 I 54 Seattle 52 I 41 St. Louis 71 I 44 Tampa 76 I 56 Washington 57 I 36 
Tuesday, April17, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
said. 
"Just letting hall staff know that this is an issue and letting them know how to deal with it if a situation arises rather than trying to come down hard on students is our plan," he said. 
Other task force chairs also presented the status of the year's worth of work. 
Current student body presi­dent Liz Brown, who is the Student Voice and Input task force chair, passed around a sample "duLac-abridged" pamphlet. The pamphlets are currently being printed by a Kinko's in Chicago. 
Student Concerns task force chair Danny Smith said he is continuing his research on podcasting and other new trends in education technology. Smith said he will give a more detailed report at the next meeting. 
Though the chairs made their task force reports, no business could be passed at the meeting because there were not enough members present to reach quorum. 
For the CLC meeting in two weeks, Shappell asked mem­bers to bring suggestions for new committees or issues to help set the CLC agenda next fall. 
"I know the discussion on successes and shortcomings helped me in the transition last year," she said. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
Massacre 
continued from page 1 
bitterly complained they got no warning from the uni­versity until an e-mail that arrived more than two hours after the first shots rang out. 
Wielding two handguns and carrying multiple clips of ammunition, the killer opened fire about 7:15 a.m. on the fourth floor of West Ambler Johnston, a high-rise coed dormitory, then stormed Norris Hall, a classroom building a half-mile away on the other side of the 2,600­acre campus. Some of the doors at Norris Hall were found chained from the inside, apparently by the gunman. 
Two people died in a dorm room, and 31 others were killed in Norris Hall, includ­ing the gunman, who put a bullet in his head. At least 15 people were hurt, some seri­ously. Students jumped from windows in panic. 
Alec Calhoun, a 20-year-old junior, said he was in a 9:05 
a.m. mechanics class when he and classmates heard a thunderous sound from the classroom next door -"what sounded like an enormous hammer." 
Screams followed an instant later, and the banging continued. When students realized the sounds were gunshots, Calhoun said, he started flipping over desks for hiding places. Others dashed to the windows of the second-floor classroom, kick­ing out the screens and jumping from the ledge of Room 204, he said. 


"I must've been the eighth or ninth person who jumped, and I think I was the last," said Calhoun, of Waynesboro, Va. He landed in a bush and ran. 
Calhoun said that the two students behind him were shot, but that he believed they survived. Just before he climbed out the window, Calhoun said, he turned to look at the professor, who had stayed behind, perhaps to block the door. 
The instructor was killed, he said. 
At an evening news confer­ence, Police Chief Wendell Flinchum refused to dismiss the possibility that a co-con­spirator or second shooter was involved. He said police had interviewed a male who was a "person of interest" in the dorm shooting who knew one of the victims, but he declined to give details. 
''I'm not saying there's a gunman on the loose," Flinchum said. Ballistics tests will help explain what happened, he said. 
Sheree Mixell, a spokes­woman for the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, said the evidence was being moved to the agency's national lab in Annandale. At least one firearm was turned over, she said. 
Mixell would not comment on what types of weapons were used or whether the gunman was a student. 
Young people and faculty members carried out some of the wounded themselves, without waiting for ambu­
lances to arrive. Many found themselves trapped behind chained and padlocked doors. SWAT team members with helmets, flak jackets and assault rifles swarmed over the campus. A student used his cell-phone camera to record the sound of bullets echoing through a stone building. 
Trey Perkins, who was sit­ting in a German class in Norris Hall, told The Washington Post that the gunman barged into the room at about 9:50 a.m. and opened fire for about a minute and a half, squeezing off about 30 shots. 
The gunman first shot the professor in the head and then fired on the students, Perkins said. The gunman was about 19 years old and had a "very serious but very calm look on his face," he said. 
"Everyone hit the floor at that moment," said Perkins, 20, of Yorktown, Va., a soph­omore studying mechanical engineering. "And the shots seemed like it lasted forev­er." 
Erin Sheehan, who was also in the German class, told the student newspaper, the Collegiate Times, that she was one of only four of about two dozen people in the class to walk out of the room. The rest were dead or wounded, she said. 
She said the gunman "was just a normal-looking kid, Asian, but he had on a Boy Scout-type outfit. He wore a tan button-up vest, and this black vest, maybe it was for ammo or something." 


page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 17, 2007 
ing with the transactional side of here." improve the opinion other legal didn't receive a great rush of stu­thmgs." scholars have of Notre Dame. dents after the rankings came
Law 

What's more, Kiani said, the Faculty evaluated But Paulino and Kiani said a out. continued from page 1 Law School should try to use That potential indudes a slew predominance of one ideology She noted, however, that stu­
more undergraduate classrooms of young faculty members with among most professors is a seri­dents typically approach the 
Dame's final ranking. at different times to allow greater Sui_Jre~e C_ourt elerkships on ous hindrance to getting a full assistant dean for students, Gail 
"There was some indication flexibility in scheduling. With six thmr resumes. legal education. Peshel, with concerns. that applicants were applying to main classrooms in the Law Many students noted the Law •· A lot of professors are had Nonetheless, O'Hara said she more sehools, so even though the School, he said, allowing under­School's young f~tculty as a signif­professors. They just can't believed she eould do a better job volume of our applicant pool was graduate courses to be taught in icant boon to the students and teach," Paulino said. "But tlwv're in communicating with student.<>. the same as the prior year, the Law School and Law School the institution as a whole, but good in terms of the school's "I think there's room for whether or not the head eount courses to be taught in under­wondered if such success wasn't Catholic image because they're improvement in my relationship was exactly the same was more graduate settings would allow being promoted fully. good, conservative Catholic pro­with students," said O'Hara. who difficult to determine," she said. law students an ability to register "Notre Dame's reputation in fessors. But they couldn't teach works in her office at night and 
She said it was too early to tell for dasses that might otherwise the legal community, at least you anything if · often leaves the if the pattern would last. conflict. among law sehools, has not you begged door open. "Deans
'There's no
For many students, however, That, he said, is one of the improved, despite a lot of these them. They wear a lot of differ­the drop is already a sign of lost major things that could be fixed excellent, outstanding young fac­eouldn 't teach practicality to ent hats, and many potential: where but hasn't been. ulty," third-year law student you what the of my responsibili­
anything that we do
Notre Dame A more general Derek Muller said. law is, but ties have demanded 
here, exceptfor the 
should be concern many stu­Muller, who said he worried they're still a lot of time and
"To me, when there
exeelling, instead dents said they had about an overreaction· to the US advisors. trial ad[ vocacy] energy.... I think I it is declining, at are things that are was with the News and World Heport rank­"There's no ean always improve 
program, and it looks 
least in relative holding it back amount of Notre ings, said the administration was praetieali ty to on my access to stu­
like that program is 
terms. Dame professors not vocalizing support for young anything that dent<;."
from the potential 
"To me, when visiting other law faculty members to the extent we do here, not getting enough of Several students
that it has. It's kind 
there are things sehools this year -that it should. Nonetheless, he exeept for the said a two-year lag
the respect it 
that are holdmg it offrustrating when something they said stressed eaution to those critieiz­trial ad[ vocacy 1 time from the time
deserves."
back from the seems to have had ing O'Hara. program, at{d students passed a
you know it could 
potential that it an effect on the "When people tie the US News it looks like petition asking for
be so much better 
has. It's kind of variety and quality rankings to the current perform­that program Jim Paulino additional power frustrating when than it is. '·' of the courses ance of a dean, it only makes the is not getting outlets in the Law
third-year law student 
vou know it could oflered. law school look very, very bad in enough of the Library and the be so much better Jake Kiani O'Hara said she the eyes of the legal community," respeet it time the outlets than it is," said did not know if this he said in a follow-up e-mail to deserves. There's nothing practi­were installed last year was 
third-year law student
Jake Kiani, a year marked an his interview. "The rankings are cal about coming to Notre Dame indicative of the communications third-year law stu-unusually high kind of like tho ROO [pound] goril­Law School except that you need problems in the Law School. dent. "It's great number of visiting la in the room, but it's generally your degree to practice law." "If any CEO of any eompany already, so why shouldn't it be faculty members, but rather agreed that most law schools wanted plugs put in. they would better'?" pointed to the positive trend she detest them, even if they do Other issues put the plugs in the next day," 
The complaints are varied, said comes from having desirPd well." · Paulino said he feels trial advo­Paulino said. "This administra­·with some wondering about the profpssors. · From the faculty's perspective, caey is getting too little attention, tion and a Jot of the faculty mem­five-year delay in the opening of "We have an outstanding faeul­the new building couldn't eome especially in tnrms of mock trial. bers do things because that's the new building for the Law ty, so it's not surprising that our soon enough. "The general feel is that trial what they want to do ... oblhious Sehool (now slated for 2009), and facultv would be attracted to "I think growing our faculty advocacy for mock trial is on the t.o "'::hat·other people think or others criticizing what they call other· law schools and that helps us better serve our stu­way out, and they're focusing feel. inadequate upgrading of thP cur­they'rp receiving offers to visit." dents," said Amy Barrett, an more on appellate advocacy," O'Hara said the questions rent building. she said. "Within the legal aeade­associate professor or civil proee­Paulino said. "Something that raised in light of the rankings 
my, it's a fairly common culture dure and evidenee in the Law was tremendously valuable to could provide a positive platform Class selection for law schools to hire visiting School. "That's already in the me, that helped me get a good for self-assessment and the abili­The overriding complaint, how­professors.... It's in a sense a works as part of our strategic job. that's going to help me b1~ an ty to look for positive improve­
ever, was with class offerings. compliment to the outstanding plan." excellent litigator, feols like it's ment<;. 
Melissa Nunez, a thirci-vear caliber of om faculty." An increase in the number of getting slowly phased out of the "I want our students to be law studPnt, cited problems 'with But on a dilli:1rent point, Kiani faculty members will allow pro­school, feels like it's not. as impor­proud of the Law School and feel property law classes and the can­and Jim Paulino, a third-year law lessors to ...,Tite and publish more tant as it should be." like this is a strong and good cellation of other classes in the student, said the school's ideolo­scholarly articles, which will While some students have been community for them,'' she said. days before sernestPrs were set gy and strong Catho\ie focus -enhance peer evaluations of vontl about their disappointment to begin as serious issues not including classes on canon law -Notre Dame, she said. Barrett in the diroetion of certain parts of Contact Ken Fowler at fully addressed. only diniinish its overall teaching said the new building also will the Law Sehool. O'Hara said she kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
"Either Patty O"Hara needs to change ... the way she rw1s the Law School or ... they just need a new dean. to be frank," she said. "There's a lot of reasons the school, in my opinion ... isn't doing iL<; best to be a [topJ univer­sity law school." 
Questions from many students center around the number of cor­porate law classes offered by Notre Dame in relation to the total number of classes ofl'ered in other sections of legal teaching. 
O'llara, whose speeialty is in business and corporate law, declined to say if she felt the pro­portion of corporate law classes compared to the total number of offerings was adequate. Instead, she said the size of the Law School restricts both the number of faculty members and available elassrooms -a concern that the new building will meet. 
"There's very few areas of the cmTiculum that we wouldn't like to be offering more courses," she said. 
But whether the Law School is doing enough with its eurrent resources is an important ques­tion. Kiani said. 
"When I pick classes, I just feel sometimes there's not as many classes as should be there in terms of what you really need to practice law," he said. "They don't have enough courses deal-quality. 

The requirements of Ethics II and Jurisprudence, Paulino said, amount to watered-down classes ....ith minimal practical use and poor treatment of the subject matter. 
"The class was a joke, the course \'lias a joke, the grading was a jokP, the whole thing was a joke -and that's what makes Notre Oame, quote, different. ... It's like a mockerv of our intelli­gence," Paulino said. "I think it's embarrassing that they would waste my money as a student and my time as a student to take these things that really make no difl'erenee from professors who really don't teach you anything. Everybody knows it's a joke." 
On a separate issue, Kiani said he feels the administration hasn't done enough to adjust to the number of faeulty members on leave, creating a ·problem situa­tion for students looking to take courses in certain subfields. 
"That thev know that facultv are going ori' leave ... it seems to me you need to plan around that to get the professors here that need to be here to teach the eourses that the students need," he said. "This is supposed to be a law school at one ... of the coun­trv's best universities.... I don't tl{ink that they are living up to the potential that they have 
Arts and Letters Students Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors 










ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April 17, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJ RE SFRVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.N. to send peacemakers to Sudan 
UNITED NATIONS -Sudan agreed Monday to let 3,000 U.N. peacekeepers deploy in Darfur with attack helicopters, opening the door to the first significant U.N. force to help beleaguered African Union soldiers who have been unable to halt the region's four-year war. 
After five months of stalling, the government in Khartoum called for a speedy deployment and hinted it could approve an even larger 
U.N. force that has been demanded by the U.N. Security Council, the United States and others. 
But experts were cautious about chances for creating that 20,000-strong force, noting Sudan's leaders have reversed course previ­ously after announcing vague agreements for action in Darfur. 
French presidential bids underway 
PARIS -A week before the French begin choosing their next president, the dozen can­didates moved into the final campaign stretch like a band of ragtag political war­riors, insulting, pleading and dickering for votes. 
In the first round of an election that no one dares call in advance, Socialist presidential hopeful Segolene Royal has made an unflinching appeal to women to support her in Sunday's vote, while front-runner Nicolas Sarkozy is reaching out to farmers, to those who voted no to a European constitution and to all who love France. 
Unlike previous elections, no single theme has emerged. Jobs, immigration and the French identity have all taken turns in the spotlight. 
The only constant has been the front-run­ner status of conservative candidate Sarkozy whom far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen dreams of facing in the May 6 final round. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Bush pushes Dems to extend funding 
WASHINGTON -President Bush, prodding Congress to extend the Iraq war without calling troops home, said Monday that Democratic lead­ers owe it to veterans and their families to pass the war-spending bill he wants. 
"Listen, I understand Republicans and Democrats in Washington have dilferences over the best course in Iraq," Bush said from the White House. "That's healthy. That's normal, and we should debate those dilferences. But our troops should not be caught in the middle." 
Surrounded by families of veterans, Bush sought to set expectations for his meeting Wednesday with congressional leaders of both parties. In particular, he aimed to pressure Democratic lawmakers to fund the war without trying to limit or wind down the military mis­sion. 

N.Y. Catholic diocese faces abuse bial 
MINEOLA, N.Y. -The nation's sixth-largest Roman Catholic diocese went on trial Monday in a $150 million lawsuit accusing church officials of recklessness for employing a youth minister who raped and sodomized teenagers. 
In his opening arguments, attorney Michael Dowd told jurors the focus of the trial was not Matthew Maiello, a priest who pleaded guilty to rape and sodomy in 2003, but his superiors. 
"The question here is who let the beast loose? Who let him loose to run free through the flock of Rev. Thomas Haggerty, picking his victims at will?" Dowd said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indy man charged with wife's murder 
NOBLESVILLE, Ind. -An Indianapolis man was arraigned Monday on charges he and two other men plotted to murder his ex-wife. A fourth suspect was charged with assisting a criminal. 
Rebecca Payne, 32, and George Benner, 35, of Fowler were found shot to death April 6 in her mother's home just south of Carmel. 
Toby K. Payne, 30, was arrested the next day and held in the Hamilton County Jail without bond on a felony charge of stalking. His former wife had obtained a protective order against him in February, and investigators found phone mes­sages from him on her answering machine after the bodies were discovered. 
SOUTH KOREA 


Nuclear reactor shutdown likely 
Hopes renewed that Pyongyang will comply with disarmament agreement 
Associated Press 
SEOUL-North Korea may be preparing to shut down its main nuclear reac­tor, news reports said Tuesday, renewing hopes that Pyongyang will comply with a disarmament agree­ment days after it missed a deadline to shutter the facili­ty. 
The report came a day after a South Korean official said this government may suspend rice shipments to North Korea to ratchet up pressure on the North to comply with its nuclear dis­armament pledges. 
The Yongbyon reactor was still in operation, but there was a high possibility that movement of cars and peo­ple at the site seen in satel­lite photos could be linked to a shutdown, South Korea's Yonhap news agency report­ed, citing an unnamed intel­ligence official. The Dong-a Ilbo daily carried a similar report. 
An official at the National Intelligence Service, South Korea's main spy agency, told The Associated Press they were "following and analyzing some peculiar movements" around the 
AP
reactor in North Korea, 
South Korean workers load packs of rice for victims of floods in North Korea
without elaborating. The 

August 30. North Korea may be preparing to shut down its main nuclear reactor.
official spoke on condition of anonymity, citing policy. If the North complies, that withdrawal last week, but to begin talks Wednesday in 
Yonhap news agency cited would be its first move it's unclear when the North Pyongyang to discuss the another unnamed intelli­toward stopping production will move to get its $25 mil­North's request for 400,000 gence official as saying that of nuclear weapons since lion. tons of rice. South Korea and the United 2002, the start of the latest On Monday, an unnamed South Korea periodically States have been closely nuclear standoff. The North South Korean official said sends rice and fertilizer to monitoring some movement is believed to have produced South Korea could tem­the impoverished North, since a month ago. as many as a dozen atomic porarily suspend rice ship­which has relied heavily on 
"The intensity of these bombs since then, and con­ments to North Korea in an foreign handouts since the activities has increased from ducted an underground test effort to increase pressure mid-1990s when natural' about a week or two ago," detonation in October. on the North to shut down disasters and mismanage­the official was quoted as Pyongyang said last week the atomic reactor. ment devastated its econo­saying. "There are activities that honoring its pledge was "We can't just ignore and my and famine led to the other than cars and people contingent on the release of do nothing if ... North Korea deaths of as many as 2 mil­moving busily." money frozen in a separate doesn't take initial steps" to lion people. 
The report comes after the financial dispute after disarm as agreed in An official at South North missed a Saturday Washington blacklisted a February at six-nation Korea's Unification Ministry, deadline to shut down the bank where North Korea nuclear. talks, the official which deals with North reactor and allow U.N. had accounts. The funds said, according to the Dong­Korean affairs, said "noth­inspectors to verify and seal were allegedly used in a llbo newspaper. Other ing has been decided yet." the facility under a February money laundering and dailies carried similar The official spoke on cus­agreement with the U.S. and counterfeiting. reports. tomary condition of four other countries. The money was freed for The two Koreas were set anonymity. 




Gonzales proceedings postponed 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Senators post­poned testimony by Attorney General Alberto Gonzales in the aftermath of Monday's deadly Virginia Tech shootings, delaying his chance to defend contradic­tions about fired federal prosecu­tors that have taxed his credibili­ty. 
Senate Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy said the proceed­ings, initially set for Tuesday, would be inappropriate after the shootings in southwestern Virginia. He delayed Gonzales' appearance until Thursday. 
The Bush administration has 
pushed for Gonzales to testify as soon as possible, and the long­scheduled hearing is widely viewed as the attorney general's last chance to quiet a controversy that has prompted calls in both parties for his resignation. 
Gonzales has struggled for more than a month to clarify what he described as only a limited involvement in the purge that Democrats believe was politically motivated. A group of conserva­tive activists joined the chorus Monday, urging Gonzales to step down for having "debased honesty as the coin of the realm." 
The White House maintained its support for Gonzales. "I think the 
attorney general has been perfect­ly honest," White House spokes­woman Dana Perino said Monday. And Rep. Chris Cannon, R-Utah, defended Gonzales from the politi­cal backlash by noting, "This is a town of jerks." 
Gonzales accepts responsibility for some of the confusion, acknowledging in written testimo­ny "that at times I have been less than precise with my words when discussing the resignations." 
He also ordered the Justice Department to release more than 5,700 pages of e-mails, schedules, memos and other documents to show that the firings were not improper. 

page6 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, April 17, 2007 
VENEZUELA 

Countries at odds over ethanol at energy summit 
Associated Press 
PORLAMAR -President Hugo Chavez attempted to derail a U.S.-Brazil ethanol agreement as host of an energy summit on Monday, offering his own devel­opment plans for South America using Venezuela's vast reserves of oil and natural gas. 
Despite Chavez's clash on ethanol with Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, the two leaders smiled and shoveled cement side-by-side for the foun­dation of a new petrochemical complex in eastern Venezuela before they flew to Margarita Island for the summit. 
Chavez has pledged to explain to Silva his sharp criticisms oflast month's U.S.-Brazil ethanol agreement, but neither leader mentioned ethanol right away. 
"Only united will we be great," Chavez said in a speech at the Jose petrochemical·complex, with Silva and the presidents of Bolivia and Paraguay at his side. 'That great power isn't Venezuela. That great power isn't Brazil. ... That great power will only be known as South America." 
Chavez repeated his accusation that the U.S. plotted a brief 2002 coup against him and warned that if the U.S. tries to topple him in the future, "there won't be a single drop of oil for the United States." He said any U.S. invasion of Venezuela could lead to a "100-year war." 
Chavez has pledged to offer an alternative proposal to "over­throw" the U.S.-Brazil ethanol agreement, which he calls a "car­tel" that would monopolize arable lands and starve the poor -concerns shared by his Cuban ally Fidel Castro. 
The United States and Brazil are the world's two biggest pro­ducers of ethanol -the alcohol­based fuel made from crops such as sugarcane or corn. They signed an "alliance" last month to promote its production in the region and create international quality standards to allow it to be traded as a commodity like oil. 
Chavez has not said what he would do to oppose that plan, other than allude to his lobbying efforts against other U.S.-pro­posed trade agreements. 
Asked about recent criticism from Cuba and Venezuela of ethanol as an alternative energy source, Marco Aurelio Garcia, a foreign relations adviser to Silva, denied that Brazil's biofuel initia­tive would cause food prices to skyrocket while defending the plan as a means of creating jobs. 
"Nobody stops eating due to shortage of food. People stop eat­ing due to lack of income, that's the fundamental issue," Garcia said. 
The new petrochemical plant involves Brazil's Braskem SA and Pequiven, a division of Venezuela's state oil company. The two signed joint venture agreements to build the new petrochemical complex and plan to invest about $2.9 billion in a complex that will produce ethyl­ene, polyethylene and other petrochemical products. 
Top leaders of Argentina, Chile, Colombia and Ecuador also were attending the two-day energy summit, where Chavez was expected to seek support for proj­ects including a South American natural gas pipeline and a pro­posed alliance modeled after the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to promote "a fair price" for natural gas. 
.Brazil will fully join a proposed regional "Bank of the South" pro­posed by Chavez as an alternative to U.S.-backed lenders like the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, said Rafael Isea, Venezuela's deputy finance minis­ter. 

On ethanol, though, Brazil's interests appear to lie in its agreement with the United States, despite Chavez's disap­proval. 
Silva said before leaving Brazil on Monday that he hopes to dis­cuss the ethanol concerns, espe­cially "the technical or scientific basis of the criticisms." 
Chavez used to speak warmly about ethanol's future, but he came out harshly against its pro­motion as a substitute for gaso­line after the U.S.-Brazil agree­ment. His concerns arc shared by some experts who say that even if all arable land on Earth were turned over to biofuel production, it still would not meet world demand for fuel. Venezuela still plans to expand its own ethanol production for usc~ as a fuel addi­tive. 
Silva said in a Monday morning radio broadcast that South American countries "have an immense territory" to be able to comfortably produce ethanol and plenty of food. 
In a visit to Brazil, meanwhile, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush criticized Cuba and Venezuela for their leaders' newfound opposi­tion to increased ethanol produc­tion. 
"Mysteriously, for reasons I can't explain, they did a complete about-face," said Bush, the broth­er of U.S. President George W. Bush. 

Without mentioning Venezuela by name, Jeb Bush said the United States needs to boost ethanol use because much of the petroleum consumed by America comes from nations that consider themselves "enemies of our coun­try." 
Venezuela's information minis­ter, Willian Lara, dismissed Bush's remarks as part of the "open, dear and persistent inten­tion" of the U.S. government to create a negative image of the energy summit being hosted by Chavez. 
Take the road to uc 
ss. 

Join the team that's #25 on FORTUNE® magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For"! 
Here's aworkplace where you can really go places! Ernst &Young jumped up to #25 on FORTUNE® magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" from #67 last year-ranked higher than any other professional services firm. At Ernst &Young, our people are our edge, so we create an environment that promotes your growth and success. See for yourself why we've made the list for the 9th year in a row. This way to agreat career! 
Visit us at ey.comjusjcareers for more information or visit the EY page on facebook.com. 

FORTUNE,, 
100 BEST 

COMPANIES§
TO WORK FOR C'--.1 

QualityIn Everything We Do
© 2007 ERNS' & YouNG llP 
~--------------------------------------------------~--------­
Tuesday, April 1 7, 2007 

Dow 

12,720.46 +108.33

jones 
Upi Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,941 142 1,288 2,690,330,508 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) 
+0.95 

POWERSHARES (QQQQ) 
+0.92 

SLM CORPORATION (SLM) +17.73 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
+1.03 

INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.12 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE -0.55 13-WEEK BILL -0.1 0 30-YEAR BOND -0.73 5-YEAR NOTE -0.38 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
+1.38  146.70  
+0.41  45.06  
+8.29  55.05  
+0.06  5.86  
+0.23  20.69  
-0.026  4.735  
-0.005  4.865  
-0.036  4.890  
-0.018  4.665  
-0.02  63.61  
+4.60  689.90  
-1.138  103.13  


Exchan Rates 

YEN 
119.595 0 

EURO 
0.7389 

POUND 
0.5025 

CANADIAN$ 
1.1323 

IN BRIEF 

Third lender agrees to settlement 
ALBANY, N.Y. -A third lending company agreed to a multimillion dollar settlement in an expanding probe of the student loan industry, New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said Monday, as he announced that 13 additional lenders have been hit with subpoenas or letters from his office. 
The investigation has now touched companies that issue 80 percent of all student loans in the United States, according to Cuomo spokesman John Milgrim. Five subpoenas and eight letters seeking lending data were sent Friday. 
The lenders that received subpoenas include: College Loan Corp., Access Group, Sun Trust, Edfinancial, and Regions Bank. The companies sent letters seeking documents include: National City of West Palm Beach, Fla.; Citizens Bank, PNC of Pittsburgh, US Bank, Bank of America, Wells Fargo of California, JP Morgan Chase of New York, and Wachovia Corp. of Charlotte, N.C. 
In the letters, Cuomo is asking the companies to retain records and turn over data about their practices. 

Katrina victim to receive payment 
NEW ORLEANS -Allstate Insurance Co. must pay a Louisiana man who lost his home to Hurricane Katrina more than $2.8 million in dam­ages and penalties, a federal jury decided Monday in a case that hinged largely on whether it was wind or storm surge that wiped out his house. 
The jury found Allstate -which claimed most of the damage was due to storm surge, an event not covered in its policy -did not pay Robert Weiss enough money to cover wind damage to his home. The verdict included a $1.5 million penalty for the company's failure to pay the claim quickly enough. 
Allstate lawyer Judy Barrasso said in closing arguments that Katrina's winds were not strong enough to do the damage. She said Weiss already had received more than $400,000 in insurance payments -including $350,000 in federal flood insurance. 
The lawyer for the Weisses, whose home was in the Slidell area on the north shore of Lake Pontchartrain, told the jury in closing arguments that the house was too high above sea level to have been destroyed by Katrina's storm surge. 



THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 

Lilly earnings exceed forecasts 
First-quarter profits down due to restructuring, but higher than estimates 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Drug maker Eli Lilly and Co. start­ed 2007 strong by beating Wall Street estimates and raising its own expectations, despite reporting net income that sank 39 percent com­pared to last year's fi-rst quarter. 
The Indianapolis company reported on Monday earn­ings totaling $508.7 million, or 4 7 cents per share, for the first three months of the year. That was down from $834.8 million, or 77 cents per share, in same period last year. 
The company said its first­quarter performance was impacted by charges related to restructuring and an acquisition. The restructur­ing charge of 8 cents per share stemmed mostly from job cuts at a Lafayette, Ind., site and the company's deci­sion to halt construction of VIrginia insulin manufactur­ing plant. 
It also included an expense of 29 cents per share related to Lilly's $2.3 billion pur­chase of ICOS Corp., a deal that closed in·January. 
Excluding those items, earnings came in at $913.3 million, or 84 cents per share. That beat estimates on Wall Street, where ana­lysts polled by Thomson Financial were looking for 79 cents per share. 
The company started 2007 "out of the blocks strong," said Lehman Brothers ana­lyst Tony Butler. 
"Lilly did very well across the board," he said. "VIrtually every one of their products exceeded our esti­mates modestly." 
UBS analyst Roopesh Patel said the company beat esti­mates "handily," and he noted that its profit was driv­en by higher sales not cost cutting. 
"The overall quality of the earnings was quite decent," he said. 


Sales rose 14 percent to quarter. But the company Oppenheimer & Co. ana­$4.23 billion from $3.71 bil­noted that the drug saw lyst Scott Henry thinks the lion a year ago, which also lower demand in the U.S. drug still has plenty of exceeded Wall Street's esti­market, and it attributed the potential, especially if it mate of$4.12 billion. sales growth there mainly to receives approval later this 
"We are delivering on our higher prices. year to be used as a treat­priorities with solid financial Butler said Zyprexa still ment for the neurological performance in the first was benefiting from the disorder fibromyalgia, which quarter," company Chief higher reimbursement it he called "a huge untapped Financial Officer Derica Rice nets when patients switch market." told analysts during a coverage from Medicaid to Lilly now expects full-year Monday morning conference Medicare. adjusted earnings per share call. Revenue growth from pric­to fall within the range of 
Top-seller Zyprexa, an ing benefits like that is not $3.30 to $3.40 per share, an anti-psychotic, saw sales sustainable like growth from increase from the $3.25 to climb 10 percent to $1.11 higher sales volume, Patel $3.35 range it had projected. billion, marking the fourth noted. Overall, the company's straight quarter that sales Sales of Cymbalta, which performance left Miller have increased when com­treats depression, rose 89 Tabak and Co. analyst Les pared to the previous year's percent to $441.8 million. Funtleyder "pleasantly sur-

Private firm to buy lender Sallie Mae 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A group of investors announced plans Monday to buy Sallie Mae, taking the nation's largest student lender private in a $25 billion deal that comes as some regu­lators call for tougher standards and lower federal subsidies for the $85 bil­lion college loan industry. 
Private-equity firm J.C. Flowers & Co. and three other investors will pay $60 per share for the Reston, Va.­based SLM Corp., commonly referred to as Sallie Mae. The sale price repre­sents a nearly 50 percent premium for Sallie Mae's previously sagging stock before takeover rumors emerged late last week. 
SLM shares traded up more than 17 
percent on the New York Stock 
Exchange after the buyout was 
announced Monday. 

J.C. 
Flowers and private-equity firm Friedman Fleischer & Lowe will invest $4.4 billion and own 50.2 percent of the company. Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase each will invest $2.2 billion and each will own 24.9 percent. The buyers will also provide Sallie Mae with $200 billion in backup fmancing. 

John Oros, a managing director at 

J.C. 
Flowers, said the firm was drawn by Sallie Mae's stock price, which had fallen to around $40 per share before takeover talks began. The investors also weren't deterred by the brewing troubles for lenders and the prospect of a clampdown on the industry by lawmakers. 


"We think Sallie Mae is a great com­pany and q great business, and appro­priate regulation will sort itself out in a way that will make this an attractive transaction for us," Oros said. 
Sallie Mae is by far the largest school lender, originating $23.4 billion in student loans last year, many of them federally subsidized such as widely used Stafford loans. The com­pany has recently expanded into other areas of lending, such as debt collec­tion and 529 college savings plans. 
But it has also been subject to greater attention from lawmakers and regulators currently probing ties between lenders and college officials who guide students toward specific lenders for their loans. 
Last week, Sallie Mae settled with New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo over the company's business practices, agreeing to pay $2 million to a student loan education fund. It will also no longer pay travel and enter­tainment expenses for university ofli­cials or send its employees to work for free in campus financial aid offices. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, Aprill7, 2007 
Shooting 
continued from page 1 

ings from his girlfriend, a VIrginia Tech alumna, around 10 
a.m. LaFratta confirmed that his girlfriend's sister, a current VIrginia Tech student, was safe, as well as the safety of several close friends. 
"When I first heard, they were reporting there was only one death," LaFratta said. "I thought, 'It's a really sad event and I want to know what is going on."' 
Soon, the news coverage took a personal tone. 
LaFratta said he eventually heard that one acquaintance had been killed in the first incident in the dorm. By Monday night, LaFratta said he had seen pictures on television of his slain friend. 
He said he knew the friend from Virginia Tech's marching band, where LaFratta played trumpet. 
Other students with friends at the school expressed their concern Monday afternoon. 
Sophomore Amelia Gillespie heard from her roommate before going to class Monday morning. 
"I was in shock. I have a couple of friends that go there, and I'm still waiting to hear back from them," Gillespie said. "I tried to call them, but they haven't called back. I think they're okay, because I've heard from other friends." 
Freshman Tracy Jennings also has friends at Vrrginia Tech. 
"One of my friends called me around 2 p.m.," said Jennings, who is from Richmond, Va. 
The friend who initially called Jennings was not a student there, but the freshman received calls from Vrrginia Tech students short­ly thereafter. 
Tarnawski, a soph­anything like this at
"'t makes you 

omore, said she a campus he heard here from a realize that it described as friend who attends could happen "exceptionally Virginia Tech peaceful."
anywhere, on any

Monday afternoon Students at Notre through the social college campus. " Dame said they feel networking Web safe on campus but site Facebook. recognize that an
Erin Smith 

"She actually event like Monday's
senior 
anxious about security at Notre Dame. ''I've never felt unsafe at Notre Dame," Smith said. 
Senior Paul Mitchell agreed. 
"I still feel as safe here as any­where," Mitchell said, stating, however, that his notions of safety do not make Notre Dame exempt from violence like Monday's tragedy. 
Virginia Tech, with an enroll­ment of more than 25,000, is located in the Blue Ridge Mountains, 160 miles west of Richmond, Va. Jennings said VIrginia Tech's location as a col­lege town -not part a large urban area -makes her think about Notre Dame's similar set­ting. 
"Honestly, Tech ... is in the mid­dle of nowhere -and it seems kind of like South Bend, which is a scary thought, being here. It's a pretty enclosed campus, like here," she said. 
Gillespie said the incident "kind of just puts things into perspec­tive." 
"It makes me look outside the [Notre Dame] bubble a little bit," she said. "It's a small world." 
Sophomore Katie Bergerow said the tragedy caused her and her roommates to consider their safety in the residence halls. 
"We were talking about how we leave our door unlocked," Bergerow said. They probably wouldn't change that behavior, she said, but the tragedy "really shows that something like this could hap­pen." 
Students are also lucky to have a variety of support resources avail­able, said Gaotam Shewakramani, a Notre Dame alumnus visiting campus. He said such resources could help avert a violent crisis, especially those available to stu­dents who are struggling emotion­ally. 

"I think there are a lot of resources for those who are hav­ing difficulties," Shewakramani said. "I would be surprised if someone [who is struggling] wouldn't be reached out to." 
Still, Tarnawski said, it's impor­tant to remember that you can't know what people are feeling. 
"You never know what people are going through inside," Tarnawski said. "Someone after my English class was like, 'You know, I just wonder what was going on in that person's life that caused them to snap."' 
That same thought crossed Mitchell's mind as well. 
"My first question was why ­why would someone do that, just asking questions to the psychology of that and what enables that sort of violence," Mitchell said. 
Monday's massacre will go down as the deadliest campus shooting in national history. Previously, the largest was a rampage that took place in 1966 at the University of Texas at Austin, where 16 people were killed before police shot the gunman to deatll. 
While the facts of yesterday's tragedy still are being investigated, students say while there is little they can do, they can send their prayers and support. 
"Right now, I'm here to offer any type of support I can get involved, any type of awareness," Gillespie said. 
LaFratta said he has done "a lot of praying" and will continue to do so. 
"My first reaction is to pray a lot -my thoughts go out to all those fanillies," LaFratta said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
"As soon as one friend called, another did, and more," Jennings said. 
The students couldn't give many details about the incident, she said. 
"All !they] said was that there was a shooting .. . and at least 20 kids had been killed and at least 20 injured," she said. "As far as I've heard, everyone I know is OK." 
Jennings said she couldn't con­tact some of her friends there Monday afternoon because phone lines were busy. 
Monica 
LaFratta took classes in the aca­demic building where the majority of the deaths occurred. 
"A few years ago, I was there," LaFratta said. "It hits home ­these things really do happ1m." 
LaFratta said it was hard to imagine a scare on Virginia Tech's campus last year while a convict was loose in the area. This tragedy, he said, is even harder to picture. 
"The magnitude of the event is just so overwhelming," LaFratta said. 
LaFratta said he would have 
never predicted 
composed a note that said 'I'm fine,' and we all saw it," Tarnawski said. 
Like Tarnawski, Jennings and Gillespie, LaFratta said that initial­ly, all reports about his friends had been positive -until later Monday evening, when he first heard his friend had been killed. 
LaFratta was watching televi­sion news coverage of the shooting when he learned there were more deaths that initially reported. 
"At around 12:15 p.m. or so ... all of a sudden, one of the three [channels] reported that there were at least 20 dead," LaFratta said. "I just really hoped it was a mistake." 
LaFratta said he soon realized the situation was much more com­plex than the initial single death, and he said he then felt a "tremen­dous amount of sorrow." 
could happen at anywhere, Notre Dame included. 
"Things like that, especially on television -it seems so far away ... [but] I think it could happen anywhere," said Chris Beckett, a visiting graduate student. "To think otherwise would probably be thoughtless." 
Erin Smith, a senior, echoed Heckert's thoughts. 
"It makes you realize that it could happen anywhere, on any college campus," she said. "It kind of makes you think about the secu­rity here at Notre Dame, or at any college campus." 
Brown declined to comment on Notre Dame's policies or crisis management plans for any type of violent tragedy like the one Monday morning. 
But Smitl1 said she has never felt 

Seniors -looking for a job? 
Job Searching: From College to Career 




Tuesday, April 17th 5:30p.m. 114 Flanner Hall 
• 
Plan for relocation to a new city 

• 
Gain access to 100,000 alumni contacts 

• 
Set up your own account of Irish Online 

• 
Obtain advice for job searching off campus 

• 
Identify the "real" job search internet links 


• Sign up to receive updated job postings Career Center 
• Locate the ND Alumni Club of your choice 
248 Flanner Hall -631-5200 ,-,J careercenter.nd.edu 
-_j 
Tuesday, April17, 2007 
Charter schools in Nevv Orleans now embraced 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -Jared Lamb knew his students were feeling the pressure. The math teacher spent months prepar­ing them for a high-stakes test that serves as the first report card for their charter school since it opened after Hurricane Katrina. 
Two weeks before last month's test, Lamb tried to break the tension by following through on a promise: He let the students shave his head as a reward for their work preparing for the weeklong Louisiana Educational Assessment Program. 
"It looked awful -a patch here, a patch there," Lamb recalled. "But 
ment implies that you're just fooling around with some­thing," said Leslie Jacobs, a New Orleans resident and vice president of the state Board of Elementary and Secondary Education. "We're building an entirely new school system, not experimenting." 
Before Katrina, the state took over five of the city's worst-per­forming schools. After the· storm, the local school board retained control of only five schools. The rest are run by the state's Recovery School District or publicly funded, privately operated charter schools. 
Changes in the classroom experience are easy to spot at McDonogh 15, a school of more than 400 stu­dents from pre­
--~------~---------..... 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 

Asian Film Festival slated 
Event will host filmmakers, scholars; to showcase 5 independent films 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame will welcome film­makers and scholars to campus Thursday to Saturday (April 19­
21) for its annual Asian Film Festival and conference, this year 
titled  "On  the  Edge:  New  
Independent  Cinema  from  
China."  

The festival will showcase five award-winning independent films from China and engage the filmmakers in candid discussions about the global politics of China's burgeoning independent film industry. 
Anne Thurston, a senior research professor at Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, D.C., and author of numerous books on Chinese contemporary politics, will deliv­er a keynote address titled "Rising China? The Other China? Thoughts from China's Grassroots." Her talk, which will detail the country's social realities that she feels are com­monly misunderstood by Washington policymakers, will take place at 4 p.m. April 19 in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
The films, to be screened in the Browning Cinema, are: 
+"Walking on the Wild Side" by Han Jie, 5 p.m. April 19, a drama centered on a youth gang in a coal-mining area of China's Shanxi province (winner of the Tiger Award at the Rotterdam International Film Festival) 
+"Unknown Pleasures" by Jia Zhangke, 8:30p.m. April19, two unemployed slackers try to make sense of their aimless and uncer­tain futures in a sheltered town in China 

kindergarten

"/ believe we should
there was no through eighth blood, and it be held accountable. grade nestled in helped them pre­The only way we the relatively pare for the test, sedate residen­
can do it right now 
so I have no com­tial end of the plaints." is through French Quarter, 
At schools standardized tests.'' a block from 
across Louisiana, Bourbon Street. the annual LEAP The school,
Gary Robichaux 
test determines which opened in whether students principal September 2006, in fourth and McDonogh 15 is run by the 
eighth grades can advance. But the stakes are higher for the grow­ing ranks of charter schools in New Orleans, including the McDonogh 15 School for the Creative Arts, where Lamb teaches. 
Test results, due in May, will be the first statistical measure of performance at the charter schools that replaced many of the city's notoriously dysfunc­tional public schools after Katrina. 
"I believe we should be held accountable. The only way we can do it right now is through standardized tests," said McDonogh 15 principal Gary Robichaux. 
Before Katrina, city schools were plagued by mismanage­ment, a shortage of qualified teachers, crumbling buildings, poor student attendance and frequent spates of violence. 
Education officials said Katrina, which flooded 80 per­cent of New Orleans, created an opportunity for the flagging public school system to right itself, with charter schools as a centerpiece. Advocates preach patience. It will take time, they say, for the experiment to bear fruit. 
"Starting a charter school in the best of circumstances is dif­ficult. Starting one in post­Katrina New Orleans is even harder," said Andy Smarick of the National Alliance for Public Charter Schools in Washington, D.C. 
Before the Aug. 29, 2005, storm, charter schools account­ed for only seven of the city's 126 public schools. Today, 31 of 56 operating schools are char­ters. Nine more will open in the next school year. 
An estimated 56 percent of the city's roughly 26,000 stu­dents are now in charter schools, making New Orleans the only major city where a majority of enrollment is in charters, according to the New Schools for New Orleans, a nonprofit group supporting charters here; The system, educators say, is no longer in the testing stage. 
"I get really tired of that term 'experiment,' because experi-Knowledge is 
Power Program, a network of free, open-enroll­ment public charter schools. KIPP has 52 public schools with more than 12,000 students in 16 states and the District of Columbia. 
More than 95 percent of KIPP students are African American or Hispanic, and more than 80 percent are from low-income families. McDonogh 15's demo­graphics are roughly the same. 
Derrick Duncan, a McDonogh 15 eighth-grader whose family evacuated to Houston during Katrina, is now at his fourth school in less than two years. Classes at McDonough are much less crowded than in the public schools Duncan attended before Katrina, and he says he gets much more individual instruction. 
"It's a lot better," he said. "Some of the stuff they do here we would never do at my old school." 
Indeed, KIPP schools employ virtually theatrical teaching methods and routines. Teachers and students fre­quently interact through singing, chanting and hand gestures. "Sparking" in the classroom means sitting up, paying attention, asking and answering questions. Students earn a weekly "paycheck" that rewards good behavior with treats like hot cocoa and beignets, the fried pastries that are a signature snack in New Orleans. 
Lessons on behavior are as much a part of tlie school's cur­riculum as reading, writing and arithmetic. 
One morning in February, assistant principal Komal Bhasin was supervising a pop quiz in Lamb's classroom when a chirping cell phone broke the silence. A student fished the phone out of her pocket and silently surrendered it to Bhasin. 
"Can you apologize to your teammates for disrupting?" Bhasin asked. 
''I'm sorry, teammates," the student said. A classmate raised his hand and gave Bhasin his own phone. Bhasin praised the student's honesty. 
+"The Silent Holy Stones" by Wanma Caidan, 7 p.m. April 20, traces the intermingling of native Tibetan culture with the influence of the outside world (winner of China's national film award for best directorial debut) 
+"The Orphan of Anyang" by Wang Chao, 10 p.m. April 20, three different lives, three differ­ent fates, each with their differ­ent backgrounds and experi­ences, struggle to survive at the bottom level of Chinese society (winner of the FIPRESCI Prize at the Chicago International Film Festival) 
+"Blind Shaft" by Li Yang, 2 

p.m. April 21, two itinerant min­ers risk their lives under danger­ous working conditions and develop questionable morals in order to survive (winner of the Silver Bear Award at the Berlin International Film Festival) 
A complete schedule of events 


Bethany McLean 
Co-author of 
The Smartest Guys in The Room: The Amazing Rise and Scandalous Fall ofEnron and editor-at-large for Fortune 
Tuesday, April17, 2007 7:00p.m. 
is available on the Web at http://performingarts.nd.edu/. 
The conference is sponsored by Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters, Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, Office of Research, Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, Office of the Provost, Office of Undergraduate Studies, University Relations, Center for Asian Studies, Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures, DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, Department of Film, Television and Theatre (FTT), FTT Talks, International Student Services and Activities, Office of Information Technologies, John A. Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning, Center for Creative Computing, Chinese Friendship Association, Campus Ministry, Division of Student Affairs, and Notre Dame Almnni Association. 
!Jponsored by: 

Mendoza College of Business MBA Program Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
For more information contact Deb Coch at 631-6072 
riE 
~ 

UNJVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSlNESS 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, April 17, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
Ass4 MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Karie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dusrin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK ­

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISffiATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

oBsERVERONUN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudenrs ofthe University ofNorre Dame dulac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial conrent, including adverrisemenrs, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinr space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conraa information. 
Questioro "[;arding Observerpoliciesshould be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 l--4000) is publidted Monday dmmgh Friday exc;:ept during exam and vacariun periods. A subscriprlon to The O~rV'cr is $100-for one aCll.dctnic )'tll'; $55 for one semester. 
'The Obscrver is publi.shal ar: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining llill Send addm;s ~inm to: Notre Dame, IN 46556..0179 ThcOb=vu Pcriodial ~age p:aid. at Notre Dame P.o.Bo..m and :ul.dirirnial mailing offia:s.. 024 Sowh Oining Hall 
No~ Oame,IN 46,56-0779 
The Observer is a mentbe~ ofthe fu:sO<:'jated ~. AU reprodw.:don rights :au: rC5trved. 
The heavy burden of a golden dome 
I had the pleasure of going to mandatory loan counseling last Wednesday morning as part of the process of getting everything finished for graduation. While the kind folks who ran the counsel­ing did everything they could to make this reality check painless, the enor­mous cost of college in this country was immediately made tangible before my eyes. If everything goes according to plan, I will be paying off my education at Our Lady's University until 2022. 
Fifty-four percent of Notre Dame undergraduates take out some kind of loan to finance their education. According to the College Board, last year the average tuition fee for four­year private universities increased by 
5.9 percent, a rate 2.1 percent above that of inflation. Two months ago Notre Dame announced that tuition for the 2007-08 school year would be $35,187, an increase of 5.4 percent from this year. With costs increasing at a rate significantly higher than inflation, more and more students are unable to receive higher education. A recent report by the U.S. Senate's Advisory Committee on Student Financial Assistance found that due to rising costs, an estimated two million qualified students from 2001 to 2010 will conclude that college is just not an affordable option. 
College costs are increasing at a rate only exceeded by those of health care, and like health care, costs are out of control in part because those who consume the product are not directly responsible for paying for it. For Notre Dame students, most of us either have family members who pay for our education, receive scholarship money of some sort, take advantage of federally subsidized loans or take out loans freshman year that we will pay off in the then-distant future. I do not believe that "the system" is somehow taking advantage of students -in fact, it is our parents, donors and tax­payers who are being royally screwed in this scheme. 


As students, we get to live in a fan­tasy world for four years that allows us to spend our days taking classes on Japanese pop culture, going to a dif­ferent bar every weeknight, trying to convince other students to give up eat­ing meat, eggs and milk and writing uninteresting columns for The Observer. Our tuition goes to fund a sweet new football training building, speakers on every subject from all over the world and landscaping that puts some botanical gardens to shame. Along the way, while our non­student peers are working to support themselves, we get to "find ourselves" as we skip the classes we are suppos­edly paying to attend to instead watch daytime TV and sleep until noon. I've heard Notre Dame referred to as a "Catholic theme park" before, and it is important to remember that our four­year pass comes at great cost. 
It's no wonder that universities are encouraged to increase their spending at such a high rate when students don't actually see the money leaving their pockets that pays for the massive stone entrance to campus, the new digital visualization theater/planetari­um at Jordan or poorly attended film festivals at IWAC. There is so much extra cash lying around that Student Union Board could afford to put $650,000 it couldn't spend into a new endowment instead of giving it back to the University to lower tuition. That amounts to about $100 per under­graduate after counting interest paid from student loans. I don't know about you, but I'd rather have the cash right now than listen to Ana Gasteyer talk about her declining career. 
I chose to go to Notre Dame, I chose to pay the tuition price I was offered and I chose to stay here when the price went up. I've loved my time here and the freedom to explore my inter­ests has been invaluable, but I do wonder if maintaining Indiana's best bathrooms in the Main Building is a worthwhile use of my $40,000 a year. 
Notre Dame, as we all know, is a very well run business, and there is only one institution which can claim to represent its customers/students, and that is our beloved student govern­ment. My co-workers at The Observer often criticize the Student Senate for being ineffective, and I've heard mul­tiple student senators tell me that they want something to do. Unlike student governments at some other universi­ties, ours is mostly an advisory body. As such it has an established role as a voice of the student body and for over­sight of the administration on behalf of students. It only makes sense that the student government should use its power and legitimate position in this area to vigorously monitor unneces­sary spending on the part of the University and push for more trans­parency in pricing, such as locked-in tuition for students, so that the price they agree to at acceptance is the same they pay when they graduate. 
We get to enjoy ourselves for four years, get a degree from the best uni­versity in the land and then encounter the hard truth of the real world. Our parents, alumni and University staff may seem to want to depress us by pressing us on grades, jobs or loans, but they are the ones who pay most of the cost to maintain our paradise of 8,332 students. They trust us to make the most out of our opportunities here, and the least we, and the Student Senate we elected, can do is fight to keep that money from being squandered. We not only owe it to them, but to potential members of the Class of 2022 who might decide not to join our family because they can't afford to pay for our life of luxury. 
Jonathan Klingler is a senior man­agement consulting major and presi­dent emeritus of the Notre Dame · College Republicans. He currently resides in Keenan Hall and enjoys Tolstoy and Matlock. He can be con­tacted via e-mail at jklingle@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Kohler Dan Murphy Aaron Steiner Lorenzo Reyes Kaitlynn Riely Gene Noone 
Viewpoint Scene 
Bethany Chris McGrady Whitfield Graphics 
Matt Hudson 

OBSERVER POLL 
Who will be the starting quarterback this fall? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
:1,? 

t'· b .,, t· tt
! ~u t ', · a·• e·· <e ;


; ,,, :, ... J
Ito the Editor at ;
iwww.ndsmcobsefYef.co:m I 
·. f 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"In all affairs it's a healthy thing now and then to hang a question mark on the things you have long taken for granted." 
Bertrand Russell British author and philosopher 

viewpoint.l@nd.edu  
words in  be no longer  
byline with  
name, year,  

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 17, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The hidden victitn of the Imus scandal 
Lives lost in Iraq war anything but 'wasted' 
An acronym_ you can get behind 
This week is supposed to be LGBTQ aware­may prove to be a game of Scrabble that Milton ness week, but developing awareness is going to Bradley wouldn't be able to finish. For those prove difficult with such a haphazard acronym. open to changing the acronym, there is always This contorted array ofletters makes every arti­"HATS" (Homosexuals Asking for Tolerance and cle seem as if a drunken reporter continually Sensitivity), but perhaps a more pragmatic solu­passed out on the keyboard. tion is a simple rearrangement of the difficult 
All of the great acronyms in our society have letters: "GQ.BLT" Now that sounds fashionable been catchy or unique enough to hold water and delicious. with the American public. Without a good acronym, any group is going to suffer the fate of The writer is a former cartoonist for The NKOTB. Acronyms derive their strength from Observer. being pronounceable as a word, like NAFTA or UNICEF, or having a multiple letter, think N Alec White "Double A" CP. sentor 
If the leaders of this body are tied to letters offcampus like Q, giving gay rights a powerful acronym Aprill6 
Submissions must be in by 3:00p.m. to be consid­ered for publication the next day. 

Sheehan's actions consistent with Catholic values 
What on earth is wrong with our socie­ty today? Where has the respect for human life gone? Why is it one must earn respect for his life rather than it being inherent to his very existence? 
I write this letter with much frustration and anger in response to Will McAuliffe's column ("No children left behind," Apr. 16), which referred to the fallen soldiers in Iraq as "wasted lives." While McAuliffe probably intended for his column to argue the need to end the Iraq war, his mode of argument completely under­mined his effort. 
Rather than honoring those who have valiantly served and given their lives for a country they love, McAuliffe labels these lives as "wasted." McAuliffe justi­ties this insult by senselessly claiming that he "certainly doubt[s]" the war's dead were content with their short lives as they m11st have had "lots of work left to do and lots of life left to live." Well, excuse me, dear William, but just because you are 22 years old and have yet to derive any contentment from your life does not necessitate that anybody else is in that same boat with you. And on that note, I would like to pose the ques­tion: If you kicked the bucket tonight, would your life have been a waste? 
While for the sake of argument you might respond in the affirmative, I "cer­tainly doubt" that in your heart of hearts you truly believe that. Contentment does­n't come with time, nor is it something that is given or merited. Rather, content­ment is a decision: One is and will only be as content as he wants to be. There is absolutely no objective way to measure the value of a human life. Yes, there are certain feats within life that are more valuable than others; however, the cumu­lative value of these various events of a given person's life by no means can measure or determine the inherent value of his being alive. At the end of any life, there will be regret, the "if only" and the "but I wanted to," but this does not mean the life has been a waste, nor does it mean contentment cannot be derived from what one has accomplished by his time of death, whether that person dies at the age of eight, 18 or 81. 
I strongly believe it tragic so many men and women have died while serving in the armed forces; however, I could never say, nor tolerate others saying, these lost lives have been a waste of life. The totally selfless sacrifice and courage exhibited by any serviceman (dead or alive) is the ultimate gift that can be given and all of us civilians should be in complete and utter awe of these men and women and celebrate what they do and have done, rather than lamenting over what they could have done. 
Mary Daly freshman Welsh Family Hall Aprill6 

I was disappointed to read Sarah Vabulas' letter in last Friday's Observer ("Sheehan not in line with College mis­sion"), in which she criticized the decision by Saint Mary's to invite Cindy Sheehan to speak. Vabulas gives two reasons for her disapproval: (a) that Sheehan "misrepre­sent[s] the war through false facts while casting unwarranted aspersions upon those who fundamentally disagree with her," and (b) that Sheehan has engaged in acts of civil disobedience to further her cause. 
Vabulas offers no support for her claim that Sheehan's criticism is based on false facts. Sheehan has questioned the admin­istration's motives for invading Iraq, criti­cized its management of the war and expressed frustration with the overall leadership of President Bush. The facts are that the administration's case for war was wrought with misinformation and deception, no weapons of mass destruc­tion were ever found in Iraq, countless strategic and administrative errors have been made and corruption and scandal plagued the administration every step of the way-from Halliburton no-bid con­tracts to Abu Ghraib. Sheehan's criticism is especially relevant today, as the sectari­an violence continues unabated and the futility of the war has become apparent even to members of the President's own party. 
Although she is at times abrasive in her rhetoric, Sheehan's objections are indeed warranted, especially coming from the mother of a soldier who was killed in Iraq. Turning to Vabulas's second reason -that the avenues of protest utilized are "not valued in the [Saint Mary's] mission." This argument indicates an unawareness of Catholic values and a disregard for the role that civil disobedience has played throughout human history in helping to eradicate injustice and promote peace. 
Catholic Worker founder Dorothy Day encouraged Catholics "to fill the jails with nonviolent resistance to war." Jacques Maritain wrote, "The deep trend toward emancipation which is at work in that his­tory requires breaking of the law as a perpetual and necessary condition of progress." Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was arrested and sent to jail 29 times for acts of civil disobedience in his effort to secure civil rights for all Americans. Gandhi engaged in civil disobedience multiple times in his fight for India's independence. 
The methods advocated by these and 
Thursday was a watershed moment in the world of radio. Don Imus, nationally syndicated host of the Imus in the Morning Show, was fired Thursday over the racial slurs that he made toward the Rutgers women's basketball team. The comment, which referred to the women as "nappy haired hos," was appalling and bigoted. The women of Rutgers bas­ketball have been victimized by this remark and the pain inflicted should not be trivialized. 
The other, less obvious victim of this scandal is the American public. Imus' actions warranted punishment and polit­ical fallout, and normally I would be sat­isfied that both have occurred. CBS and MSNBC removed Imus, and politicians including Barack Obama and Harold Ford (politicians, I might add, that Imus vigorously supported in their bids for office) have refused to ever appear on his show. I wonder, however, if this fall­out is genuine. 
If the parties believed the moral choice was to dissociate themselves with Imus, what took so long? Where were they the day after the incident? The fallout for Imus didn't begin until five days after the comments were made, far longer than it takes to make such decisions. This belated response from all parties is not coincidental. There was not a gen­uine reaction to Imus, but companies and politicians simply pandered to the American public. 
All of those "shocked and outraged" now knew the reputation of the Imus show. For years the program has made comments far more racist and offensive than the ones made about the Rutgers basketball team. The show has a run­ning impersonation of Cardinal Egan, the Archbishop of New York, that slurs Catholics as racist, homophobic and big­oted. Jewish people were also called "thieving Jews" and "Christ killers." In reference to Serena Williams suggesting she might appear on the cover of Playboy, another cast member respond­ed, "More like the cover of National Geographic" (yet another Best of Imus segment). They even went as far as to refer to Martin Luther King Day as James Earl Ray Day (his assassinator). 
Apparently CBS, NBC, Obama and Ford could face this bigotry, but Rutgers' comment has crossed the line. Has it really? Or has the public been victimized by the self serving hypocrisy of politi­cians and the media? Once this issue became polarized, many seized the opportunity to condemn the man whose controversial style they supported. 
What is sad about this event is that instead of engaging in a serious debate about racism and stereotypes, the American public will have to settle for holier than thou companies and politi­cians on their soap boxes deriding the racism they profited from until it became inconvenient. Imus never hid what he was. He was a controversial and some­times racially offensive figure. His show was about making money and helping lead the fight against cancer and autism. If only all the other parties could be as candid with their agendas, perhaps real issues on race would be addressed. 
Mike Folger 
sophomore 
Zahm Hall 
April!6 

Submit a Letter to the Editor or Guest Column to 
other heroic men and women are not "disrespectful" or "despicable." They are courageous and morally justified. Neither Cindy Sheehan's methods nor the cause for which she fights is contrary to the mis­sion of a Catholic institution like Saint Mary's. Pope John Paul II has said, "When war, as in these days in Iraq, threatens the fate of humanity, it is ever more urgent to proclaim, with a strong and decisive voice, that only peace is the road to follow to construct a more just and unite society." This is exactly what Sheehan has done, however unpleasant it may be for some people to hear. 
Michael Kelley semor St. Edwards Hall April IS 


---------------~--­

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, Aprill7, 2007 



Stephanie Newsome plays a street singer in "The Threepenny Opera." The show's opening describes the play as "an opera for beggars." 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 

Three pennies for your thoughts, any­one? 
Tickets to "The Threepenny Opera, opening tonight at 7:30 pm on the Decio Mainstage Theater in DPAC, cost a little bit more than three cents (it's actually $8 with a student 10), but the show remains thought-provoking fare: a play set on the mean streets of 19th-century London and riddled throughout with social com­mentary and class consciousness. 
At the very beginning, one of the char­acters strides to center stage and declares "Threepenny ... an opera for beggars." On the surface, this is immedi­ately apparent, as the ragtag ensemble performs a musical 
number costumed "The Threepenny as London's poor Opera" is great fun and downtrodden as a show; it's a -who make up bawdy and gaudy the staff list of affair full of spot­Jonathan Jeremiah on musical num­Peachum, the bers, quick one-lin­underworld king of ers and just the the city's bedrag­right amount of gled beggars. The sleaze. The show's hunchbacked tongue in cheek is Peachum (played delivered well ­by Conor Woods) is most of the humor alternately hilari­arrives with a wink ous and menacing and a nod. as he stalks the In addition, the stage with his sig­overall stage aes­nature sneer on his thetic is perfect for face. His wife, Mrs. the material. The Peachum (Krysta stage is often Dennis) also bathed in red and 
deserves mention for her crazed look and sinister cackle. Overall the pair is vaguely reminiscent of the Master of the House and his wife in the musical "Les Miserables" -only with better accents. 
The two get their rags in a twist when their beautiful daughter, Polly (played by Katie Nuss), runs off to elope with Macheath, London's crown prince of crime. Matt Goodrich steals the show as Mac the Knife, as he is more commonly known. Despite being a womanizing scoundrel, Mac retains a quick charm about him that the audience can't help but like as he delivers his lines in a thick brogue. 
As revenge for stealing away his daughter, Jonathan Jeremiah Peachum resolves to have Mac arrested. As a result, Polly convinces Mac to get out of town. But before he does, Mac makes the mistake of making a quiek pit stop at his favorite brothel, where he runs into the sultry Jenny (played by Sarah Loveland), a seductive prostitute and bitter ex-wife who gets paid ofT to betray him. 
The resulting plot twists and turns involve Mac's many love triangles and his continuing flight from justice. This process is complicated by the corrupt police chief Tiger Brown (played by Mark Pienkos), who is an old friend of the iras­
cible Mac. 
blue hues, and Mac and his miscreant crew sport garishly bright gangster zoot suits. In addition, in keeping with the play's theme of oppres­sive poverty, much of the cast is decked out in couture reminiscent of the "Derelicte" clothing line from the film "Zoolander." A few costumes even include beer can bolas made out of empty Keystone Light cans. 
The play also has a strong cabaret influence. Fans of the musical "Chicago" will love "Threepenny," as it possesses a similar feel at times. In fact, the musical was written by composer Kurt Weill and playwright Bertoli Brecht and debuted in Berlin in 1928. Indeed, it is believed to have inspired "Chicago." 
Despite all the grimy glamour onstage, there is a lot more to "The Threepenny Opera" than meets the surface. Director Anton Juan wanted to use the show as a platform from which to expound on social justice issues such as world pover­ty. He started with the set itself. Without a doubt, the play's unforgettable central image is the set, which resembles a giant face. 
"I wanted to keep the set simple, with nothing technological," Juan said in an interview Sunday. "I don't like to be a slave to technology. Plus, I wanted some­thing that could be manipulated by the actors." 
Juan went on to offer his three cents on the set design. 
"My idea in the play, with the head being crowned, is that the head is the system itself, the system of corruption that spews out and swallows us," he 
MATT HUDSON/Observer Graphic 
said. "It keeps covered the evils of socie­ty and prevents us from speaking the truth. 
"The system of corruption itself is being crowned, and we're all symptoms of that system. I thought that should be a panorama, an integral part of the whole system of which we are all are a part of. 
"It's a beautiful experience to go through a process as an ensemble. I wanted [the cast and crew] to under­stand a different aesthetic, a different style. It's because you lead the student so that they move into other realities. Their experience of pain is very limited. I thought maybe they should face that too. A vision of social justice is something they should understand." 
With its talented cast, dynamic visuals and engaging characters, "The Threepenny Opera" is not only well worth the price of admission, but is also a show with a deeper meaning. That's quite a bargain. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, April 17, 2007 
page 13 
Rockers of O.A.R. positioned for greatness 
expect another "Poker"?
By JAMES COSTA 
DePizzo: No. Honestly, we never 
Scene Writer 
really tried to replicate what "Poker" is and I think it would be foolish of For the second time in two years, us to try. It's a magical song, but it's 
O.A.R. is coming to South Bend to been 12 years since we wrote that play the Morris Center. It's been an song. We're at a complete different exciting year for the band, including place now with different aspects and a sold-out performance at Madison points of life that are what we try to Square Garden in New York City. That write about now. It's just like how memorable night was filmed, and the songs like "I Feel Home" and "Love recording will come out this June. and Memories" can't be replicated. The band's most recent album, You can't try to go backwards with "Stories of a Stranger," is a chugging things; you can just keep going for­and powerful piece of work that ward with things. brought the group great success this year and last. What's it like as a band to have 
O.A.R., which plays in South Bend songs from a few years back that this Sunday, is often tagged as the you can play and so every night successor to groups like the Dave relive the memories of the times Matthews Band and has continued to when the song was new? forge new musical paths and direc­DePizzo: Just to see the reaction of tions. Jerry DePizzo, the band's saxo­the crowd every night is a great phonist, spoke with The Observer to thing. People ask if we get tired of discuss the band's past and its strong playing a song but it's not like that. outlook for the future. We have one song that we have to 
play and that's the one we have to Tell us about the album. How's it play and some people see it as a bur­been playing live? den but I really don't. People get so 
DePizzo: It's been playing real well. excited and so happy when you play We've developed 
it, so why wouldn't some of the songs to 
you? And the other become staples of 
side of it is that we our concerts. We've 
switch it up and developed them and 
change it every manipulated them 
night. It's never the to fit to fit the live 
0· 
same when we play
+ 

it. I don't think arrangements that environment, with 
+ 

we've played songs fit a live environ-
Where: Morris Performing Arts Center 
the same way twice, ment in a way we 
ever. This keeps it fun
didn't focus on 
When:7:30pm,April22 + 
and fresh for us. We album. We do it so 
when making the build upon it. We
+ 

don't play it thethat when you come 

Tickets: $28, Go To 

1996 version or the are certainly differ­to a show, the songs 

www.morriscenter.org 
April 16th version. ent from the album 
We keep building version. This is 
and adapting and something the band 
+ 

changing it, and loves to do. We love 
this keeps it fresh
+ 

for us. I think it's vary it up to give the artist's and the people something a little bit different band's responsibility to give the fans for the live show. something new every time. Marc 
[Roberge] does a lot of improvisation "Stories of a Stranger" was with the lyrics. Some nights when the released In 2005. Is there a new show gets a little crazy, half the lyrics album In development? are off the top of his head. As one of 
DePizzo: Yeah, we have a live the soloists in the band, I don't play record coming out June 5th. We the same solo twice, ever. One thing filmed it at Madison Square Garden is that I don't like to memorize on January 28th of this year. It's things. Also, it keeps everything fresh going to be a two CD and two DVD and exciting for me. set. It's really fantastic. We're extremely proud of it as a band and A lot of people don't realize that it's probably the best thing we've O.A.R. is actually Of a Revolution. done to date. Everything from the How did you get the name? performance, the recording of it, the DePizzo: I think it's fr.om a short filming of it, the artwork, everything, story that Marc wrote in 1996. It's and it's all just really great and we're taken from a time when him and extremely proud of it. We're going Chris [Culos] had just studied abroad into the studio this fall to do another in Israel for months and had a new studio record. outlook on life. They'd seen a com­
pletely new culture, with different How does it affect the band to cultures living together as one while watch yourselves continue to rise? fighting each other at the same time. 
DePizzo: It's a good feeling. The It was a distinct point in their life and band is bigger today than we were they started writing this music and yesterday. It keeps growing and being in this band and they wanted a growing and growing. We haven't name that was somewhat lofty, a really had an explosion of growth or name that meant something above something like that, and in some themselves and that's what they came ways that's a good thing and in some up with. ways we wish we would have that. Everything is steadily progressing In a review of the older album "In though. We're a better band because Between Now and Then," you were of it and we've learned to deal with compared to the Police. How does each new level as well. the band enjoy these comparisons? 
DePizzo: The Police is one of my You once said that two songs you favorite bands of all time, so if some­loved to play live are "City On one wants to say we sound like the Down" and "Poker" because they Police then that's fantastic. I'll take really hit a chord with the audi­it. We can get compared to bands like ence. Now with this tour and the Dave Matthews Band, Phish and upcoming album, can listeners the Grateful Dead and it's great. We 
to switch it up and take it as compliment and we try to forge our own path. I don't think we've ever tried to sound like any­body else and if we tried, we'd fail miserably. So we try to be the band that we are and get better at that. 

As your sound has changed over the years, I notice that the band worked with famed songwriter Glen 
Ballard on "Love and Memories." What was that experience like? 
DePizzo: It was great. I expected something completely different out of that situation. Glen Ballard was a well-known individual with a great amount of success and I expected a lot more attitude and bravado from him and I didn't get any of that. He really just sat down with us and wrote and a song and I loved every second of it and we got a great song out of it. 
Where does the band see their sound heading in the tours and albums to come? 
DePizzo: I'd say it's going to get closer to the live sound and what we do on stage. We're not going to record a record of 10-minute epic jams, but we're going to have a lot of chemistry in the studio. We spent about a month in New York writing new music for the record and we recorded it all. We'd never done that before. 
We used to come up with a bunch of song ideas, record them, and that would be the record. What we're doing now is playing the songs and recording them on tape and now over the next few tours, play them live and see how it goes in a live setting. They end up becoming better songs because we get more comfortable and more familiar with them through per­forming them. You can expect the next O.A.R. record to be 10 or 12 per­formances on a record and not just songs. 
What led you to join O.A.R.? 
DePizzo: I lived the dream as a guy who was a big fan of the music and actually got to be a part of the band that I really enjoyed and loved. We were friends first and went to college together. I'd go to see them play and then I'd go and help set up at sound check, then I'd play a song at sound check, then a song during the show, then a couple songs and it kept pro­gressing from there till the saxophone and what I did became an integral part of the band and the band's sound. It's been a very exciting and rewarding experience. 
What can the bands expect from the summer tour? 
DePiZzo: We'll be playing new songs, which we're excited about. 
( 
We're going to blow the doors off the place. We're going to bring out one hell of a light show and new arrange­ments and it'll be a really powerful, forceful and exciting O.A.R. 
What songs can we look for that have become live highlights? 
DePizzo: "Fifty two fifty" is that one that has really taken on a life of its own. It has really developed into one of the stronger songs that we do live. That was one that really surprised me going into the tour because it wasn't a song that we played exceptionally well when we went in to make the record. Now, it's a really powerful song that has a lot of impact. 
What was it like when the band realized they had sold out Madison Square Garden? 
DePizzo: It was great! The thing was, we had played the Garden in January of 2006 and we were very, very pleased to fill it out the first time around. That was a surprise to us; we didn't think we'd have that kind of success there. This time was a little different. Since we'd done it last year, we expected to do it this year and so we raised the bar. 
We're certainly glad that we did it again. We actually sold a few more tickets this year than last year, which was great. On top of that, we did the recording and the filming, so there was a lot of pressure put on us to sell out and·when we did, we breathed a sigh of relief. 
What's It like to sell a million total records as a band? 
DePizzo: It's great -it's definitely an accomplishment. It's a notch on the belt. We continue to keep putting notches on the belt and reaching, going for goals we want to attain and we want to achieve in our career. 
How does it work then that the whole band can be doing their own thing and still come together to form one song? 
DePizzo: That's the chemistry. It's what makes us who we are and the band that we are. It's what you can't get with a bunch of session musi­cians. It's the camaraderie, the years of brotherhood and friendship being on stage, learning how to be a band with each other. It's something that can't be replicated. 
What are the band's immediate plans? 
DePizzo: We are on a spring tour right now. We have a West Coast tour in June, then the summer tour in July. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 

-----------------. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, Aprill7, 2007 
NBA 

Heat fall to Celtics with big help from Jefferson 
Carter's triple-double helps Nets take down metropolitan rival Knicks; Casal's contributions help Grizzlies defeat Spurs 
Associated Press a loose bail, hit awkwardly and Posey fell hard to the court, imme­
AI Jefferson's jump hook with diately grimacing and grabbing his one-tenth of a second left lifted the arm. Boston Celtics to a 91-89 win over Miami finished its home sched­the Miami Heat on Monday night ule 27-14; Boston was 12-29 on in the next-to-last regular season the road this season, matching last game for both teams. year's mark. 
Delonte West scored 28 points, Standings-wise, the game was while Jefferson fmished with 20 irrelevant. Miami will finish as the points and 13 rebounds for Eastern Conference's fourth seed Boston. Rajon Rondo added 17 for and will be in either Cleveland or the Celtics. Chicago when the playoffs open 
Jason Williams hit his first five this weekend. Boston will finish 3-point tries -he finished 5-for-6 with the worst record in the East -and scored 16 points for Miami, and the second worst -ahead of as did Jason Kapono. Shaquille only Memphis -in the NBA. O'Neal added 14 points and But the Celtics, namely coach Michael Doleac scored 10 for the Doc Rivers, still showed plenty of Heat, who went with some unusu­fire. al lineups in an effort to rest key Rivers picked up a technical foul players before the playoffs. midway through the third quarter 
Dwyane Wade had eight points for arguing a three-second call on 3-for-7 shooting in 23 minutes against Jefferson, and his team for Miami. responded with a 26-9 run over 
Miami gave the members of its the next 9 minutes. Gomes' 3­regular rotation fewer minutes pointer from in front of the Heat than usual. All five starters played bench capped the burst, and between 23-25 minutes, none of Rivers punctuated it with a fist them besides Eddie Jones seeing pump as the Celtics took a 75-67 any time in the fourth quarter. lead. 
Instead, this was a night where The Heat battled back, taking the likes of Doleac, Chris Quinn the lead on Doleac's putback with and Earl Barron got plenty of play. 1:17 left, but that would be their And, in perhaps the theme of the last score. West's jumper tied it at season for the Heat, they still 89 with 55.2 seconds left before York Knicks Monday night to com­was activated and played the final quarter after aggravating an ankle couldn't escape without an injury. Jefferson delivered the winner. plete a season sweep. 30 seconds of the third quarter. injury. 
Forward James Posey, a key 3-New Jersey is still hoping to But Stephon Marbury, David Lee Chucky Atkins scored 19 for point shooter and defender for the Nets 104, Knicks 95 catch struggling Washington for and Renaldo Balkman were still Memphis, while Dahntay Jones defending NBA champions, Vince Carter had 29 points, 12 the No. 6 seed and face Atlantic sitting, and they were joined along finished with 16 points. Tarence sprained his left wrist and shoul­rebounds and 10 assists, and the Division champion Toronto in the the way by starting center Eddy Kinsey had 12 points, and Stromile der after colliding with Rondo with New Jersey Nets clinched at least first round. The Nets (40-41 ), who Curry, who didn't play in the sec­Swift added 10. 
5:44 left in the second quarter. the No. 7 seed in the Eastern have won three straight and five of ond half because of a strained White and Michael Finley led the Both players were moving toward Conference by beating the New six, finish their season Wednesday right hamstring. Spurs with 17 points apiece, while night at home against Chicago. The rest of the night belonged to Butler and Bene Udrih scored 12 
Bosijan Nachbar added 19 the Nets, with Carter and Kidd each. points for the Nets, who won their receiving loud ovations. Carter had grabbed 10 boards. sixth straight at Madison Square his second triple-double this sea­San Antonio, which trailed by as Garden and 1Oth in the last 11 son and fourth of his career, while many as 21 early in the fourth meetings overall against their Richard Jefferson added 15 points period, got the deficit under 10 rivals across the Hudson River. and Mikki Moore scored 14. with 5:18 to play, and eventually New Jersey has won 22 of the last got within 91-86 on Butler's 15­26 in the series, including two vic­Grizzlies 101, Spurs 91 footer with 3:19 to play. But San tories in the last four nights, and is Pau Gasol scored 25 Antonio, which never led in the 20-4 against New York in the reg­points,grabbed 15 rebounds and game, could get no closer, drop­ular season since acquiring Jason had six assists to lead the ping its second game in as many Kidd. Memphis Grizzlies to a victory over nights. 
Steve Francis scored 26 points the San Antonio Spurs on Monday The Grizzlies, who also defeated and Mardy Collins had 23 for the night. the playoff-bound Denver Nuggets Knicks (32-49), who are limping to Gasol connected on nine of his on Saturday night, have won two the finish. They have lost a season­15 shots to lead five Grizzlies in straight, matching their longest high five straight and need a victo­double figures. winning streak of the season. ry at Charlotte on Wednesday to Both teams were without key Memphis held a 56-43 lead at avoid losing 50 games in consecu­players. Spurs Tim Duncan, Tony the half as Gasol scored 20 points, tive seasons tor the first time since Parker and Manu Ginobili took the including a 43-footer as time ran doing it three straight times from night o[ because San Antonio was out in the second period. The 7­1984-87. no longer playing to enhance its foot Spaniard ran off the court 
The highlight for the Knicks was third seed in the West. That left lit­with his arms outstretched like an a brief appearance by Jamal tle-used Spurs such as Jackie airplane before bumping chests Crawford after he missed the last Butler and James White starting with Swift. 22 games with a broken right their first games of the season. Atkins added 10 points for ankle. The Knicks' second-leading Memphis starters Mike Miller Memphis. No Spurs were in dou­scorer was expected to miss the and Damon Stoudamire didn't play ble figures, White and Robert rest of the regular season after he because of knee injuries, and Horry registering eight points was injured in late February, but rookie Rudy Gay left in the second apiece. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business daifrom 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 


Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9.  New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to  
WANTED  FoR RENT  Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. Call Anlan Properties at 532·1896.  campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi,AC, 2 car gar. No pets. $1650/mo plus  
util. 914-232-3328.  
SUMMER WORK  andersonNDrentals.com  Very large home for rent for next  
$15.50 base·appt. flexible sched·  school year. 1 block east of cam- For rent: Nicest house in area. 4  
ules, no exp.needed, customer  BETTER HOMES,BETTER  pus. Walk to class/food/shops.  bedroorns,A/C, security. 5 blocks  
sales/service, conditions apply,  AREAS,BETTER DEALS.  4 huge bedrms/3 full baths/large  frorn campus. 289-4071.  
all ages 17+, positions throughout  BlueGoldRentals.com  kitchen-lam rm & laundry rm.  
the US, apply now, start after  3 decks overlook  WALK TO CAMPUS!! JAMISON  
finals, www.workforstudents.com  3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for  huge fenced yard.  RESIDENTIAL 3 BDRM 2 BA LUX·  
07/08 school year. On line see rent·  Very private & safe!  URY CONDO. ACROSS B-BALL  
nd.com or mmmrentals.com.  Must see! 239·707·2025.  STADIUM FROM CAMPUS.  
FOR SALE  Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb·  SLEEPS UP TO 4 STUDENTS.  

 spot. net or phone 574-277-4759.  2·6 BDRMS HOMES.GREAT  EXCELLENT RENTAL FOR 2  
*ND CONDOS* NEW 213 BR,2 bath  RATES.574-329-0308  GRAD STUDENTS OR FOR PAl­ 
condos Minutes from campus  Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt  VACY. CONVERT 3RD BEDROOM  
Starting in $130,000s  loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli.  2 bdrm horne close to ND.  TO STUDY. CAB,NET,GAS,ELEC,  
574-252-2427  A/C,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 +  Avail Now. $650/rno + utilities.  INCLUDED. $1600 PER MONTH  
ndcondos.corn Reserve Yours  utiI. 630-417 ·  Call Peggy  BEGINNING 6/1. CALL MARK@  
Today!  8763/MCL214@ aol.com  269-687-3096.  31 0·940·9444.  

5 Bedroom House; 105 Marquette UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Ave; Great Neighborhood,close to not go it alone. If you or someone carnpus;232·6964. you love needs confidential support 
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. For rnore information,

PERSONAL 
visit our web site at 
http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad ONE WHO IS? You do not have to in The Observer. 
be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-If you or someone you care about 800-No·ABORT or visit our website has been sexually assaulted, visit at www.lifecall.org http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape 
to learn about resources at ND and Adopt: A young loving couple long in South Bend. 
to share their Hearts and home with a newborn & will provide Professional couple to house sit for Endless love. Expenses paid summer. Saving to buy home. ND call Eileen & Ed at references. 1·800· 718-6577 Dave 574-204·2877 aft 6p 








OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, Aprill7, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
BOSTON MARATHON 
team record Boston ''H Toronto 7-5 Baltimore 6·6 New York 5·6 Tampa Bay 5·7 
team record Cleveland 6·3 Detroit 7·5 Minnesota 7·5 Chicago 5·6 Kansas City 3·9 

American League West 
team record perc; last10 Seattle 5·3 .625 Sill';~(' Los Angeles 6·7 .462 6'-7 1.5. Jii'ii Oakland 6·7 .462 6'-7 1.5 Texas 5·7 .417 s.:tl 2 
National League till 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Atlanta 8·3 .121 8~3 New York 7·4 .636 1;;4 Florida 6-5 .545 8~5 Philadelphia 3-B .273 3-8 Washington 3-9 .250 3-9 
National League Cent~l team record last 10 GB Cincinnati 7·5 
7,5 

Milwaukee .6·5 St. Louis 6·5 Pittsburgh 4·6 Houston 4·6 Chicago 4·7 
National ~.tU~~&u• 

team record Arizona 9·4 Associated Press after overcoming from a con­Kenya took the top four the defending London cham­Los Angeles 8·4 cussion from that slip and the spots in the men's race and pion, American record-hold­San Diego 7·5 BOSTON -The runners remnants of a nor'easter to its 15th victory in 17 years. er and Olympic bronze Colorado 5·7 were soaked, the pavement win his third Boston title. "It The top American man was medalist, still finished first in San Francisco 3-1 slippery, and Robert is like telling someone some­Peter Gilmore, in eighth the U.S. national champi­Cheruiyot knew exactly thing very bad. ... It is not place. onships, a race within a race where trouble was waiting good." Russia's Udiya Grigoryeva that carried a $25,000 along the Boston Marathon Cheruiyot, who also won in captured the women's crown bonus. route. 2003, earned his third in 2:29:18, winning by 20 "It's hard to deal with a ills­So 48 hours before the Boston title standing up. He seconds and sending Latvia's appointing performance
Inside 

start of Monday's race, after outkicked countryman James Jelena Prokocuka to her sec­when you've prepared for so his more traditional training Kwambai on the way into ond consecutive second-place much better than you did out 
team 

was complete, the defending Kenmore Square to win in 2 finish. Grigoryeva, who set there," she said. champion headed to the hours, 14 minutes, 13 sec­the course record in Los Cheruiyot spent two nights
1 Cornell 

course to test the traction of onds -slower than the Angeles last year, veered to in a Chicago hospital in
2 Duke 

3 Albany the finish line. It was at the course record of 2:07:14 he the stands to grab a Russian October after slipping on the 4 Virginia end of the Chicago race·, 26 set last year but enough to flag just before crossing the finish line as he raised his 5 Princeton miles and 384 yards in, that win by 20 seconds. finish line. arms to celebrate his victory. 6 Georg~tllwn he slipped -nearly costing "When the lion is chasing Top American hope Deena He couldn't sleep for more 7 himself a race, ifnot a career. the antelope, he doesn't look Kastor fell back after stom­than a month, had trouble B Marylalld "I don't want myself to back. He has to eat," ach problems diverted her with his back, along with B Navy think about falling down in Cheruiyot said. "So when I from the course for a minute headaches that persisted 10 Chicago," Cheruiyot said run, I don't stare at my time." near the midpoint. Kastor, until six weeks ago. 
11 12 Bucknell 13 LoyolaMd 
IN BRIEF
14 UMBC 

15 Drexel 16 Syracuse Weekley wins first PGA Tour Federer pressures ATP to Pacers out of playoffs for first 17 Towson event at Verizon Heritage save Monte Carlo Masters time in 12 years
18 Delaware 

HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. -Boo MONTE CARLO, Monaco -:-Roger INDIANAPOLIS, I.N. -Coach Rick 
19 Colgate 

Weekley didn't blow his latest chance for Federer is making another push to save Carlisle said all the right things less 
20 Hofstra 

a first PGA Tour victory, chipping in on the Monte Carlo Masters from being than 24 hours after his Indiana Pacers the final two holes to hold off Ernie Els downgraded. were knocked out of playoff contention and win the Verizon Heritage on The top-ranked Swiss said Monday that for the first time in a decade. Monday. the ATP, which is planning to restructure He said they had a good practice and 
Weekley looked as if he would give its 2009 calendar, is moving too fast. will be ready for Tuesday's game at back all of a three-shot lead after his "Many people are worried, and Atlanta.
around the dial 
bogey on the 16th hole and his muffed because they are worried, I think we But he struggled whenever he chip behind the 17th green. Weekley fol­should just wait for a minute here," uttered the phrase "out of the play­lowed the blunder with a 40-foot, par­Federer said. offs." And his boyish face looked more saving chip to keep a one-stroke lead. The ATP wants to trim the Masters drained Monday than perhaps at any NHL But then Weekley had his troubles on schedule from nine to eight tournaments point in the past two tumultuous years. Harbour Town's lighthouse hole, No. 18. by cutting Monte Carlo and Hamburg and The Pacers will dose their season at
Ottawa at Pittsburgh 
He chipped across the green and into the adding Shanghai. home against Washington on
7 p.m., VERSUS 

fluffy rough down a short slope. Once Both Monte Carlo and Hamburg, which Wednesday. Carlisle said it will be 
again, Weekley's short game saved him, are two of the main day-court warmup business as usual, but his gloomy Detroit at Calgary this time rolling it from 36 feet away. events for the French Open, would demeanor made his words a tough 10 p.m., VERSUS "Unreal," Weekley said. "lbis is unre­remain on the tour but no longer with sell. 
al." Masters status. They are both suing the "You don't approach it any different­
The Big Easy, bidding for his first tour ATP. ly because you're out of the playoffs," win since 2004, lost his chance on No. "Before we move too quickly in a bad Carlisle said. "You come in and you try 17, driving into the hazard behind the direction, let's have a meeting all together to get better and you try to win those green for a bogey. and go forward from then," Federer said. last couple." 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 17, 2007 
CYCLING 
Hamilton returns after 2-year ban 
Associated Press 
Tyler Hamilton feared his return to competitive cycling, unsure what to expect in his first race in the United States after a two-year doping ban. 
After the first stage of the Tour de Georgia on Monday, the former Olympic gold medalist was encouraged. 
Hamilton was 56th, finishing in the middle of a huge peloton about 2 minutes behind the stage winner, Daniele Contrini of Italy. Contrini finished the 97-mile ride from Peachtree City to Macon in 3 hours, 24
-minutes, 26 seconds. Hamilton is attempting to reclaim his place among the elite in cycling after his sus­pension in September 2004 for blood doping, the transfusion of extra blood that can increase endurance. He has been racing in Europe since January but 
on Monday to "the situation in 2004" as he talked about his comeback. 
"Still take it one day at a time," he said when asked about his plans for the week. "I did feel better today that cer­tainly I did in March. That was encouraging, yeah. 
"It's nice to get the first stage out of the way." 
Hamilton said he "really remained a professional bike racer the whole time" during the suspension, but he said his devotion to training can't replace the missed competi­tions. 
"I've trained every day," he said. "The hardest part was missing out on the racing. I typically road race 80 to 100 days a year, so I missed two and a half seasons, basically. I missed a lot of racing." 
The Tour de Georgia should help Hamilton learn if he is prepared for bigger 

Monday was his races in Europe. 
"It was nice that 
first sanctioned Tuesday's second
there were a lot of 
race in his home stage from 
country since the people encouraging Thomaston north 2001 San me and welcoming to Rome covers 135 Francisco Grand miles, followed by
me back to racing."
Prix. another 118 miles 
Hamilton has north to continued to Tyler Hamilton Chattanooga, protest his inno­American cyclist Tenn., on 

AP 

U.S. cyclist Tyler Hamilton gestures his innocence in a blood doping investigation with his fists during a press conference in Switzerland In 2004. Hamilton returned to racing after a two-year ban. 
Italians say that Life is beautiful. 

Find out why... 
Learn Ita Iian this summer. 
ROIT 10115 is a 6 week, 6 credit course meeting from June 19 until August 3 -MTWRF 8:30-10:30/11:00-12:00 
It's like a double shot ofespresso in the morning! 
cence, but he seemed relieved to again have the chance to talk about rac­ing. 
Hamilton said his comeback was slowed by a bout with flu symptoms that developed into bronchitis in March, but the 2004 Olympic time trial cham­pion says he hopes to use this long race to build momentum for the Tour of Italy. 
Hamilton acknowledged he does not yet know if, at 36, he can return to his top form. 
''I've never taken two and a half years off from racing and come back," he said. "Your guess is as good as mine. I feel I'm heading in the right direc­tion." 
The troubles faced by Hamilton, 2006 Tour de France winner Floyd Landis and oth­ers have hurt the sport. 
Hamilton's return was con­sidered a taboo subject by some. 
"No comment on that," said Doug Ollerenshaw, who fin­ished second Monday, when asked how Hamilton was received by other racers. 
Hamilton said before the race he was prepared for a possible icy reception from some of his peers, but he said Monday he had no problems. 
"It was really special there at the start line this morning," Hamilton said. "It was nice that there were a lot of people encouraging me and welcom­ing me back to racing. That was nice." 
Hamilton is the captain of the Tinkoff Credit Systems team, a new Italian-Russian team. He brings valuable experience to the team as a former teammate of Lance Armstrong and a racer who has won stages in the Tour de France and in Italy. Contrini is Hamilton's team­mate. 
Hamilton said this week he is motivated by what he still con­siders to be unfair treatment of him in the doping case. He made only a passing reference Wednesday. 
The fourth and fifth days take the racers through the mountains of north Georgia, including the grueling Stage· 5 run from Dalton to Brasstown Bald Mountain, Georgia's high­est mountain. 
The relatively flat courses on Monday and Tuesday favor sprinters. Hamilton, at his peak, would be expected to make his move in the moun­tains. 
On Monday, Hamilton said his focus was on his teammate's stage victory. 
"For me it was really emo­tional seeing Contrini there at the finish line," he said. "I knew once he was there at the breakaway he had a chance to win, and I just had my fingers crossed the whole day." 


Tuesday, Aprill7, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

With hope for, and in solidat-ity with, the Virginia Tecl1 Comntunity 
Please join the University a/1Votre Dame Conzmunity /or a 
Campus-Wide Memorial Mass 
as we pray /or /1ope and consolation /en· tlze t7irginia Tec/1 Community 


Tuesday evening, .A.pril 17, 10:00 p.m. Basilica a/tlze Sacred Heart, [Jniversity a/ 1Votre Dame 
. 
' 
' 
. ' 
' 
.
' 
' 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 17, 2007 
NHL 
Lightning take 2-1 series lead with win 
Sabres outduel Islanders in Game 3 of series 
Associated Press 
The Tampa Bay Lightning are finding ways to make Martin Brodeur look ordinary. 
Vincent Lecavalier scored his fourth-goal of the playoffs, and Brad Richards and Vinny Prospal each tallied their first in helping the Lightning beat the New Jersey Devils 3-2 on Monday night in Game 3 of their first­round Eastern Conference series. 
Johan Holmqvist, who has rebounded from a shaky NHL postseason debut to outplay Brodeur the past two games, stopped 30 shots as the seventh­seeded Lightning took a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven matchup. Game 4 is at Tampa on Wednesday night. 
Brodeur, a three-time Stanley Cup champion, entered the play­offs with a 1.89 career goals­against average, but has given up three in each game of the series. Tampa Bay also won three of four regular-season meetings against the goalie, who won a league-record 48 games. 
Lecavalier scored his power­play goal on a sharp-angle shot that appeared to catch Brodeur by surprise in the first period. He had an assist on the winner, which Prospal scored from in front of the net with 6:29 remaining in the third. 
John Madden and Zach Parise scored for the Devils. 
Brodeur's experience and strong track record are the main reasons many expect the Devils ultimately to win the series, how­ever the 28-year-old Holmqvist is making it interesting in his first postseason appearance. 
The Devils outshot the Lightning 9-5 in the opening period, but were 0-for-3 on the power play and failed to take advantage of a two-man advan­tage they held for just over a minute after Tampa Bay's Martin St. Louis went to the penalty box for high-sticking. 
Holmqvist rebounded from allowing five goals on 24 shots in a Game 1 loss to make 34 saves in Tampa Bay's 3-2 victory in Game 2 at New Jersey. He was solid again Monday night, even after the second-seeded Devils tied it at 1 on Madden's goal with 
2:33 left in the second. 
The Lightning goalie kept the game from getting away with a huge save as time expired in the period, rejecting John Dowd from point-blank range and set­ting the stage for an exciting third period. 
After Richards gave the Lightning a 2-1 lead just 69 sec­onds into the period, New Jersey countered with Parise's goal that deflected off Tampa Bay defense­man Dan Boyle three minutes later to give Brodeur another chance to take over the game. 
Sabres 3, Islanders 2 
Thomas Vanek and the Buffalo Sabres forwards stayed down only so long. 
After two games where most of the offense came from the defense, Vanek, Daniel Briere, and Adam Mair all connected in the second period Monday night to lift Buffalo to a victory over the New York Islanders and give the top-seeded Sabres a 2-1 lead in the first-round, Eastern Conference playoff series. 
The Sabres, who led the NHL with 308 goals, scored six while splitting the lirst two games on home ice. Chris Drury, who assisted on Mair's goal, scored twice in the series-opening victo­ry for the only goals by Buffalo forwards. 
That all changed when the Sabres scored three times in a span of 7:39. 
Trent Hunter and Ryan Smyth answered in the second period in front of a towel-waving, sellout crowd and NHL commissioner Gary Bettman. It wasn't enough, despite 32 saves by Rick DiPietro in his first home game in three weeks following a bout with post-concussion syndrome. 
When Randy Robitaille was whistled for tripping with 1:34 left, the white towels stopped waving and came flying down to the ice. 
Game 4 of the best-of-seven series is Wednesday on Long Island. Game 5 is back in Buffalo on Friday. 
Ryan Miller recovered from a shaky start to make 20 saves in his second victory this series and 20th of his playoff career. 
After a lackluster first period in which Buffalo was outshot 10­9, the speedy Sabres quickly took the play to the Islanders in the second. With constant pressure and long-term puck possession in the New York zone, Mair made it pay off at 5:17. 
Hunter got knocked off the puck on the offensive end, and defenseman Henrik Tallinder rushed back up ice. He gave the puck to Drury, who crouched to make a precision cross-ice pass from above the left circle to Mair. He easily steered the puck in as he raced toward the left post. 
By then, Buffalo had a 4-0 
SOFTBALL 

TUESDAY, APRIL 17 @3:00PM VS. W. MICHIGAN (2} WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18 @5:00PM VS. BALL STATE THURSDAY, APRIL 19 @5:00PM VS. VALPARAISO 

AP 

Devils goaltender Martin Brodeur saves a shot from Lightning center Ryan Craig Monday in Tampa. Brodeur gave up three goals in the contest, leaving the Devils in a 2-1 series deficit. 
Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Akhmatova, Tchaikovsky, Stravinsky, Prokofiev, Chagall, Pavlov, Baryshnikov. .. 
N .A.S.A. Payload Specialist, 
U.S. Arms Control Liaison, World Bank Investment Adviser. 
WHAT DO THEY HAVE IN COMMON? 
RUSSIAN 
RUSSIAN 10101, FALL 2007 NO PREREQUISITE 
http://www .nd.edu/ ""'gr1 


BASEBALL 
TUESDAY, APRIL 17@ 6:05PM VS. TOLEDO WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18@ 6:05PM VS. PURDUE 
THIS WEEK's GAMES BROUGHTTO YOU BY: 

Sfb ~o-p~ 
SOUTM Bt:HO ORTMO,.A.I:OIC• 

Tuesday, April 17, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
Ideal candidates will possess: 
o 
Strong knowledge of Windows XP and/or Mac OS X 

o 
Knowledge of Notre Dame's network setup 

o 
Ability to manage time effectively 

o 
Great customer service attitude 


Primary duties include: 
o 
Answering telephone calls from faculty, staff and students regarding IT issues 

o 
Troubleshooting issues based on telephone calls and provide resolution 

o 
Hands-on help setting up and troubleshooting computers and network connections 


Con~.e and Listen 

Con~.e and Read 
Con~.e and Play 
Lectio@Eieven A Late-Night Caba..et fo.. the Soul 
11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
April 17 featuring: Music by Da Natural 
Lectio@Eleven brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! 
We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser atjcouser@nd.edu or call 631-3923. 
Sponsored by First Year ofStudies 

MLB 
Soriano injured as Cubs cruise to win 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO -The limp was clear as 1lfonso Soriano dragged himself up the stairs, out of the clubhouse and into the night. His immediate future is a bit murky, though. 
On a night when the Chicago Cubs shook up their lineup, Soriano got shaken up. 
He left in the fifth inning after injuring a hamstring while attempting a diving catch in the Cubs' 12-4 rout of the San Diego Padres on Monday. 
"Yes, I don't like to get hurt," Soriano said, when asked if he's worried. "I know that I'm not going to be able to play tomorrow, so it's sad for me because ... I like to play every 
day.  We'll  see  how  I look  
tomorrow."  
Chicago,  which  was  0-7  

against the Padres last season, led 3-0 in the fifth when Clay Hensley (0-3) lofted a fly to shallow center with a runner on third and one out. Soriano raced in, dove and rolled over as he trapped the ball. 
Soriano then got up and slipped while attempting a throw. Trainer Mark O'Neal tended to him, and Soriano walked off gingerly under his own power. The initial diagno­sis was a strained left ham­string, and the Cubs hoped to know more after an MRI exam on Tuesday. 
Even if the test reveals no tears, Soriano thought he would miss at least five days. 
"I believe that it's not bad, it's not that bad," he said. 
But when asked if the dis­abled list a possibility, Soriano wasn't quite as confident ­even though he the pain had subsided a bit.· 
"I don't know yet, but like I said, I feel a little better now than in the past," he said. 
Soriano, who signed a $136 million, eight-year contract, and Jason Marquis were key components in the Cubs' off­season makeover. 
Marquis (1-1) allowed one run in six innings to win for the first time in three starts since signing a $21 million, three­year contract with the Cubs. 
"He was aggressive," San Diego's Adrian Gonzalez said. "He went after you, and we didn't take advantage of some mistakes that he did make. It was to his benefit." 
Chicago began the night last in the NL Central at 4-7 and entered with five losses in six games, and manager Lou Piniella shook up the lineup. 
The biggest change was mov­ing Jacque Jones from right field to left and dropping him to sixth in the batting order. Matt Murton started in right, batted cleanup and delivered two hits and two RBis. 
Piniella said before the game he was simply "changing things up a little bit. Nothing more, nothing less." 
He also said one move that is not under consideration at the moment is moving Soriano out of center field, even though he entered with a .234 average and no homers. Of course, the bigger issue afterward was his health. 
"He made a heck of an effort on that ball," Piniella said. "He cheated in a little bit on the pitcher and got a good jump on it and made a really good try." 
His teammates put forth their best effort, finishing with sea­son-highs in runs and hits (14). 
Hensley gave up 10 runs and 11 hits in five-plus innings. 
"I got into trouble a little bit with trying to locate a fastball outside that was running over the plate," he said. "Their guys came out swinging." 
Marcus Giles had one of the few bright spots for the Padres, hitting a three-run homer in the ninth off Will Ohman, who has a 9.00 ERA. 
Run-scoring singles by Derrek Lee and Murton gave the Cubs a 2-0 lead in the first, and Michael Barrett hit a two­run homer as Chicago scored four in the fifth to make it 7-1. Mark DeRosa added a homer leading off the sixth against Hensley, and Cliff Floyd hit a three-run drive off Mike Thompson later that inning. 
But the Cubs left Wrigley Field hoping Soriano's injury isn't severe. 
"I've had some injuries in my career, and I know when you sign a contract the last thing you want to do is get hurt," Floyd said. "Hopefully, it's not that bad, and we'll get him back as soon as possible." 

page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, April 17, 2007 
Please join Fr. Jenkins 
for a discussion of Pope Benedict XVI's Encyclical ... 
DEUS CARITAS EST 

FRIDAY. APRIL 27 

... 4:00p.m. Opening Mass at Alumni Hall Chapel (Fr.Jenkins presiding) 
... 5:15p.m. Reception in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies 6:15p.m. Opening remarks from Fr. Jenkins 6:30p.m. Keynote speech from Ms. Brosnahan followed by panel discussion 
SATURDAY. APRIL 28 

... 
... 
... 
9:00a.m. Breakfast buffet in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies -9:45a.m. Keynote speech from Fr. Anderson followed by panel discussion 11:00 a.m . Concurrent presentations of student papers (including roundtable discussions with faculty and students) Noon Lunch in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies 1:00 p.m. Continue with concurrent presentations of student papers 
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS 

Ms. Mary Brosnahan, director of the Coalition for the Homeless in New York Ciiy and a 1983 graduate of Notre Dame The Very Reverend Philip Anderson, O.S.B., Prior of Our Lady of the Annunciation of Clear Creek Monastery 
nd.edu/encyclical 
~UNIVERSITY OF For catering estimates, please email ~islovt•@nd.cdn and indicate your attendance. WNOTREDAME 
r---------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, Aprill7, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
deadly on its home field so far this season, posting a 7-1

Tri-State 
record on its turf. The team's only loss was an 8-6 slugfest

continued from page 24 
with Indiana Tech March 26. 

Saint Mary's will be looking this season. to turn around their record on The No. 8 Belles (1-3 MIAA) the road against the Thunder. 
will use their pitching duo of Kristin Amram and Calli Davison -who have combined for an ERA of 
2.03 this sea­son -to stop the Thunder's power hitting. Amram and Davison com­bine for the second lowest ERA in the league in pitch­ing, a spot 
sophomore Three of the Belles' four losses have come in their six road games so far this season.
"We have 
However, team

really great team members said 
chemistry and we real­delaying the game a week
ly want to work togeth­
gave them time 

er to come out on top" to get ready for the trip to Angola, Ind. 
Ashley Peterson 
"I think it's

Belles outfielder 
giving us more time [to pre­pare]. When they cancel a 

above the Thunder's deep staff game it gives us a little more 
(2.43 ERA). motivation to go out there and Tri-State has been especially win even bigger than we want-
SOFTBALL 

TUESDAY, APRIL 17 @3:00PM VS. W. MICHIGAN (2) WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18 @5:00PM VS. BALL STATE THURSDAY, APRIL 19@ 5:00PM VS. VALPARAISO 
ed to in the first place," fresh­man outfielder Ashley 
Work 
Peterson said. Saint Mary's has not played 
continued from page 24 
since April 10 when the Belles split a doubleheader with 

ther team scored for the Calvin to pick up their first 
first five minutes. Do Work conference win of the season 
picked up the pace and by coming from behind to win 
scored the first four points in extra innings. 
and went into Last season, the Belles swept 
the half up 11­Tri-State 6-5 and 6-0 but 
4. They scored played the Thunder at home in 
the first five 
as that." 
Castle Point 21 Nugget Productions 10 
It looked as though third­seeded Castle Point would walk away with an easy victo­ry, but Nugget Productions wouldn't give in. Castle Point's size and ball movement, how­ever, eventually gave the favorites the win. Castle Point 
points of the "We do work. It's scored the first
both contests. 
second half. as simple as that." five points of the 
"The odds are really good 
And though 5 game, but then
that it's going to be the same 
Guys sank some witnessed the
this year," Peterson said. "We 
Mike Bramante
jump shots late, deceptively dan­
have really great team chem­
it wasn't Do Work captain gerous Nugget
istry and we really want to 

enough to bring top." 
work together to come out on 
them back. 
Saint Mary's will have a 

Bramante sank chance to show off that team 
a 17-footer to chemistry and turn around its 
end the game. early conference woes starting 
Based on the performance, at 3:30 this afternoon. 
the name 'Do Work' was appropriate. On the choice of Contact Rebecca Slinger at 
the name, Bramante said: rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
"We do work. It's as simple 
Production 
offense. 
Productions' five 
scored the next three points, two of them on shots from behind the arc. They would go on to make three more shots from from long range, and although they only counted as one point, they kept Nugget Productions in the game. 
"They were on fire," Castle Point captain Paul Pogge said of the competition. 
Castle Point scored six of the next seven points and led 11-4 at halftime. The size of 6-foot­2, 272-pound Pat Kuntz in the paint -combined with the perimeter shooting Kuntz's football teammates Robby Parris and Richard Jackson ­gave Castle Point the early edge. 
After Nugget Productions sank two more three-point­range jump shots, Castle Point played tight defense all the way out to the perimeter and refused Nugget Productions any room to dribble. 
With score 17-10, Nugget Productions also began playing tough, physical defense all over the court. The underdogs locked down their men and managed to block some shots, but Castle Point scored four straight to seal the win. 
Pogge -along with Ben Lepak, Parris, Kuntz and Jackson -held a size advan­tage over the opposition. Castle Point blocked or deflect­ed most of Nugget Productions' shots and grabbed many offensive rebounds. 
"It helped on the boards," Pogge said. 
The Nugget Productions ball movement was shut down, but the five managed to find and exploit one weakness of Castle Point -the defense at the top of the lane. Multiple times a man was open near the free throw line and. after a quick inside pass, had an open turn­around jumper. 
Castle Point acknowledged the need for improvement, but in other areas. 
"We need to improve athleti­cism," Pogge said. "We need 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

BASEBALL 
TUESDAY, APRIL 17 @6:05PM VS.TOLEDO 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18@ 6:05PM VS. PURDUE 
THIS WEEK's GAMES BROUGHT ro You BY: 

~~-p~
$0Ul'H: Dt:Ntl OR1'HOPJILCOtCa 


MIAA first place on line in K'zoo 
.--~------­
page 22 
SMC TENNIS 
first place in the MIAA. 
The Belles come in to the contest with a conference record of 4-1 ­one game behind Kalamazoo, which currently sits alone at the top with a record of 5-0. 
Though the Belles did not play the Hornets during the 2006 
"Kalamazoo is a solid team. We should be able to beat them, though. " 
Kelly McDavitt Belles senior 
Gordon, will fol­low that duo in the No. 2 slot. 
"Kalamazoo is a solid team," McDavitt said. "We should be able to beat them, though. We will have to work hard and use the skill that we have been using in our past conference matches in order to play our best. 

season, they did not have "We beat Calvin earlier in much luck when facing the season, who is also a top Kalamazoo in 2005, the last team in the league, so I feel time the two teams met with very confident that we should their conference records on be able to gain a win against 
the  line.  The  Kalamazoo."  
Hornets shut out  The  Belles  
the Belles 9-0.  should  have  
As a sopho­more, Kelly McDavitt com­ ''/feel very confident that we  momentum on their side after a successful show­ 
peted in the No.  should be able to  ing on the courts  
4 singles spot, only to be nar­rowly defeated  gain a win against Kalamazoo."  last weekend. Saint Mary's almost shut out  
by Hornets then­ MIAA foe Alma,  
sophomore  Kelly McDavitt  defeating  the  
Laura Spencer in two sets, 7-5  Belles senior  Scots 8-1. In singles play,  
and  6-4.  Now  Saint  Mary's  
both are sPnior  dominated. and  
captains of their  nach player won  

teams, and McDavitt will com­her match in straight sets. pete in the No. 1 singles spot The Belles also took two out of and Spencer in the No. 3 sin­the three doubles matehcs to gles spot. help earn the victory. 
Then-sophomore Tara O'Brien competed for the Contact Ellyn Michalak at Belles and lost narrowly in the emichala@nd.edu 
On Campus Graduation Weekend Special May19-23, 2007 
Come early, stay late, same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $100.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. For reservations call574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 
The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, Aprill7, 2007 
Broncos 
continued from page 24 

The Broncos travel to South Bend for a break from Mid­American Conference play. Western Michigan is 5-5 in MAC action, and the squad has hovered around .500 for most of the year. 
Junior catcher Becky Bartosz, batting .313 with four homers and 17 RBis, leads Western Michigan offen­sively. As a team, the Broncos have struggled at the plate, hitting only .205 on the sea­son. 
Pitcher Kyla Sullivan has been effective for the Broncos this season, despite a mediocre 8-9 record. The jun­ior has posted a 1.38 ERA on the season to go with 84 strikeouts. Sullivan just has not received the run support from her teammates needed to post a winning record 
A key for Notre Dame in today's matchup will be draw­ing first blood -the Broncos are 11-2 this season when scoring first. 
"We've been working on jumping ahead in the first three innings," Bargar said. 
"A huge key to our success is making things happen and taking momentum right off the bat." 
The doubleheader is the start of a very busy week for the Irish, who will play eight home games before Sunday night. Notre Dame plays sin­gle games against Ball State and Valparaiso Wednesday and Thursday, respectively, and has doubleheaders sched­uled against Big East oppo­nents Louisville and South Florida for the weekend. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Saint Mary's can take conference lead with victory this afternoon 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will travel to Michigan this afternoon with a chance to tie Kalamazoo for No. 5 singles spot during the 2005 matchup. During tomor­row's match, O'Brien will return to compete as a senior in the No. 4 singles spot. 
Both McDavitt and O'Brien were also active in doubles play in the 2005 match. McDavitt, who then competed in the No. 2 doubles spot, will now return to compete in the No. 1 spot alongside freshman Camille Gebert. O'Brien and her partner, senior Grace 


Irish senior pitcher Kenya Fuemmeler winds up during a 9-1 victory over Seton Hall March 25 at Ivy Field. Fuemmler will pitch for the Irish against Western Michigan this afternoon. 

J 
---~----------------~ 
Tuesday, April 17,' 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 


At many places, there are numerous women who care only about thew appearance. We live in a culture that encourages that. At Notre Dame, we 
live in a culture that expects everyone. 
to be intelligent and successful. But thts 
isn't about choosing one or the other. 
LIAMMORAN 
Fr. Jenkins doesn't smoke pot, the women's rowing team doesn't eat more than anyone else, and Fr. Sorin didn't shotgun beers (that I know of). Likewise, Notre Dame women aren't gremlins; it's a ridiculous over­exaggeration of a stereotype, merely intended to poke fun at gender relations on campus. 
That's where I'm coming from. 
Good talk. -Kaleidoscope McDaniels 

WILLSHORTZ 
30 Tether  40 Tends to the  48 Police sting,  
31 Places in the  lawn  e.g.  
heart  41 Gossipy Barrett  49 Source of basalt  
32 Tall tales  43 Scanty  50 Chain restaurant with a blue roof  
34 Spud  44 Pain in the  51 As a result  
37 *Words after  behind  52 Scads  
"Been there"  46 Like a day-old  53 Minus  
38 *Samaritan's  baguette  56 ''Thanks, but I  
act  47 Rudiments  already_"  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learninglxwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~l1JOOJ]J&l!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
~-\ -~ 
I --=--­
-...;;;;

I NOWDY j \ Com~ take a -­
I I r (J 
look. Only -­©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
$5 millionAll Rights Reserved. 
IPSOE
I I I I tIJ 
l}~
~_, ~ ., .. -: 
4 l'i 
THE: TYC.OONS VIS-ITa/ THE: L-UXURY 
tROCENE± 
YACHT BE:C.AUSE:
J r J I
1 
www.jumble.com 
IT WAS--­
tHARXOT 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
IJ I I I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: "[ II)" rI I I I I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: BULLY ABIDE UNLIKE FURROWYesterday's 
Answer: What the zookeeper was attracted to in the city -THE "WILD" LIFE 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Victoria Beckham. 31; Jennifer Garner. 33; Liz Phair, 38; Olivia Hussey, 54 
Happy Birthday: You have an obligation to yourself to follow through with your plans. Stop talking about what you want to do and start to take action. You have to stop relying on everyone else to make it happen and start to do your own legwork. Don't let these trials and tribulations stand in your way. Your numbers are 2. 21, 23, 
27,36,40 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Pick and choose what you want to do today. Love or socializing will bring you the most satisfaction. A creative idea you have could turn into aprofitable venture if you form apartnership. ***** 

-
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Don't get upset if you don't get your way today. Take the opportunity to do something by yourself. The more you accomplish on your own, the greater the fulfillment will be in the end. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone may be keeping something from you, but you shouldn't worry. It's probably a surprise. Short trips will bring back memories. Call someone you miss from your past. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Clear up paperwork so you can start new projects. Follow the urge to try doing something totally different with your life. Check out your options and what you must do to move in anew direction. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be in demand today. Do things you enjoy and you will attract some interesting new fflends. Secret love affairs will be tempting, but spare yourself the grief. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Not everything will be laid out on the table for you. Someone is likely to be secretive about what he or she is doing. By getting involved in a creative hobby, you will open doors to a whole new circle of friends. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A joint venture will grab your interest. Take the time to carefully plan. A partnership looks favorable as long as you establish who is going to be responsible for what. Organization and good planning are needed to be successful. 
**** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be careful what you wish for and what you promise today. You may end up getting stuck with the short end of the stick. Look out for your own interests. Now is not the time to form apartnership. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be looking for fun, excitement and adventure today. The more you dow challenge yourself, the better. Physical activity should be high on your to-do list. Love is in a high cycle. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Do something to make your living quarters or arrangements more suitable to your needs. If you have felt cramped or uncomfortable, it may be time to make a move. Devote some time to the ones you love. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do things with people who have similar interests, and you will develop strong and lasting friendships. Ask for assistance and favors will be granted. Take care of your personal obligations. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Check out a sports facility or agroup that will help you get or stay in shape. By being active, you will not only meet new people but a job opportunity may arise as well. Get moving in a positive direction. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are bright, bold and ready to take on whatever comes your way. You have a built-in sense of where you want to be and what you want to do. You are determined to do things your own way and can be stubborn when faced with opposition. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Out-of-focus image, say 5"Be and 

help me" 1oJets that boom 14 Cosmonaut 
Gagarin 15 Bamboo lover 16 Karate blow 17 Cassini of 
fashion 18 Following closely behind 19 Meter maid of 
song 20 *Lousy advice 22 Martini 
garnishes 24 Private eyes, for short Penh: Var. 26 Point the finger at 29 *Model behavior on the field 33 Elevator enclosure 34 From head 
35 Announcement at Penn Sta. 
36 Sport of horse racing, with "the" 
37 Subject of the 2004 biopic "Beyond the Sea" 

38 Teri of "Young Frankenstein" 39 Social finale? 40 "All for one and one for all," e.g. 41 Bagful on the pitcher's mound 
42 *What the nouveau riche have 
44 Commotions 45 Decorative 
pitcher 46 Dune material 47 "Finally!" 50 "You're on!" ... 
and a hint to answering the seven starred clues 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.;.t.;;.!-~.-1 
-=+~:+:-! ~;;+;+::-~ 
-=+=+=~~ 

54 Boast 55 Laughs 57 First name in 
mystery writing 58 Spelunker's setting 59 Castaway's 
locale, maybe so Self centers 61 Warm up in the 
ring 62 Home on the range 63 "i" toppers 
DOWN 1 Informal 
invitation letters 2 Humdinger 3 City NNW of 
Provo 4 *Things worth sweating, with 
''the" 5 Each 6 Owners of the 
Faeroe Islands 7 'acte aHubbub 9 *Cutting it can 
bring tears to the eyes 1oPinch pennies 11 Switchblade, 
slangily 12 Schlep 13 Health resorts 
21 Quiz 23 Oral history 25 Barbecue site 26 Patty Duke's 
son Sean 27 Water park slide 28 Baseball Hall­of-Famer Rod 29 Number of winks in a nap 

r-~­
• 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, April 17, 2007 
page 24 
BASEBALL 
Irish look to stay hot for home matchup with Rockets 
Squad attempts repeat of strong performance after G'town beatdown 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

After winning a conference series for the first time all sea­son, Notre Dame looks to maintain its momentum as it heads into a showdown with Toledo at Frank Eck Stadium today. 
Irish coach Dave Schrage said his team has been incon­
sistent this season, rarely put­ting together a sustained peri­od of quality play. 
"When we start to play well, we tend to lay back," Schrage said. "Our job as coaches is to make sure that doesn't hap­pen." 
The Irish have only won back-to-hack games three times this season -including a four-game win streak from March 17-23. 

In an 11-2 dismantling of Georgetown Sunday, Schrage said his team failed to remain focused for the entire contest after scoring 11 runs in the first four innings. 
"Even today, we got one hit this season. the last five innings," Schrage He will take on a Toledo line­said. "You have to. play all nine up that boasts five hitters innings." whose batting averages are 
Against Toledo (16-13), the above the .300 mark. The Irish 
Irish will send  offense will take  
sophomore  on Toledo senior  
righthander  "When we start to  righty  Todd  
Brett Graffy to the mound with  play well, we tend to  Thomas, who has a 4-2 record to  
hopes of recap­ lay back."  go  with  a  6.61  
turing the solid  ERA coming in to  
play that allowed them to blow out  Dave Schrage Irish coach  the contest. The Irish pounded out 29  
Georgetown  hits in the three  
Friday  and  games  against  

Sunday. Graffy is 2-2 with a Georgetown and look to con­
4.45 ERA in 11 appearances tinue to rake against Thomas, 
BooKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXVI 
Doing work 
Mike Bramante and Do Work advance in blowout; No.3 Castlepoint also wins Monday 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
An impressive performance on both sides of the ball by Do Work led the squad to a 21-7 victory over 5 Guys Doing It Better than Diddy Ever Did It. Do Work performed well on both sides of the ball, out­rebounding 5 Guys and keeping the speed of the game high. 
Do Work captain Mike Bramante was the leading scorer, dropping 12 points and performing most of the ball­handling. Bramante led the fast break as well and completed many quick and accurate pass­es to teammates Joe Bramanti, Pat McHugh, Bill Schramm and Eddie Fitzpatrick. 
"It's our game," Bramante said of the fast break. 
Do Work also ran an effective 
two-three zone that prevented 
5 Guys from getting any good 
looks inside the paint. Of 5 
guys' seven points, four were 
on jump shots and three were 
from put-backs. Those second­
chance points amounted to all 
of 5 Guys' success on the 
boards, however -they were 
dominated down low. 
"[Rebounding] had a big 
effect," Bramante said. "We got 
•a lot of boards. II' you get rebounds, you win the game." 
Do Work decided to try the zone because they had seen other bookstore teams run sim­ilar defenses, but the squad was prepared to switch to man-to-man if it wasn't work­ing. 
The game started slow; nei­
see WORK/page 21 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles face conference foe 
After week off, team is ready to challenge league rival Thunder 
By REBECCA SLINGER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's (14-4) will finally get its chance to battle MIAA nemesis Tri-State (19-5) with an opportunity to climb the conference ranks. 
The Belles were originally scheduled to face Tri-State Saturday, but the game was cancelled due to cold weather. 
Tri-State, which currently sits in third place in the MIAA, is 3-1 in conference play. The Thunder have the second highest team batting average in the league at .369. The Belles are close behind in third, hitting at .356 so far 
see TRI-STATE/page 21 who has given up 47 hits in 32 2-3 innings pitched. 


Schrage said he is confident the Irish will maintain their intensity during the first of two mid-week games before they take on West Virginia this weekend. 
"We have won three out of four," Schrage said, "but I don't think we'll lay back." 
The Irish will also face off against Purdue Wednesday before the three-game confer­ence series with the Mountaineers. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


ND begins busy vveek against Broncos today 
Irish will begin 8-game homestand today with WMU doubleheader 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
After dropping two of its last three, Notre Dame will try to get back on track at home today against Western Michigan. The Irish (20-14, 9­1 Big East) will face the Broncos (13-14) in a double­header starting at 3 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
It has been two different seasons for Notre Dame in 2007, with the team stumbling out of the gates to a 9-12 start. While the Irish struggled to 
score and had inconsistent pitching in the early season tournaments, Notre Dame has turned around its season since returning home and starting conference play. 
The Irish have won 11 of 13 since their home opener, including nine of their last 10 in Big East play. Pitchers Brittney Bargar and Kenya Fuemmeler have been lights out at home, and senior Stephanie Brown has led the Irish offense's transformation into a dangerous lineup from top to bottom. 
"Right now we're making things happen," said Bargar, a sophomore. "We have done a good job putting the ball in play, and taking advantage of other team's weaknesses." 
see BRONCOS/page 22 






