
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 32 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11.2007 
NBC competition finalists selected 
Three student scripts given permission to shoot commercials; public will decide winner 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
Drawing from a pool of 37 submissions, the Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) department chosP. three scripts as finalists in NBC's Notre Dame football commer­cial contest. 
Senior James Geyer. sopho­mores Cristina Bufalino, Maria Bufalino and Mandy Millnr, and juniors Meghan llartmann and Elizabeth Meaney will now begin pro­duction on their 30-second spots. 
Karen Heisler, the supervi­sor of the FTT internship pro­gram, was one of the faculty members who reviewed the submitted scripts. 

Heisler said three FTT fac­ulty members reviewed each script and chose 10 of the 37, with some members' choices overlapping. The group re­examined those scripts, nar­rowed the field to three and then selected the finalists. 
Heisler said the judges looked for creativity, original­ity and production feasibility. It was also important that each script ref1ect NBC's main goal of showing what Notre Dame football means to stu­dents, she said. 
"We were pleased with both the number of entries and the 
see NBC/page 6 

GuluWalk to raise moneyfor Ugandans 
Notre Dame senior organizes annual event to increase awareness of children's plight 
Quaranta and Michael Poffenberger. 
Steiner met Quaranto and Poffenberger, now graduates of the University, through his work in Uganda, where he spent part of last year. 
Steiner is now an active member of the Notre Dame branch of Resolve Uganda, a Washington, D.C.-based northern Uganda advocacy group. 
Steiner said he hopes to draw all types of community members to the walk Sunday. 
"It should be an event for 
see GULU/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

STUDENT SENATE 
Group approves letters 
Senators want clocks in every classroom 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 

The Student Senate decided unanimously Wednesday to send two letters -one in sup­port of restructuring the Peace Studies minor curriculum and one to gauge the Faculty Senate's thoughts about installing clocks in all campus classrooms. 
Karen Koski, the chair of the Social Concerns committee, presented the letter in support of incorporating a "global track" into the undergraduate Peace Studies minor. 
The Social Concerns commit­tee was approached last year about sending a letter in sup­port of an effort by Professor Jaleh Dashti-Gibson to add a Global Studies concentration to the Peace Studies minor, Koski said. Dashti-Gibson is the director of academic pro­grams at the Joan B. Kroc institute for International Peace Studies. 
In the letter addressed to the director of undergraduate studies, the Student Senate supports Dashti-Gibson's ini­tiative. 
"Every student, school 
see SENATE/page 4 


By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
On Sunday afternoon, most members of the Notre Dame community will be recovering from Saturday's home football game, but senior Joel Steiner hopes people will take a few hours to participate in the GuluWalk, an event that raises money for children in north­ern Uganda. 
Steiner is orgamzmg GuluWalk South Bend, an annual event started in the area in 2003 by then-Notre Dame students Peter 


Stressed students seek services 
Health Services, Counseling Center see signs of academic anxiety 
By KATE MCCLELLAND 
News Writer 
As midterm week approaches, many students are mentally preparing themselves for all­nighters at the library, coffee breaks at midnight, sleep depra­vation and heavy stress. 
But for some students, the lev­els of anxiety can become a chronic medical concern. 
Last year, 27 percent of stu­dents (957 undergraduates in total) who sought counseling at the University Counseling Center were treated for anxiety -one of the main symptoms of chronic stress. 
"Students at Notre Dame have extremely high expectations for themselves. which can cause an extraordinary amount of stress," said Dr. Wendy Settle, a staff psychologist and coordinator for outreach and consultation at the Counseling Center. "I think that unfortunately our environment tends to promote perfectionism and piling on the assignments and the committees along with an attitude of 'sucking it up.' 
"Because Notre Dame students are intelligent, they tend to appear as if they are functioning much longer before they finally fall apart.'' 
Often, Settle said, students deny the effects of stress by try­ing to cope using "solutions" such as adopting perfectionist attitudes, over committing their schedules, bingeing and purging, drinking aleohol or caffeine too much or too often, becoming overly angry or irritable or being unassertive. 

"I see many students who think they are sailing right along doing fine until the symptoms of anxiety or depression begin to creep up out of the blue," Settle said. "Notre Dame students are becoming more aware of attend­ing to their own mind-body health, and are showing greater interest in learning how to pre­vent and manage stress." 
For students dealing with stress-related illnesses, there are now more opportunities than ever to learn efiective techniques for dealing with what can feel like overwhelming stress. 
The Counseling Center and its staff of psychologists and psychi­atrists provide individual and group counseling for students that may be suffering from 
• see STRESS/page 8 



Web sites explore South Bend scene 
Nightlife, restaurant reviews posted on pages 
By SARAH MAYER 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students may venture off campus more often to explore South Bend after two new Web sites -soBendt.com and inthebend.com -were launched earlier this year to shine a spotlight on the city's cultural events and attrac­tions. 
While both Web sites pro­mote South Bend's cultural life to college-age students, they do it differently, catering to different types of users. 
Whitney Levett, the creator of soBendt.com, said his Web site is geared toward college students and young adults and is therefore focused on the city's nightlife, especially the bar and restaurant scene. 
"I targeted the demographic of 18-34 year-olds, or as I call it, generation Y," Levett said. 
Set against a black back­ground with neon signs, soBendt.com features differ­ent sections that directly aim at students, including "Bendtpix," a page where users can upload and post pictures of popular bars and clubs during their busiest 
see SITES/page 6 

..----------------------------------­
~-------­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 11, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Ticked off about a bike 
On Sunday, Sept. 23, 2007, between Xand IJ p.m. United States Eastprn Standard Time, my bicycle was stolen from th1~ row of bike rails northeast of South Dining llall. I'm rnally, truly ticknd ofT about it. 
It's not usually a good idPa for "being ticked otr' to be one's direct and only motivation, although it can be a great pri­mary motiva­tion as long as it leads to other, nobler rationales. 
For exampl1~. when women didn't have l.lw dght to vote in the United Kingdom around the turn of tlw cen­tury, many intellectuals were ticked ofT about this and were able to translatn their frustration into a rational examination of thn sources of tlw problem. Then tlwre was 1\mily Wilding Davison, who was also ti1:ked ofT about this. In protest, slw went on to stnp in front of thn King's horsn and din from trampling­indul:nd injuries. 
Clearly, if being ticked off is your sole, dinwt motivation, bad things can happnn. llownvnr, this sort of rationalizing donsn't make mn any less tickml orr that someone stole my bkydn. 
II. donsn't havn anything to do with tlw bikn itsnll", which was a pinen of junk. If" tlw goodness or bi1:yde ~nats were nvnr subjnct to a rigorous quantitative analysis, then mirw would havn bnnn only 1-2 p1~rcnnt bntter than having no seat at all. And, as far as therts rank. I under­stand that a Notre Dame student los­ing $50 worth of bicycle isn't exactly the greatest of injustices. 
But someone took the 5-10 sec­onds necessary to break my $3 bike lock, and the football team is 1-5, and both of these facts continue to piss me ofT. 
All I know is that, when I reported my bike as stolen to the Notre Dame Security/Police, the oflicer was friendly enough to recommend that I "check the Gug." And, a few days ago, a football player was overheard claiming that he finally purchased a bike, because the ones he stole were always too small for him. And one of Delaware's new defensive lineman liked to ride a baby blue girl's Hoadmaster. And nobody on campus jokes about the soccer team stealing bikes. 
I don't want to be Notre Dame's Emily Wilding Davison, blindly jumping in front of the 300-pound I>-1 athlete version of King George V mounted on my Mt. Fury horse, con­sequences be damned. So I'll work on not being pissed off, now that they may have finally started work­ing on playing football. 
The bike is a red and silver Mt. Fury Hoadmaster, 15 speeds, serial number SNFSD07F42508. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe ObservPr. 
Contact Joey King at jkingl@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that w~ will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU DO TO CONSERVE ENERGY? 







Maggie Wickett  Sheila Mamandur  Ellen Fitzsimmons  Jeff Lakusta  Paul Macias  
senior offcampus  senior offcampus  senior offcampus  sophomore Fisher  junior St. Edward's  
"/ carpool with  "!like to  "J eat  "J turn the  ,"/sleep.  
a little Indian  emulate the  candlelight  lights offwhen I  
girl."  European  dinners with a  ,leave my room.  

lifestyle ... and little Indian I'm a little girl.'' Indian girl. " 

Police find man asleep at the wheel 
RICHFIELD, Minn. ­Police say a 26-year-old St. Louis Park man was asleep at thn wheel of his pickup as it drove down the street before dawn on Sunday. He didn't wake when the truck crossed the centerline, or when an officer ran up and jumped on the running board, reached inside and put the truck in neutral. 
The criminal complaint said Pedro Fernando Brito, 26, was undisturbed when the officer stopped the truck and pulled out the keys. 
Then the officer got his attention. "Police had to 

shake the defendant's shoul­der and yell at him to wake him up," the complaint said. 
"This is a weird one. Strange," Richfield police Lt. Todd Sandel said. "He was out to the world, behind the wheel of a moving vehicle. We were lucky it was 3:30 a.m." 
Man finds Intruder napping In his bed 
ELKTON, Md.-Maybe this intruder should have had a good night's sleep. Police say a man returned to his apartment last week to find an intruder napping in his bed. The accused burglar, Mark William, didn't wake up until police placed handcuffs on him while he was snooz­ing. 
Police say the victim came home at 8 a.m. on Oct. 2 to find William asleep in his bed. He called police. 
Authorities say William, who goes by the nickname "Weasel," jammed a chair to the back entrance of the apartment before bedding down. He was charged with burglary, theft and malicious destruction of property. William also faces drug charges after police found a small package of suspected crack cocaine in hi'> pocket. 
Information compiled by the AssociatedPress. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
1.1.1 
::::r:: 
!cC 
1.1.1 

3: 
....I
cr: 
(.) 

..... 0 HIGH 60 HIGH 50 HIGH 
LOW 42 LOW 35 LOW 

IN BRIEF 
The 5 Browns will perform in concert tonight at 7:30 in the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Student tiekets are $15. The five siblings arn Juilliard­trained conenrt pianists who perform individually, together and in different combinations. 
The Mendoza College of Business' Boardroom Insights Lecture Series will feature Niek Shepherd. Senior Exncutive Vicn Presidnnt and Chief Operating Officer of Blockbuster, lne Friday from 
10:40 a.m. -12:15 p.m. in thn Jordan Auditorium. 
The football Pep Rally will be held Friday at 6 p.m in the Joyce Center. Students with ID may enter from 5:15-5:45 p.m. through Gate 11; the general public can enter at 5:45 p.m. through Gate 8 (if tickets are available). 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will face Georgetown Friday at 7:30 
p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Hypnotist Tom DeLuca will give a free performance Friday at 9 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
The Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies' con­ference, "Race and Immigration in the New Ireland," opens with a keynote address by Mary Robinson, for­mer president of Ireland and 
U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, in Washington Hall Sunday at 7:15p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
~".
'\ i \-J .
~-N---1/
'SV ~.y
-.;.;;;,..r t_.. 
~IJ;J~ 


HIGH 62 HIGH 65 LOW 43 LOW 44 
Atlanta 74 /53 Boston 61/ 55 Chicago 57 I 47 Denver 77 I 46 Houston 86 I 62 Los Angeles 74 I 58 Minneapolis 53 I 38 New York 69 I 60 Philadelphia 73 I 60 Phoenix 95 I 70 Seattle 60 I 50 St. Louis 63 I 44 Tampa 88 I 73 Washington 70 I 57 
---------------------------------------------------------. Thursday, October 11, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Professor researches n1odified corn 
Special to The Observer 
Since its introduction in the mid-1990s, "Bt corn," which is genetically modified to resist damage by insect pests, has been boosting agricultural production throughout the United States and the world. llowcver, could this agricultural boon be an environ­mental bust? 
That is the question posed in a new paper by a team of researchers 
process for transgenic crops, the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency was responsible for test­ing and identifying potential envi­ronmental consequences from the planting of Bt corn," Tank said. "The EPA concluded that transgenic corn posed no threat to aquatic ecosystems. We. thought that more in-depth stud­ies were needed to investigate the potential of Bt corn to influence aquatic ecosystems, given that 
small headwater 
ineluding Notre streams frequent­
"Our results suggest 
Dame biologist ly drain agricul­Jennifer Tank. In that the transgenic tural fields, espe­
the paper, Tank toxin in Bt corn cially in the 
and her col­Midwest."
pollen and detritus

leagues suggest Using field 
that corn byprod­can affect species of measurements ucts, such as insects outside the obtained from 
pollen and crop streams draining
targeted pest." 

detritus left farm l"ields in behind after har­central Indiana, vest, enter head­Jennifer Tank Tank and her fel­water systems professor low researchers draining agricul­showed that
Department of Biological 
tural crops and transgenic mate­

Sciences 

are subject to storage, con­sumption and transport to down­stream water bodies. · 
Transgenic maize (corn) has been genetically engineering to produce its own insecticide, the Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) delta endotoxin. The Bt toxin is poison­ous to insect pests, most notably the European corn borer. One European corn borer per stalk across an entire field can reduce corn yield by an estimated five percfmt in first generation and two-and-a-half percent in subse­quent generations. 
"As part of the licensing rial from corn, 
such as pollen, leaves and cobs, do, in fact, enter streams in the agricultural Midwest. 
Further laboratory feeding tri­als showed that these materials, when consumed by aquatic insects, such as stream caddis­flies, close genetic relatives of the European corn borer, can cause reduced growth and possible increased mortality. 
"Our results suggest that the transgenic toxin in Bt corn pollen and detritus can affect species of insects outside the targeted pest," Tank said. 
Caddisflies (and other aquatic 
insects) are important members of a stream ecosystem. They assist in the breakdown of organ­ic matter and serve as a food resource for higher organisms, such as fish, birds and amphib­ians. In a larger context, aquatic insects are an important and nee­. essary component to healthy, sus­tainable freshwater ecosystems. Widespread planting of Bt crops may have unexpected and unin­tended ecosystem-scale conse­quences in aquatic ecosystems located in close proximity to agri­cultural fields planted with genet­
ically modified <:rops. 
"Our results suggest that there 
is the potential for effects in 
downstream water bodies, such 
as lakes and large rivers, because 
the transgenic materials that 
enter streams are stored and 
processed during baseflow, but 
may be exported during floods," 
Tank said. "However, the ulti­
mate fate of the materials is 
unknown and this is an impor­
tant area for future study." _ 
The researchers stress that 
their research should not be 
viewed as an indictment of farm­
ers. 

"We do not imply that farmers 
are somehow to blame for either 
planting transgenic [Btl corn, nor 
are they responsible for any 
unintended ecological conse­
quences from Bt corn byprod­
ucts," Tank said. "Farmers are, 
to a large extent, trapped in an 
agro-industrial system that, in 
order to stay competitive and 
profitable requires that they use 
the latest technological 
advances." 



MBA progratn ranks fifth for stew-ardship 
Notre Dame's MBA pro­
Special to The Observer 

gram, which also earned a 
The master of business fifth-place ranking in the administration [MBA] pro­Aspen Institute's 2005 sur­gram in the Mendoza vey, was cited for the perva­College of Business is siveness of social, ethical ranked No. 5 worldwide in and environmental issues the Aspen Institute's new included throughout the "Beyond Grey program, Pinstripes" beginning at
"Our mission is not 
survey. orientation
just to prepare
The biennial and continuing survey, students to succeed, through the released today, core curricu­
but to succeed in the 
rates the top lum, elective
right way, to
30 business courses and schools from contribute to the ongoing activi­among 600 ties.
common good as we
full-time MBA "In the
keep faith with our
programs. The 'Beyond Grey ranking is founding mission." Pinstripes' based on how survey, suc­effectively the cess is meas­
Carolyn Woo 
program and ured not by
Dean
faculty pre­how much new pare students Mendoza College of MBA gradu­in business Business ates earn or 
issues related to social and environmental stewardship. 
"Business is probably the most powerful force in shap­ing the opportunities and quality of life in a society," said Carolyn Woo, Martin J. Gillen Dean of the College. "Our mission is not just to prepare students to succeed, but to succeed in the right way, to contribute to the common good as we keep faith with our founding mis­sion." 
how many 

offers they get," said Judith Samuelson, executive director of the Aspen Institute Business and Society Program, "but by how well prepared they are to guide a company through the complex rela­tionship of business and society, where issues relat­ing to the environment or the well-being of a commu­nity can impact a company's performance and reputa­tion." 


FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12 
11 a.m. to 1 p.m.  11 a.m. to 1 p.m.  
George Porter-Young  Dorothy Corson  
·~ Boy Amidst The  ·~Cave of  
Rubble"  Candles"  


9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Ara Parseghian 

"Notre Dame's Greatest Coaches" 
Benefit for the Nieman Pic Foundation. No additional memorabilia will be signed. 

11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
11:30 a.m. to 

Rosemary Mills-­
1:30 p.m.
11:30 a.m. to 


12 p.m. to 1 p.m.


Russell '80
1:30 p.m. 


Tim Prister 

Tara Kenney '82 Gerry Faust

Digger Phelps 
'The New Gold 


Kelley Tuthill '96 
'Tales From the

"Undertaker's Son" 
Standard" Mary Davey BUley '72 
Notre Dame Sideline" 
'Thanking Father Ted" 

1 p.m. to 3 p.m. 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. Katherine Kana'ema'e Matt Cashore Angi Jurkovic Karen Heisler Smith Kerry Temple 
"Notre Dame Coloring "Fighting Irish: Legends, 'The Love Remains" "Celebrating Notre Dame" and Activity Book" Usts and Lore" 


SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13 


9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. 
Connie McNamara 
Ralph Mcinerny
9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 


"Go Irish" 
"Irish Alibi"

Paul Kostolansky 
'The Snow Bowl" 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 11, 2007 
------~~~~~~~~====~======~~~~~~==~~~~========~~~~~====~ 
NBC 
continued from page 1 

quality of the scripts," she said. "Tiwrn were many cre­ative and clcvor scripts wo eould not seleet because tho production requin~rnents of those scripts Wl'fl~ either too complicatnd or too unrealis­tic." 
The three f'inalists have until Nov. I to shoot and edit their spots. They are permit­ted to use FTT equipment, but they must complete all other production Plmnnnts by thmn­selves. 
Cristina Bufalino said the most challenging part of the project for her group has been organizing all the indi­vidual elements needed for production. 
ller group's commercial will show the Iii"!~ of a student on gamn day from the student's pnrspective. 
"We wanted to consider and eapture a student's experi­ence on game day bncause that is what Notre Dame foot­ball is to us," she said. "It is about the experience of game
day." · Coyer took a diiTercnt route for his ad. "The general coneept of the short is that Notre Dame foot­ball isn't just on Saturday for the studmtts," he said. llis spot will show a class­room where a bored student imagines a play-by-play announeer calling a Notre Dame football game. The play-by-play rcnects the pro­fnssor's lncture and ends with a touchdown. The student eel­
ebrates the touchdown until he realizes lw's in class and sits down, embarrassed. 
"I realized the actual game day experilmce is more or less thn same for all students across the board," Geyer said. "So I took a different approach to it and tried to writn something that you wouldn't really expect." 
Geynr said the most difl1cult part of making his ad has been trying to plan it out and get aetors to take the roles. 
For llartmann and Meaney, the most challenging part has benn translating their script into film, Hartmann said. 
"Some shots that we wanted just weren't feasible for either logistical or visual purposes," she said. "Writing, directing and producing a commercial is really unique. In 30 sec­onds we have to show the world how we sec the aura of Notre Dame football." 
llartmann said her commer­cial's football theme is related to tradition. 
"Our commercial has to do with time -the traditions of Notre Dame football that have lasted for generations, but also the people throughout our history who have kept thnse traditions alive, right up to the spirit of current stu­dents," Hartmann said. 
From Nov. 3-9, fans will have the opportunity to vote for their favorite spot on the NBCSports.com. The winner will be announced Nov. 10, and NBC will deeide when and where the commercial will air. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 


CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN





STUDENTS 
Sites 
continued from page 1 
nights. 
The bar and dining guide offers tips on where to get $1 tacos on Tuesdays (Casa del Hio) and $1.50 domestic beers on Wednesdays (Madison Oyster Bar). 
The Web site also has a "soTuned" section where it advertises local bands ­such as Groupies Wanted, Stillshot and Ilypermix ­and where they are playing each night of the week. 
site's sales representative, said soBendt.com was creat­ed for people in South Bend "who just want to have a good time." 
The Web site also has "Bendifieds," where people can advertise and find post­ings for houses, cars and other items for sale. 
SoBendt.com's counterpart, lnthebend.com, was created for college students as it says it its "about us" section. 
"The Web site evolved from an idea by college students who wanted a Web site that provided listings of all events in the area and on local 
T h e BlogStation section allows peo­ple to post personal ads from people like 23-year­
o I d Michael, who said he is look­ing for a girl with "pretty e y e s , 
campuses," the site reads. With a less

"I do not know ifI will 
vibrant color 

use either Web site, but I 
scheme, am glad they are out inthebend.com advertises typ­
there ifI ever 
ical college

want to find 
food plaees

something to do." such as Papa John's also has links for local
Emma Hoffman 
movies, the­


freshman 
atre, and Saint Mary's music. The main section of the 
the site is the "volunteer" link. ThP. llumane Society of St. Joseph County and Pet Hefugee INC. are both look­ing for volunteers and have advertisements on the page. 
The career center and classilieds of the sitn links to the·:S1mth... Bend Tribune for job listings and all things that need to bo bought or sold. 
With the parks and roere­ation link, inthelwnd.com advertises golf eourses, local parks and zoos. 
Th1~ creators of inthebend.com say the site's main feature is its calendar. 
"People and organizations in the community can share their event information by filling out the form and sub­mitting it onlinn for posting," the site reads. 
"I do not know if I will use either Web site," Saint Mary's freshman Emma lloffman said, "but I am glad they aro out there if I ever wa~t to find something to do. 
Freshman Justin Browne liked inthcbend.com. 
"(It] looks like an awesome site to l"ind things to do on Sundays or when there is other free time," he said. 

Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
someone I can have an intel­ligent conversation with. Someone who isn't looking to get married in a year but would be up for a road trip or a trip together." 
Alex Luscano, the Web 
Web site is called "College Central" and has links to events and sports at !USB, Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross, Bethel and Ivy Tech. 
Another link at the top of 



----~-----~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 11, 2007 COMPILED FROJ'v1 TI--IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Relief group leaves Darfur town 
JUBA -The only international aid group in a Darfur town where rebels reported that dozens of people were killed in a government attack said Wednesday it has pulled out for security reasons. 
Dodors Without Borders said it could not con­firm the deaths but counted at least 39 seriously wounded people -mostly civilians -in the South Darfur town of Muhajeria before it had to evacuate. 
"There were casualties reported to us, but we couldn't verily them," said Banu Altanbas, a rep­resentative of the Paris-based group. 
A U.N. observer in Darfur said Mahalya Arab tribesmen led the attack Monday, but could not say whether they had been sent by the govern­ment. The Sudanese army denied involvement, describing the dashes as intertribal battles. 
Former negotiator criticizes Iran 
TEHRAN-Iran's former chief nuclear nego­tiator delivered an unusually sharp rebuke to President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's policies Wednesday, saying they are turning more nations against Iran and failing to fix the strug­gling economy. 
The comments by I Iasan Howhani were the harshest yet against the hard-line president by a prominent ligure in the Iranian leadership, and came after critics had grown muted in recent month as the government stirred up fears of conflict with the U.S. and warned against dis­sent. 
The eritieism echoed eomplaints early this year from conservative supporters of Ahmadinejad that his inflammatory rhetoric was needlessly goading tho West in the con­frontation over Iran's nudear program and that he hadn't fulfilled promises to improve the neonomy. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Gates says Army must adopt changes 
WASHINGTON -The U.S. Army of the future will need to concentrate more on training foreign militaries, mastering other languages and customs, and honing its ability to fight smaller forces of insur­gents, Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Wednesday. 
In broad strokes, Gates laid out a vision for transforming the Army to a force bet­ter able to fight the type of unconventional warfare it has seen in Iraq and Afghanistan, which he said will "remain the mainstay of the contemporary battle­field for some time." 

Climate change extends to humidity 
WASHINGTON -With global warming, the world isn't just getting hotter. It's get­ting stickier. It really is the humidity. 
And people are to blame, according to.a study based on computer models pub­lished Thursday. 
The amount of moisture in the air near Earth's surfaee rose 2.2 percent in less than three decades, the researchers rnport in a study appearing in the journal Nature. 
"This humidity change is an important contribution to heat stress in humans as a result of global warming," said Nathan Gillett of the University of East Anglia in the United Kingdom, a co-author of the study. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Arcadia moves headquarters 
INDIANAPOLIS -Arcadia IlealthCare, a provider of home hnalth care and products, plans to relocate its national headquarters here from Southfield, Mich., and says it will create 400 jobs by 2010. 
Gov. Miteh Daniels joined Arcadia Health Care Chief Executive Marvin Richardson on Wednesday in announcing the move from suburban Detroit to the northside of Indianapolis. The company plans to invest more than $3 million in the relocation and will begin hiring managers, pharmacists, pharmacy technicians and sales staff later this year. 

Student wounds 5, kills self in shooting 
Suspended youth hurts three teens, two adults with about 10 shots in five-story school building 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -A 14­year-old suspended student opened fire in a downtown high school Wednesday before killing himself, and five people were taken to hospitals, authorities said. 
After the shooting, shak­en teens called their par­ents on cell phones, most to reassure but in at least one case with terrifying news: "Mom, I got shot." 
Mayor Frank Jackson said the three teens and two adults were hurt. lie said the children were in "stable, good condition," and the adults were in "a little elevated condition." 
The shooter was enrolled at the SuccessTech Aeademy alternative school but had been suspended Monday for fighting, said Charles Blackwell, presi­dent of SuccessTech's stu­dent-parent organization. 
Blackwell said the shoot­er entered the high school, a converted five-story office building, and gradually worked his way up through the first two floors of administrative offices to the third floor of class­rooms. 
"Nobody knows how he got in," he said. 

Student Doneisha LeVert, who hid in a closet with was a shooting and told his bathroom during the shoot­hugging each other and on two other students after classmates to flee down the ings, confirmed that cell phones. Others shouted she heard a "Code Blue" stairs. Rodgers had been shot in at reporters with TV cam­alert over the loudspeaker, Tammy Mundy, 38, who the elbow. She said he told eras to leave them alone. said the shooter had has a son and daughter at her he was going to be fine. Family members also stood threatened students Friday. the school, told The Plain The mayor said the other outside, anxiously waiting 
"He's crazy. He threat­Dealer that her daughter two teens injured were a for their children to be ened to blow up our school. called when the shooting boy and a girl, both 14, and released. He threatened to stab started. that the girl had fallen and ''I'm scared. I'm hoping everybody," she said. "She said, 'Mom they're hurt her knee while run­no more people got hurt," 
Ronnell Jackson, 15, said shooting in here, kids are ning out of the school. Ronnell Jackson said. he saw a shooter running running out, I'm hiding in A hospital spokeswoman The shooting occurred down a school hallway. the closet,"' Mundy told the said Rodgers was listed in across the street from the 
"He was about to shoot newspaper. stable condition. David FBI office in downtown me, but I got out just in Then she called her 18-Kachadourian, 57, was in Cleveland, and students time," he said. "He was year-old son, Darnell good condition, and a 42-were being sent to the FBI aiming at me I got out just Rodgers, on his cell phone, year-old man was in sur­site. in time." and he told her he had gery and his condition "There are a lot of emer­
LeVert said she heard been shot in the arm. unavailable. The other two gency vehicles," said about 10 shots. "He said, 'Mom, I got injured teens were taken to spokesman Scott Wilson. 
"I heard gunshots but I shot,"' Mundy told the a children's hospital, which "They're just trying to sort just thought someone was newspaper. would not release their things out right now." banging a book on the Rodgers' girlfriend, 17-names, ages or conditions. Wilson said he had no desk," said Rasheem Smith, year-old Lateisha Students stood outside information on the shoot­
15. He soon realized there Riddlehill, who hid in a the building, many in tears, ing. 

IRAQ 


Officials question private contract firms 
Associated Press rity operatives in Baghdad said lar way," he said. "We call upon the gov­
Blackwater was preparing a reorganiza­ernment to put an end to these killings." 
BAGHDAD -Iraqi officials demanded tion and possible downsizing. The offi­His comments reflected the growing answers Wednesday from representa­cials spoke on condition of anonymity anger against the private security compa­tives of an Australian-owned security because of the issue's sensitivity. The nies -nearly all based in the United company, as the government appeared company, based in Moyock, N.C., does not States, Britain and other Western coun­determined to eurb perceived excesses by speak publicly about its operations or tries -as symbols of the lawlessness in heavily armed guards accused of killing plans. this country since the U.S.-Ied ouster of nearly 20 Iraqi civilians in less than a At a funeral mass in Baghdad's Saddam Hussein in 2003. month. Armenian Orthodox VIrgin Mary church, As the largest security firm operating in 
The scrutiny of the firm, Unity the Hev. Kivork Arshlian urged the gov­Iraq, much of that rage has been directed Resources Group, began a day after its ernment to punish those responsible for at Blackwater, which protects U.S. diplo­guards gunned down two Iraqi Christian Tuesday's killings despite the immunity mats as they move about on Baghdad's women in their car, and nearly a month that has generally been enjoyed by for­dangerous streets. An Iraqi investigation after 17 Iraqis died in a hail of bullets eign security contractors in Iraq. into the Sept. 16 killings recommended fired by Blackwater USA contractors at a "This is a crime against humanity in that the U.S. State Department sever all busy Baghdad intersection. general and against Iraqis in particular. contracts for the company's operations in 
Officials in the tight-knit world of secu-Many other people were killed in a simi-Iraq within six months. 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October II, 2007 
Dashti-Gibson as a professor who is planning on presenting
Senate 

the minor concentration to the 
Kroe Institute. · 
"It is saying that the students administrator, faculty member support this idea, and it would and staff is a mtlmber of the help in possibly getting this global community, and we have whole proeess started," Molloy the capacity and responsibility said. to positively shape the world The Senate unanimously that we share," the letter said. passed the resolution to send "In order to do so, we must the letter, and Koski will for­first understand the contempo­ward it to Dashti-Gibson. 
continued from page I 

rary world.  Academic  
its  issues,  Affairs chair  
potentials  "Clocks are beneficial to  C  a  r  o  I  
and multi­facnt'ed intnrcon­ both students andfaculty for the purpose ofstandard  Hendrickson presented a letter request­ 
neetions.  class beginning and ending  ing  the  
and  we  times and accurate and  Faculty  
bnlieve this initiative  fair examination periods."  Senate share their views on  
would facil­ adding clocks  
itate  sueh  Letter drafted by the Student  to every class­ 
g I  o b  a  I  Senate to the Faculty Senate  room on cam­ 

under­
standing 
among undnrgrad uates." 
Arter tlw meetirtg, Koski said shn did not know to whom tlw lnttnr was addrnssPd. but that it was to the "appropriate dinletor of undergraduate studios." 
Somo senators questioned whether tlwre was any student interest in the restructuring of the major. 
O'Neill senator Matt Molloy said student response to last ynar's Notre Dame Forum on global hnalth was one indicator that students have interest in a (;lobal Studies concentration. 
Professor Thomas Noble, the faculty senate liaison to the Senate, told Koski there is a systmn in each college through which now minors or majors are addtld and that the Social Concerns committee should lind a dPpartmPnt or program to "champion" its cause. 
"Thern is a disindination to ereate nnw programs if thllre isn't an obvious need for it." Nobln said. 
Tlw letter is useful, Koski said. bneausn it identifies pus. Some 

aeademie buildings do not have eloeks in all elassrooms, Hendrickson said, eiting O'Shaughnessy llall, llayes-llealy llall and Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. 
The letter points out that some buildings, like Coleman­Morse and the Jordan Hall of Scienee, do have elocks in each classroom. It asks the Faculty Senate to discuss the discrep­aney at their next meeting. 
"Clocks are beneficial to both students and faculty for the purpose of standard class beginning and ending times and accurate and fair exami­nation periods," the letter said. 
The Student Senate attempt­ed to pass this resolution last ynar, but it did not pass, partly because students did not know what faculty members thought about the issue, said Ian Secviar, chair of the Oversight eommittee. 
The purpose of the letter, Hendrickson said, is to ask the Faculty Senate to talk about it. 
"It's not a resolution firmly saying we want clocks in the elassroom," she said. 
Pasquerilla West senator and before the Student Senate Megan Sennett, who worked on passes a resolution, the letter with Hendrickson, Hendrickson said, the Senate said they have not looked at will make sure they know the 
the costs of adding clocks to every build­ing on cam­pus. 
In the p a s t . llendrickson said, it was deemed too expensive to add clocks to the class­rooms, because people were stealing them out of 
"Every student, school administrator, faculty member and staffis a member ofthe global community, and we have the capacity and responsibility to positively shape the world that we share. " 
Letter drafted by the Student Senate 
costs of installing the clocks. 
Hendrickson also updated the Senate on a survey about course packets that the Academic Affairs commit­tee conducted during the past week. Of the 800 students they surveyed. 264 responded. Hendrickson said they will 
O'Shaughnessy and the cost of show the results to the replacing them was too expen­Hammes Notre Dame sive. Bookstore and will probably 
Arter the Faculty Senate submit a resolution to the makes its review or the issue, Senate next Wednesday. 
In other Senate news: 
+ 
Student body president Liz Brown announced she submit­ted her report on community relations to Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. Brown will present the report next Thursday. 

+ 
The first student-faculty debate, on the topic of immi­gration, will be tonight at 7 in the Dooley Hoom of LaFortune Hall. The next debate, on the role of religion in a eandidate's political platform. will be on Nov. 14. 

+ 
Multieultural Affairs com­mittee chair Ninny Wan said the committee has made shirts to support the Jena 6, a group of black teens in .lena, La., who have been charged with crimes after lingering racial tensions led to brawls in the small town. 


Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


,,,••: j'PY ai).P h~ppiness on stage'' .. Rolling Stone 
Proprietor.;  
Warren & Linda  
7-ir.s/ Oriyinaf:Azza in 'J(}Q)n I  
Since 1951  
Specializins In trafian Enrrees  
TireS.-Thurs.: 5:00PM-11:00 PM  
Fri. -Sat.: 5:00 PM • 1 :00 AM  
537 North St. louis •  South Bend, IN  
574-233-2464  

ut'sday and Friday are Latin ··Hight
-'t" ···· sat 
Palacio Tt'oplatl · 
Come <.i;:mce s~I~<L merengue, cu <1 nq mot"e (t"orn 9prn-3q 
201.2 W. WL'Stern Ave. $2 n((cover chilt9C with <l sh.rclcnt.ID Qt<l 

.. .. &eeshow 



Wa~hiPgton hall 
· e...:,~o-~ a··t 9····OOj.m·
.-U:fllur.. . ....., 
·•i'h&¥? · ... ·... ·.··... . ·.·.· .................... ·..•.. . ..i ... . ..• ···.· . 
· doQts open at 8:3 J?lll 
::::;;:,;.:.. 
ITIIDRif AmmiES
lAD 
IAD.ND.EDU 







USINESS
Thursday, October 11, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  14,078.69  -85.84  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,307  102  999  2,932,088,420  
AMEX  2,425:86  

NASDAQ 2,811.61 +7.70 NYSE 10,264.50 rl5.81 S&P 500 1,562.47 -2.68 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 17,221.69 +43.80 FTSE 100 (London) 6,633.00 +17.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.17 -0.26 156.22 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.24 +0.13 53.51 EM C CP (EMC) +3.48 +0.76 22.57 SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIR!) +3.08 +0.11 3.69 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.09 -0.004 4.647 13-WEEK BILL +0.64 +0.025 3.935 30-YEAR BOND -0.02 -0.001 4.863 5-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.000 4.368 
Commodities LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.24 80.26 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.40 743.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.28 86.73 
Exchange Rates YEN 117.1700 EURO 0.7073 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9818 BRITISH POUND 0.4905 

IN BRIEF 
Stocks mixed after record close Tuesday 
NEW YORK -Wall Street stumbled through a lopsided session Wednesday, closing mixed as profit warnings and news from blue chip names Alcoa Inc. and Boeing Co. dragged down the Dow Jones industrial average but largely spared tech­nology stocks. 
A pullback was to be expected after the Dow and the Standard & Poor's 500 index fmished at new highs Tuesday amid enthusiasm over com­ment.<> from Federal Heserve policymakers about interest rates. but corporate news appeared to hasten Wednesday's slide. 
Declines by Dow components Boeing and Alcoa, among others, hurt the 30-stock index. Meanwhile, International Paper Co. and Chevron Corp. moved lower on profit news. 
With investors thumbing through fresh quar­terly results and corporate announcements. the latest economic readings did little to dislodge the dichotomy between blue chips and tech stocks. A report showed inventories among U.S. whole­salers ticked up in August, while a trade group for real estate agent.<; warned the drop in sales of existing homes this year will be steeper than had been expected. 
UAW ratifies 4-year CBA with GM 
DETHOIT -The United Auto Workers union said WPdnesday it has ratifiP.d a four-year con­traet with General Motors that sets lower pay for some workers and puts GM's massive retiree health care debt into a UAW-run trust in exchange for promises of future work at U.S. plants. 
Sixty-six percent of production workers voted in favor of the deal. while 64 percent of skilled trades workers approved it, the UAW said in a statement. 
The two sides settled on Sept. 26 after a two­day nationwide strike. 
UAW President Hon Gettellinger said in the statement that the agreement protects jobs, wages and benefits for active and retired work­ers. 
"And we helped protect middle class manu­facturing jobs in communities throughout the United States," Gettellinger said. 

Chrysler, UAW reach 4-year contract 
Agreement comes after workers went on strike earlier in day; Ford to negotiate deal with union next 
Associated Press  
DETHOIT -The United  
Auto Workers union  
reached a tentative four­ 
year contract with  
Chrysler Wednesday,  
hours after going out on  
strike and the same day  
General Motors workers  
ratified a separate four­ 
year pact.  
Next up: Ford.  
UAW President Ron  
Gettelfinger said the  
strike against Chrysler  
LLC, 80.1 percent owned  
by private equity firm  
Cerberus Capital  
Management LP, would  
end immediately and  
workers should report  
for their next available  
shift.  
"This agreement was  
made possible because  
UAW workers made it  
clear to Chrysler that we  
needed an agreement  
that rewards the contri­ 
butions they have made  
to the suceess of this  
company," Gettelfinger  
said in a statement.  
Gettelfinger wouldn't  
release any details of the  
contract, but Chrysler  
said the tentative agree­ 
ment includes the estab­ 
lishment of a UAW-man­ 
aged trust that will  
administer retiree health  
care. The newly private United Auto Workers members strike outside the Chrysler facility in Warren, Mich. Thousands  
company didn't say how of Chrysler workers walked off the job before the union agreed to a contract Wednesday. 
much money it will con­ 
tribute to the trust.  retiree health care trust,  Wednesday.  fy the tentative agree­ 
"The national agree­ was approved by 66 per­ Among the major issues  ment before it can take  
ment is consistent with  cent of production work­ in the Chrysler talks  effect. Ford will be the  
the economic pattern and  ers and 64 percent of  were the retiree health  final automaker to bar­ 
balances the needs of our  skilled trades workers.  care trust; the company's  gain with the UAW.  
employees and company  The deal, reached Sept.  desire to· outsource  Chrysler became a pri­ 
by providing a frame­ 26 after a two-day  parts-trucking jobs;  vate company shortly  
work to improve our  nationwide strike, estab­ promises that future  after the contract talks  
long-term manufacturing  lishes lower pay for some  products will be built at  began in July. Cerberus  
competitiveness,"  workers and makes  U.S. factories; and parity  bought its share of  
Chrysler Vice President  promises for future work  with health care conces­ Chrysler from the former  
and Chairman Tom  at U.S. plants.  sions that were given to  DaimlerChrysler AG in a  
LaSorda said in a state­ UAW members at 19 of  Ford Motor Co. and  $7.4 billion transaction  
ment.  24 U.S. Chrysler factories  General Motors Corp. two  in August. Chrysler is  
The UAW said its his­ and several other facili­ years ago.  now a private company  
toric contract with GM,  ties left their jobs for the  A majority of Chrysler  without publicly traded  
which also includes a  picket lines at 11 a.m.  workers will have to rati­ shares.  


Boeing: 787 will release 6 months late 
target of earlier this fall, now is not large commercial airplane made
Associated Press anticipated until around the end of mostly of carbon-fiber composites, CHICAGO -Boeing Co.'s 787 the first quarter of 2008. which are lighter, more durable Dreamliner will be the first new The delay highlights inherent and less prone to corrosion than American commercial jetliner built problems in building new airplanes aluminum. in more than a decade. The air­and could slow the momentum But the company's effort has plane maker has long promised it Boeing built up after years of lag­been shadowed by difficulty getting will fly faster and farther than any ging behind European rival Airbus, the right parts from its suppliers other medium-sized jet, using 20 which itself stumbled in introduc­on time, among other issues, and is percent less fuel and offering ing its superjumbo A380 two years facing a global shortage of fasten­increased cabin comfort. behind schedule. ers that hold large sections of the Now it also will be at least six Chairman and CEO Jim McNerney plane together. months late. expressed disappointment over the Boeing said the postponement Acknowledging early problems delays but said the company will not materially affect its earn­assembling the first 787s have dis­remains confident about the 787's ings or guidance for next year. rupted its schedule, the aerospace design and supporting technolo­McNerney had publicly voiced company said Wednesday it is gies. "Our most important commit­confidence as recently as four delaying initial deliveries of the ment is to deliver an airplane that weeks ago that the airplane maker ballyhooed aircraft by six months. performs to expectations over the would be able to deliver the first Instead of next May, the first deliv­long term," he said on a conference 787 on time next May to Japan's eries are now targeted for late call. All Nippon Airways Co., despite November or December 2008. The 787, Boeing's first all-new jet skepticism among industry The first test flight, already since airlines started flying the 777 observers following the first post­pushed back once from the initial in 1995, will be the world's first ponement. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October II, 2007 
and the walk starts at 1:30. It region. The situation has creat­30,000 children to be used sol­said, go toward youth mnpow­will end around 2:30 p.m. ed an increasingly unsafe envi­diers or as sex slaves. erment organizations for initia­
Gulu 

Steiner said.  ronment for families, who have  The journey of these children,  tives relatnd to health and edu­ 
continued from page I After tlw walk, there will be a talk by Stephen Okello, a grad­tlw nntirn community," he said, uate student at the Joan B. "and so wn an~ organizing it in Kror. Institute for lntfwnational collaboration with Indiana Peaee Studies and a native Univnrsity South Bnnd's (IUSBJ Ugandan from Gulu. Quaranto student gov-met Okello in ernnwnt." Uganda, where Last ynar's "It should be an event for the two brain­ faced the brunt of the violence between the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) and the Ugandan Acholi people. The government has set up "pro­ ''The Ugandan government in the north only gives the people enough to stay alive."  Steiner said, attracted the attention of two Canadians, Adrian Bradbury and K i e r a n Hayward. In July 2005, the  cation. Other crudal actions -such as getting people out of the oppressed camps of the Northern region rebuilding schools -must be taken, he said. "The Ugandan government in the north only gives the people enough to stay alive," Steiner  
CuluWalk attractnd morn than 30,000 pnopln and rais1~d more than $500,000. Although there is no pre-registra­ the entire community and so we are organizing it in collaboration with Indiana University South Bend's (/U/o)B) student government. "  stormed the idea of found­ing a chapter of Resolve Uganda at Notre Dam!~. The situation in northern Uganda is a bleak one,  tected villages" pair beganJoel Steiner dangerous walking 12.5organizerrefugee camps kilometers into where nearly 1.7 downtown million people live, according to Toronto to sleep in front of the gulawalk.com. The people live city hall to demonstrate the in poverty since "in camps, they plight of the children. are away from their lands and The GuluWalk, then, emu­have no real source of income," lates the actions of Bradbury Steiner said. and Hayward.  said, referring to tlw shoddy and unsafe conditions in whieh Ugandans live. The region has experienced a temporary ceasn-fire for thn past year and a half, he said, and peace talks are currently underway. Many European nations have given support to such talks, and humanitarian  
tion for the walk, Steiner  Joel Steiner  Steiner said. War has been  The name of the GuluWalk draws attention to the approxi­ "[Resolve Uganda wants! to get people to realize what I the  presence is strong region, Steiner said.  in  the  
said  he  organizer  raging in the  mately 40,000 Ugandan chil­ children's!  problems  are,"  The United States has sup­ 
encourages area for theGuluWalk South Bend people to past 20 years. donate to the Uganda's cur­cause. This year's walk will rent president, Yoweri take placn on Sunday at IUSB's Museveni, overthrew the for­Student Activity Cnnter. mer government, and violence Hngistration begins at 1 p.m. has persisted throughout the  dren who walk from their small, unsafe villages into the northern city of Gulu during the night. There they can find a degree of safety and avoid being abducted by the LHA, which has already taken over  Steiner said. "It began as a symbolic movement as walking with the kids in solidarity. Now it is for support of all the oppressed of Gulu and northern Uganda." Funds from the walk, Steiner  ported peace efforts, ·Steiner said, but has remained largely silent, giving little financial support. Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu  


Stress 
continued from page 1 

severn strnss symptoms, such as panic attacks, gmwralized anxi­ety, social anxiety, test anxiety, obsossions and compulsions, sleep disorders, eating disorders and depression. 
The Counseling Center works closely with University Health Services (now housed in St. Liam llall), and ollen refers students to physicians to rule out physical conditions underlying the stress. Also, the Center sometimes direct<; student<> to campus dieti­tians. In addition, the new "Inner Hnsources Hoom" at St. Liam Hall provides a wide variety of biofeedback and sensory equip­ment that students can use to help reduce the symptoms of stress. 
Another popular option, used by 3,525 student<> last year, is the outreach workshops and pro­grams provided by the Counseling Center. Currently, Settle is con­ducting a "Relaxation and Mindfulness" class in conjunction with HecSports. 
"Students learn methods not only for relaxing the body but also for calming the mind of ruminative thoughts," she said. "People describe that you feel like you're melting into the floor, or floating, and your mind becomes clear and focused -it's really better than taking an afternoon nap." 
The hour-long elass helps stu­dents aehieve this deep relaxation with a variety of muscle relax­ation and imagery techniques. 
The next session of "Helaxation and Mindfulness" will be on Nov. 
28. Student'> ean sign up through HecSport'i. 
Contact Kate McClelland at mmcclell@nd.edu 

TlIE SliiRT PROJECT PRESET)IS: 

Thursday, October 11, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
McCain seeks health care changes 
GOP candidate aims to give citizens more choice, control over system 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON John McCain wants to give people more control over their health care -and more options ­while injecting more competi­tion into the system in hopes of insurance everything would be fine. They promise universal coverage, whatever its cost, and the massive tax increases, mandates and government regulation that it imposes," McCain said. "I offer a gen­uinely conservative vision for 
lowering costs and improving services. 
T h e Republican presidential candidate will propose a series of changes to the health care system in a s p e e c h Thursday, offering a broad over­haul plan that 
"We are approaching a 'perfect storm, of problems that ifnot addressed by the next president, will cause our health care system to implode. ,, 
John McCain GOP presidential candidate 
health care reform, which preserves the most essential value of American lives -freedom." 
A i d e s 
acknowledged the plan would take time to implement because of its scope, while billing it as a 
vision for changes he 
contrasts sharply with those his Democratic rivals have offered. 
Democrats, to varying degrees, would require indi­viduals and workers to be cov­ered, but McCain includes no such government mandate in his proposal. Rather, he focus­es on expanding access for individuals and families. 
"We are approaching a 'per­fect storm' of problems that if not addressed by the next president, will cause our health care system to implode," the Arizona senator says in remarks prepared for delivery Thursday in Des Moines, Iowa, and made avail­able to The Associated Press. 
"Democratic presidential candidates are not telling you these truths. They offer their usual default position: if the government would only pay for would work toward if elected. 
They provided no estimated price tag. To help pay for it, they said McCain would end a provision in the tax code that let employers deduct the cost of health care from their tax­able earnings. Additionally, they said, passing tort reform to eliminate frivolous lawsuits and excessive damage awards would help reduce costs. 
Broadly, McCain calls for an updated system that he says will be more responsive to consumers' needs than it is to the wants of government, insurance companies, lawyers, doctors and hospitals. 
"While we reform the system and maintain quality, we can and must provide access to health care for all our chi­zens," he says. "Controlling health care costs will take fun­damental change; nothing short of a complete reform of the culture of our health sys­tem and the way we pay for it will suflice." 
Among the major proposals: 
+ 
Allowing people to buy health insurance nationwide instead of limiting them to in­state companies. McCain says this will provide more options and force insurers to compete for business, thus decreasing costs and increasing the quali­ty of care. 

+ 
Permitting people to buy insurance through any organi­zation or association they choose as well as through their employers or buying direct from an insurance company. He says such plans would fol­low people as they change jobs, and would automatically cover the time between retire­ment and Medicare eligibility. 

+ 
Providing tax credits of $2,500 to individuals and $5,000 to families as an incen­tive to buy health coverage. People with multiyear policies that cost less than the amount of the tax credit to deposit the difference into an expanded health savings account. He also wants to eliminate what he says is a bias in the tax code toward employer-spon­sored health insurance. 

+ 
Allowing veterans to use whatever provider they want, wherever they want by giving them an electronic health care card or through another method. He says they should not have to wait for access at a faraway Veterans Affairs facili­ty. 

+ 
Supporting different meth­ods of delivering care, includ­ing walk-in clinics in retail outlets across the country. 



. you love needs help please call. 
Confidential support and assistance available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF, Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr/$ueDunn, OP, Student Affairs, 1-7819 


.\F'f"~:l:S~l~P. Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 1 Dill<>n< Campus Ministry, 1-7163 
•W:"i•~••h•>-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-4365 
Bend Community Resources: 
'sCare Center: 234-0363 
Charities: 234-3111 
website at: 
J~partmenb;~/pregnant.shtml 
MYANMAR 

Opposition tnetnber dies after interrogation 
Junta cracks down on democracy movement 
Associated Press 
YANGON-A Myanmar opposi­tion party member died during interrogation and two activists were arrested as the ruling junta pressed its crackdown on the pro­democracy movement, an exile group said Wednesday. 
The Thailand-based Assistance Association for Political Prisoners also said security officers had been threatening dissidents' rela­tives and neighbors in an attempt to get information on the where­abouts of those involved in last month's anti-government 
'The United States
protests, international which were strongly condemns the outrage. brutally sup­In the face
atrocities committed by the 
pressed by the of such pres­
junta and calls for afull
military. sure, the T h e investigation into the . junta's top Myanmar exile general
death ofWzn Shwe during 
group, made offered last
his detention in Burma.,, 
up of former week to meet political pris­with Suu Kyi, oners, said Gordon Johndroe a 62-year-old authorities Nobel Peace
spokesman
had recently Prize laureate 

White House foreign affairs
informed the who has been said. 
The prisoners' association said at least seven people have been arrested in the past two days in Myanmar's largest city, Yangon, including two on Wednesday. The arrests even as the junta and the NLD appeared to be taking cau­tious steps toward talks. 
The NLD won a landslide elec­tion victory in 1990, but the junta never allowed the parliament to convene. 
Troops crushed the recent wave of protests by shooting at demon­strators on Sept. 26-27. The regime said 10 people were killed, but dissident groups put the toll at up to 200 and say thou­sands of students, Buddhist monks and others were arrested. The crack­down ignited 
family of Win Shwe, 42, that he had died during interrogation in the central region of Sagaing. He and five colleagues had been arrested on Sept. 26, the first day of the crackdown. 
The group said Win Shwe, a member of pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy [NLD], was cremated at the detention center. The report could not be inde­pendently verified. But in the past, the group has provided detailed, accurate information on political prisoners in Myanmar, also called Burma. 
The alleged death of Wm Shwe drew a harsh reaction from the United States. Washington called for an investigation and threat­ened further sanctions against the impoverished country also known as Burma. 
"The United States strongly condemns the atrocities commit­ted by the junta and calls for a full investigation into the death of Wm Shwe during his detention in Burma," White House foreign affairs spokesman Gordon Johndroe said. "The junta must stop the brutal treatment of its people and peacefully transition to democracy or face new sanc­tions from the United States." 
In a USA Today newspaper interview published Wednesday, first lady Laura Bush said Washington was poised to impose more sanctions unless the govern­ment loosens its grip on the popu­lace "within the next couple of days." 
But State Department spokesman Sean McCormack, asked about new sanctions, offered no timetable. 
President Bush, asked at a White House event Wednesday what he thought of his wife's remarks, flashed a thumbs-up sign. 
The exile group also said the backlash against dissidents con­tinued, even though the streets of Myanmar are apparently calm. 
"The security forces have become more severe in raiding houses of, and searching for, any­one whom they suspect to have been involved in the protests," it 
under house arrest for 12 of the past 18 years without trial. 
The general said Suu Kyi must first renounce her calls for inter­national sanctions against the regime. 
The junta also appointed cabi­net-level official Aung Kyi -who has a reputation as being relative­ly flexible -to coordinate con­tacts with Suu Kyi, whose party said it was prepared to make "adjustments" for the sake of dia­logue. 
The appointment of Deputy Labor Minister Aung Kyi, a retired major general, appeared to be a gesture toward the United Nations. 
U.N. special envoy Ibrahim Gambari had suggested creating the job during his visit to Myanmar last week, state media said. 
The arrests Wednesday target­ed a leader of a group called the '88 Generation Students. Hla Myo Naung was arrested in Yangon while seeking treatment for a serious eye problem, the exile group said. 
Hla Myo Naung, 39, had been on the regime's "wanted list" but had evaded arrest for two months. A young woman who had been with him and belongs to the '88 Generation was also arrested. 
The '88 Generation organized marches in August over fuel price increases. The protests quickly ballooned into mass demonstra­tions calling for democracy when widely respected Buddhist monks began taking the lead. 
On Wednesday, small groups of riot police patrolled key road junctions and sites where the most intense protests had erupt­ed, including Yangon's Shwedagon Pagoda and a junc­tion near the downtown Sule Pagoda. 
But soldiers were not visible on the streets, and Yangon seemed generally normal. 
At the United Nations, Security Council members met for hours behind closed doors late Wednesday to discuss changes to a draft statement on the situation in Myanmar. 
r 
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 11, 2007 


Study finds chen1o drug Taxol ineffective 


Colutnbia outraged by racist act 
NYC police investigate noose hung on black professor's office door 
friend of mine." family living next door in
Associated Press 

Sue said he informed Queens. The two incidents 
NEW YOHK -Hundreds of Constantine about the noose were "the first noose cases in 
Columbia University teachers and she was devastated. recent memory" in the city, 
and studnnts voiced outrage "She's doing fine," he said. said Osgood, the task force 
Wednesday over a noose found "She's OK. I've talked to her. commander. 
hanging from a black profes-She's getting a lot of support." Teachers College, founded in 
sor's office An e-mail to 1887, describes itself as the 
door, while Constantine nation's oldest and largest
"Hanging the noose on
poliee investi­was not imme­graduate school of education. ga tf~d if it was my door reeks of diately According to its Web page, thn work of cowardice and fear on returned the college brought black disgruntled Wednesday, nor teachers from the South to
many, many levels."
students or a were calls to New York for training in the colleague. Constantine's early part of the 20th century, 
The 4-foot-Madonna Constantine office or the when schools in the South long twine professor publicist for were segregated. noose was Teachers The college has a diverse
Teachers College 
found Tuesday College. student body, including stu­on Madonna As word of dents from nearly 80 coun­Constantine's door at Teachers the incident spread, students tries. The racial breakdown is College, a graduate school of and faculty reacted with sad­12 percent black, 11 percent ed ueation afl'iliated with ness and anger. Asian American and 7 percent Columbia. At a raucous rally "It's hard hearing about it," Hispanic. Wndnesday, Constantine said said student Danielle Green. The discovery of the hang­it was a "blatant act of ''I'm not uncomfortable here man's noose echoes other raeism." but I'm not surprised. I mean, recent incidents involving the 
''I'm upset that our commu­look at the world we live in. symbol reviled by many for its nity has been exposed to such There is a lot association an unbelievably vile incident," of ~~cism going with lynchings
"Clearly, it was a

she told the crowd. "Hanging on. in the Old tlw noose on my door n1eks of In the mes­symbolic act ofracial South. cowardice and fear on many, sage to the col­Last year in
hatred that was 

many levels." lege's 5,000 Jena, La.,
intended to intimidate."

Police were testing the noose students and three white for DNA evidence, said Deputy 150 faculty students hung Inspector Michael Osgood, members Derald Wing Sue nooses from a commander of the NYPD llate explaining why big oak tree
professor

Crime Task Foree. police were on outside Jena
Teachers College 

Constantine, 44, told police campus High School. there was "ill will" between Tuesday, col-They were sus­her and another professor. a lege president Susan II. pended but not prosecuted. polieo of'fieial said. But the Fuhrman said: "The Teachers Racial tensions rose and a of'lkial. speaking on condition College community and I white student was beaten of anonymity because the deplore this hateful act, which unconscious three months investigation had not been violates every Teachers later. Recently, thousands of completed, stressed that the College and societal norm." people protested what they dispute was only ime possible "You would think, Columbia consider to be the unfairly load. and that being such a harsh prosecutions of six policll worn also diverse campus black students in the incident.
"This is an assault on
looking into and New York Columbia has been the site whethnr "dis­African-Americans being such a of other campus turmoil, most gruntled stu­diverse city, it recently last month when
and therefore it is an 
dents, anyone shouldn't hap­Iranian President Mahmoud
assault on every one
upsd with , pen here," said Ahmadinejad was invited to grades" were 0if us. student Mikayla speak, prompting protests by involvml. Graham. groups angry over his state­Teachers The Columbia ments questioning the exis­
Lee C. Bollinger
Co ll1~ g e h e I d a investigation tence of the Holocaust.
President
community follows the Last fall, Columbia was in nwnting to dis­Columbia University hate-crime the spotlight when a group of cuss l.tw inci­arrest on students stormed a stage to dent, which has Sunday of a silence a speech by Jim roiled the Ivy League campus. white woman accused of Gilchrist, the founder of a 
"This is an assault on hanging a noose over a tree group opposed to illegal immi­African-Americans and there­limb and threatening a black gration. fore it is an assault on every one of us." university Pn~sident Len C. Bollinger said 
incidnnt, said spokesman 

A 
j··, •• --· ......··.,.. • 
.JniTrny Lernnr. Derald Wing SUf\ an adjunct 
professor at Teachers College who dons research with Constantino. said he was at work Tuesday morning when anotlwr collnagtw spotted the noosn hanging on the door. Slw wasn't in her orlice at the 
tiIllfl. 
Constantin!' has writtnn about rare. inr.luding a hook entitled "Addressing Haeism: Facilitating Cultural 


Compntnnen in Mental JlpaJth and Educational Snttings." Studnnts said Constantine teadws a elass on racial jus­tke. 
Associated Press 

The widely used chemother­apy drug Taxol does not work for the most common form of breast cancer and helps far fewer patients than has been believed, surprising new research suggests. 
If further study bears this out, more than 20,000 women each year in the United States alone might be spared tho side effects of this drug or similar ones without significantly rais­ing the risk their cancer will return. That would be roughly half of all breast cancer patients who get chemo now. 
"We want to make sure these data are correct before withholding it [Taxol] from some patients ... the stakes are high," said the lead researcher, Dr. Daniel Hayes of the University of Michigan. "On the other hand, we don't want to keep a therapy that doesn't work." 
In the study, Taxol did the most good for women who had overactive HER-2 genes -the target of the newer breast can­cer drug Herceptin. These women were about 40 percent less likely to have a recurrence if they received Taxol. 
Conversely, Taxol did not sig­nificantly help women whose tumors were HER-2 negative and were being help1~d to grow by estrogen. This is the most common form of the disease. 
The differences were revealed by a new analysis of a study done in the 1990s, using modern genetic tools that were not available at that time. 
"The days of 'onn size fits all' therapy for patients with breast cancer are coming to an end," Dr. Anne Moore of Weill Cornell Medical College wrote in an editorial accompa­nying the study in Thursday's New England .Journal of Medicine. 
"Oncologists have a respon­sibility to their patients to be aware of this report." 
The original study involved more than 3,000 women whose caneer had spread to nearby lymph nodes but not widely throughout the body. This is the situation of about one-fourth of the 175,000 women diagnosed with breast cancer in the U.S. each year. 



Information Meeting Tuesday, October 16, 6:00PM Center for Social Concerns 
for more information visit www.peacecorps.gov or call 800.424.8580 
in a statnment. "I know I 

Live, learn, and -vvork in the nation's capital speak on b1~half of every mem­ber of our communities in con­
during the fall or spring semester \vith the 
demning this horrible action." The state Attorney General's 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
oiTicn has sent lawyers from its civil rights bureau and investigators to look into the 

Wiv•~s·,··H··"I"N· ·T~·· N ~~o··· G·RAM·,.. · 
. : ; 

_i • .n,: ·......·" .......·' .. '.·~. 



INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, October 11, 2007 229 Hayes-Healy, 4:00 p.m. 
Deadline to apply for Fall2008 or Spring 2009 is November 15,2007.
"Clearly, it was a symbolic act of' raeial hatred that was 

First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome.
intended to intimidate," Sue said. "I felt outraged and 

Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; www.nd.edu/~wp angry that this was directed at sud1 a closn colleague and 

Thursday, October 11, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Panel approves Armenian genocide resolution 
President Bush opposes measure, fears damage to U.S.-Turkey relations and American goals in Middle East 
Associated Press  rity implications of the resolu­tion but ultimately voted in  ingful step toward reclaiming our right-as Americans -to  clear the stakes are high. Gates said 70 percent of U.S.  not on the committee, said that he hoped that it would now  
WASHINGTON -A House  favor.  speak openly and  honestly  air cargo headed for Iraq goes  move quickly to a vote on the  
panel defied President Bush on  Turkey raised the possibility  about the first genocide of the  through Turkey, as does about  House floor.  
Wednesday and approved a  of impeding logistical and other  20th  Century,"  said  Aram  one-third of the fuel used by the  "America must speak candid­ 
measure that he said would  U.S. military traffic now using  Hamparian, executive director  U.S. military in Iraq.  ly about the past not only to  
damage U.S. goals in the Middle East.  Turkish airspace. "Unfortunately, some politi­ of the Armenian National Committee of America.  "Access to airfields and to the roads and so on in Turkey  help heal the wounds of the survivors and the families of  
The measure that would rec­ cians in the United States have  Earlier, Secretary of State  would very much be put at risk  the victims, but to give the  
ognize the World War 1-era  once again sacrificed important  Condoleezza Rice and Defense  if this resolution passes and  United States the moral author­ 
killings of Armenians as a geno­ matters to petty  Secretary  Turkey reacts as strongly as we  ity it needs  to  take  action  
cide had been strongly opposed  domestic poli­ Robert  Gates  believe they will," Gates said.  against other genocides like  
by Turkey, a key NATO ally that has supported U.S. efforts in Iraq. The House Foreign Affairs  tics despite all calls to com­monsense, President  "Its passage would do great harm to our relations with a key  conveyed their concerns. Passing the measure "at this  He also said that 95 percent of new vehicles designed to better protect against mine attacks are being flown through Turkey  that taking place today in Darfur," he said following the vote. Pelosi and the second-ranking  
Committee's 27-21 vote now sends the measure to the Bouse floor -unless the Democratic leadership reverses course and heeds Bush's warnings. At issue is the killing of up to 1.5 million Armenians by Ottoman Turks around the time of World War I. Turkey denies that the deaths constituted  Abdullah Gul time would beally in NATO and in was quoted as very problemat­the global warsaying by the ic for everything state-run news on terror." we are trying to a g e n c y do in the Middle Anatolia. President George w. Bush East," Rice told "Naturally, reporters at the this is a sad White House. decision," said Nabi Sensoy, The vote comes at a tense Turkey's ambassador to the time in the region. Turkey's  to get to Iraq. Lawmakers from both parties who supported the proposal said the moral impli­cations out­weighed  "... the Armenian Genocide Resolution represents a meaningful step toward reclaiming our right-as Americans ­to speak openly and honestly about  Democrat in the House, Majority L e a d e r Steny Hoyer, m e t Wednesday with Turkish Ambassador Sensoy but  
genocide, says the toll has been inflated and insists that those killed were victims of civil war  U.S., minutes after the vote. "No one can allow others to put an undeserved stain on them."  government is seeking parlia­mentary approval for a military operation to chase separatist  security con­cerns and friendship  the first genocide ofthe 2oth Century.''  emerged from the meeting  
and unrest. Bush and other senior offi­ On Wednesday, hundreds of Turks marched to the U.S.  Kurdish rebels who operate from bases in northern Iraq.  with Turkey. "The sad  Aram Hamparian  unswayed. Hoyer told  
cials made a last-minute push  Embassy in Ankara and the  The move, opposed by the U.S.,  truth is that  executive director  reporters he  
to persuade lawmakers on the Foreign Affairs Committee to  consulate in Istanbul to protest the bill. ·  could open a new front in the most stable part oflraq.  the modern government  Armenian National Committee  expects a floor vote on  
reject the measure.  Armenian-American groups,  The White House and Turkey  of  Turkey  the measure  
"Its passage would do great  who have worked for decades  are now expected to pressure  refuses to come to terms with  before the Bouse adjourns for  
harm to our relations with a  to pass a resolution, rejoiced at  Democratic leaders to keep the  this genocide," said Rep. Chris  the year.  
key ally in NATO and in the  the committee's approval of the  measure from going to a vote.  Smith, R.-N.J. "For Armenians  Hoyer said he hoped that  
global war on terror," Bush said  message.  But Democratic Speaker of the  everywhere, the Turkish gov­ Turkey would realize it is not a  
hours before the vote.  "The  Foreign  Affairs  House Nancy Pelosi has sig­ ernment's denial is a slap in the  condemnation of its current  
The committee's chairman,  Committee's adoption today of  naled that they will have a hard  face."  government  but  rather  of  
[)p,mocratic Rep. Tom Lantos,  the  Armenian  Genocide  sell.  Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff,  "another government, at anoth­ 
expressed concerns about secu- Resolution represents a mean- The  administration  made  the resolution's sponsor, who is  er time."  

FOR RENT -NEW CONSTRUCTION! 
New 3,600 square feet brick home within walking distance to campus with 8 Bedrooms, 4 Dens, 4 Y2 Bathrooms, Kitchen, Family Room, Dining Room, Laundry Center, Steam Room, Mud Roo.m and Back Patio. 
Main FeatureJ 
-Fully equipped Kitchen with new refrigerator, range, oven, dishwasher, microwave, cooking pots and pans, tableware and cooking utensils -Each two students with share a porcelain-tiled bathroom (private toilet room and a shower with seat) and a small den with kitchenette (sink, bar refrigerator, cook top and microwave) having hardwood flooring -Fire/Security Alarm ~ystem -Hardwood flooring on entire main floor (except Steam Room and Mudroom) 
-Dining Room with table and 8 chairs -Laundry Center with stackable washer and dryer Rental Rate: $425.00 per student plus utilities -Wood-burning fireplace in Family Room 
-Steam Room -Each Bedroom area is 
<> (! (! <:!  Fully carpeted Vanity cabinet with sink and mirror Walk-in closet Desk  
<:!  Bedroom  
furniture with  
mattresses  

...,Wired for cable television and internet service 
-Gas barbeque grill on Back Patio 
-Wireless internet service ready 
,_rr 
.,...J.j 

For more information, contact Robert Cimala at legacyhomes@comcast.net or 630-886-7715 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER
. 







IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, October 11, 2007 
==============~~= 
THE OBSERVER 
In defense of The Rover (No, seriously) 
P.O. !lox 77<J, Notre Dame, IN 46';56 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 465% 
EDITOR IN CHJEI' Maddit· IIanna 

MANAGING EDITOR 8lJSINESS MANAGER Kt·n Fowler Kyle West 
Awl: MANA<;JNG EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A~sT. MANA!;JNG EDITOR: Mary Kate Malom· 
NEWS EDIT6R: Kart'n l.an~lcy 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPURTS EDITORS: Chri~ Khorey Chris !line SCENE EDITOR: .Etc Amfrt·ws 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Karic Kohler 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Menndla 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: M<1delinc Nics 
AUVI!RTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortel 
AD DK~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Crnnli 

CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sa~ardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
AovERTISING 

('i74) 6.\1-6900 observ<Jd@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6.11-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-454 I obsme@'nd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6J 1-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-'i313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsncws.1@nd.edu 
ViEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 vit'Wpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the indept·ndcnt, daily newspaper puhlished in prim <Jnd online by the srudcnts ofthe University ofNorrc Dame duLac and Saim Mary's Collt-ge. Editorial coment, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The nt·ws is reported as accurately and objectively as po"iblc. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of tht· Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparmwm editors. Commentaries, letters and column~ present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free <'Xprcssion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to tht· Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qtwriom rt'f,arriing Obsrrver policifs should be directfd to .Editor in Chitf Maddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

·rhc l)b.:rvcr (USPS '\119 2-4000) is puhl•sltnl Mt~~.d>~y rhrouf;lt f-'riJ.~oy ~;M:i:pt during rum 011Kl V'J(;'atinn penoda A JUbtcttpu,•n fll The Ob$er~r l1 $100 f.u unr aadcmtt· ynr: -U~ jUr unc ~llkltcr 
Thco Oblcrvtr U Jlul~llh~:~.i il: POnMASTER 11.!4 "iuuth Dining !IiLII Sc:nd o~ddrrY cor~riun~ In Nntrr Dame, IN 465"i6-077') The: Observer l'erindi01l pou~e pt~d at Notre D•me r.o. Boxn9 ~tnd addilltlllil:lrn;ailing offices. 024 South Dining H~l 
Num· DJme, IN 46'516-0779 
Tlte O!.rvcr ~a nu~mber of the .~lacc:d Prn... A!lrcpmciucrion riAhl!> ne 
reM:rvt:d. 

Andrew Nesi Presents "Heal Men of 
Genius" 

(HEALLL MENN OF GENNNIIU­
USSSS) 

Today, we salute you, Mr. Irish Hover writer. (Mr. Irish Hover writer.) 
No matter the topic, you take ofTnnse. As a white, Irish Catholic kid from a suburb of' Chicago, you truly know what persecution feels like. (But my best frinnd is a black Jew.) 
1-5'! Maybe w1~ should hire more devout Catholic football coaches. Then God will be on our side. (lie can make Arrelious Bnnn transfer.) 
Vagina Monologues? Queer Film Festival'? lleek, you think we should still be all-male. (God likes men bet­ter!) 
So crack open an ice cold Bud Light, Mr. Irish Hover writer. Or don't. You wouldn't want to disrespect your God­given body like that. (Mr. Irish Hover writer.) 
I have a confession to make: I read The Irish Hover. I don't read it (just) for the comedic value. I don't read it (just) for its attempts at sarcasm. I don't read it (just) to lind the poor grammar and giggle about it with noted Hover critic and Observer Scene editor Tae Andrews. 
I faithfully read The Irish Hover because The Hover does this campus a service. It engages issues from an ideological perspective that, like it or not, is essential to a productive cam­pus discussion. Of course, Hover writ­ers arc not universally "real men of genius." But they represent an impor­tant section of Notre Dame's popula-


tion that must be engaged. 
The Hover's Web site, outlines the publication's goals: "I. Defend the Faith and honorable traditions of this great University; 2. Articulate eonsnr­vative principles; 3. Engage in colle­gial debate." It is not a newspaper per se; its elaim to the "nows" is ton­uous at best. But that's not what The Hover purports to bn. It fashions itsnlf as a "watchdog" that defends our University from itself. 
And it dot~s a good job of it. Aeeording to its Web site, The Hover believes that "Notre Damn's Homan Catholic id1~ntity has eome under attack, due to controversial campus events as well as a steep dneline in Catholic faculty." These have become The Hovnr's pet issues. It consistently bemoans decisions that oppose The Rover's understanding of Catholicism. In doing so, it aeeurately represents thn views of a large number of Notre Dame students and an evnn larger number of Notre Damn alumni (or so alumni f'cedbaek on previous columns about abortion and gay sex would suggest). 
Of course, The Hover ean be unnec­essarily polemical. It is self-righteous. It fails at most of its attempts at humor. At times, it pretends to report news-think the front-page report on the University Club closing-but is written with a elear ideological perspective. Hcporting and commen­tary mix. It is the Fox News of Notre Dame. 
And that's a good thing. The Hover's writers provide an opinion and voice too often dismissed as illogical, unin­formed, and ignorant. Whether any of those is true should not matter -The Hover provides a soapbox for a view­point that is thriving both at and beyond our campus boundaries. It is an important viewpoint to consider, to learn from, and, at times, to confront. 
I believe the ideology behind The Hover is wrong about many-per­
haps most-issuns it approaches. I 
believe a Catholi(~ university is bettor 
servnd by a diversity of' vinwpoints 
that ean havn snrious discussion 
about the moaning and futuro of' 
Catholicism. But I also lwlinvn that 
this widnsprnad diversity will undnr­
mine Notrn Danw's institutional 
Catholicism -at lnast as Thn Hover 
senms to understand it. I don't. think 
that is a bad thing. 
But it is this desirn to change that causes mn to nmbracn The Hover. The issues they raisn are issuns WI~ must hash out. If we dismiss The Hover while we embraeo a liberalization of Notre Damn's Catholicism, wn undm·­mine the ideal at the corn of' that lib­eralization. 
It.'s time tlw University funded The Rover. The newspapnr should no longer have to disclaim, "IrishRover.net is not in any way aff11­iatnd with the University of' Notre Damn." We need to lngitimatn The Hover-not only for the sake of Tho Hovnr, but also for the sake of those who disagree with their vinws. 
By giving a legitimate backing to The Hovnr, the quality of' discussion will improve. It's precisely because Tho Hover exists as the embittered cousin of Tho Obsnrver that we don't get any real discussion, instead reverting to cheap shots and l:hippnd­shoulder jokns. 
Hovnr articles will sound less bitter and we'll get a more serious discus­sion of the merits of ideas. 
It's time to engage The Hovnr as an equal. It's the only effective way to confront the ideology that drives it. 
Andrew Nesi is a junior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. He did not play Kevin Arnold in The Wonder Years. lie can be reached at anesi@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sidewalks for all 
A'i a fmquent walker on the beautiful earn­pus of Notre Dame, I cannot help but respond to both Dan Mcinnis ("Rights of the side­walk," Oct. 8) and Mike Swadencr ("Pay attention and keep to the right," Oct. 10). Sidewalks, definBd as a paved walk for pedes­trians at the side of a street, have no right or wrong side to walk on. There are no one-way signs posted, traflie signals or stop signs installed for people to abide by when walking on a sidewalk. These rules apply to streets, highways and roads. Crosswalks, defined as specially paved or marked paths for pedestri­ans crossing a street or road, are not side­walks. Therefore Mike Swadener's comment referring to a citation about "crosswalks" is incorrect. 
More importantly, there are many people using the sidewalks at Notre Dame for various purposes. You have walkers, joggers, those whipping past on a bike, skateboarders weav­ing in and out, roller-bladers zig-zagging in every direction, electric scooters zipping past, baby strollers and dog walkers. I low ean any­one possibly say there is a right side to walk on when strolling on the sidewalk? 
For a University student to boast and brag about his deliberate rudeness to another stu­dent not only shows hi'i ignorance, it demon­strates his immaturity as an adult. rean only hope this individual is part of a small minority of the student body at Notre Dame. 
The sidewalks on campus are not about right or wrong ways to walk on; they are not about gender issues; they are there for every­one to e~oy and respect. 
Kathi Piekarski South Bend Oa.10 


Good idea 
Dear NDSP, 

If you do not want taxis to sit at Main Circle, that is fine. There are probably a lot of other uses for Main Circle between 10:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights that arc more important. 
All we ask is that you please tell us in advance so we know to just drive drunk to our destinations. 
Thank you, the Notre Dame student body. 

Tim Treat 
sophomore 
Keenan Hall 
Oct. 10 
TODAY'S STAFF News Scene OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY KaHiynn Riely Cassie Belek Maureen Mullenl Viewpoint John Tierney Jordan Gamble If over 21, the final showdown: 
"A positive attitude may not solve all 
Graphics Keystone or Natural Ught? your problems, but it will annoy 
Matt Hudson enough people to make it worth [he Sports effort." 
Chris Khorey Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Herm Albright 
Lorenzo Heyes 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com German-American painter 
Kevin llenry 

r---------------------~ --·~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 11, 2007 page 13 
Jobs, vocations and Boston College 
It's about that time when seniors, in particular, start feeling the press of the question: "What will! do next year?" I remember having the same question before me as a senior, and short-circuiting the 
Father Lou

process by quickly and definitively DeiFra responding to queries: 'Tm going 
FaithPoint

to law school." My prayer life was such that I more asked God to get me into a good law school than whether God wanted any input on the matter. I didn't discuss the decision with anyone, so I never exposed myself to what would have been my friends' and family's natural question, "Why?" If pressed to answer, I probably would have responded that law was what my dad had done, that it seemed to reward intellectual skill with a nice salary, and that perhaps I could do some good for others. All wern probably true, yet I suspect now that what an honest answer to their questions would have helpfully revealed was my half-heartedness. 
My time in law school was both mis­erable and, gratefully, short-lived. Neither my heart nor my soul was into it. I was going through the motions. It was, frankly, depressing. 
I left law school and returned home, of course with no backup plan. A friend told me that the computer teacher at the local Catholic high school was going on leave. The Program of Liberal Studies is such a perfect preparation for teaching com­puters that I thought, "Why not?" Somehow, I got the job, and two weeks later, my heart was on fire. 
The students, bequeathed like a gift from God with a rookie teacher mid­semester, prepared their assault, which was, pleasantly, inferior. Teacher-student sports rivalries a huge favorite at all-boys high schools, they foolishly decided to attack my hardly concealed support for Notre Dame football. But they chose a bad year-1993. Notre Dame was 10-0 through mid-November. I had a stran­glehold on them. I even decided to bring four seniors out to the Boston College game. That didn't go so well. A last-second field goal, and Notre Dame was upset. 
I returned on Monday to find all the computer screens in my lab set to a maroon-and-gold screen saver flash­ing "BC 41 ND 39." I couldn't get my students to come in early to do assign­ments, but a Notre Dame upset got them jumping out of bed. But, even worse, thanks to PLS, I had no idea how to turn the screen savers off! This led to an interesting conversation with the school principal, who in December wondered why I hadn't turned off that agonizing score. Feeling I just might have the job security to get away with it (I was also coaching three sports, moderating the philosophy club and 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

More than football 
Brad Duffy thinks Notre Dame students are looking for "reasons to celebrate" ("BC team deserves respect," Oct. 10). Wait, what? Attending this University is reason enough to celebrate. Apparently Brad misinterpret­ed Bob Griffin's Oct. 8 letter ("Don't storm the field"). Storming versus not storming after a victory against Boston College has nothing to do with football. Rather, it has every­thing to do with what Notre Dame is, and what Boston College is not. Domers know Boston College just isn't a big deal. It is inferior to us across the board simply because many students there applied here and weren't accepted. 
Ask them. Bottom line: A win this weekend lessens the pain to what has been a tough sea­son. But that's it. We aren't hosting a team riding a 27­game winning streak. Keep it in your pants ... I mean, stands, like Bob advises. Perhaps students in Chestnut Ilill are writing letters dis­cerning how to celebrate a win against the Irish. They better write soon, though, or they'll have to wait until Monday, as Boston College publishes "The Heights" only two times each week. 
Matthew J. Quering 
junior 
Alumni Hall 
Oct. 10 

Underdogs deserve celebration 
In response to "Don't storm the field" (Oct. 8) by Bobby Griffin, I have one question: Are you serious? That must have been a joke. Are you really that insecure about where Notre Dame stands with Boston College? I do not think I could disagree with you more when you state, "We would be showing them a sense of respect that they don't deserve." Bobby, it is not an academic challenge. They are playing football. And in case you did not notice, Boston College is a very good football team. They are not South Florida, who is in the top five purely because of a win against an overrated West Virginia team and the upset bonanza that has taken place the last two weeks. 
The Eagles are there because they proved themselves last year as a quality football team and have done nothing but back that up this year. Notre Dame, on the other hand, is young, inexperienced and looking for all the wins they can get. Let alone a huge upset over the fourth best team in the country. 
In regard to football, Notre Dame is the underdog for the 2007 season. In fact, it would be the underdog against most of the teams in Division I. Saying this does not make me any less of a Notre Dame fan, it's just the facts. I look forward to the future when the Irish make it back into the top 20, but for this year, Boston College is a big favorite. If anyone lis­tens to your ridiculous suggestion, then it looks like my friends and I will be the only ones on the field going nuts in celebration of a huge upset victory. Honestly, while reading your letter I did not understand why The Observer would even post it in the paper. It all became clear once l saw that you were the assistant managing editor last year. Next time, keep that stuff to yourself. 
Brian Salvi junior offcampus Oct. 9 


Act like we've been there before 
When I read Brad DuffY's article ("BC team deserves respect," Oct. 10), I assumed that it had to be written by an innocent freshman who had not yet been completely baptized into the tradition that is Notn~ Dame football, one who did not understand our relationship to Boston College nor winning in general. To my dismay, this response was issued by a senior, one who should know bet­tnr than to support such an endeavor. We are Boston College's aspirational peer. They are not ours. We expect to best Boston College in all facets, whether it is lbotball or academics. To rush the field after the game would serve to legitimize our opponent as superior to us. There is no rea­son to feed fuel to the fire, this game already serves as Boston College's Super Bowl (this game is more important to them than an ACC Championship), while they are at best our fifth biggest rival. 
In addition, I feel the need to comment on the celebration that occurred in Stonehenge after the UClA game. This was an embarrassment in itself. We beat a team who lost to Utah 44-6. We beat a team that was forced to play a red-shirt freshman walk-on quarterback. I was disgusted to think that such an ugly win would incite such behavior in our student body. The reaction here on campus had to be similar to that occurring in Palo Alto the same night, except Stanford had just beaten the top team in the nation. This season has been tough, but our recent past was bright and the future is even brighter. We are Notre Dame. Our tradition is winning, and we expect to win every game. All I can say is that ifwe do indeed win on Saturday, follow the words that Coach Weis told his players after they scored against UClA: "Act like you've been there before." 
Andrew Checca Class of2007 South Bend OCL 10 

organizing the school masses -they couldn't fire me, right?), I decided to come clean on my computer back­ground. I was teaching English and Theology by the next semester. Thank you, Boston College. 
Teaching classes that I actually knew something about only fanned the name of passion for teaching. Becoming a Catholic schoolteacher had focused so many different pas­sions in my life-the intellectual life, service, athletics-and added one unexpected deep joy -the invitation to help form, mentally and spiritually, a new generation of students. It was a rare day that I was not at school late into the evening, coaching or grading, but an even rarer day that I thought I was in the wrong place. This, I guess, is the power of discovering a vocation instead of a job. 
A favorite teacher of mine at Notre Dame was Father. Michael Himes, whose lectures often touched on the subject of vocation. He taught us three simple questions that we could ask when trying to discern our vocation: 
1) What am I good at? 
2) What do others whom I trust tell me I'm good at? 
3) What brings true joy to me and others? 
The questions, of course, are decep­tively simple, for they reach into the very center of our being, which is mysterious to say the least. You don't emerge from a journey into the center of your heart with neat and clean answers, but rather, more usually, with a little blood and a few interior wounds. One of the more helpful ways to make the journey, I have found, is to make a couple of wrong vocational decisions-very few of which, by the way, are ever irreversible. These "wrong turns" can shake you out of a slumber and force you to ask, "What is my heart's deepest. desire?" Though a little uncomfortable at the time, these times of questioning my heart's desire have led me to the greatest joys in my life -my vocation as a Catholic school teacher and, ultimately, to the priesthood. 
Our hearts' deepest desire, in the end, coincides with God's desire for our lives, and the life of the Church and the world. That's a lot of powerful lines converging in one human heart. It is not a journey that unfolds begin­ning-to-end during college. The deci­sions we make now do not bear the burden of determining the rest of our lives -but they are a step into a job, or a vocation, and, perhaps most importantly, the realization of the dif­ference between the two. 
Father Lou DelFra is the director of Bible Studies in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at 
delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Not a little brother 
I read with interest the Viewpoint letter written by Bob Griffin ("Don't storm the field," Oct. 8) about the upcoming football game against Boston College. I'd like to remind Griffin that Boston College has beaten Notre Dame repeatedly­in fact, five of the past six times the Eagles have played the Irish. Please feel free to blame this on Tyrone Willingham or Bob Davie or anyone else you like. Boston College isn't Notre Dame's weaker, inferior little brother. The schools have very little in common aside from their Catholic faith. Boston College is, for example, an open-minded Jesuit school, in a major metropolitan area, with quality football and bas­ketball programs, and a variety of other things that make it a different institution. 
May I point out that Griffin's let­ter is just the type of smug superi­ority that makes so many people from so many schools love to hate Notre Dame? If Boston College walks into Notre Dame Stadium with a swagger, it's because the Eagles have beaten the Irish the past four times they've seen them, green jerseys or not. Good luck out there this weekend. My family, all Notre Dame alums, were fully expecting the Irish to be 0-7 after seeing the Eagles this weekend. 1-6 ain't bad. 
Sheila G. Miller Boston College Class of2002 Bend, Ore. Ocr. 10 

r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­THE OBSERVER 
CENEpage 14 
Thursday, October 11, 2007 



By MICHELLE FORDICE 
A<sislanl Scene Fdi10r 

Fifty fingers. Five pianos. One night of astounding tahmt. It isn't ol"tr~n that a fam­ily gets to send a rhild to Julliard. It has only happerwd once that a family has simultarwously sent fivt~. and now tlwy arP coming to Notrn Dame. 
Thn 5 Browns -l>esiran, D1~omlra, Cregory. Melody and Hyan --are live sib­lings, all piano virtuosos in tlwir early twenties. Tlwy all began 
playing tlw piano around The 5 Browns familiar, classieal works, tlw age of threP. Now, listeners will recognize
Leighton Concert Hall
tlwy havP formnd an many of the pieces ­innovativn music group Tonight at 7:30 from Nicolai Himsky­that is taking tlw soul of Korsakov's "The Flight
Tickets: $15 for students, 
elassical piano and of the Bumblebee" to an bringing it out to a nnw $30 faculty/staff arrangement of songs 
audience. Featured on everything from "Oprah" to "People Magazinn," thesn musieians are bnginning to invigorate dassiral music with not only tlwir amazing talent but also their relaxed stage presence and frequent selection of morn familiar piano pieces to attract a wider audience. 
Between tlw talent of the musicians and the simpln fact that they often utilizP all live pianos, the 5 Browns ernate arrange­ment opportunities you wouldn't see oth-
By CASSIE BELEK 
Assisram Seem· Editor 

Them's somPthing addictive about wateh­ing a group of livP friends drink constantly, ovPrusP tlw word "awPsomc" and love oaeh otlwr unconditionally. Tml, Marshall, Lily, Hobin and Barney arc a family of sorts. whosP bond never weakens despite brnak­ups, the death of Marshall's bnlovnd Fiero and a spectacular slap bPi. 
"I low I Met Your Mothnr: Season Two," now on IND. mntinuns tho story of thn livo bPst friends as Ted (.Josh Hadnor) trios to lind lovn and tlw lilturn mother of his chil­dren. Although it is established in thP pilot episod!) that Hobin (Cobin SmuldPrs) is not 
How I Met Your Mother 
Season Two Starring: Josh Radnor, Jason Segel, Cobie Smulders, Neil Patrick Harris, Alyson Hannigan 
erwise. The classical music they play is anything but simplistic, and yet the 5 Browns still add new depth and excite­ment to the pieces. The 5 Browns also ineorporate other artists into their music, adding another dimension. They have fea­tured musieians like trumpeter Christ Botti on their arrangement of "Home Blues" from "An American in Paris" and Dnan Martin on "Everybody Loves Somebody." 
The group has rdeased three albums, starting with "The 5 Browns." Along with exeeptional, but less 
from Leonard Bernstein and Stephen Sundheim's "West Side Story." Four of the traeks feature all five pianos at once. 
"No Boundaries," the group's sopho­more album, is the siblings' best known after spending twenty weeks on the top of Billboard's Traditional Classical chart. It features crowd appealing pieces such as George Gershwin's "Hhapsody in Blue," an excellent arrangement of "Simple Gifts" and "Going llome" that anyone who has 
Ted's tuturn wile (she is referred to a<> "Aunt Hobin" throughout the entire series), the second season begins with Ted and Robin finally in a relationship after a season of romantic tension. Meanwhile, engaged Marshall (Jason Segen) and Lily (Alyson llannigan) are split up. Lily is in San Frami<>eo pursuing her artistic dreams, and Marshall nnver leaves his apartment in New York City. Of eoursn, Barney (Neil Patrick !farris) remains the perpetual bachelor a<> hn bogs Ted to resume the single life and tries to get Marshall to "suit up" and move past Uly. 
The appeal of the series stems from the interaction of the live lead characters. The at:tors possess an undeniabiP ehemistry and an obvious joy for their work. Co-creators 
Carter Bays and Craig Thomas part­
ly bast)d the series off their own lives, adding to the authenticity of character development and situa­tions. The finished product, on cam­era, rellccl<> the fun and collabora­tion that exists oil" camera. 
Unique to "IIow I Met Your Mother" is the way it is filmed. The 

crnators of the show consider it a hybrid of the multi-eamera and sin­gle-camera sitcom. It is filnmd using multiple cameras as in a traditional sitcom, but it forgoes the studio audience allowing for grp,ater flexi­bility in sets, scene lengths and the sung hymns in church will reeo).,'llizc, and their take on the 1911 version of Igor Stravinsky's 'The Firebird." 
The 5 Browns' latest, "Browns in Blue," includes live new songs that feature all five pianists and several recognizable pieces, such as Hachmaninoff's "18th Variation" from "Hhapsody on a Tllf1me of J>aganini," "IIome Blues" from "An American in Paris" and Saint-Saens' "Carnival of the Animals Aquarium." 
Whether they are performing solo, as duets, or as a five-piano ensemble, the 5 Browns refresh classical musie with their youth and crowd appeal. Most people can 
use of flashbacks. The fmished product is later shown to a studio audience when the laugh track is added to the episode. 
Whatever proeess the show creators arc using, it's undoubtedly working. Season 2 magnificently builds on the groundwork laid out in the series' first season. Everything is funnier -from the situations to the dia­logue to the character revelations. I lighlight episodes inelude "Slap Bet," in which Hobin's seeret Canadian past is revealed, "Single Stamina," where Barney can't cope when his gay, black brother decides to prac­tice monogamy, and "Something Borrowed," in which Marshall and Uly finally get the happiness they descrvn. 
The DVD's special featurPs are not ovPrly impressive, but the episode commentary is notable compared to other series' DVDs. In most of the eommentaries, the episode's writer is paired with a featured actor from that episode. The combination reveals insights into the writing proeess and the relationship between the writer and the actor. We're al<>o tmated to hilarious behind­the-scenes anecdotes and storylines that almost WPre. 
While "I low I Met Your Mothp,r" isn't tl1e ratings powerhouse known a<> "Friends." it possesses the same warmth and humor that made us fall in love with that NBC sitcom, especially in its earlier seasons. But "Mother" draws from not just "Friends" but even shows like "Arrested Development" reeognize dozens of elassieal pieces of music if they heard them, evnn if they could not name them, and the 5 Browns do an excellent job of ehoosing many pieces from that group. Don't let a little unfamiliarity stop you from taking the opportunity to see tlwse musicians. 
The 5 Browns will perform in the DPAC's Leighton Concert llall at 7:30 tonight. TickeL<> are $15 for students, $30 for seniors, faculty and stall" and $:~5 for general audience. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of magneticmediafed.com 
Uly, left, and Marshall, right, miss Ted in their lives in Episode 18, "Moving Day." 
and "The Wonder Years." It's uniqlll) and relevant to the new generation of 20-some­things adapting to lif'n after eollege and before marriage. To borrow a phrasP from Barney, SPa<>on 2 is "leg<m -wait for it -­dary," and even though by the nnd of it, Ted still hasn't met his kids' mother, we want to stiek with the fivo friends lhr however long it takes. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Thursday, October 11, 2007 
page 15 
Dub~oard Voafessioaal 
£arra.,ha trtmps hud, al,tl stffers 
really no better title Carrabba 's style is ence and sweet passion than "the band" for the are once again visited in
unchanging and will 
other guitarist, bassist "Shade." Though the
continue to drown out the 
and drummer. lyrics generally touch lis­Dashboard's instru­pain ofthe emo audience, teners' more sensitive mental component sides, Dashboard offers a
but that isolates those 
earns a nondescript cursory take on these
less inclined toward 
title with its lack of overly explored topics. personality. "Shade" the genre. The band is not quite up 
SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 
Mike Gund 
Oklahoma State coach 

-he's aman -goes 
uozy at press 
conference. Insanity is 
maximized by 

on excess of orange. 

rmer "Young and 
eRestless" star ives tour of ollywood home. She's 
miniscent of o umon Barbie or on ltro-glom serial killer. 
performance, but Brit does little more than I/ dance" around a pole. She clearly never watched Carmen Electro's stripoerobic's DVD. 

Maybe the best of the Soulio Boy tributes. You will forever question what exactly Pooh puts in his honey pot. 
MATT HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

By JESS SHAFFER 
Scene Writer 
Dashboard Confessional's latest CD droppnd into stores Oet. 2, but "The Shade of Poison Trees" is a generally lackluster attnmpt from this emo-cult favorite. Dashboard's most recent installment lacks an intelligent maturity that seven years of success would usually create. Hather. "Shadn" seems to indicate a complacency and hyper-emphasis on lead singer Chris Carr abba. 
Apparently Dashboard failed to learn the lesson from David Bowie's ill-fated, ficti­tious Ziggy of Ziggy Stardust. Mainly, no good can come from such an excessively one-man show. And it's impressive that lead singer and heartthrob Chris Carrabba has yet to sutler mutiny from "the band." Unfortunately for Dashboard, there is 
merely proves this point, and "the band" lacks a general presence in the album. So not only have non-Carrabba band mates been excluded from their leader's star sta­tus. but apparently their music talent has also been suppressed and underdeveloped by neglect. 
Though this trend of overemphasizing emo's golden boy has paid otl" in cash and prizes for seven years, Dashboard's most recent installment sull"ers for it. The pri­mary problem of "Shade" is the uninspir­ing instrumentals. The album desperately needs an instrumental variety to resusci­tate the vocals from a lifeless redundancy. An occasional guitar solo, interesting bass 
The Shade of Poison Trees 
Dashboard Confessional Released by: Vagrant Records Recommended Tracks: "Little Bombs" and "Matters of Blood and Connection" 

to par with its typically 
poignant lyrics. While generally smart and eloquent one-liners pervade the group's songs, there is little to stand out in Carrabba's irritated and pon­dering ramblings. 
Still, Dashboard uses a catchy, though mediocre, wit. Some phrases -"So now you think that your crimes are victimless?" and "And I'll know I'm alive" -will easily get caught in listeners' heads, but they offer little intellectually to chew over. This regression in Dashboard's lyrics is particu­larly sad considering the group's com­mendable past performances and relative­ly extensive experience. 
Highlights include "Fever Dreams," which variation, or change in rhythm would have been a much-appreciated break. Overall, another balancing musical talent would benefit this band as a complement to its leader's famous vocals. 
The un-evolved style of Dashboard's lat­est release presents little to offer to those who are not already part of its emo fan base. However, followers of Dashboard will generally get what they expect, particular­ly if they're looking for Carrabba's usual routine. His now-famous piercing vocals still mix a soulful wisdom with the sadness of romantic angst. "Shade" will not fail to satisfy listeners looking to melt their emo­tionally overwhelmed hearts. Carrabba's style is unchanging and will continue to drown out the pain of the emo audience, but that isolates those less inclined toward the genre. 
The group's old themes persist. 
Frustration, anger, guilt, 
life affirming independ­
offers a welcome and upbeat tempo coupled with a catchy phrasing. "Little Bombs" has seri­ous potential for success, especially with its political undertones. And the group's assault on superficiality in "Matters of Blood and Connection" exhibits a great take on trust fund babies. These tracks are recommended, but the album as a whole is monotonous and tame. "The Shade of Poison Trees" most certainly fails to live up to Dashboard's potential. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel @nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 11, 2007 
NHL WRAPS 


Senators best Thrashers behind Elliott's first career start 
Red Wings ride offensive wave to victory over Flames as the front line compiles two goals, two assists to stay undefeated 
entry dral't. "You're nervous. 
A.-.odatcd Press 

You're playing in the NIIL. It's a 
ATLANTA -Brian l~lliott was ganw you have to be prepared rPady for this day. Af't••r all, lw'd for, and I was pmparnd." !wen prnparing for it sinen hn The Ontario native, who played was s1wnn ypars old. collngn hock1~y at Wisconsin, 
Hlliott won his Nlll. dnhut, watdwd the first four games stopping 27 shots Wndrwsday while Martin Gnrber posted a night. to keep tlw Ottawa l.?:l goals-against average. But, Snnators perf'ert with a :~-1 win with the first of bark-to-back ovnr tlw struggling Atlanta ganws, l~lliott got the eall. Thraslwrs. "From age snven. this has bmm 
Antoirw V1~rmette scon•d tlw my goal," he said. tie-broaking goal oarly in the The Thrashers hardly look like third (>nriod and the SPnators tho defimding Southoast Division made it 5-f'or-5 in the young sea­champion. They havo lost their son. just orw win ofT tlw fran­first thrne games, managing just chise rm:ord for most cons•~cutive four goals. virtories at tlw start of the sea­Atlanta created more ehanees son. than it did in its first two losses, 
Ottawa won its first six ganws but Elliott made a brilliant save in 2005-06. Artnr getting all the on Aloxoi Zhitnik about a minute way to the Stanley Cup finals last after Vermette's goal put the season beforn losing to Anahnim. Senators ahead 2-1. After Zhitnik t.lw Senators are dearly on a got frno at the side of the net on mission. a give-and-go pass, Elliott 
"We w1~r11 hungry and exdtml sprawlnd back with his right pad to gel. this s1mson startnd," Dany to keep the puck out. lleatl1~Y said. "Everybody talks "lie played great," Thrashers about a fntdown aftnr going to goalie Kari Lehtonen said. tho finals. hut I don't f'nPI that." "When they're going with a guy 
Elliott did his part to keep the who's playing his first NHL game, winning stn~ak going, though he you think you have the advan­wasn't even nxpm:ting to play. tagn. But he proved us wrong. Ile lin's only on thn rost1~r beeausn played tremendous." No. I goalin Hay Emory is rneov­Chris Kelly gave the Senators a nring from ofTsnason wrist sur­quick load, scoring an unassisted Vermette scored the winner with The unit was one of the NHCs shot from the point for his sec­w~ry. goal on the first shot of the game. 18:18 remaining. best last season from when they ond goal. 
"It was a surprisn," said Elliott, Ilya Kovakhuk tied it for Atlanta Chris Phillips elnared the were united in Deeember until It came as the Flames were 
tho 29 I st overall piek in the 2003 with his first of the season, but Ottawa zone with long pass ofT Zetterberg hurt his back in late bning whistled f(>r a pnnalty and the boards, and Vermette hustled February and missed the rest of when Osgood went to the bench, past the Thrashers defense to the regular season. Zettnrberg jumped onto tlw ice beat Lehtonen with a blistering Red Wings' coach Mike as the sixth Hed Wings' attacker. shot over the goalie's glove hand Babcock began this season by "Obviously as soon as they from the left faceoff cirde. using Zetterberg and Datsyuk, touch it, it's whistled down," said 
'That second goal should have who are both natural centers, on Draper. "But once !lank came never happened," Atlanta coach different lines to create more flying off the bench and made a Bob Hartley said. "We made a scoring balance. After Johan couple good plays, I just saw the bad mistake and it winds up in Franzen, who was on a line with puck getting out to Lils and just the net." Datsyuk and Holmstrom, suf­tried to get my body and my stick 
f'en~d a sprained knee in Chicago as mueh as I eould in front of the Red Wings 4, Flames 2 on Saturday night, Babcock put net. It hit my stick and went in. It 
Henrik Zetterberg, Pavel the trio back together in Monday was nice to see." Datsyuk and Tomas Holmstrom night's 4-2 win over Edmonton. Mikael Samuelsson added a are bark together again. "They ereate a lot," said power-play goal with 4:24 left in 
The line combined for two Calgary captain Jarome Iginla of' the third pnriod. goals, and two assists, and Kris Zetterberg, Datsyuk, and "I think there's a lot more in Draper's goal late in the second Holmstrom. " ... We (his line) that dressing room than we're period broke a tie and lifted the weren't nearly good enough. seeing," said Calgary coach Mikn Dntroit Hed Wings to a win over They were skating." Keenan. "I hopn so anyway." the Calgary Flames on Zetterberg and Holmstrom had Zetterberg scornd the game's Wednesday night. goals on Wednesday night and first goal 8:08 into the first peri­
"Those guys ean go head to Chris Osgood made 19 saves for od on a power play. I le convnrted head with the top lines in the the Red Wings. Datsyuk's eross-crease pass after league right now," said Draper. Kristian Huselius scored both Datsyuk interceptnd a bad dear­"Those guys are doing a fantastic of Calgary's goals, and Miikka ing attempt by K.iprusofT. job creating a lot of chances K.iprusofl' stopped 24 shots. "They can play with so much offensively and certainly doing Draper broke a 2-all tie with tempo, they make it hard on the great things in their own end as 3:01 left in the second period opposition," said Detroit coach well." when he tipped in Andreas Lila's Mike Babeoek. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Occasional babysitters wanted for our 1 0-year-old daughter. NOTICES Mostly weekends, 
maybe some weeknights. We live Chess Lessons on E. Adult & Wayne Street, about 2 miles south Children of campus. If interested, contact Online/in-person Alice at 574-287-7655. (Michiana) Leave messa9e if not home. Dennis Monokroussos USCF National Master historicchess @comcast.net FoR SALE 57 4-277-8673. 
Call me for a list of p roperties near WANTED NO. 574-217-1557 Tatiana 
Notre Dame items. NO Grad selling Rockne. Granger home. Leahy, Ara, Holtz. Open, spacious & newer. Helmets. Uniforms. 4 br, 4 bth, + finished Footballs, basement, Old Programs & Tickets. 3 car g. Century 21 Call574-257-0039 or Jim Dunfee Realty. 574-277-NDND Call Tim 574-271-3440. 
3bdrm, 1.5 bath condo. Close to NO. Immaculate move-in condition. Prefer to sell totally furnished w/linens, etc. All new & like-new furniture. Extremely reasonable, $130,000. Not furnished $115,000. Woodbridge Condos. Call 574-272-0360, cell574-274-8359 for appt. to see. For your convenience, appt. hrs. on Fri & Sat 9 a.m to 8 p.m.; Sun. 9-3. 
NO Grad selling Granger home. Open, spacious & newer. 4 br, 4 bth, + finished basement, 3 car g. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. Call Tim 574-271-3440. 
FoR RENT 

WEEKEND HOME RENTALS. Two beautiful homes in NE Neighborhood available to rent for football weekends, JPW, Graduation and other NO events. Located just three short blocks from campus, these homes are perfect for families or friends looking to share accommodations for the weekend. Each sleeps 8-10 people. For more information, please contact langmeyer64@comcast.net or mowhelan@sbcglobal.net or call 574-289-3968. 
Cozy 3 bedroom house, walk to campus, washer/dryer, landlord does the yardwork. $750/month. No pets. No section 8. 574-250-1266. 
Large house available for 2009­2010. Full renovations completed this year. Great location on E PERSONAL Marion. Large common areas, 5 bathrooms. Also available: 5bdrm 2 Spring Break 2008. Sell Trips, Earn bath and 3bdrm 2 bath for 2008-Cash and Go Free. Call for group 2009. Contact discounts. Best Deals Guaranteed! MacSwain@gmail.com Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, 
Bahamas, S.Padre. Florida. 800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 


TICKETS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 

WANTED-not go it alone. If you or someone ND FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE you love needs confidential support HELP1574-251-1570 or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 
Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. information, visit our website at: ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­www. victorytickets.com nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad 
in THE OBSERVER. 

ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 57 4-288-2726. If you or someone you care about 
has been sexually assaulted, visit Buying BC/USC tix. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. 574-277-1659. shtml 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-~--------------------------­





OUND THE NATION 


Thursday, October 11, 2007 
NHL 
Atlantic Division 

team  record pts.  last 10  
NY Islanders  2·1·0 4  2·1·0  
Philadelphia  1·1·0 2  1·1·0  
Pittsburgh  1-1·0 2  1·1·0  
NY Rangers  1-1·0 2  1·1·0  
New Jersey  1·2·0 2  1·2·0  
Northeast Division  
team  record pts.  last 10  
Ottawa  4-0·0 8  4-0-0  
Montreal  1·0·1 3  1·0-1  
Toronto  1·2·1 3  1-2·1  
Boston  1-1-0 2  1-1-0  
Buffalo  0-2-0 0  0·2-0  
Southeast Division  
team  record pts.  last 10  
Washington  3·0·0 6  3·0-0  
Carolina  2·1·1 5  2-1-1  
Tampa Bay  2·0-0 4  2-0·0  
Atlanta  0-2·0 0  0-2·0  
Florida  0-2·0 0  0·2·0  
Central Division  
team  record pts.  last 10  
Detroit  2-0·1 5  2-0-1  
Nashville  2·0·0 4  2-0-0  
St. Louis  1-1-0 2  1-1-0  
Chicago  1-1-0 2  1-1-0  
Columbus  1-1-0 2  1-1·0  
Northwest Division  
team  record pts.  last 10  
Minnesota  2-0·0 4  2-0·0  
Colorado  2-1-0 4  2-1-0  
Edmonton  2-1-0 4  2-1-0  
Vancouver  1·1-0 2  1-1-0  
Calgary  0-1-1 1  0·1-1  
Pacific Division  
team  record pts.  last 10  
San Jose  1·1-1 3  1-1·1  
Anaheim  1-3·1 3  1-3·1  
Phoenix  1·1·0 2  1-1·0  
Dallas  1·2·0 2  1-2·0  
Los Angeles  1·2·0 2  1·2·0  

Major League Soccer Eastern Conference Standings 
team record points 

DC United 1 16·6·6 54 New England 2 14-7-7 49 New York 3 11-6·11 39 Kansas City 4 10-7-11 37 Chicago 5 9·9·10 36 Columbus 6 7·10·11 31 Toronto FC 7 6-6·16 24 
Western Conference Standings 
team record points 
Chivas USA 1 15·6-6 51 Houston 2 14·6-8 48 FC Dallas 3 13·4-11 43 Colorado 4 8·8·12 32 los Angeles 5 8·6-13 30 Real Salt lake 6 5-9-14 24 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Florida State at Wake Forest 7:30p.m., ESPN 
MLS 

Chivas USA at FC Dallas 9 p.m., ESPN 2 
CnMrtLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
MLB 


Associated Press 

PHOENIX Troy Tulowitzki may be the lead­ing candidate for NL rookie of the year. He's hardly the only Colorado Rockies new­comer to make a huge impact. 
When the Rockies lost three-fifths of their starting rotation to injuries in a 16­day span at midseason, they turned to two pitching prospects from their Latin development program and rushed them to the majors. 
Without 21-year-old lefty Franklin Morales and 23­year-old righty Ubaldo Jimenez, the Hackies would­n't be in this purple haze, set to play Arizona in the NL championship series starting Thursday night. 
Jimenez (4-4, 4.28 ERA) held opponents to a .228 batting average and provid­ed a big boost to the team with an electric four-pitch repertoire that features a 99 mph fastball. 
And the bigger the game, the better he's done. 
Jimenez has allowed just one hit in each of his last two outings, both of them covering 6 1/3 innings. The first one was against Arizona on the fmal day of the season, when the Rockies forced a wild-card tiebreaker with San Diego, and his second one came Saturday when Colorado swept Philadelphia out of the playoffs. 
"All year he's been filthy, 
IN BRIEF The Gipper's body exhumed 
for DNA testing 
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. -The body of George Gipp, the leg­endary Notre Dame football player who inspired the rally­ing cry "Win one for the Gipper," was exhumed recently for DNA testing in his Upper Peninsula hometown, an offi­cial said Wednesday. 
The test was sought by the Gipp family and met legal requirements, Houghton County Medical Examiner Dr. Dawn Nulf said, although it angered some relatives who live in the area where Gipp was born and raised. She 
declined  comment  on  why the  
request was made.  
An  ESPN  crew  filmed  the  

exhumation for an upcoming story, but a spokesman said the network played no role in arranging it. 
but he's stepped it up in the last couple of weeks for sure," pitcher Josh Fogg said. "Any time you can throw a baseball 100 mph and break off a 72 mph curveball and a 76 mph changeup and a slider that's gotten better with time, it's fun to watch. I'm a little jeal­ous ... but he's been the best pitcher on our staff by far." 
Ace Jeff Francis won't argue with that. 
"I think both Ubaldo and Franklin have been awe­some for us," Francis said. "They've both got great stuff. " 
Morales (3-2, 3.43) joined the rotation for the final six weeks of the season and tied the club record with 20 con­secutive shutout innings. He 
Ray: Allen scores 28 in 
exliibition with Celtics 
LONDON -Somebody forgot to tell Ray Allen that the Celtics are Kevin Garnett's team. 
Allen scored 28 points Wednesday night to lead the Celtics to a 92-81 preseason win over the Minnesota Timberwolves in Garnett's first game against his former team. 
Garnett, who spent 12 years in Minnesota, scored nine points in less than 30 minutes at London's 02 Arena, but he helped in other ways. 
"When you have KG in the post, everyone wants to double him," said Allen, who was 5-of-8 from 3­point range. "We can knock down 3s. We have so much available." 
Garnett had six rebounds, two assists and three blocks. 
"The past is the past," Garnett said. "This is a new chapter in my life." 
got an early hook against the Phillies in Game 2 but he'll be back on the mound when the NLCS returns to Denver this weekend. 
Even their teammates are in awe of what these young kids are doing in pressure­packed appearances. 
"It's been awesome to watch Jimenez and Morales," reliever Taylor Buchholz said. "They have electric arms and they make it look easy." 
The Rockies had to call on them when they lost starters Rodrigo Lopez, Jason Hirsh and Aaron Cook to the 60­day DL in a 2 1/2 week span in late July and early August, when the playoffs were the farthest thing from anyone's mind in Denver. 

LaJ?.dis to apP.eal doping
rulmg one lasl time 
The final uphill climb for Floyd Landis in his Tour de France odyssey will end in a Swiss courtroom. 
The American cyclist decided Wednesday to try to regain his 2006 championship at the Court of Arbitration for Sport -the top court for sports -hoping arbitrators there will reverse an earlier decision to ban him for two years and strip him of his title for using performance-enhancing drugs. 
"I want to take this opportunity to say again, that I am innocent of the doping allegations against me," Landis said. "I hope that the arbitra­tors of the case will fairly address the facts showing that the French labora­tory made mistakes, which resulted in a false positive. Although the process of proving my innocence has been difficult for me and my family, I will not stop trying to prove my inno­cence." 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October I 1, 2007 
MLB 

A-Rod likely to opt out of last years with Yanks 
Star third baseman looking to test free-agent nwrket; agent Boras cites increase in baseball revenue as main reason 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK Alex Hodriguez is ready to cash in. Again. 
Agent Scott Boras hinted Tuesday that A-Rod will opt out of the final three seasons of his contract with the New York Yankees and seek a new deal in the free-agent market that will lock him up through his pursuit of Barry Bonds' home-run record. 
Boras negotiated Hodriguez's rocord $252 mil­lion, 10-year agreement with the Texas Hangers before the 200 l season, a contract the Yankees took over when they acquired A-Rod before the 2004 season. llis next deal could last for more than a de1:adn. 
"Alex wants 

to be in one "I understand I have year by the new stadium." uniform for a Hangers, money Closer Mariano Rivera and
an option, but I also 
long, long that is deferred a catcher Jorge Posada can timP. if not to 2 percent annual become free agents after the
understand that I the end of his want to be a New interest rate and World Series. Pitcher Andy earner." Boras scheduled to be Pettitte has a $16 million play­
York Yankee. " 
said of the 32-paid from 2016-er option. year-old, 25. Rodriguez had a regular headnd to his Alex Rodriguez Yankees gener­season that likely will earn third AI. MVJ> Yankees third baseman al manager Brian him a third AL MVP award, 
Award. "I think Alex could play very rnasonably unl.il lw's 45. So you're talking about a situation where we want this guy to bn identified with 111w franchise and one uniform for a very, very long time." 
Hodriguez nnters next year 17th on the career home-run list with 51R and is 242 behind Bonds, who also hopes to play next season. The expected chase will be fac­torml into the negotiation. 
"That team is going to be associated with having a play­er in its organization that has this history, this valtw," Boras said. "and they're going to be able to market that and go through the varying chases and levels of passing players in his homo run pursuits." 
In describing how Hodriguez would benefit from free agency, Boras cited the increase in baseball revenue from $3 billion in 2000 to mmrly $6 billion this year. 
"The marketplace for negoti­ating contracts has changed so dramatically from when we negotiated in 2000 to where we negotiate in 2007," Boras said. 
New York likPiy will approach Boras with an extension ofTer in the next few w o fl k s -Hod rig u e z m us t make his docision whether to opt out by the 1Oth day af'tcr the World Series ends. 
Hodriguez must weigh that offer against what he could get as a free agent, keeping in mind that the market for a player in the $30 million-a­year-range is limited. 
"lin eould opt out tomorrow if lw wanted to, but I haven't diseussed that with him," 

Uoras said. "All those deci­strong recommendation," he sions will be made when we said. "There is a date and if 
sit down and talk." 
The Chicago Cubs and Los Angeles Angels are viewed as possible destina­tions, although their payrolls arc dwarfed by that of the Yankees. 
Hodriguez is guaranteed $24 million annually by New York in each of the next three seasons. 

'fllex {Rodriguez] wants to be in one uniform for a long, 
long time, ifnot to the end ofhis career. 
Scott Boras Alex Rodriguez's agent 
you can make a deal before that date, fine. After that date, it becomes a much different economic ani­mal. It makes less sense." 
W h e n Rodriguez arrived at spring train­ing, he was coy when asked about his con­tract. 
But part of that would be ofT­"I understand I have an set by $21,304,500 the option, but I also understand Hangers still owe New York as that I want to be a New York part of the trade. In addition, Yankee," he said, going on to Hodriguez is due add: "My goal is to go in with $3 million each Derek and Mo and open the 
Cashman sai~l leading the major leagues with 
that if Hodriguez 54 homers and 156 RBis. But opts out -and the Yankees he went 4-for-15 (.267) with lose that $21 million subsidy one HBI against Cleveland and -the team would cut off is in an s·-for-59 (.1 :36) post­negotiations. season funk dating to 2004. 
"That would be my position, He is hitless in his past 18 yns. that would be my very playoff at-bats with runners in scoring position. 
New York would have to replace A-Rod's regular-sea­son offense if' he leaves. 
"A lot of it depends on whether he comes back here," 
said first baseman Doug Mientkiewicz, A-Hod's former high school teammate and off­season workout partner. "That's like a domino effect. It's a big piece of the puzzle." 

J4'J... y 1-l. J» J..-1-l. N I~ J4'()Jt-J4' Ill~ I~ 
INTERESTED IN BEING A PILOT? 
Then do something about it. A U.S. l\llARINE CORPS AVIATOR will be giving FREE ORIENTATION .FLIGHTS Tuesday. Oct. 16, at the Corporate Wings Building at the South Bend Airport. 
No obi igation incurred. 
Get in the cockpit of the PIPER NAVAJO (TWIN ENGINE TURBO CHARGED, AIRSPEED 205 MPH:, ALL WEATHER RADAR EQUIPPED AIRCRAFT) and see if you have the skills required to eam a GUARANTEED AVIATION OPTION as a MARINE CORPS OFFICER. 
CALL IsT LIEUTENANT ERIC CRECELIUS OR GUNNERY SERGEANT CLAYTON AND RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY. 
Call Toll .Free 1-877-299-9397 

Fly these with us on the 16TH ... 
I ST I ,I<~utcnant Eric Crecelius 
MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTJC>N C>FFICER 134 \/I/est State Street, Suite "C" West Lafavcttc. IN 47906 
(765) 74J~S359 I 8762 

14:n1ail· crcceliuse ta"inlai·ines.usJnc.n•il 


Thursday, October 11, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Ailing Panthers sign Testaverde as backup 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Vinny Testaverde won the Heisman Trophy the same year his new Carolina teammate Dwayne Jarrett was born. He was the No. 1 overall pick eight years before the Panthers entered the NFL. 
He's thrown more passes than have been thrown in Carolina's history. He's also nearly four years older than his offensive coordinator. 
Yet the soon-to-be 44-year-old 
The Bistro features the freshest seafood, steaks and much more .... 
Parisi's 2nd location. Newest fine dining with aEuropean flair located 1mile from the stadium 
After dinner relax in our Martini Lounge and enjoy live music 

Testaverde -the man nick­named "Dad" by his new team­mates -could start Sunday for the banged-up Panthers at Arizona. 
''I'm just surprised that people are still interested in a 44-year old quarterback that hasn't played in five or six weeks," Testaverde said Wednesday, with his gray sideburns visible under his baseball cap. "It's like starting as a rookie, that excit­ed, nervous, ready-to-go feel­ing." 
The Panthers hope Testaverde will be ready after a five-day crash course. With Jake Delhomme set to undergo sea­son-ending elbow surgery and David Carr missing practice and walking gingerly Wednesday with a back injury, Testaverde could be Carolina's best option. 
"He's a guy we were fortunate enough to find at this point in the season," coach John Fox said. 
Joining his sixth franchise, Testaverde has played in 226 games with 208 starts. The No. 1 overall pick in the 1987 draft was cut by New England before the start of the season. 
"He brings experience," gen­eral manager Marty Hurney said. "He throws the ball extremely well. He's a fierce competitor." 
The Panthers hope Carr will be able to practice late in the week and play Sunday. But Carr, who said his vertebrae was "squished" on a sack in Sunday's win over New Orleans, was far from ready Wednesday. 
"I felt like my grandpa Monday. I felt like my dad today. Hopefully I'll feel like my 7­year-old son by Sunday," Carr said. 
Matt Moore, an undrafted rookie who played briefly Sunday when Carr was being treated, is the other quarter­back on the roster. But Moore's inexperience and the fact he was signed only last month after being cut by Dallas could make the Panthers wary of starting him. 
Enter Testaverde-two years younger than Moore's father ­who shook off the old-man jokes in the locker room Wednesday. 
"I haven't told them yet, but I have probably forgot more foot­ball than these guys already know," Testaverde said with a grin. 
Entering his 21st season, the two-time Pro Bowl pick ranks sixth in NFL history 6,529 pass attempts, 150 more than Carolina has in its 13-year his­tory. His 3,693 completions and 45,281 yards passing also rank sixth. He's ninth with 270 touchdown passes and tied for 10th with 30 300-yard passing games. 
On Sunday, he could be throwing to Jarrett, who was born in 1986, the year Testaverde was named the best player in college football. 
"I was probably about 7 or 8 when he was with the Browns," said Panthers receiver and Ohio native Drew Carter. "It was kind of surreal that I'm his team­mate now. 
"But he came into the huddle today and took control." 
Testave1·de does have some familiarity with the offense. Carolina's 40-year-old offensive coordinator, Jeff Davidson, is a former New England assistant and Testaverde spent last sea­son with the Patriots. 
"I know the system they run here," Testaverde said. "For someone with my experience it is easier than say a younger player cori1ing in and trying to learn the system." 
Delhomme was officially placed on injured reserve Wednesday to make room for Testaverde. Hurney said he has no concerns about Testaverde's age. . 
"If you watched him in pre­season, he threw the ball extremely well," Hurney said. "He played in two preseason games -one was against us ­and he still showed the ability to compete in this league. 
"He's a guy who takes extremely good care of him­self." 
The available pool of quarter­backs was thin, and the Panthers were in competition with their Sunday opponent. The Cardinals also called Testaverde after they learned Matt Leinart would miss the rest of the season with a broken collarbone. 



The Kings of Kilburn igh Road 
By Jimmy Murphy 
Tuesday, October 16 and Wednesday, October 17 
8:00 p.m. DedoTheater 
To celebrate the conference, 11 Race and Immigration in the New Ireland;' the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies will host two performances of Jimmy Murphy's The Kings of the Kilburn High Road in the Decio Theater of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts on Tuesday, October 16th and Wednesday, October 17th at S:OO.In this highly acclaimed play, agroup of friends take ahilarious and tragic look back on their lives as they gather In apub twenty-five years after they left their homes in Ireland to make their fortunes in England. The play is the work of Arambe Productions, aprofessional Irish theater company led by director and performance artist Bisi Adigun, who currently has a version of The Playboy ofthe Western World running in the Abbey Theatre, Dublin. 
For more information call the Box Office at 631-2800. 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 11, 2007 
NASCAR 

Harvick hits tire spikes in Nextel Cup Chase 
Associated Press 
Kevin llarviek has to wonder 
what 1\lse can go wrong. 
Sinee NASCAH's latest version of the Chasn for the champi­onship began four races ago, llarviek has senmnd to be under some kind or cloud. 
Flat tires relegated him to 17th at New llampshire and 20th at Dover. llarvick finished a solid sixth at Kansas, but ran into more problems last Sunday at Talladega in a 20th-place lin­ish. 
It eould have been worse for the Hichard Childress Hacing driver. 

f'our other drivers using engines built by thn new HCH­Dale Earnhardt Incorporated alliance blew up, sending Jeff' Burton, llarvick's teammate, and DEI drivers Dale Earnhardt .Jr., Martin Truex Jr. and Aric Almirola to the garage early. 
llarvick's engine lost power midway through the race, but he somehow got to the finish to presnrve a 20th-place finish. 
"Witl1 50 laps to go, wn dropp1~d a eylinder," crew chiol' Todd B1~rrier said. "Somehow, it hung together to the end. It eould have been a lot wors11. It was worse for 23 other guys." 
Talladega also nxtnnded llarvkk's string of' races he has finished to 38. dating to the Dovnr event in Sept. 2006. lie and HCH teammate Clint Bowynr are the only two Chase drivers to have finished every raen this snason. 
But the double-digit finish at Talladega left llarvick, going aftnr his first Nextel Cup title, fifth in thP. 12-man ChasP., 202 points behind Talladega winner and nnw series leader JolT Gordon with six races remain­ing. 
And llarvick isn't real secure in that spot. with Carl Edwards thren points behind and 2004 champion Kurt Busch 13 points back. 
In between llarviek and the two front-runners an1 HCH tnammatn Clint Bowyer in third and two-time Cup champion Tony Stewart. But Harvick is better ofT than Burton, who is now last in the Chase standings and all but eliminated from championship contention. 
"Yeah, it's been a fight so far," Ilarvick said. "I think, in the first two weeks we got three flat tires. Then, it was the engine at Talladega. You can only afford so many situations like that before it takes you right out of the Chase." 
"Our approach hasn't changed, though. We go and try to be as aggressive as we can every week and make our car run as fast as we can to put our­selves in a position to win. If you can't do that, then you have to make the best day possible out of the days that you're having." 
f'or llarvick to get back into the championship battle, some of the drivers ahead of him will have to suffer some of their own misfortunes and he will have to overcome his less-than-success­ful Cup history on the 1.5-mile oval at Lowe's Motor Speedway. 
Heading into the Bank of' Amerka 500 on Saturday night, llarvick's only real success at the track in suburban Charlotte, N.C., came in May when he won tlu1 non-points All-Star race. 
Otherwise, the 31-year-old has only one top-five finish in a points-narning raee since his first Cup race there in 2001. The Bakersfield, Calif., native has an average finish of' 20.2 at Lowe's. 
In thn 600-mile race in May, llarvick survivfld an early wreck to finish 21st. 
"Charlotte seems to be a track where we just haven't had the finishes we need," llarvick said. "We have always run pretty well thnre, but just haven't been able to put everything together. 
"During the Coca-Cola 600, we Wflre running pretty good and just got caught up in a wreck. We have to lind a way to keep everything together. II' we ean do that, I think we can leave Charlotte with a top-five finish." 
If he does that, chances are llarvick will also be back in the championship race. 



Thursday, October 11, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
TENNIS 
Sharapova upset in Moscow 
Amelie Mauresmo also falls; Kuznetsova only seeded woman to win 
Against Sharapova, the 18­

Associated Press 
year-old Belarussian saved 
MOSCOW Maria three more set points in the Sharapova, playing in Moscow tiebreaker before taking the for only the third time, lost to set. Azarenka then broke the teenager two-time Grand Victoria Slam champion Azarenka 7-6 "Maybe I was too twice in the sec­(9), 6-2 ond set for her
self-assured at s-J.
Wednesday in first win over the 
the second But it all went fourth-ranked round of the downhill after.,, player. Kremlin Cup. "I tried to stay 
It was concentrated 
Maria Sharapova 
Sharapova's and believed I first match in tennis player could win the 
six weeks since her defeat in the third round of the U.S. Open. The second-seeded Russian, who was sidelined because of a lingering shoulder injury, has never made it past the second round in the event. 
Sharapova went ahead 5-3 and 40-love in the first set but lost 10 consecutive points and allowed Azarenka to force a tiebreaker. 
"Maybe I was too self-assured at 5-3," Sharapova said. "But it all went downhill after." 
In the men's event, second­seeded Mikhail Youzhny and third-seeded Andy Murray advanced to the second round. Youzhny beat Ernests Gulbis 6­3, 6-2, and Murray defeated Evgeny Korolev 6-2, 6-4. Paul­Henri Mathieu defeated qualifi­er Igor Kunitsyn 6-3, 6-4. 

match," said 

Azarenka, ranked 32nd, who was a run­ner-up in her first WTA Tour final in Tashkent last weekend. 
Vera Dushevina upset Wimbledon finalist Marion Bartoli 2-6, 6-0, 6-4, and Elena Dementieva defeated seventh­seeded Patty Schnyder 6-3, 6-4. Dementieva will face Azarenka in the quarterfinals. 
Kuznetsova and Dulko strug­gled to hold serve. 
"It seems to me that I was playing against myself, surface and balls today, not against her," said Kuznetsova, who had four aces and 55 unforced errors. "I played bad but never­theless won the match." 
Mauresmo, who lost to Zvonareva for the first time in eight matches, took a 4-0 lead before winning the first set. 
But the 
Russian broke 

Vera Zvonareva the former top­
"It seems to me that I 
upset Amelie r a n k e d 
was playing against 
Mauresmo 4-6, Frenchwoman 6-3, 6-4 in the myself, surface and in the second frrst round. balls today, not game of the 
"She took the second set and
against [Dutko].,, 
chances she got," again in the Mauresmo said. opening game "She began pret­Svetlana Kuznetsova of the third. ty bad and I was tennis player Mauresmo 
doing well, but then it went the other way." 
In the second round, top­seeded Svetlana Kuznetsova was the only seeded woman to win Wednesday after she ral­lied to beat Gisela Dulko 3-6, 6­2,6-4. 
broke back at 

4-4 but made three unforced errors on her serve in the next game, letting the 24th-ranked Russian serve for the match. 
Serena Williams plays Tatiana Perebiynis in the sec­ond round Thursday. 

'Top Safety Pick includes the 2008 Tribeca. •Government frontal and side crash tests are part of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) New Car Assessment Program. See safercar.gov for more detail. Subaru Tribeca and Outback are registered trademarks. Leases based on 10,000 miles per year plus tax. title, license and doc. Rebates to dealer. With qualified credit. Offers expire October 31st. 2007. 

120 w. McKinlev Ave. MISHAWAKA 
5 mw256mm 21 
GurlevLeepSubaru.com 


TRIBECA 
$319 PER MONTH LEASE/ 36 MONTHS 
$2,593.64 Down Payment $0 Security Deposit $0 Acquisition Fee $319 First Month's Lease Payment 
$2,913 Total Due at Lease Signing 
(1'1odei8TAJ 

5-PASSENGER 
·IIHS Top Safety Pick' 
• 
All-Wheel Drive standard 

• 
Vehicle Dynamics Control (VDC) with Traction Control 


• 256-hp 3.6-liter Subaru Boxer engine 
TRACK AND fiELD 

Jones' relay teatn111ate vvants to keep 111edal 
Passion Richardson argues to retain bronze from 2000 Olympics 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -One of Marion 
Jones' relay teammates wants to 
keep the bronze medal she 
earned with the disgraced sprint­
er at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. 
"I competed fairly, and I should 
not have to suffer the conse­
quences for someone else's bad 
decisions and choices," Passion 
Richardson said Wednesday on 
the CBS "Early Show." 
Jones returned her five Sydney 
Olympic medals Monday after 
admitting she took steroids. Now 
the International Olympic 
Committee must consider 
whether Jones' relay teammates 
should lose their medals, too. The 
IOC executive board next meets 
in December. 
''I'm not happy with the fact 
that my character is going to now 
come into question as to whether 
or not I was using steroids 
because I wasn't," Richardson 
said. 
Richardson, Chryste Gaines, 
Torri Edwards and Nanceen 
Perry competed with Jones on 
the 400-meter relay team. Both 
Edwards and Gaines have served 
doping bans since the 2000 
Olympics. 
The International Association of Athletics Federations has authority over results at the Olympics, while the IOC controls the medals. 
Jones won golds in the 100 meters, 200 meters and the 1,600 relay in Sydney, as well as bronzes in the 400 relay and long jump. 
U.S. Olympic chairman Peter Ueberroth said Monday the relays were tainted because of Jones' presence and all the medals should be returned. 
IAAF rules state that all relay team members should be dis­qualified. However, it's not clear whether that rule was in force during the Sydney Games. 
"I mean, you don't know what was going on on the other teams, so how do you really rectify that situation?" Richardson said. "There's really no positive out­come in either way that it goes." 
Still, Jamaican Tayna Lawrence, who fmished third to Jones in the 100 meters in Sydney, told a Jamaican sports radio show she's glad she knows the truth now. 
"I think finally justice is served," said Lawrence, who's retired and has not yet been con­tacted about upgrading her medal. "There have been specu­lations for years. I have speculat­ed, a number of people have speculated, and I am just happy that it is out." 


2008 SUBN<U 
IMPREZA 
2.5i 

•IIHS 
Highest possible crash test ratings 

• 
All-Wheel Drive standard 

•173-hp 
Subaru Boxer engine 

• 
4-wheel disc brakes with ABS 


$248 PER MONTH LEASE! 36 MONTHS 
$0 Down P•yment $0 Security Deposit $0 Acquisition Fee $248 First Month's Le•se Payment 
$248 Total Due at lease Signing 
\t"kxk8JB) 

'')("' '"UB ' p· ' 
oUTBACK 
• 
5-Star highest government crash test rating' 

• 
All-Wheel Drive standard 

• 
b standard airbags 

• 
4-wheel disc brakes with ASS 


$248 PER MONTH LEASE! 
42 MONTHS 
$1,751.24 Down Payment 
$0 Security Deposit 

$0 Acquisition Fee $24'3._~i~~~~~~-~~:~~~~~~ayrnen~..... $1,999 Total Due at Lease Signing 
(Model 8DB) 



page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 11, 2007 
NHL WRAPS 

Stars beat Kings behind five goals, defense 
Lightning stay unbeaten with 2-0 victory over lowly three-loss Panthers; center Chris Gratton scores twice 

teams." 

Holmqvist has allowed four goals in three games this sea­son, helping the Lightning start the season 3-0 for the just the third time in team history. 
"Last year, most of those shots would go in," Florida captain Olli Jokinen said. "I think their goalie played probably the best game since he's been in the league, espedally against us." 
The Panthers got a goal from Ville Peltonen. Backup goalie Craig Anderson stopped 21 shots in his first appearance of the season. 
"That was probably our best game since the start of thn sea­son," Florida coach Jacques Martin said. "I think we created some more chances and made some good saves. We just didn't finish at times, but we did a lot of things better." 
Tampa Bay took a 2-1 lead when Cratton redirected Paul Hanger's shot during a power play with 9:24 lel't in the second. l'eltonen had tied it at 1 earlier in the period at 4:04. 
c;ralton put Tampa Bay up 1­0 with a rebound goal at 9:03 of the first. The goal eame shortly after llolmqvist made a strong save on Nathan Horton's shot from Uw low slot. 
Anderson stopped Leeavalier twiee on breakaways during the final five minutns of the first. He got the start in plaee or the struggling Tomas Vokoun, who is 0-2 with a 4.54 goals-against­average and an .816 save per­enntage this snason. 
Florida had the first eight shots of the third, but llolmqvist was up to the challenge and stopped them all during the pnriod's opening five minutes. 
7PM
Thursday, 

October 
MSPS STUDY 
BREAK
LaFortune Ballroom 
(2nd Floor) 
Featuring international Food F all over Sourh Be~~m resrauranrs 
COME MEET NEW PEOPLE' Or, just come · 
eat. 

" Br<;>ught to you by Multicultur Expandlng the Crossroads of Learn~l St~dent Programs and services lng T rough Innovation and o·
lSCOVery" 
Associated Press 

DALLAS -Tlw Stars are 
counting on morn offpnsn from 
Niklas llagrnan, a dPI'Pnsive spe­
cialist during his first five NIIL 
seasons. 

Four ganws into tlw season, lw's giving his tfHL!ll everything t.lwy rwed and more. 
llagrnan matrlwd his eanwr high with two goals. orw short­hande(l. Marty Turco stoppml :{2 shots ami t.he Dallas Stars on1:e again lH·at tlw Los Angeles Kings 5-1 on WPdnPsday night. 
llagman has four goals in his team's lirst l'our ganws. 
Last season llagman notdwd a 1:anwr-lwst. 17 goals, but t.lw Stars want rnorP, placing him on a scoring lirw centerPd by the team's top setup man, Mike Hibniro. 
"I havn to concPntrate on scoring a little more when I gt•t a chancP to play on a seoring linP," llagman said. "Every ganw now I'm going to gut a roupif~ of good charH'PS. I've got to he n~ady to bury thmn." 
Antti Midtirwn, Hilwiro and .Joel Lundqvist addPd goals l'or tlw Stars (2-2), who've won both h o nw garn es hy a (:o rn b i rwd sr.orn ol' IJ-2. 
Hihniro thinks llagman has t.lw ability to bP more of a l'oren on ofl'ense. 
·"lin's so l'ast he kenps the del'ensP on its hPPis," Hib1~iro said. "lie has good hands. lie has a lot ol' skills." 
The Stars swPpt all eight garnns from the Kings last sea­son, and Dallas continued that trend with the help of Hagman's l'ourth carenr two-goal gamn. 
"We've got to ehangn that," 

Kings coach Marc Crawford said ol' the recent disparity between tho teams. "There's no magic formula. We have to execute betlt~r. We had three giveaways and they all ended up in the back of our rwt, which isn't characteristie of' our dub. 
"Tonight the big story was Tureo. We had way more great 1:hances. lin was the dill'ercncn­maker l'or tlwm." 
Kyle Calder scored on a rebound at 9:03 of the third period for the Kings (I-3). 
llagman gave the Stars a 1-0 lead at 7:25 of the opening peri­od while tlw Kings were on their seeond power play of the night. Hagman stole the puck from Kyle Calder at the right point, skatnd in alonn and beat .Jason LaBarbera through the pads on a backhander. 
"I kind of read where Calder was going to try to pass and the puck hit me on the glove," Hagman said. "I was able to gHt on a breakaway and went through 25 different scenarios bnf'orH I dneided to go back­hand." 
Turco faced I I shots in the first period, making a sharp glove savn at 15:04 when he robbed Anzn Kopitar on a rising attempt from low in the right cirdn that s1wrm~d ticketed for the upper right eornnr. 
llagman made it 2-0 at 4:1 Hof tlw seeond period, skating up the lef'l side and eonverting Bn~nden Morrow's pass from lwhind tlw rwt for Hagman's fourth goal or the season. 
Turco denied Alexander Frolov of the Kings on a short­handed bn~akaway at H:20 of the seeond period, and M i e tti ne n e xtHn d 11 d Dallas' advantage to 3-0 nearly five minutes later with his first goal of tlw season. 

Bilwiro, activatnd off inj'ured reserve earlier in the day, knocked a loose puck past l.aBarlwra from in front of the rwt on a power play at 1(d):i of tlw serond pPriod to stretch the lead to 4-0. l.undqvist c:onnectnd on a brnakaway 16 seconds into tlw third period to pad Dallas' advantage to :i-0.< 
Lightning 2, Panthers 1 

The Lightning were hoping Chris Cratton would provide ol'fensive depth. They would have droppnd from thn ranks of the unlwatnn three games into the season without him. 
Cratton scored twice and .Johan llolmqvist made 30 saves as Tampa Bay beat the Florida l'ant.lwrs on W1~dnesday night. 
Tlw Lightning's top line of Vincent l.eeavalier, Martin St. Louis and Vinny Prospal, which rombirwd for six goals and 13 points during the first two games, didn't record a point against Florida . 
"Wiwn thn big line isn't going, we l'ound a way," Tampa Bay coach .John Tortorella said. "I thought Crats' line was probably our best linn." 
Cratton, reaequirnd by Tampa Bay from Florida for a 200H Sf~C­ond-round drart pick in June, has 14 career rnultigoal games. 
"It's always tough to play your f'ornwr teammates," Gratton said. "It's nice to ehip in against any team in the league. Our line has got to help out with the oll'nnsn a little bit. We got a cou­ple lueky breaks, but I thought it was a solid game by both 


Thursday, October 11, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 

' 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
{Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Baustista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 

(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -A new tactic for Terrell Owens: Instead of talk­ing, he wrote a note. 
Even Owens apparently knows the Dallas Cowboys' game Sunday against New England, a pair of 5­0 teams and multiple Super Bowl winners, doesn't need any extra hype. 
Nor does Tom Brady vs. Tony Romo, and more interestingly, Owens vs. Randy Moss in a matchup of the league's highest­scoring offenses. 
In place of the usually talkative receiver, reporters found at Owens' locker Wednesday a near­ly poster-sized, typewritten note: 
"Dear Reporters, 
"Due to the magnitude of this week's game and high volume of questions for the Original 81 about the other 81. I will be tak­ing all questions immediately fol­lowing Sunday's game. 
"Sincerely, (followed by Owens' signature) 
"p.s. Getcha Popcorn Ready." 
The "other 81" was an obvious reference to Moss, the controver­sial five-time Pro Bowl receiver who after two difficult years in Oakland is flourishing in his first season with the Patriots. 
Owens' postscript referred to his "get your popcorn ready" comment made when he signed with the Cowboys in the summer 
NFL 

Ovvens refuses to talk to llledia, leaves a note 
of 2006 -before he caught an NFL-high 13 TDs in his Dallas debut. Owens has 21 catches for 387 yards and three TDs this sea­son. 
"I think he's pretty focused. We don't want to give them any bul­letin-board material," tight end Jason Witten said. "There's enough said. We all know what the challenge is.... He's staying focused. He's anxious, excited about the challenge." 
Moss is tied for the NFL lead with seven touchdown catches and has a league-high 551 yards (on 34 catches), even after being sidelined much of training camp with a hamstring injury -similar to Owens' first camp with the Cowboys last year. 
While Owens wasn't in the lock­er room, he was at practice, an unusual Wednesday workout with players in shorts without pads or helmets. 
During the open locker room period, several of Owens' team­mates stopped and read the note, then walked away smiling. 
"It was funny reading it," Chris Canty said. "That's T.O. being T.O. You've got to love that guy." 
Plus, they saw bigger messages in Owens' short statement. 
"He's going to show it on the field.... The talk is over. Now it's all about getting prepared and trying to get a win," DeMarcus Ware said. 


Fremantle, Australia 
Information Meeting Thursday, October 11, 2007 
. 

5:30PM 
-
141 DeBartolo 
!students in the College of AL & BA onl~ 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2007 for Fall 2008 and Spring 2009 Apply Online: www.nd.edu/--ois 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 11, 2007 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Ayers steps into starting position 

junior forward will 
get more time with 
Carter and Falls gone 
By CHRIS HINE 
Sports Editor 
With its two leading seomrs ­Colin Falls and Hussell Carter ­gone, NotrP Dame needs to lind a way to n~place the poinl'> the two lirst-team all-Big East stars eon­tributed on a nightly basis. 
.Junior liwward Hyan Ayers said at Irish nwdia day Wedm~sday he is ready to take on part of that 
n~sponsibility. 
''I've bmm waiting for this for two years," Ayers said. "I li1el like I'm very eomlortable in this posi­tion and I li1ellike my coaches and my teammates have confidence in me. So, this L'> it for me, it's a good opportunity." 
Ayers will hardly have to go it alone. Irish coach Mike Brny said the 6-f(JOt-8 Ayers will likely start alongside sophomore Tory Jackson, junior Kyle McAiarney. senior Hob Kurz and sophomore l.uke llarangody -all of whom have shown potential to put up bunches of points on any given night. 

-
This smL'ion, however, Bmy will <L'>k Ayers to st11p into an PXp<mdnd role <L'> part of the starting lineup. 
"Hyan's always had a great ((Jel li1r Uw game. The li1otwork he h<L'> now he had when he wa'i probably a junior in high school. That's what I loved about him. The body just nnmled time and the psyche needed time," Brny said. "You know, he got his butt handed to him a littln bit in practice and in games. lie had some disappoint­mmlt but he ~-,rrew and got tougher bncause of it." 
L<L'>t year, Ayers W<L'> primarily a spot-up shootnr and fi1und success in that role. Ayers hit a game-tying :~-pointer in Notn1 Dame's 66-63 victory over Villanova on Jan. 27 and nailed lin~r :rs to lead Notre Damn to a 76-64 win over Cindnnati Feb. 18. Now, Aynrs is ready to add another dimension to his ollimsivn ganw. 
"I guess tlw last couple of years, l'vn gotten away from my mid­range ganw a little bit. That wa'> one of my strengths in high school so I definitely want to bring that back," Ayers said. "Espedally the one-dribble pull-up shot that I'm pretty good at. so I dnlinitely want to display that with morn minutes hopefully this year that I'll get. One<~ thny take away the three from mn, I should get in thorn and be able to linish either at the rim or at the 15-li)()t range." 

But Bn~y said fans should expnet Ayers to dewlop his own identity on the floor and not try to imitate Cartnr. 
"I think he can get in there a lit­tin bit up oil' the shot Iitke," Brey said. "lie's not going to give you the Cartnr stull', so I don't want to kind of' even bring that up, but I think he can probe. lie ean make plays on· the. dribble. He can get to that lane and rL'ie up and shoot a short jump-shot where Carter r.ould go all the way and take peo­ple with him." 
Ayers worked extensively this summer on his dribble-penetra­tion and, in the process, gained the eonfidenee of his teammates and his eoach that he ean bn a leader out on the floor. 
"You know, we've had so many guys on him the entire oiJ'-season saying, 'You know, just shoot it, already,"' junior Zaeh llillesland said. "We want him to shoot beeause, you know, I consider him one of the top two or three shoot­nrs on the team. So, we're just try­ing to build his confidence and I think it's at a really high level right now." 
Brey said Ayers' size is also an asset defensively. During his first two years, Ayers had the responsi­bility of' guarding Fall'>, Carter and Chris Quinn in practice and learned valuable lessons along the way. 
"Those guys make you so much better defensively," Ayers said. "Some might think Colin Falls wa'i­n 't the bnst athlflte, but he wa<; a really smart defnnder, and so I lnarnnd from him and how to eut ofT angles. Cflrtainly, with my length and what they showed Illfl, l'vn bnc.ome a better delimder." 
With an experienced group of' startnrs around him, Ayers won't havn to carry the bulk of the load every night, but if the team nends up to put up big numbers, Brey said Aynrs can do it. 
"lie's ready," Brey said. "With what lw did last year, I'm eonli­dent, lw's conlident and, most importantly, his teammates are mnlidm1t. We need him and he's ready to deliver. lie's a junior now, he's paid hi'> dues." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
SuiDiner 
continued from page 28 

an attempt to get ready for another run to the NCAA Tournament -and this time maybe a first-round victory. 
For his part, Harangody shed 10 pounds and said he is in the best shape of his life. 
"At the end of last season I sat down with the coaching staff and we talked about what I neednd to do, how I needed to get in the weight room, and how I needed to eondition to get my body in the best shapn so I eould make it through the sea­son," hn said. "I got in the weight room. watched what I ate and I think I met my goal." 
Sophomore guard Tory Jackson said the summer work­outs were "perfect," bringing the squad together on and ol'f the court. 
"We all were together," he said. "It was like a big family. Anything we did, we did togeth­er. Anytime someone went down. you could look to one side or the other and you would always have a player to pick you up. We aro all brothers out there." 
.Junior Kyle McAlarney returns after being suspended for marijuana possession and missing the second half of last season to join Jackson in the back eourt. The two both played point guard early last season, with McAiarney starting and Jaekson coming oil' the bench. 
But aftnr McAiarney was sus­pendc-ld, Jackson took over the starting role, averaging 7.8 points and 4.3 assists per game. 
Beeause of the graduation of guards Colin Falls and Hussell Carter, Notre Dame's two lead­ing scorers from last season, McAiarney and Jackson will both start this year. 
Jackson said the summer workouts helped him adjust to playing alongside McAlarney. 
"It will give us a nice bal­ance," he said. "We can run a lot and beat teams that way, just outrunning them." 
Although the Irish return eight players who made signifi­cant contributions last season, they have just one senior on their roster -forward Rob Kurz, who was Notre Dame's third-leading scorer last season at 12.3 points per game. 
"He has done a great job as the lone senior setting the tone this summer," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "I think sometimes before he has turned down shots, ·and I'm going to start with him tomorrow not turning down shots." 
Kurz, Harangody, McAlarney and Jackson will fill four of the five starting line-up spots, and all have starting expcrienee. Into the small forward role steps junior Hyan Ayers, who scored 2.9 points per game in a little under 12 minutes of play­ing time per game. 
"I can contribute with my all­around game," Ayers said. "I can hit the opnn shot from three and get in to mix it up in the midrange game or finishing at the rim." . 
on· the bench, the Irish have junior Zach llillesland, who does a little bit of everything. lie averaged 5.8 points, 4.8 
rebounds, 2.2 assists and a steal corning in a reserve last season. 
Among veterans, 6-foot-1 0 junior Luke Zeller and sopho­more point guard .Jonathan Peoples will see time off the bench as well. 
The Irish have a four-man freshman class this season, with forwards Tim Abromaitis and Carleton Scott, and guards Tyrone Nash and Ty Prof'litt. Brey said the young players arP learning how much work goes into Division 1 basketball. 
"Our freshmen joined eight veterans who are amazingly motivated and really know how to work at a level that has got to be in the top two to three per­cent in college baskntball," Brny said. 
Notre Dame begins its season with home exhibition games against St. Ambrose Nov. 2 and St. Edward's Nov. 7. The regu­lar season begins Nov. 12 at the Joyee Center against Long Island. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


CHRISTIAN SAGARDIA!The Observer Irish forward Zach Hillesland looks for a shot In Notre Dame's 85­73 win over Marquette Feb. 24. 
•Italian 
•Steak &Cheese

SUb Choo~e ~rom 
•
Ham &Cheese 

•
Chicken Club 

•
Veggie 

•
Pizza Melt



99 EACH Free Delivery On Campus 
Minimum Order $8.00 For Delivery 
limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas &charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 
~~~~v~~n~U. 574·243•1122 
SERVING NOTRE DAME &ST. MARY'S 
® OPEN FOR LUNCH DAILY
~zza 

Visit us on the Web at www.mar(Os.com 02007 Marco's Franchising, LLC 5642(1)ND·807 
Thursday, October 11, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Injury 
continued from page 28 
As a freshman, Schrader averaged 10.5 points and 5.4 rebounds per game. A little more than a year afler the injury, Irish coach Muffet McGraw says Schrader was ready to go. 
"She's probably 90 percent," McGraw said. "She looks really good. She's strong, relentless, attacking, fearless. She's one of the best players on the team." 
Schrader's interpretation of her physical condition was slightly morfl optimistic. 
"''m 120 percent right now," she said. 
Suffering through the long rehabilitation took its toll on Schrader, and the hardest part of the injury was being relegat­ed to the sidelines. 
"I've always been a person who's always been on the court," she said. "Me taking it off was really bad. The rehab was definitely hard, but not playing was killing me the most." 

Schrader said that while not playing was the main conse­quence, missing other aspects of team involvement also made the time ofT more difficult. 
"The little bonding things that we had during practice, team dinners, stuff like that," she said. "Or the announcer calling my name. That's the things I really, really miss the most." 
Teammates said Schrader brought intensity to the team in her freshman year -some­thing the team may need after its weak perimeter defense last season. 
"Lindsay brought a lot of intensity all the time," senior guard Tulyah Gaines said. "Her whole aura about her is like an intense player, she's never going to quit." 

McGraw said the Irish will play a four-guard system this season, which the team began to learn last year. Although unable to practice the offense, Schrader said her time on the sidelines enabled her to better understand the intricacies of the system. 
"Now I have a complete understanding of where I'm supposed to go, what I'm sup­posed to do," she said. "And if it wasn't for my injury, or if I didn't sit out, I wouldn't have been able to see it actually run. 
"Just because we put in our brand new offense, I saw it run against a defense. I completely understand now what Coach was talking about." 
McGraw agreed and said that Schrader's time ofT gave her a chance to grasp the game bet­ter than before. 
"I think she learned a lot. She listened to her coaches. She conceived things a lot dif­ferently," McGraw said. "She's so happy to be out on the court. Sometimes we have to reign her back in, because she is so excited to be out there." 
One thing Schrader was excited about was the chance to play with the sophomore class, alongside guards Melissa Lechlitner and Ashley Barlow and center Erica Williamson. 
"I just can't wait to see what we'll be able to do and what we're capable of," Schrader said. 
Schrader seemed to have found the benefits in the worst of situations, but now faces her favorite situation -getting back on the court once again. 
"I haven't played another team in a year and a half," she said. "I was even excited for last year when this happened so I'm double excited now." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
CHECKING 
t#at1fmaReffOtt cHeer/ 
Open a Notre Dame fiederal Credit Union Checking Account today and we'll treatyou to an aweson1e Tailgate Party Package, including chair, un1bre1la, cooler, seat cushion, and football. 
Plus, "ve'll enteryour nrune in a dra\\ting for of four portable, football grills. 
·And ifthat~~ not enough, you'll also receive: 
• FREE Checks 

• One FRll.:E NSF Fee Online Bill PaVIncnt
. . . 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Freshmen bring high expectations 
McGraw's twelfth straight Top-25 class complements veterans 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Associate Spans Ediror 

Last year Notre Dame had three freshmen see significant time off the bench. All three were named to the Big East all-freshman team. 
This year, the Irish have another strong class of three freshmen -guard Brittany Mallory and forwards Becca Bruszewski and Devereaux Peters -and hope to get the same level of productivity out of them. 
"I think it is important. We've had our classes ranked in the Top 25 for 12 straight years now, but it really depends on how they mature," Irish coach Moffet McGraw said. 
Last year, the freshmen had to develop very early in the season because the bench was so thin. After the starting five, then-freshman guards Melissa Lechlitner and Ashley Barlow and center Erica Williamson were McGraw's next best options. But with 
t h r e e starters and three contribut­ing bench players returning this season, playing 


time may Mallory be much more scarce than it was last year. 
"This is probably the deep­est team we've had in terms of talent and it's going to be a challenge for me," McGraw said. "Generally we're going to play eight; this year we have 10 and it's going to be up to them to get into the rota­tion early." 
Despite the deep bench, all three current freshmen agreed that McGraw's willing­ness to play freshmen right away was a contributing fac­tor in their decision to come to Notre Dame. 
"It lets you know that you have a chance because some schools you just come in as freshmen and don't really get any time," Peters said. "So it's nice to know that you have a chance and based on what you do, you can achieve a lot." 
Bruszewski said the people involved with the program were the most important fac­tors in her decision to play for the Irish. 
"Actually meeting with the coaches [was important[. Coach McGraw is kind of like my mom, and the other coach­es are amazing," she said. "The girls are so cool and down to earth. We gel really well. And it doesn't hurt to have an ex-AAU teammate (Lechlitner} on the team." 
Even though they won't be getting their minutes as earl.y, this year's freshmen are expected to contribute a lot if Notre Dame is to be success-ful. 

Bruszewski and Peters will add to the team's depth in the frontcourt, and McGraw hopes that will help the Irish on both sides of the court. 
"Devereaux Peters is a high­ly heralded freshman. She's got a lot of talent and she's going to help us in a lot of things that we haven't been able to do in terms of defense and in terms of rebounding and blocking shots," McGraw said. "And Becca Bruszewski, she is someone that we are expecting to be aver­satile play­er who can come in and be real physical and play around the 
McGraw said she hopes Mallory will be a strong pres­ence in the Irish offense, espe­cially from beyond the arch. 
"Brittany Mallory is a great three-point shooter," McGraw said. "We're counting on her to be on from long range, especially against zone. In transition we're looking to shoot a lot of threes. I hope that she takes the most threes this year." 
Off the court, the team is gelling well, especially the new players. 
All three freshmen enrolled at summer school at Notre Dame and spent a lot of time together, Mallory said. Mallory and Bruszewski also roomed together over the summer. 
"We [the three freshmen] became really close. We spent a lot of time together; we were in class together," Mallory said. "So it's kind of nice getting that preseason in and getting a feel for each other." 
One of the most difficult parts of the transition between high school and col­lege basketball for the fresh­men has been the amount of practice -and especially the fitness and conditioning. 
w h i l e 


Peters said she never l i f t e d before join­ing Notre Dame, she feels she has made the transi-

Peters tion well. "The pace is a lot faster, it's a lot more 
running, and a lot more physi­cal because people are stronger," she said. "There's 
definitely a difference but I think (the freshmen} are pre­pared for it now." 
The upperclassmen have also helped Mallory, Bruszewski and Peters adapt to college life at Notre Dame. 
"I could relate to them and [the team I treated me as just another player and not just like a freshman coming in," Mallory said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.t:du 


page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October II, 2007 
MEN's SoccER 

Unbeaten streak comes to an end 
Observer 
Irish midflelder Justin Morrow moves upfield in Notre Dame's 3­
0 win over Michigan Oct. 3. 
Irish fall to Spartans 1-0 on sloppy field 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sporrs Writer 

No. 3 Notrn Damn saw its 
n i n n-g a nw u n b t' atn n streak 
wash away in the rains of East 
Lansing WPdrwsday afternoon 
as tlw Irish fell 1-0 to 
Michigan Statn at Old Collnge 
Field. 

Tlw loss was Notre Damn's lirst since a :~-0 defeat Snpt. 2 at tlw hands of Maryland, and thn Irish an~ now S-2-2 on tlw snason. Notre Dame still has a JWrfect mark or 5-0-1 in Big East play. Michigan Statn, corning ofT its first loss of the season last Saturday against Indiana, improved to H-1-2 on the year. 
"!Michigan State! is a team playing with confidence," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "They lost at Indiana last Saturday, but according to their coach, tlwy felt they should havn won the gamn. For the moment. they're vnry confidnnt." 
In failing to score We d n t\ s d a y a g a i n s t t h e Spartans, Notre Damn was held seornltlss for only the see­ond time in its last 2(, match­os, but it wasn't due to a lack or chances. 
The Irish out-shot Michigan State 17-12 and had a 7-3 advantagH in shots on goal. The Spartan defense had three team saves on the night with two coming in the 57th minute when the Spartan defense eleared two consecu­tive Notre Dame shots ofT the goal linn. 

"If one of those goes in, it's a completely different game," Clark said. "I felt we had the bulk or the game, but thny were very dangerous on the break. Thny broke intelligent­ly, and they caused us a bit of problems." 
Seven minutes after Notre Dame's missed chanees, a Spartan break opened the 

seoring. The play started near midfield when Michigan State stmior Dave Hertel fed for­ward Kenzo Webster, who pro­ceednd to beat two Irish defenders down the right side of tlw IS-yard box. Webster tlwn slotted a ball toward the top or the box where onrush­ing midrinldnr Spencer Thompson booted it past Notre Damn ktwpnr Chris Cahill. 
Tlw goal was the first allowed in more than 321 minutes for Cahill-a season­long scoreless streak. Cahill suffered his first loss of the season. and Notre Dame's record is at 7-1-2 with Cahill in goal. 
After Michigan State's goal, the Irish pushed for the tie. Sophomorn midlielders Justin led Notre Dame in shots with four apiece and shots on goal with two apiece. Ultimately, the Irish could not get past Spartan goalie Chris Austin, who had four saves on the night. 
"You've got to lind a way to get a goal," Clark said. "l think if we had been able to tin the game, we would have eornn out with a good chance of winning the game." 
Notre Dame will return to Big East play Saturday when it takes on No. 1 Connectieut at Alumni Field. Tbe game car­ries Big East standings impli­cations as the Huskies cur­nmtly hold a two-point lead over the Irish for first place in the Big East Blue Division. 
Clark also sees this Saturday's game as a chance for his team to rebound from Wednesday's loss. 
"The greatest thing for us is that we get to play the number one team in the country Saturday," Clark said, in refer­ence to what he told his team after the game. "You don't get a better opportunity to rebound from a disappoint­rnnn t. You can't ask for more than that." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

All three power play goals came from what will
Goalies 

most likely be the team's continued from page 28 top unit. Junior Erik Condra and sophomore start!1d in net for the Gold Kyle Lawson worked the team and had nine saves. points as sophomores He switched to Blue for Kevin Deeth and Hyan the special T h a n g teams peri-played down od and gave low along up three "That's the biggest thing with frnsh­g o a I s man Calle
for us -we could have 
against the Hidderwall. Gold team's a freshman on every Hiddnrwall power play. line." picked up 
"Tommy two assists didn't have along with
Jeff Jackson 
m u c h the game'sIrish coach
chance on a MVP award. couple of "We ' r e those goals playing that late -they as our top were pretty nice goals," unit. We wanted to see Jackson said. "Brad gave how Calle would fit with up one soft goal but other those two guys. So far it than that I thought he was looks fairly good. It's got OK." the potential to be our 
Recruits 
continued from page 28 
and Chris Harper. 

High on Notre Dame's list of receivers are Virginia native Deion Walker and Saint Paul, Minn., native Michael Floyd, the No. 6 and No. 7 receivers nationally, according to scout.com. 
"They need elite receivers," Frank said. "Hight now they're in on some elite receivers that they have a very good shot at." 
On the offensive line, the Irish are pursuing Trevor Hobertson from Elkhorn, Neb. Hobertson originally committed to Nebraska, but later took back his commit­ment. 
Frank said USC's 24-23 loss to Stanford last season 
KAUST Discovery Scholarship 
Full scholarships for science and technology students 
The King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), a 21st century graduate-level, research university, is offering scholarships for future leaders in science, engineering, and technology. 
The benefits of the KAUST Discovery Scholarship include: 
• 
Full tuition at current institution 

• 
Living stipend, book and computer allowance 

• 
Upon graduation, admission and full scholarship for the KAUST master's degree program at the University's Red Sea campus 


The KAUST campus opens in September 2009. Highly talented students with one to three years remaining in first university degree programs can apply now. 
Visit www.kaust.edu.sa/discovery, or email scholarships@kaust.edu.sa. 
CONTACT: 
KAUST Scholarships c/o liE 520 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 740 Houston, TX 77027 Phone: 713.621.6300 x23 

could hold repercussions for class from all around the the Trojans when they try to country, and a weakened recruit outside of their back­USC could benefit the Irish yard in Southern California. next year as well. 
"This year, I don't think "I USC is I doing really well it'll affect them !{)(} much, still with the top players in but where California and it might probably always
"Right now they're in 
impact is will, but when it probably in on some elite comes to compet­next year'~ receivers that they ing for guys c I a s s . maybe out of the
have a very
Frank said. state -USC has "The last good shot at. " done a really 10 or 11 nice job of bring­g a m e s ing guys in from
Mike Frank 
they've out of state ­
lrisheyes.com
played, they Ithe loss to lost a cou-Stanford I proba­ple. They're not as unbeat­bly impact morn guys like able as they once were. that more than it probably When they're not in the will the Southern California national championship kids. where they' do the game, they're just like majority of thnir recruiting," everybody else." Frank said. 
That bodes well for Notre Dame. Notre Dame has ·com­Contact Chris Hine at mitments for next ynar's chine@nd.edu 
number one linn," Jackson said. 
Condra also had two assists, the final one com­ing with less than a second remaining on the clock. lie shot l'rom thn top of the circles, and O'Brien kicked 
a  rebound  out  to  the far  
side of the  crease.  
.Junior  .Justin  White  

stul'f'ed in the rebound to end the gamn with a 3-2 Gold vietory. 
The freshmen saw a lot of ice time in thnir dnbut, and Jackson was plnasnd with how they looked. 
"That's the biggest thing for us -we could have a freshman on every line," he said. "It may hurt us in some ways but I think it's going to help us in the long run." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Thursday, October 11, 2007 
The Observer+ TODAY page 27 ­


MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Victor Fleming and Bruce Venzke 
23 Narrow way 38 Efface, with "off' 53 Optional phrase 
25 Passover month 40 One of the men 55 Belt-hole makers waiting in
26 Gentleman of 56 Nose: Prefix 
"Waiting for 

the court 57 Reef dwellers 
Godot" 28 "Deal!" 59 Button on an
43 Like some eyes 
iPod30 Troop group 
46 Mortgagor, e.g. 
60 Sinclair31 Kind of daisy 
48 Canadian native 

alternative 33 Eternities 
51 At hand, in 62 Part of una 35 Starting point poems semana 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
BLACK DoG 
DEUCES MANOR 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
CROSSWORD 
Across 36 Gore follower Seinfeld's "sworn 37 Eponymous rink enemy" jump 
7 En route 39 Bring up 15 Dig up 41 View from Long 16 Vicious sorts Is. 17 1961 Connie 42 Tennyson 
Francis hit woman called 
"the Fair'' 19 Up to no good 44_ Beach, Fla.
20 Sterile, in a way 

21 Debussy's "Air 45 _Jordan, who de 
wrote "The Crying Game" 
22 Word before Oscar or Orloff 47 A writer may work on it
24 Madras title 49 Bolero, e.g.
25 Inti. agreement since 1993 50 Long on screen 
27 Class-conscious 52 First name in grps.? architecture 
29 Prefix with 54 One-third of a skeleton Morse "0" 

32 Hold 'em 55 Children's challenge author/photograp 
her Aida 34 Fourth book of 

the Book of 58 "Here, I can help Mormon you" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


61 End of a line about ''friends" 63 Not be honest about oneself 64 Ingredients in many stews 65 Derides 66 Become, as mush 
Down 1 Google heading 2 Thrill 3 1952 Doris Day 
hit that was an even bigger hit for the Lettermen in 
1961 
4 acid (old
OHOO 
name for hydrochloric acid) 
5 Bob .• young man in Dreiser's "Sister Carrie" 
6 Web-based 
service 7 Be in charge of 8 Pointed 
extremity 9 Suffix with beta 10 First sitting president to visit 
the West Coast 11 Protect 12 "Huh?!" 13 It rises in the 
Bernese Alps 14 Battle of the 
HO-OHO' 
1914 
18 Mr. Wickfield's clerk, in literature 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NILTE 
± 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NECEP 
j

rxx I I 
NAVIED 
rJ 

1 j
www.jumble.com 
SIFOSY 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT THE BCN EXPERIENCED WHEN HE WAS FITTED FOR A SUIT. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: rI I I JAND rI I I I xI J (Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: FETID LINER INVOKE PLOWED 
Yesterday's 

Answer: Why he wasn't afraid to go to the dentist ­HE KNEW THE "DRILL" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mya, 29; Jodi Lyn O'Keefe, 29; Bob Burnquist, 31; Dale Earnhardt Jr., 33 
Happy Birthday: You can accomplish so much if you keep your emotions in check and don't let petty things get to you. This is a year to focus on what's im­portant, not to spread yourself thin. Anger and regrets will be a waste of time, so don't dwell on the past when the future bas so much to offer. Your numbers are 6, 15, 28, 36, 42, 4 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You may feel forced to take drastic measures if someone isn't cooperating. Ask questions and remain composed so that you don't make a mistake. Throw yourself into a project or work-related pursuit rather than dwelling on personal matters. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You need to relax a bit and do some things -you enjoy. Pamper yourself or get involved in a new hobby. A love connection ts lookmg positive and talks of what your intentions are will be welcome. Don't overspend. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-Jone 20): Gauge your time --pay attention to what's needed the most. Don't let someone else's problems override what you should be doing to get ahead. Work within a strict budget and don't let lovers orchil­dren cost you financially. 5 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Use your persuasive ways to get your way but don't bring emotional blackmail into the scenario or you will end up doing things alone. A parent or child will put demands on you. Offer suggestions but don't take on anyone else's responsibilities. 2 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): If you have the travel bug, book a trip or make plans to visit someone you find inspirational. What you feam from others will help you down the road. Don't get angry over an emotional matter that really doesn't concern you. 4 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be unique and original if you want to get suc­ceed. Perfection is a wonderful thing but, if it isn't interesting, it may not get you ahead. Sudden changes may be necessary at home or in your personal~life. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Follow your instincts and you will not be led astray. A chance to do something totally different must be taken. A change within a relationship with a co-worker, lover or child will tum out for the best. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Collect a debt or deal with legal or financial matters. Although you should be able to make money or come into it in some unusual and interesting way, the most obvious thing you should be doing is in­vesting. Do something different for entertainment. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Hard work will brio~ rewards. You may find it difficult to concentrate if someone you care about ts giving you a hard time. Divide your time evenly between your work and personal responsibilities. 4 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep your mind on what counts. No matter what you do or where you go, avoid discussing something about which you feel passionate. It is likely to lead to an emotional meltdown and you simply don't · have time for that. 2 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can make some very important changes today that will affect the rest of your life. An inheritance, winning, rebate or another means of putting cash in your pocket are looking good. Learning some­thing new will help you deal with whatever develops today. 5 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Anything to do witli partnerships will have to be handled with kid gloves. Don't lead anyone on. Lay out your intentions and be as open and honest as possible. Otherwise, you may have to face the past and dealwith it. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are intuitive, intelligent and sensitive. You are passionate, practical and patient. You are a dedicated, Joyal crusader of justice and fair play. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, October II, 2007 
page 28 
NO BASKETBALL 
With K-Mac back, men set sights on return to Big Dance 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports EJitor 
l.ukn llarangody hasn't f(>rgot­tnn about Notre Damn's loss to Winthrop in the opnning round of last season's NCAA 'l'ournam1mt. 
In litrl, he thinks about it nvnry night bl'li>rn he goes to slm~p. 
"I think it was t.lw low­nsl point of See Also our season," 
"Ayers steps
hn said. "I 
into starting
haVI~ pie­turns walk­position"ing ofT tho 
page 24
wurt Iin my room!. I still rnmnrnbnr the plarw ridn hornn. It was one of the 
worstf(~elings ev1~r." 
The sophomore forward and his teammates were on campus f(>r most of the summer, working out and playing pkk-up games in 
see SUMMER/page 24 

On the court again 

PHIL HUDELSON and GEOFF MATTESON!The Observer 
Left, junior guard Kyle McAiarney dribbles up the court against Alabama on Dec. 7, 2006. Right, junior guard Lindsay Schrader goes up for a shot against Michigan on Nov. 18, 2005. 
After missing all last season, Schrader returns, injury-free 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 

Lindsay Schrader round not only the silver lining of the injury that knpt her out all of last season, but also a way to profit from it. 
The junior guard, who tore her ACL on thn fourth day of practice last year, is back-and See Also brings with 
"Freshman class 
her a slew 

brings high
of benefits from sitting expectations" out the 
page 25
2006-07 season. 

"It made me an all-around player, defi­nitely on and off the court," Schrader said. "It was tough for me in the bPginning, but I defi­nitely pulled away a better per­son and a better player. I'm definitely where I need to be." 
see INJURY/page 25 
FOOTBALL 

Recruits stay true to struggling ND 
Nation's top class continues to renzain intact despite record 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
For a 1-5 learn that has the No. 1 incoming elass in the country, according to top Web sites, no news is good news on the recruiting front. 
"That's the best news you ean gnt," said Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for irisheyes.eorn. "You're hopeful. if nothing nlsn, you hang on to these guys that you have, but there arn still sonw big targnts out there." 
Over thn past few weeks, none of Notre Dame's 19 ver­bal commitments for the Class or 2012 have defectod and taken back their intlmt to attend Notre Dame despite tlw team's 1-5 start. 

"We'vn spoken with pretty mueh all of them recently and tlwy all seem very solid," Frank said. "Thern are a few that are getting hit with a lot or phone ealls from various coaching staffs around the country, and th11y've been getting a lot of mail. But nveryonn now seems to be very solid." 
Frank said Notre Dame's 
first win of the season last 
weekend against UCLA 
hnlpnd take some of the pres­
sure off Notre Dame's coach­
ing staff and the recruits 
themselves. 

"You know they have a lot of peopln giving them a hard time about Notre Dame's sea­son and stuff like that and I think a win really helps Notre Dame and the staff by just quieting some of that for a week," Frank said. "They're starting to turn around and play better and that's a big plus. People are seeing Notre Damn is not as bad as people think." 
Even though the Irish have a class filled with four-and f'iv1)-star recruits, Frank said the coaching staff still has some holes to fill. 
"In my opinion, they need to land two more wide recrlivers, a running back and at least one more o!Ten­sivo lineman to kind of close this elass out," Frank said. "I think if they can get those four players, anything else woul~ just be icing on the cake. 
Notre-Dame has offered scholarships to three running backs who have not yet ver­bally committed to any school -Cyrus (;ray, Hyan Williams 
see RECRUITS/page 26 
HOCKEY 

leers scrin1n1age for final tin1e 
Notre Dame opens the regular season Friday vs. Wisconsin 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 

Notre Dame shook the rust off its skates last night in the annual Blue Gold showdown at the J oyee Center. 
The Irish -who add seven freshmen to their roster this season looked a little bit slow out of the gates, struggling to show that puck control was their team strength last season. 
"It's not drills anymore, it's real hockey, a scrim­mage, so I'm sure that there is some nervousness out there," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "That's the one thing that we all need to recognize is that there are different lines out there -different line combinations." 
The split-squad played one 20-rninute period of five-on-five followed by 12 minutes of special teams work. 
The most intriguing story of the night was the battle to replace last year's CCIIA MVP Dave Brown between the pipes. All three goaltenders saw equal time in net and looked sharp, allowing no goals in even strength play. 

Junior Jordan Pearce, who will start Notre Dame's first game against No. 15 Wisconsin this Friday, made three saves in his 20 minutes of work for the Blue squad. He also stopped penalty shots from junior left wing Justin White and sophomore right wing Ryan Thang. 
All penalties in the first period were awarded penalty shots rather than sending anyone to the box. 
Freshman Brad Phillips made his Notre Dame debut midway through the first period. He finished with 11 saves, two coming on penalty shot attempts. Phillips gave up one goal on a penalty shot to senior Evan Rankin and another shortly after on a Brock Sheahan shot from the point. 
Sophomore Torn O'Brien 
see GOALIES/page 26 





