
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 85 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15,2007 

Monologues move off ND, lack sponsor 

By KATE ANTONACCI 
News Editor 
Nearly one year after the sexually explicit play "Vagina Monologues" caused a storm of controversy and weeks of aca­demic freedom debate on cam­pus, organizers announced that this year's show will hit the stage in early March ­but, for the first time in six years, that stage will be one off campus. 
"This is not the Notre Dame Monologues. This is the 'Vagina Monologues' performed by Notre Dame students," said co-organizer Michelle Lewis. "It is not affiliated with the University at all." 
The reason for the move off campus is lack of sponsorship, Lewis said. After campaigning unsuccessfully to different aca­demic departments, play organizers decided to ensure the play's performance by tak­ing it to a venue off University grounds. 
Last year, "The Vagina Monologues" was held in an academic setting -performed in a classroom and followed up with a series of panels address-
see VENUE/page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 


Schools' relations dicussed 
ND-SMC controversy conjures ideas, dialogue 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Associate News Editor 
Members of Student Senate spent more than 30 minutes Wednesday debating whether they should respond to Observer columnist Jonathan Klingler's most recent column with a letter to the editor, but decided to refer the issue to committee. 
Morrissey senator Greg Dworjan presented the pro­posed letter, which addressed the "long-standing strain on student relations" between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College that were brought to the surface in Klingler's col­umn. 
In the column, which appeared in the Feb. 13 edition of The Observer, Klingler said Saint Mary's has been hypocrit­ical in the past by maintaining their separate identity while using Notre Dame's resources. He argued Saint Mary's should choose to be "separate and proud" or be a part of Notre Dame. Four letters to the edi­tor from Saint Mary's students reacting to his column were printed in Wednesday's Viewpoint section. 
Dworjan said the Student Senate should send its own let­ter to The Observer in effort to "head off the controversy." The letter, he said, should include a proposal that representatives from the two schools meet to foster a "more understanding 
see SENATE/page 4 

Brown, Smith face off in debate 
BySONIARAO 
News Writer 
Presidential candidates Danny Smith and Liz Brown, and their respective running mates Ashley Weiss and Maris Braun, reiterated their platforms and extensive stu­dent government experience during a debate in LaFort­une Wednesday night -the tickets' final opportunity to swing votes before today's run-off election. 
Although both tickets were challenged on the plausibili­ty of their platforms during the previous debate, both candidates argued that their initiatives were well researched and realistic. 
"We've had numerous meetings with administration to make sure our ideas are feasible," Smith said. "We don't want to step on any feet." 
Brown also reiterated the 
see DEBATE/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERYER.COM 

Authorities investigate 
• 


sex crrmes 
Two students report separate incidents 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Associate News Editor 
Police are investigating two incidents of reported sex offenses that occurred on campus in the past few days, said separate e­mails sent by officials Wednesday. 
The reported offenses, one a forcible fondling sex offense and the other a sexual assault, were both reported by Notre Dame students. 
A student notified Notre Dame Security/Police Wednesday after­noon that a man approached her Tuesday night between 8:30 and 
8:50 p.m. in the C1 parking lot and began talking to her while she cleared snow away from her car. The student said the man stood close to her and touched her inappropriately. 
The suspect was described in the e-mail as male, possibly south Asian with a dark com­plexion. He is thought to be in his late 20s, about 5-foot-9 and weigh approximately 175 pounds. He was wearing a knit hat and he spoke with a foreign accent, the e-mail said. 
The man was seen driving a vehicle that was described to the police as a maroon, newer model Mitsubishi with what might have been Illinois license plates. 
A second e-mail said a student reported a sexual assault com­mitted by an acquaintance on campus last weekend. 
No other information was available Wednesday. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Resident assistant selection begins 

Multiple interviews force student applicants to consider position's benefits, drawbacks 
By EVA BINDA 
News Writer 
With the academic year well past the midway point, residence halls are already gearing up for next year by selecting their staffs. Applications for next year's Resident Assistants were due Jan. 19, but the process is far from over. 
The position of resident assistant (RA) comes with many benefits and many sac­rifices. Although RAs receive free room and board, they often give up many extra­curricular activities and time with friends to devote much 

of their free time to the dorm. 
RA applicants must be willing "to take on the unpleasant tasks of staying up late [on] consecutive nights and pretty much giv­ing up all her [or his] free time to the residence," Badin Rector Denise Lyon said. 
Current Alumni RA Joe Nava had similar feelings regarding his position. 
"You don't see the reality of the choice you've made until school starts. [ ... ] I realized how much I had to say 'no' to activities outside the dorm," he said. 
Nava also mentioned "han­dling disciplinary issues" as 
of the hardest things about being an RA. 
Despite some of these drawbacks, many juniors apply each year to join the ranks of hall staff. Students fill out an application that is sent to the Office of Student Affairs soon after semester break, which tracks their academic performance as well as their disciplinary his­tory over the past three years. Three recommenda­tions are also required. 
In addition to an applica­tion, dorms require inter­views to get to know the candidates. Each dorm has a differ.ent system in choosing their staffs. 
Most dorms, like Cavanaugh and Sorin, have two interviews, while Badin requires three. One of the interviews at Badin is with a Student Selection Committee, which is com­posed of 11 to 14 residents who interview the candi­dates from a resident's point-of-view. 
During the interviews, the hall staff -made up of the rector, assistant rectors and current RAs -asks ques­tions about participation in activities, especially within the dorm, and how he or she might behave in certain situ-
see RA/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, February 15, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Falling for you, Mac 
To my new found love: Your features are perfect, your curves superb. With each day I discover new things about you, and fall further for your intelligent design. Why, I ask, didn't we meet sooner? 
Hold on, folks. Aaron Steiner No, this is certainly not an offensively 
News Wire 
sappy and belated 
Editor
Valentine Day's 
wish. This is about 
true, lasting love. And such, I proelaim 
to the world: I love you, MacBook. 
PC, may you rest in peace. With your broken LCD transformer (or whatever the OIT service guy called it), and your out of the question repair price, you bit the dust. 
The MacBook arrived only one and a half weeks ago, and I have otlicially become a full-fledged Mac fanatic. With Steve Jobs leading the mission, boastful Mac-owners being the mis­sionaries, and Apple the new religion, I am the latest convert. The time is final­ly here. 
The time·couldn't have come soon enough. It was horrifying to leave OIT with half of my laptop: they had removed my broken screen and I had decided repairing it would take too long and be too much. 
The search began for a replacement, and PC, you didn't stand a chance. With the recommendations of friends ringing loud in the back of my head, Apple lured me in swift and fast. And, then, of course, the wait. And more waiting. (Side note: once an item is shipped, you can't call in and upgrade from ground to overnight service. Just an FYI.) 
Let me tell you, the two-week interim between the death of the laptop PC and the arrival of the Mac was not easy. It was an anxious time, filled with count­less visits to the ever-bustling LaFun cluster, the CoMo lab, and anyplace on campus where computers are avail­able. I think the CoMo cluster supervi­sors know me by face, now. (Yes, it's me, that kid who planted himself in the lab for hours on end.) 
During the wait, Facebook-and partner in crime AOL-fmally took a second seat to homework as I was forced to budget my time (I wanted to spend as little time as possible in the computer lab. They already knew my face. That's about as personal as I wanted to get.). 
I think, in fact, that my Facebook addiction took a hit while I was forced to do my computing on public comput­ers. No longer do I feel the same urges to compulsively check my wall or update my status after having reduced access for almost two weeks. 
In addition to restoring the my ability to browse Facebook endlessly, this Mac has brought fewer computer glitches, faster work, and an array of fun new features that would never grace the desktop of my old PC. 
Taking into account the circum­stance, perhaps my affection for this new Mac is based more on the relief it brought to my juggling of work between trips to various clusters rather than its extraordinary quality. Perhaps I would feel the same about any new computer after two weeks without one. 
Then again, not just any has such perfect curves. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Feb. 14 article titled, "Engineers anticipate new hall," Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, department chair Stephen Barill's name was incor­rectly spelled. The correct spelling is Batill, not Baril. The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE PLACE TO EAT ON CAMPUS? 




Taylor Poulin Jordan Schan·k Allegra Gassman Tiffany Garcia Matt Haggerty Jordan Gallo 




junior Walsh  freshman Keough  freshman Walsh  
"The Jesus table at SD/1, Thursdays at 8 p.m.  "SDIJ, but it'd be better if they had real mozzarella. "  "SDII because f!Veryone 's there. "  


Cross-dressing  lawyer  
hangs up his dress  
WELLINGTON,  New  

Zealand -A male lawyer who appeared in court dressed in women's clothes as a protest against what he said was New Zealand's overly-masculine judiciary was suspended Wednesday after being found to be in contempt of court.. 
The High Court found Rob Moodie, a 6H-year-old, balding man who appeared in court in dresses and tot­ing a handbag, was in eon­tempt for circulating sup­pressed documents outside the court in one of his cases. 

Teen hiccuping for over 3 weeks, hospitalized 
ST. PETEHSBUHG, Fla. ­Jennifer Mee can't stop hic­cuping. For more than thrne weeks now, the 15-year-old St. Petersburg teen has hic­cuped close to SO times a minutn -despite the best efforts of doctors and home rnmedies. 
She's had blood tnsl'>, a CT scan and an MHI. Drugs haven't worknd. Neither has holding her brnath, putting sugar under her tongue, sip­ping pickle juiee, breathing into a paper bag and drink­ing out of the wrong side of a glass. 
The hiccups do stop when shn's sleeping. 
freshman Walsh  senior Keenan  junior Lyons  
"111h' Reekers."  "Candlelight dinners."  "THE Starbucks."  

According to the National Institutes of Health, hiccups are caused by involuntary contractions of the diaphragm, which causes vocal cords to briefly close, which makes that distinctive hiccup sound. 
It is not dear what trig­gerod Jennifer's hiccups. I Ier mother, Hachnl Hobidoux, rneently turnnd to the local newspapnr li1r hnlp. 
''I'm just looking for some answers where somebody's gonn through this," Robidoux told the St. Petersburg Times. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a: 
LLI 
:c 

!ci: 
LLI 
3: 
_, 
c:( (,) 

0 

HIGH 12 HIGH 10 HIGH
..... 

LOW 4 LOW 0 LOW IN BRIEF 

The student body president run-off election will take place today. Students can vote online between 8 a.m. and 8 
p.m. at the Judicial Council Web site or by clicking on a link in an e-mail from the Council. 
The men's basketball team will play Providence today at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The Juilliard String Quartet from New York's famous .luilliard School will perform today at 7:30 p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $36 to the general public, $30 for faculty and staff and $15 for students. Call 574-631-2800 for more information. 
The Second City Comedy Tour will perform at Washington Hall at 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Friday. Student tickets are $5 and are avail­able at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Junior Parents Weekend will commence Friday with the Opening Gala and will end Sunday with the Closing Brunch. 
The SMC Monologues will take place Friday and Saturday .at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. A donation of $3 is suggested. 
The men's lacrosse team will play Loyola Saturday at 1 
p.m. in the Loftus Sports Center. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 27 HIGH 28 LOW 15 LOW 15 
Atlanta 42121 Boston 25 I 11 Chicago 12 I 9 Denver 28 I 8 Houston 47 I 30 Los Angeles 75 I 47 Minneapolis 10 I -2 New York 24 1 16 Philadelphia 27 I 15 Phoenix 68 I 45 Seattle 54 I 41 St. Louis 20 I 10 Tampa 61 I 41 Washington 28 I 14 
Thursday, February 15, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

WebCT aids ND acadetnic quest 
Internet-based course software system utilized by most students 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
After supplementing class­room education at Notre Dame for seven years, WebCf will soon have a new image. 
Assistant director of the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning Chris Clark said the internet-based course software system has been purchased by a competing company. 
In addition to a new name, Clark said, "WebCT will either be known as the Blackboard Learning System or we may rename it the ND Course Pages." 
The changes, however, might not end with a simple renovation. 
"In several years, we may replace WebCT with one of several new, open-source, free programs that accom­plish the same thing WebCT does in new ways," he said. 
WebCT currently is used most by the psychology, music, mathematics, theology and language departments, according to statistics provid­ed by Brandon Rich of the Office of Information Technology. 
"This semester. 388 sections are being taught using WebCT. That represents 20 percent faculty usage, reach­ing 73 percent of students," Rich said. 
The  major  consumer  of  
WebCT  is  Math  10260  - 
Calculus II for Business  - 

directed by Professor Alex Himonas. 
"The problem with home­work is that students cannot see their mistakes ~ WebCT corrects this," Himonas said. 
WebCT informs users instantly when they have made an error. 
"We like the trial and error element of the class," Himonas said. "Students can see where they are making mistakes, and can practice until they get it right." 
WebCT has also found novel applications in the foreign languages. Professor Maria Coloma uses WebCT to post handouts, visual aids and multimedia for her spanish classes. 
"I love it. It lets me keep in touch with students -there's even music we can sing on WebCT to help with pronunci­ation," Coloma said. "I encourage all foreign lan­guage professors to use WebCT." 
Students like sophomore Marcela Monsalve appreciate the broad applications of WebCT. 
"I used it in my pre-med science classes, but also in Democracy in Africa," Monsalve said. "All the lec­ture notes were posted, as well as the syllabus. I like the convenience of it." 
One of the most popular applications in WebCT is used for multiple choice questions based on an assigned reading, Clark said. 
"Students say on TCEs that classes with WebCT are better because they do the reading for quizzes, which leaves 
them  more  prepared  for  
exams  at  the  end  of  the  
semester," he said.  

WebCT appeals to many of its users, but also comes with its fair share of criticism. 
"It allows us to do very basic things, but students still have to type in an answer at the end," Himonas said. "We can't test [students'] ability to draw graphs or determine mistakes in each step of the process, only the solution." 
Clark said the system is seen as "clunky" and difficult to use, but said a new version of WebCT would be imple­mented soon to fix this prob­lem. 
"The new version will add a more advanced discussion tool, the ability for students to keep an individual online journal and a class web log feature, as well as a scoring rubric," he said. "The rubric will allow students to grade their own work before turn­ing it in to see if they have met their professor's expecta­tions for a given assignment." 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittll@nd.edu 



Latino Studies receives Getty Foundation grant 
Special to The Observer 
The Institute for Latino Studies (ILS) at the University of Notre Dame has been awarded a $100,000 grant from the Getty Foundation for the Midwest Latino Arts 
Documentary  Heritage  
Project.  
Building upon  a  successful  

pilot program conducted in Illinois and Michigan, the proj­ect will produce foundational reference tools and compile a Web-based directory to the fundamental research tools of 20th-century Latino artists and arts organizations in the Midwest. The resulting Web site and print publications will not only assist scholars and educators in their research and teaching, but also help librarians and archivists in collections development. 
"Although this art history may seem 'invisible' much of it actually remains in the file cabinets, basements and stor­age boxes of its creators and, thus, is difficult for researchers to access," said Tracy Grimm, ILS archivist and project director. "Many of these collections of papers, files, correspondence, catalogs and photographs are in criti­cal danger of being lost unless action is taken soon." 
Unique in its approach. the project team will combine the expertise of art historians and an archivist to locate and sur­vey Latino art collections, museums, galleries, cultural centers and individuals, as well as the libraries and archives. 

The project will produce a preservation awareness brochure, distribute a records management guide for non­profits, conduct field surveys of private collections and a survey of collections already held by libraries and archives, gather oral histories, conduct records management and preservation workshops, cre­ate an on-line guide for researching Latino arts pri­mary sources, and publish a foundational chronological survey of the history of Latino arts in the Midwest with a selected bibliography and exhibitions list. 
The Institute for Latino Studies was established in 1999 to promote understand­ing and appreciation of the Latino experience in the United States through research, education and out­reach. Its areas of study include Latino art, spirituality, literature, history, politics and socioeconomic conditions. 
The Getty Foundation pro­vides support to institutions and individuals throughout the world, funding a diverse range of projects that promote the understanding and conserva­tion of the visual arts. 



LOSTCOC POO 
REWARD OF $500 FOR THE SAFE RETURN OF MILO, OUR DOG, AS SOON AS POSSIBLE 

By now. tear stains woold have fOtmad near Milo's ayes into hls fur. which would appear dark brown. He could be wearing a red sweater and would have a teal colored collar~ with matching leash. I believe his rabies shot was given by Kryde1 Clinic so he should have that tag on his collar. Milo was apprehensive of people he didn~t know. He was a 
npuppy mill" dog. We believe he would run from someone if he was approached, 
If found, please contact Animal Hospital of South Bend (MILO'S VET) 282-2303 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 15, 2007 
the letter is delayed by a week. that it is not critical that we touched a lot of people's (COH) will travel to Saint Mary's Senate Oversight Committee respond to it in this way," nerves," Fishnr senator Drew to meet with its Board of

Senate 

chair Chris Hollon agreed the llollon said. "But I do think this Clary said. Governance Tuesday. relationship between Notre discussion has to be had, since Senate Community Helations The student government also
continued from page 1 

Dame and Saint this problem chair Josh Pasquesi said hn has in place another initiative atmosphere" and address the Mary's is a has arisen twiee appreciated that Dworjan took to maintain good relations
"And for a Senate that 
stereotypes that exist about topic that has in the last 12 the initiative to bring the con­between Notre Dame, Saint students from the two schools. been a concern hasn't done much months." troversy to the Student Senate's Mary's and Holy Cross College, Student body vice president and will remain throughout the year, I Other sena­attention. Shappell said. Representatives Bill Andrichik decided to post­one, citing the tors agreed the "This is now an opportunity from Saint Mary's and Holy
want to thank 
pone voting on the letter and Jockular comic issue of Notre to do something," Pasquesi Cross, called tri-campus com­instead sent it to the Senate strip that [Dworjan} for taking Dame-Saint said. "And for a Senate that missioners, serve as non-voting University Affairs committee appeared in the issue and running Mary's relations hasn't done much throughout members of COR. for further discussion. This The Observer is one that the the year, I want to thank him
with it.'' 
group will also discuss whether last year -one Senate should for taking the issue and run­
In other Senate news: 

a summit should be held with which referred examine in the ning with it." 
+ Students can place classi­representatives from Saint to Saint Mary's Josh Pasquesi future. Student body president Lizzi f'ied ads for tutors or offering

Mary's and Notre Dame to talk students as chair "1 think that Shappell said Saint Mary's and tutoring services on insideND
about underlying tensions. "parasites." the sentiment Notre Dame student govern­
Community Relations starting Monday, said Academic 
Andrichik said he made this "I think we feel is we ments already planned to meet Affairs chair Jim Grace. 
decision because he felt the that since this recognize that together prior to the recent issue is longstanding and will Viewpoint back and forth has Jonathan Klingler brought up controversy in The Observer. Contact Kaitlynn Riely at be sustained even if a vote on only existed for two days now an important issun and it The Couneil of' Hepresentatives kriely@nd.edu 
RA 
continued from page 1 

THE POWER TO 


PRESS 
PLAY
ations. 
In Badin Hall, applicants are asked to describe their leadership style and how they have grown since fresh­men year. 
Most importantly, however, RAs must be able to work well in a team. 
"You need a group of guys who can work together and relate to the other guys in the dorm," Nava said. "Personally, it's who can work with and be a support to Father George because he's the heartbeat of our dorm." 
Ultimately, the hall staff comes to a consensus about which applicants will receive the positions. 
"If the Rector really wanted or did not want a specific individual, then [he orl she has the power to overrule the others, but I don't think that happens too often," Cavanaugh Hall rector Amy de la Torre said. 
Competition for the posi­tions varies between dorms. Alumni Hall consistently receives a greater number of applications than positions available. This year, Alumni received 15 applications for six spots. 
"The reason we have so many applicants is because Father George has been the guy you want to serve and work with," Nava said. 
Sorin Hall only h.as six applicants for four positions. However, Sorin RA applicant Pat Reidy said there is "com­petition in a different sense" despite the seemingly lower number of applicants. 
"All of the guys are incredi­bly competitive applicants," Reidy said. "It's less difficult for those of us applying, but it puts greater pressure on the hall staff picking [RAs] for next year. It's harder to 
say 'no'  to  two guys than  
six."  
Most  RA  applicants  

expressed a desire to be a leader in their dorm and a willingness to make sacri­fices for the position because of a love of their dorm. 
"I love my dorm," Heidy said. "I look at the RA posi­tion as the greatest way you can serve the dorm." 
Residence halls must make their decisions by March 2 and turn them into the Office of Hesidential Life. The appli­cants will find out if they have been selected prior to Spring Break. 





Sprint Music Store 
Wirelessly download digital tracks to your phone. Choose from hundreds ofthousands of full-length songs from virtually every genre and listen to them wherever you go. 
byLG® 
Built-in MP3 player with FM transmitter 
Sprint Music Store'M enabled 
Sprint TV'M enabled 
Built-in 1.3MP camera and camcorder 
Bluetooth"' technology 
microSD external memory card 

$49.99 
Save $250 instantly 
Reg. $299.99 each. 
SOUTH BEND Martin's Plaza 2035 South Bend Ave. 574-277-7727 
Se habla Espaiiol MISHAWAKA Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge South ofthe Mall across from McDonald's 574-243-2100 
__......~· .. .iJ!I 
c:~.:.:...>· 


STORE HOURS 
MOTORAZR™ V3m 
by Motorola 
Sprint Music Store'M enabled Bluetooth® technology Built-in 1.3MP camera and camcorder Sprint TV'M enabled GPS enabled 



$Z9.99 
Save $220 instantly 
Reg. $249.99. 

Offers require in·store purchase and activation of anew line of service with a two-year subscriber agreement and Vision. 
Sprint).;, POWER UP~ 

Sun............... 12pm-5pm Mon.-Fri. ......... 10am-8pm Sat............... 9am-7pm 
PRI fERRED RIIAUERS 
NILES,MI
SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 
Basic Communications
Sprint Store Express Sprint Store Express 
2010 S. 11th St.
52991 SR993 Ste. B University Park Mall 
269-357-0000 
574-243-8900 6501 Grape Rd. 574-277-4360 

Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 

Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Network reaches over 2SO million peo­ple. Offers not available in all markets or retail locations. Add'! terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store for details. Up to $36 activation & $200 early termination fees apply per line. Deposit may be required. Instant Savings: Offer ends 2/17/07 or while supplies last. No cash back. Taxes exclud­ed. Activation at time of purchase required. ©2007 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint, the "Going Forward" logo, the NEXTEL name & logo, & other trademarks are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 15, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THF OBsERVER's WlRF SE.RVJCES page 5, 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
North, South Korea discuss solution 
SEOUL -The two Koreas set up a meeting for Thursday to discuss resuming high-level talks, the first sign of tensions relaxing on the divided peninsula after North Korea, signed a breakthrough nuclear disarmament agree­ment. 
Besides committing North Korea to halting its nuclear programs in exchange for oil, the accord calls for efforts to normalize relations with regional powers and establish a perma­nent peace between the two Koreas, which technically remain at war. 
"What is very important about this agree­ment," South Korean President Roh Moo­hyun said, "is that it not only resolves the North Korea nuclear issue itself, but in a fur­ther step, it includes a clause for discussions, negotiations on establishing a permanent peace regime on the Korean Peninsula." 
Warlords threaten Somalian Peace 
MOGADISHU-Somalia's warlords are re­emerging and pose a threat to humanitarian aid deliveries to the needy, the United Nations warned Wednesday, as the government strug­gles to quell growing unrest. 
Rising violence and a power vacuum caused by the ousting of Islamic forces by the transitional government could lead to a return of the chaos that plagued Somalia for 16 years, the U.N. said in a monthly report. 
The spiraling violence is also likely to undermine attempts to deploy an African Union peacekeeping mission designed to pro­tect the country's weak, Ethiopian-backed government and train a new army for the lawless nation.re no reports of injuries or damage.. 
The U.N. estimates around 1 million Somalis need humanitarian aid. 
NATIONAL· NEWS 

Authorities look for shooter's movtive 
SALT LAKE CITY -A shopping mall where five people were gunned down this week reopened Wednesday, as authorities tried to figure out why a teenage Bosnian immigrant committed the rampage and how he got his hands on a gun. 
FBI agent Patrick Kiernan, in Salt Lake City, said the bureau had no reason to believe Sulejman Talovic, who was killed by police, was motivated by religious extremism or an act of terrorism. 
"It_'s just unexplainable," Kiernan said Wednesday. "He was just walking around and shooting everybody he saw." 
Armed with a .38-caliber pistol, a shotgun and a backpack full of ammunition, Talovic shot nine people, five fatally, at the Trolley Square shopping center Monday before he was stopped by police, including an off-duty officer from Ogden. 
Storm freezes Valentine's plans 
NEW YORK-Blowing snow and sleet glazed windshields and roads across the Northeast and the Midwest on Wednesday, messing up Valentine's Day flower deliveries and wrecking couples' plans for romantic dinners. 
The storm grounded hundreds of flights and forced the closing of schools and businesses from Kentucky to Maine. Many of those stuck at home had no heat or lights because of blackouts that affected more than a quarter-million cus­tomers. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Abortion bill incites controversy 
INDIANAPOLIS -A bill requiring doctors to tell women seeking an abortion that human life begins at conception drew criticism before a Senate committee Wednesday that the provision is built around a specific religious belief not widely shared by all faiths. 
Aside from the question of life's beginnings, the bill sponsored by the committee's chair, Sen. Patricia Miller, R-Indianapolis, would require doctors to tell women seeking an abortion that their fetus might feel pain during the procedure. 
No votes were taken on the bill, but Miller said action on it is possible during next week's committee's meeting. 

Iran, Quds hurting U.S. war effort 
Bush suggests country's responsible for providing Iraqi militants with weapons 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON­Challenged on the accura­cy of U.S. intelligence, President Bush said Wednesday there is no doubt the Iranian govern­ment is providing armor­piercing weapons to kill American soldiers in Iraq. But he backed away from claims the top echelon of Iran's government was responsible. 
Bush, at a news confer­ence, also said he would fight any attempt by the Democratic-controlled Congress to cut off money for the war. "They need to fund our troops and the need to make sure we have the flexibility necessary to get the job done," he said. 
The House is expected to vote Friday on a nonbind­'ing resolution opposing Bush's decision to send 21,500 additional troops to Iraq. 
The meeting with reporters in the East Room was Bush's first news con­ference since Dec. 20 and the first since he announc-ed the troop buildup in Iraq. The four­year-old war hangs heavily on his presidency, and Bush's approval rating in an Associated Press-Ipsos poll in February matched an all-time low of 32 per­cent. · ment in supplying Shiite attacks. Some lawmakers don't think we know. But 
Iran was a dominant groups in Iraq with a par­also have questioned the we do know that they're theme of reporters' ques­ticularly lethal type of adminit>tra tion 's state­there and I intend to do tions because of conflicting roadside bombs known as ments. something about it. And statements about U.S. explosively formed pene­Wading into the debate, I've asked our command­intelligence in Iran and trators. Bush said the Quds Force ers to do something about recurring speculation that Three senior U.S. ·mili­was instrumental in sup­it. And we're going to pro­Bush is looking for an tary officials, at a weekend plying the weapons -"we tect our troops." excuse to attack the briefing in Baghdad, said .know that," he said-and Ahmadinejad has denied Islamic republic, which is the highest levels of the that the Quds Force was Iran was behind the believed by Washington Iranian government had part of the Iranian govern­attacks. and its allies to be seeking ordered the weapons ment. "That's a known," he Democrats on the Senate nuclear weapons. smuggled into Iraq. They said. "What we don't know Armed Services Committee 
Defending U.S. intelli­based their claim on the is whether or not the head emerged from a classified gence that has pfnpointed belief the weapons are leaders of Iran ordered the briefing Wednesday saying Iran as a hostile arms sup­moving into Iraq through Quds Force to do what they wanted more infor­plier in Iraq, Bush said, the Iran's Revolutionary they did." mation about Iran. The "Does this mean you're Guards elite Quds Force. Pressed again on the committee chairman, Sen. trying to have a pretext for But Gen. ·Peter Pace, subject, Bush displayed Carl Levin, said it was war? No. It means I'm try­chairman of the Joint some irritation and said, unclear to him precisely ing to protect our troops." Chiefs of Staff, said later "Whether . (Iranian what the administration 
There have been mixed he was not ready to con­President Mahmoud) knows about the Tehran signals in the administra­clude that Iran's top lead­Ahmadinejad ordered the government's ties to the tion about Iran's involve-ers were behind the Quds Force to do this, I weapons found in Iraq. 

GERMANY 
U.S., Britain rank low in U.N study 
despite high overall levels of national tive care for children in the U.S.
Associated Press wealth -because of greater economic United States questioned the com­BERLIN -The United States and inequality and poor levels of public parisons made by the study, while Britain ranked at the bottom of a U.N. support for families. Britain said it failed take into account survey of child welfare in 21 wealthy "What they have in common are recent social improvements. countries that assessed everything very high levels of inequality, very high The study also gave the U.S. and from infant mortality to whether chil­levels of child poverty, which is also Britain low marks for their highQr inci­dren ate dinner with their parents or associated with inequality, and in dences of single-parent families and were bullied at school. rather different ways poorly developed risky behaviors among children, such The Netherlands, followed by services to families with children," as drinking alcohol and sexual activity. Sweden, Denmark and Finland, fin­said Bradshaw, a professor of social In general, northern European coun­ished at the top of the rankings, while policy at the University of York in tries with strong social welfare sys­the U.S. was 20th and Britain 21st, Britain. tems dominated the upper half of the according to the report released "They don't invest as much in chil­rankings. Southern European coun­Wednesday by UNICEF in Germany. dren as continental European coun­tries, such as Spain, Italy and One of the study's researchers, tries do," he said, citing the lack of day Portugal, ranked higher in terms of Jonathan Bradshaw, said children care services in both countries and family support and levels of trust with fared worse in the U.S. and Britain -poorer health coverage and preventa-friends and peers. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, Feburary 15, 2007 
Venue 
continued from page 1 
ing the issue of sexuality. The panel came as part of an effort to address rising concerns of members of the Notre Dame community including University President Father John Jenkins -who ques­tioned the consistency of the play's message with the Catholic character of the University. 
"We assumed these roles this 
year knowing "We're very happy and give it to that sponsorship with the 2007 cast, women who wasn't guaran­actually need
and the breadth oftal­

teed, and are it," Lewis 
ent allowed us to cast

dedicated to the said. "It was cause and the appropriately -a good to have play regard­it on campus
very diverse group of

less," Lewis last year, but
girls with different 

said. it was kind of Jenkins said backgrounds disappointing last year that that we could­
auditioned." 

events spon­n't raise sored by the money. And University or Michelle Lewis now we're one of its units co-organizer able to take it 
including The Vagina Monologues out into the 
academic departments ­that are deemed to conflict or appear to conflict with Catholic values "should not be allowed at Notre Dame." 
On April 5 of last year, Jenkins ultimately decided that the "Vagina Monologues" would not be prohibited on campus, but would undergo an approval process every year, just like any other campus performance. 
And the process was one that Lewis, co-organizer Lisa Raub and director Sarah Muscarella could not successfully complete this year. They tried "a lot of departments," but got a lot of "no's" and a lot of "no respons­es." 
Though the sociology depart­ment has sponsored the Monologues in the past years, this year it said it did not want to sponsor the event every year. Lewis said the department agreed to sponsor the play every other year -which ensures that a performance will take place on campus next year. 
As per Jenkins' decision, aca­demic departments were given the ability last year to "decide what events should or should not be sponsored," as well as the responsibility to point out that sponsorship of an event does not imply endorsement. 
Organizers are looking into "a couple different options" for a venue, Lewis said, declining to name some of the local places she has been in contact with. 
The group is now left to raise its own funds to cover the cost of the venue and programs. Lewis was quick to say, howev­er, that the group -who will now be charging for tickets ­will donate all of the proceeds to the YWCA. 
"Half of the goal is to raise 
awareness 
but also to 
raise money 
community." 
Three audi­

tion sessions were held nearly two weeks ago, and a cast of "about 25 women" was chosen, despite the fact that sponsorship was not confirmed. 
"We're very happy with the 2007 cast, and the breadth of talent allowed us to cast appro­priately -a very diverse group of girls with different back­grounds auditioned," Lewis said. 
But without official sponsor­ship, organizers were not allowed to advertise. Instead, Lewis and the other organizers started a group on Facebook.com and sent "a lot of e-mails." 
Since V-day is February 14th, the play -as originally created by Eve Ensler -is intended to be performed as close to that date as possible in order to pair the play with the message of awareness about violence against women, Lewis said. 
"We needed to go ahead with auditions and play preparations while simultaneously working to get sponsorship," Lewis said. 
Lewis said that, because of the performances of "Loyal Daughters" in the fall and the uncertainty of whether the Monologues would be per­formed, organizers "kind of got ofito a late start." 
Still, despite the slow start and the lack of sponsorship, Lewis said the Monologues have a very important place on the Notre Dame campus. 
"This is a global movement­performing this play makes Notre Dame a part of this globe a\ community, bringing discus­sion and awareness about issues such as violence against women and gender equality which are universal concerns," Lewis said. "The play changes every year to accommodate and address new pertinent issues as experienced by different women." 
Despite last year's controver­sy, Lewis said that all the "dia­logue we had with anybody from the University was initiat­ed by us." 
Though the play had been performed on campus for live consecutive years as part of the anti-violence against women V­Day campaign, last year Jenkins criticized the "graphic" ways the play attempted to achieve its goals. 
Jenkins outlined his concerns last year in addresses to faculty members and to students. He questioned the University's sponsorship of certain events in light of Catholic teaching and asked for continued dialogue on the issue before a formal policy announcement. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

Debate 
continued from page 1 
validity of her platform. 
"A lot of issues are going to come up throughout the year that will require us to take a different approach," she said. "Our past experience ... shows we can handle that." 
Experience was a focal point of the 
aware of their surround­ings." 
She is also chair of Major's Night, which is one of the largest academic night stu­dent government hosts. 
Both tickets also placed heavy emphasis on communi­ty relations. Smith proposed the idea of allowing Domer Dollars to be accepted off­campus at restaurants 
unique to the 
South Bend 
area. 

debate, as both "A lot ofissues are "Good busi­
tickets have ness builds good
going to come up

been involved relations," he 
in the inner throughout the year said. 
workings of stu­that will require us Braun dis-dent govern-. cussed an initia­
to take a different 

ment at Notre tive for a com­
approach. '' 

Dame. Smith is munity-based the only senator curr.iculum, to have a reso­which Brown
Liz Brown 

lution, in partic­said would "get
candidate

ular one about more students 
student body president 

Domer Dollars, involved in the 
passed unani­mously through both the Senate and Campus Life Council. Brown has spent tho last year as current student body president Lizzi Shappell's chief executive assistant. 
"Liz has really been inte­grated within the system," Braun said. "She has seen the inner workings of how things are pushed through from start to finish." 
Both Smith and Brown are backed by well-versed vice presidential candidates. Weiss was instrumental in coordinating Notre Dame's first Eating Disorder Conference, one that she said a visiting doctor called "by far the most recognized and well put together conference that [she had I ever Iattend­ed]." 
Braun has organized semi­nars on off-campus housing, educating students on how to go about signing leases and "encouraging students to be 
community on a 
daily basis." 
In addition to community relations, both candidates stressed improving the rela­tionship between the student body and student govern­ment. 
"We really want to get more connected with the stu­dents to ensure that every­thing we're doing is reflec­tive of what the student body really wants," Brown said. 
Smith echoed Brown's con­cerns, suggesting an online message board for students to communicate needs to their government officials. 
"We want to 'increase com­munication between the stu­dent body and student gov­ernment," he said. 
Elections will take place from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. today and the final results will be announced tonight at 9:00 p.m. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 



* 
M * 
A * 
ll,

2 
It

() 
I 
G

2 
R ~\~\~~~'~ ..rour major~
II 

A ~ IN detidJnu
() 
s e 
.ioin film, tehwision, and theatr·e, music, and art, iii't hist,ol'y & design7 -in ,-,xploring ymn· potlmtial at tlw Nl!\ll,UI fiilt\S (JfJijfJUili\TION Of1 ri,UfJ VISlJ1\IJ 1\NU t•fJitf,OR,~11Nfj ;\ll,11S 
tl~E'E' FOOl)., MUS~;:~., AI~T., F:i LNL, 1=>1~~:zrs., E/--N~oi~E' 6:;11) pm, lleltiJJ'lOIO t•er-forming ;\rots (jt~lltfW 'nt)kcts ill tim door or f)idl G~U-2800 

DEBARTOLO 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
COI..LEGF.. OF ARTS ANU l.E"I'Tt:RS 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, February 15, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow }ones  12,741.86  +87.01  
Up:  Some: Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,199  124  1,083  2,702,682,960  


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I 00 TR (QQQQ)  +1.69  +0.74  44.60  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  +0.66  +0.95  145.61  
ONYX PHARM INC (ONXX)  -4.69  -1.22  24.80  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  + 1.27  +0.37  29.40  
Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -1.74  -0.084  4.730  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.30  -0.0 IS  5.0 I 0  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.53  -0.075  4.826  
5-YEARNOTE  -1.89  -0.091  4.716  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.06  58.00  
GOLD ($fTroy oz.)  +3.50  672.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.48  107.05  
Excha  Rates  

IN BRIEF 
Grocery shoppers could save 
money 
NEW YORK -Most of us take it for grant­ed that we know how to shop for groceries. After all, we spent a lot of time doing it. 
Experts say, however, that it isn't as easy as it looks and that there are many ways consumers can save money as they navigate the grocery aisles. 
Americans, in fact, spend a lot of their money on food. Department of Labor statis­tics indicate that food at home and in restaurants takes 13 percent of the con­sumer dollar, behind the 32 percent for housing and 18 percent for transportation. 
The average family spent $280 a month, or nearly $3,350 a year, at the grocery store in 2004, the most recent year for which Labor Department data is available. 
Gary Foreman, a former financial planner who publishers "The Dollar Stretcher" newsletter, said a recent survey of his read­ers found a slightly higher grocery spending rate: $149 a month for a single person, $257 for a couple and $396 for a family of four. 
Small business taxes require help 
NEW YORK -The expression "Don't try this at home, kids" can easily apply to small business owners who try to compile their income tax returns without the help of a tax preparer or tax prep software. 
Trying to wing it without some kind of help leaves you at risk for making mistakes and possibly opening up your return to more scrutiny by the IRS or state tax offi­cials. 
Paul Gada, a senior tax analyst with Wolters Kluwer, a publishing firm whose products include tax information, said busi­ness owners make the same common mis­takes as individual taxpayers. They forget to sign their returns, fail to include their Social Security numbers don't attach required forms, such as those needed for specific deductions and credits. They also make a lot of mathematical errors. 
But business owners have their own set of pitfalls, especially since what goes into one year's return can be dependent on previous years' returns. For example, Gada cited depreciation, which is reflected on tax returns over a number of years. 
Fonner prosecutor faces inquiry 
Assistant Attorney General bought house with ConocoPhillips lobbyist 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Nine months before agreeing to let ConocoPhillips delay a half-billion-dollar pollution cleanup, the government's top environmental prosecu­tor bought a $1 million vacation home with the company's top lobbyist. 
Also in on the Kiawah Island, S.C., house deal was former Deputy Interior Secretary J. Steven Griles, the highest-ranking Bush administration official tar­geted for criminal prosecu­tion in the Jack Abramoff corruption probe. 
Just before resigning last month, Assistant Attorney General Sue Ellen Wooldridge signed two pro­posed consent decrees with ConocoPhillips: one giving the company as much as two to three more years to install $525 million in pollu­tion controls at nine refmer­ies and the other dealing with a Superfund toxic waste cleanup. 
Last April, Wooldridge, ConocoPhillips Vice President Donald R. Duncan and Griles had gone togeth­er on a $980,000 home in a gated community at Kiawah Island. Records from the Charleston County Auditor's office obtained by The Associated Press list Duncan as a 50 percent owner of the home and Wooldridge and Henry Waxman, D-Calif. major role in getting the ernment, included oil leases Griles as 25 percent owners. "Senior Justice Department Bush administration's back­in the eastern Gulf of 
The deed is filed under officials should not be han­ing for a proposed $25 bil­Mexico, coal-bed methane Duncan's name, but the dling cases that affect their lion natural gas pipeline in the San Juan Basin of mailing address for the close friends and investment reaching from Alaska to New Mexico and the Powder South Carolina property -partners." Midwest markets. River Basin in Wyoming, tucked among pines, pal­Griles, now an oil and gas Wooldridge and Griles and permits for the pro­mettos, a pool, golf course lobbyist, began dating have known each other at posed Alaska natural gas and racket club several Wooldridge while he was least since the first year of pipeline. hundred yards from the her boss at Interior. He was the Bush administration in After Griles resigned from beach -is Griles' home in the department's No. 2 offi­2001, when Wooldridge Interior, Bush appointed VIrginia. He and Wooldridge cial from July 2001 to became deputy chief of staff Wooldridge to head the jointly own a condo there. January 2005, behind only and counselor to then­Justice Department's 600­
The House Oversight and former Secretary Gale Secretary Norton. Bush employee environment divi­Government Reform Norton. He and Duncan, a used a recess appointment sion, representing virtually Committee said Wednesday ConocoPhillips vice presi­to make Wooldridge the every federal agency on night it will open an inquiry dent who runs the compa­department's solicitor -its cases related to pollution, and request documents into ny's Washington office, both top lawyer-in June 2004. natural resources, wildlife, the real estate transaction served on President Bush's From 2001 through 2004 some Indian issues and land and consent agreements. presidential transition team, Duncan was lobbying the condemnation. She began 
"There appears to be a Griles for the Interior department on a wide range work at Justice in breakdown of ethics at the Department, Duncan for the of issues. The topics, November 2005. The divi­Justice Department, said the Energy Department. according to his lobbying sion is now handling about committee's chairman, Rep. Duncan has played a records on file with the gov-6,800 cases nationwide. 


India may see trouble before success 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The empirical evi­dence of India's enormous eco­nomic expansion in recent years ­in particular the sharp run-up in stocks there -has proven an irre­sistible draw to some mutual fund investors. But those chasing the siren song should be aware that, as with any developing economy, there could be bruising stumbles. 
"If you have a car speeding along and it hits a speed bump, the aftershock is going to be that much greater the faster the car goes. India is going to hit some speed bumps as it goes," said Andrew T. Foster, director of research at Matthews International Capital Management LLC, a San Francisco fund manag­er specializing in Asian investing. 
The rise in stocks has stirred concerns that valuations have risen beyond where they should be and that the country's central bank will continue to raise interest rates at it tries to tamp down inf1ation. 
On Tuesday, the country's central bank, the Reserve Bank of India, increased the proportion of deposits that commercial banks must hold in cash by a half per­cent to 6 percent in order to help slow the economy. 
"The Indian growth story is con­tinuing be reaffirmed," said Dhruva Raj Chatterji, a research analyst in Mumbai, India, for fund­tracker Lipper Inc. While growth continues, other forces are build­ing that could throw some cold water on the frenetic pace there. 
"It has been a sustained bull run for the past three years because of which India is one of the most expensive markets in the world. Valuations are kind of the higher side," Chatterji said. He ques­tioned whether the market has overestimated how much Indian companies will continue to earn. Earnings growth has in recent years hovered near the breakneck pace of more than 20 percent. 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, February 15, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINI'SS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kare Anronacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: jeff Albert 
ADVEIITISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNmOLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINismATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574} 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) ~s puhliWd Monday rhmugh FrUiay exc¢pt during exam and vaa~rion periods. A subscription to-The O~rvcr is $100 fflr one ~dtmtic ~r; $55 for ont' semest-er. 
The Observer is publisbed at:-POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Halt Send addres.s corrections w; None Dame. IN 46556-Q-779 The Observer Periodical poru.gc paid at Notte Dame w. Bo•779 and addi1ional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
None Dame. IN 4655&.on9 
The Observer is a merulxr ofthe Associated Press. All n:produaion rights. are rescr¥00. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Kohler Jay Fitzpatrick Kelly Meehan Deirdre Krasula 
Mandi Stirone Bill Brink Viewpoint Scene Lianna Erin McGinn 
Brauweiler Graphics Jarred Wafer 

Change is not easy, but, as David Bowie sang, you've got to turn and face the strain. I don't really know what that means, but I intend to use it as a start­ing point to talk about environmental change, car manu­facturers and the power of the con­sumer. 
Earlier this year, the Environment Commissioner of the European Commission, Stavros Dimas, endorsed mandatory stan­dards for auto manu­facturers aimed at reducing cars' car­bon dioxide output. The new standards would require the average car produced by a company­allowing specific models to bn above or below the standard -to emit only 120 grams of C02 per kilometer by the year 2012. Mr. Dimas, however, drives a Mercedes -inherited from his prede­cessor, admittedly-that pumps out over 270 grams per kilometer. People laughed at his hypocrisy, and the motor industry balked at such ridiculous reforms. 
Meanwhile, the majority of society continued their lives as usual. People drove instead of walked, left their lights on and ignored recycling bins. Changing for the greener sounds like a good idea, but we neglect our responsibility to change ourselves. 
Pollution is a problem, and we are right to push politicians to enforce more stringent standards. Every time policy­makers start to <Teate regulations and goals, they butt heads with industries that become recalcitrant at any mention of boundary or limit to their capital pur­suits. When this happens, the public inevitably shakes its head and thinks the matter is out of its hands. 
But it's not. In our capital society, 

James Dechant 
ForegoneConclusion 

Ch-ch-changes 
industry and the public arc inseparable. 
The automobile industry, for example, 
does not exist as a separate entity apart 
from the government or outside the 
influence of the public. We control it and we can affect its course. We prefer to set up the manufacturer as a scapegoat for societal greed. And sure, the industries deserve blame for their unwillingness to 
change. But the objections of auto man­ufacturers are often valid: if they have to 
increase engine efliciency, car prices 
may rise. This would mean fewer ears 
sold, and in turn those high-end ear manufacturers could be forced to cut 
jobs. In that case, the auto manufactur­
ers relleet the sad truth about us: we 
are afraid to change, too lazy to mend 
our ways and too greedy to give up what 
we want. If we could change, we would 
embrace hybrids and other technologies, 
and "luxury ears" would become a thing 
of' the past. 

We say we want change, but how many people are trading in their BMWs for a Focus or Prius? The technology needed to take the lirst steps alnmdy exists (for urban dwellers, the bieydc has been around for over a century), but we are unwilling to embrace it. Instead, we wait for carmakers to drop ofT fren eleetrie ears in our driveways. When this doesn't happen, we accuse our gov­ernment of giving them too much slack. 
We have, in elTect, cnmted a nice little proxy war between our governments and the industries. They spar over the specilics, one side representing our hypocrisy and the other our greed. During this whole masquerade, we can sit back comfortably and wait for the regulations that will never come. We feel no obligation to change our ways, and we continue to pump carbon into our air. 
But if we could realize that we are the deciding factor in progress-and by we, I mean not just America or Europe, but the entire globe -then we would realize our obligation to work for change. And we can do a lot. 
First, our knowledge compels us to exercise our power as consumers by making wise, conscious decisions with the products we use, the companies we buy from, and the manner of living we choose. We are social creatures, and a change that will dramatically affect the entire world must come from across the board, notjust from the words of our political leaders or the reluctant consent of our economical ligureheads. 
Second, we must demand that our politicians avoid hypocrisy in their demands of the industry-auto, energy, or otherwise -which is made up, run by, and supported by the public. Our governmental leaders ought to lead by example. Driving a Hummer to work and then asking a ear manufacturer to cut emissions may -conceivably, possi­bly, hypothetically -send mixed mes­sages to some. 
Finally, we arc obliged to use our influence as human beings upon each other and communicate directly with the industry whenever we have the chance. It may seem diflicult or nigh impossible to have any sort of ell'eet on the pyrami­dal strueture of' most industries, when so much of' the decision-making process­es rest in the hands of so few. But even­tually information ean filter upstream and even the highest echelons can hear the voice of the consumer, when they speak in a united and strong fashion. 
I lope fully the EU can enforce their standards, and hopefully the public will weleome the green changes so economies are not sacrificed. But all this depends on the consumer, on the public -on us. 
James Dechant is a junior studying abroad in Rome this semester. Questions, complaints and rude remarks can be sent tojdechant@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
OBSERVER POLL 
What was the most important 


Submit aLetter 
"Sometimes a player's greatest challenge is coming to grips 

factor in your vote for student 
body president? 
with his role on the team. "

to the Editor at 
Scottie Pippen 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
basketball player 

www.ndsmcobserver.com l' 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 15, 2007 page 9 
I was rejected last week. I can't hang an employ­ment rejection letter on my door or claim a broken heart, but I did try to offer a part of myself to the local community and was kindly but firmly told, "Thanks, but no thanks." 
In response to numerous local stories and even emails regarding Katharine S. the great need for donated blood, I Barrett headed over to the South Bend Medical Foundation Blood Bank to 
FaithPoint 

share some of mine. It had been years since I had given blood, so I sat and filled out several forms and then a woman named Melissa led me into the Screening Room. She apparently had quite a list of Screening Questions to ask me, but we started with my blood pressure. We also ended with my blood pressure, which, as it turns out, is too low to donate blood. Melissa even checked it twice, on both arms. 98-over-56 falls under their official cutoff and I would have, Melissa assured me, passed out upon donation. "Ha!" I want­ed to shout. "Too low?? People would pay money for blood pressure like mine! Half the country has given up salt and gone on medication just to get this kind of blood pressure!" Instead, I tried to smile at Melissa. "I just wanted to help," I said lamely. Melissa seemed to think I was about to cry because she hastily got my coat and ushered me out of the Screening Room. 
The weird thing is, I almost did feel like crying. I, 
On rejection 
the blood donor failure, sat in my car in the blood bank parking lot and became reacquainted with rejection. Remember how it felt the last time some­one told you, "You're not good enough," or "You're not needed," or (in honor of yesterday), "I really like you ... just not in that way"? No matter how valiantly you try to keep the smile on your face, you suddenly feel your throat closing up and a sour lump in the pit of your stomach. It takes strength to accept rejec­tion, especially while trying to maintain a little digni­ty at the same time. 
As hard as it is to be the "reject-ee," sometimes it takes strength to be the "reject-or" as well. As we approach the season of Lent this year, you will notice in the Sunday Gospels how Jesus both rejects and and faces rejection. On the first Sunday of Lent every year we hear accounts from the different gospel writers of Jesus rejecting Satan's tempting offers to idolatry, power, and self-sufficiency. By the time we get to Palm Sunday, six weeks later, we hear how many people have rejected Jesus: Judas, Peter and the ugly crowds that included the religious and civil leaders of the day. 
The beautiful lesson of Jesus' example, both as "reject-or" and "reject-ee," is that his story ended in victory. He teaches us how to reject whatever turns us away from God, whether it's worshipping false gods, enjoying our status too much or believing we don't need God. Out of the ultimate rejection, of course, arose the ultimate triumph: from Jesus' death came resurrection and the offer he makes to each of us of eternal life. 
In my own family during this Lent, we will try to become more aware of what we need to reject, of what is deviously trying to lure us away from God. However, we also have to concentrate on how we sometimes reject each other -either unknowingly or on purpose -in speech or actions. I have sug­gested to my kids that as a family we give up all unkind words this Lent, as we each know (as-most families do) exactly what to say to wound those we love the most. 
It's probably not such a bad idea to allow that rejected feeling to stay close to the surface in our lives. It can give us a moment's pause before we carelessly speak harshly, as well as the courage to turn rejection into victory. We've .each felt like a fail­ure at times, which we should keep in mind whenev­er we're about to cause another to feel the same. As we enter into Lent next week, we can listen in our prayer for Jesus' words to us, and offer his love to those we encounter: "You are good enough. You are needed. I really do like you ... yes, in every way." 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Kate Barrett, director of resources and special projects in the Office ofCampus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@n d. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Discussion of Klingler's column continues 
Sister schools should act like family 
"Unfortunately, for Notre Dame," Jonathan Klingler writes, "the vast majority" of the benefits of the relationship between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's "go to Saint Mary's." It isn't clear why this situation is unfortunate, however. In the fairly short list of benefits he goes on to list, the only one that would seem to involve some disadvantage to Notre Dame students is the possibility that a Saint Mary's student might get a better seat than a Notre Dame student at football games (but is it really true that this occurs "often" and what does Mr. Klinger mean by often?). 
The attitudes of Mr. Klinger suggest that Saint Mary's has been right to be wary of this proposed "marriage," as it obviously would be the old-fash­ioned kind in which the husband rules the wife. The traditional way to describe such colleges has been as "sister" colleges. Mr. Klinger ought to see Saint Mary's students as his siblings, with whom he is happy to share family resources, rather than as coy teases refusing to accept his rather cold blandishments. 
I hear a lot about tradition around this place, and yet it seems that our students are ready to discard a 150-year relationship in order to move down a few rows at football games. What kind of Notre Dame family is that? 
Chris Vanden Bossche English professor Feb. 14 
Don't focus on unnecessary debate 
I am writing in response to Jonathan Klingler's column ("Saint Mary's -we need to talk," Feb. 13) which needlessly encouraged yet another battle of opin­ion over the once proposed Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College merger back in the 1970s. 
What amazes me about this column is that the only purpose I see it serving is to give an illustration of the cliche "We need to talk" phrase, given the fact that Wednesday is Valentine's Day, which is absurd. After all the criticism and debate students, faculty and administrators have dealt with over the years regarding relations between Saint Mary's and Notre Da:me, I wrongly assumed that this seemingly never-ending grapple would be overlooked on a holiday focused around a celebration of friendship and love. 
Why couldn't someone have focused on the ways both schools benefit from the relationship with the other, or, better yet, not brought up the subject at all and instead have had a Viewpoint over the ongoing debate over light and dark chocolate? I hope you sense my sarcasm when I say that there's nothing I love more than to see yet another Notre Dame writer use Saint Mary's to breed popu­larity from the negative blitz that will predictably come from such a pointless article. 
Kelly Mans junior Le Mans Hall Feb. 13 
Wasting time arguing 
To all Saint Mary's College and Notre Dame students and alumni, I just have to ask -what are you arguing about? I will say up front that I never attend­ed school in Notre Dame, Ind. or South Bend, Ind. or anywhere remotely close. I did not even attend a private university (Gasp! I'll give you a moment to process and decide if you can continue reading...). 
Joking aside, I am proud of my school and I am proud of the rich tra­dition of my Big Ten roots. I attended one of top high schools in the nation and started college with sophomore credit due to my high school AP credit. The thought of applying to Notre Dame crossed my mind, along with a number of other private schools. In the end, I only applied to Big Ten schools -like you, I had grown up in the legacy of competitive (and collaborative) college football, strong academics and honor. As many of you followed generations to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, I fol­lowed to Big Ten. 
From an outside perspective, I can say that Jonathan Klingler's column ("Saint Mary's-we need to talk," Feb. 13) rings true, but does not sound as malicious or condescending as many of the Viewpoint responses seem to imply. So often people's emotions get in the way of interpreting what they are actually reading. The article raised some valid (yet clearly sensi­tive) points. But think about it: Notre Dame, by rite of being a larger, more well-known school (arguably the best known school in the country) has inore to offer to Saint Mary's students than Saint Mary's has to offer to Notre Dame students. Note: I refer to quanti­ty of offerings, not quality. Saint Mary's is an excellent school with excellent offerings, but I doubt anyone would disagree that the Saint Mary's side of this relationship benefits more from being "the school across from Notre Dame" than Notre Dame bene­fits from being "the school across from Saint Mary's." Again -before the hair pulling starts, I am speaking in quanti­ty of opportunities. 
Lots of people take courses at schools other than their primary cam­pus or engage themselves with other university communities. I technically attended three universities during my college career (although I remained a full-time University of Iowa student for all four). It is through experiencing other campuses and student lifestyles that we expand our overall education and learn to appreciate our own school even more. You are all fortu­nate that this collaborative learning environment is built-in, preconfigured to your educations. Saint Mary's women: you chose your school; you knew that you were not attending Notre Dame when you signed your acceptance letter. However, one draw of Saint Mary's was the proximity to Notre Dame and opportunity to take advantage of the powerhouse's offer­ings. That is an aspect of your school to be proud of-so why are you offended by mention of it? Notre Dame: you have every right to want to distinguish your identity from that of Saint Mary's-you are the true Notre Dame, your acceptance letters and diplomas say so. 
Yes, Saint Mary's does get to benefit from your tradition and programs and it's only natural that those women should feel the pride of the associa­tion. Their pride takes nothing away from your honor and legacy. Notre Dame has the most bandwagon and non-affiliated fans of any school in the country ... Saint Mary's women should be the least of your concerns. It can be annoying to hear someone who is not "technically" part of your organization touting the benefits of membership ­but you should be flattered by Saint Mary's enthusiasm, not threatened by it. You are both great schools --rich in every sense -and exactly the schools which you want to be. Maybe you need more bars in South Bend, because one thing is clear from this debate: you all have too much time on your hands if you are spending yours on this debate! 
Krissy Zotaley Chicago, Ill. Feb. 14 


------------~---­


5CORSESE'S STATUETTE 5NUBBERY 
By TAE ANDREWS Assistant Scene Editor 
He might just have to steal one. 

For director Martin Scorsese, getting his hands on Oscar gold has proven to be an impossible feat. The elusive golden man on the trophy has remained just out of reach of Scorsese's talented hands throughout his prolific and heralded career, rendering him the recipient of more Academy snubbery than any other individual with his talent and crndentials. 
Ironically enough for a director known for his mastery over the gangster genre -with such titles to his name as "Casino" and "Goodl'ellas" -Mr. Scorsese has been robbed morn ollen at Oscar time than the hapless vktims of his criminal characters. 
Perhaps the Daily Show comedian Jon Stewart put it 'the best when he hosted the 2005 Oscars. After hip-hop trio Three 6 Mafia took home an Oscar for Best Original Song for their contribution "liard Out Here for a Pimp" to the "llustle & Flow" soundtrack, Stewart took the microphone and proclaimed, "For those of you keeping scorn at homo, that's Three 6 Malia: 1 , Scorsese: 0." 
In addition to his trips to the under­world, Scorsese also directed "Taxi Driver" and "Haging Bull," two films fea­turing Robert DeNiro and widely aeelaimed as fine pieces of cinema by critics and f'ans alike. In fact, Seorsese's skill bnhind the eamera has led some to call "Raging Bull," with its tale of' boxer .Jake LaMotta, as t.he finest Ameriean film of' all time. 
Despito all of Mr. Scorsese's cinemato­graphic pleas, injustice remainnd served every year come January as he was passnd over timo and time again, most notably in 1976, 1980 and 1990 for his films "Taxi Driver," "Haging Bull" and "Goodf'ellas," respeetively. More recently, Seorsoso was nominated f'or Best Director in 2002 l'or his work on "Gangs of New York," but that award wont to Homan Polanski for his f'ilm, "The Pianist." Similarly, during tho 77th Academy Awards Mr. Scorsese ("The Aviator") lost tho Bost Diredor Osear to Clint Eastwood l'or his film "Million Dollar Baby." 
"The I>opartod." Mr. Scorsese's latest stab at Oscar glory, sees him returning to what he does bost: mafioso pictures. 
Taking a brief' break l'rom his typical 
l'oeus on heavily Italian-ethnic l'ilms, 
Scorsese takes the audience up to Boston 
to weave a tale about the Irish mob. 
Again pairing with Leonardo DiCaprio, his golden boy !'rom "The Aviator" and "Gangs of' New York," Scorsese has assembled an all-star cast that sparkles at every turn. 
Based on a remake of a Chinese film entitled "Infernal Affairs," "The Departed" features Matt Damon as a criminal mole planted inside the. Boston police department opposite DiCaprio, who is an undercover eop. Rounding out the east are Alec Baldwin and Mark Wahlberg as two department higher-ups forever cracking wise, and the always­spicy Jack Nicholson plays Frank Costollo, a criminally insane mastermind who's dover as a fox and runs the Boston underworld. 
However, despite having turned a blind eye to Scorseso's situation in years past, the Academy is not entirely unmerciful. Although it has been known to "get it wrong" in the past with its decisions con­cerning the doling out of Oscars, the Academy has also been known to pass out "make-up" Oscars to recognize some of' the most talented players in the indus­try. The prime examplo of this is Denzel Washington's winning of' an Oscar for his turn in "Training Day," which, while good, was dearly not the best work of his long and storied career. 
llaving returned to what he does best with "Thn Departed"," should Martin Scorsese be snubbed again from receiv­ing an Os1:ar, it would be-dare we say it-criminal. 
.Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew 1 @nd.edu 

By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor 
Editor's Note: This is the fourth in a five­part series on the 2007 Oscar nominees for Best Picture. 
"The Departed" is Scorsese's best work in over a decade and an instant classic in the vein of his other major pieces -"Mean Streets," "Taxi Driver," "Raging Bull" and "Goodfellas." In fact, in rhythmic energy and propulsive pacing, it is only matched by "Goodfellas," though it doesn't have the searing sense of purpose of "Raging Bull" or "Taxi Driver." Where "Gangs of New York" and "The Aviator" occasionally felt overwrought and difficult, 'The Departed" is fast-paced and entertaining. 
The plot follows two moles -undercover cop Billy Costigan (Leonardo DiCaprio), who has infiltrated the ranks of Irish mob boss Frank Costello (Jack Nicholson), and Colin Sullivan (Matt Damon), who has infiltrated the police. Borrowing heavily from "Infernal Affairs," the Hong Kong film from which it is adapted, "The Departed" has all of Scorsese 's familiar trademarks -freeze­frames, propulsive editing, a profane and funny script and phenomenal acting. A fan-

quality aro the same on all versions. Tho pieturn
The Departed 

looks crisp and the 5.1 audio is passable (though with less sur­
Warner Home Video 

round than might be expected), though noth­ing really matches see­ing a film with as much visual and aural panache as "The tastic soundtrack -which in this ease overflows with tracks by The Holling Stones, The Allman Brothers, Badlinger and Dropkick Murphys -is another hall­mark of a great Scorsese film, and rnally propels "The Departed" through a surpris­ingly brief 151 minutes. 

Everything about "The Departed," from the acting to the scripting to the kinetic editing (by two-time Academy Award win­ner Thelma Schoonmaker), demonstrates that it is a truly great lllm, which is why it deserves a great DVD release, and Warner mostly delivers. 
This is where things start getting a little confusing. If it seems like there are several different versions of' "The Departed" on DVD, it's because there arn. There's a stan­dard single-disc edition, which only has the theatrical trailer as a bonus. Then thoro's a two-disc special edition with several fea­tures -but wait! Best Buy has a "steel­book" edition, which comes in gorgeous metallic packaging, though the actual eon­tent on the discs is the same. Target has its own exclusive edition, which includes a slipcase cover and a small paperback of the script. It really comes down to personal preference, although the Best Buy stool­book really looks fantastic, with a much better cover than any of the other editions. 
Picture and sound 
courtesy 

Dignam (Mark Wahlberg, Best Supporting Actor Oscar nominee) confronts Colin Sullivan (Matt Damon) about the possibility of a mole in the Boston police. 
Departed" on the big screen. 
Tho most disappointing omission is a commentary by Seorsese. Warner seems to be moving away from these, which is really unfortunate, because Scorscsn's prnvious commentaries (on Warner releases like "Goodfellas") have been really enlightening. 
Other spneial limturns indudn additional scenes with introductions by Martin Seorsese, a !'nature-length TCM profile "Scorsese on Scorsese" (which it> actually quito good) and a pair of' standard l'ea­turettes. The movie il<>elf is the main draw, howfwer, and much of the material eovernd on this release has been explored else­when~ !like some of Warners' other rnleas­es). 
It's possible, even likely, that "The 
Departnd" will get another releasn down tho road. With several Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture and Best Director, it's very possible that Warner will sen lit to do a super-ultra-deluxe-spe­cial odition. But the versions currnntly out are quito decent, and have enough special !'natures for most casual fans. The only thing that eould wally draw people to dou­ble-dip is if'Scorsese records a commentary, though it's hard to imagine that Warner would add one on a future release. And besides, why wait to get your hands on the best film of' the year when it's available right now'? 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 


~--.~--­
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Thursday, February 15, 2007 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Writer 
It's a scenario he's puzzled over for years, chiseling away at the concept with purpose. Each new question added fresh twists and turns to a labyrinthine narra­tive. For over a decade, in fact, screen­writer Matthew Waynee has been asking all the right questions. 
If you woke up and didn't know if you were a killer or a victim, what would you do? If you were a ruthless killer, would you change your ways, try to find redemption, save people? Or if you were a victim on the verge of death, would that force you to act violently and do something you've never done before? 
Last December, the answers were final­ly revealed when "Unknown," Waynee's first feature film, debuted in limited the­atrical release in New York City. A taut psychological thriller, the film explores the dark side of human nature when five men, bloodied and beaten, wake up in an abandoned warehouse. With no memory of who they are, these men struggle to separate the predators from the prey in an elaborate endgame of life and death. 
For Waynee, 34, the line separating life and death, and how far we're willing to go to cross it, is one of the 
by Martin Scorsese and Joel and Ethan Coen. He was hooked. Enrolling at Notre Dame in 1991, Waynee took several cre­ative writing courses and directed sever­al one-act plays sponsored by Farley Hall. 
But it was a class he took in his sopho­more year that would prove most inspi­rational for the budding writer, and lead to a project that would attract several of Hollywood's brightest thespians. 
"I was taking a Greek tragedy class, arid we just finished reading the myth of 'Prometheus Bound,' who is this god chained at the top of a mountain for 10,000 years," Waynee said. "What was interesting to me is that he's seen as this evil character from the gods' perspective and a positive, savior character from the humans. 
"So I began to think, 'What would you do if you were chained up in a dungeon or a prison and you just couldn't remem­ber?' You couldn't remember if you were the inost sadistic murderer out there or if you were some positive rebel in a fight against a corrupt government. How would you redefine yourself? How would you choose what your identity would 
b ?"
e. 

The idea struck the younger Waynee like a lightning bolt from Olympus. That night, he wrote a 40­
most fascinating draws in "I think it,s in those life page outline for the fiction. fledgling "Unknown"
and death moments that 
"I think it's in those life story, printed it out, 
and death moments that people truly are who they read it over and filed 
people truly are who they are. Your identity emerges it away in the back of are," he said. "Your iden­his mind. 
in those types ofmoments,
tity emerges in those After graduating in
and that's the kind ofstuff
types of moments, and '95, Waynee finished a that's the kind of stuff I I enjoy exploring. ,, three-year stint as a enjoy exploring." high school English 
Like his characters, Matthew Waynee and Drama teacher Waynee has stood on the screenwriter for Teach for America, 
edge of that line before. Born and brought up in nearby Bay City, Mich., he was once a promising high school athlete with a passion for basket­ball and football. But a horrific event would alter the course of his life. 
"When I was 16, after my sophomore year, I was in a car accident," Waynee said. "I ended up having eight hours of brain surgery, and I shouldn't have sur­vived the whole incident. That ended my football career and changed my whole athletic focus." 
The person who emerged from that event traded in his hoop dreams for another obsession -writing. Waynee became a voracious reader and was drawn to the darker, edgier work of nov­elists Kurt Vonnegut and Ayn Rand and the similarly murky, powerful films made 
before entering the renowned graduate writing program at USC. Once there, he began to put his idea to paper. 
"I actually started it as a novel, but it wasn't working as well in that medium. So I finally decided that it would be great as a screenplay, and that's when I started switching it to that," he said. "That was about six or seven years ago, when I started writing it as a screenplay, and probably about four and a half years ago when the screenplay was done and peo­ple started reading it, getting interested in it and trying to put it to film." 
After a nerve-wracking process of sending the script out to Hollywood's rich and famous, the film was greenlit with a humble budget of $3.5 million, thanks in part to the script's economical usage of 
one primary location -the desolate, fateful warehouse. Initially, Waynee was interested in directing the feature himself. 
"In the larger scheme of my career, it was far better for me to hand it off to a different director who could get those actors, which I wouldn't necessarily been able to do at that point in my directing career," he said. 
That director was Simon Brand, with countless music videos and TV commer­cials to his name, but who would also be making his feature film debut. Getting Brand on board started a casting land­slide that brought with it an impressive stable of acting talent. Hollywood veter­ans like Jim Caviezel ("The Passion of the Christ"), Greg Kinnear ("Little Miss Sunshine"). Joe Pantoliano ("The Matrix"), Bridget Moynihan ("I, Robot") and Barry Pepper ("Saving Private Ryan") were drawn to the script's allur­ing premise and took paycuts for the film's greater good. 
For Waynee, it was a dream come true, especially when he arrived on set to see names like Caviezel and Kinnear mulling over lines he'd been polishing for years. 
"Surreal is the perfect word for it. I got to meet all the actors, these great, expe­rienced people, and it was amazing to have Greg Kinnear and Barry Pepper delivering lines and doing action," he said. "I could think back to the time when I wrote those lines for the first time and then see these men deliver it flaw­lessly -to see them bringing it to life was an amazing experience." 
With one dream realized and several others on the horizon, Waynee hasn't for­gotten the best piece of advice he received along the way. 
page II 
Poster courtesy of movieweb.com 
Who: Matthew Waynee, screenwriter Where: Browning Cinema, DPAC When: Tonight, 7 and 10 p.m. What: Waynee, Class of '95, will present the film at both screenings. 
to forge the cinematic riddle that became "Unknown." It began humbly, with a sim­ple idea born out of a Greek literature class. 
As for what Waynee will remember most about the decade-long journey of "Unknown" from page to 

"One of my profes­sors asked, 'Imagine if you had all the money in the world. What  "I could think back to the time when I wrote those lines for the first time and  screen? That answer is simple. "I can still remember my roommate from my  
would you do with your  then see these men deliver  sophomore year at Notre  
time?' And that's what you should do with your life, because you  it flawlessly -to see them bringing it to life was an  Dame-he's in Chicago -and when 'Unknown' screened there back in  
can always find ways to make money. It's about doing what you truly  amazing experience. Matthew Waynee  November, he called me up," Waynee recalled. "And he's like, 'Waynee,  
love," he said.  screenwriter  I can remember when  

In the 11 years since he left the Golden Dame in his rearview, Waynee has only been back on campus once -a brief stop on his cross-country trek out to California. Even now, he gets nostalgic about his time under the Golden Dome, and the memories are sure to come flooding back when he returns home. 
It's taken Waynee years of questioning 
you told me this idea and how you thought it could become a film.' 
"He just laughed it off then, but he could remember me that night that I told him about this idea, and for him to see it finally up on the screen, it was great to hear those words as well." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 



page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 15, 2007 
NBA 
Pierce helps Boston end 18-game losing streak 
Arenas struggles from the field in Washington's close victory over Philadelphia; Howard looks for place in NBA history 
Associated Press first time Pierce and Szczerbiak both played since a win on Dec. 
BOSTON -Al Jefferson was 16 gave the Celtics a five-game happily watching the final sec­winning strnak. onds of garbage time from the "This is not the team that lost Boston bench when Delonte 18 in a row," Bell said. "With West gave him a piece of advice. Paul, he gives them a whole 
"We've got nothing to cele­other element. They're a much brate," Jefferson recalled after better team. If they didn't beat Boston ended its franchise­us, they were going to beat record losing streak at 18 somebody else. I don't think games by beating the they were going to get the Milwaukee Bucks 117-97. "We record." should feel good about it. But Boston found the perfnct don't run off the court like we opponent in Milwauken, which won the championship." is on a bit of a slide itself. 
Paul Pierce scored 32 points Charlie Villanueva was out with and Gerald Green had 21 in 20 an ankle sprain he pieked up in minutes on Wednesday night to Tuesday's game against Dallas, lead the Celtics to their first vic­a game in which Milwaukee got tory since Jan. 5 and send them just two free throws in the last into the All-Star break with a 7:05 and blew a H>-point, sec­sigh of relief. After the break, ond-half lead. Boston embarks on a five-game Playing back-to-baek nights road trip -four of them amid mounting injuries -Mo against teams in playoff posi­Williams' shoulder, and Earl tion. Boykins picked up a cut on his 
"I thought that if we could win right leg that needed stitches in this game, it gives us a fighting the first half -the Bucks chance out there. That's all we seemed to wear down again. want," coach Doc Rivers said. After leading by 13 at the end of "The guys are in there taking the first quarter and as many as monkeys off each others' backs 15 in the second, Milwaukee and all that stuff. It's just a gave up an 18-4 Boston run that relief to get it done." turned the Celtics' 48-37 deficit Thomas punch11d a tnammatn while Joe Smith added 12 and Ilis numbers looked even bet­
The half-filled house, win­into a SS-52 lead. during praetiee and Arnnas R_re­Samuel Dalembert pitehed in ter before Wednesday. Howard's nowed by the first major snow­dicted he'd seore 50 points with 17 rebounds and 11 points. .846 field goal percentage in the storm of the winter, gave the Washington 92, against Portland, only to fall 41 "They scored 31 points off our past four outings was third-best Celtics a standing ovation for Philadelphia 85 points short. turnovers and I think that was a in history behind two the final minute as they picked Gilbert Arenas' bold-talking, Arenas eelipsed his nin11-point big key to the game," Sixers Chamberlain spans. up their first victory since Jan. high-scoring first half of the effort in the previous game with coach Maurice Cheeks said. "It's "It's a great honor," the 21­
5. The Celtics won just two of season ended with a whimper. 10 in the first half, but his unfortunate. We came home year-old said, understated as 24 games when Pierce was out Arenas struggled with his shot shooting woos continued. lie knowing that we had six or usual. ''I'll just keep playing my with foot and elbow injuries, -again -scoring 22 points on was coming on· a 3-for-15 ell'ort seven straight home games, and game." breaking the franchise record of 8-for-26 shooting, and the against the Trail Blaznrs, a 10-we had hoped to fair a little bet­Iledo Turkoglu shook off a 13 straight losses and heading Washington Wizards broke open for-24 showing against San ter than this. recent illness with 24 points for for the league record of 24 (23 a close game in the fourth quar­Antonio and a 4-for-14 perform­"Going 2-4 is not what we had Orlando, Darko Milicic added a in one season). ter and held on for a victory ance against Seattle. hoped for." career-high 21 points and eight 
But they took advantage of over the Philadelphia 76ers on Washington coach Eddie Neither team was able to rebounds, and Carlos Arroyo the Bucks' own woes, rallying Wednesday night. Jordan seems to think the gru­break away until the Wizards had 15 points and a season-high from a 15-point deficit to go Caron Butler scored 16, eling first half finally caught up moved out to a 10-point lead seven assists. ahead in the second quarter Darius Songaila added 12, and to Arenas. early in the fourth quarter. The win kept the Magic (27­and opening a double-digit lead Andray Blatche, making just his· "I see a little bit of fatigue in Then tho Sixers made a run. 26) one game over .500 heading in the third. second start of the season, had Gil," said Jordan, who has the Korver hit a 3-pointer that cut into the All-Star break, and 
"We could have easily ended his first career double-double Wizards atop the Southeast the del'icit to three with 1:35 capped Portland's four-game up in that zone with NBA­with 11 points and 10 rebounds Division with a record of 29-21. left, and Carney missed a East Coast road trip at 2-2. record losing streaks," Pierce as the Wizards won for just the Arenas rejected thll idea that chance to tie when he misfired Orlando took control in the said. "We definitely eyed this second time in six games. he is tired. on a 3. second quarter, finishing the game. Milwaukee had a lot of It was yet another poor shoot­"I don't feel it, but sometimes Butler missed a 3 for the first half on an 18-4 run for a pieces missing, so we wanted to ing performance for Arenas, when I'm shooting, I'm like, Wizards and the Sixers took 52-39 halftime lead. Milicic take advantage of that." who is headed to the All-Star 'Am I using my legs?' After the possession with 31.9 seconds scored seven of those points in a 
Mo Williams scored 31, game this weekend in Las All-Star break, my confidence left, still trailing by three. 1:01 span, while Arroyo had six Charlie Bell had 24 and Brian Vegas. And, despite a first half will come back on my shot," he points and set up Howard for an Skinner scored 13 with 11 of the season that included a said. "''ll be ready to go." Orlando 103, Portland 91 alley-oop. rebounds for the Bucks, who 60-point game and three games One positive for the Wizards In just his third NBA season, "They made a lot of shots and lost their fourth straight. of 50 points or more, Arenas was solid play by their reserves. Dwight Howard is putting up we just ran out of a little gas," Milwaukee is 3-17 since isn't in the mood to evaluate. "It's a great win because it's strong numbers that place him Portland rookie Brandon Hoy Michael Redd went out with a "When I look back, it's always on the road," Jordan said. "It's in good company. said. strained patellar tendon in his at the end of the season, never a great win because these Howard capped the last ganie Turkoglu, who totaled eight left knee. in the middle," said Arenas, (bench) guys contributed." before his first All-Star appear­points in Orlando's last two out­
"Everybody knows" about the who ranks second in the league The Sixers had their typical ance with 20 points and 16 ings while battling flu-like Celtics' streak, Williams said. in scoring with a 29-point aver­balanced scoring effort, but rebounds on 8-of-12 shooting in symptoms, scored nine in the "You don't want to be the team age. "I know I need to turn it up were slowed by poor shooting, Orlando's win Wednesday over first quarter. He had the Magic's that they beat. That's why it a tune, get my shot back on tar­going 30-for-79 (38 percent), the Portland Trail Blazers. It first three second-half buckets, hurts a little more." get, get my feet right, get ready and 20 turnovers. gave him an 81 percent field providing a 59-42 edge that 
Jefferson scored 17 with 10 for the second half to start off Kyle Korver led the way with goal mark over the last five widened to 21 points at the rebounds. Wally Szczerbiak on a positive note." 18 points, Andre Iguodala games, lOth best in NBA history start of the fourth quarter. returned after missing two Washington is trying to move added 14 points and 13 behind nine Wilt Chamberlain "I got some rest and I'm feel­games with a sprained right past a turbulent stretch during rebounds, Rodney Carney and performances and one stretch ing good right now," Turkoglu ankle and scored 14; it was the which backup center Etan Andre Miller each scored 13, from Bob Hanson. said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
Condo For Sale in SB 2 bdrm twnhse great condition & neighbor­hood new sun room call 269-445­2765. $93,000 
2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR­QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE OWNER,$6,500. CALL 243-5454. 
FoR SALE 

House available for 2007-2008. Very Large, Close to Campus, Just Renova1ed. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 
Room for rent in huge home 1 block east of campus. Very clean, safe & private. Great student price. 239­707-2025. 
Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4 bed/3.5 bath. 07·08,08-09. $600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569. 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER AREAS,BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. BUMBACAHOUSES offers you the student big savings for 1 ,2 or 3 yr. lease. Super clean. Visit our web site and compare us to the competi­lion. Call Cosimo 277-1875. 
andersonNDrentals.com 

Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5 bdrm,3 bath homes,frpls,2-car garages. Call574-232-4527 or 269­683-5038. 
PERSONAL 

COMMON SENSE COMPUTER repair,clean-up,reload, data back­up. Student discount. 1.5 mi. from ND 728 E. Colfax 574-217-8851 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml Or see Our bi-weekly ad In The Observer. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS? 
You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No-ABORT Or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
Snow day anyone? 
Its Thursday Might as well be the weekend 




OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, February 15, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WiRE SERVICES page 13 
Eastern Conference, 
team 
Toronto New Jersey New York Philadelphia Boston 
Eastem Conference, Central Division·­
team record 
Detroit 32-19 Cleveland 30-21 .588 Indiana 28-24 .538 Chicago 29-25 Milwaukee 19-34 .358 



Eastem Conference, SoutheaSt Division 
team record pet. GB 
Washington 29-21 .580 Orlando 27-26 .509 3.5 Miami 26-26 .500 4 AUanta 20-31 .392 U Charlotte 19-33 .365 1f 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pet. GB 
utah 34-17 .667 -. Denver 26-24 .520 7.5 Minnesota 24-27 .471 10 Portland 22-32 .407 13.5 Seattle 19-32 .373 15 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pet. GB 
Phoenix 39-12 .765 L.A. Lakers 30-23 .566 10 L.A. Clippers 25-27 .481 14.5 Golden State 24-29 .453 16 Sacramento 22-28 .440 16.5 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record pet. GB 
Dallas 43~9 San Antonio 35·18 Houston _ 33·18 
9.5 N.O./Ok. CitY 24·28 19 Memphis 14·40 l ·····ao•::r·· 
Women's Basketball MIAA Standings 
team league overall r.¢cor(J,.,.-..... •·•·•·-·•··----·record 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
Calvin Hope STMARY'S Albion Olivet AIIlJa Adrian Tri-State Kalamazoo 14·0 
11-3 9·5 8•6 8·6 
&-8 
3·12 3-12 
z,u 
21·1 19·3 10.11 13-9 11-10 1041 8-14 5-18 3·19 


around the dial 
NBA Dallas at Houston 8 p.m., TNT 
Cleveland at L.A. Lakers 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
UCLA at Arizona St. 
8:30 p.m., FOX 

MLB 

Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO-Two San Francisco Chronicle reporters will avoid jail time after a criminal defense lawyer agreed to plead guilty to leaking them secret grand jury docu­ments from the BALCO steroids investigation. 
Attorney Troy Ellerman admitted in court papers filed Wednesday that he allowed reporters Lance Williams and Mark Fainaru-Wada to view tran­scripts of the grand jury testimony of baseball stars Barry Bonds, Jason Giambi, Gary Sheffield and sprinter Tim Montgomery, according to court documents. 
The Chronicle published stories in 2004 that report­ed Giambi and Montgomery admitted taking steroids while Bonds and Sheffield testified that they didn't knowingly take perform­ance enhancing drugs. 
A federal judge ordered the reporters jailed after they refused to divulge the source of the story. They have remained free pending an appeal to the U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. Ellerman's plea agreement stated that the federal pros­ecutors will no longer try to put the reporters in prison. 
The deal calls for Ellerman to spend two years in prison and pay a $250,000 fine; the terms are subject to approval by a judge. No date has been set for the plea hearing. 
Ellerman, who serves as commissioner of the Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association, rep­resented Victor Conte, founder of the Bay Area Laboratory Co-operative, the Burlingame supple­ments lab at the center of the federal steroid probe. He later represented BALCO vice president James Valente. 
Eve Burton, general coun­sel for Hearst Corp., which owns the Chronicle, would not confirm or deny that Ellerman was the source of the leaked documents. 
"As we have said 
throughout, we don't dis­cuss issues involving confi­dential sources," she said. 
Ellerman's attorney, Scott Tedmon, could not immedi­ately be reached for com­ment. 
Conte and Valente were among five men who plead­ed guilty in an earlier phase of the investigation, along with chemist Patrick Arnold, Bonds' personal trainer Greg Anderson, and track coach Remi Korchemny. 
Bonds has never been charged but a cloud of sus­picion continues to plague the San Francisco Giants slugger as he chases base­ball's career home run record. 
IN BRIEF 

Yankees' Rivera gives club 
no edge in free agency 
TAMPA, Fla. -Mariano Rivera had this warning for the New York Yankees: If he becomes a free agent, he 'II consider offers from other teams. 
"Everybody has the same shot," he said Wednesday. "The Yankees will not have an advantage." 
Brian Cashman tells ESPN Radio 1OSO's Michael Kay that a chat with Mariano Rivera cleared the air over the closer's remarks, but confirmed they won't talk new contract until later. 
Yankees general manager Brian Cashman called the 3 7 -year-old clos­er Tuesday night, a day after Rivera said he was hoping for a contract extension. Cashman told Hivera his preference is to push back the mat­ter until after the season. 
Catcher Jorge Posada also is entering the final season of his con­tract. 
Els, Garcia start PGA tour at 
Nissan Open without Woods 
LOS ANGELES -Ernie Els, Retief Goosen and Sergio Garcia are among international players making their first PGA Tour start of 2007 at the Nissan Open, and it's no coincidence that Riviera has the deepest field on tour this year. 
Even without Tiger Woods. 
The last few years has brought an unstoppable shift in the world of golf, and now a majority of the top players in the world rankings come from abroad. Sure, Woods and Jim Furyk give the Americans a 1-2 punch at the top, and the way Phil Mickelson won at Pebble Beach last week, it might not be long before he makes it a threesome. 
Top to bottom, however, golf has gone global. 
"Over here, we play for a lot of money," Els said Wednesday. "So that draws a lot more players to come and play the U.S. tour. 
Fererro defeats Roitman in 
first-round Brazil Open play 
COSTA DO SAUIPE, Brazil -Top­seeded Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain beat Sergio Hoitman of Argentina 6­4, 6-4 in the first round of the Brazil Open on Wednesday. 
Ferrero won three straight games to start the second set, and secured only his second win in four matches this year. 
Third-seeded Nicolas Almagro of Spain routed Fernando Vicente 6-0, 6-1 in a match that was suspended on Tuesday because of rain with Almagro up 4-0. 
In other first-round matches, Ruben Ramirez Hidalgo defeated Stefano Galvani 7-6 (4), 6-3, and Albert Montanes beat qualifier Pablo Andujar 6-2, 7-6 (6). 
Ferrero has won 11 career titles, but none since 2003 when he won the French Open. Last year at Costa do Sauipe, he was upset in the first round. 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 15, 2007 
MLB 
3"0 
ANNVAL Hotv CRoH MtHION LEctVRE AT NoTRE DAME 

Bonds yet to sign new contract with Giants 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Barry Zito wandered into his new spring training clubhouse carry­ing an Oakland Athletics duffel bag and plopped into Barry Bonds' chair. 
Oops! "I probably don't know better yet," Zito said, chuckling. 
It might have been a first in San Francisco franchise history. Zito requested that he dress next to the slugger back home this season, too. 
"Barry and I have a good rela­tionship," Zito said. "If I can somehow lighten the load oil' of him, so you guys can just take a hard right when you're going to his locker and start talking to 
me." 
Zito reported to the Giants' spring training complex at Scottsdale Stadium on Wednes­day sporting his signature relaxed style -jeans and a T­shirt. He looked the same, save for the 10 extra pounds of mus­cle he says he added to his lower body this winter. 
A new $126 million, seven­year contract apparently hasn't affected the left-bander's ways. And it's clear he already feels part of his new team, even though the Giants' pitchers and catchers don't take the field together for the first time until Thursday. 
"It's been pretty seamless," he said of the adjustment. "It feels good. It feels natural. I feel like I know most of the people in the clubhouse just because I've played against them and played with a couple of them or at least know some off the field." 
Zito played some light catch with reliever Steve Kline, who was wearing a bushy beard he will soon lose before it really warms up in the desert. Kline's welcome was interesting: The nameplate above his locker read "Rich Kline," a mistake that happened because his spot is right next to infielder Hich Aurilia's. 
"I like it," Kline said. "I want to keep it." 
Kline also likes Zito, and tried to make the new ace feel at home right away. 
"I was nervous," Kline said. "I thought if I hit him in the kneecap, I'd get released. I talked to him and tried to make him feel welcome. Coming to a new team is always hard. He's a big part of our team." 
The 28-year-old Zito will be almost as popular a topic as Bonds this spring. 
"Ever since the press confer­ence I've been just wearing my Giants hat around everywhere in L.A., just getting used to it and preparing myself to have it be natural," Zito said. "I would just wear it my car, not going out." 
Bonds' arrival day at spring training is unclear, though posi­tion players are due to report to camp Monday. He typically holds his state-of-Barry address the first or second day, but his contract remains unresolved. He could sign after spring train­ing starts. 
''I'd expect that he'd be here on reporting day," said general manager Brian Sabean, who noted that the two Barrys together in the clubhouse is "interesting, but I don't know if it's a big deal." 
The seven-time NL MVP begins his 22nd major league season 22 homers shy of break­ing Hank Aaron's career record of 755. The Giants have differ­ing views of certain language in his $15.8 million, one-year deal and Bonds has yet to sign a revised version. 
"Hmm, just details," Zito said. "I saw him at UCLA a few times working out. We caught up there and kind of shot the breeze a little bit. lie looks amazing. He's ready to go." 
Zito hopes he is ready to go at the plate now that he'll be bat­ting every fifth day in the National League. He has been working with good friend Brady Anderson on his hitting and baserunning for about a month. 
He has a .034 -2-for-52 ­career batting average during seven seasons with Oakland. 
TERESA 0 K VRE, SH C) 

Thursday, February 15, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 

JESSICA LEE!The Observer Irish senior Catrina Thompson competes at No. 1 singles in Notre Dame's 6-1 victory Wednesday over Michigan. 
VOTE TODAY 
IN THE RUN-OFF ELECTION FOR 
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT! 
WHO: All undergraduates, including Seniors! 
WHEN: Bam to 8pm 
WHERE: https:/ /apps.nd.edu/elections Also available on lnsideND and the Judicial Council Website 
If you have any problems with voting, please contact the Judicial Council at jcouncil@nd.edu 

By CHRIS HINE 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame captured the first of three matches against top-25 opponents this week with a 6-1 win Wednesday over No. 23 Michigan at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
"We played well. All three doubles teams played really well," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "We lost one match, but I felt like they played well because Michigan had won at least four singles matches in each of their matches this season." 
Freshman Cosmina Ciobanu's 6-0, 6-3 defeat of Wolverines senior Elizabeth Exon gave No. 2 Notre Dame its fourth point and the victory. The win lifts Ciobanu's dual match record to 8-0 and 18-4 overall. 
"The first set especially, she played really well," Louderback said. "[Exon] has played as high as [the No. 1 singles slot] for them." 
After getting her third straight 6-0 set victory, Ciobanu dropped two of the first three games in the second set, but fought back to win four of the next five. 
"If you win the first set 6-0 but finally lose a game or two in the second set, you start thinking 'Oh, no, this kid's coming back on me,"' Louderback said. "But down 2­1, she cruised from there." 
The Irish began the match by sweeping all three doubles matches to take a 1-0 lead. Junior Brook Buck then made quick work of Michigan fresh­man Tania Mahtani, 6-0, 6-1 to give the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
"She didn't play our last few matches," Louderback said. "But every match she's played she's gotten better." 
Freshman Colleen Rielley could not break out of her slump against Michigan, drop­ping her fourth straight match against Wolverine sophomore Chisako Sugiyama, 6-4, 6-3. 
"[Rielley] still had a tight match," Louderback said. "Sugiyama is tough, especially indoors. She plays a big game and hits the ball hard. She's a tough kid." 
Sugiyama's win pulled Michigan within 2-1, but the final four matches belonged to the Irish. 
At No. 1 singles, senior Catrina Thompson overcame losing the first three games of the match to capture a 6-3, 6-1 win over Michigan fifth-year senior Jenny Kuehn. 
"She takes a little while to get going. She'll do that occa­sionally where she starts off slow the first two, three games, and then her serve picks up and her forehand starts going and she gets on a roll," Louderback said. "Her serve and forehead are really big. She gets a lot of free points because of those. It's hard for kids to return them." 
After Ciobanu's win clinched the match, senior Christian Thompson overcame a first-set loss to defeat Michigan senior Kara Delicata 5-7, 6-2, 1-0 (10-6) while sophomore Katie Potts completed the match with a 6-1, 7-6 (1) win over Wolverine junior Allie Shafner. 
"It was good to win the last· two," Louderback said. "They were tight matches but they made it 6-1 which was nice." 
The Irish will have little time to rest before hosting No. 7 North Carolina Friday and No. 20 Wake Forest Saturday. 
"First, we just have to beat North Carolina, but [winning both matches! would be big for us just because we've played such a tough schedule, and we've come through a lot of big matches now," Louderback said. "A sweep would be very good for us at this point." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 15, 2007 
WOMEN'S FENCING 

Providenza continues to put teammates first 

advance. For someone who has finished in the top-1 0 nationally three straight years, that mindset might seem strange. But for Providenza, it's a modws opnran­di. 
"You take every season as it comes," she said in a cool, explanatory tone. "If I'm not con­centrated on the tournament at hand, I don't perform as well." 
The strategy also keeps the second-semester senior from becoming overwhelmed with schoolwork. impending gradua­tion and a· start in the post-col­lege world. 
Ranked No. 11 in the nation. Providenza would have an out­side shot to make the American Olympic team for the 2008 Beijing Games. But to qualify, she would need to participate in tour­naments worldwide beginning now -a prospect that lead Irish junior sabre Marie! Zagunis to withdraw from school to start an Olympic title defense. 
Already exhausted after tour­naments from Columbus to London every weekend for the past three months, Providenza decided to focus on her team tournaments. The travel to NCAA competitions strain her body far less than the constant jet-setting of the international circuit, some­thing Providenza is keenly aware of as she battles occasional knee and ankle problems. 
"It's really taxing." she said. "You see the hotel, fence for one or two days and then fly back." 
So instead of jumping into the Olympic path, Providenza has other plans. 
"''m graduating this semester and I'm working next summer ­and hopefully going to graduate school," she said. 
But she wants to leave with one more good memory, and it can't come from any regular-season record. Providenza thinks the Irish could have won the NCAA crown last year when they fin­ished fourth, behind Harvard, Penn State and Ohio State. 
With a top finish this year at the NCAA Championships, Providenza would become the first Irish women's sabre ever to earn All-American honors four times. But she says she wouldn't be completnly satisfied with any­thing less than a team win and an individual title. 
That makes sense for someone whose only memories come from the biggest tournament of the year. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
By KEN FOWLER Spons Editor 
The only results Valerie Providenza says she keeps stored in her mind are three NCAA Championship appearances. If that's the ease, the senior has for­gotten more wins than any Irish women's sabre in history. 
This weekend, she went 12-0 in the Duke Duals to break former teammate Destanie Milo's record of 166 regular-season victories. 
While the mid-season bouts get lost in the shuffle, Providenza's memories start sweetly. 
In 2004 she finished fifth in the Midwest Fencing Conference Regional but mounted a stunning comeback in the national semifi­nal and topped Penn State's Sophia Hiss for the NCAA crown. 
"Freshman year, I came in wanting to prove I should be here," she said. 
As soon as Providenza got to Notre Dame, she knew she would put the team ahead of her indi­vidual career. She often chose NCAA events over the individual tournaments needed to gain points on the national rankings. 
"I consider the team my second family," she said. "Coming in, I knew I was going to be here for only four years -and it was something I wanted to make the most of." 
That sentiment was not lost on Irish coach Janusz Bednarski. 
"The number of bouts she has competed in shows her engage­ment and devotion to the pro­gram," he said. 
Bednarski said Providenza's commitment to the team whenev­er individual tournaments con­flicted with NCAA events, com­bined with her skill, propelled her toward the record. 
Providenza entered Notre Dame with high expectations and started for the sabres as a fresh­man. Bednarski said he was comfortable putting the responsi­bility on her shoulders. 
Ever since, she's helped lead the Irish. Providenza finished fourth in the nation as a sopho­more and ninth in 2006. Providenza entered the season with an .822 winning percentage, inducting a 39-6 mark en route to the 2004 women's sabre crown and a remarkable 4 7-9 record as a sophomore. 
While her win totals are high, Providenza, who's born every burden for the Irish, takes com­petitions just one at a time. She said she even gets nervous if she thinks about the NCAAs too far in 


HIGHER COSTS FOR HIGHER EDlJCATION? 
\<Hn• J).;m1P FPth•ral c:rP(Iit Union offers marrv optams to assist you ••.vl!:t lht• 'in<UICing Of yrnH Pfhli'<tJinna! go,aJs. 
\·Ve offer Federal Smfford Loans. Federal PLUS J..o,:uts, and f;cdera] C1msolidation Loan~. Ph.1s, W\' offer discounts fur autumatir rMynwnr :;.s \vdl ~~s for g••od paynwni hisr.:;ry nn ;all of our student loan prochtcts! 
Con;;an us today. and find out ho\v Wt' can ll<t!.lp! 
rl.l. NOTRE DAME 
....,.. FEDER.AL CREDIT UNION 
574/b:Jf 8222 • HOH/522 tlnll 
\VW\\'_ndfcu.nrg • iiotudt!n(loanS4ji'ndfcu.tltl( 


Thursday, February 15, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
one you love needs help , please call. 
Ministry, 1-7163 Steihe-Pasalich, Counselin~ Center, 1-7336 Kleva, Healtlt Services, 1-8286 
Community Resources: 
Care Center, 234-0363 Charities, 234-3111 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) 
Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 

Visit our web site at 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
Kessler once again provided the offensive spark for the Belles throughout the game, scoring a game-high 23 points and adding eight assists. Sophomore Erin Newsom crashed the boards for her fifth double-double of the year with 13 points and 15 rebounds. Senior Bridget Lipke added 18 points in the winning effort. 
Albion held a 35-31 halftime lead after Britons guard Amy Aemisegger hit a 3-pointer at the buzzer. The Belles over­came the deficit and claimed a 57-52 lead with 5:25 remain­ing. Albion chipped away at the lead, however, and tied the game at 57-57 with 1:49 remaining. 
The Belles will conclude their regular season Saturday with a home game against second­place Hope. Although neither team can change seeding based on the result, Saint Mary's will look to show its improvement from their last meeting when the Flying Dutchmen dismantled the Belles 67-42. 
The third-seeded Saint Mary's squad will then host sixth-place Alma in the first round of the MIAA Tournament Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Saint Mary's won 10 conference games this season, the most ever for its program, and will host only the second MIAA playoff game this season. 
"I think the regular season shows how far we've come," Henley said. "We just need to carry this high-level of play into the tournament when it counts." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


Sample fares From Chicago to: London $273 Amsterdam $307 Paris $364 
·:·4::-:::. 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 15, 2007 
Trial 
continued from page 20 
during games causes him severe foot pain. 
Weis, the former offensive coordinator of the New England Patriots, decided to have the sur­gery shortly after the Patriots' February 2002 Super Bowl vic­tory over the St. Louis Rams. 
"I was watching the DVD of the Super Bowl, and I just looked at myself on the sideline and I said, 'We got a problem here,"' Weis testified on the second day of the trial in Suffolk Superior Court. 
He thought his weight, about 336 pounds at the time, was thwarting his career. 

"I looked at the DVD and said, 'If I were hiring, I wouldn't hire him,"' he said. 
William J. Dailey Jr., a lawyer for the doctors, suggested under cross examination of Weis that the surgery was successful because it helped Weis achieve his stated goals: He lost nearly 90 pounds and landed his dream job at Notre Dame. 
Dailey also asked Weis about his prior history of health prob­lems, ineluding sleep apnea and hemochromatosis, an iron over­load in the body, and asked if he fully realized all the risks of bypass surgery. Five to 10 per­cent of patients suffer major complications, Dailey said, and about 1 in 200 die. 
Weis said he did know about the potential complieations. "Yes sir, IDr. Ferguson I delinitely told me thnre worn othHr risks," he said. 
Dailey also pointed out the doctors waived the normal coun­seling period before the opera­tion -at Weis' request -so he could be healthy in time for the following football season. 
Weis said he was so seen~tive about his deeision to have tho surgery that he didn't tell his wife until about two weeks before the operation. The only member of the Patriots he eon­tided in besides the team doctor was quarterback Tom Brady. 

Friars 
continued from page 20 
point lead in the second half, Providence could not hold off the Panthers and fell 7 4-68. 
"We watched them Saturday, and they looked pretty good," Irish guard Colin Falls said. "They've been playing a little more [man-to-man defense] than they have in the past." 
Guard Sharaud Curry and for­ward/center Herbert Hill lead the Friars offensively. Curry averages a team-high 17.2 points per game, while Hill averages 17.0 points. 
"Curry and Hill have been so good for them. Curry hurt us last year, even though we won both games," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. "You have to slow him down and keep his transition opportuni­ties to a minimum." 
Hill, who also averages 8.4 rebounds per game, could pres­ent a problem for the Irish inside. 
"Athletic guys like him are difficult for us," Brey said. 

Alaska 
continued from page 20 
beautiful -not a cloud in the sky. 

"Everyone always says that where they live is God's country -to me this is God's country." 
MacMillan said that the extreme cold is not a problem for most of his players, because most were raised in Western Canada -but "the Vancouver guys are a little soft though." 
Jackson has not made the trip to Alaska since he coached Lake Superior State in the mid-1990s, but the second-year coach will be heading north again this sum­mer for a fishing trip even far­ther north than Fairbanks, he said. 
"I wish we were going up there a day early so we could actually do something, to make it an edu­cational experience," Jackson said. 
The team left Wednesday for Chicago, where it practiced on an Olympic-size ice sheet in Orland Park to prepare for Alaska's similarly larger sheet. The Irish flew to Fairbanks today, where they will get a prac­tice in tonight and Friday morn­ing before Friday night's game. Jackson said that classroom restraints kept the Irish from traveling a day earlier -when other CCI-lA teams normally travel. 
"It was 30 degrees colder than anything I had experienced around this area," Irish center Mark Van Guilder said of the trip his freshman year. "But there's no wind, it's really peaceful. The "We've got four different guys that can guard him, but we have to help off the perimeter and help off [Providence for­ward Geoff McDermott! a little bit, play some zone and change defenses." 
Hill's 6-foot-1 0 frame is simi­lar to that of St. John's forward Lamont Hamilton and DePaul forward Wilson Chandler. Both Hamilton and Chandler tor­tured the Irish in the paint, combining for 48 points and 25 boards in their respective appearances against the Notre Dame. 
"Hill's having as good a year in the Big East as anybody," Kurz said. "We just have to be in good position on him, make sure he doesn't catch it too deep in the post and make sure we have good pressure on the guards so they don't have easy post passes. It's going to be a team job." 
The Irish return home after dropping the last two games of their three-game road swing. In losses at South Florida and DePaul, Falls (14.3 points per game) accounted for more than one-third of Notre Dame's 
wind [in South Bendl is just killing me." 
Back in 2004, the Irish took ofT for Fairbanks in a blizzard that mduced their bus ride to a flight at Chicago's 0'1 !are International Airport to a five-hour crawl. And once the team reached O'Hare, an eight-hour storm delay kept them grounded in a crowded ter­minal. 
But former Irish players Tony Gill and Morgan Cey provided enough comic relief to keep the team -and the rest of the trapped holiday travelers-busy for hours with a dollar bill attached to a string that the players placed in the middle of the terminal and yanked away whenever a passerby went to grab it. 
"Tony was in charge at first with pulling the string back with the dollar on it," Van Guilder said. "Until he pulled it back on a two-year old girl, and everyone booed him. Then Morgan took over after that." 
Once the weather cleared a lit­tle bit and the Irish were able to land in Anchorage, Alaska, they hit yet another patch of black ice when their plane could not leave. But after over a full-day of delays, pranks and travel, they made it and beat the Nanooks 3­2 on the Jirst night -one of live wins in the entire season. 
Jackson said the team did most of its bonding during the early season travel this year to New England and Florida, so the trip won't be seen as an increased chance to become more tight­knit. He also said the Irish haven't done anything yet that he has not seen before in his three decades of hockey road offensive production, scoring 26 points against the Bulls and 20 points against the Blue Demons. Meanwhile, the two teams held Notre Dame's leading scorer, guard Russell Carter (17.S points pe·r game), to 14 and nine points, respectively. 
"We play pretty wnll olTen­sively lat homel. We want to run. I think we can chango ends on them," Brey said. "We're going to have to play against some of their zone so we're also going to have to be patient." 
A win for tho Irish will stop their season-high two-game los­ing slide and keep them in con­tention for a bye in the l'irst round of the Big East tourna­ment. 
"That's our goal, and we have to finish strong down the stretch, and it starts ltonightl. We really have to set tho tone," Falls said. "We haven't lost two games in a row yet this ynar. To come ofT that and play well would be a big thing for us." 
Tip-off is 7 p.m. at tho Joyce Center. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
trips. 
"IIo?,key players. an;,, ~til th,e same, Jackson sa1d. I heres always occasional knteh up on somebody's shmJ under the table. Then they do tho wedding bell ­ring thn glasses -that means somebody's got ketchup or butter or something on their shoe." 
But .Jackson acknowledged that he wasn't an authority on everything that happened on the road. 
"They don't want me to know what's going on anyway, are you kidding me?" 
The Irish hope that there will not be a repnat of the Alaska trip two years ago, but it still brings back some warm memories -at least on first thought. 
"It's not too bad," Van (;under said before pausing. "Uh yeah, it's kind of bad." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
2 

CROSSCOUNTRYSKIRENTALS 
Enter southwest entrance @ the Rockne Memorial 
Fridays-2:00-S:OOpm Saturdays-1:00-4:00pm Sundays-1 :G0-4:00pm 

$5.00 daily rental-$10.00 over night 
Open... weather pennitting. Call Cross Country Ski hot line @ 63 1-6809 for daily updates. 
Rentals available to ND students. faculty, stall' & their spouses. 

Co-sponsored by the Saint Mary's College Office of Special Events, Center for Spirituality, and Justice Education Program. 
rl11lfl 
in er 
.. __:j If
NE1 'XT 

ONLY limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas & charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 
SERVING NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 

®
Pizza 

Visit U!. on the Web at www.rn.aw».<.om 102007 M~rco·~ 

A humorous and challenging window on the world of Trappist monk Thomas Merton: solitary, celebrity, and ordinary man. 
February 15 7:30P.M. Little Theatre Purchase tickets at the 
Saint Mary's College box office or by calling (574) 284-4626. 
MoreauCenter.com 
IIi--~­
s • ~ 
::! .."' 
.... 
z .. l> 
~ '' ~ 
.1956·2006. 

5U bs Choose From 
$ 99 
• 
Italian 

• 
Steak & Cheese 

• 
Ham & Cheese 

• 
Chicken Club 

• 
Veggie 

• 
Pizza Melt 


Free Delivery On Campus 

Thursday, February 15, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
Mexican citizens come to the United States 
and benefit from better services, but it is 
undeniabe that their presence and 
contributions are a positive and very real 
part of what makes America great 
...much like Saint Mary's and Nptre Dame. 
LIAMMORAN 
However, travellers should be ~aut toned that it's much easier 
0 
g~t tnto Mexico than it is to 
get tnto the u.s. 

JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VANEH 
rJ I I
1 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
UGOBS 
j 
I I r [] 
FACEEF 
± 

www.jumble.com 
G 0 FER R 
[ ] ]

,___ _.__-L.>_'-'---'-""--"'-"---'
t
I I 


HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and M1ke Argmon 
U I II 
,.;;2007TnbuneMediaSeMces.I11C. 
.AJJR9JisFieserled
I UGOBS J 
I I rJ tj I FACEEF ± 
. I I r _ j 
--~ 
I GOFERR t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprisp answer, as 
1 
n J 
S~Jggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: 'l I I I I I I r 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterd \; IJumbles: JETTY CHANT MARTYR BEETLE "I Answer: Enjoyed by loveb•rds on Va~nt1ne's Day-A"HEARTY" MEAL 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: 
"(I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: JETTY CHANT MARTYR BEETLEYesterday's 

Answer: Enjoyed by lovebirds on Valentine's Day­A "HEARTY" MEAL 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Drew Bledsoe, 34; Meg Tilly, 46; Florence Henderson, 72; Hugh Downs, 85 
Happy Birthday: Don't put things off or expect someone else to take on your responsibilities. You must push a little harder this year if you want to gain any ground. You will have to stay on your toes ifyou want to keep things moving along rhythmically. Your numbers are 5, 18, 22, 27, 39,45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Every ounce of your energy should go into moneymaking deals, work or a worthwhile project. Keep the doors ofcommunication open. It's important that you stay involved as an integral part of the equation. ••• TAURUS (April 20-MA Y 20): Nothing is worth fighting over. You can have a much better time ifyou keep your opinions to yourself and you listen to what others have to say. Allow yourself the freedom to try something you have never done before. ••••• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This isn't the day to start something new. Tidy up what's been on your to-do list. Don't use force or pressure when dealing with loved ones. You won't get your way if you are pushy. •• CANCER (June 21-Juiy 22): Things are beginning to go your way and it's certainly time for you to spread your wings and try new things. This is the perfect time to develop an idea or present it to someone who can help you out. Don't look at any changes being made at work as being bad. •••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't limit yourself. You shouldn't be backing away from the things you want to do. Put more time and effort into making things at home more comfortable for you both mentally and physically. Be honest about the way you feel. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Pleasure, passion, being innovative and trying new things is the order of the day. Travel and stimulate your mind in whatever way you can. Love and romance are looking very promising*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't get all worked up over nothing. Put more time and effort into enjoying yourself instead of worrying about what others are doing or saying. Be honest and straightforward. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep in mind that anything can be worked out if you communicate. Make some changes to your residence and your personal life. Helping someone will aid you in following an interest you've had for some time. •••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Anything to do with travel, excitement and 

--.
adventure will beckon you but tread carefully --you may end up overspending. A void an argument with someone who would prefer you to take a path less perilous. Think twice about what you do. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take time out to do something special with someone you enjoy spending time with. This is a great day for love and romance. A job interview or change will tum out in your favor. Follow your dreams. 4 stars AQUARIUS (Jau. 20-Feb. 18): Be honest about your current partnerships. If someone isn't be forthright or you feel you can't communicate well enough to make 'your relationship better, consider moving on. It could cost you emotionally, mentally and financially. ••• PISCES (Feb. I 9-March 20): Everything will be up in the air regarding your feelings. Try not to let your personal problems interfere with your productivity. A chance to get ahead, sign a contract or make some money is evident. ••• 
Birthday Baby: You are clever and extremely passionate about the way you do things. You are meticulous, engaging and extremely creative. You adapt well to change and you thrive on experiencing new things. You are channing and socially smart. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fon, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS Picnic staple 5 Lincoln and others 9 Skiing 
mementos? 14 Puncture 15 "The Last of the 
Mohicans" 
woman 16 Playwright Fugard 
17 Actor Morales 18 Make 19 Isabel, for one 20 Condescend 22 Rodeo performer 24 Good or bad name, informally 25 Sprint 28 Advantages 31 Classic Paris couture house 32 Poured 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
68_Gwyn, mistress of Charles II 

69 Neptune's realm 
DOWN 1 Tool holder 2 Shake 3 Asia's Trans 

mountains 4 Prefight event 5 Crackerjack 6 Gets on 7 Kind of message 8 Los Angeles 
harbor site 
9 Small bag 10 Got down 11 Bake in a 
shallow dish 12 Opposite of 

flabby 13 Haphazardly 21 Botticelli figure 23 Adams of "The 
Ernie Kovacs Show" 
26 _Brooks, 1950's-60's "Meet the Press" host 

27 Not go straight 28_Major 29 Week or month 
at the office, usually 30 _Valley, Calif. 33 Zap 34 Prefix with pad 35 Wearers of eagle insignia 
WILLSHORTZ 


36 Word repeated 45 Subjects of 51 Show eager in a Beatles Guinness anticipation refrain records? 
52 Hunger for 38 Isn't 46 Struggles 
56 Commuting costconspicuous 48 Mideast money 57 Realm 

41 Iowa college 49 Members of a 58 Skates 
42 Rubs 

raiding party 
60 In a bad way43 Pork 
50 Origin of the 62 Cuba, e.g.: 44 Canadian prov. word "troll" Abbr. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROS's. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
33 Haiti, once 37 Kind of orch. 38 Friend, slangily 39 Oxford letters 40 Without a 
regular schedule 44 Spanish entree 47 Concert wind 48 Having !-strain? 49 President 53 One of a pair of 
conjunctions 54 Novelist Gide 55 As yet 59 Sci-fi figure 61 "Tobermory" 
writer 63 Singular, to 
Caesar 64"_Mio" 65 Currier's partner 66 Uncommon trick 
taker 67 Goes (for) 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, February 15, 2007 
page 20 
HOCKEY 

Irish travel to Fairbanks to face Nanooks, cold weather 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

Notre Dame has already left for another weekend road trip where its status as the country's best team will be put up for debate. 
But this time the Irish must trav­el thousands of miles to a land that's covered in snow -yet oddly where snowballs are impossible to make due to a lack of moisture ­and to where one longtime resi­dent gushed about the beautiful, blue winter skies that sometimes last four hours a day. 
Notre Dame's heading to Alaska. The Irish embarked Wednesday on a five-day trip to the Great White North for a two-game series against the Alaska Nanooks, the 
first time the team has made the trip since an ill-fated trek over Thanksgiving break in 2004. To put the massive undertaking it requires to travel to Fairbanks ­a town-of 31,000 locatfld squarely. in central Alaska -into context, if the Irish were to play a team in Bogota, Colombia, it would be over 200 miles closer than it would be to travel the 2,900 miles to Fairtanks. 
The Irish upperclassmen who made the trip in their then-fresh­man and sophomore seasons in 2004 recalled the shock they received when. they first stepped outside in Fairbanks after a 27­hour trip hampered by snowed-in roads, delayed flights and spotty Alaskan air travel. 
"It's cold. I remember stepping outside the doors of the airport and just having to take a couple breaths just to catch your breath because it hurts," Irish goalie Dave Brown said. "The wind, the air is just so cold it takes a little getting used to, that's for surn." 
But Alaska coach Tavis MacMillan -the longtime resi­dent who has spent years in Fairbanks as a player and now a coach in his third season with the Nanooks-and Irish coach Jn!T Jackson oll'ered up dilferent views of the land of the Midnight Sun. 
"W~en you go to the Midwest, you see gray sky all the time. You have to take a paintbrush with you and some colors," MacMillan said. "There's blue sky [here(-its 
see ALASKA/page 18 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Homeward bound 
ND returns to the Joyce Center after consecutive road losses 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 

After dropping their last two games at South Florida and DePaul, the road weary Irish return home tonight to face Providence with key positioning in the Big East standings ­and Notre Dame's 15-0 home record-on the line. 
"It feels good to be back home. This home 11oor has been good to us," Irish forward Rob Kurz said. "We're excited after being on the road to get a chance to play in front of the home fans." 
In their last outing Saturday, the Friars' (15­8, 5-5 Big East) upset bid against No.5/7 Pittsburgh fell short. Despite building a six­
.,.*·­
see FRIARS/page 18 


ALLISON AMBROSEfThe Obse!Ver Irish guard Russell Carter drives the baseline during Notre Dame's 67-66 loss at DePaul Feb. 8. Notre Dame returns home tonight to face Providence at 7 p.m. 
fOOTBALL 
Weis testifies in 111alpractice suit Wednesday 
Coach claims surgeons failed to notice internal bleeding, infections 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Despite the poten­tial risks, Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis decided to have gastric bypass surgery because he was afraid he would one day "drop dead" if he didn't lose weight. 
Weis, who suffered life-threat­ening complications and nearly died after the June 2002 sur­gery, testified Wednesday in his medical malpractice case against two surgeons that he has strug­gled with his weight all his life. 
"I've prob­ably been on every diet known to mankind," he said in response to questions from his lawyer, Michael Mone. 

Weis, whose father died of a heart attaek at 56, said he wor­ried he wouldn't be able to see his two children grow up or reach his goal of becoming a head coach. 
"The foremost concern was that I was going to drop dead," Weis said when his lawyer asked about his motivation for the surgery. 
Weis claims in his suit that Massaehusetts General llospital physicians Charles Ferguson and Hichard Hodin aeted negli­gently by failing to reeognize life-threatening internal bleed­ing and infection two days after the surgery. 
Defense lawyers have said the doctors cared for Weis properly and that he experienced one of the known complications of the surgery. 
Weis spent more than a month in the hospital after the surgery, lost feeling in his feet, and has had mobility problems sinee the surgery. lie still needs a golf cart to get around prac­tiee at Notre Dame, and stand­ing for up to live hours straight 
see TRIAL/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles need overti111e, top Britons 
Kessler drops 23 for Saint Mary's in win 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
After a 10-foot jumper by Albion guard Jessica Babcock sent the game to overtime, Saint Mary's took over in the bonus period, winning 71-63 Wednesday at the Angela Athletic Center. 
The Belles dominated the overtime period, scoring on six of their 10 possessions while forcing four turnovers after regulation. 
Belles guard Allison Kessler gave Saint Mary's a 59-57 lead with only 40 seconds left after nailing a running layup before Babcock's game-tying shot. 
The win not only clinched the No. 3 seed for the Belles in the MIAA tournament, but it also avenged Saint Mary's (11­11, 10-5 MIAA) 72-69 overtime loss Jan. 17 at Albion (13-1 0, 8-7). 
"That loss really served as motivation," Sa-int Mary's coach Jennifer Henley said. "That made this win that much sweeter." 
The game was far more heavily contested than the final score indicated, with 16 ties and neither team leading by more than five points dur­ing regulation. 
see BELLES/page I 7 


MlB

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
MlB
FENCING 

MLB 
NBA 
LLI 

Giants pitcher Barry 
BALCO attorney Troy 
Yankees closer
Co) Senior sabre Valerie 
Boston 117

Notre Dame 6 
Zit~ adjusts well to San 
Ellerman confesses to 
Mariano Rivera
z Providenza places team 

Michigan 1 
Milwaukee 97 

Francisco. The Giants 
leaking grand jury 
announces he will not
first en route to winning 
Celtics forward Paul

Freshman Cosmina
:3 

have yet to sign slugger 
testimony to Bay Area 
favor New York when
most matches in Notre 
Pierce scores 32

Ciobanu grabs four 
Barry Bonds. 
writers Mark Fainaru­
he becomes a free agent. 
= c::c Dame history. 
points to help end

points to clinch No. 2 
Wad a and Lance 
Boston's 18-game losing 

Irish over No. 23
=: Williams. 
streak.

Wolverines. 
page 13

page 13
page 15 
page 14 
page 12
page 16 









