
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 27 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2007 
Police investigate Linebacker larcenies 
Numerous auto break-ins occurred in recent months; women's purses and luggage targeted 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
More than a dozen car break-ins have occurred in the parking lot adjacent to the Linebacker Lounge since April -and five of them have happened since late August, police said Wednesday. 
Four break-ins were reported over a three-day stretch in September. said Capt. Phil Trent, the spokesman for the South Bend Police Department. One car was broken into on Sept. 22, two were broken into on Sept. 23 and another on Sept. 
24. 
In the past 12 months, 
Trent said, 19 larcenies have been reported involving vehi­cles outside the Linebacker, located at 1631 South Bend Ave. Twelve of the larcenies involved women's purses being stolen from the car, Trent said. 
"Somebody's there looking in cars, and when they see a purse exposed, they break into the car," Trent said. 
Laptop computers, cell phones, cash and a piece of luggage have also been taken during the break-ins. 
In addition, Trent said, seven larcenies have been reported inside the bar in the last year. The police reports 
see BACKER/page 6 

International students utilize resources 
ISSA provides information on laws, offers help for maintaining immigration status 
International Undergraduate and Graduate Students at Notre Dame 
Top 5 Overall Countries Regional Representation 
l. China (181) 2. India (80) 3. Korea (76) 4. Canada (65) 5. Mexico (42) 

Information from: Office of Institutional Research 20()6.2001 lnt~mat1onal Student Statistics 

MATT HUDSON/Observer Graphic 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
With increasing numbers of international undergradu­ate and post-graduate stu­dents from Asia, Europe and Latin America, the International Student Services Association (ISSA) is working to keep those individuals updated on their legal immigration status while studying in the United States. 
Typically, international students possess one of two types of visas: the F1 or Jl. 
The majority are F1 visa holders, which is the stan­dard student visa. J1 visa holders are usually spon­sored either by the student's country of origin or the U.S. and are generally short­term. 
Most of the J1 visa-holding students at Notre Dame are post-graduate visiting schol­ars or non-degree under­graduate students pursuing an exchange program, according to the ISSA. 
Though the rules of main­taining legal status in the 
see ISSA/ page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Mooney creates council 
Fleming to chair panel on multicultural affairs 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
College President Carol Ann Mooney announced last week the formation of the President's Council on Multicultural Affairs after the recommendation of both the 2005 Diversity Task Force and last year's Chairs' Diversity Action Committee. The Council, which is expect­ed to be fully operational by the spring, will meet monthly and report to Mooney twice a year. 
"We have a long way to go with fulfilling our diversity goals, but this council will help us work on the overall diversity of the College and reevaluate how we approach certain issues," Mooney said. 
The Council will consist of both appointed and elected faculty members, as well as administrators and students appointed by Mooney. In total, there will be either 15 or 16 people on the Council, Mooney said. 
The membership has not been finalized. 
Student leaders -includ­ing the head of the Student Diversity Board, president of the Residence Hall Association and other mem­bers of student government 
. see COUNCIL/page 6 

ND vvelcon1es non-Catholic faiths 
Eastern Orthodox prayer service held in Coleman-Morse Center 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
On a campus where more than 80 percent of the stu­dent body is Catholic, Notre Damn's Campus Ministry con­tinues to reach out to stu­dents of other faiths. 
About 13 percent of stu­dents are of non-Catholic Christian denominations, said Brett Perkins, the direc­tor of student resources for Campus Ministry. The remaining two percent come fro·m other religious baek­grounds. 
"One of the goals of Campus Ministry," Perkins said, "is to offer outlets to all 
see RELIGION/page 4 


fACULTY SENATE 
Group recommends student advisors 
By JOSEPH MCMAHON News Writer 
The Faculty Senate recom­mended Wednesday adding student representatives with votes on the committees that review the dean of the School of Architecture and the dean of the Law School. 
The Senate made the sug­gestions to the Academic Council, which is currently in the middle of its review of the University's Academic Articles, something that occurs every 10 years. 
Both amendments passed with mild opposition from fac­ulty members. All the other colleges have student mem­bers on their dean review committees. 
"We need to have consistent principles across all of the col­leges," said Tom Noble, a rep­resentative from the history department. "We do not want to create disunity." 
But Julian Velasco, a mem­ber of the Law School faculty, strongly disagreed. 
"Adding students to the com-
see SENATE/page 6 

_j 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 4, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Insert naine here 
The art of the name drop is a trkky 
one, but from what I've seen so tar, 
Notre Dame students are more than 
capable of mastering it-with the hnlp 
of a quick crash course. 
Thern are, of 
coursn, certain sit­Matt Gamber 
uations in whkh a 
well-exncutfld 
namfl drop is Sports Wire 
appropriate. Editor 
When trying to 
gain entrance to 
an exdusive party, f()r example, you 
shouldn't be shy about telling people you 
know someone inside. 
But the way in which you do this L<; 
critical to the success of your name drop. 
The primary goal of any name drop­
pnr is much likn that of a poker player: 
don't gPl caught blulling. And ifyou do, 
jump ship <L<; quickly a<; possible. 
Varying hwels of name dropping exist, 
and the diflim~nces bntween them 
should bn duly not«~d. 
Bnginners eonsistently fall into the 
trap of the third-degrne name drop, 
whi<:h is about a<; subtle as wearing an 
"I know <;olden Tate" T-shirt. 
Perhaps a r«~al-world nxample of a 
third-degrm~ name drop I hoard during 
tlw Michigan StatP ganw will hnlp illus­
lratn. 
Whm1 Colden (did you catch thn name 
drop? lroeoived a kick -oll'in the lirst 
half. an ovnr-zna.lous fans in front of me 
exdainwd. "Golden! lin's my boy," not 
rnalizing that silting right bnhind him 
(note the morP subtle name drop, imply­
ing a connection with Golden without 
outwardly stating it) W<L<; Goldnn's room­
mate. 
Considoring wn had nnvnr snen this 
kid around, it's a prntty sali~ bPI. that 
(;olden wa<; not, a<; this name-drop­
ping newbie daimnd, his "boy." 
<:aught in tl1n ad. 
If you're r.onvinepd you can pull oil' a 
name drop of this ma!,'IIitude, do your­
self a litvor and avoid one of thn tell-tale 
signs of a third-dngrnn droppnr: unnee­
nssary Faeebook shout-oul<;. 
So obvious. 
Onee you progress pa<;t the blatant, third-degree name drop, you'll reach the tamer, morfl ellcctivc seeond degree. With less exaggeration of the truth and a more natural intngration into conversa­tion, this type of name drop ean be dis­guised to the novice name dropper but L<> still rnlatively ea<>y to spot lor a vetPran. 
Look lilr second-degree name drops to appmtr <L<; ea'iual responses to questions like "Who did you hang out with la<;t night?" Getting tricky, but still very detectable. 
The sign of one who ha<> ma<>tered hL<> craft is the ability to drop a name in the lirst degrm1. Uke the Cubs winning the World Series, it may take years to hap­pen -but when it happens, rest a<;surnd that it will be worth it. A true name dropp11r ean read the situation so well without tipping his hand (back to thn poker analogy) that any suspidon of name dropping L<> all but era<;ed. 
Don't get too coeky, though; one mis­step and you're right back at squarn one. 
So, my fellow a<;piring name droppers, rnmember one thing: it's not about what you know, nor is it really about who you know. It's about who you say you know -just don't get caught. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamberVPnd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editing error in the article titled "Irish prepare for Michigan" in the Oct. 3 edition, the men's soccer team's record was listed as 5-0. They were 4-0-I at the time. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU WERE IN A BEAUTY PAGEANT, WHAT WOULD YOUR TALENT BE? 









IN BRIEF 
The Feast of St. Frands Mass will be held today at 5:15 p.m. at Alumni Hall chapel. The Mass is sponsored by the Orestes Brownson Council. 
A conference on "Knowledge and Heligious Identity: Institutions of Iligher Learning in Judaism, Christianity, Islam and Beyond" will take plaee all day today at the Ilesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The men's and women's swim teams will take part in the Dennis Stark Helays at Holfs Aquatie Center at 5 p.m. Friday. Admission is free and open to the public. 
Filmmaker Leandro Firmino da Ilora will present a sereen­ing of the film "City of Men" at 10 p.m. at the DeBartolo 
Performing  Arts  Center.  
Tickets are $3.  
Army  HOTC  will  host  its  

annual Firm Fit Challenge Saturday from 10 a.m. to 6 
p.m. The triathlon will kiek ofT outside Lyons Hall. Proceeds will benefit the Wounded Warriors Project. 
The men's soccer team will play West Virginia Saturday at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The Black Cultural Arts Council is holding auditions for its annual talent show, Black Images 2007. The auditions are Monday, Oct. 8 and Tuesday, Oct. 9 from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the LaFortune Gold Hoom. All talents arc weleome to audition. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 87 HIGH 82 LOW 67 LOW 63 
Angela Schad  Chelsea Moore  Devin Preston  Heather Markel  Julianna Pinnaro  Katie Woodward  
freshman Walsh  sophomore Welsh Family  sophomore Alumni  freshman Walsh  sophomore Pangborn  sophomore Pangborn  
'7 canjudge dairy cows. "  "Free-style rapping.  "Building igloos."  "/can convert oxygen into  "Waterglasses. "  "Dane Cook."  

carbon dioxide. ,, 


Man goes fishing, gets stuck in mud 
DURHAM, N.C. -Add another victim to North Carolina's prolonged drought. Donald Meeks set out Monday morning with bow and arrow in hand to hunt for earp on Falls Lake. He almost didn't return. The retired landscaper from Durham went one foot out on the lake because the drought had left the water level so low. 
Using thermal-imaging equipment, the helicopter crew found Meeks at 2:11 
a.m. Tuesday, about 300 yards north of Interstate 85. 
He was surrounded by tall grass and "buried up to his chest in some mud, quick­sand-type matter," Andrews said. 
Deputies created a walk­way with plywood and used some "elbow grease" and finally freed Meeks about two hours later, Andrews said. 
Newsday missing Pulitzer medals 
NEW YORK -When three gold medals said to be Newsday's own Pulitzer Prizes were auctioned off, it was news to the newspaper. 
Newspaper officials thought the awards for public service in 1954, 1970 and 1974 were loeked away in a company safe. But they apparently 
r::t: 
U.l 
:::1: 
~ 
3: U.l 
...I <( 
CJ 
TODAY 
~'I'
.:;j}>\J ~•.~~z 
·.;;,;;.,..! :..,.;;;..­
·~\ ~~ 
"P··---~
'Wt' 
were sold at an auction Friday in California for $7,000, $4,500 and $4,000, respectively. 
The key to a lockbox within the safe where the medals were supposed to be had been lost, so ollidals ealled in a locksmith Tuesday to drill into the smaller box. Not only were the medals mi<;sing, but so wa<> a silicone mold used to make reproductions of the awards, the paper said. 
Newspaper officials are asking former executives for information about the medals. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

0 
HIGH 85 HIGH 79 HIGH 87 HIGH 88
...... 
LOW 63 LOW 54 LOW 70 LOW 70 
Atlanta 84/70 Boston 81 /62 Chicago 80 /57 Denver 82/50 Houston 92/68 Los Angeles 73/60 Minneapolis 78/ 54 New York 84 I 68 Philadelphia 84 I 62 Phoenix 96 I 77 Seattle 54 I 46 St. Louis 88 I 60 Tampa 89 I 76 Washington 87 I 65 
-----------------------------. 
Thursday, October 4, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Gelchion vvins Walsh Hall's Mr. ND contest 
STUDENT SENATE 


Student survey announced 
University Affairs Chair organizes student1aculty immigration debate 
Dame Forum on immigration One idea her committee pro­
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
next Monday, University posed was doing service on Assistant News Editor 
Affairs Chair Callie Pogge that day. 
planned a student-faculty Student body president Liz 
Student Senate's meeting debate on the topic to take Brown said she has begun to ran quickly Wednesday, place next Thursday in the plan her presentation to the adjourning after 20 minutes Dooley Room of LaFortune at Board of Trustees, which is of committee and officer 7 p.m. scheduled for Oct. 18. Brown reports. Pogge is also organizing said she is finalizing the text 
Academic Affairs chair next week's Energy Week. of her report, which will Carol Hendrickson updated Community Relations chair focus on community rela­the senators on her continu­Colin Feehan said his com­tions, at the request of Vice ing work to address the mittee has organized an off­President for Student Affairs jump in the price of course campus legal aid clinic, to be Father Mark Poorman, she packets, held Oct. 17 in said. w h i c h LaFortune Student body vice presi­occurred after "We have some from 7:30 to dent Maris Braun said she the Hammes 9:30 p.m. met with Vice President and
initiatiatives 

Bookstore Feehan said he Associate Provost Dennis
planned, so keep your
became the will hand out Jacobs to discuss joint sole vendor. eyes and ears opened posters for the University and student gov­
Hendrickson for that." event at next ernment objectives to make and her com­week's Senate students more aware of the mittee have meeting. University Honor Code.
Maris Braun 

designed a "We are also "We have some initiatives student survey student body continuing to planned, so keep your ears about the vice president work on the and eyes open for that," course pack­Taste of South Braun said. ets. They plan Bend," he said. Oversight Committee chair to distribute it after they That event, which will give Ian Secviar unveiled a receive final approval from students a chance to sample revised version of the Associate Vice President for foods from local restaurants, Student Body Constitution. Residence Life Bill Kirk. will take place later this The new document includes 
The Academic Affairs com­year. several amendments to the mittee is also looking into Multicultural Affairs chair constitution that have been the possibility of suggesting Ninny Wan said her commit­made over the past year. a business course for non­tee is brainstorming ways to business majors. commemorate Martin Luther Contact Kaitlynn Riely at 
As a follow-up to the Notre King, Jr. Day next semester. kriely@nd.edu 
By MEG MIRSHAK News Writer 
Walsh Hall crowned Matt Gelchion, a junior from Fisher Hall, as Mr. ND 2007. The dorms's signature male beauty 
pageant  parody  was  held  
Wednesday  night  in  the  
LaFortune Ballroom.  

The event was a fundraiser for the Catholic Worker House in South Bend, and each male resi­dence hall paid $100 to sponsor a contestant for the Mr. ND title. Women's residence halls con­tributed $50 to have one repre­sentative participate in judging the contest. 
In a series of dance, song and comedic performances, contest­ants from every male dorm, except Keough and Knott Halls, competed for a $100 first place prize. 
Mr. Stanford, Justin Schneider, was first runner-up in the contest and winner of a $50 prize. Molly McCarthy and Elizabeth Berger, Walsh residents and hosts for Mr. ND 2007, presented the winners with checks and flowers. 
The 12 contestants, dressed in jeans and white T-shirts, opened the night with a choreographed dance to Avril Lavigne's "Girlfriend." 
In the personality competition that followed, the contestants were asked to describe the outfit they had chosen to represent their personality. 
The outfits were judged on originality, creativity and overall impression. 
"Personality is probably the biggest thing I look for when judging," said Cristin O'Connor, a judge from Pasquerilla East. 
The second part of Mr. ND 2007 allowed each contestant to showcase a talent. After this round, the top five contestants participated in a singing bee com­petition. That was followed by a question and answer segment. 
After he was crowned Mr. ND, Gelchion, who participated in the competition last year, said: "It was great to do it for a great cause." 
· Schneider was pleased with his experience and plans on donating his $50 back to charity. 
Claire Northway, a junior from Walsh Hall, organized Mr. ND 2007. Northway said the money donated to Catholic Worker House will help residents, who are otherwise homeless, to "be motivated by something, be in community and get back on their feet." 
Northway expects the proceeds to exceed the $700 raised by the event last year. With 12 male dorms and the judges from the women dorms contributing, the total should surpass $1,000, she said. 
Contact Meg Mirshak at mmirshak@nd.edu 

The nevv stamjard in hedge fund adrninistratiorl 
T!'e fit<><iel SrJ!F~!.()f1C t·e::vrl i<.-;li· ··~··le fnr~',tfl"()tli· ')f <::.[·· ;<r';l. '"jO f)''C'coc.;<,' r.v· wit·~•in tt.l"• (' "')!'t·.:tl m··>rkPt~-t·;;drir•cr L<><>(1en::hir-nr--·<:t'ti0!.'" ;I.' l·r'U~' f"·tni
J ,.. -.Jt ~ ..-,. \. ... •A1. : .....:' " ...... i ~ .....) :..•d. U :V ••., 1 • d. \. . ·-~vAf, i b-~ 1 -~ .... v.._ ..;'-... ~ s'./)d ~n l I .!i;.,.. """"'Ut-,.OJ Q. ~ ~,.......)t t,..Af\l !t..> :~.... ~t ~ .... ~ .....,J rq.J ~... .,..Jv-!,,.. l~ I f i l ~ , J 
working groups and continuously driving improved vvorkfimv. This passicn for process is a cornerstone of' our culture and represents 
A 1 1th; lost::. f)artrterst'h behw•en ')I if P0'0PIP nn te···tmo!OP\f af'd 0''' r'liPnts Ac: a Yl:1'-'tlit QlJr t-pdwtr<lncn; j<:.: rn·rt;'lU"U';;I\J unri·::·t·ed to
I~ t.... ~....~ . 1, ..... t~ t .t~~e. \......A: ,,. --~ ~...1A .... l .. \ c;;J ~ l t~. L ......... ~ ~......,. .~... ~),..~ ... ~ " ~...... ~:~, .... \..•o.'t .,,. ,vi \.t~ \..J ....... .,...va,.... 
support best practices and we believe in perpetual!y strengthening our team with the best talent available to deliver the hh:rhest levels of service_ 
Opportunities for students include: Information Session 
T()D·.4V'
IV!

• Operations Analyst Prograrn AJ! Resume Drop 
Ti.l'Jt'S(Ly· . Oc•nher tf
• Finance & Accountmg Analyst Program !. "l' t.v~...r ,.., Deadline
..... J(l "-•· t 
• c··. ·mr"'~ 0 . In'·"'(" Oo"'r"'t;,.. ne Monday, October 8
..J:u i !,... r ~ lc 1 ~) } ,:.:.: (.:~ H.Jl J.;) 6:30 Pfv1 
• Surnrner ln'-ern Fin;;•rwe & Ar".'PI,ntino rI':J· r""4" Ll ,,Il R./~cJ "'"' 1 I' ~;
' ~ . ·"'· t..,. '! -~ -~~-~ .•.~ '·· ~ .'lowl-../-. I '· ·b ~ ( ~!~, ... ~ 1 c.}: l' u-:~~ -~ -!..t 
To learn more about Citadel Solutions, please visit www.citadelsolutions.com and www.citadelgroup.com. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 4, 2007 

Religion 
continued from page 1 
faiths on campus, not just Catholicism." 
As part of' its Prayer From Around the World series, Campus Ministry held an Eastflrn Orthodox Christian praynr service Wednesday night at the Coleman-Morse Cnn tnr. lnd by Father Mile Subotic. a priest at St. Peter and Paul Eastern Orthodox Church in South Bend and a graduate of Notre Dame. 
The purpose of' holding the service at Notre Dame is to provide "authentic prayer and worship from various faith traditions," said Campus Ministry intern Erika Meyer. About 45 students and faculty attended the prayer service. 
The prayer. ealled Akathist, eonsisted of 13 student-read hymns. Subotie conducted tlw responses. The prayer is traditionally said in dedica­tion to the Most Holy Mother of' (;od, who is venerated throughout the faith as being a holy bridge between humanity and the divine. 
Su botie held a question­and-answer session about the Eastern Orthodox faith after the prayer, revealing dif'­study and discussion about Scripture. 

Chu said he always desired a religious school over a sec­ular one and he liked the "recognition of religion as well as the understanding and respect for community" at Notre Dame. He attends service locally at Fellowship Baptist Church. 
The Ministry's secretary, junior Clarissa Negrete, said it was nice to find the group when he arrived as a fresh­man. 
"It was a good way _to stay grounded in my religion," she said. 
Negrete, who has partici­pated in Campus Ministry­sponsored events like Appalachia, said her faith experience at Notre D.ame has been one of learning. 
"I have had to learn from talking to other Catholics," she said. "I have definitely come to a better understand­ing of their and my own faith." 
Negrete said she hopes non-Catholic students who visit Campus Ministry experi­enee a "wonderful feeling of hospitality." 
Muslim students can come gather weekly for eelebration and a Koran reading, said Priscilla Wong, the advisor to the Muslim Student 
ferenees "One ofthe goals of Association bctwnen thn and the
Campus Ministry is to 
faith and the Assistant
ojj'er outlets to
Homan Director of Catholic different faiths on Campus 
faith. campus, not just Ministry. 
"Eastern Turnout this
Catholicism. " 
Orthodox year, as in prinsts can past years, marry," he Brett Perkins has been said, waving Campus Ministry steady, 
his lnl't hand attracting
director of student resources
with a wed­ding band. 
Campus Ministry offers non-Catholic students several ways to beeome familiar with Notre Dame and its Catholic tradition. 
In addition to getting a tour of the Basilica, Perkins said, non-Catholic students are also given a complete guide to the Catholic Mass, explain­ing the order of the Mass as well as the different respons­es. 
Campus Ministry also offers many opportunities for non­Catholic students to celebrate their own faith at the University, he said. These students are provided with a complete list of local places of worship in South Bend, 
To help those students who do not have means of trans­portation to attend off between :~o­

50 Muslim Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, she said. 
In addition to weekly gath­erings, "students also are able to gather and celebrate the beginning of Hamadan, with the traditional meal beginning with milk and dates," Campus Ministry Direetor Hichard Warner said. 
Such efforts, says Warner, are in accordance with the goal of "Prayer From Around the World." 
"The series started about four to five years ago," Wong said. "The goal is to have people experience prayer forms of different traditions." This year's events include the Eastern Orthodox Service, a Muslim prayer service, a Taize prayer, a Jewish 
eampus serv­prayer service,
"[S}o many students 
iens, Campus Zen meditation 
are unaware ofjust
Ministry pro­and, hopefully, vides a ride how much is Wong said, a list on its Web Native American
available to them. " 
site for stu­prayer service dents, giving next semester. 
Richard Warner 
the names of M e y e r faculty and Campus Ministry director expressed her 
staff willing to drive students to their respective plaees of worship, he said. 
Dif'f'nrent religious clubs registered through the Student Activities OITiee are also able to come together to eelnbrate their respective f'ai ths. 
Senior Everett Chu is the president of the Baptist Collegiate Ministry. 
"It's really more of a non­denominational Christian group," he said, noting that the club is open to all stu­dents, even Catholics. 
The group, he said, gathers every Tunsday night for Bible 

interest in fur­
thering appreci­ation of other religions through Campus Ministry. 
"Students have expressed interest in starting an inter­faith dialogue elub," she said. 
The group would meet reg­ularly to learn and share about different faiths. 
"There are so many oppor­tunities available at this institution for non-Catholics," Warner said. "But so many students are unaware of just how mueh is available to them." 
Contact Katie Peralta at kpcralta@nd.cdu 

degree requirement. If the internship is not for credit, it

ISSA 
qualifies for OPT. ISSA also helps students
continued from page 1 
obtain social security num­
U.S. remain relatively con­bers, if desired. stant, international students Sophomore Sahil Hajvansh, have to follow specific pre­an Fl visa holder from New cautions if they seek employ­Delhi, India, currently works ment opportunities either on on campus at Starbucks. or off campus. While his visa only permits 
"They have him to stay in to be enrolled the US until full time every 2011, he
"They have to be
term before appreciates they graduate, enrolled full time how ISSA stay within the monitors a
before they 
regulations set student's
graduate."

by Fl and J1 immigration laws, and limit status and can their hours to Hong Zhu come to their 20 hours a assistance
advisor at the ISO
week," if they want to work on campus, said Hong Zhu, an advisor for International Students at the Immigration Services Office (ISO). 
Students who wish to seek employment off campus or summer internships must undergo a training program called Optional Practical Training (OPT) sponsored by the ISSA. 
OPT guarantees students legal employment status for 12 months after graduation for each degree level in case they plan to stay and work in the U.S. 
"Most students wait until after they graduate to apply (for OPT]," Zhu said. "For students who want to contin­ue working even after that 12-month period terminates, they can seek sponsorship from their respective employer." 
Additionally, international students pursuing summer internships in the U.S. can qualify for Curricular Practical Training (CPT), which designates that the internship is part of a 
easily if their 
plan changes. 
''I'm allowed to renew my visa whenever I want, or receive sponsorship if I decide to continue my education or get a job," he said. "Having a social securi­ty number helps, too, 
because I just bought a car, but the only problem is that it requires a lot of docu­mentation." 
Hajvansh, like most inter­national stu­dents, plans to stay to work in the US after graduation in major cities dents are frequently updated and encouraged to pay attention to any changes in the laws that might put them at a disadvantage with their legal status if they do not act promptly. 

"It's not that cut and dry," she said. "What's complicat­ed about the laws is that there are lots of loopholes which the government changes at all times, and the ISO communicates these changes to help the students. 
"We provide a fairly exten­sive orientation s.ession for international students at the beginning of each year and we're also committed to helping them with additional things like drivers' licenses, off-campus work and social security numbers," she said. 
Still, ISSA is always on the lookout for students who may break the rule. The association has contingency plans ready to assist them in case this occurs. 
"The regulations (set by 
"What's complicated about the laws is that there are lots of loopholes which the government changes all the time. " 
Bethany Heet interim director of ISSA 
the govern­ment) are cre­ated to moni­tor immigra­tion as a whole for the entire coun­tr~," ... lleet said. If a stu­dent, say for example, works a month longer than they were author­
like New York or Chieago. But ultimately, he said, he wants to return to his homo country for further nmploy­ment. 
ISSA has no records of stu­dents in the past who have violated the immigration laws set by the U.S. or of students being deported. 
Interim Director of the ISSA Bethany lleet said stu­
ized to work, we'll take a deep look at the ease and take any legal action neces­sary to prnvent further prob­lems. 
"We encourage them to stay on top of' the rules so that they are never in that situation," he said. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.cdu 


The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Business and The Institutefor Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"What Really Matters: Service, Leadership, People and Values" 
John Pepper Retired Chairman and CEO Procter & Gamble 
Thursday, October 4, 2007 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 4, 2007 CoA-1PILED FROA-1 TilE 0BSERVIR'S WIRE SERV1CES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
3,000 miners trapped in South Africa 
JOIIANNESBUHG -About 3,000 miners were trapped underground Wednesday when a water pipe burst and probably caused a shaft to collapse in a South African gold mine. union officials said. 
An official with Harmony Gold's Elandsrand Mine near Johannesburg said company would be able to evacuate the trapped workers over the next 24 hours. 
Harmony's acting chief executive, Graham Briggs, said on MSNBC that officials have been in contact with the trapped workers and have been sending them food and water. 
lie said the company could evacuate the miners over the next day using a smaller cage in another shaft. but the process would be a slow one. 
"It's a ease of getting a large number of people up in cages," he told MSNBC. accord­ing to Dow Jones news service. 
Israel , Palestine move toward peace 
JEHUSALEM -After a series of informal talks. the Israeli and Palestinian leaders took a first small step Wednesday toward long elusive peace talks, asking aides to draft a joint statement on the principles that will guide negotiations. 
The declaration won't be as detailed as the Palestinians had hoped, but Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat said it is expected to address all the tough issues -borders, Jewish settlements, Jerusalem and Palestinian refugees. 
The statement. which the teams will begin working on next week, is to be the center­piece of a U.S.-hosted Mideast conference in November, which is intended to relaunch peace talks that collapsed in January 2001. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Landslide destroys home, highway 
SAN DIEGO -A landslide swept away a chunk of an upscale hilltop neighborhood Wednesday, destroying a home, damaging five others and opening up a 50-yard chasm in a four-lane road. 
Forty-six homes in the La Jolla neighborhood were evacuated but no one was hurt in the col­lapse, which occurred the morning after city officials warned residents of four homes not to sleep in them because the land might give way. 
The collapse shortly before 9 a.m. toppled power lines and left a 15-foot-deep ravine of crumpled pavement. Orange traflic cones and sections of big concrete pipes sat in the fissure slashing across the wide boulevard. 

Underground fire kills five workers 
GEOHGETOWN -When fire broke out deep underground at a hydroelectric plant in the Hockies, otlicials at the surface dropped a radio down to five trapped men in a tunnel and were mlievnd to learn they were OK. 
But by the time emergency crews reached them six hours later, they were dead. 
On Wednesday, a day after the tragedy more than 1,500 feet underground at Xeel Corp.'s Cabin Creek power plant. investigators struggled to figure out what went wrong. 
It was unclear whether the five maintenance workers were burned. sufl'ocated or overcome by fumes from the highly flammable epoxy sealant they wern using to coat the inside of the empty. 12-foot-wide water pipeline. 
LOCAL NEWS 

New food factory to create 1,000 jobs 
CAMBRIDGE CITY -A New York company that makes fresh organic meals for grocery stores will plant roots in eastern Indiana with a factory that could grow to employ 1,000 people. 
Hcally Cool Foods expects to fill between 150 and 200 jobs for the first phase of a factory it will start building this month at an industrial park. But it might quadruple its initial invest­ment of $25 million by expanding the factory based on demand, company CEO Bob Clamp said. 
"We anticipate in the next five to seven years we will invest $100 million. and that $100 mil­lion will create 1,000 new jobs," Oamp said. 
IRAQ 


Polish ambassador injured after attack 
Fire aimed at diplomatic convoy kills three, injures at least 10; al-Maliki blames Blackwater 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -A daring ambush of bombs and gun­fire left Poland's ambassador pinned down in a burning vehicle Wednesday before being pulled to safety and airlifted in a rescue mission by the embattled security firm Blackwater USA. At least three people were killed, including a Polish bodyguard. 
The attack -apparently well planned in one of Baghdad's most secure neighborhoods -raised questions about whether it sought to punish Poland for its contributions to the U.S.­led military force in Iraq. But Poland's prime minister. Jaroslaw Kaczynski, said his nation would not retreat "in the face of terrorists." 
The diplomatic convoy was hit by three bombs and then attackers opened fire in the Shiite-controlled Karradah district. Polish guards returned fire as the injured ambassador, Gen. Edward Pietrzyk, was pulled from his burning vehicle. At least 10 people, including four Polish security agents, were wounded. 

U.S. Embassy officials dis­patched Blackwater helicop­ters to evacuate the ambas­sador and others. Blackwater was not involved it is not fit to work in Iraq," times since the war began, he needs rest." in protecting the Polish con­he told a news conference. including the July 2005 kid­Two Iraqi passers-by also voy. It was not known if al­napping and murder of were killed in the 10 a.m. 
Pietrzyk, who was com­Maliki knew Blackwater res­Egypt's ambassador. blasts, according to an Iraqi mander of ground forces in cued the Polish envoy. It also Poland, a staunch U.S. ally, police official who spoke on Poland before taking the was not clear if the 190 vic­contributed combat troops to condition of anonymity ambassador post in April, tims represented a new fig­the 2003 U.S.-led invasion because he was not author­suffered minor burns over 20 ure arising from an Iraqi and has since led a multina­ized to release the informa­percent of his body, including investigation or a reference tional division south of tion. his head and right arm and to the 195 incidents involving Baghdad. About 900 Polish A Polish security guard, leg, said Polish Charge the U.S. security company troops remain in the country Bartosz Orzechowski, 29, d'Affaires Waldemar Figaj. outlined in a House report training Iraqi personnel; 21 died at the hospital, said 
"They were waiting for earlier this week. Poles have died during the Poland's Interior Minister us," Figaj told The Congress is looking into conflict. Wladyslaw Stasiak. The slain Associated Press as he gave Blackwater's role in a Sept. Last year, the Polish gov­guard had been employed by details of the attack. 16 shootout that left 11 ernment extended its mission the service since 2004. 
Shortly after the assault, Iraqis dead in a west in Iraq until the end of 2007, Hobert Szaniawski. a Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri Baghdad intersection and but has made no decision on spokesman for the Polish al-Maliki renewed his gov­other incidents by the next year. Foreign Ministry, said offi­ernment's offensive against Moyock, N.C.-based compa­Pietrzyk was treated at the cials "don't have the reasons Blackwater. ny, which protects U.S. diplo­U.S. military hospital in the for the attack," which 
"There have been 190 vic­mats and others in Iraq. fortified Green Zone and destroyed three armored tims of Blackwater ... The Diplomatic missions or for­later flown to Warsaw. vehicles just a few hundred kind of accusations leveled eign envoys in Iraq have "He is going to be fine," yards from the Polish against the company me~ns been attacked at least seven Figaj said. "He is stable. but Embassy. 


Bush says U.S. could negotiate -with Iran 
Associated Press vive." Bush told businessmen and that he wants to destroy Israel," 
women where he took questions Bush said. "My belief is that the 
LANCASTEH -President Bush after a talk on government spend­United States will defend our ally warned Wednesday of a nuclear­ing. Israel. This is a leader who has armed Iran but did not rule out that "If we left before the job was made very provocative statements. the United States would negotiate done, there would be chaos," Bush And, we have made it clear, howev­with its provocative leader if he said about withdrawing U.S. troops er, that in spite of that, we are will­gives up his suspected nuclear prematurely from Iraq. "Chaos ing to sit down with him, so long as weapons ambitions. would embolden not only the he suspends his program.'' 
Bush said it's important for the extremists and radicals that would "In other words. it's his choice, United States to stay engaged in like to do us harm, but it would it's not mine anymore. So I believe neighboring Iraq to convince the also embolden Iran. What you don't that's the best way to achieve an Iranians that the U.S. is committed want is to have a nuclear arms race objective," the president added. to democratic reform in the region. taking place in the Middle East." "If your question is, will you ever "There would be nothing worse for He denounced Iranian President sit down with them? We've proven world peace than if the Iranians Mahmoud Ahmadinejad for his we would with North Korea. And believed that the United States did remarks about destroying Israel. the answer is yeah, just so long as not have the will and commitment "In Iran, we're dealing with a we can achieve something, so long to help young democracies sur-country where the leader has said as we are able to get our objective.'' 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October, 4, 2007 

Council 
continued from page 1 
-will represent the student 
body, Mooney said. 
Patricia Fleming, vice pres­
idnnt and dean of faculty, 
who was appointed last 
spring, was named ehair of 
tho Council and is charged 
with forming the Couneil over 
the noxt few weeks. 
"Dr. Fleming's exp1~rienec 
as an administrator and fae­
ulty member makes her a 
good candidate for this posi­
tion." Mooney said. "She was 
chosen both on her experi­
once on theso issues and the 
fact that she is the second 
ranking officer at the 
College." 
The dutios of the Council 
are many, Mooney said. 
"Tho first charge is to mon­
itor the racial and ethnic 
diversification of students, 
faculty, staff and administra­
tors, receive annual reports 
from lluman Hesources and 
Admission regarding the 
College's efforts to create a 
more raeially and ethnically 
diverse student body and 
workforce," Mooney said in 
her announcement of the 
Couneil. 
The Couneil will also over­sen the ongoing odueation and development of the College's cultural diversity and reeeive assessment rnports on these efforts, she said. 
Other eharges of the Council are to reeommond policies and procedures on harassment, propose initia­tives to improve the campus elirnate and raeial and ethnic d ivnrsi fiealion of the College eommunity. 
While Mooney will only be mooting with the Council biannually, she is responsible for implementing policy changes. 
"My job is to form the Couneil and give it general direction," she said. "I expect the Couneil to set its own goals once it gets underway. It is their job to prioritize their work." 
But the Couneil will be allowed -and expeetod. Mooney said -to be the cat­alyst behind those changes. 
"Their reeommendations are what will be the basis for the changes we make," Mooney said. 
lnernasing College diversity among students and faculty was one of the main pillars of Mooney's inaugural platform in 2005. 
The platform focused on increasing diversity to raise academic standards and be eompotitive with nationally known schools, adapting to the more diversified demo­graphies of the United States and developing a new hiring poliey to have a more diverse staff. 
"This will be a body with ongoing goals for the ColiPge," Mooney said. "Goals that will ultimately help us aehievo the levels [of diversi­ty I we set .!'or ourselves a few years ago. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Please'§ 

recycl~. 


best interest in mind in choosing competent and


Senate 
effective leadership,'' O'Brien 
said. "As graduate students, 
we most certainly have the mittee will seriously limit the maturity to handle it." ability of faculty members to Some faculty members took speak candidly," he said. a different taet. "Whereas we could come "There is serious dysfune­right out before and simply tion in the administration of eall someone a 'jerk,' now we the law school," said Judy 
continued from page 1 
might  have  to  Fox,  a  Law  
say something  School profes­ 
not  nearly  as  "Adding students to  sor said, "We  
strong, such as, 'lie's not so nice."'  the committee will seriously limit the  certainly wel­come any out­side opinion."  
The  Law  ability offaculty  After  some  
School faculty voted against adding a stu­ members to speak candidly. ''  debate, the Senate voted 27-4 in favor  
dent represen­ of an  amend­ 
tative 26-5.  Julian Velasco  ment to allow  
C  o n  n  o r  Law Professor  the provost of  

O'Brien, a third-year law student and president of Notre Dame's Student Bar Association, per­suaded the Senate to add a student representative. The Law School resolution passed 16-10. 
"Students have their own 

Backer 
continued from page 1 
indicate the stolen items were purses, wallets and items within purses. 
Trent said the break-ins have been through a smashed-in window. In most eases, Trent said, visible items of value, like a purse or a piece of luggage, attracted the thief. 
"If you are going to park your car in a parking lot at night, or overnight, make sure you put your valuables in the trunk,'' Trent said. 
Saint Mary's senior Jeney 
Anderson found her car 
broken into early on May 
12 in a parking lot next to 
the Linebacker. 
Anderson said she arrived at the bar between 
10:30 and 11:00 p.m. and returned outside to the parking lot at approximate­ly 2:30a.m. 
"We all walked back over to our cars, and I was get­ting in my ear when one of my friends said 'Jeney, is your car window always like that?"' said Anderson, who was the designated driver that night. 
The small window on the rear passenger's side had been "eompletely shat­tered" and the doors were unlocked, Anderson said. 
ller friend's purse, which had been lying on the back seat, was gone. Anderson's purse, whieh she had hid­den under the front passen­ger seat, was also missing. 
Neither of the purses taken from Anderson's car have been found. Anderson's purse contained money, debit cards, gift cards and a rosary her roommate gave her from Home. 
ller friend's purse con­tained a digital camera and credit cards. Anderson said someone attempted to use her friend's stolen eredit eards. but not any of her debit cards. 
Most of the lareenies at the Linebacker seem to happen on the weekends when the parking lot is full, Trent said. With two excep­tions, all of the larcenies reported in 2007 oeeurred the Law School to appoint two faeulty mem­
bers to the review committee -one from the Law School, and one from the University's general faculty. 
John Stamper, the only Senate representative from the Sehool of Architecture, 
was opposed to the addition body fat pereentage, choles­of a student member to the terol and blood pressure. 
Architecture  Among  con- 
review  com­ cerns expressed  
mittee but c o n c e d e d  "We are trying to  by faculty mem­bers were the  
ground on the  facilitate cooperation  fears that their  
issue.  in order to help make  privacy  would  
"We would not want to be the only  the Senate a more effective body. "  be eompromised and their family members would  
school without  not receive cov­ 
a student rep­resentative,"  Colin Jessup Faculty Senate Chair  erage. Murphy assured faculty  

he said. 
The amend­ment passed by a vote of 17-3, with Stamper one of the three nays. 
In other Senate news: 
The Senate also examined a few minor changes to the University faculty and staff health program. 
Denise Murphy, director of compensation and benefits for the department of human resources, outlined a few minor changes to the eurrent health plan, including a new online program where faculty members can analyze their 

on a Thursday, Friday, of interest" that they are Saturday or Sunday. South investigating. Bend Police have "stepped "We've got suspects that 
up  patrols"  routinely,  we  
around parking Trent said.  the lot,  "Somebody's there looking into cars. And  catch, we put them in jail, and they go  
Police  have  when they see a  right back to  
made no arrests, but Trent said it  purse exposed, they break into the car."  doing those larcenies," he said.  
was reasonable  The  police  
to  believe  it  Capt. Phil Trent  have not con­ 
was the same person or peo­ple committing  South Bend Police Department spokesman  tacted the owners of the Backer about  
the  erimes,  the larcenies  

especially during the laree­in the parking lot, Trent nies of Sept. 22-24. said. 
He said police have "people "We wouldn't contact the 
members that 
these things 

would not hap­pen with the changes. 
Overall, the Senate attempt­ed to address issues of com­munication between the Senate, faculty members, stu­dents and the administration. 
"One of our goals is to improve overall communica­tion,'' said Colin .Jessup, chair of the Senate. "We arc trying to facilitate cooperation in order to help make the Senate a more effective body." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
ownflr because someone had a loss in the parking lot," he said. 
The owner of the Linebacker did not reply to requests for comment. 
Trent said the number of larcenies to cars in the park­ing lot near the Linebacker is not unusual. 
"Over the last couple of weeks, it's a pretty large influx of calls there, but 19 -that averages to about 1.5 larcenies per month," he said. "That's not totally out of range." 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Rejoice! Mass 


October 7, 9:00p.m. 
Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother Coleman Morse Center 
All are welcome! Pizza to follow! 
CM 
C!unpt.!s Mtni:stry 

For infonnation, contact Judy Madden 631-8508 or jmadden2@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS

Thursday, October 4, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  13,968.05  -79.26  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,882  114  1,352  3,101,904,912  
AMEX  2,383'~40  

NASDAQ 2,729.43 -17.68 NYSE 10,101.03 -74.&JJ S&P 500 1,539.59 -7.04 NIKKEI (Tokyo) FTSE 100 'London~ 6i500.40 -5.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -0.20  -0.31  153.78  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -0.69  -0.36  51.65  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.57  -0.57  25.81  
MICRON TECHNOLOGY (MU)  -8.91  -1.05  10.74  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.31 +0.028 4.543 13-WEEK BILL -0.26 -0.055 3.840 30-YEAR BOND +0.19 +0.020 4.787 5-YEAR NOTE +0.21 +0.033 4.224 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.19 80.05 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -17.80 736.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.55 86.88 
Exchange Rates YEN 116.6800 EURO 0.7091 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9986 BRffiSH POUND 0.4921 
IN BRIEF Democrats call for mortgage solution 
WASHINGTON -Congress' top Democrats demanded quick action on the subprime mort­gage crisis, saying President Bush has been slow to address a situation that could cost mil­lions of people their homes. 
"This is a national crisis. Too bad it's taken so long to realize that we have a crisis," Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada said at a joint news conference with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California. 
Pelosi, Heid and other Democrats want the president to appoint a special adviser to coor­dinate the federal response to the subprime mortgage crisis. 
"The subprime crisis demands action, and we're working to protect families who have lost their home or are in danger of foreclo­sure," Pelosi said. 
For two years, President Bush has sought legislation revamping the Federal Housing Administration but has not gotten anything, said Housing and Urban Development Secretary Alphonso Jackson. "To place even one family at risk is irresponsible, and Congress should stop playing politics with homeowners' financial security," Jackson said. 

Lawsuit filed over frozen hamburgers 
NEWAHK -As government scientists searched for the source of a multistate E. coli outbreak linked to frozen hamburgers, a class-action law­suit W<L'i tiled Wednesday against the producer of the patties and supermarket<; that sold them. 
The lawsuit seeks unspecified monetary com­pensation for anyone who bought or was sickened by hamburgers made by Topps Meat Co. of Elizabeth and sold by Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Pathmark Stores Inc., ShopRite and Rastelli Fine Foods. 
Topps last week recalled the 21.7 million pounds of frozen hamburgers it made over the past year, the second-largest beef recall in U.S. history. 
The company, which has said it believes much of the meat has already been eaten, declined to comment on the class-action lawsuit, which was filed in U.S. District Court in Buffalo, N.Y. 
Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Ark., declined to comment on the lawsuit, spokeswoman Sharon Weber said. 
Wall Street unsure rebound warranted 
Investors eager to see Friday's employment report that may gauge consumer spending 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street extended its pull­back Wednesday as investors, retrenching from an optimistic stance early in the week, waited to see how well corporate earnings and the job market have held up in an uneven economy. 
The market showed lit­tle conviction for a sec­ond day as economic readings offered few sur­prises and as investors looked for signs -possi­bly from the September employment report due Friday -of whether the market's rebound from its summer lows has been warranted. 
The decline Wednesday preceded earnings reports from the recently completed third quarter and Friday's jobs number, which can signal whether consumer spending will continue apace. Wall Street had little reaction to a report that the nation's service sector, whose industries account for 80 percent of U.S. economic activity, showed a decline last month. 
Homebuilder stocks rose amid a sense among some analysts that the AP 
housing market might Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange before the closing bell after a have hit bottom. 
rally on Monday. Since then, the market has fallen. 
Meanwhile, semiconduc­tor shares mostly lost on Monday after spending nomic readings. The yield themselves into the econ­ground on concerns 2 1/2 months below that on the benchmark 10-omy. about pricing pressures. level amid concerns year Treasury note, The Institute for Supply 
"There are a lot of about soured mortgages, which moves opposite its Management reported cross currents," said tighter access to credit price, rose to 4.54 per­that the service sector George Shipp, chief and the housing market cent from 4.53 percent expanded at a slower investment officer at slump. late Tuesday. pace in September than investment adviser Scott Broader stock indica­Wall Street appears to in August. The trade & Stringfellow in tors also fell. The be taking many economic group's non-manufactur­Richmond, Va. "The gen­Standard & Poor's 500 readings in stride, per­ing index fell to 54.8 from eral pattern is that the index fell 7 .04, or 0.46 haps expecting some 55.8 in August as expect­
U.S. economy is slowing." percent, to 1,539.59, and slowdown before the ed; the index is now at its 
The Dow Jones indus­the Nasdaq composite Federal Reserve's rate lowest point since March. trial average fell 79.26, index fell 17.68, or 0.64 cut is reflected in eco­A reading above 50 indi­or 0.56 percent, to percent, to 2,729.43. nomic data. Often, such cates economic expan­13,968.05. The Dow Bond prices slipped cuts can take more than sion, while a figure below moved back above 14,000 Wednesday after the eco-a year to fully work 50 signals contraction. 


Wal-Mart workers' lawsuit pays off 
Associated Press supplements, so too the monetary lost by those workers. 
equivalents of 'paid break' time A smaller number-about 125,000 
PHILADELPHIA-Wal-Mart workers cashiers and other employees were -qualified for the damage award in Pennsylvania who previously won a prohibited from taking are protected Wednesday. The others were excluded $78.5 million class-action award for fringe benefits and wage supplements," by legal time limits and are seeking working off the clock will share an Philadelphia Common Pleas Judge interest on the back wages. additional $62.3 million in damages, a Mark Bernstein wrote. "The law in its majesty applies equal­judge ruled Wednesday. Similar suits charging that Wal-Mart ly to highly paid executives and mini­
About 125,000 people will receive violated state wage laws are in play mum wage clerks," Bernstein wrote. $500 each in damages under a state across the country. Plaintiffs' lawyer Michael Donovan law invoked when a company, without A California trial ended with a $172 credited Bernstein for recognizing in cause, withholds pay for more than 30 million verdict that Wal-Mart is appeal­Wednesday's ruling "that ordinary days. ing while the Bentonville, Ark.-based workers are entitled to the same pro­A Philadelphia jury last year award­company settled a Colorado suit for $50 tection under the law as executives." ed the workers the exact amount they million. His clients have not yet received any had sought, rejecting Wal-Mart's claim A trial opened last week in Minnesota money and likely won't for some time if that some people chose to work while suits are pending in New Jersey the company appeals. The payments through breaks or that a few minutes and several other states. for lost wages are expected to range of extra work here and there was The Pennsylvania class-action suit from about $50 to a few thousand dol­insignificant. involves 187,000 current and former lars, depending on employment history. 
"Just as highly paid executives' employees who worked at Wal-Mart A Wal-Mart spokeswoman said the 
promised equity interests or put and Sam's Clubs from March 1998 company discourages employees from options or percentage of sale proceeds through May 2006. The initial $78.5 working off the clock and disciplines are protected fringe benefits and wage million award represented the wages managers who permit it. 


page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre DJm<, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EIJITOR IN CHIEI' Maddit· Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINFSS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
ASSl: MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
A~s·1: MANAGING EI>ITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIt:WP<HNT EI>ITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris KltOR"'}' 
Chris Hinc 
ScENE EI>ITOR: Tae Andrt'WS 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PIIOTO EDITOR: Dusrin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EI>ITOR: Madeline Nics 
AI>VERTIMNG MANAGEil: Jessica Cortel 
AI> DF.~IGN MANAGI;R: Kt•lly Cronli 
CONTROI.I.ER: "J"im Soboltwski 
SYSTEMS AI>MINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) (>31-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsrne@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4.324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 vitwpoim.l @nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sports.I@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.J @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is rhe independent, daily ntwspapt•r publisht•d in print and online by the students of the University of Nmrt• I)amc du Lie and Saint Mary's College. Edirori<tl content, including adverriserncnrs, is not gownwd by policit-s of the administration ofeitht·r institution. The Observer rescrvt·s rht• right to rdust• adwrrisernenrs based on content. The news is reponed as accurately and objcnively as possible. Unsigned editorials reprcsmt rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid: Managing Editor, Assist.trtt Managing Ediwrs and dq1artment editors. Comnwnrarics, lencrs and columns prescnr the views of the authors and nor nea·ssarily rhos<' ofThc Observer. Vit·wpoinr spat-e is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract inli>rrnation. 
Qrmtimu 17/(ttrding Observer polici~ shouU be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Iianna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
11u: Ub..crvrr (USPS ~9'9 2--4UOU) i1 l'uhhJhC'I'l Mund~ty rhmngh J<rido~.y ~·cpt Junng cx01m md v-.u-atiun lk"fiods A A~l...cnpriunto 111l' ()hloC'~t ia $100 fur unr a~tlrn1i1· 
V<:"illr: -~'S'S futmM:.._mCIIfn 
The Obliei'VI:r i. puhlilihcd n: POSTMASTER 014 Smuh llming H.ll Scud Jddrc~t.S corn:c;:rinn.s w· 
Nutrr D;mu~.IN 46'1';;6--0n? ThcOh'iC'rvet 
l~rtu(iu.:al pc,_t~c p;ud at Notf'C D:t.mt P.O.Bnx771J .utd .&ddiliun.&l m.ailing offica.. 024 Sourh llinm~ HJH 
None O.amc. IN 4:6'i')ft.Q779 
lbt Ohw:rw:r is a mcm~ ,,. chc As.locwc:d Pc01. All rcpuwlucrion nghn lltt' tt*:rw:J. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 4, 2007 
The only insurmountable boundary 
In this past Sunday's Gospel, Jesus challenges us with the story of a rich man who lived sumptuously, all the while ignoring Lazarus, a destitute man who sufl'ered just outside the rich man's 
front door. When  
both men die,  Father Lou  
angels lift the  DeiFra  
poor man oil' to  
the bosom of  FaithPoint  
Abraham, while  
the rich man  

descends into a pit of flames. When the rich man begs for Lazarus to come down and save him, Jesus delivers one of the harshest lines in all of his para­bles to the tormented rich man: "Between us and you, a great chasm is established to prevent anyone from crossing who might wish to go from our side to yours." 
What can Jesus possibly mean? Jesus was not a man who was often held back by chasms, boundaries or taboos. He, for example, regularly trespassed a firmly entrenched boundary between those who were healthy and those who were infected by the highly eontagious disease of leprosy. A similar trench sep­arated Jews and Samaritans-and women and men. Yet, in the fourth chapter of John, we find Jesus, a Jewish man, approach, sit down next to, and converse with a Samaritan adulteress. Neither her gender, race, sexual history, nor the fact that the two of them were alone seems to have deterred him from calling her to holiness. Just for good measure, he ends by commissioning her, reputation and all, to go into the town and tell everyone about him. 
What, then, to make of this absolute "chasm" that Jesus depicts separating the rich man from the poor man? If Jesus spent his life as the Gospels say he did -crossing boundaries to save those who seemed beyond saving­why place the rich and selfish beyond all hope? 
Maybe because they're so rich. So rieh that they don't need anything. At least, they don't think so. Perhaps the main dill'erence between the leper, the Samaritan woman at the well, and the rich man is that the rich man alone is unaware of his poverty-that is to say, his need, no matter how rich he is, for the love of God. and for a life of serving others. 
Though Jesus is uneoncerned with the social taboo of trespassing borders, he makes eJp,ar that there is an impone­t.rable boundary between those who reeognize in Jesus the God whom they need for their salvation. and those­including the Pharisees, rich people. and the self-righteous-who prefer to try to "save" themselves by their own expertise, wealth, or virtue. These peo­ple fail to recognize that all humanity is born into a poverty that only God ean overcome. The boundary that Jesus cannot eross, as it turns out, is not drawn by Jesus himself, but by those who understand themselves as self-suf­ficient. And, because of his ultimate love for our freedom, Jesus refuses to use his divinity and power to impose himself upon those who don't see the need for him. 
The Gospel of John makes explicit that Jesus came to save, not condemn, 
the world. There is no evidence that 
Jesus enjoyed telling the rich man of 
the uncrossable chasm. But Jesus 
seems to me not so much to be judging 
the man -"You go over thore and I 
will build a wall between you and me as 
a punishment for what you've done"­
as he is describing, in brutally honest 
terms, what the man has done to him­
self: "By declaring yourself self-sulli­
cient, you have left no one any means of 
reac~hing you." 
It is not ignoring the harsh facts of Jesus' words to say that thern is much (;ood NPws in this parable, set as it is betwPen the Prodigal Son and the cleansing of the 10 lepers. Throughout tlw Gospels, Jesus' actions make dear that if there is a way to cross a bound­ary to reach us, Jesus will lind it, no matter how great the cost, no matter how great the sin, no matter how unde­serving we might believe ourselves to be. It is only when we rnfuse to rneog­nize our poverty-our absolute need for God, regardless of our wealth, our intelligence, our girts (or our weakrwss­es, limits or sinfulness) -that we truly isolatn ourselves from God's love. The gospel of the rich man and Lazarus makes clear that Jesus dews not stop at any chasm. except a freely made refusal to recognize our need for him. 
Father Lou DelFra is the director of Bible Studies in the Office ofCampus Ministry. He can be reached at del­fra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Jenn Metz  Cassie Belek  
JosephMcMahon  Viewpoint  
John Tierney  Jordan Gamble  
Graphics  
Matt Hudson  
Sports  
Fran Tolan  
Ellyn Michalak  
Alex Conklin  

OBSERVER POLL 
How many Heisman Trophies will Golden Tate win? 1, 2, 3 or 4? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ifonly we'd stop trying to be happjj we could have a pretty good time. 
Edith Wharton American novelist 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 4, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Colutnn's take on eating disorders sparks controversy 
Tone belittles anorexia, abortion 
Eating disorders are often described things. The observation that cultural as "hell on earth"-and thus the sen­standards of beauty are increasingly sationalism of the title of Greg androgynous and portray women dis­Yatarola's Viewpoint column, "Anorexia jointed from their fertility is not Mr. and the devil" (Oct. 2), was lost on me. Yatarola's alone -theologians, psychol­
Mr. Yatarola's flippancy, disconcerting ogists, physicians and Catholic women in and of itself, reveals a detachment who have experienced eating disorders and coldness that warrants attention. have been exploring this connection for He may indeed no longer feel the years. twinge of novelty when partial-birth Ultimately, I wholeheartedly and uni­abortion is associated with the "Culture versally oppose trivializing others' deep of Death," but he, curiously, interprets and pervasive pain into an airy "irony" this desensitization as carte blanche to that ("woo-boo!") entreats us to conjure showcase his witticism: "But I thought up images of women's bodies and partial-birth abortion was too easy a Victoria's Secret ads. Externalized target. You could even say it's a no­wounds and profoundly felt inadequa­brainer." John Paul II identified pride as cies, both hallmarks of eating disorders, the most sterile and hurtful of all the are trivialized in service of Mr. vices, and indeed, the root of the Yatarola's pursuit of pleasure-intel­Culture of Death. Pride manifested as lectual, semantic and visual. unwarranted familiarity or frivolity The connection between eating disor­alienates those with a vested interest in ders and our standard of beauty does the issue, and in the case of this article, not culminate in discussion of such intensifies the distortion Mr. Yatarola observed "irony." To fixate on that professes to explore. aspect belittles both the issue at hand 
Mr. Yatarola clearly cannot empathize and the Culture of Death, which is with those who have witnessed or expe­indeed something much darker and rienced an abortion or an eating disor­more threatening than an unattractive der. His chirpy description of eating dis­tattoo. orders as "more pleasant than infanti­Contemporary beauty standards are cide" is, at best, an oblivious slap in the not solely to blame -they are but a face to all women who have been trau­reflection of a collective cultural aspira­matized by either abortion or an eating tion, unstated or not. When we tap into disorder, and at worst, reveals a self-inflicted pain of such magnitude, detached and coldly superficial calculus we can be sure that we are dealing with of suffering. the infinitely unfathomable, unclassifi­
The theological implications of eating able, transcendent and sacred yearn­disorders are widely discussed, even ings of a human soul ... and that, I ask, here on campus. The Edith Stein con­not be taken lightly. ference, held each February, explores just this: the place of eating disorders in Carolyn Murphy the web of the Culture of Death, in rela­Class of 2007 tionship to sexual violence, pornogra­South Bend phy, abortion and divorce, among other Oct. 2 
Author ignores deeper causes 
I begin this letter in response to apparent external manifestations, Greg Yatarola's "Anorexia and the while passively dismissing the more devil" (Oct. 2) by stating that I important, more difficult to identify, agree with the premise that the and deeper internal elements of media attacks the sanctity and this emotional and spiritual issue. wholeness of women through the These women who suffer with eat­objectification of women. The ing disorders must be understood author's means by which he first and primarily as women; per­attempts to critique this practice sons composed of mind, body, and (namely that women who suffer soul that each deserve love and from eating disorders are less respect. Focusing a critique on eat­attractive than those women who ing disorders and culture by stating are healthy) demonstrates his that men find women without eat­shortsightedness and narrow ing disorders more sexually attrac­understanding of the complex issue tive and thus implying the illogical of eating disorders. nature of women having an eating 
Women, I agree, possess a potent disorder perpetuates the misunder­tool in their relationships with men standing and misses the crux of the that can be used for good or ill, problem. We, as a society, must cel­namely their bodies. Further, I ebrate and advocate for the whole­agree with Mr. Yatarola's under­ness of women, not just focus on a standing that women can and do comparison of sex appeal between improperly employ their body in those women with eating disorders attempt to influence the men and those who do not suffer from around them. While the author eating disorders. understands that beauty may be Finally, I ask Mr. Yatarola to be used for the underlying purpose of more careful in his writing assess­controlling men, eating disorders ments of such critical and con­should also be seen as deeper than tentious issues such as abortion external pettiness about appear­and eating disorders. If you believe ance. Eating disorders are not sim­abortion to be "infanticide," do not ply the product of women vainly make a tasteless pun about sucking suffering "as a result of trying to the brains out of aborted infants. look the way they think society tells Further, if you believe that society them they should look." Instead, is wrong to objectify women as it the understanding of eating disor­does, do not objectify women your­ders needs to be reframed in a self by calling women who dress holistic manner: Women who strug­suggestively at the gym, the store gle with eating disorders are striv­or Mass a "silver lining." ing to find fulfillment for, peace in, and control over deep internal Philip Lashutka sources of emotional and spiritual law student unrest. The easiest path for outside off campus observers is to focus on the readily Oct. 2 

Disgusted 

It is not very often that I read something in the Viewpoint that has any major effect on me. However, when I read Greg Yatarola's column {"Anorexia and the devil," Oct. 2) I thought I might vomit. Probably surprisingly to Mr. Yatarola, it wasn't because I felt a sudden compulsion to lose a few more pounds so that our trag­ically flawed society would accept me, or even because the main point of his column was so elusive that I got a bit dizzy after the fourth or so paragraph. No, despite being told by an apparently female­respecting writer that I "dress like an Amazon" simply to elicit male attentions or that the reason he doesn't find me attrac­tive is that my physique doesn't "correlate positively with fertility" (what?), the thing that really got me was his nonchalant ref­erence to partial-birth abortions in the opening paragraph. 
You know what's ironic to me, Greg? The fact that you claim to be concerned with the "health problems, physical and psycho­logical" that stem from high beauty stan­dards, and yet, you can still make a joke about sucking the brains from a human being that is only inches away from inde­pendent life. It wasn't witty; it was sicken­ing. I'll let the more "clever folks" follow up on the rest of your column, ifindeed they can tell what you were trying to say. But don't expect me to be gaining a little weight in all the right places to attract your atten­tions any time soon. I don't want them. 
Kelly Horner 
JUll!Of 
offcampus Oct.2 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page I 0 
Thursday, October 4, 2007 

By TAE ANDREWS 
Sct·ne Editor 

''Tiw biggPr thn bands, the greater the dnmands," said Aaron Perri. thn gnrwral managnr of Lngnnds. 
As thn man behind the musie, Perri books bands and arranges the logistks of concerts at thn on-campus restaurant and dub. 
A South Bend native, Perri learned about tlw restaurant business from his grandfatlwr's rnstaurant. Pat's Pub. lie also ownnd and opnratml an audio/video production company throughout high school and eollnge and then ran it for two mom ynars full-time aftnr graduation. No stranger to tlw stage himself. l'nrri graduat­should get so and so,' or 'XYZ band is awesome ... eheek them out."' 
Perri finds himself inundated with an average of 25-30 press kits per month from various artists, in addition to avail­ability lists from promoters. I le also con­ducts market research and finds pobmtial new acl<; the old-fashioned way. 
"More often than not, I like to lind out about bands by simply reading maga­zines, watching TV, listening to the radio or going to shows,'' he said. "If you're good enough to play here, chances are you don't have to tell us, we already know." 
Paring down the list of potential acts becomes a bit a more ditlieult. 
"I have to ascertain which acts will go 
over well here on 
campus," Perri said. 


then contact them," Perri said. "Sometimes the hard part is getting some of these guys on the phone. The beauty of it is, I've formed relationships with many of these agents over the past few years. They rest assured that when they book a band to come play at Legends they will be treated professionally and will be given first-class accommodations on stage." 
Believe it or not, the crowd also factors into determining which talent comes to play at Legends. 
"The fan base here at Notre Dame also plays a role in our ability to recruit well known acts," Perri said. "If agents consis­tently hear reports of capacity crowds, they'll want to bring their artist here. Conversely, if they hear reports of apa­thetic crowds, they'll think twice about sending their next band through." 
Once Perri targets a specific band. the real work begins. First, he has to get managers to agree on a performance date. Then an issue known as "routing" comes into play. 
"If [agents] send an artist out to work, they don't want to send them to L.A. and then to Chicago and then to Phoenix. They'll take them from Minneapolis to Madison to Chicago to Notre Dame to Cleveland to Philadelphia and Blue October, Umphrey's McGee, Motion City Soundtrack, Demetri Martin, Ben Kweller and OK GO, among many others, it's fair to say that Perri and Legends have had a good deal of success in attracting name-brand talent. That success has only bred more success, Perri said. 
"As our eredibility increases, we're get­ting more and more agencies who will bring bands to us, instead of me going to them first. They want their bands to play Legends," he said. "We're being perceived as a must-play venue and that is really making my job much easier. 
"Another benefit that is coming with increased credibility is the fad that we're no longer really classified as 'college venue' in most agencies' eyes -we've been distinguished as a 'dub.' This may sound like semantics. but the difl'erence is night and day. College shows are often perceived as second-rate shows in sec­<md-rate venues -we're not in that boat.'' 
Despite the success Legends has had, Perri continues to look forward and refus­es to let himsnll' or Lngends rest on il<; lau­rels. 
''I'd like to think that Legends hasn't seen its best concert yet. We've had some 
amazing shows, but 
as we enhance the 

ed from the University ''Admittedly, Notre Dame is "That ean be a diffi­in 2002 with a Film, cult task. Admittedly,
not well known ..for being on
Television and Theatre Notre Dame is not
the cutting edge o..f up-and­
dngrne. well known for being "About four years coming music, although I on the cutting edge of ago, I saw a unique up-and-coming music, 
believe Legends is helping 
opportunity in Legends although I believe
to change that." 
and made a difficult Legends is helping to decision to wind down change that. There my business," Perri Aaron Perri are a ton of great said in an e-mail bands out there that
Legends general manager
Tuesday. "Lngends pro­vided a chance to return to my alma mater and to combine my prnvious experiences in management, the restaurant industry and the entertain­ment industry." 
After his four undergraduate years here, Perri is used to doing his home­work. 
"Finding out about bands is pretty easy," he said. "Many times students will stop me or drop an e-mail and say, 'You go over very well in 
other markets or at other schools, but unfortunately just don't have a good draw here. It seems as though the No. 1 factor in assuring a pop­ular show here is name recognition." 
While Perri also works to offer enter­tainment from all genres, the ultimate decision on who plays at Legends hinges on availability and afl'ordability. 
"I'll find out which agent from what ageney represent<; a particular artist and then to New York," ''As our credibility increases, l'aeility and solidify he said. our place in the

we're getting more and more
Perri counts national music indus­Legends lucky agencies who will bring bands try our shows will 
because it lies to us, instead o..fme going to only gnt bnttor, both 
between a few in terms of concert
them .first. " 
major cities, experience and on­although he stage talent,'' Pnrri acknowledges that Aaron Perri said. its location ean be a Legends general manager Perri says he has 
double-edged sword. 
"I can hopefully convinee the agents that their band should stop here ... and hopefully we're even available to have a show when they're routing through," he said. "At the same time, falling right between major cities also ensures we ean easily get skipped in the routing process." 
When Perri finally manages to arrange for prospective talent, price negotiation comes into play. 
"Agents are trying to make the most possible money for their artist and I'm trying to get them in here for a price that we can afl'ord," he said. 
With past shows including performanc­es by Dierks Bentley, Plain White T's, .lim Galligan, Flogging Molly, Scott Weiland, Stroke 9, Tim Heynolds, Gavin DeGraw, 
fun with his job, although the work never ends. 
"We have to lind placns for tour buses. we haVf~ to load in morn nquipment. we have to eater to bigger egos, we have to provide morn runnnrs and more hospitali­ty, we have to prnpare for bigger crowds, the staff has to work longer hours," he said. "The list goes on. 
"It's worth every ounce of extra ell'ort, though. Seeing this intimatn venue packed with enthusiastic fans who am here to watch an ineredibln live show featuring the very best performers from a<Toss the country -it's worth it. 
"Sometimes," he said. "I evnn gnt to enjoy the show." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Thursday, October 4, 2007 
page 11 

"Wall of Sound" behind the Boss to give By TIM GALLO the songs a forceful feel. On "Hadio Scene Writer Nowhere," the band builds up to a 
crescendo when Clarence Clemmons 

Bruce Springsteen has been a very comes in on the Saxophone and takes busy man. Two years ago, he released over. "Devils and Dust," a solo acoustic These sax solos are some of the high­album. lie then came back last year to lights of the album, as Clemmons is release a folk record, "We Shall able to fill the room with his instru­Overcome," which covered the songs of ment and bring the E Street Band's Pete Seeger. Both compilations were music to a dramatic conclusion. great, but the Boss did not seem at Clemmons is not the only member of home. Luckily, Springsteen has come the E Street Band to stand out on back again this year for "Magic." "Magic." Hoy Bitan plays a glowing, Surrounding himself elegant piano on ''I'll with the E Street Band. Work for Your Love." the Boss finally sounds Surrounding himself Max Weinberg (of "Late like he is back. Night with Conan
with the E Street 

"Magic" kicks off with O'Brien" fame) pounds
Band, the Boss finally 

"Hadio Nowhere." The on his drum set, giving opening guitar riff is sounds like he is back. the music a strong, hard and distorted -steady beat. And new-and it sounds eerily like comer Soozie Tyrell the opening of Tommy Tutone's "867-sounds as if she has found a niche in 5309/Jenny." Soon after the whole the E Street Band, gracefully playing band kicks in and the song lifts off. The her violin to give the albuii! a more song .symbolizes the new direction dramatic feel. depth as the songs are heard more and lin backing from Tyrell. However, they Springsteen takes with "Magic." It is a Springsteen turns out another strong more. Springsteen stands out on "Livin' feel out of place on this otherwise heavier, straightforward, rock 'n' roll effort on this record. He will never in the Future," where his excitement jovial record. record. impress anyone with his voice, which makes the listener feel the same young "Magic" is another strong effort from 
Yet. despite this new edge, the album may be one of the worst in the history love Bruce sings about. a man who is approaching his sixties. still has the distinct Bruce Springsteen of rock music. It does, however, work It is not surprising that Springsteen Springsteen's lyrics show that he still sound. The E Street Band creates a with his lyrics and the E Street Band's gets political at has a lot more to 

Magic 

Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band Released by: Sony Recommended Tracks: Livin' in the Future, Girls in Their Summer Clothes 

music. He growls and times in this say, and the E 
screams with the same record, and it is in It is not surprising that Street Band has exuberance and anxiety these attempts Springsteen gets political at taken the vibrant, 
he displayed on earlier where "Magic" uplifting sound it
times in this record, and it is in 
classics "The Wild, the loses its momen­created on "The 
Innocent, and the E tum. Bruce these attempts where "Magic" Rising" and has Street Shuffle" and removes the E loses its momentum. molded it to per­"Born to Run." Lyrically, Street Band from fection. It makes Bruce is less accessible the exuberance it one wonder why to new listeners; his displayed in the album's first eight Springsteen does not collaborate with words are more like songs, choosing instead to slow the the E Street Band on all of his records, stories and less like band down. The political slow jams, for it is clear that magic occurs when songs. But while they like "Last to Die" and "Devil's Arcade" the two join forces. sound awkward at first, are fine on their own, beautifully writ­they reach greater ten by Springsteen with wonderful vio-Contact Tim Gallo at tgallo@nd.edu 
Seinfeld guest stars on premiere of Emmy-winning '30 Rock' 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
"30 Hoek," the best least-watched comedy on television, premieres its sec­ond season tonight at 8:30 on NBC. The series avoided cancellation last season through a combination of eritieal acclaim and former NBC president Kevin Heilly's good faith and now it has an Emmy for Outstanding Comedy Series to add to its comedy clout. 
Tonight's f1pisode follows the east and erew or "TGS" as everyone returns from hiatus. I lead writer Liz Lemon (Tina Fey) spent the summer getting over ex­boyfriend Floyd, best friend Jenna (Jane Krakowski) starred in a musical version of "Mystic Pizza" on Broadway, and Tracy Jordan (Tracy Morgan) separated from his wife after he was photographed doing a good aet gone wrong. 
Tonight also marks the return of Jerry Seinf'nld to NBC and prime time. After boss Jaek Donaghy (Alec Baldwin) unveils his plan for SeinfeldVision, which will insert a digitalized Seinf'nld in every NBC show from "Medium" to "Law & Order: SVU," Seinfeld shows up in per­son to protest the exploitation of his image. Playing himself, he negotiates with Jack (Jack's favorite activity} and counsels Liz as she quickly self-destructs after realizing she is not over Floyd. 
By guest starring in tonight's episode, the sitcom giant has deemed "30 Rock" worthy. After all, from his own series' struggles, Seinfeld understands better than anyone the struggles to find an audience and appease network execu­tives. 
Seinfeld's blessing may not save the show in the long run, but it should at least pique interest in "30 Roek," espe­cially among dedicated fans of "Seinfeld." 
"30 Rock" has been given the NBC timeslot traditionally reserved for strug­gling shows. The series will hope to retain the audience of "My Name is Earl" while catching the eye of fans of "The Office" who tune in to the network early. If "30 Rock" can bridge the gap and keep the audience between "Earl" and "The Office," then it has a chance of sur­viving for a third season. 
"The Oflice" and "Scrubs" survived in the 8:30 time slot, but failure is more common than success, as shows like and sueh lovable and endearing charac­ters, failure to attract an audience is an exasperating mystery. Kenneth the Page should be incentive enough. But for now, "30 Rock" is banking on Seinfeld's appeal as it starts its second season as strong as ever. 


Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
"Inside Schwartz," "Leap of Faith" and "Cursed" all perished relatively quickly. But "30 Rock" has an Emmy, and those other attempts at sitcoms don't. In a per­feet world, an Emmy would be enough to save a series, but one mention of "Arrested Development" and it is dear that our world is far from perfect. 
For a series with high-caliber comedy 
..--------------------------------------------------­
-

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 4, 2007 
MLB PLAYOFFS 

Rockies defeat Phillies in Game 1 of NLDS 
Josh Beckett pitches Red Sox to shutout victory over Angels; Cubs fall to Diamondbacks in playoff opener 
tlw Phils this season. "Today, my
A..sociated Press 
execution was better." 
l'liii.ADI·:LPIIIA-Bandbox or Came 2 is Thursday afternoon 
not. this was no day for hitters. with rookies Kyle Kflndrick and 
.Jnlr Frands lwld the league's Franklin Morales taking the highnst-swring team in r.her.k. mound. and the Colorado Hor.kies took advantage of one shaky inning Red Sox 4, Angels 0 by Cole llanwls to beat the .Josh Beckett is Mr. Zero when l'hiladPiphia l'hillies 4-2 in Oetobtw rolls around. Came I of their NL playoff The MVP of the 2003 World series Wn<hwsday. Serins pitched his ser.ond con­
"Who would've thought a good secutive postseason shutout old-fashiorwd National League and. barked by a horne run from ganw would brPak out in this David Ortiz. led the Boston Hed ballpark?" Hoekies manager Sox over the Los Angeles Clint llurdle said. Angels. Wednesday night in 
Making just the second post­their playofl' opener. season appearance in their 15-Beckett retired 19 consecutive year history, tlw Hor.kies played battnrs after a leadoff single, like October n~gulars. Colorado allowed just four hits and ran postml its second playolr victory. his postsnason scoreless streak the other coming in 1995, and to 1 H innings. The last time he won for tlw 15th time in 16 pitched on such a stage, he games. blanked the New York Yankees 
Matt llolliday. his chin still cut to elinch the '03 Series for up from the far.e-lirst slide that Florida. won Monday's wild-eard The previous pitcher with con­tiebreaker over San Diego, hit a secutive postseason shutouts solo home run. was current teammate Curt 
"Any time you expflr.t a Schilling, who accomplished the slugfest, you get a pitr.hing feat with the Phillies in 1993 duel." llolliday said. and Arizona in 2001. Christy 
Franr.is pitched six effective Mathewson is the only pitcher innings and stayed out of big with four postseason shutouts; trouble, mostly by shutting Beckett tied Whitey Ford and down the l'hillies' top hitters. Mordecai Brown with three. 
Chase Utley, Hyan !toward and "I was ahead of a lot of guys," Jimmy Hollins combined to go 0-Beckntt said. "They've got a lot for-11 with eight strikeouts. of guys, those guys that foul a Utley, a .:n2 hitter, struck out lot of pitches off and I just didn't four times for the second time in want to get wrapped up in try­his earner. ing to strike a lot of guys out, 
"Sonw of the hitters may have because those are the at-bats been uptight. but Francis was that end up killing your pitch way better than the other times eount and you're out after 5 1-3 I've seen him," Phillies manager because you've got 120 pitches." Charlie Manuel said. Ortiz. who eliminated the 
Francis' lone problems came Angels with a 1Oth-inning, in the firth whtm Aaron Howand series-ending homer in the first and Pat BurrPII hit eonsecutive round of the 2004 playoffs, honwrs. homered oil' John Lackey. Kevin 
The left-hander gave up four Youkilis set the tone with a hits and struck out eight. Once homer in the first inning against the 17-game winner departed, tlw Angels ace. three relievers pitched three hit­The victory was Boston's sev­less innings, with Manny Corpas enth straight in the postseason closing lilr a save. over the California-Anaheim-Los 

With the two highest-scoring Angeles Angels, having come teams in the league playing in back from a 3-1 deficit to win in two of the most hitter-friendly the 19H6 AL playoffs and then the young Arizona Webb, the reigning NL Cy GarnP. 2 is Thursday night, ballparks in the majors, this sweeping them in the 2004 best­Diamondbacks got home runs Young Award winner, allowed with Ted Lilly on the mound for sPrins llgured to sec plenty of of-live first round. from two of their kids in a victo­four hits and struck out nine Chicago against Doug Davis. runs. Tho only 20-game winner in ry Wednesday night in their NL over seven outstanding innings Zambrano gave up four hits, 
Instead. the clubs combined the majors this year, Beckett playoff opener. in his postseason debut. lie strur.k out eight and walked one for six runs and 10 hits in the struck out eight and walked Stephen Drew homP.rP.d in the walked three and hit a batter. before he was lifted by manager optmer. Many hittP.rs expected none. lie has three shutouts in fourth off Chicago ace Carlos "The most exciting game so Lou Piniella in a questionable tlw late-afternoon shadows to six postsP.ason starts and two in Zambrano, pulled after six far," Webb said. "I was able to move. be a problem, and they eertainly 166 n~gular-season starts. innings and only 85 pitches. keep them off-balance. I had "Be probably could have gone struggled. "That guy was very irnpres­Right after he left, Mark pretty good stuff tonight, great another inning. We're bringing 
Francis used a mix of niT­sivn. lie's been like that all Heynolds homered on the fourth off-speed. !lad some great him back Sunday on three days' spend pitdws to keep a potnnt year," Ortiz said. pitch from reliever Carlos strikeouts, key situations." rest," Piniella said. "I took a lineup ofT-balance and improve Marmo) to break a 1-all tie in The Cubs, in search of their shot with my bullpen. It didn't to 9-0 in day games this season. Diamondbacks 3, Cubs 1 the seventh. Pinch-hitter Conor first World Series championship work today. They've done it all 
''I'm always awaw of my sue­Brandon Webb won the duel Jackson added a sacrifice fly, in 99 years, twice got the leadoff year." cess or nonsuccess I have in the desert. and the Diamondbacks got two batter to second with no outs Not this time. Planning for against teams," said Francis, Wnbb shut down the Chicago scoreless innings from their early in the game but came Game 4 might have cost the who had a 15.12 ERA against Cubs with his superb sinker, and strong bullpen. away empty. Cubs in Game 1. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Moving on with my life WANTED-If you or someone Moving in with yours. ND FOOTBALL TIX. you care about has been WANTED Lake St. FoR RENT TICKETS PLEASE HELP! sexually assaulted, visit 
George is your new home With an 57 4-251-1570 http://osa.nd.edu/departments/ape. STUDENT WORK $12.75 base-almost view of the dome Sleep in LODGING FOR FOOTBALL Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659. shtml appt. Flexible schedules, one of three suites GAMES Visit www.amishcoun-Football tickets. Post-surgery facul­no experience needed, customer Taste the city water. trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and ty member cannot use tickets. Two Casper: Why didn't you tell usthat 

PERSONAL 

sales/service. conditions apply, all It is sweet New. Breakfast Accommodations. Non-(2) available for all remaining home you were on the level and so not ages 18+, 574-273-3835, smoking, Private Baths, Full games. Phone 574-232-0743. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?Do the devil, you sly dog? www.workforstudents.com New Breakfasts.HOUSES FOR RENT not go it alone. If you or someone 
Everything You can have it for some FOR 2008-09: 3-9 BEDROOM FOR SALE: you love needs confidential support Hey Ladies: Jaytar just got a new bling HOMES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. ND FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME or assistance, please call Sr. Sue haircut. You know what that means. FoR SALE Call Biii574-532-1896.Cozy 3 bed-GAMES. 574-232-0964.www.victo-Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more He's open for business. 
Not too bad for $345 thousand room house, walk to campus, wash-rytickets.com information, visit our website at: Call me for a list of properties near Call Jan Lazzara er/dryer, landlord does the yard-http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-Don't use dorm toilet paper? Want ND. on her band work. $750/month. No pets. No sec-ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad to talk about it? E-mail Ken Fowler 574-217-1557 Tatiana 574-233-6141. lion 8. 574-250-1266. 57 4-288-2726. in THE OBSERVER. at kfowler1 @nd.edu 




OUND THE NATION 

Thursday, October 4, 2007 
NSCAA Men's Soccer adidas National Rankings 
team record preuious 
1 Wake Forest 7-0-0 1 
2 UConn 9-1-0 5 
3 NOTRE DAME 6·1-2 2 
4 Duke 7-2-0 1 
5 Virginia 6+2 4 
6 Santa Clara 5+2 6 
7 Northwestern 7·1-1 3 
8 Harvard 7+1 11 
g Virginia Tech 6-1-2 12 
10 Creighton 4-1-2 13 
11 SMU 4-2-2 9 
12 USF 7-1-1 16 
13 West Virginia 6-3-0 8 
14 Saint louis 4·1-2 15 
15 Brown 6·0-1 14 
16 Michigan 8·1-1 10 
17 Indiana 5-3-1 19 
18 UCSB 4-2-2 20 
19 BC 6-1-1 21 
20 Tulsa 5-2-1 23 
21 Cal 5-2-1 22 
22 Furman 8-1-0 25 
23 Villanova 8-2-0 NR 
24 Michigan State 6-0·2 NR 
25 New Mexico 5-3-0 NR 
NSCAA Women's Soccer adidas National Rankings 
team record preuious 
1 Stanford 9-1-0 4 
2 UCLA 5-1-2 8 
3 Texas 8-1-1 6 
4 Virginia 74-2 5 
5 Santa Clara 7c1•1 1 
6 Tennessee H-1 10 
7 TexasA&M 7-2·1 3 
8 Purdue 10-1-1 11 
9 BC 7-0·2 9 
10 Portland 6-3-8 2 
11 Penn State 7-2·1 13 
12 North Carolina 7-3-0 7 
13 usc 8-1·1 18 
14 Missouri 8-2-0 20 
15 Clemson 8-H 17 
16 UConn 7-2·0 21 
17 Florida State 6-3-1 14 
18 Cal 8-2-0 25 
19 BYU 8-0-2 23 
20 South Carolina 8-3-0 12 
21 Georgia 9-1-0 NR 
22 Oklahoma State 7-2-1 16 
23 West Virginia 5-3-0 22 
24 Marquette 9-1-1 19 
25 Wake Forest 6-3-2 NR 
MIAA Volleyball Standings 
team league ouerall 
Calvin 8-0 13-3 Adrian 8-2 11-8 Hope 6·2 11-5 Tri-State 5·3 7-10 SAINT MARY'S 4·5 7-10 Kalamazoo 3·6 6·10 Albion 2-6 5-11 Olivet 1-7 2·15 Alma 1-7 2·15 

around the dial 
MLB 
Rockies at Phillies 3 p.m., TBS 
Yankees at Indians 6:30p.m., TBS 
Cubs at Diamondbacks 10 p.m., TBS 

CoMPILED FROrvt THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
NFL 
Associated Press 
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. -The Atlanta Falcons will try to convince an arbitra­tor the team deserves a refund on up to $22 million in bonus money paid to quarterback Michael Vick. 
The Falcons will be rep­resented Thursday by team president and general manager Hich McKay and three more team officials in the private hearing in Philadelphia. 
"I don't expect it will go beyond a day," said University of Pennsylvania law professor Stephen B. Burbank, the special mas­ter who confirmed he will serve as arbitrator of the hearing at the law school. 

Attorneys representing the NFL Players Association will argue against the Falcons' claim. 
An expert in sports con­tracts said the Falcons face long odds in their effort to have bonus money returned to the team. 
The Falcons are expect­ed to contend that Vick knew he was in violation of the contract when he signed the $130 million deal in December of 2004, and that he used proceeds from the deal to fund his dogfighting operation. 
"I think clearly it's a reach on the part of the Falcons," said Jerry Reisman, a contract and business attorney based in Garden City, N.Y. "I think Vick earned that money. He received the roster bonus given out if you are on a roster at any point. He was on the roster in 2004 and earned the money." 
Reisman said he has fol­lowed the case closely because it is an unusual demand by the Falcons. 
"The Falcons are claim­ing that if they had known of Vick's criminal activity on the date he signed his contract in 2004 they wouldn't have signed the contract and therefore there was fraud." Reisman said. 
1\cisman said under the NFL's collective bargaining agreement, bonus money earned cannot be 
page 13 
returned. 
Reisman said the Falcons are asking for the refund from Vick but haven't in turn offered refunds to their customers. 
"I don't know the Falcons have given back season tickets they sold," he said. 
McKay was not availabh• for comment Wednesday. Team spokesman 1\eggiP Hoberts said McKay is standing by his earlier statements that he would make no comment during the process. 
On Aug. 27, Vick admit­ted helping to kill six to eight dogs and bankrolling the dogfighting operation that was based in Virginia and extended into other states. 
IN BRIEF 
Franchitti makes move to 
NASCAR 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -With an Indianapolis 500 victory and the series championship, Dario Franchitti believed the time was right to walk away from open-wheel racing. 
He'd flirted briefly with NASCAR last year, but a deal to move into stock cars fell apart when Juan Pablo Montoya snagged his ride. So when Chip Ganassi called again with a new opportunity, Franchitti could take it knowing he had nothing left to accomplish in the lndyCar Series. 
"We had conversations last year, and one of the options going into the '07 season was NASCAR," Franchitti said in a Wednesday telephone inter­view. "Then with Juan coming along, it didn't work out. And looking back, I am really happy it didn't work out. To win the Indianapolis 500 this year, and then the open-wheel title in my last race, it was a great way to sign 0ff. " 

Jocketty out after 13 years 
as Cards' GM 
Sf LOUIS -Walt Jocketty is out after 13 seasons as general manager of the St. Louis Cardinals, one year after the team won the World Series for the first time since 1982. 
Team president Mark Lamping said Jocketty's departure with a year remain­ing on his eontract wa<> a mutual decision, and that he'd be paid. Team CEO Bill DeWitt Jr. said Jocketty and the Cardinals had "cordially and respectfully parted ways." 
"We were in agreement our arrange­ment had likely run it's course," DeWitt said. 
It's unclear how Jocketty's departure affects the status of manager Tony La Hussa, whose contract expired after the season. Jocketty hired La Russa in 1996. 
DeWitt spoke with La Russa on Wednesday, reaffirming the franchise's eommitment to building a eompetitor after injuries and ill-advised moves led to a 78­win team that eollapsed in the final month. 
Durant to fill shooting guard 
spot for Sonics 
SEATTLE Kevin Durant grabbed outlet passes. He stepped out and fed post players who were running down the middle of the floor. 
When he did go inside, he soared to the baseline for a rebound over Wally Szczerbiak, the veteran small forward who at 6-foot-7 is two inch­es shorter but far more bulky than the teenager with the body of a greyhound. 
"Way to go, KD!" an assistant coach yelled, proving Durant had an NBA nickname even before his first practice with the Seattle SuperSonics on Tuesday. 
The one time he was in the middle during a fast-break drill that ended the 90-minute session, Durant rose above the rim with both hands clutching the ball. Yet instead of dunking, he simply and smoothly dropped the ball through the hoop. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 4, 2007 
NFL 

Bills rookie will make second straight start 
Edwards, who led Buffalo to first victory of the season, will face Dallas as Losman recovers from knee injury 
Associated l'ress 
OHCHAIW PAHK -Bills rookh~ Trent Edwards will make his second straight start wlwn Buffalo hosts Dallas on Monday night after J.P. l.osrnan missed praetice Wednesday. 
Coach l>i('k Jauron ruled l.osman out. saying the quar­terback is recovering steadily from a sprained left knee but it's not dear when he'll be able to resunw practieing with the tnam. 
Losman has been out since he was hurt during the first series of a :~S-7 loss at Nnw England on Snpt. 23. 
Edwards was inconsistent standing in for Los man against the Patriots, but 
"lie's a very likeable 
shined leading the Bills to guy. a guy you want to their first vie­
have everything go well
lory in his first 
for him." 
eareor start, a 17-14 win ovor tho New York Dick Jauron Jets last WIWk­

Bills coach 
ond. 
The third­round drart pick out of Stanford wont 22-of-2S for 234 yards passing with a touch­down and interception, !wiping the Bills prodtH:n a season­high in yards passing yards (:Hl4). rirst downs (I Y) and points. Hdwards' 7S.57 com­plotion JH~rcentage was the eighth best in tPam history and his perforrmwee raised specu­lation that ho will retain tiH~ No. I job onco Losman is healthy. 
Jauron continued to sidestep questions about whether l.osman would get his job back. 
"The response to that ques­tion has always been the same for me, and it has been for a numbor of years: Any position on our t_na.~ is up for ~ra?.s. It always IS, Jauron sa1d. The best guy will be the guy that plays. Otlwr than that, Uwrn's not a whole lot to say about that position right now because J.P. isn't abln to prac­tiee." 
The Bills enter their bye wnnk aftor playing Dallas, and thon host Baltimore on Oct. 21. 
Edwards is attempting to kenp an even keel in preparing for a prime-limn game. 

"It's dofinitely been a fun expEHionce so far. I never thought it would happen this quickly for me. But that's the way tho pieces fall some­times," ho said. "I am going to just try and keep doing my job. I know I still have a lot to learn." 
HuiTalo remains a banged-up team as it prepared to host its first Monday night game sinee Sept. 26, I 994. 
Backup safety Jim Leonhard (calf") and reserve linebacker Kevin Harrison (knee) were ruled out after both were hurt last weekend. Heserve corner­back Ashton Youboty's status is uncertain after he missed praclicn with an ankle injury also sustained against the Jets. 
That further dnpletes a defense that already has three starters on the season-ending injured reserve list. And that doosn't inelude reserve defen­sive end Hyan Denney (broken fool) and reserve linebacker Coy Wire (sprained knee). both or whom aren't expected back until aner the bye. 
Starting linebacker Keith Ellison practiced Wednesday for the first time since hurting 
his knee in Buffalo's pre­season finale, but it's not elear whether he 'II be ready to play Monday. 
The Bills could get back one player on Sunday: reserve defen­sive end Anthony Hargrove, 
who finished serving the NFL's four-game suspension for vio­lating tho league's substanen abuse policy. 
The Bills have not yet decid­ed to activate Hargrove, although he has returned to praeticn. The Bills have until Monday afternoon to make a dneision whether to activate or release llargrove. 
Jauron said he's pleased that Hargrove stayed in condition while he was suspended, but added the player is not yet in game shape. 
"We're pulling for him," Jauron said. "He's a very lik­able guy, a guy you want to have everything to go well for him. We're in his corner." 
Hargrove said he'll be play­ing after he practiced with the Bills first special teams unit. 
"Look for me. If we're kick­ing off l"irst, I'll be out there getting this thing bumping and jumping," Hargrove said. "Monday night, prime-time TV: That's. nothi~.g but setting the stage lor me. 
And he was thankful the Bills stuek by him during his sus­pension. 
"This is a gift. Not everybody gels to play this game," he said. "They gave me a second chance. They believe in me. And I don't want to let them down." 
llargrove still faces potential trouble from a confrontation he had with police outside a Hoehester nightelub during training camp in August. Hargrove has pleaded not guilty to three misdemeanors and is next seheduled in court on Oet. 11. 


A bit ofIreland in your own backyard. 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbigscreen TVsto watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterfurd Estates Lodge has hotel moms at re~sonable rates fur upcoming NDroatball weekends.) 

prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an excltlng1·yr Job In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 2, 2007. 
Thursday, October 4, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Bonds steroids probe continues five years later 
Jury is still trying to determine if slugger lied under oath; former mistress claims he admitted steroid use 
speculate that the decision on 

Associated Press 
whether to indict Bonds could 

SAN FHANCISCO -Barry be stalled by the management Bonds has closed two big chap­mess at Department of Justice ters in his baseball career. He's headquarters in Washington. the newly minted home run Most of the department's top ues to serve as interim U.S. attorney. 
king,  and  his  managers,  
break with the  including former  
Giants is com­pletn.  "The government  Attorney General Alberto Gonzales,  
Yet the federal steroids probe in which he  investigation is the one that counts.,,  have left in recent months in the wake of a  
plays a starring  political tempest  
role lingers on into its fifth year.  Kimberly Bell Bonds' former mistress  created by the firings of eight federal prosecu­ 

"All that has undoubtedly cre­ated some communications problems that may have slowed down a final decision," said Bonds' attorney, Michael Hains. "We find ourselves in a holding pattern." 
Schools declined to comment Wednesday on the status of the Bonds investigation, which fol­lowed Bonds' 2003 testimony in the BALCO investigation. 
According to grand jury tran­scripts obtained by the San Francisco Chronicle, Bonds said he thought two substances given to him by trainer Greg Anderson were flaxseed oil and an arthritic balm. Authorities suspect those items were actu­ally "the clear" and "the cream," two performance­enhancing drugs linked to the Bay Area Laboratory Co­Operative. 
Two grand juries have spent the past three years trying to determine whether Bonds was lying under oath. And Anderson has spent a total of about a year in federal prison as authorities try to compel him to testify against Bonds, a childhood friend. 
Anderson will remain locked up until he talks, the grand jury's term expires or the judge who sent him to prison decides to set him free. 
"Greg is going to spend his third Christmas in prison," said Anderson's attorney, Paula Canny. 
Anderson previously served three months in prison during the winter of 2005 after plead­ing guilty to illegally selling steroids. Canny said her client will never talk, and she's not optimistic that the judge will turn him loose anytime soon. 
Another vital prosecution wit­ness is Kimberly Bell, Bonds' former mistress. She told the BALCO grand jury in 2003 that Bonds told her he took steroids and that the slugger and Anderson would disappear into a locked bedroom on occasional mornings during spring training in 1999. 
"On top of that, I saw all the effects," Bell said. 


Bonds' former personal trainer is still languishing in prison for refusing to testify before a grand jury considering perjury and other charges against the slugger. And the panel hasn't even met in two months, even though prosecutors extended its term in July by at least three months and as many as six months. His lawyer and others 
tors, including San Francisco 
U.S. attorney and chief Bonds prosecutor Kevin Ryan. 
San Francisco lawyer Joseph Russoniello, who long ago cleared an FBI background check, is expected to replace Hyan, but President Bush has delayed making an announce­ment. In the meantime, career prosecutor Scott Schools contin-He hanged himself last week in Phoenix, where he was under house arrest after agreeing last month to plead guilty in a plot to extort more than $1 million from Tom Cruise for the actor's stolen wedding photos. 

"I think it is something that can be used to impeach her credibility," Rains said of Bell's Playboy deal. "It is probably just one more piece of impeach­ing information for someone who has already filled three banker's boxes in my office with impeaching information." 
Rains said Bell is miffed that Bonds didn't pay her the nearly $200,000 she demanded when their 10-year relationship ended in 2003. Bell said she was asking Bonds to keep a promise to buy her house in Arizona, but Rains said the demand amounted to extortion. 
He said he's confident Bell's credibility is damaged enough to make her a tough witness to believe. 
"They have tried to turn over every possible stone to prove a perjury case against Barry," Rains said. 'They don't have it. The government needs to move on to stalk someone else." 
The 37-year-old Bell said it was obvious Bonds was doing steroids -his head grew big­ger, he developed acne and his testicles shrank. 
"There was a dramatic shift in his personality," Bell said. She declined to say if she has been called before the grand jury conducting the perjury probe. 
Bell did say she's declined to help Major League Baseball's steroids investigator, former Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell. 
"I haven't seen the purpose in it," said Bell, who said she feared a further erosion of her privacy if she cooperated. "The government investigation is the one that counts." 
But Rains said Bell's value as a witness might diminish some­what when the latest issue of Playboy hits the stands Friday. 
Bell appears nude, wears panties emblazoned with Bonds' No. 25 and recounts her 2003 grand jury testimony in an accompanying article. 
Bell declined to say how much she was paid for the Playboy deal, which was brokered by her agent, David Hans Schmidt. 


FROM &OLDEN OOM£TO &OLDEN DACHL 
The Central European Studies Program in Innsbruck, Austria 
• 
Immersion in German language and culture 

• 
Academic year and semester options 


• 
An opportunity for exposure to Central European Issues 

• 
A great location from which to access Eastern and Western Europe 


INFORMATION SESSION 

with Dr. Gernot 0. Guertler, Director of the Central European Studies Program, and CESP returnees on 
Thursday, October 4th and Tuesday, October 30th 5:30PM -120 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline is November 15,2007 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 4, 2007 


~-.· ·, creations in a comfortable, casual setting. 
'i 
.· ...._...-'....
···Jr 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish coach sends 


captain to Tulsa 
Parbhu NO's sole rep in prestigious tourney 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Irish sPnior captain Slwnva l'arbhu ldt for Tulsa. Okla., 
Tuesday  night  for  the  
Intercollegiate  Tennis  
Championships.  whnre  

l'arhhu will bn the only Notre Damn reprosnntative in the tournanwnt. 
"I am looking to continue to play at a high level." Parbhu said. "I want to kePp tho good season going. and get morn nxperinnn~ against somn of the host players in the coun­try." 
While l'arbhu is in Tulsa, tho rnst of tho Irish will con­tinue to work on th~1ir garnns after thn singles lineup went 2(1-14 in thP Tom Fallon Invitatio nal. 
"We have a lot of talented players," Irish head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Brett lllelgnson I and Parbhu are eo-number onns and I can't JWg eitlwr onn as the bnttnr of' the two. Tlwy have very diiTernnt games and cornplo­nwnt naeh otlwr well." 
llnlgnson goPs after oppo­rwnts with a strong ground game and lots of firopownr from both sidPs of his body. lin also has a big serve but tends to shy away from play­ing at tho net. 
l'arhhu. on tlw otlwr hand, ol'tnn eornns to the not because he is not as big as llelgeson. Parbhu also doesn't have tho sanw pownr on his ground slrokns as llnlgnson. 
I>w1 to NCAA rnslrietions on how many matehns an athleto can play in. Parbhu did not participate in last weekend's Tom Fallon, the team's home­opening tournamPnt. 
"The athlntns aro only allowed to play in 25 match­es, and he would have had to miss some duel matehos boeausn of' this rule and that 
Recycle 
The 


Observer. 
lw is going to Oklahoma this weekend," Bayliss said. "It gavn us a chanen to see som1~ of the younger players. We also got to s1w llnlgeson play and lw came up big." 
Because of an injury, Andrew Holh also did not play in last weekend's tourna­nw n t. 
"Hoth sprained his ankle in Chicago and has not played sinee," Bayliss said. "lie did pradiee for an hour with the team on Monday. We're hop­ing to get him ready for rngionals. The main goal is to have him at 100 percent when he does eome back." 
Bayliss said he was pleased with the way his team's newest players performed in front of the home crowd. 
"The freshmen are very tal­ented and they handled them­selves very well," Bayliss said. "The tournament was a good way for them to break in with the round robin for­mal-it didn't put as much prnssure on them. There wnrn a few times when the inexperience showed, but overall they played very well." 
Despite the singles lineup's strong showing. Bayliss said the doubles group has yet to nwsh. 
"We need to work on court positioning, and strategy," Bayliss said. "Thnrn isn't enough poaching. !Assistant coach Hyanl Sacchire can lwlp them with this. lie was a very talented player in his limn here, and went on to play in tournamnnts just out­side the pro circuit. The guys can relate well to him, and he has a lot to teach thnm." 
The Irish will be back in action at the ITA Midwest Championships, which begin Oct. 1H in Minneapolis, Minn. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at 
kgrabarek@nd.edu 
Hitting 
continued from page 20 
!Thursday!." Weis said. 

The Irish had not tackled to the ground during practice until the week leading up to the Michigan State game, when they had fallen to 0-3 after a 38-0 loss at Michigan. 
Weis said he derived the for­mula for this week's practices as a way to increase early-gamP productivity and energy. Opponents have outscored Notre Dame 47-14 in the first quarter and 101-21 in the first half this season. 
''I'm really concerned about how we start the game," Weis said. "So I'm trying to find another method to start the game bettm." 
Notes: 

+ Weis insinuated that fresh­man Brandon Walker will take over the place-kicking responsi­bilities this week, after the team miss1~d two extra point attempts and had a field goal blocked against Purdue. 
In a live-hitting drill in front of reporters Tuesday, Walker made three of four field goal attempts, while walk-on kicker Nate Whitaker made only one of four. 
"The one guy who missed one, he's probably going to be the guy who's going to be kick­ing," Weis said. "That's a pretty easy one." 
+ Wide receiver David + Notre Damn leaves for Grimes and offensive lineman Los Angeles Friday and Dan Wenger will make the trip returns Saturday night. The to UCLA. Grimes and Wenger Irish are scheduled to arrive are recovering from injuries, back in South Bend at 6:30 and both are q uPstionable to a.m. Sunday. seP action Saturday. Weis said Wenger was more likely than Contact Ken Fowler at Grimes to play. kfowler I @nd.edu 
'"~c A T E: R I N G 
Catering for et•ery occ'ftsion 
www PapaV1nosCatering com 
classics and contemporary 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka (574) 271-1692 
www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 


Thursday, October 4, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Irish senior forward Joseph Lapira dribbles down the sideline during Notre Dame's 3-0 win over Michigan Wednesday at Alumni Field. 
STILL KICKING 
g 
CENTER FOR SPIRITUAIIl'Y SAINT MARY7SCX::>U.EGE 



JACC 
continued from page 20 
volleyball team. 
The arena will be closed for most of the summer of 2009 and will re­open in October of that year, although construction will not be finished until January 2010, the statement said. 
As part of Athletic Director Kevin White's $100 million "master plan" for improvements in athletics facili­ties, the University has already completed a $2.1 million, 10,000­square-foot indoor golf facility and the $23 million Guglielmino Athletics Complex for football. 
Construction has begun on the Melissa Cook Softball Stadium, and the University_ has secured the majority of the funding for a $25­30 million hockey arena within the north dome of the Joyce Center and a new lacrosse stadium. 
Other portions of the master plan 
Miller 
continued from page 20 
Miller's second goal, which came in the 29th minute, was also unassisted. He picked up the ball a bit sooner than he had on his first score but made a nice move on a Wolverine to cut toward the middle of the field before firing the ball to the keeper's right and sneaking it just inside the post. 
"We wanted to really use our speed against their back line tonight because we felt we had an advantage there," Miller said. 
Notre Dame has been jump­ing out to quick starts consis­tently this season. netting 10 of its 16 goals in the first half. Miller attributed the team's early successes to mental focus exercises the players do before each game. 
"It really gets your mind ready to play," he said. "That's really important, it's kind of underrated." 
Irish junior defender Cory Rellas also picked up a first­half goal for Notre Dame, five include a plan for a new soccer sta­dium, located almost adjacent to the east side of the Joyce Center, a new tennis facility and the renova­tion of the football team's practice fields. Plans call for the football team, which currently uses three natural-grass practice fields, to have two Field Turf-quality artifi­cial grass fields and one natural ­grass practice facility. 

Irish coach Charlie Weis said Wednesday the main benefit of Field Turf practice fields is allowing the team to "practice outside regardless of the weather." It also allows the team to practice on arti­ficial surfaces outside when the team prepares to play in places ­like Baltimore's M&T Bank Stadium, where Notre Dame and Navy played last season -that have open-air stadiums with artifi­cial turf 
"When we played Navy last year and you're playing in the Ravens' stadium, and they play on Field Turf, you don't want to practice inside if you're playing [outside]," 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
!sUMMER ENGINEERING PROGRAMSI 
FOREIGN STUDY IN LONDON, ENGLAND OR ALCOY, SPAIN (IF ENOUGH INTEREST) 


Information Meeting: 
Monday, October 8, 2007 Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 7:00p.m. 
Application Deadline: November 21 for Summer 2008 
Application On-line: 

www.nd.edu/-engineerIsumlon/apply.html 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 

minutes before Miller's second. 
Junior defender Jack Traynor started the play with a free kick from just outside of the box. Sperry made the initial save and stopped a second shot, but was out of position for the Weissaid. 
"But the other positive effect, to be honest with you, is it'd be nice to have the students to have surfaces they could use when we're not using them. And when you have grass fields, you can't really do that. But you have Field Turf fields, there'll be plenty of times in the year we're not using them that now, all of a sudden, RecSports could end up using them. And I think that everyone wins in that sit­uation." 
The athletic department has raised more than $68 million for athletic facility improvements as part of the University's $1.5 billion "Spirit of Notre Dame" capital cam­paign. 
The north dome of the Joyce Center, which houses the hockey team and is also slated for renova­tions, was not mentioned in Wednesday's release. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu and Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu 
... 
rebound. Rellas tapped it in for his second goal of the season. 
The Irish slowed down in the second half but kept the potent Michigan offense off of the scoreboard -despite a couple of good Wolverines scoring chances. 
"I think we defended them fairly smartly, it was nothing more than that," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "[Senior goalkeeper Chris] Cahill looked very calm and collected in net tonight, and that's very impor­tant." 
The solid lead allowed Clark to empty his bench throughout the game, with many reserves playing a substantial amount of time. 
"The biggest bonus of the evening was having Michael Thomas back," Clark said. "It was a boost for everyone get­ting him out there." 
Thomas, a sophomore mid­fielder, broke his jaw earlier in the season and has been side­lined for several weeks. The doctor approved him to play a few hours before the game started. 
Sophomore forward Samba Tamba also returned from a foot injury to see his first action of the season. 
"Tamba still has to get fit; it was easier [for] Michael because he could still run," Clark said. "He lost a little fit­ness and mobility, but that will come back." 
Notre Dame will attempt to keep its perfect conference record intact Saturday when the Irish host West Virginia at 7 p.m. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Thursday, October 4, 2007 
page I 8 The Observer + SPORTS 
Previews 
continued from page 20 
Martinek hopes to prove doubters wrong tonight against Badin. 
"'I don't want people to think that we're out of this, the fact that we've lost docs­n't deter us at all,.. Martinek said. "'We're looking for­ward to playing in the sta­dium again." 
With a strong defensive linn, the Purple Weasels havn also been working on adding more to their offen­sive strategy. 
Martinek said the team 
Lyons vs. Lewis 
Lyons and Lewis meet tonight in a game that will be crucial to both teams' playoff aspirations. 
Lyons currently sits in fourth place of the Gold League standings, ahead of fifth-place Lewis by only a half-game. The Lions need just one win in their final two games to secure a play­ofT berth. 
Meanwhile, a win would propel the Chicks into a three-way tic with Lyons and Pasquerilla West for the f'inal playoff' spot. 
Lyons senior captain 
Judith 
Kaczmarek is 
confident in
"The fact that we've 
has attempted her team's to revamp all lost doesn 't deter us ability to 
aspects of its at all." make the of'f'nnsn. playoffs, but .. W e ' r e 
believes that
Tina Martinek
expanding our her team has offense and Pasquerllla West captain much more 

... got new Ipass­ing( and run­ning plays," Martinek said. The Purple Weasels face a Badin team that is eager to get back on the field after having its game against Lewis postponed at halftime because of lightning. The Bullfrogs hope to retain the momentum they had built up before the con­test against Lcw.is was stopped. Badin scored two touchdowns in the final minute of' the first half to take a 13-7 lead. 
"Our defense, as a
T h e tered around Bullfrogs group, is really pretty Kaczmarek, a h a v n middle linn­
strong. We're definitely
focused on backer, and
looking to get some
preparing senior safety to take on turnovers." Joanna Collins. l'asquerilla Kaczmarek West's was reluctant
Judith Kaczmarek
intimidat­to put too 
Lyons captain
ing offense. much empha­
talent than its 2-2 record indicates. 
"We've been a little over­confident," Kaczmarek said. "'The little stuff has been killing us." 
Lnading the charge for the Lions will be sophomore quarterback Claire Connell and freshman receiver Neva Lundy. 
"'Claire's definitely a key playnr," Kaczmarek said. "'And Neva is really athletic." 
The duo is complem1mted 
by a strong 
defense cnn­
"We have worked on bning more aggrnssive on defense in terms of' going after the ball." llaekney said. "Our off'nnsn plans to be a bit morn efficient this wnek. I'W is a very strong team and this will be a must-win game for us." 
With a record of' 2-2, l'asqunrilla West is confi­dent it will make it to the playoff's. 
"I still dnfinitely think we can make it to the playoffs, it's a whole new ball game," Martinek said. "Pangborn and Welsh Fam better expect to see us again with bntter results." 
Badin, too, wants to make a statement in tomorrow's game. 
"We think that our record does not indicate how strong we are as a team," llackney said. "'With a win on Thursday, we are hoping to increasn our chances of making it into the playoffs." 
sis on any one player but said the unit plays wnll together. 
"'Our defense, as a group, is really pretty strong," she said. "Wn're definitely look­ing to get some turnovers." 
The Lions will be forced to play without senior captain Katie Mackin, who will be missing the game for person­al reasons. 
They will bn facing a Lewis team that, despite its 1-2 record, is still in contention for a playoff berth. 
The Chicks are within striking distance and have a game pending because of a rain-out against Badin earli­er in the season that will be made up at a later date. Lewis captain Alexandra Persley could not be reached for comment. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu, Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu and Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 


Belles set for Hope rematch 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's avenged last month's loss to Adrian with a five-set victory Tuesday. Tonight, the Belles will look to win another rematch, this time against Hope. 
Hope swept Saint Mary's 30-14, 30-20, 30-17 Sept. 6. Head coach Julie Sehroeder-Biek said she hopes her team will show the same drive against Hope that it did Tuesday over Adrian, which one month ear­lier, beat Saint Mary's 30-25, 30-28, 30-11. 
"'In our win against Adrian, we really brought our game to the next level," Schroeder-Biek said. 'The intensity and drive to win was amazing. We now only carry the confidence gained from that win along with the momentum into our Hope match." 
Hope, which ranks third in the MlAA standings, has a strong defense that will test the Belles often. 
"'Hope has a strong outside attack and they have great hustle on defense," Schroeder-Biek said. "'These will be the big threats to watch fbr in facing them." 
The Belles will look to eliminate the unforced errors that have plagued them in their last three matches. They average ninn servic­es errors per game during that span. 

"Consistent serving is our biggest weakness," Schroeder-Biek said. "We are definitely working on our focus when it comes to serves." 
Against Hope, Schroeder-Biek does not plan to make changes in the lineup that took down Adrian. 
"We have been bordering on this type of play all season," she said. "The mental game has been our battle ITom the beginning. Wn are making huge strides in mastering it and we ean't let up now -just keep working at being a great team." 
lbe Belles are 4-5 in league play and 7-10 overall while !lope L<> 6-2 in the MIM and 11-5 overall. The teams will face off tonight at 7 at the Angnla Athletic Facility. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Large Pizza cheese & 2 Toppings 
99 

Free Delivery On Campus 
Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas &charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 



~.2J~~v~~n~~~. 574·243•1122 
SERVING NOTRE DAME &ST. MARY'S 

® OPEN FOR LUNCH DAILY 
Visit us on the Web at www.marcos.com @2007 Marco's Franchising, LLC 5642ND-807 

Thursday, October 4, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA
BLAcK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
TOP 10 AWKWARO MOMENTS 1113: HAVING THE RIGHT JOKE AT THE WRONG TIME .. 
~-·· 

CROSSWORD 
Note: The clues in this puzzle appear in a single list, combining Across and Down. Where two answers share a number, the unclued Down answer is a homophone of the corresponding Across answer. 
Clues 12 Country named for its location
Obstruction at on the globe
the entrance to a cave, maybe 13 Bring down 
14 Having hit a2 Rarely used golf double

club 15 Neuter 

3 Picture on a $50 bill 16 For one 
17 Party of the first

4 Drip, say 
part and party of 5 Seventh-century the second part, year e.g. 
6 Want ad abbr. 18 Gets going 19 Weapon in old
7 Some needle hand-to-handholders, for short 
fighting 8 Like jail cells 
20 Does some yard 9 Makes like work 
21 One famously begins "0 Wild 10 Connecticut or 

Colorado: Abbr. 

West Wind, thou 11 Touch up, as a breath of painting Autumn's being" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5PATIMI KADO A.G"'R
-=-r=-r-::­

u R N 5 G u N N E R .B. ,.2_~ B 0 0 K E ••N~M ~ _§_
P R I E 5 T V I A 5 0 5 A 
L A N D 5 N E ~ D A L I F T 
0 T T • 0 V A A R A R A T 
T E 5 T W I N G • 0 P E R A •••}lET 5 F 0 R Y 0 U 
5 A U D I 5 W E E • P I C A 
E L N I N 0 E N D • N 0 M 
L I ~.g. C K E L T 0 N 
F E ~R 0 0 L E 0 L E 
ii~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ IL ~ ~ ~ ; 
J:!..!.. _!! T 0 5 5 I N A R T Y 
22 Carcinogenic substance 
23 Victorian 24 Headquartered 25 Lowers the cuffs 
on, maybe 26 Legis. period 27 Point to 28 Wood of the 
Rolling Stones 
29 _ Nikolaevich, last czarevitch of Russia 
30 Queen of France in Shakespeare's "Henry V'' 
31 Rich Spanish decorations 
32 Big blasts, informally 
33 Duck down 34 Tailors 35 Social register 
listees 36 Residents: Suffix 37 Seat at a 
hootenanny 
38 Place for a 
guard 39 Recondite 40 Shoulder muscle 
41 Tol"at" 42 Logged 43 Singer who founded Reprise Records 44 Letter before Peter in old radio lingo 45 Bygone council 46 Donations at 
47 ~~~:n~~~ics 48 "_ for nest" 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
OH REALLY?!? SHE SAID THAT? DID SHE SAY IT ABOUT MY PROSTATE?!? 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Joe Krozel 49 Accent 50 NASA subj. 51 French town 52 Contents of some shells 53 Audio equipment pioneer 54 Wiped out 
55 Verb of which "sum" is a form 56 Campsite visitor 57 Job specifications 
58_B. Wells, early civil rights advocate 
59 Individually 60 Race unit 

61 Blood type letters 62 Calculator button 63 Wears down 64 Work force 65 Grade again 66 Pretended to be 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


A: 

A "[IIIIJ"[IIIIIJ 
Yesterda 's  IJumbles:  JOKER  MOURN  (Answers tomorrow) CHALET OMELET  
y  Answer:  What the server accessed on his  
computer  -THE "MENU"  
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ayumi Hamasaki, :!9; Kelly Ripa, 37; Lor­raine Bracco, 53: Donna Karan. 59 
Happy Birthday: This is a great year for you to expand your interests and make over­due changes. Use your creative mind to push for a more satisfying and fruitful future. Your numbers are 6. 14, 33. 36, 39, -l3 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't mince words or think you can talk your way m·ound situations you want to a\'oid. Arguments will hreak out and re~olving issues will be impossible. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can get to the bottom of things if you are persis­tent and refuse to take no for an answer. Emotional matters can be resolved and havine fun with friends. children and older, experienced individuals will prove to be enlig:ht-­ening. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put yourself in a position that allows you to learn and expand your skills and knowledge. A creative idea you ha\'e can be turned into a lucra­tive venture. Someone from your past is likely to dismpt your world. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't be shy when you have so much to offer. Look at the possibilities and make changes for a better, more interesting future. A change is overdue, so don't procrastinate. Your ideas will be backed if you voice them. 3 st.'1fs 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Love. romance, having fun and meeting people who can change your life are all up for grabs today. If you see someone who interests you. cast your fate to the wind and jump in with both feet. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be careful what you say. You have the right idea but someone may try to steal your thunder and take credit for your hard work, plans or ideas. You have to take control if yon want to come out on top. 2 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Travel, adventure and excikment should part of your day. You will have a dear picture of what others think of you and whether or not you can get ahead pursuing '"·hat you are doing. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Now is the time to launch, present and take what you want to do and run with it. You can convince others to back you or buy into what you are doing. 3 st.:'lfs 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Emotional matters will surface, leaving you a little on edge and feeling uncertain about what to do next. Store any advice you're given so that you can utilize it when you feel you can make it work for you. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Not everything will be out in the open. You'll have to read between the lines. Approach money deals with caution if someone is corning on too strong. An opportunity to make a professional move will be to your advantage. 5 
sta.rs 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Collect an old debt or pay off something that has been hanging over your head. Now is the time to make a few personal changes that will boost your confidence or help you get into a beuer position. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Make changes at home. Real estate, renovations or in­vesting in something you believe in should all pay off. A love com1ection looks posi­tive and taking care of any minor health or personal issues will ntrn out well. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are entertaining, emotional. sensitive and inventive. You are a dreamer, a planner and a very loyal companion and friend. You are powerful, helpful and a dedicated ciUSader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroaJivice.com for ftm, eugeninlast.com for cmifidential consulTations 

JUMBLE 
JJ1JJWID11JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RUJOR ± 
@2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
SYTUM ±
All Rights Reserved.  ·  
tCUCHIP IIJ I www.jumble.comtFYLLAT jJ (I  I I  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
WHAT THE: KNIFt= THROWt=R WORt= ON 5TAGt=. 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

THE OBSERVER 



PORTS
Thursday, October 4, 2007 
page 20 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Fifth-year senior nets two goals as Irish beat Michigan 
By DAN MURPHY SportS Wriwr 
Fil'th-ynar senior forward Hyan Miller scored two first­half' goals, and No. 3 Notre Damn shut out No. 19 Michigan 3-0 at Alumni Field Wndnesday night. 
The Irish (7-l-21 nxtnnded thnir unbnawn streak to eight games ovPrall. and it was their snvPnth straight game without a loss against the Wolverines. Notre Damn is (J-0-1 in its most re<:nnt garTH'S against its regional rivals. 
"Michigan is our rival in just about every sport. and they'rn a grnat soee<~r team." Miller said. "It f'enls good to beat them, no matter what." 
The senior nemled less than two minutes to get the Irish on the board Wednesday. lie intereeptml a pass around mid­lield and dribbled to within 20 yards ol' tho net before beating Wolverines junior goalkeeper Patrick Sperry to the lower right side ol' the goal. 
see MILLER/page 17 

Miller time 


NO ATHLETICS 
Joyce's renovation set for 2008 
Football practice fields set to feature Field-Turf surface 
By KEN FOWLER and 
CHRIS KHOREY 
Sporrs Writers 
Notre Dame announced Wndnnsday it ha'> finaliznd plans to bngin its $26.3 million rmovations to the Joyce Center in Snptnmbnr 200S. 
Tlw University has chosnn the arehitecL'i lor the pn~jeet and will begin with a three-story addition to the south side of the building, a statnment released W<~dnesday said. 
The addition will house Notre Dame's ticket ollice, a souvenir shop and a gateway atrium. 
In May 2009, immediately after the Joyce Center's south dome houses Notre Dame's graduation ceremony, construction will begin on the seating in the arena, which is home to the men's <md women's ba<;ketball teams and the women's 
see JACC/page 17 
fOOTBALL 
Healthy starter, healthy hits 
Irish tackle hard Tuesday; Clausen expected to start 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Write• 
.Jimmy Clausen will likely start Saturday against UCLA, Notw Damn eoaeh Charlie Weis said after practiee Wedrwsday. 
"I was rPally surprised that he movnd almost completely normal !Tuesday!," Wnis said. "But hn d<~linitnly looknd nor­rnaliWndnnsdayl." 
Chtusnn injun~d his hip after taking a slnw of shots from Purdue ddPndPrs, and junior Evan Sharpl<~y playnd most of thn sneond hall' Saturday. Claus1~11 finislwd 1S-of-26 for I (J9 yards with a touchdown and an intPrePption. Sharpley was I (J-ol'-26 for 20S yards with two touchdowns and one interenption. 
Wnis had said Clausnn would start Saturday il' lw wnrn healthy Pnough. and that appfHtrs to bP the ease. Still. Wds said, Sharplt~y narrwd morn rnpPtitions in practien with his play against Purdue. Sharplny took about 25 pnrc:ent of thP first-tnarn practien snaps last week. 
Whil<> Clausnn has been recovering. tlw o!Tnnse and defense have taken a more physical approach. 
"Thn hardest we've hit ever in pradiee since I've been here wa~ ITuesd~~y I. ror t.he }<~ngest 
we vn gone, Wms smd. I d say, physically, it was easily the best praeticn we've had sinee I've lmnn here." 
Weis said he informed thn team bdorn Tuesday's praetiee of his intention for this week's three practiees. 




WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Phoxes look to keep rolling against Babes 
Purple Weasels look to get back on track 
By MATT GAMBER, 
EUGENIA ALFONZO and 
SAM WERNER 
Sports Writers 

Tonight's game between Pangborn and Breen-Phillips at 7 on Riehle Field features two teams going in opposite directions. 
While Pangborn's 13-9 vie­tory over reigning champion Pasquerilla West kept its play­off hopes alive, the Babes are desperately trying to recover from their 6-0 loss to previ­ously winless Lewis. 
Leading the Phoxes' offense will be freshman quarterbaek Gabby Tate. Sophomore receivers Annie Kotz and Meghan Bescher, the team's captain, both eaught touch­down passes last week. 
Bescher also had an inter­ception in the Phoxes' upset win over Pasquerilla West, as did freshman Kathy Poploski. They'll anchor a defense that hopes to contain the Babes' attack. 
"We've been working hard, trying to get both our offense and defense working," Tate said. "Our main goal all along has been to make the playoffs. 
so wn're pretty pumped to keep this thing going." 
Breen-Phillips will rely on its captain, junior quarter­baek Melissa Meagher, to rejuvenate the offense. She'll target reeeiver Tara McCarron, a fellow junior, early and often. 
"She runs quick routes, and she just always seems to find herself open," Meagher said. 
The Babes defensive line, led by senior Collenn Stehlin and freshman Kristin Moore, will hope to slow down a Pangborn running game that torched the Babes in last year's matehup. 
"Our coaches have IH~en prnparing for a wonk and a half by watehing !Pangborn's) games, so hopefully ·we'll be able to tailor our defense to attack their offense in appro­priate places,'' Meaglwr said. "They havn a strong oiTnnse. so we really have to focus on stopping them." 
Pasquerilla West vs. Badin 
As the two-tinw dnfnnding champion, Pasqunrilla West has narned a lot of r<~speet from the other teams in tlw league. Not this year. 
Pasq uerilla West has lost to Welsh Family and Pangborn, but senior captain Tina 
see PREVIEWS/page18 


"I told 'em, 'We're going to go full pads, we're going to hit like crazy for two-thirds of the practice. And !Wednesday!. I'm going to have the shoulder pads on and go out with shorts and knee braces to taper it down. And we're going to taper it more down physically 
see HITTING/page 16 




