.------~---­
--------------------------------------------------------~ 

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 5 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER3, 2007 

NDFCU members hit by e-mail scam 
Unknown fraudster prompts customers to give out sensitive banking information online 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Edi ror 
Students with Notre Dame Federal Credit Union (NDFCU) bank accounts may have been victims of what appears to be a complex, multi-part Internet scam. 
On Friday, NDFCU's Web site posted a message that warned members against clicking on certain links in e-mails ostensi­bly from the credit union that actually originated elsewhere. 
"If you have received an e­mail message that appears to have originated from Notre Dame Federal Credit Union telling you that 'your access has been limited' or asking you to participate in a survey, please do not click on any links that ask for your personal information," the warning said. 
That warning, it appears, could have played into the hands of the hacker's scheme. 
By late Friday, some mem­bers received fraudulent e­mails -from an address that appears to users as 
alert@ndfcu.org -telling them that a computer with a foreign IP address had unsuccessfully attempted to access their online account. 
The second wave of e-mails told members to "sign in to our secure server at onlinebank­ing.ndfcu.org and review your account(s) for any irregular activity. If you do not recognize any transactions, please con­tact us immediately at 800­835-5373." 
Some members, perhaps concerned after seeing the warning posted on ndfcu.org, 
may have given more credence to the fraudulent e-mail that appeared to come from the NDFCU. 
The phone number listed on the second set of e-mails is the correct national number for NDFCU, but the hyperlink redi­rects users to a non-NDFCU Web site designed to look exactly like the real NDFCU homepage -except that, as of press time, it lacked the warn­ing message carried on the actual site. 
see NDFCU/page 3 



Sbarro employee publishes memoirs 
'A Boy Amidst The Rubble' offers Porter-Young's childhood perspective of London Blitz 
ByJENN METZ News Writer 
Growing up in World War II­era London, George W. Porter­Young faced innumerable suf­ferings and sacrifices. The LaFortune Sbarro employee has worked for 13 years to record his memories in the semi-autobiographical novel "A Boy Amidst the Rubble," which was published in March. 
Porter-Young, now 73, strug­gled to get his novel on the shelves in the bookstore of the university he had served for seven years. As a self-pub­lished book, the novel was not originally accepted for sale at the Hammes Bookstore, Porter-Young said, a response he found alienating. 
"I felt a bit like well, my name's not Charlie Weis or Rudy or Knute Rockne, but I still should be recognized [at the University]," Porter-Young said. 
So he wrote a letter to the book's printer, Xlibris Corp., a subsidiary of Random House. 
"I knew something needed to be done to help authors get their books out to the public," he said. 
The outcome of his letter was a return-ability program that would allow bookstores, like Hammes, to carry self­published books. Without this program, books could not be 
see AUTHOR/page 4 

By SARAH SK1LLEN 
News Writer 
South Quad served Friday night as a comedic stage for Seth Meyers, a skit actor and con­tributing writer for the television show Saturday Night live (SNL). The Student Activities Office (SAO) brought the television personality to campus after the Student Union Board got some of Meyer's fellow SNL castmates to speak in a pop­war lecture series last semester. 
"I thought he was hysterical," sophomore Margaret Burke said. "His randomness was great and how he got involved with the crowd.... I just love comedy, so it was great." 
Touching on everything from a Frenchman's lovemaking skills on 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


EG college changes leadership 
New dean Kilpatrick to arrive in early 2008 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
Associate News Editor 
The College of Engineering is awaiting the arrival of its new dean and its new building, but while it may be in a period of transition, Interim Dean James Merz called 
the college's future "brighter than ever before." 
University President Father John Jenkins 

announced Kilpatrick in August the appointment of Peter Kilpatrick, the chair of chemical and biomol­ecular engineering at North Carolina State University, as the new dean of the College of Engineering. 
Kilpatrick will replace former dean Frank Incropera and Merz in January. 
"Peter Kilpatrick is an accom­plished teacher and researcher who is a long-standing chair of one of the top chemical engineer­ing departments in the country," University Provost Thomas Burish said in a news release. 
He was expected at Notre Dame in September, but previous com­mitments pushed Kilparick's 
see DEAN/page 4 



SMC celebrates opening year Mass 
Professors, students, administrators gather for service, prayer 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff gathered at the Church of Our Lady of Loretto Sunday to cel­ebrate Mass and ring in the new academic year. 
Father John Pearson, CSC, presided over the Mass at which President Carol Ann Mooney spoke, and both the Loretto and Saint's Mary's College choirs pro­vided music. 
Father Pearson spoke of Father Basil Anthony Moreau's life and the creation of the Holy Cross reli­gious order that he founded in 1840 during hi'> homily. 
"This is the year of Father Moreau," Pearson said, in relation 
see MASS/ page 4 


KATE FENLONfThe Observer Members of the Saint Mary's community congregate at the Church of Our Lady of Loretto for the annual opening Mass Sunday. 

SNL co111edian 111uses on college, pop culture 
a futon to the ongms of the Fighting Irish's name, Meyers tied his humor to college-related top­ics. 
The comedian interacted with audience members by drawing from his own college experience at Northwestern University to reflect on the lives of students ­but he emphasized his added insight into the Midwestern col­lege experience. 
"I do a lot of colleges, but it was a lot of fun to come back to a school that I have a connection to," he said. "I am super psyched about the football game tomor­row." 
In his discussion of Notre Dame in particular, Meyers noted Touchdown Jesus and the fear 
see SNL!page 4 

-----~--~--~-~--­
r---------------------------------~--­
INSIDE COLUMN 

Notre Daille and the Rover ofDooill 
The other day, I had thn mi'>lilrtunn of 
rnading the Aug. :m edition oi'Thn Irish 
Hover. While pnnt'>ing the Chners <md Jners 
sm:tion ofthat seldom-mad paper, I r,ame 
cu:ross a blurb nntitlnd 

"One Dining IIall Dons Tae Andrews 
not a IloJ,'Warl'> 

Maim" -jm~ringThn Scene Editor 
Obsnrvnr lilr a sprmu:l 
about the I larry 
Potter serins. 

Tlw first thought to enter my mind was 
which ol'tlll~ thme Unli1rgivable Curses I 
would use in mtaliation. Fortunately for the 
sta.IJ'oftlmt alleged newspaper, I am not a 
I>ark Wizard. nor do I believe in tlw m;e of 
I>ark Magic, so your mntinued hna.lth is 
J,'U<trmlt.nnd -so long a.o; you stay on emn­
pus. (Onen you step ru:ross that emnpus 
bound<try. all bnl'i an~ oil" thesn days.) 

I Jowevnr. I now believe you may bn under some smi ofspell: perhaps an lmpt~rius Curse, which would explain your obnoxiou'i bdmvior <L'i your being placed under tlw mntrol ofa l><trk Wwtrd. or maybe just a mnunonplw:n Stupdy or Conlundus Clutrm. 
Hngardless of how confused or con.I(Jurul­ed you may haw bnen at pms.'i time, IloJ,'Wart.s School ofWitchrralt and Wt:t.anlry i'i not, <L'i you daim, "an antiquat­ed, upper d<L'iS Engli'ih lxmrding school ((If magic." lloJ,'W<trL'i enjoys continued rnhwtm­cy in l.he hearL'i and minds of iL'i readers, tul(l <L'i litr <L'i lx~ing uppt•r d<L'is, any I larry Potter lim would know Hon We<L'iley comes lhnn a working-d<L'>s liunily. (I lis litthl'r works li1r tl1e Ministry of Magic. and we all know how govnmmPntjobs pay.) 
Allt·r reading your (•mbitt.nrnd and non­sensical diatribe, it i'i dear that if Notre I>anw were lloJ,'W<U"t'i, you and your ilk at The Irish Hover would undoubtedly lx• I>nnumtors-a bunrh of marauding, hau~­litl creatures who. cloaked in darkrws.'i, arn deu~rmined to suck all t.lw fun out ol't.l1is placn. 
You wrote. "This isn't 7th J,>Tadn <md IWI~n if it wnre, anyone who c<m~s about I larry Potuw h<L'i alrnady mad thn books and watched t.l1n movies twien." 
Perhaps you nnwr had a childhood. Perhaps you am the sort ofpt~opln who believe Ilm-ry Potu~r <u:IV(K:<LUlS wiu:hcra.lt. Perhaps you sptmd your free time trying Ul have copies of"The I>a Vinc:i Cod(~" hmm1~d from libraries cuul go <trmmd smudging lightning-bolt shapt~d sears drawn in liu:e paint on tlw lilrehmuls of childnm. Perhaps you cm<.;hod the midnight rnleaso I larry Potu~r parties at Borders. lliprx~d u1 t.l1o back pages mtd scrmUJwd out tho t'nding,just Ul sptJil things. Perhaps you SP.<md your li-nn tinw kicking puppillS. Whauwer it is that you do, ple<L'il~ leaw~ my section out of your imme and awkw<trd nUll'>. 
I had originally hopt~ to wriu~ about how dillkult it W<L<.; Ul pnx:un~ a eopy of your obscum :md lctrgPiy irmlowUJt paptlr, but in rna.lity it W<L'i quiu~ e<L'iy. Unrmu:l stru:ks of the Hover litu~r t.l1i'i <:<unpus liko \lin Dinsd DVDs in a rnovio sum~. 
Which, ofeourse, is not to say t.lmt your paptlr doesn't havo it... LL'illS: It's a great fire­starulr 1u1d a very lumdy substituu1 should you over run out ofUJilot paper. lfl h<u:l to rau~ your second-raw exew;e for my section, I'd give tho Hover tho Goldon Sombrero, a perlild wro out ofa po~"'iible filllr dovms in our rating sysu1m. My only la'iting hoptl i'> t.lmt all three ofyour re<u:lers have not lilfnmd a tainWd opinion ol't.lw Scene sec­tion oft.l1is university's daily nowspaJXlr. 
The lliews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserller. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tan drew 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­rion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do. however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 3, 2007 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT FOOD WILL YOU BE LOOKING FOR IN THE DINING HALL THIS YEAR? 

Jocelyn Claycomb  Justin Browne  Kevin Stein  Laura McCarty  Michael Troy  Rosabelle Conover  
freshman McGlinn  freshman Dillon  sophomore Dillon  freshman McGlinn  freshman Alumni  freshman Pangborn  
"!think we need some sirloin steak. "  "! really like the tacos."  "Uh ... I like the buffalo wings_ ,  "Snickerdoodle cookies. That's all! require. "  "How about haggis? We need some  "[ really wish they hadfruit salad and  







Maine sand castle builders seek record 
CASCO, Maine -The croator of a sand castle built nearly 32 feet high to raise funds for terminally ill children and their fami­lies h·opes the structure will be named the world's tallest. 
Organizers said Saturday the elaborate sand castle mnasured a height of 31 feet, 7 inches. Plans called for verifica­tion paperwork to be sent to the Guinness Book of Records, which will deter­mine whether the castle makes the reeord book. 
Ed Jarrett, who created 
TODAY 
a:: 

a 29 1/4-foot sand castle in Falmouth in 2003 that was declared the world's tallest, organized the "Castle to the Sun" event to raise funds for Camp Sunshine. 
More than 1,000 people volunteered over the past two months to help build the castle, which used 40 dump truck loads of sand, organizers said. 
Wisp of a woman is a whiz at wing eating 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -When it comes to wolfing wings, Sonya Thomas is a wiz. 
The 105-pound competi­tive eater who goes by 
"The Black Widow" bested a dozen beefy rivals Saturday night, scarfing 173 wings in 12 minutes to win the wing-eating contest at the National Buffalo Wing Festival. 
"That's 5.17 pounds of wings," said Brian Kahle, spokesman for the annual Labor Day weekend event in the city where Buffalo wings were born. 
Thomas, 40, of Alexandria, Va., also held the festival's previous record or 161 wings in 12 minutes, set in 2004. 
Information from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

haggis. " berries. " 
IN BRIEF 

The Summer Shakespeare company will perform "Love's Labour Lost" tonight at 8:30 
p.m. in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets arn $20-35 for faeulty/staffi'seniors and $12­15 for studnnts. Performances will run through Sept 2. 
Thn rosary will be said tonight at 6:45 p.m. at the Grotto. This event is open to the publie. 
Them will be free fitness dass­es oiTernd at Holfs Spol'tsHcc Center this we11k starting at 7::lo 
a.m. tomorrow_ Sclwdules ean bn found onlinn. Sp:u:n is limited. 
The Snite Museum will show "Between Figurative and Abstract," paintings by Gao Xingjan Tuesday at 10 a.m_ Admission is free. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will play the College of Charleston in the Shamrock Invitational on Friday at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The Snite Museum will show "The Camera and Hainbow; Color in Photography on Wednesday_ Admission is free. 
Notre Dame men's soccer will play Rhode Island Friday night at 
7:30 p_m, at Alumni Field. 

The Public Policy Lecture Serios will hold "Latino Immigrants in America: Our Past and our Future on Wednesday at 4::W p_m_ in 220 McKenna HalL President and general council of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, John 'Irasvina will speak. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obserller. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
'\!..."'V\'f1'."
>\_<·, 'V ·,, '/
'"S:.l \':/
<.;..,.i ~ 
·~ .~
;p-;;,.. l~' 
. ~ ·., 


HIGH 87 HIGH 84 LOW 64 LOW 62 
LLI 
:::1: 


~~~fi1J;~...
~ 


~/ ,:z
LLI 

3: 
·~I ~ ~\ ~ 
~'···l}~
...... 

'll/'': \-~ " 
<( 
(,) 
0

_. HIGH 85 HIGH 75 HIGH 88 HIGH 85 LOW 67 LOW 57 LOW 65 LOW 68 
Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 I 62 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 I 49 
Monday, September 3 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

NDFCU



ND co-founds consortium 
continued from page 1 
University partners with laboratories, colleges to study nano-engineering 
The fake site, possibly as 
Spec'al to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame is one of only a dozen universities selected by Sandia National Laboratories as founding academic mem­bers of a unique research consortium. 
The newly established National Institute for Nann­Engineering (NINE) will func­tion· as a national hub for technological innovation and engineering education. 
"It is an honor to be includ­ed in this new partnering model presented by NINE, but we believe it is also a natural evolution of our pro­gram," said Peter M. Kogge, Ted H. McCourtney Professor of Computer Science and Engineering and associate dean for research in the College of Engineering. "Notre Dame has been a leader in nanotechnology for quite some time, with first­of-a-kind work in nano devices, architectures that leverage such devices, and in developing course work to educate the next generation or students." 
The other founding NINE members from academia inelude Harvard University, Harvey Mudd College, the Hensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Rice University, the University of California at Davis, the University of Florida. the University of 
part of the scheme, prompted 
Illinois, the University of New Freimann Professor of 
concerned members to re­
enter sensitive information
Mexico, the University of Electrical Engineering and 
Texas, the University of interim dean of the College of 
into the system, including 
Wisconsin and Yale Engineering, believes it is 
their account number and 
University. Initial industry exciting and appropriate that 
password and their ATM card 
members include Corning, Notre Dame be among the 
number, expiration date, secu­
ExxonMobil Corp., Goodyear initial university members. 
rity code and password. 
Tire and Rubber, IBM, Intel "Several College of 
NDFCU officials did not 
Corp. and Lockheed Martin Corp. 
"The goal of NINE is to broaden a stu­dent's educa­tion through a unique team research expe­rience," said Duane Dimos, Sandia direc­tor of materi­als and lead for the consor­tium. "We want to be part of devel­oping the next 
'The goal ofNINE is to broaden a student's education through a unique team research experience. 
Duane Dimos director of materials Sandia Laboratories 
Engineering facul­

return Observer phone calls 
ty have been 

Sunday, and the institution 
active in the 

had not updated its warning to 
development of 

include an update about the 
this consortium," 

second wave of the scam. 
he said. "Nann­

University spokesman Don 
engineering, a 

Wycliff had not heard of the 
signature pro­

scam and did not know how 
gram here at the 

many students-were affected. 
University, can 

The impersonalized e-mail 
both benefit from 

with the fraudulent link 
and make signifi­

rerouted members to a Web 
cant contributions 

site where they initially 
to the activities of 

entered their member num­
NINE." 

bers and passwords. The site 
Also anticipat­

then asked them to enter all 
ing new research 

the information related to 
opportunities for 

their ATM cards. 
Notre Dame 

Gordon Wishon, the 
undergraduates is 

University's chief information 
generation of innovations and Wolfgang Porod, director of 
officer, said the criminal prac­
innovators." the University's Center for 
tice -known as phishing -is 
Pilot projects, which began Nano Science and Technology 
a common practice used to 
· this summer, focused multi­and the Frank M. Freimann 
target national and local 
disciplinary efforts in key Professor of Electrical 
financial institutions. 
aspects of nano-engineering Engineering. 
"Scammers set up Web sites 
-including business, legal, "Our students will be able 
that look legitimate and they 
political and social issues -to use state-of-the-art facili­
send out e-mails that look like 
and encompassed students ties and instrumentation ­
their originated from the 
bank," Wishon said. "Most of
from first-year engineers to at Notre Dame and in nation­
graduating seniors. As the al laboratories -where they 
the time, they are shotgun­
ning, e-mailing thousands of
program grows, partners will be working on problems 
anticipate outreach to high of national interest. This is 
addresses in hopes a few of 
school teachers as well as essential for the nation's 
them will actually have an 
pre-college students. future in engineering and sci­
account with the bank they're 
masquerading as." 
The scam also appears to be using the University's online directory to get the e-mail addresses of students. Of those fraudulent e-mails viewed by The Observer, all were sent to the member's preferred e-mail address, as listed on nd.edu!directories, even when that person's regis­tered e-mail address with NDFCU was different. 
Wishon said he did not know where the fraud's perpetrators obtained the nd.edu e-mail addresses but that mass e­mail lists can be bought illicit­ly or stolen if the scammer "successfully penetrates a machine and harvests its entire address book." 
He said that machine could have been a NDFCU computer or, just as easily, any computer with an ample Notre Dame e­mail contact list. 
"Most likely, NDFCU had nothing to do with the incident and this spammer just shot­gunned as many Notre Dame addresses as it could find," Wishon said. 
Wishon said the University's Webmail security filters can­not catch every unsafe e-mail that may come in, but he gave students tips to identify poten­tial l_nternet scams. 
"We always recommend stu­dents not to click on links on e-mails," he said. "Very few financial institutions will actu­ally communicate a personal information request via e­mail." 
Ken Fowler contributed to this story. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 



A aarvlca provldad by 1:ha S1:udan1: Ac1:1vl1:1as omca --sao@nd_adu 
Dean 
continued from page 1 
arrival back to January, prompting Burish to ask Merz to eontinue to serve as interim dean for another semester. 
Merz, the f(Jrmer vice presi­dent for graduate studies and research, took office on August 1, 2006, after Incropera announced he would step down after eight years in the position to focus on his research and the classroom. 
"I had been in academic administration for almost 20 years ... and I was forced to deemphasize scholarly and teaching activities," Incropera said. "I decided it was time to focus on a smaller subset of activities." 

He said he will focus on long­standing interests such as energy conversion and utiliza­tion. 
In his time a.•:; dean, Merz has worked closely with the engi­neering faculty to finalize the architectural design of the col­lege's new multidisciplinary home, Stinson-Remick Hall. Construction on the new build­ing will begin in early 2008, Merz said. 
He will also continue to over­see the recruitment of new fac­ulty members to fill a number of open positions and endowed chairs. 
Among the other changes the college underwent last year was the retirement of Associate Dean John Uhran, who joined the engineering f~•culty in 1966. 
Many of his respo111sibilities passed to Cathy Pieronek, the director of academic affairs and the women's engineering program. One year after Uhran's departure, Merz com­mended Pieronek's perform­ance and said the college does not need to find a replacement in light of her accomplishments in her new position. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Mass 
continued from page 1 
to Moreau's upcoming beatification ceremony in September. "We're going to be talking about him a lot." 
Only four years after founding the religious order of the Holy Cross and three years after the Sisters of the Holy Cross were founded, Moreau sent a group of order members to Indiana. In 1855, the Sisters he had sent moved their institution to its current location. 
"This is a place where the Word of God is preached, and heard, and lived," Pearson said. 
College president Carol Ann Mooney also spoke of Moreau and the Holy Cross education, which he helped to create. 
"The Holy Cross Education has remained trun to the philosophy of it'> founder," Mooney said. "It focuses on embracing all of human knowledge and attends to the spiritual foundation [ofits members]." 
Mooney said that as members of the Holy Cross family of brothers, sisters, faculty, staff and students, we must all strive to "prepare the world lor better times than ours", which is one of the main goals of Father Moreau. 
Moreau will be beatified in Le Mans, France fromSept. 12-16. 
Beatification is the second step in the Catholic Church's road to saint­hood. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Author 
continued from page 1 
returned to the publisher. Porter-Young is now under contract with the return-abili­ty program for two years. 
On Friday, Porter-Young held a two-hour book signing. lie was surprised by the num­ber of students who turned up to meet him and purchase the book. 
"I get along well with stu­dents," he said. "Some had bought the book for their fathers." 
The book itself is a "sad commentary," according to Porter-Young. 
"Sixty-five million people died in World War II," he said, "and most kids today are absolutely ignorant about the war and what people sacri­ficed." 
Porter-Young, who has lived in America since 1966, trav­eled to England to do research for the novel. An important stop was the Imperial War Museum in London, where the head of the picture gallery authorized the inclusion of historical photographs in the book. 
The main character in "A Boy Amidst the Hubble," Barry, is a young boy living in London during the German blitzkrieg, a lightning-like bomb attack used for great el'l'ect by Hitler and the Nazis. II is nwmories of the night air raids and a nation's experi­ences of grave deprivation are n\livncl in the novel's pages. 
"We tend to forget, or we 

Have you tl1ot1gl1t about teachit"Ig Iteligi()n and becomir1g a (_:atcchist?  
C-M Campus Ministry Ifyou can answer YES to any or all of these questions~ come find out more about being a Religion Teacher.  
Im.portant Information Meeting: Wednesday;, September 5, 2007 5:30-6:30p.m. Room 330 Colcn'lan-Morse Center Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163  

SNL 
continued from page 1 
outside teams must have coming into tlw University, as Jesus wanL'> tho Irish to win. liP said. 
lie also said that during his years at Northwestern, he nnj oynd games against Notrn Damn bm:ausn this university was always polite -and because .ll~sus was watching. 
Mnynrs' performance was also laced with rnli\nmces to pop cul­turl1, inducting Ashl11e Simpson and her infamous SNL jig and the MiehaPI Vkk dog-lighting scandal. lin also took time out to discuss tho insect population at Notre I>ame. 
"Th11 bugs wow fme comedy," Meyers said. 
The outdoor mmndy show pro­vided a nnw experience for many of the freshman students, who got their first taste of the type of events planned by the SAO. 
But the night was, in many ways, a new experiencfl for the peri(Jrmer himself'. 
"I rarely perform outside," Meyers said. "It's a little harder to don't want to remember bad 'that describe the night air Staying in the city meant things about the past," Porter­raids, one of which started the staying in the heart of the Young said. "We don't want second burning of London in devastating Blitz. During one them to haunt us." 1940. of the raids, the explosion of a 

Iowa State professor Porter-Young's father was a bomb blew Porter-Young Frankie Santos Laanan was London fireman, so he did not backwards into a hedge, tak­instrumental in getting the see him "for a long time." ing his hair, eyelashes and story published, Porter-Young Children during the war years clothes from his body. For his said. were transported away from injuries he was hospitalized 
"He told me, 'You've done the city and into the country, for "a little bit," and he still all this writing, including retains a scar on his right leg what's the point if Porter­from a piece of shrapnel. it's just going to "Sixty-five million Young's sister. "Anyone [in this situation] sit and collect He, too, was really can write this book," he
people died in World 
cobwebs?"' sent away said. "A child in Afghanistan Porter-Young War II, and most kids from his fami­or Baghdad ... they're going said. "He made today are absolutely Iy. through the same thing I did, the point that a "I stood in but with more sophisticated
ignorant about the 
lot of war books Victoria weapons." are out there, but war and what people Station," he A main aspect of the novel is there aren't many sacrificed. " said, "with the food deprivation and with an 8-to 10-my little gas rationing experienced during year-old reflecting mask and a the war years.
George Porter-Young 
upon the war slice of bread "How do you survive when years and sacri-author with jam, and your country is being blockad­
fice." 
Porter-Young grew up in Upper Norwood, a suburb at the border of London and Surrey. Sitting in LaFortune, he recalled tales of bombers coming across the countryside from France, car­rying deadly weapons that hit or destroyed three out of four houses in London and the sur­rounding suburbs. 
"We were at war," he said. "The older people knew what that meant. We had no idea what was going on. It was very scary when the fir.st bombers came over." 
The novel opens with "Hequiem," a poetic tribute to Londoners who died in the Blitz between 1939 and 1945. According to Porter-Young, it contains imagery rellective of that time, like "rampant fires" 
toll how it's going, but it was a beautiful night, so it was great." 
Meyers stars on SNL's various skiL'> and is one of two anchors on the rocurring "Weekend Update" bit. I le said he draws from his daily life for material for the show. 
'The longer you are in comedy, the morn you malize it's all about notieing what's going on around you and drawing from that," he said. "The more you try to write jokes, the harder it geL<;." 
A'> part of his unintended rou­tine, Meyers seanned and evaluat­ed his audience, determining that freshmen and sophomores were 
O.K.. juniors were cocky and sen­iors were "relill"med juniors." lie also expressed his sympathy f(Jr graduate students, saying they are the students who, after four years of college, are still afraid to go out into the real world. 
"I think he was really awe­some," freshman Claire Brown said. "I don't watch SNL all that much, and I was really impressed by how funny he wa.'>. I might just start watching now." 
Contact Sarah Skillen at sskillen@nd.edu 
great sacrifices during the war. 
"It's sad when you think about it," he said. "War does­n't solve anything. We fought over one man, and did we learn our lesson? We're fight­ing today, again over one man. Now he's gone and we're still fighting." 
"A Boy Amidst the Hubble" has sold roughly 400 copies so far, Porter-Young said. The statistics, however, are two months behind. Self-promot­ing the b"ook is "very hard," he said. 
Along with the Hammes book signing, Porter-Young has appeared on 106.5 FM. He wants to travel to his alma maters, Black Hawk College in Illinois and St. Ambrose College in Iowa, to run lecture series about his stories of the war. He soon hopes to have an audio book made, and has started working on book two of his recollections. 
"The things you remember are absolutely amazing," he said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

I said to 
myself, 'I'm not going.' I hopped off to the train and onto the other side of the platform. When my father left, he said, 'You're the man of the house now -take after your mother and grand­mother.' How was I supposed to do that from the country?" 
ed? ... Some of the meats and food rationed to us would have never been considered food years later," he said. 
Another facet is the heroism of the wartime women, who took on men's jobs. Porter­Young cites his mother and grandmother as two very strong women who made 





ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 3, 2007 CoA,lflllED fROlv1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
British troops withdraw from Basra 
LONDON -British soldiers began with­drawing Sunday from their last base in the southern Iraqi city of Basra, paving the way for fresh troop cuts and fueling worries about the security of the country's second­largest city and the surrounding region. 
U.S. and Iraqi authorities have expressed concern that a broader British drawdown could jeopardize the region's rich oil resources and the land supply line from Kuwait to Baghdad and beyond. Some ana­lysts also fear that British withdrawal could exacerbate a violent power struggle between rival Shiite groups in the sect's southern heartland. 
Around 550 soldiers were leaving the downtown Basra Palace, one of deposed President Saddam Hussein's former com­pounds, to join 5,000 other personnel at an air base 7 miles away on the fringes of the city. Defense officials said the withdrawal was going well but could take days to com­plete. · 
Athletes may face cardiac problems 
VIENNA, Austria -Cardiac problems like an abnormal heartbeat are exacerbated by rigorous exercise in a way that can be fatal in athletes, and regular testing for the prob­lem could save lives, doctors at a heart con­ference said Sunday. 
Italy is the only country that mandates heart screening of all its professional ath­letes, Dr. Domenico Corrado of the University of Padua said at the European Society for Cardiology meeting in Vienna. 
Since 1981, Italian authorities have run heart checks on all competing athletes. The incidence of sudden, fatal heart attacks has dropped from four cases per 100,000 to 0.4 cases per 100,000. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Food recalls prompt safety questions 
WASHINGTON -Try searching for a cul­prit in the 90 brands caught up in the recent recall of canned chili, stew and other prod­ucts, and you weave back to a single manu­facturer. 
That also was the case in recalls of spinach, pet food and frozen meat. 
Companies increasingly are paying others to make the foods we eat-or the ingredi­ents in them -and then selling it under multiple brand names. And that has prompted a growing debate about food safe­ty. 
"If people cannot trace a product back to a supplier, the supplier has no incentives to keep their processes as clean and effective, in terms of food safety, as possible," said Caroline Smith DeWaal, director of food safety for the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer group. 

Picture boards help in emergencies 
TRENTON, N.J. -With more ill and injured people unable to speak English, hos­pitals, clinics and rescue squads are turning to picture boards to bridge the communica­tion gap with easily understood images. 
The large, double-sided panels let patients point to icons showing their problem ­such as pain, a burn, breathing trouble or a fall -as well as the part of the body that is affected. They also can point to their native language in a list so an appropriate inter­preter can be located. 
LOCAL NEWS 

More Hoosiers have health insurance 
INDIANAPOLIS -The number of Indiana residents without health insurance fell by about 84,000 last year, according to new Census Bureau figures that have left state officials puzzled. 
The decline was welcome news, but it's hard to explain, said Mitch Roob, secretary of the Indiana Family and Social Services Administration, who called the numbers "surprisingly high." 
ITALY 


Pope urges youth to care for Earth 
Benedict, Italian bishops' conference promotes strong environmental message 
Associated Press 
LORETO -The planet risks irreversible decline from environmentally unsustainable develop­ment, Pope Benedict XVI warned Sunday, urging young Catholics to take the lead in caring for the Earth and its precious resources. 
During an open-air Mass on the final day of a week­end religious youth rally that drew about 500,000 people to the town of Loreto, Italy's most impor­tant shrine dedicated to the Virgin Mary, Benedict said the world's water supply particularly needed to be preserved and shared equi­tably to avoid conflicts. 
The Loreto meeting organized by the Italian bishops' conference carried a strong environmental message. Participants were given biodegradable plates, recycling bags for their trash and a hand-cranked cell-phone recharger. 
Benedict told the crowd, camped out under umbrel­las and tents on a vast, dusty field on the Adriatic coast, that it was up to them to save the planet from development that had often ignored "nature's del­icate equilibrium." 

"Before it's too late, we importance of nature -ed by true love: a sober and eled across Italy from the need to make courageous God's creation -in inspir­solid lifestyle, with loving, Tuscan city of Pisa for the choices that will recreate a ing spirituality. sincere and pure relations, event, said Benedict's other strong alliance between Under Benedict, the an honest commitment to main message -about man and Earth," Benedict Vatican has been taking studies and work, and the how young people should said in his homily. "We steps toward greater envi­profound interest in the not be afraid to commit need a decisive 'yes' to ronmental sustainability. It common good." themselves to marriage care for creation and a has joined a reforestation Andrea Ringressi, 29, even though so many mar­strong commitment to project aimed at offsetting and his girlfriend of three riages fail -had particular reverse those trends that its C02 emissions, and has years, Marta Iuzzolini, 27, resonance. risk making the situation of also said it was installing said they appreciated the "Marriage is a challenge decay irreversible." solar cells on the roof of its pope's green message, par­that we are thinking 
He said water needed to main auditorium. ticularly during an event about," Ringressi said, as be preserved since "it Benedict urged the young that was producing small he snuggled with Iuzzolini unfortunately becomes a to "go against the grain" mountains of plastic water under an umbrella. "I source of strong tensions and not be seduced by bottles and other refuse. appreciate that he says and conflicts if it isn't pressure, including from "It's a good idea here, there are difficulties, but shared in an equitable and the mass media, to succeed because there's so much that if you have this desire, peaceful manner.;, at all costs in arrogant, garbage!" Iuzzolini said as this will to follow your 
Benedict lamented this egotistical ways. she surveyed the grounds, dreams, confide in Jesus." week the environmental "Be vigilant! Be critical! which by the end of the The meeting was an impact of recent forest fires Don't get swept up in the weekend had turned into a Italian warm-up for next in Italy and Greece. And wave of this powerful per­very un-ecological field of year's World Youth Day, in during his summer vaca­suasion," he said. 'Don't be plastic tarps and garbage Sydney, Australia, which tion in the mountains, he afraid, dear friends, to take bags. the 80-year-old pope plans spoke frequently about the the 'alternate' path indicat-But the couple, who trav-to attend. 

Bushshortens stayatAsia-Pacific summit 
Bush will spending Tuesday night continue to search for a replace­
Associated Press through Saturday in Sydney. But he ment for embattled Attorney WASHINGTON -President Bush is leaving a day before the summit . General Alberto Gonzales and fend is cutting short his stay at this ends to rush back to the White off congressional investigations that year's Asia-Pacific summit, but the House where advisers are scripting are expected to follow Bush fact that he's going -at a pivotal a report assessing his decision ear­through his final 16 months in moment in the debate over his Iraq lier this year to send 30,000 more office. policy-is meant to show he's not troops to Iraq. This year's Asia-Pacific summit is neglecting the neighborhood. A day after Bush returns to being hosted by Australian Prime Iraq, however, will weigh heavily Washington, the top U.S. command­Minister John Howard, a key U.S. on his mind during the Asia-Pacific er in Iraq, Gen. David Petraeus, ally on Iraq, who has said keeping Economic Cooperation forum being testifies to Congress. Then, Tuesday Australian troops there could cost held in Sydney, Australia. marks the sixth anniversary of the him re-election later this year. Bush It will shadow his talks about Sept. 11 attacks. U.S. ambassador hopes his visit gives Howard a global warming, trade and thorny to Baghdad, Ryan Crocker, testifies boost. foreign policy challenges like North on Capitol Hill on Wednesday. And "He is a man of steel because he Korea with the leaders of China, by Sept. 15, Bush must present his is a person who stands on convic­Australia, South Korea, Japan and Iraq progress report to Congress. tion and principle," Bush told possibly others. All the while, Bush's advisers will Australia's Sky News television. 

GOP denies double stantiard 
Group says admission of guilt in sex scandal sets Craig case apart 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A GOP leader Sunday denied a dou­ble standard in pushing Sen. Larry Craig to resign after a sex sting guilty plea, while remaining silent over GOP Sen. David Vitter's involve­ment with an escort service. 
A senior Democrat said a double standard by Hepubliean leaders is exactly what occurred. 
Sen. John Ensign, H-Nev., the Senate Hepublican cam­paign chairman, said Craig "admitted guilt. That is a big difference between being accused of something and actually admitting guilt." 
"David Vitter never did that. Larry Craig did," continued Ensign on ABC's "This Week" program. 
Sen. Patriek Leahy, D-Vt. and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, oxpressed a contrary view on "Fox News Sunday." 
"Onn, I say there's a double standard," said Leahy. "Secondly, I don't think they'll ask him (Vittor) to resign because, of' course, he'd be replaced by a l>mnocrat. It's nasier to ask Larry Craig to resign because he'd be replaced by a Hepublican." 
Idaho has a Hepublican gov­ernor who will appoint a suc­cessor to Craig. Louisiana's govnrnor is a l>nmocrat. 
Craig of' Idaho pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct in a mnn 's restroom and announced Saturday he will lnave the Senate at the end of the month. lie was caught in a sex sting at the Minneapolis­St. Paul airport in June and, despite his guilty plea, now insists he did nothing wrong. 
Vitter of Louisiana has not been charged with a crime although he acknowledged his Washington telephone num­ber was among those called several years ago by an escort service. 
Prosecutors say the escort service was a prostitution ring and have accused the woman who headed it of racketeering. 
Craig's conduct was "embarrassing not only to himself and his family but to the United States Senate," said Ensign. Before Craig's announcement, Ensign had strongly suggested that he resign. 
Another Hepublican, Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, said on "Fox News Sunday" that Craig should seek to vindicate him­self. 
''I'd like to see Larry Craig seek to withdraw the guilty plea, and fight the case," said Specter, the top Hepublican on the Senate Judiciary Committee. "I'd like to see him fight the case because I think he could be vindicated." 
Regardless of any legal developments in Craig's case, Hepublicans clearly would frown on Craig changing his mind about quitting the Senate Sept. 30 -and leaving the party with a festering cor­ruption issue. 
Ed Gillespie, President Bush's counselor and a former chairman of the Republican Party, acknowledged that ethi­cal scandals have hurt the GOP. lie predicted that by 2008, the party "will not have candidates who have any kind of ethical considerations that will be a concern to the vot­ers." 
Gillespie agreed with Ensign that Craig's guilty plea made his case difTereillt from that of Vitter. 
"The fact is that Sen. Craig pled guilty to a crime, and therefore was convicted of a crime. Sen. Vitter has not been charged with a crime, let alone convicted of one. So there's a pretty big distinction here," Gillespie said on "Fox." 
Despite Craig's decision to leave the Senate, Democratic Senate campaign chief Charles Schumer, of New York, sought to keep the cor­ruption issue alive. Ile accused Republicans of failing to support ethics reform when they were in the majority. 
"What the American people are looking for !is not a blame game, but who is trying to clean it up," Schumer said on "This Week." 
"For six years, there was no ethics reform," he said. 
The New York senator defended Democratic actions in a new fundraising scandal. A party fundraiser, Norman Hsu, had been a fugitive since failing to appear for a 1992 sentencing. 
1-lsu, who had pleaded no contest in 1991 to grand theft, turned himself in Friday in California. He raised money for Democratic presidential contenders Barack Obama and Hillary Hodham Clinton. 
"We've already given money back," Schumer said. "Nobody knew he was a fugitive. When we found out something was wrong, we returned the money." 

13-year-old found dead after ATV accident 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX, Ariz. -A 13­year-old girl who fell into a brush-cove red mine shaft while riding an all-terrain vehicle was found dead at the bottom Sunday, and her 10­year-old sister was rescued with serious injuries, author­ities said. 
The girls, 13-year-old Hikki Howard and 10-year-old Casie Hicks, were out for a holiday weekend ride around 7 p.m. Saturday when their father, who was riding ahead 
of  them  on  a  dirt  bike,  
noticed the girls  were  miss­ 
ing.  

"They were driving along and they went into the mine. It was a total accident," Mohave County Sheriff's Department spokeswoman Sandy Edwards said. 
The mine, believed to be inactive, is located in Chloride, about 17 miles north of Kingman. It was next to a dirt road, concealed by brush and had no signs or barriers. 
Sheriff's personnel searched throughout the night, but they weren't able to follow the ATV's tracks into the-125-foot mine shaft until 6:20 a.m. Sunday. The team walked by the site overnight because the hole was covered. she said. 
When the entrance was dis­covered, the father called out and one of the girls answered, officials said. Crews later rappelled into the mine and found the girls and the vehicle at the bot­tom. 
The 10-year-old girl was 
transported to University Medical Center in Las Vegas, Edwards said. She was in critical condition Sunday afternoon, a hospital spokesman said. The family declined to comment through the hospital. 
Seth Johnson, a neighbor of the girls and their family's landlord, said the two were half-sisters. Their family was at the Las Vegas hospital, he said. 
"It's an awful shock," Johnson said. "Their parents are very distraught." 
Cathy Kelso, a bus driver, said she has been driving the two girls to school for a year and a half'. "They're little sweetheart girls," she said. "I just keep hoping it's not true, but it's horrible." 
Laurie Swartzbaugh. deputy director of the Arizona State Mine Inspector's office, said that the mine had not been used for some time, and that the office was investigating. She said abandoned mines are common in the state, and that since Jan. 1, the office has secured 108 of them. 
"There's a significant amount of abandoned mines out there that are hazardous to the public's health," she said. "Most of those mines are from old prospectors who would go in and they would mine and they'd just pick up leave." 
It was not immediately clear who owned the mine. Swartzbaugh said many abandoned mines date back to the early 1900s and that sometimes it's not possible to track down who owns them. 
Miners' families mourn at Utah site 
Associated l'ress 
SALT LAKE CITY -The Crandall Cranyon mine has become a tomb, leaving the rami­tins of the six men trapped inside with no clear way to say good­bye. 
With the search for the miners lost in an Aug. 6 collapse sus­pended, relatives are now faced with finding a way to grieve for and remember Kerry Allred, Don Erickson, Luis Hernandez, Carlos Payan, Brandon Phillips and Manuel Sanchez -even though the men's bodies were never found. 
The experience of having a lovnd one permanently entombed in a mountain is much like hav­ing a family member lost at sea or missing in action in war, said Dale Lund, a professor at the University of Utah who is an export on bereavement. 
"It's prntty hard to come to that elosure when you don't see the body and don't have the certainty of what really happened," he said. "In this particular ease, you probably have more uncnrtainty. Evnn if' you bnlinved th1~ pnrson is dnceasnd at this point, it's un1·lnar about how thn death nxperiencn oecurrPd." 
Bnscue nl'f'orts at tlw Crandall Canyon Mine were suspended indnlinitely l'riday. when ol'lidals said conditions wPre too danger­ous to continue searching. 1'hree rescuers working underground were killed in a second collapse Aug. 16, bringing an abrupt halt to tunnel-clearing efforts to reach the miners. 
Teams had drilled seven holes deep into the mountain, but found no signs of life. After a robotic camera became stuck in mud in one hole Friday, federal offieials said they had run out of options and told families the search was ending. 
There are no plans for a memorial at the mine yet. Colin King, a lawyer and spokesman for all six families, said funeral plans and memorial services wouldn't be discussed with the families for at least a week. 
"It's too early and nobody's had a chance to think about it up to now," King said Saturday, one day after federal officials called off the search. 
However, at the urging of Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman, community members have organized a memorial service on Sept. 9 on the football tield at a junior high school in lluntington, about 120 miles southeast of Salt Lake City. 
"I think (a) memorial may b1) a good way for the family and com­munities who have been touched by this tragNly to move toward closure and healing," said Huntsman's spokeswoman, Lisa Hoskelley. 




Confirmation 

Monday, September 3 
-5:30 -6:30 pm 

Sunday, September 9-5:30-6:30pm 

Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Contact: Fr. John Conley 631-7888 or 
John & Sylvia Dillon 631-7163 
C-M 
c·a.rnpu:i !\1irustr) 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, September 3, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow Jones  13,357.74  +119.01  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,795  75  477  2,750,512,433  
AMEX  
 
NASDAQ  2,596.36  + 31.06  
NYSEw*'~.  ·:·~%  

S&P 500  1,473.99  +16.35  
NIKKEI·(Tokyo)  
FTSE 100 (London)  6,303.30  +91.30  

COMPANY %CHANGE !GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEPIPTS (SPY) +0.99 +1.44 147.59 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.12 +0.54 48.87 NTEL CP (INTC) +1.86 +0.47 25.75 SUN MICROSYS (JAVA) +2.10 +0.11 5.36 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.78 +0.035 4.537 13-WEEK BILL +6.97 +0.260 3.990 30-YEAR BOND +0.12 +0.006 4.831 5-YEAR NOTE +0.83 +0.035 4.251 
Commodities 

+0.68 74.04 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) 
+8.00 681.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
-1.60 90.40 
Exchan e Rates 

YEN 115.8600 EURO 0.7331 POUND 0.4959 CANADIAN $ 1.0536 
IN BRIEF 
China accused of illegal subsidies 
GENEVA -The World Trade Organization opened a formal investigation Friday into alle­gations by the U.S. and Mexico that China is providing illegal subsidies for a range of industries. 
The two countries accuse Beijing of using WTO-prohibited tax breaks to encourage Chinese companies to boost exports, while imposing tax and tariff penalties to limit pur­chases of foreign products in China. 
Beijing blocked a separate probe of its rules for protecting intellectual property rights. But the move will probably only delay the creation of a panel until the next meeting of the WTO's dispute body in September, when Washington can bring up the issue again. 
Wall Street closes out erratic week 
NEW YORK-Wall Street closed out anoth­er erratic week with a big gain Friday after investors took comments from President Bush and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke as reassuring signs Wall Street won't be left to deal with problems in the mortgage and cred­it markets on its own. 
Investors balked early in Friday's session when comments from Bernanke didn't indi­cate a cut in the benchmark federal funds rate was imminent. However, they moved past some of their initial disappointment and appeared to concentrate on comments that the Fed would step in if needed. 
Bernanke, speaking at the Fed's annual conference in Jackson Hole, Wyo., said the central bank will "act as needed" to prevent the credit crisis from hurting the national economy. 
The major indexes fluctuated but by midday extended their gains after President Bush spoke about details of a plan to help borrow­ers facing trouble paying their mortgages. 
"You've got all the speeches working for the market here," said Michael Church, portfolio manager at Church Capital Management in Philadelphia. "What we've seen in the last few weeks is that Ben Bernanke and the Federal Heserve are paying attention to what's going on. They will help correct the credit markets. For now, we're in a trading range and we have to sort through this mess." 
JAPAN 

Social security system mismanaged 
Retired citizens angry over serious flaws, lost records in troubled pension program 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -After reading 
a book this year about 
serious flaws in Japan's 
pension system, retired 
deliveryman Yoshikazu 
!Iirano thought he'd check 
his own records just to be 
safe. 
He's glad he did: The 74­
year-old discovered the 
government had short­
changed him by 460,000 
yen ($3,770) in benefits he 
accrued while driving a 
truck for three years in the 
1950s and '60s. 
Hirano wasn't alone. 
Shortly afterward, the gov­
ernment confessed to los­
ing track of pension 
records linked to an 
astounding 64 million 
claims -igniting a scan­
dal that has punished the 
ruling party at the polls 
and eroded confidence in 
the ability of the world's 
second largest economy to 
support its growing legions 
of elderly. 
Hirano, who is single and 
lives outside Tokyo, felt 
defrauded. "Had I not 
asked, I would have never 
gotten the money back," 
he said. 
The pension mess, fully 
disclosed in May, has land­
ed on one of the world's 

fastest-aging societies: 21 report released in July third for public servants. $25 billion and $175 bil­
percent of its 127. million alleged widespread incom­With 70 million members lion. 
inhabitants are 65 or older petence at the Social and $1.3 trillion in Hirano has recovered his 
and some 25 million Insurance Agency: records reserves, it is one of the missing money in a one­
retirees are collecting pen­kept in yellowing files world's largest. time payment, but his case 
sions, rising to 35 million instead of on computers, The panel found internal is rare. The agency says it 
by 2040. evidence of possible agency documents indicat­has cleared up only about 
People have flooded pen­embezzlement of funds, ing embezzlement of pen­40 cases since the scandal 
sion offices and 24-hour and rampant clerical mis­sion money by employees. erupted. 
call centers seeking to takes. But the fund's flaws were It's not the first time the 
check their records, and "The organization had largely clerical; it failed to agency has been in trou­
titles such as "Recover little sense of compliance," properly match some 50 ble. 
your pension!" fill book­said the report, which million claim records with In 2004, a series of scan­
stores and newsstands. blamed the mess on faulty the correct individuals, dals led to the arrest of a 
The confusion has hit governance, low morale, and more than 14 million senior official on bribery 
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. lack of professionalism and records aren't computer­charges. A string of 
The outrage contributed to ignorance of "the duty to ized, meaning they can't agency-run resorts have 
a plunge in his popularity protect the people's be readily retrieved when suffered massive losses. In 
and forced him to delay an rights." claims are submitted. 2005, the agency disci­
upper house election for a The agency was estab­The government has not plined nearly 3,300 staff 
week -to no avail, since lished a decade ago to released an estimate for for various types of mis­
his ruling party was unify three separate pen­the number of people conduct including accept­
trounced at the polls any­sion organizations -one affected or amount of ing questionable gifts and 
way, though he remains in for self-employed or non­money involved, so esti­money from office suppli­
office. workers, another for com­mates of the sum in limbo ers, an agency report 
An interim government pany employees, and the fluctuate widely, between shows. 

Hollywood revenues up 8 percent 
Hollywood did not set a movie other entertainment choices.
Associated Press 

attendance record, though. Factoring "Everyone should be very happy 
LOS ANGELES -Hollywood lived in annual rises in admission prices, with the result. The movie industry is its own second-chance "Rocky" story about 606 million tickets were sold alive and well, in comparison to this summer as a bHsiness that this summer, up 3 percent from maybe what was being said a few looked to be going down for the 2006. But the season was only the years ago," said Rory Bruer, head of count two years ago rebounded with sixth-best for modern Hollywood, distribution for Sony, which started record revenue and an unparalleled whose biggest summer for atten­the summer with a record-breaking string of blockbuster hits. dance since the golden age of the $151.1 million opening weekend for 
The movie industry had its first $4 1930s, '40s and '50s came in 2002, "Spider-Man 3" and also released billion summer and will finish with a when 653.4 million tickets were sold, "Superbad," which is on its way to haul of about $4.15 billion from the according to Media By Numbers. becoming a $100 million hit. first weekend in May through Labor Still, it was a sharp turnaround "Spider-Man 3" was quickly fol­Day, according to box-office tracker from summer 2005, when attendance lowed by DreamWorks Animation's Media By Numbers. plunged 11.5 percent compared to "Shrek the Third" and Disney's 
That was up 8 percent from last the previous summer and critics pre­"Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's summer and surpassed the previous dicted the movie industry would con­End," the third installments in those high of $3.95 billion in summer tinue to decline as consumers turned three franchises all shooting past 2004. to home theaters, video games and $300 million domestically. 
---~-----­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Monday, September 3, 2007 

You gotta fight for your right 

page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, No1re Oamc, IN 46556 024 Suurh Dining Hall. Noire Dame, IN 46SS6 
Enrmn IN CIIIH 
Maddi~ I I ann<~ 
MANAGINC; EDITOII HUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowkr Kyk· West 
A.~ST. MANAGINC; EDITOR: Kyk-Cassily AssT. MANA<;JNG EDITOII: Mary Kate Malott<· 
Nt'WS EDITOR: Karen Lmglcy 
VIEWPOINT El>ITOI!: joey King 
SPORTS ElliTOIIS: Chris Khorcy Chris !line SCI'NE EunoR: '!at· Andn·w~ 
SAINT MAllY's El>ITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO Eorron: Du•tin Mennella 
GRAI'IIICS Ennun: M.1Jdine Nics 
ADVEI!TISING MANAGEII: Jessica Cortez 
AD 0ESH;N MANAGf.ll: Kelly (;ronli CoNTROI.I.ER: Tim Sobok-wski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 63 I -6900 observad@nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 6.\1-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.J @nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.cdu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.cdu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
snlC.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
!HE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
'I 'he Observer is the independent, daily newspapt•r published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Norrc Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's ( :olkgc. Edirorial comcnt, including advertisements, is not governed by polkies of the adminisrration ofeither institution. The Observer rt-scrves rhc right to refuse advertiscm<·nt~ hased on contt'nt. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials rcprcscm rhc opinion of the majority of tht· Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, As;istant Managing Editors and dcpartmem editors. Cnmmentarics. letters and columns presem the views of the authors and not nt'Ct'SSarily those ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoim space i~ available to all readers. The free t'Xprt·ssion of all opinions through lctrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include conran inforrnarion. 
Qtwtiow rrgarrling Obsrrver policirs should br dimud to Editor i11 ChiifMaddir Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'I he l)h.,..Tvrr ilJSI'S "ii)'J l-4000) i1 puhiWu·cl Mundo~y thruutth frid•y~-ept thmng cx~n• ~ml YJl'.t!U>II J'C'ItOlh AIUI~rlt'''"lllu !he (Jbkrver j, SIOH for <!fll' ~~.ltlcllll(' 
YC'.tr; $~') fiu IIIII: IICIIIC'Sit'f 
flu: Oh.crvtt i\ puhha.hnl Jl 
Ul4 \uurh Dmiugll.1ll Send uldtcsY currccrinn• m· 
Nunc [ 1,m1c. IN 4tl">"ifi..Q779 lbc:Uh~rvc:r 
Pt:r•odiuiJMNto!g<: p•l,f .11 Nou-c O.amc r.o Bmt 779 
Jlul ~tddiriun~l m.:~Hina ofli(c:\. 024 Sumh Dinin~ H.1U 
Nntrt" D.mu:, IN 4M56·077'1 
Tin.• ol,.erver i~ Ymrrnbttr ut rhe A.uoc:u1td 1'1ea.. AJI r~pwdm..11nn rtKh'" .m· 
rut"rVII:\j, 
Tlw day aftnr the Senate voted to authorize eavesdropping without war­rants on international communications, including those involving Amoricans in tlw U.S., the heads of' Notre Damp's stu­dent governnwnt alerted their con­Andrea Laidman stituents to an alarming throat 
High Sounding
to constitutional 
Words
rights in our daily 
lives: a new 
Common Council ordinance regulating 
"special PVPnts" in South BPnd. 
Nothing short of a revolution-on the scale of' Notre Dame student activism, that is -has ensued. 
Notre Dame students have organized in unprecedented numbers, as evi­denced by chains of' outraged e-mails planning responses and action, multiple articles in the South Bend Tribune quot­ing eoncerned students and the Facebook group, "Fight the new South Bend City Ordinance," which has gath­nred over 2,400 members in a matter of days since student government's e-mail in early August. 
The online group's profile calls the ordinance "a directed effort to hamper the living quality of a group of people who are an easy target and don't have a lobbying interest in the government." The group's creators question the legali­ty of an ordinance "restricting a private gatlu~ring on private property" and "tar­geting a specific subgroup of the popula­tion." 
The anti-ordinance Facebook group even raises the possibility of aid from the American Civil Liberties Union: "The ACLU, as much as they are maligned, does do some good and may be able to help us in this situation." But most ACLU representatives in the news in recent weeks have focused on the new wiretap.. ping measures as a major violation of civil rights, somehow overlooking those 

fighting the good fight at Notre Dame. 
And so, while Democrats like Hillary 
and Bara1:k and newspapers like the 
New York Times express their outrage 
and dismay at the failure of a 
Democratic Congress to resist another 
"stampede" by the Bush administration, 
and while the founding fathers presum­
ably roll over in their graves at the 
trampling of the basic values of' our 
nation, Notre Dame students fight f'or 
their right to party. 
It's not that I fail to see the absurdity 
of a city ordinance that addresses "spe­
cial events" of 25 or more guests at 
"boarding houses" or that I don't recog­
nize that the South Bend Common 
Council's proposal intentionally targets 
student parties. 

I simply can't help but question the 
political priorities of' our students -and 
really, our generation ~ when issues 
from war and political corruption to 
poverty and disease in Africa elicit 
responses from students that pale in 
comparison to the current indignation 
over the proposed South Bend ordi­
nance. 

I simply can't help but ask, where was · this type of activism as stories broke 
about abuses of detainees-ineluding 
American citizens ~ held without 
charge at Guantanamo Bay? 
Where were outraged students dis­
cussing "a group of people who are an 
easy target arid don't have a lobbying 
interest in the government" when 
Hurrieane Katrina revealed shocking 
levels of poverty and a pitifully inade­
quate federal response'? Yes, hundreds 
of Notre Dame students have spent time 
repairing homes along the Gulf Coast, 
but where was the political savvy and 
willingness to protest that we're demon­
strating now? 

Where was this level of awareness 
when a classified CIA agent's identity 
was exposed to the press by core mem­hers of the eurnmt White I louse, putting at risk the agm1t's lif'n and mission of protecting our nation? 
Om~ explanation is that these national issues do not afl'ect our daily livos as students. It follows, according to this mentality, that students get most involvfld when something impacts tlwir campus-sonwthing like the Common Council ordinance. 
But I don't buy it. 
If impact on campus is what fuels such a heatnd, student-led response, where wore Notre Dame sturlnnts when emi­nent Muslim scholar Tariq Bamadan was denied entrance to the U.S., and therefore tlw opportunity to teach at Notrn Dame, over s£woral hundred dol­lars of contributions he made to Islamic charities? 
Where worn these eoalition-building efforts when last wonk's npisodc outside Club 23 revealed a need for dialogue with members of' the South Bend com­munity over an incidnnt and issue that certainly impacts the lives of Notre Dame students'? 
Where were Notre Dame students'? 
At special nvents and social gathnrings in rnsidnntial areas and at homes zoned as boarding houses, whore over 25 guests could have aceess to alcohol. 
That's just one answer, hut I think it explains a lot about the current student opposition and political battle in South Bend. 
Andrea Laidman is a senior political science and peace studies major. !fer column's title recalls advice given to John Adams by his wife, Abigail: "We have too many high sounding words. and too few actions that correspond with them. "She can be contacted at alaidman@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obser/Jer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Karen Langley Dan Murphy Katie Kohler Michael Bryan Marcela Berrios Ellyn Michalak Is it safe to live off campus? 
"Is boredom an!fthing less than the
l.iz Itarter Scene 
sense ofone sJacujties slowly 
Elizabeth Israel Tae Andrews 
dymg?

Graphics Viewpoint Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. Jared Wafer Lianna at www.ndsmcobserver.corn John Berger 
Brauweiler author 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, September 3, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Quality of Notre Dallle education has risen 
I commend Professor Charles Rice for proposing that Notre Dame move to adopt a "no-loan" student aid policy ASAP. 
However, in his most recent column ("Addressing the tuition increase," Aug. 29), he repeats one of his recurrent themes, that somehow an undergradu­ate education at Notre Dame has less­ened in quality since 1978, when he says the University first moved to a search for status as a nationally recog­nized Catholic research university. (I think that particular choice of dates would have surprised the very ambi­tious esc priest who was provost at that time.) 
I graduated from Notre Dame at the end of Father Hesburgh's first year (1952-1953) as president, and before the 1950s were through, the handwrit­ing "monumental changes ahead" was clearly on the wall, discernible by all but the most myopic. "Bachelor dons," some of them monk-like, some of them good drinking buddies, were on the way out. An increasingly professionalized faculty, recruited as "best available" to fill the open slots, was becoming the norm. I'm sure Professor Rice was one of them. 

My oldest child graduated from the University in 1978, my youngest in 1992. There simply is no question that the education they received was infinite­ly superior to that available here in my generation, particularly in the College of Science, from which I graduated. All the evidence available to me indicates that upward trend in the quality of under­graduate education at Notre Dame has accelerated over the last 15 years. 
Whether its dollar value is currently greater than Princeton's is another mat­ter, and Professor Rice and I agree that Notre Dame's move to a "no loan" policy is imperative. 
Ed Manier professor emeritus philosophy department Aug. 31 

Bu1nper sticker Inay send wrong Inessage 
The final shot of a video featured on the revamped Notre Dame Web site is distressing. It draws attention away from the University's impressive incoming class, which the rest of the three-minute video highlights, and should be edited to remove the political bumper sticker it includes. 
The video, entitled "A New Home Under the Dome," spotlights the arrival of the incoming first-year class. The class. the video tells us, consists ofjust under 2,000 students from an appli­cant pool of 14,500 -an exceedingly exclusive and bright bunch indeed. Impressive, too, is that the class is dis­tinguished by greater ethnic diversity than any other group in Notre Dame's history, with over 25 percent of the students being minority. Both signs of progress, to be sure. 
Unfortunately, though, the video ends in the following way: The camera holds on a close-up of the vanity license plate on the back of a recently unloaded SUV. As the car drives away, we see the "Bush/Cheney in '04" bumper sticker next to the Notre Dame vanity license plate. As graduates of the University who also grew up a mile from campus, we are well aware that there is nothing decidedly false or inaccurate about the contiguity of a Notre Dame vanity plate and a Republican bumper sticker. However, as alumnae who do not approve of most of the Bush administration's for­eign or domestic policies, we hate to think that this shot in some way sig­nals the University's endorsement of the Bush/Cheney administration and its past or future decisions. 

As alumnae from the Classes of 1994 and 2003, we too applaud this year's incoming class and look forward to the promise of the future they can help create. We hope that their Notre Dame education will provide them with the tools to think critically, to act as engaged citizens of this country and the many other countries they repre­sent, and, most importantly, to be guid­ed in their work to act justly toward the most vulnerable members of the global community. At its best, this is what four years of a Notre Dame edu­cation afforded each of us, thanks to so many excellent and committed Notre Dame professors and staff members. 
We urge the University administra­tion to continue striving to make Notre Dame a place that is open-minded, a place of thoughtful exchange, a place where many viewpoints are welcome and a place whose identity, fortunately, is not tied with any particular politi­cian or political party. (And we urge the Web site administrators to review this video and consider editing the shot before the partisan bumper sticker appears!) 
Mary Kate Goodwin-Kelly, Maura Kelly alumnae Class of 1994, Class of 2003 Aug. 30 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


---------------------------------------------~-­
-c-----­
THE 0HSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Monday, September 3, 2007 


By DAMON JASON Staff Writer 
This year's version of Madden is the third year the immensely popular series has appeared on next-gen con­soles. Fans of the series will rnmflmber choppy animations, control issues, reduced game play options and awk­ward character models have plagued thn snries for the last two years. So 
how does Madden 'OS fare  on  third  
down?  
Thn  issues  above  have  been  

addressed and tweaked, with mixed results. Veteran players will notice a much revamped control system that is admittedly a little too complex at first. It will take some time to master all of tlw pre-play dnfcnsivc/offensive con­trols. Traditional defensive playmaker 1:ontrols remain relatively unchanged, as do most of the post-snap defensive controls. 
When playing the game, a new addi­tion you will notice is that little icons surround major players and designate what type of "weapon" that player is. Thorn are tons of dnsignations, includ­ing multiple p11r position. Hunning backs suited for pounding the ball inside, such as Hudi Johnson. are "Power Back" weapons. More shifty backs, lik11 Stnphen .Jackson, are desig­nated "Elusive Back" or "Stiff Arm Ball Carrier" and are more adept at break­ing and avoiding tackles. In addition, each weapon has a complimentary opposite. For example, big play receivers are vulnerable to big hitters. 
Some players are given the "smart" quarterback or defender designation. After a certain defense has been called multiple times, a meter fills up, and when activated, these "smart" QBs, such as Peyton Manning, can see the defensive formation on the fields and attack these holes. 
"Smart" defenders, on the other hand. are able to react with greater probability to where the ball is going to be. This is cspeeially helpful with cor­ners like Champ Bailey, who are much more likely to get the drop on a pass and create an interception. 
One notable change is the llit Stick. Flicking the Hit Stick up or down with your right thumb will cause you to hit a player high or low, and the choice of which to choose can mean the differ­ence between a fumble and a missed tackle. It is better to hit Power Backs low to throw them off their center of gravity, while you should almost always hit Elusive Backs high to try and cause them to cough up the ball. 
This brings up a point of contention in this year's version of Madden. In an effort to create a more realistic and 
lower scoring game, 
developer EA Tiburon has modified the defense to the point where turnovers occur way too often. Fumbles definitely happen frequently, even when the offense is protecting the ball. Interceptions, howev­er, occur way too often. Interceptions from bad passes are understandable .. but too often defenders get an extra step on open 

08 after winning the Rookie of the Year Award last season. 


receivers to force interceptions. 
Franchise mode is finally back, with most previous features completely intact and with a few new wrinkles thrown in. The best new feature here is the ability to train individual players each week. For example, you have a quarterback who has a "Cannon Arm" designation, like Rex Grossman, but has some accuracy issues. 
You can fix this by forcing "Sexy Hexy'' to practice accuracy drills. The amount of points you accumulate in these drills converts directly into that player's ability ratings. Therefore, you can upgrade Grossman's accuracy from "sub par" to "almost competent." 
New this year is the off-season finance mode, in which you can man­age finances, purchase stadium upgrades, choose sponsors and many other options. You even have the possi­bility of moving your team to a new city and changing its uniforms and logos. This is a novel feature that tits into the game very well. 
All things aside, Madden NFL '08 is a solid addition to the Madden lineage. While certain shortcomings such as the massive amount of turnovers during game play, no true in-game commen­tary (why is this so hard if EA has the ESPN license'?) and weak online play hold this title back from bning truly innovative, Madden NFL 'OS is still a great game. 
Contact Damon Jason at djason@nd.edu 
Here Come the Irish After being drafted 22nd overall, quarterback Brady Quinn has traded in Notre Dame blue and gold for Cleveland Brown and has a chance to start at quarterback sometime this season. Now you can put yourself in his cleats and play as him in Madden 2008. 

Stat  Ratings  
Overall:  77  
Speed:  77  
Strength:  66  
Agility:  74  
Throw Power:  86  
Throw Accuracy:  84  
Awareness:  62  



Photo courtesy of msnbc.com 
Assessment: While he doesn't have the earth shattering ratings that Irish fans have enjoyed for the past few years in EA's NCAA College Football, Quinn is given a lot of love for a rookie quarter­back. High marks in power and accuracy means he will be able to hit a streaking Braylon Edwards downfield, but low marks in 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 
awareness make him very susceptible to sacks. Overall, the virtual 

Although he's no longer under center here at ND, you can play as NFL rookie BQ QB is a solid player, much like his real-world counterpart. Brady Quinn and air it out in Madden 2008. After all, chicks d1g the long ball. 


NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, September 3, 2007 BSERVER Georgia Tech 33, Notre Dame 3 


A Ramblin' Wreck 
Georgia Tech crushes Notre Dame 33-3 in. season opener 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
The post-Brady Quinn era at Notre Dame began Saturday with a failed spread option experi­ment against a stout Georgia Tech defense. Three quarter­backs saw the field in a 33-3 defeat -the worst opening­game loss at home in school his­tory. 
"Obviously you have to give credit to Georgia Tech because they are a good football team," Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said. "But the flipside of that is that when the team is not ready to go, OK, which we obviously weren't, OK. Who else are you going to blame but yourself? I'm the head coach. It's my responsi­bility." 
After weeks of suspense, the curtain was finally lifted to reveal Demetrius Jones as the Notre Dame starting quarterback, but Georgia Tech's Tashard Choice stole the show, running for two touehdowns and a eareer-high 196 yards. 
"We knew we eould win the game," Choice said. "But we wanted to come out and make a statement, and I think we did that." 
For most of the first half, Weis played the dual-threat Jones over Evan Sharpley and Jimmy Clausen, who are both more tra­ditional pocket-style passers. Weis also altered his offensive scheme from the pro-style pass­ing attack Notre Dame ran under Brady Quinn the past two sea­sons. 
Weis, known for his complex passing offenses and a tendency to abandon the ground game "What we are trying to do is defense, and scampered 22 to play great today." one scoring drive, taking the when struggling, used the run we felt we could keep the game yards down the sideline for the While Bennett had his strug­Irish as far as the Georgia Tech almost exclusively in the first relatively close and play in a first touchdown of the game that gles, they were nothing com­two-yard line before settling for a half, choosing to keep the ball on more intermediate type of put the Yellow Jackets up 16-0. pared to the trouble Notre 22-yard Brandon Whitaker fleld the ground in 19 of Notre Dame's game," Weis said. "We figured Choice would add a seven-yard Dame's three quarterbacks faced goal. first 24 plays. The majority of they were going to be getting score early in the fourth quarter. against the blitz-happy Yellow Highly-touted freshman quar­those runs came out of the shot­after us pretty good and one of "Our veteran offensive line did Jacket defense. Defensive coordi­terback Jimmy Clausen did enter gun spread formation -an the ways we felt we could try and a great job of opening holes for nator John Tenuda sent constant the game with just under nine offense suited to take advantage slow down and neutralize them me," Choice said. "The receivers pressure after the Irish signal minutes to play, drawing cheers of Jones' running ability. is try to run the football and try had a couple of key down-field callers, resulting in nine Georgia from fans despite the 33-3 score­
"I knew they have a very sound not to have negative plays." blocks as well. They made my Tech sacks. board. Clausen went on to com­defensive scheme, and they have While the Irish struggled great­job easy. By the second half, "They're a really aggressive plete 4-of-6 passes for 34 yards very good players," Weis said. ly to run the football, Georgia everything seemed to be wide defense," said Notre Dame cen­with no touchdowns or intercep­"Especially with our experience Tech had few problems. The open." ter John Sullivan. "When a really tions. level, we thought that the best Yellow Jackets ran Choice early Choice's performance also aggressive defense that blitzes a Weis said he did not know way to go against them was to and often, entering the Notre eased the burden of first year lot, moves a lot, executes well, it which quarterback would start run the football. And we felt that Dame red zone on their flrst four Yellow Jacket starting quarter­can be a long day for an offense." next week at Penn State. Demetrius as an additional run­possessions, but the Irish defense back Taylor Bennett. Playing in The majority of the Yellow "I think I'm going to need 48 ner eould provide us some plays limited the damage to only nine his flrst true road game, Bennett Jackets' sacks came after junior hours," Weis said. "We're going where we would be able to move points. completed 11 of 23 passes for Evan Sharpley entered the game to watch the tape tomorrow and the ball." The game turned late in the 121 yards with no touchdowns or with just over two minutes left in critically evaluate where the 
Despite their persistence in first half after a personal foul interceptions, and he drew the first half. Running Weis' problems are and go about fixing running the ball, the Irish penalty on Notre Dame defensive mixed reviews from Georgia more traditional offense, them so that when we go to achieved little success in the first lineman Justin Brown. The Irish Tech head coach Chan Gailey. Sharpley completed 10-of-13 Happy Valley, we are not having half. gaining 53 yards in 26 had stopped the Yellow Jackets "He did some really good passes for 90 yards, but Georgia this same conversation next attempts. Weis, however, was on third down, but Brown's things, and he missed some Tech's seven saeks on Sharpley Saturday night." determined to establish a run­penalty extended the drive. throws that I've seen him make prevented the Irish from mount­ning game, and Jones threw only Choice then took a direct snap, 50 times in practice," Gailey said. ing any sort of comeback. Contact Greg Arbogast at three passflS in the first half. found the edge of the Irish "The great thing is he didn't have Sharpley did lead Notre Dame's garbogas@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Tashard Choice  -8  Tashard Choice's 22-yard touchdown run  "!felt that the offense hung the defense out to dry. "  
Choice carried the bal/26 times for 196 yards and two touchdowns, exploiting problems on the outside of  Notre Dame's net rushing yardage on 41 attempts.  The run gave Georgia Tech a r 6-o lead with 2:44 left in the first half  Charlie Weis Irish coach  
Notre Dame's 3-4 personnel scheme.  

report card 
quarterbacks: Jones and SharpleyC-showed their irwxperience, but the ofl'pnsive line did not help to settle them in thnir first game. Clausen throw decently in six att1~mpts. 
C+ 
running backs: Thomas struggled, but sometimes the backs are only as good as thnir line. Armando Allen averagnd 
ovnr eight yards per carry-but only 
saw the ball three times. 
8 
receivers: The receivers eould not do much because the quarterbacks were busy bPing sacknd. But when the ball 
did manage to mach them, nobody 
droppnd it. 
F 
offensive line: The line allow11d 19 tackles fi1r loss. and looked confusnd all day against the blitz. If Notre 
l>anw has any hope of salvaging this snason, tlw line must play bntter. 
defensive line: Laws and Kuntz played c wdl and stopped Choice inside, but Brown's disqualification late in the first half gave Georgia Tech a huge boost to victory. 
linebackers: The linebackers allowed 
C-
(:llllice to earn big gains on thn outside, but some of that came from tJ1e littigue 
of being on thn lidd so much early in the game. 
B 
defensive backs: Bruton had nine tackles, induding a sack, and the secondary only allowed 121 yards through the air. 
Grantnd, there was no Calvin Johnson, but this was a stnp in the right direction. 
C-
special teams: Prien only had one good punt, while the return games were avnrage. Whitaker had two solid kick­oils and Walker hit his field goal. 
coaching: Weis' ganwplan was disastrous 
F 
and thn ollimse struggled against 
(;eorgia Tm~h lhr tim second year in a 
row. Something must improve or this will be a long season li1r l~ms. 
overall: '1111~ Irish w1~re not ready to liux• Georgia ·n~eh. Fmm the r.om~hing stall'on down, everybody 
1.70 
shares somn blan1n tbr tJm total mdtdown that o1x~ured Saturday. 
adding up the nuinbers 
Georgia Tech's sack total. The Yellow Jackets 
g
brought down Demetrius Jones and Jimmy Clausen once and Evan Sharpley seven times. 
-7 
Total yards starting running back Travis Thomas had on seven carries. Weis said Thomas will start again next week against Penn State. 
Third downs Notre Dame converted in 16 attempts. 
5 
3 
Consecutive losses Charlie Weis has in home opening games during his tenure as Notre 
Dame coach. 
Completed passes thrown by Notre Dame's start­
1 
ing quarterback, Demetrius Jones. 
3 Tailbacks who received at least one carry Saturday. Thomas and Aldridge had six, Allen had three. 
Yards Georgia Tech running back Tashard Choice averaged per carry. 
7.5 
1 ()() 
Yards lost by Notre Dame either on sacks or tackles for loss. 


Charlie Weis, where are you? 
Brady Quinn and JolT Sarnardzija 
graduated, Darius Walker left, and 
the offensive genius disappeared ­
at least for now. 
And the rea­
son seems to be 
totally unbefit­
ting or the ubnr­
confident Weis. 
Notre Dame's head coach, though he spends most his time as the de facto offensive coordinator, decided to stick with a cocka­mamie idea to compensate for a lack of confidence unbefitting of his self-prodaimed New Jersey bravado. 
Weis was afraid. Because of elbow surgery and rehabilitation, Jimmy Clausen was not ready to start at quarterback, and Demetrius Jones beat Evan Sharpley for the job. But it's elear that Weis wasn't comfort­able with his most important player. After the loss -Notre Dame's worst since the abysmal 2003 campaign -Weis talked about how he wanted to minimize the passing game to avoid turnovers. 
Weis thought he could run all day on Georgia Tech's heavy-blitzing defense. John Tenuta, the Yellow Jacket's defensive coordinator, shut down opponents last year with up­the-gut pressure. There was one major exception to Tenuta's success: West Virginia. 
The Mountaineers used the spread option to tear through the Georgia Tech defense in the Gator Bowl, which West Virginia won 38-35. 
Mountaineers quarterback Pat White threw for 131 yards and ran for another 145. Backup tailback Owen Schmitt, in for speedy Steve Slaton, ran 13 times for 109 yards, and West Virginia finished with 311 yards on the ground. 
So Weis met with West Virginia coach Hich Rodriguez, probably to swap offensive strategies. But Demetrius Jones isn't the established threat that Pat White is, the Notre Dame running backs haven't proven 

Ken f(Jiw!er 
Sports Writer 

themselves, and Weis decided he 
could beat Georgia Tech without 
throwing passes to keep the Yellow 
Jacket front seven oll'-balance. 
Worse yet, Weis didn't give Jones a fair chance to prove himself. Twnnty­seven plays, live called passes, three attempts, one completion. That's not the way to let your new "starter" know you have conl"idence in his passing ability. Nor is playing all three scholarship signal-callers in the first game. 
When it came down to crunch 
time, Notre Dame's three quarter­
backs threw 22 passes, with fifteen 
eompletions-with no interceptions. 
A seared Weis-maybe unsure in himself, maybe unsure beeause of what he saw in praetice -ham­strung his team. 
"We were hoping not to get into a game where we had to throw it a whole bunch of times," Weis said. "You know, we thought that going against Georgia Tech, especially with our experience level, we thought that the best way to go against them was to run the football." 
And why was that? 
"I knew that they have a very sound defensive scheme and they have good players," Weis said. "So we figured they were going to be get­ting after us pretty good and one of the ways we felt we could try and slow down and neutralize them is try to run the football and try not to have negative plays. 
" ... But in reality what we are try­ing to do is we felt we could keep the game relatively close and play in a more intermediate type of game, rather than, you know, throwing bomb's away and turning it into a home run game." 
That doesn't sound like the "nasty," confident, "6-6 is not good enough" Charlie Weis who replaeed a mid­dling coach with a penchant for blowout losses two and a half years ago. 
It sounds like a coach unsure what he should do, who he should play and how he should act. 
And a day later, new Charlie was as perplexing as he was immediately following the loss. 
"I think whoever the quarterback is, you have to build the offense 
around that guy," Weis said Sunday. 
" ... You still have to utilize the skills 
of thn person you're using at quar­
terback. 
I still have to wait and see which 
direction we're going to go and set it 
around what that guy can do 
because thon~·s no sense trying to do 
something the guy's not capable of 
doing." 
Charlie, it's time to make up your 
mind. 
Wois appears to be trying to mini­mize his losses. Ile said he picked Jones bncause, Weis boliovod, Jonos' offensive packago gave Notre Dame the best chanco to win. lie said he would use that same Iogie when picking a starter for Penn State. 
But now ho's talking about picking a quarterback and then determining the offense based on the quarter­back. The circular Iogie is madden­ing, and it seems all designed to min­imize his risks. 
Weis wants to have the best quar­terback on thn field. but he also wants to have the best oi'J'ensivn package. 
At some point, Weis must realize that trying to tit those varying pieces into the same hole is the reason why the offense was pathetic. At sonw point, Weis must make a decision to stick with an ofl'ense or stick with a quarterback and do what his team does best. 
Trying to do both leads to doing neither, and Weis' former self knew that. 
The Charlie Weis who stuck with his bread-and-butter against vaunted USC in 2005 made his players play to a level they haven't reaehed since. 
The Charlie Weis who pulled out gadget plays against the Trojans in 2006 and reckless l'akn punts against LSU in the Sugar Bowl this January has seen his team blown out three times in a row. 
The old Charlie Weis needs badly to come back if Notre Dame wants to be successful. 
And he needs to come back now. 
Contact Ken Fowler at ~fowler 1@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 

Monday, September 3, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Three QBs struggle to find groove 

By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Would it be the sophomore playmaker Demetrius Jones? Perhaps the junior with actual game experience in Evan Sharpley? Or could the unproven, but highly regarded freshman Jimmy Clausen take control of Notre Dame's quartnrback position? 
During the worst home opening loss in the program's history Saturday against Georgia Tech. Notre Dame coach Charlie Weds gave all three a chance to prove themselves at the position. Even though each player was able to get some experi­ence, not much was answered and a great deal regarding the stability of the position remains ambiguous. 
It was obvious when Jones led the Irish out of the locker room onto the field that he would get his first collegiate start. With the crowd behind him, he took the field attempting to make a statement. 
Just a.minute into the game, Jones' first drive was over after Georgia Tech's pressure forced a fumble. The following two oiTensive drives gained only 13 total yards and resulted in two punts. 
As the second quarter began, Jones was able to lead the offense down the field, but another Georgia Tech strip forced Jones' second fumble of the day, ending the surge. 
I knew that they have a very sound defensive scheme and they have good players," Weis said. 
"So we figured they were going to be getting after us pretty good and one of the ways we felt we could try and slow down and neutralize them is try to run tho football and try not to have negative plays." 
Aftor tho next two offensive possessions resulted in a net gain of zero yards, Weis decided to give Sharpley a shot. 
Jones finished with 12 rushes for 28 yards and only completed one pass on three attempts for four yards. He showed the ability to avoid the rush, but couldn't protect tho ball well enough to sustain drives. 
"It's disappointing," Jones said. "But everything happens for a roason and now we have to respond. It's part of football." 
While Jones was under center, Weis used the spread offense as the base scheme, employing shotgun sets with three and four wide receivers for over half of his plays. The rest of the plays consisted of either singlebaek or !-forma­tion sets, with Jones using his athleticism to try and make plays. 
Jones seemed to be more comfortable out of the shotgun thanks to his ability to see the field better and pick up the blitz, but the ofl'ensive line could not give him much help. 
"I think that we didn't do a very good job of being ready for the speed of the game," Weis said. 
Still, the offensive unit could not muster any effective drives to score points. 
Sharpley's first drive, which spanned seven plays for 17 yards, stalled, although he completed two of his three passes for nine yards. Sharpley was sacked seven times on the day and Weis said he would have to look at the tape to see who was at fault on those sacks. 
"I just have to make sure that when I'm 
Irish quarterback Demetrius Jones scrambles in Notre Dame's 33-3 loss Saturday to Georgia Tech. Jones ran for 28 yards on 12 carries. 
identifying problems, I know who is at fault. I mean, you know, too many times you sit there and blame the quarterback. Now there's certain things that you can't shun. certain things that are your responsibility. You turn, you fumble the ball; there's no one else you can blame," Weis said. "But as far as sacks or reads and all those other things, I think that is something that you have to make sure you watch the tape so you don't make the wrong deduction. 
Notre Dame's first drive of the second half proved to be the longest and most sustained of the game. Sharpley took control of the reigns once again and led the team down the field to score the first and only points of the game, a field goal from freshman Brandon Walker. 
In the drive, Sharpley went 5-of-6 for 42 yards, completing several key passes, one of which was fumbled during the snap. He adeptly recovered the ball and threw it to senior tight end John Carlson to create a gain out of a broken play. 
However, the scoring drive was largely sustained by two defensive penalties that resulted in first downs. 
Most of Sharpley's plays were from both singleback and shotgun sets. However, the main difference between Jones and Sharpley's time under center was the fact that the sophomore only attempted three passes, whereas the jun­ior relied on his arm to make plays. 
"They had a great defensive scheme," Sharpley said. "Now we have to watch film, make our adjustments and make them pay off." 
With the game somewhat out of hand, Weis gave Clausen a chance to display his talent to the nation. The freshman looked poised and confident while showcasing his decision-making. 

On one play, he stayed in the pocket until he had to escape. Once he was flushed out, he attempted to signal soph­omore wide out George West to alter his route and make a play. Although West did not see the signal, Clausen simply ran out of bounds instead of forcing a throw. 
Clausen went 4-of-6 for 34 yards, showing composure and accuracy in the huddle. However, it is worth noting that Georgia Tech had largely backed off their blitz schemes and was going with a con­servative coverage plan that gave the freshman more time in the pocket. Additionally, some of the substitute defensive backs for Georgia Tech saw time while Clausen was under center. 
So as the Irish go into Happy Valley to face No. 17 Penn State, Weis must go back to the drawing board and figure out who gives the team the best chance to win. 
The quarterbacks were mixed as t9 who would start next week. "That decision is not up to me, it's up to the coaches," Sharpley said. Jones had another, and much more confident, take on the situation. "Yes. I do anticipate starting next week," Jones said. 
As the week progresses, and the hype of the upcoming game builds, Weis will have to answer questions about the posi­tion and make his decision. Let the spec­ulation begin. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
•
scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  0  0  3  0  3  
Ga. Tech  6  10  3  14  33  

First quarter 
Georgia Tech 3, Notre Dame 0 Travis Bell32-yard field goal with 11:15 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 18 yards, 2:14 elapsed 
Georgia Tech 6, Notre Dame 0 Travis Bell 29-yard field goal with 6:47 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 36 yards, 2:52 elapsed 
Second quarter Georgia Tech 9, Notre Dame 0 Travis Bell 40-yard field goal with 9:44 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 21 yards, 2:45 elapsed Georgia Tech 16, Notre Dame 0 Tashard Choice 22-yard touchdown run with 2:44 remaining (Bell kick) Drive: 7plays, 53 yards, 2:46 elapsed 
Third quarter Georgia Tech 19, Notre Dame 0 Travis Bell 39-yard field goal with 10:22 remaining. Drive: 13 plays, 63 yards, 4:38 elapsed Georgia Tech 19, Notre Dame 3 Brandon Walker 24-yard field goal with 4:38 remaining. Drive: 12 plays, 58 yards, 5:44 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Georgia Tech 26, Notre Dame 3 Tashard Choice 7-yard touchdown run with 
13:06 remaining (Bell kick) Drive: 8 plays, 70 yards, 3:00 elapsed 
Georgia Tech 33, Notre Dame 3 Jonathan Dwyer 7-yard touchdown run with 
8:52 remaining (Bell kick) Drive: 3 plays, 17 yards, 1:04 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 
CIT zt;s ND -a 
passing yards 

return yards 

time of possession 


Irish suffer worst loss ever in opener 
passing 

20-12. total yards of offense com-Brown will not be suspended Sharpley 10·13-0 Bennett 11-23 By GREG ARBOGAST pared to Notre Dame's 122. for any additional amount of Clausen 4-6-0 D. Thomas 0-1-0 Sports Writer Scoring drought That output was Notre Dame's time. Jones 1-3-0 
The three points scored by lowest total yardage since a rushing Saturday was the most lop-Notre Dame were the lowest 44-13 loss to USC in 2002, Choice weapon 
Jones 12-28 Choice 26-196

sidP.d loss to open a season in total in Charlie Weis' two-plus when Notre Dame gained only Saturday was the eighth Notre Dame history, surpass-years in South Bend. The pre-109 yards. straight game that Tashard receiving ing the Irish's 31-10 loss to vious low was 14 points, which Choice has rushed for at least Parris 3-30 Smith 3-31 Pittsburgh in the first game of came in last year's season Brown can play next week 100 yards -breaking the Carlson 3-29 Choice 3-22 the 1976 season. 1t was also opening victory over Georgia Irish senior defensive line-Georgia Tech school record set West 2-29 Johnson 2-42 the first time Notre Dame has Tech. man Justin Brown was imme-by Eddie Lee Ivery in 1978. Kamara 2-19 Peek 1-9 failed to seore a touchdown in diately disqualified from the tackling the season opener since 1985, Tech offensive game during the second quar-Contact Greg Arbogast at 
Bruton 9 Lewis 8

when the Irish fell at Michigan, Georgia Tech amassed 386 ter. According to NCAA rules, garbogas@nd.edu 
Crum 9 D. Robertson 6 



Battered and Beaten 
Notre I >arne nntnrPd Saturday with many question marks. It left with nvnn morn. All llm~n quartnrbacks eompnting for tho starting job saw l.inw Saturday, hut nonn could nfl'octively handle Georgia Tech's quiek 
;md confusing dnlimsn. Notro Damn's nxpnrimont with tho spread-option olli~nsn undnr Dnmntrius .Jonns litilnd, while Evan Sharpley could not lind tho time to throw undnr Charlie Weis' normal olli~nse. But Notre Dame has morn problnms to solve before it travnls to No. 17 Penn State next wnnk. Thn ollimsivn lirw let blitznrs past them all day and the delimse allowml 276 rushing yards. Tho Irish looked unsurn and a step too slow Saturday. but 1111nd to be sure of thnmsnlves before heading into llappy Valley-one of the most intimidating road atmospheres in 
college football. 





Jimmy Clausen looks to throw, top left. Geoff Price punts, top right. Evan Sharpley tries to evade Georgia tech linebacker Gary Guyton, middle. Irish linebacker John Ryan chases Georgia Tech running back Tashard Choice, bottom right. Demetrius Jones, gets ready to take a snap, bottom left. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE

Monday, September 3, 2007 page 11 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
For a freshman series to achieve such tremendous success is rare, but it's easy to understand when the show is as beautiful as "Ugly Betty." Season One is 23 campy and colorful episodes of a series that was adapted from the Colombian telenovela "Betty Ia fea" by executive producers Silvio Horta and Salma Hayek. 
Season One finds perky Betty Suarez 
(America Ferrera) from Queens adapting to a new environment of skinny stilettos and even skinnier co-workers and models when she lands an assistant job for new Mode editor-in-chief Daniel Meade (Eric Mabius). At first, Betty is judged for her unibrow and metal mouth, but foes like fellow assistants Marc out to his mother, and in the world of (Michael Urie) and Amanda (Becki Mode, everyone must grapple with body Newton) and the ice queen, Wilhelmina image. Slater (Vanessa Williams). Queens is "Betty" isn't flawless. As the season her home andhaven with progresses, the episodes end father Ignacio (Tony Plana), The series strikes on less and less positive sister Hilda (Ana Ortiz) and notes. The comedy remains,
a perfect balance 

nephew Justin (Mark but at times, "Betty" is con­
between Betty's 

Indelicato). sumed by darkness and However, not everyone at two worlds so that drama. That warm, fuzzy Mode is merciless, and not feeling we used to get at the
we never tire of 

everything at home is end of every episode
the settings and

stress-free. Betty finds becomes more rare, and allies in boss Daniel, seam-characters. some subplots are even 
The success ofthe show can be traced to the humorous dichoto­my between Betty's work and home lives. 

Betty loves so deeply and thinks so pos­itively that she becomes a true force to be reckoned with. 
The success of the show can be traced to the humorous dichotomy between Betty's work and home lives. Mode is cold, glamorous and catty while the Suarez home is warm, cluttered and loving. At Mode, Betty must ward off stress Christina (Ashley Jensen) and crush Henry (Christopher Gorham). Meanwhile, Betty must deal with a whole gamut of issues in Queens -she's always in her pretty sister's shadow, she can't seem to hold on to her relationship with boyfriend Walter (Kevin Sussman) and her father suddenly reveals that he is an illegal immi­
grant. 
The series strikes a perfect balance between Betty's two worlds so that we never tire of the settings and charac­ters. But as the season progresses and the two worlds become less and less mutually exclusive, Betty undergoes a transformation that confuses her 

and causes its own set of problems. Ugly Betty" is one firmly in reality. No 

She's still that girl character consists of
ofthe best series 

from Queens, but just a one-dimen­
on television, and

more and more sional stereotype, Manhattan creeps lead actress and the fact that we into her everyday. America Ferrera care for each one is 
In the midst of a testament to the
shines as a new

all its one-liners extraordinary tal­and fashion crises, role model for ents of everyone "Betty" confronts young girls. involved with the a variety of social show. issues not seen on Just like its epony­many other series mous character, "Ugly Betty" is a fabu­today -Betty's father lous and funny show, and with its first faces deportation, season finished the series is off to a Justin is a young boy beautiful start. who may be gay. Marc struggles with coming Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
yawn-worthy, but there is enough comedy and brightness in each episode to draw us quickly back in. 
The DVD extras offer behind-the­scenes featurettes, deleted scenes and a blooper reel. Disappointingly, only four episodes have audio commentary. For a show that's achieved such success, there certainly could have been more to say about making individual episodes. However, to focus on the season's short­comings would be to miss its beauty and humor. "Ugly Betty" is one of the best series on television, and lead actress America Ferrera shines as a new role model for young girls. 
As you might expect,"Betty" has all the camp of a typical run-of-the-mill telenovela, but its characters and situa­
tions are grounded 


Mode vs. Home: Betty struggles to balance her professional life with her personal one. 
Photo courtesy of abc.com Justin Suarez (Mark Indelicato) stars in a production of "West Side Story." 

Photo courtesy of abc.com Betty's sister Hilda (Ana Ortiz) has recently enrolled in beauty school. 



Photo courtesy of abc.com Daniel Meade (Eric Mabius) chases women while holding Mode together. 


Photo courtesy of abc.com Photo courtesy of abc.com Photo courtesy of abc.com Wilhelmina Slater (Vanessa Williams) Amanda Tan en ( Becki Newton) is Betty Suarez (America Ferrera) works plots to take over Mode. known for her witchy comments. hard both at home and the office. 
MLB 

Blue Jays hand reeling Mariners ninth-straight defeat 
Glavine outduels Smaltz as Mets sweep Braves; Ankiel's homer leads Cardinals over Reds in NL Central battle 
New York lost to Tampa Bay on and the pitching staff is doing a Associated Press Sunday, keeping Seattle two good job." gamns back of the Yankees in Burnett (8-7) retired the first 
TOHONTO -Manager John the wild-card race. ten batters in order and struck McLaren is amazed that a nine­"It's not getting any easier out five of the first six. He game losing streak hasn't killed and we know that," McLaren allowed three runs and four Seattle's playoll' hopes. said. "All I can say is we've got hits, walked one and struck out 
Matt Stairs and Gregg Zaun to fight our way through it. seven to win for the first time naeh hit two-run homers, A.J. T~e;,e's no easy way out of in three starts. Burrwtl pitched seven sharp thrs. "lie got ahead and when a innings and the Toronto Blun Infielder Jose Vidro said the guy with that kind of stuff gets Jays beat thn Marirwrs 6-4 on Mariners' season likely rests on ahead of you, you know you're Sunday, the nine-game losing the outcome of the coming in for a dog fight," Raul Ibanez streak Seattln 's longest since an series in New York. said. 11-gamn skid in August 2006. "It's not been easy these last Left-bander Scott Downs 
"Wn're still in good shapn," nine games," he said. "We've pitched to two batters in the Mel.arnn said. "It's amazing. got to do it like this is it for us." eighth and right-hander Brian Wn havn tho ability to streak Felix Hernandez will start Wolfe finished the inning the othnr way but we've hit a against New York on Monday, before Casey Janssen worked a big bump in the road." seeking his third win in four perfect ninth for his fifth save 
Snattln, which bngins a criti­starts. in nine opportunities. cal thrnn-garnn snries at New "We need big Felix to pick us York on Monday, has not won up tomorrow," McLaren said. Mets 3, Braves 2 sinen Aug. 24 at Texas, a victo­Toronto has won seven of its Tom Glavine allowed himself ry that put tho Marinnrs a sna­past 10 and, at 70-66, is a sea­just a "fleeting 15 seconds" son-high 20 games over .500. son-high four games over .500. Sunday to consider his past in 
The Marirwrs began tho day "Everything is kind of clicking Atlanta and his future in base­6 1/2 gamns back of the Los right now," Burnett said. ball. Angeles Angels in the AL West. "We're hitting, we're playing D "During the course of the 
game I thought this could be the last timn I pitch here," said Glavine, who has said he hasn't decided if he will rntire after the season. 

A long-awaited win over longtime teammate and friend back in the wild-card race. hits in seven scon~less innings John Smoltz, in the midst of a "We got our butts kicked," and Aaron Miles added an RBI playoff run, could be a fitting said Chipper Jones, who was 1-double in the sixth as the Atlanta finale for Glavine. for-4. "I just didn't see a ball Cardinals finally broke through 
Backed by David Wright's over the plate the whole series against Bronson Arroyo. two-run homer, Glavine won until my last at-bat. That was Looper (12-10) is 7-1 with an for the first time in four tries the one hittable pitch that I got. NL-best 1.74 ERA in day games this season against Smoltz, Those guys were really deal­and 4-9 with a 6.52 EHA at beating Atlanta on Sunday as ing." night. the Mets completed a three­Glavine and Smoltz were The Cardinals are 15-4 in game sweep. teammates in Atlanta from · their last 19 games at home 
New York, which dropped 1988 through the 2002 season. and swept the Reds in St. Louis four straight in Philadelphia They remain good friends and for the first time since 2005, and led the Phillies by only two golf rivals. when they closed the final reg­games before this series, recov­"It won't be the last competi­ular season at old Busch ered to push the NL East lead tion between us," Glavine said Stadium with three straight back to four games. of Sunday's game. "For brag­from Sept. 30-0ct. 2. 
"We're extremely proud of ging rights it was nice to finally The defending World Series what we've accomplished," beat him. He's certainly had my champions (67-66) are above Wright said. "After one of the number." .500 for the first time since low points of the year, we hit April15, when they were 6-5. one of the high points of the Cardinals 3, Reds 2 Jeff Keppinger's RBI single in year. That was. pretty special." Rick Ankiel homered for the the eighth off Ryan Franklin, 
The sweep dropp.ed the second time in three days to the third straight hit by the Braves 7 1/2 games behind the snap a sixth-inning tie, capping Reds, cut the gap to 3-1. With Mets, their largest deficit of the a huge weekend series by the runners on first and third, season. The iBraves have lost former pitcher in the St. Louis Franklin recovered to strike out nine of 12 and are only 22-26 Cardinals' victory over the Ken Griffey Jr. and cleanup hit­since the All-Star break. Cincinnati Reds on Sunday. ter Brandon Phillips to end the Atlanta began the day 6 1/2 Braden Looper allowed four inning. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES -needed for southside elementary school. Located near Erskine Golf Course on Miami St. $35/per game. Call athletic director at 574-291-4200. 
FoR SALE 
Condo For Sale 2 br twnhse w sun­room great SB neighborhood $93.000 call 269-445-2765. FOR SALE · 4BR, 2.5 Bath, 2800 SF Fin bsmt. 3 mi to ND. $217,500. 243-1953 3Br-2.5Ba Ranch-fin bsmt-2 car gar-Lg fencd bkyd­32x20 deck-21x12 MBA-much more­
Granger-574-243-3344. 
Prudential One Realty Lois McKinley 574-235-3278 (3BR. 5min to airport-20min. to ND $79.800) 3BR att garage-4min to ND $48,000. 
2 bdrm/1 bath condo. Nice area. 4 miles from campus. $74,900. Call Mered1th. Milligan Real Estate 220-9817. 
Furn. apt., sleeps 4 maybe 6. ND home games. Right next to ND. 574-273-3030 ask for Pat. 
FoR RENT 
1 or 2 bdrm. apt. Quiet neighbor­hood. 1 mi to ND. Laundry included. $400/mo. Call574-532-8718 
LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcountrybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
House for rent. Walk to Campus. 3bdr. Washer/dryer, Landlord does yard· work. $750/mo. 574-250·1266. 

Bed & Breakfast lodging w/alum family for ND home games. Great rates & nice accommodations. 574-243-2628. 
Furnished house for rent. 15 min. to ND. 2BR, 6 acres 1/4 mile to lake. Game wkends or whole year. Students welcome. 57 4-288-2726. 
4BR ranch. Walk to ND. Fenced back yard. Appliances incl. 1219 N. Twyckenham. $936/rno. 574-231-0967. 
Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms. Walk to ND. 57 4-876-7341 . For Football weekends, call574-532-1408. 
TICKETS 
WANTED-ND FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232­0964. www.victorytickets.com 
ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 57 4-288-2726. 
PERSONAL 
Free visor, call Chris 561-212-8524 LASER CREATIONS Unique Products Thru Laser Technology. 
Laser etched logo gifts, signs. award plaques, name tags, rubber starnps, glass etching, etc. Call Jack 574-273-8662 or email: lasercr@comcast.net 
Babysitting: CollegeSitter.com is a new site which connects ND student babysitters with area families. Student sitters looking for babysitting work should visit CollegeSitter.com/studenU 
to fill out their FREE profile. 
If you go flying back through time, and you see somebody else flying forward into the future. it's probably best to avoid eye contact. 

--------------------------------------------------------..,. 
OUND THE NATION 
Monday, September 3, 2007 CoMP1LED FROM Tr-IE 0BSERVER:s vVIRE SERVICES page 13 

FlBA BASKETBALL 
NCAA Volleyball CSTV/ AVCA Coaches Poll 

team  record  pts.  previous  
1  Nebraska  2-0  1495  1  
2  Stanford  1-0  1438  2  
3  Penn State  2-0  1382  3  
4  usc  3-0  1247  6  
5  UCLA  1-1  1230  5  
6  Texas  0-2  1208  4  
7  Florida  2-0  1158  7  
8  Washington  3-0  1086  8  
9  Minnesota  1-0  1054  9  
10  Wisconsin  3-0  978'  11  
11  California  3-0  883  12  
12  San Diego  1-0  798  15  
13  Ohio State  3-0  693  16  
14  Duke  3-0  657  18  
15  BYU  2-0  546  17  
16  Hawai'l  1-2  475  10  
17  Purdue  2-1  455  13  
18  Cal Poly  2-1  409  14  
19  Santa Clara  3·0  350  24  
20  Michigan  3-0  343  NR  
21  Oklahoma  3-0  271  22  
22  LSU  3-0  258  23  
23  Ohio  2-0  229  25  
24  long Beach State  0-2  156  19  
25  Kansas State  3-0  148  NR1  

NCAA Women's Soccer Coaches Poll 
team 
1 North Carolina 
2 NOTRE DAME 
3 UCLA 
4 Portland 
5 Texas A&M 
6 Florida State 
7 Penn State 
8 Santa Clara 
9 Texas 
10 Stanford 
11 BC 
12 Rutgers 
13 Florida 
14 Colorado 
15 Purdue 
16 UConn 
17 Virginia 
18 Cal 
19 Clemson 
20 Illinois 
21 West Virginia 
22 Wake Forest 
23 Oklahoma State 
24 usc 
25 Tennessee 

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Florida State at Clemson 8 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS U.S. Open 2007 11 a.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -LeBron James and Carmelo Anthony finally earned the reward that used to await U.S. players. 
James scored 31 points, most by an American player in an Olympic qual­ifier, and the United States capped its dominance in the desert by beating Argentina 118-81 on Smi.day to win the FIBA Americas championship. 
Then James and Anthony climbed the podi­um and were given gold medals -a first for the two players whose inter­national careers had con­sisted of nothing but bronze. 

''I'm tired of bronze," Anthony said. ''I'm speechless right now. This is my first time ever win­ning the gold medaL" 
Dwight Howard made all seven of his shots and scored 20 points, and Anthony added 16 points for the Americans, who were never challenged while winning 10 games in 12 days and will head to Beijing next summer as one of the favorites. 
The Americans aver­aged 116.7 points-in the tournament. 
The game was largely meaningless, because both teams had already clinched spots in the 
Beijing field by winning semifinal games Saturday. But the Americans didn't let up, remaining perfect in four Olympic qualifiers, including 7-0 against Argentina. 
James and Anthony played on teams that fin­ished third in the 2004 Olympics and '06 world championships. The latter disappointment forced the Americans to play in the qualifying tournament this summer, but it proved to be just a minor road­block. 
"I learned that players can throw their egos and personal ac-colades out the window," James said. "We came here for one 
IN BRIEF 
Americans dominate world 
gymnastics championships 
STUTTGART -The Americans were already planning a little party back at the hotel to celebrate Shayla Worley's 17th birthday. That, though, seemed a tad tame. 
So they invited a few thousand of their closest friends to join in on the fun, turning the world gymnas­tics championships into their very own bash. 
"There's no better gift than to be able to compete at a world cham­pionships on your birthday," Worley said. "Well, maybe compet­ing at the Olympics. We'll have to work on that for next year." 
China, Romania, Russia -the rest of the gymnastics world can consider itself warned. The Americans aren't the same team that gave away the gold medal at last year's worlds. They're deep, they're confident and, man, are they good. 

Mother to miss ninth annu­
al Bowden Bowl 
CLEMSON -The Bowden Bowl used to be a can't-miss affair for all members of college football's famous family. These days, the once joyous father vs. son matchup has turned into a game to get past -and much easier for some Bowdens to miss. 
"I don't know if my mother's com­ing," Clemson coach Tommy Bowden said during his weekly news confer­ence. 
She isn't, Florida State's athletic department said Friday. 
And Ann, the woman who famously wore a half Clemson, half Florida State sweater in the Death Valley stands the first time her husband, Bobby, took on her son's Tigers in 1999, might not be the only Bowden absent Monday night for the ninth Bowden Bowl. 
Also unlikely to attend is Tommy's brother, Jeff, who resigned as Florida State's offensive coordinator under harsh criticism for the team's play. 
reason and that was to get the gold medaL" 
James finished the tour­nament shooting 76 per­cent from the field -his percentage actually dropped from 76.5 after he made 11 of 15 shots. He was 8-of-11 from 3­point range -another 
U.S. 
record -and also led the tournament in that category, hitting 62 per­cent. 

"You don't like to single guys out, but LeBron's performance today was one of the best ones in an international game that a 

U.S. 
player has had," U.S. coach Mike Krzyzewski said. "He was big-time today." 


Williams sisters to reunite in 
U.S. Open semifinals 
NORTON, Mass. -The first two days of Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson were a showcase for the PGA Tour playoffs. 
Never mind that neither of them were in the lead Sunday at the Deutsche Bank Championship. That belonged to Brett Wetterich, who saved himself with an amazing par and emerged from the pack with an eagle on his way to a 5-under 66 for a one-shot lead over Arron Oberholser (66) on a dynamic after­noon at TPC Boston. 
The focus, not to mention the crowds, shifts to Woods and Mickelson in a Labor Day finish. The longtime rivals will be paired in the final round for the first time since the 2005 Ford Championship at DoraL 
But if they didn't already have enough history, Lefty added some more spice. 
--~-------------­

page 14 Monday, September 3, 2007 
The Observer • SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Division 1-AA Appalachian State shocks Michigan 

Associated Press 
ANN AHBOH -Chanws arn. most of tlw I I 0,000 fans at thn Big llousn had no idna nxactly whnrn Appala!'h ian Statn is located. 
By t lw t i nH~ t h n y saw a hlocknd liPid goal in final snc­onds, this much was cnrtain: Thn littln Mountairwnrs puiiPd ofT orw of tlw gn~atnst ups11ts in collngn football history. 
Appalachian Stall' 34, No. 5 Michigan :{2. 
Tlw loam from Boorw, N.C., took llw lnad with 26 snconds IPf't whnn .Julian Hauch kicknd a 24-yard f'ield goal. Con~y l.yru:h hlo('knd a :H-yard tr·y on t h n f'i n a I p I a y, a n d tlw MountainPnrs SPaiPd a jaw­dropping upsnt that might havn no nqual. 
"It was David vnrsus (;oliath." Appalal'hian Statn f'(H:nivPr 1>11xt11r Jackson said. 
Michigan's thrne stars on offensn and its coaeh camn back this snason. putting thn NFI. and rntiremnnt on hold, with high hopns. 
Big Ton til.ln. National cham­pionship. Looks likn it might be time for Plan B. 
Mikn llart. Chad llennn and .Jake Long rwvnr nnvisioned stumbling this narly in what was a promising year. 
Nnither did coach Lloyd Carr, who looked ashnn as the upset unfolded. 
It didn't takn long to notice the second-tier power bnlonged on the same field lwcausn it made up for a slight sizn disadvantage with superi­
or speed and. pnrhaps. more passion. 
The two-time defending champions from former Division 1-AA were ahead of 'thn nation's winningest pro­gram 2H-l4 late in the second quartnr, lwforn their storybook af'tPrnoon geenwd to unravel lall~ in llw fourth quarter. 
llart's 54-yard run with 4:36 lnf't put tlw Wolverines ahead for tlw first time since early in tlw sncond quartl~r. 
Orw snap aftnr the go-ahead touchdown. Michigan's Brandnnt. Englnmon intercept­nd an nrrant pass. but thn Wolvnrinos couldn't capital izo and had thnir first of' two field goals blorkPd. 
Tlwn Appalachian State drov(~ (J9 yards without a time­out in I: II to sot up the go­alwad linld goal. 
''I've been dreaming about that kick Pvory day," Hauch said. 
Still. it wasn't over. 
llmme thrf1w a 46-yard pass to Mario Manningham. giving Michigan the ball at Appalachian State's 20 with 6 seconds left and putting the Wolverines in position to win it with a field goal. 
Lynch blocked the kick and almost returned 52 yards to the 1 H as the final seconds ticked ofT. llis teammates rushed across the field to pile on as the coaching staff and cheerleaders jumped with joy. 
"We're still sort of shocked," coach Jerry Moore said after being carried off the field by his players. 
Appalachian State has won 
15 straight games, the longest streak in the nation. The Mountaineers are favored to win the Football Championship Subdivision, but they weren't expected to put up much of a light against a team picked to win the Big Ten and contend for the national title. 
That's the beauty of college football. 
No Division 1-AA team had beaten a team ranked in The Associated Press poll from 1989-2006, and it's unlikely that it had ever happened before. The Division I subdivi­sions were created in 197H. 
"It is one of the biggest loss­es ever, but give all the credit to Appalachian State," Hart said. 
The Mountaineers are not eligible to receive votes in the AP Top 25 poll because they're not in the Football Bowl Subdivision. 
Appalachian State's win does seem to trump the game sec­ond-tier programs used to regard as their crowning achievement -The Citadel's season-opening win in 1992 over Arkansas that led to the f'iring of Hazorbacks coach Jack Crowe following the game. 
Carr will not get fired after this upset. but he might be wishing he had retired al'ter last season when the Wolverines won 11 games before closing with losses to Ohio State and USC. 
When it was over, he didn't second-guess decisions to go for 2-point conversions twice in the final 15-plus minutes, but did lament many mistakes, penalties and missed opportu­nities. 

MLB 

Red Sox rookie Buchholz throvvs no-hitter against Orioles 
Associated Press Plate umpire Joe West hesitat­Mike Lowell scoffed at the ed, but catcher Jason Varitek notion. 
BOSTON Before Clay rose from his crouch to run to the "If them's two outs in the ninth, Buchholz made his major league mound. The rest of the Hed Sox Theo would have had to come debut two weeks ago, the Boston soon joined him there, and David down there and had to take him Hed Sox told him he was going Ortiz enveloped the rookie in a out himseU'," he said. back to the minors -even if he bear hug. Francona spoke to Epstein aller pitched a no-hitter. "He's somebody you don't want the seventh and eighth innings. 
Got to keep the kid now. to see running at you, full-speed," "lie wasn't a whole lot of help." 
The 23-year-old rookie pitched Buchholz said. Franc:ona said. "We feel like we that no-hitter in just his second No one stopped cheering until have a huge responsibility to this outing, using a dazzling three­Buchholz appeared on the scorn­kid. But somebody else would pitch assortment of fastballs, board for a television interview, have had to put on a unifi1rm and curves and changeups to beat the and the fans hushed to try to take him out because that would Baltimore Orioles 10-0 Saturday ·hear him. But when "Clay have bmm very dillieult." night. Buchholz, No-hitter" appeared on Buchholz, who turned 2:{ on 
"There's no going back to the message board, the ballpark Aug. 14. pitched the third no-hit­Triple-A," Hed Sox manager erupted anew. ter of the season -following Terry Francona said. The dosest the Orioles came to Mark Buehrle of the Chicago 
Buchholz was called up from a hit was when Miguel Tejada led White Sox against Texas on April Pawtucket on Saturday when off the seventh with a sharp 1 H and Justin Verlander of teams were allowed to expand grounder up the middle. Second Detroit against Milwaukee on their 25-man rosters. baseman Dustin Pedroia raced to June 12. 
The crowd stood through the his right and dove. lie backhand­Buchholz (2-01 became the 17th entire ninth inning, cheering ed the ball, stood up and fired to rookie to throw a no-hitter. The every pitch and taking pictures of first, where the throw easily beat last one to do it was Florida's the righty in his windup and as Tejada, who slid in headfirst. Anibal Sanchez. a former Hed he paced around the mound. "I jumped up as fast as I eould Sox prospect traded for Josh 
lie started the inning by strik­and I threw it as hard as I could," Beckett and Mike Lowell, against ing ·out Brian Roberts on a 93 Pndroia said. Arizona last Sept. 6. mph fastball. A groan rose from Buchholz jumped but missed The Boston newcomer became the stands when Corey Patterson the ball. the third pitcher since 1900 to hit a line drive to center with one "I was thinking it was over," throw a no-hitter in his first or out, but Coco Crisp easily moved Buchholz said. "When he made second major league start. over to cateh it. that play I knew something was according to the Elias Sports 
Buchholz started Nick meant to happen tonight. It was Bunmu. Bobo llollomon did it in Markakis with a ball, then went an incredible moment in my life." his first start on May 6, 1953, for ahead 1-2 when the batter f(mled The final pitch was his 115th, the St. Louis Browns at home one off with a check swing. The 21 more than his longest outing against the Philadelphia crowd grew even louder, the of the year. If he had reached Athletics, and Wilson Alvarez did flashes were constant, and 120, even if he had a no-hitter, he it in his second start on Aug. 11, Buchholz threw a 77 mph curve­would have been taken out, gen­1991, for the Chicago White Sox ball that Markakis watched go by. eral manager Theo Epstein said. at Baltimore. 
.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Monday, September 3, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles win season opener, finish fourth in tournament 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
The Belles opened their 2007 season this weekend with a fourth-place finish at the Monmouth College Volleyball Invitational. 
Saint Mary's began the year on a high note by taking down Robert Morris 3-1 (30­25, 30-24, 30-18). The Colonials finished the six­
team  tournament  in  last  
place  after  losing  to  
Hannibal-LaGrange  and  

Lor as. 
The Belles also took on Loras in their second and final match of pool play, and fell in four games (21-30, 30­17, 30-24, 30-25). Loras then went on to defeat Principia, 3-2, to take home 
Schroeder-Biek called the the young talent that just tournament a success. joined the team. 
"I felt this was a great "I am so excited for this 
opener for us. glimpse of our potential as a team, which is very exciting," Schroeder­Biek said. "There were also areas that were exposed that we need to work on, the good thing is that those areas are things we can fix." 
The Belles 
We got a season, 
"!felt this was a great opener for us. We got a glimpse of our potential as a team, which is very exciting." 
Julie Schroeder-Biek Belles coach 
Schroeder-Biek said. "We have strong talent returning and strong talent in our two new additions to the squad, freshman mid­dle hitter Andrea Sasgen and freshman outside hitter Jacee Watson." One key play­er and return­ing talent Schroeder-Biek 

the champi­"/ am so excited for important onship. this season. We have week for us, Saint Mary's opening up
strong talent 

took on the with our con­
returning and two

host team, ference play Monmouth, in new additions to the against Adrian its consolation College on
squad."

game. The Tuesday and Belles won the then Hope opening match Julie Schroeder-Biek College on (30-20), but Belles coach Thursday," 
hope to fix those problems 
this week before beginning conference play. "This is an incredibly 

lost the next three (30-27, 30-26, 30-19) and finished fourth in the tournament. 
Although the Belles came up short in their final two games, head coach Julie 
Schroeder-Biek said. "We will be work­
ing on tightening up our defensive positioning and finding our connections on offense." 
She was also excited about mentioned is sophomore out­side hitter Lorna Slupczynski. Slupczynski, the 2006 Freshman of the Year, was named to the all-tourna­ment team for her perform­ance in the three games and is expected to be a great asset for the Belles this year as she steps in to replace 2007 graduate Kristen Playko. 
The Belles hit the courts again Tuesday night at 7 with MIAA conference play against Adrian College in Adrian, Mich. Saint Mary's dropped both conference matches against the Bulldogs last season, and will look to improve on last year's fourth-place MIAA finish. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
A bit ofIreland in 
your own backyard. 

Just seconds from campus. With it'5 many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the placeto be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(WaterfOrd Estate.s Lodge has hotel roomsatreasonable rates for Up<'..Oming NOfootball weekends.) 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Saint Mary's takes title at Tri-State Invitational 
Belles runners take five of top nine times; freshman Wieczorek places first in debut 
By KATE ARNOLD Sports Writer 
Back on the course for the first time this year, the Belles shone bright at Saturday's 5K Tri-State Invitational held in Angola, Ind., taking first place. 
The top five runners on the team all placed no lower than ninth, posting a total of 2 7 points, resulting in a win over Grace College and Tri-State University. 
Freshman Sam Wieczorek picked 
up a first-place finish in her first  "Over the summer everybody had train­ difficult course, so it's  
collegiate race with a time of 21:58. "She's a very  ing workouts and did their own thing. The girls came in good  typically slow" Bauters said. "The competi­tion was okay.  
mentally tough, determined, feisty girl," coach and  shape, just where I wanted them."  It was nice to race against conference  
former Belles run­ teams,  
ner  Jackie  Jackie Bauters  although  it  
Bauters said. "This race  set  Belles coach  wasn't partic­ularly tough  
the tone for her  competition."  
season.  I expect  The  Belles  

her to be up front, scoring for will face a bit faster course ­us." and faster teams -next week 
Wieczorek did not have to when they travel to Grand wait long at the finish line to Rapids, Mich., for the Aquinas celebrate with her teammates College Invitational. as sophomore Megan The race is scheduled to McClowry crossed the finish begin Friday at 4 p.m. line 40 seconds later for a time of 22:37. Fellow freshmen Contact Kate Arnold at Anne Maguire, Olenka Bilyk karnold2@nd.edu 
U.S. OPEN 
Williams sisters power into U.S. Open quarters 
and Catie Salyer also looked impressive as they all placed in the top 10 with times of 22:52, 
23:08 and 23:12, respectively. 
A productive off-season was the key to the Belles great start this year. 
"Over the summer every­body had training workouts and did their own thing," Bauters said. "The girls came in good shape, just where I wanted them." 
The team needed to be at peak performance to tackle the 
course at Tri­
State. 
"It was a 

Associated Press 
When you hear about Serena and Venus Williams overpower­ing opponents, as happened Sunday at the U.S. Open to two recent Grand Slam fmalists, it's easy to forget that the sisters are, indeed, individuals. 
And as similar as their on­court styles might seem, all stinging serves and gargantuan groundstrokes, they are not quite carbon copies. 
That point was driven home by their father and coach, Richard, who sat courtside for the final game of Serena's 6-3, 6-4 victory over Wimbledon run­ner-up Marion Bartoli, then watched Venus' 6-4, 6-2 win against French Open runner-up Ana Ivanovic. 
"Serena reminds me of a pit bull dog and a young Mike Tyson, all in one," Dad said Sunday. "Venus reminds me of a gazelle that's able to move, prance and jump. Venus looks as if she is really enjoying herself out there more than Serena is right now. If they get by every­one and meet each other, it will be an interesting match." 
Another all-Williams show­down is indeed nearing at Flushing Meadows, although unlike six previous meetings for major titles -Serena leads 5-1 in those finals, Venus leads 7-6 overall -this ·one would be a semifmal. 
"That would be awesome because it would mean that there is a Williams in the fmal," Venus said. She also noted: "We have one more step." 
For Serena, it's a familiar one. She will face No. 1 Justine Henin in the quarterfinals at a third consecutive major, having lost to her at the French Open and Wimbledon. 
"Yeah, we know each other pretty well," Henin said after beating No. 15 Dinara Safma 6­0, 6-2 at night. "I know everyone was waiting for that match, and here we are." 
The older Williams' quarterfi­nal opponent will be No. 3 Jelena Jankovic, who defeated No. 19 Sybille Bammer 6-4, 4-6, 6-1. Jankovic won her past three matches against Venus, includ­ing at Wimbledon in 2006 and the French Open this year. 
No. 2 Rafael Nadal, mean­while, advanced to the fourth round without a hitch in his step -his taped-up knees have been bothering him -or his game, beating Jo-Wilfried Tsonga 7-6 (3), 6-2, 6-1. 
Next up for Nadal is a fellow Spaniard, No. 15 David Ferrer. 




AlPHABETICAl UST OF CLUBS A I I' 

200 Academic Competition Club 510 Handball Choir, The Notre Dame 232 Pre-Law Society 201 Accounting Association, Notre Dame 511 Harmonia 233 Pre-Professional Society/AMSA 202 Actuarial Science Club 410 Hawaii Club -Na Pua Kai 'Ewalu 234 Pre-Vet Club, University of Notre Dame 109 Adworks 217 Health Occupations Students of America 734 Progressive Student Alliance 700 Africa Failh & Justice Network 218 Hispanic Business Student Association of Notre Dame 517 Project Fresh 400 African Students Association 219 History Club 235 Psychology Club. Notre Dame 203 Africana Studies 716 Human Rights. Notre Dame 735 Ranger Challenge Team (AROTC) 701 Agora, The 512 Humor Artists of the University of Notre Dame du Lac 236 Real Estate Investment 702 Amateur Radio Club of Notre Dame 310 Ice Hockey Team, Women's 736 Right To Life, Notre Dame 204 American Chemical Society, ND Chapter of Student Affiliates of the 717 Identity Project of Notre Dame 313 Rowing Club, Notre Dame 205 American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics, Notre Dame 411 Indian Association of Notre Dam~ 314 Rugby Football Club 206 American Institute of Chemical Engmeers 220 Institute of Electrical and Electronic.s Engineers 315 Running Club, Women's 207 American Society of Civil Engineers 221 Investment Club of Notre Dame du Lac 422 Russian Club 
American Society of Mechanical Engineers/ 513 Irish Dance Club, The 316 Sailing Club, Notre Dame
208 
Society of Automotive Engineers 

110 Irish Gardens 518 Saint Edward's Hall Players
209 Anthropology Club. Notre Dame 

718 Irish Marauders Drill Team 106 Scholastic Magazine
401 Asian American Association of Notre Dame 114 Irish Rover 237 Science Business Club, Notre Dame 402 Asian International Society 

719 Iron Sharpens Iron 737 Scrabble Club 
500 Bagpipe Band. University of Notre Dame 

412 Italian Club 738 Shades of Ebony
501 Ballet Folklorico Azul y Oro 

413 Japan Club 317 Ski Club/Team, Notre Dame 
502 Ballroom Danca Club, NDISMC 720 Jewish Club of Notre Dame 739 Social Justice in American Medicine703 Baptist Collegiate Ministry 

222 Joint Engineering Council, Notre Came 238 Society of Women Engineers
210 Beta Alpha Psi 

107 Juggler, The 239 Sociology Club 
503 Big Yellow Tax1 414 Korean Student Association 740 Sarin Rifle Team· Army ROTC 211 Biology Club 415 La Alianza 423 Spanish Club, University of Notre Dame 403 Black Cultural Arts Council 

223 Lambda Alpha Honors Society in Anthropology 318 Squash Club, Notre Dame 
300 Bowling Club 416 Le Cercle Francais 741 Student Arts Society of Notre Dame 301 Boxing Club, Notre Dame Men's 224 League of Black Business Studen :s 240 Student Association for Women in Architecture 302 Boxing Club, Notre Dame Women's 

721 Leprechaun Legion 100 Student Government 
404 Brazil Club of Notre Dame 722 Linux Users Group, Notre Dame 241 Student International Business Council 704 Campus Fellowship of the Holy Spirit 514 Liturgical Choir, Notre Dame 519 Student Players, The Notre Dame 405 Caribbean Student Organization of the University of Notre Dame 

225 Management Club 101 Student Union Board 
705 Chess Club 

226 Management Information Systems Club, Notre Dame 242 Students for New Urbanism 
706 Children's Defense Fund 227 Marketing Club, UND Undergraduate 742 Sustained Dialogue at Notre Dame 406 Chinese Culture Society 

311 Martial Arts Institute, Notre Dame 520 Swing Club 
504 Chorale, Notre Dame 

417 MEChAde ND 243 Tau Beta Pi 
104 Class of 2009 (Junior Class Council) 

723 Mediaeval Society of Our Lady of the Lake 424 Texas Club, The 
103 Class of 2010 (Sophmore Class Council) 

228 Mexican American Engineers & Scien~sts/Society of Hispanic Prof. 113 The Observer 
303 Climbing Club 

724 Militia of the Immaculata, Notre Dame 743 The Risk Club 
900 Club Coordination Council 

229 Minority Pre-Medical Society 112 The Shirt
707 College Democrats 

725 Mock Trial Association 105 The Show 
708 College libertarians of lillllrsity of Notre Dame 

726 Model United Nations Club, Notre Dame 521 Troop Notre Dame 
709 College Republicans, University of Notre Dame 230 Mu Alpha Theta, Notre Dame 319 Ultimate Frisbee Club, Notre Dame 

.....
710 Communion and liberation 

727 Muslim Student Association 522 Unchained Melodies 
212 Computer Club, Notre Dame 728 Mustard 244 Undergraduate Women in Business505 Cora Primavera de Nuestra Senora, El 

c:n~ 

418 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, ND 744 University Young Life 
304 Cycling Club, Notre Dame 
I CJ

419 Native American Student Association of Notre Dame 425 Vietnamese Student Association of Notre Dame 506 Danca Company 729 ND for Animals 523 Voices of Faith Gospel Choir, University of Notre Dame 111 Debate Team 925 NDTV, Student Broadcasting of Notre Dame 320 Volleyball Club • Men's, Notre Dame 
....
711 Detachment 225 AFROTC 

515 Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company 745 Wabruda, The 
108 Dome Yearbook 

730 Orestes Brownson Council on Catholicism and American Politics 321 Water Polo Club, Men's 
213 Economics Club 

420 Organizacion LaUno Americana 322 Water Polo Club, Women's 
214 Entrepreneur Club 

731 Orthodox Christian Fellowship Cub of Notre Dame 245 Women in Politics 
305 Equestrian Club 

516 Pasquerilla East Musical Company 524 Women's Liturgical Choir 
507 Farley Hall Players 732 Peace Fellowship • Notre Dame 323 World Taekwondo Federation Club 712 Feminist Voica 

733 Perspectives 920 WSND-FM 
306 Field Hockey Club. Notre Dame 

421 Polish Club, Notre Dame 905 WVFI 
307 Figure Skating Club, Notre Dame 312 Pam Pon Squad, University of Notre Dame 713 Filii Mariae/Children of Mary 231 Pre-Dental Society

407 Filipino American Stude!Organization of Notre Dame 215 Finance Club of Notre Dame du Lac 508 First Class Steppers of Notre Dame 714 FlipSide 600 AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist 625 Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame Council, No. 1477 308 Fly Fishing Club, Notre Dame 601 Alliance To Lead And Serve 626 La Casa De Amistad 216 Forum on Biomedical Ethics, Notre Dame 602 American Red Cross 627 LaSalle Council 102 Freshman Class CounciUJudicial Council 603 Best Buddies 628 LEAD-ND 408 Gaelic Society of the University of Notre Dame 604 Boys and Girls Club 629 Life Treatment Centers 409 German Club 605 Campus Girl Scouts • ND/SMC 630 Little Flower Catholic Church 715 Glass Club 606 Center for the Homeless 631 Logan Community Resources ... 309 Gymnastics Club NDSMC 607 Children's Dispensary, Inc. 632 Logan Recreation Club 509 Halftime 608 Circle K, Notre Dame 633 Milton Adult Day Services 
.2 

-609 College Mentors for Kids 634 Ms. Wizard Day Program Team 
c:n
SPECIAL GUESTS 

610 Dismas House 635 Operation Smile Student Organization 
c 

915 Alliance for Catholic Education 611 Darners Mentoring Kids 636 Real Services 909 Athletic Promotions 612 El Campito, Inc. 637 Reins of Life, Inc. ·-~ 921-924 Campus Ministry 613 Experiential Learning Council 638 Robinson Community Center/Take Ten 0 916 Career Center 614 Family Justice Center of St. Joseph County 639 SBCSC PartnerUp/Read to a Child 0 910-913 Center for Social Concerns 615 First Aid Services Team, Unive·sity of Notre Dame Silver Wings (Benjamin D. Foulois Chapter)
640 ..I 

917 Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 616 First Book Advisory Board 641 Slice of Life ND 
914 Educational Talent Search 617 Foodshare 642 SOS of Madison Center 904 First Aid Services Tearn 618 Freedom 22 Foundation 643 Special Friends Club of Notre Dame 919 Gender Relations Center 619 Friends of L'Arche 644 Students for Environmental Action 
903 Legends of Notre Dame 620 Habitat for Humanity, Notre Dame 645 Super Sibs 
918 Office of Alcohol and Drug Education/PILLARS 621 Healthwin 646 Trident Naval Society 907-908 RecSports 622 Helpful Undergraduate Students 647 United Religious Community 901-902 Student Activities Office 623 Indiana Legal Services 648 Women's Care Center 
906 Undergraduate Admissions Office 624 Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids 649 World Hunger Coalition 




Monday, September 3, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC GOLF 
Gore leads Belles in debut tourney 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's shot a combined score of 697 this weekend at the Ferris State Invitational in Big Rapids, Mich., to earn a 13th­place tie with Northwood University. 
The Belles jumped up one spot in the standing Sunday after finishing the first round of play in 14th. 
Senior Katie O'Brien shot a fifteen-over-par 87 in the first round to lead the Belles. 
enabling them to move up into 13th place. 
Ferris State won its own tour­nament with a 40-over-par 616. Ferris State senior Jacqueline Benscoter was the lowest-scor­ing individual of the tourna­ment, shooting an even 144. 
Head coach Mark Hamilton was very pleased with the per­formance of his freshmen, who fit in nicely with upperclassmen scorers O'Brien and Hamma. 
"It helps us a lot," Hamilton said. "They played really well despite it being their first tour­nament at a dif­ficult course and 

Freshman Emily 'They played really against tough Gore was only competition.
well despite it being 

one stroke off Emily Gore O'Brien's pace their first played especially with an 88, tournament." well [Sunday)." freshman Hamilton Amanda acknowledged,
Mark Hamilton

Mainstone shot a however, that 90, and fresh­Belles coach the Belles' per-
man Megan Lehr and junior Perri Hamma both shot 91 to give the Belles a first-round score of 356. 
Gore had an impressive sec­ond round Sunday, posting a score of 80 that gave her a 168 overall. The rookie's perform­ance was good enough for 45th on the individual leaderboard, the best showing of any Saint Mary's player. 
O'Brien, Mainstone and Hamma also had good show­ings, shooting 88, 86 and 87, respectively, giving the Belles a second round score of 341 and 
formance over 
the weekend was not quite as good as it could have been. 
"We scored a little higher than we would have wanted in the first round," Hamilton said. "The front nine was tough on Saturday. Once everyone got their feet under them, we played really well, but by then the damage was already done." 
The Belles begin MIAA confer­ence play next Saturday as they take on Kalamazoo on the road. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
Fesl 
continued from page 20 
me from the bench." 
Phillips aided Fesl's effort by recording 15 total kills in the match. Stasiuk also chipped in with 14 kills and eight digs. 
The Golden Panthers (3-2) were led by sophomore out­side hitters Yarimar Rosa and Olga Vergun. Both play­ers paced the game with 24 and 22 kills, respectively. Rosa was named the Tiger tournament MVP while Vergun also added 13 digs. 
The Irish will now return home for the Shamrock 
Shutout 
continued from page 20 
composed around the [penal­ty] box," Cinalli said. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum agreed, but added that th.e team would rebound after the tie. 
"We created way too many chances not to be effective," Waldrum said. "It's not going to kill us but it's not how we wanted to do." 
The best Irish chance came early in the second half when freshman midfielder Lauren Fowlkes headed the ball off the crossbar. After Fowlkes' chance, which was set up by junior forward Kerri Hanks' free kick, the Irish continued to pressure the Wolverines until they appeared to run out of gas in overtime. 
Sophomore Michelle Weissenhofer set up the attack with several shots that nar­rowly missed, as well as long throw-ins that gave the Irish a number of other golden oppor­tunities. 
But the Irish began to tire as regulation ended and the game headed into overtime. 

Invitational from Sept. 7-9 in Valparaiso and Idaho. The the Joyce Center. The action team's two losses were to starts Friday night against Missouri and No. 6 Santa 
the College 
0 f 
Charleston and will continue 
"Getting that win under

throughout 
the week­our belts really helps with end when our confidence.,, Notre Dame takes on 
Megan Fesl 

Alabama and No. 23 
Irish outside hitter 0 h i 0 
Saturday and Sunday, respectively. 
Clara on the tourna­ment's last day. 
" [ T h e Shamrock Invitational] is another really tough tourna­ment," Fesl s a i d . "Getting that win under our belts really helps 

Last year the Irish went 2-with our confidence." 2 in thre busy days while hosting the tournament. The Contact Pat O'Brien at team started with wins over pobrinen2@nd.edu 
Waldrum attributed his team's fatigue to the fact that he was forced to use his key players for more time than he would have preferred. 
"We changed a lot [of play­ers with seventeen minutes left] in the first half," Waldrum said. "The players we wanted out there had to play a lot more minutes than we would have wanted." 
Two Irish goalkeepers, soph­omore Kelsey Lysander and Nikki Weiss, combined for the shutout, although each had to make just one save behind a team that possessed the ball for most of the contest. 
Notre Dame 2, Aorida 0 
Junior defender Elise Weber notched a goal and an assist as the visiting Irish bounced 
back  to  take  down  No.  7  
Florida  2-0  Sunday  in  
Gainesville.  

Notre Dame weathered a four-and-a-half four rain delay before facing off with the Gators. The wait did not affect the Irish, who were hungry to get back on the field following Friday's tie with the Wolverines. 
The game was Notre Dame's 21st shutout in its last 29 games. The team was able to keep Florida off of the score­board despite being outshot 11-4 by the Gators. 
Junior midfielder Brittany Bock opened the scoring less than seven minutes into· the contest when she headed a cross from Weber into the left side of the net. 
Weber then tallied a goal of her own in the 65th minute to give Notre Dame some breath­ing room. After receiving a pass from junior forward Kerri Hanks outside the penal­ty box, she beat one defender, then skipped a shot past Gators goalkeeper Katie Fraine. 
But the extra score was more of a cushion than the Irish and senior goalie Lauren Karas would need. While only saving one shot on goal, Karas helped Notre Dame overcome a 6-2 corner-kick deficit and kept Florida from finding the back of the net. 
The win marked Notre Dame's 27th straight regular season match without a loss, a streak that dates back to the 2005 season. 
The team could not be reached for comment. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 



ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer Junior Rebecca Mendoza attacks a loose ball during Notre Dame's 0-0 tie with Michigan Friday night at Alumni Field. The tie snapped a 32-game home winning streak. 

~-~ -·-==---~~========---=--==-=====-==========================-========================================-========= 
UCLA 
continued from page 20 
Yoshinaga on a J.,rive-and-go, and after getting the return pass, Brovsky played the ball in to sen­ior forward Joseph Lapira. With his back to thn goal just six yards out, Lapira laid the ball back to an onrushing Yoshinaga, who blasted it homn. 
"It was a good game," Clark said. "We played very Wl~ll against onn of' the best college tmuns. and it was good for that reason." 
Notre Dame had almost won the game in mgulation, but UClA dnf'ender Chance Myers scored oil' a f'ren kil:k with only 3H see­onds remaining. The sequence was reminiscent of Notre Dame's game against Indiana one year ago in the Credit Union Classic when the Hoosiers tied the game at four on a penalty kick in the last minute. 
"It was kind of deja vu." Clark said. "I told them you won the game in regulation. Go out and win it again, and that's what they did. We showed a lot of spirit and a lot of character." 
Besides his assist on Yoshinaga's goal, Lapira also tal­lied his first official goal of the season when he scored in the 24th minute. The goal came after a flurry of Irish chances, inelud­ing a shot from senior forward Kurt Martin that was deflected by Bruin goalkeepnr Brian Perk, and another from sophomore midfielder Justin Morrow that went just wide. 

While the majority of the action occurred late in Notre Dame's game against UCLA, the scoring started early Sunday afternoon against Maryland. 
Only five minutes into the game, junior Graham Zusi took a pass from sophomore Jeremy Hall and deposited the ball past Irish keeper Andrew Quinn to give Maryland a 1-0 lead. 
The Terrapins almost doubled their advantage 11 minutes later when Quinn's clear of a cross went to Maryland's Anthony Wallace, whose shot sailed just over the crossbar. 
Four minutes before halftime, the Terrapins found the back of the net again. The play started when midfielder Stephen King sent a cross in from the endline, and midfielder Drew Yates coi­!Pcted the bail and slotted it into the lower left comer of the Irish goal. 
"I thought we were getting into the game pretty well in the first 10 to 15 minutes, but just as we were getting into the game, they got the second goal," Clark said. 
While the Terrapins had plenty of early chances, Notre Dame did not register a shot on goal in the first. Throughout the game. the Irish managed only throe shots to Maryland's 17. 
Sunday was the first time in 15 games that Notre Dame was shut out. That last happrmed on Sept. 20, 2006, when the Irish tied Northern Illinois 0-0. 
The Irish will return home next weekend for the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament to take on Rhode Island and No. Illinois. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.eclu 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
the advantage in possession throughout the game, so it didn't take us long to regroup." 
And regroup they did, as junior midfielder Whitney Fron notched the game win­ner in the 85th minute, 
minute by freshman Kristin Hhoa. who was not tested by any Lawrence shots. 
"We're still feeling that out," said MacKenzie about using three goalkeepers in two games. "All three did well, so we're still in wait­and-see mode. It's a good problem to have." 
Whoever earns the job as starting goalkeepp,r will have a very proficient defense playing in front of them. 
just over two "We don't need to rely o u r minutes after defense was
on one or two
Case Western very solid," had tied the individuals to get it MaeKenzin score. done, and we said. "We "It was were diflleult
demonstrated that 
encouraging to maneuver
quite well." 
to see them past or go respond in over the top such a posi­Caryn MacKenzie of. We were tive way," very organ­
Belles coach
MacKenzie said. 
Mahoney recorded three saves while earning the vic­tory. 
Sunday's game was slightly less dramatic, but the result was just as positive for Saint Mary's. 
The Belles defeated Lawrence with a balanced scoring attack. Freshman midfielder Julia Gragtmans scored oJ(a pass from sopho­more midlielder Katie Wehrli in the 40th minute for the 1­0 lead. Sophomore midfielder Corissa Hart then seored an unassisted goal in the 51st minute, and Gragtman assist­ed on a goal by Hinton in the lina:l minute of the game. 
Sophomore Patty Duffy recorded five saves in goal and was replaced in the 77th ized and com­
municated well, and our outsidn defend­ers made some nice runs out of' the back." 
MacKenzie was also encouraged by the balaneed offense, as four differnnt players seored the tnam 's live goals over the weekend. 
"That's one of the things we talked about heading into the tournament," she said. "We don't ncnd to rely on onn or two individuals to get it done, and we demonstrated that quite well." 
The Belles will try to ride this wave of momentum when they host Manchester in their home opener Wednesday. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 


Higgins Labor Research Center 
Because "...all people have the right to economic initiative, to productive work, to just wages and benefits, to decent working conditions, and to organize ...unions" 
OUSCCB 1997 statement "A Catholic Framework for Economic Life" 
Pleasejoin usfor our 

2007-08 Labor Film Series 
"Morristown" Monday, September 10, 2007 (2007, 6o minutes) Witness the effects of globalization and immigration on a community in eastern Tennessee. Filmmaker Ann Lewis chronicles a decade of change in Morristown, Tennessee through interviews with displaced or low-wage Southern workers, Mexican immigrants, and their families. 
"Offto War" Monday, November 5, 2007 (2005, 45 minutes) 

Follow the 39th Brigade of the Arkansas National Guard as they deploy for Iraq in 2003. These 57 ''weekend warriors" and their families struggle to find purpose and direction as brigade members leave homes and jobs. 
"Uprising of'34" Monday, February 4, 2008 (1995, 90 minutes) 

In 1934, Southern textile workers led a nationwide walkout­the largest single-industry strike in U.S. history. Some mill workers were murdered, thousands blacklisted, and many more so intimidated that "union" became a dirty word throughout the South. This film ·will spark discussion on class, race, economics, and power issues still vital today. 
"These Hands" Monday, April 7, 2008 (1992, 45 minutes) 

A day in the life of Mozambican women working in a quarry outside Dares Salaam. Most of the women are refugees who spend their days 
painfully and painstakingly manually mining gravel. The camera acts as a ...ViiifJ''"'"iViiute witness to these women, lowest in rank of the global economy. 
All films will be shown from 4:30 to 6:oo p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium C-100 
Free and open to the Public 
.... 
Monday, September 3, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 


WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Randall J. Hartman 
32 Salon sound 43 Street 
perhaps35 Roswell sighting 
44 Music genre for 
53 "Survivor"
36 Tall, skinny guy Enya setting,37 Like vegetables 45 Aviation pioneer sometimesin salads 
Sikorsky 
54 And others,38 Mantra syllables briefly
47 Wash away, as
39 Designer letters 
49 Andean land
goof 
57 Col. Sanders's 42 Thus far 50 Pitcher chain 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ(JJJOOJ]3)1JJ:.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GYNAM j 
1 
ri 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved. 
UPYPP 
j
rJ r I I 
GIPNAY 
rJ (J
1 www.jumble.com 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: "r I I I I I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: PIECE BEIGE ENJOIN PRIMERSaturday's 
Answer: To many, when marriage is mentioned, it has a -NICE "RING" TO IT 

WHt=N HE: l-OST THr= ex:£, nt HAN~ L-AWY£::1< WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Salma Hayek, 41: Lennox Lewis, 42: Keanu Reeves. 43: Jimmy Connors, 55 
Happy Birthday: Don't deny yourself the chance lo participate because you have had bad experiences in the past. Forget what's already happened and plunge ahead. Your efforts will not go unnoticed or be denied if you arc direct and refrain from taking on too much. Your numbers are 16, 20. 22. 36, 39. 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): There are deals to be made. so draw up proposals and expand on your thoughts. Love is in the picture but leave your romantic plans until the end of the day. It will result in a more playful evening. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Gel oul and mingle ami you will meet someone who can help you move forward wilh an idea that has been at a standstill. It could very well turn into a profitable pursuit. Money is in lhe picture. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Focus on having fun and spending time with friends hut don't go overboard. Keep your Oirtatious ways to a minimum and don't make impulsive decisions. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Help is on the way if you need it hut it's really more about what you can do for others. Your time and effort will not go unnoticed or be 
un-rewarded. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): There is a great deal to be said about your ability to host and entertain hut don'l let anyone take advantage of your kindness and generosity. Don't get mad or indignant hut protect yourself from users and hangers-on. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): For once in a long time, you appear to have everylhing falling into place. The unexpected will enhance what you are trying to do, so wel­come change. 5 stars · 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get involved in a sure thing. Look at real estate or develop a business plan or concept with a partner who can complement your own attributes. Things are looking up and change is heading your way. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Finish what you started hut don't he afraid to present what you have done to date. Time is of the essence and you must be willing to share what you have to offer. You'll be surprised by the response and help you get. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21 ): You will learn a lot if you listen to whal others have to say. Attending a seminar or conference will result in a new attitude or approach to something you want to pursue. Keep your expenses to a minimum. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A chance to put an end to a pending problem will come into play and result in your getting more than expected. Money is heading yo~r way. Don't be afraid to do things a little differently. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Expect a lecture if someone who cares ahout you thinks you have not been living up to your potential. There is probably a valuable lesson to be learned. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. I 9-March 20): If you let others get involved in your plans, you will lose control and that can lead to disaster. Keep things in perspective. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are strong, stubborn and resourceful. You are willing to take on whatever comes your way with courage and determination. You are aggressive and productive. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugeniala'\t.com for confidential consultations 


CROSSWORD 
Across 32 Identical to Toast to one's 33 Twisted, as health humor 6 Whooping_ 34 Source of disruption to
11 Belle of the ball satellites
14 Humiliate 36 "My man!"
15 Ship from the 39 Disobeys
Mideast 40 Letter-shaped

16 Commercial skyscrapercousin of crazy support
eights 42 Sleeveless shirts

17 Traps off the coast of Maine 
45 Strained relations?

19 Get-up-and-go 46 Bakery fixtures
20 Horn sound 47 Goad
21 Urns 48 Moist, as
22 Nozzle site morning grass23 Southerner in 49 Los Angeles'sthe Civil War 
San_Bay

25 "_ you asked 52 Mayberry lad
" 
55 Santa winds26 Part of a TV 56 Gotham tabloid

catchphrase from Howie 58 Yank Mandel 59 Kennel club 

28 Ball catcher 
classification behind a catcher 60 Guy 31 Thesis defenses 61 Wide shoe spec 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

62 Put a hex on 63 Fish basket 
Down 
Pepper's partner 2 "Peek­3 Jerry Lewis 
telethon time 4 Andrew Carnegie corp. 5 Investigator: 
Abbr. 6 Reef material 7 Steals, with "off" 8 Skin cream 
ingredient 9 New Jersey hoopsters 1 0 Places to see 
M.D.'s in a hurry 11 Company behind nylon and Teflon 12 Georges who composed "Romanian Rhapsodies" 13 "Little" shepherdess of children's verse 
18 Daredevil Knievel 22 Serpentine 
sound 24 Droopy-eared 
hounds 25 Rink activity 26 This instant 27 Bobby _, the 
only N.H.L.'er to win the Hart, Norris, Ross and Smythe trophies in the same year 
28 Points on a diamond? 29 Roadies' loads 30 Corporate V.I.P. 

THE ()BSERVER

PC)RTS
Monday, September 3, 2007 page 20 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Starting with a bang 
Yoshinaga scores in in overtime to defeat No. 1 UCLA Friday 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writrr 
You ean add another first to the Notre J>anw program under Bobby Clark. 
Arter directing tho Irish in a s1mson that featurml their !irst over quarterfinal appearance in tlw NCAA Tournament last year and their lirst IIermann Trophy winner. Joseph Lapira, Clark led Notro Damn to its !irst-ever win over the No. 1 team in the eollll­try. 
Notre Dame def'nated top­ranked UCLA 2-1 in overtime Friday night in its !irst game of tho adidas/IU Credit Union Classic before falling 3-0 to No. 7 Maryland Sunday afternoon. 
Ill~ading into their game with UCLA, tho Irish were 0-5-0 against teams ranked No. 1 since 1990. Sonior rnidl'ielder Alex Yoshinaga made sure that rneord didn't fall to 0-(J-0 when he found the baek of the net for a "goldtHI goal" just four minutes into the lirst overtime period. 
The play started when fresh­man Jnb Brovsky connected with 

Senior goalkeeper Chris Cahill passes during a 4-1 win over Georgetown Oct. 7 last season. see UCLA/page 18 Cahill had four saves in Notre Dame's 2-1 overtime victory over No. 1 UCLA Friday night. 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles win tourney to begin year 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
The Belles made a late rally to win the first game of a two-game tournament and followed it up with a dominant victory in the finale to take first place for the weekend. 
The Belles defeated hosts Case Western 2-1 Saturday and Lawrence University 3­0 on Sunday to win the Case Western Invitational in Cleveland. 
In Saturday's game, junior forward Lauren Hinton got a shot past Case Western goalkeeper Kirsten McClain in the 14th minute for the early 1-0 lead. The Belles held that margin for nearly 70 minutes until Case Western's Kaitlyn Yule scored her team's only goal. beating Saint Mary's goal­keeper Amy Mahoney. 
"It took us about 30 sec­onds to register the fact that we still had time to play," head coach Caryn MacKenzie said. "We had 
see BELLES/page 18 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Michigan forces 0-0 draw 
NO beats Florida 2-0 after tie Friday night at Alumni Field 
By FRAN TOLAN Spons Writrr 
Despite outshooting Miehigan 2X-(l and keeping the ball on thn visitors' side of' the field for nearly thn entire second half of rngulation. the Irish played the Wolverinns to a scoreless draw at Alumni Field Friday night. 
In front of a crowd of 3,264, Michigan junior goalkeeper Madison Gates nu~ked up a earner-high 10 saves while keeping the host Irish from extending a home winning streak that had reached 32 gam~s. The streak is tied for the third longest in NCAA his­tory. 
"It feels like a loss," Irish SIHJior captain Amanda Cinalli said. 
Notre Dame pressured the Wolvnrines enough to earn 10 corner kicks and several free kicks just outside the penalty box, but Gates was able to turn away every set piece opportu­nity. 
Tlw Irish also sent a number of shots just over or wide of the goal. 
"Wn have to focus more on l'inishing and focus on being 
see SHUTOUT/page 17 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish take dovvn FlU for first season victory 

Team goes 1-1 at Tiger Invite after dropping first game to Mizzou 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
A weekend after losing their first home opener in 17 years, the Irish split two matches on the road to get a tally in the win col­
umn. Notre Dame (1-3) defeated FlU 3-2 (28-30, 30­27, 21-30, 30-24, '15­
9) in the T i g e r 

Invitational Fesl i n Columbia, Mo., after a 3-0 (31-29, 30-25, 30-23) loss to the host school. 

The Missouri game featured four Irish players who tallied double digit kills. Sophomore outside hitter Megan Fesl led the way with 14 kills, while junior middle blocker Justine Stremiek had 13 kills and live blocks. 
Sophomore outside hitter 
Serinity Phillips recorded 11 kills. Senior outside hitter Adrianna Stasiuk had 10 kills to go along with 21 digs. 
The Tigers (:~-2) were led by senior outside hitter Na Yang, who connected on 22 kills with only one error. Missouri also received major contribu­tions from two of' their sopho­more stars. Outside hitter Julianna Klein recorded her second career double-double with 13 kills and 11 digs, and setter Lei Wang helped out with 38 assists. 
The Irish made a comeback the following day to secure the win over Florida International. Down two games to one, Notre Dame found itself' tied at 15. 
From that point the Irish never looked back as Fesl recorded six of' her team-high 20 kills for the 30-24 victory. The Irish continued their dominance by posting a 15-9 decision in the deeiding game, leading the entire way. 
"The whole team felt really good," Fesl said. "Our coach­es and players made really good scouting reports. IMallorie Croall has been injured, and she really helped 
see FESL/page 17 





