
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Brown chooses new chief executive 
Sheena Plamoottil's selection solidifies all-female team in student government's top three 

By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Student body president­elect Liz Brown and vice president-elect Maris Braun took one of their first steps as student government leaders Tuesday when they announced Pangborn senator and Senate Social Concerns chair Sheena Plamoottil as their Chief Executive Assistant (CEA). 
Plamoottil will fill the posi­tion Brown currently holds under the Lizzi Shappell-Bill Andrichik administration. 
Junior Sheena Plamoottil was selected by student body presi­Brown called Plamoottil the dent-elect Liz Brown to serve as chief executive assistant. "best person for the job" and 
Conflict arises over pets in dortnitories 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 
Beginning last fall, controversy has been brewing in Pasquerilla East Hall because of a ·new resident, hand-chosen by the dorm's rectress, Breyan Tornifolio. The unconven­tional resident is a cocker spaniel dog named Ella. 
Though numerous dorms on campus have pets, Ella's presence in Pasquerilla East caused a slew of problems for three stu­dents -Jacqueline Collins, Catherine Wetten and Lauren Carr -who suffer from allergies. 
Originally placed in the dorm because it is air-conditioned -and thus the best placement for students suffering from severe allergies -the women were left with a tough decision following Ella's debut. They could either stay in Pasquerilla East and deal with recurring health prob­lems or move out of the dorm. 
see PETS/page 4 

Computer difficulties delay SMC elections 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
Student Class Elections at Saint Mary's have been postponed for the second time as many days because of administrative prob­lems with the computer system students use to vote, Board of Governance members said. 
Students were supposed to vote Monday using Prism -the Saint Mary's Internet program used for various academic processes as well as Student Election voting. Because of recurring problems, voting was pushed back to yester­day and then rescheduled again for today. Students received an e­mail Tuesday from the Board of Governance informing them of the voting difficulties and the pro­cedures that needs to be followed. 
"Elections for class boards have been postponed until [tonight] due to problems with Prism. The survey on Prism has been reset. Voting will start at 12:00 p.m. [tonight] and will last until 11:59 
p.m. [Thursday.] If you have already voted, you must vote again," the e-mail said. 
Elections Commissioner Christin Molnar first noticed problems Friday when she real­ized that the online survey would not be ready in time for the Prism voting to begin Monday. Because of that error, the voting was pushed back to Tuesday, she said. 
The candidates were notified 
see VOTING/page 8 
said she has followed her progress closely in the Senate. 
Plamoottil redefined the Social Concerns committee at the beginning of the year, Brown said, and "she really took the committee and ran with it and has gotten some good things accomplished." 
The selection of Plamoottil fills the top three positions in the student government with women, something that has never before happened at Notre Dame. 
Brown said she is happy to be part of history, but said the choice of Plamoottil was 
see CEA/ page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Students give thanks to donors 
Letters to be written to benefactors 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 

Students are giving thanks today for the nearly $68 mil­lion . received by the University for scholarships this year by partaking in "Thanksgiving in February," an event organized by the Development Office allowing students to personally thank individual donors. 
"'Thanksgiving in February' is basically an event to edu­cate the students to the importance of donors to Notre Dame and to give the students the opportunity to say thank you," said Aly Baumgartner, a member of the Senior Class Gift Committee helping to organ­ize today's campaign. 
From noon to 7 p.m. today, students can stop by the Sorin Room in LaFortune to compose a note thanking Notre Dame's donors for their contributions. The Development Office will post some of the responses on its Web site and make others available in print. 
Throughout the day, seniors on the Gift Committee and Development Office staff members will be on hand explaining the purpose of "Thanksgiving in February" and situating students at computer stations. 
Baumgartner said that the event's timing is not acciden­
see DONORS/page 6 




Dinner held for Ca111.bodian school 
Students raise funds for PEPYND 
By ROHAN ANAND 
News Writer 
Nearly 100 students skipped the dining hall Tuesday. Instead of din­ner, they attended a Thai­Cambodian fundraising dinner for Cambodian schoolchildren and a school they hope Will be built. 
One hundred percent of the pro­ceeds from the evening -which was the Student International Business Council's second fundrais­ing dinner this winter -went toward the Protect the Environment, Protect Yourself (PEPY Ride) organization. The 
see PEPY/page 8 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 



The thrill of the fall 
I love the feeling of skydiving. I love the freedom that I get up in the air. 
Jumping's scary. When I jump out of that plane, I struggle to do it at first. I look down and see John Tierney how big the fall can be, and won­der what's the News Wzre worst that can Editor happen. I quickly realize that the worst thing that can happen is something that kind of sucks. I could die. 
But honestly, what are the chances of that? I'm not really sure, but I know that they're pretty slim. I'm much more likely to break something -my leg, my arm, my skull, who knows what else. 
When I first jump out of the plane, I'm scared. I think ... what's going to happen to me? What all can I break? What all will I break? Will I still have a skull? What it still be intact? Will they be able to fix everything I break? 
But then, after a little while, I calm down, which is hard, consid­ering I'm still thousands of feet up in the air and there's still no way of knowing if I will land safely. But I realize that I can't enjoy the sky­diving experience (and, obviously, I'm up there because I want to enjoy it) if I don't just relax and let gravity and my parachute take me away. 
I've taken a risk. It could end badly, but I wouldn't have bothered taking the risk if I thought that it would. I would never have allowed myself to go skydiving in the first place if I thought that I'd die, or if I thought I'd wind up with a bro­Ren skull. So I let myself enjoy the fall, and trust that I will be safe. 
Skydiving is not a sport for the weak. You have to know your bodi­ly limits on earth before you attempt to challenge them in the air. You must be confident in your own skin, on your own surface, before reaching out to the different environment of the vast sky. Otherwise, it's bound to end in a failure of some variety. 
I love skydiving. But I've only done it once. I don't want to go again, even though I can't name an experience I've had that I've enjoyed more. Nothing compares to the excitement I got when I real­ized that I was totally exposed, that anything -for better or for worse -could happen to me when I hit the ground. Nothing compares to the serenity and peace I felt when I realized I didn't care what happened when I hit ground, because the thrill of the fall itself was worth whatever price I might have to pay later with broken limbs (or even with a broken skull). 
Before I went skydiving, I had one love in my life -cookies. Skydiving tripled that number. Now I love skydiving, but, more impor­tantly, I love the ground that I hit. 
Do something you love today. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT CELEBRITY WOULD YOU LIKE TO COME TO CAMPUS? WHY? 







Andrea Baker  Caroline Green  Jean Henegan  Tony Piskurich  Kevin Prawdzik  
sophomore Welsh Family  sophomore Cavanaugh  junior Lewis  sophomore St. Edward's  sophomore Fisher  
"Stacy and Clinton because there's so many people who walk around campus in  "Will Ferrell. This place needs a little more cowbell. "  "Daniel Craig because those eyes and that accent."  "Rosie O'Donnell because then we could have more ,controversy.  "Barack Obama because he makes my life worthwhile."  

pajamas. 

ANDREW STEVES/The Observer 
Mike Lavery, center, and Tim Campbell, far right, race in the Men's A category race in Columbus, Ohio at an event put on by Ohio State this weekend. 
OFFBEAT 
three second-story storage rooms and were never in contact with students. They said that as of Friday bat control experts had caught and released the last of the bats, estimated at nearly 1,000. 
School system spokesman Jeff Nowakowski said he would investigate the stu­dents' claims. IIe said he was told by experts from Acadian Rodent & Animal Control that the problem had been solved. 
Assistant Principal Maureen Bayhi said students seemed to be exaggerating the problem. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Janitor spends weekend in courthouse 
POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y. ­Think you had a boring weekend? Talk to Harold Jones. The 32-year-old jani­tor spent two and a half days without food, water or access to a bathroom after he was accidentally locked in a secure room at an upstate courthouse. 
Jones was mopping the floor in a meeting room at the Dutchess County Courthouse in Poughkeepsie on Friday night when the door swung shut, locking him in. 
To make matters worse, he had left his cell phone in his coat, which was in another room. 
Jones banged on the door, but no one heard him until yesterday morning, when a county employee found him in the room. 
Even though he was stuck for nearly 60 hours, Jones said he was so upset by his ordeal that he couldn't eat. 
Students still see bats in school 
ETAIHIE, La. -Students at East Jellerson I Iigh School say they see bats in the school even though school of:lieials and an exterminator say they've bncn moved out. 
"One fell from tho coiling in my chemistry class," Sarah Jones said. 
Last week, ollidals said the bats had been contained to 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
LLI :::z::: 
!;( 
LLI 


))
3: 
..... 
<C 
(.) 0 


HIGH 40 HIGH 25 HIGH 45 HIGH 34
...I LOW 35 LOW 17 LOW 30 LOW 24 IN BRIEF 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre presents 
Agatha  Christie's  "The  
Mousetrap"  on  the  Decio  
Mainstage  Theatre  at  the  

DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The show opens today at 7::lO p.m., and continues until March 4. Evening performances are at 7:30 and the Sunday mati­nee is at 2:30 p.m. Ticket prices are $12 for the general public, $10 for senior citizens, ND facul­ty and staU and $S fiJr student..'>. 
There will boa panel presentc't­tion on "Sex and the City of God" tonight at 7::lO in 101 DeBartolo Hall. It will examine the interplay between Catholicism and con­temporary culture. 
Muslim prayer and meditation will take place tonight at 7 in room 330 of the Coleman-Morse Center. 
Breen-Phillips Hall will host the annual Breen-Phillips Meal Auction today from 7 to 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Meals with "campus celebrities" will be auctioned off and a silent auction for restaurant gift certificates will be held, all proceeds to benefit Meals on Wheels. 
Freshmen can vote Thursday in the run-on· election for the soph­omore class council. Voting will take place between S a.m. and 8 
p.m. Students can access the vot­ing Web site by clicking on a link in an e-mail from the Judicial Council. 
Legends will host Last Comic Standing Thursday at 10 p.m. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 30 HIGH 31 LOW 21 LOW 22 
Atlanta 52 I 43 Boston 33 I 27 Chicago 32 I 28 Denver 36 I 22 Houston 65 I 52 Los Angeles 55 I 49 Minneapolis 31 1 19 New York 41 I 30 Philadelphia 42 I 29 Phoenix 67 I 46 Seattle 41 I 33 St. Louis 38 I 29 Tampa 76 I 64 Washington 41 132 

-------,
~---------­
Wednesday, February 28, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Workshop: "Deriving Racial Understanding Explosion of Diversity From Our Own Experiences" 
Keynote Address "How I Came To See IHad a Privilege and What I'm Learning I Can Do With It" 
Peggy Mcintosh, Ph.D., is the associate director of the Wellesley Centers for Women, and the founder and co-director of the National S.E.E.D. (Seeking Educational Equity and Diversity) Project on Inclusive Curriculum. 
Diverse Students'Leadership CoQ.ference
Mcintosh directs the Gender, Race, and Inclusive 
Student Diversity Board • Saint Mary's College • Notre Dame, IN 
Education Project, which provides workshops on 
~
privilege systems, feelings of fraudulence, and 
1-~·...
diversifying workplaces, curricula, and teaching methods. ..•. ~, 

• Identify the challenges and underlying prejudices that exist in
To register please contact: 
various social institutions Office of Multicultural Affairs 
• Develop education and interactive skills to transform the challenges
Saint Mary's College 
of diversity into opportunities
214 Student Center Phone: (574) 284·4721 • Become empowered leaders actively promoting the advantages DSLC@saintmarys.edu of diversitv 
.J 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Me111bers to debate, vote on two fiscal arnendJ:nents 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
Student body vice president Bill Andrichik announced Tuesday that two amendments will be debated and voted on tomorrow concerning the fiscal policies discussed during recent Council of Representatives (COR) meetings. 
One of the amendments concerns moving presidential division of the Student Union Board's budget to Student Government's budget. 
The presidential division is a sepa­rate part of the SUB budget set aside for programming that is used by stu­dent government. SUB manager Patrick Vassel proposed that the funds be moved out of SUB budget and into student government fund­ing. 
Andrichik said that the oversight committee has approved the request. 
"The new amendment would require that the student body presi­dent make a formal request for allo­cation to the office of the president budget that would encompass all policy-based programming," he said. 
The second amendment concerns the amount of money groups are able to spend without needing approval. As of now, any expendi­tures over $5,000 need approval, but some groups, such as the Student Union Board, have large budgets and consistently need to spend over $5,000. 
The new plan under the proposed amendment would be a "hybrid model," Andrichik said, with the limit being "five percent of the group budget or $5,000, whichever is high­er." 
In other COR News: 
+ 
Judicial Council President Liz Kozlow reported that both senior and junior class council elections were suspended due to both senior and junior candidates running unop­posed. The sophomore class council elections resulted in a run-off, which will take place Thursday, she said. 

+ 
Student Union Treasurer Steve Friend nominated Kadeja Gaines as his successor for the term that begins March 1. 


"Kadeja is qualified, dedicated, and hard-working." Friend said in a recommendation letter to the COR members. 
"As an assistant, she has demon­strated the ambition, drive, and capacity necessary to serve the stu­dent body," Friend said. 
Gaines was approved. 
+ Club Coordination Council President Kerry Kilbourn presented a COR Collaboration Fund Appeal for Disability Awareness Month sponsored by Best Buddies, Perspectives and Sophomore Class Council. Most of the proposed fund­ing is to be spent toward a speaker, Kilbourn said. The event was grant­ed $1,385. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 



Seminar explores mediause 
BySONIARAO News Writer 

While students in dorm rooms across the country have been influenced by popular Web sites like Facebook.com and YouTube, it isn't always clear if this technology is relevant in the real w~rld. Tonight's New Age Media Seminar at the Mendoza College of Business plans to explore just how sites like MySpace.com have changed the business world and why marketing students should be inter­ested. 
"[The event is] the first of its kind," said Marketing Club President Michelle Brintnall, whose organiza­tion is sponsoring the event. "Right now is one of the most dynamic times for technology. The seminar is designed to highlight infor­mation from both sides of media markets: the compa­nies using the media to gain exposure and the agencies selling them." 
Though the subject directly speaks to market­ing majors, Brintnall said business world. the target audience also "I would say that a includes majors that touch majority of these speakers on the industry, such as are Notre Dame gradu­graphic design, film, tele­ates," Brintnall said. vision and "Some of them theatre, are recent alums, computer "Right now is one like from 2003 or science, 2004, so they
of the most
engineer­know what [stu­ing and dynamic times for dents] are going MBA stu­technology.,, through. They dents. She don't have the s a i d superiority of the 
Michelle Brintnall
absorbing corporate world." informa-president Included on the tion on Marketing Club roster are Bryce 
such a vanguard topic could help anyone during their job search. 
"Such exposure will present incredible talking points and also generate business knowledge that all marketing majors should have," Brintnall said. "Talking points like these separate good inter­views from great ones." 
Vice presidents of sales and directors from YouTube, MySpace and Starcom Media Group will 
address some of the issues  
of new age media becom­ Contact Sonia Rao at  
ing integrated  into  the  sraol@nd.edu  

Emo, vice presi­
dent of Branded Sales for MySpace, Mark Flaharty, director of sales for YouTube and Google and Carolyn Sweeney and Beth Doyle, Starcom Media Supervisors. 
Brintnall also said that people from local corpora­tions and businesses in town will be in attendance. 
The event begins at 5 
p.m. in room 122 of the Mendoza College of Business. 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
and Notre Dame, and it is our and decided that it was not three people in my dorm than Jackson Ia chocolate health and well-being that is necessary to force Tornifolio a dog." Labrador retriever] seems to
Pets 
sacrificed." to get rid of the dog. Pasquerilla East is not the be a really good thing for Still, Tornifolio said that Wetten, however, said she only residence on campus them," said Amy de la Torre,
continued from page 1 she felt the discussion was got the feeling that "HesLife with a pet. Numerous other rectress of Cavanaugh Hall. 
"pretty open and honest." and lthe Office ol"l Student dormitories -including "They come to take him for a 
One such student was soph­''I'd like to think we've been Affairs hasn't been paying Pasquerilla West, Stanford walk or to just pet him omore Catherine Wetten, who working together to try to much attention to it." and Fisher -all house pets because they miss their own moved into Lyons Hall at the find some solu-The Office of like cats or dogs. pets at home." beginning of the semester tion," she said. Hesidence Life But rectors Although de la
"I may have up to
because of asthma and aller­In order to try did not return have not always "With any Torre has not gies that were intensified by to appease all three friends requests for an been allowed to heard of any res­
community, you
living in Pasquerilla East. She parties, the dog interview. have pets in the idents having
forced to leave the 
began experiencing eonges­is confined to a Still, some resi­dorms. Only have to go with the problems with
dorm on the
tion and pain while sleeping certain area of dents feel this after a policy greatest good and the dog in and "really bad headaches the building -account ofa pet, ignores the prob­change made by Cavanaugh, an
that's the only way 
because I wasn't getting Tornifolio's room lem instead of Vice President older dorm, she
and I know that in 
enough oxygen." -and only goes putting it to rest. for Student community works. " does believe 
my case I would so
"It's a ridiculous situation. through the "I ean't see it Affairs Father dorm life is .. You'd never think you'd get lobby to be taken much prefer these as something Mark Poorman about community
Amy de Ia Torre 
replaeed by an animal," said out for walks. three people in my that should h~;~.p­in 1999 were rectress and would take Wetten's former roommate "[The dog] is pen, especially at rectors permit­the dog out of
dorm than a pet." Cavanaugh Hall 
Karla Albite. not allowed to be Notre Dame ted to keep pets. the dorm 
Although Wetten was able in spaces where which values The idea was depending on the to move to Lyons, she said the the community Erin Buckley family and com-that dorm pets often improve number of girls experiencing solution was not a good one. would gather munity," said the sense of community and problems versus the amount
junior
"I was upset and didn't such as common Albite, who help students interact with who received enjoyment from want to move. I have bad air­areas. We try to would like see their rector. the dog. borne allergies. I'm just hop­be understanding of those one dorm for eaeh gender "I think having a dog is a "With any community, you ing it doesn't get too warm with allergies," said designated as an allergies huge asset to the communi­have to go with the greatest for too long," said Wetten, Tornifolio, who also noted dorm. ty," Tornifolio said. good and that's the only way referring to the fact that that residents with allergies According to junior Erin Pets can also provide com­community works," said de La Lyons Hall does not have air­tend to not live on the first Buckley, "I may have up to fort to students who are Torre. conditioning. floor so they are not near the three friends forced to leave homesick, especially fresh­
Wetten and Carr, who still pet on a daily basis. the dorm on aecount of a pet, men who are away from reside in Pasquerilla East, The Office of Residence Life and I know that in my ease I home for the first time. Contact Eva Binda at are hoping to move to performed a risk assessment would so much prefer these "For many freshmen, jbinda@nd.edu McGlinn, a currently petless dorm, next fall. 
"My main issue was that it didn't have to be a win-lose situation," Carr said. "There are breeds of dogs that arc better for [people] with aller­gies. Cocker spaniels are not one of them. I don't under­stand why there couldn't be a different breed of dog in the dorm." 
But Wetten 's decision to move was not made without discussions and attempts at negotiation with the Office of Residential Life and Housing and the Pasquerilla East roe­tress. 
Tornifolio met with all the residents with allergy issues after receiving a letter from Carr. 
The letter detailed the rea­sons why Carr felt that hav­ing a pet in the dorm was unjust -including that the students "are paying $40,000 to attend this University, we have lived here longer, we will have a harder time adjusting to a new housing arrangement, we are more productive and active mem­bers of the community of PE 
Turtle Creek Apartinent Ho~nes Hey, Hey What's NEW? New Management Company! New Staff To Serve You Better! New Easier & Faster Leasing Process! New Look {Especially our NEW OUTDOOR POOL!) New Flexible Leasing Programs! New Saturday & Sunday Hours! Now leasing for 2007-08! Don't Delay, Stop In & See Us! .1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 !QUAl HOUSING OPPORTUNITY Ph 574-272-8124 Open Monday thru Friday 9-7 Saturday 10-4 Sunday 12-4  
What's the Future of this Relationship? \-Vhat's next for our relationship after graduation? lVhat are the challenges hrvol11ed in long distance dating? \-Vhat's involved in 1naking healthy decisiorts about a relationslzip? Please join us for an opportunity of refletion and discussion designed for senior-year dating C.QY.ple_s. who arc dis(~cJ·ning the next stage of a relationship commitment. We will meet with couph's ort an bulh·idual or group btJsis as demand dictates.C-M For Information: John and Sylvia Dillon Campus Ministry Directors of Marriage Preparation l)illon.l5 @nd.edu; 631-7163  







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 28, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVHrs WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
North, South Korea resume talks 
SEOUL -North and South Korea held high­level reconciliation talks Tuesday for the first time since the communist nation's nuclear test in October, paving the way for a resumption of aid to the impoverished country. 
The meetings came as North Korea showed strong signs of commitment to its Feb. 13 pledge at international arms talks to shut down its main nuclear reactor within 60 days in exchange for energy aid. 
It has already invited the chief U.N. nuclear inspector to visit to discuss verification of a shutdown. 
North Korea's main nuclear negotiator, Vice Foreign Minister Kim Kye Gwan, headed for the United States for talks on following through on the landmark deal on dismantling its nuclear weapons program. Kim stopped over in Beijing en route to the U.S., the Chinese foreign Ministry said. 
Hamas not ready to recognize Israel 
MOSCOW -Hamas has pledged to end missile attacks and violence against Israel. Russia's foreign minister said Tuesday, but the radical Palestinian group's spiritual leader struck a less con­ciliatory note, saying it was not ready to recognize Israel. 
With Russia markedly increasing its efforts in Middle East peacemaking, Khaled Mashaal traveled to Moscow for the second time in a year -amid deep Israeli consternation -in a visit that reflected the Kremlin's position that nego­tiations, rather than sanctions, are the best way to deal with Hamas. 
His reception shows that Hamas is gain­ing at least tentative support outside the Middle East. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Officials: Castro era to end this year 
WASHINGTON -Repression is increasing in Cuba under the control of Raul Castro, and the domination of the government by his brother, Fidel, is nearing an end, Bush administration officials said Tuesday. 
"In Cuba, this year will mark the end of the long domination of that country by Fidel Castro," Mike McConnell, the nation's new spy chief, told Congress. 
McConnell, who did not explain his remark, told the Senate Armed Services Committee that significant positive change immediately after Fidel Castro's death was unlikely. He said Raul Castro has had the opportunity to solidify his control in the seven months since his brother~s incapacitating illness last July. 

Conservatives call Gore 'hypocrite' 
NASHVILLE -AI Gore, a leading voice in the fight against global warming, is being called a hypocrite by a conservative group that claims his Nashville mansion uses too much electricity. 
But a spokeswoman for Gore said the former vice president invests in enough renewable energy to make up for the home's power con­sumption. 
· Gore's documentary film "An Inconvenient Truth" won an Oscar on Sunday for chronicling his campaign against global warming. 
The next day, the Tennessee Center for Policy Research put out a news release saying Gore was not doing enough to reduce his own con­sumption of electricity. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Bill raises General Assembly salaries 
INDIANAPOLIS -Lawmakers' salaries would nearly double but their retirement packages would be reduced under a bill that cleared the Senate Tuesday on a 39-9 vote. 
The legislation would increase the base salary for Indiana General Assembly mem­bers from the current $11,600 a year to more than $20,700, said bill sponsor Sen. Gary Dillon, a Republican from Pierceton. 
"We must have a good package if we're going to enable people from all walks of life to have the opportunity to do this job," Dillon said. 
AFGHANISTAN 


Failed assassination attempt kills 23 
Suicide bomber attacks U.S. military base during visit by Vice President Cheney 
Associated Press 
BAGRAM -In what the Taliban claimed was an assassination attempt, a suicide bomber attacked the main gate of a U.S. mili­tary base Tuesday within earshot of Vice President Dick Cheney. The ·explosion killed 23 people, including two Americans, and deliv­ered a propaganda blow that undercut the U.S. mili­tary and the weak Afghan government it supports. 
The bomber struck about 10 a.m., and U.S. military officials declared a "red alert"· at the sprawling Bagram Air Base while Cheney was rushed to a bomb shelter. Cheney, who had been stranded at the base overnight by a snow­storm, met with President Hamid Karzai in the capital before heading back to the United States via the Gulf state of Oman. 
"I heard a loud boom," Cheney told reporters aboard Air Force Two en route to Oman. "The Secret Service· came in and told me there had been an attack on the main gate." 

Many of the victims were said to be Afghan truck drivers waiting to get inside the base. A dozen men ­many of them sobbing heavily -left the base holding a stretcher bearing The guerrillas, according with the attack, Cheney A message posted on a their loved ones wrapped in to NATO officials, have the said: "I think they clearly Web site used by militants black body bags. Tears flexibility to organize an try to find ways to question said "a mujahid (holy war­streamed down the face of attack quickly and may the authority of the central rior) ... carried out a sui­one man sitting in the pas­have been able to plan a government. Striking at cide attack in front of the senger seat of an SUV that bombing at the base while Bagram with a suicide second gate of the Bagram carried another victim Cheney was there after bomber, I suppose, is one Air Base.... The target was away. hearing news reports on way to do that. But it Bush's vice president, Dick 
Although the bomber did Monday that he was shouldn't affect our behav­Cheney." not get closer than roughly delayed by bad weather. ior at all." A purported Taliban a mile to the vice president, The Taliban have attacked Cheney was the highest­spokesman, Qari Yousef the attack highlighted an in the area north of the ranking U.S. official to stay Ahmadi, said Cheney was increasingly precarious capital in the past even overnight in either the the target of the attack car­security situation posed by though people living in the Afghanistan or Iraq war ried out by an Afghan the resurgent Taliban. Five Bagram area have not been zones. named Mullah Abdul years after U.S.-led forces supportive of the guerrillas. President Bush was not Rahim. toppled their regime, Col. Tom Collins, the top awakened to be told about "We knew that Dick Taliban-led militants have spokesman for the NATO the attack, but received an Cl;wney would be staying stepped up attacks. There force, said the Taliban had update early Tuesday inside the base," Ahmadi were 139 suicide bombings a cell in Kabul that could morning. White House told The Associated Press last year, a fivefold increase have traveled the 30 miles press secretary Tony Snow by telephone from an over 2005, and a fresh north to Bagram. said Bush's first reaction undisclosed location. "The wave of violence is expect­Asked if the Taliban were was to ask if Cheney was attacker was trying to ed this spring. trying to send a message OK. reach Cheney." 

U.S. to join Iraq-sponsored meeting 
Democrats struggle to settle on their and allowing weapons to cross its bor­

Associated Press 
next steps to end U.S. participation. der. 

WASHINGTON -In a diplomatic The administration said its decision Rice announced U.S. support for the turnabout, the Bush administration to take part in the Iraq conference did Iraq meeting, to be held in Baghdad will join an Iraq-sponsored "neighbors not represent a change of heart, next month, at a Senate hearing in meeting" with Iran and Syria, although the White House has accused which Democrats pressed her and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice both Iran and Syria of deadly meddling Defense Secretary Robert Gates to said Tuesday. in the war. "We've always been explain what progress is being made in 
It marked a change of approach by inclined to participate in an Iraqi-led the Baghdad security crackdown and the United States, which has resisted conference," White House counselor how soon U.S. troops will be coming calls by members of Congress and by a Dan Bartlett said. home. bipartisan Iraq review group to include The administration in recent weeks "There is no end, I say, no end in Iran and Syria in talks designed to sta­has increased its criticism of Iran's role sight," exclaimed Sen. Robert Byrd, D­bilize Iraq. in Iraq, charging it with supplying W.Va., the Appropriations Committee 
The move came amid growing dis­advanced technologies for the most chairman. He decried the spending· of content over the war, even as President lethal form of roadside bombs. The $10 billion a month in Iraq and Bush rushes an additional 21,500 U.S. administration has accused Syria of Afghanistan amid raging sectarian troops to Iraq and congressional harboring anti-Iraqi government forces and insurgent violence. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
CEA 
continued from page 1 
because she was the most qualified. 
Plamoottil called the selec­tion of an all-female ticket for president and vice president "long-awaited." 
"I think that it's an awesome accomplishment for women," she said. "I think that we are very capable young women and I think that is great that the student body has elected two women. I am happy and proud to join that team as the third woman." 
Plamoottil said her ideas and her passion for student gov­
ernment align closely with those of Brown and Braun. Once their administration takes office Plamoottil said she would like to work with them to address advocacy issues and make student govern­
ment  more  open  
to  student  con­ 
cerns.  
As  the  CEA,  
Plamoottil  will  

serve as the chair of the Executive Programming Board, coordinate Student Senate 
activities and run the daily 
logistics of the student govern­
ment office. 
"It's a unique job because it's 
a lot of tying up loose ends and 
a lot of making sure that 
things run smoothly," Brown 
said. 
And it's a job Plamoottil said ·she is "pumped" to start once turnover occurs April 1. · "I had previously wanted to run for student body president, 
but with my major and the MCATs, I wasn't able to run," she said. "So this is the next best thing and I think it will be perfect for what I want to do and the passion I've had for student government all my life." 
Plamoottil, a science pre­professional and psychology double major, has been involved in student govern­ment at Notre Dame since she sat on the Freshman Class Council. 
She was a committee chair for the Sophomore Class Council the following year. 
She said her experience in the policy-making arena of stu­dent government this year has prepared her with effective 
"I think that we are very capable young women and I think that is great that the student body has elected two women. I am happy and proud to join that team as the third woman. " 
Sheena Plamoottil chief executive assistant-select 
leadership skills and taught her important lessons. 
''I've never been afraid to take on multiple initia­tives at the same time and work hard for the end that we want to see," Plamoottil said. 
Brown's tenure as CEA set a good example for her to follow, she said. 
"She took sever­al initiatives and ran with them," Plamoottil said. "That wi II be something that I 

hope to do as well." 
Plamoottil is only the fourth CEA in Notre Dame studP.nt government. The position was first held by former student body president Dave Baron and then by current Judicial Council president Liz Kozlow the following year. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Donors 
continued from page 1 
tal. 
The end of February IS roughly the time when, if Notre Dame relied solely on t u it ion money, [funds J would run out," she said. "March, April and May run primarily on donor money ... It's also around the date when student l'inancial aid forms are duP.." 
This year's "Thanksgiving in February" event will be very informal, relying heav­ily on the interest of passersby, Baumgartner said. 
"It's just going to be kind of foot trafl'ic. I'm hoping we can just draw people's interest and their euriosity and have them comf1 in," she said. 
The purpose of "Thanksgiving in February" is to allow students an opportunity to share their gratitude with UniVf1rsity donors, who they may not oth­erwise be in contact with, Noire Dame's scholarship coordinator and Assistant Director of Financial Aid Jeff Pethick said. 
"We hope that, by sharing appreciation, benefactors will under­stand the positive impact or their generos­ity," Pethick said. 
Despite the potential for an increase in dona­tions that "Thanksgiving in February" may provide, Pethick said that the University's facilitation of this <went is not done with an eyn toward 
securing funds future. 
"Although sharing appre­ciation with donors may increase schol­arship giving over the long term, our efforts are focused on cul­tivating oppor­tunities for students to 

for the thirds of the $68 million ­are a vital component in
"''m hoping we can 

students' abili­
just draw people's ty to finance a interest and their Notre Dame 
education.
curiosity to have 

"Tuition
them come in. " can't run the University," Baumgartner
Aly Baumgartner 

said. "So even
Senior Class Gift 

if a student 
committee member 

doesn't receive 
share appreciation with donors," Pethick said. 
Still, Baumgartner stressed that contributions rrom individual donors ­which made up nearly two-


financial aid, which so many students do, that's why it's so important Ito say thank you]." 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 



lVluslim Prayer \Vednesday, Februa1y 28th 7:00-7:45pm. 330 Coleman-J.\,1orse 

ExperJen£e an evenmg of Muslim pr.1yer and medltation as the fourth in a ~nes exploring the beliefs and practices ofthe world's great faith traditions: 
"An Evening ofPrayer fiom Aromul the \Vorldu 
Sponsored by: 
ND Muslim Student As.sociation. Campus Ministry, FOG Gr.lduate Residences, GSU, ISSA, University Village 

GET ANTIBIOTICS FROM YOUR DOCTOR, 
NOT YOUR CHICKEN.  
We're serving naturally raised chicken that doesn't require a prescription.  
In fact, the chicken and pork we serve in Mishawaka  
are free of antibiotics and added growth hormones,  
fed a vegetarian diet and raised humanely.  
We think meat raised this way, naturally, tastes better.  
Serving naturally raised chicken is another step in our  
ongoing Food With Integrity journey ­bringing you the best ingredients from the best sources.  CLtipotte  
-SERVING NATURALLY RAlSEO CHICKEN IN MISHAWAKA­ MEXICAN GRILL  
.  
MAIN  ·&  D CJ U G LAS  .  

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
page 7 
-I:~Ji j ::·::ooJti;IIIJ~I~:;;::j:l'¥1141~sl'i 
FTSE. IOO(London) 6,286.10 -148.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 


Dow 

12,216.24 -416.0:2

jones 
Up: 
456 

-: 
NASDAQ 

IIMil.;;i•liilt~~~llll "'< 

S&P 500 
Same: Down: Composite Volunl( 97 2,867 4,243,072,920 
········.··z:;·lliJ~:i@~••·••••·•• ~~0isiif·· 
2 407.86 -96.66 
illiiijii;I~-LIIIIIIlllil!!ll~llllll;i!
1,399.04 -50.33 

NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -4.11  -1.85  
!SHARE RUS 2000 (IWM)  -4.53  -3.70  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -3.93  -0.82  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -3.91  -5.67  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -2.55  -0.1 18  
13-WEEK BILL  -1.09  -0.055  

30-YEAR BOND -2.18 -0.103 5-YEAR NOTE -3.01 -0.139 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.11 GOLD ($/Troy oL) -2.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.15 
Excha Rates 

YEN EURO POUND CANADIAN$ 
43.19 78.05 20.03 139.50 
4.513 4.99 4.63 
4.475 
61.50 687,20 I 03.15 
118.5500 0.7567 0.5095 1.1673 


IN BRIEF 
Toyota to build new $1.3 billion plant 
TUPELO, Miss. -Toyota Motor Corp.'s Highlander sport utility vehicle should start rolling off the assembly line at a new, $1.3 billion plant in northeast Mississippi by 2010, company and state officials said Tuesday. 
Toyota disclosed the site for its eighth vehi­cle assembly plant in North America, saying it will be built on a 1,700-acre site at Blue Springs, about 10 miles northwest of Tupelo. It also considered sites in neighboring states Arkansas and Tennessee. 
The Mississippi plant will manufacture 150,000 Highlanders a year. It also will cre­ate 2,000 badly needed jobs in an area with an economy that has slowed because of loss­es in furniture manufacturing positions. 
Mississippi officials courted Toyota for two­and-one-half years, mostly out of the public eye. 
"As Elvis would say, 'Only fools rush in,"' Ray Tanguay, executive vice president of Toyota-Motor-Engineering and Manufacturing North America Inc., said dur­ing the company's announcement at Tupelo High School. 

Managers plead guilty to illegal hires 
ALBANY -Five former managers from a major crate and pallet manufacturer that employed illegal immigrants pleaded guilty Tuesday, 10 months after federal agents staged sweeping raids at company sites in 26 states. 
James Rice, 37, of Houston, an executive regional general manager of IFCO Systems, pleaded guilty to conspiring to employ illegal workers. Robert Belvin, 43, of Stuart, Fla., a former general manager of the Albany IFCO plant, pleaded guilty to two felony conspiracy charges. 
The two executives could face up to two years in prison and a $250,000 fine, Assistant U.S. Attorney Tina Sciocchetti said. 
Netherlands-based IFCO Systems NV describes itself as the leading pallet services company in America. It reported $108 mil­lion in profits in 2006 on revenues of $647 million. 



Chrysler will pay off workers 
Company plans to pay up to $100,000 to employees in its recovery plan 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Chrysler Group will offer all 49,600 hourly workers in the U.S. up to $100,000 to leave the company as part of a recov­ery plan announced earlier this month. 
The company, which lost $1.4 7 5 billion in 2006 and said it expects losses to con­tinue through 2007, said on Feb. 14 that it would cut 13,000 jobs, including 11,000 hourly positions and 2,000 salaried, as it tries to further shrink itself to match reduced demand for its products. 
A company document obtained by The Associated. Press outlines an early retirement program for hourly workers near retire­ment age and a buyout pro­gram for those with at least one year of tenure with the company. 
The offers were reported earlier Tuesday by The Detroit News. 
Under the buyout offer, workers would receive a pretax lump-sum paymflnt of $100,000 plus six months of medical and vision cover­age in exchange for their departure. 
The early retirement package includes a $70,000 payment, health care bene­fits and whatever pension a worker was eligible for based on age and years of service. 
According to the document, the United­Au to-Workers-union and DaimlerChrysler AG's Chrysler Group agreed on the .offers, which are not as lucrative as some made to workers leaving Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Corp. under restructuring plans. 
"UAW members are once again stepping forward to make hard choices," union President Ron Gettelfinger said in a statement. "Now it's up to DaimlerChrysler to move the company forward, by using the skill and dedi­cation of our members to deliver quality vehicles that customers want to buy." 


The offers come as Chrysler tries to reduce pro­duction by 400,000 vehicles per year. 
All U.S. production work­ers will get the offers, including those at a plant scheduled for closure in Newark, Del. 
Of the production job cuts, 9,000 are in the U.S. and 2,000 are in Canada. All the cuts will take place during the next three years. Chrysler's 10,060 Canadian workers were given sepa­
rate offers earlier this month. 
The company document said that each U.S. facility would have different timing for workers to take the packages, but the timing for plants slated to lose produc­tion this year will be between April and December. Further cuts scheduled for 2008 and 2009 will be done in similar fashion. 
To be eligible for early retirement, workers must have 30 years with the com­pany or be at least 60 years old and have at least 10 years of service, or be at least 55 years old and their age and years of company service must total 85 or more. A worker also could be at least 65 and have at least one year of pension credit to be eligible, accord­ing to the document. 
Chrysler, part of Germany-based Daimler­Chrysler AG, said Feb. 14 that that 11 U.S. plants would be affected by the 
-downsizing. The Delaware plant would closed during the next two years, and Chrysler also plans to cut shifts at plants in Warren, Mich., and St. Louis. 

AT&T call-center able to hire 425 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-AT&T will hire 425 people for call-center jobs that previ­ously had been outsourced under an initiative to reinvest in the state after a sweeping telecommunications reform bill passed the Indiana Legislature last year. 
AT&T will create the technical sup­port jobs for its national broadband operations at its state headquarters in downtown Indianapolis, George Fleetwood, president of AT&T Indiana, said at a Statehouse news conference Tuesday. 
The union jobs will pay more than $40,000 annually in wages and bene­fits, he said. 
AT&T already has begun hiring man­agers for the call center, but full staffing might not occur until 2009, company spokesman Mike Marker said. The cen­ter is due to start taking calls in July. 

The state will provide up to $1 million 
in training funds and income tax cred­
its, and the city will provide more than 
$279,000 in personal property tax 
abatement to AT&T, which will invest 
more than $4.6 million in new equip­
ment and other upgrades, state and 
local economic development officials 
said. 

The call center jobs previously had 
been outsourced, but AT&T chose to 
bring them back in-house at 
Indianapolis because the passage of the 
telecom reform bill encourages the 
industry to invest in the state, 
Fleetwood said. 
"I think these jobs could have been 
placed anyplace in the country where 
we do business," Fleetwood said. Of 
about 20 states that have tackled · telecommunications reform in the last few years, Indiana has done so most 
comprehensively. 
"We at AT&T believe no one has done it better than Indiana," he said. 
The General Assembly last year approved legislation that frees tele­phone companies from state regula­tions and changes the way the cable industry works. 
Since then, in addition to Tuesday's announcement, AT&T and Verizon have announced they would expand high-speed DSL Internet service to 102 rural communities, and Verizon and Comcast have said they will create 375 new jobs in the state. AT&T last month also launched an Internet television service in Anderson, Bloomington, Indianapolis and Muncie, among just 11 markets nationally, Fleetwood said. 
Gov. Mitch Daniels and lawmakers also have said that Indiana consumers can expect to see lower prices for cable and other services. 
Daniels said AT&T had promised to invest more in Indiana if the reforms passed. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
PEPYND 
continued from page 1 
group organizes volunteer adven­ture travel to developing countries, including a bike ride across Cambodia -and has its own chap­ter at Notre Dame. 
PEPYND -a student chapter within the SIBC -assists in fundraisi.ng, research and business planning for PEPY Ride. 
PEPYND put itself on the map in December by hosting its first fundraising dinner in an effort to collect $20.000 to build a second school in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. 
Last night's dinner represented the group's attempt to raise the last $1,000 needed to fund the school. 
"I tmly believe that people have taken an interest in our initiatives," said junior PEPYND member Allio;;on Fleece. "And we've made it pretty clear that they are support­ing a good cause by attending this dinner." 
Attracting an overwhelming number of student supporters, part of the organizer's intent was to help the community become aware of the situation in Cambodia. 
"Our overall goal is to increase the quality and breadth of educa­tion in an underdeveloped country like Cambodia, where 75 percent of the children do not even complete the seventh grade," said Tim Rann, PEPYND president. 
When the doors opened at 6 p.m., the line wrapped around the lV lounge outside the Sorin Room, and continued to augment for the next 45 minutes. 
Luckily for PEPYND members, the turnout was more than expect­ed. 
"This has been an incredible turnout," said senior Christian Kondratowicz. "We were already mnning out of food within the first half hour." 
While the long wait for a Thai/Cambodian meal may not have seemed appealing for stu­dents, there were other incentives to attend the dinner as well. There 

Voting 
continued from page 1 
and everything was set up for the delayed election, but the prob­lems continued once voting began. Molnar said she received several phone calls from con­cerned students who were able to log onto Prism, but were unable to find the survey to vote. 
She said that due to the amount of students facing this problem, the elections were stopped and moved to today. Those in charge said the root of the problem is still unclear. 
Though many students were not too bothered by all the confu­sion, many candidates are begin­ning to get impatient. 
''I've been very frustrated with the delays and the way it has been handled administratively," said Jennie Antonelli, one of the junior presidential candidates. 
Many of the candidates feel that they are putting a lot of effort was an abundance of information about PEPYND-organized trips to Cambodia. 
"I knew there would be pam­phlets containing information about volunteering one's Spring Break or Winter Break in Cambodia," said sophomore Brian Hamamoto. "So I decided to put my name on the list they had for inter­ested studenl'>." 
Thi'> Spring Break, Hann will be accompanied by nine other PEPYND members to oversee the building of this school in Phnom Penh. Hann says that during the trip, the tc~am will be lilming a doc­umentary so that the Notre Dame patrons can "see their money put in action." 
"We're encouraging students interested in joining PEPYND or who wio;;h to travel in the future to 
explore  our  Web  site  
www.nd.Pdul-trann  - for more  
information," he said.  

PEPYND is eovnring new ground to stimulate economic rede~Plop­ment in Cambodia in addition to vocational purposes by working on the Independent Travelers Database project, which encour­ages tourisl'> visiting Cambodia to stay in hotels or eat in restauranlo;; run by Cambodian families. 
"Travelers often stay or eat in chains owned by foreign eorpora­tions, so it doesn't direetly benefit the Cambodian economy," said Hann. "Howevor. through this proj­ect, which will become available soon on a Web site, we will provide information to travelers about Cambodians who might have invested their lilfl savings into oper­ating a hotel or restaurant, and so they can take advantage of those venues." 
The Street Friends Cafe in Phnom Pehn -which is run com­pletely by street children in Cambodia -is another project supported by PEPYND. Working in the cafe or the beauty salon next door, the childnm serve as waiters, cooks, and stylists, ·and in return are provided with housing, educa­tion, and spending money. 
"It's a great project to help ehil­
into something that is resulting in more and more setbacks. 
"Basically it's just been a real frustration we just wasted so much time preparing for the 'next election' that's happening, we put in a lot of time and efibrt into going door to door and trying to get everyone to vote," said sophomore Taryn Pabst. Antonelli's rwming mate. "It's just frustrating because we're not sure if it's even going to happen tomorrow." 
Even those who are running unopposed are bothered by the setbacks and sympathize with the upcoming juniors' frustrations. 
"It's kind of inconvenient for everybody to vote," said fresh­man presidential candidate Emily Young, who is running unop­posed. 
Elections are scheduled to be on Prism all day today and will end tonight at midnight. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO1@saintmarys.edu 


dren with no other sources of woup. to cram in a service trip. But our income," said Harm, "and we're "Perhaps next year, back on prime initiative is keep c:atnring to pointing these travelers toward a campus, we'll start hosting more the children's education, because good social objnetive." formal dinners with more guest right now it is simply too unstable 
Next year, with Hann graduating speakers," she said. "We also may to ignore." and moving to Cambodia, Fleece market longer trips over summer hopes to take charge of PEPYND or winter break, since it seems that Contact Rohan Anand at and to bring nnw ideas to the FaU or Spring breaks are too short ranand@nd.edu 

Is God Calling You? 
Come Explore the Congregation of Holy Cross Priests and Brothers 
With an evening of prayer and conversation with Holy Cross religious and other discerning men 
Blessed Brother Andre, C.S.C. Dinners 
5:30-7:30pm 

Begins at Log Chapel, Dinner to Follow 
Friday March 2nd 
with Fr. Mark Poorman, esc and Den. Pete McCormick, esc 
Presenting On: 
?•
Discerning a Vocation 
(574) 631-6385 
vocation.l@nd.edu vocation.nd.edu 


It's possible at St. John's University­
the only American University that offers this unique opportunity for graduate 
study in Rome. Whether you are interested 
in pursuing an M.B.A. degree in Finance, 
International Business or Marketing 
Management, or an M.A. degree in Govern­
ment and Politics with a specialization in International Relations, 
·our expert P!"Ofessors, and the Eternal City itself, will help you 
prepare for the global arena . 
.,.. I'l1-~~ J"'t::.'l "'' t(:~ .cl ')
.. .. . . . . Jj .,__, ~ . j \l. 
For more information: (212) 815-9216, Ext. 2 info@stjohns.edu 
www.stjohns.edu/learnmore/00719.sju 

Wednesday, February 28, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 





Mayor stalked at apartment 
Newsom 'alarmed and concerned' after San Francisco man's actions 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -A man talked his way into Mayor Gavin Newsom's apartment building late one night before a doorman called police, according to state­ments that helped persuade a judge to issue a temporary restraining order. 
Han Shin, 42, told the doorman around 1 a.m. on Feb. 15 that he was visiting a woman who lived there. The woman said she didn't know him, according to the door­man's declaration. 
Shin then showed the doorman pictures of himself with Newsom and another of Newsom standing next to an Asian man wearing only a diaper, and asked if Newsom was home. The door­man said he was not, and Shin left as the doorman called police. 
The next day, police got a war­rant to search Shin's car. Inside, they found a city map with the mayor's apartment building highlighted, a cutout composite photograph of the mayor, Shin and Shin's father and material labeled "President Newsom," according to court papers. 
On Feb. 10, Shin sat in the front row at a meeting held by Newsom and appeared to be tak­ing photographs of the lower half of Newsom's body, according to a statement from a member of the mayor's security team. 
Newsom's jacket fell off a chair and Shin picked it up, wiped it ofT gently and held it on his lap, according to court documents. Afterward, he grabbed the mayor and prevented him from closing his car door until a police officer intervened. 
Newsom told police Shin has long shown his support and often attends public meetings, but he had been behaving bizarrely lately. The mayor "is alarmed and concerned about Shin's attempt to get to his apartment," according to court records. 
Reports of Shin's actions come amid Newsom's recent headline­grabbing personal problems. Earlier this month, the mayor acknowledged an affair with his campaign manager's wife and began treatment for alcohol abuse. 
Shin did not have a listed phone number and could not immediately be reached for com­ment Tuesday. But KNTV-TV reported that Shin called its newsroom Tuesday to speak out against the allegations. 
"Everything is a lie. I feel vio­lated," Shin said. "Do not judge people from bits of information that you hear. Everybody's going to feel like a fool when they real­ize the truth, what really hap­pened, that I was not stalking him." 
Shin was charged in November with making criminal threats against two family members and a police officer, false imprison­ment and obstructing a law enforcement officer, according to the Alameda County district attorney's office. In November 2003, he was charged with obstructing a police officer. Those cases are pending. 
A hearing on the restraining order, which was issued Feb. 21, was set for next week. 

Ne-w York steriod sales network investigated 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. -A New York prosecutor said athletes and celebrities were involved as cus­tomers of an illicit steroid sales network that produced arrests of four company officials on Tuesday. 
However, Albany County District Attorney P. David Soares declined to name anY, consumers. He said his office was not investigating patients, but alleged producers and distributors, including doctors and pharmacists. 
"I understand that the involve­ment of athletes and celebrities makes this a sexy story, but I assure you we are not, at this point, we are not concerned with the celebrity factor," Soares said. "Our focus here is to shut down distribution channels." 
Soares was in Florida on Tuesday for two pharmacy raids conducted by federal and state agents at two Signature Pharmacy stores. Four company officials, including a married couple who are both pharmacists, were 

Law & .... 

Please join the Law School for its 2006-2007 series of interdisciplinary discussions. All programs begin at 4:00 p.m. and will be held in Law School room 120. 
Thursday~ September 28, 2006 

Hun1an Rights and Human Atrocities in Uganda 
Presenter: Todd David Whitmore Department of Theology Respondent: Doug Cassel Center for Civil and Human Rights, The Law School 



Thursday, November 9, 2006 

The Biophysics ofLife and Public Policy Disputes: Interfacing with the Scientific Community 
, 


on Bioethical Issues 
Presenter: Phillip Sloan Program of Liberal Studies Respondent: Carter Snead The Law School 


Thursday, February 8, 2007 

The Other Alien Debate: Biology and Policy ofInvasive Species 
Presenter: David Lodge Department of Biological Sciences Respondent: Alejandro Camacho The Law School 



Thursday, March 1, 2007 

Identifying Tax Effects on Charitable Giving 
Presenter: Daniel Hungerman Department of Economics and Econometrics Respondent: Lloyd Mayer The Law School 
arrested. They were charged with criminal diversion of prescription medications and prescriptions, criminal sale of a controlled sub­stance and insurance fraud. 
Soares refused to answer most questions about the case, which involves sealed indictments. 
"I cannot elaborate any more and I cannot provide you with any more details without compromis­ing an investigation which even at this point is at a very sensitive stage," he said, 
The Times Union of Albany, N.Y., first disclosed the steroid investigation in a report citing unidentified sources. The newspa­per said investigators found evi­dence that testosterone and other performance-enhancing drugs may have been fraudulently pre­scribed over the Internet to cur­rent and former Major League Baseball and NFL players, college athletes, high school coaches, a former Mr. Olympia champion and another top contender in the bodybuilding competition. 
Customers include Angels out­fielder Gary Matthews Jr., accord­ing to the Times Union, which cited unidentified sources with knowledge of the investigation. 
Angels spokesman Tim Mead told The Associated Press the team was aware of the story, adding, "That's the only informa­tion we have." 
Mead said manager Mike Sciascia told Matthews about it, and that general manager Bill Stoneman and Mead spoke to Matthews. 
"We strongly recommended that Gary inform his agent and make sure he's aware as well," Mead said. "The information is sketchy at best." 
The paper said a New York investigator flew to Pittsburgh last month to interview a physician for tl1e Pittsburgh Steelers about why he allegedly used a personal cred­it card to purchase roughly $150,000 in testosterone and human growth hormone in 2006. 
The physician, Richard A. Rydze, told the investigator the drugs were for his private patients, the paper said, citing an unidentified person briefed on the interview. 
There are no allegations Rydze violated any laws. 
Steelers spokesman Dave Lockett told the AP that Rydze works for the club mostly on game days. He is listed among the seven doctors under the "medical staff' designation on the official team employment roster. 
"We can't comment any further because we are still gathering information," Lockett said. 
A message was left seeking comment from Rydze. 
Arrested on Tuesday were Stan and Naomi Loomis, who own the Signature Pharmacy in downtown Orlando, Stan's brother Mike Loomis and Kirk Calvert, Signature's marketing director. Soares' office identified Signature as a "producer" of the illegally dis­tributed drugs. 
Also arrested as a result of the New York investigation were three people Soares' office described as "distributors" from a Sugarland, Texas, company called Cellular Nucleonic Advantage. 
Before the investigation is com­plete, Soares' office said, up to 24 people could face charges, includ­ing six doctors and three pharma­cists. 
The Loomis' downtown phar­macy contains a small retail store that sells bodybuilding supple­ments, a drug laboratory and executive offices. 

THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT

page 10 Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box n9, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EmmR: Rama Gottumnkkala 
AssT. MANAGING Emma: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EmmR: Kelly Meehan 

PHom Emma: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly ' 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 

WEB ADMIJ\nsrumn: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAl INFO {574) 631-7471 
fAX 
{574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

{574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
{574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

rhc {1hM:rwr (USPS 599 1-4000) i~ published Monday rhrough Frid:1y t.'Xccpt during uxam and vacation periml~. A ~ubr.cti.ption to The Ohscrvcr is. $JUU for mu: acadcmiL year;$')'; !Or nne >emcl>tc:l. 
The Obscrvt:r i~ pub!i~hcd .u. POSTMASTER 024 Snuth Dining !I all Sc:nd address cMtectiom. w: 
Notre Dame. 1;..: 46'5'56-0779 The: Observer Periodie~l postage paid at N;)tfC Dame: P.O. Sox 779 .~nJ Jdditiona! mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notr~= Dame, IN 46'.'iS6-0n9 
The Ohscm~E i... .J memher ofrhc Associ.:ucd Press.. All repnxhmion righu an: r~rvcd. 
In a recent episode of "The Otlice" ... 
Kelly: "Oh my god, I have so much to tell you." 
Jim: "Really?" 
Kelly: "Yes. Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes, they had a baby named Suri. And then Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie they had a baby too and named it Shilo. And both babies are a-mazing!" 
Jim: "Great. What's new with you?" Kelly: "I just told you." 
To many loyal "Oftice" fans out there, Kelly is known as the annoying and clingy ditz. However, she unfortu­nately has the same priorities and world view as many Americans. Hence why this scene is so funny: we all know someone like Kelly and laugh at his or her naivety. However, perhaps our Kelly-like friends are not the ones to be blamed for their lack of world view. Over the past two weeks it has been nearly impossible to find a news station that was not reporting the latest updates on the Anna Nicole Smith death or dis­cussing new possible reasons as to why Britney Spears buzzed her head. Although somewhat interesting and often times comical, celebrity news deserves no spot in the fwening head­lines. There are more relevant and demanding events happening in the world than trying to decide who is Anna Nicole's baby's daddy, and we must cre­ate a demand for pertinent current afl'airs in our daily paper and primetime 

Katie Palmitier 
A Wordto 
the l1!ise 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Buzzworthy 
news before it is too late. 
By now, we are all well aware of the 
possible causes of death of Anna Nicole 
Smith. Not only is there debate over her 
cause of death, but also the location of 
her burial. The father of her child is still 
a hot topic of discussion, and remains, 
20 days later, to be headline news. 
Consequently, foreign affairs and 
political matters have fallen to the way­
side and lly under the public radar. The 
fact that the Iraqi president is contro­
versially ill and hospitalized hails in 
comparison to the controversy regard­
ing Jennifer Aniston and her reportedly 
new nose. If the President in Iraq is in 
fact on his deathbed, the United States' 
ongoing struggle in Iraq just grew expo­
nentially worse, which means more 
death for soldiers and civilians alike. 
The consequences of Jen getting a 
nose job, however, are obviously more 
important to the American public. And 
the fact that Britney is committing acts 
of mass destruction to her appearance 
(and her career) is far more important 
that the threat of destruction and death 
in the newfound Al-Qaeda operation in 
Pakistan. And this is all according to 
"The Today Show" and CNN, not 
"Entertainment Tonight" and the TV 
Guide Channel as one would expect. 
It is not breaking news that entertain­
ment is what sells, but consumers 
should not buy into entertainment as 
our breaking news. For some reason, 
we all enjoy hearing about the latllst 
celebrity gossip: who is dating whom, 
who is gaining weight, and who cheeked 
into rehab. Our culture thrives on this 
information, and, as a result, the news 
media have succumbed to our obses­
sion. We are thus sadly left recognizing 
the names "TomKat" and "Brangelina" instead of Zawahri and Talabani. 

And we at Notre Dame cannot escape the epidemic. Students seem to be more concerned about the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's conflict than the ongoing, deadly conflict in the Middle East. Our igno­rance of worldly affairs will lead to not only our personal downfall, but the downfall of the country as well. The stu­dents of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's hold the key to our nation's future, and if we cannot even recognize our igno­rance and strive for a change, the hope for a better future is bleak. 
Pretty soon, the lack of public aware­ness of current events is going to take its toll. The threat of global warming and the ongoing conflict Iraq have man­aged to fall through the cracks, and those are the issues that have way more of an efl'ect on our lives, definitely more so than who won the Oscar Sunday night. If we do not start holding the media responsible for providing us with substantial, significant information, the welfare of our country will plummet. As citizens, we need to be well informed so that we can make better decisions in our daily lives, elect political leaders that will provide the best well being for their constituents, and exercise our freedom of speech so that we may have a voice in public policy. The sooner we start acting like responsible citizens, the sooner buzzworthy will refer to signifi­cant news rather than Britney's new 'do. 
Katie Palmitier is a sophomore political science major. .')he can be contacted at kpalmiti@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL

Kate Antonacci Eric Retter Jennifer Metz Chris Hine 
What event interests you more:

Aaron Steiner Bill Brink 
Bengal Bouts or Tom Zbikowski's

Emma Driscoll Scene 
Viewpoint Sean Sweany upcoming charity fight? 
Kara King Brian Doxtader 
Graphics 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

Jeff Albert at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit aLetter to the Editor at 

www.ndsmcobserver.com · 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Great things are not done by impulse, hut by a series ofsmall things brought together." 
Vincent van Gogh Dutch painter 


THE 0BSERVER­





IEWPOINT

Wednesday, February 28, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Speech should be free but genial 
The issue of censorship and freedom of speech has been the subject of fervent debate on campus and in the Viewpoint of late. Questions have arisen of whether cer­tain cartoons should be published in The Observer and also of whether certain plays, such as the "Vagina Monologues" and "Loyal Daughters" have a rightful place on this campus or not. As Americans, we have been trained since grade school to quote our Constitutional rights and the "freedom of speech" rights derived from the First Amendment are the ones most often quoted. The mantra is, "It's a free country, and I can say or print whatever I want," and of course, I must be grateful of this reality, because these very words of mine have not been cen-1 sored. 
Yet, what does freedom of speech really mean? It is true that in America, unlike other repressive regimes such as the Communist U.S.S.R., the government cannot restrict the speech and publications of its citizens (with some exceptions, like child pornography). But this is a restriction upon the government, not upon the editors of newspapers or upon the authors of plays or comic strips. Would it not be equally oppres­sive for the government to require that newspapers publish everything submitted to them, taking away their power of self cen­sorship? 
In the case of The Observer, the recent let­ters asking that it make the editorial deci­sion not to publish certain cartoons do not breech the First Amendment. Their request is that an independent newspaper censor itself and tighten the standards for what it publishes. No doubt, if The Observer fea­tured articles or cartoons lampooning African-Americans, Jews, or homosexuals in a mean-spirited way, members of those com­munities would be upset and call upon the paper to censor itself in the future. 
Yet, does this mean that The Observer should only publish articles or cartoons por­traying the Church in a favorable light? No. The paper and the University should remain an open forum of debate, facilitating the exchange of opinions and teachings, this being the hallmark of any great intellectual institution. We must be free to debate whether there is any truth to be known, and if there is, what it is and how it affects our lives. That is what academic freedom is all about and what Oliver Wendell Holmes means by "free trade in ideas... in the com­petition of the market" (Jake Vos, "Paper should uphold 'free trade of ideas,"' Feb 27). 
But in order for it to remain an open mar­ket, all ideas and viewpoints must have the freedom to be heard and no side must become so belligerent as to do violence to other points of view. Thus, those in favor of the Church's views must make their cases without being self-righteous, judgmental, or insulting. Likewise, those who offer view-. points different from those of the Church should be free to air their opinions at Notre Dame and in The Observer, but also must be polite and genial. Freedom of speech does not mean the right to be as nasty and brutish as one can, but rather the right to speak one's piece in such a way that will fur­ther the dialogue, seeking to persuade the opposition and not simply taking a cheap­shot at them. 
Chris Spellman senior off campus Feb. 27 

'Monologues' not only· gender issue 
While many of us on the Notre Dame campus had mixed feel­ings regarding the debates about the "Vagina Monologues," aca­demic freedom and Notre Dame's Catholic character last year, I think it's important not to see the "Vagina Monologues" as the only response of the campus community to the admitted difficul­
. ties of gender relations here at Notre Dame. 
Personally, I find it sad that the move of the "Vagina Monologues" off campus this year made the front page of The Observer while there was no mention of the Edith Stein Project, a student-run conference that addresses difficult issues of gen­der (rape, abortion, etc.) in a context that seeks to integrate femininity, intelligence, and Catholic identity. 
There were many big nam.es from the ranks of the national Catholic community, women like Jennifer Roback Morse, Janet Smith and Dr. Pia de Solleni, who have successfully reconciled their identities as women with their identities as Catholics. They have managed to do so without ignoring the difficult issues that face women, and they have done so without rejecting men. If anything came out of this year's Edith Stein Project, it is the need to see all of us, men and women, in our integrated human identity. That integrated identity is relational, and we cannot exile one sex or the other and hope to remain healthy and whole ourselves. 
I found it very affirming that Edith Stein organizers included a talk on pornography given by two male undergraduates, Jack Calcutt and Patrick Tighe, who bravely explored the difficult issues of male sexual transgression here on campus but did so in a way that invited dialogue and mutual vulnerability between men and women. Isn't this what we're all trying to do on cam­pus? 
Similarly, in this year's production of "Loyal Daughters" there were segments that explored male-on-male sexual assault, and female-on-male alcohol-induced rape. Gender relations on this campus will never improve until we all, male and female, start admitting our own sins toward each other and work for healing, forgiveness and change in Christian charity. 
Sam Cahill grad student off cain pus Feb. 27 

~( WHy IS Tfi-e tv\AI N£;iReAM I\A€'DIA'' 
So IN~€NS\Tf\Je TO CHRI~TIANrfY? 

'Ne'r<e 
S€N~ITN€ To
t<.e l...l GIOI\t .... 
N€. R€FU~eD lo PoBL.\~1-\ mo~e 

MUAAMMAP 
CA~ooN~,
bro1\1',. ,



we? ...._____
. 
Tt···-IE OBSERVER 



CENE

page 12 
Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 

Notre Dame to host Genocide Film Series 
Films include Oscar winners and powerful documentaries 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 

With militant combat stories emerging out of Darfur, UN rulings concerning the massacre at Srebrenica, Bosnia and other terrible events happening in various parts of the world, genocide has become a topic our generation must face -not only cur­rent atrocities but also those of the past. 
As we struggle to grapple with the horrif­ic capabilities of mankind's violence against itself, filmmakers have offered their inter­pretations on the consequences of war. Their films offer peace in some cases, sol­ace in others or sometimes merely graze the topic, offering more questions than solu­tions to the problem. 
In an attempt to further explore the themes and ideas necessary to end geno­cide, the Genocide Film Series will be screened at the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) this weekend. This event -subtitled "On Our Watch?"-showcases some of the best explorations of genocide that (the) cinema has to offer. These include a wide range of entries, from Oscar winners to relative unknown films, all powerful and important in their own way. 
"The Last King of Scotland" (2006) 

Starring Forest Whitaker, who won the Best Actor award at the 79th Academy Awards last Sunday, this is the highest pro­file film in the series. Whitaker's darkly mesmerizing performance as the complex Idi Amin, the de facto dictator of Uganda from 1971-79, led critics to hail the film as one of the year's best. 
But it's Whitaker's recent Oscar win ­against the likes of Peter O'Toole, Leonardo DiCaprio, Will Smith and Ryan Gosling ­that has drawn even more attention to the headlining film in the Genocide Series. "The Last King of Scotland" will show March 3 at 7 p.m. and March 4 at 1 p.m. 
"Shake Hands With the Devil: The Journey of Romeo Dallaire" (2004) 
This 2004 documentary is based on a book of the same name by now-retired Lieutenant-General Romeo Dallaire, com­mander of the United Nations forces that served in Rwanda during the 1993-94 genocide. Dallaire implored the UN for more troops but was ultimately denied. However, his actions are credited for saving approximately 20,000 lives. The film was nominated for two documentary awards during the Sundance Film Festival. "Shake Hands With the Devil" will show March 4 at 4p.m. 

The setting Cambodian sun makes for a striking image in the 1984 film "The Killing 
Fields," which showed the genocide the Khmer Rouge regime committed there. 
"Screamers" (2006) Poland after the conclusion of World War II. 
A unique entry into the film series, The film's major theme is guilt and it "Screamers" was directed by Armenian­explores this through a look at the calmness American Carla Garapedian of the post-war camp with the help of the band compared to the hor­
Their films offer peace in 
System of a Down. This film rifies that occurred does not focus on one par­some cases, solace in others there during wartime. ticular incident of genocide or sometimes merely graze The film deals little but attempts to look at the with the stories of
the topic, offering more 
deeper questions behind its individual prisoners causes. In one segment, it questions than solutions to but delves into wider explores the Armenian the problem. themes of humanity, 
Genocide -the massacre of hundreds of thousands of Armenians from 1915 to 1917 in the Ottoman Empire -and why it is so actively denied in Turkey. "Screamers" also inspects the genocides in .Darfur and Rwanda. 
System of a Down has a personal connec­tion to the Armenian genocide. The grand­father of System of a Down's frontman, Seij Tankian, is a survivor of the conflict and plays an integral part in the film. 
The film also employs Harvard University Professor Samantha Powers and other experts as part of an effort to point the fin­ger of blame not just at the traditional cul­prits but also at the United States for its seeming neutrality in regards to genocide. "Screamers" will show March 2 at 7 p.m. 
"Night and Fog" (1955) This documentary was filmed in 1955 at the Auschwitz concentration camp in 
especially the hate 
that motivates horrific killings like that of the Jews at Auschwitz. The film takes its name from Adolf Hitler's "Night and Fog" (Nacht und Nebel) direc­tive, one that facilitated the brutal execution of political prisoners in Germany and the territories occupied by the Nazis during World War II. It contains graphic footage of the conditions at Auschwitz and is one of the most poignant examinations of 20th century genocide. "Night and Fog" will show alongside "Shake Hands With the Devil" on March 4. 
"The Killing Fields" (1984) 
This British film is about the actions directed by the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia. The story is told through the eyes of three journalists -Dith Pran, a Cambodian, Sydney Schanberg, an American and John Swain, a Briton. This picture, directed by Roland Joffe, won three Oscars and stars Sam Waterston and John Malkovich. The 1OOth greatest British film according to the British Film Institute, it is an excellent look at the war in Cambodia, which is often overshadowed by the U.S. involvement in Vietnam. The geno­cide instituted by Pol Pot and his Khmer Rouge is thought to have contributed to the deaths of over 

1.5 million Cambodians. This award winning frlm about an often­overshadowed tragedy will show March 2 at 10 p.m. 
"No Man's Land" (2001) 
This Best Foreign Language Oscar-winner depicts two soldiers, one Bosniak and the other Serb, who find themselves alone in a trench during the Bosnian War. With no other avenues available, the two trade insults and also find common ground in an interesting mix of irony and futility. The United 
Nations, ordered to remain neutral in the conflict, must bring aid to these wounded soldiers after an 
American journalist brings media attention to their situation. To further complicate matters, another Bosniak soldier awakens near the first two only to discover himself on top of a landmine that will explode if he moves. 
The worst of the killings in the Bosnian War took place in the region of Srebrenica, located within the nation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Many sources say that over 8,000 men were killed in this region alone. Recently, the International Court of Justice ruled that Serbia is not to blame for the genocide that occurred during the war. Thanks to this ruling, this film has become especially important in the discussion of international jurisdiction and what the spe­cific definition of genocide is. "No Man's Land" will show March 3 at 10 p.m. 
Each film in this series brings something different to the forefront of the discussion on genocide. Whether big, dramatic narra­tives or more realistic, probing documen­taries, they all cause viewers to reflect on the nature of human life and the costs of taking it. 
The Genocide Film Series is sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies, the Notre Dame Holocaust Project, the Center for Social Concerns and the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel @nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Nino (Rene Bitorajac), left, and Ciki (Branko Djuric) appeal for a truce in "No Man's Land," an Oscar-winning film that depicts genocide in the Bosnian War. 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE

Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
page 13 

By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA and 
SEAN SWEANY 
Scene Critics 
Rama: Magic is an art form built around misdirection. In film, its first cousin is the thriller, a genre where, like a fragile deck of cards, deceitful twists and turns are layered one on top of the other. 
With his 2006 film "The Prestige," direc­tor Christopher Nolan melded the two pursuits together in hopes of conjuring the greatest magic trick the cinema had ever seen. The result is a superb film about the devotion of two illusionists to their craft, and the darkness that drives them to pur­sue their great triumphs. 
At the heart of "The Prestige" lies a rivalry between two Victorian era stage magicians, Robert Angier (Hugh Jackman) and Alfred Borden (Christian Bale). Angier is the more gifted showman but he lacks Borden's ingenuity and passion for creat­ing new tricks. When his wife Julia (Piper Perabo) drowns after a water tank illusion goes awry, Angier is inconsolable and blames Borden. A friendship built upon a mutual admiration dissolves, replaced by a vindictive, near murderous, need to trump the other's skill. 
What Borden and Angier fail to realize is that between the two of them, they share the two greatest gifts a magician can have -creativity and showmanship, respectively. A truly great illusionist lacks neither one. But instead of pooling their talents, the two men waste much of their professional and personal lives on a much darker obsession than magic -each other. 
The very first line of the film ­Borden's, "Are you watching closely?" ­is more than a plea. It's a dare to us, the audience, to outwit two very clever men -brothers Christopher and Jonathan Nolan, who shared the writing duties on this film. 
With the film's recent release on DVD, it becomes increasingly clear just how often the Nolans dangle the secrets to the film's puzzle in front of our noses. Small snip­pets of conversation, a look from one periphery character to another and sub­tleties in the performances of Bale and Jackman are the crumbs left by the two writers. 
Films like "The Prestige" are made to he watched and rewatched, savored for the way they pull a steady curtain of decep­tion over our eyes. Smart, stylish and sly, it deserves its place alongside gems like "The Usual Suspects," "The Sixth Sense," "Fight Club" and Nolan's own "Memento" -four of the cleverest thrillers (and best films) of the last decade. 
Sadly, like a true magician, Nolan refus­es to reveal many of his secrets on this single-disc DVD. Most conspicuously, there's no commentary track by Nolan, who previously recorded ones for "Following," "Memento" and "Insomnia." In general, the special features are sparse, which is a shame because "The Prestige" is more than a simple parlor trick. The film also works as a sumptuous period piece. It glamorizes the routinely dull Victorian era, a time when magic was bowing out to an even-greater power ­science. . 
"The Director's Notebook," a 19-minute featurette, is a collection of interviews and footage behind the set where Nolan is joined by Bale, Jackman, cinematograph­er Wally Pfister, production designer Nathan Crowley and other members of the crew. The feature is brief but informa­tive, and it's hard not to come away with an appreciation for how much thought went into the film's careful set and cos­tume design and its dark, moody, and often beautiful look. 
The only other feature is "The Art of The Prestige," a gallery of production stills, posters, costumes and sets, all arranged in slideshow fashion. It's a fun addition but is often the most-lightly regarded extra on much grander releases like the superlative "Lord of the Rings" extended editions. Here, it seems like more effort was spent on the DVD's charming and elegant menu system than the special features that system houses. 
Fortunately, the movie itself looks and sounds great. With deep, rich colors and a sharpness to the film's many hazy and dimly-lit scenes, the video, especially, is near-reference quality. 
Twenty minutes into "The Prestige," Bale reveals one of his tricks to a wide­eyed young fan. He warns the hoy, "Never show anyone. They'll beg you and they'll flatter you for the secret, hut as soon as you give it up, you'll be nothing to 'em. 
"The secret impresses no one. The trick you use it for is everything." 
After successfully pulling off a fantastic sleight of hand with this film, it's unfortu­nate to see Nolan follow his own charac­ter's advice for the DVD. 
Sean: Audiences face a conundrum when it comes to magic tricks. On one hand, there is a strong desire to know how magicians accomplish their fantastic tricks, but on the other, this knowledge spoils the fun of the trick, which might be off-putting for some audiences. 
"The Prestige" sets itself up as a movie that aims to maintain the illusion of the magician's world while also unraveling it for audiences through its narrative struc­ture -a conflict in terms that hurts what should otherwise be a superb film. 
From the beginning, "The Prestige" has a lot going for it. A plot about rival Victorian-era magicians constantly trying to outdo one another in their obsession­driven pursuits of love, power and fame is inherently exciting. Christopher Nolan ­well respected for films such as "Memento" and "Insomnia" -directs an all-star cast including Hugh Jackman, Christian Bale, Scarlet Johansson and Michael Caine (a veritable "Batman Begins" reunion), another reason for film fans to rejoice. 
Jackman and Bale play well off each other, creating characters whose obses­sions appear real and believable. Of the two, Bale is the better actor, and this is manifest in his character, whose appear­ance onscreen belies a deep, emotional, human element -as Bale's characters usually do. 
The supporting cast of "The Prestige" is phenomenal, with Michael Caine, David Bowie and Andy Serkis headlining the group. Johansson is limited mostly to role of eye-candy, but she does not try to exceed these bounds and her acting accordingly complements that of her fel­low actors. 
In addition to all these positives, 'The Prestige" is a beautiful film to watch. Nolan and his production crew take advantage of the visually appealing Victorian age as a setting, creating a rich, textured world for viewers to pore over with their eyes. 
So, with all of these redeeming qualities, what causes the DVD release of "The Prestige" to fall short of the mark? 
The answer basically comes down· to the film's storytelling. Nolan's plan in making the movie was to create a mystery within a mystery, and in order to do this effec­tively, the narrative of the film must make frequent jumps between various times and places. This is largely accomplished in two sections of the movie where the magicians, Angier and Borden, learn cer­tain facts that further the plot by reading the diary of the other. · 
While a good idea in theory, Nolan's execution of this technique is clumsy and confusing. Viewers can spend more time trying to figure out how the narrative is working than they can spend enjoying it, which is not a good sign. One tagline for "The Prestige" recommended multiple viewings, presumably for enjoyment, but these could be necessary just to under­stand the convoluted storytelling. 


It is a shame that the method of story­telling has such glaring flaws, for the rest of the film itself is exceptional, especially when compared to its contemporaneous competitor, 'The Illusionist." The potential here was high, but Nolan miscalculated his approach to the film and did not achieve that potential. 
Nevertheless, "The Prestige" is an entertaining, if not great, film and deserves better treatment than it has received on DVD. Two, yes, two special features fill out the disc to give fans a peek into how the film was made.These features are insightful and well done, hut their brevity and paucity detracts from the experience they begin to promise. Finally, an inconsistent sound quality during the film perhaps indicates a lack of studio effort in putting together the DVD for 'The Prestige." 
Overall, the DVD of "The Prestige" is a very mixed package. Excellent plot, act­ing, directing and set design exist in a confusing method of storytelling and on a single-disc DVD that is painfully light on special features. This ultimately makes for an entertaining rental that disappoints because of what it could have been. 
Contact Rama Gottumu.kkala at rgottumn@nd.edu and Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of niovieweb.com Photo courtesy of movieweb.com In his vindictive quest to upstage his rival, Robert Angier (Hugh Jackman), left, studies an electrical field with the mysterious Alley (Andy Serkis). 
r----­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE


page 14 Wednesday, February 28, 2007 

A closer look at the other side of the Oscars 
Alright, I'll say it. I'm glad the Oscars are over. I'm glad they won't roll around for another year. The reason is that the cere­mony that should ostensibly and ideally hand out awards for achievement in various areas offilm has become so noticeably political and hype-driv­en that it has lost its charm, its prestige and its credibility. 
There are several examples from this year's Oscars that make this point painfully clear. 

Take Forest Whitaker's Best Actor win for his role in "The Last King of Scotland." By all accounts, Whitaker had locked up the award many weeks before the little statue was handed to him on Sunday night thanks to the press he received for the film. For a film that enjoyed very limited release, it would have been dif­ficult for many of the 6,000 Academy voters to see and judge Whitaker's acting. Rather, news stories ran ceaselessly about Whitaker's onscreen talents -a surefire way to goad an Academy voter into choos­ing Whitaker as the year's best actor with­out having seen the film. Whitaker's acting may be superb -I have yet to see the film -but it seems that any excellence was pro­liferated more through studio hype than by people actually seeing the film. 
"The Departed" is another film whose pedigree may have earned it more praise than it may have deserved ..For all "Departed" lovers out there, let me say that I loved this film. It was fantastic. But the conflation of two stories -the greatness of the film and the fact that Martin Scorsese, who had never won an Oscar for directing, helmed it-made me ask a question. Was it a foregone conclusion that Scorsese would win the Oscar for directing and his film would win Best Picture by association? 

Let me put it this way: ifStephen Sommers -the director of the awful "Mummy" films and the even more abom­inable "Van Reising" -had directed "The Departed," would it have received so much attention to win the Oscars for directing and picture? Probably not. 
The point here is that actors, directors and films can receive unfair benefits or dis­advantages based on their name, associa­tion or particular marketing campaign. 
Take for example, Johnny Depp's Best Actor nomination in 2004 for playing Captain Jack Sparrow in Disney's "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest." IL'l hard to deny that his performance was bet­ter than any of his competitors from that year, including Sean Penn (who won) for "Mystic River" or Bill Murray for "Lost in Translation." But this was quirky Johnny Depp, acting in a popcorn-munching, effects-laden, summer blockbuster Disney movie. There was no chance that the Academy would deem him (and the movie as a whole) worthy of one of their awards. 
The situation is somewhat akin to the Reisman Trophy award in its convoluted nature. In 2005, Reggie Bush won college football's biggest honor because he was the best player on the team everyone believed to be the best in the country. Nevermind that Vmce Young was more talented, a bet­ter leader on his team and ultimately more deserving of the award. Bush's highlights saturated the ESPN family of networks, he and USC were media darlings and the result, as they say, is history. 


The Academy Awards seem like they could be falling victim to this predicament of allowing the media and Hollywood poli­tics to help determine who should and does win. Were Forest Whitaker or "The Departed" really deserving winners or did the hype machine help them win? Perhaps a better question is whether the hype machine is avoidable or not-it probably isn't-or even a new phenomenon-it's not. When you look at it that way, you can't really complain, just watch "The Last King of Scotland" and "The Departed" and wait until next year's Academy Awards. 

The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 

Oassic 'Indemnity' gets double treabnent on DVD 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Ediror 

A man bleeding from a gunshot wound stumbles into his office, turns on a dictating machine and tersely admits he is a murder­er. 
So begins "Double Indemnity," Billy Wilder's 1944 film noir. masterpiece, and a cornerstone of American cinema. "Double. Indemnity" arrived near the height of film nair's popularity and success, standing alongside (and some would argue above) noir classics like "Laura;" "The Postman Always Rings Twice" and "The Big Sleep.~' The film has been a long time coming on DVD, and has finally arrived in a respectable package that pays homage to the considerable influence it has had on Hollywood. 
"Double Indemnity," based on James M. Cain's 1943 novella "Three of a Kind," fol­lows insurance agent Walter Neff (Fred MacMurray), who is seduced by femme fatale Phyllis Dietrichson (Barbara Stanwyck) into killing her husband to collect the insurance money. Unfortunately for Neff, after the hit goes as planned, his boss Barton Keyes (Edward G. Hobinson) takes over the murder investigation. 
Is there a more under-appreciated direc­tor in Hollywood history than Billy Wilder'? "Double Indemnity" was his first master­piece, but the filmmaker would go on to helm such classics as "The Lost Weekend," "Sunset Boulevard," "Stalag 17," "The Seven Year Itch," "The Spirit of St. Louis," "Some Like It Hot" and "The Apartment" over the course of a several decade career. 
What makes "Double Indemnity" so effec­tive is Wilder's inventive and atmospheric use of lighting and his moody sense of pur­pose, which drives the film throughout. He also gets some of the best work out of veter­an actors like MacMurray, Stanwyck and Robinson, all of whom ignite the picture with a creeping sense ofparanoia. 
It's also interesting to think that this seedy tale of adultery, murder and greed was released in 1944, a time when Hollywood was still regulated by the Hays Code -its gleeful immorality is one of the most alluring aspects of "Double Indemnity," even 60 


years later. "Double Indemnity,"
Double Indemnity 
along with the original 1933 "King Kong" and

Universal Legacy Series 
'The African Queen," is one of the last of the Universal American Film Institute's 100 Greatest Films to come to DVD. Universal finally recti­fied this at the end of last year, releasing the film in a two-disc spe­
cial edition with a re-mastered print and 
sound. "Double Indemnity" certainly looks 
good on DVD, with relatively dean picture, 
especially considering that the film is over 
60 years old. There is a Dolby Digital 2.0 
Mono audio track, and a pair of commen­
taries, one from Richard Shickel and one 
from Lem Dobbs and Nick Redman. 
There are only two special features, but they're both pretty interesting. The first is a new documentary, "Shadows of Suspense," which explores the film and its impact. The ·other is the 1973 "Double Indemnity" TV 
movie, which really proves just how power-. 
ful Wilder's film is. 


"Double Indemnity" is one of the great film noirs, and some would argue it is the greatest. Critic Roger Ebert once claimed that film noir is not a genre of detectives and mysteries, but of ordinary people who find within themselves the capacity for great evil. In that respect, "Double Indemnity" is the prototypical filn1 noir. Neff commits horrific crimes, but it ends on an oddly sympathetic note. As ifto say that yes, man has the capacity for great evil, but the capacity for great dignity as well. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Wednesday, February 28, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

DECADANC ·TMt riRtBIRD 
FEMAlE HIP@;HOP BAllET COMPANY INTERPR.ETS STRAVINSKY 
TUESDAY, MARCH 7 AT 7:30 PM I WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7 AT 7:30 PM 
DEClO MAINSTAGE THEATRE I TICKETS: $30, $25 FACULTY/STAFF/SENIORS, AND $15 ALL STUDENTS 
BR WNING 
CINEMA 
Hostage (2005) Nanovic Film Series 
Directed by Constantine Giannaris NR, 97 minutes Greek language with English subtitles 35mm Print Thu, Mar 1 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Screamers (2006) Genocide Film Series: On Our Watch? 
Directed by Carla Garapedian R, 91 minutes Armenian and English language with English subtitles 35mm Print Fri, Mar 2 at 7 pm 
The Killing Fields (1984) Genocide Film Series: On Our Watch? 
Directed by Roland Joffe R, 141 minutes English, French, and Khmer languages with English subtitles 35mm Print Fri, Mar 2 at 1 0 pm 
Faces ( 1968) PAC Classic 1 00 
Directed by John Cassavetes PG-13, 130 minutes Sat, Mar 3 at 3 pm 
The Last King of Scotland (2006) Genocide Film Series: On Our Watch? 
Directed by Kevin MacDonald R, 121 minutes 35mm Print Sat, Mar 3 at 7 pm Sun, Mar 4 at 1 pm 
No Man's Land (2001) Genocide Film Series: On Our Watch? 
Directed by Danis Tanovic R, 98 minutes French and Serbo-Croatian languages with English subtitles 35mm Print Sat, Mar 3 at 1 0 pm 
Shake Hands with the Devil (2005) Genocide Film Series: On Our Watch? 
Directed by Peter Raymont NR, 91 minutes French and English languages with English subtitles 35mm Print Sun, Mar 4 at 4 pm 
Night and Fog (1955) Genocide Film Series: On Our Watch? 
Directed by Alain Resnais NR, 35 minutes French language with English subtitles 35mm Print Sun, Mar 4 at 4 pm 
ND Student Film Festival (2007) ENCORE SCREENING! 
Directed by ND Students NR, 120 minutes Wed, Mar 7 at 7 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
-
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Vols topple defending champs in home finale 
No. 12 Panthers best Mountaineers 80-66 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Chris Lofton scored 21 points, and Tennessee pulled away from No. 5 Florida in the first half and held on for an 86-76 victory Tuesday night. . 
JaJuan Smith added 16 points for Tennessee and Ramar Smith and Dane Bradshaw each had 10 points. 
The Gators (25-5, 12-3 Southeastern Conference) con­tinued a troubling trend for the defending national champions, who have lost three of four after a 17 -game winning streak. Their chances for a No. 1 seed in the NCAA tournament are slipping away after easily wrapping up the SEC regular-season title last week. 
AI Horford led Florida with 17 points while Chris Richard and Corey Brewer had 12 apiece. Joakim Noah added 11 rebounds and Horford had 10. 
But this was the Volunteers' night. With Lady Vols coach Pat

-
Summitt dressing as a cheer­leader and singing "Rocky Top" and Super Bowl MVP Peyton Manning watching his alma mater, Tennessee (21-9, 9-6) fin­ished the season 16-0 at home. 
The Vols dominated Florida until the Gators started making a run late in the second half. 

Tennessee had a 17-0 run in the first half and were ahead by 19 points at halftime and as many as 27 in the second half. 
The Vols were leading 65-40 with 11:54 left when Florida had a 14-2 run that included eight points by Noah. His dunk with 
9:22 remaining cut it to 67-54. 
Tennessee scored again, but the Gators answered with a 7-0 run to pull to 69-61 with 6:08 to go. A drive by Lofton started a 6-0 run for the Vols, and the Gators couldn't get any closer. 
The Gators rallied from 18 points down against Alabama on Feb. 14 to win 76-67. It was the biggest deficit overcome by a team coached by Billy Donovan, and they looked poised for another miracle comeback. 
However, Florida couldn't sus­tain a rally. 
After pulling to within eight, the Gators cut it to nine three more times, but the final 1:58 featured seven trips to the foul line for Tennessee. The Vols went 8-of-14 in free throws down the stretch. 
In the first half, Florida was leading 17-16 with 13:48 left after Horford scored, and Bradshaw's basket over Noah sparked the big run. When Duke Crews scored with 8:05 left to end it, the Vols were up 33-17. 
Noah had another off night, scoring all eight of his points in Florida's late run. 
Appropriately, the Vols hon­ored their lone senior, 

AP 

Air Force center Nick Welch, front, backs down BYU guard Jimmy Balderson during the Cougars' 62-58 surprise win. 
Bradshaw, before the final home game. Bradshaw made go­ahead layups in eaeh of the Vols' wins last year over Florida. 
The Gators had an easier time against Tennessee in Gainesville, winning 94-78, while Tennessee was playing without Lofton beeause he had a sprained right ·ankle. 
The Vols finished undefeated at home for the first time since 1975-76, and a near-capaeity crowd of 24,047 saw the home finale. 
No. 12 Pittsburgh 80 West Virginia 66 
This second half displayed No. 12 Pittsburgh at its best. Aaron Gray scoring consistently and teaming with Levon Kendall to make it difficult on opponents inside, and Mike Cook and Ronald Ramon hitting 3-pointers to extend runs and build leads. 
What the Panthers want to do is keep this going for, say, anoth­er five weeks. 
Gray and Kendall wore down West Virginia with their inside scoring and rebounding and the Panthers remained in contention for the Big East regular-season title, beating the Mountaineers Tuesday night behind a domi­nating second half. 
Despite losing at Big East leader Georgetown 61-53 on Saturday, Pitt (25-5, 12-3) can win the league title and be top­seeded in the eonference tour­nament next week if it wins at No. 20 Marquette on Saturday and Georgetown, an upset loser Monday to Syracuse, falls at home to Conneeticut the same day. Pitt ean finish no worse than seeond if it beats Marquette, whieh won at Pittsburgh 77-74 on Jan. 21. 
"We're right where we wanted to be in the Big East," coach Jamie Dixon said, even though Pitt would be leading if it had beatfm the Iloyas. "This is what we talked about. being right here in the conference." 
The surprise was that much of that talking was done by Gray, a 7 -footer who is one of the top big men in school history. 
Normally not a big talker, Gray was unhappy that Pitt trailed 32-29 at halftime in his final home game and let his team­mates know it. He was especial­ly disappointHd Pitt might lose any ehance of winning the con­ference, which he called "a huge preseason goal." 
''I'm usually not one to say something in the huddle, but I almost lost my voice from the halftime speech," Gray said. "We didn't want to let the chanee for the ehampionship slip away." 
Gray, hampered by a badly sprained ankle for 10 days and not much of a factor against Georgetown, keyed a 9-0 run that started the second half and put the Panthers up 38-32. Gray scored the first four points of a run finished off by Levance Fields' 3-pointer. 


"They're so hard to defend," West Virginia eoaeh John Beilein said, a referenee to Pitt's size and depth. "But I think we're coming. We did some things well, and we almost seored 70 points against one of the best del'ensive teams in the country, even though we didn't shoot well." 
Cook credited Gray's talk for the Panthers outscoring the Mountaineers 51-34 in the sec­ond half. 
"Aaron huddled us up at half­time, and we responded," he said. 
West Virginia (20-8, 8-7) had a ehance to win it, closing it to 54­51 with about 8 minutes remaining, but Cook made a 3­pointer and two free throws and Fields hit an ofT-balance 3 while nearly falling out of bounds dur­ing another 9-0 run that gave Pitt its first double-digit lead. Cook all but sealed it with another 3 that made it 66-53 after Joe Alexander hit two free throws for West Virginia. 
Brigham Young 62 No. 25 Air Force 58 
Austin Ainge scored 14 points and Keena Young added 12 ­including eight straight in a piv­otal second-half run -as Brigham Young beat No. 25 Air Force 62-58 on Tuesday night to assure the Cougars at least a share of the Mountain West Conference title. 
The Cougars also ended the Falcons' 30-game winning streak at Clune Arena, a place where Air Force had been near­ly unbeatable. The Falcons had won 54 of their previous 55 home games. 
Brigham Young (22-7, 12-3) now has the longest home-win­ning streak in the nation at 30 games and ean clinch the league title outright with a win Saturday at home against Utah. A UNLV loss in one of its two remaining games would elinch the title for BYU as well. It would be the Cougars' first out­right conference title since 1987-88. 
Jimmy Balderson had 11 points and Trent Plaisted 10 as the Cougars won for the ninth time in 10 games. 
Air Force (23-7, 10-6) lost its third striaght and dropped to 6­6 since starting 17-1. Tim Anderson and Jacob Burtschi each had 15 points. Dan Nwaelele seored 14, becoming the 21st player at Ai.r Force to eelipse 1,000 points for his career. 
A pair of free throws by Plaisted with 2:36 remaining gave the Cougars a 60-58 lead, which they wouldn't surrender. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
SOUTH BEND-$124,900 1715 Sunnymede Avenue OPEN HOUSE March 4, 2-4:00 p.m. Minutes to ND! 3 BR-2 BA; whirlpool tub; built-in microwave, dishwasher, finished bsmt FR, fireplace; HW floors; AC, gas heat; wtr soften­er. Great family neighborhood! 574-288-9655. 

2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR­QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE OWNER,$6,500. CALL 243-5454. 
FoR RENT 
Luxury town home, walk to ND. 3or4 bed/ 
3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. $600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569. 
andersonNDrentals.com 
BEITER HOMES, 
BEITER AREAS, 
BEITER 
DEALS. 
BlueGoldRentals.com 
Now leasing 
for 
2007/8. 
Great houses 
close to 
campus. 
Anlanproperties@ comcast.net 
PERSONAL 
Helena: I still love thee not. Not yours, Demetrius. 
Happy Birthday, Chris' sister. 
Happy Birthday, to Ms. Gabriel as well. 
I am now retired. I am looking a job. What a conundrum. 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No-ABORT or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
That's what she said. 38 counter 
R.L. Stine, genius or supergenius? 
How can we be lovers, if we can't be friends? How can we start over over when the fighting never ends? 
Friday night lights is on. Wednesday at eight. That makes lots of sense. 
Wow, Kate A., I am disappointed. I expected better. 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, February 28, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THr ()ssERVER'S WIRE sr:Rv:cEs page 17 
NHL Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team  record  last 10  points  
New Jersey  39·18·6  7-3-0  84  
Pittsburgh·  33·19·9  7-2-1  75  
N.Y. Islanders  31·23·8  6-2·2  70  
N.Y. Rangers  30·27·6  5·3·2  66  
Philadelphia  16-37-9  3-5·2  41  

Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record last 10 points 
Buffalo 41-16·5 7·2·1 87 Ottawa 37-22·4 7+2 78 Montreal 33-27-6 4·6-0 72 Toronto 30-24·9 4-3-3 69 Boston 30-28-4 6·4·0 64 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record last ro points 
Tampa Bay 36-25-3 7-2-1 75 Atlanta 32-23·10 3-5-2 74 Carolina 32-26-7 6-4-0 71 Florida 25·26·13 5-2-3 63 Washington 24-29-11 2-4-4 59 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record last zo points 
Nashville 42-18-4 5-4-1 88 Detroit 39-16·8 6-2-2 86. St. louis 26·27·9 6-3-1 61 Columbus 24-32-7 3-5-2 55 Chicago 23-30-9 4-4-2 55 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record last IO points 
Vancouver 36·21·5 7-2-1 17 Minnesota 35-23·5 7-2-1 75 Calgary 33·21-9 4-4-2 75 Edmonton 30-27-6 4-4-2 66 Colorado 29·29-5 3-6-1 63 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record last 10 points 
Anaheim 37-17-10 4·4·2 84 San Jose 38·24·1 4·6·0 17 Dallas 37-21·3 7-2-1 77 Phoenix 26·33·3 2·7·1 55 los Angeles 21·32·10 4·2·4 52 
USA Today /USA Hockey Magazine Men's Hockey 
team  record  points  previous  
1  NOTRE DAME  27-6·3  480  1  
2  St. Cloud State  20-6-6  476  5  
3  New Hampshire  23-7·2  434  3  
4  Minnesota  25-7-2  430  2  
5  Boston University 18·6·9  362  4  
6  Denver  21-12-3  314  7  
7  Clarkson  21-8·5  289  6  
8  North Dakota  18-12-4  229  8  
9  Maine  21-18-2  220  11  
10  Miami  23-11·4  211  9  
11  Boston College  20·11-1  207  12  
12  Michigan  23·12·1  190  10  
13  st.lawrence  20·12·2  85  14  
14  Michigan State  19-12·3  82  13  
15  Vermont  11·13-4  23  NR  

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Villanova vs. Connecticut 7 p.m., ESPN Indiana vs. Northwestern 7 p.m., ESPN2 Maryland vs. Duke 9 p.m., ESPN Texas A&M vs. Texas 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 


Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES Clippers point guard Shaun Livingston will be out 8-to-12 months after tearing three of the four ligaments in his left knee while driving to the basket against Charlotte. 
"It's probably the most serious injury you can have to the knee," Clippers physician Dr. Tony Daly said Tuesday. "lie might miss all of next year." 
Livingston had an MRI exam Tuesday which revealed tears in the ante­rior cruciate ligament, posterior cruciate liga­ment, medial collateral ligament and lateral meniscus. 
He also dislocated his patella, besides the previ­ously diagnosed disloca­tion of his tibia-femoral. As a rookie in 2004, he dislocated his right knee. 
Livingston was driving to the basket on a fast break Monday night, went up for a layup, and his left knee contorted as he col­lapsed in pain. A team doctor had to pop his knee back into place to alleviate the pain. 
"He came down on the leg without any contact with anybody. It's a freak accident, that's for sure," said Daly, who has rarely seen anything similar in 
IN BRIEF 
Oilers trade Smyth to 
Islanders before deadline 
The New York Islanders kept their leading scorer and nabbed the guy that makes the Edmonton Oilers go. 
Just minutes before the NHL trad­ing deadline expired Tuesday after­noon, the Islanders plucked Ryan Smyth away from the Oilers after deciding to hold onto Jason Blake. 
New York's big ·deal trumped those made earlier in the day that sent Bill Guerin from the St. Louis Blues to the San Jose Sharks, Todd Bertuzzi from Florida to Detroit, and longtime Kings captain Mattias Norstrom from Los Angeles to Dallas. 
True to form, the final 'dealing day of the season was very busy. The 25 trades made in the final six hours before the deadline matched last year for the most active in NHL his­tory. The 30 clubs moved 44 play­ers, two shy of the mark set in 2003. 
24 years of practice. 
He said the injury is more commonly associat­ed with contact sports such as football and rugby. 
Daly will solicit various medical opinions over the next two weeks, after which Livingston will have arthroscopic surgery, the doctor said. It wasn't yet decided if all three liga­ments would be repaired at once. 
Daly said Livingston did not tear an artery or dam­age any of the nerves in his knee, which can be serious complications. 
"If everything goes well, he could be back playing as soon as eight months," Daly said. "My nature is to be conservative. I've seen people who've had this done by other people and it hasn't worked out." 

Livingston, a three-year veteran who was drafted by the Clippers out of high school, has been ham­pered by injuries and has yet to play a full season in the NBA 
He sat out two games in January with a sprained right ankle. He missed 39 games during his rookie season because of a dislo­cated right knee, and another 12 that season because of torn cartilage in his right shoulder. Last season he sat out the first 21 games with a stress reaction in his lower back. 
Duke committee finds need 
for increased diversity 
RALEIGH, N.C. -Duke University needs to become more diverse, inclu­sive and engaged, a committee con­cluded Tuesday in its evaluation of campus culture following rape allega­tions involving the lacrosse team. 
The committee called for a new course requirement for undergradu­ates focusing on racial and class dif­ferences in the United States, and increasing admission standards at the elite, private university in Durham. 
A university official hesitated to commit to any of the proposals. 
"I don't think any of the recommen­dations should be considered anything but starting points for conversations," Provost Peter Lange said. 
The report barely mentions the March 13 party thrown by the school's lacrosse team, where a women hired to perform as a stripper told police she was attacked by three men in a bathroom. 

Safin · defeats Koubek 
while battling tough winds 
LAS VEGAS -Marat Safin beat Stefan Koubek of Austria 7-5, 6-2 in his opening round-robin match at the Tennis Channel Open on Tuesday. 
The third-seeded Russian, now 3-0 in his career against Koubek, had to adapt gusting winds of up to 32 mph throughout his match. 
"It is very tough," said Satin. "It is difficult to play your very best ten­nis. You just try to stay as cool as you can and try to attack. That is the only way to try and control the ball." 
Satin never trailed and never faced on a break point. He made 83 per­cent of his second serve points com­pared to 63 percent for Koubek. 
Second-seeded Lleyton Hewitt of Australia triumphed over Vincent Spadea 6-3, 6-3. 
Hewitt, a two-time event champion and a 2006 finalist, led throughout Tuesday's match. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
BASEBALL HALL OF FAME 
Vets committee issues veto 
Ron Santo closest to election with 57 of 65 necessary votes 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The Hall of Fame pitched another shutout. 
Ron Santo. Jim Kaat, Marvin Miller and all the other candi­dates were left out Tuesday when the Veterans Committee admitted no new members for the third straight election. 
The blank siate could lead to changes before the next vote in 2009. 
"We're being blamed because something hasn't happened," Hall member and vice chair­man Joe Morgan said. "If you're asking me, 'Do we lower our standards to get more peo­ple in?' my answer would be no." 
Santo came the closest to the required 75 percent. A nine­time All-Star, the former Cubs third baseman was picked on 57 of 82 ballots (70 percent). Players needed 62 for election. 
Kaat, a 283-game winner and strongly backed by Hall mem­ber Mike Schmidt, drew 52 votes. Gil Hodges, who hit 370 home runs, got 50 votes and three-time AL batting champion Tony Oliva had 47. 
Umpire Doug Harvey received 52 of the necessary 61 votes on the ballot for managers, umpires and executives. Miller, the union head who led players to free-agent riches, showed a strong increase in getting 51 of the potential 81 votes. 
The vets committee was revamped after charges of cronyism when it elected Bill Mazeroski in 2001. That marked the eighth straight year the 15-member panel sent someone to Cooperstown. 
After that, the panel was expanded to include all living Hall of Famers. The new com­mittee votes every other year for players and every four years for the others. 
"We are disappointed that no one has been elected in the three voting cycles," Hall chair­man Jane Forbes Clark said. "We will be evaluating this process and its trends at our next meeting, which is March 13, and discussing whether there should be any changes." 

"The board may dedde that the trends are not what wn thought they were going to be. Perhaps this hasn't worked as well as some of the board mem­bers thought it would and maybe it needs a little bit of change," she said. 
Cal Hipknn Jr. and Tony Gwynn were elected to the Ilall by the Baseball Writers' Association of Ameriea in January. They will stand alonn at the induction cernmonies .July 29 in Cooperstown. 
The 84 eligible voters on tlw vets committee indudnd 61 Hall members, 14 broadcasters, eight writers and one holdover from the previous panel. 
Morgan said he voted for the maximum 10 players. 
"I feel there are some guys out there that belong in the Hall of Fame," he said. "The writers voted on these people for 15 years and they weren't elected. Why are we being criticized because we haven't elected someone?" 
Maury Wills, Joe Tom\ Hoger Maris, Luis Tiant and Bobby Bonds were among the 27 ean­didates on the players ballot. 
"Noboby got in'? That's too bad. I'm sorry to hear that," Torre said. ''I'm not exactly sure what process they use. Don't forget, you've got the old guard and the young guard. People with dill'erent interests." 
Torre drew 32 percent of the votes based on his playing career. The New York Yankees manager -and former NL MVP -is expected to be elect­ed wlwn his time in tlw dugout is eonsidered. 

"Jon Torre, when he retires and he has 8,000 wins or what­evnr, I think that people would vote for him," Morgan said. 
Diek Williams, Whitey Ilerzog, Walter O'Mallny and Charlie 0. Finley also were among tho 15 nanws on the composite ballot. Morgan said it was hard to piek from those eandidates. 
"It is dillkult for some of tlw playnrs or me to nvaluate thPir pnrformanen on a Hall of Fame level. It is mueh easier for me to evaluate the players," Morgan said. 
Millnr received 63 percent, moving up from 44 pereent in the previous election. 
"Personally, I would love to see him get in," Torre said at the Yankees' spring eamp in Tampa, Fla. "lie's made such an impact on this modern play­er and the game itself." 
Union head Donald Fehr said it was "profoundly disappoint­ing" that Miller did not get enough support. 
"Given the increased number of votes for Marvin this time, there is certainly reason to believe that the votes will be there in the future," he said. 
Two years ago, Santo and I lodges eaeh eamc within eight votes of eloetion in drawing 65 pereent. . 
Santo was a five-time Gold Glove winner and hit :H2 home runs. 
NBA 

Wade ponders surgery as teatn visits president 
2006 champions joke with Bush during White House trip 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Everything was going fine until Presidnnt Bush droppnd the ball. 
Bush honored the Miami Heat championship basketball team on Tuesday, joking with the team in 

his usual man­"It's eventually who the stars 
ner. But surgery. It's also are, but it was Shaquille O'Neal the capacity to
an opportunity in 
got the last play together, to 
laugh when Bush that I can opt for put tlw team tried to bounce a the rehab and the ahead of them­basketball to the selves, that
therapy and get it 
7 -foot-I star. nnablod them to
stronger and be
It thudded flat be here at the on tl11~ stage. able to make a White House," Bush looked the president
return." 
startled as said. O'Neal and his Still, there was teammates Dwyane Wade some star treat­laughed. Heat guard ment on Tuesday. 
"We wish you a speedy recov­ery, Dwyane." 
The president noted that the team has overcome obstacles before, losing the first two games to the Dallas \1avericks before winning four straight 
- a  rare feat  - to win the  
finals.  
"It was  a  team  effort that  

got these men here to the White House," Bush said as tho players stood behind him. 
"They had the stars, everybody knew who they ­
As Bush lauded 
the Heat in the 
East Hoom, fans in Miami had 
to wonder if this season's 
championship aspirations 
have also fallen Jlat aJ'ter star 
Dwyane Wadn disloeatnd his 
left shouldnr.last Wednesday. 
Wade, one of tho top seorors 
in basketball, eame with his 
left arm in a sling. lie intends 
to decide by the end of the 
week whether to have season­
ending surgery or enter a 
rehab program that eould get 
him on the eourt in weeks. 
"It's eventually surgery," 
Wade said, according to 
ABCnews.com. 
"It's also an opportunity in 
that I can opt for the rehab 
and the therapy and get it 
stronger and be able to make 
a return by the end of the 
season. I'm feeling as good as 
I can feel. My spirits are high 
and that's the main thing. I'm 
not feeling good because I'm 
not on the court and I'm not 
playing with my teammates 
but my spirits are high." 
The president wished the 
star well. 
"I know a lot of NBA fans, . whether they like the Heat or 
not, are pulling for Dwyane to 
get back into action," he said. 
Most of the team 
nntered the room. and then three big namns had a separate entrance -O'Neal, Wade and celebrity coach Pat Riley. 
The president called O'Neal "one of the most well-known figures in the United States of Amnrica." 
"Standing next to Shaq," Bush said, "is an awe-inspir­ing experience." The champi­onship was the first in the 18­ynar history of the Heat, and it came with contributions from some famous NBA play­ers on the back end of their careers, like guard Gary Payton and center Alonzo Mourning. 
Bush devoted most of his comments to praising individ­ual lleat players for their charity work. 
Hiley gave Bush a jersey and then told the audience: "I voted for the man. If you don't vote you don't count." 
Addressing :reporters later, Hiley denied that he had injected politics into the cere­mony. "I'm pro-American, pro-democracy, I'm pro-gov­ernment," the coach said. "I follow my boss. lie's my boss." 


Wednesday, February 28, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
League renews All-Star pledge to New Orleans 
. 
. 
other were to degenerate to Hornets' return to the city next 
I
Questions of city's . I 
the level where everybody was season," Stern said in a state­.I alarmed, where it just wouldn't ment. "The reports we have
infrastructure raised 
make sense to go, in that received about other majorafter Vegas display instance I could always initiate events and conventions recent­a lawsuit," he said. "That's not ly held in New Orleans have Associated Press to say I'd prevail, but clearly I been very positive, and we fully could do that. But expect All-Star NEW YORK -The NBA and we're nowhere 2008 to be a
"If the union is not 

its players' association reiter­near that, and it great success. ated their commitment to New was a hypothetical convinced that [New " W h i I e Orleans on Tuesday, a day after situation to begin progress is still
Orleans] can 

union director Billy Hunter with." necessary in the
accommodate the 

said he could sue over the The Hornets continued league's plans to host its next have spent most of All-Star game, it's an rebuilding All-Star game there. the two seasons efforts, we hope
issue that will be 

Hunter plans to fly to New since Katrina in the return of the
subject to litigation

Orleans next week for his first Oklahoma City, but Hornets and the visit to the city since Hurricane will return to New between the union coming All-Star Katrina, and will meet with city Orleans full-time game will be part
and the league." 

officials and look into accom­next season. To of the rebirth modations for players and their show its commit­and vibrancy of 
Billy Hunter 

guests. He also said he has a ment to the city, the New Orleans number of meetings planned the NBA union director community." with commissioner David Stern announced last Next year's 
to discuss plans for next year's year that it would stage next game should be a huge finan­festivities. year's All-Star weekend in New cial boost to the struggling city. 
On Monday, Hunter told Orleans. Las Vegas officials estimated a Newsday that, "If the union is Hunter was responding to non-gaming economic impact not convinced that the city can questions about whether New of more than $90 million, and accommodate the All-Star Orleans could handle the Hunter said one of his goals is game, it's an issue that will be event, after there were hun­for some of that money to subject to litigation between dreds of arrests and com­reach those who need it most. the union and the league." plaints about the crowds dur­"I want to make sure that 
However, Hunter said he was ing All-Star weekend in Las there's some trickle down, that just speaking hypothetically Vegas. But while Hunter and the people in the community and would only act if he felt Stern have expressed concern who've historically benefited, the safety of his players was in over the direction of the who've historically been there, jeopardy. He said he antici­rebuilding efforts, both sides that they benefit from it," pates no problems, adding that expect a successful weekend. Hunter said. "That it's not just, a number of Hornets players "We're looking forward to that it all just doesn't stay in look forward to their return to New Orleans playing host to the certain area of the city and the city. next year's All-Star events and other folk don't get benefit who 
"If things for some reason or are equally excited about the should benefit." 

Attention Seniors! 

Notre Dan1e' s Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and communication within the geographic area, assessm,ent and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual infonnation sessions on campus 
Among our candidates, we will seek a Latino Recruitment Coordinator. (Fluency in Spanish will be strongly preferred.) 
We will also seek an Asian Recruitment Coordinator. 

Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity with all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong comn1unication and organizational skills, enthusiastn, diplomacy and the willingness to \Vork long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Please Note: Interviews will not be held until late March. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2007. 

Please complete the on-line application at http://jobs.nd.edu to be considered. Requisition # 020070065 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
Strength 
continued from page 24 
freak, benched 225 pounds 25 times -far from spectacular for a defensive lineman. Michigan's Alan Branch and Arkansas' Keith Jackson-no relation-managed 33 reps. Joe Cohen from Florida put the bar up 34 times. 
But the nation' most feared defensive end, UCLA's Justin Hickman, did 23 reps of 225. 
Maybe the bench isn't the he-all, end-all. 
Let's look a little closer. 

Along with Hickman, who was listed at 263 pounds -seven less than Abiarniri -UClA had Kevin Brown (293 pounds) and Brigham 
Harwell (286) as its starting tack­les. By comparison, former Irish defensive tackle Derek Landri was listed at 277, while fellow tackle Trevor Laws is at 283. On the inside, Notre Dame gave up 10 more pounds per player than did 
UClA, and the lighter Hickman benefited. 
To be fair, Landri clocked in with 24 reps at 225, beating only five of 20 competitors in his group. And yet, Landri had a year that deserved All-America considera­tion. He finished with 15.5 tackles for loss, including seven sacks. Hardly a result of too little muscle mass, right? 
Well, not quite. 

Landri benefited from the defense's inability to get the oppo­nent off the field. lie had extra plays on which to bring down run­ning backs behind the line because, all too often. the opposi­tion would tear through the Irish defense on the next play and miti­gate any prior defensive stop. 
A large part of Notre Dame's fail­lire to stop offenses was the lack of a pass rush, and the relative light­ness of the Irish defensive line was an unfortunate compounding fac­tor. Against Michigan State's spread offense, the Irish offensive line barely outweighed the Spartans defensive line by 10 pounds per player. On the flip side, Michigan State held a 30-pound edge per lineman when the Spartans were on ofl!mse. 
It's no wonder the lrL'ih couldn't control the line of scrimmage or get a running game going that wet Septembnr night. 
The question then is, what's the proper formula? 
The defensive unit needs to be fast on the ends and big in the mid­dle. With the implementation of the 3-4 personnel, it's only fair to wait and see how the conditioning stan· deals with the new configuration. 
But the offensive line needs to get bigger. 
Ryan Harris was an All-America candidate and Notre Dame's most effective man on the offensive line, according to Irish coach Charlie Weis. Yet he didn't meet the hype, not by a mile. 
Harris, who weighed in over 300 pounds, did 22 reps of 225 this week, while fellow former Irish lineman Dan Santucci did 23. 
While they weren't at the bot­tom, neither came close to the top end of the offensive linemen in tho drill. 
Both Harris and Santucci, along with fifth-year applicant .John Sullivan, were recruited for Tyrone Willingham's "West Coast" ollimse. The formula then might have been liw smaller, faster oflensive line­men. But it sure hasn't worked in the pro-style set<; Charlie Weis runs. The Irish offensive line got beat all season in 2006, and beat badly. 
If it wants to be successful in 2007, Notre Dame must control the line of scrimmage. No first­year starting quarterback, no mat­ter how good, can be expected to operate to any level dose to what Brady Quinn did behind the porous 2006 oflensive line. 
The starters need to bH physkal and strong. Fast is good, but it's tough to run screens when you can't run up the gut. 
So ifthis week is the impetus for any revelation, it should be this one: It's time to bulk up. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerJ@nd.edu 

Got a little 

left over from Valentine's Day? 
Share it with University benefactors at••• 
"THANKSGIVING IN FEBRUARY" 
Wednesday, February 28th 12pm-7pm Sorin Room, Lafortune 

*Pizza, Cookies, and Pop will be served* 
Sponsored by the senior Class Gift Committee and the Annual Fund 
Not!<• Dame 
ANNUAL. fuND 

YOUR MONEY WILL THANK You. 
Enjoy aspecial5.50%APY* on a Premier Share Draft Checking Account. 
Plus, you'll enjoy FREE Internet Home Banking, FREE Online Check Imaging, a FREE Visa® Check Card, and much Inore! 
Stop in to open yours today! 
r4 NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
021 La Fortune Student Center 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 

The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, 
or fellow students. 

For a non1ination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due by Friday, March 2, 2007. 

Wednesday, February 28, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

A CONVERSATION ABOUT: 

Sex, Catholicism, and Contemporary Cult~re Wednesday, February 28, 2007 7:30-10:00 PM 101 DeBartolo Hall 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
medal in the 2002 World Championships.
Sawatske 
"Noah and I have been bud­dies for a while. It was a famil­
continued from page 24 
iar situation and I was really short list of contenders to take excited about the opportunity," the title from Wisconsin next Sawatske said. 
month. Sawatske, who joined the 
Sawatske, along with fellow team in head coach Jeff seniors Wes O'Neill and Noah Jackson's first season, was also Babin, has helped to anchor· the used to adjusting to a new top-ranked defense in the coun­coaching staff. He arrived at 
try this season. Wisconsin just as "I felt like I had Mike Eaves was a lot more to give "I felt like I had a taking over their 
and I wanted to program and the
lot more to give
go somewhere two teams went 
where I could get and I wanted to go through many of 
a little better where I could get a the same trials degree." he said. under new leaders.
little better 
"Notre Dame was The 5-foot-11,
degree."
a perfect fit for 196-pound me." Sawatske fit in well The Duluth, under Jackson's
Tom Sawatske 
Minn., nativB had new system, one
Irish defenseman 
been recruited by that stressed puck 
LAURIE HUNTI"The Observer 

former Irish control and defen­
Irish defenseman Tom Sawatske looks for the puck in Notre Dame's 2-0 win over Ferris State
coach Dave sive hockey. 
Saturday. Sawatske has netted three goals and assisted on four others this season.
Poulin out of high school and Although he does not fill up the was already familiar with some net on a regular basis (three of the coaching staff. Sawatske goals and four assists this sea­every night and shut down team I ofTthe scoreboard." former teammates may be also played on the U.S. under-son), his consistently gritty whatever line Wes and I are If Sawatske and the rest of watching his victory lap this 18 team with Babin and Tim defensive play has earned him playing against," Sawatske said. the six-headed monster that is April. Wallace, who played right wing the respect of his teammates "I try to help out on offense the Notre Dame defensive corps for Notre Dame last year. That and coaches. when I can, but mainly my goal can continue to keep opponents Contact Dan Murphy at team went on to win a gold ''I'm just trying to go out is just to keep [the opposing ofT the scoreboard. Sawatske's dmurphy6@nd.edu 


Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
lose. 
Notrn Dame, on thn other hand, has a lot riding on this game. A bye in the Big East tournament would bn wrappnd up with a win Saturday or a loss by Synu:usn to Villanova the same day. Evon if the Irish are liknly to make the · NCM tournamnnt no matter how the next two wonks play out, it is important lin· Notrn Danw to dis­patch of tlw Knights in a nmn1mr befitting a top-25 team. 
The Big East tourney 
To say Notre Damn has strug­glod in the Big East tournament would bn an undnrstatnmnnt. Tho Irish are just 3-11 all-tinw at the tournament and seniors Colin Falls and Bussell Carter are just 1­:~ in their eareors. To owreome history like that. Notrn Dame will need to be on a roll going to New York. Losing to one of tlw Big East's worst tnams just days beforo the tournamm1t could be devastating. 
In addition, a bye is not assured if the Irish lose. Tho Orange are on the bubble f(Jr an NCAA berth and should b1mt a Wildcats team that has bmm inconsistent for most of this season. If that hap­pens, Notrn Damn will need to boat Hutgers to take tim tiobrnak­nr from 11-5 Syracuse. 
A bye will be important filr thn Irish not only bncause just one tnam has ever won thn Big Hast tournament without earning a bye. but also bnc:auso having a bye gives Notre Dame positive publici­ty in the eyes of the NCAA Tournamnnt snlnction eommittnn. Although the dimmm<~e is only ono place in the Big East stand­ings, a fimrth-placn Irish squad with a byn would likely earn a higher seed than a fifth-plan~ team forced to play in the first. round in New York. 
The Big Dance 
The Hutgers game will also have a direct efl'eet on Notrn Damn's sooding for the NCAA tournamont. Tho Scarlet Knights arn eurnmtly ranked 205 in tho HPI, according to eollegerpi.eom. A loss to thorn would be devastating to Notrn Dame's own RPI, which is current­ly 32. Most experL<>, including ESPNs Joe Lunardi, are project­ing the Irish as high as a live or six sned based on other factors, like Notre Dame's 6-3 record against the RPI top-50 and position 111~ar the top of the Big East standings. 

On the other side of tho eoin, the Irish can help themselves in the s1~eding quite a bit with a win Saturday. The win will be on the road, and will thnrl'lim~ count as 
1.4 wins in the HPI's !(Jrmula. This will boost Notre Dame into the higher 20s in HPJ and probably put the Irish at least one seed higher in the NCAA Tournanwnt. than they would bn if tlwy lost. 
While the eomp1~lling matehups that await the Irish in NPw York (such as a possible rematch with Marquette) will also play a big role in Notre Dame's sneding liJr the Big Dance, no game is more important than the next one. 
With a conJerence tournamPnt bye and seeding in thn NCAA'i on the line, the Rutgers game sud­denly means a whole lot. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Hurley 
continued from page 24 
Richmond a month later, Hurley ascended to second in the world rankings. 
But that wasn't even good enough for first in her house. 
Hurley's younger sister, Courtney, is an epee prodigy of her own. The younger Hurley took first in the cadet division (under-16) in Albuquerque and third -just behind her sister ­in the open event in Richmond, Va. By December, she was the national No. 1 epee in the rolling points system used to rank American fencers. 
Needless to say, the Hurley sisters were quite the competi­tors. 
"My sister and I hated each other's guts for a while," Kelley Hurley said. "The feeling sucks when you know your younger sister can beat you." 
Kelley Hurley said separation has made the heart grow fonder traveling to domestic and intm­national events as she stays at Notre Dame, Kelley said she can root for Courtney more. Even if they face off. they know it's not the end of the world. 
"l finally got over it when l realized that she would win some and I would win some," the older sister said. 
But then there's the 2008 Beijing Games. Because the U.S. national team will not have a full women's epee squad com­peting, the two Hurleys are essentially fighting for one spot. The Irish freshman entered the year with a lead in the points used to determine the Olympic qualifiers, but Courtney Hurley's more flexible schedule has allowed her to rack up cru­cial points while big sister com­petes for Notre Dame. 
Although Irish junior sabreist Marie! Zagunis recently with­drew from school to take a three-semester leave of absence in order to train and qualify in her weapon, Notre Dame's Hurley is hesitant about leaving she has the opportunity to trav­el," Kelley llurlny said of hnr sistnr. "I don't want to take a year ofT. lbutl if I do really well in the summer competitions, I'll probably take the year off." 
But with the way she's fenc­ing, Notre Dame might want to start preparing for a ynar with­out its young star. 
Note: 
+The Notre Dame coaching staff on Tuesday named senior foilist Fran Bontempo and soph­omore foilist Adrienne Nott as the squad's first fencers of the month. 
Bontempo went 10-2 at th1~ Duke Duals Feb. 9-10 and 10-2 Saturday at the Northwestern Duals. Nott was a perfect 10-0 at Duke and 17-2 at Northwestern. Nott also took the silver medal at the USFA Junior Olympics Feb. 16-19. 
"I feel like we should show 
· and distinguish who is doing the best," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. 


PHIL HUDELSONrrhe Observer 

-at least a little bit. the team for any time period. Contact Ken Fowler at Irish fencer Kelley Hurley, right, battles Ohio State's Alexandra Now that her younger sister is "It's between me and her, and kfowler 1 @nd.edu Obrazcova in the Notre Dame Duals Jan. 20. Hurley is 514 this season. 
Wednesday, February 28, 2007 The Observer+ T0DAY page 23 
CROISSANTWORLD 
H£~, I CM1-HAVE 001 WE.I...COME, 'ST~VE-~ loNt (::1~--tT, I'""' uoiNC:! To 1-.\61-\\ IN -LE.\ '"''-I PROfESSos::S 1-\0US£ Ml:.. "T;b.¥-.E. 'fOUR C.OP--1. 
Folt. A C.I./'.S"::. DINNE-R. 
BLAcK DoG 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
Do 'fOU Ll Ke: . .. 'M '/ 
5oc.tol...ou~ ot= r""-""'''-'1 
OE.\JE.\..CPME.NT <:cuRSE , sre.ve:? Do 'fO'-' 
L\~ IT? 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Clampett 64 It has 1 00 seats patriarch of
1 Amorphous 65 Ouija response
1960's TV 
creature 

66 Orpheus'33 Pillager of yore 
6 Auto financing instrument co. 67 Just know 
34 In the mood 10 Egyptian cobra 37 Something to hit 13 Turns red, 41 Charge carrier DOWN 
perhaps 

42 Picked up 1 Song and 15 Eastern music dance, e.g.
43 rule 16 Upsilon follower 2 Bog down 
44 Breakfast refuse 17 Emergency 3 "Cleopatra," for 
48 Hotel amenities processing one 
50 Exploit, 18 Baltic feeder 4 Withstand 
informally 

hardship
19 Ida. neighbor 51 Lot to see 5 Winged ones20 Some spy 53 It may be under 
6 Neatened up
materials a top ?Tommy_,
22 Bombed 54 Order 
2001 M.V.P. of
appropriate for 

23 In the previous 
the XFL
20-, 28-and 44-Across? 8 Writer James 24 One jumping in 59 Familiar 
month 

9 Consumer 
a doghouse? 

Reports topic 
60 Opposer

25 Defeats handily 
10 Lunar program 
61 Go places 

28 New school 
11 Horror film 
year purchases 62 Mint device 

sound 31 Capture 63 All paid up 
12 Some religious artworks ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
14 Small paving stone 21 Names as a 
-:-t~::+.:-:-1 source 24 Like some memories '!'!'t-::-1-::::+,;;~~ 25 Pugs' org. ~=+:c:+:--:+-:+=+:-:-_..=+::+:-l 26 It may be cured 27 "My turn!" 29 Just one of those things? 30 Be convinced of 32 6, written out 35 Classic board game 
WILLSHORTZ 

44 Personify 52 Trans 
45 Kind of 54 Highlander magazine 
55 "Men always 46 Sylvan clearings hate most what they_ most":
47 Athletic award 
40 Noted airer of classic sitcoms  48 Former Ecuadoran  Mencken 56 Director  
42 Amino acid  money  Reitman  
found in sugar  49 Saturated  57 Brings home  
cane  hydrocarbon  58 Pure delight  

39 Lobsters-to-be 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
You haven't missed any meals, have you, Angus 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HAFFC 
j
I rI 

WHAT THE: TAIL-DR. USE:O TO ME:ASUR.E:tSUTIRY ± 
THE: BAGPIPE:R. 
FOR. HIS KIL.T.
J r J
1 
www.jumbJe.com 
tTHORCC t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J rJ J 

1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: " ( 

I I I I I J' ( I I I J 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's Jumbles: DRYLY ABATE MEASLY NATURE 
Answer: When she modeled the skimpy beachwear, she was -"BARELY" SEEN 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rozonda "Chilli" Thomas, 36; Adam Baldwin, 45; Elizabeth Taylor, 75; Joanne Woodward, 77 
Happy Birthday: Set your priorities straight this year so you don't lose ground. Although you will feel a need to help others. don't let people take advantage of your generosity or kindness. You have to be willing to say no if you want to stay ahead of the game. It's called survival. Your numbers are 12, 20, 29. 31, 38. 44 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): As long as you keep in mind that you can't speak or decide for others, you will have no problems. If you interfere or push your will, you will face opposition. Open your mind to dillerent ways of doing things. 2 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Avoid arguments. overly aggressive people and those trying to push added responsibilities your way. Changes you make to your home or the way things are run in your personal life will have a great impact on the way you are treated. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can rely on someone with experience to come through. A chance to make a move that will help raise your income is in the stars. Take a different approach to an old idea. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You've been pondering wbat you should do for too long. You will do far better than you think. so stop pussyfootiqg around and make the necessary alterations in your life. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You have to keep a secret if you want something you are working on to pan out. Money is heading your way through an investment, gift or winning. Changes will occur with a pending legal matter. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Check out any competition you face and get back to the drawing board to make sure you have every angle covered. Success can be yours if you abide by all rules and regulations. Have the proper documentation to proceed. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): OK, so you now know wbat's required of you. You can convince anyone of anything and you can vie for attention and recognition. Don't waste time or let laziness take over. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can't let the opposition you come up against destroy your morale or stop you from following through with your plans. If you really believe in what you ara doing, don't be afraid to go it alone. There is much to be said for staying in control. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Love is on the rise and a chance to make your current relationship better or to meet someone new will unfold. Someone you used to know a long time ago will play a role in a personal decision you need to make. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't be drawn into someone else's whirlwind. Keep your distance and concentrate on what you can do to enhance your position. Taking a new or different approach to the way you have done things in the past will lead to more opportunities in the future. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be completely honest with yourself and the people in your life if you want things to tum out OK. Exaggerating or giving a false impression will not bode well. A problem at work or with your health may prevaiL 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't hide information or your feelings from the ones you love. Be up front if you want to enjoy the benefits of a good relationship. A chance to socialize or to do things with children will bring about some interesting ideas. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are unpredictable but that's what makes you so exciting and interesting. You have an inventive mind and a unique approach to whatever you do. You are receptive, a participant and an adventurer. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

THE 0HSERVER 
PORTS

Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
page 24 
HOCKEY 
Badgering for a chance 
Sawatske hungers for title after transferring from Wisconsin to ND 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Last spring, as the Wisconsin Badgers took home their sixth national championship in Milwaukee, Irish defenseman Tom Sawatske was forced to watch his former teammates celebrate the victory from his apartment. 
Sawatske transferred from Madison to South Bend prior to his junior season after playing for the Badgers in the first two years of his collegiate career. The senior played in 54 games for Wisconsin while picking up 3 goals and 11 assists from his spot on the blue line, but chose to leave for both hockey and academic reasons. 
"I was happy for all the guys that I played with. They deserved it," Sawatske said. "But at the same time it was kind of tough to know that you could have been there." 
It didn't seem likely at the time -Notre Dame had fin­ished its season at 13-17-4 ­but Sawatske may get a second chance at a championship. The No. 1 Irish are certainly on a VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 
Irish defenseman Tom Sawatske fights for the puck with two Ferris State icers during Notre Dame's S. see SAWATSKE/page 22 2 loss to the Bulldogs Friday. Sawatske joined the Irish last season after transferring from Wisconsin. 

FOOTBALL COMMENTARY 
Irish need n1uscle on front lines 
Ruben Mendoza is an imposing figure. 
His upper body -calling it stout would be an understate­ment-screams power on top of legs that say strength. 
He's Notre Dame's drill sergeant strength and conditioning coordinator, the one blow­ing whistles and demand­ing the Irish stay in top form. 
But while he's built of brute force, questions about Notre Dame's linemen are understand­able. 
The Irish failed to dominate the line of scrimmage all season, and looked badly overmatched at times. In the off-season, the battle of the trenches might not get much talk, but results from the Irish at this week's NFL Combine in Indianapolis throw into ques­tion whether one of Notre Dame's strategies is hurting the Irish. 
Defensive end Victor Abiamiri, known in South Bend and his native Baltimore as a physical 

Ken Fowler 
Sports Editor 
see STRENGTH/page 20 

fENCING 
Hurley learned to 
fence at 'dinner' 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Kelley Hurley is the youngest fencer for Notre Dame, but she just might be the best. 
The freshman epeeist is 51-4 this season, including a second­place finish at the prestigious .Penn State Open in November. But her .927 winning percent­age -the team's best -does­n't satisfy her. 
"I feel like I shouldn't have lost those bouts," Hurley said of her four defeats. 
With her background, the feeling is understandable. 
Hurley captured the under-17 title at the World Championships in 2005. Only 
16 years old at the time, she climbed her way up the nation­al and world rankings. 
Hurley, who learned fencing from her parents, Tracy and Robert, became the youngest 
U.S. women's epee junior cham­pion in 2004 after taking the national crown as a 14-ycar­old. The junior circuit is open to all fencers under 19. 
"Fencing has always been taught at the dinner table," she said. "And everywhere else." 
After taking first in the junior competition at the North American Cup (NAC) event in Albuquerque, N.M., last November and second in the senior NAC competition in 
see HURLEY/page 22 
MEN'S BASKETBALL ANALYSIS 

Overlooking Rutgers could cost ND 
On the surface, No. 17/22 Notre Dame's matchup against Rutgers Saturday means little. The Irish (22-6, 1 0-5 Big East) ean wrap up a bye in the Big East tournament oven with a 
Chris Khorey
loss and are a fair bet to 
Associate
make the 
Sports Editor 
NCM Tournament. For the Scarlet Knights (1 0-18, 3­12 Big East), the game will be their last this season regardless of the outcome. 
In reality, Saturday's matehup can have tremendous impact. For Rutgers, a win over Notre Dame would give a positive ending to an otherwise drnadli.JI season. The Scarlet Knights have nothing to play for except an ups1~t over a top-25 toam. They will be moti­vatPd to play with reckless aban­don, boca use thoy have nothing to 

The play of point guard Tory Jackson is one reason why Notre Dame see RUTGERS/page 22 is likely to earn its first NCAA Tournament berth in four seasons. 


NBA MLB 
LLI 

The league renews Veterans committee z pledge to New Orleans refuses new members to for 2008 All-Star game. Hall of Fame for third 
~ 
= ::5 

straight year. 
c:c 

=c 
page 19 page 18 
NBA  NCAA BASKETBAll  
2006  champs  Heat  Tennessee 86  
visit White House as  Florida 76  
Dwyane Wade ponders  Chris Loctor scores 21  
surgery.  points  in Volunteers  
upset.  
page 18  page 16  


NCAA BASKETBALL NCAA BASKETBALL 
Pittsburgh 80 Bri~am Young 62 West Virginia 66 Air orce 58 
The Panthers capture The Cougars snap Air Big East title in win. Force's 30-game home winning streak. 
page 16 page 16 




