

Saint Mary's reviews security protocols, does not anticipate changes 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's students may feel safe on their quiet residential Indiana campus, but until Monday, students iri Blacksburg, Va., felt the same way. In the aftermath of the Virginia Tech shootings, members of the Saint Mary's community have began asking, "Are we safe?" 
College President Carol Ann Mooney addressed those concerns in an e-mail to students Wednesday, asking them to take steps to protect each other. 
"Saint Mary's is a secure place, but that does not mean we have been lulled into complacency," she 
see PROTOCOL/page 8 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 121 THURSDAY, APRIL 19,2007 

Campus security reacts to shootings 
ND looks into cell phone text messaging to alert students ofemergencies 
By KAITLYNN RIELY, AARON STEINER and KEN FOWLER 
News Writers 
Notre Dame has procedures in place to respond to major inci­dents and crises, but the University is not commenting on most specifics of those plans, offi­cials said Wednesday. 
Nationwide, universities have been asked about -and have offered self-evaluations of­emergency protocols in the after­math of Monday's mass slayings at Virginia Tech University. A lone gunman apparently shot and killed two students in a dorm on the Blacksburg, Va., campus two 
see SECURITY/page 8 

Jenkins surveys ROTC program at ceremony 
Student cadets, midshipmen receive awards, salute officials at Pass In Review 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
University President Father .John Jenkins reviewed all the branches of the ROTC program Wednesday as student cadets and midshipmen marched and saluted him, received awards for outstanding oflicership and earned the presi­dent's praise during the annual Pass In Review ceremony in the Joyce Center. 
A staple of the program's tradi­tion at Notre Dame, the Pass In Review ceremony brought approx­imately 300 members of the Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC together to salute their reviewing oflicer, Jenkins, as well as their com­manding officers and first-rate peers. 
Cadet Dan Henebery, a senior, said Notre Dame's ROTC units usually view the Pass In Review as "a way of saying 'thank you' to the University" for its continued sup­port of the program. 
Jenkins, however, said-he viewed the ceremony as "an opportunity to recognize the hard work and the accomplishments of our ROTC students." 
In the midst of the mutual admi­ration, 10 students accepted awards for their notable perform­ances in the classroom and their roles as officers. Seniors Elaine Kamykowski, Ryan Larson, John 
see ROTC/page 6 

TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer Members of Notre Dame's Air Force, Navy and Army ROTC partici­pate in Wednesday's annual Pass In Review in the Joyce Center. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 



University works for Kinko'sdeal 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Students, faculty and staff members who used to turn to the basement of the LaFortune Student Center and the defunct Copy Shop for their photocopying and printing needs will be able to continue that practice if University strikes its desired deal with FedEx Kinko's. 
The Copy Shop, an inde­pendent business, closed March 30, citing high legal costs from an ongoing law­suit with the University over the terms of the lease. While the space isn't completely vacated, the University is now working to bring FedEx Kinko's into LaFortune, said Dan Skendzel, director of administrative services for Business Operations. ' 
The University is in talks with FedEx Kinko's -which currently has a retail location in Grace Hall -and is "working on a plan to imple­ment the new shop," he said. 
Skendzel said a FedEx Kinko's location in LaFortune would provide "all the basic copy services, including some light retail." 
"It will be very similar [to The Copy Shop] in terms of services," he said. 
Ryan Willerton, associate director of facilities for Student Activities, could not say when The Copy Shop's space would be fully vacated, but Skendzel said students shouldn't expect to see FedEx Kinko's in the space until next fall. 
Students can expect to pay 
see FEDEX!page 3 

STUDENT SENATE 

Leaders draft letter to Virginia Tech 
Group offers condolences, solidarity; discusses candlelight memorial service 
senators asking the stu­
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
dent government to do 
Assistant News Editor 
something in the wake of the tragedy.
At their first meeting fol­
The letter, signed by
lowing the shooting deaths Brown and vice presidentof 32 students and faculty Maris Braun as represen­members at Virginia Tech, 
tatives of the Student
the Student Senate voted Senate, expressed Notreunanimously Wednesday Dame's shock and sorrow 
to send a letter to the 
after Monday's events,mourning community to 
when Virginia Tech senior express its condolences. 
Cho Seung-Hui opened fire 
Student body president 
-first in a dorm and then
Liz Brown wrote the letter after she received several e-mails from students and see SENATE/page 8 


Bush,ACEgraduate discuss education 
advocating broader choic­

By LUISA CABRERA 
es for parents selecting a News Writer 
school for their children in the School Choice pro­

Notre Dame graduate gram.Ben Ketchum never imag­The ACE program,ined that a week after founded in 1993 by Fr. 
receiving a call from the Timothy Scully and Fr. office of the Secretary of Sean McGraw, -has been Education, Margaret nationally recognized for 
Spelling, he would meet its outstanding achieve­President George W. Bush. ment in producing commit­The secretary's office ted teachers to serve in 
called to ask Ketchum 
under-resourced Catholic about Notre Dame's schools, according to the 
Alliance for Catholic · 
program's Web site. 

Education (ACE) program 
In the meeting, President and invited him to the Bush said, "One thing is 
White House to partake in a conversation with Bush, see ACE/page 3 
---------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------,. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, Apri119, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD BE THE FIRST THING YOU WOULD DO AS GOVERNOR OF INDIANA? 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Conversion to club enthusiast 
I've never been one to really get involved in groups or teams. Throughout high school and so far in college, I've been involved in 
groups but have  
never fully  lindsay Poulin  
engaged myself.  
I'm usually hop­ 
ing to see what  Photographer  
the group can do  
for me, and not  

the other way around. 
I am a French major and am a due-paying member of the French Club, yet I have never once attend­ed a French Club event. 
I haven't had much motivation to invest myself in the events. 
Perhaps I had only been expect­ing to find something that would benefit me, and in not finding it, became disinterested. 
I've never really thought about this quirk of mine until this year, when I finally found a group that redefined my idea of a group. 
lSI, or Iron Sharpens Iron, feels more like a large extended family to me than a school-sponsored club. 
For those of you not familiar with it, lSI is an entirely student-led, inter-denominational Christian group that meets every Thursday evening in Co-Mo. 
The night includes singing praise and worship followed by a talk given by a student reflecting on images or themes from the Bible. 
Smaller prayer groups come next, and most people head over to Reekers afterwards to hang out. 
It's a very relaxing and rejuve­nating time to get to know other people and to grow in relationship with Christ. 
Since discovering lSI last fall I've been very eager to attend every week. I've made many wonderful friends through the group and have benefited so much from hearing their thoughts, wisdom, and vul­nerabilities of life as a college stu­dent on a path towards Christ. 
In the spirit of family, it is com­forting to be able to share personal struggles as well as hopes and joys with fellow students, and it adds another very rich dimension to col­lege life. 
It is through this group that I have learned that giving is the way for me to be really connected to others and truly engaged. 
So, in the spirit of giving, I invite you to Washington Hall tonight at 8 p.m., to celebrate lSI's 10-year anniversary. . 
It will be a night of thanksgiving for the growth and ministry of lSI and a general reflection on its impact on both students and alum­ni, who have been invited back to campus. 
Hunter Smith, founder of lSI and punter for the Indianapolis Colts, will be in attendance with his band Connersvine to help us celebrate the amazing Works God has done through lSI these past ten years. Anyone and everyone are welcome to join. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Linsay Poulin at lpoulin@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 



Student midshipmen from Notre Dame's Navy ROTC salute their commanding officers at Wednesday's Pass In Review in the Joyce Center. 
Meg Healy 
senior Off-campus 

"Make Avril Lavigne's 'Girlfriend' the Indiana State Song." 
OFFBEAT 

Dead alligator found in Indiana drain 
BERNE, Ind. -Surveyors looking for the source of a clogged drain in southern Adams County found a 7 -foot dead alligator. "At first they thought it was a turtle in there, but then they discov­ered an alligator," Adams County sheriff's Deputy Larry Butler said. 
He said the 120-pound alli­gator, which had been dead for about a week, was put inside the drain after it died. The sheriff's department and the Department of Natural Resources were looking for the owner of the reptile found Monday in Berne, about 30 miles south of Fort 
TODAY 



Dave 
senior Off-campus 
'"Hey, hey, You, you, I don't like your girlfriend!'" 

Danice Brown 
senior Off-campus 
"Move the capital to the Backer Pole. , 
Wayne. 

It is legal to own alligators in Indiana, but the state requires owners to apply !or a permit with the DNR for alligators that are longer than 5 feet, said Greg McCollam, assistant director with the department's !ish and wildlife division. 
Aa. city may discuss duck 
feeding ban 

COOPER CITY, Fla. -A Cooper City commissioner wants to discuss a ban on feeding ducks after learning of a messy dispute between two neighbors. Darlene Goldberg, 56, said her neigh­bor feeds about a half-dozen dueks every day, whieh leads 
TONIGHT FRIDAY 
Kate Altschaefl 
senior Off-campus 

"/don't understand the question, and I won't respond to it." 

Josh Hoen 
senior Off-campus 

"Disband state government, cede all territory to Kramer Properties. Long Live Kramiana!." 

Katherine Sloan 
senior Off-campus 
"I would host an inaugural dinner at the Cedar House followed by a reception at an unnamed tavern at the corner of 

to poop all over her patio fur­niture. 
"Someone has got to do something," Goldberg said. "The stench in the back is awful. I don't need a hundred flies in my house." 
Cleone Boren, 86, denied feeding the Museovy ducks but said that the Goldbergs are always free to move. 
Some cities have laws against feeding wildlife, but Cooper City doesn't. City Commissioner Elliot Kleiman said he plans to discuss cre­ating such a law at Wednesday's commission meeting. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
SATURDAY 
...I 
<
(.) 

HIGH HIGH HIGH 60 HIGH 70
...I 0 50 45 LOW 35 LOW 30 LOW 42 LOW 50 
Edison and 23." 
IN BRIEF 

Anne Thurston, senior research professor at Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies, will deliver the lecture "Rising China? The Other China? Thoughts from China's Grassroots" today at 4 p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Irene Addo, deputy Ambassador of Ghana to the U.S., will deliver the keynote address for Africa Week, "Ghana Before and 50 Years After Independence," at 7:30 
p.m. in 102 DeBartolo Hall. 
As part of the Ten Years Hence lectures series, Romano 
L. Mazzoli, former member, 
U.S. House of Representatives will deliver the lecture "Immigration Reform -The New Face of America" at 10:40 
a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
"The Shirt" will be unveiled 
at  6  p.m.  Friday  at  the  
Hammes  Notre  Dame  
Bookstore.  

The Notre Dame baseball team will play against West Virginia Friday at 6:15 p.m. in Frank Eck Stadium. 
The annual Blue/Gold game will start Saturday at 1:35 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play against West Virginia Saturday at 3:05 p.m. in Frank Eck Stadium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mat:ion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

74 55 


67 55 

Thursday, April 19, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


SMC student thanks celebs, organizations for going green 
ByJENN METZ 
News Writer 
On the heels of Earth Day, Saint Mary's freshman Jen Fetchko is launching a project that will help raise awareness about the envi­ronmental realities of today's soci­ety. She is starting a letter-writing campaign to thank the organiza­tions and celebrities that have helped bring the problems of global warming into the public spotlight. 
Fetchko. originally from Pennsylvania, said her letters are "universal thank-you's," meant to tell agencies, companies and activists like Whole Foods, Al Gore, Leonardo DiCaprio and the Environmental Defense Fund that someone at Saint Mary's appreci­ates their work. 
Fetehko said she hopes their example leads "other people [to] hopefully see the importance of living in an environmentally con­scious way." 
"These people are working to establish the foundations for future generations," Fetchko said. "I don't expect anything back from them.... I'm just thanking them for what they've done. Young people are especially th~?kful for what they've start­Pd. 
Fetchko said she wanted to pro­tect the environment and work to make her impact on the planet green, choosing a major or a career involving energy consump­tion. 
"I want to make sure it will be a safe place to live . . . this is just a start," she said. "It doesn't matter what political view you have, it's about just doing things, small things even in your home, to make a differ­ence." 
and conserving energy by turning off lights and water. Fetchko recy­cles, uses cold water to do laun­dry and has a garden, among other small things she said can make a big difference. 
"People should [be conscious] for both their own benefit and the benefit of the people they love," she said. 
Fetchko advises 
students to see films 
The first Earth "Young people are like "An 
Day, in 1970, Inconvenient Truth" 
especially grateful 
began an annual and DiCaprio's new campaign to com­for what they've documentary, "The bat environmen­started.,, 11th Hour," due out tal abuse, accord­later this year. ing to the Earth "Try to gather
Jen Fetchko
Day Web site. The information from all 
main focus of this Saint Mary's freshman political parties to 
year's Earth Day is to start a revo­lution that will find a solution for global warming, the Web site said. 
Fetehko said most people asso­ciate Earth Day with planting trees and buying organic food, but the day is also about "getting the message out and being informed and aware." 
"It can make people think," she said. "People need to keep in mind this message is about the earth and the future. You don't have to actively plant trees." 
She said she hopes people will think about ways in which they can do small things to benefit future generations, like recycling 
create your own 
view about the prob­lem," she said, citing Myron Ebeoo, a far-right politician who has published that global warm­ing i& a hoax, as a lesser-known point of view on the situation. 
"I think there's a direct comlec­tion between humanity and the environment, and it's one of give and take. Maintaining that har­mony is key," she said. "What you take from the earth you must give back, either with new dean tech­nology or something as simple as growing a garden." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

FedEx 

continued from page 1 
prices "fairly comparable" to the ~es The Copy Shop charged, Skendzel said. 
Added benefits will include access to an online service that will allow users to sub­mit documents for printing at all hours. These documents could be picked up at any FedEx Kinko's on campus or in the surrounding areas during operating hours, as well as the State Road 23 branch, which is open centers and bring FedEx Kinko 's in for efficiency," Skendzel said. 
The Copy Shop had the option to bid on the project, but chose to pass up the opportunity, and the University chose FedEx Kinko's, he said. 
The Grace Hall FedEx Kinko's opened in the fall of 2005, and the company had planned to move into the space in LaFortune during that time as well. a FedEx Kinko's manager told The Observer in September 2005. The Copy Shop. however, entered a legal battle with the 
24 hours a "The decision was University, pro­day, Skendzel longing its stay
made to consolidate 
said. on campus.
[some ofthe]
The deci­The Copy sion to refuse University-operated Shop said its The Copy copy centers and lease with Shop a con­Notre Dame
bring FedEx Kinko 's
tinuation of ineluded a its contract in for efficiency. ,, clause that and bring allowed it to F e d E x perpetually
Dan Skendzel
Kinko's into renew the
La F 0 r tun e director of administrative 
lease, but the 
was made in 2005 after Executive V i c e President John Graves formed a 

services for 
Indiana Court business operation of Appeals 
Afl'leck­committee 
to review all the copy servic­es on campus, Skendzel said. 
The committee's observa­tions led to the decision to expand business with FedEx Kinko's and upgrade all the copy centers on campus. 
"The decision was made to consolidate [some of the] University-operated copy 
ruled against 
it. The store had previously received a positive verdict in the St. Joseph's County Circuit Court, and owner Tim Wright said in a March 26 letter that he was "in the process" of taking the case to the Indiana Supreme Court for a third opinion. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer +PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, Aprill9, 2007 







ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 19, 2007 CoMPELED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJ RE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S., Australia plan refugee swap 
CANBERRA. Australia -Australia and the United States have approved a plan involving the movement of a few hundred refugees to each other's jurisdiction, the Australian gov­ernment said Wednesday. 
Australia said it was a bid by both nations to deter asylum seekers, but critics charged it would likely to spur an even bigger wave of migrants. 
In Washington, U.S. State Department spokesman Sean McCormack called the deal an "informal agreement" that "does not create legal obligations." 
'The arrangement does not call for an exchange or a swap of individuals," he said. "And no person ... who is referred would be forced to accept resettlement." 
Drug gang violence grows in Brazil 
RIO DE JANIERO, Brazil -Gangsters with automatic weapons shoot it out with police in broad daylight near downtown. Parents use their bodies to shield children on their way to school. Passengers on buses stuck in traffic hit the floor as bullets shatter windows. 
A day after terrorizing gunbattles left at least 19 criminals lying dead in the streets, Brazilians grappled Wednesday with a shocking image of how far Rio de Janeiro has sunk into violence as Brazil prepares for a papal visit next month and the Pan American games this summer. 
"You can't protect yourself," said Jorge llenrique dos Santos, who was grazed in the head by a stray bullet that tore into a bus. "How can you protect yourself if you get shot just sit­ting on a bus?" 
The worst bloodshed was in the Mineira shan­tytown, where 13 people died. Officials said two were killed by police and the rest died in fight­ing between rival drug gangs. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Bush warns Sudan to end bloodshed 
WASHINGTON -President Bush, ramping up pressure on Sudan, said Wednesday the United States will tighten economic sanctions and impose new ones if Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir does not take quick, concrete steps to stop the bloodshed in Darfur. 
Bush said the Sudanese government must allow U.N. support forces, facilitate deployment of a full U.N.-African Union peacekeeping force, stop supporting violent militias and let humani­tarian aid reach the people of Darfur. 
"The world needs to act," Bush said. 'If President al-Bashir does not meet his obliga­tions, the United States of America will act." 
Bush said the United States would tighten eco­nomic sanctions on Sudan, barring certain com­panies from taking part in the U.S. financial sys­tem; target sanctions on individuals responsible for violence; and apply new sanctions against the government of Sudan. 

U.S. military deaths in Iraq hit 3,311 
As of Wednesday, April18, 2007, at least 3,311 members of the U.S. military have died since the beginning of the Iraq war in March 2003, according to an Associated Press count. The fig­ure includes seven military civilians. At least 2,691 died as a result of hostile action, accord­ing to the military's numbers. 
Since the start of U.S. military operations in Iraq, 24,764 U.S. service members have been wounded in hostile action, according to the Defense Department's weekly tally. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Inmate plotted to kill judge, prosecutor 
ROCHESTER, Ind. -A jail inmate was charged Wednesday with attempted murder and conspiracy in an alleged plot to kill seven people, including the county prosecutor, a city police officer and a Superior Courtjudge. 
Ronald P. Lambert Jr., 42, of Rochester, who was in the Fulton County Jail awaiting sentencing on an unrelated charge, allegedly offered another inmate four pounds of marijuana to help him find someone to kill Prosecutor Rick Brown, officer Andrew Shotts, Judge Wayne Steele and four others. 
The plot was discovered when jailers received letters Lambert wrote to the other inmate, Brown said. 
Va tech gunman sent materials to NBC 


Killer mailed photos and videos to media company midway through massacre 
Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va. ­Midway through his murder­ous rampage, the Virginia Tech gunman went to the post office and mailed NBC a package containing photos and videos of him brandish­ing guns and delivering a snarling, profanity-laced tirade about rich "brats" and their "hedonistic needs." 
"You had a hundred billion chances and ways to have avoided today," 23-year-old Cho Seung-Hui says in a harsh monotone, in an excerpt shown on "NBC Nightly News." "But you decided to spill my blood. You forced me into a corner and gave me only one option. The decision was yours. Now you have blood on your hands that will never wash off." 
NBC said the package con­tained a rambling and often­incoherent, 1,800-word video manifesto, plus 43 photos, 11 of them showing him aiming handguns at the camera. 
He repeatedly suggests he was picked on or otherwise hurt. 

"You have vandalized my heart, raped my soul and torched my conscience," he says. "You thought it was one pathetic boy's life you were extinguishing. Thanks to you, I die like Jesus Christ, to rise dorm, and the second a backwards, black baseball no longer running. If not for inspire generations of the fusillade, at a classroom cap. Another photo shows inc, for my children and my weak and the defenseless building. him swinging a hanuner two­brothers and sisters that you people." "Your Mercedes wasn't fisted. Another shows an (expletive). I did it for them." 
The package, which enough, you brats," he says, angry-looking Cho holding a He also refers to "mQ.rtyrs arrived at NBC's headquar­apparently reading from a gun to his temple. like Eric and Dylan" -a ref­ters in New York two days manifesto. "Your golden The package was sent by erence to the teenage killers after Cho killed 32 people necklaces weren't enough, overnight delivery but did not in the Columbine High mas­and committed suicide in the you snobs. Your trust funds arrive at NBC until sacre. deadliest one-man shooting wasn't enough. Your vodka Wednesday morning. It had NBC News President Steve rampage in modern U.S. his­and cognac wasn't enough. apparently been delayed Capus said that the network tory, bore a Postal Service All your debaucheries because it had the wrong ZIP received the package around stamp showing that it had weren't enough. Those code, NBC said. noon and notified the FBI. He been mailed at a Virginia weren't enough to fulfill your An alert postal employee said the FBI asked NBC to post office at 9:01 a.m. hedonistic needs. You had brought the package to hold off reporting on it so Monday, about an hour and everything." NBC's attention after noticing that the bureau could look at 45 minutes after Cho first Some of the pictures show the Blacksburg return it first, and NBC complied, opened fire. him smiling; others show him address and a name similar finally breaking the story just 
That would explain one of frowning and snarling. Some to the words reportedly before a police announce­the biggest mysteries about depict him brandishing two found scrawled in red ink on ment of the package at 4:30 the massacre: Where the weapons at a time, one in Cho's arm after the blood­p.m. gunman was and what he each hand. He wears a bath, "Ismail Ax," NBC said. Capus said it was clear Cho did during that two-hour khaki-colored military-style "I didn't have to do it. I videotaped himself, because window between the first vest, fingerless gloves, a could have left. I could have he could be seen leaning in to burst of gunfire, at a high-black T-shirt, a backpack and fled," he says. "But now I am shut off the camera. 

IRAQ 


Deadly blasts in Baghdad kill183 
trian entrance, the only way out of gence sources show that it was
Associated Press 
the compound. This time, at least linked to al-Qaida," Caldwell said in BAGHDAD -It was about 4 p.m., 

127 people were killed and 148 a late-night telephone interview. 

and construction workers were gath­wounded. The buses were left Echoing those remarks, U.S. ering their belongings to leave for the charred and smoldering. Defense Secretary Robert Gates day. They'd been helping rebuild the The meticulously planned attack called the bombings "horrifying" and bustling outdoor Sadriyah market in was one of four bombings against accused al-Qaida of being behind 
central Baghdad after a deadly Shiite targets on Wednesday, as sus­them. 
bombing two months ago. pected Sunni insurgents penetrated The attacks appeared to be yetThe men waited for minibuses to the Baghdad security net. Altogether, another attempt by Sunni insurgentspick them up and take them home. 183 people were killed in the four and al-Qaida to force Shiite militia­
The buses were outside a pedestrian attacks -the bloodiest day since men back onto the streets. Radical entrance to the market. Tall concrete the U.S. troop increase began nine Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr had 
barriers prevented vehicles from 
weeks ago. ordered his Mahdi Army fighters to 

driving into the market since the Feb. U.S. military spokesman Maj. Gen. put away their weapons and go
3 attack, which killed 137 people. William Caldwell told The Associated underground before the securityThen, at 4:05 p.m., it happened Press that al-Qaida in Iraq was sus­crackdown began, leaving regionsagain. pected in the market bombing. like those bombed on Wednesday
A car bomb blew up at the pedes-"Initial indications based on intelli-highly vulnerable. 
:, • ,_ • • • ~ • '-4• • ,. " • • • •,._ •.,,... ~ • • a_ • _ •: •: •· .-• • : f,. ... .. .... ' 4. • ............" .......... ',.. <\___, • ..., ~ .. • '-.~.-••• ~ ... II-; ...,. .. , -.. ' ~-.... 16.-..~ •' "'J&.'JI.' 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday,_April19. 2007 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
Harrington, Erin Smith, Casie Sweeney, Karl Kadon, C. Scott Martin and John-Paul Adrian were among the cadets and midshipmen that received decorations Wednesday. 
Henebery received two top hon­ors, including the Patrick Haley Award for mastery of the Army Training Management system. 
"Essentially, this is the formal system used by the army in the training of its troops," Henebery said. "Army cadets, as future offi­cers, must all be well versed in this system." 
He will be commissioned as a lieutenant of Infantry in the spring. 
Henebery's fellow cadet, senior Ashley Shelton, received the Noel Dube award "for participation and leadership in the Arnold Air Society, which is the service organi­zation affiliated with Air Force ROTC," she said. 
While flattered, Shelton was quick to share the recognition with her peers and teammates. 
"Our branch of Arnold Air is full of men and women who are highly dedicated to serving the greater community with their time and tal­ents, and the real honor is to have been able to serve with them these past four years," Shelton said. 
Following the presentation of the top ROTC students, Jenkins took the stage to tell the cadets and mid­shipmen about the marriage their characters as servicemen have with their roles as Notre Dame stu­dents. 
He said the principles of their military training -service, disci­pline and selflessness -reflect the principles the University espouses, and he urged them to keep them in their hearts when they serve in the armed forces. 
Jenkins said Notre Dame has sought to teach and train the lead­ers of the country's military to make sure they will judge wisely and act justly when they face diffi­cult decisions that may determine the fate of incalculable civilians. 
The University, he said, will con­tinue to welcome ROTC students on its campus and praise their deter­mination to serve the country. 
In March, a group of Catholic Workers from different cities in the Midwest staged an unauthorized demonstration on campus, ques­tioning Notre Dame's decision to sponsor military programs despite the University's Catholic -and consequently nonviolent -charac­ter. 
When asked about the Catholic Workers' opposition to the ROTC program, Jenkins cited the rewards of educating future military leaders in Notre Dame's Catholic tradition to guarantee sensible officers at the helm of the armed forces. 
"As Catholics, we recognize and respect anybody who may take a position of conscientious pacifism," Jenkins said. "But at the same time we recognize the importance of educating those who will serve con­scientiously in the military servic­es." 
The Pass In Review ceremony has its roots in medieval Europe, when soldiers would march in front of their lords to let them inspect the units and assess their readiness for battle, Henebery said. 
He said he was thrilled about the Review because it gives the ROTC branches an opportunity to display precision drilling to their class­mates. 
'The rest of the year, other stu­dents see us going to and from class in uniform, but otherwise what we do is a mystery to them. The Pass in Review is the only time where we do something for the public to see." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

Cas.tle Point Apartments 
574-272-8110 18011 Cleveland Road 574,..272-8114 FAX South Bend, Indiana www.cppj.com 
O.,:.,:euing Gueq:t ··Rent Specials! 

Center for Asian Studies. East Asian Languages &Cultures, Film, Television, &Theatre, and FTT Talks Present: With the Film Society of Lincoln Center. Columbia University, and Today LiteraryJournal 
On the Edge: New Independent Cinema from China 
APRIL 19-21, 2007 BROWNING FAMILY CINEMA 
MARIE P. DeBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, Uni~ersity of Notre Dame 
Thursday, April19, 4:00 p.m. 
Keynote Address: Dr. Anne Thurston (invited) Browning Cinema, Open to the Public 
Presented by the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations with support by the Luce and Starr Foundations as part of the National Committee :v Public Intellectual Program 
Showing: 


Walking on the Wild Side  Unknown Pleasures  Silent Holy Stones  Orphan of Anyang  Blind Shaft  
{Lai xiao1i. 2006)  {Ren xiao yao. 2002)  {lingjing de mannishi, 2005)  (Anyang ying'er, 2001)  {Mang jing, 2003)  
Thursday. 4119 at 5:00p.m.  Thursday, 4/19 at 8:30p.m.  Friday, 4120 at 7:00p.m.  Friday, 4120 at 10:00 p.m.  Saturday, 4121 at 2:00p.m.  
For more information visit: www.nd.edu/-ftt  

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, Aprill9, 2007 
page 7 

Dow 
12,803.84 +30.80
}ones 
Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: I ,40 I 160 1,803 2,973,831,614 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) 
+0.12 +0.18 147.27 
POWERSHARES (QQQQ) 
-0.33 -0.15 45.0 I 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.87 -0.25 28.60 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
-0.17 -0.01 5.94 
INTEL CP (INTC) +0.37 21.35
+1.76 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE -0.73 -0.034 4.654 
13-WEEK BILL -0.21 -0.0 I 0 4.850 
30-YEAR BOND -0.58 -0.028 4.819 
5-YEARNOTE -0.89 -0.041 4.565 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.03 63.13 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.80 693.30 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.05 I 03.20 
fxcha Rates 

YEN 118.31000 
EURO 
0. 7352 
POUND 0.4985 
CANADIAN$ 1.1289 
IN BRIEF 
H.H. Gregg to offer stocks to public 
INDIANAPOLIS -H.H. Gregg Appliances, a video product and appliance retailer with stores in several states, has filed plans to raise up to $172.5 million through an initial public offering of common stock. 
The Indianapolis-based company said in a fil­ing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that Credit Suisse and Lehman Brothers are the lead underwriters for the offer­ing. The retailer intends to list its stock on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "HGG." 
lUI. Gregg currently operates 77 stores in Ohio, Indiana, Georgia, Tennessee, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina and Alabama. 
The company reported a $13 million profit for the nine-month period that ended Dec. 31, down from $18.5 million for the same period a year earlier. However, sales rose from $679 mil­lion to $776 million during those same time frames. 
The company attributed the increase to the addition of seven stores and a 3 percent increase in same-store sales. 

Motorola posts first loss in years 
CHICAGO -Motorola Inc. posted its first quarterly loss since 2004 on Wednesday as dis­mal sales continued to vex the struggling cell phone maker. 
Worse still, the company said its misfortunes would continue through the second quarter. 
Blaming disappointing sales of mobile phones, as well as expenses to cover a legal settlement, restructuring efforts and an acquisition, the telecommunications equipment maker said it lost $181 million, or 8 cents per share, in the first three months of 2007. That compares with a profit of $686 million, or 27 cents per share, during the same period a year earlier. 
Those results met Wall Street's drastically lowered expectations, which followed a warning last month that sales at the world's No. 2 cell phone maker would fall more than $1 billion short of previous projections. 
Overall, first-quarter sales slid 1.8 percent, to $9.43 billion, from $9.61 billion a year ago. Still, that eame in ahead of the $9.29 billion expected by Wall Street analysts polled by Thomson Financial. 

Nissan to release new diesel Maxima 
Vehicle available in U.S. in 2010, will comply with national emissions standard 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Carlos Ghosn said Wednesday the Japanese automaker would intro­duce a diesel version of the Nissan Maxima in the United States in 2010. 
Ghosn, in a speech to the Council on Foreign Relations, said the vehicle would comply with emis­sions standards in all 50 states and provide improved fuel economy and lower carbon dioxide emissions. 
"The launch of the Maxima will mark the start of a broader diesel strategy in the United States," Ghosn said, adding the company was studying diesel vehicles in other markets. 
Automakers have been turning to diesels amid projections of increased interest in the vehicles, which are popular in Europe. J.D. Power and Associates has estimated that diesels will grow from 3.6 percent of the 
U.S. market to about 9 percent by 2013. 
Ghosn, who also serves as chief executive of Nissan's French partner, Renault SA, said the automaker was develop­ing alternative vehicles to sulfur diesel fuel. The fuel Nissan, Japan's third­Nissan-Renault-GM be "part of the solution" and clean diesel technolo­largest automaker, faced alliance, is among the as industries attempt to gy work in tandem to weakened performance potential buyers for reduce emissions. reduce emissions. In last year because of a Chrysler. 
"It is difficult to say 2010, diesel engines will lack of new models in "You don't want to which technologies will be required to emit about North America and slug­engage in anything like prove to be the most pop­90 percent less nitrogen gish sales in Japan. this if any of your stake­ular among consumers, oxide. Asked whether he was holders are worried about and preferences vary Ghosn, speaking to interested in seeking an your own company. You from one world market to reporters, declined to alliance with Daimler want to make sure your another. ... When a clear provide a new estimate Chrysler AG's Chrysler company is on track for market trend emerges, we for when the automaker Group, Ghosn said his two growth and profitability will be ready to offer cus­will meet a key sales tar­companies were focused before envisioning some­tomers what they want," get. Nissan said earlier on their own results. thing else," he said. Ghosn said. this week that it may Ghosn unsuccessfully "I still believe in the 
The government has need to push back its goal sought an alliance with power of alliances. But it implemented tighter of selling 4.2 million vehi­General Motors Corp. last has to happen at the right emissions standards for cles worldwide in the fis­year, and billionaire moment, and I don't think diesel engines while cal year ending March investor Kirk Kerkorian, for us it's the right requiring new ultra-low 2009. who encouraged a moment," Ghosn said." 


Businesses using eco-friendly products 
Associated Press Tony Malkin said of the hybrids, "they tive advantage by moving the needle 
pay for themselves in the fuel savings." toward green." 
NEW YORK-The expression "going He noted that most of the company's There are many ways that companies green" might have a gimmicky sound, driving is done on local streets, and can go green. Some of them are simple, but for small businesses, selling envi­called the pickups' mileage "appalling." and basic, such as conserving energy ronmentally friendly products and serv­W&M has also implemented recycling with appliances and equipment that ices can be very profitable. And even programs in the buildings it manages, aren't power guzzlers. Recycling is a companies whose line of work is more including ones that handle discarded very common way to go green. So is traditional can benefit from using green computers_ "it's what you're supposed buying paper and other supplies that products and practices. to do, but people don't do it," Malkin are made with recycled material. 
Many company owners use environ­said. There are plenty of resources detail­mentally friendly cars, recycle materi­The company also is recycling about ing how to go green on the Internet, in als and buy biodegradable office sup­half the materials it's removing from a bookstores and in libraries. plies because they care about what project being done for Pitney Bowes. Environmental groups have informa­happens to the environment. It also "You're using less landfill space, and tion as well. makes good business sense, making it's product that can be used again in Mark Mandel, co-owner of Mark their companies more competitive and the future," Malkin said. Drugs, a Roselle, Ill., pharmacy, said his lifting employees' morale. Malkin said his company is using business recycles even though the local 
W&M Properties, a New York-based more green practices because "the cur­government doesn't have a recycling real estate company that also has a rent way of doing business is destructi­program. construction affiliate, has switched its ble." But, he said, "people want to do "It's an extra effort, but we feel it's fleet of more than 25 pickup trucks to business in an environmentally sustain­important to be conscientious about the hybrid Ford Escape cars. President able fashion and we are at a competi-environment," he said. 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, Aprill9. 2007 
Security 
continued from page I 
hours before op.ening fire and killing 30 more people in one of the school's academic buildings half a mile away. 
"Suffice it to say, that plans do exist," University spokesman Don Wycliff said. "They are constantly being reviewed in light of the Virginia Tech experience, and we would be [foolish] if we do not attempt to review those plans." 
Wycliff said he expects Notre Dame to comment on campus security plans in the future, but he couldn't give an exact date. 
Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) Director Phil Johnson declined to comment on NDSP's procedures for crisis manage­ment plans and referred all questions to University repre­sentatives in the Office of News and Information. 

Wycliff declined to comment on what offices have the authority to lock down build­ings or entire portions of cam­pus in the event of an emer­gency. He would not say if the University has a campus broad­casting system it could use to transmit emergency messages to faculty, students and staff. 
But Gordon Wishon, the University's chief information officer, said Notre Dame has been looking into the possibility of compiling a database of cel­lular phone numbers to send text messages to in the event of a campus emergency. 
Wishon said the University is preparing to launch a pilot pro­gram of the text messaging sys­tem, and it will test the service throughout the remainder of this semester and summer. lie said the University expects to have this service fully ready by the fall. 
He said the discussions and plans received more attention and support when Notre Dame eliminated standard telephone lines in each dorm room in 2006. 
"We began exploring that some time ago ... realizing that the primary mode of communi­cation for college students is cell phones," Wishon said of the text messaging plan. 
Wishon noted that the University added voicemail service and each student is given a voieemail number," but officials believed they needed to look into other methods of eommunieation in case of a cri­sis. 
"We knew that wouldn't work in case of an emergency," Wishon said. 
In addition to the text mes­saging plan, Wishon said the Office of Information Technology has looked into and is investigating the possibility of voice messages and video messages -available through e-mails or from a Web site ­as well as the idea of utilizing the closed-cireuit television system on eampus for public service announcements. 
Wishon said the University is looking into the possibility of broadcasting an emergency tone on Notre Dame's 10 reserved cable channels to alert the University community of any emergencies if it deemed it necessary. 
"The bottom line is that we are looking for as many ways as we can to communicate with students, as well as staff and faeulty, in an emergency or eri­sis situation," he said. "As ter­rible as Monday's tragedy is, the administration here at the University has been working to refine its crisis management plan for some time." 
Wishon said the work to "refine" and review crisis man­agement plans was organized and initiated by the Office of the President. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu, Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu and Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
in a classroom building before turning the gun on him­self. 
"Despite the many miles that separate our campuses, the victims of this tragedy, as well as the entire Virginia Tech community, remain at the fore­front of our thoughts and always in our prayers," the let­ter reads. "No amount of words will take away the pain and suffering of these events, but we 
that God
pray 

"I feel as a Catholic
will guide you find Notre through this diffi­university, we do Dame's forgive­cult time." ness offensive.
stand for forgiveness, 
The letter also Brown said
and I think we
describes several she would make memorial events should still pray for the decision to the student gov­change or not
him for what he did." 
ernment intends to change the to hold today and number accord­
Nick McCollum 
in the next few ing to the num­days. Zahm senator ber listed on 
But Morrissey senator Tom Bacsik asked the Senate to consider whether or not to change that number to 33 to include Cho. Zahm senator Nick McCollum said he believed the number should be changed. 
"I feel as a Catholic universi­ty, we do stand for forgiveness, and I think we should still pray for him for what he did," 
· McCollum said. "I think we should forgive him." Hesidence Life committee chair Mariana Montes ques­tioned whether people at Virginia Tech -which is not a predominately Catholic univer­sity -would 
The student government plans to send posters depicting the mascots of each of the 27 dorms. signed by members of the Notre Dame community. Included with the posters, Brown said, will be a note of solidarity to say that Virginia Tech is included in the Notre Dame community. 
Students can sign the posters today from 11 a.m. until 8 p.m. and on Friday from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the main television lounge in LaFortune. Students can also sign the posters on Fieldhouse Mall today and Friday from 11 a.m. until 3 p.m. 
Each person who signs the posters will receive a maroon or orange ribbon -Virginia Tech's colors -as a sign to show their solidarity with the school, Brown said. 
A rosary service is planned at the Grotto for Friday, although . no definitive time has been announced. 
Senators disagreed over whether to light 32 candles at the Grotto or 33 -to include the gunman. Brown's original letter stated that the Notre Dame community would light 32 candles entwined with maroon and orange ribbons. 
Virginia Tech's 

Web site, allow­ing the school to make the decision about how many vic­tims there were. 

In other Senate news: 
+ 
Representatives from USA Today's College Readership Program delivered a one-year assessment of the program to the Senate. The presentation included figures abut how many total newspapers are consumed by students on a daily basis, with breakdowns according to vending location and newspaper type. 

After the presentation, sena­tors unanimously passed two resolutions to expand vending locations to spots on the first floor of the Hesburgh Library and in the basement of Mendoza College of Business. 

+ 
Senators also unanimously passed a resolution to priori­tize minority faculty recruit­ment and voted on Senate liaisons to the Council of Representatives, the Financial Management Board, the Judicial Council and Campus Life Council. 


Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 



Protocol 
continued from page 1 
said in the e-mail. "We must remember that college safety and seeurity is everyone's responsibility." 
In an e-mail Tuesday, Vice President of Student Affairs Karen Johnson told students to keep their eyes open and report any suspieious activity on earn­pus -espeeially near the resi­dence halls. 
"Don't let people 'tailgate' into the residence halls behind you," Johnson said. "If anyone tries to do so, report them to the desk attendant or College Seeurity." 
Current emergency protocol 
While the events at Virginia Tech are making colleges across the nation question their eurrent safety proeedures, Saint Mary's is simply working to improve the security protoeols in place. 
Saint Mary's is trying to improve the existing standard operating procedure in the event of a gun erime or shoot­ing on eampus, said Saint Mary's Director of Security David Gariepy. 
But rather than a reaction to Monday's Virginia Tech blood­bath, Johnson said these upgrades are always on the administration's agenda. 
"This is not something we just started working on," she said. "Seeurity is always of utmost importance, and so we are always working on making it better." 
The administration and mem­bers of a security planning com­mittee, she said, are currently reviewing a new duty manual. 
The Saint Mary's Security Web site has a detailed emer­gency response plan for ehemi­cal or biological threats and natural disasters, keeping the stipulations of Homeland Seeurity. There is no specific mention, however, of gun erime protoeols. 
In any emergeney, students can expect notification via e­mail, telephone and direct con­taet, according to the Web site. 
The site also encourages stu­dents to have emergency sup­plies pre-packed in case of an evaeuation and take shelter in the basement of Regina Hall. 
"It is not recommended you remain in your room or ollice, nor should you leave the cam­pus. Assistance will be provided for you there," the Web site reads. 
As helpful these tips may be, Gariepy said eaeh situation is different and unpredietable. 
"Everything pertains to a par­ticular situation. Going by the book doesn't always eut it," he said. "Students should always be aware." 

The problem, though, is that most students are not keeping an eye out for suspicious activi­ties, and even if they did, they might simply panie, sophomore Kristen Anderson said. 
"If there was a shooting, a bomb threat, a rapist on cam­pus, anything really. I would have no idea how to react, and I know many students feel the same way," she said. 
Sophomore Perri Hamma felt the same, saying she was still shaking from hearing about the Virginia Tech massacre and wouldn't know how to react in a similar situation. 
"I honestly don't have any idea about our emergency pro­cedures," Hamma said. "If something bad happened, I don't think I'd know what to do." 
Accessing residence halls 
Of the four residence halls on Saint Mary's campus, only one -McCandless Hall -has an ID card swipe access system in place at the front door. LeMans and ing people where they are is good. In others, it could be dan­gerous." 
While heightened seeurity is assumed during emergency sit­uations, the security Web site said that in case of an evacua­tion of Regina, all swipe-card systems would be deactivated "for easy aecess." 
Johnson also said a campus lockdown is not necessarily the first choice. 
"It really depends on if we can safely evaluate if it is safer to stay in your rooms or go some place safer," she said. "At Virginia Tech, it was decided it was safer to stay in the dorms. It really depends." 
Communication and coopera­tion 
In the case of Monday's mas­sacre, authorities are still inves­tigating Virginia Teeh's response rate and implementa­tion of its protoeols. While Saint Mary's is willing to employ every method of communieation to alert students, Gariepy said notifying students too early 
eould also be 
dangerous. 
"It is hard to 

Regina Hall "If there was a shooting, put out a notifi­lobbies are a bomb threat, a rapist cation with 
open, but something like a 
on campus, anything
visitors must shooting unless swipe an ID really, I would have no we really and eard to go truly know what
idea how to react, and I 
up to the we're dealing
know many students 
rooms. Holy with," he said. Cross Hall would feel the same." "If we don't does not know the facts, require we could poten­
Kristen Anderson 
swiping at tially alarm stu­

Saint Mary's sophomore
all, but dents when we 
Johnson said she doesn't think students in the residenee hall are more exposed for this reason. 
"I don't think there is any greater risk at Holy Cross than other dorms that require swip­ing," Johnson said. "If some­body really wants to get into any..building, they will figure it out. 
Johnson gave residents -not ID card capabilities -the responsibility of keeping the halls clear of strangers. 
"The dorm is only as safe as the people that live there make it," she said. 

Lockdown 
In the event of a lockdown, Saint Mary's will "start at the top," Gariepy said. The presi­dent will make the judgment call through recommendations from security oflicials. 
A lockdown, however, may not be the safest option. 
"Loekdown isn't always a good option. It is determined by the particular event we are dealing with and may cause more harm than good," Gariepy said. "In some situations, keep­don't have to." 
Once the situ­ation has been identified, how­ever, Gariepy said the College would alert students in person, through e-mails, flyers and even an emergency toll-free number with regularly updated messages about the status of the emergency. This number is aimed more at parents, he said. 
From there, the College noti­fies other ageneies, ineluding the St. Joseph County Police Department and Notre Dame Security/Police, to assist with the handling of the situation, Gariepy said. He said he is con­fident that these eollaborations, combined with a calm and col­lected approach, will yield the best possible results for stu­dents. · 
"We [campus security) will stick to protocol at the present time," Gariepy said. "We always talk to the staff after events like this to keep it fresh in our minds, but, for the most part, we are going to stay consistent with our policies." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO1@saintmarys.edu 
Thursday, Aprill9, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
for certain. If you're interested in educational excellence, you can look at the Catholic schools in the United States of America, because they provide it -and for that, this country is very grateful," the White House Web site said. 
Ketchum told Bush about the benefits Student Choice has brought to Catholic schools throughout Washington D.C. 
"Many of our students and parents use this tool, and it's a gift to have Catholic school as a choice," Ketchum said. 
Ketchum 
graduated from "Many ofour neighborhoods the ACE pro­
students and parents with better 
gram in 1999 schools. · 
use this tool, and it's a
and is a part of Fr. Ronald the ACE gift to have Catholic Nuzzi, director Leadership of the ACE
school as a choice. " 
Program, which Leadership focuses on Program,
Ben Ketchum 

training young stressed the graduates inter­Notre Dame, ACE graduate p r o g r a m ' s 
ested in admin­istrative educa­tion. He is cur­rently working as an assistant principal for a Catholic school in Washington, D.C. and has personally seen the benefits of the School Choice program in own school. 
Parochial education leaders, such as Ketchum, and parents who benefit from School Choice programs were in attendance. 
According to the Alliance for Student Choice, the program empowers "parents to select the educational environment they feel is best for their child." 
Parents are given the oppor­tunity to exercise choice through the use of various school selection tools, such as tax credit and school vouchers, in schools outside their own communities, according to the organization's Web site. 
"A parental choice is a very important part of educational excellence. And one way to make sure that that's the case is not only to fully fund the 
D.C. Opportunity Scholarship, but to provide these kinds of scholarships for school systems outside of Washington," Bush said. 
The program is especially 
beneficial for low-income fami­lies that don't have the option of moving to 
importance in 

light  of  the  
needs  of  
underprivileged families.  

"School Choice programs are a legislative attempt to level that playing field and give the poor some options for the edu­cation of their children," Nuzzi said. "All of us in ACE believe the poor have special claims on us, because of the example of Jesus in the Gospel and the Old Testament prophets. We will always be great friends of and advocates for school choice." 
Contact Luisa Cabrera at lcahrera@nd.edu 


Spring stor111s hit East coast, kill18 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND -Utility crews cut their way through toppled trees Wednesday to restore service to thousands of cus­tomers still without power since a huge weekend storm battered the East Coast. 
Communities from New Jersey to Maine were still cop­ing with stream flooding after the storm dumped more than 8 inches of rain in places, along with coastal flooding brought on by astronomical high tides and heavy surf. 
Eighteen deaths were blamed on the weather system, including a woman whose body was pulled from a New Jersey river on Wednesday. 
New Hampshire safety offi­cials made plans Wednesday to breach the 19th-century Hayden Mill Pond dam at Hollis to relieve the pressure of high water from the storm and avert a failure. A dozen fami­lies living near the six-acre reservoir were evacuated Tuesday evening and National Guard troops closed part of a highway as a precaution. 
More than 50,000 businesses and homes remained without power in Maine, where Central Maine Power Co. was being helped by repair crews from neighboring New Brunswick and Nova Scotia and as far away as Pennsylvania. 
Utility officials warned that some people might be without power until the end of the week. 
"It's a huge number of trees that are down, so it's a big job cutting those away," said CMP spokesman John Carroll. "Plus there are 250 broken poles. That's an enormous number of poles." 
Utilities in New Hampshire reported nearly 17,000 homes and businesses still had no electricity, down from roughly 90,000 at the peak, and said some might not be reconnect­ed until the weekend. 
In many areas, road damage and fallen trees blocked repair crews' access, said New Hampshire Electric Cooperative spokesman Seth Wheeler. 
"There are 18 different tree crews we've hired ... just clearing trees first before the line crews can get in there and do construction," Wheeler said. 
About 1,400 New Jersey res­idents were in emergency shel­ters because of flooding, up slightly from Tuesday, as more rivers crested. Rescue crews went house to house by boat in a flooded section of Fairfield asking if residents of about three dozen homes needed to be evacuated, said State Police Sgt. Stephen Jones. 
"The numbers are fluctuat­ing, actually going down in some places as folks go home, but rising in others as people who had been holding out just give in and go to a shelter," Jones said. 
Sections of some New Jersey highways were still closed by standing water. 
About 40 New Hampshire roads remained closed by high water or damage, Gov. John Lynch said. Most were expect­ed to be reopened soon, but it could take weeks to repair landslide damage to Route 101 in Wilton, Department of Transportation spokesman Bill Boynton said. 
Lynch had asked the Federal Emergency Management Agency to start a preliminary damage assessment in all 10 counties to determine eligibili­ty for federal disaster relief. 
"Many New Hampshire com­munities have been over­whelmed by all the flooding," he said, noting that about 6,000 residents still could not return home. 
Swollen rivers in Massachusetts were receding but waves still crashed over sea walls and flooded coastal roads early, authorities said. 
Two families were evacuated from oceanfront homes in Duxbury, Mass., late Tuesday but were able to return the next morning, fire Capt. Skip Chandler said. Their homes had knee-deep water on the ground floor, he said. "Thank goodness it wasn't worse," he said. 
Most roads had reopened in the suburbs north of New York City, as homeowners in Westchester County piled water-ruined carpets and fur­niture in heaps outside. 
On Fire Island, a barrier island along the south side of New York's Long Island, some homes were clinging to narrow beaches atop rickety pilings because the storm's waves had scoured the sand out from beneath them. 



E SmRT 2007 UDVEILIDG 

SPODSOR€0 BY Til€ STUDEnTS ADD AUlffiDI OF DOTR€ DAme 
FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 20CJ7 HAcrxnes DoTRE DAme BooKSTORe 
Pe511VI'I'Ie5 B€Gil) AT 5 Pm UDVenmG BeGIDS AT 6 Pm 
FREE FOOD Al1D REFRESHffiEDTS WHILE SUPPLIES LAST FliD FOR F AffiiLIES ADD STliDEDTS! 
FRIDAY ODLYI SPeciALDD 
DiscCXJDT $11 SHIRT 
LimiT 2 SHIRTS PER ID, 1 ID PER PERS011. illHILE SUPPLIES LAST. 
\1 ·•'(;q 
Thursday, Aprill9, 2007

page 10 The Observer + NEWS 


Supreme Court bans partial-birth abortions 
Associated Press right declared again and again counsel for the conservative 
WASHINGTON The by this court." American Center for Law and Supreme Court's new conserva­Dr. LeRoy Carhart, the Justice, said, "This is the most tive majority gave anti-abortion Bellevue, Neb., doctor who chal­monumental win on the abortion forces a landmark victory lenged the federal ban, said, "I issue that we have ever had." Wednesday in a 5-4 decision am afraid the Supreme Court Said Eve Gartner of the that bans a controversial abor­has just opened the door to an Planned Parenthood Federation tion procedure nationwide and all-out assault on" the 1973 rul­of America: "This ruling flies in sets the stage for further restric­ing in Roe. Wade. the face of 30 years of Supreme tions. The administration defended Court precedent and the best 
It was a long-awaited and the law as drawing a bright line interest of women's health and resounding win that abortion between abortion and infanti­safety.... This ruling tells women opponents had hoped to gain cide. that politicians, not doctors, will from a court pushed to the right Reacting to the ruling, Bush make their health care decisions by President Bush's appointees. said that it affirms the progress for them." She had argued that 
For the first time since the his administration has made to point before the justices. court established a woman's defend the "sanctity of life." More than 1 million abortions right to an abortion in 1973, the "I am pleased that the are performed in the United justices said the Constitution Supreme Court has upheld a law States each year, according to permits a nationwide prohibition that prohibits the abhorrent pro­recent statistics. Nearly 90 per­on a specific abortion method. cedure of partial birth abortion," cent of those occur in the first The court's liberal justices, in he said. "Today's decision 12 weeks of pregnancy, and are dissent, said the ruling chipped affirms that the Constitution not affected by Wednesday's rul­away at abortion rights. does not stand in the way of the ing. The Guttmacher Institute 
The 5-4 decision written by people's representatives enact­says 2,200 dilation and extrac­Justice Anthony Kennedy said ing laws reflecting the compas­tion procedures -the medical the Partial Birth Abortion Ban sion and humanity of America." term most often used by doctors Act that Congress passed and It was the first time the court -were performed in 2000, the Bush signed into law in 2003 banned a specific procedure in a latest figures available. does not violate a woman's con­case over how -not whether -Six federal courts have said stitutional right to an abortion. to perform an abortion. the law that was in focus 
Siding with Kennedy were· Abortion rights groups as well Wednesday is an impermissible Bush's two appointees, Chief as the leading association of restriction on a woman's consti­Justice John Roberts and Justice obstetricians and gynecologists tutional right to an abortion. Samuel Alito, along with Justices have said the procedure some­"Today's decision is alarming," Antonin Scalia and Clarence times is the safest for a woman. Ginsburg wrote in dissent for the Thomas. They also said that such a ruling court's liberal bloc. She said the 
The law is constitutional could threaten most abortions ruling "refuses to take ... seri­despite not containing an excep­after 12 weeks of pregnancy, ously" previous Supreme Court and John Paul Stevens. lenge also brought by Carhart. tion that would allow the proce­although Kennedy said alter­decisions on abortion. The procedure at issue Writing for a 5-4 majority at that dure if needed to preserve a nate, more widely used proce­Ginsburg said the latest deci­involves partially removing the time, Justice Breyer said the law woman's health, Kennedy said. dures remain legal. sion "tolerates, indeed applauds, fetus intact from a woman's imposed an undue burden on a "The law need not give abortion The outcome is likely to spur federal intervention to ban uterus, then crushing or cutting woman's right to make an abor­doctors unfettered choice in the efforts at the state level to place nationwide a procedure found its skull to complete the abor­tion decision in part because it course of their medical prac­more restrictions on abortions. necessary and proper in certain tion. lacked a health exception. tice," he wrote in the majority "I applaud the Court for its cases by the American College of Abortion opponents say the The Republican-controlled opinion. ruling today, and my hope is that Obstetricians and law will not reduce the number Congress responded in 2003 by 
Doctors who violate the law it sets the stage for further Gynecologists." of abortions performed because passing a federal law that could face up to two years in progress in the fight to ensure Ginsburg said that for the first an alternate method -dismem­asserted the procedure is grue­federal prison. The law has not our nation's laws respect the time since the court established bering the fetus in the uterus -some, inhumane and never taken effect, pending the out­sanctity of unborn human life," a woman's right to an abortion is available and, indeed, much medically necessary to preserve come of the legal fight. said Rep. John Boehner of Ohio, in 1973, "the court blesses a more common. a woman's health. That state­
In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Republican leader in the House prohibition with no exception In 2000, the court with key ment was designed to overcome Ginsburg said the ruling "cannot of Representatives. safeguarding a woman's health." differences in its membership the health exception to restric­be understood as anything other Jay Sekulow, a prominent She was joined by Justices struck down a state ban on par­tions that the court has demand­than an effort to chip away at a abortion opponent who is chief Stephen Breyer, David Souter tial-birth abortions in a chal-ed in abortion cases. 

ISRAEL 

Gates: Iran diplomacy needs time 
Associated Press 
TEL AVIV-Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Wednesday that diplomatic efforts to resolve the standoff with Iran over its nuclear program are working and should get a chance to suc­ceed. 
Both the U.S. and Israel accuse Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons,. which Tehran denies. Gates said many nations are "united in telling Iran what it needs to do with respect to its nuclear program." 
The United States and its allies have led efforts to pass two U.N. Security Council resolutions pun­ishing Iran for refusing to sus­pend uranium enrichment. That process can be used to develop nuclear weapons. 
"We agreed it was important to deal with the Iranian nuclear problem through diplomacy, which appears to be working," Gates said at a news conference with Defense Minister Amir Peretz. 
"These things don't work overnight, but it seems to me clearly the preferable course to keep our focus on the diplomatic initiatives, and particularly because of.the united front of the international community at this point," Gates said. 
His words appeared aimed at diffusing suggestions in Israel and 

the U.S. that the Pentagon is mov­ing toward a strike against Iran. 
At the same time, Gates con­firmed the U.S. commitment to Israel, noting that he is the first Pentagon chief to visit country in eight years. 
"I think the fact that I have come here in the end of my fourth month as secretary illustrates the importance that I attach to our relationship with Israel," he said. 
Discussing Iraq, Gates decried the attacks Wednesday in Baghdad that killed more than 170 people. The violence, he said, was "horrifying" and he blamed al-Qaida. 
He said the attackers were try­ing to show that the U.S. security plan for Baghdad was failing. "These terrorists are killing inno­cent men, women and children who are Iraqis. They're killing their countrymen," Gates said. 
Earlier, in Cairo, Egypt, Gates hewed to the Bush administra­tion's line that any U.S. military failure in Iraq would unleash sec­tarian strife and extremism that would be felt first in the Middle East. 
Speaking to an American Chamber of Commerce luncheon on the third day of his Middle East travels, Gates exhorted Arab countries to use their influence to undermine the insurgency and encourage political reconciliation in Iraq. 
"Whatever disagreements we might have had over how we got to this point in Iraq, the conse­quences of a failed state in Iraq -of chaos there -will adversely impact the security and prosperi­ty of every nation in the Middle East and the Gulf region," Gates said. 
Gates, on his third trip to the region as defense secretary, reaf­firmed the U.S. commitment to Iraq and to protecting allies in the area. In Washington, the Democratic-controlled Congress and the administration are near­ing a showdown about bringing an end to the war. 
U.S. military officials, mean­while, have stepped up their criti­cism of Iran, saying this week for the first time that Iranians are involved in providing weapons to Afghanistan. 
Marine Gen. Peter Pace, chair­man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Tuesday that U.S. forces recently intercepted Iranian­made weapons intended for Taliban fighters in Afghanistan. Military officials have said for months that Iranians are supply­ing weapons and training to insurgents in Iraq. 
Asked about the latest develop­ment Wednesday, Gates said the 
U.S. does not know the magni­tude of the problem or to what level in the Iranian government it rises. 
MEXICO 

Masked gunmen storm hospital, kill 3 
Associated Press 
TIJUANA -Police and sol­diers battled gunmen at a hos­pital in the border city of Tijuana Wednesday in violence that left at least three people dead before the authorities subdued the attackers, officials said. 
Shooting first erupted when about seven masked gunmen enterod the public hospital and were confronted by a group of state police who happened to be escorting prisoners for rou­tine treatment, said Tijuana Police Commander Jaime Niebla. 
Two state police officers and one of the gunmen were killed in the clash, Niebla said. 
Red Cross representative Fernando Esquer said he believed the gunmen were try­ing to free one of the prisoners receiving treatment. 
The gunmen holed up in a ward for several hours until dozens of soldiers and federal police stormed in. More shots were heard ricocheting from the building, and it was unclear if there were any more deaths. 
Soldiers were seen taking several detainees with their 
faces covered from the facility. 
Authorities evacuated 500 personnel and patients from the hospital's seven floors, tak­ing some to nearby private hos­pitals. There were no immedi­ate reports of patients suffering injuries. 
Officials initially feared that patients had been taken hostage, but Niebla later said there were no hostages. 
Mexican gangs have stormed several hospitals across the country in recent years to kill injured rivals or free prisoners. 
In January, President Felipe Calderon sent 3,300 soldiers and federal police to Tijuana to hunt down drug gangs. 
Dubbed "Operation Tijuana," the initiative was part of a nationwide military offensive, in which Calderon has sent more than 24,000 troops to states plagued by execution­style killings and beheadings as rival gangs fight over marijua­na plantations and smuggling routes. 
Drug gangs were blamed for more than 2,000 murders nationwide in 2006 and have left a particularly bloody trail in Tijuana, where more than 300 people were slain last year. 

Thursday, Aprill9, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 




Edwards uses campaign funds to pay for haircuts 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Looking pret­ty is costing John Edwards' presi­dential campaign a lot of pennies. 
The Democrat's campaign com­mittee picked up the tab for two haircuts at $400 each by celebrity stylist Joseph Torrenueva of Beverly Hills, Calif., according to a financial report filed with the Federal Election Commission. 
FEC records show Edwards also availed himself of $250 in services from a trendy salon and spa in Dubuque, Iowa, and $225 in services from the Pink Sapphire in Manchester, N.H., 
which is described on its Web site as "a unique boutique for the mind, body and face" that caters mostly to women. 
A spokeswoman for Edwards' campaign did not respond to requests for comment. 
Torrenueva -who specializes in men's haircuts-confirmed in an interview with The Associated Press that Edwards is a longtime client and friend. 
"I do cut his hair and I have cut it for quite a while," Torrenueva said. "We've been friends a long
. ,
time. Referring to a picture of Edwards published Tuesday in 
The Los Angeles Times, Torrenueva said: "That's my cut." The stylist said he couldn't vouch for the source of Edwards' hair­cuts in other photos. 
One reason the cost of the cut was so steep even by Beverly Hills standards is that Torrenueva went to Edwards rather than the candidate coming into the stylist's salon a block off Rodeo Drive. 
"I go to him wherever conven­ient," Torrenueva said. He declined to identify where the cuts paid for by the campaign took place. 
Campaign records also show the former North Carolina sena­tor's campaign paid $248 on March 1 to the Designworks Salon in Dubuque. 
According to Designworks' Web site, the salon and spa features a wide variety of beauty and health services, including massages, facials, body polishes, self tan­ners, and rosemary mint and Caribbean therapy body wraps. 
The salon's owners did not return a call. 
Pink Sapphire co-owner Ariana Franggos said the two payments hist month -$150 on March 7 and $75 on March 20-were for doing Edwards' makeup for tele­vision appearances. She handles 
THE POWER TO 




STOP 
AITI 

INSTANT SAVINGS 
NO WAITING FOR MAIL-IN REBATES. AT SPRINT, ALL PHONE SAVINGS ARE INSTANT. 
Ultra-thin 
KATANA'M 
bySanyo® 
Built-in camera 

Available in 3 colors 
Bluetooth® technology 
GPSenabled 

$19.99 
Reg. $279.99 each 
Save $260 instantly 
MOTO Q'M 
by Motorola 
Thinnest QWERTY 
device available Windows Mobile Bluetooth® technology 
1.3MP Camera and Camcorder 


$99.99 
Reg. $449.99
Sprinf '), POWER UP~ 
Save $350 instantly 
Offers require activation of a new line of service with a two-year subscriber agreement. 
PREfERRED RHAllERS
'.>PR1i'IOYST0Rf.S 
NIU:S,MI

SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA
SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA STORE HOURS 
Bask Communications

Sprint Store Express Sprint Store Express 
Martin's Plaza Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge Sun................ 12pm-5pm 
2010 S. 11th St.

52991 SR993 Ste. B University Park Mall 
269·357-0000

2035 South Bend Ave. South of the Mall Mon.-Fri. ........... 10am-8pm 
574-243-8900 6501 Grape Rd.
574-277-7727 across from McDonald's Sat................. 9am-7pm 
574-277-4360
574-243-2100 
Se habla Espafiol 


••Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.26% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, & state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not taxes or government-required charges. Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Networks reaches over 250 million people. Offers not avail­able in all markets. Additional terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store for details. Power Pack Plan: Offer ends 4/30/07. Includes 450 Anytime Min./month. Add'l Anytime Min.: $0.45/min. Nights: Mon-Thurs. 7pm -7am; Wknds: Fri. 7pm -Mon. 7am. Partial min. charged as full min. A majority of minutes may not be used while roaming. Mobile-to-Mobile: Applies to calls placed between Sprint PCS & Nextel phones (not through voicemail, direct. assis .• other indirect methods, or while roaming). Instant Savings: Taxes Excluded. Requires in-store purchase at a participating store and activation by 4/30/07. Savings cannot exceed total purchase price of phone(s). Business accounts exclud­ed. Phones Subject to availability. Service Plans: $200 early termination fee and up to a $36 activation fee apply to each line. A deposit may be required. Partial minutes are charged as full minutes. ©2007 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint logo is a trademark of Sprint Nextel. All other trademarks and imagery are property of their respective owners. 
makeup for local television per­sonalities and was referred to Edwards through that connec­tion. 
"This poor guy. I'm telling you, I promise he's not in here getting facials and cucumber peels on his eyes or anything," she said. 
Edwards, 53, who has made alleviating poverty the central theme of candidacy, has been criticized for building a 28,000­square-foot house for $5.3 million near Chapel Hill, N.C. The com­plex of several buildings on 102 acres includes an indoor basket­ball court, an indoor pool and a handball court. 
Woman sentenced to life injail 
Used chainsaw to hack up acquaintance 
Associated Press SIOUX FALLS, S.D. -A jury on Wednesday spared the life of a woman who killed an acquaintance and hacked up her body with a chainsaw, sen­tencing her to life in prison without parole. Daphne Wright, 43, smiled after the verdict was read. Wright was convicted last week of kidnapping and murdering Darlene VanderGiesen, 42, in February 2006. VanderGiesen's mother, Dee, told Wright that God had helped the family forgive her. "We pray for you every day asking that God may touch your heart, that you may come to know his love and that you repent of your sins and seek God's forgiveness," she said. Dee VanderGiesen told Wright's mother, Carolyn Tucker: "We both have lost our daughters. One to death and the other to prison time for as long as she lives. May God's grace be shown to you at this time of pain in your life." Prosecutors said that Wright was jealous of the friendship VanderGiesen had with Wright's former lover and that it turned to rage that drove Wright to kid­nap VanderGiesen, kill her, burn the body and cut it apart with a chain saw. VanderGiesen's remains were found in a Sioux Falls landfill and a Minnesota ditch. In closing arguments earlier in the day, prosecutor Dave Nelson said Wright, who like VanderGiesen is deaf, deserved to die by lethal injection because the mutilation was the act of a depraved mind. But he said he respected the jury's verdict. "I think they reached this decision independently of any of the diversions of race, of deaf­ness or anything else. I think they decided this case on the evidence," he said. Wright's public defender, Jeff Larson, argued that she burned and cut the body as an after­thought and that the slaying was an isolated act motivated by jealousy. Nelson told jurors their ver­dict would be just if they treated both women equally. VanderGiesen was white and heterosexual; Wright is a black lesbian. 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, April 19, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Still waiting for our victory
T1n lntkpnuin~t, Dmly Newrpaper Servint No'" Dame RmiSIUnt Mary$ 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports. J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBsERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Erlitor, Assistant Managing Erlitors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The on..~rvt·r (USPS 599 1-4000) i~ publi~hcd Mond;:&y through Friday cxccp1 Juring exam .md \'at:ation periods. A subscription 10 Tlu: Ol»~."rvc:r i~ $100 (or ouc ;u,:~dnniL 
yc-.u; $5~ J~Jf t'l\1:" •t'ffil'MCL 

The Observer i~ published at: PlbT.\IIASTER 024 South Dining II at! Send address corrections to: No1rc Dmu:, I~ 46556-0779 !'he OllS<:rvC!f Periodical post.tgc paid at Nouc Dilmc: P.O. Box 77'1 and J.ddition.U m.Uiing offices. 014 oStmrh Dining Hall 
N(ltrc 0Jmc. I~ 46556-0779 
The Ob't!:n'<:r ~• .o member ofthe:-~iillctl Pr~.:». All n:production rights .m: 
rocrvctL 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Marcela Berrios Deirdre Krasula Liz Harter Bill Brink Rohan Anand Tim LaBarge 
Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Erin McGinn 
Brauweiler Graphics Jarred Wafer 

Anyone old enough to speak coherently at the time still remembnrs the moment, · over forty years ago, when thny heard about JFK's assassination. Our grandpar­ents can tell us how they listenml to the radio acmunL'i of Pearl I !arbor on a December day, more than six decades gone. Every single one of us hern at Notre Dame can recall where we were on the day of' SPpt. 11, 2001 -what we were doing, how the horribly tragie evenL'i of that morning unfolded for us and our personal feelings on the matter. Any time somnonn shares a personal story of That Day, I'm always amazed at the details people rncall. 
I remember listening to Paulllarvey's show on my AM radio whiln driving to school when he announced the first plane crash. I remember talking about it with my friend belbrn the start of first-hour Biology, and I remember the girl who came in and told us the other tower had bmm hit. I remember conversations I had that day, thlngs different teachers said and talking with my grandparents in the evening. That was my experience, hall' a country away, without a personal connection to anyone involved. The mass media of the past cen­tury gave rise to a new, sharod cultural experience, a common reference point that breaches distance and background: the generation-defining event. 
When we hear 9/11 described this way, it is absolutely on-target. 
This week, we have another national tragedy. News of the massacre at Virginia Tech on Monday spread like wildfire throughout both national and international outlets, even reaching most of us studying 

James Dechant 
Foregone Conclusion 
abroad in Europn within the hour. We learned of the catastrophe over tolovision stations, through quickly formnd Faenbook groups, on lntnrn11t news sites and during instant messaging eonversations. Solid f'aeL'i eame slowly. but no rnport eould s<mi­tizn away tlw fi1ar, confusion, anger, tor­rnntial grief' and host of other emotions that assault us all in such times. 
This is tlw grnat cursn of' our gnnnra­tion's hyper-awarn1wss and thn awesomn power of modern media. We cannot escape tlw s1mtimnnL'i swirling around tlw tragndies, and tlwy cannot rnmain anony­mous or distant to us. It is hard to ignore tlw images of' grown men and women cry­ing as dead eollege students arn carried away, the surrnal sounds of gunshoL'i being fired on a peacof'ul eollnge campus or the first-hand aceounl'i of' courage and action during the Viq.,>inia shootings. I hositate to eompan1 this with <J/11; tlw numbnrs, eir­cumstanees, impact, source, scope and moans are worlds apart. Yet both ineidnnts servo to painfully rnmind us that those 1wenl'i always seem to be assoeiatnd with sorrow, tragedy and death. 
The evenLc; of Monday, though still fresh in my mind, will probably not stick with me as do those of IJ/11. Sadly, the thousands of students and faculty and staff eonnncted with the university, the thousands of par­enL'i worrying at home and the thousands of rnsidents in the surrounding community don't have that luxury of separation. For them, this will become a "where were you when ... " event. Monday will haunt their minds and stay with them for the duration of their lives. Iloaling can take place, and God willing, can come soon, but memories of all the little details from Monday will stick. Meanwhile, the rest of us are stuck asking ourselves: I low many more of these "defming" events ean we plan on seeing in the coming years and decades? And when can we expect one judged not by the body count or human toll, but by the rewards and human joy brought about? 
Some may say any event that becomes eunstantly discussed, like 9/11, does not develop iL'i crystalline clarity in the momenL'i of its occurrnnce. but rather slowly cemenLc; itself during thn constant re~-,rurgitation of faeL'i and satellite details in the months and years li>llowing. Even if this wnrn the case, we arn still left empty­handPd trying to think of a ubiquitous posi­tive evnnt. I firmly beliew that such evenL'i, incredibly wonderful instPad of shockingly horrific. are entirely possible. Unfortun­ately, we are still waiting to seP what sueh an event would look like. 
The consistently negative nature of these events can be explained to some degree. "Good evnnL'i," lor one, rarely culminate in one triumphant moment. Tragedy, on thn other hand. catches us unaware. In the shock, the horrific faeL'i eome slowly and there are a thousand unknowns. With tri­umphant accomplishmenLc;, tho event is often merely symbolic and known well in advance. The closest models I can call to mind arn the fall of the Berlin Wall­which I and most of my cla'ismates were too young to remember -and the moon landing, decades before we were born. 
Our generation, already exposed to so much death and murder and war and evil, still waiL'i lor its anti-9/11. We have yet to gather around our televisions and comput­ers to share joy instead of sorrow, fulfill­ment instead of shock, pleasure instead of anger. We are the waiting. But for the moment, in respect for the VIrginia Tech community, let us remember tl1at we are also among the mourning. 
James Dechant is a junior studying abroad in Rome this semester. Questions, complaints and rude remarks can be sent to jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 

Who will be the starting quarterback this fall? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit aLetter 

to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 1, 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If there is anything that a man can do well, I say let him do it. Give him a chance." 
Abraham Lincoln former U.S. president 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, Aprill9, 2007 
page 13 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Some law students not so discontented 
Law school faculty praiseworthy 
As recent alumnae of the law school, we feel that we must respond to the April 17 article, "Law Students Show Discontent." We certainly share our former classmates' concern with NDLS' recent drop in the ran kings, the adnquacy of the current building, the planned new building, recent faculty depar­tures and the administration in general. However, we cannot agree with our classmates' assessment of faculty quality. In our three years as JD students, we had the good fortune of being taught by the most talented, dedicated and intelligent professors we could ever hope for. They may have been hard on us in our first-year classes, but over three years the overwhelming majority of our professors went above and beyond their classroom duties. 
We can recall many, many times when a professor assisted us with our personal research interests, advised us on career opportunities, stayed late at night to assist us with clinical work, gave us a home phone number to call in case we needed help with anything and even hosted us for a meal at his home. We have had professors who shared our political viewpoints, disagreed with us vehemently or who never gave us the slightest hint as to their political leanings, and we can say with certainty that none of our professors ever allowed his political views to influence his treatment of students. 
Our education was enhanced by the Catholic atmosphere of the law school as issues of faith, ethics and morality permeated discussions on any subject. Like our classmates, we were often annoyed by our required courses. As public interest lawyers, we were more burdened by required corporate and tax law classes than by classes on ethics and philosophy. But even those tedious subjects are taught by dedicated, enthusiastic faculty who did their best to make their subjects interesting and uncomplicated for their less-than-enthusiastic students. Criticizing a professor because one did not like his class or teaehing style is unfair, and we ean vouch for the quality of the professors who taught our jurispru­dence and ethics dasses as well as the quality of the material taught. 
We also share our classmates' concerns about the number of course offerings. There are more class­es offered on corporate law than any other subject, and we often struggled to fill up our schedules with eourses geared toward public interest work. We hope that the administration will make a real effort to retain the stellar current faculty, including library and clinical faculty, and hire new faculty in all areas of law. Law school was far from the best three years of our lives. We, like the current JD students, were constantly frustrated with an unresponsive and sometimes malicious administration, substandard facil­ities and ijmited cour~e offerings. But we credit NDLS' excellent faculty with making tl1ose three years as enjoyable as law school could possibly be and with forming us into the ethical, hardworking and open-minded lawyers we are today. We eonsider ourselves not only better lawyers but better people for having known and learned from them; and whatever our concerns about the leadership of the law school, we will always lend them the highest praise. They earn it every day. 
Kate Leahy Jessie Tannenbaum Lenore Vanderzee Law School alumnae class of 2006 April!? 

Remember the 
'intangibles' 
I'd just like to take a minute to respond to Tuesday's Observer article on the discontent in the law school due to the recent drop in the rankings ("Law students show discontent," April 17). As a 1L, I ean't comment specifically on many of the concerns voiced in the article or on various alleged short-comings of the law school. I also won't pretend that while applying to law schools last year I wasn't obsessed with rankings or wasn't able to, in a way that bordered on disturbing, spout off from memory the top 40 schools in order. Rankings do matter and as students who take pride in our sehool and in how hard we've worked to get here, it is only right that we should be concerned. But I think it's also important to take a deep breath and take a look around. 
Notre Dame, unlike many other places, is more than a number in U.S. News and World Report. As a "double-domer," I had many friends, both as an undergrad and now as a law·student, who had the grades and the test scores to have their pick of any school in the country. In my five years here, however, I've met more people who chose to go to ND over more highly-ranked institutions than people who came to ND because it was "the best place they got in." While Notre Dame will always continue to be an elite academic institution, it is the intangibles which set us apart-our Catholic character, our student spirit, our dedi-. cation to social justice and (who could forget) our football team -just to name a few. I don't think I need to write a laundry list of everything that makes Notre Dame great. I think most of us already know what they are. We should also acknowledge that most of these things ean't be expressed in a number. So while, yes, rankings matter, and we should always strive to be the best that we can be in ANY area, I believe that Notre Dame will find its way back to the top. In the meantime, there's nowhere else I'd rather be. 
Laura Geldermann law student O'Hara Grace April IS 

Graphic art exhibit does exactly -what it set out to 
You'll have to forgive my friend Jay. Obviously, he is a philosophy grad student and prone to a sort of theoretical debauchery. But I find it disingenuous and theatrical to trot out linguistic sins like "stale objectivity of Kantian aesthetics" and "aboutness" when measuring the work of so many soon-to-be graduates. The heart of his argu­ment-a breathless caricature of modernism's belief in the virgin purity of eapital-A Art-doesn't square with the BFA/MFA exhibit. 
First of all, few of the studio art projects could be described as heavy-handed polit­ical pieces. Consider the work of the artists he knows personally: Meeg Conroy's rainbow ethnography, Katie Monahan's meditation on our image-flooded culture, Vanessa Valenzuela's delicately penciled constellation of family portraits. Mack Russell's triptych of photographs (the "homosexuality" piece?) is a luminous techni­cal feat. 
Second of all, many of the projects he refers to -those regarding worker's rights, for one -are works of graphie design. The graphic designer has failed if he or she hasn't unambiguously expressed a message. BFA Carolin Hubscher's minimal, story­driven work for the Campus Labor Action Project offers a fme example of socially­oriented graphic design that never sinks to crass, in-your-face tactics; rather it appeals to our humanity, by giving the spotlight to workers' stories, rather than translating treatises onto the canvas, or performing bloodless experiments with craft. 
BJ Strew 
seniOr 
off-campus Aprill6 


Iraq pullout not logical 
Finish what you start. That's what my mother always taught me about life. This same motto can be applied to national policy. In the April 18 Letter to the Editor "Lives lost to wasted cause in Iraq," the authors claim that "The entire war [in Iraq] is a waste." They claim the United States needs to pull out to save human life and honor the lives of soldiers that could die if the war continued. 
Pulling out of Iraq is possibly the worst thing the government could do right now. There have been talks of people looking for a gradual withdraw­al plan. That sounds strangely familiar doesn't it? That's right, we learned about it in history in reference to the Vietnam War. OK, yeah that's great; we ean put the Iraq wall right next to the one for Vietnam while meanwhile leav­ing another eountry in ruin. 
Out of all the unstable countries in that area Iraq has the best chance of being a stable modern country, and it is because of the billions of U.S. dollars flowing into it to help it rebuild. Yes, that money could be going to other things more self-serving, but take a look at the Marshall Plan. In 1947, 13 billion dollars were given to several countries in Europe to help them recover from WWII. I'm pretty sure that was as huge an amount then as we're spending now, but those coun­tries are in good shape thanks to us. 
As for Vietnam, it's possible we did all we could there, but maybe if we'd stayed and won the war Vietnam it wouldn't still be considered a develop­ing country. So go ahead, withdraw our troops from Iraq and cut off fund­ing. I'm sure all the soldiers who have died would much rather we build another memorial rather than actually finish what we started, so they will not have died for no reason. 
I'm sure that 30 years down the road, I can buy a scarf for a couple of buc"ks to help some charity organiza­tion fight poverty in Iraq. 
James Breen freshman Zahm Hall April IS 



THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Thursday, April 19, 2007 

By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 

You can hear them before you see them. The sound of piano keys clinking out show tunes mixes with the hubbub of excited cast chit-chat and the melodies of performers warming up their vocal chords, rising to a loud, pleasant din that fills the LaFortune Ballroom. 
It's a Monday night rehearsal for "Beyond the Curtain," the sixth annual Musical Hevue from the Pasquerilla East Musical Company, and with just three days before opening night, directors Brad Laney and Wendy Pepper have their hands full. 

After a quick round of warm-up chords (led by th~ seemingly tireless Nicholas Shaneyfelt, the show's musical director and the man behind the piano), Pepper announces it's time to get this show on the road. "All right," she shouts, "let's go, and we're going to try to run this rehearsal as ifit were an actual show." 

While she watches the rehearsal, lwr fellow director Laney has time for a few questions. So why the title, "Beyond the Curtain?" 
"The inspiration for the show comes from a song in the musical "Chorus Linn" called 'What I Did For Love,"' Laney said. "The title felt very appropriate because through all of the experiences the pnople in the show have had with theater, we've 
all come to. realizo that we all do what we do for the lovo of theater. 
"The show's themes are all about people's 
...,~-...,:....J ·experiences with musical theater at ND and how those experiences helped make them into the people they arc today." 
The show is structured around different cate­gories and is inter­spersed with quotes from the actual cast mem­bers talking about 
how theater has impacted their lives beyond the stage. 
Featuring over 25 acts from more than 20 different musicals, "Beyond the Curtain" features nearly 40 young ladies 

ERIC SALESrThe Observer 
The sixth annual PEMCO Revue, "Beyond the Curtain," includes over 25 acts from more than 20 different musicals, including "Chicago " and "A Chorus Line." 

and gentlemen drawn from all over cam­people who might otherwise go unno­pus, mostly undergraduate students, but ticed." with a few graduate school Double Pepper agreed. "The reason we came 
Domers  up with the idea for  
thrown into the mix as well. ·That's a whole lot of talent packed  "... Through all of the experiences the people in the show have had with theater, we've all come to realize that we all do what we do for the love of  the show's struc­ture," she said, "is to highlight the talents of people who might be less visible and  
into one room, even one with  the theater. "  find out why they do theater in the first  
ceilings as vaulted as the  Brad Laney  place." Not to  mention  
LaFortune  director  that  "Beyond  the  
Ballroom. And  Pasquerllla East Musical Company  Curtain" is also just  

these are just the cream of the crop. 
Auditions for "Beyond the Curtain" were held the week before spring break over a two-night span. More than 100 acts auditioned before the final number was whittled down to less than half the original count. 
With a surplus of talented thespians here at Notre Dame, the show's title, "Beyond the Curtain," puts the spotlight on people who aro sometimes overlooked. 
"One of the reasons we chose to do this show is that with so many talented people here at Notre Dame, not everyone gets a chance to be featured onstage," Laney said. "This way, you can really feature 
plain fun. As cast 
member Erin O'Shea put it, "It's cool because you come in knowing a group of familiar faces, and then you find out it's a good way to build a community of friends. It's always enter­taining and the best part is not doing homework and watching the other acts. I always bring a book to rehearsal and never read it." 
The opening number from the show is "One Night Only," a song from the musical "Dreamgirls." Fortunately for undergrad­uates here at Notre Dame, we have three nights to take in the voices and acting on display in "Beyond the Curtain." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
The Mike Peterson Show Club Jazz 
Flameshovel Records College Tour with Russian Circles, feat. The Race and the Narrator Country Nightclub 
Skybox Swing Nightclub 
page 15

By SEAN SWEANY 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Love him or hate him for his personal antics, there is no doubt that Mel Gibson has been associated with some of the most spectacular and talked-about movies of the past several decades. His recent scandal has perhaps marred his populari­ty in regards to his latest film, "Apocalypto," as well as his future movies, but his older films are still a testa­ment to his talent as both an ·actor and director. 
The new DVD release of "Mel Gibson: Ultimate Collection" takes three of these classic films -"Braveheart." "Payback" and "We Were Soldiers" -and groups them in a three-disc collection for fans of the Australian actor to enjoy. 
+Braveheart (1995) 

This picture, which won Oscars for Best Picture and Best Director (it was also directed by Gibson), is by far the best film in the collection. Gibson stars as William Wallace, a Scottish king who rallies his people to overthrow the oppressive English rule under which they live. 
"Braveheart" is at once a historical epic and a moving romance. Superb acting combines with stunning cinematography and well-choreographed tight scenes to make this Gibson's best film and also one of the top fllms of all time. 
While this DVD itself is no different from the previously released standalone ver­sion, it contains good extras such as a commentary from Gibson and a lengthy documentary that details the difficulties in shooting on location in Scotland. 


+Payback: Straight Up the Director's Cut (1999) 
The second DVD in the pack is the gem of the three, as it contains the newly released director's cut of "Payback." Here, Gibson plays Porter, the bad guy -albeit a likable one -for once, a career crimi­nal who is double crossed by his accom­plices and left for dead. When Porter does not die, he exacts vengeance on his for­mer compatriots in an unforgettable fash-. ion. 
Director Brian Helgeland's original film, while suspenseful and entertaining, became overly simplified and cheery at the mandate of studio executives who feared the original cut was too sophisti­cated and dark for audiences. While the result was good, it felt empty and trite in finished form. 
The director's cut is substantially better than the original release and features much more engaging dialogue along with a darker tone that shows a different side of Gibson. Special features include an interesting new documentary about the making of the director's cut. This disc alone makes the entire set worth purchas­ing. 
+We Were Soldiers (2002) 



"Payback" stars Gibson, accompanied by Gregg Henry and Lucy Liu, as a criminal out for revenge against those who double-crossed him. 
Although certainly not a bad film, "We Were Soldiers" is the weakest of the three in this set. Gibson stars as Lt. Col. Hal Moore, a general who must lead his troops into a place called "The Valley of Death" during the Vietnam War. This true story focuses on Moore's heroism and courage in what was one of the most vio­lent battles in U.S. history. 
While this film is epic on the level of "Braveheart" -and well shot at that -it comes off as cold and lacking the heart so aptly included in Gibson's earlier film. Many critics often term this "Braveheart 3" for its similarities to the predecessor ("The Patriot" is considered "Braveheart 2") and comparisons to any such great film will usually fall short. 
As with "Braveheart," the special fea­tures are the same as on the regular standalone DVD, the best of which is a behind-the-scenes documentary that shows how many of the film's complex helicopter scenes were actually filmed. While perhaps not as worthy of inclusion in this three-pack as "The Patriot," "We Were Soldiers" is an adequate war film that showcases Mel Gibson's talent in act­ing in epic movies. 
It is within this epic genre that Mel Gibson has proven himself one of the most talented actors in recent years, continual­ly churning out thrilling, exciting films. The "Ultimate Collection DVD" showcases these three in all their bloody, gory glory. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
Ordev wfAustrrrl!w~ An tt: ra.Ha't& · 
bighcst l:u:tnor 
Room~tcs with a.ctor Geoffrey 
Rush in roUege 
Shares his Janttary 3 birthd:ay with J.R..R. T olkien 
ffis father moved the .f::tmlly from New Yo.rk to Sydney afte.r winning in "'Jeopardy!• 

Photo courtesy of imdb.com 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer + CIASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 19, 2007 

Associated Press  "You can't really ask for a  
better series from the guys,"  
NEW YORK ­The New York  said forward Brendan  
Rangers finally got a chance to  Shanahan, who tied it at 2 in  
party like it was 1997.  the second period. "We are  
Matt Cullen banged in a shot  happy the way we played the  
off the crossbar early in the  series, but at the same time we  
third period, snapping a tie  are keeping our head on our  
and helping New York to a 4-2  shoulders."  
victory. over the Atlanta  Sixth-seeded New York  
Thrashers on Wednesday night  earned its first home playoff  
that put the Rangers into the  victory since 1997 on Tuesday  
second round of the playoffs  upon returning to Madison  
for the first time in a decade.  Square Garden after· taking the  
A year after being swept out  first two games in Atlanta. It  
of the first round by New  was the Hangers' first sweep  
Jersey in their return to the  since the opening round of the  
playoffs, following a seven-sea­ 1994 playoffs -the year they  
son absence, the Rangers  last won the Stanley Cup.  
turned the trick on the  "It wasn.'t our goal to just  
Thrashers, who exited their  make the first round," New  
first series in four games.  York captain Jaromir Jagr  
"It never, ever entered my  said. "As long as we stay  
mind," Rangers coach Tom  healthy we have a pretty good  
Henney said. "A sweep?  chance to go somewhere."  
Never."  Fresh off a 7-0 victory in AP 
Cullen fired a rolling puck  Game 3 on Tuesday, the New York center Petr Prucha, right, skates away from Atlanta defenseman Garnet Exelby during  
from just inside the blue line  Rangers had ·a much tougher  · the Rangers' 4-2 win over the Thrashers Wednesday. New York won the series 4-0.  
that smacked the iron and  time with goalie. Johan  
dropped on its side just over  Hedberg than Kari Lehtonen.  York.  "It's a big momentum shifter  Hyan Miller made 24 saves in  
the goal line at 2:06. It with­ Hedberg stopped 37 shots in a  Michal Rozsival and  for us. You lose that, you're  his second straight victory on  
.,.  stood a lengthy video review and gave the Rangers their  2-1 loss in Game 2 but Thrashers coach Bob Hartley  Shanahan wiped out one-goal advantages and put Cullen in  down 3-1. Now it's 2-2; it's a new ballgame," Brodeur said.  Long Island. The win moved the NHL regular-season cham­ 
first series win since ousting  made the curious decision to  position for the game-winner.  "We've got home-iee advantage  pions into position to end the  
New Jersey from the second  go back to Lehtonen, the 4-3  Jagr scored into an empty net  now, so we're definitely happy  series Friday night in Buffalo.  
round in 1997.  loser in the opener, in New  with 1:33 remaining.  about the situation we're in."  "We feel pretty good, but  
Brodeur had 30 saves, but  know there's still a long way to  
Devils 4, Lightning 3 (OT)  squandered a two-goal lead in  go," Drury said.  
Turns out the New Jersey  the seeond period. lie has  Jason Blake and Mike  
Devils didn't need a stellar  given up 12 goals in four  Sillinger scored for the  
performance from Martin  games after entering the post­ Islanders, and Rick DiPietro  
Brodeur to climb back into  season with a career 1.89  stopped 2 7 shots in his third  
their first-round playoff series  goals-against average in 153  start since returning from a  
against the Tampa Bay  playoff games.  concussion.  
Lightning.  Vincent Lecavalier, Martin St.  "We have to come out and  
Another big game by Zach  Louis and Eric Perrin scored  play a great game Friday  
Parise and Scott Gomez's over­ for the Lightning, who rallied  night." DiPietro said. "They're  
time goal kept the Atlantic  from a 3-1 deficit. Holmqvist  a great team and they're  
Division champions from  stopped 33 shots after making  smelling blood."  
falling to the brink of' elimina­ 64 saves in Tampa Bay victo­ Drury, who also scored twiee  
tion in the best-of-seven  ries in Games 2 and 3.  in Buffalo's ·Game 1 victory,  
Eastern Conference matchup  gave the Sabres a 3-2 lead  
Wednesday night.  Sabres 4, Islanders 2  with a power-play goal 39 sec­ 
Parise scored his fifth and  Chris Drury has a knack for  onds into the second period.  
sixth goals of the postseason.  scoring big goals.  He scored from the slot off his  
Gomez blocked a shot nearly  "For whatever reason, pucks  own rebound after DiPietro  
13 minutes into the extra peri­ seem to find people like Chris,"  and defenseman Tom Poti  
od, then chased down the loose  Buffalo coach Lindy Ruff said  failed to control the puck.  
puck and skated in to blow the  after Drury scored twice to  "Ricky made a great toe save  
winner past goalie Johan  help the top-seeded Sabres  and the rebound just found its  
Holmqvist for a victory that  beat the New York Islanders on  way to me through a bunch of  
evened the series at two games  Wednesday night for a 3-1 lead  sticks and bodies," Drury said.  
AP  apiece.  in the first-round series.  "When you get the good ice at  
New York center Randy Robitaille, l eft, and Buffalo defenseman Teppo  Game· 5 is Friday night at  Thomas Vanek and Jason  the start of the period, you  
Numminen battle for the puck in th e Sabres' 4-2 win Wednesday.  New Jersey.  Pominville also scored, and  want to take advantage of it."  

NHL 
Rangers need just four games to ice Thrashers 
Devils win in overtime to tie series with Lightning at two, two goals by Drury and 24 saves by Miller give Sabres win 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Very large home for rent WALK TO CAMPUS!! Across the street from ND, for next school year. JAMISON RESIDENTIAL Corner Lot. 
WANTED FoR RENT 1 block east of campus. 3 BDRM 2 BA LUXURY CONDO. 4 BR, PERSONAL 
Walk to class/food/shops. ACROSS B·BALL 2 full baths. SUMMER WORK-$15.50 andersonNDrentals.com 4 huge bedrms/ STADIUM FROM CAMPUS. A/C & heat. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do base-appt. flexible schedules, no 3 full baths/ SLEEPS UPTO Extra parking. not go it alone. If you or someone exp.needed, BETIER HOMES,BETIER large kitchen· 4 STUDENTS. EXCELLENT 269·362·0498. you love needs confidential support customer sales/service, AREAS,BETIER DEALS. tam rm & laundry rm. RENTAL FOR 2 or assistance, please call Sr. Sue conditions apply,all ages 17+, BlueGoldRentaiS.com 3 decks overlook GRAD STUDENTS OR 1-bdrm apts. Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. For more positions throughout the US, huge fenced yard. FOR PRIVACY. Quiet historic neighborhood. information, visit our web site at apply now, start after finals, 3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for Very private & safe! CONVERT 3RD BEDROOM Laundry & security. http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslpreg· www. workforstudents.com 07/08 school year. Must see! TO STUDY. $575/mo. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad 
On line see 239·707-2025. CAB,NET,GAS, 574·532·871 B. in The Observer. Sitter for 11-year-old girl in Granger rentnd.com ELEC, INCLUDED. $1600 PER and sometimes older sisters, 15 & or mmmrentals.com. 2 bdrm home close to ND. MONTH 3bdrm furnished house PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME· 
17. Days, 30·40 hours/week now Contact Gary at Avail Now. BEGINNING 6/1. close to ND ONE WHO IS? You do not have to through summer. Reply: Grooms@ourwebspot.net $650/mo + utilities. CALL MARK@ 310·940-9444. renting for 07 ·08. be alone. We want to help. Call our Linda.Harmon1 @comcast.net or phone 574·277·4759. Call Peggy 269·687·3096. Call661·703·7200. 24 hour confidential hotline at 1· 
5 Bedroom House; BOO·No·ABORT or visit our website Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, 105 Marquette Ave; Room in beautiful home at www.lifecall.org Grt loc.Spac.Lower, close to campus, carpet, Great Neighborhood, overlooking private 
FoR SALE 
2b/2b incl.all appli. unfurn, all appi,AC, 2 car gar. close to campus;232·6964. golf course. Adopt: A young loving couple long 
•No CONDos· A/C,Carpet,Porch, No pets. $1650/mo plus util. 1.2 mi to ND. to share their Hearts and home with NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos Car Port $925 + util. 914·232·3328. OFF CAMPUS HOUSING: Privileges include a newborn & will provide Endless Minutes from campus 630·417 ·8763/ House for rent kitchen for light cooking. love. Expenses paid call Eileen & Starting in $130.000s MCL214@aol.com For rent: Nicest house in area. 4 1/2 mile from ND. WID. $275/mo. Ed at 1·800-718-6577 574·252-2427 ndcondos.com bedrooms,A/C, security. 5 blocks 3 bdrms & Call574·232·7564. Reserve Yours Today! Houses for rent for 2007/B,B/9. from campus. 289·4071. 2 full baths. A/C. Avail. now and/or If you or someone you care about 
Close to campus. Newly remodeled. for 07·08. has been sexually assaulted, visit 3 bdrm,2 bath ranch, finished lower 3·9 bedrooms. 2·6 BDRMS Must see! Addl room avail for http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape level, all amenities. 10 yrs. old & 1 Call ,A.nlan Properties at HOMES.GREAT RATES. Call Darin football weekends to learn about resources at ND and mi to ND. $144,900. 574·277·2176. 532·1896. 574-329·0308 574·255·8935. at $125/night. in South Bend. 




OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 19, 2007 CoMPILED rROJ\tt THE ()nsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record conf last 10 
x-Toronto 47-35 33-19 7·3 x-New Jersey 41-41 31-21 8-2 Philadelphia 35-47 24-28 6-4 New York 33-49 22-30 2-8 Boston 24-58 16-36 2·8 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record conf last 10 
x-Detroit 53-29 36·16 7-3 x-Cieveland 50-32 31-21 7-3 x-Chicago 49-33 36·16 7-3 Indiana 35-47 25·27 4·6 Milwaukee 28-54 15·37 3-7 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record conf last 10 
x-Miami 44-38 27-25 5·5 x-Washington 41·41 27-25 2-8 x-Orlando 40·42 26-26 7-3 Charlotte 33·49 24·28 6·4 Atlanta 30·52 17-35 3-7 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record conf last I o 
x-Utah 51-31 32-20 4-6 x-Denver 45-37 27·25 9·1 Portland 32-50 19-33 3·7 Minnesota 32-50 18·34 2·8 Seatlle 31-51 18-34 1·9 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record conf last 10 
x-Phoenix 61·21 36·16 7-3 x·l.A. Lakers 42-40 28·24 4·6 Golden Stale 42-40 28·24 9·1 L.A. Clippers 40·42 23·29 5~5 Sacramento 33-49 18·34 3·7 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record con}; (CI$t 1:9 ,, 
x-Oallas 67-15 40·12 6·4 '' x-San Antonio 58-24 38·14 6·4 x-Houston 52-30 New Orleans 39·43 Memphis 22·60 
x-cllnched playoff berth 
Women's Tennis 
Fila/ITA Rankings 

team points prev. 
1 Stanford 89 1 
2 NOTRE DAME 86 2 
3 Florida 86 4 
4 Georgia Tech 85 6 
5 Clemson 84 8 
6 usc 83 7 
7 Georgia 83 3 
8 Cal 80 5 
9 Northwestern 78 11 
10 Miami 68 9 
11 North Carolina 64 14 
12 Fresno State 60 12 
13 UCLA 60 10 
14 Florida State 57 17 
15 Baylor 56 20 
16 Vanderbilt 55 16 
17 William and Mary 55 13 
18 Duke 49 21 
19 Wake Forest 48 15 
20 Pepperdine 47 19 
around the dial 
MLS 

New England at Columbus 7 p.m., ESPN2 
Penguins at Senators 10 p.m., Versus 
PGA 


Associated Press 

AVONDALE Bill Murray ate a char-broiled Louisiana oyster as he walked toward the 18th green, then hurled the shell into a water hazard, shout­ing, "Now go and grow oth­ers!" 
He flexed his biceps after his chip up a steep embank­ment landed on the green, then pointed at the sky after a two-putt, his typically goofy antics amusing the gallery at a charity pro-am event preceding the PGA Tour's latest stop at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans. 
It was more than a trivial moment of levity for course officials at the TPC Louisiana, where there wasn't much to laugh about after Hurricane Katrina tore through here 19 months ago. 
This was supposed to be the course that would secure New Orleans' spot on the PGA Tour calendar. Instead, it hosted only one Zurich Classic before Katrina toppled about 2,000 trees along the fair­ways, scattered drain-clog­ging debris and left numer­ous fairways under water. 
The public course was closed for 10 months, forc­ing the PGA to go back to English Turn so a rebuild­ing New Orleans could keep its economically vital tour 
IN BRIEF 

Riley benches Heat super­
stars for season finale 
ORLANDO -Shaquille O'Neal and Dwyane Wade were inactive for the Miami Heat's regular-sea­son finale in Orlando on Wednesday night. 
"We have to be realistic with their health," Heat coach Pat Hiley said. "Other guys need work. We're going to play it out and get ready for this weekend." 
Riley made the decision strictly to avoid getting his two stars hurt before the playoffs open this weekend. When Riley was coach­ing the Los Angeles Lakers in 1983, he lost forward James Worthy to a broken leg in the final week of the season -one of the reasons, he thinks, why those Lakers were unable to defend their title. 
He isn't taking any risks with the two most important players for the defending NBA champion Heat. 
dates in 2006. After about $2 million in repairs, even a few improvements, the pros have returned to the dis­tinctive TPC Louisiana, a Pete Dye-designed course carved out of cypress swamp. 
"Obviously there was some devastation here and there was a lot of money spent to get this golf course up to speed," David Toms, a Louisiana native and 2001 winner in New Orleans, said after a practice round. "It's very important for the whole country not to forget this city." 
A number of players were eager to forget this place after it hosted its first PGA event in the spring of 2005. 
At about 7,600 yards, the course plays long, yet pres­ents an array of steep "pot" bunkers and other fairway obstacles that leave little margin for error on drives. 
"I can remember a couple of drives that I hit that I thought were decent shots ... and getting into spots where all I could do was chip out of the bunker side­ways," Toms recalled of his 2005 appearance here, when he missed the cut. 
At the very least, it's now easier to play a shot out of the woods, which were thinned out by Katrina, and the canopy along the edges of the fairways is less likely to interrupt the flight of the ball. 

Indiana Pacers to see changes 
afte:r disappointint season 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers CEO Donnie Walsh sa)d Wednesday he would meet with players and staff in the coming week regarding the team's direction after the team missed the playoffs for the first time since the 1996-97 season. 
"We are very disappointed with the season that concludes tonight." Walsh said in a statement. He said he and president of basketball operations Larry Bird would meet the rest of the week while attend­ing the NBA Board of Governors meeting and would meet with team owners through the weekend. 
"As time permits, we will also meet with all players and the bas­ketball staff," Walsh said. The meetings should conclude next week, at which time the team will make announcements regarding its future direction, the statement said. 
Ohio State freshman stars to 
coach annual spring game COLUMBUS -Talk about having a lame-duck coach. 
Basketball point guard Mike Conley Jr. will be an honorary head roach in Ohio State's annual intrasquad Scarlet vs. Gray spring football game on Saturday. 
Conley, along with high school dass­mate and friend Greg Oden, led the Buckeyes to a 35-4 record and the national championship game. Now he, Oden and a third freshman, Daequan Cook, are contemplating jumping to the NBA 
Conley said he was looking forward to being in charge of the Scarlet's offense. 
"I play my share of video games," he said Wednesday. "I like to get up and down the field with the passing game. I'll mix in some run plays here and there as well." 
Football coach Jim Tressel said he wasn't trying to hide the fact that he wanted to keep Conley and the other freshmen at Ohio State. 
page 18 The Observer +PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 19, 2007 
Please join Fr. Jenkins 
for a discussion of Pope Benedict XVI's Encyclical ... 


FRIDAY. APRil 27  
....  4:00p.m_  Opening Mass at Alumni Hall Chapel (Fr. Jenkins presiding)  
...  5:15p.m.  Reception in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies  
...  6:15p.m.  Opening remarks from Fr. Jenkins  
...  6:30p.m.  Keynote speech from Ms. Brosnahan followed by panel discussion  

SATURDAY. APRIL 28 
-9:00a.m. Breakfast buffet in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies -9:45a.m. Keynote speech from Fr. Anderson followed by panel discussion -11:00 a.m. Concurrent presentations of student papers (including roundtable discussions with faculty and students) -Noon Lunch in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies -1:00 p.m. Continue with concurrent presentations of student papers 

KEYNOTE SPEAKERS 
-Ms. Mary Brosnahan, director of the Coalition for the Homeless in New York City and a 1983 graduate of Notre Dame The Very Reverend Philip Anderson, O.S.B., Prior of Our Lady of the Annunciation of Clear Creek Monastery 


nd.edu/encyclical 
~UNIVERSITY OF For catering estimates, please email ~islove@ud.edu and indicate your attendance. ~NOTRE DAME 
•" r r· 

.', .v r;b?.1JJ ri'T Thursday, April19, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 


Price and participation may vary. 
$,',; 2007 McDonald's 

•



Sprltlg Broke! 

m. 

i'm Iovin' if~ 
MLB 

Buehrle pitches a no­hitter during Sox win 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO ~ Mark Buehrle pitched the first no-hitter of the season Wednesday night -and he was nearly perfect, too. 
The Chicago White Sox left­bander faced the minimum 27 batters in a 6-0 victory over the Texas Rangers, picking off the only hitter he walked and throwing his team's first no-hit­ter since 1991. 
Working quickly and efficient­ly in a dominant performance, Buehrle allowed only one baserunner. He walked Sammy Sosa with one out in the fifth inning, then promptly picked him off first base. 
"I can't believe I did it," Buehrle said. "Perfect game would have been nice, too." 
With the crowd on its feet in the ninth, Buehrle struck out Matt Kata and Nelson Cruz, then got Gerald Laird to hit a slow grounder to third base that Joe Crede picked up and threw to first. As Paul Konerko caught the ball, he pumped his fist, setting off a wild celebra­tion. 
Buehrle was mobbed by teammates at the side of the mound, including catcher A.J. Pierzynski, and then got a big hug from manager Ozzie Guillen as he came off the field. 
On a chilly 40-degree night, Buehrle threw 105 pitches. His previous low-hit game was a one-bitter against Tampa Bay on Aug. 3, 2001. It was the 16th no-hitter in White Sox history and first since Wilson Alvarez threw one at Baltimore on Aug. 11, 1991. 
"I was part of one in high school," Buehrle said. "To get through a big league lineup three times, I never thought it would happen." 
It was the first no-hitter pitched against the Rangers since June 17, 1995, when Toronto's David Cone threw one in a 4-0 win. 
More than two years passed without a no-hitter in major league baseball before rookie Anibal Sanchez threw one for Florida on Sept. 6, ending the longest stretch without a no-no in big league history. His gem against the Arizona Diamondbacks was the first in the majors since Arizona's Randy Johnson threw a perfect game to beat Atlanta 2-0 on May 18, 2004. 
Buehrle, who retired 20 of the final 22 batters he faced in his previous start against Oakland, had some stellar defensive plays behind him before a crowd of 25,390 at U.S. Cellular Field. 
Three of the closest plays came on grounders. Jerry Hairston hit one to Crede at third in the third inning and was called out at first after a headlong slide. Replays showed Hairston was out, but he was ejected by first base umpire James Hoye for arguing and had to be restrained by first base coach Gary Pettis when he returned to the field. 
Tadahito Iguchi made a diving stop of Hank Blalock's grounder in the hole, got up and threw him out to end the fifth. That came one batter after Sosa spoiled the perfect game bid by drawing the walk,. 

ATRIA SALON2 
Specializing in color 271.8804 
The Original 

"Specializing in Color" 
Salon 

HIGHLIGHTS & CUT... $79.00 
Starting April 24th-May 10th 2007 NO ORDINARY SALON. Atria Salon· 2039 South Bend Ave., South Bend, IN 46637 • t: 574.271.8804 
*CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS APPLY. MUST PRESENT THIS AD 

Storage College Partners 
We Pick Up! We Store! We Deliver! www.storagecollege.com E-Mail us at ndinfo@storagecollege.com Simplified Summer Storage! 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 19, 2007 
NCAA 

Council recotntnends electronic contact ban 
Associated Press passes such recommendations, 
but if it's delayed or rejected, 
INDIANAPOLIS -Coaches coaches would revert to their have spent the last several previous policy of no limits. years upgrading their gadgets "I think student-athletes and learning the new tricks of wanted to see this eliminated recruiting. Now it may be tif11e for their own sanity," said Kate to turn back the clock. Hickey, the management coun­
The NCAA Division I manage­cil's chairwoman whose term is ment council has recommended about to expire. "And to get rid a ban on all electronically of some of these bills." transmitted correspondence, The Student-Athlete Advisory including text messages, Council, which represents col­between coaches and recruits. lege athletes, complained dur­E-mails and faxes would be ing this week's meetings that exempt from the new rule but the number of text messages would be limited by current had become intrusive and cost­NCAA guidelines. ly. 
Unlike restrictions on phone Hickey, an associate athletic calls and in-person visits, there director at Rutgers, expects the are no coach limits on text mes­proposal to pass next week. saging. "I think it all depends on 
The Board of Directors must whether there's communication still pass the legislation, and if between coaches and athletic approved at its April 26 meet­directors and then, ultimately, ing, the ban would take effect the board members over the in August. Typically, the board next week," she said. 

:;,:Sample fares From South Bend to: ~ample fares From Chicago to: 
Atlanta  $182  A Frankfurt  $304  
'iii:·  
~  
Dallas  $182  Amsterdam  $442  

*·New York $453 
T<!rms: All fares are bawd on IOIJil<llrip ttav.l and indudtaStuden!Unimse servict fee of SS. Domestic mes indudt a 7 .S% US transponatiofl ta•. Olher tallel and fffi ¥afY, depending on tile iliner;uy and are not induded. Fares are subjt<t Ini!Yailabili1y and change without notke. Domestk flights must be pur<has<d 8days in advance and require al day min stay induding aSat night required max stayis 30 dayt Fares valid Mon thro"!Jh Thu until Jul31. lnttmatiooal f1igl1ls v.Jiid Moo throuqhWed must be purchased 7days in advance and r~a 4day min stay, induding aSat niqlllwith • max stay of 365 dayt Fares tu Europe"" valid b d<patures from Apr 1dwo!J9h Miy 17. Alia fares,,. •alid fur deparnres from May 6throuqh July 17. Australia mes are v.Jiid for dopartures froiiiApr 28 through Jun19. Bladoot dales and olher rtsllktior5111ay apt)ly.
ec:=• StudentUniverse.com 
On Campus Graduation Weekend Special Mayt9-23, 2001 
Come early, stay late, same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $100.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. For reservations call574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 

Friday, April 20 Noon-2pm 
MEMORABILIA SIGNING Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Due to time restraints, the following guidelines will apply: 
-Signing limited to two (2) items, one (1) of which may be brought from home -Signature only -No photos with Coach during his brief signing time -Signing line will be closed as deemed necessary to allow Coach's departure at 2pm -Presells/ltem Holds are not available for this event 
*1 

HAMMES 
! Events are subject to change. NOTRE DAME· 0 Please call 574-631-6316 to confirm.
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631·6316 • www.ndcotolog.com 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-------· ---------------~ 
Thursday, April 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS 
Arts and Letters Students Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors 

rlliur.tiday, .9lpri[19, 2007 6:()() p ..-m. :Jfa·n-une..~ Student Lounge -c·oMo 
'1Jinner wilibe provided 
page 21 
MLB 



Millar's double secures series win for Orioles 
Associated Press 

ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -Just as they planned, the Baltimore Orioles got Scott Kazmir's pitch count up early, and that played a key role in another comeback victory. 
Erik Bedard won his third straight start, Kevin Millar hit a tiebreaking double and the Orioles beat the Tampa Bay Devil Rays 6-4 on Wednesday. 
Millar's fifth-inning double off reliever Gary Glover (0-1) gave Baltimore a 4-3 lead. Millar then scored to make it 5-3 when Jon Knott, who singled, was tagged out in a rundown between first and second. 
Kazmir. the Devil Rays' No. 1 starter, departed after throwing 102 pitches through four innings. 
"I thought we did a great job of laying off a lot of pitches, and he didn't have his good stuff," Baltimore manager Sam Perlozzo said. "We got his pitch count up there. It was some­thing we looked at. I had an eye on it from the third, fourth inning, hopefully that we could keep getting him up there with pitches and get him out of the ballgame." 
The Orioles won twice -both times coming from behind -in the three-game series. Baltimore is 8-4 since being swept in a season-opening three-game series at Minnesota. 
Bedard (3-1) gave up four runs and seven hits in 5 2-3 innings. He struck out eight and walked three during a 110­pitch outing. 
Chad Bradford got out of the sixth before John Parrish and Danys Baez each pitched a hit­less inning. Chris Ray struck out all three batters in the ninth for his fifth save in six opportu­nities. 
GradSchool 
G1veaway 
Enter for a chance to win th~ to:~:,~u
need to get ready for gra sc . 
Prizes include: • Kaplan GMAT, GRE, MCAT, and LSAT prep programs 
• 
Dell laptops 

• 
Travel vouchers from STA Travel 

• 
And more! 


Visit kaptest.com/giveaway by June 15th to enter! 
I( A pI AN) TEST PREP AND ft+-LI~ ~ADMISSIONS ....... 
Gl.JTRAVEL I 

1-800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com/giveaway '•w•'"'""'.'''m,l 
NO ?IJRCi1.4Sf. t~ff.fS'iA~Y TO f:NTER ml W:N. '' ?l.ifiCHAS~ W!IL NCT it~:Rf'.-\SE YIH? CHAN!:!£. Of V.,NN!1+1 \'-:liD IN Q:.IHJi:f. .•JiO Wlif.Rf MCt<~l:"liTED. TAltfD 0~ QT!-!ffiWif>f. RE:imtCTf.O 0p!':n t1> ~ttl re!l:~:.~ nf :.0'1~ 50 1Jrolt1:'•1 :)Hit~" a;-.~ tho! lJi$t.~r:t vi C<!k.lr:'.M!i,l"'.wtn ~>IX> BM Cllr\M:t t<!»:ludtr« rllf. Pm...:111.:e nf Qu<'l>e;;t 311d !::tu<1!!rtt-:. reslrJtr.g nn i) !':t\li:ll'!rtl, \/tM ~.., th<;S<" o!'l:gohil'> :ur:sct:::ti>XIS ""'n W<' >¥.gh~ti!~m (:t8t yean; ~f l'lgf' or •>lcl.!;r ss Cof me Ml"' <1: •mtry UMIT· C<'.e <·n::y ~oer :X·re<'" ilOd •>m-Jo~: a•:fal(.'.·is. 1\11 ~"Ulef, n:u·l: :X• ~elf. •}l&:trc<'l:::~:~ :ll' po:>str<·U:l.·X! ~ J:..:~ 15. 2007 F{of «X'itl(o"B: c·l:g>::lltt~ mst•-ct~::>~"*' ilncl •>"~¥1•..-.:t~:.ns to <•"tt:t, $t!e ~ <.o>::lplet;;. Qf10;:oo>: R\!~, .rA:Ill~~ d\ 1\(<1:~3"· Ce.'lt¥1'~ o>:ld ..W.-+!......'ID\1~ ~,t~ q> ::lt' U S., Pu-~1.» P.:to. lf"U Ca->at\o>, ctlllflo~ d\ IWUI:~\.(;>.)Ill;".t=,._f, ':.'fly '>C!>th::g o se~~=e~. >\:.liMp<."!! C.'1W:~ tto Kopc~ ~»C.. So::::~ G:~awey, 14«.1 B:~. 8:.1: floor.~"' 'fork. ~" 10018. Tt:'l'!ol' (31wttV>I!!:lS .,.,:1 ue !!: 
fi~~a~:;i~~f2~~ffi~~~fp:::?~~: :.~:;~a~=~:r£~,:~::2~?::~:~r.~~::r.~,:~ 1 


c----------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, Aprill9, 2007 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McCallie next Duke coach 
Associated Press 
Joanne P. McCallie was hired as Duke's women's basketball coach, leaving Michigan State and following the AP national coach of the year at one of the country's premier programs. 
She guided the Spartans to the 2005 national champi­onship game and succeeds Gail Goestenkors, who left for Texas. McCallie informed Michigan State's the year award from The Associated Press. 
"The entire McCallie family is absolutely thrilled about the opportunity to serve at Duke," McCallie said. "This has been a dream job of mine for many years. We cannot wait to meet and get to know a team that we are so very impressed by aca­demically, as well as athletical­ly, and by the way (they) carry 
themselves." 
Goestenkors 
earned the 

players of her "This has been a award after lead­decision ing the Blue
dream job ofmine 
Wednesday and Devils to the first
for many years."
will be introduced 29-0 regular sea-at a news confer­son in school and ence Friday in Joanne McCallie Atlantic Coast Durham, N.C. Conference histo­
Duke coach 
"She elevated the Michigan State program to a new level, and we look forward to her continuing the tremendous tradition we have established at Duke," Duke athletic direc­tor Joe Alleva said. • 
The 41-year-old McCallie leaves the Spartans less than a month after signing a new con­tract that boosted her base salary by about $100,000, and two years after the best season in school history. 
Michigan State won a school­record 33 games in 2005 and capped a memorable season by reaching the national champi­onship game. The run earned McCallie the national coach of ry. Duke finished 
32-2 -an NCAA-

record seventh straight 30-win season. 
She led Duke to five straight ACC tournament champi­onships from 2000-04, 13 con­secutive NCAA tournaments and at least two wins in each appearance in the NCAAs since 1997. 
Duke has reached the nation­al championship game twice, most recently in 2006, and fin­ished this season No. 1 in the final AP poll of the season. Now, the Blue Devils are count­ing on McCallie to help them take the next step -their first national title. 
McCallie -colloquially 
Trent: Tomlinson §awyer Brown Marty §t:uart Earl Thomas l:onley Danielle Peck §t:eveAzar Bomshel Cowboy Troy §t:eve~OI!J Carolina Ram Flynnville Train .Jamie Buckley 
known as "Coach P" because of her maiden name, Palombo ­has a career record of 316-148 in 15 seasons at Michigan State and Maine. She leaves Michigan State after going 149­75 in seven seasons there, and reaching the past five NCAA tournaments. The Spartans' season came to an abrupt end with a 70-57 loss to Rutgers in the seeond round. 
"We deeply appreeiate the time, energy and effort that Joanne put into building a Big Ten eontender and for plaeing MSU women's basketball on the national map," Michigan State athletie direetor Hon Mason said. "She has built a solid foundation for the pro­gram." 
After being rumored as a eandidate for several high-pro­file jobs, McCallie signed a five­year contraet worth $500,000 a year plus a possible $143,000 in incentives on March 24 ­eoineidentally, the same day Duke's season ended with a last-seeond loss to those same Scarlet Knights in the regional semifinals. · 
Shortly after that, Texas offered the job to Goestenkors and she deliberated for about a week before accepting it this month, ending her 15-year run with the Blue Devils. California's Joanne Boyle, a former Duke player, turned down the job last week and agreed to a seven-year con­tract with the Golden Bears. 
McCallie becomes the second straight Duke coach with ties to the state of Michigan. Goestenkors is a Waterford, Mich., native who played at Saginaw Valley State. 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles svveep Tri-State in singles play for vvin 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's was able to maintain their seeond plaee standing in the MIAA after they defeated Tri-State 8-1 Wednesday on the road. 
The Belles (9-11, 5-2 MIAA} are currently tied for second place with Hope, behind Kalamazoo who is ranked twelfth in the region. 
The Belles dominated in sin­gles play, shutting out the Thunder in straight sets in every mateh. In the first sin­gles spot, McDavitt beat Thunder senior Holly Kimball 6-2. 6-1. 
Standout Belles freshman Camille Gebert had similar luck when she dominated Thunder junior Amanda Steiner in two straight sets 6­
2. At No. 3 singles, Belles freshman Lisa Rubino defeat­ed Thunder sophomore Amanda Waidely 6-2, 6-1. 
Belles coaeh Dee Stevenson was proud of how his team battled through less than favorable conditions. 
"It was very eold, and that did not make the best for playing eonditions," he said. "But so'me how or another we managed to pull through and get the win." 
Belles senior Tara O'Brien beat Thunder senior Stephanie Waidely 6-1, 6-4 to garner the victory at the No. 4 singles position. In the fifth singles spot, Belles junior Cassie Quaglia won the first set against Thunder sopho-


CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 
more Amber Crosby with ease 6-4, but the seeond set had to be pushed to a tiebreaker, where she eventually won 7-6 (7-5.) 
In the final singles mateh of the day, senior Graee Gordon dominated, first shutting out freshman Kathleen Klein 6-0, and then only allowing her one point before winning the seeond set 6-1. 
In doubles play, the number­one Belles duo of McDavitt and Gebert battled to a nar­row defeat of the Thunder's Kimball and Amanda Waidely 8-6. The Belles only loss of the day eame at the second dou­bles spot where Belles fresh­man Caitlin O'Brien and Gordon were defeated 8-3 by Thunder players Crosby and Stephanie Waidely. In the final doubles mateh of the day, the freshman duo of Rubino and Kaplan defeated Steiner and Klein 8-3. 
Saint Mary's will round out its long week of travel today when it heads to Bethel College to faee the Pilots. Though it is a non-conference match, the Belles will hope to defeat the Pilots and better tl].eir skills in order to get ready for their next confer­ence mateh against Albion Saturday. 
The last time the Belles faced the Pilots was last sea­son, when Bethel narrowly defeated Saint Mary's 5-4. 
The mateh will begin tomor­row at 4 p.m. in Mishawaka. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@.nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

Thursday, April 19, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
lanned 
ancy? 
one you love needs help please call. 
Lo•itjjde;nti,aJ support and assistance ac~ilable at Notre Dame: 
• Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF, Student Affairs, 1-7 407 Sue Dunn, OP, Student Affairs, 1-7819 Catnpus Ministry, 1-7163 Campus Ministry, 1-7163 
Steibe-Pasaliclt, Counseling Center, 1-7336 Health Services, 1-8286 
Community Resources: 
GAME TONIGHT 
VS CEDAR RAPIDS GAME TIME-6:30 PM GATES OPEN-5:30PM 
College Night at the Cove 
Get $2 offa $5 reserved seats with Student I.D. Join the Facebook Group "Thursdays at The Cove" and find out details on how to get a free ticket. 
For more information call 235-9988 or visit www.silverhawks.com 
ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
No. 6 Irish drop match in Nashville 
PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer 
Sophomore Shannon Burke charges down the field in Notre Dame's 15-7 win at home over Duquesne April 1. 
Irish fall 13-9 on road to No. 14 Vanderbilt, Commodores' seniors 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Vanderbilt's seniors played an inspired final home game Wednesday, defeating No. 6 Notre Dame 13-9 in Nashville, Tenn. 
In a game that was close throughout, the Commodores and Irish were wrapped up in a 9-9 tie with just 15 minutes remaining. Vanderbilt scored the final four goals in the last few minutes to take the victory. 
The No. 14 Commodores, who honored their five gradu­ating seniors before the con­test, picked up their second vic­tory over a top-1 0 opponent with the win over the Irish. Vanderbilt also defeated then­No. 6 Penn State on the road in March. 
The Commodores (10-4) held the advantage over the Irish (11-4) from the start, taking a 4-1 lead early in the game. Notre Dame was unfazed how­ever, and came back to tie the game at five apiece late in the first half. A goal by Anastasia Adam gave Vanderbilt a 6-5 lead heading into halftime. 
Both teams traded goals early in the second half and the lead swayed in both directions. Sophomore Jillian Byers' third goal of the afternoon tied the game at nine before Vanderbilt's run to close out the game. 
Four of the Commodores' five graduating seniors scored on the game, and the exception, defender Molly Frew, helped the Vanderbilt back line hold the Irish to 16 shots. 
Senior Kendall Thrift, the Commodore's all-time assist leader, tallied four points on the game with two goals and two assists. Fellow seniors Jennifer Tapscott, Nicole Pugno, and Ali Lemons each recorded at least two points each. 
The Irish were led offensively by Byers, who netted three goals to go along with an assist. Sophomore Jane Stoeckert also contributed three goals and senior Lena Zentgraf had a goal and two assists in the loss. 
Vanderbilt out-shot the Irish 34-16, and Notre Dame goal­keeper Erin Goodman recorded 12 saves. Commodores goalie Brooke Shinaberry had five saves. 
Two Notre Dame records were set in the game. With her three goals, Byers reached 50 goals on the season for the sec­ond time in her career -a first in Irish history. In addition, junior Caitlin McKinney set a record when she extended her point-streak to 37 straight games. 
Notre Dame will look to rebound Saturday at home when the Irish face No. 18 Rutgers in the last match of the regular season. The Irish, cur­rently tied with Georgetown and Syracuse for first place in the Big East, can potentially win the Big East regular season championship and the No. 1 seed in the inaugural Big East Tournament with a victory. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, Aprill9, 2007 
NO SOFTBALL 
Bargar, Fuemmeler guide Irish to no-hitter 
Irish aces lead team to no-hitterfrom mound, offense pushes in win 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
The story of the afternoon was the corroboration between Notre Dame's two aces, sophomore Brittney Bargar and senior Kenya Fuemmeler, for a no-hitter against Ball State in a 3-0 winWednesday. 
The blanking improved Bargar's record to 15-7 on the season, and marked the 3 3rd no-hit showing for Notre Dame in school history. The last no-hit game was delivered by former pitcher Heather Booth over Rutgers last April. 
The exciting non-confer­ence win improved the Irish to a 23-14 overall record and 
was their third win in a row. while Ball State dropped to 15-26 on the season. 
Bargar's only blemishes were two walks through six innings pitched, while she struck out seven. To seal the victory and earn a save, Fuemmeler struck one batter out in the last inning to make history for both pitchers. They now have each taken part in two no-hitters in their careers. 
The Irish bats also would take some credit for the win. 
Senior Stephanie Brown added two more runs in the game for a season total of 
33. She also went two-for­three and had the first hit of the game, which took place in the opening frame. 
After a pair of sacrifices, including a bunt and a fly out, Brown scored the first run of the game on a throw­ing error by Ball State. Although the Irish would not need another run, they added 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles look to regain tnotnentutn at Goshen 
By REBECCA SLINGER 
Sports Writer 
When Saint Mary's faces Goshen College this after­noon, the Belles will look to regain their dominance from earlier this season, when they went 9-1 during a spring break trip to Fort Myers, Fla. 
The numbers haven't been looking good for Saint Mary's lately after three straight losses -two of those by just one point. But the team hopes to reverse that trend against Goshen (5-16). which strug­gled against the Belles (14-6) last year. 
First-year head coach Linda Bontrager took Goshen to a 2-28 record in 2006. The Belles swept the Leafs last year 9-1 and 6-1. 
The Leafs are still strug­gling to find a way to win in the 2007 sea­son. With six freshmen and only one sen­
ior, the team "We really want to win Davison is is young. And and we're not taking behind 
while Goshen Amram with a
any team lightly . .. ,
has some 3.57 ERA. and experience in the Belles are the bullpen, Maureen Healy 9-2 in it has been 
Belles second baseman Davison's 
The Belles are facing some of their own struggles with a 1-5 MIAA conference record. 
"We're taking it one game at a time and we're going to use our games today in preparation ... [and see] what we need to change for our next conference games," jun­ior captain McKenna Corrigan said. "We're not even halfway done with con­ference play, so there's still a lot of ball to play." 
To take on the Leafs, the Belles will use their combina­tion of power hitting· and accurate pitching. Freshman Ashley Peterson, sophomore Kristin Amram and senior Sarah Miesle lead the Belles with batting averages of .433, .429 and .391, respectively. 
Amram has been a domi­nant force not only at the plate but also on the mound. The sophomore has pitched consistently to a 1.22 ERA. Sophomore pitcher Calli 
little help. 
When the Leafs turned to sophomore Haly Williamson and junior Tera Brackman against Spring Arbor University on April 10, the two allowed 13 hits and 12 runs in the 12-4 loss. 
However, the Belles aren't counting the Leafs as a "w" on their schedule just yet. 
"We really want to win and we're not taking any team lightly because we haven't been playing as consistently as we thought we would," freshman second baseman Maureen Healy said. "We're not taking any team for granted." 
starts. 
Healy said 
beating 

Goshen can help the team get hack on track. 
"Right now it doesn't matter what a team's record is. A win is a win," she said. "We know we can beat any team we've faced so far. . .. We just have to be consistent in win­ning games. [Beating] Goshen would be a confidence boost­er but it wouldn't be anything that would shock us." 
Saint Mary's takes on Goshen College in Goshen, Ind. at 3:30 p.m. today. 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
two more in the third frame. 
Junior Brittany Glynn start­ed the third with a single and then moved to second on a bunt single from Brown to the shortstop. After a sacri­fice bunt and a throwing error, Glynn crossed the plate and Brown advaneed to third. Freshman Christine Lux then drove the senior home with an RBI off a field­er's choice. 
Nutre Dame threatened again in the fifth with back­to-hack hits, but no runs were seored when Ball State was able to thwart the rally. 
Ball State had a walk in the sixth inning, but that was all the stingy Irish pitching allowed for the rest of the game. 
Notre Dame's next game is today against Valparaiso in a make-up eontest at Ivy Field at 5 pm. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at 
lreyes@nd.edu 
2 

ONLY 

• 
Italian 

• 
Steak & Cheese 

• 
Ham & Cheese 

• 
Chicken Club 

• 
Veggie 

• 
Pizza Melt 



Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery area; & charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 
SERVING NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SUMMER SESSION JUNE 18-AUGUST 3, 2007 
Course schedule information is available online at nd.edu/-sumsess or in the Summer Session Bulletin (available at the Summer Session Office, 111 Earth Sciences Building). Some courses-primarily in sciences and languages-will begin and end before or after the dates indicated above. 
Notre Dame continuing students who are eligible to return In the fall must use Web Registration to register for summer courses or to make schedule changes. The Web Registration PIN (personal identification number) for summer is available on insideNO for all continuing students. Instructions for course registration are available at registrar.nd.edu. Course reference numbers (CRNs) are published in the Bulletin and at the Summer Session website. 
Summer Web registration will be available from Wednesday, March 21, through the add and drop dates specific to each course. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; no appointment times are necessary. 
Air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for meal plans may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. Students may apply for summer housing online at orlli.nd.edu. 
Tuition for the summer session of 2007 will be $688 per credit hour for undergraduate students and $331 per credit hour for graduate students, plus a$50 general fee. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Anthropology 
Architecture 
Art 
Biology 
Business 
Chemistry 
Chinese 
Classical Languages 
Computer Applications 
Economics 
Engineering 
English 
Film 
French 
German 
History 
Irish Studies 
Italian 
Mathematics 
Music 
Philosophy 
Physics 
Political Science 
Psychology 
Sociology 
Spanish 
Theatre 
Theology 
. -. .-.. -....
"'} ·, ~. 

Thursday, April 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Purdue 
continued from page 28 
like that," Irish fifth-year catcher Matt Weglarz said. 
Elam finished with nine strikeouts and allowed just one hit in his nine full innings of work, while low­ering his ERA to 3.75. 
Elam and Bischoff ended up with no-decisions, as both left with the game scoreless after nine. For the Boilermakers, freshman southpaw Matt Jansen came in to work the 1Oth and retired the first two batters. 
But Weglarz hit a double over third base, then went to third on a wild pitch. Irish senior first baseman Mike Dury then walked to bring up centerfielder Danny Dressman. Dressman lined a single that dropped in front of Purdue leftfielder Spencer Ingaldson to drive in the game's lone run with only the fourth hit of the contest. 
"I got a fastball, and I was just trying to get on top of it," Dressman said. "I was able to hit it hard." 
The Boilermakers did threaten several times, but Elam was able to get out of each jam. He walked a pair of batters in the first before inducing a grounder to Irish shortstop Brett Lilley to end the inning. He also surren­dered a walk before picking off the runner in the fourth. 
Elam ran into trouble again when he walked Ingaldson to lead off the sixth. Ingaldson moved to second on a wild pitch then reached third on a sacrifice bunt by Boilermakers right fielder Alex Jaffee. With one out, the Irish pulled the infield in and Elam got Boilermakers designated hitter Ryan White to ground to Barnes, who held the run­ner at third before recording the out. 
"[Elam] had a very live fastball and pitched out of a couple of big jams," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. 
The next batter, first base­man, Jeff Mojzik, walked before he stole second. With men on second and third, Purdue third baseman Dan Black drilled a line drive up the middle that appeared to be headed into centerfield for a two-run single. But Lilley dived to knock the liner down and fired to first to nab Black by a half-step. 
But the Irish were unable to gain any momentum from Lilley's play. In their half of the sixth, all three Irish bat­ters struck out looking. 
After Elam retired the side in order the next inning, the scoreboard still displayed all zeroes as the Irish came to bat and looked to end Bischoff's bid for a perfect game. 
With one out in the bottom of the seventh, Irish third baseman A.J. Pollock hit a hard grounder between first 
and second base. But Bischoff got his 19th straight out on a diving stab by the first baseman Mojzik, who flipped to the pitcher to retire Pollock at first. Bischoff, who was scheduled to work only three innings, then got Irish leftfielder Ross Brezovsky to fly out to left to end the inning. 
In the eighth, Bischoff again got a boost from his defense. With one out in the Irish half of the inning, Dury lined a full-count pitch from Bischoff into the left-center­field gap that hung up just long enough for centerfield­er Jon Moore to run it down. Bischoff pointed out at his teammate in a gesture of gratitude before retiring Irish centerfielder Danny Dressman to end the inning. 
Elam responded by retir­ing Purdue in order in the ninth. After striking out Boilermakers shortstop John Cummins for the third out with his 122nd pitch of the contest, Elam pumped his fist as he ran off the mound. 
"I felt like it was our time right there," Elam said. "We didn't do it in the ninth, but we were able to get it done in the tenth and that's all that matters." 
Irish junior right-hander Tony Langford did not give up a hit as he worked the lOth to get the win. He is now 2-0 on the season. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer 
Bookstore 
continued from page 28 
more. The tough defense by Dan Myers combined with the team's stellar offensive ball movement from Ala Rack Bar led to the final score of 21-2. 
The Dead James Browns seemed to have high expec­tations for this game. 
"It was disappointing because this is a sport we die for," The Dead James Brown player John Siegel said. "We went into this game with a two-game, no-points-allowed winning streak -one was a bye and one was a forfeit. We had high expectations for this game, but we just didn't turn on our hibachi." 
M u n n in g hoff had some final words on the team's plan for its next game. 
"If you beat the Georgia bulldog, you're gonna feel that bulldog might," he said. 
Hide the Women and Children 21, Team 327 4 
The off-campus team for­merly from Knott, Hide the Women and Children, had a simple strategy that allowed it to dominate Team 327 in a 21-4 victory Wednesday. 
"Our plan is easy," Hide the Women and Children's Jack Arkins said. "Score more points and allow less." 
Team 327, however, entered the game with a more complex plan. 
"We're going to drive it down the lane and use a zone defense," Team 327 player Brett Thomas said. "Oh, yeah, and lots of dunks." 
From the first play of the game, fast breaks from Arkins put his team into the lead. Kyle Meade's outside jump shots combined with Eamonn Bahnson's top of the key baskets to push Hide the Women and Children into the early lead. By halftime, Hide the Women and Children's superior defense allowed Team 327 just one basket, bringing the score to 11-1 . 
Team 327 decided to change its tactics in the sec­ond half, switching from zone to man-to-man defense. While the change in strategy allowed 327 to gain a few more points, it was still unable to stop Matt Levering, 
who dominated the lane for 
Hide  the  Women  and  
Children.  
Hide  the  Women  and  
Children also  had  a  com­ 

manding defense led by Meade and Doug Mahoney, who intercepted the ball and gained several points off fast breaks. 
"Our legs were really fresh after that long weekend," Mahoney said. "We had some raw defense." 
Hide the Women and Children hopes to continue its winning streak into the next round and deep into the tournament, all while using the same simple strategy ­. score more points and allow less. 
Smush Parker: The Prequel 
21, Wabruda's Freedom 
Fighters 15 
This intense match-up of two highly skilled teams was framed by a large and enthu­siastic crowd of dedicated fans that created an intense atmosphere. 
Once the game began, it took awhile for players on both teams to acclimate to playing on a slippery court with a wet ball. Many play­ers missed passes and slid out of bounds as a steady rain fell. 
"It looks like they're play­ing on ice," Smush Parker fan Bobby Polish said. 
Smush Parker made the initial point before the momentum of the game shift­ed back and forth. The Wabruda team put on an impressive show with their "in-your-face" style of defense. Floyd Rose, of the Wabruda team, was an espe­cially strong presence on the court. 
In the end, Smush Parker used their height to prevail over the Freedom Fighters. Much of Smush Parker's suc­cess late in the game could be attributed to the play of Ryan Winiarski and to Mike Wakim. 
After the heartbreaking loss, Wabruda team member William David William kept a positive outlook. 
"We're freedom fighters," he said. "Tonight we were fighting for injustice through athletics. We're going to con­tinue fighting politically." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at 
emichala@nd.edu and Danielle 
Keller at dkeller@nd.edu 
Sophomore left-hander Sam Elam delivers a pitch during Notre Dame's 1-0 10-inning win over Purdue Wednesday. Elam held the Boilermakers scoreless until he left after the ninth. 
SOFTBALL BASEBALL
SATURDAY, APRIL 21 @12:00PM 
FRIDAY-SUNDAY VS. W. VIRGINIAVS. LOUISVILLE (2) 
6:05PM-3:05PM -1:05PM
SUNDAY, APRIL 22@ 12:00PM VS. SOUTH FLORIDA (2) 
THIS WEEK's GAMES BROUGHT TO vou Bv: 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 19, 2007 

Brown 
continued from page 28 

Zbikowski, who will enter his fourth year starting next fall, has already been named a captain for the 2007 season. 
"He's earned and deserved at this point to be kind of con­sidered the leader back there," secondary coach Bill Lewis said. 
At the other safety spot, vacated by the graduation of Chinedum Ndukwe, things are much less clear. Rising juniors Bruton, Ray Herring and Kyle McCarthy and rising sopho­
mores  Sergio  Brown  and  
Jashaad Gaines are  all  con­ 
tending for the spot.  

Lewis said most of those five have been working out at both safety positions, in order to maximize flexibility in the defensive backfield. 
"We're kind of rolling guys to both sides because what we eventually want is the eleven best guys on the field," he said. 
Bruton said the competition has benefited everyone involved. 
"It's helping us as individu­als," he said. "We're trying to get on the field and trying to get better. It's friendly between all of us, but it's busi­ness on the field. May the best man win." 
Lewis said that competition may continue well into next season, once he and Brown see who responds in a game situation. But in order to make the best decision, hR said, the coaching staff is try­ing to create as many game­like situations as possible in practice. 
"The one thing about the NFL is you have four presea­son games that are truly prac­tice games to get better," he said. "We don't enjoy that lux­ury." 
At corner, Lambert returns after starting most of last sea­son. He made 40 tackles and was second on the team with three interceptions, including two against Michigan State, one of which he ran back for the winning touchdown. 
Opposite him will most likely be Wooden, who appeared in nine games and made 21 tack­les during his injury-plagued 2006 campaign. In 2005, Wooden was the full-time starter and was third on the team in tackles with 74. He also had two interceptions. 
When the Irish go to five and six defensive backs. Brown and Lewis expect to send out some combination of cornerbacks rising senior Leo Ferrine, rising sophomores Darrin Walls and Raeshon McNeil and early-entry fresh­man Gary Gray, if he recovers enough from the injury he sustained earlier this spring. · 
But the coaches aren't rul­ing out using a safety at nickel or dime back. · 
"Usually it's a corner," Lewis said. "But if the next best guy is a safety, I want the next best guy to be on nickel." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
and get out­doors so that's 

"No one is going to
good too." When the just hand it to us ... Irish play 
they're really going 
their second 

to make us play. " 
round match Friday at the University of Jay Louderback 
South Florida, 

Irish coach
they will face either Seton 

Irish as they prepare for another diffi­cult test Friday. At this point, Louderback said the most important thing his team can do is get plenty of repetitions outdoors, played quite a few singles and doubles points [Tuesday] just to get good outdoors. We'll probably do quite a bit of playing the next few days." 
When asked what it would be like to win the Big East championship for the third consecutive year, Louderback was hesitant to look too far into the future. 
"It would be nice, Louderback said. "I think it's going to be tough because there are some good teams for our first match, and then if we win that, it could be Marquette or West Virginia. We just played Marquette but three of their kids were out of the lineup, and if they're back in the lineup, they're dangerous. 
"No one is going to just hand it to us and say, 'You win it' -they're really going to make us play." 
Contact Dan Maloofat dmaloof@nd.edu 
Big East 
continued from page 28 

of rest and practice the team can get will be beneficial. 
"That's really good," Louderback said of the bye. "Getting that bye also gives us an extra day to practice good idea of what to expect. 
"I haven't really had a chance to look at them yet," Louderback said. "We just found out the draw yester­day, and I'll get a chance to see them play I todayI. but we really haven't seen much of them at all this season. We'll know better Itoday1." 
Practice will be key for the 
Hall or Connecticut, depend­ing on who wins today's matchup. 
Louderback has not been able to see much of either team so far this season, but after he watches today's match, he hopes to have a 
where the championship matches will be played. 
"Our big thing now for the next three or four days is to be able to get outside," Louderback said. "fTuesdayl was beautiful and we had a chance to hit outside. We 

Irish freshman Cosmina Ciobanu returns a volley during Notre Dame's 5-2 win over North Carolina Feb. 16. Ciobanu has remained undefeated in singles play throughout the season. 

~------~-~-------­
Thursday, April19, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

LIAMMORAN
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27" Madness" 58 Clear 
1 Game standout, (1966 Sean 59 Educational briefly Connery inits. in Tulsa, comedy) Okla.4 Jr.'s place 
29 Question, part 2 60 Sailor's 7 "Steve Canyon" 
34 Swamp critter protector
cartoonist Milton 

35 Not for 61 Opinion 13 Rhine tributary 
36 Question, part 3 62 60's hot spot 14 Cadiz 
43 worse than kinswoman 
death DOWN 15 Country of 44 Linemen near 1 Frenchman with Saroyan's centers: Abbr. a famous line heritage 
45 Ins, plan 2 Make 16 Beef producers superficially
46 Cry heard by attractive
18 No place for an Cratchit epicure 47 ~Robles, 
3 Please, old-style Calif 4 It's associated
19 Start of a with some
question about 49 Sounds that magnets and
an old proverb may be heard magnates
before bangs?

21 Zero, to Nero 5 Mag. publisher's51 End of the
22 They're over concern
questionspecialists: Abbr. 

6 Is too good to
55 Apple computer23 Filing facilitator be true
co-founder 7 Work groups
25 Carbohydrate 56 Queen in "The suffix aAsian nurse
Lion in Winter'' 26 1990's Ontario 57 King Minos' 9 Sight on premier Bob people Hawaiian lava flows 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
10 It keeps things going 
~....,...,!:-! 11 Nasty stinger 
15 Early victim ~=+:......,,.,...,.+=-! 17 Symbol of electric flux .-.~,......,:+.:~ 20 Engineering detail 24 Frontier 
gathering 26 Scream 27 Riesling 
alternative, familiarly 
WILLSHORTZ 
~;.;.+.=+;~:-! 12 Actress Spain of "God's Little Acre" 

28 Move quickly  38 Classic Milton  49 Far from posh  
and lightly  Bradley game  50 Actress  
30 Robert Louis  39 "As Time Goes  Vardalos  
Stevenson, e.g. 31 So  By" requester, in film  52 Not domestic: Abbr.  
32 Katzenjammers  40 Hair bun  53 Novelist  
33 Tattooist's stock  41 Antiquejar  O'Fiaherty  
36 Touch  42 Quack remedy  54 Lamb by  
37 In some  47 Dallas suburb  another name  
respects  48 Quizzes  55 Loos  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

-
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
[~f~fi () tHEWEZE I 
YOU MIGHT 5E=E=
IJ I 
THIS IN A
www.jumble.com 
C.L.A55ROOM.
tMANOSHj 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I J r I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: A"[ I I I)" oF[ I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: WHEEL NIECE ELEVEN SHOULD Answer: What the wildcatters got when they hit a gusher -WELL "OILED" 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Melissa Joan Hart, 30; Maria Bello, 39;  
Conan O'Brien, 43; James Woods, 59  ~  
Happy Birthday: Don't stop or give up just when you are about to make headway. Changes made this year will put you in a much more powerful position as tlie year comes to a close. Your numbers are 2, 13, 28, 31, 32, 40  
ARIES (March 21-April19): You need change in your life so that you can start working toward your future, making it beneficial for you and your loved ones, The  
more you do today, the greater your efforts will prove to become in the future. 5  
stars  - 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Don't give up so easily. A chance to make a financial move is apparent and should be put into play immediately. 3 stars  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A partnership may need a little extra work today. Don't be too quick to judge. Take a unique approach to issues that arise and you will entice others to see things your way. 3 stars  
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do whatever you have to do to avoid controversy, Bend a little today ifyou want to keep the peace, 3 stars  
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be in command, knowing exactly how to make things go your way. Plan to have some fun with friends or a lover. 5 stars  
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't expect to get any help and you will be that much further ahead. Be careful how you handle delicate situations involving partnerships. 2 stars  
'  
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't get emotional about situations that arise. Instead, take a practical position and make your point known. 2 stars  
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should be concentrating on your future. Ifyou aren't happy with your current position, it may be time to move on, 4 stars  
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let the little things get to you, Your energetic drive should be spent on projects you know will bring you the most satisfaction. 3 stars  .;;;.  
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keeping secrets may cause as much trouble for you as divulging what you know, Weigh the pros and cons before you make a decision, 3 stars  
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't be afraid to ask for what you need and want Giving back what you can in your own way will raise your profile and impress the people who count 4 stars  
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Things could go either way today, making it vital that you keep a watchful eye on everyone and everything. Someone may be trying to make you look bad, 2 stars  
Birthday Baby: You are intense, to the point and disciplined, You set your goals  
and follow through, no matter what You are willing to do what you can for those in need but anger quickly when someone takes advantage.  
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialastcom for confidential consultations  




THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, April 19, 2007 
page 28 
-
FOOTBALL 
Brown, secondary determined to bury past ghosts 
Safeties, cornerbacks one of most experienced units on young Irish roster, must adjust to 3-4 defensive scheme 
sive coordinator Corwin And if the band plays too Terrail Lambert and fifth-year apart, according Brown, is his 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Brown is determined to put many times, somebody's com­Tom Zbikowski -and another fiery demeanor, something the 
Sports Editor 
those painful memories in the ing off the iield." player, fifth-year Ambrose coach would like to see more 
,.. 
distant past with a secondary And players like rising jun­Wooden, who started in 2005 of in the other defensive 
It's a scene that is burned that is one of the most experi­ior safety David Bruton are until an injury in the Michigan backs. into the memories of Notre enced units on the 2007 Irish excited about Brown's new game slowed him for most of "You have to play smart, you Dame players, coaches and roster. scheme and his no-tolerance 2006. have to play error-free, and fans alike: quarterbacks like "Everyone needs to play a approach to failure. Zbikowski, who is also Notre you have to play with passion Michigan's Chad Henne, USC's little better back there, espe­"It's a lot more laidback this Dame's punt returner, has six and intensity," he said. "And John David Booty and LSU's cially at [safety]." Brown, a year," Bruton said. "There's career interceptions and has across the board, everyone JaMarcus Russell completing former secondary coach with not a lot of thinking. I have a scored touchdowns three dif­back there has to do that long passes time and time the New York Jets, said in an chance to make a play." ferent ways -punt returns, [morel with the exception of again against the Irish second­interview April 4. "If you Notre Dame returns two interception returns and fum­Zibby." ary. make a mistake at safety, the starters at defensive back -ble returns. 
But new Notre Dame defen-band's going to be pJaying. rising senior cornerback But what really sets him see BROWN/page 26 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Eastern domination 
No. 2 Irish head to Florida as No. 1 seed in Big East tournament 
-
By DAN MALOOF 
Sporrs Writer 
After another remarkable regular season, the Irish will take their 23-2 record into the Big East tournament today as a No. 1 seed for the 11th time in the team's 12 years in the con­ference. 
In addition, Notre Dame has reached the finals of the tour­nament all 11 years and won the championship seven times, including the last two years. Historically, the Irish have won 38 of 40 matches against cur­rent Big East opponents. 
Although the team is getting used to being the No. 1 seed in the tournament, it is still very honored by the distinction, Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback said. 
"We had been [the No. 1 seed] for a few years so I think our kids are used to it," 
,.-
Louderback said. "It just reflects what a good season we've had and how well we've played this year.:· 
On Friday, the Irish rebound­ed nicely from an upset defeat to Northwestern by soundly beating DePaul and Marquette. The loss to Northwestern was the team's first in 17 matches. 
Regarding health issues, Louderback said that aside from a few small lingering injuries, the team should pretty much be at full strength. 
"We'll be all right," Louderback said. "[.Junior! Brook Buck is probably going to play some doubles this week, and we're just going to wait and see. She went through full practice today and was a little sore but not too bad, and then we _have just a few other nicks, but I think we should have all of our players." 
The Irish have three days ofT before the tournament begins and also have a bye in the first round, which gives them one more day between matches. Louderback said any extra day 
see BIG EAST/page 26 


Senior Catrina Thompson returns a volley in doubles play against Wake Forest Feb. 18. The top-seeded Irish have a bye in the first round of the Big East tournament, which begins today. 
BASEBALL 
Elam takes pitchers' duel 
By FRAN TOLAN Sporrs Writer 
The term "pitcher's duel" would be an understatement when describing Notre Dame's 1-0, 10-inning victory over Purdue at Frank Eck Stadium Wednesday. 
Notre Dame sophomore left-bander Sam Elam held the Boilermakers hitless for 7 2-3 innings while Purdue starter Matt Bischoff retired Notre Dame in order through eight. 
"I've caught a couple no­hitters in my life, but I've never seen two no-hitters 
see PURDUE/page 25 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXVI 
Simple strategy guides 
Ala Rack Bar to win 
By ELLYN MICHALAK and 
DANIELLE KELLER 
Sports Writers 
With determination and hard work, Ala Rack Bar dominated the Dead James Browns 21-2 in a fast-paced match Wednesday. 
Prior to the game, Ala Rack Bar captain Mark Munninghoff offered up the team's strategy. 
"We're going to try to get up and down the court, play good 'D,' and get out of here quickly," Munninghoff said. 
With numerous fast breaks by Munninghoff, and outside shots by Dan Bertao, Ala Hack Bar was able to hold The Dead James Browns to only one point in the first half. Chris Wodicka was the only Dead James Brown player to score in the first half. His outside jump shot left the halftime score at 11­1. 
Ala Rack Bar continued to dominate in the second half, allowing the Dead James Browns to score only once 
see BOOKSTORE/page 25 









