
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Jenkins returning to classroom for Lenten course 
Cunningham to join University President for five-time, one-credit Sunday afternoon theology class 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
News Editor 

On the first Sunday of Lent, University President Father John Jenkins will step back into the classroom to co­teach the newly-offered one­credit theology course "Know Your Catholic Faith: God is Love." 
"It will be on Sunday after­noon and I'm teaching it with [theology professor] Larry Cunningham," Jenkins said Wednesday. 
Composed of "around 35 
students," the course was open to individuals of all lev­els in the University, from undergraduates to law stu­dents to 
S a i n t Mary's stu­dents. Students were able to register at the end of last semester 

and early Jenkins this semes­ter, Jenkins said. 
The course gains its name 
from Pope Benedict XVI's first encyclical "God is Love," which is the focus of the five Sunday sessions. 
"It's simply a kind of look at encyclical, at the themes and issues that it raises," Jenkins said. "It's a chance to under­stand the encyclical." 
The course will meet from 6 to 7 p.m. in the Coleman­Morse Center and will then participate in Sunday Vespers together in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, according to the InsideND course descrip­tion. 
Though there are just five classes, Jenkins said that he may have to "miss a class or two" because of travel engagements. 
A short reflection paper each week and attendance at all five sessions is required to earn the course credit. The Office of the President is also holding an essay competition and a student conference about the same encyclical this spring. 
As for future plans, Jenkins said he will "certainly be teaching more classes," but it is just a question of finding time in his busy schedule. 
"It will be a juggling of the various demands of my time ... to find a way to teach," he said. 
Jenkins will be making another effort to carve out time from his busy schedule this semester by offering open office hours to "any undergraduate or graduate student who is interested," said Frances Shavers, the executive assistant to the president. 
"One of the great joys of when he was teaching was 
see COURSE/page 4 


Record numbers to flock to ND Career Fair 
Employers, recruiters plan to attract career-seeking students 
By EVA BINDA 
News Writer 
Many seniors believe they have a chance to squelch pre-graduation jitters today by attending the Winter Career Fair. 
Representatives from over 100 employers representing more than 18 industries will flood the Joyce Center from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. intending to recruit Notre Dame students. 
Career Center Associate Director Anita Rees said the fair, which she organized, is "one of the largest and most diverse career events in the history of Notre Dame." 
The Career Fair will be preceded by a Diversity Reception from noon to 2 p.m. in the Monogram Room of the Joyce Center -an event intended to allow students to introduce themselves to employers. 
"The Diversity Reception provides an oppor­tunity to more casually talk to employers and make an initial connection with the employer when they see them at the fair," said Latonia Ferguson, Career Center counselor and 
see FAIR/page 6 


Underclassmen look for summer alternatives, pre-professional work 
By EVA BINDA 
News Writer 

Instead of relaxing on the beach this summer, many Notre Dame students will suit up to work in corporate offices as interns, testing out careers and establishing contacts in the busi­ness world before they graduate. Today's Winter Career Fair will open the door to many students to network with potential employers and explore internship possibilities. 
Career Center counselor Latonia Ferguson, the organizer of the Diversity Reception -a prelude to the Career Fair -invited all stu­dents to the fair to talk to potential employers, including those who may feel unsure of their majors and future career paths. 
It may be difficult for freshmen to get intern­ships as oftentimes employers are more inter­ested in hiring upperclassmen, she said. However, Ferguson still encouraged freshmen to start the process early to establish the con­tacts they'll eventually need in the internship search process that awaits in their sophomore 
see INTERNIpage 4 


Students shed clothes to benefit hoiTieless 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
As temperatures plunge it becomes exceedingly rare to see a student sporting sandals, but onlookers should not be surprised to see sophomore Robbie Bernardin sprinting across campus in shorts and flip-flops today. 
Bernardin will be joined by fellow Siegfried residents, including Hall president junior Tom Martin, in their parade against the harsh elements as part of the first annual Day of Man -an effort of solidarity intended to raise awareness of those who cannot afford a winter coat. 
"[Bernardin] was doing a jog around campus wearing his shorts and a T-shirt and he said, 'Hey, it's cold out, but I feel pretty manly,"' Martin said. 
It wasn't long before Martin transformed his idea into an effort to aid those in need. 
Bernardin and Martin posted a flyer in Siegfried asking resi­dents to participate by agree­ing to wear only shorts, flip­flops and the event's T-shirt as 
see DAY/page 6 
STUDENT SENATE 

Group discusses budget details 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Discussion of Student Union Board (SUB) man­ager Patrick Vassel's pro­posal at Tuesday's Council of Representatives meeting continued over to the Student Senate Wednesday, when sena­tors spent about 30 min­utes debating two possi­ble budgetary adjust­ments to the constitution. 
Vassel said the part of 
see SENATE/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, February 1, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
South Asian suave 
No, it isn't the pungent odor of curry or an over-abundance of semi-obnox­ious Bollywood films all containing pretty much the same plot. Forget tales about Ali Baba, magic carpet rides or spitting camels. Visiting 
Rohan Anand 

India is so intrigu­ing, not because the society is exot­News Wire ic, but actually Editor chaotic. And I love it. 
You can watch Bend-It Like­Beckham or feast on Indian Cuisine to get a vicariously second-hand experi­ence of what Indian culture is some­what like. But I, a first-generation Indian-American citizen, cannot deny myself the pleasure of visiting the motherland only to return with humor­ous anecdotes to share with my American friends. 
So my Christmas break entailed a three-week vacation to New Delhi, the hometown of my parents and extended family. I braced myself for the culture shocks that would inevitably occur. 
The havoc commenced at Chicago's O'Hare airport. Indians are notoriously impatient, particularly in the context of travel. At 8:45, the expected depar­ture time of our Air India flight, the gate agfmt was nowhere to be seen. A throng of Indian passengers had already lined up to board. When one employee nonchalantly appeared and called one passenger to reconfirm their seat, all 400 passengers stood up in anticipation. Upon hearin.g that the flight wasn't ready to board yet, uproar ensued amongst passengers. What a zoo. 
Exiting the arrivals lounge at Delhi Airport some 24-nebulous hours later, I searched for my driver to retrieve me, and the first sight that caught my eye was a man publicly urinating out­side the terminal. Lovely. On the free­way to my relative's home, a bus had broken down, and all the male passen­gers had been ordered to push it to the nearest gas station. Classic. 
Sleeping off jet lag at the house, I awoke to an explosion resonating in the street. I panicked, fearing that the India-Pakistan tension had reached the brink, until I realized it was just a car wreck. Relief. 
My Indian family didn't fail to enter­tain me either. My grandfather greeted me by asking, "so, how's the sex life?" Can you say awkward? And just how feeble were my cousins' attempts to sing "Smack That" by Akon or imitate Borat? Comical. 
Still, nothing beat "the massage" that my uncle treated me to. I envisioned beautiful Indian women soothing my aching muscles from my long journey. To my unpleasant surprise, I instead received a full-body b 
eat-down from a short Indian man. Not memorable. 
When I left Delhi, I longed for red meat, hot showers, and a little person­al space. But not without a bit of grace: it's true that my heritage adds dimension to my life. I'll admit the say­ing, "you can take the dude out of India, but you can't take India out of the dude," applies to me especially. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR IDEAL SUMMER INTERNSHIP? 

Erin Maxwell  Luis Crespo  Kate Erdle  
freshman McGlinn  sophomore Alumni  sophomore Lewis  
"Camp ,,counselor.  "Male model."  "Photographer ofmale models. "  




Meagan Davis  Molly Conway  Aileen Villarreal  
sophomore Welsh Family  freshman Cavanaugh  freshman Breen-Phillips  
"Lifeguard. "  "A circus performer. "  '11 cage dancer. "  

IN BRIEF 
Kroc Institute visiting fellow John Heathershaw will deliver the lecture "Subject to Success: Critical Insights from the Evaluation of Peacebuilding Programs" in Room C-103 ofthe Hesburgh Center today at 12:30 
p.m. Students and faculty are welcome. 
The Winter Career and Internship Fair will be held today from 4 to 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Field House. 
Sabine MacCormack, the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. Professor of Arts and Letters Chair, will deliver the lecture "The Worlds of Jose de Acosta (1540-1600)" Thursday at 4:15 
p.m. in Room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
The student group, Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMCO), proudly presents "Ragtime" on Friday at 7,:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. "Ragtime" will also be playing Feb. 3, 9 and 10. 

CHRISTIAN SAGARDIA!fhe Observer 

Acclaimed pianist Timothy Cheek, left, and visiting assistant professor of opera Mark Beudert, a tenor, perform selections from Dvorak's Opus Gypsy Melodies Wednesciay night at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, as part of the music department's faculty recital series. 
OFFBEAT 
Man, dog travel on riding mower 
GARDEN CITY, Utah ­Joined by his dog Yoda, Paul Woods travels by day and sleeps in a tent at night. His vehicle: a riding mower. "You've got to be pretty strange and pretty weird to be driving a trac­tor mower across country," Woods, 44, said. 
The Herald Journal of Logan caught up with Woods in the parking lot of Beaver Mountain ski resort, 107 miles north of Salt Lake City, near the Idaho border. 
Woods' ultimate destina­tion is Virginia, where he claims his late mother left him a house. He said he took care of her in Alaska until her death. 
Woods said he left Alaska in 2005 and has been riding his mower or getting rides from sympathetic pickup drivers who hoist his vehi­cle in the back of the truck. 
The mower's maximum speed is 15 mph, but it's weighted down by tools, snacks and the dog. 
Student tries to "rent" a girlfriend 
BEIJING, China -A des­perate Chinese university student wants to "rent" a girlfriend for 10 days so he can show her off to his par­ents over the Lunar New Year holiday, state media reported Wednesday. 
The physics student, who gave his name as Zhu Lijie, posted a notice on a bul­letin board at Peking University offering 1,000 yuan ($130) to a woman who would pose as his girl­friend for the trip home for the holiday, Xinhua News Agency reported. 
The advertisement said the woman should be "an honest, kind and similar­aged girl with a diploma." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Tickets available at LaFortune box office and are $6 for seniors and $8 for adults. 
The Late Night Olympics will be held from Friday at 6 p.m. to Saturday at 4 a.m. in the Joyce Center. The event raises money for St. Joe County Special Olympics. 
The Notre Dame Scrabble Club will host a Scrabble Tournament Saturday from 
8:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. There is an entry fee of $50. There will be different divisions for players of all skill levels. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
a: 
LLI 
::1: 
~ 
LLI 
== 
...I 
<C 
0 



15 0 


7 
-2 

HIGH LOW 
0 

HIGH 27 HIGH 22
.... 

LOW 12 LOW 7 
Thursday, February 1, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Senior retreat aitns to ease anxieties, stress 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
As graduation nears for nostalgic yet anxious seniors, many may find refuge and spiritual guidance in this weekend's senior retreat. 
"We try to help 
the seniors think "We try to help the ner will about the chal­
seniors think about build on the 
lenges they face tradition.
the challenges they 

when leaving Carey and 
Notre Dame -face when leaving Lichon said the challenges in Notre Dame." diversity in the relationships, retreat's lead­their spiritual ership was not
Fr. Joe Carey 

life, and living serendipitous

retreat director

outside of the but rather a 
He said the retreat team ­a "diverse cross-section" of the senior class that unites a varsity athlete, a member student government, a stu­dent in the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults (RCIA) program and members of 
various campus 
organizations 
under one ban­
Notre Dame com­munity," said retreat director Fr. Joe Carey. 
The senior retreat will serve as the capstone on a year of assorted Campus Ministry retreats -including the freshman retreat, sopho­more road trip and Notre Dame Encounter with Christ 
Carey and Campus Ministry graduate intern John Paul Lichon said. The retreat has been a University tradi­tion for more than 30 years, but it only became an annual event in the last decade. 
"I can remember senior retreats thirty years ago, but we've made it consistent in the last few years, once a year every first weekend in February," Carey said. 
conscious effort to attract an assortment of participants. 
Seniors in attendance this weekend will converse with a· panel of young alumni, who will share challenges they faced when they left Notre Dame -from finding a new faith community to long-dis­tance relationships in the working world to maximizing their last semester under the Dome. 
Although the deadline for applications has passed, the retreat will squeeze in any additional participants that meet at the Coleman-Morse Center Friday at 2:30 p.m. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 


Driehaus avvarded to Robertson 
Special to The Observer 
Jaquelin T. Robertson, a New York-based architect and urban planner whose work is found worldwide, has been named the recipi­ent of the Notre Dame's fifth annual Richard H. Driehaus Prize for Classical Architecture. He will receive $100,000 and a model of the choregic Monument of Lysikrates in Athens during ceremonies March 31 in Chicago. 
A partner in the firm Cooper, Robertson & Partners, Robertson founded the New York City Urban Design Group. He served under former New York City Mayor John Lindsay as director of the Mayor's Office of Midtown Planning and Development and worked as a New York City planning commissioner. In 1975, he directed the design of Iran's new capital center, Shahestan Pahlavi. 
Committed to introducing "human values into urban plans," Robertson founded 
the Jeffersonian Restoration Advisory Board and the Mayor's Institute on City Design. He has been a con­sultant to the Ford Foundation, the government of Jamaica, the Federal Highway Administration, and the National Capitol Development Commission in Canberra, Australia. 
To "learn more about the DNA of American architec­ture," Robertson accepted an appointment as dean and a chaired professor of archi­tecture at the University of Virginia in 1980, a position he held for eight years. 
Robertson has received numerous design awards, including the 1998 Thomas Jefferson Foundation Medal in Architecture and the 2002 Seaside Prize for his contri­butions to American urban­ism. A Richmond, Va., native, Robertson earned his bachelor's and master's degrees from Yale University and was a Rhodes Scholar at Magdalen College, Oxford. 
Edward Perry Bass, presi­dent of Fine Line Inc., a pri­vate diversified investment and venture capital firm in Fort Worth, Texas, will receive the $25,000 Henry Hope Reed Award in associa­tion with the Driehaus Prize. Bass is recognized as a leader in one of the most successful urban revitaliza­tion efforts in the nation. He and his family developed Sundance Square into a suc­cessful mixed-use urban core in Forth Worth. As chairman of Performing Arts Fort Worth, Bass led the development of the Nancy Lee and Perry R. Bass Performance Hall, which opened in 1998 to interna­tional acclaim. 

Richard H. Driehaus, the founder and chairman of 

Driehaus  Capital  
Management  in  Chicago,  
endowed  both  awards  

through the Notre Dame School of Architecture because of its reputation as a national leader in incorpo­rating the principles of tra­ditional and classical archi­tecture into the task of mod­ern urban development. 
Invest in your future? 
t 
SM 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, February 1, 2007 
Course 
continued from page 1 
just the connection with the students," Shavers said. "You don't have as much natural opportunity [to meet with students] as you do if you were a teacher." 
There will be open visiting hours in the Office of the President in 75-minute blocks on three dates to start out -Feb. 19, Mar. 20 and Apr. 2. 
Shavers said the time can be used by students who want to discuss a certain issue with Jenkins, who just want to introduce themselves or who may just want to see the office. 
Shavers said that there will also be the option of reserv­ing a time to meet with 
2 


• Chicken Club 
• Veggie 
• Pizza Melt 

Free Delivery On Campus 
Limited time offer. Prkes, tax, delivery areas & charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 
ST. MARY'S 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 

Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 

University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 
Jenkins during his office hours on the president's Web site. 
"He's definitely looking for­ward to it and is excited about it, but we have no idea whether one person will show up or whether twenty people will show up," she said. "It's definitely sort of a trial this semester and we'll see if it's responded to well." 
Shavers also said that Jenkins will be visiting a dif­ferent dorm each month. Student Body President Lizzi Shappell will be going around to dorms to "get names of anyone who is interested," Shavers said. 
"I am excited about lthe office hours]," Jenkins said. "It's just a chance to talk to students and listen to their concerns and interests." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
Intern 
continued from page 1 
and junior years. 
"It would be beneficial for freshmen to attnnd the Diversity Heeeption to net­work and n11wt employers so that when they're sopho­mores, thny're more pre­pared for the whole process of landing an internship," she said. 
The Diversity Heception and Career Fair will gather a vari­ety of employers ranging from PriceWaterhouseCoopers to Abercrombie & Fitch to the Central Intelligence Agency. 
"This fair is so diverse that I don't see one particular internship that all the stu­dents are applying for," Career Center Associate Director Anita Rees said. "We have a representation of at least eighteen different industries and within those industries, there are different divisions. For example, we have an energy firm that is hiring for a supply and trad­ing position." 
In addition to narrowing a wide range of employers and 
• 
Italian 

• 
Steak & Cheese



Subs Choose From 
• Ham & Cheese 
industries, students will also have to decide whether to stay close to home or live in a new place. 
"It depends on the student and their situation," Ferguson said. "Some stu­dents want positions in their hometowns and others want t~) e~plore other opportuni­ties. 
For students that may even want to intern abroad, the Career Fair may be a good starting-off point. Several of the employers attending today's fair -such as Goldman Sachs and KPMG ­have international offices. 
"I want to intern away from home so I can get the experi­ence of actually working in the real world," said fresh­man Patrick Bears, a psy­chology and Italian major with plans to intern in Italy in the near future. 
Sophomore Patrick Vol! echoed Bears' enthusiasm about traveling. 
"I want to get an internship in the engineering field away from home," the mechanical engineering student said. "I've looked into interning with an international corpo­ration." 

In addition to the Career Fair, students interested in internships abroad can explore opportunities on campus through the Nanovic Institute for European Studies, the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the Students in International Business Council. All of these organizations sponsor intern­ship opportunities around the globe. 
The Career Center also offers help to students trying to find internships through GOirish -its career online database -and various workshops and seminars throughout the semester. 
"We talk to students about what they are passionate about, what they've already explored, enjoyed," Rees said. "If it's an internship, we ask them about the kind of experiences would they like to garner while they are undergraduates. We take them from that point to learning to network, to inter­viewing to learning eti­quette." 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 
Magic Flute, Rusalka, The Impresario, Cenerentola, and Rosenkavalier 


-----------------------------------------------------. 
ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 1, 2007 CoMPtLED FROM THE OBSERVER's WJRE SERVJCES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Venezuelan president gains power 
CARACAS, Venezuela -President Hugo Chavez was granted free rein Wednesday to accelerate changes in broad areas of society by presidential decree -a move critics said propels Venezuela toward dictatorship. 
Convening in a downtown plaza in a ses­sion that resembled a political rally, law­makers unanimously gave Chavez sweeping powers to legislate by decree and impose his radical vision of a more egalitarian socialist state. 
The law gives Chavez, who is beginning a fresh six-year term, more power than he has ever had in eight years as president, and he plans to use it over the next 18 months to transform broad areas of public life, from the economy and the oil industry in particular, to "social matters" and the very structure of the state. 
Iraq implements new security plan 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Iraq indefinitely halted all flights to and from Syria and closed a border crossing with Iran as the govern­ment prepares for a new security crack­down aimed at crushing violence in the cap­ital and surrounding regions, a member of parliament and an airport official said Wednesday. 
The airport official said flights to and from Syria would be canceled for at least two weeks and that service had been inter­rupted on Tuesday. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to reveal the information. 
Hassan al-Sunneid, a legislator and mem­ber of the parliament Defense and Security Committee, said the move "was in prepara­tion for the security plan. The state will decide when the flights will resume." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Five hospitalized in gas explosion 
GHENT, W.Va. -The West Virginia state fire marshal on Wednesday retracted his statement announcing the death of a fifth person injured in a propane blast that destroyed a convenience store. 
State Fire Marshal Sterling Lewis initially said the manager of the Flat Top Little General Store had died in the explosion Tuesday that reduced the store to a pile of splintered debris and twisted metal. 
Lewis later retracted that statement, say­ing five people remained hospitalized with burns and other injuries. 
Lewis attributed the mistake to erroneous information from hospital officials. "I requested that it be confirmed at four differ­ent times, and they confirmed it each time," he said. 
Senator censured for groping page 
PIERRE, S.D. -The South Dakota Senate on Wednesday refused to expel a lawmaker accused of fondling an 18-year-old legislative page in a motel bed, but voted to censure him instead. 
Democratic Sen. Dan Sutton had admitted sharing a bed with the page last winter but denied groping him. 
The censure amounts to a public reprimand that has no effect on Sutton's legislative pow­ers. 
The motion to expel Sutton failed 14-20, and the censure vote was 32-2. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Gay marriage amendment advances 
INDIANAPOLIS-A proposed constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage advanced out of committee Wednesday after three hours of debate and a group of gay-rights activists being escorted from the Senate gallery for singing "We Shall Overcome" in protest. 
Proponents said the amendment was needed to protect the sanctity of traditional marriage from lawsuits and activist judges. Some oppo­nents argued that it was simply discriminatory, but others said a provision could have unin­tended consequences on laws and policies that affect all unmarried couples. 
UNITED KINGDOM 
British terrorism plot foiled 
Police arrest nine suspects in alleged kidnapping attempt in Birmingham 
Associated Press 
BIRMINGHAM -Police foiled a major kidnapping plot, the first of its kind in Britain, with the arrests Wednesday of nine terror suspects who reportedly planned to torture and behead a British Muslim soldier and broadcast the killing on the Internet. 
The alleged plot, said by British media to mirror the brutal executions of foreign hostages in Iraq, was in its fmal stages and uncovered during a six-month surveil­lance operation by anti-ter­ror officers in this city of more than 1 million in the heart of England. The arrests came in a pre-dawn raid on homes and busi­nesses in several Birmingham neighbor­hoods, which were mostly Pakistani. 
"The threat from terror­ism remains very real," said Assistant Chief Constable David Shaw, who would not confinn reports from the British Broadcasting Corp .. and other media outlets that the intended victim was an army soldier to be killed in an "Iraqi-style" execution and broadcast on the Internet. 
Britain has been at the 
heart of several thwarted 
alleged terror plots, includ­
ing a scheme by a British angry over this country's British Muslim soldier who kill a decorated British sol­Muslim to blow up the New involvement in the was under police protec­dier. Abu Baker Mansha York Stock Exchange and American-led wars in tion, British media report­was accused of targeting other landmarks, and a Afghanistan and Iraq, and ed, though the Defense Cpl. Mark Byles, whose plan by Muslim extremists the U.S. detention camp in Ministry would not confirm address and other materials to use liquid explosives to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. this were found in Mansha's blow up as many as 10 The four British Muslims Britain's first Muslim sol­apartment. flights between the United who attacked London's dier to be killed in Byles was awarded a mil­States and Britain. transit system in Europe's Afghanistan last year was itary cross for bravery fol­
But the Birmingham kid­first suicide bombings had from Birmingham, where lowing an attack in which napping plot raised fears expressed rage over the death prompted militant several Iraqi insurgents that a new type of terrorism Britain's role in the wars. Islamist Web sites to were killed -exploits cov­has reached Britain, one Their attack at rush hour denounce Cpl. J abron ered by British newspapers. which uses individual vic­on July 7, 2005 killed 52 Hashmi, 24, as a traitor. One of the articles with tims to send a message people. One site -that of extremist Byles' name was circled through kidnappings and In the past year, the British sect al-Ghurabaa -and found in Mansha's publicized beheadings. object of that anger has posted an image of the sol­apartment. Although the motive in the spilled over to the 330 dier surrounded by flames Twelve houses and four new plot was not disclosed, Muslims who serve in the Non-Muslim servicemen business -including two the announcement coin­180,000-strong British are also being targeted Muslim book stores and an cides with other indications armed forces. Last year, a London street Internet cafe -were cor­that young British Muslims The potential victim of the vendor was sentenced to six doned off in Wednesday's are becoming increasingly latest plot was reportedly a years in prison in a plot to raids. 

Suspicious devices cause scare 
said Gov. Deval Patrick. the company said. 
Associated Press 
Turner Broadcasting, parent com­Police said only that they were 
BOSTON -Nine blinking elec­pany of Cartoon Network, said the investigating where the device tronic devices planted at bridges devices were part of a promotion came from. The Department of and other spots in Boston threw a for the TV show "Aqua Teen Homeland Security said there are scare into the city Wednesday in Hunger Force." no credible reports of other devices what turned out to be a marketing "The packages in question are being found elsewhere in the coun­campaign for a late-night cable car­magnetic lights that pose no dan­try. toon. At least one of the devices ger," Turner said in a statement. It An angry Mayor Thomas Menino depicts a character giving the fin­said the devices have been in place said a stiff penalty will be pursued ger. for two to three weeks in 10 cities: against whoever was responsible 
Highways, bridges and a section Boston, New York, Los Angeles, for the devices. of the Charles River were shut Chicago, Atlanta, Seattle, Portland, "It's about keeping a city on edge. down and bomb squads were sent Ore., Austin, Texas, San Francisco It's about public safety," he said. in before authorities declared the and Philadelphia. Authorities said some of the devices were harmless. "We regret that they were mistak­objects looked like circuit boards or 
"It's a hoax-and it's not funny," enly thought to pose any danger," had wires hanging from them. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, February 1, 2007 
researched, some you know, 
some you just try out." 
Senate
Fair 
Underclassmen should not continued from page 1 feel excluded from the fair, 
continued from page 1 which offers them opportuni­
SUB's budget that allots toorganizer of the Diversity ties for internships, Ferguson 
"policy-based program­
Reception. said. 
ming" could be moved so it
Rees said students should Landing the perfect job is 
falls under the student gov­be prepared for the fair, and an "ongoing process that is 
ernment's budget. Studentshe suggests never too early 
body president Lizzi
reviewing the too start," she Shappell said student gov­
list of employ­said.
"If someone has a 

ernment was already using
ers and posi­"Different 
the fund.
fascinating display, go

tions available companies and 
"It's our money," Shappell
on the talk to [that where they fall 
said. "We ask for an alloca­GOIRISH web­in the market
person]. Some 

tion, then whenever we are
site. makes a dif­
using it, we go over to
students talk to

"Pick three ference when !SUB's] comptroller. It's
to five employ­employers they never they hire for 
basically our fund to use."
/ers that you full-time jobs
planned and end up 

Vassel also brought up a
want to know a and intern­
landing a job with 

section of the constitution
lot about so ships," Rees that states that any events
that when you that employer." said. "It hinges 
with budgeting eosts thatmeet the rep­a lot on what exceed $5,000 mush be
resentative, size of employ­
Anita Rees 

approved by the Financialyou 'II ask the er you're try­
associate director 

Management Board (FMB).
right questions ing to land." 
He suggested raising the approval limit to $10,000
and make a Career Center And today's 
good impres-record break­
because, he said. SUB often
sion," she said. ing fair might books events that cost moreExpecting the unexpected is be the start of students' pro­
than $5,000 and they need
also part of the fair, Rees fessional success. 
to move fast to reserve thesaid, who suggests students "This fair breaks all records act or the performer. Theshould check out employers amassed over the past 14 
delay incurred when SUB
that catch their attention. years for a career event," has to notify the FMB of its"If someone has a fascinat­Rees said. "Registration was 
request, though not a sub­
ing display, go talk to [that sold out in this fair which has 
stantial one, may preventperson]," she said. "Some not happened in eight years 
SUB from booking the event,
students talk to employers -three weeks before the 
Vassel said.
they never planned and event we had to tell employ­
Senators offered their
ended up landing a job with ers there was no room." 
opinions on thesn two pointsthat employer." 
before sending the issue to
It's a three-pronged Contact Eva Binda at 
Chris Hollon, chair of the
approach: employers you jbinda@nd.edu 
Senate Oversight 
Committee, for further 
review. 
This was the only new 

Day 
continued from page 1 
they go about their business today. 
anned ancy? 
ne you love needs help please call. 
OP, Sh1dent Affairs, 1-7819 n~'VlUOJfl, Campus Ministry, 1-716 3 Campus ~1inistry, J-7163 Steihe-Pasaliclt, Counseling Center, 1-7336 ..... Health Services, ] -8286 
~Znd Community Resources: 
business Senate discussed. 
However, the Senate was informed of a new initiative at the start of the meeting when Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative Assistant Director Tim Lyden addressed the senators to describe an upcoming program to facili­tate discussions about Notre Dame's Millennium Village Project in Uganda and development in general. 
Lyden said a student advi­sory council -made of approximately 20 students, most of whom have experi­ence in sub-Saharan Africa -will visit residence halls this semester to answer questions about the project. 
"We want these groups of students to lead discussions about economic develop­ment," Lyden said. 
The dorm discussions will take place during the last three weeks of February, he said. 
"It's very informal and it's open to any level of knowl­edge," Lyden said. 
In another effort to expand knowledge, Academic Affairs chair Jim Grace said he was exploring ways to connect students through a tutoring program. Grace said he was research­ing whether students can use insideND to post tutor­ing requests. 
Community Relations chair Josh Pasquesi announced March 2 as the date for the community summit that will take place between Notre Dame stu­dents and local college, uni­versity and city representa­tives. The summit will take place at Notre Dame Downtown, Pasquesi said. 

In another area of com­munity relations, he said he has been in contact with Mikki Dobski, director of communications and special projects for the office of the mayor of South Bend about sponsoring a freshman bus 
tour  of South  Bend  next  
year.  
"We  want to  make  sure  
this  becomes  an  annual  

event, hopefully run by the city," Pasquesi said. 
Walsh Hall senator Karen Koski announced that the Senate Social Concerns committee will be conduct­ing research on the best way to publicize the pres­ence of ombudspersons at the University. 
"We've been working on promoting ombudspersons because there is a lack of knowledge of what an ombudsperson does or is," Koski said. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Shappell, student body vice president Bill Andrichik and Chief Executive Assistant Liz Brown will present an update on their initiatives to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees today. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
The underdressed Ramblers manliest dorms on campus," will each carry a cup to solicit Martin said. "We wanted to donations for the South Bend get an event together to Center for the Homeless. showcase our incredible man­
"We're also setting up a liness," he said. "Once people booth in front of Siegfried," heard about that, it kind of Martin said. "We're hoping publicized itself." that students will see what The Day of Man organizers [we're] doing and pitch in a also sent e-mails to service few dollars to help the home­commissioners in each resi­less." dence hall to let interested 
Today at 6 p.m. the Center students know in advance the for the Homeless will send a cause their contributions will representative to give a pres­support. Martin and entation about the organiza­Bernardin -were both opti­tion's mission and accom­mistic Wednesday for a posi­plishments for Day of Man tive reaction to the Day of participants. Man on campus and hoped 
"We want for [participants] the event will continue in the to get noticed by others, but future. also know what they're bene­"We'd definitely like to try fiting and realize how blessed to make it at minimum an we are," Bernardin said. annual thing for Siegfried, 
Bernardin said  and  maybe  
the Day of Man  campus-wide,"  
has received attention and support from the  "[Bernardin] was doing ajog around  Martin said. "I think a big reason this  
residence hall since its incep­tion. "There were almost 100 guys  campus wearing his shorts and a T-shirt and he said, 'Hey, it's cold out, but I  event has real­ly taken off is that there aren't many things manlier  
who signed up the first day," he  feel pretty manly'"  than being cold and help­ 
said. "Now it's almost 120."  Tom Martin  ing out the less fortunate."  
Martin  said  junior  Bernardin  
Siegfried's rec­ agreed  but  
tor and hall staff  cited the need  
also  plans  to  for  greater  

participate in the Day of Man publicity to guarantee desired events. results. 
"We've had a lot of support "If it goes well this year, [from Siegfried's staff]," then we'll be able to put out a Martin said. "It's not just bigger and better ad cam­something the kids are doing, paign next year," he said. so that gives us hope." Day of Man participants will 
Sales for Bernardin's Day of be accepting donations for the Man T-shirt have been high, South Bend Center for the and friends of participants -Homeless throughout the day, including many from other and checks made out to residence halls -have also Siegfried Hall with the memo been generous with moral "Day of Man" will be accepted and financial support. in 100 Siegfried. 
"The word spread pretty quickly. For quite a while, Contact Steve Kerins at Siegfried has been one of the skerins@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Thursday, February 1, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow }ones  12,621.69  +98.38  
Up:  Same: Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,208  125  1,068  2,990,615,228  


S&P 500 1,438.24 +9.42 
tf~G<EJ(roi<Yil:,;;::lilll!i•llll;llll!l:as;:~olll: 
fTSf IOO(London) 6,203.10 -38.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MOTOROlA INC (MOT)  +1.38  +0.27  19.85  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +3.27  +0.21  6.64  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS(SPY)  +0.67  +0.96  143.75  
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +1.01  +0.44  44.07  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -1.0 I  -0.049  4.826  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.40  -0.020  4.975  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.12  -0.056  4.926  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.84  -0.041  4.819  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.17  58.14  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +7.70  657.90  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +3.00  101.50  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  120.5750  
EURO  0.7670  
POUND  0.5090  
CANADIAN$  1.1761  

IN BRIEF 
Google triples fourth-quarter profits 
SAN FRANCISCO -Google Inc.'s fourth­
quarter profit nearly tripled amid another 
burst of breathtaking growth that enabled 
the online search leader to sprint past ana­
lyst expectations -a habit that has helped 
propel its stock price above $500. 
The Mountain View-based company said Wednesday that it earned $1.03 billion, or $3.29 per share, during the final three months of 2006. That compared with net income of $372.2 million, or $1.22 per share, at the same time in 2005. 
If not for expenses for employee stock 
compensation and gains from tax benefits, 
Google said it would have earned $3.18 per 
share. That figure easily exceeded the aver­
age analyst estimate of $2.92 per share 
among analysts surveyed by Thomson 
Financial. 
US Airways drops $9.8 bil. Delta bid 
ATLANTA -US Airways Group Inc. dropped 
its $9.8 billion hostile bid for Delta Air Lines 
Inc. on Wednesday after a key group of the 
bankrupt carrier's creditors said Delta would 
be better off emerging from Chapter 11 on its 
own. 
With the dual decisions, Atlanta-based Delta 
cleared a big hurdle in its effort to exit bank­
ruptcy by the middle of this year as a stand­
alone company. 
But it isn't out of the woods yet. Smaller cred­
itors could ultimately vote not to approve 
Delta's reorganization plan, and some have 
already filed objections to the disclosure state­
ment to the Delta plan. · 
A Feb. 7 hearing in bankruptcy court in New ·York is scheduled to discuss the disclosure 
statement. If the statement related to Delta's 
operations is approved, Delta could begin solic­
iting votes for approval of its reorganization 
plan. Delta hopes to hold a confirmation hear­
ing on its plan in April. 
US Airways disclosed its initial hostile bid for 
Delta on Nov. 15. US Airways later raised its bid 
by nearly 20 percent in hopes of swaying Delta's 
official committee of unsecured creditors. 
Delta's official unsecured creditors committee 
said in a statement it reached its decision after 
a lengthy review of both Delta's proposal and 
US Airways' proposal. 
I Bush visits NY stock exchange 
President criticizes extravagance in executive compensation packages 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-President Bush challenged corpo­rate America Wednesday on the lavish salaries and bonuses paid to chief executives, saying their pay should be tied to how much they help their companies' shareholders. 
"America's corporate boardrooms must step up to their responsibilities," Bush said in a speech on Wall Street addressing the state of the U.S. econ­omy. A few executives' extravagant pay pack­ages, recently in the 
. news, have disgusted mil­
·' lions of U.S. workers who will never come near such deals. 
";you need to pay atten­tion, to the executive com­pens,ation packages that you approve," Bush said. "You 1need to show the world that American businesses are a model of transparency and good corporate governance." 
Bush's comments came during a White House push to get people focused on the economy at a time. when other issues command attention -including the Iraq war and all the candidates running for his job. 
He spoke at Federal Hall, a venerable site just 
blocks from where ter­ed with silence. But the Attorney General Eliot the Joint Economic rorists destroyed the invited crowd offered Spitzer, now governor, Committee. "Middle-class World Trade Center. Bush applause when Bush sued members of the families would be best caused a frenzy· with an talked about cutting taxes NYSE board over the served if the president unannounced stop on the and improving education. package given to Grasso joined us in crafting bold floor of the New York Attention to corporate when he quit as chair­policy solutions that Stock Exchange, joining pay has been fueled by man in 2003. address the real insecuri­Ronald Reagan fLS the some notable cases. Beyond targeting gold­ty they feel in our chang­only presidents to\ do so Recently, Home Depot en pay packages, Bush ing economy." during trading hour~. chief executive Bob reiterated the themes of Bush touted new feder­
On executive pay,' Bush Nardelli was earning an his economic message al rules that give was prodding the busi­average of $25.7 million these days -trade, investors access to clear­ness community to act on a year -excluding stock health care, energy and er and more detailed its own. He offered no options -before he was education. All require information from public promise of federal inter­forced out in a furor over help from a Democratic companies on their top vention -in fact, he said his compensation. He left Congress, which is fash­executives' pay packages government should stay with a severance package ioning its own plans for a and perks out of it. worth about $210 mil­mainstream domestic Yet in a nod to the busi­
But the president clear­lion. agenda. ness community, Bush ly hoped to send a mes­The New York Stock "Criticizing CEO pay said his administration sage that would resonate Exchange faced an won't do anything to was working to improve with the public. uproar over former CEO raise the wages of aver­how those rules are being 
His immediate listeners, Richard Grasso's $187.5 age Americans," said enforced so that the bur­a dark-suited New York million severance pack­Sen. Charles Schumer, D­den is not oppressive on business audience, react-. age. Former New York N.Y., the new chairman of industry. 
Dell Inc. founder to return as CEO
. ' 
tered by a recall of 4.1 million poten­wasn't solely responsible for the com­Associated Press tially flammable notebook batteries pany's recent missteps. made by Sony Corp. and by disap­Rollins joined Dell in 1996 and had a 
DALLAS -Dell Inc., battered by pointing earnings. The company on variety of roles before becoming CEO, battery recalls and disappointing earn­Wednesday forecast fourth-quarter including chief operating officer, vice ings, said Wednesday that Chairman profit and sales below analysts' con­chairman and president of Dell Michael Dell will return to run the sensus estimates of 32 cents per share Americas. Before Dell, he was vice company he had built into one of the on sales of $15.30 billion. president and partner of Bain & Co. world's largest makers of personal The company's accounting practices management consultants. · computers. also are the subject of federal scrutiny. "Kevin has been a great business 
Dell's appointment is effective imme­The U.S. Attorney for the Southern partner and friend," Dell said in a diately. He replaces Kevin Rollins, who District of New York has subpoenaed statement. "He has made significant also resigned as a member of the documents related to Dell's fmancial contributions to our business over the board. reporting from 2002 to the present. past 10 years. I wish him much suc­
Dell shares, which fell 7 cents to Dell has served as chairman since cess in the future." close earlier Wednesday at $24.22 on founding the company in 1984 and Dell's direct sales model, which the Nasdaq Stock Market, jumped 98 was chief executive until 2004, when allows business and consumers to buy cents, or 4 percent, in aftermarket he hand-picked Rollins as his succes­equipment directly from Dell, turned activity. sor. Dell defended the beleaguered the company into a leading computer 
During Rollins' tenure, Dell was bat-executive in September, saying Rollins manufacturer. 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, February 1, 2007 
Orlando sparks trend with anti-homeless laws 
Dallas, Gainesville and Atlanta among cities with laws restricting or prohibiting the feeding of homeless 
Associated Press ORLANDO, Fla. -At Lake Eola park, there is much beau­ty to behold: robust palms, beds of cheery begonias, a cas­cading lake fountain, clusters of friendly egrets and swans, an amphitheater named in honor of Walt Disney. Then there are the signs. DO NOT LIE OR OTHERWISE BE IN A HORIZONTAL POSI­TION ON A PARK BENCH ... DO NOT SLEEP OR REMAIN IN ANY BUSHES, SHRUBS OR FOLIAGE ... per city code sec. 18A.09 (a) and (o). Visit the park's restrooms, and you'll find this sign on the · wall above the hand dryers: BATHING AND/OR SHAVING IN RESTROOM IS PROIIIBITED ... per city code 18A.09 (p) ... LAUNDERING CLOTHES IN LAKE EOLA PARK IS NOT PEH­MITTED. Since joggers and dog walk­ers tend not to snooze in flower beds, and b e c a u s e employees at the glittering 
the courts, the city tried to dis­courage aggressive beggars by obliging them to carry ID cards, and later by confining them to 3-by-15-foot "panhan­dling zones" painted in blue on sidewalks downtown. 
Despite these laws, the num­ber of people living on the streets of the Orlando metro area swelled, from roughly 5,000 in 1999 to an estimated 8,500 today, dwarfing the city's shelter capacity for 2,000 peo­ple. 
So in July, the city commis­sion tried a "supply-side" approach: It passed an ordi­nance regulating the -feeding of large groups of people in Orlando's downtown parks. 
Those who wished to feed more than 25 hungry individu­als at parks within a 2-mile radius of City Hall could do so, but only if they obtained a "Large Group Feeding Permit" from the parks department ­
and no one 
would be granted 
more than two 
feeding permits a 
office towers "Feeding the homeless year. around Lake No exceptions.
only encourages more

Eola don't For the first
homelessness."

scrub laundry time anyone in in park sinks, Orlando could it's clear, says "Justin Credible" remember, not 
Monique only would pan­
blogger

Vargas, at whom the notices are targeted. 
"They're talking to us, to the homeless," says Vargas, 28, who says she has lived on the streets, in parks or under over­passes, since age 16. "It's a way of saying, 'Your kind isn't wanted in our city."' 
Orlando, population 200,000, works hard to conjure the image of a true-life Pleasantville: a safe, welcom­ing place where visitors can soak up year-round sunshine and devour choreographed experiences at palm-ringed theme parks. But its spotless sidewalks, sparkling lakes and twinkling skyline belie a real city with real maladies -most notably,_a surging homeless population that authorities are struggling to control. 
After a law that banned pan­handling was struck down by 
handlers find 
themselves in the 
crosshairs of the 
law, but so would those trying to help them. 
"It's now illegal to feed the homeless in Orlando, Florida," Jay Leno, host of NBC's "Tonight Show," told a studio audience last summer in Burbank, Calif., during his opening monologue. "Have you seen the fat people walking around Disney World? We should make it illegal to feed THEM." 
But when the Orlando Sentinel posted Leno's wise­crack on its Web site, local bloggers weren't laughing. 
"Feeding the homeless only encourages more homeless­ness," one resident, with the moniker "Justin Credible," wrote. He then summed up his argument in an equation. "Less­Homeless Less Problems Better Place to Live." 
Another, "TG," didn't oppose feeding the destitute. "But there are places set up for this. Soup kitchens exist ... It is not unreasonable to want to keep Lake Eola Park from becoming a homeless cafeteria." 
William Beem added: "For what it's worth, Las Vegas enacted a similar law at the same time as Orlando. Tourist towns think alike." 
Indeed, a week before Orlando's ordinaneP . took effect, Las Vegas criminalized giving food to even a single 
transient in a city park. 
In August, the American Civil Liberties Union filed suit chal­lenging the Las Vegas ban, say­ing it violated constitutional protections of free speech, right to assembly and right to practice one's religion. A fed­eral court in Nevada has pro­hibited the city from enforcing the ordinance until a final rul­ing is issued. 
Advocates for the homeless feared it wouldn't be long before other cities passed simi­lar laws. As it happens, they were right. 

Already, the cities of Dallas, Fort Myers, Fla., Gainesville, Fla., Wilmington, N.C., Atlanta, and Santa Monica, Calif., have laws restricting or outright prohibiting the feeding of the homeless. In Fairfax County, Va., homemade meals and meals made in church kitchens may not be distributed to the homeless unless first approved by the county. 
Other cities, inducting Miami, are considering similar anti­feeding measures. 


Thursday, February 1, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
ITALY 
Berlusconi pleads for his W"ife's forgiveness 
Associated Press 
ROME -Former Premier Silvio Berlusconi, challenged in an open letter by his wife over !1irtatious comments he report­edly made to other women, pub­licly apologized to her Wednesday, saying he never meant to hurt her dignity. 
"Forgive me, I beg you. And take this public show of my pri­vate pride giving in to your fury as an act of love. One of many," said the letter from Berlusconi released by his Forza Italia party. 
"Your dignity has nothing to do with it. I treasure it as a precious good in my heart, even when I make carefree jokes," said Berlusconi, 70. 
His wife, Veronica Lario, wrote an open letter published Wednesday in La Repubblica -a left-leaning daily and a fierce opponent of Berlusconi -to voice her complaints over what she said was behavior that dam­aged her dignity as a woman. 
"If I weren't married, I would marry you immediately," Berlusconi told one woman at a VIP party after a TV awards cer­emony broadcast by one of his channels, according to reports widely carried in the Italian press. 
He reportedly told another, "With you, I'd go anywhere." 
The famously private Lario wrote in the open letter: "I see these statements as damaging my dignity." 
"To both my husband and the public man, I therefore demand a public apology, since I haven't received any privately," she wrote. "I have faced the inevitable contrasts and the more painful moments that a long con­jugal relation entails with respect and discretion." 
Lario, 50, saying her husband's comments were "unacceptable" and could not be reduced to mere jokes. 
Berlusconi, who has boasted of his success with women in his youth and says he has a sense of gallantry, has a reputation for making comments that some women fmd inappropriate. 
In a separate interview, Berlusconi said his wife is a "spe­cial woman." 
"Veronica has been an absolute passion; when we met, she made me lose my mind," he told the women's magazine A, which released excerpts of the inter­view Wednesday. 
"She has been and is a wonder­ful mother. She has never embar­rassed me, never," Berlusconi said. "And she is so lenient..·.. What more could I want?" 
Lario largely kept out of the public eye during Berlusconi's five-year premiership, which ended with the defeat of his con­servative coalition in April elec­tions. 
But she occasionally expressed positions that were not in line with her husband's, such as defending pacifists protesting the war in Iraq, which Berlusconi supported. 
Berlusconi and Lario were married in 1990, but had been together for a decade before then. A former actress, she is Berlusconi's second wife. The two are rarely seen together. 
Simon follows father's path 
Councilwoman carries former senator's legacy into mayoral run 
Associated Press 
CARBONDALE, Ill. -Sheila Simon has come a long way since her first speech at a political picnic. 
"Thanks for the hot dogs," she recalls muttering as a teen after being prompted to say a few words by her father, popu­lar U.S. senator and former 
· presidential hopeful Paul Simon. Since then, she said, "public speaking has been pretty nat­ural for me." Now at 45, Simon wonders if her next political step will come as eas­ily. Three years into her term as a city councilwoman here, Simon wants to be mayor of her southern Illinois home­town, taking a baby step in the footsteps of the bow-tied fami­ly patriarch. At least for now, Simon has no aspirations to turn the fam­ily into the latest Illinois politi­cal dynasty, like the Daleys or the Stevensons. She is unwill­ing to uproot her children ­one a high school junior, the other in seventh grade -in a quest for a state or federal post. "People have been speculat­ing about my political career for a very long time," she says. Come Feb. 27, Simon hopes to be one of the top two vote­getters in the four-person non­partisan primary that includes first-term Mayor Brad Cole, who's seeking re-election. Voters in this 25,597 -popula­tion city will decide the winner April17. While insisting he's taking Simon no more seriously than 
the other two candidates -through Illinois in a station one a political novice, the wagon. other a community activist "It was real easy to cam­who hosts a radio talk show -paign for dad," Sheila Simon Cole wonders if the free pub­said. "I can think of very few licity Simon gets because of things dad and I would dis­her lineage is fair. agree about. He had a very 
"My dad was a great man, optimistic outlook. not wanting too. It's just that people didn't to brush over the bad things know him," Cole said. His late but always assuming things father -a former banker -can be made better." was "just an everyday working Four years after graduating American, a family man." from a Maryland high school 
Even if Sheila Simon doesn't in 1979, she earned a political evoke her father's name dur­science degree from Ohio's ing her campaign, his shadow Wittenberg University. Simon 
still looms large.  later got a law  
By  the  time  degree  from  
Paul Simon retired in 1997 -he died six  "My dad was a great man, too. It's  Georgetown and returned to Illinois.  
years later -his resume was the story of  just that people didn't know him. "  She spent years as a legal aid attorney in  
great political ascent: muck­ Sheila Simon  divorces housing  and mat­ 
raking newspa­ Carbondale, Ill.  ters,  then  
per publisher,  councilwoman  worked in pri­ 

Democratic state lawmaker, lieutenant gov­ernor, congressman, U.S. sen­ator and, in 1988, presidential candidate. Squeaky clean, he was known in Springfield as "Reverend." 
Paul Simon and his wife, Jeanne, met on the Illinois House floor when both were state representatives. In 1960, they honeymooned at the Democratic National Convention; Jeanne Simon gave up her seat to raise a family. 
A young Sheila attended her dad's rallies. Years later when he ran for lieutenant governor, she and her brother, Martin, went along for the ride 
vate practice 
before spend­

ing four years as a Jackson County prosecu­tor. 
For the past 10 years, she's taught law at Southern Illinois University here while raising a family, doing her best to shun special treatment because she was Paul Simon's daughter. 
She delayed political pur­suits until 2002, when a neighbor suggested she parlay her passion in a community dispute over how to reuse an abandoned school -Simon wanted to ensure it didn't fall into disrepair or get torn down -into a seat on the Carbondale City Council that was being expanded. 

Medical costs result in taxable deductions 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -What do doctors' visits, Navajo healing ceremonies and clarinet les­sons have in common? All can qualify, under the right cir­cumstances, as tax-deductible medical expenses. 
It's not that easy to take the deduction -medical expenses must exceed 7.5 percent of adjusted gross income before they can be deducted. On the other hand, taxpayers can cast a wide net to reach that threshold, so it may be easier than you think. 
Costs for elastic hosiery, see­ing-eye dogs, stop-smoking and weight-loss programs, lead paint removal, special mattresses for relief of arthri­tis or spine problems, reclin­ing chairs prescribed by a doc­tor -all have been permitted by either the Internal Revenue Service or the U.S. Tax Court, where tax disputes are heard. 
"If it was prescribed for a medical purpose or to alleviate a condition, you have a good chance of getting it through," said Donna LeValley, a tax attorney and contributing edi­tor of the J.K. Lasser tax pub­lications. 
The key is whether the expense involves the diagno­sis, cure, treatment or preven­tion of a disease or health con­dition for you, a spouse or a dependent. 

Don't stretch it too far. Health clubs, therapeutic dance lessons, marriage coun­seling, tattooing, sex-change operations and diaper services don't qualify as medical expenses. Costs of divorce, even if recommended by a psy­chiatrist, don't qualify; neither does a hotel room used for sex therapy. 
Also not deductible: funeral and burial expenses, tooth­paste, toiletries, cosmetics and most cosmetic surgery, unless necessary to improve a disfig­urement from disease, birth or accidental injury. 
Still, legitimate expenses do add up. They can include air conditioners for relief of aller­gies or breathing problems, hearing aids, eyeglasses, con­tact lenses, Braille books, adapters for closed-caption service for the deaf, orthope­dic shoes, crutches, wheel­chairs, wigs for those who've lost hair through disease, and legal fees for guardianship of a mentally ill spouse. 
Deducting clarinet lessons was permitted because a den­tist recommended them for treatment of tooth defects, LeValley noted. 
"You can see how that might be a little iffy, but it made sense once you see what the dentist was trying to achieve," she said. 
.----------------------------------------------------------"-----------------------------------------~-------~-­
page 10 The Observer + NEWS 
Detns push budget toward vote 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--Democrats say they are making the best of a bad situation as they bring to the House floor a massive bill cobbling together $463.5 billion in unfin­ished budget business. 
The bill, combining the budgets of 13 Cabinet agencies, won praise Tuesday from Democratic Party allies such as activists pressing the fight against AIDS overseas and advocates for boosting education funding. 
Lawmakers in both parties hailed the bill for freeing highway construction funds, even as the White House complained that the bill will slow aid to communities harmed by a 2005 round of mili­tary base closings and cut a request for basic scientific research. 
Still, the White House signaled that President Bush would sign the bill into law once it reaches his desk. 
The House debate on Wednesday promises to be bitter, and the measure appears likely to pass on a largely party-line vote. But Republicans in the Senate appear unlikely to place procedur­al hurdles in its path. 
The harshest criticism came from House Republicans, who complained that they were shut out of any chance to offer changes to the bill _ and had barely any time to read it. 
Rep. Jerry" Lewis of California, the Appropriations Committee's top Republican --displaced as chairman last fall --ripped into the Democrats for rushing the bill to the House floor "without any prior debate whatsoever and with­out the opportunity to offer even one amendment on the floor." 
Republicans also took issue with Democrats' claim to have "scrubbed" the bill free of homes­tate projects. They pointed to, for example, $50 million to match last year's funding for the Denali Commission, which funds rural road, sanitation, energy and other infrastructure projects in Alaska. Then there was the Senate's refusal to kill $45 million in fund­ing for an indoor rainforest project in central Iowa, even though local backers have yet to come up with their required share of funding. 
Democrats sought to focus attention of numerous --albeit generally small -funding increases they managed to provide in favored accounts, even while living within tight limits set by Bush and last year's GOP-domi­nated Congress. 
The powerful veterans lobby won a $3.6 billion increase for medical care, earning praise from veterans groups and the White House, while low-income college students would receive a $260 boost in the maximum Pell Grant, to $4,310. 
"After five years of broken promises from the admini'itration, this is an important down pay­ment by Democrats on our com­mitment to help families with high college costs," said Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy, D-Mass. 
State and local law enforcement agencies, meanwhile, won increases in grants for new equip­ment and hiring new officers. 
Community development block grants, however, were frozen at current levels, as was Amtrak. But advocates for those programs took them as a victory relative to Bush's budget submitted a year ago. 
Activists pressing for big boosts to combat AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis overseas won a $1.3 billion increase -to $4.5 billion. That's enough to fund the presi­dent's $225 million initiative to fight malaria and increase the U.S. contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria to $724 million. 
Thursday, February 1, 2007 

Solar home plays host to Va. senator 
Eco-friendly home designed, built by students 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. -State Sen. Frank Wagner is staying warm at his temporary address, even in below-freezing weather and without a traditional power supply or fireplace. 
The Virginia Beach Republican, a proponent of alternative energy sources, is living for a week outside the Science Muselllfl of VIrginia in a solar-powered house designed and built by Virginia Tech students. He moved in Wednesday. 
Using a remote control and a computer, Wagner is testing whether the award-winning home can generate enough electricity from the sun to run everyday home appliances _ and still have enough left over to send to Richmond's power grid or charge an electric car. 
"The house is designed to be self-sufficient, but there's a lot of things that could be adapted into existing houses today," he said Friday, after spending his second almost glitch-free night in the 800 square-foot home. 
The house is warmed by heat that comes up through the floor, and has a rainwater har­vesting system and automated mood lighting. It also features a wide-screen TV and kitchen appliances chosen for their energy efficiency. 

These features can be manipulated while sitting on a couch and tapping on a tablet computer connected to the building's control system. All of it is powered by the sun's ener­gy, which is gathered by rooftop photovoltaic panels and stored in the home's battery system. 
"We want to show that you don't have to huddle around candles and be dressed in all your clothes to be comfortable in a house powered by solar energy," said Robert Schubert, associate dean of research for the College of Architecture and Urban Studies at VIrginia Tech. 
It's a ladies game too: Football faithful not solely male 
Associated Press 
MIAMI Super Bowl Sunday, once the manliest of annual celebrations, is get­ting a shot of estrogen. 
Sports-savvy ladies are brushing up on their football lingo and planning couples activities to reconnect with their men, while other game widows will revel in a night of freedom. 
"For single people, this has gotten as big as, 'Do I have a date for New Year's Eve?' There is hardly a soul that doesn't say what are you doing for the Super Bowl," sports lecturer Paula Duffy said. 
The author of an audio 
book series, which includes the "Woman's Guide To Football," Duffy says her Long Beach, Calif.-based business is swamped once the playoffs start. She trav­els the country speaking at Tupperware parties, hold­ing seminars at The Learning Annex, appear­ing on radio shows and 
"Sports and entertainment have blended. Coaches like Phil Jackson are rock stars. There's red carpet events. It's Access Hollywood meets ESPN, and it's a genuine topic of gossip." 
Paula Duffy sports lecturer 

even teaching private lessons, which cost upward of $250. 
Duffy demystifies the rules of the game for clients, a mix of single and married gals and business ladies looking to connect with their colleagues, with graphics and cheat sheets. 
"Sports and entertainment have blended. Coaches like Phil Jackson are rock stars. There's red carpet events," Duffy said of the glamour sur­rounding sports. "It's Access Hollywood meets ESPN, and it's a genuine topic of gossip." 
And a great way for single women to snag a guy, said Duffy, who estimates about 60 percent of her clients fall into that category. 
Several professional and college football teams are also giving women the play by play. The Buffalo Bills host NFL 101 during preseason camp, which includes lessons on how to catch and throw and a tour of the locker room. 
Jan Wannstedt, wife of University of Pittsburgh's coach Dave Wannstedt, leads Football University, a one­night introductory class for women. The Cincinnati Bengals and the Green Bay Packers also hold Football 
101, where attendance is in the hundreds. 
Gwen Arafiles, 23, was one of 600 women who attended the University of California at Berkeley's women's football huddle led by head coach Jeff Tedford last August. 
"It was defi­nitely fun. They had us practice kicking field goals from five different spots 
on the field," said Arafiles, a public relations executive from Berkley. "Afterward, I could say this is what a safety does. I can understand how a running back gets stripped of the ball." 
But what about the women who don't care as much about the game, but still want the camaraderie? 
Christine Cheng hosts a couples football and cooking party and hires a gourmet tailgating chef. The ladies learn to make mini Kobe beef burgers, salmon quesadillas, homemade sweet potato fries 
and crab cakes which they later serve the boys. 
A Brooklyn spa is looking to keep the sparks flying long after the coin toss with four plasma screen TVs, food and a full bar for the men and chocolate massages and facials to entertain the ladies. When the game is over, cou­ples can reunite in Body by Brooklyn's thermal hot tub or Turkish steam room. 
Then there are the gals who are happy to thumb their nose at football's most sacred day. Seattle restaurant The Pink Door is throwing a "Superbelle event" in their honor, which includes a man­

icurist, Tarot card reader, trapeze artist and chick flicks. 
DIYNetwork.com is plan­ning a marathon airing "Knitty Gritty" and encourag­ing knitters to trade tips over the Internet as they make shawls and blankets for char­ity. 

SINCE 1887 

MERCY
HOME 
R:JR BOYS &GIRLS 
.\. 
Would you like to work with kids after graduation? 
The MercyWorks program at Mercy Home for Boys & Girls seeks highly motivated men and women who wish to acquir e social service ex perience while making a difference in the lives ofhurting children. Benefits include room and board, health insurance, professional training and supervis ion, loan forbearance and an AmeriCorps Education Award. 
For more infonnation contact the MercyW01ks Program Manager at 312-738-6369 or visit www.mercyhome.org 
Representa lives will also he at the ND Winter Career Fair on 211 from 4-Bpm. 

Thursday, February 1, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
International travel into U.S.loses popularity 
Sept. 11 attacks, long lines at customs, visa difficulties, subsequent security policies cited for drop in American tourism 
the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, Dakota Democrat who chairs a well-intentioned -over the past five Loews Hotels, told the committee
Associated Press despite an initiative announced a Senate panel investigating the issue. . years, appear to have strengthened that potential tourists to the U.S. WASIIINGTON -Visiting the year ago by top government offi­The decline is especially notable our security," Porter said. "Lost, have to wait so long and travel so United States isn't as popular as it cials. since the weak dol-however, were effi­far to get a visa that some are used to be mainly because of delays In 2000, the United States was the lar has made visits ciencies and a sem­choosing to go elsewhere. and difficulties in getting visas, long destination for 7.5 percent of all to the U.S. cheaper blance of customer Since shortly after the Sept. 11
"It's a significant

lines at customs and aggressive pro­international travelers. After the ter­for foreign tourists. service." attacks, people who need a visa to motional campaigns from other rorist attacks, tourism plummeted. Stevan Porter, an part ofour economy Also lost, he said, visit the United States must apply in countries. Four years later, only 6 percent of executive with and we're losing our were the 2007 Pan person so a consular official can 
Travel executives told a Senate international visits were to the Intercontinental American Games, conduct a face-to-face interview. 
share."

panel Wednesday that people are United States, according to the Hotels and chair­which were award­But in large countries like Brazil, going elsewhere for those reasons. Commerce Department. man of the travel ed to Rio de Janeiro Russia, China and India, would-be And long lines at Customs were Lawmakers and travel executives group Discover Sen. Byron Dorgan over San Antonio. tourists have to travel quite far just blamed for the U.S. losing out on the are working on strategies to boost America D-North Dakota "The U.S. to apply for the right to travel to the 2007 Pan American Games to Brazil international tourism, which con­Partnership, told Olympic Corrunittee U.S. sometime later. and a big concern for the U.S. tributes $1.3 trillion and 7.3 million the Senate ... recognizes this as The average wait time for a visa Olympic Corrunittee as Chicago and jobs to the U.S. economy, according Commerce a similar concern appointment in Rio de Janeiro is 38 Los Angeles compete for the 2016 to the Travel Industry Association. Corrunittee on Wednesday that get­pursuing award of the 2016 days, according to the State Olympics. "It's a significant part of the econ­ting through Customs has become a Olympics to either Chicago or Los Department. In the southern 
Fewer international visitors are omy and we're losing our share," daunting experience. Angeles," Porter said. Chinese city of Guangzhou, the wait coming to the United States since said Sen. Byron Dorgan, the North "The policies implemented -Jonathan TlSCh, chief executive of is 22 days. 
SuNDAY, FEB. 4TH FRIDAY, FEB. 2ND 
vs. DuKE @ NooN vs. FLORIDA STATE @ 4:00PM 
FREE T--SHIRTS TO 
EcK TENNIS PAVILIO

SJu 
SOUTH BEND
T 100 FANS! 
ORTHOPAEOICS 
The Observer is currently accepting applications for the 2007...08 term for the following positions: 
Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor 
News Editor, Sports Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Scene Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, Graphics Editor, Advertising Manager, Ad Design Manager, Controller, Web Administrator AN!n Systems Manager. 
APPLICANTS FOR MANAGING EDITOR AND ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR SHOULD DEMONSTRATE STRONG JOURNALISTIC AND MANAGEMENT SKILLS. AN IN-DEPTH UNDERSTANDING OF NEWSPAPER PRODUCTION, INCLUDING SKILLS IN MICROSOFT WORD, QUARK XPl\~SS AND PHOTQSHOP, IS REQUIRED EXPERIENCE WITH. MACINTOSH COMPUTERS IS HELPF'Vt. 
APPLICATIONS FOR MANAGING EDITOR AND ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR SHOULD BE 12 PAGES AND SHOULD EXPLAIN THE APPLICAJ'JT'S QUALIFICATIONS AND GOALS. APPLICATIONS FOR ALL OTHER POSITIONS SHOULD BE AT LEAST FIVE PAGES. 
MANAGING EDITOR AND AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR APPLICATIONS ARE DUE BY 5 P.M. FRIDAY, FEB. 2, WHILE APPLICATIONS FOR OTHER POSITIONS ARE DUE BY 5 P.M. SUNDAY, FEB. 4· ALL APPLiCATIONS SHOULD BE SUBMITTED TO MADDIE HANNA IN THE OBSERVER OFFICE, LOCATED IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL BASEMENT. 
PLEASE DIRECT QUESTIONS ABOUT THESE POSITIONS OR THE APPLICATION PROCEDURE TO MADDIE HANNA AT 63 I­
4541 OR MII<E GILLOON AT 631'"4542. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, February 1, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Walking to do
The bukpnrdmt, Daily Newspaper &nling Notrr Dame aru/ Saittl M4ry's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BuSINESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffm 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle Wesr 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.e!iu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS 0FACE 
(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewp<:>int.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrsJ@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 

When Dean Kamen unveiled his Segway Personal Transporter in December 2001, much of the grandiose hype and bloated expectations surround­ing the invention focused on how the new device would revolu­tionize the way mod­ern cities are built. Pretty lofty goal, sure, but no one accuses Kamen of downplaying his work. When the device was ollicially unveiled, people dis­covered that it was a motorized scooter. A pretty sweet scooter that can balance itself, true, but still ... a scooter. 
The Segway is a really nifty device, true. It's fast, dean, easy to charge and use, and it almost erases pollution when compared to a car. For the average American city-dweller, the machine really serves all your daily needs, provided it can reach the workplace and nearby stores. But Kamen's ballyhooed invention underestimates the sterling and durable method of transportation that humankind has possessed ever since evolution propped us upright: walking. 
The human gait is a fine thing when you think about it. You just push your legs forward and go, one foot in front of the other. As the steps add up, feet turn into yards, yards into miles, and miles into ... many miles. There are no emissions besides your exhaling breath, and none of the noise that clogs up otherwise serene cities. The footprint of the average human person is decidedly less than an automo­bile, and even the Segway can't best a person for space-savings. The speed may not be quite as great as a Segway or car, but it gets the job done. The energy sup­ply lasts a lot longer than a charge on 

James Dechant 
Foregone Conclusion 
Kamen's brainchild, and fuel is remark­ably cheaper than what Ford's offspring demands (even if you prefer.line dining). All those years of planning and inventing, and here the whole time we've been sit­ting-or standing-on the most effi­eient vehicle of all. Until our descendants colonize the moon and start scooting around in hover cars, it's the best means of travel we've got. 
Kamen's vision did bring to mind a regrettable aspect of modern life: we design our cities and neighborhoods around transportation, and that trans­portation is always a car. Older cities were built with narrower streets, where buildings hunched closer together, and they gave you an easier walking experi­ence. In our time, however, everything modern is subject to where a car can go. This means our more state-of-the-art dties possess a great deal of convenience lor us, but that convenience comes at a price. Cars are the de facto method of traveling, even within cities and suburbs, and we're left with little choice. Just think about getting around in South Bend and Mishawaka. Walking around campus or dose to it does not trouble us, but try walking to Meijer and carrying back your purchases. Sure, you can do it, but it's a pain. 
That pain, however, may be worth it. Living in a city may not provide the healthiest lifestyle in many aspects, but it beats suburban sprawl when it comes to weight and daily exercise. A national study published in American Journal of Preventative Medicine last December found that teenagers who grow up in sub­urban neighborhoods walk far less in their daily routines -relying instead on a car to get to and from school, work and friends' houses-and therefore are far more prone to obesity. They are, in fact, more than twice as likely to be over­weight when compared to city teenagers. 
I'm studying in Rome this semester, and as my first long-term city living situation, it has definitely changed my habit<>. When you're here, it's true, there's a whole lot of walking to do. Just going from our resi­dence to school and back and nowhere else probably adds up to four or five miles every day. The plight of suburban dwellers seems much more credible to me, because I now understand how little walking I used to do. Once you get used to walking everywhere, though, the conven­ience of it really becomes apparent. You're mobile, independent and environ­mentally-friendly. 

Most European cities are built on the same premise -they existed long before cars, and the largest thing the streets had to accommodate was an occasional horse and carriage. Here, walking is your best option for getting around. Modern cities have tons of advantages-better city plumbing and waste disposal, more suit­able land, ~asier transportation of goods -but they force you to hop in your car whenever you need a carton of milk or a loaf of bread. 
Fighting our handicapping modern city design isn't an easy task. Residential areas don't spring up overnight, so we can't expect our neighborhoods to change their layout that quickly. We can, howev­er, choose to walk to the store or work whenever we can. In the process, you can save energy, get a workout, create less noise and just enjoy your town. 
You could buy a Segway, but why waste the money? Use what you already have, and try walking. Your grandchildren liv­ing in redesigned moon-cities may thank you one day. 
James Dechant is a junior studying abroad in Rome this semester. Questions, complaints, and rude remarks can be sent to jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
www.ndsmcobserver. com Pouctes 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quertiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ol=rver-(USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhruugb Friday c:xupt during exam and vac.uion periods. A subscriprloo tQ Tiu:: Obsc:rv~r is.$100 for one academic pr, $55 fm om: scmi:Sler. 
The Obscrvc:r is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall &rut address com:crions w: Notre Dam~. IN 46556-0n9 The Ob.:tvtl P-triodU:al poSUtge paid at Notre Dame ~O.Box77'1 and addiEional mailing offices. 02.4 South Dining Hall 
Nom Dame, lN 46556-0779 

The Observer is J m~m~r ofthe Associated Ptc!ss. All reproduction rights Mt reserved. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Kelly Meehan Kyle Cassily Marcela Berrios Chris Hine Liz Harter Bill Brink Did the University handle Kyle Viewpoint Scene McAlarney's case fairly? Alyssa Erin McGinn Brauweiler 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Graphics Madeline Nies at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Submit aLetter I 

"A great memory is ne11er made synonymous with wisdom, any more than a dictionary would be called a treatise. " 
...h E.d. ·~ 
to t.··e ·. ·ttor at 1
... . ... . . . . . . r 

John Henry Newman former cardinal 
www.ndsmcobserver.com I 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 1, 2007 page 13 
Live in the moment 
Guess how many school days remain until the end of the semester. Any ideas? The correct answer is, of course, "It depends on how you count." Some possi­bilities include 108 days until commencement for those of you who are seniors; 99 calendar days until the end of exams; 62 actual class days, a number which you, having Kate gained acceptance to Notre Dame, Barrett should be able to break down even 
FaithPoint

further into your own personal tal­lies for your M-W-F and T-Th class­es. 
Now, though you may have a particular course which cannot come to an end quickly enough (hmmm, what a bummer if you already have this attitude on the first of February), hopefully you are not eagerly, anxiously, foot-tappingly, finger-drumm­ingly awaiting the end of the semester. I mean, what's not to like? You have access to the best pro­fessors; a wide selection of good and plentiful food (which you must do nothing more than carry a tray around the dining hall to receive ... just wait till you have to cook it yourself!); beautiful churches and chapels where you can pray and attend Mass about 458 times a week; free NOMAD wireless almost everywhere on campus; the use of fitness facilities you'd pay big bucks for in the "real world;" opportu­nities to attend retreats, spring break service proj­ects and world-renowned music and theater presen­tations. This is a pretty good life. Rather than rush­ing ahead to whatever's next, it seems reasonable to live it with gratitude. 
Unfortunately, circumstances seem to conspire to make "an attitude of gratitude" difficult. We face dis­appointments in love, academics or employment; we worry about ailing family members far away. Perhaps underlying all these others, we worry about the future. The obligation to choose a major, figure out a career, obtain summer jobs -or for those of you facing commencement, real jobs -weighs heav­ily on our minds. 
From beautiful and classic prayers by saints and holy men and women to the scores of self-help books on the Amazon or Barnes & Noble Web sites you can find endless suggestions, from profound to insipid, for how to "Jive in the now." How about just living each day with gratitude? Why not try to find some­thing to be grateful for each and every day-some­thing about being here, now, for which you give thanks? If you're a senior looking forward to Commencement (in 108 days), perhaps you especially will want to try the "daily gratitude" plan. For exam­ple, one of your classmates has returned to campus this semester after battling cancer and looks forward to graduating in May, cancer-free. That seems to me to be worth a big heap of gratitude. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Border patrol is not what We need 
This is a country that has a love-hate relationship with its immi­grants. We love when they build our homes, pick our fruit, land­scape our suburbs or clean our kitchens. But we hate when they've earned a place in the suburbs, when their kids "steal" our kids' spot at the university or even, perhaps, when their daughter marries our son. 
In defending the Minuteman Project, Geoff Spiess made some hasty speculation about the group's vigilante behavior ("'Bigot" an unfairly applied term, Jan. 29). In their Web site, the group is frank, explaining that the "nation is [being] devoured and plundered by the menace of tens of millions of invading illegal aliens." They describe how "future generations will inherit a tangle of rancorous, unassim­ilated, squabbling cultures with no common bond to hold them together, and a certain guarantee of the death of this nation as a harmonious 'melting pot.'" These lines reveal that the Minuteman Project is not simply concerned with illegal immigration, but ALL immigration. After all-"legal" immigrants are just as likely to ruin the "harmonious melting pot" as illegal ones. An immigrant is an immigrant-differentiating some as legal will not create harmony. 
Spiess also posits a mistaken notion that better protection along the U.S.-Mexican border equals better protection from terrorism. In The Wall Street Journal, Daniel Griswold explains that "before Sept. 11, the government had stationed more than four times as many border enforcement agents on the Mexican border as along the Canadian one, even though the Canadian border is more than twice as long and has been the preferred border of entry for Middle Easterners trying to enter the United States illegally." Thus, ifthe United States wants results in its war on terror, it should build a more efficient and fair system of immigration, not fences. The cur­rent regulations make legal immigration impossible for millions worldwide trapped in extreme poverty -not coincidentally, the same group willing to accept the jobs that the average American worker does not. 
Lastly, for those who decry the "burden" that illegal immigrants place upon social services-immigrants pay taxes too! Legal immi­grants or not, they pay sales taxes when they shop, they pay proper­ty taxes when they buy homes and they pay income taxes when they work. 
Catholic Social Teaching principles can also contextualize immi­grant use of social services. The principle of Option for the Poor and Vulnerable encourages Catholics to place the needs of the poor and vulnerable ahead of economic concerns. The principle of Solidarity urges Catholics to promote justice through the recognition that all belong to one human family, regardless of race, class or even citi­zenship. And the principle of Participation reminds Catholics that all persons have the right to access those institutions necessary for their human fulfillment. 
The issue of illegal immigration will not be resolved until the U.S. accepts responsibility for its intermeddling political actions through­out the world. It will require future leaders to fight global conditions of extreme poverty that are creating millions of immigrants. Are we up to that challenge, Notre Dame? 
Michelle Munoz senior off-campus Jan. 30 
We may create countdowns or spend all our time waiting for the future to happen out of worry or anx­iety. We may also do it because we've just come to take our present situation for granted. If you feel like you've used up all Notre Dame has to otTer, then it's time to make a new friend; go to a Mass or -prayer service you've never been to before; make a retreat (see below!); attend a lecture or concert you never thought you'd try; or best of all, find some small, new way to give something back to this com­munity. 
If you're one of those seniors counting down the 108 days until commencement, consider tossing your countdown in the trash-unless, of course, you're using it to find "108 Ways to be Grateful During My Last Semester Here." Additionally, how about going on the senior retreat this weekend (Feb. 2 and 3; see campusministry.nd.edu)? It starts tomorrow but you can still sign up -and no one will make fun of you for having no previous plans for the weekend. Hey, you're living in the now! 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Kate Barrett, director ofresources and special projects in the Office ofCampus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Support the team let 'the box' live 
College sports' fans stand out from the crowd, so to speak, in their passion for the team and willingness to travel great distances in support of that team, and consume their lives knowing the high school stats of a junior tailback in North Dakota, who may or may not go to their school someday. And if you look around in the students' section of most college games, you can see spectators dressed extravagantly and borderline loony. The lep­rechaun isn't the only mascot that Notre Dame basketball has. Many have seen him, but few understand the simple brilliance until getting a closer look. Right in front of Notre Dame's biggest games this season has been "the box." That blob of white down in the first row next to the center aisle is not a marshmallow but one crazy fan. 
Willing to camp out sometimes 12 hours before game time for the coveted seat, "the box" garners a bad rap from the security staff worried about the younger audience. (Mind you, "the box" is short for the Halloween costume "box of wine" which comes complete with a spigot.) They fear that small children will think of the spigot as a phallic symbol. And although it is important to protect our children, honestly, how many kids are old enough to know what it symbolizes, but young enough to still be offended? With the cos­tume turned inside out, people only see a foam blob or as one ESPN commentator recently called him, "the bubble boy." 
"The box" must be set free and allowed to be worn in good harmless fun. There are three Irish home games remaining and in order to keep the streak alive and keep the Leprechaun Legion as great as it is, let the box live. 
Jim Young freshman Keough Hall Jan. 30 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Thursday, February 1, 2007 
DVD REVIEWS 
Jaa's 'Protector' ruined by Americanization 
ByTAEANDREWS Assistanr Scene Editor 
Tony Jaa burst onto the scene with 2003's "Ong Bak," an instant classic that f1ew at audiences like an elbow strike to the face and cemented his sta­tus as a bona fide martial arts super­star. Utilizing vicious elbow and knee strikes in the Muay Thai martial art style, Jaa dispatched onscreen enemies with panache and flair reminiscent of (dare we say it) the late and great Bruce Lee, the greatest kung fu movie star of all time. Along the way, he even managed to make the movie title a verb in the popular slang, as in, "Oh man, he just got Ong Bak'd right in the face!" 
Jaa is like a real-life version of "The Matrix," performing impossible flips, somersaults and aerial acrobatics, usu­ally ending with one bad guy or anoth­er receiving massive punishment to the face from one of Jaa's many limbs and joints. Throwin' 'bows in the distinctive Muy Thai style, the sheer creativity of Jaa as a martial artist matches pretty much anything Quentin Tarantino could dream up short of Pai Mei's Five-Point Exploding Heart Technique. 
The high-flying Thailander is like the 

The Protector 
Two-Disc Collector's Edition 
Weinstein Company 
~~1~r 


Tazmanian devil, a whirling dervish of fists, feet, elbows and knees unleashed upon enemies everywhere. And the best part of all is that Jaa is the real deal. As the DVD proudly proclaims, Tony Jaa has "no stunt doubles, no wires, no CGI." In other words, what you see is what you get. 
Normally, watching Jaa in action is a kick in the pants, or more aecurately, a flying knee strike to the dome. So natu­rally, Jaa's next movie should have been as sure of a thing as one of his signature monster elbows to the face, right? 
Wrong. Enter "The Protector," one of the worst put-together movies of all time. Somewhere, Bruce Lee is doing backflips in his grave after the release of this sloppy jalopy. The original Thai film. entitled "Tom Yum Goong," is a fine pieee of cinem~. Unfortunately, the various clowns at the Weinstein Company headquarters decided to cut a different version of the film for its release in the U.S. 
Perhaps the studio was trying to sim­plify the film for American audiences, but ironically enough, the plot is very standard fare. Jaa reprises his role from "Ong Bak" as a Thai country boy done good. This time around, he tlnds 
himself risking life and splicPd togethPr by a glue stick­eating first grader with construction paper, chewing gum and Scotch tape. The editing is just awful -it's choppy, devoid of any coherent structure and makes the plot impossible to follow. "The Protector" skips from fight scene to chase sequence back to fight scene regardless of plot. 

Amazingly, the fight scenes remain breathtaking, with audiences sure to ooh and ahh at Jaa's many insane moves. Jaa still sizzles and dazzles, delivering a scintillating performance almost in spite of the atrocious editing. 
Throughout its confusing and distort­ed narrative, the film even manages to jump between dubbing and subtitles seemingly at whim, which is just adding insult to injury. Even for a 111m genre known for its cheesy dialogue and worse acting, "The Protector" manages to disappoint at every turn. 

The sole redeeming feature of the DVD set is that the generous folks at Dragon Dynasty DVD decided to add a second disc of the original film, "Tom Yum Goong." 
Although there is plenty of Tony Jaa inflieting his typical pain on heads, shoulders, knees and toes, all that bone-breaking and name-taking is ulti­mately wasted, as not even the talented Mr. Jaa can save "The Protector." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 
By TAE ANDREWS Assistanr Scene Editor 
For those college students socially adept enough to have never picked up a comic book in their lives, Iron Man doesn't carry the same superhero name recognition as a Batman or a Spider-Man. As such, most undergraduates may be unaware that Marvel recently released "The Invincible Iron Man." a reboot of the Iron Man mythos, for the faithful in the form of a straight-to-DVD animated classic. At least, that's what the goal was. 
Sadly, even Iron Man's rocket shoes can't launch this clunker of a flick off the ground. Although the DVD features pretty good animation, bad dialogue and the typ­ical convoluted plot associated with ani­mated movies put a whole lot of chinks in Iron Man's armor. 
Iron Man's alter ego is billionaire play­boy Tony Stark, the founder of Stark Enterprises, a multi-billion dollar tech company. Basically, imagine Bill Gates with game: a computer technology nerd with the suave skills of Justin Timberlake, plus a pretty sweet Fu Manchu mustache and limb in pur­suit of pachyderm protection, guard­ing a venerable line of elephants from evil poach­ers. 
Dumbed down and sped up for American audi­ences, the movie was apparently cut 
'Iron Man' falls far short of invincible namesake 
Man story (a similar Eastern inl'luenee
The Invincible 
Iron Man 
worked well in "Batman Begins," 
another superhero re-launch movie), Lions Gate here it seems as though Iron Man's GPS navigation sys­tem went haywire and he accidentally landed himself in 'The Last Samurai." 

(granted, this is not an easy thing to imag­ine, but that's why it's based ofT a comic book). Plus, with all of his mechanized joints, Iron Man can do "The Hobot" just like JT. In fact, it seems like he's always doing "The Robot" as he elunks and clanks his way through the IND. 
After an early attack leaves him with a damaged heart, Tony Stark manages to soldier on. Despite his bum ticker, the tin man still has a heart of gold, an iron will and a steel resolve to fight crime (and evil supernatural beings). 
As these things tend to go, the plot is pretty far out there. Stark Enterprises has a project to raise arr ancient buried city in China. However, midway through the project, evil magical demons called Elementals pop up like supernatural Whack-A-Moles. Obviously, the next logi­cal step for these dark forces of nature is to try to raise the Mandarin, the evil and all-powerfulleader of an ancient dynasty. With the world in peril, a man in a robot suit is called upon to save the day. In other words, standard comic book fare as far as the plot goes. 
Although the use of Chinese mysticism is an interesting angle to take in the re­telling of the Iron 

Iron Man fans will no doubt enjoy the appearance of Tony Stark's best friend James "Hhodey" Rhodes. However, per­haps the most disappointing thing about the movie is that Tony Stark doesn't even spend the majority of time as Iron Man in his usual red and yellow get-up. No, instead he plods around in a grey bucket of bolts with a microwave oven for a hel­met. 
Unfortunately, by the time The Invincible Iron Man saddles up and reach­es its "climax," Tony Stark's palm blasters are firing blanks: the bizarre plot makes the fmal showdown somewhat less than epic. Animated classics aside, the film's bad dialogue and worse vocal perform­anees cause the whole movie to ring more hollow than an empty suit of armor. Fortunately for the diehard tin can head fans out there, this is only Marvel's first try at making an Iron Man movie. Although this first stab at the character can be considered an unqualified swing and a miss, unsatisfied fans are still better off waiting for the live action version, directed by Jon Favreau, due out some­time in 2008. 

Here's to hoping the second time is the charm. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, February 1, 2007 
page 15 

The legacy of Time's latest 'Person of the Year' 
Looking at the future of user-generated sites like You Tube 
recording companies and entertain­
By BRIAN DOXTADER and ment companies are clamoring for 
MARTY SCHROEDER more control over the media content on 
Scene Writers the internet, Web sites such as YouTube 
are the mother lode for advertisers, 
Time Magazine recently declared provided they make a connection with "you" to be the "Person of the Year," their consumers. Create a plot within a primarily because of the Internet phe­group of commercials -something Taco nomenon of YouTube. YouTube is a Web Bell has attempted to do with its cur­site that allows web surfers to post and rent Carmen Electra commercials -put watch Internet videos at no cost, and is the whole storyline, once completed, to one of the biggest and most well-known Web sites like YouTube and have your Web sites. potential customers watch your com­
"Every video ever is on YouTube," mercials over and over aga(n. joked comedian Dane Cook on SNL (in a Machiavellian tactics like this may not clip that was, ironically, removed from be ethical, but this is the way of com­YouTube at NBC's request). Cook may mercial advertising with devices like not have been far off. The site is now TiVo and others eliminating the televi­home to countless videos, ranging from sion advertisement. simple home movies to complex com­A side effect of this could be advertis­mercial endeavors. ing competitions similar to the focus 
YouTube was founded by Chad groups companies use to know how to Ilurley, Steve Chen and Jawed Karim­market to certain demographics. The three former PayPal employees -in freelance advertiser wouldn't be holed 2005. By summer of 2006, it was one of up in a cubicle, but instead be able to the world's most popular Web sites, and submit commercials to companies by in October 2006 it was sold as a sub­posting them on websites like YouTube. sidiary of Google. celebrities and cultural icons out of so­ing" of popular media. Everything from Consumers and companies could vote 
Easy cop-out remarks aside, Time called "viral videos." Accidental clips the old "X-Men" cartoon-redubbed as for their favorite and by the time you've Magazine's selection raises some seri­like the Star Wars Kid (YouTube search: the "Juggernaut" won, everyone has seen so ous questions. "You" may star wars kid), Lecroy video (Google video many advertisements from a be the director of your Jenkins (YouTube search: juggernaut) Time said we are the single company. The possi­own destiny and YouTube This may be cynical, search: leeroy jenkins) -to the "G.I. Joe" "Person ofthe Year" bilities for corporations to video, but how long is it and the Numa Numa Public Service use (read: abuse) these Web
but is there any because we are
going to be before adver­video (YouTube search: Announcements sites are endless. tisers catch wind of this industry in the United numa numa) contrast (YouTube search: creative, original and All in all, the Google buy­and reach their tentacles States that has not with "real" videos like gi joe psa) have exactly what out of YouTube could be one into this supposedly egal­the "Shoes" video been altered, usu­of the most damaging things
been taken over by corporations are not.
itarian and personally (YouTube search: shoes) ally to comic effect. to happen to "you." As a
corporations?

driven Internet phenom­or the SNL digital shorts. These movies have publicly owned company, the enon? A look into where Whether they know it or proven immensely popular, but are shareholders will be the ones who websites like YouTube not, these "common peo­problematic because they use copy­determine the direction that the Web were and where they are now reveals ple," who have not gone through the righted materials. Though these materi­site takes. much about where they will probably traditional flaming hoops to stardom, als have been altered (often drastically) Any form of·creative community that be going. are the latest fads without being in some videos, like the aforementioned could have come out of YouTube will 
This may be cynical, but is there any their own film or on "Oprah." This is "Juggernaut" clip, have been removed have to go someplace else and the web­
industry in the United States that has not to say that Tom Cruise jumping because of infringement laws. site that bore "Shoes" and the Star not been taken over by corporations? around on "Oprah" was not one of the One of the positive side effects for Wars kid will be a hunting ground for YouTube is our generation's Mom and most watched clips on Internet video advertisers, however, are the commer­advertisers trying to get "you" to spend Pop store; we know who our friends are sites, but who knows what the real cials available on YouTube. With the "your" money. and we all come together to make Lecroy Jenkins looks like, or who the impending Super Bowl XLI commer­Time said we are the "Person of the media for each other. However, the Star Wars kid is? We may not know, but cials, everyone, including "you," will be Year" because we are creative, original commercials are on the way. the Star Wars kid was parodied on for­able to go back to YouTube the next and exactly what corporations are not. 
YouTube has, in many ways, revolu­mer Fox hit "Arrested Development" -morning and watch their favorite com­If we want to live up to the legacy Time tionized Internet video by compiling he became a pop culture icon to mil­mercials over and over and over again has given us, we need to find more men most of it within the confines of a single lions who don't know his name. These -a boon for whoever's marketing like Lecroy Jenkins. Web site. There is a ton of copyrighted characters, who act a little out of the department creates the cleverest com­material like music videos, sporting ordinary, are the people Time is talking mercial. The 1984 "1984" Apple com­Contact Brian Doxtader at events and television show clips, though about when they made "you" the mercial (YouTube seach: apple 1984) or bdoxtade@nd. edu and Marty some studios, like NBC, have begun to "Person of the Year" -not to mention Reebok's "Terry Tate: Office Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu crack down. the YouTube users with the foresight to Linebacker" (YouTube search: terry The views expressed in this column 
What's truly bizarre about Internet put these videos up in the first place. tate} are now available long after their are those of the author and not neces­video is the way it has made minor Another phenomenon is the "remix-initial airdate. While all the music sarily those of The Observer. 



page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 1, 2007 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Hoosiers erase Badgers' 17-game win streak 
Ratliff scores season-high 20 points, White adds 16 as Indiana upsets No. 2 Wisconsin 71-66 in Big Ten battle 
Associated Press would lose and because we were 
so highly ranked the other fans 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-A.J. would rush the court. I can't Hatliff's scariest moment came remember having fans (at home) after the game was over. rush the court like that." 
Hatlitl' scored 18 of his season­After Ratliff's final basket, high 20 points in the second half Tucker missnd the first of a onfl­and Indiana held off No. 2 and-one free throw opportunity Wisconsin on Wednesday night, and the Hoosiers rebounded as ending the Badgers' 17-game the Assembly Hall crowd began winning streak. But before Ratliff chanting "A-J-Ratlifl'." and the rest of his teammates Tucker also missed a 3-point could get off the court, several try with 10 seconds left, and Earl thousand delirious fans stormed Calloway iced the game by hit­out of the stands and onto the ting one of two free throws. Jloor in eelebration. "The crowd definitely was a 
''I'm claustrophobic anyway," key for them. gave them a lot of said Ratliff. who was quickly energy, gave them a boost," mobbed by the Indiana fans. "I Tucker said. "But it's always was just trying to get to the lock­tough to play here. And the way er room. It was funny, but it was they're playing here, they're kind of scary at the same time." doing .~ tremendous job here at 
Ratlifl' was even scarier for the home. Badgers during the game. He Tucker, second in the Big Ten hatl a pair of 3-pointers during a in scoring at 19.6, had 14 points 13-1 run and another 3-pointer in the first half, but the Badgers that gave the Hoosiers (16-5, 6-2 never pulled away despite Big Ten) a 53-43 lead with under Indiana's poor shooting early in 10 minutes remaining. the game. 
A rebound basket by Alando "We knew from the start it was Tucker, who led Wisconsin (21-2, going to be tough to pull this out. 7 -1) with 23 points, and two 3-I don't think we eame out with a pointers by Kammron Taylor lot of energy from the start, and helped the Badgers tie the game that was the tale of the game," at 59. But Ratliff scored six of Tucker said. Indiana's next eight points, including two free throws with a North Carolina 105, Miami 64 assists on 36 baskets. They took team back ofl' now. in school history. minute to go to for a 70-66 lead, The margin kept growing with a 49-24 rebounding advantage. "Sometimes you ean lose Mike Green scored a season­and the Badgers never recov­each possession, whether by 3-They matched their season-high focus," Wright admitted of the high 23 points, Pete Campbell ered. pointers or transition dunks that scoring output and cracked the big leads. "But Coach empha­added a season-high 20 and No. 
Ratliff, a junior guard who has provided the only spark for an 100-point mark for the sixth time sizes every timeout, 'Keep your 13 Butler won its seventh been the Hoosiers' top scorer off otherwise listless crowd that ulti­this year. foot on the gas."' straight, beating Youngstown the bench in the past three mately headed home early. Ty Lawson had 13 points, while At the other end, the State on Wednesday night. games and in five of the past six, Sueh is life for third-ranked Danny Green added 12 and Hurricanes could do little to slow The Bulldogs were playing hit 6-of-7 shots, including four 3-North Carolina these days -a Reyshawn Terry had 10. Wright them. Anthony Harris scored 18 their fourth game in seven days pointers, in the second half. team so talented that it can't finished with seven rebounds points and hit three 3s to lead but didn't look like it. They domi­

"I felt somebody had to step up even keep its own fans in the and four blocks, while senior Miami, which shot 36 percent nated the Penguins with their 3­and make a play," he said. "I felt seats for an entire game. reserve Quentin Thomas had a and fell behind by as many as 43 point shooting in the first half, like I was hitting all my shots and Tyler Hansbrough scored 22 career-high eight assists with one points late to lose its fifth straight then attacked the rim in the sec­I was open, so I had all the confi­points and grabbed 13 rebounds turnover. league game. ond half with the same result. dence in the world." Wednesday night to lead the Tar The Tar I I eels also got a boost Miami coach Frank Haith was With the victory, Butler (21-2, 
D.J. White added 16 points for Heels past Miami, giving them with the return of sophomore ejected after being whistled for 9-1 Horizon League) surpassed the Hoosiers, who beat their five straight wins by lopsided guard Bobby Frasor, who had his second technical foul after the 20-win mark for just the highest-ranked opponent since margins as they head into a pair missed the past four games with reacting to a no-call on a block third time. With No. 2 Wisconsin an NCAA tourney upset of No. 1 of road games against instate a right-foot injury. Frasor was by Hansbrough with 7:48 left. falling to Indiana, the Bulldogs Duke in 2002. rivals. scoreless with two assists in 9 The call came just before an offi­are tied with the Badgers for the 
"This was a tremendous col­Wayne Ellington scored 14 minutes. cial timeout and the Tar Heels most wins in the nation. lege basketball game," Indiana points for the Tar Heels (20-2, 6-It was quite a way to follow up leading 73-51, allowing Haith to Lickliter didn't want his players coach Kelvin Sampson said. 1 Atlantic Coast Conference), their most impressive perform­walk to the Tar Heels huddle and to find out. "When you get down to a posses­who look like they feel a little ance of the season, a 92-64 win shake Williams' hand before "We probably won't be able to sion game, you've got to make invincible eaeh game. at then-No. 17 Arizona despite leaving the eourt. fit on that plane -big heads," he baskets." "I wouldn't say invincible at playing without three top play­"I think they're the best team said. 
Sampson, the former all," said freshman Brandan ers. The Tar Heels didn't look in the country," Haith said. "They The Bulldogs had managed to Oklahoma coach who took over Wright, who had eight points as quite that ellieient early on, but come at you in waves.... lie's got go unscathed through one of the at Indiana for Mike Davis this one of 12 players to score for they still head into games at a team. Trust me, he's got a toughest portions of their sched­season, said he wasn't worried North Carolina. "We've got a lot North Carolina State and eighth­team." ule -four games in four states about the crush of fans as the of guys who are playing well and ranked Duke brimming with con­in seven days. game ended. contributing." fidence. Butler 71 But lickliter was still worrying 
"I have security guys," he Indeed. ''I'd rather go in playing well Youngstown State 58 about the 10 turnovers -a lot joked. "I have a lot of confidence North Carolina overwhelmed than playing sorry," coaeh Roy Butler coach Todd Lickliter for a team that entered the game in my offensive line." the Hurricanes (9-13, 2-6), who Williams said. "I think the kids looked at the box seore and leading all Division I schools in 
Still, he wasn't exactly comfort­upset the Tar Heels here last sea­understand in this league it's got shook his head over his team's fewest turnovers per game (9.7). able. son. North Carolina shot 56 per­to be every game. You've got to 10 turnovers. "We had lapses where we 
"In the last five or six years, I cent, including ,61 percent after be ready to play in this league Maybe it's that kind of perfec­struggled, but we would on top of was always on the other side of halftime. The Tar Heels hit 12 of every night." tionism that's led to the Bulldogs' those build and so we didn't col­that," he said. "We (Oklahoma) 24 3-pointers. They had 26 And Williams won't let his best three months of basketball lapse," Lickliter said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content wi!hout issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
andersonNDrentals.com Newly renovated home for rent, 3 PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-Smile, Thomson. Not everyone in bedrooms, 2 baths, close to ONE WHO IS? this world hates you. WANTED FoR RENT Luxury townhome,walk to NO. 3or4 ND/SMC. Available now and for You do not have to be alone. We 
bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. 07-08. Inquire @574-289-7791. want to help. Dearest Fritz, CASHIERS NEEDED. APPLY IN House available for 2007-2008. $600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569. We write this letter to let you PERSON. UNIVERSITY Very Large, ,Close to Campus, Just know how much we enjoy relaxing MARATHON, 405 933N IN ROSE-Renovated. Contact Furn horne avail. 2/15 to 8/15. Walk Call our 24 hour confidential hotline on our two new couches. We ask 
PERSONAL

LAND. HOURS WILL VARY AND MacSwain@ grnail.corn to Univ. Call561-596-0194. at 1-800-No-ABORT or visit our that you please refrain from ever 
NO CALLS. website at www.lifecall.org sleeping on or around Rm. 404 in Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5 BEITER HOMES,BETIER UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do the future. The freshmen still don't bdrm, 3 bath homes, frpls, 2-car AREAS,BETIER DEALS. not go it alone. If you or someone Three tickets needed to NO Men's know what terrible things you did to garages. Call574-232-4527 or 269-BlueGoldRentals.com you love needs confidential support Basketball game against Marquette the last one that we hoisted off on
FoR SALE 
683-5038. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue on Feb. 24. them the day after you deflowered 
2 bdrm condo JPW & Grad wknds. Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more it. That's our little secret. Feel free 2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR-Newly remodeled 3 and 4 bdrm 1 mi to NO. 614-985-5003. information, visit our web site at Will pay cash. to exploit Garrett's couches. He can QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT houses available for sale/rent. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-Call570-362-1905 afford new ones anyway. CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE Contact Meredith Allsop, Milligan 2-6 BDRM HOMES.$245/PER-nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Love, The Society for the OWNER, $6,500. CALL 243-5454. Real Estate 220-9817. SON/M0.574-329-0308 in The Observer. Sean Fox= Best dressed guy at NO Protection of Friends' Furniture (SPFF) 
------------------------------------------------------. 
AROUND THE NATION 
Thursday, February 1, 2007 CoMPILED rRoM THE ()nsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
MLB 
NCAA Hockey USCHO.com/CSTV Top 25 
team  record  points  previous  
1  New Hampshire  19-4-1  795  2  
2  NOTRE DAME  21-5-2  734  3  
3  Minnesota  21-5-3  731  1  
4  St. Cloud State  17-5-4  684  4  
5  Denver  19-9-2  631  5  
6  Michigan State  16-8-1  515  9  
7 8  Boston University Clarkson  13-5-7 16-6-4  499 __494.,,,.,.,_,__  7 10  
9  Maine  16-7-2  471  6  
10  Miami{OH)  18-9-3  458  8  
11  Michigan  19-9-0  428  12  
12  North Dakota  15-11-2  374  15  
13  Boston College  14-9-1  339  13  
14  Vermont  14-8-4  308  11  
15  Colorado College 14-10-2  222  14  
16  Niagara  17-8-3  209  16  
17  St. Lawrence  14-10-2  165  17  
18  Quinnipiac  12-8-4  74  20  
19  Massachusetts  12-8-4  69  NR  
20  Cornell  10-8-3  56  18  

Inside College Hockey Power Rankings· 
team record 

1 New Hampshire 2 NOTRE DAME 3 Minnesota 4 St. Cloud State 5 Denver 6 Boston University 1 Clarkson 8 Michigan State 9 Miami (QH} 10 Michigan 11 Maine 12 Vermont 13 Boston ColleQe 14 Niagara 15 North Dakota 16 St. Lawrence 17 Colorado College 18 RIT 19 Lake Superior St. 20 Massachusetts 


USA Today/USA Hockey Magazine College Hockey 
team  record  points  previous  
1  New Hampshire  19-4-1  507  2  
2  NOTRE DAME  21-5-2  466  
3  Minnesota  21-5-3  442  1  
4  St. Cloud State  17-5-4  411  4  
5  Denver  19-9-2  375.'  5  
6  Boston University  13·5-7  287  6'  
7  Michigan Stale  16-8-1  265  8  
8  Clarkson  16-6-4  264  10  
9  Maine  16-7-2  222  1  
10  Michigan  19-9-0  219  11-''''''''''  
11  Miami (OH)  18-9-3  212  9  
12  North Da kola  15-11-2  136  15  
13  Boston College  14-9-1  112  14  
14  Vermont  14·8·4  82  12  
15  Niagara  17-8-3  42  NR  

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Georgetown at Saint Joseph's 7 p.m., ESPN 
Duke at Virginia 9 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Barry Bonds' contract with the San Francisco Giants isn't final just yet. 
After the commissioner's office rejected Bonds' $15.8 million, one-year deal because it contained a per­sonal-appearance provision, the team sent revised docu­ments to his agent, Jeff Borris. 
"At this time, Barry is not signing the new documents," Borris said. 
Baseball's Uniform Player Contract states a player "agrees to cooperate with the club in any and all rea­sonable promotional activi­ties." Bonds' contract had additional language that the commissioner's office reject­ed. 
Borris did not detail the provisions in dispute, but a baseball executive, speaking on condition of anonymity because these details had not been made public, said they dealt with personal appearances. 
Giants executives did not immediately return tele­phone calls seeking com­ment. 
Bonds and the Giants, who agreed to financial terms Dec. 7, said Monday the drawn-out agreement had been finalized. 
Still, they disagree on the meaning of an unusual pro­vision in the deal relating to 
IN BRIEF 
CowbQYs will wait until after 
Super Bowl to name coach 
!HYING, Texas -The Dallas Cowboys won't name Bill Parcells' replacement until after the Super Bowl. 
In his first public comments since Parcells retired Jan. 22, owner and general manager Jerry Jones said Wednesday he wouldn't have a deci­sion on a new coach until next week. Jones has already interviewed eight candidates, and said he might add to that list. 
"We've got a good football team. and I've got to get this right," Jones said. "We've got to make a good decision when we select the next coach. We're going to have the opportunity and a plan in place that will allow us to do that." 
Hall of Fame linebacker Mike Singletary, the assistant head coach for the San Francisco 49ers, interviewed Tuesday. That came two days after 49ers offensive coordinator Norv Turner. 
Bonds' potential legal prob­lems. In the contract, a list of criminal a,cts is spelled out in a section. 
"Player acknowledges and agrees that an indictment for any criminal act under (that section) ... is proper grounds for termination of this con­tract," Bonds' contract states. 
The language in the con­tract was read to The Associated Press by a person with a ~opy of the agree­ment. 
"Player also acknowledges and agrees that he will not grieve, appeal or otherwise challenge any club action to terminate this contract as a result of player's indictment for any criminal acts (speci-fled) ... nor will he cause or authorize any third party, such as the Major League Baseball Players Association, to grieve, appeal or other­wise challenge any club action to terminate this con­tract as a result of player's indictment for any (specified) criminal actS." 

The Giants wanted to pro­tect themselves if Bonds is charged in the federal gov­ernment's steroids investiga­tion. Bonds' personal trainer, Greg Anderson, is in a California federal prison because he has refused to testify whether Bonds com­mitted perjury when he told a 2003 grand jury he never knowingly used perform­ance-enhancing drugs. 
Su~r Bowl air security tight, 
high-tech · 
HOMESTEAD AIR RESERVE BASE, Fla. -Pilots who stray into a no-fly zone around the Super Bowl on Sunday can count on an immediate, robust response from F -16 fighter planes, helicopters and lots of high­tech gadgetry aimed at countering any threat. 
"We'll be prepared to handle any­thing like that," said Julie Tortes, chief of the Miami office of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and the federal secu­rity coordinator for the Super Bowl. 
When flight restrictions are violat­ed, most of the time it's because of a communications problem or a pilot isn't aware of the rules. But even so, the Air Force, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and numerous other agencies are ready to intercept such aircraft,· escort them to the ground and interrogate the pilots on Super Bowl Sunday. 

NASCAR changes provisional 
qualifying spot rule CONCORD, N.C. -NASCAR changed its Nextel Cup past champions provi­sional Wednesday to limit it to only six uses per season. 
There had previously been no limit to how many times a past Cup cham­pion could use the provisional to ensure a spot in the field each week. The provisional was set aside for the 43rd spot in the race to the most recent former champion who did not qualify based on speed. 
Now, a driver can only use the spot six times in a year, and the limit also applies to the entire team so that a car owner can't use multiple past champions in the course of one sea­son. 
"As NASCAR seeks to place more emphasis on competition. we have decided the time is right to limit the number of provisionals allowed," said Hobin Pemberton, NASCAR's competition director. 
page 18 The Observer + PAID A-DVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 1, 2007 
FOLLOWING iS A UST OF ALL FIRST ROUND GAME F'riday, ..F(~bnmry 2, 2007 TIMES FOR LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS. 7:00 I'M~ 4:00 AJV! ADDITONAL TIMES WILL BE PROVIDED AT Joyce Center
Late 
THE END OF EACH ROUND. 631~6100 
Niuht
b Be a Real Cluunpion-Support Special O(wnpics!!! All LNO Medals Donated by 
(")1 '\/ , .. ...r• .. ·· tlte Notre Dame ,4lumni Association 
nlph,.,s

_ J $1.00 l)onation Requested at the l)oor 
XXI 
Keough/Welsh Fan1ily 
Volleyball Team A 7:00 Men's Raetjuetball CALL 1-6100 Team B 7:50 Women's Racquetball CALL I-6WO Men's Basketball lt:amA 7:00 Co-Ree Br<K>mball 8:30 Team B 7:30 Women's Basketball 8:20 Kickball 12:50 Wilfteball 'ICamA 8:15 l'llimate Team A 7:30 TeamB 10:55 Team B 8:30 Monster !Al<lgeball 12:0() TurgetGolf 9:00 lnnertube Water Polo 8:00 
Co.. Rec Soccer Team A 6:30 !.NO Obstacle Course Team A 10:45 TeamB 8:35 TeamB 10:30 Kayaking 10:15 'Jabk Tennis CALL 1-6100 Dance Marathtlll NA 
""""· 'N. ·r;;r

tJ .. e11 .. ~:N:vons 
Volleyball Team A 7:{)(} Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 rcarn B 7:50 Women's Racqu~tball CALL l-6100 Men's Basketball 7:15 Co-Ret· Br<M>mball 9::10 
Women's Busk(..>tball 7:40 Ktckb<tll 12:10 Ultimate Team A 8:10 Wilfteball 9:35 
Team B 8:50 ~1~.mster D<xlgcball 12:00 Target Golf 9:2(1 lnncrtu~ Water J>olo Team A 8:00 Co-Ret· Soccer Te-am A 7:45 ·ream B IO:JO 
Team B Y:50 LNO Obstacle Course Team A 9:15 
Kayakin,g 9:15 TeamB 10:15 Table '!ennis CALL l-6HXI Dann.~ Mamthon 10:00 
Dillon/Walsh 
Volleyball Team A 7:25 Men's Racquetball NA TcamB 7:25 \\'omen's Rm.~quctbaJI NA Men's Ba.ketball 7:30 Co-Ree Bl"\>omball 12:(X) 
·women's Baskt.."tb~tll Team A 9:00 Kickb<tll 11:10 Team B 7:()() Witfelball Team A 8:15 
l..'ltimate NA TeamB 9:55 Monsler Dt.xlg~ball 12:00 Innertulx.~ ¥.:arer Polo 10:05 
9:40 LNO Obstack Course Team A 9:00 Team B 10:15 Co.. Ro.r Soccer Team A 8:10 
TeamB 9:50 Table Tenn.is CALL 1·6100 Kayaking NA Dane~ Marathon NA 
Alumni/Levvis 
Volleyball NA Men'< Racquetball NA NA Women's Racquetball NA NA <.-:-o-·Rt~c Rnxm1hall NA 
7:20 Kickball NA Wiflleball NA Ultimate 7:50 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 fnneL1ube Water Polo NA Target Golf 9:40 LNO Obstacle Course NA C'o-Rec St1Ccer 8:05 ·Table .l'enni ~ CALL l-6Hl0 
Knyaking T<amA 11:30 ream B 11:45 D~uKe Marathon NA 
.Knott/I)asquerilla East 
Volleyball 7:00 Men's RHcquetball NA NA \\'omen's Rat·tpn::tball CALL 1·611..10 Men's Basketball Team A 7:00 Co-Ree Broomball 12:00 
·reamB 7:30 \\/omen's Basketball X:(KI Kickball 12:10 Ultimate Team A 9c10 Wiffteball 9:55 
'JeamB 8:50 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Targ~t Golf 10:40 lnnertube Water Polo ~:15 !.NO Obs~tcle Couroe TtunA 9:30 Co-Ree Soccer 'leamA 10:15 'leam B 10:00 ToamB 8:35 Htble-Tennis CALL 1-6!1l0 Kayaking Team A 9:00 'JeamB 10:45 Dance Marathon NA 
Fisher/Hovvard/Regina 
Volleyball 7:25 Men'$ RHcquctball CALL1·6100 
Women•s Racqudball CALL I-611KJ Team A 7:45 Co-Ree Bl"\>omball 2:1Xl Team B 7:15 Kickball to:sn 
Women's Basketbnll NA Wit1khall 8:55 Ultimate 9:10 M,>nster Dodgeball 12:00 
lnnerwbc Wau,... Polo 8:25 TargetGoli 9:00 Co-Ree StX.'Cer 6:30 LNO Obstacle Course 9:45 
Tabft~ Tennis CALLI-6111() Kayaking 8:30 Dance .Marathon NA 
Siegfried/Pasquerilla W. 
Volleyball re:un :\ 7:50 Men·> Racqu<tb!~l CALL l-6100 Team B 7:00 W<m>en 's Racquetball CALL 1-·6100 Men's Basketball Team A 7:00 Co-Ree Broombull 8:ll() ream B 7:JO Wornen's'Basketball Team A 7:00 Kkkball tu:sn Te:un B 9:20 Wiffleball Te:tmA 8:35 Ultimate Team A 8:10 Team B 10:55 ·rt-ami:l 8:30 Monster Dodgeball 12:()(1 Target Golf Team A 10:20 Inn.ermbc Water Polo '1:40 
Team B 10;00 ISO O~stacle C<llln<e NA Co-Ree Stx:\.-e.r li:amA 7:45 f<~am B 10:15 Table Tennis CALl .. I.. {iJfiO Kayaking 9:45 Dance M:uathon 10:0() 
Sori n/Pangborn 
VolleyI:>;~ I NA Men '• Racquetball NA ·woml!'o·s Racquetball NA NA Co-Kec Bwomball 1:3(1 
Women's Bn>kctball 7:40 Kickball NA Ultimate NA Wifflcball 9:J5 
Target Golf NA Monster Dodgeball 12:00 lnnertube Water polo 9:40 
6:55 LNU Obstade Course Nt\ Tub!< Tennis NA 
Kayaking Team A 9:30 Dance Marathon 10:0() 'Team B 11:15 
Keenan/Farley/LeMans 
v,,lleyball 8:15 Men's Racquetball CAU-l-6HXl 
\Vom~n·s Ra<.'quetball NA Team A 7:45 Co.. R~c Broomball ~:30 Team H 7:45 
\Vomcn's Basketball NA Kickb,dl NA Wiilleball 10:15 UltimHle NA Mo1bler DoJgeball NA 
lnncrtubc Water Polo NA 1\trget Golf NA LNO Obstacle Cour~e NA Co· Ret· S1 K!(·er NA Tahk 1(~nn~s CALL 1·6100 
Kayaking NA Dance Marathon NA 
M' " .· ....,.. ,:::.. '.. ID T) /'H" -p ! (•""' f' ' ' ·­
" OftlSSCV D.T. ()!\ ~/·OSS 
..; "' ' Vc>lleyball 7:25 Men's Racquetball CALL ! .... 6100 Women'$ Racquetball NA Men's Basketball NA Co-Rec Broomball 8:00 
\Vom.en's Baskctbull NA Kickball ll:J(I Witftcball 8:35 
Ultimate 7:5() Mnn~er [)(xlgehall 12:00 lnncrtube Wakr Polu NA 
Tar~et Golf NA LNO Obstadc Course NA 
Co-Rec:: Sn<.'t:er N.'\ THbk Tennis CMJ. 1....61(Kl Kayaking NA Dance Marathon NA 
Carroil/Zahrn/McGlinn 
Volleyball  Team A  7:00  Men's Racquetball  CALL I-6HXJ  
'l~am 13  7:2S  Women '• Racquetball  C.ALL 1-61()(1  
Mt:-n's Basketbnll  Team t\  7:1o  Co· Rt.~c BnxmJbatl  9:30  
Team B  i:1..5  
Women'; Basketball  8:00  Kickball  11:50  
Wiflleball  TeamA  9:15  
Ulrim.ah.~  Team A  7:30  Team B  8:~5  
T~ClmB  9:1()  Ml>n;ter Dodgeball  12:00  
Targ~t Gnlf  10:00  lnnenuhe Water Polo  1eam A  9:15  
Team B  8:50  
Co· Ret S~..~ecer  Team A  6:55  LNO OIMacle Course  TeamA  9:00  
leam B  9:00  'Jeam B  9:4.>  
Kayaking  Team A  8:45  Table Tenni•  CALL 1....6](KI  
Tl~am B  11:()(1  DanC'e Marathon  10:()()  

Stanford/Badin/McCandless 
Volleyball 8:15 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-61()(1 Wumcn 's Rm.:quctb.c1ll CALL 1·6100 Men's Baskethall Team A 7:15 Co-Ree Bnx>mball 12:30 Tc-amB 7:00 w,mlen's BHsketball NA Kick bull 11:30 Witllehall Team A 9:15 lillimatc <1:3() 'leamB lll::\5 Monstt'r Dtxlgeball 12:{)() 
THrge-1 Golf NIA lnncrtubc Water Polo NA 
LNO Obstacle Course '!cam A 9:30 Team A 8:10 ream B 10:00 Team B lU:4U Table Tennb CALL 1·6100 
Kuyaking NA Dance M.unllhtlll NA 

Volkyball  7:25  Mt.~ll·s Racque!ball  CALI..I-6100  
Womcn'!i Rn.cquethall  NA  
Men's Basketball  'ferunA  7:30  Co-Ree Hr<xlmball  <):{)()  
Team B  7:(~)  
Women's Ba;ketball  8:40  Ki\'kball  12:30  
Wiffleball  NA  
llltunat~  NA  Monster Dodgeball  IZ:OO  
l1111ertube \Vater Polo  NA  
T~rget G,llf  NA  LNO Ob>tacle Cour!\e  (): 15  
Co-Ree Soccer  7:20  
Table TC'nni~  CAII1··61fKl  
Kayaking  NA  DUil(:e Man1t.hon  NA  
M.. BA Association  
Volleyball  7;00  Men's Rat·quetball  CALL l-61lKl  
Wol'th.~n·~ Ra('tJUetball  CM.. L1·61110  
Men's Basketball  Team A  7:!5  Co-Ree Brtx11nball  9:00  
·Ieam ll  7:00  
Women's BasketbHII  7:20  Kickt'lll  11;10  
Wiffld>all  10:35  
tlltimale  9:50  
Monster Dodgeball  12;00  
Target Golf  9:20  lnnt.~nube \Vmer Polt)  8:50  
Co-Ree Soccer  Team A  7:20  LNO Obstacle Course  10:30  
Team B  9:25  
Kayaking  Team A  !O:!Kl  Tahh! Tl!'nni~  CALL 1·61()(1  
Tc:un B  10:30  Dance Mmth<.. >n  10:()0  


Thursday, February 1, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
OLYMPICS 
Olympic athletes will now be tested for HGH 


Sample fares From Chicago to: 
London  $273  
Rome  $289  
$299  

Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Olympic athletes soon will have their blood tested for human growth hormone, but the NFL and base­ball officials instead are embracing the unproven con­cept of urine testing in their bid to stop use of the performance­enhancing drug. 
Critics question whether the pro leagues truly are intent on rooting out HGH, thought to be widely abused because no one currently is testing for it. But baseball and football officials say they are stymied by union contracts that prohibit taking blood from players, and they cite privacy concerns and doubts about the accuracy of blood tests. 
The two leagues recently awarded grants worth a com­bined $1 million to develop a urine test, but even the scientist who received most of the research money concedes an effective urine screen is years away, meaning players can con­tinue using HGH with little fear of getting caught. 
"It's a difficult proposition," said Don Catlin, chief of the Olympic Analytical Laboratory at UCLA. "It's going to take a while." 
This blood feud over how to root out cheaters has opened a deep schism at the highest levels of amateur and professional sports. 
The World Anti-Doping Agency plans to test the blood of elite amateur athletes by the end of this year. The agency's chief, Dick Pound, dismissed efforts by the NFL, Major League Baseball and their unions as "a piddling little amount" spent on unproven technology to combat a major problem. 
"Our view is that it's out there being used with impunity because of the lack of testing," Pound said. 
Anti-doping agencies that police amateur athletes around the globe have spent nearly $10 million over the past decade to develop a blood test to detect synthetic growth hormone. 
"All the experts we have con­sulted told us to forget about urine tests," said Olivier Rabin, the anti-doping agency's top sci­entist. "In urine you will find less than 1 percent of human growth hormone than you will find in the blood." 
Human growth hormone occurs naturally in the body and synthetic versions taken by injection are chemically identi­cal, making detection difficult. The new blood tests are designed to find higher-than­normal hormone levels that can be reached only by taking syn­thetic versions. 
Rabin said the blood test can detect the presence of synthetic growth hormone for about two days after it's injected, which requires the agency to conduct unannounced, random sam­plings. 
Some 300 athletes at the 2004 
Olympics in Athens underwent 
blood testing without a positive 
result. But Rabin says testing 
deterred human growth hor­
mone use because athletes 
knew the tests were coming. 
An NFL official, however, said that proves the tests were unre­liable. 
"Our indication is that there 
are outstanding issues with 
respect to the availability and the reliability of the blood test," league spokesman Greg Aiello said. 
Donald Fehr, head of the base­ball players' union, said: "We would have nothing to say about it until it came out and we had an opportunity to review it." 
Human growth hormone is produced in the pituitary gland, a pea-sized structure at the base of the brain that controls growth and other functions. In the mid­1980s, scientists at the biotech­nology pioneer Genentech Inc. figured out how to produce the hormone by genetically engi­neering human genes into bac­teria. 
Since then, the global market for human growth hormone has reached nearly $1 billion annu­ally with seven companies, including Eli Lilly & Co., Pfizer Inc. and Novartis, producing similar versions. Its uses include treating pituitary gland tumors and growth disorders in chil­dren. 
Discover how microfinance is changing the world. 
INFORMATION SESSION: FEBRUARY 6 6:00 PM 

339 MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSINESS 

fREE. 

practtce 
test 

Take a FREE practice test at this event and you'll receive a detailed score analysis and exclusive strategies to help you prepare for Test Day! 
On Saturday February 1Oth at Notre Dame University MCAT, LSAT, OAT, GRE &GMAT 
Register Today!!!  
Sign up today! Calll-800-KAP-TEST  I{A PLANl  
or visit kaptest.com/practice.  ~  
TEST PREP AND  
•Testna;nes are reg,stered trademarksoft~eirrespectJveowners.  ADMISSIONS  

IPS 
LSAT GMAT GRE 
MCAT 
DAT OAT 
PCAT" 



~ 
~ 
0
-
a. 
E 
Cll 
AAR CORP Abercrombie & Fitch Academy Prep Centers Accenture Aflac Air Force Flight Test Center Alliance Benefit Group Alliance For Catholic 
Education Allstate Insurance Anning Johnson Aon Archer Daniels Midland Association Montessori 
International/United States AT&T Augustinian Volunteer 
Program Bank of America-Global Corporate and Investment 
Banking Baxter Healthcare BearingPoint Belden Better World Books Black Coaches Association Boeing BP Energy Camp Sweeney Camp Tecumseh CCA Strategies Central Intelligence Agency 
C.H. Robinson Worldwide Chevron Products Chicago Apartment Finders Chicago Police Department Church World Service Citigroup Citigroup Smith~arney Clarity Consulting Coca-Cola North America College Football Hall of Fame Collier County Sheriff's Office Comcast Countrywide Financial Credit Suisse Crowe Chizek and Company Deloitte US Firms Delphi Electronics and Safety Discover Financial Services E&J Gallo Winery EchoStar Communications EDS Elgin Sweeper Enterprise Rent-A-Car Epic Systems Ernst &Young FactSet Research Systems Family Justice Center of St. 
Joseph County 
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Florida Power & Light Follett Higher Education 
Group Food Bank of Northern Indiana Fund for Public Interest Research Gallina 
. . 

GEICO General Electric General Mills Goldman Sachs Grand Prairie Services 
Behavioral Healthcare Grant Thornton Grassroots Campaigns Health Care REIT Hewlett-Packard Hill and Knowlton Hillstone Restaurant Group Hunter & Lords Indiana Dunes Environmental 
Learning Center Indiana INTERNnet lnnoprise Software Integra Realty Resources Interlochen Center for the Arts Intersport Janicki Industries JDSU Johnson & Johnson JPMorgan KPMG Kraft Foods Lehman Brothers Uberty Mutual lns.urance 
Group Little Brothers Friends of the 
Elderly Lockheed Martin Lutron Electronics M&T Bank Maersk Manhard Consulting Marine Corps Officer 
Programs McGiadrey & Pullen Mercer Human Resources 
Consulting Mercy Home for Boys & Girls Merrill Lynch Metlife Miller Brewing Moody's KMV Morgan Stanley Morningstar Motorola Nationwide Navigant Consulting Nestle USA NIBCO Northrop Grumman Northwestern Mutual 
Financial Network/The Holter Group Notre Dame Club of Chicago Nova Group of Japan Oaklawn Office Depot OfficeMax 'OMD Parsons Peace Corps of the United States PlumTree Porter Novelli Portfolio Center 


thursday 
february1 
12:0<!~'l! 2:30pm 
~ ~"':-: ' •' 
diversity reception 
joyce center, monogram room 
all are welcome to attend 

career & internship fair 
joyce center, north dome 
PPG Industries Press Ganey Associates PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Progressive Insurance Protiviti Pulte Homes Quantitative Services Group Raytheon Relay Sponsorship & Event 
Marketing 
R.W. Armstrong Sears Holding Shaw Industries Siemens Medical Solutions SMART Starcom Worldwide State PIRGs Steve & Barry's University 
Sportswear Stryker Medical Target TATA Consultancy Services Teach for America The adidas Group The Bradford Group The Children's Museum of 
Indianapolis The Field Museum The Menta Group Thomson Quantitative 
Analytics 

hockey rink side, enter gate 3 student 10 required 
Travelers True Partners Consulting TTX United States Steel 
Corporation University Directories University of Notre Dame ­
Center for Social Concerns University of Notre Dame ­Human Resources University of Notre Dame ­Masters of Nonprofit Admin. Program 
U.S. Bancorp Fund Services US Department of Justice ­
Antitrust Division US Navy Officer Programs US Patent and Trademark 
Office US Probation & Pretrial 
Services US Secret Service Vanguard Virchow Krause & Company Walgreens Wesco Distribution WestPoint Financial Group -
MassMutual Whirlpool Corporation Wolf & Company Wolverine World Wide Zimmer 
findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating organizations, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to careercenter.nd.edu/dynamic.php?content=WCIF2007 

• 
Click on Go IRISH 


• 
Enter your NetiD and Password, then click on Log in 

• 
Click on Jobs/Internships 


• 
Click on Go IRISH Jobs from the pulldown menu 

• 
Go to Keywords and type in WCIF or the name of the organization, then click on Search 

• 
For an alphabetical list of: -Employers, click on "Employer" -Job Titles, click on "Job Title" 




The Career Center 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


every college • every major • internships • full-time 
' 
' 
~ 


~ 
Thursday, February 1, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MLB 
Yankee Stadium to go out with All-Star salute 
THE POWER TO 
PRESS 
PLAY 

MOTORAZR™ VJm 
by Motorola 

Sprint Music Store'M enabled Bluetooth® technology Built-in 1.3MP camera and camcorder Sprint TVSM enabled GPSenabled 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK Yankee Stadium is going out with an All-Star salute. 
The beloved old ballpark will host the 79th major league All­Star game on July 15, 2008, the final season before the New York Yankees move into a new stadium being built across the street in the Bronx. 
Baseball commissioner Bud Selig and New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg were on hand Wednesday at City Hall for the announcement, which had been expected for months. 
"When you think of Yankee Stadium it is the most, in my opinion. famous cathedral in baseball -and I think the most famous stadium in the world," Selig said. "So we real­ly believe that this is the way we can honor a cathedral that has meant so much to this sport for so long." 
It will be the fourth All-Star game at Yankee Stadium, which opened in 1923 and underwent an extensive reno­vation in the mid-1970s. The most recent summer showcase in The House That Ruth Built was in 1977, when the National League won 7-5 for the sixth of 11 consecutive victories over the AL. 
Now, the American League has nine wins and a tie in the pqst 10 All-Star games going into this year's contest July 10 in San Francisco. The 2009 game will be played in St. Louis. 
"We're excited," Yankees general partner Steve Swindal said,; "It just seemed appropri­ate. 
Yankees owner George Steinbrenner did not attend the news conference. Swindal said The Boss had a scheduling con­flict but was feeling well in Tampa, Fla., and was working hard to get ready for spring training. 
Steinbrenner offered his com­ments in a news release from the commissioner's office. 
"It is always a great honor for a team's home stadium to ser.ve as host for the All-Star game, and the Yankees are proud and delighted to have been selected for the honor in 2008," he said. "It will be one of many historic moments in the 2008 season as we say goodbye to a great facility and look forward to our new ball­park, where the heritage of the Yankees and Major League Baseball will be extended for decades to come." 
Selig said one of the primary reasons Yankee Stadium was selected was to honor Steinbrenner for the owner's many years in baseball. Bloomberg also had kind words for The Boss. 
"I was impressed and touched by both of their com­ments about me," Steinbrenner said through spokesman Howard Rubenstein. 
Yankee Stadium also was the site of All-Star games in 1939 and 1960. All three seasons in which the game has been played there, the Yankees have reached the World Series. 
New York shortstop Derek Jeter, a seven-time All-Star, said he would be honored to play in an All-Star game in his home ballpark. 
''I'm surn it would be special for anyonn, whether you're a Yankee or not. It would be more special for a Yankee," Jeter said at the team's com­plex in Tampa. 
Bloomberg said the city esti­mates that the 2008 All-Star game and its related events will generate about $150 million for New York -in addition to pro­viding valuable exposure. 
"Great news for the city. Finally my big chance to enter 
the  !lome  Hun  Derby,"  
Bloomberg  said,  drawing  
laughs.  

"Nobody stages big events like the Big Apple," he added. "We'll put on the best All-Star game in baseball history." 
It will be the eighth All-Star game in New York. The Polo Grounds hosted the event in 1934 and 1942, Ebbets Field in 1949 and Shea Stadium in 1964. Selig said the crosstown Mets are "on the radar screen" to be awarded the Midsummer Classic once they get their new ballpark, which is slated to open in 2009. 

"I cannot tell you the intensi­ty of competition for All-Star games," Selig said. "Ten years ago that wasn't true. Now I have a long list." 
byLGto 

-~--· 
C­
Built-in MP3 player 
with FM transmitter Sprint Music Store'M enabled Sprint TV'M enabled Built-in 1.3MP camera and camcorder Bluetooth® technology microSD external memory card 
$49.99 
Save $250 instantly 
Reg. $299.99 each. 
Sprint Music Store 
Wirelessly download digital tracks to your phone. Choose from hundreds of thousands of full-length songs from virtually every genre and listen to them wherever you go. 

SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  STORE HOURS  
Martin's Plaza  Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge  Sun..........  . .. 12pm-5pm  
2035 South Bend Ave.  South of the Mall  Mon.-Fri. . . .  . . 10am-8pm  
574-277-7727  across from McDonald's  Sat............... 9am-7pm  
574-243-2100  
Se habla Espaiiol  

$Z9.99 
Save $220 instantly 
Reg. $249.99. 

Offers require in-store purchase and activation of anew line of service with a two-yeqr subscriber agreement and Vision. 
Sprinf > 


PREFERRfDRtTAitf.R5 
NilES, Ml

SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 
Bas.ic Communications

Sprint Store Express Sprint Store Express 
2010 S.llth St.

52991 SR993 Ste. B University Park Mall 
269-357-0000 

574-243-8900 6501 Grape Rd. 574-277-4360 

Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Network reaches over 2SO million peo­ple. Offers not available in all markets or retail locations. Add'l terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store for details. Up to $36 activation & $200 earfy termination fees apply per line. Deposit may be required. Instant Savings: Offer ends 2/17/07 or while supplies last. No cash back. Taxes exclud­ed. Activation at time of purchase required. ©2007 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint, the "Going Forward" logo, the NEXTEL name & logo, & other trademarks are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. 
THE OBSERVER 
l ' 
PORTS
Thursday, February 1, 2007 
page 28 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Irish nab linebacker fro111 Iowa, kicker fro111 Louisville 
cycle of recruits reneging on summer. But Notre Dame recruited him late. 
By KEN FOWLER 
oral promises and going else­made a late surge and nabbed "Ultimately, that's what he Sports Editor 
where continued the past two the son of a former Irish full­wanted to do," Frank said. "He 
days. For Notre Dame, it back. thought that NO wasn't an 
Poaching season reached its included linebacker Brian Smith had 100 tackles, three option for him, so he closed apex for Notre Dame this week Smith of Overland Park, Kan., fumble recoveries and an that door.... I think he proba­as the Irish stole two prospects and kicker Brandon Walker of interception return for a bly really appreciated Iowa from schools that had received Findlay, Ohio, committing to touchdown as a junior. and the opportunity that Iowa verbal commitments from the Irish coach Charlie Weis. Mike Frank, who covers offered him." players. Smith, a 6-foot-3, 230-pound Notre Dame recruiting for Smith's father, Chris, played 
Players cannot sign binding prospect out of St. Thomas lrisheyes.com, said Smith at Notre Dame from 1981-84 letters of intent until National Aquinas High School, original­wanted to go to Notre Dame all and then suited up for two sea­Signing Day Feb. 7, but the ly committed to Iowa over the along and the Irish only sons in the NFL with the 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Scratched and clawed 
Behind eight points from fresh­Cagers fumble third man center Erica Williamson, who finished with 1 0 points and 
straight to Panthers 
eight rebounds for the game, 
Notre Dame jumped to a 22-13 
By ERIC RETTER lead with 5:51 to play in the 
Sports Writer opening period. 
"Erica's been playing really 
Pittsburgh defeated Notre well ... [and] she's doing exactly Dame for the first time in 17 what we're asking her to do," tries Wednesday. McGraw said. "Right now, she's 
The Panthers (16-5, 4-4 Big somebody we can really count East) erased a nine point deficit on, [and] for a freshman I think to beat the Irish (13-8, 4-4 Big she's doing great." East) 71-62 in Pittsburgh The Irish lead, however, Wednesday. evaporated within the next 
The loss gives Notre Dame its three minutes, as Pittsburgh third loss in a row, all of them went on a 9-0 run to tie the on the road. The Irish lost to game at 22 before the Irish Connecticut 65-47 Saturday recovered and went into half­and fell to Marquette 71-62 on time with a 28-26lead. Jan. 23. The Panthers opened up the 
"We're just incredibly incon­second half with another big sistent offensively right now," run, going on a 15-5 stretch Irish coach Muffet McGraw over the opening 10 minutes to said. give themselves a 41-33 lead. 
The Irish came out strong Center Jania Sims scored six of early and looked to be in con­trol during most of the first half. see PITT/page 26 
HOCKEY 
O'Neill keys icers' defense 


By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Last season the Notre Dame defensive unit opened up the year by allowing five or more goals in three of its first five games. After an 8-5 home loss Nov. 4 to No. 3 Michigan, Irish coach Jeff Jackson decided he had seen enough and benched his top defenseman, Wes O'Neill. 
The next night was the first -and only -time that the Ontario native was not on the Irish lineup card in his hockey career. Now a senior, O'Neill has played in 140 of a possible 
see O'NEILL/page 25 


MlB 
Congress threatens to intervene in Major League Baseball's steroid investigation if the league does not cooperate. 
page 24 


Fo-rmer Irish star Craig Counsell will speak with Detroit manager Jim Leyland at the opening night din­ner at the Joyce Fieldhouse Feb. 12.' 
page 23 
Kansas City Chiefs. Originally from Cincinnati, the elder Smith is a member of the Monogram Club board of directors and CEO and presi­dent of Divine Cleaning LLC, a commercial cleaning contrac­tor. 
"He's a very good player," Frank said of the younger Smith. "He was very, very close 
see RECRUITS/page 26 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Tough test on tap at ITAIndoor 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
For the first time in five years, Notre Dame will take part in the prestigious ITA National Indoor Championships in Madison, WIS. 
The tournament -which runs today through Sunday -features 16 of the top teams around the country, four of whom lie ahead for the No. 4 Irish (2-0) in their dual match schedule. 
"This is the second best tourna­ment of the year besides the NCAA," Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback said. "This is a prelim­inary, or dress rehearsal, to pre­pare us for the NCM Tournament 
see ITA/page 25 

Belles stay red hot, triu111ph over Olivet 
ing in the MIAA, and their By DAN COOPER lead over Olivet in the con­Sports Writer ference standings is now 
one and a half games. 
There may be a blizzard The Belles built a strong in South Bend, hut no one lead throughout the first told the Belles. half and held on in the sec­
Saint Mary's has caught ond half for the victory. fire of late, convincingly Entering the locker room at winning its fourth straight half the Belles led the game when beating Olivet Comets 43-31, and it was a 81-72 last night. lead they would not surren­
With the win, Saint Mary's der. improves to 9-10 on the The Comets made a run year and 8-4 in the MIAA, with 12:58 remaining to Olivet falls to 9-9 and 6-5 in pull within seven, but the league play. The victory Belles responded with a 15­
means the Belles will main­tain their third place stand­

t4CAA BASKETBAll 
see OLIVET/page 24 
~CAA BASKETBAll 
·North Carolina 105 Miami64 
Tar Heels forward Tyler Hansbrough scores 22 points and grabs 13 rebounds in lopsided win. 
page 16 


Yankee Stadium will 
Olympic athletes will 
Indiana 71 

host the All-Star game 
now be tested for the 
Wisconsin 66 

in July of 2008, in the 
hard-to-detect 

Hoosier guard A.J. 
historic stadium's final 
performance enhancing 

Ratliff scores 20 points 
season. 
drug human growth 

in upset of No. 2 
hormone. 
Badgers. 
page 21 
page 19 

page 16 
Thursday, February 1, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CROISSANTWORLD 
o~ '. 01-\ I ooo ~I-\ 1 C.\-IP-1'5.,.-INE. 1. --1\.-\"E,P,.E. \~ A ~~t> New c..we. IN '"ToWN I WE. \-\AVE. lo 
T~'j IT OUT 11-\\S 
WE.E.'f::.E.ND 1. 
BLACK DoG 

HENRI ARNOLD
ADAM FAIRHOLM JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

liS CAU:E.t> "C.l..U?.:> 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
DILA.Pit>ATE.J:;> ~ ..,...E\..E. Pl-\0>-.IE.. ~OTI-\ -Unscramble these four Jumbles, Sl 2£D f>I-\AC-\1:.." \ 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

D(<..oVE. 6 ~ \T .,.-Ot>Jlo.'j AND IT \..00¥-S ATQUO 
( J I t) 
©2007 Tribune Madia Services, Inc. 
~~~;f~J 
tDESEEC t

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
WH~N THE PUMPKIN
J I I ) 

WAS WEIGHED, THE: 
WWW.Jumble_com 

R~C.ORD WAS--­
PLUXED 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

( J I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

"( I I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: GUILE OCTET TRUANT DELUGE Answer: What the captain gave the new helmsman ­"LATITUDE" 


LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Justin Timberlake, 26; Portia de Rossi, 34; 
Minnie Driver, 37; Suzanne Plcshette, 70 

Happy Ilirthda)·: Any changes that take place are necessary, so don't fight the inevitable. You will lind yourself moving into a new position. This is not about letting go but rather about allowing yourself the freedom to move in a direction that will he better for you. Your numbers arc II. 17, 28, 39, 41,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Rid yourself of all the aggravation you've been dealing 
with. It's up to you to put an end to whatever is driving you to distraction. A trip or a 
chance to relax would do you a world of good. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): So you really think that you can change the people around you. Think again--it will take reverse psychology and maybe more to gel others to see things your way today. You will lind a means to bridge the gap . .f stars 
GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Put your efforts into work and getting ahead financially. If you get dragged into senseless debates. you will end up emotionally drained and will have accomplished nothing. Be industrious and make progress. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): The possibility of trying something new may lead to extra cash. Your love life should he picking up, so make plans with your mate if you have one. If not, gel out and you'll he sure to meet someone who can rock your world. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Think about what you have and what you can do before you go looking for something or someone new. Be honest with yourself about how much you
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
can actually handle. This is a sort of truth-or-dare day. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may be tom between work and pleasure today. Taking a new approach to an old idea regarding your work will help you seal a deal. Someone 
ACROSS 34 Spruce up 62 Teed off 
in a position of authority may question your motives. 4 stars 
some fabric?

1 Nobodies 63 Caesar's father 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don'ltrust someone who is trying to play emotional games 
38 Tones down6 1969 biopic 

64 Capture 
with you. Be ready to do things a little differently if you want to make an impression.starring Omar 39 Indistinguishable Work out the fine details by yourself. 2 stars 
65 UnavoidableSharif 42 Subject of a 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): If you have the time to travel for business, do so. You will9 Penicillin treats museum in have a much greater impact talking to business associates face to face. A problem at borne it Austin, Minn. DOWN is likely to leave you feeling helpless. 5 stars 
14 Throw off 46 Some name 1 Letter from 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Uncertainty regarding whether to go or stay or make 15 Shade suffixes London a move will leave you questioning your future. Take a look at your finances and, if you can afford it, take a trip and check out potential opportunities in other regions. 3 stars 
16 Old NBC 47 Kvetches 2 Classy 
courtroom 48 Idaho symbol? 3 Muse CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your mind should be on personal issues: How can you make your life better and how can you develop a deep meaningful relationship with 
drama 
51 Drain unclogger 4 It's in the dumps someone you care about? Today is a perfect day to address both. 3 stars 17 Satan? 
52 Track events 5 Thrill 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may want to reconsider some of your options. Making 
19 Race 
53 Psychologist 6 Reprove money on the side is not impossilile, especially if you can find a service that people need. The more you can do to contribute, the better you will feel about your future. 3 stars .,
20 Steeled who launched 7 Goth subjugatorbehaviorism
21 Tight-fitting PISCES (Feh. 19-M arch 20): You need to interact with people who can inspire you to woman's 56 Taurotragus a Lines of thought, take on a new project or creative venue. You can find your passion if you delve into things for short? that have always grabbed your interest--but don't overspend. 5 stars 
garment oryx 
22 Preclusion 57 Fighter's dare 9 1948 campaign Birthday Baby: You are charming, charismatic and caring. You take responsibility for name yourself and for those you love. You are a wanderer and adventurer, always looking for 
23 Visine? ... or a hint to 
something new to amuse your mind. 
answering 17-, 1oIt has its ups26 Luke's father in 

23-, 34-and and downs Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvicc.com for fun. eugenialasl.com for confidential consultations 
"Star Wars" 48-Across 11 Bring back29 Crabber's bait 
so _Janis, old 
12 Brought out30 Takes to heart? 

comic actress Puzzle by Lynn Lempel 31 Chest site 
13 Professor's

61 The George and 37 One with a 44 Ultimately 55 "Buona
workload

32 Plague Dragon, e.g. mission 45 Bully
18 "01' Man River" 57 Spill catcher composer 40 Main idea
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 47 Fed 
58 Biochemistry

21 Less than 41 Legal 
49 Big name in abbr. 22 Suffolk sound trucks
conclusion? 59 Lyricist
24 Least likely to 42 "Angels in 50 First-ever 
Washington

get it America" N.B.A. lottery 
who won two

actress pick25 Lets out 
Oscars for 27 Clijsters of 43 One-dish meal 54 Cry of joy songwriting tennis 
28 SALT concern For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 32 Pirate battler 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
33 Class 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 35 Unseats 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
36 Michigan's _ past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Broad College Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young of Business solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 1, 2007 
Recruits 
continued from page 28 
to getting an offer." 
Brian Smith's best asset, Frank said, is his long history at linebacker. 
is a guy that plays line­backer," he said. "That's what he does, and that's what he's always done." 
Frank said the Irish wait­ed until star linebacker prospects Malcolm Smith of California and Chris Donald of 
Tennessee 

announced they would go else­where before offering a schol­arship to Brian Smith. 
The Observer was unable to contact St. Thomas Aquinas Athletic Director Sarah Burgess Wednesday. 
Walker visited Notre Dame this weekend before de-com­mitting from Louisville and giving Weis his verbal assur­ance that he would go to Notre Dame. 
Frank said former Louisville coach Bobby Petrino's depar­

"In this guy, what you've got ture from 
"In (Smith), what you've got is a guy that plays linebacker. That's what he does, and that's what he's always done." 
Mike Frank lrisheyes.com 

the Cardinals opened up the Findlay High School prod­uct's recruit­ment. Walker is expected to serve primarily as a place-kick­er, Frank said. 
"He's got a really strong leg," Frank said. "He can get it to the end zone [on kick­offs]." 
Findlay High School coach Clifford Hite did not return phone calls from The Observer Wednesday. 
Contact Ken Fowler at 
kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Pitt 
continued from page 28 
her nine points on the game during the run, and guard Shavonte Zellous, who fmished with a team-high 17 points, con­tributed four. 
"I think we didn't play as well defensively [to start the second hall1," McGraw said. "We turned the ball over, gave them a cou­ple of easy shots." 
A Zellous jumper with 4:15 to play gave Pittsburgh its largest lead of the game at 56-46, but the Irish fought back and cut the lead to four with just under two minutes to play. With just over one minute to play, Notre Dame made it a one-possession game after 3-pointers on back-to-hack possessions from freshman guard Ashley Barlow and Allen McGraw said. "It's how we lost made it 63-60. the game." 
$1 0 OFF WOMEN'S CUT $5 OFF MEN'S CUT Discount good Mon-Fri with Nicole or Emily. (Not good with any other offer.) Need Color?? We'll take an extra $5.00 off. Close to Campus-right on Edison Road call 258.5080 620 W. Edison, Suite 126 Mishawaka, IN 46545 salonrougeinc.com  
Proprietors WJrren & Linda :Jirsl Onyinaf:'Azza in .7oam I Since 1951 · $2 off Any Size Pizza Eat in Only Expires March 31, 2006 537 North St. louis • South Bend, IN S74-233-24M  
COSIMO'S HAIR SALON Professional Haircut Student Discounts Now Available For Men $20 For Women $30 · Telephone: 277-1875 Located Near Condos at 1707 South Bend Ave. (US 33)  

The Irish couldn't cut it any McGraw was not pleased with closer, however, as they allowed the play of most of her veteran 
Pittsburgh to pull  players.  
down the offen­ "We're not get­ 
sive rebound after missed Panther free­ "We're not getting production from  ting production from the people we need to be get­ 
throws  down  the people we need  ting it from, and I  
stretch. Perhaps the most damage came after Sims  to be getting it from. "  think our veteran players ­with the exception of  
missed both of  Tulyah  [Gaines]  
her free throws  Muffet McGraw  and Charel [Allen]  
with 1:04 to go, grabbed her own  Irish coach  -really aren't contributing right  
rebound,  got  now," she said."  
fouled again and  "You got to be able  

then sunk both shots from the to depend on your seniors and line to give Pittsburgh a 62-57 right now we've just been incon­lead. sistent." 
"We have a very small margin for error, and we can't afford to Contact Eric Retter at not be boxing out every time," eretter@nd.edu 

BOSTON UNIVERSITY 
SUMMER STUDY INTERNSHIP PROGRAM 
May 22 -August 17, 2007 Th!IS SUMMER, ADV.ANCE YOUR STUDIES IWD GET THE WORK EXPERIENCE YOU SEEK. 
YOU CHOOSE TWO COURSES IN: 

Thursday, February 1, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
O'Neill 
continued from page 28 
141 games since coming to Notre Dame in 2003 -a stat matched only by fellow senior Jason Paige. 
O'Neill, now an alternate cap­tain, called his night off a "wake-up call" from Jackson that allowed him to stay focused throughout the rest of the year. 
"It was the first time I've ever been benched," O'Neill said. "But it was good because after that game I played pretty good for the rest of the year." 
Since then, he has only helped to anchor the No. 1-ranked defense in the nation, as well as collect his second consecutive Bill Nyrop Award, given to the top defensive player on the team each year. Nyrop was an All-American defenseman dur­ing his four-year career at Notre Dame. He later went on to win three Stanley Cup Championships on the domi­nant Montreal teams of the late '70s before passing away due to cancer in 1995 at the age of 43. 
"Anytime you win an award named after a guy like that, it's pretty prestigious," O'Neill said. "We have a lot of great defense­men on our team, and any one of us could win it any year." 
O'Neill is a serious candidate to collect his third trophy at the conclusion of this year. Jle would be the first Irish bluelin­er to ever achieve the honor three years in a row. 
O'Neill has also been an offensive threat throughout his career. 
He was second on the team in scoring his sophomore year, with six goals and 14 assists. The following year he buried another six pucks while adding 19 helpers. 
The highly decorated lefty attributes his success to hard work, his vision on the ice and the 40 pounds that he has added to his 6-foot-4 frame since his freshman year. 
"Putting on that extra weight has really helped me be able to dominate in front of the net," O'Neill said. 
The 235-pounder has made a living by punishing forwards parked in front of Irish goal­tender Dave Brown, especially when his team needs him most. 
O'Neill has played his best games in blue and gold against top-tier opponents. This year he played a big role in wins ovor then-No. 1 Boston College, Michigan and Miami. 
Against the Hedllawks last weekend, O'Neill took a low, hard shot from the point, which was deflected past Miami goalie Jeff Zatkoff for a goal when the Irish trailed 2-0. Zatkoff had looked invincible tho entire game, but the goal sparked an Irish rally to tin the contest and take a crucial point in a key CCHA series. 
"Wes has the ability to be the most dominant defenseman in this league," Jackson said. "It's just a matter of him being as intense and motivated against every opponent, because if he did that he would dominate." 
Although both O'Neill and Jackson expressed concerns about his consistency, neither can be upset about the contri­butions he has made to the team so far this year as the Irish will make a bid to be the No. 1 squad in the country this weekend against Bowling Green. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Making steel. Building leaders. 

ITA 
continued from page 28 
at the end of the year." 
The Irish will face No. 18 Oemson (2-0) today in first-round action. Leading the Tigers is No. 72 junior Carol Salge and Frederica van Adrichem, who finished the 2006 season ranked No. 55 in sin­gles play. 
Clemson is a young team with freshmen comprising half of their 10-player roster, with only one senior -Maria Brito. But the team's success in recent years otTers an exciting challenge for Notre Dame. 
"We're really excited to get a chance to play Clemson," Louderback said. "We haven't played them for quite a while. They've done well in the NCAA Tournament the last few years." 
Notre Dame began its spring season with a 7-0 win over Illinois and a 4-3 victory over No. 12 Vanderbilt, who is also one of the 16 teams in the tournament this weekend. This year's team relies on its highly touted doubles teams of No. 11 Catrina and Christian Thompson and No. 5 Brook Buck and Kelcy Tefft to gain the doubles point and give the Iri'lh a 1-0 start in each match. After that, Notre Dame looks to at least split singles matches to claim victory. 
"We'll be happy to win it. We're the two seed this year, but eight to ten teams have a chance to win it," Louderback said. 
Should the Irish defeat the Tigers, they will play the winner of No. 10 Baylor and No. 37 BYU. If Notre Dame makes it all the way to the finals, they will most likely face No. 1 Stanford. 
"Everybody's looking forward to playing Stanford. There are sen­iors on the Stanford team who have never lost a dual match," Louderback said. "Any chance to play them is going to be fun ... but we have a lot of other matches we have to play before them." 
Wm or lose, Louderback said his squad should get some quality competition against other elite pro­grams around the country. 
"We should get three matches against top-20 teams, which is going to be good for us," he said. "This is good preparation for when we play top-flight teams at the end of the year in the NCAA Tournament." 
World Competitive. Building Value. Through two special programs, our Management Associate Program and Student Employment Program, we give college graduates and current students the edge they need to thrive in our field. 
To learn more about these programs, visit www.ussteel.com 
United States Steel 
Together, we are one. 

Our Strength. Our People. 



Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
MLB 
Congress 111onitoring steroid investigation 
House presses League for better cooperation 
Associated Press Stearns proposed the Drug 
Free Sports Act in April 2005. 
WASHINGTON -Congress is That bill called for a two-year monitoring George Mitchell's suspension for a first offense and investigation of steroids in base­a lifetime ban for a second, while ball and could intervene if he leagues that failed to comply 
doesn't get more cooperation, two lawmakers told the former Senate Majority Leader. 
The leaders of a House subcom­mittee that held hearings on steroids in 2005 pledged their support for Mitchell in a let­ter sent to him Tuesday and released to the m e d a Wednesday. 
"We sincerely hope that all rel­evant parties will work construc­tively to facilitate 
"We sincerely hope that all relevant parties will work constructively to facilitate the completion of your investigation and your ongoing efforts to clean up the sport." 
Bobby Rush Chairman of House Subcomittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection 

would have been fined at least $5 million. 
It was one of several pieces of legislation about steroids in pro sports that law­makers stopped pushing after baseball intro­duced wider­ranging and more stringent drug rules in November 2005. 
"Hopefully, similar legisla­tive initiatives will remain unnecessary," Rush and Stearns wrote. 
Mitchell told 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 1, 2007 
Olivet 
continued from page 28 
2 run to make it 67-47 and never looked back. 
On paper the Comets and Belles played an even game. Olivet turned the ball over two more times than Saint Mary's (14-12) but out­rebounded the Belles 35-33. The Comets shot 43 percent from the field compared to Saint Mary's 45 percent. 
Free throws ended up being the key to Saint Mary's victory. The Comets shot a higher percentage from the charity stripe, but the Belles were able to get to the line more often. The Comets made 80 percent of their 20 free-throw attempts, while the Belles made 72 percent of their 36 shots. 
Junior guard Alison Kessler scored a career-high 34 points, recording three steals and hitting a career high 14 free throws on 15 attempts from the line. 
Unlike last game, Kessler was not alone in her suc­cess. Senior point guard Bridget Lipke stepped up and dropped 16 points and dished a team best five assists. 
Sophomore forward Erin Newsome continued her hot streak, posting her second straight double-double with since they joined the league 16 points and 11 rebounds. during the 1998-1999 sea­Freshman guard Patty Duffy son. was impressive off the bench Senior forward Audrey contributing eight points in Graham led the Comets with 20 minutes. 17 points in the losing 
The Belles have now won effort. four consecutive MIAA The Belles travel to Grand games for the first time Rapids, Mich., to face the 
the completion of your investiga­tion and your ongoing efforts to clean up the sport," wrote House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection chairman Bobby Rush, a Democrat from Illinois, and ranking Republican Cliff Stearns of Florida. "' 
baseball's owners on Jan. 18 that he intends to interview active players and raised the possibility that Congress could compel testi­mony -something he can't do. Mitchell was hired by commis­sioner Bud Selig last March after more than a year of allegations against Barry Bonds, Mark McGwire and other stars. 

Student International B.· ,·c··.·..· ·1
... t1s1ness .. ounc1 
Calvin Knights -18-1 over­all and 11-0 in the MIAA ­at 3 p.m. Saturday. Calvin won a close game at Saint Mary's 53-52 in its last con­test with the Belles Jan. 6. 
Contact Dan Cooper at dcooper1@nd.edu 
Miss the SIBC All-Council Informational Meeting? Still want to be involved? 
Email one ofthe following Division Directors to become a member ofSIBC! 
Accounting: Kelly Opdyke kopdyke@nd.edu Business Consulting: Jonathon Schroeder jschroe2@nd.edu Human Resources: Colleen Kielty ckielt01@saintmarys.edu Finance: Patrick Ku pku@nd.edu Global Development: Guadalupe Pineda gpineda@nd.edu Marketing: Megan Marsh mmarsh1_@nd.edu 
sibc.nd.edu 
-PEACE THROUGH COMMERCE ­
Thursday, February 1, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
BASEBALL 

Leyland, Counsell to speak at openillg dinner 



Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 6 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council invites gay, lesb1an, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their fnends, and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone rs welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
CURE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball program's sixth annual Opening Night Dinner will be held in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse on Monday, Feb. 12 -with 2006 Major League Baseball manager of the year Jim Leyland and former Notre Dame standout Craig Counsell (a two-time World Series champion) to serve as the keynote speakers at the popu­lar event. 
As in recent years, fans are encouraged to purchase tick­ets early·to ensure their spot at the special night, which provides attendees the oppor­tunity to visit with members of Notre Dame's nationally­ranked baseball team. The $40 admission price ($25 for stu­dents, youth and seniors) includes a Notre Dame base­ball 2007 season ticket (a $50 value, covering 27 regular­season game), a 2007 media guide ($15 value). auto­graphed 8x1 0 photographs of each speaker, and several other advance promotional items. A special "fan pack" price of $100 also is available, providing admission and the other dinner benefits for two adults and two youth. 
The "ballpark-style" dinner will begin at 7:00 p.m., in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The night's festivities include the opportunity to win a variety of baseball and sports-related door prizes and introduction of the Notre Dame team mem­bers, who will be seated at tables with the rest of the attendees and will be available for autographs prior to the dinner, from 5:45-6:45. The ballpark atmosphere also will include big-screen video high­lights and game tapes from previous Notre Dame seasons, plus a musical selection of tra­ditional and contemporary baseball songs. The night again will conclude with a spe­cial question-and-answer ses­sion that will allow attendees to interact with Leyland and Counsell. 
Leyland is a self-proclaimed Notre Dame fan and a long­time friend of the University's former sports information director, Roger Valdiserri. His nephew Chris Leyland is a 1999 Notre Dame graduate while Leyland's brother, Father Tom Leyland, is a Catholic priest who performed the wedding service for Jim 


.
.
.

•. Sclfi ., Peb 3., 2007 10 p:t-»" LUStiJtels 
DAN R:IBl 

~-.. ,.p·~.,.... il.NJ !~tm~rzd~IW Vr~n~th~w~ !UtH~d ~»£.d !~..,fi~ t;du~ fl&d ~~4P~~4!thl t(~~if*~fi£it#fj 
And 

OHBR oss 
• \VtiUJt fg~r ~~kmiw)it \a)j~ijjU~s, ti&"Jitf~J#l taP8ffi~Z., &uti ~~'atnrtbJg ,)J/(qlitJ:'lllf:t 

and Katie Leyland. 
The keynote speakers have a connection going back to the 1997 Major League season, when Leyland was the manag­er and Counsell one of the heroes for an upstart Florida Marlins team that won the World Series title. Leyland's 33 total years in professional baseball have included 15 pre­vious seasons as a big-league manager, amassing nearly 1,200 career wins during stints with the Pittsburgh Pirates, Florida Marlins, Colorado Ifockies and now the Detroit Tigers. He holds the rare distinction of guiding wild-card teams from both leagues -the 1997 Marlins and 2006 Tigers -to the World Series and he was named the National League's manager of the year for the 1990 and '92 seasons, during which time the Pirates won three straight National League East Division titles (he also was a NL manager-of-the-year honoree in '88). 
Counsell -whose father John was a player and assis­tant coach with the Irish dur­ing the 1960s and early '70s ­was among the top players who led the Notre Dame base­
ball program to national prominence in the early 1990s, with his four-year career including a .306 batting average, 204 runs scored, 166 RBI, 50 doubles and twice as many bases on balls (166, still most in the ND record book) as strikeouts (82). As a senior, the versatile infielder was named MVP of a 1992 Irish squad that included 14 eventual profes­sional draft picks, with his impressive final season includ­ing a .339 batting average, 63 RBI (nearly doubling his previ­ous career-best), twice as many home runs (12) as he had hit during the previous three seasons combined (6), 45 walks and 13 stolen bases. Counsell was named to the 1992 NCAA all-Atlantic Regional team, after captain­ing the Irish to within a game of the College World Series. 
It is recommended that tick­et orders for the 2007 event be placed by Jan. 26 to ensure the attendee a media guide and eligibility for the prize drawings. For dinner ticket information, please contact the Notre Dame ticket office at 
(574) 631-7356. Online order may be placed via the "Tickets" link on und.com. 





