
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 130 WEDNESDAY, MAY 2, 2007 
. 

Kite Realty submits Eddy proposal 
Residential, commercial development scheduled to begin southeast of campus this fall 
By CHRIS KHOREY· t liD Stadiumt 
News Writer 
Ann Arbor has State Street. East Lansing has Grand River Avenue. Columbus has High Street. And soon, South Bend will have Eddy Street -or so city and University officials hope. 
Kite Realty Group, a develop­ment company contracted by Notre Dame to redevelop the Eddy Street corridor south of campus, submitted its proposal for "Eddy Commons" to the city of South Bend for zoning approval Monday and hopes to start construction on the first phase this fall. 
That first phase, which would include 80.000 square feet of retail along Eddy Street, as well 
see EDDY/page 6 


Hesburgh prepares for 90th birthday 
University plans celebratory activities as former president continues to serve quietly 

pares to celebrate the life and work of its most influential pres­ident since founder Father Edward Sorin, Hesburgh said he feels blessed to be alive and will continue to do what he can to serve Notre Dame and the world. 
"I keep remembering a famous cardinal ... who was archbishop of Paris, and he used to speak about "Ia presence" ­just being there, that's what life is about," Hesburgh said in his office on the 13th floor of the library named after him. "And [former Dean of Arts and Letters Father] Charlie Sheedy put it 
see HESBURGH/page 4 


By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh doesn't have a complicated daily routine -just a phrase. 
"La presence." 
Translated "the presence," these two words -used often by a former archbishop of Paris -serve daily as a guideline for the former University presi­dent's life, encouraging him to continue to be present as a priest and servant as he approaches his 90th birthday May 25. 
As the date draws nearer and the University community pre-
White steers ND in $100 million projeCt 
By KEN FOWLER News Writer 
Editor's note: This is the final installment of a four-part series looking at Notre Dame's athletic department under the direction of Kevin M!hite as he enters his eighth year at the school. 
Athletic Director Kevin White's $100 million "master plan" reached another modest, but important milestone April 28 with the groundbreaking of Melissa Cook Stadium, a new softball facility set to rise near Frank Eck Stadium on the south­east comer of campus. 
While it's just one project, the softball stadium is part of a much larger plan that White orches­trated to upgrade the University's athletic facilities -an ambitious undertaking without parallel in scope or size in Notre Dame his­tory. 
The University has raised approximately 68 percent of its goal for the master plan, which White initiated in his early days at Notre Dame. The planning has come to fruition, at least in part, with the slew of construction projects recently completed and underway across campus. 
Improvements outlined in the master plan include: 
+ the Guglielmino Athletics Complex, completed in 2005 
see WHITE/page 8 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Col11111ittee to continue next year 
Jenkins: Group tofocus on gender relations 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
The ad hoc committee created by University President Father John Jenkins last April to dis­cuss gender relations, roles and ways to prevent violence toward women will continue its work next year, Jenkins wrote in an e-mail to the student body last week. 
The committee encouraged the presentation of three events this year -the student play "Loyal Daughters," an Edith Stein Project conference and a "Sex and the City of God" panel discussion. 
Executive Assistant to the President Frances Shavers, who sits on the committee, said in an e-mail that the chance to increase discussion of gender issues, gender relations and roles and ways to prevent vio­lence against women was "an accomplishment." But, she said, • that work is not yet done. 
"We must continue to inform the community about these matters and in particular, sup­port survivors of sexual assault," Shavers said. 
Following last spring's discus-,_ sion about academic freedom, Jenkins formed this committee -which he chaired -with fac­ulty members, administrators and students to continue discus­sion about issues affecting women, both at Notre Dame and in the world. 
In his e-mail, Jenkins said he 
see GENDER/page 8 

Suspected protest protnpts action 
Student Activities forces Peace Fellowship, CLAP to modify event 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
The Student Activities 
Office ordered the Notre Dame Peace Fellowship and Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) to alter their planned demonstration at Fieldhouse Mall Tuesday, -accusing the groups of misleading in con­·versations leading up to the event, but activists pushed on with the event at a 
scaled-back level. 
While organizers said they 
shared their agenda with the 
SAO as they planned the 
event-which they said was 
meant to commemorate the 
see WORKER/page 9 


--------------------------------------------------~----------------~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


To Greg 

My second year as a student here is coming to a close. That might not sound like much to you seniors, but I've come to refine certain feelings about this place that I'd like to share. 
The first time I 

John-Paul Witt
came to Notre Dame, I was a junior in high 

News Production 
school. Being 

Editor
from Miami, Fla., I was not raised in a strong atmosphere of Notre Dame culture. No one in my family went to Notre Dame, and so I was unfamiliar with the campus. 
As soon as I arrived, though, I felt something that most of you can relate to -there is something special about this place. Some ethereal presence is kindled in our hearts by the sight of the Dome blazing in the sun. 
What I didn't realize at the time was that the "Spirit of Notre Dame" exists not just in the Basilica, the Grotto or the Stadium. It exists inside everyone who is associated with this place. 
I found this spirit in one of the first people I met at Notre Dame-a South Dining Hall chef named Greg Easely. 
I was dropped off at Notre Dame for the NOV! program, given some dining hall coupons and told I was only allowed to eat in South (despite living in Stanford). 
So, being a hungry teenager, I left my stuff in my room and went to eat. I stood in the first line I found for the Oriental stir-fry. I thought it was the most amazing thing in the world ­someone was going to cook my food right in front of me. 
I was greeted by a man who didn't just ask me whether I wanted Szechwan or Sweet and Sour. He asked me my name, where I was from and why I had come to Notre Dame. 
That man was Greg. From the first moment, we had a special connection. More than just saying "hello," "thanks" and "chicken"-we became friends. 
As much as I enjoyed my time at Notre Dame that summer, the pro-­gram was only a week long. I returned home so full of spirit that I 
~-knew that I had to return. Luckily, I was accepted to Notre Dame a year later and when I went to South to get my freshly minted stu­dent ID during Frosh-0, I went in search of Greg as well. I was glad to find him where I first had -and even happier that he remembered me -after the interval of two years. Now, two years after that, I look for­ward to going to South as much as I can -the kindness Greg showed to me when I was 15 is repeated every day when I shake his hand, talk to him about his family and am treated with caring by someone who has no obligation to do so, other than the dic­tates of his soul. I will study in Notre Dame's Cairo program all next year, and I wish my friends, advisors, Greg and The Observer's staff blessings arid love. Go with God. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwitt 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reporting error, an article in the April 30 edi­tion ofThe Observer tracing Athletic Director Kevin White's career said he withdrew his name from consid­eration for the athletic directorship opening at Virginia Tech in 1997. According to articles in the Atlanta Journal Constitution, however, White withdrew his name from consideration for the job at Georgia Tech that year. The Observer regrets this error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, May 2, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR SUMMER? 







Kat Sabloff  Andy Crutchfield  Aimee Sirois  Katie Linder  Laura Conlon  Michael Masteller  
senior Cavanaugh  senior off campus  junior PW  junior Lyons  junior Farley  sophomore Morrissey  
'Tm moving cross country to Portland, Oregon."  "Slaying dragons in Medieval Europe. "  'Til be missing Katie."  'Tm taking the MCAT and then engaging in debauchery. "  "Selling insurance.  'Tll be working in a hospital."  


CASEY CARNEY/The Observer 

Sophomore Sarah Lyons shows her support for the Feast of St. Joseph the Worker Tuesday. Lyons is a member of ND Peace Fellowship. 
OFFBEAT 
tion that will include test­ing coordination and pos­sibly some adult teaching. 
"I thought it was in the best interests of the school system," Schools Director Richard Bales said. 
According to a letter in Leonard's personnel file, a female student reported that Leonard asked her to stay after class to pose for a photograph with his gui­tar. Then he asked her to put on a mermaid cos­tume for a second photo­graph. She declined. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Town tells park visitors to BYOTP 
WALKERSVILLE, Md. ­Bring your own toilet paper if you're visiting a park in Walkersville. Last week, vandals set some paper on fire in a men's bathroom at the Walkersville Community Park. 
On Monday, Town Manager Gloria Long Rollins announced that all paper products have been removed from bathrooms at the town's four parks. 
Hand dryers will replace paper towels and visitors will have to bring their own TP, Rollins said. 
TODAY 0::: 
The measure is part of an effort to combat van­dalism, graffiti and drug use in the parks, she said. 
Teacher asks girl to wear mermaid outfit 
JOHNSON CITY, Tenn. ­A middle school teacher who asked a student to pose for a photograph in a mermaid costume has been reassigned to an adult education program. 
Les Leonard, a music teacher with 17 years in the school system, agreed to the transfer from Johnson City's Indian Trail Middle School to a vacant position in adult educa-

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
1.&.1 
:c 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
.... 
c:( 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 63
...I LOW 45 


53 35 


HIGH LOW 

68 51 
IN BRIEF 
The last day of classes at Notre Dame is today. 
"Sandlot" will be showing on South Quad tonight at 9 for the Class of 2010. Free pizza, popcorn and ice cream will be served. Event is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross fresh­men. 
Finance professor Sophie Shive will deliver the lecture titled "Good Dollars Chasing Bad Dollars: The Impact of Venture Capital Funding on Industry Stock Heturns" Thursday at 11:30 a.m. in 339 Mendoza as part of the Finance Seminar Series. 
Penny Peng, the mother of the first woman from main­land China to graduate from Notre Dame, will lead a pres­entation and discussion of her book "On the Great Wall," Thursday afternoon from 4 to 5 in Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. This event is free and open to the public. 
Purdue University finance professor Laura Frieder will deliver the lecture titled "Separating Up from Down: New Evidence on the Idiosyncratic Volatility ­Return Relation" Friday at 
11:30 a.m. in 339 Mendoza as part of the Finance Seminar Series. 
Notre Dame men's baseball will play Seton Hall Friday night at 6:05 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

74 
54 

HIGH LOW 

Wednesday, May 2, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 3 

Potter site plans for VII 
By EMMA DRISCOLL News Writer 
Like millions of Harry Potter fans all over the world. Notre Dame sopho­more Emerson Spartz, the founder of mugglenet.com, has mixed feelings about the July release of the lat­est and last installment in the series -"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows." 
"On one hand, I don't know whether to be excit­ed about it because I really want to read it, but on the other hand, it is the end of an era almost, and there really won't be much to look forward to after that," Spartz said. "Part of me wishes it would take longer." 
For Spartz, the years that he and other Potter fans spend waiting for a new book between install­ments is part of the excite­ment of the series. 
"The time between books -the anticipating and the speculating -is almost more special than just the actual reading of the book," he said. 
After the release of book six, Spartz co-authored Mugglenet.com's "What Will Happen in Harry Potter 7." The book -with 290,000 copies in print ­is currently No. 3 on the New York Times Children's Book Paperback Best Seller list, Spartz said. 
Spartz said the 
"What Will Happen" 
authors have two main 
predictions for book 
seven. 

"We're pretty sure that neither Harry, Ron nor Hermione will die," he said. "We think Snape is working for the Order of the Phoenix. Those are our two biggest predictions for the book." 
Trying to consider the book from author J.K. Howling's perspective, Spartz said he does not think she will have Harry, Ron or Hermione die. Since he believes Rowling got the idea to write a series about a boy with a difficult life, he doesn't think she would let him die at the end of it. 
Another reason Spartz is still optimistic about Harry, Ron and Hermione's sur­vival comes right from the author's mouth. At a book signing in Chicago, the bookstore manager told Spartz that he had asked Rowling "if Harry, Ron, and Hermione will live through the end of the series, and she said yes," Spartz said. 
"She could have changed her mind since then, but she's had it planned out from the beginning," he said. 
Spartz said he has not had access to book seven, since it is in the editing phase and "kept under lock and key." 
As the series approaches its end, Spartz said his Mugglenet site -founded in the fall of 1999 -has been doing "better than ever." He said the Web site gets more tlian 40 million hits a month from "literally every country on the plan­et." 
When Harry Potter books or movies are released, Spartz said the amount of ·visitors to mugglenet.com "spikes big time," and he expects the same to hap­
pen this summer. 

But even after the last 
book is released, Spartz 
predicted mugglenet.com 
will remain relevant for 
Potter fans. 

While Spartz said that "there probably won't be as much news going around" after the final book is released, there are still more Harry Potter movies left to be made. Also, he said new Potter fans will continue to be interested in the site. 
'There's always going to 
be new people getting 
exposed to the series for 
the frrst time," Spartz said. 
Spartz also said Rowling 
has written a lot of back 
story to the series that has 
not yet been published in 
any of the books. There "is 
always the possibility," he 
said, that she publishes a 
collection of it. 

Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

Kent·State deaths recalled 
Shootings survivor alleges Guardsmen were told to fire 
Associated Press 

KENT, Ohio -A stat­
ic-filled recording of 
war protesters yelling, 
followed by a voice and 
gunfire, was released 
Tuesday by a survivor 
of the Kent State 
University shooting who 
claims the tape proves a 
military order was 
given to fire on demon­
strators. 

"The evidence speaks 
for itself," said Alan 
Canfora, 58, one of nine 
students wounded dur­
ing the National Guard 
shooting. Four students 
were killed in the 1970 
shootings, which fol­
lowed several days of 
protests over the 
Vietnam War. 

Canfora played two 
versions of the tape _ 
the original and an 
amplified version _ in 
which he says a Guard 
officer issues the com­
mand, "Right here! Get . Set! Point! Fire!" 
To the casual listener, 
the word "point" can be 
heard followed by the 
sound of shots being 
fired. There is no indi­
cation on the tape of 
who said the word. 

The tape, played to a 
group of reporters and 
students at a small uni­
versity theater, was 
given to Yale University for its Kent State archives in 1979 by an attorney who represent­ed students in a lawsuit filed against the state over the shooting, Canfora said. He found out about the tape six months ago while researching the ~:>hoot­ing. 
Canfora said he will turn over copies of the tape to .federal and state officials with an appeal to reopen the investigation over how the firing began. 
"We're hoping for new investigations and new truths," he said. "We need truth, we need healing." 
After the shooting, the FBI investigated whether an order had been given to fire and said it could only specu­late. One theory was that a Guardsman pan­icked or fired intention­ally at a student and that others fired when they heard the shot. 
After an initial inves­tigation, the case was reopened in 1973 when a grand jury indicted eight Guardsmen. They were acquitted of feder­al civil rights charges the next year. 
Larry Shafer, a Guardsman who said he fired during the shoot­ings and was among those charged, told the Kent-Ravenna Record­Courier newspaper Tuesday that he was unaware of the tape and that "point" would not have been part of a proper command. 
"I never heard any command to fire. That's all I can say on that," said Shafer, a Ravenna city councilman and former fire chief. "That's not to say there may not have been, but with all the racket and noise, I don't know how anyone could have heard anything that day." 
The reel-to-reel audio recording was made by a student who placed a microphone at a win­dowsill of a dormitory overlooking the anti­war rally, Canfora said. The student turned the tape over to the FBI, which kept a copy. 
Stan Pottinger, who helped prosecute the Guardsmen when he was an assistant attor­ney general with the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Justice Department, said Tuesday from New York that he doubts anything was overlooked then. 


Are you still looking for a great summer or permanent job? Contact us! 
Joe Vitacco, ND '90 Edward Fitzgerald, ND '89 
joe.vitacco®ajilonfinance.com Edward.fitzgeraId@ a j i I o nfinance.com 
Ajilon Finance is a specialized accounting and finance recruiting firm with eleven locations in the New York, New jersey and Connecticut area. We work with top tier companies and can provide excellent, resume building opportunities with our clients while you are home for the summer! 
Get the edge on your competition and contact us today!! 
SAVE THE DATE: 
The Notre Dame Club of New York will hold its Summer Networking Event at Dewey's Flatiron Bar (5th Avenue and 25th Street in NYC) on june 12th at 6:30 pm. Come and meet your fellow Domers in New York City. www.ndnyc.com 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, May 2, 2007 
Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 

put it even better in English by saying. 'Life is mostly showing up.' And if you can show up everyday and do what you can, it may not be a big deal, but each day is another day, another opportunity and I'm grateful for that." 
Celebrating the life of a leader 
Notre Dame's longest serving president will be the focus of cel­ebration this month as three ini­tiatives are planned in honor of Hesburgh, a priest for more than six decades and a servant to "God, country, and Notre Dame," as his autobiography's title says. 
Heather Tonk, director of com­munity services for the Alumni Association, said the Association began planning for Hesburgh's birthday last fall in conjunction with the Department of Development. 
"We were thinking about put­ting something together, as we knew that Father Hesburgh was going to be turning 90 in May," Tonk said. 
The two groups organized a service campaign, a collection of birthday greetings and an opportunity to make a monetary gift in Hesburgh's name. 
Tonk, responsible for coordi­nating the service campaign, said the goal was to get 90 groups -alumni clubs around world as well as offices and departments on campus -to commit to a service project dur­ing the month of May. 
"Right now we have over 100," Tonk said. 
After each group completes its service project, it is asked to submit a picture of their work and perhaps a card for Hesburgh, she said. The pictures and notes will be compiled into a book for Hesburgh, Tonk said. 
All of the greetings collected ­both those submitted online and in the mail -will be compiled and presented to Hesburgh. 
Hesburgh said he is honored to have people commit to the serv-· ice work, something he said brings a "promise of hope" for a troubled world. 
And he is looking forward to
. 
: I 
all the greetings that he will receive, and is appreciative to those who would donate their time and money in honor of him. 
"I have a principle I've had all my life -I acknowledge every­thing I get, but this time I'm going to have to print up some­thing and send eve·rybody the same message," Hesburgh said with a laugh. "I think they'll understand, but I always thought that if people take time and think of you and pray for you and say something nice, you've got to respond." 
Perspectives at 90 

While May's month of service brings him joy, Hesburgh said that the service students and Catholics provide to others daily inspires him constantly. 
"To me, it's a great inspira­tion," he said, adding that "one of my happiest thoughts these days" is anticipating the new building that will house the Center for Social Concerns and the Institute of Church Life. 
"To think that now I will be able to look out my window and see a beautiful gothic building that will not only symbolize [service], but serve the students who want to learn about the world's needs and learn about all the possibilities to do good, where ever they go in life, is wonderful," he said. 
Service that students under­take "all over the world" is a strong and distinctive quality of the Notre Dame family, Hesburgh said, a family that takes great care for all of humanity. 
"I remember a great saying ... 'humani nil a me alienum puto' -'nothing human is alien to me' -which means we embrace our humanity and the world we inhabit, and we hope that we leave it a little better than when we arrived," Hesburgh said. 
As a priest, University presi­dent and public servant, Hesburgh has had a multitude of opportunities to serve others. Today, he said the greatest thing he does in service is prayer through offering daily Mass. 
"It's the best thing you can do as a priest because it's for the whole world, and while I'm sit­ting here at Notre Dame, I'm thinking about the whole world out there," Hesburgh said. "It's a pretty messy world -you have to be grateful for the fa:ct that there are over a billion Christians out there, trying to do something for the kingdom of the Lord.... Insofar as they do, the world is better each day." 
Dedication to bringing peace to our world like that, Hesburgh said, "is a very uplifting kind of thought about life." 
If dedicated service is uplifting, Hesburgh_ has lifted up many through his numerous accom­plishments. Two of his proudest include admitting females to the University and his work on the 
U.S. Civil Rights Commission, helping to pass "the toughest, roughest law we could write about equal opportunity for all Americans." 
Hesburgh also described a conversation he said he could have had with the Virgin Mary had he not admitted women to Notre Dame. 
"[Mary would have said,] 'You had a beautiful Catholic univer­sity, and you had me there on top, and !looked down, but all I could see was men, and I remember that hall' the universe is women.... It just doesn't seem right that you have a university named after a woman but you have no women students, and very few women faculty,"' Hesburgh said. "Now we have great women students, women facu~ty, trustees and benefac­tors. 
More recent gazes to Mary's statue on the dome lead Hesburgh to look toward the promise of eternal salvation. 
"I look out there, and I figure I'm going to meet her someday soon -at least I hope [I meet her] -and I'm pretty sure I will," he said. 
Until that time, he said, he is grateful for the time he has been given. 
"It's a great thought that the Lord gives some people longer than others," Hesburgh said, "but that's just a great challenge to keep on going -or as Charlie Sheedy says, to show up each day -and to do what you can for the kingdom of God." 
For now, that includes prayer and being a counselor to stu­dents and other visitors. Hesburgh said he speaks with individual students every day, hoping to give them snippets of personal advice that serves both the counseled and the counselor. 
"It's kind of like a vitamin of my life, that these students con­stantly come, and we don't have a lot of time, and yet to be able to spend a few minutes with them," Hesburgh said. 


Important Chinese Language Course offered Summer 2007 There is still time to sign up 5credits CRN 3637; ID #10113 01 EALC I0113 EALC First Year Chinese I(8-0-5) Professor Chenxu Yin 10:00-11:30 MTWRF 6119-8/2 (last add date: 6/23) Introduction to Mandarin Chinese using simplified characters. Equal emphasis on the ba~c skills oflistening, speaking, reading and writing. Students may expect to master a spoken vocabulary ofabout 500 words and awritten vocabulary ofabout 250 characters. 
East Asian Languages &Cultures 205 O'Shaughnessy Hall 631-8873 
Hef1ecting in those few min­utes and throughout the day makes 1-lesburgh grateful "just to live in a place like this, to drink of the sense of service to humanity and the world," he said. 
"I thank God that I have my life here at Notre Dame, with some of the most wonderful peo­ple on earth -dedicated faculty, an alumni body in every state in the union and [many] countries in the world, students here from 
Proprie~ors 
Warren & Ur.da

Y'?occo's 
Restaurant 


?irs!Or~Iiuzl?rzza in 7oaml 
Since 1951 
Specializing in /t;J/ian fntr«:s 
Tues.· Thurs.: 5~0 PM· 11:00 ?M Fri. • Sat.: 5:00 PM -1:00AM 537 Nmth St. louis • Sout1 Ber.d, IN 
574-233-2464 
ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 
------------~~F~~----------­
Open: Tues.-S'at. 11am-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. and Mon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
------------~~1~~-----------­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN -16637 Accepting reservations for graduation parties 
over a hundred countries, stu­dents from every state in the union, all of whom say it's the best four years of their life," Hesburgh said. "It's a great blessing to spend your life in this kind of place. I don't ask for any­thing else." 
Ken Fowler contributed to this report. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at astein­er@nd.edu 

The UPS Store 
"May Move Out" '07 NOTRE DAME &ST. MARY'S 10am-5pm 9am-5pm -Fri, Sat, Mon 

-


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, May 2, 2007 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran: U.S. poses true nuclear threat 
VIENNA -Iran accused the United States and other world powers of being the true nuclear threats Tuesday at a meeting ham­strung by Tehran's opposition to language calling for full compliance with the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. 
Amid closed-door talks aimed at ending the impasse, France criticized Iran for defying a 
U.N. Security Council demand to freeze ura­nium enrichment, a potential pathway to nuclear arms, and urged Iran to "comply with its international obligations." 
The conference, which began Monday and lasts two weeks, is intended to help prepare for a full review of the treaty in 2010. 
Iran opposed wording in the meeting's agenda that mentions the "need for full com­pliance with the treaty." The agenda must be adopted by consensus before delegates can move on to more substantive issues. 
Turkey halts parliamentary vote 
ANKARA -Turkey's highest court halted a parliamentary vote Tuesday that looked cer­tain to lead to a president rooted in political Islam. a victory for secularists who fear the country is moving toward Islamic rule that would undermine their Western way of life. 
Prime Minister Hecep Tayyip Erdogan responded by calling for a constitutional amendment to allow the president to be elected by popular vote, rather than by the parliament. And he said new parliamentary elections could be held as early as June. 24, instead of in November as scheduled. 
The goal would be to elect a government with a fresh mandate and resolve a crisis that has seen the stock marke't plummet and the pro-secular military threaten to inter­vene. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Fewer protest in immigration rallies 
LOS ANGELES -Immigration rallies held across the country Tuesday produced only a fraction of the million-plus protesters who turned out last year, as fear about raids and frustration that the marches haven't pushed Congress to pass reform kept many at home. 
In Los Angeles, where several hundred thousand turned out last year, about 25,000 attended the first of two scheduled rallies, said police Capt. Andrew Smith, an incident commander. In Chicago, where more than 400,000 swarmed the streets a year earlier, police officials put initial estimates at about 150,000. 
Organizers said those who did march felt a sense of urgency to keep immigration reform from getting pushed to the back burner by the 2008 presidential elections. 
Border fence riles valley officials 
McALLEN, Texas-A new map showing President Bush's planned border fence has riled Rio Grande Valley officials, who say the proposed barrier reneges on assurances that the river would remain accessible to farmers, wildlife and recre­ation. 
Oty officials in the heavily populated valley had anticipated a "virtual" fence of surveillance cam­eras and border patrols. Instead, a Customs and Border Protection map depicts a structure running piecemeal along a 600-mile stretch of Texas from Presidio to Brownsville, a border region where daily life is binational. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Gonzales gives $2.5 million 
INDIANAPOLIS -U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales on Tuesday gave $2.5 mil­lion each to Indianapolis and three other cities to help fight gangs but declined to discuss new details in the lingering contro­versy over fired prosecutors that could cost him his job. 
The embattled attorney general's visit to Indianapolis was part of a multistate tour of federal officials who are meeting with local government leaders, law enforcement offi­cers, educators and mental health profes­sionals to discuss violence in the wake of the Virginia Tech shootings. 
CUBA 

Castro a no-show at Cuba's May Day 
Questions raised about whether SO-year-old leader will recover, return to power 
Associated Press 

HAVANA -There was no sign of a convalescing Fidel Castro as hundreds of thou­sands of Cubans marched through Havana's Revolution Plaza to celebrate May Day, casting new doubts on his recovery and whether he will return to power. 
Tuesday marked only the third time in nearly five decades that Castro has missed the sweeping International Workers' Day festivities -a major cele­bration here and around the world. 
While recent images of Castro meeting with Chinese leaders indicated he had improved considerably since undergoing emergency sur­gery nine months ago, his absence at the parade through the Revolution Plaza raised questions about whether he is strong enough to run the country. 
The 80-year-old leader has missed two other major events since announcing his illness on July 31 and tem­porarily ceding power to his 75-year-old brother Raul Castro. the defense minister. Raul presided at the Nonaligned Summit in September and a major mili­tary parade in December. 
"It now seems more 
unlikely than before that he "Would his comeback be "Everyone wanted to see recent decision to free on 
will fully resume the presi­partial, ceremonial? Will he him, but it's good that he bond anti-communist mili­
dency," said Wayne Smith, spend two hours in the office recovers completely. Now tant Luis Posada Carriles, 
the former head of the checking off on strategic the revolution is continuing pending his trial on U.S. 
American mission in decisions?" with Raul," said 68-year-old immigration charges. 
Havana. "And the more time Raul Castro, wearing his hotel worker Victor Reyes, Havana accuses the Cuba­
that passes, the more unlike­typical olive-green uniform who was among the born Posada of orchestrating 
ly it seems." and cap, stood stiffly and marchers. a 1976 airliner bombing that 
Smith said that with smiled under the shadow of Special guests included a killed 73 people _ a charge Castro failing to show a towering statue of Cuban Cuba solidarity group from he denies. Tuesday, Venezuelan independence leader Jose New York. The foreigners Signs and banners President Hugo Chavez's Marti. He occasionally were impressed by the large demanded "Prison for the assertions this week that waved as marchers clad in turnout, which Havana's Executioner" and accused Castro was back "in charge" red T-shirts and dark slacks Radio Reloj estimated at the U.S. government of a appeared to be "a lot of hot streamed past, clutching 500,000. Smaller marches double standard on terror­air." plastic Cuban flags, portraits were held simultaneously in ism in the Posada case. 
Others said he could still of his more famous brother cities around the island. Marchers also demanded resume some responsibility. and banners denouncing "Even without (Fidel the release of five Cuban 
"To me, the key question is U.S. "imperialism." Castro), they came out en spies imprisoned in the U.S. to what degree is he coming Although Cuban life is little masse," said Joppe Van for being unregistered for­back?" said Phil Peters, changed under Raul's lead­Meervelde, 29, a metal eign agents, calling them Cuba specialist for the ership, loyalists missed the workers' unionist from heroes who were merely Lexington Institute, a energy Fidel brought to Belgium. protecting their country Washington-area think tank. events such as May Day. Marchers protested the from violent exile groups. 

Bush delivers promised Iraq bill veto 
in the Middle East, including Iraq. anniversary of Bush's "Mission
Associated Press He was to comment on television Accomplished" speech and his dec­WASHINGTON -President Bush at 6:10p.m. EDT. laration that major combat opera­vetoed legislation to pull U.S. troops Democrats made a last-minute tions in Iraq had ended. Democrats out of Iraq Tuesday night in a his­plea for Bush to sign the bill, know­held an unusual signing ceremony toric showdown with Congress over ing their request would be ignored. of their own before sending the bill whether the unpopular and costly "The president has put our troops to the White House. war should end or escalate. in the middle of a civil war," said "This legislation respects the In only the second veto of his Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. wishes of the American people to presidency, Bush rejected legisla­"Reality on the ground proves what end the Iraq war," House Speaker tion that would require the first U.S. we all know: A change of course is Nancy Pelosi said. combat troops to be withdrawn needed." Bush signed the veto with a pen from Iraq by Oct. 1 with a goal of a Lacking the votes to override the given to him by Robert Derga, the complete pullout six months later. president, Democratic leaders qui­father of Marine Corps Reserve Cpl. He vetoed the bill immediately etly considered what might be Dustin Derga, who was killed in upon his return to the White House included or kept out of their next Iraq on May 8, 2005. The elder from a visit to MacDill Air Force version of the $124 billion spending Derga spoke with Bush two weeks Base in Tampa, Fla., the headquar­bill. ago at a meeting the president had ters of U.S. Central Command, It was a day of high political with military families at the White which oversees military operations drama, falling on the fourth House. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, May 2, 2007 
Eddy 
continued from page 1 

162 condominiums, 268 apart­ments and two hotels in a trian­gle between Eddy, Edison Road, and State Route 23 (South Bend Avenue), is designed to better connect South Bend's Northeast Neighborhood with Notre Dame's campus in a physical sense -and perhaps even ease town relations. 
"We want to strengthen con­nections between the neighbor­hood and the University and at the same time create a vibrant new urban center that can be a model for South Bend as well as other cities throughout the coun­try," South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke said in a statement released to The Observer. 
A decaying neighborhood 
Until the 1960s, the Northeast Neighborhood of South Bend ­located in large part between Notre Dame, the St. Joseph River and South Bend Avenue -was a thriving community of middle­class families and safe streets. Studebaker automobiles provid­ed jobs, and children played on the vast green swath next to Notre Dame Stadium, where DeBartolo Quad is today. 
But that changed when Studebaker started cutting jobs and eventually went out of the car business all together. Families moved and houses were either torn down or rented to students or other low-income individuals. Property values plummeted and the crime rate rose. 
A determined group of resi­dents created the Northeast Neighborhood Council, which tried to clean up the area and crack down on absentee land­lords. 
"It did what it could, but it wasn't blessed with a lot of resources," said Greg Hakanen, Notre Dame's director of asset management and real estate development. 
To aid the underfunded organ­ization, five major institutions in or around the neighborhood ­Notre Dame, the City of South Bend, Memorial Hospital, St. Joseph Regional Medical Center and the Madison Center -com­bined to form the Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Organization (NNRO). 
The NNRO immediately put together a plan to try to redevel­op the area, buying up vacant property and, in 2005, selecting Kite to put together a develop­ment of 25 acres of mostly Notre Dame-owned land in the north­eastern corner of the neighbor­hood. 
Kite will either buy or lease most of the land as the project begins to take shape over the coming years, Hakanen said. 
Major changes ahead 
The land for the proposed 

development now consists of a mostly wooded area, a few grav­el lots and some boarded-up homes along Eddy Street. 
But Kite Vice President David Compton sees something much different. 
"As you walk down Eddy, you're going to have four-story buildings on both sides of you, with old-style shops with painted signs," he said. 
The city has promised to lengthen several roads into the current woods east of Eddy; Napoleon Boulevard will be extended several blocks further east to State Route 23, while Georgiana Street, Burns Avenue and Duey Street-currently cui­de-sacs off 23 -will be extend­ed north into the development. At Edison, Duey will connect to a service road for the parking lots south of Notre Dame's Joyce Center. 
Luecke said the extra infra­structure is a cost the city is will­ing to bear in exchange for the increased tax revenue and improvements to the neighbor­hood. 
"We want to build new streets and roads that will serve this development and its neighbors," he said. 
Along the new roads, Kite plans to build "Phase One" of the residential properties, which will vary from condominium town­houses to apartments above the stores. Under the plans, some tenants will have parking at their residences, while others will use the four-story parking garage to be located at the new corner of Napoleon and Georgiana. 
East of that area -near the corner of Edison and State Route 23 -the city hopes to find a separate developer to build a "te.ch park" of office space for research firms. 
"It's a live-work-play," Compton said. "You could live here, you could work at the retail or office or the University of Notre Dame. It's pedestrian friendly." 
But some people are upset with the loss of so much green space. 
"We have heard from individu­als that would clearly prefer that the woods stay as woods," Hakanen said. 
Hakanen said the University researched the area and found that it is already environmental­ly disturbed -it was farmed until World War II and later was used as a trash dump. 
"As woods, it's not that great an example," Hakanen said. "Also, it was never available to the public. There was a fence along it." 
Hakanen also pointed out the University is planning to land­scape the area south of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center into a "town commons" that will be available to students, shoppers, and residents. 
As the neighborhood improves, land values likely will rise ­something that some fear will force out the current residents of the area, including students. 
Mark Kramer, president of Kramer Properties, which owns many rental homes in the neigh­borhood, said he will try to counter this trend by continuing to market to students. 
"I like dealing with students," he said. "I have fun dealing with students. It's part of the reason why I get up every morning." 
But Kramer admitted that if his properties are reassessed at higher values, his taxes will go up. And that means either high­er rents or fewer services from him as a landlord. 
"It does put me in an awkward position," he said. "Just because the county raises your taxes doesn't mean that you can raise rents the same amount. We'd just have to get leaner in other areas." 
Junior Ryan Mingo, a junior who will live a few blocks west of the development next year in a house that has been passed down from current seniors ­and one he hopes to similarly pass down-said he isn't wor­ried that rents will rise beyond students' means anytime soon. 
"The house is still surrounded by a bunch of vacant lots," he said. "Just because they build something a few blocks away doesn't mean it's going to sud­denly get much nicer." 
Shoppers' paradise or student ghetto? 
After "Phase One," retail will stretch along the block of Eddy between Edison and Napoleon Boulevard. Assistant Project Manager Ashley Ottesen said "anchor" institutions like gro­cery stores and bookstores will take up large chunks of the 80,000 square feet of retail and smaller shops will fill in the rest. 
"You need one larger tenant to anchor the center, and then you need smaller tenants," she said. "We're looking for a mix." 
Compton said he envisions a coffee shop in the neighborhood and said that, while nothing has been finalized, the South Bend Chocolate Company has expressed interest in a location in Eddy Commons. 
"You'd like to have that shop, whether it be a bookstore or a market, that would be your main reason to be there, but you also need a coffee shop or a small restaurant where you could grab a sandwich or some ice cream," he said. 
Mingo said a pressing need for the area is a place where stu­dents and residents on-the-go can get quick food. 
"I think one key would a chain restaurant like a Chipotle or a McDonald's -something that would be quick," he said. "Right now there are a lot of restau­rants in that direction, but you have to sit down, or they're real­ly [only] bars." 
Hakanen said the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore has also expressed interest in a location in the area, but that for the most part, the University's role has been mainly limited to what Notre Dame would not like to see along Eddy Street. 
"As part of our agreement with Kite, we identified some of what we called 'noxious' uses that we felt were inappropriate to the neighborhood and the mission of a Catholic university," Hakanen said, adding that busi­nesses counterproductive to a retail district would also be excluded. 
Hakanen said funeral homes and second hand stores were on the list, among other things. He also said that while there will be restaurants that serve alcohol, there will be no bars in the new development. 
In addition, the residential areas will be priced out of stu­dents' range. Compton said that in order for the retail to succeed, the district will need year-round residents. 
"We want people that come home there at night," he said. "They would live in those condo­miniums and shop in the retail area." 
Mingo said the lack of nightlife would not be a problem, but that keeping students out of the housing may divide the neigh­borhood and hurt town relations even more. 
"Not having bars is no big 

.deal. It's only a couple more blocks to the [Linebacker]," he said, referring to the popular bar at the intersection of State Route 23 and Edison. "But not having students living there will be counterproductive to a col­lege atmosphere. Not making it directly oriented to students means it won't achieve what they want." 
Hakanen said if so many pre­mium residences so close to campus were available to stu­dents, it would hurt the University's residential mission. 
"A significant portion of the Notre Dame experience is hav­ing most students live on cam­pus," he said. "The University did not want to create housing 
. that would draw students off campus." And Luecke said he thinks Kite will have no trouble filling the housing. "We think they'll be attractive to any number of audiences," he said. "There are young profes­sionals who already live in the community that would be attracted to this neighborhood, and there are older people who want to downsize their homes and live closer to the campus and the downtown area." 
Phase Two 
In the coming years, Compton said Kite wants to begin "Phase Two" -expanding the develop­ment towards the "Five Points" intersection of Eddy Street, Corby Boulevard, and State Route 23. 
Formerly a hot spot for 

nightlife near Notre Dame, the intersection now boasts only a few businesses and several empty lots. Compton said he envisions retail stretching down Eddy from the University and several new blocks of homes in the area between Route 23 and Napoleon. 
But redevelopment will not come to that area until the state government finishes its proposed rebuilding of Route 23. The proj­ect was supposed to begin a few years ago, but opposition to the plan forced a re-design and pushed back the start date possi­bly as far as 2011. 
Luecke said that, even with the delay, he thinks pushing to change the design was the right thing to do. 
"The portion of state [Route] 23 [north of Edison Road] is just five lanes of concrete -it's not a very attractive road," Luecke said. "The state wanted to do that same thing south of Edison -just bulldoze five lanes through the neighborhood. The neighbors were not happy about that." 
Instead, the plan is to build a four-lane road with a land­scaped median. 
The delay in this construction will also hold up another infra­structure project that will be important for the area. Twyckenham Drive, the road built to bypass Notre Dame when Juniper Road was closed in 2006, needs to be connected to a road south of State Route 23. 
But St. Joseph County Engineer Susan At-Abbas said the short connection cannot be completed until Route 23 is done. 
"The traffic study that we had performed for the area showed that the widening of State Route 23 was necessary prior to the opening of the Twyckenham and [State Route] 23 intersection," she said. "The reason being is, if we open that intersection prior to the completion of the project, there will be additional traffic on the Twyckenham corridor and that will impact the residents on that corridor." 
But even with the road con­struction being delayed, Compton said, the project will be a major addition to the commu­nity. 
"This adds jobs and people to the city of South Bend, and you won't need an automobile to get there," he said. 
And inside the existing Northeast Neighborhood, Kramer said the new develop­ment will help get the once­proud area back on its feet. 
"It's going to give the students that live in my houses and apart­ments options to stay close to the University to shop and eat," he said. "And the environment it's going to create will be a positive as well." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

WED. MAY 2ND AT 6:05PM vs. FRANKLIN FRI. MAY 4TH AT 6:05 PM vs. SETON HALL 
SAT. MAY 5TH AT 1:05 PM vs. SETON HALL ' 
NO, HCC & SMC STUDENT STUDY BREAK BBQ! *FREE FOOD FoR EARlY ARRIVING ND, HCC & SMC STUDENTS 
SUN. MAY 6TH AT 12:05 PM vs. SETON HALL 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wednesday, May 2, 2007 
page 7 

Dow 
13,136.14 +73.23
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I, 164 134 I ,444 3,411,516,859 
AM£Xht1v~!J111BttiJ;!;lSJI!til'lllll:!l1JIIIl~l1114l NASDAQ 2,5 3 l ~..~"~=''"''''*"····j:6~.!~,@
NYSe 9,639.B!il11Jrl!!ll2;~ 
S&P 500 l ,486.30 +3. 9 3 
NIKKB(folty1>J•··········~Ili7~11~11i·lllliiliiit~il·illl·i~;:;i 
FTSE IOO(London) 6,419.60 -29.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) 
+0.26 +0.38 148.67 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) 
-0.26 -0.05 45.92 
ISHARE RUS 2000 (IWM) 
+0.50 +0.40 81.14 
LEVEL 3 COMM (LVLT) 
-5.08 -0.28 5.28 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
+0.84 +0.25 30.19 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +0.26 +0.0 12 4.642 13-WEEK BILL +0.63 +0.030 4.755 30-YEAR BOND -0.02 -0.00 I 4.816 5-YEAR NOTE +0.51 +0.023 4.539 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.3 I  64.40  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -6.20  677.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.88  102.60  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  120.0200  
EURO  0. 7370  
POUND  0.5013  
CANADIAN$  1.1130  

IN BRIEF 
Film piracy punishments increase 
NEW YORK-With the summer blockbuster movie season just ahead, Mayor Michael Bloomberg signed legislation on Tuesday that upgrades film piracy from a violation with a $250 fine to a misdemeanor that carries up to six months in jail and penalties of up to $5,000. 
The stricter law coincides with an advertis­ing campaign against film piracy. 
The Motion Picture Association of America says more than 40 percent of bootlegged films are secretly videotaped in New York City the-. aters. The duplications are typically sold for mass reproduction or posted on the Internet, sometimes just hours after the movie has pre­miered. 
Pirated movies cost major U.S. film studios more than $6 billion in 2005, according to the MPAA. And a new study by the group shows that the New York movie industry loses an estimated $1.5 billion a year because of pira­cy, and the local economy suffers further with lost earnings, tax revenue and jobs. 
"We're going to keep the heat on the con artists, so that the real artists who make up our film industry can continue to thrive," Bloomberg said after signing the law. 
Ethics chief unaware of Riza's contract 
WASHINGTON -The World Bank's ethics committee wasn't consulted and didn't approve of a hefty compensation package for bank pres­ident Paul Wolfowitz's girlfriend, says the man who was the panel's chairman at the time. 
Ad Melkert made his comments Tuesday in an appearance before a special bank panel looking into how Wolfowitz handled the 2005 promotion and pay package of bank employee Shaha Riza. 
Melkert, who was ethics chief when the arrangement was made but now works at the United Nations, said he rejects "any direct or indirect allegation or suggestion that the ethics committee was aware or should have been aware of the terms and conditions of Ms. Riza's contract." 
A day earlier, Wolfowitz told the panel the bank's ethics committee had access to all the details surrounding the arrangement involving Riza "if they wanted it." 
Last month lousy for auto sales 
Every major manufacturer but Chrysler reported decrease from April 2006 
Associated Press 

DETHOIT -April was such a lousy auto sales month that every major manufacturer but Chrysler reported a decrease from the same month last year. 
Even Toyota. 

General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co., Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Corp. all showed declines as automakers released their monthly U.S. sales numbers on Tuesday, but the drop for Toyota Motor Corp. coun­tered a nearly two-year trend of rising sales, some­times in double digits. 
Toyota sales, which include the Toyota, Lexus and Scion brands, dropped 
4.4 percent to 210,457 last month from 219,965 in April 2006, the company said Tuesday. It was the first year-over-year monthly decline for Toyota since May of2005. 
The Japanese automaker has seen double-digit increases in recent months and it seemed like the rising sales would never end. In March, for example, its sales jumped 11.7 percent. 
"This certainly is unchar­acteristic of Toyota," said Joe Barker, senior manager of · global sales analysis for CSM Worldwide, an automotive forecasting firm in Northville. "I would expect ing for incentives to rise as April of last year. 339,796 a year earlier. Its them to rebound strongly many manufacturers try to Ford Motor Co. reported a car sales fell 10 percent, next month." reduce them, said Jesse 12.9 percent decline in U.S. while truck sales were off 9 
U.S. light vehicle sales for Toprak, senior analyst for sales due largely to slumping percent. all automakers declined 7.6 the Edmunds.com auto Web car sales. Ford sold a total of DaimlerChrysler's overall percent last month to 1.34 site. 227,619 light vehicles last sales increased to 213,999 million from roughly 1.45 "They're waiting for the month, down from the from 211,365 a year ago, million a year ago, according next big sale and perhaps 261,381 in April 2006. Car due to an increase at its to Autodata Corp. postponing their purchases sales were off 23.6 percent, Chrysler Group. Chrysler 
Industry analysts say the because of this combination while truck sales fell 5.7 per­sales rose by 1.6 percent to bad month is a harbinger of of factors," Toprak said. cent, the company said. 193,104 last month from things to come for the whole "They don't have a lot of con­General Motors Corp. sales 190,095 last year. Mercedes industry in the second half of fidence in the housing mar­dropped 9.5 percent from sales slipped 1.8 percent, the year with economic ket, gas prices are higher." April of last year, while from 21,270 to 20,895. uncertainty, high consumer Nissan reported the worst DaimlerChrysler AG sales Chrysler said it had a debt, the housing slowdown decline in April with sales were up 1.2 percent. Honda strong retail month, with the and rising gasoline prices down 18 percent from the sales sank 9.1 percent from Jeep brand up 29 percent contributing to a softer auto­same month a year ago. The a year ago. due largely to sales of the motive market. company sold 71,124 vehi­GM sold 307,5 54 light four-door Wrangler and 
Consumers also are wait-cles, down from 86,720 in vehicles in April, down from Compass models. 

Residents refuse ethanol plant plans 
Associated Press from Minnesota to Missouri, Illinois to According to the association, the 
Pennsylvania, Kansas to Indiana -ethanol industry created more than 
TOWN OF DOVER, Wis. -Barney residents in areas targeted for 153,000 jobs as of 2005 and boosted Lavin ought to be the poster child for ethanol plants are refusing to go U.S. household income by $5.7 billion. ethanol. along with politicians who say it is a The association also said ethanol 
A fifth-generation corn farmer, more sustainable alternative to for­industry operations and spending for working the land his family home­eign oil and a way to save dying Main new construction added $1.9 billion steaded in 1842, Lavin should see dol­Streets. in federal tax revenue and $1.6 bil­lar signs over a proposed ethanol There are 115 ethanol plants oper­lion for state and local governments. plant in this small southeastern ating in the U.S.-most of them are When ethanol plants are properly Wisconsin town. in Midwest states including top pro­sited, and the benefits explained, 
Instead, Lavin put down his pitch­ducers Iowa, Nebraska, Illinois and opposition disappears, said Josh fork and picked up his cell phone, Minnesota. Another 79 are under Morby, executive director of the joining the ranks of other unlikely construction or planned, according to Wisconsin Bio Industry Alliance, a opponents organizing against ethanol the Henewable Fuels Association group consisting primarily of busi­plants, fearing air pollution, increased trade group. nesses and labor organizations that traffic and groundwater depletion. Debbie Krogh lives next door to one benefit from increased ethanol pro­
''I'm unwilling to give up the obvi­of two proposed sites for the Dover duction. ous quality of life we have here for plant. "Those of us in the industry are some added income," said Lavin, who "I can't tell you how sad this has excited and encouraged by the tech­grows corn on a 300-acre farm on actually made me," Krogh said. "We nology and developments that are rolling hills that include a recently have had to fight for our lives here." taking place, but it's important to restored wetlands. "We feel very In most places, ethanol plants are remember the average citizen still strongly about this area and we don't welcomed, said Robert Dinneen, doesn't know what ethanol is, where want it ruined." Renewable Fuels Association presi­to get it, or the benefits of ethanol," 
Across the corn belt and beyond -dent. Morby said. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, May 2, 2007 
White 
continued from page 1 

+ 
a new year-round golf facility, completed in 2006 

+ 
"Athletic Quad" landscaping, under construction now between Notre Dame Stadium and the Joyce Center 

+ 
the new softball stadium +renovation of the Joyce Center's south dome 


+renovation of the Joyce Center's north dome for a new hockey facili­ty 
+ 
a new soccer stadium 


+ 
a new boathouse for rowing on the St. Joseph River 


+
a new lacrosse stadium 

+
a new track and field complex



+moving the outdoor tennis facil­ity to the current softball location 
+ a new football practice field with artificial turf 
+relocated soccer practice fields 

Estimates for totals on the proj­ects include a $21.25 million price tag on the Guglielmino Athletics Complex, a $24.7 million bill for the renovation of Joyce South and approximately $15 million for the hockey facility. Melissa Cook Stadium is expected to cost $4.8 million. 
But large-scale plans for athletic facilities are nothing new in White's career. 
In 1998, White highlighted his $20 million fundraising effort at Arizona State with a $5 million naming rights deal with Wells Fargo for the school's 14,198-seat basket­ball facility. The deal came less than a year after White announced plans to raise $20 million dollars for Arizona State by 2002. Within a year of the five-year effort's start, he had raised more than $16 million. 
That and other moves White made helped increase Arizona 
State's athletic department operat­
ing budget from approximately $16 
million a year to more than $25 mil­
lion a year. 
Along with his fundraising ability, 
White's handling of the aftermath of 
a point-shaving scandal that 
occurred three years before his 
arrival at Arizona State garnered 
him praise and continued his rise in 
esteem among athletic directors 
nationwide. 
At Notre Dame, demand for better 
mid-week facilities, especially in 
football, was evident early in his 
tenure. When football coach Bob 
Davie was fired in December of 
2001, the press conference included 
questions for White about his then­
young master plan, and he com­
mented specifically on practice facil­
ities. 
"We know we have some short­
comings," White said. 
The plan was slowed by the 
University's moratorium on building 
during the economic downturn of 
the early 2000s, but has continued 
steadily since. The past year saw 
White announce a lead benefactor 
and a second significant contributor 
for the renovation of the Joyce 
Center's south dome -home to 
men's and women's basketball and 
volleyball -and the beginning of 
construction on the new softball sta­
dium, as well as the planned scenic 
quad between the Joyce Center and 
Notre Dame Stadium. 
With the hockey team's success 
this season, much attention turned 
to Notre Dame's rink and the desire 
to renovate the facility for a squad 
suddenly among the elite. The cur­
rent arena falls far below contem­
porary standards. 
'Td be surprised if anybody in the . Notre Dame family doesn't realize 
we need a new hockey facility. 
Everybody realizes that. We're in 
search of a lead benefactor," White 
said. "We've got a lot of supporting gifts in place.... That project is cer­tainly not in the witness protection program. It's out there." 
But even ifthe school had the nec­essary fund<; to complete every proj­ect, White said, the construction process for the entire master plan would take time. What's more, development stages and finalizing plans are only part of the reason for any delays. 
"There's another element to it ­that the University ean only handle so many construction projects at one time," White said. "We run into it at almost every tum. We're almost at eapacity." 
If White's ambitious master plan is realized by the end of his current contract -which runs through 2012-Notre Dame will have updated facilities used by at least 21 of the University's 26 sports teams in a dozen yrmrs of his leadership. 

White seems content with his job, and, with a five-year extension and a two-year extension within three years of hi'i hiring at Notre Dame, is poised to guide the athletic depart­ment for at least another half decade. 
Aside from his duties in the athlet­ic department, White teaches a sports business class during spring semesters in the Mendoza College of Business as part of Notre Dame's MBA program. 
For him, like for fellow long-term contract holders football coach Charlie Weis and hockey coach Jeff Jackson, the job is much more than just a nine-to-five commitment. 
"At the moment, I can't tell you anything else I'd rather do," White said. "People that know me well will tell you that I really don't have any hobbies. This is what I do. This is who I am. I've done it for a long 
.time. " 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Gender 
continued from page 1 

was proud of the work of the committee and the work members put into planning events with other groups around campus. 
"I believe these initiatives were valuable in contribut­ing to a deeper awareness of the tragic reality of sexu­al violence, a more serious engagement with questions of sexual morality, arid a revolved around actual stu­dent narratives about sex, sexuality and sexual vio­lence at Notre Dame. 
The committee discussed two more events that were held in February, Jenkins said. The Edith Stein Project hosted a two-day conference, titled "Toward Integral Healing for Women and Culture," that, Jenkins wrote, looked at ways that victims of violence eould experience healing. 
Also in February, the 
"Sex and the 
City of God" 

greater open­ "We must continue  panel discus­ 
ness to addressing questions and  to ... support survivors of  sion used an episode of HBO's "Sex  
issues with the  sexual assault. "  and the City"  
resources  of  to illustrate  
both reason and faith guid­ed by the  Frances Shavers executive assistant to  sexuality and other issues.  
Catholic tradi­ the president  Although  

tion," he said. 

Shavers said the three events this year were well attended. 
"Eaeh event considered the issues through a differ­ent lens, hopefully, in ways, representing the broad array of experiences and perspectives on campus," she said. "Notably, each event considered the unique history, culture and mission of Notre Dame as a Catholic university within its framework in order to make the experience rele­vant and timely for stu­dents." 
"Loyal Daughters," a stu­dent-produced play, debuted in November. The play, written and produced by senior Emily Weisbecker, no plans are 
finalized yet, Shavers said the committee members have discussed holding an event next year in response to the populari­ty of "Sex and the City of God," "perhaps using another popular television show such as Entourage or Grey's Anatomy." 
Other plans under consid­eration include an event that looks at gender roles and preventing sexual assault in a global context, possibly by looking at the experiences of African women or women in other cultures. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 



Wednesday, May 2, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

"The main difference was that professors did not speak,
Worker 
organizers did not say in their discussion of Catholic social teachings that they would touch on the Copy Shop controversy. 
"The Copy Shop was basi­cally run out of business by Notre Dame and FedEx Kinko's in a joint effort to get the Copy Shop off campus, which was a mom-and-pop shop run by a three-time Domer," Angulo said. 
He also said the SAO pro­hibited a banner that read "Thank you workers," which students and professors signed. 
"In my view, I didn't think we needed to get that approved," Angulo said. "It's such a small detail, but they kept taking these small details and trying to make them into a big deal when none of them were." 
Event organizers and par­ticipants said they did not give complete cancellation serious consideration, despite the SAO's request, because they were deter­mined to highlight the soli­darity and dignity of every worker. 
"We wanted to have a cele­bration and mark the day and highlight the importance of the dignity of work," said senior Casey Stanton, CLAP member and main organizer of the event. "In doing so, sometimes that involves look­ing at a critical eye of where we are, we wanted to thank the workers and inform the dignity of work, and it included a call to action." 
Freshman Miriam Olsen said she didn't understand why Student Activities hadn't questioned organizers earli­er. 
"[SAO] clearly had some agenda other than 'it was a violation of Student Activities policy,"' she said. "Otherwise, they would have 
told us yesterday, not thirty minutes before." 
Organizers said guests who had agreed to perform or speak to the students were disgruntled at the SAO's han­dling of the situation, not thinking the event could become a large protest in any way. Many of the guests scheduled to speak at Fieldhouse Mall did not attend due to the cancella­tion rumors. 
Junior Stuart Mora, a mem­ber of CLAP, took the podium and spoke about his relation­ships with the workers on campus and the issues they face, including wages, child­care, health insurance and understaffing. 
Mora then introduced two workers from the Huddle, who voiced their dissatisfac­tion with the treatment they said they receive during home football weekends. The Observer did not quote the workers, because the event organizers would not release their names. 
Students who attended the event were happy CLAP went on with most of its plans despite SAO's decision to scale back the event, and said they felt like it rein­forced Catholic Social Teaching principles on cam­pus. 
''I'm here because I think justice is a really foundation­al aspect of my faith," fresh­man Kristi Haas said. "As a Catholic, I feel that every person has human dignity and deserves to be appreciat­ed, and we want to build fel­lowship with these workers on campus." 
Angulo said that he was "pleased with the turnout" despite the circumstances, and felt that principles of sol­idarity and dignity in Catholic Social Teaching were emphasized effectively. 
"Not enough Catholics know about the social teach­ings and see them as a call to action," he said. "We're here today to show the Notre Dame community that we must take these ideals and make them more concrete in the world." 
George Porter, a Subway employee who has been working at LaFortune for more than seven years, echoed Angulo's words, adding he wishes he received more support from his employers. 
Porter, a self-published author, was signing copies of his book, "A Boy Amidst the Rubble" -a semi-autobio­graphical account of his fam­ily's experiences during the London bombings in World War II -at Tuesday's event. 
Porter said he moved from his native country, England, to the U.S. about 29 years ago. He spent the last 13 years writing the book, but he said both the Huddle and the Hammes Bookstore have refused to put it on their stands. 
Angulo said the SAO also told him his verbal invita­tions to campus employees to attend Tuesday's event were inappropriate. He said he didn't think there were any guidelines in duLac, the stu­dent handbook, that said he could not verbally invite peo­ple to an event, and so he didn't think it was necessary to inform the SAO. 
The "Thank you workers" banner was available to stu­dents and professors who attended the event and want­ed to sign it. 
Marcela Berrios contributed to this report. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
continued from page 1 
feast of Saint Joseph the Worker and include students, staff and faculty members ­sophomore CLAP member Michael Angulo said the office called him 30 minutes before the scheduled kickoff to tell him there were prob­lems with the "lack of trans­parency" in these conversa­tions. 
CLAP organizers said their application to Student Activities stated the event would celebrate the contribu­tion of campus workers in conjunction with 
that there was no opening prayer, that students from Campus Ministry and Right to Life did not speak, and they had prepared a statement saying economic justice is a life issue that we need to think about," Angulo said. "And all of the other [partici­pants] were informed that it was no longer an SAO event, so it was simply them speak­ing their minds about the issues on their mind. More freedom with less security." 
Angulo said Student Activities cited four problems with the organizers' plans, including the idea to feature 
campus employ­

the feast of ees as speakers Saint Joseph, "We wanted to ... demanding which typically highlight the salary raises on occurs on May 1. football
importance ofthe
SAO Assistant Saturdays. On 
Director Amy dignity ofwork.,, those days, he 
Geist, however, said, workers said that when clock in at 5 a.m.
Casey Stanton 
her office dis­and do not take a
CLAP organizer 
covered some of break until noon. the event;s "I told them details Tuesday, she was con­specifically we were going to cerned the celebration could have information on Catholic become a workers' rights' social teachings, other labor protest. rights and issues. I told them 
"Peace Fellowship explicitly that information approached me about plans about workers' justice and for a social celebratory pro­dignity would be presented, gram," Geist said. "When it and they said, 'This is not became apparent that the appropriate. This is antago­events of the day were more nist. This is a critique of the demonstration-like in nature, University,"' Angulo said. further discussions were had Another problem Angulo with the officers of Peace said the SAO brought up was Fellowship." the group's support for the 
She said when it became defunct Copy Shop, which clear the group had not taken ran its photocopying business the required steps to register for 18 years in the basement a demonstration on campus, of the LaFortune Student the SAO asked the CLAP and Center before the University Peace Fellowship officers to declined to renew its contract "return the event to its origi­this spring. nally proposed nature -that He said the SAO told him of a celebration of workers." the group no longer-had a 
So the event went on -"prayer attitude" but rather though not quite as planned. a protest attitude, because 

Proprie;ors 
Warren & Ur.da

!./(occo's
Restaurant 
!JrrslOriyina/Azxa rn 7omn .1 
Since 1951 
Specializing in it<Jiian Entrees 
Tues.-Thurs.: 5:00PM-ll ;00 ?M fri.-Sat.: 5:00PM-1:00AM . 537 North St. Louis • Soutn Ber.d. IN 574·13J-2.J64 


ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 
------------~~~~~~~------------­
Open: Tues.-Sat. Ilam-2pm & -lpm-9pm (Sun. and Mon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • CaterinJ? 
--------------~~~~------------­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN -16637 Accepting reservations for graduation parties 
page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, May 2, 2007 
Bank questions Wolfowitz 

aware or should have been aware of the tnrms and comii­ti(JOS of Ms. Riza's contract." 
Wolfowitz told the panel Monday that thn bank's nthies committee had access to all the details surrounding llH• arrangement involving Hiza "if they wanted it." 
Melkert said the committee was not consulted, nor did it approve details of Hiza's com­pensation package, including "the large initial pay increase, the stipulation for subsequent annual increases and the stip­ulations for subsequnnt pro­motions." 
Laying out his defense on Monday, Wolfowitz pointed to a Feb. 28, 2006, letter by Melkert that Wolfowitz charac­terized as showing that the bank's ethics committee was aware of Riza's compensation arrangement because it refer­enced an anonymous whistle­blower's e-mail that com­plained about the size or her pay raise. 
Melkert on Tuesday acknowl­edged that the anonymous e­mail "stated a salary figure but did not refer to other aspects of the terms and conditions in question." 
Wolfowitz has led the bank _ whose mission is to light global poverty _ for close to two years. Before he took over, he was the No. 2 official at the Pentagon, where he played a key role in mapping out the Iraq war. . 
Sen. Max Baucus, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, urged Wolfowitz to step down. 
"It would be my hope that Wolfowitz finds that discretion is the better part of valor and finds a way to no longer be a part of the bank," said Baucus, 0-Mont. 
Engineer denies giving inform.ation to China 
Associated Press 
SANTA ANA, Calif. -A Chinese-American enginep,r accused of conspiring to export defense technology materials denied at his federal trial Tuesday that he was try­ing to give information to thn Chinese government. 
Dnfonsn attorney Ronald Kaye asked dPfendant Chi Mak about three computer disks containing material presented at technical conferences. including a paper on a subma­rine propulsion system called quiet electric drive. 
"Did you give the three disks with the conferences on them to your brother in order for them to be given to thP Chinese government?" Kaye asked. 
"No," Mak said. 
Authorities believe Mak, a naturalized U.S. citizen, took thousands of pages of defense documents from his defense contractor employer, Power Paragon of Anaheim, and gave them to his brother, who passed them along to Chinese authorities over a number of years. 
Mak was arrested in 2005 in Los Angeles after FBI agents stopped his brother and sister­in-law as they boarded a flight to llong Kong. Investigators said they found three encrypt­ed CDs in their luggage con­taining documents on the propulsion system, among other items. 
Mak, 66, has pleaded not guilty to conspiracy to export defense material to China, fail­ure to register as a foreign agent, attempted and actual export of defense articles, and making false statements. His wife, brother and other rela­tives also have been indicted. 
Mak was expected to contin­ue his testimony Wednesday. 
Kaye asked Mak why he gave the disks to his brother to take to China. Mak said he wanted to have an exchange of technological ideas with two old colleagues, one who worked at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University and one who worked at the Hong Kong Electric Co. 

Along with this new line of makeup, our Licensed Aesthetician Peggy Dibble offers facials, waxing, a complete line of skin care products and more! 
From your face to your legs, Peggy will have your skin looking sensational this Spring! Call today for your 
-.FREE skin care consultation! 
lie said he did not believe hP was doing anything wrong because all the information had been presented to atten­dees at international confer­ences. 
Prosecutors have allegPd Mak was able to leave commu­nist China for Hong Kong only because he was being groomed as a future agent. They have also alleged he kept detailed records of U.S. Navy ships that docked at Hong Kong as one of his earliest assignments for the Chinese government. -Mak testified that he was granted a pass to leave main­land China in the mid-1960s because he had a severe case of rheumatism and needed a German medicine that was not available in China. He said that in order to get permission to leave he had to provide doc­tors' letters and copies of pre­scriptions and wait more than a year. 
lie acknowledged he kept detailed records of ships com­ing into the harbor, but said he did so to keep track of U.S. sailors who were customers at a custom clothing shop, Johnson Tailor, where he worked in the Navy purchas­ing department. 
The high-end tailor encour­aged such record-keeping because American customers often wanted monograms on their clothing that listed the name of their ship, ship num­ber and their rank, he said. 
Investigators have said that during a search of Mak's home they found two torn-up notes from Chinese officials asking him to get documents on sen­sitive U.S. naval projects involving torpedoes, electro­magnetic artillery, missile detection and nuclear defense. 
They also seized documents on a new type of warship called the DDX Destroyer, electromagnetic launch sys­tems for aircraft carriers, high-powered electromagnetic guns, and submarine-mounted kinetic energy projectiles, according to court papers. The government also suspects Mak fed information about Aegis­class warships. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The World Bank's board expressed fresh concern Tuesday over bank president Paul Wolfowitz's handling of a hefty pay pack­age for his girlfriend and promised a decision soon in a controversy that has led to calls for his resignation. 
The 24-member board met several hours with a special bank panel that over the past two days had heard from Wolfowitz. his girlfriend and bank employee Shaha Riza and other present and former bank officials about Riza's promo­tion and pay raise to $193,590. 
In a statement afterward, the directors said they "remain very concerned about the impact on the work of the bank group and are committed to the earliest possible resolu­tion of the matter." 
The board said the next step is for the special panel to "draw its conclusions from the information obtained from the documents and during the course of the interviews" and expeditiously submit a report to the directors. 

Ultimately, the directors will decide what action should be taken, if any. The board could ask Wolfowitz to resign, signal it lacks confidence in his lead­ership, reprimand him or take no action. There might also be a compromise under which Wolfowitz would be found to have acted in good faith and he would resign later. 
Earlier Tuesday, the special panel was told by the former chairman of the bank's ethics committee that his group was­n't consulted and didn't approve Riza's compensation package. 
Ad Melkert, who was ethics chief when the arrangement was made but now works at the United Nations, said he rejects "any direct or indirect allegation or suggestion that the ethics committee was 

\~ House '!~for Sale 
' Endless Possibilities 
1 
··' 4+ Bedrooms 2 Baths 2,441 sq.ft. 

1158 LINCOLNWAY EAST 
20 minute drive from Campuses 
• 
Newly refined and updated, overlooking river 

• 
Spacious rooms, hardwood floors, fireplace Dining room, den, huge upper level, vaulted ceilings 

• 
All new appliances and central air Sleeps eight/ten in comfort Gracious entertaining football weekends 


• $129,900 

Contact for personal tour or emai/ed photographs: 
McGinty & Co. Real Estate 574-287-3101 or 329-0268 (24n) m.j.m@earthlink.net 

Wednesday, May 2, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 


THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
Your Ooor to Europe! 
CongratulationsundergraduateInterns! 
Caroline Askew (France) Maria Pia Mauro (France) Erin o~Neill (West Africa) Mariah Quinn (Italy) Sarah Valctes (Belgium) 
DO EUROPE! 
www.na.ectu( ""nanovic 
Got 3 weeks?· Get 3 credits! 
Hey guys! 
The summer session is open 
to you too! 

Get summer credits ... and still have a summer break. 
Saint Mary's offers an intensive three-week summer session that lets you get the credits-and the break-you need! The Saint Mary's summer session offers courses on a variety of topics including audiology, pottery wheel, Islam, human anatomy, dance, theatre, sociology, music, and more. 
-tit­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
SUMMER SESSION 2007-MAY 22-JUNE 8* 
* Five weeks required for select courses. 
For complete information visit www.saintmarys.edu/ -summer or call (574) 284-4560. 
For additional information on study abroad opportunities visit www.saintmarys.edu/-cwil or call {574) 284-4263. 
Applications will be accepted through May 18. 
President advocates anilllal policy change 

Associated Press 
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. ­More than three dozen scien­tists have signed a letter to protest a new Bush adminis­tration interpretation of the Endangered Species Act, say­ing it jeopardizes animals such as wolves and grizzly bears. 
The proposed policy revi­sion would enable the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to protect animals and plants only where they are battling for survival. The agency would not have to restore the animals in areas where they have. died out, or protect them where they're in good shape. 
The proposed changes were being sent this week to Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne and leaders of congressional committees that oversee the department. The changes were revealed last month in draft depart­ment documents released by environmentalists, who said the changes would amount to a gutting of the federal Endangered Species Act. 
Interior Department offi­cials said then that the drafts were still under review and that no decision had been made on whether to proceed. 
The proposed changes would "have real and pro­foundly detrimental impacts on the conservation of many species and the habitat upon which they depend," said the letter, signed by 38 promi­nent wildlife biologists and environmental ethics special­ists. 
The scientists wrote that the proposal would have allowed the bald eagle to become extinct in the lower 48 states. 
The new policy would give the department an excuse to avoid adding new species to the list, increasing the likeli­hood of extinctions, said Michael Nelson, an environ­mental ethicist at Michigan State University. 
Nelson and John Vucetich, a wildlife biologist at Michigan 
Technological University, cir­
culated the letter. 
Interior spokesman Hugh 
Vickery said senior career 
biologists who run the pro­
gram are supportive of the 
proposal and believe it will 
enable them to "focus their 
limited resources on areas 
where species are truly 
threatened or endangered." 
Vickery said it was unclear 
how the revised policy would 
affect particular species but 
accused the critics of exag­
gerating. He dismissed as 
"complete nonsense" the sug­
gestion it would have doomed 
the bald eagle everywhere 
but Alaska if it had been in 
effect decades ago. 
The revision was outlined 
in a legal analysis by Interior 
Department Solicitor David 
Bernhardt that was released 
in late March. Bernhardt said 
the department needed to 
reconsider its definition of 
"endangered" because feder­
al judges had rejected its 
previous reading of the law 
in eight of 10 cases since 
2000. 
Those rulings came after 
environmentalist groups sued 
the wildlife service for refus­
ing to add species such as the 
flat-tailed horned lizard and 
Florida black bear to the .endangered list. 
The debate centers on a 
provision in the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 requiring 
the government to list any 
plant or animal "in danger of 
extinction throughout all or a 
significant portion of its 
range." 
Bernhardt disagreed with 
court rulings that "range" 
includes areas where species 
lived previously but are gone 
because of habitat loss or 
other reasons. What matters, 
he said, is whether they're 
declining in areas they now 
occupy. 
Bernhardt's definition of 
"range" would allow the 
department to settle for 
keeping remnants of a 
species intact somewhere, 
but wouldn't have to return 
them where people drove 
them out, Vucetich said. 

Attention: Faculty, Grad Students, Post-Docs 
Great condominium, great location. Qu]et wooded setting, spacious 3-bedroom, 2-bath, one bedroom and bath on main leveL vaulted ceilings, skylights, fireplace. full kitchen w!dishwasher, new appliances living room. dining room, laundry room, deck, carport. Clubhouse, pool, exercise room. Beautifully furnished (optional). Located close to Notre Dame, shopping, restaurants, hospitals, library. 
Available June 2007. Call 235-714 7. 
r-------------­
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, May 2, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
See you in September
Tht: ltJtiepemlent. Daily NlfWspnper Serving Notre Dame a,J Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
024. South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassi!y 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 

SPORTS EDITORS; Chris Khorey 
Chris Hine 

SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 63 (6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAIKT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th~ Observer (USPS "i9') 2-4000) ~~ puhli:.hed Monday rhmugh Friday except during exam and neation periuJ~. A subscription w The Ob~crvcr is $1 {){} for one acadcmil .~ar; $55 for .mc srmc~ter. 
TI1.c-O~rve:r .is published .u: POSTM!ISTER 0::!4 S11Uth Dining Haff Send addresS corrccrions to: 
Notre Dame. IN 46SS6--0779 Th~:Observa 

P..:riod.iC!.I postage paid at Norte Dame P:b. Box 77') and J.ddhion;~l mailing t)ffices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nuue Dame. 1!'-J 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Pr~. All repmduaion rights an: reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Katie Kohler Dei:cdre Krasula John-Paul Witt Bill Brink Emma Driscoll Kate Arnold 
Viewpoint Scene 
Kara Kiug Tae Andrews 
Graphics Sean Sweany 
Jeff Albert Erin McGinn 
The average college student is cur­rently enduring a lot of tragedy. Our country is lighting a war in the Middle East; a recent studied conlirmed that, although equally educated, women are still getting paid less than men; and we have benchcriers lit­tered throughout the beautiful Notre Dame campus. Although not as seri­ous as disturbed international rela­tions or sexism in the workplace, benchcriers still eon­tribute to the morale of college students, especially in the spring. 
Many of you, especially first yoar stu­dents, may be wondering what benchcriers are. Allow me to explain. After finals last spring, while packing up the Suburban and making all our last minute stops on campus, my mom and I could not help but notien the large amount of couples sitting on benches throughout campus. Clasping a tissue between their interlocking hands, thflse couples were tearfully mourning the thought of a three-month absence from their beloved. Overwhelmed by the massive amount of couples, my mom and I could not help but dub these woe­ful lovers "benchcriers." 
And with the end of the year upon us. I assume many couples will be taking their positions on a bench very soon. Whether they get there early and snag one of the benches by the Grotto, or put off their good byes and are left sharing a bench with another sobbing couple by a very public bookstore entrance, these couples will all be dreading the time about to be spent away from one anoth-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Katie Palmitier 
A Wordto 
(he Wzse 

er. While I sympathize with these cou­ples, these benchcrying situations do not all have to be sorrowful. In fact, thPy can be quite joyful. 
So whether you find yourself on a bnneh w.ith your boo in the upcoming weeks, or you arn more like me and am in a not-in-a-relationship-but-1-am-still­going-to-miss-my-frinnds kind of situa­tion. take sonw timn to reflect on the following fnw things to add a little joy, and humor, to your upcoming bnnchcrying nxpnrienee. 
Tlw Michigan State ganw: If you wnrP lucky enough to snag tlwse away game tieknts, thfm you truly madn a lasting memory. Enduring the unforgiving rain and wind was totally worth it. 
Tlw Ben Folds concert: Nothing boats a paeknd Stepan Cnntnr when it's rain­ing, but Bon Folds rderring to the vnnun as a "gnodescent dome" madn his concert even more amazing. 
The SNL speaknr series: Nice work, SUB. Inviting Ana Gasteyer, Colin Quinn, and Kenan Thompson to talk about their SNL days was a novel idea that attracted all types of Notre Dame students. The FTT majors used it as a way ofjump-starting their careers, while the rest of us enjoyed hearing about what Will Ferrell was like off the air. 
The men's basketball Alabama upset: It is not very often a student body has a chance to rush the court, but after the men's basketball team defeated then­No. 4 Alabama, the Leprechaun Legion was the first on the court to celebrate with the team. And with the team's con­tinued success, including an undefeated homr~ game record, this year's basket­ball sew.,on was truly a memorable orie. 
The Blue-Gold game: Not only was it a perfect spring day in the always­unpredictabln South Bnnd climate, this year's game allowed Notre Dame stu­dents, alums and fans the once in a life­time opportunity to see two of the greatest coaches in Notre Dame football history on one field. Truly a Blue-Gold game for the books. 
Omelets at SDH: No longer do we need to wake up at 8 a.m. on a week­day to get our favorite breakfast food. South Dining I !all launched weekend brunch omelets this spring, a milestone in food services for all us egg lovers. 
Whnther you were able to experience one or all of these nvents, thny surely had a positive impact on your academic year at Notre Dame. But these staple events pale in comparison to the numerous memorable moments you shared with close friends and class­mates. Whether of sharing late-night pizzas at Reekers, day trips to Chicago, or off-campus Target and Hoceo's runs, we all have certain memories· with our friends that we will cherish forever. And for us underclassmen, we thank­fully have the opportunity to make more of these memories in the upcom­ing years. The seniors, although gradu­ating, are not going away empty-hand­ed. Leaving with them are lasting friendships and numerous memories of their time here at Notre Dame. And while we may be sad to be without our friends until late August, and for the seniors, until next football season, there is no' excuse to be a benchcrier. Remirtisce about old times and look for­ward to the new ones. And, instead of crying oil a bench, just smile and say, as the Four Seasons so eloquently put it, "See you jn September." 
Katie Palmitier is a sophomore political science major. She can be contacted at kpalmiti@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The happiness ofa man in this life does not consist in the absence but in the mastery ofhis passions." 
Alfred Lord Tennyson English poet 
Submit aLetter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"On the whole human beings want to be good, but not too good, and not quite all the time." 
George Orwell English novelist 

---~-----~ 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, May 2, 2007 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Jenkins' statements contradictory 
With all due respect to Father John Jenkins, I would like to share some serious concerns that I have with regard to his recent Letter to the Editor ("Proud of strides made by gender-relations commit­tee," May 1). Something by which I am con­stantly perplexed is how statements from the president's office concerning the pro­duction of "Loyal Daughters" never fail to contradict each other. 
In his faculty address in January 2006, Father Jenkins considered the title of the proposed play, then "Her Loyal Daughters," to be problematic. He said, "As you may know, in the Catholic tradition Mary is ven­erated for holiness and fidelity, and is con­sidered a model of chastity. Though I did not doubt that the students involved were sincere in their desire to be loyal daughters of Mary, it seemed that a title like this, if there were material about sexual experi­ences, abortion, or contraception described in a morally neutral way, would appear intentionally offensive to Catholics who revere Mary." I couldn't agree with this statement more. 
Then, as we all remember, in his closing statement he wrote "The student leaders of 'The Vagina Monologues' have proposed producing a play written in their own voic­es and describing their own experiences, entitled 'Loyal Daughters.' This production will be put on entirely by Notre Dame stu­dents in consultation with the faculty advi­sors they have chosen. I will do all I can to support this effort." What happened? What happened to seeing tb.e proposed play as "intentionally offensive?" What happened to concern that it would represent sexual immorality "in a morally neutral way?" 
Well apparently he did have a change of heart, and prior to opening night in November, he retracted his endorsement of the play. According to an article in The Observer {'"Loyal Daughters' debuts at DPAC," Nov. 13, 2006), University spokesman Dennis Brown said Father Jenkins was uncomfortable with the "neu­tral stance" on sexual behavior like pre­marital sex, saying it was "in direct opposi­tion to the Church and Father Jenkins' position on issues of sexual morality." OK, phew. That was a close one; I thought there was a contradiction there for a second. 
But now to his recent letter. Is he cele­brating "Loyal Daughters" as an achieve­ment of this year? Is he "proud" of the play itself? If not, why does he list it with endeavors that are in no way morally objectionable like the Edith Stein Project? His letter certainly sounds like endorse­ment tome. 
Also, to use words like "consensus" with regard to the ad hoc committee is poten­tially deceiving; it leads the campus com­munity to forget about the resignation of Margot O'Brien from the committee last fall. According to Letter to the Editor ("Reasons for Ad hoc resignation," Nov. 15 2006), she resigned precisely because of the committee's support of "Loyal Daughters." Her concerns were similar to Father Jenkins'-the morally neutral presentation of sexually immoral acts, its misrepresentation of University policies and stereotypes against seminarians. Even though it was less crude than the Monologues, she said, "the relative subtlety of 'Loyal Daughters' really magnifies the problem because the fraudulent message is masked for the unwary by the guarded prose and not highlighted by the glaring profanity." In view of all these objections, she thought the play unworthy of both her personal support and of any institutional support of the ad hoc committee. Saying that the committee is united behind a con­tinued effort for next year, and united in recognizing this year as a success, is a joke. Sure it's united, one of its most loyal daugh­ters having resigned. 
I emphasize that my objection is not to the ad hoc committee, to its activities in general or to the cause of ending the hor­rors of sexual assault. Such a cause is a most necessary one. I simply note that the endorsement-explicit or implied-of the culture of sexual immorality on this cam­pus will do nothing to advance this cause. 
Jon Buttaci sophomore Morrissey Manor May 1 

Slavery once found 
in natural law 
Professor Charles Rice seems to think ("Church condemns slavery," April 30) that my Letter to the Editor ("Natural law proves fallible," April 25) was an attack on the papacy. It was not. It was an observation about natural law. 
Of course, we can all list dozens of cases in which popes valiantly condemned the abuses of slavery, the inhumane treat­ment of slaves, the indiscriminate enslavement of populations, or the slave trade. Many of these condemnations came from the same popes who upheld the institution of slavery itself (Paul III, for example, or Eugenius IV, or Benedict XIV). And, yes, slavery, not servants; the distinction being that servants could not be bought or sold. The instruction I quoted from Pius IX, saying that "slavery in itself, considered as such in its essential nature, is not at all contrary to the natural and divine law.... It is not contrary to the natural and divine law for a slave to be sold, bought, exchanged or given, provided in the sale, purchase, exchange, or gift, the due conditions are strictly observed which the approved authors describe and explain," was explicitly in answer to a question about American slaves in the Civil War and the 13th Amendment (it was issued in June 1866). In specifying that "the purchaser should carefully examine whether the slave who is put up for sale has been justly or unjustly deprived of his liberty, and the vendor should do nothing which might endanger the life, virtue, or Catholic faith of the slave," Pius IX also implicitly condemned the mistreatment of American slaves and the slave trade. 
All this is beside the point. The point is that for many cen­turies the popes, in accordance with theological tradition, inter­preted natural law to say that in principle one human being can own, buy. sell, or donate another human being (though they should treat that human being with dignity, and not enslave him unjustly). If such buying and selling can ever be considered con­sonant with natural law, what cannot? 
Christian Moevs associate professor of romance languages May 1 
Don't like the writing in Viewpoint? Fix it. 

Threats to 'Bun Run' logical, unnecessary 
This past Sunday, the men of Zahm Hall were made privy to some rather disquieting news: Due to the disturbing and disorderly nature of the event com­monly known as the "Bun Hun," mem­bers of Notre Dame Security and Police (!'ll'DSP) are going to start apprehending individuals who are seen partaking in this biannual occurrence. 
Now, certainly there is sound logic behind the University's decision to end this tradition, and prominent among the various reasons for the Bun Run's removal are two apparently inexorable facts. First, were such an activity to take place off campus in "the real world," police would be quick to make arrests for indecent exposure. Second, the event offends an otherwise well-mannered and civil student body. But, to be honest, most would probably agree that the Notre Dame bub!1le-is a far cry from the real world, and to treat it strictly as such would be a mistake. As for the second concern, it's hard for me to believe that the throngs of women who line the path­ways of LaFortune during the Bun Run are there to decry the odious image of the naked male. 
That the Bun Run is childish is undeni­able; that it is silly and risque is certain. However there are times when donning these characteristics can be, at the very least-, entertaining; and finals week is one in which momentary entertainment often comes as a welcome diversion. The Bun Run -in its own quirky, irreverent way-reminds us that despite being the best and brightest this country has to offer, we shouldn't take ourselves too seriously. Sometimes it is good to be childish, and it's never better to be child­ish than in college. 
I would be morally remiss to encour­age participation in any such activity which might induce punitive retribution by The Office of Residence Life and Housing. However, to those brash, brave souls for whom willful words of warning go unheeded, I have this simple advice: run fast boys, run fast. 
Conor McEvily senior Zahm House May 1 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, May 2, 2007 

Ocean's 13 (June 8) 
The heist is on again. Danny Oman /George Clooney) and crew are back in laS' Vegas in this third "01:ean's" lilm. trying to outdo their former casino grab job. This time, after casino owner Willy Bank (AI Pacino), goes after one of the original "Ocean's Eleven." the remaining crew goes for· more than just his money: they're out for revenge.Julia Roberts and Cathflrine Zeta-Jones will not appear, but with the star power of Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Don Cheadle, Andy Gareia and others returning once again, this film should captivate audiences just as much as the 1Irst two did. 
Spider-Man 3 (May 4) 

The wall-crawling webslinger returns in the third (and fmal?) installment of the Spider-Man series this weekend. Directed by Sam Haimi and featuring Tobey Maguire as Peter Parker/Spidey, the franehise has garnered both critical acclaim and massive box ofiice bucks. In his third trip out, the webhead finds bimseU' in his most desperate situation yet, with the transformation of his friend Harry Osborn (James Pranco) into the s.econd Green Goblin, the rise of the Sandman (Thomas Haden Church) and the dreaded arrival of the b>Tanddaddy of all Spider-Man villains, ~enom (Topher Grace). 

-

. --... 
. ( 
.lJLYJULYJULYJ 
Transformers (July 4) 

Directed by that ma.<;ter of the action flick, Michael Bay, "Transform£Jrs" promises nothing less than to be the biggest, baddcst and most robotic sum­mer hit this year. With a plethora of fan­tasy and eomk book films thissummer, 'Transformers" promises some unadul­terated mechanized joy. It will be tim t<J look at (unless it gives us a headache) but what remains to oo seen is whether Bay can field a film closer in nature to "The Hock" than "Pearl Harbor." Starring Shia LeBeouf, who seems to be popping up in every film this year, Bay's latest will at lea.<>t be a thrill ride, ifnoth­ing else. 
The Bourne Ultimatum (August 3) 
Matt Damon returns for the third time as supreme assassin Jason Bourne in "The Bourne Ultimatum." In the follow-up to 2002's "Tho Bourne Identity" and 2004's "The Bourne Supremacy," acclaimed director Paul Greengrass joins returning cast members Julia Stiles and Joan Allen, with new additions David Strathairn and Edgar Hamirez. 
In the latest installment, Bourne's only objective is to go back to the beginning and find out who he once was -all !he while avoiding cops, federal officers and Interpol agents. It's not easy-being Bourne again. 

(June 15) 

After an awfW first film, the are giving it another go in the film in the franchbe. After the enigmatic: appearance of the (basically the coolest thing other side of the pillow), Re ichards (loan Gruffucid), lnvisib (Jessica Alba), the Hum Evans) and the Thi ....,,..,_.v. Chiklis) must combine again in order to defeat the 
Doom (Julian McMahon). Look of comedy (Evans), hotness punches (Chiklis) in this "'-''11LULI<u111 
sequel. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, May 2, 2007 
page 15 
N, TAE ANDREWS & MARTY SCHROEDER 
MAYMAYMAY MAY MAY MAY MAY 
Shrek the Third (May 18} 

Green is in again. The jolly green ogre {Mike Myers) ambles his way bl;leo onscreen for the latest film in the Shie series. Joined by his irascible -pal Donkey (Eddie Murphy), new hubby Princess Fiona (Cameron Diaz) and the one and only Puss in Boots {Antonio Banderas), Shrek's latest adventure promises more magical mischief and mayhem in this unconventional take on fairy tales.. In order to return to swampy stomping grounds, Shrek h to help Artie (Justin Timberlake) 
ascend to the crown,and thwart Prin, Charming's (Rupert Everett) pysh to usurp the throne. -·.·· 
',J 
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (July 13} 
Number five in the "Harry Potter" 
ilm franchise, "Phoenix" looks to be bigger and badder than its younger :siblings. _With the return of a certain baddie, Harry (Daniel Radcliffe) and his loyal band of friends (and girl­riend?) face their most dangerous 
hreat to date. 
Helmed by award-winning British !television director David Yates, it will be hard to top the third "Prisoner of Azkaban," but the hype coming out pf London seems to say the magic ~e've come to expect will be dealt in ~pades. 

Ratatouille (June 29} 
Pixar's follow-up film to "Cars" stars a Parisian rat who dreams of becom­ing a bistro chef in spite ofthe fact that rats are typically not chefs. Director Brad Bird ("The Incredibles," "The Iron Giant") helms what is the ._.•· o$1; heavily-anticipated Pixar film in 
With a voice cast including Brian 
eiiehy, Peter O'Toole, Will Arnette and Pixar regular John Ratzenberger, in addition to stellar early reviews, this overachieving rodent could be the best thing since Mickey Mouse en route to finishing as one of the top five grossing movies of the summer. 
Mr. Bean's Holiday-August 31 
The name's-Bean. Mr. Bean. Rowan Atkinson returns to the titular role that made him an international star in "Mr. Bean's Holiday." In his latest misadventure, Mr. Bean-the misfit who seems constantly followed by a trail of pratfalls and hijinks -goes on holiday to the French Riviera and becomes ensnared in a European adventure of kidnapping an-d intrigue. 
His adventures, which he records on a camcorder, somehow manage to make their way to the Cannes film festival as Mr. Bean causes. chaos throughout the French countryside. 
Pirates ofthe Caribbean: At Wottd's End (May 25} 
Break out t]]e eyepatches, bandan nas and cuthtsses, bf;!cause "Pirates" are back. Dfrector Q;bre Verbinski's third "Pirat~s" fiJ.Ili sets sail in search of th~'J9elov~~~-<,:aptain Jack Sparrow (Joluiilypept).Will Turner (Orlando IJJoomi; and;plizabeth Swann (Keit~ J9ligh1;l~y) have to find their lostl!:)ader~t th~Jarside of the earth in order to Mstire the,fate o pirate-kind everywhere;. Ex~ect_lotE of swashbuckling swotdfig}lt~, _gian sea mo~ter battles and alove lrian­gle or two tp tak~ plat{): inthis:I(ttes 
saltwatet''adventure~ .·...· c,-"' .. 
The Simpsons Movie (July 27} 
Heralded as the antithesis to the high-tech wonders coming out of Pixar, television series and essential commentator on American culture "The Simpsons" finally gets its very own adaptation to the big screen. Primary writer and series creator Matt Groening and director David Silverman have called the plot very loose and the film will showcase all of the main characters alongside many of the frequent guest stars on the show. 
"The Simpsons" fan-nation is a large one and will certainly turn out in full force to support Homer and family. 
TFIE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, May 2, 2007 

Th HA-POCALYPSE is 

Th 
sh 

t n II y sh s. 
By TAE ANDREWS 

Scene Editor 
The end is near. You may have seen this slogan scrawled on cardboard cutouts and draped on the shoulders of crazy people announcing the imminent arrival of the armageddon while loitering around cam­pus quads, near the dining halls. Don't worry: they're not (entirely) insane, they're just advertising for the HA-pocalypse, the Humor Artists of NO's final show of the year, coming live to you tonight in the Hesburgh library Auditorium at 7:30. 
"Amusing and offending since 1996" (club slogan), the Humor Artists of NO (more commonly known as HA) are Notre Dame's very own improv and sketch come­dy club. This bunch of pranksters and wise acres is known for its eccen-Unfortunately, the HA-lleluia show was nixed this year. With the impending conclu­sion of the semester, Tortorello and compa­ny decided to come up with the HA-poca­lypse, a show designed to fit in keeping with the end of the year motif. 
If brevity is the soul of wit, then the HA­pocalypse won't be lacking in soul power: the HA-pocalypse features a combination of 12 skits and 12 improv games mixed together. In describing the HA creative process, Tortorello said, "Usually someone writes a skit, and then everyone sits down and we read through it in practice. Afterwards the club officers sit down and pick out the best combination of all the skits. Some are NO-related, some are about pop culture, and there's some intellectual or academic stuff and some cute stuff." 
In addition to presidents Tortorello and 
Spitalare, the 
four-person 
tric comedy and ability to find the humor in any situa­tion, even ifit's not immedi­ately apparent. With humor. ranging from high-minded to low-brow, HA's uncon­ventional takes on the day-to­
HA;pTHE 
L

. ·«IIIJPM 
IS COMING. 
WEDNESDAY, MAY 2ND 7:30PM 
HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM The Comedy Show to End All Comedy Shows 
$2 admission 
board also includes HA­storian Josh Talley and club treasurer Alyssa Ratzlaff. 
This year's show figures to be the best in a while, which might be a good thing, because if the advertise­ments are true 
day comedy inherent to life on campus and life in general are hilarious, and they even manage to toss in spoofs, goofs, crack-ups and put-downs to spare. 
Club co-presidents James Spitalare and Steven Tortorello are the ringleaders of this pack of comics. In anticipation of tonight's show, Tortorello sat down to answer a few questions about the HA-pocalypse. So why the name? 
With previous shows including October's HA-lloween, December's HA-nnukkhah, February's HA-rts and HA-lelluia, an Easter-themed show, the Humor Artists put on shows designed to correspond with holidays happening during the calendar year. "[The use of the HA theme] is sort of a running joke for us," Tortorello said. 
and the end is 
near, there won't be any more shows. "In the past three years, we've had way more skits to choose from for this show," Tortorello said. He went on to say that he and the r.est of the board had over 30 skits to choose from in selecting the 12 to use in the HA-poca­lypse. 
As club president, Tortorello continues to participate in the onstage antics and appears personally in several of the show's skits. "I joined HA freshman year and at first, it was a really nerve-wracking experi­ence," he said. "You're not sure if some­thing will be funny or not. It's kind of like riding a bike though; once you learn how to do it you know you can always do it again. 
"It's also like being a musician. For improv sketches, you just go out there and jam. There's ups and downs, and some­times your skits turn out to be flops or busts, but once you get out there and get the adrenaline going, it's like being a rock star." 
With skits ranging from zombie invasions on campus to a literary standoff involving Percy and Mary Shelley, John Keats and William Wordsworth to a parody of the famous "Leroy Jenkins" YouTube video fea­turing Notre Dame clergy, the WA-poca­lypse certainly isn't lacking in variety. "It's a comprehensive show," Tortorello said. "It's the best of the best with a little bit of every­thing." 
Without a doubt, that variety comes from having a broad and diverse cast. HA includes members of all different majors, ranging from freshmen to seniors, with a few grad students as well. 
And the one common thread between all of them is their love of comedy. Monday night's rehearsal was tantamount to a run­ning roast, in which most of the cast mem­bers spent more time poking fun of each other than rehearsing their lines. 
As you might expect, they're all pretty funny in person and are hard to take seri­ously. One thing you might not expect is that they all finish each other's sentences. So obviously, doing a roundtable interview with four cast members was an interesting experience. 
Freshman Mitch Bradford commented on the experience of working with his cast members by saying, "I hate these guys." Mike Johnson, a senior who describes his name as "the best in the world because everyone has it," said, "We really enjoy our own shows" to which Bradford cut in, " ... more so than the audience does. You have to have fun onstage, ifyou're not then the audience knows and they won't laugh." 
Sophomore Joe Kwaczala said, "It's nice to challenge each other." Bradford replied, "When you're around funny people, it chal­lenges you to be funnier." Johnson said, "We feed oil' each other and make our skits bigger and better," to which Kwaczala returned, " ... at least we hope," before pausing the conversation by jumping out of a second-story window of Washington Hall. After a momentary panic, Kwaczala's head popped up from beneath the window sill, 
JEFF ALBERT I Observer Graphic 


Photo courtesy of Cassidy Russell 

From the top, Steve Tortorello, Rory Norton and Mitch Bradford clown around during rehearsal. 
as he was crouching on a ledge on the out­side part of the wall. Despite giving nearly everyone a heart attack, Kwaczala just smiled and said, "That's why they call me 
XXX." 

Daredevil antics aside, sophomore Cassidy Hussell explained, "We're too attractive not to be onstage and too amus­ing to do straight theater." 
One thing is for sure heading into tonight's show and the end of the semester: if stress and finals do manage to get us and the end really is nigh, at least we'll all die laughing. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 


Wednesday, May 2, 2007 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS page 17 
MLB 

Willingham's five RBis lead Marlins over Mets 
Casey's pinch-hit single in eighth lifts Tigers over Orioles; Sabathia recovers and strikes out nine as Indians win 
Associated Press where it's a combination of I The Marlins also turned an feel good at the plate, I'm get­unusual double play when the 
NEW YORK Josh ting into good hitters counts a Mets attempted a double steal Willingham's big night at the lot of times and getting good with runners on first and third plate was huge and Ricky pitches to hit," said in the first inning. Carlos Nolasco gave the Florida Willingham, who is hitting .450 Delgado took a called third Marlins a nice effort, too. with 11 RBis in his last five strike and shortstop Hanley 
Just don't forget about games. "If they make their Ramirez cut off catcher Miguel Florida's defense. pitches on the corners, obvi­Olivo's throw and threw back to 
The Marlins made three great ously you don't drive the ball." the plate to get Jose Reyes. defensive plays and Willingham Nolasco was backed by solid Nolasco (1-0) allowed one run drove in a career-high five runs defense, especially from center and six hits. He was 0-3 with a in a 5-2 victory over the New fielder Alfredo Amezaga. Carlos 19.73 ERA in four previous York Mets on Tuesday night. Beltran hit a long fly to center appearances against New York. 
"We played some great in the fourth, but Amezaga He got his first road win since defense tonight." said Nolasco, leaped high to catch the drive he beat Arizona on Aug. 13. who came off the disabled Jist near the top of the wall. "You can't put people on base to pitch five effective innings. Amezaga was responsible for for free because they'll make "Defense picked me up when I the final out of the inning, too. you pay," said Nolasco, who needed them to and this is how He ea-sily threw out Carlos struck: out five and walked we're going to win. Delgado trying to score on Paul none. "My perspective was just 
Willingham tripled with the Lo Duca's single to get Nolasco if they're going to get on base bases loaded in the first inning out of the inning. I'm going to make them earn and hit a two-run homer off "In the box score it's not it." Aaron Heilman in the eighth going to be noticed but for me after the Mets pulled within he's got to be up there with Detroit 5, Baltimore 4 one. Willingham narrowly Willingham as far as heroes of Sean Casey hopes with the missed two more homers, fly­the game," manager F·redi start of a new month, his for­ing out to the warning track in Gonzalez said. "Those are two tunes have changed at the ahead run to make it 4-3. Blue Jays on Tuesday night. center twice. runs or maybe even possibly plate. Polanco added a run-scoring Sabathia (4-0) found himself 
"It's one of those things more runs that he saved us." Casey's pinch-hit tiebreaking single. down 3-0 five batters into the single with one out in the Casey is also just getting over game. But the left-bander set­eighth inning lifted the Detroit the flu. tled in and held the Blue Jays Tigers to a win over the "Just what the doctor to one hit over the next five Baltimore Orioles on Tuesday ordered, believe me," he said. innings, retiring 16 of the final night. Reliever Joel Zumaya (1-1) 17. He walked none and struck 
Craig Monroe also homered pitched two innings for the vic­out nine in six innings. for Detroit and Placido Polanco tory. He struck out four and "They put some good swings went 4-for-5 with two RBis. allowed one hit. on some balls," said Sabathia, 
Casey has gotten off to a poor He has also struggled recent­who seems to have one tough start, hitting only .203. The RBI ly, but this was his second con­inning every time out. "I was was only his second of the sea­secutive effective appearance. just glad it was at the begin­son. ning." 
"I kind of struggled through Cleveland 12, Toronto 4 After enduring a season­the first month of April," Casey Not long ago, one bad inning opening month of snow, post-said. "And, hopefully, it's a probably would've unhinged ponements and travel,. good sign for me in May." C.C. Sabathia, sending him into Cleveland began May with a 
Pinch-hitter Carlos Guillen mound-stomping rage. comeback victory, scoring nine led off the eighth with a walk On Tuesday night, he didn't consecutive runs and a season­by Danys Baez (0-1) and was lose his cool or the game. high 12 to win for the eighth sacrificed to second by "I guess I'm getting older," he time in nine games. Brandon lnge. Curtis said. "I hate to say that." The Indians' lone loss since Granderson was then walked Rocked by Toronto for three April 22 came in a 7-4 setback intentionally. Casey then pinch homers in the first inning, on Saturday to Baltimore, a hit for Neifi Perez and hit a Sabathia buckled down to stay game they played under protest sinking liner that just eluded unbeaten and Jhonny Peralta and one they're hoping base­third baseman Melvin Mora had a career-high five RBis as ball officials will give them a that scored Guillen with the go-the Cleveland Indians beat the second chancc,to win. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the No~re Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Sitter for 11-year-old girl in Granger and sometimes older sisters. 15 & WANTED 17. Days, 30-40 hours/week now 
through summer. Reply: Graduating? Not want to miss any Linda.Harmon1 @comcast.net football games this fall? Not ready to pay rent? Want your first job to be HOUSE MATE WANTED. LOOK-tons of fun? The La Lumiere School lNG FOR HOUSE MATE TO in La Porte, Indiana (30 miles West SHARE A HOUSE 1.5 MILES of South Bend) is hiring an Assistant FROM NOTRE DAME. HOUSE Director of Residential Life. Help MATE WOULD HAVE UPPER plan nightly and weekend activities FLOOR WHICH INCLUDES OWN for the 150 day and boarding stu-ROOM AND BATHROOM WITH dents. concentrating on the 65 ACCESS TO SHARED LIVING boarding students. Housing, utilities AREA. KITCHEN. AND LAUNDRY and meals are included in addition FACILITIES. MONTHLY RENT For Sale or Rent-523 Howard St.,4 blks to NO. 2 BDRM Home. 1000 sq. ft. basement/garage. Everything new. $65,900. 574-257-9683. 
Log Home minutes from campus. 1 bdmn, 2 full baths, full basement & attached 2-car gar. Move-in condition. Must see to appreciate. $149,000 PRUDENTIAL ONE REALTY Judy Bauer· cell 57 4-340-7997 
FOR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com 
WALK TO CAMPUS!! 

JAMISON RESIDENTIAL 3 BDRM 2 BA LUXURY CONDO. ACROSS B-BALL STADIUM FROM CAM­PUS. SLEEPS UP TO 4 STU­DENTS. EXCELLENT RENTAL FOR 2 GRAD STUDENTS OR FOR PRIVACY. CONVERT 3RD BED­ROOM TO STUDY. CAB,NET,GAS,ELEC, INCLUDED. $1600 PER MONTH BEGINNING 6/1. 
CALL MARK@ 31 0-940-9444. 

CHICAGO AREA HOUSING OPPORTUNITY for Female NO Grad: Family in Northbrook has PERSONAL home-bound 17-yr-old daughter with chronic illness similar to chron-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not ic fatigue syndrome. Free room & go it alone. If you or someone you love board for responsible person to live needs confidenbal support or assis­in house & act as "big sister". Three lance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at blocks from Metra. 1-7819. For more infomnation, visit our Call: web site at httpJ/osa.nd.edu/depart-Dan 312-913-2130 ments!pregnantshtml or see our bi-or weekly ad in The ObseNer. Chris 574-339-0582. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOMEONE Storage facility for rent Close to WHO IS? You do not have to be ND. 1200 W 6th St., Mishawaka. alone. We want to help. Call our 24 
to a stipend. You will have plenty of INCLUDES UTILITIES (GAS & free time to attend graduate school ELECTRIC). RENT IS $210 PER BETTER HOMES,BETTER or visit with friends back in South MONTH. CALL 289-6643 FOR AREAS,BETTER DEALS. Bend. Preference given to candi-MORE INFORMATION. BlueGoldRentals.com 
dates willing to coach a sport. Come enjoy a great environment during Summer babysitter for 5-yr-old girl ­your first year out of college, and especially week of June 4. fflem­help provide an enjoyably produc-ing@michiana.org or call574-532­live experience for the La Lumiere HlBQ. students. Please contact: Michael Kennedy, Headmaster, La Lumiere School, 6801 N. Wilhelm Road, La FoR SALE 
Porte, IN 46530. 

•No CONDOS• NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath 
219-326-7450. kennedy@lalu-condos Minutes from campus miere.org Starting in $130,000s 574-252-2427 
ndcondos.com Reserve SUMMER WORK-$15.50 base-Yours Today! 
appt flexible schedules, no exp.needed,customer sales/service, Charming 2-story colol]ial, well main-conditions apply,all ages 17+, posi-tained, close to NO, 3 bdmns, 1.5 lions throughout the US, apply now, baths, garage, F/P, dining room, start after finals, screened porch, full basement w/wet www.workforstudents.com bar. $129,500. Call574-232-0480. 
Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli. AIC,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 + util. 630-417 -8763/MCL214@aol.com 
Very large home for rent for next school year. 1 block east of cam­pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4 huge bedrms/3 full baths/large kitchen-lam rm & laundry rm. 3 decks overlook huge fenced yard. Very private & safe! Must see! 239­707-2025. 
New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi,AC, 2 car gar. No pets. $1650/mo plus util. 914-232-3328. 
1-bdrm apts. Quiet historic neigh­borhood. Laundry & security. $575/mo. 574-532-8718. 
Furnished 1 bdrm apt, 2 mi to NO, AC, non-smoking, no pets. 
$400/mo + utilities, free laundry, fenced yard. 574-289-9365. 
Two custom built riverfront homes for sale or rent. New construction, 10 minutes to Notre Dame. First home has 4 bedrooms, 4 baths, 3500 sq. It Second home has 4 bedrooms, 3 baths, 3300 sq.ft. Both have a walkout lower level with sec­ond fireplace and gorgeous views. Must see! Windsor Prop.LLC 574­
876-3424 Video & access control security, eli-hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No­mate controlled. Summer rate for ABORT or visit our website at students. 2 mi north of Marian High www.lifecall.org 

School. 5x1 0 $99; 1Ox1 0 $149. Adopt: A young loving couple long to Call share their Hearts and home with a 574-277-1878. newborn & will provide Endless love. 
Expenses paid call Eileen & Ed at 1­Roseland Cottages available 2 800-718-6577 bdrm 1 ba, walk to campus w/W/0. 574-272-3033 or dpaul@nd.edu If you or someone you care about has Stud.Hsg. still available for 07-08 @ been sexually assaulted, visit Stadium Club Condos. http:f/osa.nd.edu/departments/rape to 
learn about resources at NO and in Call 574-233-4590 South Bend. 
1 bdrm apt, water, heat, cable, Evergreen Self Storage. Both climate DSL, 5 min. campus, 218 S. St. and non-climate controlled. Sizes Peter St.,$450/mo. 574-217-1158. from 1 Ox1 0 to 1Ox20. Located in the HOUSE. 4 bdrm,2ba, iireplace, Princess Way Industrial Park in jacuzzi,5 min. campus, Granger at 12575 Sandy Drive. $750 mo. Mention this ad and save 10% off 
your lease. Call574-243-4608 or 574­574-217-1158 272-0618. 


OUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM.THI: ()BSFRVFR'S WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, May 2, 2007 
NCAA Div. I Men's Tennis 
·Fila/ITA Rankings  
team  point~>  
1  Georgia  97  
2  Virginia  90  
3  Ohio State  89  
4  Baylor  85  
5  NOTRE DAME  78  
6  North Carolina  74  
7  Mississippi  72  
8  UClA  69  
9  Illinois  . 66  
10  usc  65  
11.  Texas  62  
12  Oklahoma Slate  61  
13  Wake forest  60  
14  lSU  58  
15  Duke  58  
16  Tulsa  54  
17  Alabama  54  
18  Florida State  53  
19  Florida  52  
20  Michigan  52  
21  Pepperdine  51  
22  Clemson  46  
23  Boise State  44  
24  Tennessee  40  
25  VCU  39  

NCAA Women's Softball 
team record points prev. 
1  Tennessee  50•2  . 499  1  
2  Alabama  46·4  467  2  
3  Oklahoma  47"5  464  4  
4  Arizona  34-9  443  3  
5  lSU  46-6  417  6  
6  TexasA&M  3H  396  5  
7  Arizona State  4Mt  365  9  
8 ·  Baylor  41-11  351  7 '  
9  Michigan  3HI  341  8  

NCAA Men's Lacrosse Coaches Poll 
team re(J(Jrd pts. 
1 Cornell 240 2 Albany 225 3 Virgilthl 217 4· ·· Duke 206 6 Georgetown ·187 5 Princeton 182 ··1 Maryland 166 .
152 ..
a Navy 9 John Hopkins •·136. 10 North Carolina •··········••••••.;;;;. •• :•.••.•..• , 123 11 NOTRE DAME 102 12 BuckneU 
.... .. 13' Towson 
around the dial 
MLB 
Philadelphia at Atlanta 
4:30 p.m., ESPN 

Chicago White Sox at Seattle-7 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 
New Jersey at Ottowa 4 p.m., Versus 
Detroit at San Jose 7 p.m., Versus 
NFL 


Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. ­When the Carolina Panthers drafted Southern California receiver Dwayne Jarrett in the second round Saturday, Keyshawn Johnson was ecstatic. 
"This is a great pick. We need another wide receiv­er," Johnson gushed while working as a draft analyst for ESPN. "This guy is much like me. I'm going to teach him how to play from the point of attack." 
He won't get the chance. 
The Panthers deemed their older former USC receiver was expendable Tuesday. Johnson, the 6­foot-4 possession receiver and 1996 No. 1 overall pick, was released to make way for a younger 6-foot-4 possession receiver taken with the 45th pick. 
"We appreciated the contribution of Keyshawn in his season with the Panthers," coach John Fox said. "He brought us high production, but at this time, we are in a situation in which we have a num­ber of young receivers and thought this was the right time to make the deci­sion." 
The Panthers also select­ed receiver Ryne Robinson in the fourth round of the draft. While he will likely be primarily used as a punt returner, he did catch 91 passes at Miami of Ohio last season. The Panthers also have receivers Drew Carter and Keary Colbert _ plus star Steve Smith. 
Johnson, who will turn 35 in July, had 70 catches for 815 yards and four touchdowns last season and became the 16th play­er in NFL history with 800 career catches. The Panthers signed Johnson last year after he was released by Dallas in a salary cap move so the Cowboys could sign Terrell Owens . 
It was hoped Johnson would take pressure off Smith, who was Carolina's lone option in 2005 and was shut down in the NFC championship game by Seattle. But the Panthers, plagued by injuries, stum­bled to an 8-8 record and missed the playoffs. 
Numerous calls placed to Johnson on Tuesday were not returned. Panthers general manager Marty Hurney said he had a cou­ple of phone conversations with him. 
"I don't think he agreed with the decision. I think he feels like he could have come in and helped us in our goal of trying to get to the playoffs and win the championship, but I think he understood our thought process," Hurney said. "I would just say he didn't agree with it." 
IN BRIEF 

Cowboys' owner will root Pletcher h~ to crack goose­Pilot misjud~ed U-turn for Quinn to struggle egg with 5 Derby starters resulting in fatal crash 
Jerry Jones will spend almost as much LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Todd Pletcher is WASHINGTON -New York time next season rooting against Oeveland certainly goosing his odds of ending an Yankees pitcher Cory Lidle and his as he will rooting for his Dalla<; Cowboys. 0-for-14 streak in the Kentucky Derby. flight instructor did not realize their 
That's because the Cowboys now have He plans to enter a record-tying five misjudgment of a U-turn until it was the Browns' first pick, courtesy of horses in Saturday's race -a quarter too late to avoid their fatal New York Oeveland's desire to get back into the first of the expected 20-horse field -City plane crash, investigators said round of last weekend's draft to grab although none of them figures to be the Tuesday. Brady Quinn as he went into free-fall. favorite. They had several options in how Dallas finally gave the Browns the pick ''I'm not as excited about having five they handled that maneuver, the they needed to take the Notre Dame quar­in there," he said. "I want to have one probe found. terback -for Oeveland's first pick next that wins." In presenting their findings, year. The 39-year-old trainer has come National Transportation Safety 
Good for Jerry. That piCk figures to still close twice before. He fmished second Board members said they still didn't be high, especially if Quinn is the starting to Barbaro with Bluegrass Cat last year know whether Lidle or his flight QB ahead of OJ.arlie Frye. That's because and second with Invisible Ink in 2001. instructor Tyler Stanger was piloting almost all rookie quarterbacks struggle, This year, he's saddling Any Given the plane in the Oct. 11, 2006, crash. which means the Browns will struggle. Saturday, Circular Quay (pronounced Both were killed when the Cirrus And that means Dallas could well have a key), Cowtown Cat, Scat Daddy and SR-20, owned by Lidle, slammed into top-five pick next season -even if it wins SamP. a high-rise apartment building. The the Super Bowl. (Dream on about that, "I still don't feel like in years past NTSB declared Tuesday that the Jerry and that portion offandom that finds that we've brought the best horse to cause was "inadequate judgment, something appealing about "America's the race," he said. ''I'm hoping this planning and airmanship" by Lidle Team.") year that maybe one of ours is." and Stanger. 

Wednesday, May 2, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Hughes injures ha111string, vvilllikely be out 4-6 w-eeks 
ATTENTION: STUDY ABROAD STUDENTSIII NOW OFFERING HALF·YE.AR LEASESII 
lafayette Square Townhomes 
• 4 k~nd 5 Bedroom Tovvt1homes • 6 Blocks rrom C~1mpus; • 2 Sr1t.hrooms 

www.kra.merhouaes.com 
Renting fast· call today for 2007· 2008 

Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas-Phil Hughes was working on a no­hitter in the seventh inning of his second major league start when a hamstring injury cost him a chance to make history. 
The Yankees' prized prospect is expected to miss four to six weeks, a sour end to an other­wise encouraging night for the last-place club. New York responded to criticism from owner George Steinbrenner in a big way Tuesday with a 10-1 rout of the Texas Rangers. 
Hank Blalock hit a leadoff double against reliever Mike Myers in the eighth inning for Texas' first hit, not long after Hughes (1-1) became the latest Yankees pitcher to go down. 
The 20-year-old right-hander, considered one of the top prospects in baseball, was cruis­ing along in a dominant per­formance when he winced and grabbed the back of his left thigh after throwing an 0-2 breaking ball to Mark Teixeira with one out in the seventh. It was Hughes' 83rd pitch. 
"He said he felt a pop," catch­er Jorge Posada said. 
Yankees manager Joe Torre, pitching coach Ron Guidry and a trainer came out to the mound to check on Hughes, who was removed from the game and walked gingerly back to the dugout, where he received a warm reception from team­mates. 
Hughes walked three and 

struck out six. He left with a 9-0 on the disabled list. Chien-Ming lead. Wang also missed the first three 
Hughes was called up from weeks of the season with a ham­Triple-A Scranton to fill a spot in string injury. New York's injury-depleted rota­Ian Kinsler followed Blalock's tion. Mike Mussina (hamstring), double with an RBI single. Carl Pavano (forearm) and Jeff Myers finished the eighth and Karstens (broken right leg) are Luis Vizcaino worked the ninth 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies Announces the Winners of Research ana Travel Grants for 2007-2008 
Congratulations to undergraduates 
Betsy Brooks (Russia) The Katie Murphy McMahon Grantj(w Russian and East-Central European Studies Jessica Peyton (Russia) The Katie Murphy McMahon Grantfor Russian and East-Central European Studies Michael Redding (Ireland) The R. Stephen and Ruth Barrett Family Grantfor Best Proposal 
Phillip Alday (Austria) Juan Pablo Garcia (England) John Grothaus (Spain) Joseph Hagmann (Austria) Carol Hendrickson (Ireland) Anka Jedry (France) 
to graduate students 
Joshua Bandoch (Germany) Charles Camosy (Netherlands, Germany, England) Kathryn Gardner (England) Jetmifer Sladek (France) Elizabeth Strauss (Germany) 
and to Graduate Fellowship winners 
Raymond Hain (The Dominica and Frank Annese Fellowship in Graduate Studies) James Helmer (The Paul G. Tobin Dissertation Fellowship) 
to complete the two-hitter. 
New York's dismal first month _ which ended with a 9-14 record and 6 1/2-game deficit to first-place Boston in the AL East _ roused Steinbrenner to issue his first public remarks of the season, at once throwing his 
Danielle Leary (Ireland) Meghan Lueck (Italy) George Mandarakas (Greece) Lauren McDonough (Ireland) Kristine Nugent (Ukraine) Taylor Poulin (France) Frederic Shadley (Spain) 
Todd Thorpe (England, Ireland) Sheila Nowinski (France) Martina Cucchiara (Germany) 
Michael Driessen (Italy).-----.... 
support behind Torre and rebuking the team for its record. 
Steinbrenner's vote of confi­dence in Torre and general manager Brian Cashman silenced. at least temporarily, speculation that their jobs were in jeopardy. 


Contact Kramer at f574J 315-5032 or (574) 234-2436 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, May 2, 2007 

NBA 

Nets' hopes alive with close win over Raptors · 
Ford, Calderon go down with injuries, but expected to return for Game 6 action Friday 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -After staving off elimination by holding on for a win in Game 5, the Toronto Raptors hope they have enough healthy players for Game 6. 
Jose Calderon scored a career-high 25 points before spraining his ankle in the final minute and Andrea Bargnani added 18 points as the Raptors rebounded from two double­digit losses to beat the New Jersey Nets 98-96 on Tuesday night. 
"It took everything and it took everybody," Raptors coach Sam Mitchell said. "They didn't go away quietly." 
Game 6 in the first-round series is Friday night in New Jersey. 
The victory came at a cost for Toronto, who lost point guards Calderon and T.J. Ford to injury. 
"We're going to need these couple of days in between games," Mitchell said. "We've got some guys banged up but hopefully they'll feel a little bit better tomorrow." 
Ford left shortly after collid­ing with Carter with less than 30 seconds to play in the first quarter. Ford, who suffered what team officials called a "stinger," was taken to a hospi­tal for tests. He returned to the arena and was sitting on the bench late in the fourth quar­ter. Tests showed no serious problems but Ford still com­plained of soreness after the game. 
Calderon was taken to a hos­pital after the game for tests on his ankle. The severity of his 

ND Students: 
The photos of seniors Andrew Houser and Andrew O'Connor were inadvertently switched in the 2007 Dome. 
Please make a note of it in your yearbook. We regret the error. 
Lauren Studios Rancho Cucamonga, Calif. 
injury was not known. 
"We just kind of rallied around each other and got stops when we needed to," Raptors forward Morris Peterson said. 
Calderon was praised for stepping up in Ford's absence. 
"Jose did a spectacular job tonight," Toronto's Chris Bosh said. "He made some big shots, especially when they were going under the screens. They paid a lot of attention to me so that freed him up." 
The Raptors led by as many as 17 points in the second half but the Nets got within one in . the final minute when Calderon rolled over on his ankle and lost the ball to Jason Kidd. Vmce Carter then hit a 3-point­er to make it 95-94 with 27.6 seconds remaining. 
Two free throws by Bosh and a putback from Mikki Moore of the Nets made it 97-96. Bosh was fouled again but made just one of two, giving the Nets a chance to tie or go for the win. Carter drove to the basket but Juan Dixon's defense forced him to give up the ball and Bostjan Nachbar's 3-pointer bounced off the rim as time expired. 
"He was wide open," Carter said. ''I'll go for that every time. I told him if that play happens again, I'm going to make the same play." 
Kidd said the Nets "couldn't have asked for a better shot." 
"It was all set up for us to win the game," Kidd said. "Unfortunately we didn't." 
Nachbar, who went 0-for-7 from beyond the arc, felt bad for missing the opportunity. 
. ,st 907 E. LA SALLE AVE. 234·0363 
~!1),_) 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 
www.womenscarecenter.org 
NHL 

Rangers even series at two 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -This no-goal got the New York Rangers even with the Buffalo Sabres in more ways than one. 
Henrik Lundqvist stopped Daniel Briere's shot just short of fully crossing the goal line with 17 seconds left, and the Rangers hung on for a 2-1 vic­tory over the Sabres on Tuesday night to square the Eastern Conference semifinal series after four games. 
Both teams had to wait out a lengthy video review for the second straight game. 
"What we're looking for is either confirm what the call is on the ice, or we have to have a conclusive picture of the puck being in the net," Bob Hall, the supervisor of officials for the series said in a state­ment. "It's what we're looking 


For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Friday, May 4 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay. lesbian, and bisexual members of the NotreJJarne family, their frienrJs, anrJ suppnrters to an informal lunch at the Co-Mo. 
' E~e!)'One is weloome and oonlidell!ialey is assu1iill. 
Lunc/1 will be served 
G!JRE G!J!JNC1L 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS. 
for in this case because the on-ice ruling was no goal. 
"We looked and looked and looked. No replay that we have seen shows it definitely cross­ing the goal line." 
On Sunday, Rangers defense­man Karel Rachunek lost a goal when league officials in Toronto used a replay to determine he kicked the puck in. 
The game went to double overtime, but a major contro­versy was avoided when the Rangers eventually won. 
This time the call went New York's way. 
"I guess it was really close," Briere said. "I think they mis­judged the one last game. The Rangers' goal should've been a goal. For the sake of all, I hope they made the right call because that wouldn't be good -two games in a row, two critical goals disallowed." 
Jaromir Jagr and Brendan Shanahan scored power-play goals, and Lundqvist made 29 saves to get the Rangers back in the series. 
The best-of-seven matchup now shifts back to Buffalo, where the Sabres -the NHL's best team in the regular sea­son -took a 2-0 lead. Now they will be feeling the heat from a nervous, title-starved town unwilling to accept any­thing less than the first Stanley Cup in franchise history. 
Game 5 is Friday night, with Game 6 back in New York on Sunday. 
Buffalo picked up the pace right after Ales Kotalik cut the Sabres' deficit to 2-1 just 33 seconds after Shanahan's goal. The Sabres stormed for the tying goal during the final 10 minutes and outshot New York 11-4 in the third. 
"We played good for 50 min­utes, and the last minutes were a headache," Jagr said. "It was awful. We were lucky we won." 
The pressure is back on the Presidents' Trophy winners, who have trailed in the third period in every game but the opener. After scoring an NHL­high 308 goals during the sea­son, the Sabres have been held to five in three games follow­ing a S-2 opening win. 
All the questions before the series were whether the Rangers could slow down Buffalo's four fast lines. Now two goals have been enough to win consecutive games. 
"In the playoffs there is a lot less chances available and Lundqvist has been really good, also," Briere said. 

Wednesday, May 2, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Big East meet awaits Irish 
Men hope to defend title; women look for win after 2nd place last year 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
No.8 Irish place their focus on Quinnipiac 

By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame runners have a lot to live up to as a select few travel to Storrs, Conn., this weekend to compete in the Big East championship. 
The men are the defending conference champions at the George J. She-rman-Family Sports Complex, while the women hope to improve on their second-place performance from last season. 
Championship races inspire a slightly different disposition in the runners. 
"It's in the back of my mind," freshman Jake Walker said. "I want to perform my best at the championships. I'll go out and run as well as I can." 
Walker is not currently quali­fied for the NCAA Mideast regional meet, something he may be able to do at the Big East championship. 
The meet will be close, since Louisville appears to be Notre Dame's toughest competition. 
"We're gonna need everything we've got to beat Louisville because they're adding addi­tional points that they didn't get against us indoors with some of their outdoor events," senior Ryan Postel said. "It's gonna be tough to beat them." 
Postel is currently nursing an injured hamstring and the races he will run in the champi­onship meet are not yet deter­mined. He hopes to be able to compete in both the 4x400 meter relay and the 200-meter dash, but may have to choose one or the other. 
"It's kind of going to come down to points," he said. "The real difference is, can I, on my bum leg, help us more by attempting to run a 200 not at my top speed and get, say, five points, or is it going to come down to us having to put a larg­er margin than five points between us and Louisville." 
Postel was able to run at almost full speed in practice Monday and will test the leg in the 200 dash over the course of the week. 
The other runners have begun reducing their workouts before their races. 
"It's the latter part of the sea­son. I'm not going to kill myself," Walker said. "I usually cut down runs a little a few days before. I'll do strides and sprints to loosen up. I don't want to do too much." 
The Big East meet is more of a team atmosphere than the Irish have experienced in recent meets. Rather than going for individual qualifying times, the runners compete in a cumulative effort for the whole team. 
"My personal goal is to get in the top eight and score points for my team," Walker said. 
One runner is in good position to do so. Freshman Balazs Molnar holds the fastest time in the conference in the 400­meter hurdles. But sitting atop the field means he has to deal with the baggage that comes with that position. 
"I feel pressure because everybody told me I have to win this event," he said. "I try to do my best. It's a really big pres­sure." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Students....! 
Come -Take a Study Break-FREE FOOD! Meet your Alumni Club Representatives 
before you go home for the summer ..... 


By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

Fresh off a victory over Ohio State that clinched both the Greater Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) title and an automatic berth in the NCM tournament, all the No. 8 Irish want to talk about is Quinnipiac. 
"We need to win one more game," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said after Saturday's game against the Buckeyes. ''I'm not going to talk about all those other things right now because [the Quinnipiac game] is what's right in front of us, and that's where our focus needs to be." 
It's not as if Notre Dame has nothing to play for when it travels to Connecticut this weekend to close out the regu­lar season Saturday at 1 p.m. On the line for the Irish will be a perfect conference record, an outright GWLL title, and finishing the regular season on an eight-game winning streak. 
"I think all those things are important, but more than any­thing else, [we want] to con­tinue to play well," Corrigan said. "We're at the time of the year where you don't want to take any backward steps. It's not just about getting wins. It's about getting yourself to play the best that you can play." 
One could argue that the Irish could not play much bet­ter that they have over the past month-and-a-half. Since losing to Dartmouth on March 17, Notre Dame has rattled off seven consecutive victories ­a streak that has helped the Irish jump 11 spots in the polls. 
During their winning streak, the Irish have outscored their opponents by a combined score of 93-29. Notre Dame has been especially tough in the second half of games, allowing an average of 1.57 second-half goals. 
On the offensive side of the field, Notre Dame has ridden a balanced attack to the tune of 
11.56 goals per game, which is the fifth in the country. Four Irish players -attack Ryan Hoff, midfielder Michael Podgajny, midfielder Brian Hubschmann and attack Will Yeatman -have tallied 20 goals or more. Corrigan cred­ited the unselfishness of his 
players in explaining the team's offensive success. 
"We're willing to take what the defense gives us and have a lot of different people con­tribute," Corrigan said. "Our most consistent players are unselfish, and that makes a huge difference. As long as we're productive, they're happy." 
It will be Quinnipiac's turn this Saturday to deal with both the Irish offense and defense, and the Bobcats don't appear to stand much of a chance on paper. Quinnipiac enters this weekend's game with a record of 6-6 overall and 1-3 in conference play. The Bobcats' three losses in GWLL play have come at the hands of Denver, Ohio State and Air Force -all teams that Notre Dame has defeated this season. 
That said, Corrigan empha­sized that he believes Quinnipiac will play with great intensity this weekend, and he has been working on his team to prevent a let-down. 
"I expect [their intensity] to be good," Corrigan said. "They have a chance to put a feather in the cap of their sen­iors which is to win a big league game and to knock off a top-ten team. That's plenty to play for. 
"We've been talking to our guys all week about the idea that we haven't proven any­thing to this team until we get out on the field with them and take care of business." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, May 2, 2007 
NO SOFTBALL 
Ramblers can't touch Bargar 

By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame snapped a seven-game losing streak Tuesday with a big win over Loyola Chicago. 
Sophomore Brittney Bargar picked up her second no-hitter of the season while blanking the Ramblers 5-0. 
Bargar struck out 10 and was only a hit batter in the first inning away from throwing the first perfect game of her career. She received all the run support she would need before she even took the mound. 
Senior centerfielder Stephanie Brown led off the game by reaching safely on a bunt to the pitcher. Two batters later, shortstop Katie Laing knocked her second home run of the year over the left field wall, giving the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
In the following half inning, Ramblers junior Kat Krause reached first after being plunked by Bargar and stole second shortly afterwards. However, that was the furthest any Loyola runner would get all game. 
The scoring came to a halt after Laing's blast as Bargar and Loyola pitcher Amy Solova retired 22 consecutive batters. Solova threw more than five innings, giving up two hits and only one earned run. 
The run came in the sixth inning when freshman Ashley Ellis scored for the first time in her collegiate career, driven in by a Linda Kohan double in the sixth. The Irish tacked on two more insurance runs in the seventh when Christine Lux doubled. Laing and Brown scored on the play, the second run of the game for both. 
Notre Dame will finish out its regular season this week as it takes on Hutgers and Villanova on the road in a pair or confer­ence doubleheaders. The Scarlet Knights are currently in ninth place in the 12-team Big East conference with a 7-11 record. Villanova is in the cel­lar at 5-13. Notre Dame will need to win all four games for a chance at catching Louisville at the No. 3 spot before the Big East tournament. 
The Irish will be close to home as they attempt to defend last year's championship. The tournament begins May 10 and will be held in South Bend for the second consecutive year. Notre Dame upset top-seeded Louisville in a 1-0 pitcher's duel to claim the 2006 title. 
No members of the team were available for comment following Tuesday's game due to travel. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
NO WoMEN's GoLF 

N akazaki chosen for NCAA Tournatnent 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Senior co-captain Noriko Nakazaki was selected Monday for the individual competition at the 2007 NCAA Central Hegional, marking the first time the Irish will send an individual golfer to the event. 
"It means a lot to me, obvi­ously," she said. "Last year we weren't able to qualify for the tournament and it was a big disappointment. However. it just motivatnd me even more to try and make it this year. I'm still kind of saddened that we didn't make it as a team, but I'll try my best to make them proud." 
The three-day tournament is set to start May 10 and will be held at University of Michigan Golf Course in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
The NCAA is divided into three regions, each of which sends 21 teams to their respec­tive regional, and three sepa­rate golfers from non-qualify­ing teams. Next week, these three regionals will take ·place across the country to establish the national championship field. 
In total, 324 golfers are par­ticipating, of which 126 will advance to the NCAA finals. Eight teams and two individual golfers will represent each regional in the finals, which will be held May 22-25 at the LPGA International Legends Course in Daytona Beach, Fla. 
Although Nakazaki has never competed in the NCAA region­als as an individual, she has participated in Notre Dame's only appearances in the tour­nament in 2004 and 2005 ­her first two years as a stu­dent-athlete. 
In the 2004 NCAA Tournament in Normal, Ill., Nakazaki shot a 20-over-par 233 (80-74-79) over three rounds. The effort led the Irish in scoring, and put her in a tie for 36th out of the field of 108. 
As a sophomore, Nakazaki once again paced the team, while shooting a 14-over-par 230 (75-80-75)-good enough for a 37th place tie in Lubbock, Texas. 
The senior is coming off a ~fth-place finish in tho Big East championship out of a field of 33, which helped the Irish claim a second-plaee finish overall. ller 3-over-par 219 (73-74-72) helped her receive her fourth All-Big East honor of her career. 
The co-captain held Notre Dame's best career scoring mark with a 75.76 average through three seasons. This season, Nakazaki's scoring average is 74.71, a stroke below her own mark from last year, which was the team's lowest average ever on a sea­son. 
Nakazaki stressed the need to improve her chipping and putting for the regional compe­tition. 
"My short game is the key to a successful round, and I need to work on that to do well," she said. 
Although her teammates and coaches will not be with her in Ann Arbor, they will all be cheering her on in spirit with the hopes that she can make it to the NCAA Championships. 
"My main objective is to make it to the fmals," Nakazaki said. "Ever since my freshman year it has been our goal to make it to the final round. It makes me proud that I will be representing Notre Dame, rep­resenting my coaches and teammates, so I want to per­form my best." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 


The Department of Mathematics Proudly Presents 
The G E Prizes for Excellence in Mathematics to 
Senior Honors in Mathematics Major  George Kolettis Award in Mathematics to  
Zachary Madden  Elizabeth Vezina  
Senior Mathematics Major  Aumann Prize for First Year Honors  
Jeanette Shaka/li  Mathematics Students  

 £ric Riedl  
Norman and Beatrice Hasser Mathematics Scholarships to  
 
Adam Boocher, Jacob Hughes, Audrey DeGuire, Peter Kelly and Geoffrey Mooney  R. Catesby Taliaferro Competition to 1111 Place: Andrew Manion  

 2'r:J Place,· Geoffrey Mooney  
J &C Sophomore Award in Mathematics to  Z1d Place: Eric Riedl  
Kaittyn Moran  
 

 Robert P. Balles Award  
Stephen Atwood  

11 Galleries 
Colf.l.x Avenue aod linc:offi Way West ArhCmridors Downtown South Bend 

Wednesday, May 2, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles look to avenge loss 
By REBECCA SLINGER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will look to improve its play against Alma, Tri-State and Hope as the team enters the MIAA tournament Thursday. 
The fourth-ranked Belles will face top-seeded Alma (27-9, 14-2 MIAA). which is also hosting the tournament in Alma, Mich. 
The Belles finished regular season play strong with a 25­7 record (10-6 MIAA) and swept Kalamazoo and Adrian April 28 and 30, respectively. 
But their record against the three teams they could face in the MIAA tournament is dismal. The Belles went 1-5 this season against Alma, Tri­State and Hope. 
Alma handed Saint Mary's its first regular-season loss March 31, topping the Belles 9-1 and 4-0. Saint Mary's struggled with Tri-State as well, falling 9-1 and 3-2 on April 17. The Belles had some success against Hope as they split the decision 5-6 and 7-6 on April 27. 
Head coach Erin Sullivan said the team wasn't at its best when it lost to Alma, Tri­State and Hope. She believes the Belles are much stronger now. 
"We gave them those wins," Sullivan said. "Two of those losses were by one run. Kristin [Amram] threw a four-hitter against Alma and they still won, so it all comes down to run support." 
Alma won the MIAA cham­pionship for nine consecutive years until 2006 when Hope reclaimed the title. The Belles last won the tournament in 2004 but lost out on the over­all championship to Alma. 
"The whole Alma [mys­tique] is gone for us. We won three out of four of the games against them last year and slaughtered them twice. They're the same team as last year," Sullivan said. "It's tough to be on the bus for four hours, but we're going to be well-rested. To us we're clearly better." 
Last year, the Belles went 1­2 in the tournament, drop­ping games against Hope (5­
2) and Alma (4-2). Their one win also came against Alma 3-2. Sullivan said the team will do nothing different in its preparations for the tourna­ment. 
"We're just going to pre­pare like we have for our last 12 games where we won 11 of them and we should have won 12," Sullivan said. "Clearly, we're doing what we need to do to get the job done." 
To finish the season strong the Belles will rely on their sluggers, senior shortstop Sarah Miesle and freshman outfielder Ashley Peterson, batting .413 and .412, respec­tively. 
Sophomore pitchers Kristin Amram (1.47 ERA) and Calli Davison (3.48 ERA) will look to continue their dominance from the mound. 
Amram has held opponents to a .145 batting average and struck out 157 batters-sec­ond best in the league -and was named MIAA Pitcher of the Week for three consecu­tive weeks this season. Davison, who has held batters to a .270 average, has a 14-3 record. 
As for hitting, the Scots are batting a .259 team average. The Belles are batting a com­bined .351, third in the league. 
Sullivan said winning will come down to executing the small things. 
"If you look at the records ... everybody seems so evenly matched. Any given day can be somebody's day," she said. "Hope, Alma, Tri-State, they all split against each other. We split with Hope and we should have split with Tri­State. At that point, it's who­ever wants it more." 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingerO 1 @saintmarys.edn 
ROWING 
Irish look for second Cha111pionship spot 
some of the top rowing teams in
By DANIELL£ KELLER 
the nation this spring. The sea­
Sporrs Writer 
son began on March 17 in Knoxville, Tenn., with a regatta After winning an unprecedent­against Tennessee and ed fourth consecutive Big East Minnesota. The following day, title, Irish rowing wraps up its the Irish raced Cincinnati and spring season with the Alabama at the site of this year's Central/South NCAA Region NCAA Championships. On March Championship Regatta May 12 24, the team faced Midwest and 13 in Oak Ridge, Tenn. rivals Michigan and Michigan 
At the Region State. Championships, The most excit­Notre Dame will "We're ready to ing victories came look to qualify for later in the season,
step up and make
the NCAA Rowing when the team 
a name for 
Championships. won the Lubber The No. 6 Irish ourselves." Cup title, beat two­will face some of time defending the nation's best champion
Ellie Greybar
crews including California and
Irish sophomore
UVA, Ohio State, bested No. 6 
Michigan, Michigan State, Tennessee and Wisconsin. 
"We think that this year we are a lot stronger team and we're willing to fight for our spot at NCAAs," sophomore rower Ellie Greybar said. · 
If the team qualifies, it will compete in the NCAA Rowing Championships May 26 and 27 in Oak Ridge for the second time in program history. 
"We're ready to step up and make a name for ourselves," Greybar said. 
Notre Dame competed against Princeton and No. 
5 Virginia. The novice eight boat remained undefeated for most of the sea­son, and the varsity eight boat moved up from its No. 11 rank­ing at the beginning of the sea­son to its current No. 6 spot. 
Notre Dame has been success­ful against many of the teams it will face in the NCAA Tournament, and the team hopes it will be able to further its suc­cess in the postseason. 
Contact Danielle Keller at dkeller@nd.edu 

SPIRIT 
OF NOTRE DAME 
SOUTH DINING HALL WILL BE CLOSED SATURDAY, MAY 5TH, FOR THE UNIVERSITY7S CAMPAIGN INAUGURATION. WE APOLOGIZE FOR THE INCONVENIENCE. 
r 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, May 2, 2007 
~ 
f 
' Jackson
• 
continued from page 28 
department's support of the flourishing program. 
"It's nice to be recognized for what you've accom­plished," Jackson said. "The big thing for me was they recognized the entire staff." 
Assistant coaches Paul Pooley, Andy Slaggert and Mike McNeill will be guar­anteed positions as long as Jackson is around. 
The extension will also give top young recruits the confidence to sign on with Notre Dame knowing that the staff will still be around when they begin their career. This season's fresh­man class was recognized as 011e of the top in the nation, with three players named to the CCHA All­Rookie team. 
In the wake of losing eight key players to graduation this season, the 2007 fresh­men will continue the upward trend of talent com­ing through the Notre Dame locker room. NHL scouts recently named all seven of 
the incoming freshmen in their list of the top-240 prospects for the upcoming draft. 
"The NHL isn't the perfect evaluator of talent," Jackson said. "I think that the players we have coming in will be recognized as one of the best classes in the country, but they still have to get it done on the ice." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Power 
continued from page 28 
[Powerhouse] was proba­bly the best team we ever faced," Anthony captain Jill Bodensteiner said. 
Bodensteiner and fellow Notre Dame alumnae Maja Hansen and Sarah Liebscher were joined by Saint Mary's students Ali Bender and Alison Kessler. Kessler was the leading scorer for the Belles varsity team this winter. 
Belles freshman Mary Lynn Carlson also filled in during the championship game for Bodensteiner, who severely injured her knee in the semifinals -an injury that will most likely end her decade-long Bookstore career. 
However, Bodensteiner was not upset about the way she went out. 
"They were such a classy team and had such great teamwork that it wasn't that upsetting to lose them," the 1991 graduate said. 
The game was also the last for Powerhouse's Parrett, Hall, and Lauren Hesano, who will be gradu­ating in two weeks. Their careers came to a perfect close by ending Anthony Travel's reign at the top. 
"I thought it was an awe­some way to end senior year," Parrett said. "So many girls around campus have come up to [us] and thanked us for beating them." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

NBA 
Study suggests racism in refereeing 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -An academic study of NBA officiating found that white referees called fouls at a greater rate against black players than against white players, The New York Times reported on its Web site Tuesday night. 
The study by a University of Pennsylvania assistant profes­sor and Cornell graduate stu­dent also found that black offi­cials called fouls more fre­quently against white players than black, but noted that that tendency was not as pro­nounced. 
Justin Wolfers, an assistant professor of business and pub­lic policy at Penn's Wharton School, and Joseph Price, a Cornell graduate student in economies, said the difference in calls "is large enough that the probability of a team win­ning is noticeably affected by the racial composition of the refereeing crew." 
The study, conducted over a 13-season span through 2004, found that the racial makeup of a three-man officiating crew affected calls by up to 4 1/2 percent. 
The NBA strongly criticized the study, which was based on information from publicly available box scores, which show only the referees' names and contain no information about which official made a call. 
"The study that is cited in the New York Times article is wrong," president of league and basketball operations Joel Litvin told The Associated Press on Tuesday night. "The fact is there is no evidence of racial bias in foul calls made by NBA officials and that is based on a study conducted by our experts who looked at data that was far more robust and current than the data relied upon by Professor Wolfers. 
"The short of it is Wolfers and Price only looked at calls made by three-man crews. Our experts were able to analyze calls made by individual refer­ees." 
Litvin said the NBA's study, using data from November 2004 to January 2007, includ­ed some 148,000 calls and included which official made each call. The Times said the NBA denied a request by Wolfers and Price to obtain that information, citing its con­fidentiality agreement with the officials. 
The study also found differ­ences in everything from a decrease in scoring to a rise in turnovers depending on the of!ieials' race. 
"Player-performance appears to deteriorate at every margin when officiated by a larger fraction of opposite­race referees," Wolfers and Price wrote. 
But the key finding was in regard to foul calls, saying "black players receive around 0.12-0.20 more fouls per 48 minutes played (an increase of 2 1/2-4 1/2 percent) when the number of white referees offi­ciating a game increases from zero to three." 
The NBA has an observer at each game and closely moni­tors its officials, who are required to file reports after each game they work and are expected to be able to explain each potentially controversial call they have made. 
Litvin said in an original ver­sion of the paper, dated March 2006, Wolfers and Price came to the conclusion that there was no bias. He added that the NBA's research "all prove beyond any doubt in our minds that these guys are just flat wrong." 
"They reached conclusions in their own papers that are unsupported by their own cal­culations," Litvin said. 

The Notre Dame Alumni Association is pleased to announce its 2007 Student Awards 
Paul Brenner '98 -Distinguished Graduate Maryann Erigha '07-Distinguished Undergraduate Whitney Young '09-Mike Russo Award 
And ... the 2007 Hall Spirit Award Winners 
Matt Medlock-Alumni Hall Britta Zoeller-Badin Hall Julie Denkler-Breen-Phillips Hall Patrick Murren-Carroll Hall Ann Loughery-Cavanaugh Hall Sebastian Lara-Dillon Hall Emily Obringer-Farley Hall Jerremy Moreno-----Fisher Hall Allison Smith-Howard Hall 
Walter Machnicki-Keenan Hall Frank Nicholas Barra-Keough Hall John Lyons-Knott Hall Megan Lussier-Lewis Hall Megan Canavan-Lyons Hall Cindy Shin-Yi Chiang-McGlinn Hall Tommy Forr-Morrissey Manor Michael Tiso-----O'Neill Family Hall Jenna Farmer-Pangborn Hall 
Tiffanie Spencer-Pasquerilla East Julie Putnam-Pasquerilla West Greg Peters-Saint Edward's Hall Matthew Wopperer-Siegfried Hall Steve Sushinsky-Sorin Hall Bill Andrichik-Stanford Hall Laura Wasikowski-Walsh Hall Catherine Linn-Welsh Family Hall Conor McEvily-Zahm Hall 
And...we would like to thank our Alumni Association Class of2007 Student Workers... 
Michele Campodonico Rocco Galizio 
And.... Thank you to the Class of2007 Eck Visitor's Center Tour Guides 
Joe Becsey 
Patrick Cain 

Lance Chapman 
Carolyn English -Jenna Farmer 
Patrick Hoffman 
Kristin Krueger Leigh Madiera Christine Maher Blair Mancini Brandon Peterson Sarah Smith 

Molly Kealy Emily Mcintire 
Jennifer Stag! Nicole Steele Whitney Thompson Erin Thorton Megan Tiegen 


Congratuations to you all!!! 
Wednesday, May 2, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
Ho01er 
continued from page 28 
"Weglarz was looking to get on base, basically, and hit the ball hard." 
Sophomore Brett Graffy got the win coming in on relief in the sixth, holding the Flames to just three hits and no earned runs. Junior Wade Korpi started the game, pitch­ing five innings and allowing two runs on three hits, strik­ing out three and walking one. 
"[The] biggest positive of the night was Korpi and Graffy," Schrage said. "As we go on in the season, I don't want to jump ahead to think about the conference tournament, but if we get there we're gonna need guys like that to pitch well." 
Illinois-Chicago used four pitchers, none going more than 3 1-3 innings. Matt Weldon started the game for the Flames. 
The Flames came out bunting -laying down three in a row at one point and five total in the game. 
"A team like UIC coming in and playing against us is a big game for us but I think it might be an even bigger game for them," Weglarz said. " ... I think them playing small ball kept the game close, and that's what they probably needed to do to win." 
The game saw five errors, four unearned runs, 10 walks, three hit batsmen and two wild pitches. 
The scoring started early for the Irish. In the bottom of the first, second baseman Jeremy 

Barnes ripped a 1-1 pitch past Flames third baseman Nick Rainwater with the bases loaded to score third baseman 
A.J. Pollock. 
The Flames were dormant until the third, when Korpi ran into trouble. With runners on second and third, Rainwater grounded out to third, scoring catcher Ben Trotter. 
With Barnes at the plate, left fielder Ross Brezovsky on third and Weglarz on second in the bottom of the third, Flames pitcher Grant Kohlstaedt's pitch bounced in the dirt and got away from Trotter, allowing Brezovsky to score and Weglarz to advance to third. Barnes then ground­ed out to short to score Weglarz and push the score to 3-1. 
The Flames turned the tables and took advantage of Notre Dame fielding miscues in the fifth. Following a double down the left field line by first baseman Jake Carr and a walk issued to Trotter, Korpi's pitch to right fielder Ty Rubio fell short of the plate. Weglarz got in front of it in time to throw down to third in an attempt to catch Carr, who was advanc­ing to third on the wild pitch. Weglarz' throw, however, went wide of Pollock and into left field, allowing Carr to cross and bring the score to 3-2. 
Illinois-Chicago tied the game at three in the sixth, when second baseman David Cales hit a hard shot that bounced into left field after Pollock misplayed it, allowing Larry Gempp Jr. to score. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

UIC 
continued from page 28 
for us, we've been hoping we can get outdoors the rest of the time before regionals." 
Notre Dame has knocked off Illinois-Chicago in each of the teams' past seven meetings. The winner of the first round match will take on either Michigan or Colorado in the second round. The Irish defeated the Wolverines 6-1 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion on Feb. 16 but have yet to face Colorado. Whoever emerges victorious from the sec­ond round match will head to Athens, Ga., to play in the round of16. 
In their 28 matches this sea­son, the Irish faced 15 qualifiers in the 64-team field and went 12-3 against these opponents. At the ITA National Indoor Tournament in February, the Irish faced three of these top-tier opponents in consecutive days, going 2-1. In the opening round, Notre Dame knocked off Clemson 5-2 and defeated Northwestern 4-3 in the semifi­nals before falling to Georgia Tech 4-2 in the finals. On April 13, a banged up Notre Dame squad, playing without Buck and freshman Cosmina Ciobanu in singles, lost to the Wildcats 5-2. 
Last season, the Irish entered 

-
the tournament as the No. 2 overall seed and advanced to the quarterfinals before losing to Miami4-0. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, May 2, 2007 
NCAA 
continued from page 28 
Big East title. The Irish will take on Butler (14-9) in the first round. 
Notre Dame will need to keep singles team. In doubles, Sheeva Parbhu and Brett Helgeson, along with Ryan Keckley and Barry King, were honored by the Big East for their outstand­ing seasons. 

Notre Dame is sporting one of its best records in past memory at 24-3 -the best mark for the 
a sharp focus after the team was showered with individual awards at the end of the Big East season. Irish coach Bobby Bayliss won the Big East coach of the year for the sixth time since coaching the Irish, and senior 
"You just try to win every match and see how it goes." 
Bobby Bayliss Irish coach 
Stephen Bass won the confer­ence's most outstanding player award. In addition to the acco­lades, Irish players Brett Helgeson, Barry King and Sheeva Parbhu all were named to the Big East tournament all-team since the 1989-90 season. The team only needs three more wins to get to the 27 -win plateau to tie the school record for victo­ries in a season. That mark was set by the 1980­81 team. 
But all of the 

awards and honors do not mean much when the Irish start play in the NCAA Tournament. 
Butler, which does not boast the same record as the Irish, is still a team to be taken serious­ly. 
"You just try to win every match and see how it goes," Bayliss said. 
The Bulldogs have won eight straight matches and are play­ing in the tournament for the sixth straight season. On top of that, Butler was the champion of the Horizon League this sea­son. Butler's No. 1 player, James Low, was named the Horizon League athlete of the year. 
Despite Butler's strengths, the Irish are confident their prepa­ration and hard work through­out the season will help them in the tournament. 
"I think we are prepared, we've change our doubles com­binations ... and we think our doubles are good, but we'll see this weekend," Bayliss said. "You don't take anybody lightly in the NCAA Tournament, so we'll be ready." 
Contact Jay Wade at 
jwade@nd.edu 

Irish senior Ryan Keckley returns a volley in Notre Dame's 7-0 win over Northwestern Feb. 25. 


Wednesday, May 2, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
-

CROISSANTWORLD 
"l~<t6j ~'j NO MAI'TE~ WHAT, 
f'EoPU:. Afl...t. 

BLAcK DoG 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
wE-l.L 1-\t:MI 'DO I euE:.SS \\S J"u<i.'T 1'6 \Nl:\..1-ll-lA.\ ITS 
'fOU loP 2 "i>O of' "'""""''£. 
\S 

CO~\<:.$ \Nrl!oi oNE 
P..''"ji...AJA'JS? 
\.,._'Sf ON£? 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
Even if we are occupied with important things and even if we attain honor or fall into misfortune, still let us remember how good it once was here, when we were all together, united by a good and kind feeling which made us perhaps better than we are. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
L  E  A  F  T  S  P  S  S  P  A R  K  
A X  L E  H A R  E  H A D 0  N  
V E E R  E R  I  E  0  z 0  N E  

A C C R U E A C R E W. R A E 
I N A N E • T R E E-24 Green-eyed S L A T N A T E monster
E Riiilil'N E 0 L I G D E N 26 See 17-Across
Ml E liTiR'iiio. 0 U M A. PH ANT 0~ 0 R D 27_Maglishoes G I Z M 0. S~P 0 S E 28 Tripoli's land S T E A L T H~ C A R E D 29 With 2-Down, 
0 1

~~~~I 5 P L toddler's gameel-~ ,M ~ ~ p p A L LIAp A u L 
F R A U D A G E E A W R y 30 Maui veranda S A Y S 0 N E A T T 0 I L 31 Actor Delon 0 N S E T E S T E E L S E 32 See 17-Across 
I (TCT A Jol"$ IN PLASTI t.S. WHAT A~E. 
You PDING-? 

64 Track pick, informally 65 Complacency 66 More than pleases 67 Cries of regret 68 Some TV's 69 Attack from above 
DOWN 1 Toddler's cry 
when thirsty 2 See 29-Down 3 Lie unobserved 4 Nunavut native 5 Twice tre 6 Mollify 7 Grateful? 8 Tussaud's title: 
Abbr. 9 Exhibition 
overseer 10 Exterior finish 11 "Is so!" retort 12 Pre-cable woe 
13 Stats, e.g. 18 Spank but good 19 Pianist Jose 
Puzzle by Ed Early 

35 Sporty car roof 47 Not so bold 36 "Well, whaddya 49 Poughkeepsie 
know?!" college 39 Outlaws 51 Beats (out) 41 Feature of some 52 Oreck, e.g., in 
necks brief 
43 Heart-related  53 Mystery author  62 Cryptologist's  
44 They're fit to  Buchanan  org.  
consume  54 Inside look?  63 PC key  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. · Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
LIAMMORAN 
WILLSHORTZ 
55 Smokes 58 "The Thin Man" 
dog 59 Bone to pick 60 Start of North 
Carolina's motto 
JUMBLE 
J!J~\1liJLJl 
~.11-..<m~Ji:>lo:;-~-...:c;.:;-..., r .~ 11~ 'll'l'I'I.;W l:r.o "11>.<:1) ,:;q IW~ 
l:r.o J\':onn !'ill r 'll'<lr~ "'.>J~Yi,:;. 
IDIPEEM±n 
. I I r_ 


~lwfi I.~IIi;.~.:;-,;: 

:-:.:ETCH (::SASC: SO..t&:l..Y :&.Y:&.TEI'>l AJ-.:;..,-"11': '/.11-.& IJ'l'l' 'Yll'l'lQI't plm..,:;t: <:-<liN<1'11'....-II~ 
Ph'..l 'J') -H ~o.:•: 'il:~ TO :5I. JC:( ::s&::&: 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tim McGraw, 39; Rita Coolidge, 61: ­Judy Collins, 67; Glenn Ford, 90 
Happy Birthday: Remain positive if you want to accomplish anything at all this year. You may have to do things a little bit differently to make them work. A change is inevitable and the less tension you create, the easier it will be for you to do what you want. This is a year of give-and-take, so learn to do both and everything will fall into place. Your numbers are 4, 10, 13, 26, 27, 44 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You will tend to overanalyze everything today, leading to trouble. Do your best to finish your chores and refrain from complaining. You won't make any gains at all if you try to do so with force. **** TAURUS (April20-May 20): You will feel burdened by your personal responsibilities todaY, Try to look at the bright side and get as much done as possible. If you are quick to react, you will gain respect and impress the people who count on you. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let your emotions or a personal problem stop you from presenting a creative idea you have. Someone will want to help you out by offering valuable suggestions. Gains can be made if you are intentional in your pursuits. *** CANCER (June 21-Juiy 22): Avoid any dealings with government agencies, banks or other institutions today. Deal with people who are more hands-on and can give you advice based on experience. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make some really smart personal changes. Travel for business and you will discover a way to make more money doing something that interests you. A surprise is coming your way. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sudden changes in a partnership you are involved in can be expected. Use your influence and ask for favors that can help you avoid loss. If you get involved in an event that helps others, you will meet someone who will make a difference to your future. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Concentrate on work and getting things finished today. A chance to get ahead is present so be sure to mention your goals and intentions to superiors. Make a change to your personal appearance and you will receive compliments. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel for business or pleasure. You should visit an older relative or friend today. Taking a look at your past will enable you to make the right choices in the future. Romance is in the stars. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone may try to coerce you into getting involved in a risky venture. Avoid extravagance of any kind. Being a big spender will not impress the people you are with. Make your decisions based on common sense. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Personal problems will result in an argument. Be realistic about your situation. Be willing to hear what others have to say and keep things in perspective. You may be just as much to blame. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Use your inventive mind to come up with the ideal solution to a problem you face at a personal level. Making a move may eliminate your troubles. Your emotions will not lead you astray. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Money concerns must be addressed. You need to spend a little more time with the younger people in your life. You'll find out the truth if you go to the source and ask questions. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are a dreamer--creative, carefree and open to new things. You strive for quality not quantity. You are innovative, inventive and quite intent on following your own path. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.c-om for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential 
-
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
11-IAT :&:C:RAA'I6U:O'/Il:B:I CtAfilE loy H..ori .>:nn~ol """I Jo... lo< -""ljrim 
=.,t :O.YihH'o 
~:..ltl 

'":> 
r-Jr~n o>.I'MI'()'l' IJ'l'l' .-:t-<:1.:;.-1 ~ 1:r.o J\':onn IJ'l'l' ~ IJll'l:;o:;-l!.n:;ll-"11', 11.:; ,:;1 Q(Yt><l):;.'lb'ji:J'l'l' ~~\ 
(AI-......I'lf'l:: 1'/]J)o')l'..........l,l 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Solidarity leader 7 Gremlins, 
Pacers and others 11 " recall ..." 
-14 Takes to excess 15 Blue matter 16 B & B 17 Start of a quote by 26-and 32-Down 20 Golfer lsao 21 Abu Dhabi's fed. 22 Intermission follower 23 Wherewithal 25 Fort Worth inst. 26 Shaped like a plum tomato 
29 Relief measure of Elizabethan times 
33 Lanka 34 Bill killer 37 Java neighbor 38 Cramped space 40 Quote, part 2 41 Event before 
vacation, maybe 42 Author Seton 43 Slow-pot 45 Give a boost to 46 Plan for peace, 

in modern lingo 48 Andy of TV's "Andy's Gang" 50 Water on Ia Cote d'Azur 51 Musical with the song "On This Night of a 
Thousand Stars" 53 Go over 56 Tiny bit 57 Kemo 61 End of the quote 



-
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, May 2, 2007 
page 28 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Team to host NCAA tourney 
By JAY WADE Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will look to con­tinue its success after capturing the Big East championship title April 22 as the Irish head into the NCAA Tournament begin­ning May 11. 

-The No. 4 Irish have worked hard all season and will take their 24-3 record with them into the NCAA Tournament. That record means Notre Dame will play host to the first two rounds of the tournament, which the Irish won an auto­matic bid to by sweeping Villanova, St. John's and Louisville, 4-0 en route to their 
see NCAA/page 26 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Buck returns for post­seasonplay against UIC 
the NCAA Tournament. 
"We're done. They played well against us and they won at every spot they could," Louderback said. "It's over and Uunior] Brook Buck is back healthy, playing sin­gles for us." 
Buck, who normally occupies the No. 6 singles spot, did not play singles for the past month due to an injury. But with the time off since their last match, Buck and the rest of the Irish have had time to heal and pre­pare for May 12. 
"We took the weekend off and we've been outdoors lately, too," Louderback said. "That's a key 
see VIC/page 25 
BASEBALL 
Weglarz wins game with walk-off homer 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
In an ugly game full of mishaps, Matt Weglarz provid­ed the one shining moment. 
With the game tied at three in the bottom of the ninth, the catcher connected with a 1-1 pitch from Joe Skinner and sent it well over the left-field wall to give the Irish a 4-3 vic­tory over Illinois-Chicago Tuesday. 
"He hung me that same pitch earlier in the at-bat, first pitch," Weglarz said. "[First baseman Chris] Dury and some other guys said he was hanging that pitch there. And 

--
I was kind of, not sitting on it, I guess, but looking for it. He threw it right on the inside corner and I turned on it." The Irish were expecting to face Skinner as the starter, but Illinois-Chicago changed at the last minute. "He's a strike-thrower," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. 
see HOMER/page 25 
HOCKEY 

Notre Dame signs Jackson unti12013 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
Coming off a record­breaking season in which the Irish finished 32-7-3, Notre Dame attempted to ensure the continued suc­cess of the hockey program Tuesday, signing coach Jeff Jackson to a two-year con­tract extension. 

Hidden gem 
Irish senior Stephen Bass celebrates a Dame's 5-1 win over Illinois April 1. 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
Thanks to a 25-3 record in dual-match play this season, Notre Dame -on Tuesday earned the No. 6 overall seed in the NCAA Tournament, which begins May 12. 
The Irish will face Horizon League champion Illinois-Chicago in the first round at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
South Florida upset Notre Dame 4-3 in the finals of the Big East tournament April 22, but Irish coach Jay Louderback said his team has moved on following the loss and is getting ready for 
VANESSA 

The Irish welcome catcher Matt Weglarz home after his ninth-inning walk-off home run Tuesday, which drove in the winning run in Notre Dame's 4-3 win over Illinois-Chicago. 
Jackson, who built the Irish program into a nation­al contender in two years, will now be behind the bench for Notre Dame until the 2012-13 season. But if things go as planned, he said, he will be sticking along for much longer than that. 
"I think this would be a great place to finish my career down the road," Jackson said. "It seems awfully early to be talking about that, but I have already done a stint in the NHL and I have no desire to move on to any other col­lege." 
Before coming to South Bend, Jackson spent two years as an assistant coach with the New York Islanders. He has also headed the Ontario Hockey League's Guelph Storm and Lake Superior State. Jackson won two national championships with the Lakers before taking a sab­batical from the college game. 
The contract extension is both a sign of what Jackson has been able to so far with the Irish and the athletic 
see JACKSON/page 24 
WoMEN's BooKSTORE 
Three-time champions fall in final 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
Team Powerhouse unseat­ed three-time defending champion Anthony Travel Sunday afternoon in the Women's Bookstore Basketball finals. 
The two teams met for the second year in a row in the championship game, but this year Powerhouse avenged its 2006 loss by running away with a 21-12 decision in the second half. 
"Ever since we've been here, they have been the winners, so it was great to finally beat them," Powerhouse cap~ain Annie Parrett said. 
Parrett was named MVP for her play in the final as well as throughout the 84­team tournament. 
"We all play pretty even and spread the ball around, but it was cool to have your hard work recognized liked that," Parrett said in regards to her award. 
In the end, it was Powerhouse's speed and conditioning that allowed it to pull away in the later parts of the game. 
Parrett and her team­mates -Danielle Hall, Lauren Hesano, Kristin Hesano and Tess Murray ­were able to run the floor, scoring several times before Anthony Travel was even down the court on defense. 
Hall created opportunities for her team throu-ghout the entire game by running the baseline consistently. 
"I have played ten plus years of Bookstore and 
see POWER/page 24 







