-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Brown gives State ofStudent Union address 
Speech urges all senators to raise bar of progress, focus working on projects at hand 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Student body president Liz Brown invoked her campaign slogan -"raising the bar, redefining the standards" ­in her second State of the Student Union address Wednesday, urging senators to not become complacent with the progress they have already made and to keep working on initiatives. 
"While our progress thus far demonstrates our ability to effectively respond to student concerns, I challenge you to work hard to raise that bar even farther." Brown said at the Student Senate meeting. 
Brown's speech came two days after the South Bend Common Council passed an 
see BROWN/page 3 
ordinance that has been a focal point for student govern­ment since the end of July. 
The ordinance, as it was originally written, would have required residents of boarding houses -defined as resi­dences where more than two unrelated people reside -to register for a permit before hosting a gathering where 25 or more people would have access to alcohol. 
Brown, as well as vice presi­dent Maris Braun, began meeting with the Common Council and other South Bend and University representatives' in August to discuss changing the ordinance. Over the course of several weeks, the proposed ordinance was even­tually amended to describe ­but not activate --the permit and registration process for gatherings. 
The ordinance, which was 


Senate supports Notre Dame divestment initiative 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Student Senate unanimously passed a resolution Wednesday commending the University for divesting from companies that support the Sudanese government as human rights viola­tions continue in the country's Darfur region. 
The resolution, presented by Social Concerns chair Karen Koski and Lyons senator Kelly Kanavy, urges Notre Dame's Investment Office to continue divesting from companies that do business with the government of Sudan. 
While she was researching the issue, Koski said, Notre Dame's Chief Investment Officer Scott Malpass informed her that Notre Dame has already divested from companies that are involved in Sudan. 
"This was a resolution encouraging 
see SENATE/page 3 
esc hosts annual post-graduate service fair 
Students meet representatives from volunteer organizations, discuss options to contribute to global community 

By GENE NOONE News Writer 
The Center for Social Concerns (CSC) held its annu­al post-graduate service fair Wednesday in the Joyce Center to introduce under­graduate students to opportu­nities available through vol­unteer programs. 
Representatives from 86 organizations, including the Peace Corps and Teach for America, were present to give information and answer ques­tions about their programs. 

Liz Mackenzie, director of senior transition programs for the esc. said between 300 and 400 students usually attend the fair -a figure that she said reJlects Notre Dame's role as a lead contrib­utor to post-graduate service. 
According to the Career Center's latest Future Plans Survey, 11 percent of 2006 Notre Dame graduates went into service. 
The 2006 survey found that 80 percent of students partic­ipating in service came from the College of Arts and Letters, 13 percent from the College of Science, five per­cent from the Mendoza College of Business and two percent from the College of Engineering. None were from the School of Architecture. 
"Every year about 10 per­cent of graduates go into service," Mackenzie said. "That's around 200 students, which is pretty large com­pared to other schools." 
In recent years, most top universities have not seen post-graduate service rates as high as Notre Dame's. For 
see SERVICE/page 4 
Party bust leads to 57 arrests 
Indiana Excise Police ticket minors on Corby Blvd. early Saturday 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Fifty-seven people were arrested, mostly for under­age drinking. after police disrupted a party early Saturday morning at a house owned by Notre Dame stu­dents. 
Fifty-three people were given arrest tickets for minor consumption of alco­hol at the house on the 900­block of Corby Blvd., known locally as Corby Street, said Jennifer Fults, a public rela­tions officer for the Indiana State Excise Police. 
Of the 53 minors, two were jailed, Fults said. The first was taken to jail for minor consumption and false informing, the second for minor consumption and also for resisting arrest by flee­ing. 
Several people fled from the area, Fults said. 
Four of the five tenants were given arrest tickets for furnishing alcohol to minors. One of the tenants was not at the house when police came, said a resident of the house who asked to not be named. 
Two officers from the Indiana State Excise Police 
and four officers from the Indiana State Police Bremen Post arrived at the house at 
12:35 a.m. Saturday. 
"They were just doing sat­uration patrols in the cam­pus area and they noticed a larger group of individuals on the front lawn and spilling out into [Corby StreetJ." Fults said. 
The incident was not listed as a noise violation, Fults said. The police report says the large numbers of individ­uals on the front lawn and overflowing into the street alerted police to the party. 
see ARRESTS/page 3 

SMC students benefit from band membership 
By MOLLY LAMPING 
News Writer 
Founded in 1845, the Band of the Fighting Irish was all male until 1970, when it first accepted Saint Mary's students -two years before the University itself became co-educational. 
Today, College students are still full members of the band, commuting to the Notre Dame campus for practice and games. 
In 1970, former band director Robert O'Brien wanted more instruments that "women stereotypically played, like flute and clar­inet and, in the concert band, oboe," said Assistant Director of Bands Larry Dwyer. 
The first woman to join the band. however, was a Sousaphone player named Rosemary Crock. 
"For two years, Saint Mary's students were the only women members of the band," Dwyer said. "Those women were pioneers in a co-educational band two years before the University itself became co-education­al." 
see BAND/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 27, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD DO A YEAR OF SERVICE, FOR WHOM WOULD YOU WORK AND WHY?
INSIDE COLUMN 

Ataleoftwo state schools 
flail to the victors! 
Vidor-y li•r MSU! 
We have hoard both those phmsns 
under l<•sing circumstances. 
I have wit.ness('{) thn Irish battle Michigan and Michigan Stal.t~ 
Andrew Digan 
in thnir rnspm:­
tive backyards. I 
Sports Wire 
have always 
Hditor
regarded our 
two nnighbors l.tl 
tlu~ nor1ll a'> bitl.t~r rival'> and nevnr knew 
whom to root fiw whnn thny played mteh 
other. 
Now. I havo a temn to root li•r in thn annual Mkhigan-Michigan Siate game. 
<;o WolverinPs! 
Bnlilro all Irish fiu1s rnading this jump on me like llw Oklahoma State mach at a prnss mnfi~wm:e, let me make one ll1ing dear. Notr<• I>anw will always be my favorite l.t~mn. Always. 
Instead of hoping fiw a tie or nudear holocaust at a Spartans-Wolvnrinns game, I will be rooting fiJr Michigan lor l11e smnn rnason we go to mllngo: da'is (right'?). 
At lim Big llousn last week, I witnessed a l.t~rrible blowout loss whiln surroundnd by Michigan fims in an aroa dose to the Michigan studPnt section. 
Wlum your l.t~am loses 3S-O l.tJ onn of your bit1.t1r rivals in thnir hou'in, you expert a ehoru'i of taunting m1d singiP lin­gers showing you who really is numbPr <me. Yet I did not h<\aJ' a singln n<\gativn mmnwnt from Michigan fans. 
Isat rwxt to a man who did not atl.tmd Mkhigan but made the trip up lhnn St. l.ouis t.o chn<~r on llw Wolverines. I nnded up talking l.tl him llw nntirn gmne. 
Our conversation tnmsitiorwd from the ineptitude of tlw Irish ollimsn to my plans all.Pr graduation ll1is May. 
At the end of tlw game. my nnw Wolwrirw companion gavn me his cell phone number mul olli\red mn Iron hospi­tality if I nvnr visitnd his bnlovnd St. I nuis. 
HPwind <me year, b;u:k to Spartan Stadium i<L'it September. 
A'> we sat in l11e sncond row from llw top at Spartan Stadium. my friends and I could ban~ly linish our sentmlCPS m; wn were vnrbally pnlt<\d by taunl'i, mocking our quarterback's looks. our mach's waistline, and nwn the mural on our library. 
Sailors don't hear <L'> m;my fimr-lntter words w; we did over thosn tlm\e plus hours in the rain. And it W<L'>n't nvnn MSU studmll'> digging denp into thnir dictionar­ies, bombm·ding w; will1 lock<w-room­levd lan~-,ruagP. 
Thny wnro middle-aged pnople, senior citizens, and ovnn kid'>. lll1ink any liu1 in a diapnr dismvnr<'d thnir litvoritn lilur-let­tnr word llmt night. 
Bark to tlli'> p<L'>l Saturday. As I madP llw trnk l.tJ Notre Dmne Stadium, I walked wil11 llm~e MSU studnnl'> who began light­hnarl.t\dly mocking Thn Shirt. 
i\ll.nr a dvil diseussion about thn game with thn l11mn Sparum studenl'i, I wished llwm luck. Thny rm:iprocal.t\d but stated tlmt ND h<L'> something that Michigan Stal.t\ lacks: sporl'imanship. 
Thn mspnct I received in thn Big I louse ;mel llw utl.t\r di'irnspnet Ilbund at Spartan Stadium brought my Great Lakes State lhotball allegianms to Ann Arbor. 
NeverthelPS.'>, I hope Miehigan goes 1­11 fWPry yPar. Just a'i long a'> they beat l11e Spartans. 
The views expressed in the Inside Colwnn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Andrew Digan at ad.igan@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editing error, the anide tided "Book ofleners to 1-lesbwgh released" in the Sept. 26 edition ofThe Observer said the NO AILUnni Association sponsored "Thanking Father Ted." "The Thanking FatherTed Foundation published rhe book. lhe Observer regrec; the error. 




Elaine Amoresano 
freshman PW 
"Doctors Without Borders or Peace Corps because I want to see the world while helping the people in 
it., 
Noelle Crooks 
junior Cavanaugh 
"Doctors Without Borders because I want to be a doctor. , 


Michael Gotsch 
junior Keough 
"Oxfam or City Year-these organizations represent a commitment to social justice, not just charity. , 
bit their son 
INDIANAPOLIS -A lab­oratory technician has bonn fired aftnr the parnnts or a 3-year-old boy daimed she bit his shoulder while drawing blood from his arm, a hospital spokesman said. 
Faith Buntin took her son Victor to St. Vincent Hospital on Friday for a 
blood test because of recent recalls of toys involving lead. She said she saw the worker put her mouth on Victor's shoulder. 
"I looked at her like that was the craziest thing that I'd ever seen," Faith Buntin told television station WHTV. "She looked at me and smiled and said, 'Oh, it was just a play bitP. He's not hurt."' 

After they returned home, the boy's mother said, she saw teeth marks on his left shoulder, and her husband drove the ehild back to the hospital, where he was prescribed antibiotics. 
Dead? You still have to pay library fine 
HAHHISON, N.Y.-Even the dead apparently have to pay the fines on their overdue books at one Westchester County library. 
Elizabeth Sehapnr said she _was eharged a 50-eent late l'ee while turning in a book that her late mother had checkPd out of a Harrison 
Publie Library braneh. 
"I was in shock," Schaper said. "This has rocked me to my core." 
Schaper's mother, Ethel 
Schaper, diPd at the age of 
87 on Sept. 16 aftnr sull'er­
ing a massive stroke. A few 
days later, Schaper said 
she found a library boo k 
that her mother had 
checked out from the 
library. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY ·TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

.... 
<C 
(.) 


0
_. 

HIGH 67 HIGH HIGH 76 LOW 45 LOW LOW 53 





Sarah Rauenhorst Katelyn Lentz 
senior freshman offcampus Howard 
"Colorado "/ would do it Vincentian for the Peace Volunteers Corps because 
because it's in they are the Dlmver. , best." 

IN BRIEF 
Fall intramural fees will start being collected today. Money can be dropped ofT at Holl's SportsHec Center. CoHee basketball is $50 pPr team and interhall volleyball is $20. The final dPadline is Oct. 4. 
The film "EI Norte" will be shown today at 7 p.m. in Browning Cinema, in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Dirnetor Gregory Nava is scheduled to be pres­ent. Tiekets are $3 for stu­dents. 
Award-winning filmmaker Stephanie Black, a pioneer in documenting migration, will speak about hnr work in Hoom C-10:1 of the llesburgh Center today at 4:15 p.m. 
The men's tennis team will compete in the Tom Fallon Invitational Friday, Saturday and Sunday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion/Courtney Tennis Center. Matches will take plaee at various times throughout the weekond. 
Francois TrufTaut's French language film "Jules and Jim" will be shown Friday at 7 and 10 p.m. at thP DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Ticknts arn $3 for students. 
As part of the "Worldview" film sPries, the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show "From a Silk Coccoon," a Japanese Ameriean renunei­ation story, Saturday at 7 and 10 p.m. Tickets are $:1 for stu­dents. 
To submit information lo be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 78 LOW 50 


Atlanta 84 I 68 Boston 84 I 68 Chicago 73 I 51 Denver 78 I 44 Houston 90 I 73 Los Angeles 78 I 59 Minneapolis 69 I 51 New York 81 I 70 Philadelphia 83 I 69 Phoenix 98 I 70 Seattle 65 I 49 St. Louis 77 I 58 Tampa 89 I 73 Washington 85 I 69 
Thursday, September 27, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
dents ·with improving their off campus behavior and

Brown 
acting as respectful neigh­continued from page 1 bors to South Bend resi­
dents. passed Monday, also creates Although the ordinance a Community/Campus has been amended and Advisory Coalition. passed, "our work is far 
Brown called the creation from over," Brown said. 
of the coali­tion a "sig­nificant" step in improving community relations. 
T h e Common Council's decision to table the party regis­tration process in order to pur­sue alterna­tive initia­tives is the result of many meet-
The recent introduction "In my address to you of Domer 
Dollars in
last April, I emphasized 
the Notre 
the importance of D a m e moving past the Stadium, the 
creation of a
dialogue traditionally 
m e a I 
associated with student exchange government to produce program for 
on campus
positive changes for the 
students and
student body." the launch of a student government
Liz Brown 
Web site are
student body president 
the first 
three of 
what Brown 

ings and unprecedented said she hopes will be many communication between city initiatives to improve stu­officials, university repre­dent life. sentatives and student rep­"In my address to you last resentatives," Brown said. April, I emphasized the 
Brown also credited stu-importance of moving past 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
the ad ministration to keep it up, and the Student Senate is recognizing what a great thing this is and that we sup­port it," she said. 
Kanavy gave a Powerpoint presentation to the Senate to explain the conflict occurring in Sudan and to show why it was important that Notre Dame removed shares and stocks from companies that pay money to Sudan. 
The Sudanese government, Kanavy said, uses more than 70 percent of its income to fund the military, which it uses to attack its own citi­zens. 
"This has been a major problem and a major human­itarian crisis that our world has had to deal with," Kanavy said. 
The resolution commending the University for its divest­ment is important, Kanavy said, so that in the future the Investment Office will avoid working with companies with ties to Sudan. She said the resolution will also remind the University to keep up with the list of companies involved in Sudan as it is updated. 
the dialogue traditionally we have our work cut out associated with student gov­for us in the coming year," ernment to produce positive Brown said. changes for the student In the next two weeks, stu­
body," Br.own said. "I am encouraged by our progress 

"There is no denying
thus far and look forward that we have our to the chal­
work cut out for us in 
lenges we 

the coming year. " 
have set for ourselves in the coming Liz Brown 
months." student body president Brown said to look for progress on 
dent govern­ment will encourage stu­dents to partic­ipate in the Oct. 8 Notre Dame Forum on immigra­
tion.  The  
forum  will  
bring  in  
experts  on  

immigration matters, and Brown said she 

the creation of a global looks forward to a "heated studies minor, the usability and enlightened discussion." of Domer Dollars at off-cam­Following the forum, stu­pus locations, the introduc­dent government will hold tion of community-based the first of its faculty-stu­curriculum and the avail­dent contemporary issues ability of locally grown food debate series, Brown said. in the dining hall. The debate, which will fea­
Student government will ture faculty and students also explore minority faculty discussing immigration, will recruitment techniques and take place in the Dooley forums to address the issues Room of LaFortune on Oct. of eating disorders and sex­11. ual assault that affect Notre Dame students. Contact Kaitlynn Riely at 
"There is no denying that kriely@nd.edu 
"As a Catholic university, the coming weeks. John Jenkins will visiting Notre Dame recognizes its Residence Life chair four dorms over the course obligation to help people in Mariana Montes said she had of the year for informal dis­need no matter where they a meeting with Phil Johnson, cussions. Brown randomly are," Kanavy said. the director of the Notre chose Siegfried, McGlinn, 
The Senate passed four Dame , Security/Police, Lewis and Sorin as the resi­additional resolutions during regarding the possibility of dence halls Jenkins would its meeting. Three of the res­installing a blue emergency visit. olutions were amendments to light in the D6 parking lot. the Student Body Montes said Johnson was Contact Kaitlynn Riely at Constitution receptive to kriely@nd.edu that corrected the idea. grammatical Student
"As a Catholic
errors and body vice made some university, Notre Dame president editing Maris Braun
recognizes its 
adjustments. said she and
obligation to help
The Senate student body passed a res­people in need no president Liz 



Arrests 
continued from page 1 
The police remained at the house until 3:30 a.m., Fults said. 
A resident of the house, who asked to not be named, said the police were at the house for three hours because they lined everyone up, gave Breathalyzer tests and checked IDs one by one. They also searched the house and had the exits from the house a.nd the backyard blocked off to prevent anyone from leaving, the resident said. 
Fults said she has not worked in her position long enough to say whether 57 arrests is unusual for the area near Notre Dame's cam­pus. 
"Statewide, I wouldn't say that it's out of the ordinary," she said. 
The officers were on rou­tine patrol when they discov­ered the party Saturday morning, Fults said. 
"We are assigned to St. Joe County, and I cannot tell you for sure that they are there every weekend, but they are assigned to St. Joe County," she said. 
Fults advised people to refrain from drinking alco-· holic beverages until they are 21 to avoid encounters with the Indiana State Excise Police. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

olution con­Brown met
matter where 
gratulating w i t h
they are." 
the Keenan Executive and Stanford V i c e 

LATE NIGHT MENU residence Kelly Kanavy President halls, erected John Affleck-­
Lyons senator 
in 1957, for Graves about their 50th a resolution anniversary. passed in the 
The Senate continued dis­Senate last week asking the cussion of issues raised in University to commit to past meetings. Carol reducing greenhouse gases. Hendrickson, the chair of the Braun said the meeting was Academic Affairs committee, productive and that they said she is making the final brainstormed ways to publi­steps toward sending out a cize how Notre Dame is survey to students about already working to reduce its course packets, due to the impact on the environment. increase in course packet prices from last year. She In other Senate news: expects to present a resolu­+ Brown announced that tion on the price increase in University President Father 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 27, 2007 

Service 
continued from page 1 
example, Northwestern University's latest Career Outcomes Survey found that 
6.3 per<:ent of graduates go on to "volunteer, do commu­nity service, or travel," while 
Georgf~town 
University's lat­est Senior 
"/ know that a year of

Survey Heport for next year Other placement fields found that three service will be a are to live were in communications, percent of grad­simply in a construction, peace and jus­
humbling,

uates go into faith-based tice advocacy and environ­
life·changing year 

"volunteer serv­community, ment. iee." full oflearning and to teach and "Post-graduate service is a 
A esc growth for me. " work with great way to get deeper research report kids, to involved in an issue that eompiled in May become flu­interests you," Mackenzie 
Laura Bradley

2004 said ent in said. "It allows you to build University grad­senior Spanish and, skills with people and get 
uates began a service relation­ship with the Peace Corps in the 1960s. 
Liz Ategou, the Peace Corps representative at Wednesday's fair, said her organization has always had positive experiences with Notre Damn studnnts. 
"!Notre Darnel students arc hard working, intelligent and, most importantly, they are in terested in service pro­grams," she said. "Students here get great volunteer experience as undergrads, and you see that in their partieipation after gradua­tion." 
Notre Dame's participation in post-graduate service has stnadily rison over the past 20 years. According to the esc report, post-graduate scrvicn has doubled since 1991. 

Band 
continued from page 1 
This year, there are 43 Saint Mary's students in the band, which is more than 10 percent of the band's total size. Thesn members underwent the same audi­tion process as Notre Dame band members. 
"They do everything everyone else does," Dwyer said. "It requires a little extra dedication on the part of Saint Mary's women just beeause they have la commute! and whatnot. The band building and practice field are about as far 

Bill O'Reilly denies accusations of racism 
The majority of University students who go into post­graduate service participate in faith-based programs, aecording to the Career Center's survey. 
Senior Laura Bradley, who is looking at both domestic and international teaching programs, said she plans on doing at least one year of 
l'ai th-reI ated 
service. 
"My goals 
will do some sort of teaching program, but there are many other fields available. 
"You can do service in any area, including fields like business and law," Bradley said. 
Wednesday's fair offered a dozen organizations with business placements, almost 40 organizations with health care placements, and more than a dozen programs with law placements. 
ideally, to get your foot in the door no mat­
an interna­ter what career you want to tional perspective on pover­go into later in life." ty," she said. "I know that a Whether students are 
year of service will be a hum­bling, life­"[Notre Dame} students changing year 
are hard working, 
full of learning 
and growth for intelligent and, most me." importantly, they are 
Bradley 
interested in service 
looked at sever­
programs.
al programs, including the Alliance for Liz Ategou 
C a t h 0 I i c Peace Corps representative 
Education, and others based in Latin America, interested in going to graduate school or getting a j 0 b ' Bradley said, a year of service " o n I y increases your expe­rience and knowl­
edg~." 
where she would like to "It makes you a more teach. appealing candidate for 
Like Bradley, most students whatever you want to do," go into teaching programs. she said. Mackenzie said 40 to 50 per­cent of Notre Dame students Contact Gene Noone at that do post-graduate service enoone@nd.edu 
Rhode said. coaches while they sing the "If you want to ride the Alma Mater, which is really 
trolley, you either have to cool," she said. go incredibly early or risk being late," she 
"It requires a little
said. "I leave Saint Mary's 45 extra dedication on minutes before 
the part ofSaint 
practice starts." 
Mary's women." 
The commute and extended time commit­Larry Dwyer ment do not 
assistant director of 
detract from 
bands
the experience, Rhode and Sheehan said. 
B a n d member Katherin-e Putz, a Saint Mary's student, said stu­dents from the College a n d University lose their different school asso-· ciations at 
"It's interesting to be on band activities. Students the field," Rhode said. "At from Holy Cross are also halftime, we're standing eligble for band member­
behind the ship. 
players "Once you're part of the 

away from Saint "When we have and you section, you're a saxo­Mary's as you can hear it phone, not a Saint Mary's
visiting bands and 

can get." when the student or a Notre Dame 
College band they find out you're coaches student," she said. memhnrs, like from Saint Mary's, are yelling That surprises band juniors Jessica at some­members from other eol­
they're kind 

Sheehan and one or leges, she said.
ofconfused. " 

Sharon Hhode, congratu-"When we have visiting use various 1 a t i n g bands and they find out modes of trans­someone." you're from Saint Mary's,
Katherine Putz 

portation to get Sheehan they're kind of confused,"
band member 

to practice. enjoys the Putz said. "You have to 
"Wn bike over close con­kind of explain that we're Ito practice! tact the sister schools, but that evnryday," Sheehan said. band has with players and makes us unique." 
Helying on College-pro­coaches. vided transportation takes "Post-game, I stand right Contact Molly Lamping at an time commitment, behind the players and mlampiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK Fox News Channel's Bill O'Heilly said Wednesday his critics took remarks he made about a famed Harlem restaurant out of context and "fabricated a racial controversy where none exists." 
He criticized the liberal group Media Matters for America as "smear mer­chants" for publicizing state­ments he made on his radio show last week. 
O'Reilly told his radio audi­ence that he dined with civil 
rights activist AI Sharpton at Sylvia's recent­ly and "could­n't get over the fact that t-here was no differ­ence" between the black-run restaurant and others in New York City. 
It was just like a subur­ban Italian restaurant, he said. "There wasn't any 

"We didn't call him a racist. We said his comments were ignorant and racially charged, and we stand by that." 
Karl Frisch spokesman Media Matters 
kind of craziness at all," he said. 
0 'Reilly told The Associated Press that Media Matters had "cherry-picked" remarks out of a broader conversation about racial attitudes. He had told listen­ers that his grandmother ­and many other white Americans -feared blaeks because they didn't know any and were swayed by vio­lent images in black culture. 
are ignorant of the fact that there is no dif­ference between white and black anymore," he told the AP. "Circumstances may be dif­ferent in their lives but we're all Americans. Anyone who would be offended by that conversation would have to be looking to be offended." 

His radio show was a con­versation with Fox News con­tributor Juan 
"The O'Reilly Factor." 
"It's so frus­trating," Williams said. "They want to shut you up. They want to shut up any­body who has an honest dis­cussion about race." 
Sharpton, appearing on O'Heilly's TV program Wednesday, acknowledged that he found accounts of what O'Heilly said "disturb­ing and surprising," but added that he had not heard the radio broadcast. 
"You and I havn gone to dinner before in Harlem, and I've never heard you say any­thing offensive," said Sharpton, speaking from Baton Houge, La. ''I'm going to listen to the tape and I'm going to give a judgment." 
The controversy was simi­lar to one that enveloped presidential candidate Joe Biden last winter. When Biden praised rival Barack Obama as "artieulate" and "clean," many saw this as a way of conveying those were unusual characteristics for 
blacks. 
Sylvia's man­ager Trenness Woods-Black told the New York Daily News that O'Reilly's remarks were "insulting" and showed he has little knowledge of the black community. 
At one point on the radio show, Williams mentioned that too many peo­

"Circumstances may
"If you lis­his comments tened to the be different in their were ignorant full hour, it and racially
lives but we're all 
was a criticism charged, and
Americans. " 
of racism on we stand by the part of that." w h i t e Bill O'Reilly O'Reilly said Americans who that the
Fox News personality 
ple see little else in black culture beyond profane rap. "That's right," O'Reilly said. "There wasn't one person in Sylvia's who was screaming, 'M.F.-er, I want more iced tea."' 
Karl Frisch, spokesman for Media Matters, said it is typi­cal for O'Heilly to criticize his group for merely report­ing what he says. 
"We didn't 
call him a 
racist," Frisch 
said. "We said 
Williams con­versation was carried on 

, more than 400 radio stations and that there wasn't one complaint from a listener. 
"This isn't about a racially insensitive remark," he said. "Anybody can listen to the unedited version of the con­versation on Billoreilly.com. You want to think I'm insen­
sitive to race, you go right ahead." 

Williams, The real
''Anyone who would 
author of a story, he said,
be offended by that 
book about the was about the coarseness of conversation would "corrupt media 
some black cul­have to be looking to culture" in 
ture. Williams which outlets
be offended. " 
defended like CNN and O'Reilly during MSNBC do sto­a Tuesday Bill O'Reilly ries about his appearance on remarks
Fox News personality 
" b e c a u s e 
they're getting 

killed in the ratings." 
"The O'Heilly Factor" is seen by more people -2.2 million average this year ­than its direct competitors on MSNBC and CNN com­bined. MSNBC's "Countdown" with Keith Olbermann aver­ages 721,000 viewers in the time slot while CNN's 8 p.m. show averages 611,000, according to Nielsen Media Hesearch. 

---------~--. 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 27, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Myanmar attacks monks, kills one 
YANGON -Myanmar security forces opened lire on Buddhi..'it monks and other pro-democracy domonstrators for the first time Wednesday, killing at least one man and wounding others in chaotic confrontations across the capital. 
I>ramatic images of the protests, many transmit­tnd from the secretive Southeast A'iian nation by dissident<; using cell phones and the Internet, rivet­ed world attontion on the escalating f~ceoff betwonn the junta and it'i opponent<;. 
( :louds o[ tnar gas and smoke from fires hung over streets. and defiant protesters and even bystanders pnlted police with bottles and rocks in some places. Othors helped monks escape arrnst by bundling them into taxis and other vehicles and shouting "Go, go, go, run!" 
The governmnnt said one man was killed when police opmmd fire during t.lm ninth consecutive day of demonstrations, but dissident<; outside Myanmar mported receiving news of up to eight deaths. 
50 killed as Iraq violence on the upswing 
BAGI !DAD-A wave of bombings and shootings swept. Iraq on Wednesday, killing at least 50 people and raising l!~ars that ai-Qaida had launched a promised nnw offensive. The U.S. military aeknowledgPd that violence was on the upswing and blamPd it on the terror movement. 
Also Wndnnsday came the announcement that Iraqi and Anwrican troops raided the Iraqi military aeademy the day before and arrested cadet<; and instructors allegedly linked to t.l1e kidnap-slaying of t.hl' lbrmor supPrintcndent and fue abduction of his rnplacenwnt. who was later freed. 
Polin• rPported at least. six car bombings around the country Wednesday, an increase over ilie pat­torn of attacks in reennt weeks, tl1ough U.S. olli­dals insistnd t.lmt viohmm was still bdow level'> of h'>t year.weapons would be an "unacceptable risk to stability in the region and in the world." 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Spector case ends in deadlocked jury 
LOS ANGELES -The murder trial of music producer Phil Spector ended in a mistrial Wednesday because of a deadlocked jury. 
The mi'itrial came on the 12th day of delibera~ tions on whethnr Spector murdered actress Lana Clarkson more than 4 years ago. The 12-member panel had heard about five monfus of testimony. 
The jury !(>roman report!~d fue panel was dead­locknd 10 to 2 but did not indicate which way it was leaning. The jury reported a 7-5 impasse last wcnk and had resumed deliberations wiili modi­lind instructions. 
"At t.l1is time, I will find that ilie jury is unable to arrive at a vnrdict and declare a mistrial in this matter," Sup1wior Court Judge Larry Paul Fidler said. 

Clinton, Gore reunite for conference 
NEW YOHK -Global warming, poverty, healtl1 and education took center stage at the opening of Clinton Global Initiative conference Wednesday as lbrmer President Clinton and his vice president, AI Gore, brielly reunitnd on a common cause. 
Although thern has bmm a chill in their relation­ship, the two Democrat<> spoke warmly of each other. Clinton praL'ied Gore for his environmental activi..'>m, and Gore plugged Clinton's new book. 
Gore, who won an Academy Award for hi'> doc­umentary "An Inconvenient Truth," had appeared at the United Nations across town on Monday, whnrn he cited a lengthening lL'it of glob­al warming's impacts <md urged world leaders to act now. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indianapolis airport concourse closed 
INDIANAPOLIS -Security ollicials closed one concourse at the Indianapolis International Airport for about an hour Wednesday because of a suspicious package that turned out to be inert explosives usml to train federal security person­nel. 
Transportation Security Administration spokes­woman Lara Uselding said airline passengers were never in danger and the TSA was reviewing pr01:edurns to prevent it from happening again. 
The evacuation came about two weeks after a flight crew member who's also an air security ollicer left his government-issued gun at fue air­port's ground transportation center. 
CoA,1rtLED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE sERVKEs page 5 


IRAQ 

Prime Minister seeks international support 
Al-Maliki tells U.N. General Assembly national reconciliation will rid terrorism from Iraq 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS -Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki warned the U.N. General Assembly Wednesday that the contin­ued flow of weapons, suicide bombers and terrorism fund­ing into his country would result in "disastrous conse­quences" for the region and the world. 
Al-Maliki, who met with President Bush Tuesday, urged the international com­munity and countries in the region to support Iraq's national reconciliation process to rid terrorism from the country and bring peace to the region. 
"National reconciliation is stronger than the weapons of terrorism," he said. "Today we feel optimistic that countries of the region realize the danger of the ter­rorist attacks against Iraq, that it is not in their interest for Iraq to be weak." 
AI-Maliki said his country had reduced sectarian killings and brought stability to some regions, such as Anbar province in the west. lie said thousands or dis­placed families have been able to return to their homes. 
He said Iraq also has hun­dreds of political parties active within 20 political quences for peoples of the alliances; more than 6,000 region and the world." civil organizations; hundreds Washington has long of newspapers and maga­accused Iran of aiding Shiite zines and 40 local and satel­Muslim militias in Iraq that it lite TV stations. But terror­says have killed hundreds of ists are targeting this "new American troops with pow­Iraq," he said. erful bombs known as explo­
"Terrorism kills civilians, sively formed penetrators, or journalists, actors, thinkers EFPs. The U.S. has also and professionals. It attacks accused Iran of training universities, marketplaces fighters and sending them and libraries. It blows up into Iraq to attack American mosques and churches and and Iraqi troops. destroys the infrastructure of Iran disputes those allega­state institutions," al-Maliki tions, saying it does not med­said. dle inside Iraq. 
Al-Maliki said he has Iranian President warned the countries in the · Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told region that "the continued world leaders Tuesday that overflow of weapons, money, the U.S. government's policy suicide bombers and the on Iraq was destabilizing the spreading of 'fatwas' inciting occupied country. hatred and murder will only "They even oppose the result in disastrous conse-constitution, National Assembly and the govern­ment established by the vote of the people, while they do not even have the courage to declare their defeat and exit Iraq," he said. 

The U.S. delegation walked out of the General Assembly chamber when Ahmadinejad went to the podium, leaving only a low-ranking note­taker to listen to his speech, which also indirectly accused the U.S. and Israel of human rights violations. Gonzalo Gallegos, a State Department spokesman, said the U.S. wanted "to send hin1 a pow­erful message." 
In his meeting with al­Maliki on Tuesday, Bush pressed the Iraqi leader to make progress on measures deemed critical to the recon­ciliation process. Much-delayed action on such initia­tives as a national oil law have stalled in the Iraqi par­liament amid factional bick­ering and, in some cases, defections. 
"Some politicians may be trying to block the law to gain special advantage," Bush said. "And these par­ties have got to understand that it's in the interests of Iraq to get good law passed." 
In his speech to the General Assembly, al-Maliki only briefly noted the pro­posed oil law, saying his gov­ernment has completed the work on it and was awaiting its approval by the Iraqi par­liament. 
IIe said national reconcili­ation was not the responsi­bility of his government alone. 

Bush calls for new sanctions against Iran 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -The Bush adminis­tration moved Wednesday to cement international support for new U.N. sanctions on Iran over its nuclear pro­grams and rebuked Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad for declaring the issue "closed." 
A day after a defiant Ahmadinejad told the United Nations General Assembly that his country would defy further U.N. Security Council efforts to impose additional penalties, Secretary of State Condoleezza Hice and her top aides sought to marshal consensus on the move. 
"I am sorry to tell President Ahmadinejad that the case is not 
closed," said Nicholas Burns, the State Department's No. 3 diplomat. He was to meet with senior diplomats from the five permanent Security Council members and Germany to craft ele­ments of a new sanctions resolution. 
"We're going to keep going," Burns told reporters. "If Mr. Ahmadinejad thinks somehow that he has been given a pass, he is mistaken about that." 
Burns' talks over dinner with diplo­mats from Russia, China, Britain, France and Germany will set the stage for a second meeting on Thursday and then one between Rice and the group's other foreign ministers on Friday when the resolution is expect­ed to be further defined. 
However, he said it is unlikely that the text of a new resolution will be agreed to this week. 
As Burns spoke, Hice was assuring Iran's wary neighbors in the Persian Gulf of U.S. backing to improve their defenses against a "hegemonistic Iran" through proposed multibillion dollar arms sales, a senior State Department ofTicial told reporters. 
In a meeting with the foreign minis­ters of the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council -Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates ­along with Egypt and Jordan, Rice heard deep fears about Iranian attempts to dominate the region, the official said. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, September 27, 2007 

Judge rules t-wo Patriot Act provisions unconstitutional 
train bombings that killed 191 peo­
Associatc:d Prc:ss 

ple in 2004. 
POHTIANI>, Orn. -Two provi­The federal government apolo­sions of the USA Patriot Act are gized and settled part of the law­unconstitutional because thny suit li1r $2 million after admitting a allow search warranto.; to be L<>sund fingnrprint was misread. But as 
without a showing of probable eausP, a li~der­al judgn ruiPd Wndnnsday. 
U.S. District 
.I udge  Ann  
/\ikon  rulnd  
that  thn  

Foreign 
lntelligenc1~ 
Surveillance Al"t, <Lo.; amnnd­ed by tlw Patriot Act. "now permits tlw nxocutivn 

part of the settlement, Mayfield retained the right to chal­
"For_ over 200 years, this 
lenge parts of 
Nation has adhered to the the Patriot Act, which
rule oflaw -with 
greatly
unparalleled success. A 
expanded tlw shUi to a Nation based on authority of law enforcers
extra-constitutional 
to investigate
authority is prohibited. as 
suspected act<; well as ill-advised." ofterrorism. Mayfield clainwd that
Ann Aiken 
secret search­
U.S. District Judge 
es of his house and ofl"ice 
braneh of governmont to conduct undnr the Foreign Intelligence surv1~illanen and snan:hes of Surveillance Act violated the Amnrican citizens without satisfy­Fourth Amendment's guarantee ing tho probable cause rnquirn­against unreasonable search and mnnto.; of thn Fourth Anwndnumt." SPizure. Aiken agreed with 
Portland attorney Brandon Mayfield, repeatedly critiei?ing the Mayfield sought the ruling in a government. lawsuit against the federal govern­"For over 200 years, this Nation ment after he was mistakenly has adhered to the rule of law ­linked by thn FBI to the Madrid with unparallnled success. A shift 
ITALY 

to a Nation based on extra-consti­tutional authority is prohibited, as well a<> ill-advised," she wrote. 
By asking her to dismiss Mayfield's lawsuit, the judge said, the U.S. attorney general's oflice was "asking this court to, in essence, amend the Bill of Right<>, by giving it an interprntation that would deprive it of any mal mean­ing. This court declines to do so." 
Elden Rosenthal, an attorney lbr Mayfield, issued a statement on his behalf praising the judge, saying she "has upheld both the tradition of judieial indopcndenee, and our nation's most cherished principle of the right to be secure in one's own home." 
Justice Department spokesman Peter Carr said the ageney was reviewing thP decision, and he declined to eomment further. 
Mayfield, a Muslim eonvert, was taken into custody on May 6, 2004, beeause of a fingerprint found on a detonator at the scene of the Madrid bombing. The FBI said the print matched Mayfield's. He was released about two weeks later, and the FBI admitted it had erred in saying the fingerprints were his and later apologized to him. 
Before his arrest, the FBI put 
Mayfield under 24-hour surveil­lance, listened to his phone calls and surreptitiously searched his home and law office. 
The Mayfield case has been an embarrassment for the federal government. Last year, the Justice Department's internal watchdog faulted the FBI lor sloppy work in mistakenly linking Mayfield to the Madrid bombings. That report said federal prosecutors and FBI agent,;; had made inaewrate and ambigu­ous statmnento;; to a federal judge to get arrest and criminal search warrants against Mayfield. 

THE NAME IS KNOWN WORLDWIDE ••• HIS TALENT IS DBVIDUB! 
PART OF THE a:::ASH FAMILY MUSI[;AL HERITAGE! · 
"Thlg ~w isl mq W&\J of pa\.jing tribute to rmJ brother's life and career, and to hUz great mo21c" • Tommy Cash 
TlllllliV CISII ~IS nlCirdad IMII 20 a..ums w1111 Ullllerous hhs lnclu--511 Willie lllna. lise IIIII Sbloe. She letAS1ranltl'. IIBI ATl'lllll. One Seng lillY." 



PORTION OF PROCEEDS To 8ENEF"IT ELKHART COUNTY WOMEN's SHELTER 
A '?Mditf Sewta (JI &tMMt ~ 'PW9uun n'ww.fmizi!vserPi,·eelkhart.com 574-294-!Ffl 

Doctor: Pope violated ChlllLhteaching 
Vatican denies euthanasia allegations against John Paul II 
Associated Press 

HOME -A doctor alleged Wednesday that Pope John Paul II violated Catholic teaching against euthanasia by refusing mndical eare that would have kept him alivn longer -a eharge immedi­ately dismissed by Vatiean ol"li­dals. 
In an artide in the Italian jour­
nal Micromega. Dr. Una Pavanelli. 
an unuesthesiologist, questioned 
why .John Paul was only outfitted 
with a nasal feeding tube on 
March 30, 2005, thrnn days beliJrn 
he dind. She said he dearly wao;; in 
need of artilieial nutrition well 
bnf(ml then. 

John Paul wao;; rushed to Home's Gemelli Polyclinic hospital two times in February 2005 with breathing erises mlated to his Parkinson's disease; he was released for thn last time March 
13. lie died in his Vatican apart­ment on April 2, from what the Vatican said wao;; septic shock and cardiodreulatory collapse. 
The Vatican announcml March 
:m that John Paul had been outfit­
ted with a nao;;al li1eding straw to 
improve his nutrition so hP could 
roeovnr stnmj.,'lh. 

llowPvnr, Vatiean ollidaJs said Wednnsday that the tube had actually bmm insertPd wPII bef(ml Mard1 30 but that the proeedurn wao.; only announeed on that date -easting doubt on Pavanelli's eorn argumm1t. They disclosed thn information in response to Pavarwlli's charges, which they said wernn 't serious beeause she had no access to tho medical reeords and based her accusa­tions only on prnss releases and news report<;. 
At a news eonfHrenee Wednnsday, Pavanelli acknowl­edgnd she didn't have access to .John Paul's medical records and aeknowlndgml the liknlihood that he may have be1m outlittnd sooner than March :m with a mLo;;al li~ed­ing tulw. 
But she maintained her main 
argument that he was not given 
adequate nutrition soon enough. 
Confronted with evidence that the 
nasal tube had been inserted 
sooner, she then changed her core 
accusation, charging that John 
Paul should have been given a 
stomach feeding tube, since it has 
bmm proven to be more effective 
for longer periods of time. 
Catholic teaehing holds that it is morally wrong to refuse "propor­tionate" or ordinary eare, which indudes water and feeding tubes; refusing such care amounts to euthanao;;ia. 
"lie was li~d neither at the right time, nor in the right way for the correct amount of time," Pavanelli said. That ereated a situation in which the pope was too weak to fend oil" the urinary traet infection that led to the septic shock that ultimately killed him, she eharged. 
In the article, Pavanelli con­cludes that "when the patient knowingly refuses a lifesaving therapy, his action together with the remissive or ommissive behav­ior of doctors, must be considered euthanasia, or more precisely, assisted suicide." 
The Vatican recently repeated its position on euthanasia and feeding tubes. A document issued Sept. 14 from the Vatican's Congregation for the Doetrine of the Faith reaflirmed that it consid­ers the removal of feeding tubes from people in vegetative states to be an immoral aet. 
The Vatican distinguishes between feeding tubes, which it eonsiders proportionate care, and "aggressive medical treatment" whieh can be disproportionate to any expected results or pose an excessive burden on the patient. 
"In such situations, when death is dearly inuninent an inevitable, one can in conscience refuse forms of treatment that would only sm:ure a pmcarious and bur­densome prolongation of life, so long as the normal care due to the sick person in similar cases is not interrupted," according to John Paul's 1995 encyclical "Evangelium Vitae." 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Baustista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd .edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS

Thursday, September 27, 2007 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 13,878.15 +99.50
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,318 91 1,917 3,187,767,487 
AMEX 2,398.29 +28:16 .. NASDAQ 2,699.03 +15.58 NYSE 9,980.12 +46.30 S&P 500 1,525.42 +8.21 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,435.74 0.00 FTSE 100 'London~ 6i433.00 +36.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.53 +0.80 152.19 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.49 +0.25 51.32 FORD MOTOR CO (F) +6.47 +0.54 8.88 SUN MICROSYS INC (JAVA) -0.88 -0.05 5.62 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE +0.13 +0.006 4.620 13-WEEK BILL -1.76 -0.065 3:625 30-YEAR BOND +0.14 +0.007 4.893 5-YEAR NOTE -0.07 -0.003 4.256 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.77 80.30 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -3.30 735.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.63 89.35 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 115.4300 EURO 0.7078 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0052 BRITISH POUND 0.4961 
IN BRIEF Drug might slow spread of melanoma 
BAHCELONA -A very early test of an experi­mental drug se11med to slow the spread of advanced deadly skin cancer in a small study, the drug's U.S. developer reported in preliminary findings Wednesday. 
Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp. of Lexington, Mass., reported that patients with advanced melanoma who got the drug survived an average of 3.7 months without new cancer lesions, compared to 1.8 months for those who got the standard treatment. 
The treatment, given as a pill, is so early in devel­opmp,nt it dop,sn't have a name. It must pass muster in much more rigorous testing before the company seeks U.S. approval. 
Synta's drug is one of several in development by other companies trying a new strategy against can­cer -killing tumor cells by overloading them with oxygen. 
"We arc taking advantage of the Achilles heel of cancer cells," said Dr. Anthony Williams, vice presi­dent of clinical research at Synta Pharmaceuticals. 
Toyota, Nissan announce safety recalls 
WASHINGTON -Toyota Motor Corp. said Wndnnsday it was recalling optional "all-weather" floor mats in 55,000 Lexus ES 350 and Toyota Camry passenger cars because the mat could inter­lim'l with the ga<> pedal and lead to a crash. 
Thp, N a tiona! Highway Traffic Safety Administration issued a consumer advisory about the hnavy-duty rubber floor mats, noting that if unsecured, the mat could move forward and trap the gas pedal, causing the vehicle to accelerate uneontrollably. 
In a snparate move, Nissan Motor Co. said it was recalling nearly 420,000 sport utility vehicles because of possible corrosion in the tube where motorisl<> pump gas. 
Thn reeall involves Nissan Pathfinder and Infiniti QX4 SUVs from the 1997-2001 model years. More than 370,000 of thn vehides under recall were orig­inally sold or are curnmtly registered in 22 "cold weather" states and the District of Columbia. Another 45,000 vehicles are in Canada. 
In thn Toyota rncall, NHTSA urged drivers of other vehides, including the Avalon and Prius, to chnck the drivnr-side floor mats to ensure they were prop11rly installed. NIITSA spokesman Rae Tyson said it was taking the step "because we believe potnntially it is a very serious safety issue." 
GM, UAW tentatively reach agreement 
Union cancels two-day strike; automotive company guarantees investment in U.S. plants 
Associated Press 

DETHOIT -General Motors Corp. won its strug­gle to unload $51 billion in retiree health costs and improve eompP-titiveness in the latest round of contract talks with the United Auto Workers, but not without a short-lived strike that wrung promises out of GM to keep jobs at U.S. plants. 
The two sides tentatively agreed Wednesday to a groundbreaking agreement that allows GM to move its unfunded retiree health care costs into an inde­pendent trust administered by the UAW. The union also agreed to lower wages for some workers. In exchange, the UAW won commitments from GM to invest in U.S. plants, bonuses and an agreement to hire thousands of tempo­rary workers which will boost UAW membership, according to a person who was briefed on the con­tract. The person request­ed anonymity beeause the details haven't been pub­licly released. 
Wall Street applauded news of the deal, sending GM shares up more than 9 percent. 
The union said the agree­ment with the nation's largest automaker was reached shortly after 3 
a.m. The UAW canceled its two-day strike about an GM's long-term debt rating, negotiated at Ford Motor members. Voting is expect­hour later and workers which is currently below Co. and Chrysler LLC. UAW ed to begin this weekend, were back in GM's 80 U.S. investment grade. President Ron Gettelfinger Gettelfinger said. If mem­facilities Wednesday after­"We view the tentative said he will decide this bers vote against the noon. GM lost production of agreement and its appar­week which automaker will agreement they could go around 25,000 vehicles due ent terms as a historic go next. The UAW may back on strike, but to the strike, according to milestone toward the long­even conduct negotiations Gettelfinger said he's confi­CSM Worldwide Inc. term improvement in fun­with Ford and Chrysler dent it will be ratified. Analysts had suggested a damentals and survival at simultaneously, "We're very comfortable short strike could actually the North American Gettelfinger said during an with this agreement and improve GM's outlook automakers," KeyBanc interview on "The Paul W. we're happy to be able to because it would cut back analyst Brett Hoselton' Smith Show" on WJR-AM. recommend it to our mem­on inventory levels. wrote in a note to The GM contract will be bership," Gettelfinger said. 
GM shares rose $3.22, or investors. reviewed by local UAW Tom Brune, who works at 
9.4 percent, to $37.64. The agreement is expect­presidents this week and a GM plant in Wentzville, Standard & Poor's Ratings ed to set a pattern for con­will be subject to a vote of Mo., said he was happy to Services said it may raise tracts that now will be GM's 74,000 rank-and-file go back to work. 

Stocks up as large companies stabilize 
Stearns off the table, if that can be The Hussell 2000 index of smaller done. That should help the financials," companies rose 6.12, or 0.76 percent, 
NEW YORK -Stocks rose soundly said William Rutherford, president of to 809.12. Wednesday following word that some Rutherford Investment Management in Treasury prices turned higher of the problems dogging big companies Portland, Ore., referring to the recent Wednesday after there was surprising­like General Motors Corp. and Bear failure of two Bear Stearns hedge ly strong investor demand in a govern­Stearns Cos. could be on the mend. funds. ment sale of $18 billion in new 2-year 
GM, one of the 30 stocks that makes "It takes a lot of risk out of Bear Treasurys. The yield on the bench­up the Dow Jones industrial average, Stearns stock. It doesn't mean that the mark 10-year Treasury note, whieh led the market higher from the outset fears that investors had yesterday moves opposite its price, fell to 4.62 with word it had struck a tentative were misplaced. It just means there is percent from 4.64 percent late contract agreement with the United a new piece of information to be con­Tuesday. Auto Workers that could allow the sidered," he said of any interest Buffett The dollar recovered slightly against company to shed some of its burden­might show. major currencies Wednesday despite some health care costs. The GM and Bear Stearns news lift­lackluster economic data, but not 
While stocks held onto gains ed investor sentiment, sending the before hitting another record low throughout the session, rumors that Dow up 99.50, or 0.72 percent, to against the euro. Gold prices fell. Bear Stearns Cos. would sell a stake in 13,878.15. Oil futures ended higher Wednesday, 
the company took on new urgency in Broader stock indicators also rose. closing above $80 a barrel as a turbu­the final hour of trading with a report The Standard & Poor's 500 index lent day ended with a late rally led by that billionaire investor Warren Buffett advanced 8.21, or 0.54 percent, to investors who saw an early price dip 
was a potential suitor. 1,525.42, and the Nasdaq composite as a buying opportunity. Light, sweet "Certainly it's good to have problems index increased 15.58, or 0.58 per­crude settled at $80.30 per barrel on that have been overhanging Bear cent, to 2,699.03. the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
Associated Press 

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 27, 2007 

know no boundaries 
WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE. CLASS, ETHNICITY. RELIGION. AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

7 5 rr 5..,&111'1'-II!IApilllrJ ;4 n7-a•A·s -~l-a:lk-~1' 
.....,. ___......,.._ 1...........__,,., .,,.,=···,~-......J!i..-il_.....;.;.,..;r;_~ ·-~1... ~; 
....,. --·-....,. -• ;Jir~ 1~ • ,J.'lll!lla': ft1loli1Wm:lll~illll· ~li111'UI ilrllNDIIMII:tffi• ~r,l!' RJi.W; illimllml!fl:l!rJ!
••7 r 
55 =rna· ~i: • ,mm::aJi,~lta1tltiE~ 


-----------------------------------------, 
Thursday, September 27, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Information Meeting 
September 27, 6:00PM 
Center for Social Concerns 
for more information visit www.peacecorps.gov or call 800.424.8580 
FBI searches for charter boat 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -A boat trip that began as a routine charter to the Bahamas turned horribly wrong somewhere on the high seas when four crew members van­ished and the two men who hired the vessel were plucked out of a life raft. 
Kirby Logan Archer and Guillermo Zarabozo are in cus­tody on federal charges while rescuers conduct a massive search in heavy rain for the crew of the 4 7 -foot fishing charter Joe Cool. Neither Archer, who was a fugitive, nor Zarabozo is charged in the disappearances. 
"All I can say at this point is that the investigation is continu­ing," FBI spokeswoman Judy Orihuela said. 
The pair were found in a life 
RO 
raft Monday about 12 miles from where the fishing boat was drift­ing. Authorities found no one on board and no mechanical prob­lems with the vessel. 
A key to some handcuffs was found on the boat, and a sub­stance appearing to be blood was found on the vessel's stern, according to an FBI affidavit. 
Archer and Zarabozo paid $4,000 cash to charter the Joe Cool on Sunday to Bimini, Bahamas, where they told the boat's operators they had female companions waiting for them. The Coast Guard says that GPS navigation devices on the boat show that it veered sharply south toward Cuba about halfway into the 50-mile trip. 
Zarabozo, 19, of Hialeah, is a Cuban immigrant. Archer is a former soldier once stationed at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba; his ex-

MY PHONE DOWN THE SEWER, ALL MY FRIENDS' NUMBERS WON'T GO WITH IT. 
My Contacts Backup from 
U.S. 
Cellularfl gives you the peace of mind and security of knowing you can rescue all your contacts, even if you can't (or would rather not) rescue your phone. 

U.S. 
Cellular is wireless where you matter most.., 


f<:_ US.Cellular 
getusc.com 1-888-BUY-USCC 

Cutllometa wUIIncur data 
C2007 U.S. Cellular 

wife has told several media out­lets that he ·met Zarabozo as a boy in that country and may have helped him and his family reach the U.S. 
Archer, 35, of Strawberry, Ark., is wanted in his home state on suspicion of stealing more than $92,000 in January from a Wal­Mart where he was an assistant manager. He also went AWOL from the Army four years ago. 
Both men made initial court appearances Wednesday. Archer is charged with fleeing prosecu­tion in Arkansas. Zarabozo is charged with lying to federal agents. 
According to the FBI affidavit, Zarabozo initially told his Coast Guard rescuers that "unknown subjects" had hijacked the boat, shot and killed the four crew members and then ordered Zarabozo to throw the bodies into the sea. Zarabozo later told the FBI he had never been on the Joe Cool, even though his state identification card was found on the boat. 
The vessel was found "in disar­ray," according to the affidavit. It said that aside from the apparent blood and the key, investigators found six marijuana cigarettes on the boat, as well as a laptop computer, luggage, clothes and a cell phone. 
Archer and Zarabozo were being held without bail at a fed­eral detention center in Miami. Neither the FBI nor the Coast Guard would comment on what they have told investigators. 
Meanwhile, Coast Guard ships and aircraft searched hundreds of miles of open ocean in heavy rain for the boat's captain, Jake Branam, 27; his wife, Kelley Branam, 30; his half brother, Scott Campbell, 30; and Samuel Kairy, 27, all of Miami Beach. 
"The weather is very, very nasty," said Coast Guard Petty Officer Dana Warr. "It makes searching very difficult, both in the air and the sea." 
The search includes a C-130 aircraft and helicopters. It was expanded as far north as Cape Canaveral on Wednesday to account for possible drift caused by the Gulf Stream current. Coast Guard searchers also checked out on foot some of the dozens of small uninhabited islands that dot the Bahamas to the east of Miami. 
Archer, a former military police investigator, had been sta­tioned at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, during the 1990s, accord­ing to court records. He went AWOL in 2003 and received a less-than-honorable discharge as a result, according to Arkansas records from his 2005 divorce. 
In court, Archer and Zarabozo were both told they would get court-appointed lawyers. When asked whether he had any assets to pay for a lawyer, Archer said all he had was $2,200 that inves­tigators confiscated after his arrest. 
A bail hearing for both men was set for Friday. Prosecutors said they would seek to keep both in detention. 
Several of Zarabozo's relatives attended the hearing. They declined to talk to reporters. 
Archer and his ex-wife, Michelle Howe, have had no recent contact. according to her attorney, Chaney Taylor of Batesville, Ark. Rowe has cus­tody of the couple's two young sons. 
"We don't know where he's been since January," Taylor said. 
Court records show that Archer has since remarried, to another woman named Michelle. In court Wednesday, Archer said he is now separated. 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, September 27, 2007 
School responds to suicidal threats 
Wisconsin students pleased about being informed ofdanger ahead oftime 
a weapon, was on top of a 
Associated Press 

parking ramp at the UW 
MADISON. Wis. -Students Hospital and wanted police to at tlw University of Wisconsin­kill him. Madison offnred nothing but Miller was serving a jail term praise Wednesday for the with work-release privileges school's sweeping response a after pleading no contest last day earlier to threatening calls year to armed robbery with 
from a suicided man who use of force. lie left the jail for daimnd to have a gun. a medical appointment Sept. 8 Tlw u n ive rsi ty canceled and never came back. 
some classes and activities, About 20 minutes after the wanwd studnnts to stay homn first call, police say Miller and brinfly closed tlw UW called to report there were llospital to some patients and shots fired near the hospital visitors as polien sought the and poopln fleeing in every caller, bnlievPd to bn a 19-direction. Shortly after that, he ynar-old called again escaped to report a irunate. bomb threat Authorities at the hospi­hadn't found "Ifhe had been a danger tal under a as fictitious
the man and we decided not to 
o f name. Both
blow it out ofproportion. it 
Wndnnsday of those calls 
evening, but could have ended ugly." were hoaxes, they had no police nvidmu~n that believe.
Martha Saywell 
he was ever I' o I i c e
doctoral student 
on eampus searched the or adually parking ramp had a for Miller and weapon and started block­werP eonfidPnt he had rHwer ing the 
hnen a dang11r to othnrs. entrances to the hospital. As 
Still, students said tlwy wnrn tlwir search extnnded through glad the srhool knpt thnm the west end of campus, offi­inf'ornwd, Psperially in light of cials cancelnd night classes tho massacre at Virginia Teeh. and a soccer game and closed 
"I I' lw had lwnn a danger and acadnmic buildings. we dnrided not to blow it out The hospital started divert­of proportion, it could have ing some emergency room nnded ugly," said Martha patients to other hospitals and Sayw1dl, 32, a doctoral student told visitors to stay away. who lives two blocks from the About 6 p.m., the university 
hospital. sent the first mass e-mail 
In his first call to authorities, warning students of a poten­about 4:40 p.m. Tuesday, the tially suicidal gunman and to ealler -identified by police as stay indoors. The university 
Jesse Miller -daimed he had sent two other mass e-mails, 
updated its Web site through­
out the night and posted alerts 
on Facebook, the popular 
social networking site. 

By late Tuesday, students were told that classes and nor­mal hospital operations would resume Wednesday even as police continued to search for Miller. 
Laura Caldwell, 21, said she stayed in her apartment the rest of the night after receiving the e-mail warning. She said she called friends who live ncar the hospital to tell them to stay home and lock their doors. And she followed the university Web site for updates. 
"I really don't know how much better you can handle a situation like that," said Caldwell, a senior. 
UW-Madison Police Sgt. Jason Whitney acknowledged that not all students learned of the threat immediately if they did· not check their e-mail or watch TV news. But he main­tained the university reached many of the 60,000 students, faculty and staff on campus. 
"You're not always going to reach everybody, but we reached more of our popula­tion than any city would have," he said. 
UW-Madison Assistant Police Chief Dale Burke said the uni­versity has reviewed its securi­ty policies since the Virginia Tech killings. 
"I don't think any of us hoped that we would be able to put these things into play quite this soon," he said. "But the fact that we had done the work has certainly helped us in this matter." 
MOROCCO 

Photo misleading in kidnapping case 
Associated Press 

ZINAT -Tho parents of miss­ing British 3-yPar-old Madeleine McCann had tlwir hopos dashnd again WndnPsday wlwn a girl resmnbling their daughter who was photographod in Morocco turrwd out to bP tho child of an olivn farrnor. 
Tlw oxritPmPnt ovnr tho photo, takPn by Spanish tourist Clara Torros in nortlwrn Morocco and widPiy publislwd on tlw lntorrwt. tosliliod to thP intPrnational fhm­zy thP McCann casn has sparkod. Many 1wopiP have hoped for signs that MadPIPine is alivn mom than fiHil' months aftPr slw disap­pPa.rnd from a Portuguese rPsort. 
lntPrpol said W11dnnsday that inv11St.igators haw bPPn studying tlw blurry dl'tail orthn photo. Only vaguP outlirws of tlw girl's fan• wnrn visibiP in tlw pidurn, which shownd a group of pnopiP that indudPs a woman wnaring Monu:1·.an-stylP rlothing and car­rying a fair-hairPd girl on her back. It did not suggnst any nflhrt by thn woman to hidP t.lw child's fitCP. 
An Associatl'd l'rPss n~porter rParhnd thP girl and lwr family WPdrwsday in Zinat in northern Moror.r.o, tlw mountain villagP wlwrn tlu• photo was taknn and wlwrP thP family works a modPst olivl' farm. 
Tlw girl is :{-ypar-old Bouchra AhrnPd BPn Aissa. and in ttw photo stu• was lll'ing 1:arried by lll'r rnotlwr, llafida, whilo lwr aunt and father were also pic­the girl in the photograph isn't turnd, relatives said. Madeleine are true, it is disap­
Thn child, visibly upset by the pointing news," said Mitchell. He heated interest in her, clung to said the couple has decided not to her sister Wednesday before comment on reported sightings of retreating to play on a chipped their daughter. tile landing out">ide her housn. Madeleine vanished from the 
lntnrpol said it<> ollico in Madrid, Portuguese resort of Praia da Luz Spain, had recnived "a number of on May 3, just days before her photographs from members of the fourth birthday. Portuguese publie of pot('ntial Madnloino police have named the girl's par-
sightings, includ­ ents.  Kate  and  
ing  llw  picture  Gerry McCann,  
takPn in Morocco by '~. Spanish <'OU­pln.  "Clearly, ifthese reports that the girl in  as official sus­pects in tho dis­appearance.  
Tlw  interna­ the photographs isn't  The couple said  
tional police organization, based in the  Madeleine are true, it is disappointing."  they left the girl and their 2-year­old twins asleep  
southoastorn  in  their rented  
FrPnch  eity  of  Clarence Mitchell  villa while they  
Lyon,  said  tlw  family spokesman  had dinner near­ 

photos had boon forwarded to Portuguese poli<:e, who are leading an inves­tigation into MadolPine's disap­pnarance. 
Moroecan seeurity ollidals told the AI' that poliee in tho North African kingdom had not recnivPd any formal requests to inv11stigat11. Portuguese polke declined to commont on the grounds that an invostigation was eontinuing. 
A spokesnmn for thn McCanns. Clanmce Mitdwll, said the family nxpnrinnees an "emotional rollor coast11r ... ear.h timP this sort of inlill'lnation comes in." 
"Cinarly, if these rnports that 
by. Despite an 
extnnsivo search 
and a worldwide publicity effort led by her par­ents, no confirmed trace of Madeleine has turned up. 
Other alleged sightings of the girl havn boon reportedin Europn and Morocco. The ama in which the photograph was taken is known for European influences, and fair-haired childnm with light-colored eyns are relatively common. 
The photo was taken last month through a ear windshield at a dis­tance of several dozen yards, and tlw resomblanen to Madeleine wa..<; only dmtr upon zooming in on thn image. 
ISRAEL 

Gaza Strip strike bloodiest in years 
Israeli-led operation kills 8 Palestinians, wounds 25 others 
Associated Press 

GAZA CITY -Israeli mili­tary forces killed at least eight Palestinians and wounded 25 in an airstrike and a tank-led ground oper­ation Wednesday, the bloodi­est day in the Gaza Strip since Israel dnelared it a "hostile territory." 
The Israeli army said the raids were a response to near daily bombardment 
llamas, was involved in the March kidnapping of BBC journalist Alan Johnston, who was later freed. The group is also thought to be among those holding Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, seized in a cross-border raid in June 2006. 
In the ground incursion, Israeli tanks and soldiers took control of Beit llanoun, a town in northern Gaza from whieh militants had launched rockets. 
Witnesses said a tank shell hit between two houses and soldiers fired tank-mounted machine guns. The army's fin~ killed four Palestinians 

of Israeli bor­"We are moving and wounded der towns, 25, ineluding
closer to a broad and 
including 20 five critically,
complex operation 
mortar slwlls hospital doc­and 10 rock­in Gaza." tors said. ets fired The army Wednesday. said the tank
Ehud Barak
and Israeli firnd toward a
Israeli defense minister 
Defense Minister Ehud Barak warned that "we are moving closer to a broad and complex operation in Gaza" to stop rocket fire. 
Israe l's designation of Gaza as a "hostile territory" last week was a precursor to the possible cutoff of elec­tricity and other utilities to the coastal strip, which is ruled by the Islamic mili­tants of llamas. 
In Wednesday's airstrike, missiles hit a jeep as it crossed a group of mili­tants carrying anti-tank mis­silns. 
A top aide to the head of the llamas government in Gaza, Ismail llaniyeh, said the Isranli operations would strengthen the resolve of Gazans. "The honorable Palestinian blood shed by this Nazi army will only make us more steadfast," Mohammed Madhoun said. 
In the West Bank, mean­
while, Palestinian security officials seized two homemade 

crowded intersec­tion in the  "The honorable Palestinian blood shed by  rockets, a possible sign that  
Zeitoun  this Nazi army will only  the  attack  
neighbor­hood of  make us more steadfast."  techniques of Gaza mil­ 
Gaza City,  itants  arc  
killing  at  Mohammed Madhoun  spreading.  
least  four  top aide to the head of the  The projec­ 
members  Hamas government in Gaza  tiles,  not  

of the Army of Islam, a small mili­tant group involvnd in kid­napping a BBC journalist and capturing an Israeli sol­dier. 
The Israeli military said the jeep was carrying rock­ets ready for firing. 
The bodies in the jnep were badly disfigured, prompting diffnnmt death tolls. Hospital off'icials said four people died, while the Army of Islam said five of its members were killed. 
Dozens of Palestinians sur­round11d the wrecked jnep, some dipping their hands into the blood of the victims, to underswre their demand for revenge. "God is gnmt," the erowd ehanted. 
The Army of Islam, a group that brokn away from yet fitted 
with explo­
sives, were 
discovered i n Be t h I e lw m an d hand e d over to the Israeli army. 
The Palostinian govern­mont in the Wost Bank has been eooporating more with Israeli authorities sinco llamas gunmen seized con­trol of c;aza in June. It is IPd by Prnsidnnt Mahmoud Abbas, whosn Fatah move­ment is a bitter rival of llamas. 
The Israeli military announc1~d an indnfinite do­sure of thn Wnst Bank and (;aza Strip ahead of the weeklong Jewish holiday of Su1:eot, which bngan at sun­set Wedrwsday. Blanket do­surns. inducting travel bans within the l'alnstinian arnas, an~ imposed during .Jewish holidays. 

~lease recycle The Observer. 
Thursday, September 27, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
Engineers: Bridge collapse causing undue alarm 
misunderstood.  Association of State Highway  traffic  demands.  Bridges  issue?" Minnesota said in its  
Associated Press  "People  seem  to  think  a  and Transportation Officials  built  decades  ago,  for  response.  
bridge  is  within  a  hair's  holds its annual conference  instance, sometimes carry  Frazier, the Montana engi­ 
ST.  PAUL,  Minn.  - State  breadth of collapse when  beginning  Thursday  in  narrower shoulders or lower  neer,  said in  an  interview  
highway officials around the  they  hear  these  terms,"  Milwaukee. The association  clearance than today's struc­ that something as  simple  as  
country want  the govern­ Montana's chief transporta­ conducted the survey, and  tures.  ·  "eligible"  or  "noneligible"  
ment  to  stop scaring the  tion engineer Loran Frazier  the AP obtained the results  "Fracture  critical"  is  for federal dollars would  
public by using dire-sound­ vented in an e-mail survey of  as  part of  a  government  applied to  bridges without  work for him. Utah's repre­ 
ing phrases such  as  "struc­ his peers after the Interstate  records request.  multiple backup features,  sentative  recommended  
turally deficient" and "frac­ 35W disaster. "There seemed  "I don't believe the indus­ meaning that if one  critical  adding a category like "criti­ 
ture  critical"  to  describe  to  be borderline hysteria  try understood how big of a  component failed, the entire  cally  deficient."  A  
bridge~ in need of repairs.  regarding the bridges."  problem it was  until they  structure could give way.  Mississippi official suggested  
In interviews and govern­ At least one  highway-safe­ started trying to explain it to  T  h  e  a  "Health  
ment documents obtained by  ty watchdog group agreed  the media and to the public,"  Interstate  Index."  
T  h  e  that  the  said Kelley Rehm, the  asso­ 35W bridge  Gregory  
Associated Press. some engineers say the terms are making America's bridges s o u n d shakier than they  "People seem to think a bridge is within a hair's breadth ofcollapse when they hear these terms. There seemed to be borderline hysteria regarding the bridges."  terms are misleading and ought to be changed, and said there is lit­tle risk that new termi­nology would give  ciation's program manager for bridges and structures. About 12 percent of the nation's 607,363 bridges are classified as structurally deficient, according to 2006 figures from the FHA. The terms date to 1978, when Congress updated guidelines for replacing and rehabilitating bridges. The  was rated both struc­turally defi­cient and fracture critical. The cause of the dis­aster is still u n d e r investiga­ "I don't believe the industry understood how big ofa problem it was until they started trying to explain it to the media and to the public." Kelley Rehm  Cohen, president of the American Highway U s e r s Alliance, an advoca­cy group f o r motorists,  
really  are,  the public a  categories  are  important  tion.  program manager  said  he  
and  they  Loran Frazier  false  sense  because they determine how  Within  American Association of State  favors  
w o u I d Pre­1fer e s s-alarming  chief transportation engineer for the state of Montana  of security about the nation's  federal money is doled out to states. A ·bridge is typically  days of the collapse, Rehm's  Highway and Transportation  making the terms more under­ 
phrases, or  bridges.  labeled "structurally defi­ association  standable  
perhaps  a  Control  cient" if regular inspections  polled state transportation  to  the public and does  not  
"Health  Index"  for  the  over  the  labeling system  uncover  significant deterio­ departments  about  their  worry that a  change would  
nation's spans.  rests with Congress and the  ration  such  as  advanced  feelings toward the labels.  reduce pressure  to  spend  
The issue  came  up after  Federal  Highway  cracking in concrete or steel  Transportation officials from  more on bridges.  
the Minneapolis bridge col­ Administration, part of the  components.  The  rating  New Hampshire to Wyoming  "Of course if they do that it  
lapse Aug. 1 that killed 13  Transportation Department.  often leads to weight restric­ urged adoption of new ter­ could always come back and  
people. The span, along with  The department would not  tions and increased monitor­ minology.  bite them," said Cohen, an  
more  than 73,000 other U.S.  comment  directly  on  the  ing and maintenance.  "Car  dealers  no  longer  engineer by training. "Say  
bridges, had been classified  terms  used  to  classify  The  term  "functionally  have  'used'  cars.  They  they  do  start  describing  
as  structurally deficient,  a  bridges' state of repair.  oi:Jsolete"  is  applied  to  instead switched to  'previ­ things in flowery terms and  
term  some  engineers say  Such  terminology  is  bridges that don't meet cur­ ously owned.' Can't we simi­ another bridge falls down,  
sent shudders  across  the  expected  to  be  discussed  rent design standards, gen­ larly  come  up with  nomen­ then they'll have egg all over  
nation because it was widely  when  the  American  erally because of changing  clature that is  less of an  their face."  

President discusses hostage release 
Colombian leader Uribe says he's cautious to negogiate with leftist rebels 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Colombian President Alvaro Uribe said Wednesday he was grateful Venezuela's leader is seeking to win the release of three Americans and other hostages in 
Colombia, 


but seemed cautious about rais­ing hopes on the negotia­tions with left st rebels. 
In an interview 
Uribe with The 

Associated Press, Uribe stressed that a meeting expected next month between President Hugo Chavez and rebel leaders would be only the latest of many efforts to free the captives. He was steadfast in refusing key rebel demands including a New York City-sized demilitarized zone and the release of two Colombian rebels imprisoned in the U.S. 
"It's difficult because everyone wants the release of hostages," said Uribe, who was in New York for a meeting of the U.N. General Assembly. "I hope the rebels free the hostages at President Chavez's request. But we will express all of our gratitude to President Chavez ... whether or not the effort proves successful." 
Families of the kidnapped are optimistic Chavez could sway the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia because of the rebels' affinity for his leftist ideals. The Venezuelan president met Tuesday with relatives of three American defense contractors held by the FARC and the moth­er of former Colombian presi­dential candidate Ingrid Betancourt, a French-Colombian citizen. 
"We're the closest we've ever been to getting our son back," Lynne Stansell, mother of U.S. hostage Keith Stansell, said in Bogota on Wednesday. "Chavez told us he was doing this as a humanitarian gesture, not for political reasons." 
Chavez faces difficult negotia­tions. 
On Tuesday, he hinted at the idea of a U.S. presidential par­don for a FARC fighter convicted in a U.S. court of exporting cocaine and a second, higher­ranking rebel, convicted of con­spiracy in the seizure of the three American contractors after their plane crashed on a surveil­lance mission. 
Uribe has ruled out including the two in any prisoner swap. 
He emphasized that his gov­ernment has made several con­cessions, including releasing a high-ranking rebel in June at the request of French President Nicolas Sarkozy, who has made securing Betancourt's freedom a priority. A day after being freed, however, Rodrigo Granda said the FARC would only release hostages if government troops withdraw from a large swath of western Colombia. 
Uribe said he discussed the hostage situation with Sarkozy this week and was to meet Thursday with relatives of Stansell and the two other U.S. captives, Marc Gonsalves and Tom Howes. 
The Colombian leader was ret­icent when asked if the negotia­tions between Chavez and the FARC might lead to a wider peace process with the rebels, who have been fighting the gov­ernment for more than four decades. He insisted that his hardline security policies have . significantly reduced murders and kidnappings. 
"For us, the military path is just as valid as the path of nego­tiation," Uribe said. "We will not allow anything to break our will to pursue a firm policy of saying 'no more terrorism.'" 
Since Uribe and Chavez announced the mediation effort last month, Washington has been cautiously supportive. The 
U.S. ambassador to Colombia, William Brownfield, said last week that "we look upon favor­ably the participation of any leader, public servant, politician or important person" who might help secure the hostages' release. 
Success by Chavez in mediat­ing a humanitarian swap could expand his influence. The United States accuses Chavez of being a threat to democracy but many Latin Americans laud him for using Venezuela's oil wealth to help the region's poor. 
Uribe, a strong U.S. ally who has cordial ties with neighboring Venezuela, said he was not con­cerned Chavez would get the credit for any release of prison­ers. 
"I don't make those calcula­tions," he said. "What motivates me to make decisions -to sup­port the efforts of President Chavez -is the suffering of kid­nap victims, the grief of the fam­ilies." 
IRELAND 

Prime Minister .to remain in office 
Associated Press 
DUBLIN -Prime Minister Bertie Ahern narrowly defeated an attempt Wednesday to oust him from office because he took secret cash payments from busi­nessmen. 
Ahern faced his first-ever "no confidence" vote in parliament following his testimony this month to a corruption tribunal, which has unearthed payments to Ahern in the mid-1990s that exceed $140,000. 
After a bitter 3-hour debate, lawmakers in Ahern's three­party coalition voted to keep supporting him even though such payments break current ethics laws -and, according to opposition leaders, Ahern obstructed and told lies to the taxpayer-funded investigation. 
"The problem here is we don't believe you. I don't believe your story. I believe your story at the tribunal was a cock-and-bull story. And I think a lot of people in this country agree with me," Eamon Gilmore, leader of the opposition Labour Party, told a glum-faced Ahern. 
The no-confidence vote was the first in Ireland since 1992. 
Ahern, who has won populari­ty for a decade of peacemaking and growing prosperity, pre­vailed in an 81-76 vote straight down party lines, he faces fur­ther damaging months of testi­mony in the probe. 
In his speech opening the debate, Ahern sought to defend his taking money from wealthy friends and acquaintances on the grounds he was struggling financially in the wake of a mar­riage breakdown. 
The suspicious cash deposits into newly opened bank accounts belonging to him and his girlfriend "started within 30 days of the ending of my matri­monial proceedings," he said, referring to his court-ordered separation settlement. Divorce was not legalized in Ireland until 1997 and Ahern remains mar­ried. 
Opposition chiefs derided Ahern's bid for public sympathy, an expressed doubts that the money-taking happened in the circumstances he described to the three-judge tribunal. They noted that Ahern had initially claimed to be broke when friends began offering him cash unsolicited, but later admitted that he had the equivalent of $100,000 in his office safe in 1994 even before receiving any of the donations. 
Enda Kenny, leader of the opposition Fine Gael party, called Ahern's explanations for how he got the money "fairy tales.'' He asserted that Ahern's vaguely recalled events of friends offer­ing unsolicited money "never happened." 
Several speakers compared Ahern's money-taking to the sins of forn1er Prime Minister Charles Haughey, whose scandal­plagued career ended in 1992. Haughey, who died last year, was subsequently forced to admit he took $14 million from Ireland's business elite while in office. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, September 27, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
An inconvenient truth 
1~0. Box 77~. Notre Dame, IN 4fi556 014 Soud1 I lining I !all, Notre I lame, IN 46~% 
EDITOII IN CIIIEI' Maddi<· ffanna 

MANAGIN<; EIH lOR BliSIN~~\S MANAGEil K<·nl'owkr KylcWc.,t 
A\Sl: MANAGING EDITOR: Kyk Cassily AssT. MANA<aNG EIJITOII: M.~ry Kate Malone 
NEWS EIHTOII: Karen Lanf;ley 
VIEWI'OINT EIJITOII: Joey King 
Sl'<liiTS EDITOIIS: Chris Khorcy Chris I line ScENE Eurron: 'lac Andrews 
SAINT MAllY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GIIAI'IIICS EDITOII: Maddine Nics 
ADVEIITISING MANAGEII: Jessica Cortez 

AI> DESIGN MANAGEII: Kelly Gronli CONTROLU,R: 'l'im Sobolewski SYSTI\MS ADMINISTIIATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@lnd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-454 I obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6] I -4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
ViEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 vi<·wpoint.l @lnd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independcm, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du LK and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including adverrisem<·nts, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Obst"rver reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
Th,· nt·ws is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editvrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiet; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. ( :omlnmtarics, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily rhosc ofThc ()bscrv<·r. 
Vic'Wpoint space is available to all readers. The free c•xprc"ion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lcrre" to rh<· Ediror must be signed :md musr include contacl int{,rrnarinn. 
Qumiow rrf(ttrding Obstrllt'r polici~s should be dirrcud to h.litor in ChiefMruldie Httnna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

IJ., l lit .. '~·' (lJ\1'' .,,,,, ! "'IHXIJ•' p••hh,h.J Mundo~~ clm•ul(h l·r•,lo~\' c:~~ept dunn~ • •.1m .md V,J<,llluiii1-CIImk A -uh'llrlJlll<'ll It> !h,·llh~t:IVl'f 1~ $IOU lnt IIIII" ~t,ld<'llll< ,,,,r:sr,.,,,,,,mc:ow:n•.;\hl 
Ihe Uh,.,:r\<"1 i• pul>hWC<l 41 on ..,uuh lluuu~~: 11~1 '\l.,m· t l.um. IN ·16'l'i6 u-7·! 


1\•ruxh~o:.t!Jhl~t.t~C' p.ud .u Nuut [hmc ['l)f\uxn•J .md.uldtth>ll.ll ru<~illll};<•tlitr 011 SuutlLllimn~ ll.tll Nutf(' D.unc, IN <th'i..,h·lf'-·•• 
l ,,. Ol~1vrr i~ 11 mtmhfl "' 1hc .'\\.~K.!~tnll'rC~..•. Alltl')lllltiH~Iinn fll\lu • .IIC' , .............. 1 
In true Notre Dame form. I spnnt 
onn Saturday this summnr bnlting out 
tlw resilient melodies of Jon Bon Jovi. 
For once, though, I wasn't "Livin' on a 
Pray11r" during the 
throes of Catholk 
passion that are 
Morrissey Manor 
SYHs. No, I was 
singing along to 
Bon Jovi live from 
tlw very last row of 
Giants Stadium. 

Live Earth was a great show. I spnnt 10 epic hours of' my Saturday at the U.S. version of' the 24­hour concert series meant to promote environmental awareness. Global mega-concert events, though, arc bound to fail. Simply put, they don't take seriously enough the causes they supposedly promote. 
I'll remember the Live Earth concert for years to come. But I'll remember it for the "Live"-not the "Earth." I'll remember Bon Jovi and Hoger Waters. I'll remembm John Mayer, The Police and, yes, Kanye West all combining for a bring-down-the-house version or "Message in a Bottle" to which I'm still listening on repeat. 
Ultimately, though, the showman­ship of the concert overshadowed the cause. 
Case in point: Midway through the concert, AI Gore carne out to announce the "Seven Point pledge" ·he wanted the audience to make that day. It was easy to confirm your commit­ment to the pledge. All I had to do was text -yes, text -"SOS" to 82004. Standard text messaging rates apply. 
Like the loyal soldier I am, I prompt­ly texted the number. After all, I get 50 free texts a month. Two minutes later, Live Earth texted me back: 
"Thx, U have answered the call! U'll get wkly Live Earth news, artist sclwdules & green tips. More info at www.liveearth.org. Heply STOP 2 end." 


Ilow very hip or them. 
I can't remember six of the pledges. 
I do, however, rmnember that I 
pledgnd to "plant a tree." 
The text message pledge phenome­non -and the conc<H't in gnneral ­demonstratn a fundanwntal problnm with how so many causes try to sproad their message today. Tlwy try too hard to bo "in touch" with our generation. And, in doing so, thny couldn't bfl loss in touch. Think about it-pl0dging to a cause via text mes­sage? A cause that gets no more than an hour of publicity in ten hours of concort? By trying to integrate the political messages subtly into every­day college-y things like concert­going and text-messaging, the causes dumb down political dialogue to the point that it becomes useless and for­
gettable. 

It's the same notion that causes the Clinton campaign to think it's essential that Hillary has a MySpace profile that asks you to tell everyone "I am not only voting for Hillary, SHE'S MY FRIEND." Meanwhile, John McCain­yes, 71-year-old John McCain-has a Facebook account. Apparently, he really likes "24" and "Seinfeld." 
The political forees behind these causes are saying, "lley young people: look how cool we are -how well we speak your language·." They think we can only process political information if they dress it up in what they per­ceive as our language. Candidates with Facebooks. Cute txt 4 pledges. Political messages hidden in a ten ­hour rock-fest. It all serves to dumb down our political dialogue and, worse, it simply doesn't work. 
More revealing than the forgotten pledges was a walk around Giants Stadium post-concert. The ground was littered with Pepsi cans and the plastic from six-packs, notorious for its duck­killing abilities. Fans, probably still drunk or high, pulled out of the chaot­ic parking lots in their Hummers. 
By over-simplifying their messages for the sake of hipness, they promote a disconnect between excitement 
about an idea and action basPd on tlw 
idea. LivoEarth madn going gnH•n a 
fad. It oncouragnd young pnopln to 
think that environnwntalism is a 
worthwhiiH issuo. It may havo n'VPn 
creatod somn rnbollious sPII'-righl­
eousJwss. 
But tlw snlf'-rightnousnnss is, by and 
large, tomporary. And the pro-nnvi­
ronnwnt foelings and ox1:itonwnt arl' 
tom porary or, at least, ine!Tnctive. 
Thoy don't turn into action. When a 
cause hides itself' bohind a eoncnrl, 
text nwssage, or Faenbook account. it 
ean't nncourage fans to translate thoir 
support for the cause into political or 
personal change. 
Two ynars ago, thn world talked about another global concert for a cause -Live 8, the baby of the anti­poverty movement headlined by Bono. While the concert had some immedi­ate effect -debt relief pledgos within the first week-tho popularity of the causo has, by and largo, slippnd among our generation. Like any other fad, the movoment to rnlievn debt slowly faded, lost behind Tum and Katie's wedding and Paris and Nicole's on-again. off-again friendship. 
Livo Earth is bound to die the same slow death. We're still likely to see political chango towards the environ­ment, but it won't be traced back to the impact of tho concert. Change will happen when politicians realize the current system is unsustainable because the facts of global warming are undeniable. 
The pro-environment side will win because it has the most compelling argument with the most compelling information, not because Kanye West and Kelly Clarkson happen to agree. 
Andrew Nesi is a junior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. As a tribute to our best young kick returner, he believes the dining halls should begin serving "Golden Talers." lie can be reached at anesi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF News Sports OBSERVER POLL .Jpnn Mntz Chris Khorey 
What restaurant would you most
Hohan Anand Ellyn Michalak 
like to see on campus?
John Tierney Alex Barker Graphics Viewpoint 
Taeo Bell Chipotle
Matt lludson .Jordan Gamble 
Panda Exprnss Panora Bread 
Scene 

Wnndy's
(:assit~ Bnlak 

Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Realil!L is not .altoa!fS 
probable or ltkely. 
Jorge Luis Borges Argentine writer 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 27, 2007 page 13 
Saints show how to look beyond ourselves 
Amid the local and global interest in the beatification last week of Blessed Basil Moreau, C.S.C., I enjoyed period­ic moments that shook me out of my comfort zone and reminded me that not everyone lived on the "all Moreau. Kate Barrett all the time" track that many of us FaithPoint here on campus felt part of for a while. As my early-morning running partner and I made our way along one of our routes around campus, she asked me, "Who's the guy on all the blue signs?" I found myself trying to explain the story of Blessed Basil to her, a devout non-Catholic Christian. in a way that also made sense out of our church's unique tradition of naming people saints. 
Kennnth Woodward wrote in his highly acclaimed "Making Saints: How tho Church Deeidos Who Becomes a Saint. Who Dcwsn't and Why" that "A saint if> always someono through whom wo eateh a glimpso of what God is liko -and of what we are called to be. Only Cod 'makes' saints, of course. The ehurch merely identifies from time to timo a few of these for emulation. The ehureh then tolls the story." 
We've had a chance to look back and celebrate now for a while, to "catch a glimpse of what God is like" through Basil Moreau, to remember how Moreau fit into the French church and politics of his time, and how clearly the Congregation of Holy Cross, which he founded, has been in the very fab­ric of Notre Dame ever since he sent Father Sorin and his young helpers on their missionary journey. 
So, where do we go from hore? Surely we would do an injustice to Blessed Basil, and to our very under­standing of holiness, if we let all this fuss drop into mere memory until a final miraele boosts him up over the threshold into official sainthood. It seems to me our next step ought to at least inelude asking ourselves the question, "How can Moreau's example of holiness help us open our hearts to God's love and our lives to God's activi­ty here on earth?" 
Ironically, perhaps, we are surround­ed as students. faculty and staff with the temptation to believe that it's all about us: that through our hard work, our strength of character, our devo­tion, our generosity, we somehow cre­ate our holiness through our own efforts. After all, it works in the rest of our lives, right? We're here, right? As top students, scholars, teachers, administrators, we somehow "made it" to Notre Dame. Why shouldn't God rec­ognize our efforts in the same way, right? Wrong. 
And what a relief it is, actually, to be wrong. Saints offer us examples of people who, through whatever the cir­cumstances of their lives, appreciate and cooperate with God's faithful love. We certainly must work at being holy, but even our ability to do so is God's gift. The church recognizes saints as folks particularly adept at knowing that it's not all about them, but about God's love showing forth in their actions and lives. This quotation from Moreau himself seems perfect for bumping us out of our illusions that we should get all the credit or the glory for our successes: "If God has given me a mind. it is so that I may know him. If he has given me a heart free to love, it is so that I may attach myself to him ... If I am all that I am, it is only for him, and I must strive unceasingly towards him as my center." 
Maybe Moreau was inspired by the example of St. Vincent de Paul, whose feast day we celebrate today. Vincent lived in France also, about 220 years 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Irish language hardly dead 
As a student of the Irish language, I was quite disturbed after reading Puja Parikh's article: "Expert: Irish Language On Verge of Extinction" on Monday. I was not disturbed, however, by the apparent impending death of the Irish language, but rather by Parikh's grossly inaccurate summary of Professor 6 Tuathaigh's illuminating lecture. It seems as though Parikh completely missed the point of the lecture, which was not intended to be a dirge for the language, but rather an examination of its past, its present, and its future. . 
Additionally, Parikh took many of 6 Tuathaigh's comments out of context in a manner which skewed their place in the overall lecture. The outlook for the language is not nearly as bleak as Parikh made it seem. True, the language has experienced a decline, due in large part to the Anglicization of the country. But government efforts, Gaelscoileanna (irish-language schools) and Irish-language media such as TG4 and Raidi6 na Gaeltachta have com­bined to preserve the Irish language. 
I also take great issue with the statement given by Rachel Witty at the end of the arti­cle: "It seems very hard for the Irish to find a proper balance between preserving their culture and adapting to a modern way of life." Witty's comment implies that Irish is not a modern language, which is an erro­neous conclusion given the content of 6 Tuathaigh's lecture. It was stressed in the lecture, for example, that a degree in com­puter technology can be completed almost entirely in Irish with moderate ease. Indeed, the Irish language is used in many techno­logical and medical fields of study in Ireland. To suggest the language is archaic and has no place in modern Ireland is not only incor­rect, but also extremely offensive to the many educated Irish speakers in the country who use the language in their field. 
I would like to emphasize to readers of Parikh's article that, in my opinion, 6 Tuathaigh's wonderful lecture was seriously misinterpreted. The Irish language may indeed be experiencing a decline, but the outlook of its future is not hopeless, as Parikh suggests. 
Kelsey Robertson sophomore Regina Hall Sept. 26 

before Basil. He organized the wealthy of Paris to serve the poor, and worked zealously to ensure that clergy were well-educated and trained. He estab­lished charitable societies in every parish to serve the needs of the poor and sick at the local level, which today are known as Societies of St. Vincent de Paul. 
How will we, inspired by the example of Blessed Basil Moreau, change our world? This Sunday's gospel will tell the story of the rich man and Lazarus, who lay at the rich man's gate, starv­ing and covered with sores, while the rich man either didn't notice or chose to ignore him. We are undeniably over­flowing with abundance, as was the rich man. We have caught a glimpse of what God is like. We must not fail to respond in love, as Basil did, with lives of whole-heartod attention, gratitude, and service. 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Kate Barrett, director ofresources and 
special projects in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Council ignores serious city issues 
I've lived in South Bend since I was six years old, and I feel much safer here at Notre Dame than I do when I am in any other part of South Bend. 
During my senior year of high school, a 17 -year-old girl stabbed another girl to death because the two liked the same boy. My par­ents' house is in a fairly affiuent neighborhood, but I've witnessed multiple drug busts going on down the street. My high school friends joke about wearing bullet­proof vests to school because guns are such a common occur­rence. Thousands of animals are euthanized here every year because people don't care about their pets. People get murdered all the time. 
And while all of this is going on, people are debating and rewriting an ordinance designed to combat the "real problem" of life in South Bend: Student parties. 
I implore the Common Council to get some perspective and con­sider what they could accomplish if they stopped wasting time try­ing to curtail student partying and instead focused on the more seri­ous problems plaguing South Bend. If the raucous parties of college students are the worst things that the South Bend Police Department has to deal with, then I'd say we live in a pretty good town. Unfortunately, teen partying is the least of South Bend's prob­lems, and if the police are busy trying to break up student parties, there will be even less manpower to deal with the "actual" bad things that go on in South Bend. 
Irena Zajickova 
sophomore 
Lewis Hall 
Sept. 25 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 




THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Thursday, September 27, 2007 


most creative period right around the Billings, is the unwritten leader of some­itual tradition. By JAMES COSTA time of the American Hevolution. Tho thing totally unique, labeled "freak-folk." One of the underlying themes of Assistant Sc~ne Fdiwr man was quit<; ugly, crippled and a tanner Billings is seen most clearly in songs Banhart's record is an awareness and 
of leather by trade. Somehow, he got the such as Banhart's "Saved," when the reaction to the current Amnrican military 
In 17X!i. l>nv1mdra Banhart would have job as a "singing-other singers calibrate their upheaval -the national opinion of the been leading a Soutlwrn Tent Hevival school teacher." In voices around his. lie utilizes war in Iraq. Billings shares the samo type nHwting by singing saerod music to his the 18th century Banhart, like Billings, is the singing method of "lining of awareness in his own work, especially rongrngation. Obviously, the old mngrn­there were out" that dates to Billings' time in a song call11d "Chostnr." It was sort of
the unwritten leader of
gations an1 gorw and the world has singing-school and was very likely usPd by like a pop song about the American rhangPd. Ynt Banhart's "Smokey Holts teachers who something totally unique, Billings in his own instruction Hevolution. Throughout "Smokey" in both Down ThundPr Canyon" takns us back for lived in the eity labeled 'freak-folk. " of rural congn~gations. Back in the Spanish tracks and tho English tracks, a monu•nt to an agn still alive in musieal and travnled to Billings' day the idea of lining is recognition of divided national opinion traditions. but rhangPd. In the sways of farms to teach out and calibrating to the main towards the government and tho war. It Banhart.'s musk Pnwrges a modern day people how to sing hymns. People didn't voice was used to get in tune fiJI' p11rform­takes a few listens to catch hold of the William Billings, rPady to lead our voiees havn recordings, so the teachers were ing songs in genres such as the sacred sheer scope of eaeh song, but its well hark to pitrh. necessary. Without them most of the con­harp song style. Now it's just worth thn work. 
llen1's a quid history of William grngations would end up sounding lousy niee to listen to in Banhart's Ban hart's Billings. lin lived for !i3 years, with his in church on Sunday mornings. "Smokey." ehoi1:n of genre By CHRIS HINE 
Sc~nc Wrir~r 

Wlwn two sitcom superstars -Patricia I Ieaton ("Ewrybody Loves Haymond") and Kelsey Cramnwr ("Cheers." "Frasier") ­star in a nPw sitcom. expectations arn high. Unfort.unatPiy, tlw writing and supporting cast of "Bat'k to You" (Wednesdays, ~ p.m., FOX) litils to risP to tlu~ talent hwPI of iL'i two star'S. 
CramnH'r plays Chuck Darling, a woman­izing ant'horman whose career began in Pittsburgh and lt•d him to Los Angnlns. wherP hP W<L'i lin•d all.Pr an on-air outburst of his ber·anH' a hit on YouTuhn. Darling 
Back to You 
FOX Airing: Wednesday at 8 p.m. 
!Ieaton were on camera
Starring: Kelsey Grammer, Patricia 
alone together, infusing
Heaton, Fred Willard, Ty Burrell their own comedic styles into thnir chara:eters' prick­ly interaction. 
But there's more to 
"Back to You" than just 
newsroom comedy. 
Darling's return has more in store tilr him than 
Devendra Banhart Artist sings revolution 
mturns to PitL<>burgh and reunites with the lbisty Kelly Carr (Heaton), his fanner co-host, to ;.mehor the evening news at WUHG Y. 
Hyan Church (Josh Gad), a stressed, over­weight and profusely sweaty young man runs the newsroom filled with stereotypical, one-dimensional characters. Thnre's the office vixen, weathergirl Montana Diaz llnrrnra (Ayda Field). the pitiable loser, Gary Crnzyznwski (Ty Burrell) and the crazy sport<> guy, Marsh McGinley (the always hysterical Fred Willard of "Anchorman" and "Best In Show"). A<;ide from Willard, the supporting east adds absolutdy nothing to tim bland and trite material the writers give it. 
But "Baek to You" finds il<> heart in live-time Emmy winner Grammer and two-time Emmy winner !Ieaton. The 
pair have undeniable chemistry. The funniest and best pai'L<> of the show's first two episodns were the times Grammer and he thinks. Before he left, Darling and Carr had a drunken one-night stand. Nine months later, Carr had Darling's child and tried to phone Darling to tell him the news, but he rnti.Ised to answer her call. Tho pilot episode takes a turn to the dramatic when Darling finds out that Carr's child is actually his, but Carr refusns to let Darling have a plan~ in her daughter's life. 
Hight now, "Back to You" is rigg11d with problems. It devotes too much time trying to make the newsroom funny and not enough limn dnaling with the urgent problnm that exist.. bntween Carr and Darling. Maybn it should !ileus on the lattPr issue. 
c;nunmnr. playing a eharactnr lilr-rmnovnd from Frasinr Crane, still manages to make the most prPdictable faree funny with his facial reactions and tone of voice. llnaton played the unappreeiatnd Debra to pnrliw.­tion on "Haymond," and hern she plays thn independent Carr with the same voradty and energy. Even in the heavy storylinn involving Carr and Darling's daughtnr. I Ieaton and Grammer bring laughs. 
"Back to You" is nowhere near the quality of "Frasier," "Haymond" or othnr newsroom comedies such as "The Mary Tyler Moore Show." Christopher Lloyd and Stnvcn Levitan, the co-creators of "Back to You," who worked with Grammer on "Frasier," forgot one of the main lessons of "Moorn," "Fra<;ier," and "Raymond"-it takes li.Illy-
Photo courtesy of tv.yahoo.com Patricia Heaton, left, and Kelsey Grammer portray reunited news anchors. 
devnloped, wnll-cast supporting charaetnrs and well-written scripts to make a great show. "Back to You" h<L'i nonn of thnsn nln­ments, but Grammer and !Ieaton make it watchable. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Smokey Rolls Down Thunder Canyon 
Devendra Banhart Released by: Beggars XI Recording Recommended Tracks: Sea Horse, Saved, My Dearest Friend 

One ofthe underlying 
Banhart is like Billings In the 18th and 19th cen­and subjnct seem in musical output and turies, people mainly sang themes ofBanhart 's record to be a natural style. Billings wrote about spiritual topics. progression of
is an awareness and 
approximately 120 Banhart is inclined toward young culture
reaction to the current
hymns in a rather short spiritual topics as well, but and music, espe­period of time. Banhart is bneause it's 2007 and because American military cially folk and often criticized for being he is Devendra Banhart, upheaval -the national underground. too prolific and putting these topics are not as easily The tradition
opinion ofthe war in Iraq.
out albums with far morn identifiable as standard tunes that began with a than the typical 1 0 or 11 like "Wonder's Love" and eommon man songs. Also, Billings is "Jacob's Ladder." They are likn William credited with being one identifiable, however, in the album's Billings is fittingly being carried into of the first American jumping "Shabop Shalom." Here, the lis­today's turbulent world by Banhart, an composers to make an tener is treated to a thoroughly modern­extraordinary artist. American sound of ized and radicalized tune with its own music. Banhart, like complexities building off the original spir-Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 
in 'freak-folk' album 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE

PoiNT: CRANK THAT SouuA Bov 
To crank or not to crank, that is the question. 
Across eampus, students have been practicing their stnps, and freshmen havn bnnn teaching their HAs the dance known only as "Crank That (Soulja Tae Andrews Boy)," the latest dub eraze to sweep the Scene Editor nation. propelling Soulja Boy and his eponymous song to No. 1 on the Billboard Top 100 in mid-September. 
Every so often, a signatum dance . move comes along that defines an era. It all started back in the days of the Electric Slide and continues to manifest itself with songs such as Fat Joe's "Lean Back" a few years ago and more recent­ly, "Lean Wit It Hock Wit It" by Dem 
Franehise Boyz. And of My esteemed, if bad for her. eours11, how could we misguided colleague The Stupid Cupid is a forget last year's smash no-talent travesty of a 
Marcela Berrios 
single "We Fly I ligh" by dance, which requires
advocates in the column 
Jim Jones. The song neither timing nor invited us to join in opposite mine that we all coordination, and will ubiquitous cries of earn any prospective 
should do the Cupid 
"Ballin'!" accompanied dancer exactly zero
Shuffle in lieu ofthe
by a wrist-flicking points in street credi­motion mimicking a Soulja Boy. I feel bad for bility (and exactly zero basketball jump shot. phone numbers at the
her. 
cle" wrist motion combined with a side­to-side hopping motion like that of a boxing kangaroo. For a better and more complete understanding of the Soulja Boy, be sure to check out the instruction­al video, available on YouTube in which Soulja Boy himself walks any would-be cranker through the various steps of his signature dance. 
So as you find yourself panicking at Club Fever or at your next SYR, eschew the bump 'n grind in lieu of the latest dance. Instead of awkwardly stepping on toes and sweating all over your prospec­tive partner, do what feels natural and crank that Soulja Boy. 
My esteemed, if misguided colleague Marcela Berrios advocates in the eolumn opposite mine that we all should do the 
Cupid Shuffie in lieu of 
the Soulja Boy. I feel 
Contemporary hip­hop music invites us to engage in lots of shoulder dipping, timed finger snapping and synchronized step­ping. We've had people telling us to jump on it (Sugarhill Gang), jump around (!louse of Pain), pop, lock and drop it (lluey) and gyrate and contort our bodies into unimaginable shapes and positions. 
The Soulja Boy encompasses all of this and more. "Crank That" combines a lit­tle bit of Pverything, including the Yung Joe "It's Going Down" "rev the motorcy­end of the night). 
The people have spo­ken. The vox populi has made its pres­ence known, and its-song is the Soulja Boy. So as soon as the Caribbean-style drum strains and hard slamming beats of Soulja Boy kick in, you'll know what to do. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tan drew 1 @nd. edu 

"Crank That (Soulja Boy)" was the number one song in America last week. And people wonder what's wrong with the music industry today. At Notre Dame house parties, kids lose all control 
Marcela

when the song comes on. Their Berrios frenzied attempts to 
Scene Writer 

reproduce the Soulja Boy dance only confirm the fear that music listeners -like movie­goers, TV watchers and magazine read­ers -favor the absurd over anything that may have some substance. 
"LaiTy Taffy." Point made. 
In the meantime, more promising artists ~ such as Cupid -are relegat­ed. His dance single, "The Cupid Shuffle"-released in February­peaked at No. 66 on the Billboard charts, despite being a refreshingly playful track that blends traditional hip­hop and R&B with a flavor of country. 
"They say I'm a rapper and I say no," Cupid says in the song's first verse, in case the listener failed to notice his crossbred style. 
And with that, he takes the listener to the chorus -a set of four easy instruc­tions that have people line-dancing to a song that is charming both in the sim­plicity of its steps and the richness of its musical influences. 
To do the Cupid Shuffle, you go to the right, then go to the left. Now kick. Now walk it by yourself. It's as easy as one, two, three or simple as do-re-mi. 
But Tae Andrews will have you believe Soulja Boy's more challenging dance routine is superior to Cupid's four-step chorus, and that the populari­ty of "Crank That" across the country attests to this. A smart consumer, how­ever, knows that though Britney Spears 
page 15 

gets more coverage, Christina Aguilera is the brighter star. 
In a similar fashion, "Crank That" may enjoy more airplay than "The Cupid Shuffle" did in its time. That still doesn't mean Cupid's gospel-like vocals won't dwarf Soulja Boy's crude and insipid debut single any day of the week. 
But one should be forgiving toward the latter. He is, after all, a 17-year-old who thinks he's a thug because he strikes a Superman-in-midair pose while singing about what he plans to do to his critics' girlfriends. 
Children say the darnest things. 
So the next time "Soulja Boy" comes on at Club Fever, it may draw to the dance floor people eager to crank it like this schoolboy. That's fine. "Crank That" is catchy. The lyrics are so absurd they become irresistible. Those who initially resist it will likely give in eventually. 
It grows on you. like fungus. 
But let it be known that if what you seek is a song accompanied by an offi­cial choreography and an instructional video on YouTube, there are better choices out there than Soulja Boy. 
There are choices that let you keep some of your dignity on the dance floor. 
Seriously, that part in "Crank That" where you have to take three jumps to the side will make you look exactly like Ed (from "The Lion King") when he was trying to point out to the other hyenas that Simba and NaJa were getting away at the elephant graveyard. 
And no, Soulja Boy and Tae, I am not being a hater by saying that. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
'The Office' pren1ieres fourth season, opens nevv chapter 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
Last season, "The Office" left us with a whopping three cliffhangers. First, Jim leaves Karen in New York City to ask Pam out on a date. Second, Michael tells a breast-enhanced and recently-fired Jan that she can move into his condo. And third. Hyan gets the branch-supervising job at corporate and dumps Kelly on the spot. 
What a way to start a new season. 

Season four of "The Oflice" premieres tonight on NBC at 9 p.m. with "Fun Hun," the first of four hour-long episodes to start the StHLSOn. 
can go to NBC.com for brief clips of what "The Oflice" characters did this summer. Jim left Karen crying next to a fountain in New York, Pam fmally let her hair down and is now 30 percent more unpredictable, Ryan forgot his entire life in Scranton but thinks he dated a black girl, Angela went to the Pocono's with a gentleman friend, and Jan moved in and made Michael watch "Y Tu Mama Tambien." 
"The Office" steers each new season in a particular direction while staying on the cutting edge of comedy. In its first season, the show was just trying to find its legs. "The Office" broke out in il<> second season and found its comedic direction that was 
separate from the BBC origi­
"Fun Hun" nal. Season three remained
Tonight's episode follows the 
wraps up excellent and successfully some of last Dunder Mijfiin employees after took a huge risk focusing on season's loose a freak accident in the office two different branches. ends and Season four will focus not
prompts Michael to organize a 
answers a few only on further develop­
charity "fun run." 
of our burning ments in the relationships questions. between Jim and Pam and Tonight's episode follows the Dunder Miffiin Dwight and Angela, but also on the profes­employees after a freak accident in the sional struggles of Dunder Mifflin Scranton office prompts Michael to organize a chari­as new corporate boss Ryan tries to take ty "fun run." the company into the 21st century and into dreams in the season's second episode "Dunder Mifflin Infinity." 

To coincide with the show's launch of Dunder Mifflin Infinity, NBC.com is creating its own interactive Dunder Mifflin Infinity in which fans can join online branches, com­plete tasks and earn prizes and Schrute Bucks. "The Office" is taking its interaction vision. 
However, for now, the focus is on tonight's revelations. Enjoy the payoff, but first, here's a couple spoilers: Jim takes off his shirt, and Andy takes measures to pro­tect his nipples. Now wait just a few more hours. It's almost here. 
But even before tonight's episode, fans the online age. Ryan unveils his digital with fans to a level rarely reached on tele-Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
L___________________________________________________ _ 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 27, 2007 
MLB 

Bonds likely plays last game in Giants uniform 
Slugger misses 10 games due to injured toe; the 43-year-old home run king is still unsure of playing next season 
ent play for the last time."
Associated Press 

About a dozen fans waited 
SAN FHANCISCO -Barry outsido the player parking lot Bonds stepped in for what for a final chance at the slug­probably WPrn his final rounds ger's autograph. Inside the of batting practice in a <;iants ballpark, a large logo reading uniform Wednesday, cameras "BONDS 25" was painted on clicking at his IW<'ry move. the f'iold in blaek over Bonds' 
Somn of the San Dingo IPI't field spot. Padres even ramo out early to A sl'rios of video dips wenJ catch a glimpse -with man­sl'hedulnd to be shown during agnr Bud Black. a former the game as a tribute to No. teammate of t.lw San Francisco 25. Bonds was told last slugger. fWrdwd on tho front Thursday by owner Peter of the dugout rail. Magowan, who also watched 
IJonds disntssnd hitting with dosely as Bonds took his cuts, tnanunat.n Dave Holwrts out­ho would not be ro-signed for side tlw cag~' between rounds, a 16th s1mson with tho Giants. and hollnrPd to greet Blac:k, "I think there's a lot of sad­too. nnss." executive vice presid1mt 
After missing I 0 gamns Larry Banr said Wednesday. because of a sprainPd big right "Wh1m you stPp back from tho ton that is sadness, you worse than ehalfengn initially yourself to thought, think of any Bonds was in "The 15 years run deep other run ­thn starling 15 ynars in
j(Jr all of us. II e 's had a 
linnup and one dty.... It's
lot (dfun. we've had a
hatting in his a very simple r n g u I a r lot (d'.fim." two words, but clnanup spot thank you. Wednesday. The 15 years
Larry Baer
But lw isn't run deep for
executive vice president
s dwd u Io d to all of us. Ho's play this San Francisco Giants had a lot of wenknnd in fun, we've had Los Angt~lns. a lot of fun. "This will be He's had suc­the only ganw cess. We've I play in, yes," Bonds said. had success." So, this was it. The 1md of a On Tuesday night, fans 
the first inning of Wednesday's game. 
history-making era for the 43-called for Bonds with their year-old home run king, familiar chant of "Barry! also shook hands with fans league seasons in Pittsburgh. next season in the American seven-time NL MVP and 14-Barry!" lie never was avail­near the San Francisco dugout "I don't think he'd get League, the club might consid­time All-Star-in the very city able to pinch hit because of before he hit. cheered in L.A. when he came er signing him briefly so he where he used to bounce the tender toe, and Bonds had Bochy said his star player off the field in his last game," could retire as a Giant. around the clubhouse as his an MRI might only said team-Mays had late father, Bobby, and godfa­exam on it get one at-mate Rich to leave the ther, Hall of Farner Willie Wednesday. bat, and Aurilia, who Giants late Mays, got ready for games. The toe is probably no along with in his 
Manager Bruce Bochy took not broken. more than Bonds fell c a r e e r notice when he wrote Bonds "It's still "When you write his name three -all short against before into the lineup for the last swollen. I'm into the lineup for the final depending the wild-card ''I'm sure his fans will send retiring time, a special piece of paper serious. It's on his toe. Angels in the him offin a great way.,, with the
time, you realize what
set to go into safe keeping in still sore," B o n d s 2002 World New York 
you ,re doing. ,,
the Giants' archives. Bochy Bonds said broke Hank Series. "I Mets. The
Rich Aurllla
knows Bonds might not ever in a brief A a r o n 's think it's fit­Say lley Kid play again. too, despite the back-and­Bruce Bochy record with ting. I'm sure Giants shortstop was in the slugger insisting he wants to forth with his 756th the fans will clubhouse
Giants manager
suit up next year somewhere. the media home run in send him off for Bonds' 
"When you write his name at his lock-this very in a great farewell in into the lineup for the final er. "It is not ballpark on way." the water­time, you realize what you're broken. Aug. 7. And The large front ball-doing," Bochy said. "I know it's That's good. everyone banners commemorating park where he helped bring in a possibility (he's done). ... No more interviews. This seemed to think it was nice Bonds' home run record still 3 million fans in all eight years Talking to him, he wants to turned into an interview, God this is where Bonds would play hang from the light posts on of its existence. play some more. lie might forbid." his final game for an organiza-either side of the main center­"Whenever the retirement is, change his mind and we could Bonds was visited by Baer in lion he joined in 1993 after field scoreboard. we'll talk and see what he be seeing this tremendous tal-the clubhouse and the slugger spending his first seven big Baer said even if Bonds plays wants to do," Baer said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 

The charge is 5 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for comem without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
SCHOOL BUS SUBSTITUTE DRI­VER NEEDED. Responsible,LOST & FOUND dependable, safety conscious grad 
student sought to drive a school LOST: bus for a private south-side SB Light blue pencil school. Must be available when 
case that says needed (flexible) from 7 a.m. to "Le Petite Prince" on it. B:15 a.m., and 3:15p.m. to 4:30 Call or text p.m. Each trip pays $33. Need a Tara at Commercial Driver License -will 517-927-4193. train around your schedule and pay Awesome riverfront new construe-lion 12 min. to ND. 4 bdr,4bath,mar­ble,ceramics,h/w floors.Jacuzzi,deck,pier. 574-217­1557 Tatiana 
Brick ranch w/walkout LL,gourmet kitchen, vaulted ceilings. Park-like street. Close to ND. 
574-217·1557 Tatiana Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms. Walk to ND. 574-&76-7341. For Football weekends, call 574-532-1408. 
3 bdrm house. Walk to ND. Washer & dryer. $750/mo. Good neighbor­hood. Landlord does yard work. No Pets. No Section B. Call574-250·1266. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. If you or someone you care about ALL HOME GAMES. has been sexually assaulted, 574·232-0964. visit www. victorytickets.com http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 574-288-2726. MARKETING OPPORTUNITY 
Positions available in the marketing Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659. department of a nationally known SELLING sales and marketing company. NO-PURDUE TIX.574-289-8048. Hourly wage + bonuses for telemar­
for your COL training, but must keters and canvassers. have residency in Indiana. For appli-Call me for a list of properties near HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2008· Income potential to $25.00/hr or WANTED cation/interview call 574·291-4200. ND 09: 3-9 BEDROOM HOMES. PERSONAL more! 
574-217-1557 Tatiana CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Mr. Brown at STUDENT WORK PART TIME help needed for small Call Bill UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 574-522-0500 $12.75 base·appt. womens retail shop downtown 57 4-532-1896. not go it alone. If you or someone from 1:OOpm to 6:00pm Flexible schedules, South Bend. Approximately 1 0-15 FoR RENT you love needs confidential support ONLY no experience needed, hours a week. Must be able to work or assistance, please call Sr. Sue customer sales/service. Saturdays. Apply in person: LODGING FOR FOOTBALL TICKETS Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more conditions apply, Laura Lees, GAMES Visit www.amishcoun-information, visit our website at: Lessons in percussion, all ages 1 121 S. Michigan Street trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and WANTED-http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-drum set, timpani and mallets. 8+, Breakfast Accommodations. Non-NO FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE nant.shtml or see our bi-wee.kly ad For infonnation, 57 4-273-3835, smoking, Private Baths, Full HELP! in call www. workforstudents.com Breakfasts. 574-251-1570 THE OBSERVER. 574-272-3987.
FoR SALE 

OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 27, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE Onsr:RVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NCAA Women's Volleyball Coaches Poll 
team  record  previous  
1  Nebraska  10·0  1  
2  Stanford  12·0  2  
3  Penn State  10-2  3  
4  usc  12·0  4  
5  UCLA  12-1  5  
6  Florida  11-0  6  
7  Texas  6-3  7  
8  Washington  13·0  8  
9  Wisconsin  10·1  9  
10  California  10-2  11  
11  Michigan  13·1  10  
12  Minnesota  9-3  12  
13  Hawaii  10·3  13  
14  Duke  8-3  14  
15  San Diego  9-4  15  
16 17  Dayton Ohio  15·0 10·3  18 19  
18  Kansas State  11-3  16  
19  St. John's  17·2  21  
20  Cal Poly  8-6  20  
21  Oregon  12·2  24  
22  lSU  11-2  22  
23  BYU  8·4  17  
24  New Mexico State  11·3  25  
25  Oklahoma  11·2  NR  

NCAA Men's Soccer Coaches Poll 
team record previous 
1 Wake forest 6-0-0 1 2 NOTRE DAME 5-1-1 4 3 Northwestern 6-0-1 6 4 Virginia 5-1-1 3 5 UConn 7-1-0 2 6 Santa Clara 5·1·2 8 7 Duke 5·2·0 12 8 West Virginia 5-2-0 5 9 SMU 4-2-1 11 10 Michigan 7-0-1 14 11 Harvard 6-1-1 9 12 Virginia Tech 5-1-1 15 13 Creighton 3-1-2 7 14 Brown 6·0·1 21 15 Saint Louis 3-1-2 18 16 USF 6-1-2 17 17 UCLA 3-3-1 13 18 Maryland 3·3·1 16 19 Indiana 3-3-1 10 20 UCSB 3-2-2 20 21 Boston College 5-1-0 NR 22 California 4-2-1 24 23 Tulsa 5·2·0 NR 24 Washington 5·2·1 22 25 Furman 7·1·0 23 
MIAA Women's Soccer Standings 
team league overall 
Albion 1-0-1 7-1-2 SAINT MARY'S 1-0-1 5-1·3 Calvin 1-0·0 4·3·1 Hope 1·0·0 5·5·0 Alma 1-1-0 6·3·1 Kalamazoo 1+0 5·3·1 Adrian O·H 3·6·1 Tri-State 0·1·0 0·7·2 Olivet 0·2·0 5·4·1 
around the dial 
MLB 
Cubs at Marlins 
4:05 p.m., WGN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

RICHMOND, Va -A federal judge placed tighter restrictions on Michael Vick on Wednesday after the Atlanta Falcons quarter­back tested positive for marijuana. 
Because of the result, 
U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson placed special conditions on Vick's release, including restrict­ing him to his home between 10 p.m. and 6 
a.m. with electronic moni­toring and ordering him to submit to random drug testing. 
The urine sample was submitted Sept. 13, according to a document 
by a federal probation offi­cer that was filed in U.S. District Court on Wednesday. 
Vick, who has admitted bankrolling a dogfighting operation on property he owns in Surry County in his written federal plea, is scheduled for sentencing Dec. 10. He faces up to five years in prison. 
Because Vick violated the conditions of his release, Hudson could take that into consideration during sentencing, said Linda Malone, a criminal procedure expert and Marshall-Wythe Foundation professor of law at the College of William and Mary. 
"Every judge considers 
pretty seriously if they feel that the defendant has flaunted the conditions for release," Malone said. 
"It's certainly not a smart thing to do." 
On Tuesday, Vick also was indicted on state charges of beating or killing or causing dogs to fight other dogs and engaging in or promoting dogfighting. Each felony is punishable by up to five years in prison. 
The 27-year-old former Virginia Tech star was placed under pretrial release supervision by U.S. Magistrate Dennis Dohnal in July. The ~:estrictions included refraining from use or unlawful possession of narcotic drugs or other controlled substances. 
The random drug testing ordered Wednesday could include urine testing, the wearing of a sweat patch, a remote alcohol testing system or any form of pro­hibited substance screen­ing or testing. 
Hudson's order also requires Vick to partici­pate in inpatient or outpa­tient substance therapy and mental health coun­seling, if the pretrial serv­ices officer or supervising officer deem it appropri­. -­ate. Vick must pay for the treatment. 
Vick's attorney, Billy Martin, also represents Idaho Sen. Larry Craig, who pleaded guilty in an airport sex sting. 
IN BRIEF 

Record-breaking HR ball to 
be branded witli asterisk 
NEW YORK -The ball Barry Bonds hit for his record-breaking 756th home run will be branded with an asterisk and sent to the Baseball Hall of Fame. 
Fashion designer Marc Bcko, who bought the ball in an onlinn auction, set up a Web site for fans to vote on the ball's fate, and Wednesday announced the decision to brand it won out over the other options ­sending it to Cooperstown unblem­ished or launching it into space. 
Ecko said he believed the vote to brand the ball showed people thought "this was shrouded in a chapter of baseball history that was­n't necessarily the clearest it could be. " 
Ecko, whom Bonds called "an idiot" last week, had the winning bid Sept. 15 in the online auction for the ball that Bonds hit Aug. 7 to break Hank Aaron's record of 755 home runs. 
Rex Grossman benched in 
favor of Griese 
LAKE FOREST. Ill. -Brian Griese is in. Rex Grossman is out. 
Ynt, despite numbers indicating the Chicago Bears needed to make a change with their starting quarter­back,· when it finally happened the news jarred Grossman. 
lie used words like "surprised" and "frustration" to descriiHl his feelings when he learned Griese would be calling signals Sunday at Detroit. 
"The frustrating part is I know this offense is close to getting in a rhythm and clicking, and I just wish I could have been the one pulling the trigger," Grossman said Wednesday afternoon, hours after the Bears announced the change. 
At 1-2 and with the league's 30th­ranked offense, the defending NFC champions need to do something different. So they turned to Griese, a Pro Bowl pick with Denver in 2000. 
..... 

Struggling Cubs drop
anotfier to Tast place Marlins 
MIAMI -Panic, Cubs fans. The Cubs' grip on the NL Central ]pad became shaky Wednesday night, when they were shut out over the final 5.2 innings and lost for the second night in a row to the last­place Florida Marlins, 7-4. 
Chicago began the night with a two-game lead over second-place Milwaukee, which played St. Louis. The Cubs' magic number for clinching the division remained at four with four games left in the regular season. 
A two-out RBI single in the fifth inning by backup catcher Matt Treanor put the Marlins ahead to stay. Miguel Cabrera added a two­run homer. his 34th. 
In the wake of the Cubs' loss Tuesday, players patiently endured a fresh round of questions about the franchise's history of collapses. 
-=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, September 27, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
WoMEN's WoRLD CuP 
Coach plans new goalie strategy for semifinals 
Scurry will start in U.S. match against Brazil, replacing Solo, who hasn't allowed a goal in almost 300 minutes of play 

Associated Press 
HANGZHOU --Greg Ryan will be seen as a savvy strate­gist if it works. 
If it fails, he'll be blamed for benching goalkeeper Hope Solo --she hasn't yielded a goal in almost 300 minutes in the women's World Cup -­and switching 24 hours before the match to veteran Briana Scurry for Thursday's semifinal against Brazil. 
The U.S. coach surprised almost everyone on Wednesday, going with the 36-year-old Scurry because her quick reflexes could frus­trate the tricky, fast-paced Brazilians led by strikers Marta and Cristiane. 
Ryan shrugged off any criti­cism. 
"That's not important to me at all," he said. "From Day 1 I've just tried to make deci-

A bit ofIreland in your own backyard. 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nighb a week, too. 
(Water!Drd f..!>tates Lodge has hotel rooms atreasonable rates fur upcoming NDfuotball weekends.) 
sions that will help us win the next game." 
Unbeaten in 51 straight games, the No. 1-ranked United States is seeking its third World Cup title, but Brazil figures to be its tough­est test. A victory puts the 
U.S. squad into Sunday's final against defending champion Germany in Shanghai. Germany reached the final on Wednesday in Tianjin, over­whelming Norway 3-0. Germany defeated the Americans 3-0 in the World Cup semifinals four years ago. · 
Solo, 25, has been excellent defending crosses and high balls, but Ryan wants Scurry for her scrambling. 
"The way the Brazilians play in terms of creating off the dribble in the penalty box and making a goalkeeper make reaction-type saves, I think Bri is the best goal­keeper in the world in those situations," Ryan said. 
The move split opinions. 

Scurry is a longtime star. Her decisive penalty-kick save against China in the '99 final in the Hose Bowl capti­vated the nation. But this switch could be disruptive to a young, close-knit group. The game is expected to be tight, although the United States has lost only once to Brazil in 22 games. 
Ryan broke the news to Solo on Tuesday, but she sensed what was coming. 
"The moment I got tapped on the shoulder saying I need to meet with you, I had a pit in my stomach and I kriew what it was," said Solo, who's given up only two goals in four games -both against North Korea in a 2-2 opening draw. 
"I was very taken back, but that's the nature of sports and it happens," Solo said. "He has his reasons." 
Ryan said he talked with Scurry several months ago about playing in the World Cup if Brazil were the oppo­nent. 
"She (Solo) knew there were certain types of games that I felt like Bri would be the keeper," Ryan said. 
Asked if Solo would return in the final if the United States defeats Brazil, Ryan replied: "I don't know." 
Scurry acknowledged the move caught many off-guard. 
"I think some people might find it to be unusual, but I'm getting my opportunity now and I'm not really concerned about what has .happened in 
the past." Scurry caught Ryan's eye in practice: 
"I have been playing incred­ibly well," she said. "I kept myself in shape, kept myself on my toes and sharp. So he just decided it was going to be me." 
Former U.S. captain Julie Foudy, a soccer analyst on ESPN, was skeptical of the change after hearing Ryan explain it. 
"I think Bri will be fine, and the move will be fine," Foudy said. "But I just think it becomes a distraction when you're too focused on that rather than the game. To me it's a sign of worrying too niuch about the opponent." 
She couldn't recall a similar move in a high-profile tour­nament -men or women. 
"I just think sometimes you can overthink things," she said. "Maybe that was the case, but if he pulls it off maybe it's hailed as a great move. 
"I think Bri is fine. But it's more the team chemistry issue and how Hope rebounds ­if you want her, and the fact. that Bri hasn:t been playing that much." 
Hyan was asked if benching Solo, who has played 52 times internationally for the United States, would hurt her long­term confidence. 
"That's not our concern," Ryan said. "We came here trying to win a world champi­onship; put the players on the field that we thought could win each game." 
Scurry has played 163 times for the United State, but has been the No. 2 recently, and she hasn't played a full game in three months. 
She's been in goal in the last two games against Brazil: a 2-0 victory in June in New York, and the 2004 Olympic final, which the Americans won 2-1 in extra time. It was Scurry's goalkeeping that allowed the U.S. team. out­played in the game, to take the gold. 
"She'll be ready, wait and see," Ryan said. 

In Germany's 3-0 victory, an own-goal by Trine Honning just before halftime set Germany on its way, and it dominated the second half with goals from Kerstin Stegemann and Martina Mueller. Germamy has not been scored on in 529 min­utes, dating back to the 2003 tournament. That broke the record of 442 minutes in 1999 and 2003. 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 27, 2007 
NBA 

Thomas testifies in harassment trial 
Coach denies making degrading remarks about MSG coworker 
Associated J>ress 
NI\W YOIU\ -New York Knicks coach lsiah Thomas lns­lilied Wednnsday that he IHwer cursPd at a lin~d learn execu­live who has accusnd him of snxual harassment 
In his second day on the wit­ness stand at a trial in fmleral eourl in Manhattan, Thomas denied allngations in a $10 mil­lion lawsuit that he repnatedly addressed the plaintiff, Anucha Browne Sanders. as "bitch" and "ho" while they workod togetlwr at Madison Square Garden. 
Degrading a woman that way "is never OK," he told the jury of livn women and three nwn. "It is never appropriate." 
Thomas added, ''I've never eursnd at Anucha. I've cursed around Anucha." 

-
lin also calmly playnd down a videotaped deposition in which hn suggnstml he would be more troubl11<l hearing a white man 1:alling a black woman a "bitch" than if a black man said the sanw thing. 
"It's very offensivn for any man -black,, whitP, purple," lw said under questioning by one of his lawynrs. 
Thomas, 46, also contradict­
ed earlinr t11stimony by Browne 
Sandnrs that during a conver­

sation about season ticket hold­
nrs. he snapped: "Bitch, I don't 
give a (expletive) about these 
whitn people." 
Season tir.ket holders "are 
the. backbone of how we all 
make a living," he said. 
The jury was sent home early Wednesday after Thomas con­dudnd his testimony. Closing argum1mts at the trial, now in its third week, were set for Thursday. 
In Browne Sanders' suit, the 44-year-old . former Northwestern basketball star says she was dismissed in 2005 because she dared to accuse Thomas of routinely using vul­gar language in his first year and of later making unwanted sexual advances toward her. She seeks reinstatement to a job as vice president of market­ing, which paid as much as $260,000 annually. 
Thomas testified that in the two years he worked with Browne Sanders, their contact was infrequent -he estimated a total of three hours -and usually friendly and respectful. Sometimes they would greet nach other with hugs and kiss­es on the cheek, but there nothing romantic about it, he said. 
"She was a eo-worker, and that's the way I treated her," he said. 
Asked about an exchange with Browne Sanders following a Knieks game in 2005, Thomas smiled and asked, "Is that the 'No love' hug?" 


w~ When it's the @@[fo@~(ill[f@[fQO[pW prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1·yrJob In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 2, 2007. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end ofMay, 2008) an NO degree? No east-Asia experiera? For more infonnation, contact Mrs. Nancy O'Connor(nmee@nd.edu) 
SUb 
•Italian 

•Steak &CheeseChoose from •Ham &Cheese 
•
Chicken Club 

•
Veggie 

•
Pizza Melt



99 EACH Free Delivery On Campus 
Minimum Order $8.00 For Delivery 
Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas &charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 
~.2J~~v~~n~~~. 574·243•1122 
SERVING NOTRE DAME &ST. MARY'S 
OPEN FOR LUNCH DAILY 
Visit us on the Web at www.marco1.<0m C2007 Marco's Franchising, LLC 5642(1)ND·807 
Wri rts~" Contact
])is 
Cbris~t., 
§ports@nd.edu 


Thursday, September 27, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NHL 

Beloved Chicago hockey owner dies 

Wirtz passes away at 
age 77 after 41 years as 
Blackhawks president 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -William W. Wirtz was a philanthropist and family man who owned the Chicago Blackhawks through years of sweeping changes in the NHL and was chairman of the league's board of governors for nearly two decades. 
Amassing a fortune in real estate, liquor distribution, banking and other enterpris­es, he was also a tough bar­gainer, given the nickname "Dollar Bill" for his tightfisted approach to contracts for big­name players. 
Wirtz died Wednesday at age 77. The team's Web site said he lost a battle with can­cer in Evanston. 
Wirtz was remembered for both his contributions to the sport and charity and for his stubborn management style that included a refusal to tele­vise the team's horne games, infuriating fans, many of whom had stopped watching altogether the last several years. 
Wirtz's family purchased the team in 1954 and he became team president in 1966, a position he held for 41 years. 
Asked in a 2005 TV inter­view about his legacy, Wirtz said: 
"I have been remembered very nicely in the U.S. Hockey Hall of Fame and the National Hockey League Hall of Fame. So I don't need any more hon­ors than them. The only way I want to be remembered is not by the public, but just by my family and friends. That I put more back on this earth than I took out. That's my reputation and I'm gonna stick with it." 
Wirtz helped negotiate the merger of the NHL and the World Hockey Association in the late 1970's. 
"Bill Wirtz was a giant pres­ence in a giant city his beloved Chicago and an even greater presence in the National Hockey League," NHL commissioner Gary Bettrnan said in a statement. 
-::;.r­
"His 41 years as President of the Blackhawks and 18 years as Chairman of the Board leave an incomparable legacy of contributions to the game and to the League." 

-
~ . ,.,...;: Together with Chicago Bulls_.JL_ 
owner Jerry Reinsdorf, Wirtz backed the construction of the United Center, which replaced the Chicago Stadium, the longtime horne for Blackhawks. 

When Chicago Stadium was knocked down by the wreck­·-·::=· ...... • ing ball, Wirtz carne to the
Y~tzenqach 
parking lot, stood, watched and wept because the building had been a part of his family for so long. 


But the move across the street for the 1994-95 season has not been a transition of success for the once perennial playoff team -especially on the ice. 
There has been constant shuffling in coaches and gen­era! managers, but still the Blackhawks have not won a Stanley Cup championship since 1961 and have missed the playoffs eight times in the last nine seasons. Attendance last season was 12,700 in the 20,500-seat United Center. 
"In spite of the last decade, he was upbeat, and positive, and caring, the same way he was when we were success­ful," general manager Dale Tallon said Wednesday. "He never changed, and that tells you what kind of a man he was. I loved him like a father." 
At the United Center, the retired numbers of Bobby Hull, Stan Mikita, Tony Esposito, Glenn Hall and Denis Savard hang high above the ice. 
One of the NHL's greatest scorers, Hull left in 1972 and went to Winnipeg of the WHA for a big contract when the Blackhawks would not meet his salary demands. 
In recent years, Chicago lost such high-caliber players as Jeremy Roenick, Tony Arnonte, Ed Belfour and Chris Chelios. 
Many fans were livid by his refusal to televise homes games and there were anti­Wirtz Web sites. Wirtz once said horne games on TV weren't fair to fans who actu­ally went to the games. 
"He took a lot of heat here over the years. But people don't know him like I do. He's just a family guy, and he loves his players, and loves the peo­ple that work for him," said Savard, the Hall of Farner who is now the team's coach. 
Wirtz often said his goal was for the team to win another Stanley Cup, but he was not known to spend lav­ishly on players. 
That image changed some­what when the club signed goaltender Nikolai Khabibulin to a four-year, $27 million contract in 2005. 
"I think that was a great name, 'Dollar Bill.' But they forgot to put the 100,000 or million in front of it, because that's what he gave out," Mikita said Wednesday. "I can honestly say from my experi­ence, because of the hockey camp that I run, every year I got a nice check from him." 
Despite his reputation for paying close attention to the bottom line, Wirtz was known for his philanthropy. 
Since its establishment in 1993, Blackhawk Charities has donated millions of dol­lars to worthy causes in Chicago, including the Boys and Girls Clubs and the Amateur Hockey Association of Illinois. 
"We have lost a great owner and a great steward of the sport," said Boston Bruins owner Jeremy Jacobs, who is the chairman of the NHL Board of Govenors. 
"No one did more for hockf'y on both the professional and amateur levels than he did. He will always be remem­bered as a dedicated leader in the sport and for the legacy he has left in his community, especially his humanitarian efforts through his founda­tion." 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 27, 2007 
MLB-AL 
Dye's two-run homer leads White Sox to victory 
Yankees claim 15th victory in last 20 games to eli mi nate Tigers from the playoff race 
win. liP didn't give up much, Associated Press managPr Buddy Bell said. "Ill~ hung tlw breaking ball to 
CIIIC;\<;o-It's bt>l'n awhile DVP and the home run that since .Jon <;arlaiHI pitclwd his TiwmP hit looked like it was last shutout. so with a long rt>st thigh-high and over the middle coming. IH' took advantage or a or l.lw platP. Other than that, hn chance to lin ish oll a ganw. had somn innings whore lw was 
.lim Thonw hit his :iO:ith honw in a littiP bit or trouble but lw run and <;arland pitrlwd his first handled that pmtty good~" shutout. of tlw sPason as tlw Chirago WhitP Sox dPfPatPd tlw Yankees 12, Devil Rays 4 Ka 11 sas Citv Hov a Is :{ -0 o11 ChampagnP flowed . .Jon Torre Wmlrwsday flight. · rriPCI. Till' Nnw York Yanknns 
.Jprmaiiw DyP addPd a two-run whoopPd it up . lwnwr for thP \Vhitn Sox. who CPinbrating clinching wins movPd out of a tiP with the 1wvnr gPts old, nvnn wlwn Hoyals for last placP in tlw ;\L you've mad1~ thn postsnason for Central. I:{ snasons in a row. 
Garland (10-J:{l won for just Torrn shed tnars Wmlnnsday tlw snl~OJHl limP in 1 I starts. night al'tPr thn Yanknes dindwd allowing just thrPI' hits whiln at lnast a wild-card berth with a striking out two and walking victory ovnr tlw Tampa Bay two. Dnvil Bays that cappPd a como­
"I canw out in tlw eighth back from a huge early season inning and I saw him (managl'r dPfkit. Ozzi1~ Cuillnnl walking toward "Who knows? This could be nw in tlw dugout and I wasn't his last limn in." centnr lil~lder sum if lw was going to giv1~ it to .Johnny Damon. "We're hoping nw or not." (;arland said. "I did­not. You have to savor nvery n't know wlwm my i>iteh eount monwnt. 1\njoy it. The tnam we was. but in tlw sanw lm~ath. I havn now, where we came from. don't havn to piek up a baseball bning way back, we couldn't bn for thrnP months." happinr. We have a World Series 
liP retirnd his last nino battms to win. but this thing is really and improvPd to I (J-(J in his sptwial." 1~arnnr against tlw Hoyals. It was Elated owner George (;arland's sixth earnPr shutout Steinbrenner even got into the and lirst since /\ug. 24, 2006, ad, making a rare ballpark against Detroit. appearance. lin kickml ofT the 
(;arland. who has bonn the celebration whnn he moved to subjPct of' tradP rumors in tlw the front row of his private suite, past, didn't want to ponder if wlwre he could interact with this was his last start for the fans while the Yankens were Whitn Sox. building a big lead. 
";\t this momPnt, it's not even The victory, New York's 15th in my hands," said Garland. who in 20 games, eliminated deftmd­has pitdwd for the White Sox for ing ;\L champion Detroit from night seasons. "Tiwm is nothing postsnason contention and set I can do about it. I would like to up a probable first-round be back here." matchup with Cleveland, the 
;\f'tpr pitching night seorelnss Central champion. The Yankees innings on Sept. 20 against thn are three games behind Boston White Sox. Hoyals starter Zack with four games left, so New (;reinke gavP up a solo home York's stn~ak of nine consecutive run to Thonw in till' lirst inning /\1. East titles is likely to end. and was tagg1HI by Dye for a New York. just 21-29 before two-run honwr in thn fourth play on May 30, has gone 70-3X inning. sincn then. Players, from Derek 
It was Thonw's :Brd of' the .Inter and /\lex Hodriguez, to smtson and moved him to 22IH1 .Joba Chamberlain and Mariano on tlw all-limP list. passing Hivnra, hugged each other on EddiP Murray. Dye's homor was tlw field and in the dugout fol­his 2Xth of' tlw spason. lowing the final out. 
The only hits surrl'mlered by "This is what it was about. It Carland wPre basP hits by David was a lot of unselfishness," Dn.lesus. Mark Crudzielanek Torre said. "There wern a lot of and Mark Tealwn. guys who played through some 
Creinko (7-7), who was shuf­injuries, played through some lled betwnen tlw rotation and fatigue. /\nd, of course, /\lex ­thn hullpnn throughout the sea­wn sort of rallied around him." son, allowed thn~n runs and Thn Yankees have made the sovnn hits in live innings. lie had playoffs every year since 199:>, six striknouts and walknd two. and their streak of 13 consecu­
"I think he was good nnough tive trips is one shy of the reeord to win. lin gave us a chance to set by thn ;\tlanta Braves from 
THIS WEEK IN 
~ 
SUN, SEPT. 30TH ® 1PM VS. CINCINNATI 

1991-2005. They've made the postseason in all 12 seasons under Torre. 
''I'm elated," Steinbrenn!H said in a statement. "After a tough first half of tho season when everyone seemed to lose faith except for our players and our fans, the team has really stepped up and shown them­selves to be the champions that they are.... I really like the mix of veterans and younger players who have contributed to this comeback. It has been exciting to watch them play, eoalescn and pull together. The fans and I look forward to the team accom­plishing our ultimate goal ­bringing a world championship back to New York." 
The Los Angeles /\ngels already have clinched the AL West, so all four AL playoff teams were decided before any spot in the NL was clinched. 
Tigers 9, Twins 4 

A dreary, drizzle-filled sky provided a fitting backdrop for the Detroit Tigers on the night they were eliminated from the playofT race. 
Mike Hessman hit a home run and an HBI single to lnad Detroit to a rain-shortened victory over the Minnesota Twins on Wednesday night, a five-plus­inning win that came just too late. 
"It was kind of a weird end­ing," Tigers first basnman Sean Casey said. 
The defending American League champions needed help from Tampa Bay to maintain their remote chances of earning a postseason bid. But the New York Yanknes boat the Devil Hays 12-4 to guarantee Detroit would be relegated to watching the playoflk 
"We watched it in the begin­ning, but it was a blowout early." Casey said. 
The New York-Tampa Bay game ended just as crew chief Bruce Froemming came onto the field at Comeriea Park to dedare the game was over. 
Even before it was official, Tigers manager Jim Leyland was resigned to the fad that his ballclub had slim-to-none odds of getting a chance to defend the AL pennant. 
But Leyland was proud of the way the Tigers (X7-72) overcame a slew of injuries that started hitting them in spring training and kept providing setbacks the rest of the year. 
"We had a pretty good year, 15 over with three games left is not bad," Leyland said. "We went through a lot more than we did last year. But that's all part of the game, competition and pro­fessional sports." 
The Twins led 4-3 in the top of the fourth when rain delayed thn game for one hour and 18 min­utes. 
Detroit's shot at winning its 
homn final!~ improved when the gamn rc~sumed and Minnesota ace Johan Santana did not rnturn to the mound. 
"We wnrnn't going to takn any chances oncn it got to be 30 or 40 minutes," Twins manager Bon Gardm1hire said. "W1~ arnn't going to risk him getting hurt." 
That ended his stnmk of pitc:h­ing at lt~ast live innings in 123 straight starts dating to 2004. 
"It had to end sooner or later, but this isn't the way you would want," Santana said. "You just can't control the weather." 
In the last 50 years, just Curt Schilling ( 147) and David Conn 
(145) had longnr strnaks. 
Santana gave up three runs ­two earned -two hits and thrnP walks. lie struck out filllr, giving him an ;\L-best 235 in his final start of tlw season. 
Nick Blackburn replaced Santana and the Tigers took advantagn. 
Blackburn (0-1) gave up six runs -four earned -and seven hits in the fourth. 
"They just knocked the ball all over the place for that inning, and that ended up being enough with the rain again," Gardenhire said. 
On Blackburn's second pitch, Hessman started tho scoring barrage with a homer to left­eenter. Fivn Tigers followed with one-out hits, ending with Magglio Ordonez's HBI single that ended Blackburn's night. 

EARLY ARRIVING FANS WILL RECEIVE A LIGHT SWITCH COVERS!! 
COME MEET THE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM BEFORE THE GAMEl 
.------------------------------------------------------------, 
Thursday, September 27, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MLB-NL 
Marlins defeat Cubs for second straight night 
Brewers waste chance to cut deficit to one game by falling to Cardinals; Lohse's start earns Phillies a 5-2 win 
forearm, Gardner finished for 
Associated Press 
his second save in two chances. 
MIAMI -Alfonso Soriano dressed slowly. Aramis Ramirez Cardinals 7, Brewers 3 hunched over his postgame Time is running out on the meal. Mark DeRosa sprawled on Milwaukee Brewers. a couch. All focused on the TV The Brewers wasted a chance in the corner of the clubhouse, to cut their NL Central deficit to hoping for help. one game, giving up a first­
The Chicago Cubs need it. inning home run to Albert Their grip on the NL Central Pujols in a testy loss Wednesday became shaky Wednesday night, night to the St. Louis Cardinals when they were shut out over that saw two more hit batters the final 5 2-3 innings and lost and a pair of ejections. for the second night in a row to "We're in a situation where the last-place Florida Marlins, we no longer control our own 7-4. destiny, so we pretty much are 
There was good news an hour in a must-win every day," said later from Milwaukee, where St. Ryan Braun, who drove in all Louis beat the second-place three of Milwaukee's runs. Brewers 7-3. That left the Cubs' Chicago maintained a two­lead at two games and reduced game division lead with four to three their magic number for games to play despite a 7-4 loss clinching the division, with four at the Florida Marlins. games left in the regular sea­Milwaukee starts a season-end­son. ing four-game series Thursday 
But the Cubs acknowledged at home against San Diego. they're not making it easy. Thursday's scheduled starter, 
"Maybe we're pressing a little 21-year-old Yovani Gallardo, bit," said DeRosa, who commit­said that will be the most ted a throwing error in the important outing of his life. Marlins' three-run second "They're all important now," inning. ''I'd like to think we're he said. not playing tight, but maybe Reliever Brian Shouse, who something they've sorely lacked "It's a lot of fun," Lohse said. Lohse (9-12) allowed two runs there are some circumstances came in after Chicago's game down the stretch. Then "You have a lot of pressure, but and six hits, striking out five where we are. We have to real­had been decided, allowed three Washington helped them move you have to block it out." and becoming the first Phillies ize we're still in first place." inherited runner to score. closer to first place. The Phillies (86-72) haven't starter to go seven innings since 
A two-out RBI single in the "Any time you can see that Lohse became the first Phillies spent a day in first place all sea­Jamie Moyer on Sept. 14. fifth inning by backup catcher the Cubs already lost, the game starter to pitch seven innings in son, and were seven games "He pitched a heck of a game Matt Treanor put the Marlins was right there within our two weeks, and Philadelphia behind the Mets after losing to and took us exactly where we ahead to stay. Miguel Cabrera reach," Shouse said. "For this to moved within one game of NL Colorado on Sept. 12. One game needed to go," manager Charlie added a two-run homer, his happen, it was very disappoint­East-leading New York with a 5-is their closest margin since Manuel said. 34th. ing." 2 victory over the Atlanta opening day. Pinch-hitter Shane Victorino 
In the wake of Chicago's loss A night after Jeff Suppan Braves on Wednesday night. Philadelphia remained one hit a solo homer, Greg Dobbs Tuesday, players patiently threw a high, inside pitch at Several players gathered in game behind San Diego in the had a key two-run single and endured a fresh round of ques­Pujols, causing St. Louis manag­the clubhouse and ate their NL wild-card standings. The Philadelphia took advantage of tions about the franchise's his­er Tony La Russa and Brewers post-game meals while watch­Padres beat the San Francisco third baseman Chipper Jones' tory of collapses. They then manager Ned Yost to exchange ing the Nationals beat the Mets Giants 11-3. Colorado beat Los throwing error to score three failed to b_uild on an early lead heated words, there was more 9-6. The Phillies and Mets have Angeles 2-0 and remained tied unearned runs off Tim Hudson against Marlins rookie Daniel inside pitching. four games remaining. with Philadelphia. (16-10). Barone, who remained winless Both benches were warned in six starts but left with the about throwing at each other in score 4-all. the second inning after Brad 
"It was a bad ballgame from Thompson (8-6) plunked Prince us," Cubs manager Lou Piniella Fielder on the right shoulder said. "We've got to play better with a high fastball. Fielder got than that if we want to go for­up and stared at the Cardinals ward." dugout while plate umpire Tom 
Piniella delivered a brief club­Hallion walked him all the way house pep talk after the game. down to first before issuing his The message? warnings. 
"Relax and have fun," center "I was just trying to throw the fielder Jacque Jones said. "We ball in to him," Thompson said. control our own destiny. Just go "I wasn't trying to hit him." out and play." In the eighth, Pujols-was 
The series is reminiscent of plunked on the elbow by 2003, when Florida rallied from Brewers reliever Seth McClung, a three-games-to-one deficit who was ejected along with and beat the Cubs in the NL Yost. The Cardinals went on to championship series. One differ­score four runs with two outs. ence: The 2007 Marlins began . "It's not the first guy I've hit, the night tied with Pittsburgh not the first walk. Why do you for the league's worst record. think Tampa traded me?" 
"The Cubs are looking to roll McClung said. "It happens over us, and we're not letting sometimes with me. The ball them do it," said Lee Gardner, just gets out of my hand and 
What are you waiting for? 
who pitched the ninth. "They flies away." came in looking for a couple of La Russa was also diplomatic. easy wins, and we're not giving "That wasn't intentional," he in." said. "They were down by one 
Florida beat Chicago for the run. It's not a good time to do ninth game in a row over the that." past two seasons. That tied for Pujols' homer, which gave him the longest active streak 100 RBis for the seventh between two major league straight season, set an early clubs. tone. He maintained he wasn't 
"We haven't had success motivated by the previous against this team," Piniella said. night's events. "They've got our number. They "That wasn't even on my feel nice and comfortable mind.," he said. "I knew it against the Cubbies." slipped away from him." 
The announced crowd was Braun's RBI double put 19,051, with at least two-thirds Milwaukee ahead in the second, cheering for the Cubs. They but St. Louis went ahead to stay were mostly quietly in the late in the third when Ryan Ludwick innings because seven Florida doubled off Carlos Villanueva relievers combined for 5 1-3 (8-5) following an intentional scoreless innings. walk to Pujols. 

Matt Lindstrom (4-4) pitched a perfect seventh. With closer Phillies 5, Mets 2 Kevin Gregg nursing a sore Kyle Lohse gave the Phillies 


page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 27, 2007 
-----~------===================-==~.:=-===---~=========-=--==--=~-============::::-:--::==-==-======= 
fOOTBALL 
California, Oregon meet again in Tedford Bowl 
Associated Press 
BEHKELEY. Calif. -Brandon I Iampton has a grudging mspnct liJr thn Orngon studmll'> who pa1:k Autznn Stadium. 1wnn whilo he grits his tndh at tlw ineossant ynlling and tlw mPan jPnring ­and those confounded. nonstop durk mils. 
"Thos•~ stud!'nl'> arP just lwhind you. all tho tinw. right on your bark." thn Calilitrnia safety said. "Tiwy'rn gn~at. It's likn tlwy're almost on tlw siddirw with you." 
!Iampton didn't own know that tlw mal On•gon studPnt sodion is ovnr bohind tlw Ducks' own sid•~­lirw. noar tlw west ond zorw of that rnmarkahly boist!'rous linl<l. Thosn noisnmaknrs ht>hind thn vis­iting bnneh arP mostly just n~gular quacks -and t.lwy'll bn out in liwen Saturday litr a big dmptnr in orw of col!Pgn football's most umlnrratnd l'ivalrins. 
Wlwn No. (, Cal (4-0, 1-0 l'a!:­101 visil'> II th-rankPd On•g<m 14­0, 1-0), it's mon• than a eonfPr­onro showdown that will snt tlw narly toru• in tlw annual race to dnthrorw USC. 
It's anotlwr mPPting of two strik­ingly similar programs with intnr­l.wirwd historiPs, coarhing stall's and rnrruiting pools -and a l-2 record against nach otlwr sineP fornwr Omgon olli~nsiw coordina­tor .IPIT TP<Irord 11Pw away and wont south li w tlw r;tll. 
Though tlu•y'rp sPparatPd by :JOO miiPs, llw srhools fnnl a lot dosnr tog!'tlwr during football soason. II. starl'> with thn studnnl'i, sinee Oregon has sueh a sizable population of Northern Califilrnia kids -who eouldn 't get into Cal, the Bears' wiseaere fans say ­that some rail it the University of Caliliwnia at Eugene. 
And the programs' eonneetions arn even more labyrinthine. Ducks quarterback Dennis Dixon and receiver Cameron Colvin are East Bay natives, as is Oregon eoaeh Mikn Bnllotti, who also employed Cal del'ensive coordinator Bob Crngory bnl'orn he left with Tndford to revivn the Golden Boars' slumbPring program with strategies and managmnnnt skills honml in Eugene. 
For example. Tedford immedi­ately rmlnsigned tlw Bears' uni­forms when ho arrived in Berkeley. Last season, the Boars dPhutnd tlwir garish yellow jer­seys -just likn somnthing the fashion-forward Dueks would wnar -for their 45-24 win ovnr 
on~gon. 
Most of tho key players on both tPams were recruited by both schools. with Cal gradually dent­ing Bellotti's long-standing pipelinP to the East Bay's ridwst talnnt. Tndf(Jrd's biggnst coup was kPoping running back Marshawn Lynrh honw four yoars ago d1•spite a big push by On~gon. but many others got away. 
Tedford and BPilotti arn still per­fnrtly friendly, but both would lovn to gain a (.lndsivn Pd):{n in a rivalry that's fimtun~d two wins apiece for thP honw tPam since Tedford dPii1t:t.Pd in 2002 lthn schools did­n't play that yPar). All the play•~rs that Tndliml recruitod to Omgon fmally have left the sehool, making this meeting a bit loss personal ­but still just as tough in front of the erazy Autzen fans. 
"The erowd there is unbeliev­ably educated about when to be loud and when to calm down when they have the ball," Tedford said. "It's a very, very tough envi­ronment with the noise and eom­munieating. It was kind of dill'er­nnt my first year back there, to be on the other side." 
Tedford lost in his first two trips to Oregon with Cal, but both games wnre frenetie, high-scoring amlirs that went down to the final minute. The Bears haven't won at Autzen sinee 1987 -a fact that Oregon's fans won't hesitatn to cite for them on Saturday. 
"Twenty-year stn~aks have noth­ing do'with these guys," Tedford said. "Somn of them weren't even born 20 years ago, so it has noth­ing to do with them. It's about this Yf1ar. That's what counts. That's all that matters." 
Them's no shortage of motiva­tion this soason. however. Oregon eould bn jealous of thn national attention and higher ranking bestowed on Cal, while the Bears were surprised to hoar they're a point-spread underdog despite tlwir lofty poll spot. 
"We'rp not really worrying about it," Orngon lirwbacker Jerome Boyd said. "Wn'rn just worrying about oursnlvns. We likn tho fact that they'n~ coming to our stadium, and wn like the fact that IESPNI Gameday is coming, but who wouldn't like that, you know?" 


OPOUI •II-4~V JOHN !llll,l,i'1~1il5~ lLf! Al.l Rll>tiTa FtE!llAVI!ti. 
MLB 

Ulllpire out for relllainder of season 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK-Umpire Mike Winters was suspended by Major League Baseball for the remain­dnr of the regular season on Wednesday because of his con­frontation with San Diego's Milton Bradley last weekend. 
The Padres claimed Winters baited Bradley, who has a history of losing his temper. Bradley tore a knee ligament when his man­ager spun him to the ground while trying to keep him from going after the umpire during Sunday's 7-3 loss to Colorado in San Dingo. 
Winters was suspended because the eommissioner's otliee eonduded he had used a profani­ty aimed at Bradley, a baseball ollieial said, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity because the reason for the suspension was not announced. 
Padres manager Bud Blaek dedined to comment. 
"In this ease, I think it's best for my position to just stay away from it," he said by phone from San Frandsen, when~· the Padres were to finish a series against the (iiants on Wednesday night. 
The 48-year-old Winters became a major league umpire in 1990 and worked the World Sflries in 2002 and last year. 
Winters became the l'irst umpire suspended since 2003, when the commissioner's offiee announeed that Bruce Froemming and John Hirsehbeck each were receiving 10-day penalties. Froemming made an anti-Semitie slur about an umpir­ing administrator and baseball said Hirschbeek threatened a senior ollieial in the eommission­er's olliee. 

Bob Watson, baseball's vice president in charge of discipline, has not deeided whether to penalize Bradley, the eommis­sioner's office said. 
John llirschbeek, president of the World Umpires Association, dedined comment. 
"I want to wait until I have a chance to talk our attorneys in the morning," llirschbeck said. 
Bradley tore the anterior eruei­ate ligament in his right knee and will need surgery, which is expeeted to sideline him for at least six months. His injury was a blow to the Padres, who began Wednesday with a one-game lead over Colorado and Philadelphia in the NL wild-card raee. 
Trouble began when plate umpire Brian Hungn asked Bradley if he had llippnd his bat in the ump's direction after tak­ing a eallnd third strike that ended the fifth inning. Hunge indicated that Winters told him that Bradley had. 
The dispute escalated after Bradley singled, then asked Winters if he told Bung.~ he thn~w his bat. 
Pirst base coach Bobby Meacham and Black said Winters used profanity. Bradley eallnd it "the most unprofessional and most ridiculous thing I've ever seen." 


Thursday, September 27, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
-
Backs 
continued from page 28 
and [tight end-coach Bernie] Parmalee sends the rotations in with all the other substitu­tions." 
Haywood said the rotation allows each back to have a role even though one individ­ual may receive more carries than the rest of the group. 
"The other day, [fifth-year senior] Travis Thomas goes in on goal line. He runs a run and runs it in for a touchdown around the left side. How excited is he and he only probably played eight to ten snaps," Haywood said. 
"However, the other guys on the team are just as excited for him. [Sophomore] James Aldridge breaks down the left­hand sideline. All the guys on the sideline 
are excited for James Aldridge because they're buying into their roles and when guys buy 


into their Aldridge roles, you can improve as a team." 
Haywood, who previously coached at LSU and Texas, said the rotation system dif­fers from what he saw at those two schools. 

"There are different philoso­phies in every organization. We had a main back when we were at LSU; however we rotated backs in, and when one back got hot he stayed in and the other backs under­stand. At Texas, Cedric Benson carried 95 percent of the load," Haywood said. "Here, at the University of Notre Dame, we have the opportunity to have multiple guys that can do a lot of dif­ferent things. We have a cou­ple power backs that as you can see from the game we rotated those guys in various 
situations, and each one  of  
them had  some  success  in  
their own rights."  

Against Michigan State, Notre Dame's more physical running backs, Aldridge and Hughes, combined for 24 of Notre Dame's 35 rushing attempts. Haywood said the number of carries Hughes and Aldridge received is indicative of the direction Notre Dame is trying to go with its running game. 
"We're trying to play a little for a while, you get used to it bit more of a physical, down­and kind of know what the hill game and those guys are defenders are going to do so running the ball a little bit you get in some type of flow," better downhill at this time," Aldridge said. "But that also Haywood said. just comes from watching film 
Aldridge -ran for 103 yards and preparing off the field for while Hughes added 33 yards the game also." and a Aldridge ~ touch­said the rota­
down . "Once you're in the game for tion helps all 
Aldridge a while, you get used to it the running a n d backs main­
and kind ofknow what the 
Hughes tain that 
will likely defenders are going to do so rhythm while 
see signif­you get in some getting rest icant car­between car­
type offlow. " 
r i e s ries. against a "It gives Purdue James Aldridge you a chance 
team that Irish running back to kind of get allowed your legs 232 yards back for a rushing to Minnesota last couple plays, get your wind week. back," Aldridge said. "And 
Aldridge said he did not whenever ·your personnel is wear down after carrying the called again you get back out ball 18 times against there and get back right into Michigan State, and the car­the flow that you're in." ries allowed him to develop a rhythm running the ball. Contact Chris Hine at 
"Once you're in the game chine@nd.edu 
Media 
continued from page 28 
doing anything to actually-build it. You can point the finger at offen­sive line coach John Latina, but his lines at Ole Miss were consid­ered among the best-coached and toughest in the SEC." 
Weis took offense and answered Hansen's unrelated question at a news conference the next day with a quick retort and a jab at Hansen. 
"Well, would you like for me to answer this in the first person, second person or third person?" Weis asked. "Well, you probably have that answer. So we'll move on. Next question." 
The exchange was available for all to see via an on-line video, but the athletic department omitted the words from the "official" tran­script posted on-line. Associate Athletic Director John Heisler said Tuesday that Notre Dame routinely edits its transcripts, pro­vided by a third party, for clarity's sake when specific questions would not make sense for those reading. 

While official transcripts should include complete, uneditedquota­tions for honesty's sake -and to retain the legitimacy of the tran­script itself-there is a separate, important point raised by the exchange. 
Weis is either right or wrong; there's no need to ignore the con­flict of opinions. 
Such conflicts between coaches and media happen, and they are far from rare. Leaders in pres­sure-packed jobs get mad all the time. Sometimes their anger is justified; sometimes it's not. Always, however, it's entertain­ing. As a friend of mine said earli­er this week, people love you when you're human. Humans have a tendency to get mad, react stupidly and then repent. That's life. 
But there are also times when anger is justified. 
Oklahoma State coach Mike Gundy screamed at and belittled columnist Jenni Carlson Saturday for reporting that backup quar­terback Bobby Reid's mother was feeding the player chicken the previous week after the Cowboys' 41-23 loss to Troy. Carlson's argu­ment was that the episode was just the latest example of Reid being soft. 
"Does he have the fire in his belly?" the column read. "Or does he want to be coddled, babied, perhaps even fed chicken? 
"That scene in the parking lot last week had no bearing on the Cowboys changing quarterbacks, and yet, it said so much about Reid. A 21-year-old letting his mother feed him in public? Most college kids, much less college football players, would just as soon be seen running naked across campus." 
So Carlson made a claim -she attacked who Reid is, far deeper than only attacking his play. She intertwined the two, and Gundy was none too pleased. 
"That article had to have been written by a person that doesn't have a child and has never had a child that's had their heart bro­ken and come home upset," Gundy steamed at Carlson in the post-game news conference. " ... Here's all that kid did: He goes to class, he's respectful to the media, he's respectful to the pub­lic. 
"And he's not a professional 

athlete, and he doesn't deserve to 
be kicked when he's down." 
And then Gundy turned and 

attacked who Carlson is. 
"If you have a child some day, 

you'll understand how it feels, but 
you obviously don't have a child. I 
do," he screamed."... Ifyou want 
to go after an athlete, one of my 
athletes, you go after one who 
doesn't do the right things. You 
don't downgrade [denigrate] him 
because he does everything right 
and may not play as well on 
Saturday. And you let us make 
that decision. That's why I don't 
read the newspaper. Because it's 
garbage.... 
"Come after me. I'm a man, I'm 

forty. I'm not a kid. Write some­thing about me or our coaches. ·Don't write about a kid that does everything right, whose heart's ­
broken, and then say the coaches 
said he was scared. That ain't 
true." 
The fallout has been a national mocking of Gundy for his over­the-top response, but isn't that a bit self-serving? 
A writer communicates with printed words. When they ani vit­riolic and petty, should a coach, who communicates with the spo­ken word, be able to respond in kind? 
Ifwe extol the virtues of an unhindered freedom of speech, shouldn't we also support the freedom to mock, lambaste, ostracize and berate you for voic­ing an ignorant, intellectually dis­honest, mind-numbing and poorly argued opinion? 
When asked about what is acceptable criticism of athletes and coaches Wednesday, Weis tried to strip away the argument over journalism's ethics. He took a simpler approach to Gundy's response. 
"I know all the coaches of America will go, 'Yeah, yeah, yeah.' And the journalists of America will go, 'No, no no,"' Weis said. "But in reality, as a dad, that would really bother me.'' 
Weis was wrong for his reaction to Hansen's piece, but he's right here. 
Whether or not it's ethical to censor columnists or criticize the integrity of student-athletes, the words have an effect. But the debate over what is fair to print is just as important. 
The question is, are we ready to make an honest debate? 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 

Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 2 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay. lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone IS welcome and conhdenllahly" assured 

CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 

-page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 27, 2007 
In t.lwir opener, the Lions 7-() loss to Breen-Philips, was unable to lead an oiTen­junior Kelsey Young, the looknd very impressive on which dropped the Bulll'rogs sive scoring drive. tnam 's fren safety. I.ewis
Interhall 
continued from page 24 

(l dnfnnsivP struggln with Badin ..Junior captain and quartnrbal'k MPlissa Mnaghnr was thn sparkplug for the Ba lws o l'f'n nsn, scoring the only tou!'hdown of thn game. .I u n i or r n c td v n r Tara McCarron was a valuable 
Ill IHil b n r 0 f t IH~ 0 rrn n s n a s 
wnll, and tonight's outeomn will dnptHJd upon the dwm­istry of tlw two juniors. 
"Wn have really improved as a whole with each gamn, espeeially the ddensn, which is gntting a lot better." Mnaglwr said. "We arn going to win out and go 4-2, start­ing with a win Thursday night." 
Hanks 
continued from page 28 
having tlw gn~atesl l~ompeti­ti v e i m p ad i n llw U S Y S A National Championships that year and again when the Texans were the 2005 runner­up. 
"lflanksl played for a great youth dub, so slw's delinitely not. used lo lwing on the los­ing side," Irish 1~oach Handy Waldrum said. "This is a 11rst for lwr. likn most of our play­ers. " 
Arter graduating from the youth soccer ranks, flanks continued her winning ways at Notre Damn. As a fresh­Ill a n , s lw w o n t lw II e r m an n Trophy as the Division I national player of tlw year for tlw 22-:{-0 Irish squad that made tlw national quarterf'i­nals. 
"For nw. I knew il would br~ diiTkult. after winning the tro­phy," llanks said.''I'v1~ worked vt~ry hard." 
But neither double t!~ams nor a sophomore jinx slowed her down last. season as she won tlw Big East offensive player of tlw year award with 22 goals and 22 assists. The 
Irish f'inished  as  the national  
runner-up with  a  n~cord  of  
25-1-l.  

But thn team has struggled this snason, outplaying teams but randy getting the results they hope for. 
"This year has been frus­trating lweause we've outshot teams and outplayed thmn," flanks said. "We've just betm giving somn careless mistakes on tlu~ hack end and not fin­ishing up front." . 
II anks said that the LPam is not struggling beeausn of a laek of skill. 
"You shouldn't 1~ompare us to Ithn 2006 team I." said flanks. "But WI' havn plnnty of both sides of the ball. The tandnm of sophomore quar­tnrback Claire Connell and frnshman running· baek Neva Lundy ran and passed their way to 20 points. 

T lw n e x t we e k , h ownv e r, thny were blanked by a Lough Pangborn defense. To suc­ctwd, the young Lyons offense will have to bounce back from the shutout loss and rnkindle the explosive offense it showcased opening week­end. 
Badin vs. Lewis 
Lewis will battle Badin tonight at 9 on Riehle Field in a game between two teams with disappointing seasons so far. 
Badin is fresh oiT an intense 
to a record of 0-2-1. The Lnwis will look to senior Chicks are not faring any bet­captain Alexandra Persley to 
ter after losing  rally  the  
to  Welsh  Chicks  t.o  
Family 26-13, although they_ managed two  "We have really improved as a whole with  their first victory of the season.  
late  scores  to  each game, especially the  B  o  t  h  
make the final tally more respectable.  defense. We are going to win out and go 4-2 ... "  teams have had defen­sive prob­ 
Both  teams  lems in the  
are  lead  by  Melissa Meagher  past. Badin  
their seniors,  Breen-Phillips quarterback  seems  to  

but several of them have had tough seasons. 

Badin senior wide receiver Kristen Sobolewski did not make it into the end zone against Breen-Phillips, since her co-captain, junior quar­terback Katie Rose Hackney, 

bl~~ ~~,r playing a lot better than thiS. 
flanks, for one, has scored in eaeh of Notre Dame's last four contests and Waldrum said that she has played even better than she did in her two award-winning seasons. 
"llnr energy level is incredi­ble," said Waldrum. "The last few seasons she hasn't had to carry us but, this year, she's certainly elevated hnr game." 
While she has scored 56 goals in more than two colle­giate seasons, flanks and Waldrum both cited def1mse as the area in whieh she has improved most. 
"She's made big strides chasing and defending," Waldrum said. "Whnn every­
ing back, it's a huge lift for them. And Kerri has shown that commitment to fighting." 
The rest of the Irish will need to imitate that dogged attitude if they hope to play deep into the NCAA Tournament. For now, the team will focus on building on its 4-0 win over DePaul Friday in its Big East opener. 
"We've just been playing our hearts out lin practice]." Hanks said. "We're just look­ing at Friday I against Louisville] and trying to start picking up wins." 
LuckiJy for the Irish, their star forward has proved that she knows how to do just that. 
Contact Fran Tolan at 

have cured last season's defensive woes, holding both of its last two opponents to one touch­down each with the help of 
must do tlw samn, or it runs thn risk of' allowing llacknny to find Sobolnwski or junior Courtney Hains-two talent­t!d offensive thrnats. 
Likewise, Badin must kPnp sophomore quarterback Katherine Guarnieri from staging another of'f'nnsive onslaught likn slw did against Welsh Family in the seeond half. 
Both teams look to tonight's game to put thtHn back into the running for thn playoffs. 
Contact Eric Prister at 
eprister@nd.edu, Pat Stynes at 
pstynes@nd.edu and Anthony 
Conklin at aconklin@nd.edu. 



THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF 
, prnsents 


American Catholic .\ytudies Seminllr 
"Drawing the Line Between What Should, and 
What Should Not Be Told in American Catholic 
History-John Tracy Ellis and David Francis 
Sweeney's Life of.John Lanca.'iter Spllltling" 
C. Walker Gollar, Xavier University 
Thursday, Septemher 27, 2007 ./:30 p.m. JJ.JO Hanner Hall 
MCAT DAT i OAT PCAT 
Save S200! 
Enroll by September 30, 2007 and save $100 on MCAT, DAT, OAT and PCAT comprehensive courses. Plus, act now and beat the $100 October 1" 2007 price increase! 
Kaplan provides the most realistic practice for the computer-based MCAT. 
Enroll today to take advantage of this limited-time offer. 
Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back! 

TEST PREP AND 

1-800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com ADMISSIONS 
·T~st nsmes ~te thl:lrttgiS!effi<l lr$k'lenwub of ltle•r t'e:O.ptl\:tf\le !.lWflf#l !Mul!-1 er~rtJ!! 111 3n MCAT. DAT. OAT, (J( PCAT Cla!l:~mom Clas.aroorr• +5. Oniine Cr.)Ur!>tt, or 15-, 25-. or 35 hour Pnvate Tuknh~ IJfOijiQllt bl!-twaa•t.Si!:plamllt'f 1 8Pd SI!Ptamt.Jer 30 2007 Cai'IOOI be C<:~mbined Vlllh any omer ·Jffer, rebate, dl~ount Qr prQmQ!Hm tCoodtttoo:s and re:smctio'1s apply For comple\u g!.j!Uat~tee eiLglblil\t mqutrt:mrmts, v:sil k.1p1e11t comh!sg The Htgher Sr.orn GvarantM dot:!l not appl¥ to Knplan Ot\1' t.('!Ul"$ElS tnknn and completed,, Can:ada 

Thursday, September 27, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 ­
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 
HEY Pf\TE..L 

Yvu HEI'-R. ABOuT DR.. PARI'.MANS 
P,l f:r t:>12.EAK1H F:.ou(r!-17 
DEUCES MANOR 
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
Hf SAID WtfAT ?!' PATEL C-001.-l>N'T RESEAR.C.H HIS ASS WITH A $to MILLION 
FE..t>E.RAL G-RANT I 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

CROSSWORD 
Across 33 Wrinkly-skinned fruit
Union demand 36 Poem about 

6 2001 Oscar Paris, in part
nominee for the song "May It Be" 37 See 10-Across 

10 With 37-Across. 40 Kingdom theme of this 
41 "When I am puzzle dead and gone, 14 Monkey's _ remember to me ... ": 
15 Sugar source "Henry VI, Part I" 16 Some artwork 
42 Throws out 17 Super bargain 
44 Hieroglyphic 18 Reason to 
symbol for the renovate an 

ancient Egyptian opera house? 
"M" 20 One cauterizing 
45 Bud's bud a skin blemish? 

48 Salon supply 22 Prom wear 
49 Blesses 23 Prefix with 
51 Pantomime warrior 54 Narc operation 24 Night school on Amtrak? 

subj. 
57 Dropped "The 27 What flowers do, Simpsons" from in poetry 

the TV 28 Abbr. on a schedule? toothpaste box 
60 Florence's 31 Caballero Vecchio 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
61 Toni Morrison novel 62 Iris's place 63 Tee off 64 Wax remover 65 Rectify 66 Can't do without 
Down Hurry in the direction of 2 Make a stud payment 3 Climber's 
chopper 4 Ballot listing 5 Caught congers 6 Battle of the 
_,in the Spanish Civil War 
7 Nine, in Nantes 8 "_Have No Bananas" 9 War cry 1 0 Helvetica, for one 11 A dunker may 
grab it 12 Soccer cheer 13 Boulder hrs. 19 A household 
chore 21 Comical tribute 24 Sponsorship: 
Var. 25 Ruler toppled in 
1979 26 Bygone Ford 29 Bank contents 30 From the 
beginning 32 "Would ?" 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Alan Arbesfeld 
33 Racer 40 Brave opponent 54 Bring in Yarborough 
43 Slopes devotee 

55 Word with house 
34 Big bag of 45 Waiting area or Carolina 
groceries, e.g. 
46 Given the boot 
56 Slightly 35 Some 
47 Comes out with 
57 Atty.'s title 37Hot 
50 Work like a dog 58 Buff 

38 Marathon 52 Hearings airer terminus 
53 Steakhouse 59 Mid sixth-century 39 Dental work selection date 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NAVER 
I I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HASQU 

rJ I I
1 
BELBUB 

I I I tJ ~· 
www.jumble.com 

I I 
Print answer here: A " ( 
I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: NEWSY CRACK HARDLY SCORCH 
Yesterday's 
Answer: 

Why the con man planted trees in his back yard-IT WAS "SHADY" WORK 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Christina Milian, 26; Serena Williams, 26; Shawn Stockman, 35; James Caviezel, 39 
Happy Birthday: Don't make an impulsive move on hearsay. Be sure this year that you don't fall into a series of mistakes. Overspending, overindulging and overdoing are all in the stars if you aren't careful. Know your limitations, initiate discipline and you will come out on top. Your numbers are 3, 16, 24, 35, 40, 47 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Take another look at your location, your personal life and future possibilities. An opportunity to advance by picking up some addi­tional skills orinformation is prevalent. Romance is in the stars so put some time aside to have fun. 3 stars TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Don't be so sure that everyone is on your side. Protect information regarding your plans or a financial secret. Take a serious ap­proach and prepare to make your moves when least expected. The element of sur­prise will help you get ahead. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You should get involved in any organization that can make a difference to your community, environment or lifestyle. Be a forerun­ner not a passive onlooker and you will open up avenues to a better position, a proposal or even a new friendship. 4 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let your emotions push you in the wrong di­rection. Getting angry or upset about what others are doing will not get you what you want. Observe and make a subtle strategic move. 2 stars LEO (July 23-Ang. 22): Put more effort into yourself and your ideas. Love is on the rise and a chance to impress someone is in the stars but don't let it leave you cash poor. You can make headway by being imaginative. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Look long and hard at the way you've been living. If you are in turmoil or feel anxious, consider what or who is causing you grief. Only you can make the necessary changes. Take control. 3 stars LIBRA (SepL 23-0ct. 22): Love, travel, adventure are all in the stars. You can talk your way in and out of anything today, so don't hesitate to push your ideas. Someone unusual will take you seriously and help you. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Look for something or someone unique with whom to fulfill your dreams. You have great ideas and the need to build some­thing solid and profitable. Your dedication and your ability to adapt to change will pay off. Use your talent. 5 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make a few changes at home and it will make all the difference in the world to your emotional well-being. Focus on love, your personal life and your surroundings. All can be enhanced with a little tweak­ing on your part. 5 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone will probably oppose you for emo­tional reasons. Keep your ideas and thoughts to yourself and proceed in secret if you want to make a profit. It's interference that will hold you back or cause you to miss out on a deal. 2 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll understand your feelings and what you want to do in the future. Don't be afraid to make a promise. Doing something a little different will prove to others that you have a handle on things and are ca­pable of so much more. 4 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love, travel and getting away from home and the drudgery you deal with day to day will do you some good. Make plans with someone special or take time out to pamper yourself. This is a great day to re­evaluate, double-check your motives and pnt plans on paper. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are aggressive, determined to get your way and impulsive. You have a passion to discover and try new things. You are unpredictable, whim­sical and entertaining. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 


WHAT A L-ONDONE:R U5E:5 FOR A "L-INE=." 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

~----------------------------------------------­
-
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, September 27, 2007 page 28 
FOOTBALL 

Running to daylight 
NO tailbacks rotate for improved yardage 
in rushing at tack 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Ediror 

Notre I>ame gainnd 117 yards on tho ground Saturday against Michigan State by employing a situational rota­tion of running backs -and this week, offensive coordi­nator Michanl Haywood said to expect morn of the same against Purdue. 
llaywood said the rotation calls for different backs to come in during situations that would maximize their strengths in the running game. 
"All of thosn dP.cisions arfl rnadP. prior to the ganw. WP. get into a situation and their rotation is alrP.ady set," Haywood said. "In the gamfl thn other day, there was a big run, and undP.rstanding the individual who made the big run, I just turnml to the side­line and said. "33 !freshman l!obert llughnsl. you're in.' The rotation is already set 
see BACKS/page 25 


FooTBALL 
COMMENTARY 
Coaches argue vvith press corps 
Should tearns be able to regulate coverage? 
Charlie Wcis had a bit of a moment last week. 
Eric llansm of the South Bend Tribune wrote a lengthy "analy­sis" in last 
Thursday's paper, which asked the reader to imagine he were Charlie Weis and explornd what Weis 

was think- Ken Fowler  
ing going into the Miehigan  ,<iports Writer  
State game. In reality,  

it was a column -which is fine. Its toughest words went like this: "You talked a good game about nasty, but until now you weren't 
see MEDWpage 25 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Undefeated Welsh Fatn and PW tneet at Riehle 
Breen-Pizillips looks for 2nd straight win; Badin takes on Lewis 
By ERIC PRISTER, 
PAT STYNES and 
ANTHONY CONKLIN 
Sport' Wrirrrs 
Pasquerilla West vs. Welsh Family 
Two undnl"eatPd teams nwet tonight at S on Hiehle Field as PasquPrilla West takes on WPish Family. 
Thfl last timn tlw two teams nwl. in last Y!~ar's somifinal. the Purpln Weasels d!d"eatnd thn Whirlwinds. 
Wnlsh J."arnily, though, is trying not to think about tho past. 
"We remember that PW ended our sP.ason last year, but wo'rn morn concerned with this year's playoffs rather than with what hap­ponod last year," Welsh Family sonior captain Kelly Bushnlle said. 
Both teams have P.xperi­encnd great offensive success so far this season, outscoring their opponents by a com­binnd Sl points in f'ive games. 
"Our oiTense has been suc­cessful because of the combi­nation of good coaching and 
thn chemistry we havo on offense this year." Bushelle said. "I think our dnfense dnsnrvns cn1dit too for eon­sistnntly giving us grP.at field position to work with." 
Whirlwinds junior quarter­back .Jenni Gargula, who has scored 12 touchdowns in throe games, and Pasq uerilla Wnst's Grace Orians, with seven touchdowns of her own, load their respective oiTmlSOS. 
Bushelle called tonight's matehup "the toughest regu­lar season game we play this year. 
l'asquerilla West captain Tina Martinek could not be roaclwd for comment. 
Breen-Phillips vs. Lyons Trying to keep its momen­tum going, Bn1en-Phillips (1­
2) takes on reeling Lyons (1­
1) ·t o n i g h t at 7 o n Hi e h I e Finld. 
Breon-Phillips had a rough start to the season, losing to defending champions Pasquerilla West :B-18. Lyons started off with a strong 20-6 win over Badin but was shut out by Pangborn 16-0 last Sunday. 
Last weekend. however, the Babes improved significantly, nabbing their first win in a 7­
see INTERHALL/page 26 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Hanks not used to losing 
Irish forward determined to get squad back to winning ways 
By FRAN TOLAN Sporrs Wrircr 

In the first game of her 
collegiate career, Knrri 
flanks racked up three 
goals and an assist in an 
11-1 win over Nnw 
IIam pshire. 

For most of her freshman 
and sophomore seasons, 
Hanks and the Irish contin­
ued rolling over opponents 
in a similar fashion. 

This year has not been so 
easy for Hanks and her 
teammates. Despite notch­
ing six goals in her team's 
f'irst eight games, the jun­
ior has lost as many games 
this season as she had in 
her f'irst two seasons com­
bined. 

The Irish stand at 3-4-1 as they begin the meaty part of their Big East .schedule Friday at 
Louisville. 

"It is hard for me 
because I've never been on 
a team with a losing record 
bnl'ore," Hanks said. 

Before arriving at Notre 
Dame, llanks starred for 
the Dallas Texans, the 
2003 United States Youth 
Soccer Association national 
champion. Hanks received 
the Golden Boot Award for 
see HANKS/page 26 





