
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 17 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19,2007 
Officials review staffsurvey results 
'NO Voice' poll reveals proud faculty, staff 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
The three highest-ranking Notre Dame officials addressed faculty and staff members Tuesday in an effort to inform them and gather feedback about the University's direetion, devel­opments in research initia­tives and employee satisfac­tion -a tradition that began last year to build up a syner­gistic relationship between the top administration and the rest of the staff. 
University President Father John Jenkins, Provost Thomas Burish and Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves spoke at the town hall-style meeting, which will be held again today from 2 p.m. to 3:30. 
Burish introduced the three-man panel and thanked the University's employees for their hard work, saying their efforts are not over­looked or taken for granted, before giving Jenkins the floor. 
Later in the meeting, Affleck-Graves furthered Burish's initial thought, speaking about the impor­tance of getting feedback from the staff and faculty to improve Notre Dame in mul­tiple facets. He talked about 
see FEEDBACK/page 6 

A&L leaders promote doctoral studies 
Jenkins' speech to faculty addressed low levels ofundergrads who go on for advanced degrees 
By JOSEPH McMAHON News Writer 
Notre Dame has launched several programs to help encourage students get on the path to a Ph.D. -a goal expressed by University President Father John Jenkins during his speech to the faculty last week in which he expressed concern over the percentage of undergraduates going on to earn advanced degrees. 
"Each department is trying to make students aware earlier of the option of graduate school," said Gretchen Reydams-Schils, associate dean for research, graduate studies, and centers at the College of Arts and Letters. "We are trying to get students, even freshmen, to think about Ph.Ds." 
In his speech, Jenkins said only five percent of Notre Dame undergraduates between 1995 and 2004 earned a Ph.D. The number is low in comparison to institutions like Harvard, Rice and Princeton -and very low compared to leading liberal arts schools like Harvey Mudd and Swarthmore -Jenkins said in his address to the faculty. 
"Earning a Ph.D. is a road to leadership, and we must do a better job of sending our stu­dents to Ph.D. programs," Jenkins said. "That five percent number must rise." 
Reydams-Schils said the first step toward increasing the number is creating interest among the undergraduates through connections with the University's own graduate stu­dents. 
"We want graduate students to act as intermediaries, to be role models for the undergrad­uates, to demonstrate that this option of graduate school is open," Reydams-Schils said. "We are constantly trying to improve the quality of our grad­uate institutions. That being said, [graduate] students will be an additional mentoring resource, and they will never 
Arts and Letters Assistant Dean Vicki Toumayan said a commitment from the faculty and graduate students to the undergraduates is line with the University's mission and its sense of community. 
"The academic departments should be supportive and iden­tify and approach students, even freshmen, who are talent­ed and may be interested in Ph.D. programs," Toumayan said. "It is part of our Catholic mission to prepare students to become educators and profes­sors. There is a service aspect." 
Toumayan said there are other reasons why the number 
take the place of professors." see DEGREES/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Filnunaker: border life critne-filled 
Noted producer says factories exploit women 
By AMANDA JOHNSON News Writer 
Film and television producer Barbara Martinez Jitner stressed Tuesday the dangers female fac­tory workers face in their jobs and on the streets in cities along the Mexican­
American border. 
Martinez Jitner spoke to an audi­ence in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium 


in a speech Martinez Jitner titled "Femicide at our U.S. Border: To be a Woman in Juarez is a Death Sentence." The Multicultural Student Programs and Services and the Gender Relations Center brought Martinez Jitner, the first Latina ever nominated for a Golden Globe and an Emmy -for her work on the PBS series "American Family" -to speak of her research in Juarez, Mexico. She began working with Amnesty International in 2000 after spending time studying the effects of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) on the lives of the Mexican people. NAFTA, signed in December 1992, allows free trade between 
U.S. and Mexico. Analysts have 
see BORDER/page 8 


Cantpus, Taco Bell to support Irish 
Fast-food chain gives 
Weis 'Nacho Day' award for team's struggles 
By CHRIS KHOREY News Writer 
Despite three straight blowout losses to begin the season, coaches putting them through four-hour full-pads practices and ESPN mocking them at every turn, Notre Dame Football players still have support -from two very different sources. 
Leaders of The Shirt Project 2007 and student body President Liz Brown are organizing a "green-out" of campus on Thursday, while local Taco Bells will distribute free nachos on Sunday, both in an attempt to gal­vanize the Irish. 
see SUPPORT/page 4 


Student govern1nent launches Web page 
Goal is to make administration accessible 
By KATIE PERALTA News Writer 
Notre Dame student gov­ernment launched a new Web site Sunday in an effort to facilitate commu­nication with students. 
Chief executive assistant Sheena Plamoottil pro­duced most of the material on the new site, which she began planning in the spring when Liz Brown and Maris Braun took over as student body president and vice president. 
Plamoottil said building a new Web site was long overdue. 
The previous student gov­ernment home page alien­ated users, she said, since it was "not updated at all, and sort of archaic." 

"One of the hallmarks of this new administration is to be more accessible to students, " Plamoottil said. 
The actual construction of the site began when Plamoottil and Braun con­tacted junior Adam Lusch, a computer science engi­neering major, to help them design and build the Web pages. 
"Initially when we were planning it, the Webmaster did not come through," Plamoottil said. "We found 
see WEB/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
On Sparta and Spartans 
This weekend. tJw Mid1igan State Football 
tnmn arrives in Sout11 Bend during Notrn 
Damn's darkest hour: They call t11mnsdvns 
Spartans. but w; <myone who has seen t11e 
critkally-m:da.inwd hit film ":mo" <<m tell you, 
tlwy are not t11n n~al dmtl. 
No, unlikn tlln f.,>TPen ;u1d whitn doppnl­
gangers fhnn tJu~ nort11. tJw mal Spart<u1s 
worn a b<md of' brave 
soldinrs, led by ddim1t Tae Andrews 
King I,eonidw;, who 
weat11nred m1 Scene Editor 
onslaught fhnn thou-
SiUlds of' invading 
Persians sornn timn in ;mc:innt history. 
In light of' tJm lri<>h's rnmnt stmggles, ilion~ 
m·n numy lnssons we c<mluarn from brave 
IA~onid<L'> m1d tJw intrepid :mO. In light of'tJ1n 
t.c~am sum~ring tllren eonseeutivn blowout 
losses, tJmn~·s tlle possibility tJmt we, Notre 
D;mw student<>. could losn lhitll. That t11e 
Notre Dmne Victory Mm·eh could inst.c~ad turn 
int.c1 a pity parade. 
Wn'rn made of' stern<~r st.c>ek tll<m tJmt. 
I hav<~ never ldt a home g<mw narly. and I 
don't plan on it. Just a<> Sparum King 
IA~<mid<L'> rdiJsPd 1.<1 kneel 1.<1 tlw invading 
Xerxes, we should weatJwr tlln bad <L'> we 
would dwer tJJP good: st<mding wit11 unbnnt 
kll(~n. proud and t<tll. 
We're known <L'> t11e Fighting Irish. not tJw Sitting Down Irish or tJm IA)aving Early Irish. 
Even st<tring dnat11 in tJw eye, IA~onid<L<> rdusml 1.<1 show fi~ar~ inst.c~ad shouting 1.<1 hi<> soldiers, "Sparums! Prnparn f(w glory." 
IA~t thi<> serve 1L'> a lesson 1.<1 us all. Don't 
think of' it <L'> losing; t11ink of it <L'> prep;u·ing f(ll' 
glory. 
Besides, think of't11is snm;on's mmpntitive l}(tlmm~: inst.cmd of' our typk<tl blowouts of' certain t.c~arns. WI' could have some row nail­bit.clrs. <lur ;umwtlmat.c:hup witJ1 Navy could turn out 1.<1 bn a n~gular barn bumm~ a high­odarw wnu1gln wit11 only pridn and tlln dnsim not 1.<1 lose 1.<1 a SPrvice at:<uJemy on tllnline. 
Likewise, ND-Duke could wind up <L'i a sdn­t.illating battle f(•r the ages. The point i<>, no rnakhup will bt~ btning, nspedWJy come tlle end oft11n sea..'ion. when we get int.<l tJm ea'iier (and more winnablP) part oftJm schedule. 
I pl<m on buming a r.ouch should we defeat Duke tlli'> yf~ar. Liknwise, should we end up knocking ofl' Navy and maintaining the nation's longe~i winning streak, watch out St.cmnhnnge-btlt<lu.<;e I'm eoming through, potnntia.lly sans ~wim trunk..<;. 
Perhaps tlle oflen'>ive line would do well to watch "300" and note tlle part where the impenetrable Sparum pha.lanx repel'> the enemy appro;u~h with shout'> of"pu.">h!" 
The Shirt tllb year reads, "Shoulder to Shoulder: Clumt.ing ller Golden Name." Shoulder to shoulder? Sound'> a lot like a pha­lanx 1.<1 me. Iikewi'>ll, the student section should operat.c~ as a single, defiant unit. 
The Impostor State Spari.<Uls will bring with t11em t11eir bluat.cld ma'il~ot Sparty, whose di'>­proport.ional.<l foam head makes one wonder if' he trains with Barry Bonds' pa.ls at BALCO. 
Obviou.'>ly, everyonp knows that if things c<Ulle down 1.<1 actuw fisticufls in a matchup of m<L'il~ot<>. our very own leprechaun would lumdle Sparty ju.'it a'i Leonida<; worked tlle ovnrmat.c~h<ld and in1~pt Persian sold.iers. 
A"> the slings and arrows of outrageou.'i fbr­tune (and the ESPN Iri<>h-ba'ihing barbs of M<u-k May) blot out the sun, remember tllis: we will fi1-,rht in the shadfl. 
In eondu.<>ion, tnte Spartans never retreat. True Sparl.<lns never surrender. 
And a<; ti>r those who hate Notre Dame and nwel in tJm schadenfreude of watching our strugglt~ and sullbring, people who look bat~k at Fighting lri<>h fans 2007 will remember this: tllat lew stood against many. 
The lliews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserller. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tan drew 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 19, 2007 QUESTION OF THE DAY: How MANY FACEBOOK FRIENDS DID YOU HAVE AT NO BEFORE YOU GOT HERE? 



Chelsea Carey  Kyle Mitchell  Meg Fitzgerald  
freshman Badin  freshman Stanford  freshman Cavanaugh  
"Just one. And I knew him in real life."  "Like rso. ,,  "Twenty-ish, but they were allfrom my hometown. "  

Man says wild sex caused SUV accident 
MOSCOW. Idaho -A 22­year-old carnival worker blames two friends having sexual intercourse in the back seat of his car for an accident in which his Chevrolet S-10 Blazer struck a telephone pole. 
Joshua D. Frank, who is living in a trailer parked on the Latah County Fairgrounds, pleaded guilty Monday to a misdemeanor charge of failing to notify a police officer of a traffic accident. That's after he left the vehicle at the site of the mishap. He was fmed $188. 
Frank told Moscow Police 





Kyle Welch  Tanner Ryan  Marco Rosales  
freshman  freshman  freshman  
O'Neill  Keenan  Stanford  
"so or so. About  "so or .51.  "Probably 20."  
halfwere  Mostly girls."  
people I  
,actually knew.  


"We're welcoming the SLUT into the neighbor­hood," said Jerry Johnson, 29, a part-time barista. 
Some claim -incorrectly, according to representatives of Vulcan Inc., the company that is developing the area -that South Lake Union Trolley was the original name and that it was changed when officials belatedly realized the acronym. 
The $50.5 million project should be completed with streetcars running in December. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Department officers that he was driving the vehicle near downtown early Saturday while a man and woman were having sex in the rear of the vehicle. 
Seattle trolley line has new acronym: SLUT 
SEATTLE -Officially, it's the South Lake Union Streetcar. But in the neigh­borhood where the new line runs, it's called the South Lake Union Trolley -or, the SLUT. At Kapow! Coffee, a shop in the old Cascade neighborhood, 100 T-shirts bearing the words "Ride the SLUT" sold out in days, and another 100 are on order. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

..... 
II( 
(,) 

.9 HIGH 85 LOW 62 


79 61 

80 65 

88 60 
IN BRIEF 
An exhibit, "The Camera and Rainbow: Color in Photography," will show in the Snite Museum of Art on today from 1 0 a.m. to 4 
p.m. The oxhibit is free and opnn to the public. 
University President Father John Jenkins, Provost Thomas Burish and Excc:utive Vice President John Al11eck-Gravcs will briol' the University stall' on Notre Damn's status and l'uturn at a town hall meeting today from 2 to :l::lO 
p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Employers will be mPeting both undergraduates and graduate stu­dent'> from all colleges and majors during the Career Center's Fall Career Expo today from 4 to 8 
p.m. in t11e Joyce Center. 
Author Ann Cummins will read from her latest work, "Yellowcake" in the Hospitality Room of South Dining Hall at 7:30 tonight. 
Eric J. Brown, director of the Department of Microbial Pathogenesis at the University of California, San Francisco, will deliver the lecture "Can Fish Really Get Tuberculosis? I Thought They Didn't Have Lungs" ThlU'Sday at 4 p.m. in 283 Galvin life Science. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show a screening of the film "The Namesake" Thursday at 7p.m. 

Whirlpool's chief financial officer, Ted Dosch will speak Friday at 10 
a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium as part of the Mendoza College of Busienss Boardroom Insight lec­ture series. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The ObserlJer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an elJent to obsnews@nd.edu 
GAME DAY SUNDAY 

79 
57 

HIGH LOW 

Wednesday, September 19, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Leaders seek to involve students 111ore through activities 
Major topics of discussion include increasing football entusiasm and the possibility of town-hall style meetings 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer  "When everyone else thinks we're done, we have to do something as students,"  ticular focus, said Bob Reish, junior class president. "We drive  would be able to select which meetings would be open to the public, so  good job of coming to student government," Braun said. Chief executive assistant  
LeNoir  said.  "We  have  to  away  a  lot  of  the committees  Sheena Plamoottil questioned  
Finding ways to increase student enthusiasm -both for football season and stu­ show we're behind our team. It's still early in the season and we still have a chance."  potential," he said. "It's either a  "Firstly, this could counteract dorm  could "leave it up to [their] discretion, and  whether students would find time in their busy schedules to attend town-hall meetings.  
dent govern­ment -domi­nated discus­sions at the Council of Representatives meeting Tuesday night. The Notre Dame Bookstore and the Shirt Project are part­nering to spon­sor a campus­wide spirit dis­play Thursday  "When everyone else thinks we're done, we have to do something as students. We have to show we're behind our team. It's still early in the season and we still have a chance."  T h e Bookstore will offer a dis­count of at least 10 per­cent for stu­dents to pur­chase the Shirt on Thursday, LeNoir said. Members also discussed ways to get students more involved with student gov­ lot of work or no work" to be a member of student govern­ment, he said. Paul Hobbins, C I u b Coordination Council presi­dent, said he was uncertain how to add to committee ros­ters without requiring new members to  unity, which is a lot of what we're all about. Secondly, freshmen and sophomores could dominate the events. I feel like juniors and seniors are a bit more apathetic. " George Chamberlain Sorin senator  not just have people drop in," he said. Student body vice president Maris Braun said it is natu­ral to have more interest in student gov­ernment when major issues arise. "When popu­lar issues come up, we've  In other COR news: + Schmidt proposed creat­ing a new intramural sport conference between classes rather than halls. The matches and games would occur during one week, he said. Sorin senator George Chamberlain questioned the idea. "Firstly, this could counter­act dorm unity, which is a lot of what we're all about," he said. "Secondly, freshmen  
by asking stu­dents to wear The Shirt 2007,  Brad LeNoir The Shirt 2007  ernment. One way to boost involve­ make term ment.  a long-commit- she said.  always gotten a huge influx,"  and sophomores could domi­nate the events. I feel like juniors and seniors are a bit  
Shirt  Project  president  ment would be  "The idea of getting input is  Student government needs  more apathetic."  
President Brad  to market each  important," he said.  to do a better job of capitaliz­ Schmidt's suggested athlet­ 
LeNoir  student  gov­ Sophomore class president  ing on that interest without  ic events included Capture  
announced  at  ernment com­ Grant  Schmidt  suggested  overwhelming its committees  the Flag.  
the  Council  of  mittee to stu­ holding open, town-hall style  with new members, she said.  
Representatives (COR) meet­ dents  already  passionate  meetings  for  everyone  to  "If people  are  passionate  Contact John Tierney at  
ing Tuesday.  about that committee's par- attend. Student government  about  an  issue, they do  a  jtierney 1 @nd.edu  


11 a.m. to 1p.m. 1p.m. to 3p.m. 
RALPH FR. NICHOlAS MciNERNY AYO,CSC "Irish Alibi" "Gloria Patri" 

3p.m. to 5p.m. 3p.m. to 5p.m. 
ANGI DIANE ZUBER JURKOVIC 'The Broken Doll" "ND Coloring and Activity Book" 
1p.m. to 3p.m. 
CONNIE McNAMARA "Go Irish" 

3p.m. to 5p.m. 
LISA McKAY 
"My Hands Came Away Red" 
9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 
SEAN CALlAHAN ':4 is For Ara" 

11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. 
MARGIE IAPANJA 
"Notre Dame: AFan's Companion" 

9:30 a.m. to11:30 a.m. 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 
JIM WALSH PAMElA OGREN ANNE THOMPSON '79 "Here Come The Irish "Creating Happy PEGGY FORAN '76, '79J.D. 2007" Memories" 
BEfH TOOMEY '81 CEYL PRINSTER '76 
'Thanking FatherTed" 




11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.  11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.  12 noon to 1:00 p.m.  
FRANK MAGGIO and  DIGGER PHELPS  GERRY FAUST  
JIM HARPER  "Undertaker's Son"  'Tales From The Notre  
"Notre Dame and the  Dame Sideline"  
Game That Changed  
Football"  


page 4 
Web 
continued from page 1 
Adam and w~re able to start n~~.lly putting things tog~th­er. 
Lusch had taken a class with Braun, and she remnm­bnrnd he had alrfHtdy put togethnr various Notre Damn Web sitns, ineluding thn hornepages for the Student Union Board, the Class or 2 0 0 C) , T h n S h o w a n d Morrissey Manor. 
l'lamoottil said Luseh glad­ly volunteered his time dur­ing tlw summer to help them with tlw project. 
Thl\ finished product boasts a layout that is not only aes­thetically pleasing but also USI'r rriendly, Plarnoottil said. 
"I wanted it to have a Notre Dame identifying thnmn," Lusch said, referring to tlw gold and blue font and 
Degrees 
continued from page 1 
dted by Jenkins is so low. 
"The number is skewed because )after getting their badwlor's degree) students will go do a serviee project, or go get a job, and then go back to grad­uate school, and they arc not counted in that statistic," Toumayan said. "In faet, most of the students that tell me they arn internstt~d in earning a Ph.D. tell me that they do not want to do so right aft1-~r college, and they would not be ineluded in that statistic." 
She said the college is cur­rently trying to eomc up with a way of tracking these students to make their figures more accurate. 
In addition to poor caleula­tions, Notre Dame's strong pre­proft~ssional programs deflate the numlwr considerably, she said, because they push stu­dents directly into their prof{lS­sions and away from thn Ph.D. 


Support 
continued from page 1 
.Jason Cott, vice president of the The Shirt Project, said he and other leaders want students to wear either The Shirt 2007 or another green shirt to classes Thursday to show spirit. 
"W•1 just want to show that we're all solidly behind our foot­ball team and that we still care and that we still believe," Gott said. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis said the gretm shirts will be another sign that the team's success or failure on the field is the success or failure of tlw student body as a whole. 
"Having been a student here, one thing that this team is eounting on is the support of the students," he said. "When you're a student, you're not just a student, you're part of it." 
Weis also said that student support can and will improve thn team's morale going into the game against Michigan State Saturday. 
"The grnatest thing that could happen, whether its Thursday or Friday at the Pep Hally, is for thn students to say, 'lley, we're on your sidn," Weis said. 
Fifth-year senior captain and tight end John Carlson agreed. 

Wednesday, Sep[ember 19, 2007 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

the Homn icon at the top of thn home page. 
l'lamoottil said the site has links to the Student Governmnnt Constitution, updates from various com­mittees and groups-includ­ing the Student Senate, the Council of Hepresentatives and the Center for Social Concerns -as well as an online application for stu­dents who wish to become involvod with student gov­ernnwnt. 
The site also contains the minutes of Senate and COH meetings and a calendar of upcoming events -informa­tion not readily available to students before. 
Student government will "continue to make changes to improve our capacity to accurately represent and respond to student con­cerns," Brown said. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
option. 
"When you compare Notre Dame to those other schools, you have to realize that the per­centage )of undergraduates earning Pb.D.sl is going to be lower because of the College of Business, the engineering school, the pre-med program, and the pre-law program," Associate Dean of Arts and Letters Stuart Greene said. "All thnsn schools play into that cal­culation." 
Heydams-Schils was quick to point out the Uqiversity's con­ctmtrated efforts on increasing interest in Ph.D. is by no means trying to draw students away from these programs. 
"We are just trying to show students that there are other options besides becoming a banker, lawyer and a scientist," she said. "Those are all great and rnspectable professions but tlwre is nothing wrong with bning educated about different choices." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
"We appreciate all the support we can get," he said. "We're not giving up. We hope the fans don't give up either." 
The support isn't just coming from South Bend. As far away as Irvine, Calif., at the world headquarters of Taco Bell, mar­keting executives decided to give Weis the "Nacho Day Award." 
"We like to call it a Na-cho Day -as in 'not your day,"' Taeo Bell spokesman Will Bortz said. "We're trying to put some lnvity into the situation." 
In honor of Weis' award, par­tidpating South Bend area Taco Bells will give out free nachos to Notre Dame fans between 2 
p.m. and 5 p.m. on Sunday. 
"The chips are down, and we want everyone to know we have your back," Bortz said. "To the students, we're saying, 'Hey guys, you've been at the top, and while it might be a little bit rough this year, you can still have some free food."' 
Bortz said that the nacho pro­motion, which the company has done for organizations and groups before, is not designed to bn a joke about Weis' weight. 
"We would never ever walk that line as far as giving some­thing offensive to somebody," he said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
5TUDY IN BEIJING 0( 5HANGHAI 
Information: 


r·· -----············· 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE J?AME INTERNATIONAL STU()\' PROGRAMS IN 




DUB:LIN, :IRELAND 
Fall 2008, SPRING 2009, A Y 2008-9, SUl\tlMER 2008 
JNFORMA TION MEETING 
Wednesday, September 19, 2007 5:00pm 141 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15,2007 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2008-9 MARCH I, 2008 FOR SlJMMER 2008 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-oi.s 

~--------~----~---------~ 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
North Korea denies nuclear charge 
SEOUL -North Korea strongly denied Tuesday that it has provided Syria with secret nuclear cooperation, claiming the charge was fabricated to block progress in the North's relations with the United States. 
North Korea's Foreign Ministry said the country has upheld a pledge made last October, when it conducted its first-ever nuclear test, that it would be "a responsible nuclear weapons state" and not transfer any nuelear material out of the country. 
The North "never makes an empty talk but always tells truth," the ministry said in the statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency. 
The comments were the first by the gov­ernment in Pyongyang on the issue since suspicions arose aft1w an alleged Israeli air raid earlier this month on unknown Syrian targets. 
Trapped reporter returns home 
TEHRAN -An Iranian-American reporter for the U.S.-funded Radio Farda who ha'i been trapped for months in Iran left the country Tuesday, returning to the United States, the station said. 
Parnaz Azima was one of four Iranian­Americans suspected by Iran of involvement in a plot to foment a revolution against the Islamic government. Another of the four was released earlier. 
Azima "left Iran today and is on her way tp the United States," Sania Winter, a spokes­woman for Hadio Farda, told The A'isociated Press from Washington. She would not give further details saying Azima would be "reunit­ed with her litmily." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Congress investigates official 
WASHINGTON -A congressional committee has opened an investigation of the State Department's inspector general, alleging he blocked fraud investigations in Afghanistan and Iraq, including potential security lapses at the newly built U.S. Embassy in Baghdad. 
Also under scrutiny is whether Blackwater USA. the private security firm banned this week from working in Iraq over the killing of civilians. was "illegally smuggling weapons into Iraq," according to a letter to IG Howard J. Krongard obtained Tuesday by The Associated Press. 
The Democratic-led investigation accused Krongard of trying to protect the White House and the State Department. 
Police Tase Florida student 
GAINESVILLE -Video of police Tasering a persistent questioner of Sen. John Kerry became an Internet and TV sensation Tuesday, generating fierce debate about free speech and the motives of the college student involved -a known prankster who often posts practical jokes online. 
University of Florida President Bernie Machen said Monday's takedown, in which the student loudly yelled, "Don't Ta'ie me, bro!" wa<; "regret­ful." lie asked for a state probe of campus police actions and placed two oflicers on leave. 
The student in the middle of it all, 21-year-old Andrew Meyer, had no comment after he was mlcased on his rncognizance on various charges following a night in jail. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Alligator rescued in Indiana 
MUNCIE -A nearly 5-foot-long alligator nicknamed Vader Gator was heading to Florida two weeks after being rescued from the streets of Muncie. ' 
The Muncie Animal Shelter sent Vader off Monday on the first leg of his journey to Croc Encounters, a reptile park and wildlife cen­ter in Tampa. 
Shelter workers ·rescued Vader on Sept. 5 after it was found wandering through a neighborhood. The 4-foot-11 reptile had escaped an outdoor kennel by climbing over a fence, said Karen Gibson, the shelter's superintendent. 
CoMPILED FROM TFIE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


Democrats continue anti-war push 
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid calls for a vote for pullout legislation 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -After 
weeks of suggesting 
Democrats would temper 
their approach to Iraq legis­
lation in a bid to attract 
more Republicans, Senate 
Majority Leader Harry Reid 
declared abruptly Tuesday 
that he had no plans to do 
so. 

The Democratic leader said he will call for a vote this month on several anti­war proposals, including one by Sen. Carl Levin that would insist President Bush 'end U.S. combat next sum­mer. The proposals would be mandatory and not leave Bush wiggle room, said 
Reid, D-Nev. 

"There (are) no goals. It's 
all definite timelines," he 
told reporters of the 
planned legislation. 

Levin, D-Mich., chairman 
of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee, said 
Monday night he would 
have agreed to turn his 
summer deadline into a 
nonbinding goal if doing so 
meant attracting enough 
votes to pass. Several 
Republicans have said they 
are uneasy about Bush's 
war strategy but do not like 
the idea of setting a firm 
timetable on troop with­
drawals. 

Reid's hardline stance, 
announced after the party's with a smile. A poll released Tuesday tion that would restrict the 
weekly policy lunch on Democrats are in a box by the nonpartisan Pew mission of U.S. troops but 
Tuesday, reflects a calcula­on the Iraq war debate, , Research Center found that allow Bush to determine the 
tion by Democrats that lacking the votes to pass 54 percent of Americans timeframe for doing so. 
Levin's proposal probably legislation ordering troops still favor bringing troops Sen. Ken Salazar, D-Colo., 
would have failed either home but tied to a support home as soon as possible. has attracted the support of 
way. Democrats hold a thin base that wants nothing And despite slight improve­several GOP lawmakers 
majority in the Senate and less. Several Democrats, ments in peoples' views of with legislation that would 
similar legislation has including Sens. Christopher military progress, more said call on Bush to embrace the 
repeatedly fallen short of Dodd of Connecticut, Russ the U.S. will likely fail in recommendations of the 
the 60 votes needed to Feingold of Wisconsin and Iraq than succeed by 4 7 independent Iraq Study 
break a GOP filibuster. Barbara Boxer of percent to 42 percent, Group. The independent 
When asked why California, have said they about the same margin as panel called on Bush to 
Democrats won't soften the will not vote for anything in July. _ hand off the combat mission 
deadline, the majority short of a firm deadline to Other lawmakers, includ­to the Iraqis next year. 
leader said he doesn't have end the war. ing Levin and several mod­But while Democratic 
confidence Republicans are These members say they erate Republicans, have leaders say the concept of 
willing to challenge Bush on are responding to polls that tried to strike bipartisan compromise legislation is 
the war. show Americans still oppose deals they think would not off the table, no propos­
"I think they've decided the war, despite Gen. David attract enough moderates als have gained steam. Reid 
definitely they want this to Petraeus' report to of either party to pass. on Tuesday said Salazar is 
be the Senate Republicans' Congress and President Sen. George Voinovich, R­working to add require­
war, not just Bush's. Bush's nationally televised Ohio, suggested Tuesday ments to his bill, but as 
They're jealous," he said address. that Congress pass legisla-written it was too weak. 


State upholds gay marriage ban 
Assembly may not grant and recog­State Sen. Richard Madaleno, who
Associated Press nize for homosexual persons civil is openly gay, said he plans to intro­BALTIMORE -Maryland's highest unions or the right to marry a person duce a bill to allow same-sex mar­court on Tuesday upheld a state law of the same sex," Judge Glenn 'T. riage. He also expects a proposal to defining marriage as a union Harrell Jr. wrote for the majority. create civil unions. between a man and a woman, ending Plaintiffs said that the judges "I think we'll have a lengthy discus­a lawsuit filed by same-sex couples missed a historic opportunity to sion next session about what the who claimed they were being denied strike down a discriminatory law, and options are for legal recognition for equal protection under the law. that they would continue the fight in gay people," Madaleno said. Maryland's 1973 ban on gay mar­the Legislature. Legislators on both Don Dwyer, one of the General riage does not discriminate on the sides of the debate predicted action Assembly's most conservative mem­basis of gender and does not deny on the issue in the next session. bers, said he would introduce a con­any fundamental rights, the Court of "I think history will hold them in stitutional amendment banning gay Appeals ruled in a 4-3 decision. It contempt," plaintiff Lisa Polyak said marriage as "insurance." also said the state has a legitimate of the judges. "To create a legal solu­The ACLU of Maryland, which pro­interest in promoting opposite-sex tion in a vacuum, that doesn't recog­vided legal representation for the marriage. nize that the constitution is there to plaintiffs, said the fight to legalize "Our opinion should by no means support the people, is to create an gay marriage in Maryland would con­be read to imply that the General ignorant and irrelevant solution." tinue. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
its outstanding faculty or staff To accomplish this mission, however, focused less on statis­in conjunction with state-of­members publicly during home he said, the University must tics than the human-interest the-art facilities, would help
Feedback 
continued from page I 
ND Voice, a series of surveys and focus groups conducted in 2006 to understand tlw opin­ions of diffnrm1t University mnploynns about tlwir experi­ence at Notre Damn. 
Tlw rt~sults, ht~ said, revealed 9(> pnrcent of the pollnd staff and faculty nwmbers said they wnrn proud of working at Notrfl Dame, 92 pPn:tHlt would rec­omnwml the University as an enjoyable workplaee and 9 I pnn:en t said they clearIy understood the school's goals, values and direction. 
Af'llnck-GravPs also said the surveys told him employees thought Notre Dame nePdmJ to improve its at:countability-or the UnivPrsity's ability to deal with poor JWrformancns in its diiTtH·ent ol'lirPs-as wPII as its recognition of exenptional employees. 
Notn~ l>anw has tried to alle­viate thPSI' ronrnrns. he said. 
Since Nl> Voin~ was conclud­ed, he said. about seven per­eent of Notn~ l>amn employtH~s have nwnivnd a salary raise rn orn than fi v n p nrt: en t. Anotlwr six pl'reent n~ceivml a raise equal to or Jess than two percent, depending on their respective supervisor's per­formance revit~ws. 
The salary raises fuJI'iJJnd Af'fleck-(;raves' promise from last year's town haJJ mneting, where he said annual salary inereases would be tied to per­formance. 
Furthnrmorn. the University also created the Presidm1tial Team Irish Awards to recognize 

football games. 
The 2006 poll indicated that some employees were unhappy with their level of respect and overall fairness -specifically Notre Dame's efforts to include its faculty and staff in adminis­trative decisions. 
"We need to create more opportunities where you can oiTnr fnedback and speak up in eitlwr small group or large group settings, like this one," Al'llock-Graves said. 
lin read excerpts of some of the action plans different ol'lkns prnpared as part of ND Voice last year, ineluding a sug­gestion from the Central Hncniving office proposing top administrators shadow staff m !Hll bors sporad ic a II y to undPrstand their daily chal­Jnngns. 
"It is critical and essential nvnry member of tho Notrn 
I> am n fam iJy fenls rnspectnd. valuPd and undorstood," he said. 
Futurn NI> Voice polls will be issw~d evnry two ynars, he said. to avoid ovnrwhelming the staff and faeulty with too many sur­voy rnquests. 
While AITieck-Graves rnmarks wnre concrete and focused on tangible initiatives, Jenkins chose to talk about more abstract concepts, such as the University's core values and its mission to strike a bal­ance between its Catholic char­acter and its academic ambi­tions. 
lie spoke of Notre Dame's goal of becoming "a distinctive­ly Catholic university that is counted among the preeminent universitins in the world." 
provide an unsurpassed under­graduate education and become a premier research institution w'hile ensuring the University's Catholic character permeates these endeavors. 
These goals, Jenkins said, should always be approached through the University's defin­ing core values -integrity, excellence, accountability, teamwork and leadership. 
"To be a part of Notre Dame is to accept these goals and these values and let them inform your everyday Jives and your work here," he said. 
Jenkins said his trip last week to Congregation of lloly Cross founder Father Basil Moreau's beatification in Le Mans, France, helped him rndiscover Notre Dame's ori­gins. 
"There was evnrywhnre a sense of discovering this University's roots and where wo came from," Jenkins said. "I met peoplo from Africa. Bangladesh, Peru. Chile and other countrios where Father Moreau's work lives on. And with Notre Dame. they all shared this man's commitment to service, his faith and his sense of community." 
During his trip to France, Jenkins said, he also met a descendant of the family of Father Edward Sorin, who founded Notre Uame. 
Following Jenkins' remarks, Burish updated the audience on current academic initiatives as well as the University's achievements last year. 
lie said the freshman class had a record average SAT score of 1390. His address, 
aspects that make the class of 2011 special. 
Among the first-year stu­dents, Burish said, thnre are cancer survivors, a student who served in thn Navy, a stu­dents that speaks four lan­guages fluently and tho grnat granddaughter of ono of tho famed Pour llorsemm1 of Notre Dame. 
He also praised cnrtain facul­ty members for thnir outstand­ing research, ineluding a sei­encn professor he said is work­ing to design cancer-fighting drugs without side niTocts and another professor who is study­ing the psychology of middln­aged people. 
To keep the faculty rnotivatod and interosted in conducting similar projects, Burish said, the University is dovnloping a research park wlwro it would presont its lindings to corpora­tions and potential backers that might provide furtlwr nxpo­sure. 
Hesearehnrs who devolop new products, liko drugs or software programs, might then lind a company that commits to manufacturing tlw invnntion, Burish said. 
"This park will hnlp take your research findings and give them an avenue so they can actually impact society and people's daily lives," Burish said. 
Similar innovation parks already exist at major research universities like Purdue. 
Burish stressed the impor­tance of investing in infrastruc­ture to draw new faculty mem­bers and graduate students to Notre Dame. This manpower, 
bring more undergraduates into the rnsearch boat, Burish said. 
Synergies like this one between the difl'erent con­stituents of thn Notre Dame community, he said, are further proof that "a university is like a eity." 
"Education is our main focus, but thnre are so many other components that make that goal possible," he said. "You, [the faeul ty and stafl'[ run this eity, you manage it. You make it work for thoso who eome horn to engage in its primary focus." 
Al'f'leck-G raves n ndnd the town-hall meeting with a video presentation of tlH~ Eddy Street Commons projoet. lin showed the auditmct~ an animation of the linalized projeet-whieh is sehnduled for completion in 2009. In tlw virtual tour, peoplP are snnn strolling down Eddy StrPnt with shops, eaft~s and rnstaurants in the background. 
lin also showt~d nnw artist renditions of otlwr buildings undnr t:onstruction on cam pus in the near future, ineluding tho engineering buildings, the law school, Geddes llall (which will replace the eurrnnt build­ing occupied by the Center for Social Concerns) and the Purcell Pavilion inside the Joyce Center. 
A short question-and-answer session followed the three olli­cials' speeches, and they later joined the meeting's attendees in the LaFortune ballroom for an informal reception. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at 
aberrios@nd.edu 

FIRST GAME: OFFICIAL GOLD RLISii T -51-IIRT FIFTii GAME: ADIDAS LANYARD TENTii GAME: NOTRE DAME CROCS 
AND FOR TliE STLIDENT WliO ATTENDS TliE MOST GAMES:.. GRAND PRIZE: ROLIND TRIP AIRFARE FOR TWO TO IRELAND! 
PRESENTED BY: 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks Dow 13,739.39 +335.97
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE 

S&P 500 1,519.78 +43.13 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15.80.1.8{), .···•••••·• >0.00.. FTSE 100 (London) 6,283.30 +100.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +2.94 +4.36 152.46 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +2.52 -+1.23 50.04 SUN MIROSYS INC (JAVA) +1.58 +0.09 5.78 FORD MOTOR CO (F) +1.69 +0.14 8.42 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE +0.22 +0.01 4.480 13-WEEK BILL -3.26 -0.13 3.860 30-YEAR BOND -+0.95 +0.045 4.759 5-YEAR NOTE -0.95 -0.04 4.162 
Commodities LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.94 81.51 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.10 723.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.63 86.93 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 115.92 EURO 0.7151 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0143 BRITISH POUND 0.4967 

IN BRIEF 
Number of foreclosures increases 
LOS ANGELES -The number of foreclo­sure filings reported in the U.S. last month more than doubled versus August 2006 and jumped 36 percent from July, a trend that signals many homeowners are increasingly unable to make timely payments on their mortgages or sell their homes amid a nation­al housing slump. 
A total of 243,947 foreclosure filings were reported in August, up 115 percent from 113,300 in the same month a year ago, Irvine, Calif.-based RealtyTrac Inc. said Tuesday. 
There were 179,599 foreclosure filings reported in July. 
The filings include default notices, auction sale notices and bank repossessions. Some properties might have received more than one notice if the owners have multiple mort­gages. 

Kroger announces jump in profits 
CINCINNATI -Kroger Co. said Tuesday its profit jumped 28 percent in the second quarter, topping analyst expectations. The nation's largest traditional grocery chain boosted its outlook for the year. Its shares rose 7.5 percent. 
The supermarket operator said it earned $267.3 million, or 38 cents per share, for the three months ended Aug. 18, up from $209 mil­lion, or 29 cents per share, a year ago. Revenue rose 7 percent to $16.14 billion in the quarter from $15.14 billion last year. 
Analyst<> polled by Thomson Financial expect­ed a profit of 34 cents per share on revenue of $16.02 billion. 
The company said it was able to pass along cost increases for staples such as milk to cus­tomers while continuing to build customer loyal­ty with initiatives that include improved service, wider selections and incentive programs. Profits also were helped by reductions in distribution and advertising costs and in inventory loss because of theft, mistakes and other factors, Kroger said. 
China 




PRC enforces quality standards 
Food products under close scrutiny after inspectors discover skew of violations 
Associated Press 
BEIJING-China is step­
ping up enforcement 
against unlicensed food ven­
dors and plans to upgrade 
quality standards on thou­
sands of food and consumer 
products by year's end, offi­
cials said Tuesday. 
A'i of July, inspectors had 
uncovered and punished 
9,098 unlicensed food mak­
ers and other types of ven­
dors, the director of the 
State Administration for 
Industry and Commerce, 
Zhou Bohua, said at a news 
conference. 
Zhou did not give compa­
rable figures for the same 
period last year, but said the 
administration was pursu­
ing violators more vigorous­
ly, an indication of the pres­
sure the government is 
under to grapple with 
China's endemic product 
safety problems. 
"This is a special type of 
battle to preserve people's 
health and basic interests, 
to preserve the trust in and 
international image of 
Chinese products," Zhou 
said. 
He said the crackdown 
was part of a previously 
announced four-month 
campaign to step up prod­
uct safety controls. Zhou's 
agency does not inspect 
exports and the inspections 
he described appeared 

mainly to involve domestic upgraded. Inspection and Quarantine, scrutiny around the world 
vendors. "Rapidly developing trade one of the government's over the past six months 
Many of China's problems must have the guarantee of main product safety watch­after toxins were found in 
have been blamed on long rapidly developing inspec­dogs. exports ranging from pet 
and often murky supply tion standards. This is the The administration's food ingredients to toys. 
chains. To address that, only way to ensure that notice said 3,395 standards Overcoming its initial 
Zhou said the government Chinese products receive for food and consumer reluctance, Beijing has 
will require before the end fair treatment in the inter­products would be amended launched an aggressive 
of the year all grocery national community," Liu by the end of this year. All campaign to win back con­
stores, convenience stores, Pingjun, director of the food and consumer prod­sumer confidence by issuing 
and roadside stalls to keep Standardization ucts "closely related to new regulations, cracking 
records, allowing inspectors Administration of China, human health and safety" down on violators and set­
to trace the origin of food was quoted as saying at a would be required to meet ting up a Cabinet-level 
products. national conference on international standards and panel to monitor quality. 
Another product safety Monday. "foreign advanced stan­Among those measures 
watchdog said standards Liu's comments were dards," it said without giv­are increased scrutiny of 
had lagged behind the posted on the Web site of ing specific examples. vegetable exports that have 
development of China's the General Administration Chinese-made products sometimes been cited for 
economy and needed to be of Quality Supervision, have come under intense high levels of pesticides. 

Health care costs vary around U.S. 
Associated Press $8,295, followed by Massachusetts, spending and, because they are $6,683; Maine, $6,540; and New more rural, less access to physicians 
WASHINGTON -Staying healthy York, $6,535. and hospitals. is a costly business in the United "Most of these states have consis­The only state outside the States, particularly in the Northeast, tently had the highest spending over Northeast where per capita health government statistics show. time," said report co-author Anne spending topped $6,000 was Alaska 
Annual health care spending per Martin, an economist with the CMS at $6,450. person totaled $6,409 in New Office of the Actuary. "There is no The lowest per person health care England and $6,151 in the rest of one clear explanation, but there are spending was $3,972 in Utah. the Northeast, compared to a several similar characteristics Nationally, per capita health national average of $5,283, the among these states." spending increased on average 6.3 Centers for Medicare and Medicaid For example, many of these states percent per year from 1998 to 2004, Services reports in Tuesday's issue have high personal income, a high the report said. of the journal Health Affairs. concentration of physicians and are Other findings included: 
The totals include spending on among the states with the lowest Two states that have actively individual health care from all rates of uninsured. worked to improve health care had sources, including insurance, per­On the other hand, health care widely different spending patterns. sonal expenses, Medicare, Medicaid spending was below the national California's per capita spending and other sources, for 2004, the average in the Southwest and Rocky level was 12 percent below the most recent figures available. Mountain regions, which also tend national average at $4,638 while 
Highest per capita spending was to have lower-than-average per Massachusetts was nearly 27 per­recorded in the District of Columbia, enrollee Medicare and Medicaid cent above the average. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
Border 
continued from page 1 

linked the agrmmwnt's irnplmnonta­
tion to an increase in factories in 
Mnxieo, wlwre labor is cheaper, 
Martinnz Jitner said. 

The population of border towns 
skyr()(~kntnd. sincn "thousands upon 
thousands" of faetories arn loc~atnd 
in thesn regions between Mexico 
and thn U.S., shn said. Juarnz's pop­
ulation dimbed from 300,000 to 
rwarly :l million -and most of the 
peopln, she said, arn workers. 

Thn factories in Mexico prefer 
fomaln workers because tlwy are 
willing to work longer hours ({Jr loss 
pay, Martinez .litner said. Female 
workers make up almost 91) per­
cent of tlw force. But. in r11ality, 
"most of thes1~ women aren't 
women," she said. 

"Tlwy arn fi1urtnnn, filleen, six­
tnen-ynar old girls working those 
faetorins for approximately filly 
emlL'i an hour." 

Sincn they livn on thn bordnr -a 
kind of middiP ground botwmm tho 
U.S. and Latin America-they rnenivn third world country wages but pay first world eountry prices. It takes six hours of work to buy a gallon of milk, Martinez .lilnnr said. 
Worse than the plight of the 
worknrs in unsafi~. exploiting facto­
rins is the fact that their life ouL.;;idn 
the workplace is also plaguod with 
dangers, she said. Bordnr towns 
have a rich history of smuggling 
among otlwr criminal adivitins, she 
said. 

"Traditionally it's bonn trallkking 
of drugs, but now it also now tlwrn 
is a new Ikind ofltraflkking-traf­
ficking of human beings," Martinez 
.Jitnor said. 

Women in tl1es1~ towns arn being 
kidnapped. raped. tortured and 
sonwtimes sold into slavery, she 
said. The minority of bodies that 
an1 found weeks later often have 
their organs missing, she said. 

In 2002, Martinez Jitner Jhllownd Eva Canseco from Tijuana to the 
U.S. in her documentary, "La Frontera." Cansnco experienced the horrors of the factory lif(J Martinez .Jitnnr spoke about. 
Whiln filming the documentary, Martinez Jitnnr's tapos worn stolen rnpnatndly; to the extent she hirnd a bodyguard to protnd her eamnra. One of hnr assistanL'i was abdu<tnd and heatnn by the Juarnz polic1!, she said. 
Martinez Jitner chosn to continue 
filming lwr d()(~umentary, she said, 
limling tho need and duty to docu­
mnnt Cansneo's story and sharn it 
with audiences. 

Cans1H~o worked in a factory to narn nwney to pay oil' tho taxns on her litrm. Slw quickly realized, allnr moving to Tijuana, that "tho worker is a slaw." 
With a face deeply scarred bm:ausn thn factory would not pro­vide masks li1r iL'i welders, Cansneo rneeiv1~d a pink slip. 
At :~o. she is too old for factory work, Martinez Jitner said. Tho managers in Juarez want younger worknrs with more nimble lingors. 
The film li1eusns on her journey to tho Unitnd States, whom shn hopos to se1~k out an opportunity to pro­vide a botter lif(l fi1r her family. 
Martinez Jitner said she has been able to enact som11 change with her film. 
She said she knows her docu­mentary struck a chord with the factory managers because now workers aren't allowed to spoak to journalists and lilmmakers about their jobs. She said they must even sign eonlidentiality waivers to get hired. 
Toward the end of her lecture Martinez Jitner showed a short dip of' the oponing scenes of her upcom­ing movie "Bordertown." 
The film -due out later this year -limturns Antonio Banderas and .Jennifer Lopez in the lead roles. Martinnz Jitner served as the movie's executive producer. The movie will follow two journalists, Lopnz and Banderas, as they travel to Juarez to investigate the disap­pearance of sevflral women. 
In the last fourteen years, more than 475 women in Juarez have bnnn brutally murdered, Martinez Jitnnr said. More than 5,000 are still missing. 
"People are worth more dead than alive," she said. 
"Bordertown," which is mostly in Spanish and featurns EngLish subti­t.los, is inspirnd on tile story or a 14­ynar-old girl in Juarez who was raped by a bus driver and another man then loll her f'or dead in a shal­low !,'l'ave. 
The girl managed to dimb out of the !,'l'ave, received amnesty in the 
U.S. and identified the bus driver who rapnd her. But the Mexican authorities let the convicted rapist walk frnn, Martinez Jitner said. 
Martinez Jitner encouraged the audience to visit amnestyusa.org;lbordertown, a Web site Lopez launched, where users can download digital petitions ask­ing the Unitnd Nations to put pres­sure on Mexico to end the violence against women, as well as encour­aging the U.S. to push Mexican f'ac­torins to set up saler working condi­tions. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

Simpson indicted on 10 felonies 
Count ofrobbery may carry life sentence for fanner football star 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS -Prosecutors filed formal charges Tuesday against O.J. Simpson, alleg­ing the fallen football star committed 10 felonies, including kidnapping, in the armed robbery of sports memorabilia collectors in a casino-hotel room. 
Simpson was arrested Sunday after a collector reported a group or armed men charged into his hotel room and took several items Simpson claimed belonged to him. Poliee reports obtained Tuesday by The Associated Press offered details on the scene. 
Simpson, 60, was booked on five felony counts, includ­ing suspicion of assault and robbery with a deadly weapon. District Attorney David Hoger l"iled those charges and added five other felonies, including kidnap­ping and conspiracy to com­mit kidnapping, according to court documents. 
Simpson, accused along with three other men, faces the possibility of life in prison if convicted in the robbery at the Palace Station casino. He was being held without bail and was sched­uled to be arraigned Wednesday. 
According to the charges, Simpson and the othnrs went to the hotel room under the pretext of brokering a deal with Alfred Beardsley and Bruce Fromong, two long­time collectors of Simpson memorabilia. 
According to police reports, Simpson and the other men entered the room and at gun­point ordered the longtime collectors to hand over sev­eral items once owned by the Heisman Trophy winner. Beardsley told poliee that one of the men with Simpson brandished a semiautomatic pistol, frisked him and impersonated a police officer. 
"I'm a cop and you're lucky this ain't LA or you'd be dead," the man said, accord­ing to the report. The man who arranged the meeting of the former athlete and the collectors, Tom Hiccio, also told police a Simpson associ­ate was "acting like a cop," the report said. 
As his associates tried to seize cell phones, Simpson yelled and cursed the collec­tors, who Simpson has said were trying to sell items that had been stolen from him. 
The kidnapping charges nled Tuesday accuse Simpson and three other men of detaining each of the collectors "against his will, and without his consent, for the purpose of committing a robbery." 
The memorabilia taken from the room included foot­ball game balls signed by Simpson, Joe Montana litho­graphs, baseballs auto­graphed by Pete Hose and Duke S n icier and framed awards and plaques, togeth­er valued at as much as $100,000. 
Some of tho loot was stuffnd into pillow easns stripped orr the bed, accord­ing to the policn report. 
follow the leader 
Everyone wants to be admired. GE's global reputation speaks volumes, but don't 
take our word for it: GE was named both World's Most Admired Company and 
America's Most Admired Company by FORTUNE seven times in the past eleven 
years. GE is most admired because of the people we hire. If you consider yourself 
top talent, we would like to talk with you. 
"" 

(r---·: 
~"'c J I' : 
\~ ! l 
';1\\ "·,t ++ a-·-;fPp.. --!i 

.. "·::· :<::::·.,_,.....r...._:.~j;\_-_-.-:·.-.-:-.··.:~.·:l.,\.'_.._-.:···.-·:··....:·.:· .. -.-...... ~~-![~ ~l . tt;·r·.......___ \--...
.....­

.:..··· -. . . L ...' ·······Iii· ............. :,;· .... 
........-; 
.-...~ ... ~ :., '. i 
'····· 
········· ..... 
·~ 
············ 
• imagination at work 

Wednesday, September 19, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
McConnell discusses Protect An1erica Act 
National intelligence director considers major changes to current wire tapping law 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON No Americans' telephones have been tapped without a court order since at least Febr'uary, the top U.S. intelli­gence official told Congress Tuesday. 
But National Intelligence Director Mike McConnell could not say how many Americans' phone conversa­tions have been 
open business records, library files, personal mail, and homes to searches by intelligence and law enforce­ment officers without a court order. 
Assistant Attorney General Kenneth L. Wainstein said the new surveillance powers granted by the Protect America Act apply only when the assistance of a communi­
o v e r h e a r d "Anytime you put in because of U.S. limiting language, 
wiretaps on for­
you ,ve got to make
eign phone lines. sure it doesn ,t have 
"I don't have unintended limiting 
the exact num­,, 
consequences,
ber ... consider­ing there are billions of trans­Kenneth L Wainstein actions every 
Assistant Attorney
day," McConnell 
General

told the House Judiciary Committee at a hearing on the law governing federal surveillance of phone calls and e-mails. 
McConnell said he could only speak-authoritatively about the seven months since he became DNI. 
In a newspaper interview last month, he said the gov­ernment had tapped fewer than 100 Americans' phones and e-mails under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which requires warrants from a 
secret intelligence court. 
McConnell is seeking addi­tional changes to the law, which Congress hastily modi­fied just before going on vacation in August based in part on the intelligence chief's warnings of a dire gap in U.S. intelligence. 
The new law eased some of the restrictions on govern­ment eavesdropping con­tained in the 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, to let the government more efficiently intercept foreign communications. 
Under the new law, the government can eavesdrop, without a court order, on communications conducted by a person reasonably believed to be outside the United States, even if an American is on one end of the conversation -so long as that American is not the intended focus or target of the surveillance. 
Before McConnell can con­vince Congress to make the Protect America Act perma­nent -and agree to even more changes easing the provisions of FISA -he first has to allay concerns that the law passed so hastily earlier this year does not subject Americans to unwar­ranted government surveil­lance. 
"The right to privacy is too important to be sacrificed in a last-minute rush before a congressional recess, which is what happened," said Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., the panel's chairman. 
Democrats worry that the law could be interpreted to 
involved in tion. 
cations com­pany is need­ed to conduct the surveil­lance. Therefore, he said, the gov­ernment could not use the law to search homes, open mail or collect business r e c o r d s because no communica­tions provider would be such a transac-


FRANK P. MAGGIO 
AND JIM HARPER (son of legend Jesse Harper) 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 11 :30AM -1:30PM 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Between 1880 and 1905, more than 325 deaths were reported in college football, and several major football schools, including Princeton, Harvard, Columbia, and Penn, threatened to drop the sport. Enter Jesse Harper, head football coach at Notre Dame. Harper recognized the potential of the forward pass, and, by the summer of 1913, along with star players Knute Rockne and Gus Dorais, had perfected an efficient, overhand throwing motion. Drawing from years of original research, Frank P. Maggio brings the classic victory to life and recounts Jesse Harper's role in Notre Dame's evolution into college football's most successful and storied program, and an elite university. 
Many Democrats in Congress are now seeking to narrow what they consider to be overly broad language by rewriting the law. Wainstein warned that inserting specif­ic prohibitions on govern­ment surveillance to protect civil liberties could have unintended consequences. 
"Anytime you put in limit­ing language, you've got to make sure it doesn't have 
Events are subject to change. Please call (574) 631-5757 to confirm. 
0700LF081307D 


unintended limiting conse­quences," Wainstein said. 
McConnell said that as long as his office can examine every word of the new lan­guage to scrub it for unin­tended consequences, he would be open to the changes. 
However, Bush administra­tion officials say concern about the new powers is unfounded. They contend the Protect America Act only allows the government to target foreigners for surveil­lance without a warrant, a change that was needed because of changes in com­munications technology. 
Addressing the controversy over the la-w, the Justice Department and the White House Tuesday issued a "myth and facts" paper meant to ease the concerns of civil liberties advocates and privacy groups that believe it gives the govern­ment broader powers than intended. 
Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., chairman of the subcommit­tee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, called the effort a troubling "charm offensive." 
"Let's have some truth in advertising. The act gives the president almost unfettered power to spy without judicial approval -not only on for­eigners but on Americans," Nadler said. 
McConnell said the new eavesdropping powers are needed not just to spy on ter­rorists but also to defend against more traditional potential adversaries. 
N a tionaI Attention 
Deficit Awareness Day 

Help promote awareness and empower individuals with AD/HD 
Get informed about AD/HD from reputable sources: 
www.add.org www.helpforadhd.org www.addresources.com 
....1itfp:77ii'aa·~-aFouTcom-· 
*Brought to you by the University Counseling Center and Disability Services* 
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 19, 2007 


War disability clain1s create problelllS for VA 
Sec'y Nicholson steps down, admits difficulties 
Associa1cd Press 

WASIIIN(;T<JN -Outgoing VA Seen~ tary Jim N ic hoI son ;u:knowlndgPd Tunsday that hn's struggling to reduen back­logs in disability claims from Iraq war veterans, saying cur­rent ofTorls won't bn enough to cut down waits that take months. 
Addrnssing CongrPss l'or a final time bol'orn stepping down Oct. I. Nicholson also pointed to persistent probloms bntween tho Pentagon and 
I> ~~ pa r t nw n t o f Volorans Affairs in coordinating earn for vetnrans and urgnd Congress to nm braco proposals by a presidential commission to fix gaps. 
"Tlwy have somn very good ideas in then~." lw said. 
Nidwlson's testimony to a llousn Vderans Affairs Cornmittnn painted a mixfHI picture of a VA that has initiat­nd mnasurns to boost nwntal health and othnr care but has struggfnd to kcf~P up with growing demands due to a prolonged Iraq war. 
Nicholson, who took office in early 2005, said tlw depart­nwn t. has hirNl I ,I 00 new processors to redun~ delays of up to 177 days in procnssing disability payments. But hn predicted another rise in com­pnnsation and pension claims this year, citing the additional applications pouring in during "the midst of war." 
The increase, he said, is coming from Iraq war veter­ans as well as veterans from previous conflicts who were prompted to file additional elaims for new or additional benelits amid the current pub­lic focus on war-related injuries in Iraq. 
Even with new starr. the VA 1:an only hope to reduce delays to about 145-150 days ­assuming that the current level of claims doesn't spike higlwr. 
"Tiu~ claims backlog is an issue that has bedeviled me and many that have come before me," Nicholson said. "In fact, VA can influence the output -claims decided -of its work product, but it cannot control the input -claims lilnd." 
Nicholson abruptly announced in July that he was resigning. Ilis appearance Tuesday comes amid intense political and public scrutiny following reports of substan­darcl outpatient treatment at tlw Pentagon-run Walter Heed Army Medical Center and at VA facilities. 
ACLU, Muslims sue FBI 
Leaders believe U.S. government has been spying on them since 2001 
Associated Press 

SANTA ANA. Calif. -The ACLU and Muslim advocacy groups sued the FBI and the Justice Department on Tuesday, alleging that authorities failed to turn over records detailing suspected surveillance of the Muslim-American community. 
The complaint, filed in U.S. District Court in Santa Ana, alleges that the FBI has turned over only four pages of docu­ments to community leaders, despite a Freedom of Information Act request !1Ied more than a year ago. 
The request sought records that described FBI guidelines and policies for surveillance and investigation of Muslim religious organizations, as well as specif­ic information about FBI inquiries targeting 11 groups or people. 
The lawsuit states that all the plaintifl's -who include some of the most prominent Muslim leaders in California -have reason to believe they have been investigated by the FBI since January 2001. 
"It sends a message that Muslim-Americans have been, and continue to be, cooperating with law enforcement, but they're concerned there might be a disproportionate focus ... on their religious practices," "said Ranjana Natarajan, an ACLU attorney. 
One plaintiff, Shakeel Syed, said that his organization and others have spent. three years building a relationship with the FBI but that the agency's resist­ance to the request was trou­bling. 
"I think it is in the best inter­ests of the government to come clean and be transparent and forthright," said Synd, exeeutivn director of the Islamic Shura 
Council of Southern California. "This is a credibility issue." 
FBI spokes­woman Laura Eimiller said she could not com­ment on pending litigation but released a state­ment from J. Stephen Tidwell, the FBI's assis­tant director in charge for Los Angeles. 

''The FBI does not investigate individuals or groups based on their lawful activities, religious or political belief<>." 
J. Stephen Tidwell 
FBI assistant director los Angeles office 
"The FBI does not investigatn individuals or groups based on their lawful activities, religious or political beliefs," Tidwell said. 
A message left for the Department of Justice al'tor business hours was not returned. 
The groups filed an initial FOIA request in May 200(J, sev­eral months after federal law enforcement oflidals confirmed the existenee of a classified radiation monitoring program used in surveillance at mosques, homes and businnsses. 
The FBI responded to the request first by saying it eould­n 't identify any records that met the criteria rnquested. Altnr an appeal, the agency turned over four pages that dealt with the Council of Ameriean-lslamie Helations and llussam Ayloush. 
ating with 

the council's executive direetor for Southern California. 
Those docu­ments dealt with a suspPet­ed hate erime at a mosque that the coun­eil had report­ed to the FBI and a conver­sation Ayloush had with an FBI agnnt about eooper­federal law 
enforeers, Natan~jan said. 

She said she believes there are many morn records because each plaintiff has been inter­viewed by the FBI or stopped at airports for questioning. The FBI, in its responses, indietnd it searehed only !'iles that hold information on a<:tive criminal investigations instnad of morn general files that could encom­pass surveillance ttctivitil~s. shn said. 

~------­
Wednesday, September 19, 2007 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
AUSTRIA 
Atnerican leadership called for in U.N. treaty 
U.S., 9others have yet to ratify nuclear testing ban 
Associated Press 
VIENNA -Diplomats at a 
U.N. 
conference urged the United States on Tuesday to take the lead among 10 coun­tries that have yet to ratify a global treaty banning nuclear test explosions. 

U.N. 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has urged all 10 countries to ratify the deal, saying it would ensure that North Korea's October 2006 test blast is the world's final experiment with atomic weaponry. 


Although 140 countries have ratified the treaty, the accord will not enter into force until it has been ratified by all 44 nations that took part in a 1996 disarmament conference and have nuclear power or research reactors. 
Only 34 of the 44 have done so. The 10 holdouts are China, Colombia, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Iran, Israel, North Korea, Pakistan and the United States. 
The foreign ministers of Austria and Costa Rica, who led a two-day conference on the treaty in Vienna, said the pact was key to ridding the world of nuclear weaponry and called for U.S. leader.ship in sealing the deal. 
"The message from here in a way is, yes, we want U.S. lead­ership," Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik told a news conference. 
The Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, opened for signature in September 1996, bans all nuclear test explo­sions. Its aim is to eliminate nuclear weapons by constrain­ing the development of new types of bomb. 
U.S. senators who voted against the treaty in 1999 argued that ratifying it would have threatened national secu­rity by closing off U.S. options to test. The Bush administra­tion also rejects the treaty. 
Ban, in a message relayed through an envoy, called the treaty "a major instrument in the field of disarmament and nonproliferation" that would help rid the world of nuclear weaponry. 
The conference was attended by more than 100 countries, including seven of the 10 hold­out countries. India, the United States and North Korea were not present. 





Rebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 
Winter Break Trip to the Gulf Coast January 7-January 13 


lnformati..on night: 
ThursdaYt•. ?l······~~~.20 
7pm 

Coleman Morse Student Lounge 
Applications available at http:11ace.nd.eduloutreach. 
The beacon in multi-million dollar investment decisions 
RainCapital is one of the world's leading private investment firms, managing more than $50 billion of leveraged buyout, public equity and credit funds. Sankaty Advi!iors, the credit affiliate of Bain Capital, is one of the nation's leading private managers of high yield debt obligations. With approximately $22 billion in committed capital, Sankaty is a world­class team of over 65 investment professionals with extensive experience analyzing and managing high yield investments. 
Representatives from Sankaty Advisors will be visiting campus throughout the year, speaking with undergraduate students about internships and full-time positions that will put your education to work on global, multi­million dollar investment decisions. 
Please look for us on campus in the coming months to learn more about the great opportunities we offer in Boston and London. 
Info Session: Thursday, September 20th Reekers/South Dining Hall (Hospitality Room), 6:30pm 
Resume Deadline: Tuesday, September 25th 
1st Round Interviews: Friday, October 5th 
For more information, visit us at www.sankaty.com. 



THE OBSERVER 

page 12 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 


Remember the Constitution 
1!0. Box n9, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining H.1ll, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN ClliEF Maddie Iianna 

MANAGING EDITOR BliSINF.'iS MANAGER Ken fowler Kyle We.~t 
Ass·I~ MANA<;JNG EI>ITOR: Kyle ('~ssily 

Ass·I; MANAGING EmTOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 

SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: 'lac Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Karie Kohler 

PfiOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'fi!CS ElliTOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: jessica Correz 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 

CoNTROl.l.ER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsncws.1@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instimtion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adveniscmcms based on comem. The nl>WS is reported as accurately and objectively as pos.,ihlc. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid: Managin11 Editor, Assistam Managing Editors and department ediwrs. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpnim space is available to all readers. The free <'Xpression of all opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. l.etrcrs to the Ediwr must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions "f,arding Obsm1er polici~s should be dim ted to Editor in Chief MtJddi~ Htmllll. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
l''ht' OMcm~r {USPS S'l'J ;: 1001.)) •~ puhhshcd M\md.ly d1wugh l~ridly except durmH c:um .&lld VK:IIUOn prmuO.. A wbsc.npuon ((I The ornetvcr i.\ $10() fur !lilt' IU...ulr:mk yt~r. $'i'i Intune ~mCUt'r 
T11c Oh~rvcr *' p••hl~ht'd ~: f'OSTMASl'ER 014 SutUh 01111111~ H.all Send ;nWr(';\1 "'rlt'l.IIUil\ tn: 
Nutrr 0.1mt', IN -1h1'5t;..Oi7•J The Oho.crvt>l 
Pefi•wlr\altMW.Io~J;•= p.ud ~~ NunC' D.amr P.O. Am.: 77•J 

.1.111! .ulduu•ll.tilll.lilltl~ ntli...t"i Ul4 Suurh IJuunK 11 ..11 
Nuuc: O.tmc, IN 4f•~'f)otP7•J 
f11t Oh....·rvtr •-a mcmhcr of 1hc-Aa.s.t~ei.U~II'rcu. All rcpru.. h•··unn r1¢1h .t~ •~•vee! 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Marcela Berrios  Tae Andrews  
Mandi Stirone  Viewpoint  
Katie Peralta  Bethany  
Graphics  Whitfield  
Madeline Nies  
Sports  
Jay Fitzpatrick  
Ellyn Michalak  
Kate Grabarek  

"The Constitution: It's not just a good idea. It's the Law."-Michael Badnarik 
Monday was Constitution Day. Constitution Day was created in 2004 when a law was passed mandating 
Zach Einterz 
any school receiv­
ing federal funds to 
Bulletproof
toach about the 
Ideas
Constitution on or around Sept. 17, the anniversary of its ratification. If you had no idea that Constitution Day was Monday, you're not alone. A survey released Monday by the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation revealed less than 50 percent of high school stu­dents have heard of Constitution Day and only 10 percent remember how it was celebrated last year in their high school. This comes at a time when the need to educate Americans on the founding document or this country seems ever more pressing. Consider some of these statistics from the 2007 "State of the First Amendment" survey: 
When asked which rights were guar­anteed by the First Amendment, only 16 percent of Americans could name the freedoms of press and assembly. Only three percent could name the right to petition. 
28 percent of Americans believe free­dom of religion was never meant to apply to religious groups that the majority of people felt were extreme or on the fringe. 
65 percent agree that the "nation's founders intended the U.S. to be a Christian nation," and 55 percent believe "The Constitution establishes a Christian nation." 
60 percent believe you should be allowed to say things in public that might be offensive to religious groups, but only 41 percent believe you can say offensive things about racial groups. 

34 percent of Americans believe the press has too much freedom, whilo only 13 percent say there is not enough freedom of the press. 
42 percent disagreed that musicians should be allowed to sing songs with lyrics others might find offensive. 
Perhaps the most disturbing fact came from the "Future of the First Amendment" survey of 2007. It report­ed that only 67 percent of high school students agree with the statement "Newspapers should be allowed to pub­lish freely without government approval of a story." 
If these are our attitudes toward the First Amendment, the most well-known and publicized part of our Constitution, imagine what our attitudes might be for the rest of the document. IIow many Americans can name all, or even hall', of the 10 Amendments in the Bill of Hights? How many understand the bal­ance of powers and know which pow­ers are delegated to each branch of government? American citizens are not expected to be experts in Constitutional law or political science majors, but a basic knowledge of the Constitution and an understanding of its purpose are necessary for the protection of our Republic. 
The Constitution was written to restrain the power of the government. With the memory of an oppressive king fresh in their minds, the framers of the Constitution wrote up a document that prescribed limited powers to the feder­al government. If we are ignorant of the limitations placed on government, 
how ean we defend our rights? When 
we lose respect for the Constitution and 
the rule of law, we concede authority to 
the government to ad on its own voli­
tion. 

We have seen over the past several years the abuse of our Constitution by the very people who swear to uphold it. Military commanders approve the use of torture. Politicians from the legisla­tive and executive branches support everything from warantless wiretap­ping to the suspension of habeas cor­pus to the centralization of power at the federal level. Politicians abuse the Constitution because they ean get away with it. Americans voters have become too ignorant and too complacent, and too often we don't hold them account­able. 
The Constitution turned 220 years old Monday, but its mandates remain time­less. Freedom from unreasonable searches and seizures is just as impor­tant now as it was in 1787. Authoritarians will make the argument that the Constitution is anachronistic, or as President Bush infamously declared in 2005, "Stop throwing the Constitution in my faee. It's just a piece of paper." If we don't educate ourselves about the Constitution and demand that our elected leaders follow it, it will become just that-a meaningless piece of paper. · 
Zach Einterz is a junior majoring in economics and environmental sciences. He has turned to politics after giving up on an unsuccessful sports career. Contact him at zeinterz@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER PoLL 
Notre Dame Football 2007: Great? Greatest? Abstain? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

....::i::#~i!&JiliMif;i.~@.MiT·:= .. ·. 
. 'ifk ·;;;Jj,:.~·;;,~\t~r;;~, 
Subtl;lit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Don't compromise yourself 
You're all you've' got. " 

Janis Joplin American singer and songwriter 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 19, 2007 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Recruiters incompatible with Notre Dame mission 
As concerned students of this University, we write regarding this year's Job Expo sponsored by the Career Center and the Mendoza College of Business. Having read over the list of partieipating organizations. we are very much alarmed at the presenee of a number of the groups seeking to recruit students from our University. We ques­tion the moral and social responsibility of two organizatioq.s in particular. We feel that the inclusion of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and Raytheon directly contradicts the mission of our University. 
As our mission statement reads, the intent of the University "is to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes serviee to justice." Instead of fostering a sense of solidarity and justice, as we are ealled, these organizations are founded on the propagation of a society that creates and consumes violence. 
In the Iraq war. which has been strongly and repeatedly condemned as unjust by secular and religious leaders around the world, Raytheon received 
9.1 billion dollars in weapons contracts in only one year (2005). Its 5,000 pound "bunker buster" bombs have been raining down on the people of Afghanistan since 2001. Raytheon's profit increases only as American actions take the lives of hundreds of thousands of civilians. 
The Central Intelligence Agency, while claiming to be our nation's "first line of defense," has become one of the most misused tools in America's unjust foreign policy. Its tactics have recently led to charges by the New Yorker and the Washington Post that the CIA main­tains secret detention centers. A new report released by six leading human rights groups, including Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, charges the CIA with the disappearance of 39 individuals. The secret detention and disappearanee of these individuals comes in addition to the CIA's use of torture taetics, including waterboard­ing, in their morally questionable involvement in the War on Terror. 

We believe that Notre Dame should act in accordance with the Mission Statement upon which it was founded. We believe that the presence of both the CIA and Raytheon cannot be recon­ciled with our responsibility to "assist the world in creating justice grounded in love." We call on University President Father John Jenkins and the administration to reevaluate the pres­ence of such organizations that would seek to exploit our education for serv­ice to injustice and violence rather than justice and love. We call on him to take a conscientious position regarding the direction of our University on this mat­ter. We ask that, in the spirit of our University's mission statement, he 
restrict the recruitment efforts of these organizations on our campus. 
Michael Angulo, Kristi Haas and Alicia Quiros are writing on behalfof Notre Dame Peace Fellowship, Human Rights Notre Dame and Progressive Student Alliance. 
Michael Angulo junior Kristi Hass Alicia Quiros sophomores Sept. 18 

NDfans show class 
As a Wolverines fan, I hate Notre Dame football. But I just wanted to thank your university and stu­dents for being so friendly on their visit to Michigan Stadium. There was no bit­terness to be seen, only "good game" and "glad to be here." The Fighting Irish faithful proved to be terrific fans and visitors. Good luck on the rest of your season. 
Jane Coaston junior University of Michigan Sept. 17 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

U-WIRE 

Universal health care not feasible 
One of the largest and most covered issues of the 2008 presidential elections is the issue of health care and health care reform in America. In a recent poll con­ducted by Time Magazine, 90 percentof respondents said the American health care 
Joseph Motzko
system needs a ehange. With such an over­
The Pitt News 
whelming portion of the population want­ing reform, candidates of both parties are trying to come up with a solution to deal with not only the rising costs of health care premiums, co-pays and prescription drugs but also the 47 million uninsured Americans the U.S. Census Bureau esti­mates exist. 
One common solution offered is some rendition of a single-payer universal health care plan with the federal government as the single payer in which everyone is guar­anteed medical insurance. Surprisingly, in the same Time poll, 64 percent of respon­dents believed the government should guarantee medical coverage for citizens. 
With such a large backing, it might seem strange that some sort of universal health care was not initiated earlier. The reasons it hasn't are quite simple: cost and quality. When asked if the government should guarantee health care at a higher cost to taxpayers, support falls to 48 percent. Americans may be open to the idea of uni­versal health care, but they are far from sold on it. 
It is not a secret that the cost of starting, maintaining and operating a universal health care plan is phenomenal. John Edwards, the first Democrat to outline a specific plan, openly acknowledges that his plan would cost up to 120 billion dollars a year. He believes that this cost could be covered by simply undoing the Bush tax cuts, a move that could dampen economic growth. 
Other countries have enacted universal health care at a national level. Just over the border, Canada has a national health care system that is free for all its citizens. Over the Atlantic, Great Britain has a universal system along with several other European countries. But what do the people of these countries get for their money? 
Presently, there are 875,000 Canadians on waiting lists for specialists, and 900,000 British people are waiting for admission to National Health Service hospitals, accord­ing to a report by the Los Angeles Tunes. In Sweden you could wait 25 weeks for heart surgery and more than a year for hip replacement surgery. In Canada you wait 40 weeks on average for orthopedic sur­gery. 

Some Canadian provinces allow for pri­vate doctors to provide MRis and other services for a fee while others forbid any non-government treatment. According to CBS News, in Canada, a class action law­suit was filed on behalf of 10,000 women who had to wait eight weeks for breast cancer treatment. 
One woman, Johanne Lavoie, traveled four hours with her five-year-old son to Vermont on a bus to receiver her treat­ment. When a wealthy Canadian business­man needs an MRI, orthopedic surgery or hip replacement, where does he go? 
He doesn't wait a eouple months on a waiting list; he flies or drives to the U.S. and pays out of pocket for faster and high­er quality treatment. The poor and middle class wait on lists while the rich get what they want when they want it. Don't believe me? Just look at the numerous health care providers lined up at the U.S.-Canada bor­der. 
The answer to the health care reform qi.Jestion is not simple. Besides universal health care, another possible solution is to create tax-free accounts that allow people to save money tax-free for future unexpect­ed health care costs. 
A second solution is to provide working Americans with tax breaks if they purchase their own insurance. The most realistic approach is some sort of hybrid system that allows for personal choice and responsibili­ty, but is subsidized by the government. 
It is unacceptable for almost 50 million people in the wealthiest country in the world to be without the means to receive non-emergency medical treatment. However, universal health eare, as being discussed today, is not a feasible option. If the money required to pay for universal health care comes from raising taxes on corporations and citizens, we risk becom­ing less competitive with foreign firms. Health care reform is needed in America, but not at the price of American jobs and national security. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 18 edition ofThe Pitt News, the daily publication ofthe University ofPittsburgh. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
finished product was the actual music, By CORBIN HICKS which came in the form of the classic Staff Writer album "Get Rich or Die Tryin." 
From the time "In Da Club" reached 

50 Cent is the epitome of what is the airwaves, 50 Cent had the musical wrong with rap music today, but we formula down for crafting catchy hits still love him anyway. that at the same time could not be 
Through the years, the art form accused of being corny -a direct con­known as rap has gone through multi­trast to his then competitor Ja Rule. ple phases, and differ-After bringing his ent people have been entire group of friends considered the top dog so Cent is the epitome of and cronies into the in the game. From Hun music industry and
what is wrong with rap 
DMC to Sugar Hill letting them put out 
(~ang, Hakim, KRS-One music nowadays. But we group and solo 
and even the Wu-Tang still love him anyway. albums -standard Clan, there have been practice in the rap various rap acts which world -it was time define rap music at the time of their for 50 Cent to return with a solo album reign. Even politically conscious groups of his own. such as Public Enemy and What followed was "The Massacre," Grandmaster Flash and The Furious in which 50 Cent further tweaked this Five have time-stamped their names on formula and provided an album that the history of hip hop. However, no one failed to live up to the standard set by has done as much good -or as much its predecessor. While not a complete 
The bulletproof 50 Cent returns with "Curtis," the artist's second album after
bad -for rap music as 50 Cent. failure, the bar was set too ridiculously 
his breakthrough smash "Get Rich or Die Tryln' ," which was released In 2003. 
When lw first burst onto the scene high for "The Massacre" to surpass four years ago: it was obvious the next those expectations. in the next group of songs, which though you haven't. While there are hip-hop superstar had arrived on the Fast forward two years to "Curtis," includes "Ayo Technology," some pretty good songs on this album, scene. From 50's swagger to the "bul­50 Cent's most recent offering to fans. "Amusement Park," "Straight To The you have to wonder whether his new­letproof' background story he shoved The album starts with a movie clip Bank" and "Follow My found fortune shilling down listeners' throats, there was about purchasing powerful weapons, Lead," one of the album's Vitamin Water has taken something about 50 Cent very different which transitions into the opening better collaborations with away some of the hunger
During the two 

from anything anyone had ever seen track "My Gun." For the next couple H & B crooner Robin and angst that once filled
years in between 

before. The only thing missing from the songs, 50 Cent raps about killing peo-Thicke. The next track up the heart and tracks of ple, accompanied by is the obligatory diss albums, so Cent did the original mixtape 

the standard Akon record "Fully Loaded nothing to try to superstar. guest appearance. The Clip," which is pretty Believe it or not,
reinvent the wheel. 

next song, "I Get standard musical fare if "Curtis" is actually a self­Money," steals the you are familiar with 50 In other words, all of titled album ("Fitty's" real show, resonating Cent's catalogue of mate­name is Curtis Jackson).
the tracks sound as 
through the speaker rial. The egomaniacal 50 Cent
ifyou've heard them 
system and lodging The weirdness of the could not rap again itself firmly in the lis­Eminem-assisted "Peep before -even another day in his life tener's memory. This Show" doesn't do much to though you haven't. and still be financially song is so good it add to the album, and stable forever, but does should make it onto a starts the rest of the he have to make it so top 10 list for this songs on a slow downward spiral until obvious during this hour-long bragging entire decade. "Curtis" comes to a close. and boasting extravaganza? It might be 
Unfortunately, the During the two years which passed in time for him to get his resume ready, buildup gets derailed between "Curtis" and "The Massacre," because it doesn't look like he has on the very next song, 50 Cent did absolutely nothing to try much of a future in this line of work "Come and Go." and reinvent the wheel. In other words, much longer. However, 50 Cent all of the tracks on "Curtis" sound as if recovers quite nicely you've heard them before -even Contact Corbin Hicks at chicks2@nd.edu 

} 
/ 
.... 
' 


Photo courtesy of hiphopmusicdotcom.com After becoming the face of rap music with his smash single "In Da Club" In 2003, has the bullet-ridden rapper lost his hip-hop touch? 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
page 15 
-


By CORBIN HICKS Staff Writer 
If Kanye West keeps putting out albums of this caliber, Beethoven should watch his back. 
Kanye West's latest album "Graduation" is nothing short of spec­tacular, which is what you would expect from the man who has con­tributed some of the best music of this decade. From producing hits for Jay-Z, Common, Ludacris, John Legend, Alicia Keys, and just about every other hip hop act out, Kanye found the time to become an accomplished lyricist and songwriter of his own. 
From the Grammy-winning "Jesus Walks" on his first album, high profile recognition of the blood diamond con­flict taking place in locations like Sierra Leone, to the highly controver­sial jab taken at President Bush after the II urricane Katrina disaster, Kanye just has a knack for staying in the headlines and in people's conversa­tions. Perhaps taking a cue from his mentor Jay-Z, he walks the perfect bal­ance between appealing to the more active hip hop listeners as well as attracting attention from the main­stream consumers. And nowhere is this more obvious than his latest effort. 
"Graduation" is the third of four 

installments in Kanye's concept album plan. Continuing on the school theme from his previous works, "The College Dropout" and "Late Registration," Kanye intends to follow up this album with the final installment titled "Good­Ass Job." One has to ask how that is going to fly in a media world after Janet Jackson wardrobe malfunction, but you have to applaud him for being able to see the bigger picture and try to put together a cohesive group of work that is meant to withstand the test of time. Just the fact that he is recording as if he were making a box set means that he is not simply trying to cash in on the relative fortunes to be made from the music industry. This passion for music and seemingly perfectionist attitude is what makes his music that much different, for the better or for the 
worse. 
Fortunately for music fans every­where, these gambles are pretty much all for the better. The album begins with the introductory track "Good Morning", in which he compares him­self to a "fly Malcolm X" as the instru­mentation prepares you for the musical journey you are about to undergo. The energy shifts from the mellowness of the first track to the high energy "Champion" and the second single from the album "Stronger." This song is per­haps the one that people are most familiar with, as the Daft Punk-sampled 
chorus and electronic beat make for a musi­cal experience that is for sure a party mix mainstay until the New Year. We all know Club Fever plays "old" new music, so if they have your stuff on rotation now, then you've for sure got a hit on your hands. 
The album continues on the musical high note with "I Wonder," and the singles "Good Life" and "Can't Tell Me Nothing." The fact 

OBSERVER GRAPHIC I Julie Grisanti 

Photo courtesy blogs.knoxnews.com 
Kanye West returns to the limelight with "Graduation," his third album. 
that "Stronger" and "Can't Tell Me Nothing" were recorded by the same artist speaks volumes about not only Kanye's creativity as an artist, but also the freedom that fans allow him to have when they receive new material from him. There is nothing out right now that sounds like that song, but to have it be so well received explains how much fans trust him for new music and also how he is looking to sonically conquer new frontiers. 
The album seems to flow perfectly from one song to the next until the end of the album. That is, of course, if you forget that "Drunk and Hot Girls" exists (which you should anyway). Even though this album peaks from begin­ning to end, the inclusion of this god­awful song takes the rating down a full notch. However, don't let that turn you away from this masterpiece of an album that Kanye has released. To answer Nas, hip hop is not dead; it was just waiting for Kanye to get his money right. 
Contact Corbin Hicks at chicks2@nd.edu 
courtesy orm,onle,_com 

The fashionable West has found hin11~e~lf best suited to making hi!Hlop hits. 
BooK REVIEW 
St~~ lllr1tl C;;!1f9t ......Giu~ .:-;. 
Photo courtesy of randomhouse.com 

By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
Every incoming Notre Dame freshman has two goals: one, to get straight As; and two, to devote as much time as possible to football, Family Guy DVDs and going out with friends. Unfortunately, the two exist in creative tension, and college life often seems like a zero sum game: Success at one goal comes at the expense of the other. 
In his book, "How to Become a Straight­A Student: The Unconventional Strategies Real College Students Use to Score High While Studying Less," author Cal Newport explains that the two goals don't have to be mutually exclusive. The secret? Not studying harder or longer, writes Newport, but studying smarter. 
Most students, he writes, tackle studying by brute force and rote repetition, barri­cading themselves in the library and por­ing over texts until their eyeballs threaten to fall out of their heads. Not only is this not fun, Newport says, but it is actually counterproductive. 
Instead of buying Red Bull and doing the academic equivalent of banging one's head against the wall, Newport suggests students get smart about getting smart. 
Unfortunately, the last thing most col­lege kids want to do is pick up yet another book and leaf through the pages in pursuit of knowledge. In his book, Newport does­n't waste time; he breaks things down in a quick and simple manner. In the first sec­tion, Newport explains how to focus on time management and defeat that subtle master of subterfuge and studying sabo­tage, procrastination. 
He also stresses how location has a direct correlation to the quality of studying time, and how studying in powerful, con­centrated bursts is a much superior tech­­nique than slogging through hours and hours of continuous, monotonous and ulti­mately ineffective marathon sessions. 
In the book's second section, Newport goes over how to take smarter, better notes, in addition to learning how to dis­cern between which readings to actually read, which to skim and which students can skip outright. And in the third section, he writes about how to take down that mastodon of college assignments, the dreaded research paper. 
Newport's advice isn't merely conjec­ture; he surveyed real straight-A students from the nation's top colleges and picked up the strategies they use for success. His writing is light and fun to read, and he has a sense of humor as well. Newport also realizes that college kids have better things to do than read about studying. 
"How to Become a Straight-A Student" is a quick easy read and worth a glance for any undergraduate hoping to get good grades while still painting South Bend red. Who knows, maybe it'll even boost that GPA a little. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tan drew 1 @nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
---~--­
-
By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Af'tnr its initial mndioern npisodns, "30 Hock" found its grounding and kept building throughout its nntirn first sea­soil. Thn rnsult was not only the most improvml conwdy from its pilot, but also onn of th1~ funnit~st. Too bad pnopln don't watch it. However, "30 Hock Season 1," now on DVD. stands out as a shining nxample of outstanding comedy. 
Few pnople predicted that by the end of the 2006-2007 televi­

.= :::~ 

RocK Solid G~medy Shines in First Season 
romedian Tracy Jordan (Tracy Morgan) to grab the male 18-49 demographic, changing thn show's name to "TGS with Tracy Jordan." A frustrated Liz is assist­ml by "TGS" producer Pete Hornberger (Scott Adsit), writers Frank (Judah Frindlander) and Toofer (Keith Powell), and the perpetually happy, show biz-lov­ing Kenneth the Page (.Jack McBrayer). 
Liz must face a whole mess of weekly obstacles. Most crises are "TGS"-relat­ed, like when Liz must deal with an overly psychotic Tracy before he appears on "Late Night with Conan 
O'Brien," but many of her 

sion snason "Studio 60 problems delve into her
What makes '':Jo Rock" 
on the Sunset Strip" personal life as well. In
particularly unique is 
would din and "30 Rock" one episode she acciden­would live. Arter all, its use of "Saturday tally steals the makeup "Studio 60" marked the Night Live" alumni artist's baby when she much heralded return of feels her biological clock
Chris Parnell and
writing gnnius Aaron ticking. In another she has Sorkin. But ":~o Hoek" Rachel Dratch. to find the courage and 
had its own secret weapon -Alee Baldwin. Even if he docs have anger issw-Js, the man can do eom­edy. 
Baldwin stars as Jack Donaghy, new boss to Tina Fey's Liz Lem<in. Jack deeidns to take Liz under his wing and in the process, makes a few changes to her comedy sketch show, "The Girlie Show." lie pushes aside star and Liz's best friend Jenna Maroney (Jane Krakowski) and brings in unbalanced 

the time to break up with her loser boyfriend Dennis {Dean Winters), one of the only remaining beeper salesmen in New York. 
What makes "30 Rock" particularly unique is its use of "Saturday Night Live" alumni Chris Parnell and Rachel Dratch. Parnell frequently appears on the show as Dr. Leo Spaceman (pronounced Spu­

Ifits first season is any
che-manJ, the go-to doctor for Emmy Awards, 
every illness or emergency indication ofthe future, then "30 Hock" imaginable. needs to worry
"30 Rock" will continue to 
Dratch, who about attract­
be one ofthe best comedies 
was original­ing an audi­ly slated to on television. People just ence or else it star as best will suffer the
need to watch the show. 
friend Jenna before the character changed, appears as a variety of different characters ineluding cat wrangler Greta Johanssen, the Blue Dude and Russian prostitute Vlem. We even get to see her do her "SNL" Barbara Walters impression just like we get to see Tracy Morgan's Oprah and Star Jones impressions one more time. 

The only downside to the season one DVD set is the incredibly disappointing extras. The behind-the-scenes fea­turettes appear to be thought out and filmed at the last minute. Even the episode commentaries are disappoint­ing. It's a delight to listen to Fey's and McBrayer's commentaries, but the DVD set could have benefited from more actors doing commentary together. Lorne Michaels and his son do a com­mentary, but by the end a person won­ders if they even know what a DVD com­mentary is. 
Even the disappointing extras cannot undermine the hilarity and sophistica­tion of "30 Rock." It employs the same self-referential humor that "Arrested Development" mastered and like "Arrested," it sticks strictly to comedy and doesn't dabble in the dramatic. 
The guest stars are impeccable as well. Highlights include Will Arnett, Paul Reubens, Isabella Hossellini and Elaine Stritch, who won this year's Emmy for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series for her role as Jack's mother. 
After its win for Outstanding Comedy 
Series at 
Sunday's 


same tragic 

fate as "Arrested Development." Fans of "The Office" will certainly appreciate the comedy of "30 Rock," but America has yet to respond to Baldwin, Fey and company. 
If its first season is any indication of the future, then "30 Rock" will continue to be one of the best comedies on televi-
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 

From SNL to 30 Rock: Comedy pals reunite for Emmy-winning new comedy. 





-

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
NFL 
AFC East 

team record perc. PF PA New England 2·0 1.000 76 28 
N.Y. Jets 0·2 .000 27 • 58 Buffalo 0·2 .000 17 41 Miami 0·2 .000 33 53 
AFC North 

team record perc. PF PA Pittsburgh 2·0 1.000 60 10 Cleveland 1·1 .500 58 79 Baltimore 1·1 .500 40 40 Cincinnati 1·1 .500 72 71 
AFC South 

team record perc. PF PA Houston 2;0 1.000 54 24 Indianapolis 2-0 1.000 63 30 Jacksonville 1·1 .500 23 20 Tennessee 1·1 .500 33 32 
AFC West 

team record perc, PF PA Denver 2·0 1.000 38 34 San Diego 1·1 .500 28 41 Oakland 0·2 .000 41 59 Kansas City 0·2 .000 13 40 
NFC East 

team record perc. PF PA Dallas 2·0 1.000 82 55 Washington 2·0 1.000 36 25 Philadelphia 0-2 .000 25 36 N.Y. Giants 1·2 .333 81 92 
NFC North 

team record per~. PF PA Detroit 2-0 1.000 56 38 Green Bay 2·0 1.000 51 26 Minnesota 1·1 .500 41 23 Chicago 1-1 .500 23 24 
NFC South 

team record perc. PF PA Carolina 1·1 .500 48 47 Tampa Bay 1·1 .500 37 34 New Orleans 0·2 .000 24 72 Atlanta 0·2 .000 10 37 
NFC West 

team record perc. PF PA San Francisco 2·0 1.000 37 33 Seattle 1·1 .500 40 29 Arizona 1·1 .500 40 40 St. Louis 0·2 .000 29 44 
MIAA Women's Golf 
team Total Average 
1 Olivet 664 
333.0 2 SAINT MARY'S 678 
339.0 3 Tri-State 685 342.5 4 Hope 697 348.5 5 Alma 729 364.5 6 Albion 744 372.0 7 Calvin 760 380.0 8 Adrian 763 381.5 9 Kalamazoo 770 
385.0 
around the dial 
MLB Cincinnati at Chicago Cubs 8:05p.m., ESPN 
UEFA WORLD CHAMPION SOCCER LEAGUE Portugal vs. Manchester United 2:30p.m., ESPN2 
CoMr~LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
NFL 
Associated Press 
IRVING -Suspended defensive tackle Tank Johnson signed a two-year contract Tuesday with the Dallas Cowboys. 
Johnson, who played the last three seasons for the Chicago Bears, can't play for the Cowboys and won't be paid until he completes his eight-game NFL suspen· sion for violating probation on a gun charge. He has served the first two games of that suspension and will still havl'l to apply for rein­statement. 
Johnson signed after visit­ing with the Cowboys and taking a physical. He will make about $255,000 this season, the prorated por­tion of a minimum contract. 


"For a lot of reasons, he really just felt the Cowboys were the right fit," said Johnson's agent, Jerrold Colton. "He's so thankful to them for giving him this opportunity. He is very determined to prove they made a wise decision in believing in him." 
The team issued a news release confirming the sign­ing and announcing that Johnson will discuss the signing in a conference call Wednesday. 
The Cowboys also said that Calvin Hill, a former player who is now a con­sultant specializing in moni­toring troubled players, will 
IN BRIEF Gibbons meets with league
officials in steroid probe 
NEW YORK-' Baltimore outfield­er Jay Gibbons met with two offi­cials from the baseball commission­er's office to discuss a report he received performance-enhancing steroids and human growth hor­mone after both substances were banned by baseball. 
Gibbons met Monday with Rob Manfred, baseball's executive vice president for labor relations, and Jon Coyles, the sport's director of drug testing. 
There was no indication whether there would be any follow-up, a person familiar with the meeting said, speaking on condition of anonymity because no details were announced. 
"I met with Major League Baseball representatives (yester­day) and was happy to answer all of their questions," Gibbons was quoted as saying. 
be available for comment Wednesday, as will coach Wade Phillips, owner Jerry Jones and Johnson's new teammates. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said the earliest Johnson would be eligible to play is Nov. 11 at the New York Giants, the Cowboys' ninth game of the season. Dallas has an open date in the NFL's eighth week. 
Johnson could provide late-season depth on a defensive line that lost starting nose tackle Jason Ferguson for the year because of a torn right biceps in the opener. But Johnson will have to adjust to Cowboys' 3-4 scheme, 

NFI pushes for authority on 
disability claims 
WASHINGTON -Under fire from injured retirees who say they were denied sufficient benefits, the head of the National Football League Players Association asked Congress on Tuesday for greater authority to approve disability claims. 
Gene Upshaw, director of the players association, said the union currently is limited in what it can do for the scores of former players who are battered and broken from years of playing the violent sport. 
At the same time, Upshaw and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said league pensions are improving. 
"We have made great progress, and we are not finished;" Upshaw told a Senate committee. "Congress can help." 
It is the first time the union has asked Congress for help with the problem, which was the subject of a House hearing earlier this year. 
page 17 
which is different from what he's played in Chicago. 
Although Johnson can't work out with Dallas until the week of the Giants game after his suspension ends, the team had to make room for him on the 53­man roster. The Cowboys released backup corner­back Nate Jones on Tuesday. 
The Cowboys will place Johnson on the reserve/sus~ pended list Wednesday. This creates a roster open­ing. 
Jay Ratliff, a third-year player, replaced Ferguson as the starting nose tackle. Ratliff has five tackles, a sack and a fumble recovery for the Cowboys (2-0). 

OB Leftwich signs deal with 
Atlanta Falcons 
FLOWERY BRANCH -The Atlanta Falcons signed former Jacksonville quarterback Byron Leftwich on Tuesday, giving the team immediate depth and a potential contender for the starting job. 
"First of all, I'm a football player and the last couple of weeks have been tough on me," said Leftwich, who was cut the week before the season by the Jaguars. "I appreciate the opportunity and I look forward to doing whatever I can to help our team." 
Leftwich's agent, Tom Condon, said the former first-round draft pick passed a physical, worked out for the team and signed a two-year, $7 million deal. The 27 -year-old Leftwich is set to join the Falcons for Wednesday's prac­tice. 
To clear a roster spot for Leftwich, the team released third-string quarter­back Casey Bramlet, whose only pro­fessional experience came in Europe... 
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
MLB 

Unusual offense leads Angels to 10-7 victory 
Rockies pitcher Francis keeps playoff hopes alive; Royals' Meche holds White Sox to only four hits and two runs 
four-plus innings, the fourth Figgins chased the right-hander
Associated Press 

straight start in whieh he failed with a tiebreaking, two-out RBI 
ANAHEIM -The Los Angeles to pitch through the sixth. One triple over the head of Upton, Angnls' versatile oiTensn over­of the runs against him was a who was playing shallow in carno anothnr shaky outing by straight steal of home by B.J. center and appeared to have Knlvim Escobar. Upton in the third. trouble picking up the ball off 
Chonn Figgins and Casey The Angels right-hander has the bat. Kotchman tmch had three hits a I0.19 EHA during his last "Most defenses are taking and two HBls, and the Angnls four outings, raising his overall away most of Figgy's stuff in lowered their magic number ERA from 2. 77 to 3.46. front, because that's really for dinching the AL West to live "It's been tough on me my where he predominantly hits with a 10-7 victory over the last four games," Escobar said. the ball," Angels manager Mike Tampa Bay Devil Hays on "For some reason, I'm out of Scioscia said. "But once in a Monday night. syneh and I'm fighting with while, he's got that power. That 
This was the 17th time the myself to get back into my ball was squared up." 
Angels havo scored 10 or more rhythm. I just have to find a runs, and the 11th time in their way to fix it and finish strong." Rockies 3, Dodgers 1 last 50 games. And they did it Eseobar left with a 6-4 lead Accolades can wait for Jeff without the benefit of a home af'ter Tampa Bay loaded the Francis. 
run. bases with none out in the fifth, The Colorado left-hander 
"Our team is not a horne run­and Oliver relieved. Akinori rebounded from a rare bad out­hitting team and our park's not lwamura scored on second ing to lead the Rockies past the built for that," Figgins said. baseman Howie Kendrick's Los Angeles Dodgers in the first "We've got guys who can run. fielding error, and Greg Norton game of a double-header And wlwn you've got athletes, canw home on a fielder's choiee Tuesday. you can do a lot more things." grounder by Delmon Young -So centered on keeping the 
Darrnn Oliver (3-0) allowed his third HBI of the game. But Hockies' slim playoff hopes two hits in 1 2-3 scoreless Oliver kept the score tied by alive, Francis didn't realize innings for the Angels, who had retiring Dioner Navarro on a until afterward that he'd struck 1H hits. Los Angeles overcame bases-loaded llyout. out a career-high 10 batters or delidts of 2-0 and 4-3 and also Edwin Jackson (4-15) lost his that he had set a franchise wasted leads of 3-2 and 6-4. third straight decision. allowing record for wins by a lefty. 
Escobar gave up six runs, seven runs -four earned -Francis (16-8) surpassed 
eight hits and two walks in and 14 hits over 4 2-3 innings. Shawn Estes, who had 15 in 2004, and put himself just one win shy of the franchise record pitched through a lot of tral'lic we needed. I felt likn were on set by Kevin Ritz in 1996 and early, left seven men on base the edge all night long and tied by Pedro Astacio in 1999. in the first four innings, kind of held on." 
"When the season is over topped it off with 10 strike­The right-hander, who the you can look back at things outs. Nice bounce-back out­Hoyals signed to a five-year, like that and be proud of ing." $55 million contract during them," Francis said. "But I the offseason, has worked 202 think there's something bigger Royals 3, White Sox 2 innings to bncome the first we're working toward right Gil Meche picked up his Kansas City pitcher to surpass now." ninth victory Tuesday night, the 200-inning mark since left­
The teams played a split but he could have a whole lot bander Darrell May logged doubleheader to make up for a more if he got any run support 210 innings in 2003. rainout on July 27 at Coors this season. "It's something I've never Field, and both teams looked Meche scattered four hits done," MechP said. "To come at it as crucial to their hopes over seven innings, and Billy in here with a big contract and of catching San Diego in the Butler drove in two runs as establish mysPif as a good NL wild-card chase. The the Kansas City Hoyals beat pitcher who eats up a lot of Dodgers began the day three the Chicago White Sox. innings and give us a chance games behind the Padres and Meche (9-12) has a 2.90 EllA to win, for the most part I've Colorado started five games over his past eight starts, and done that all year. I've been back. has not allowed more than real pleased." 
Francis allowed one run on three runs in any of them. But Meche gave up two runs, six hits and stranded eight he is just 2-3 over that stretch, one earned, while striking out runners in 6 2-innings. His 10 and the Royals have scored five and walking two. strikeouts were the most by a only 10 runs while he was on "We get three runs off the Rockies pitcher since Jason the mound in his 12 dnfeats. bat and it let me go out there Jennings fanned 10 Giants on "I think you could conserva­and relax a little," Meche Aug. 28, 2003, a span of 661 tively say he could have won said. "It seemed like I got bet­games. 16 to 17 games the way he's ter as the game went along. 
"Great time to pitch a great pitched," Hoyals manager In the seventh inning, I had game," Rockies manager Clint Buddy Bell said. "We got three the best stuff I had the whole Hurdle said. "Very resilient, runs in the first and that's all game." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content withouc issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
SCHOOL BUS SUBSTITUTE  Brick ranch w/walkout LL,gourmet  Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
WANTED  DRIVER NEEDED. Responsible, dependable,safety conscious grad  kitchen, vaulted ceilings. Park-like street. Close to ND. 574-217-1557  Walk to ND. 574-876-7341. For Football weekends. call574-532­ TICKETS  Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs  
student sought to drive a school  Tat ian a  1408.  confidential support or assistance,  
STUDENT  bus for a private south-side SB  WANTED- please call  
WORK  school. Must be available when  Call me for a list of properties near  2bdrm house w/basement, wash- ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP,  
$12.75  needed (flexible) from 7 a.m. to  ND. 574-217-1557Tatiana  er/dryer. Corby at Eddy 574-232­ PLEASE  at 1-7819.  
base-appt.  8:15a.m., and 3:15p.m. to 4:30  9084.  HELP!  For more information,  
Flexible schedules,  p.m. Each trip pays $33.Need a  Remodeled ranch near ND with all  574-251-1570  visit our website at:  
no experience needed,  Commercial Driver License -will  appliances included!  3 bdrm house. Walk to ND. Washer  http://osa. nd. edu/departments/preg­ 
customer sales/service,  train around your schedule and pay  1446 sq.ft ..3 BR, 1 Bath and x-large  & dryer. $750/mo. Good neighbor- FOR SALE:  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  
conditions apply,  for your COL training, but must  2-car garage. $104,000. 574-340­ hood. Landlord does yard work. No  ND FOOTBALL TIX.  in  
all ages  have residency in  1651.  Pets. No Section 8. Call 574-250­ ALL HOME GAMES.  THE OBSERVER.  
18+,  lndiana.Forapplicationlinterviewcall  1266.  574-232-0964.  
574-273-3835,  574-291-4200.  www. victorytickets.com  If you or someone you care about  
www. workforstudents.com  FoR RENT  HOUSE FOR RENT CLOSE TO  has been sexually assaulted,  
CAMPUS  ND tickets for sale. Best Prices.  visit  
Babysitter  FoR SALE  LODGING FOR FOOTBALL  (North Shore Triangle neighbor­ 574-288-2726.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  
for  GAMES  hood) 3 bedrooms.  shtml  
16-mo-old boy.  Awesome nverfront new construe·  Visit www.amishcountrybb.org for  1 bath, A/C, dishwasher,  Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659.  
Weekdays  lion 12 min. to ND. 4 bdr,4bath,mar­ 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast  washer/dryer, rent $750 per month  Mark from ABC Cab is Back!!!  
from  ble,ceramics.h!w floors.  Accommodations.  plus utilities. Available immediately.  NOW Driving for American Cab Co  
4-7 p.m. Call574-229-3020.  Jacuzzi,deck,pier. 574-217-1557 Tatiana  Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts.  Call 243-7763. Email cventer@ nd.edu  PERSONAL  On Wed,Thurs,Fri,Sat,Nights. Cell574-360-6480.  

Wednesday, September 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Brewers move into first place in NL Central 
Vargas relieves Sheets, pitches four scoreless innings; Estrada hits his second grand slam of season 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -The Milwaukee Brewers lost their ace, then moved into first place in the NL 
c~ntral. 
Johnny Estrada hit his second grand slam of the season against Houston and Milwaukee overcame an injury to Ben Sheets to beat the Astros 9-1 on Tuesday night, moving the Brewers less than a percentage point ahead of the Chicago Cubs in a tight division race. 
Claudio Vargas (11-4) pitched four scoreless innings in relief of Sheets, who left with tight­ness in his left hamstring after giving up a run in the first. Team officials said Sheets would be evaluated on Wednesday. His status was uncertain for his next scheduled start, in Atlanta on Sunday. 
"I guess I'll see tomorrow," said Sheets, still in pain after the game. "It was just grabbing me back there. I felt great in .the first (inning). I thought I was going to get into a nice 
groove." 
The Brewers didn't need 
Sheets against the Astros ­
Vargas and three relievers held 
them without a hit over the 
final seven innings to win their 
third straight game. 
"The grand slam was big," 
Estrada said. "But Claudio 
sucking up those innings was 
bigger. That was a huge effort 
by the bullpen." 
Ryan Braun added a two-run 
homer and Prince Fielder 
stretched his hitting streak to 
16 games with an RBI single for 
the Brewers, who have won 
four of their last six. 
"I was telling the guys a few 
days ago, whoever puts togeth­
er a good seven-game win 
streak is probably going to pull 
away and win this thing," 
Estrada said. "Hopefully, we 
can keep it going." 
Estrada's second career slam capped a five-run fourth inning off rookie Felipe Paulino (0-1), who was making his first major league start. The 23-year-old right-hander was recalled from the minors on Sept. 4. 
"There was an excitement in the ballpark," said Houston manager Cecil Cooper. "But they put five up in that inning and that kind of took the fans out of it." 
By then, Vargas was cruising. He allowed singles to Mark Loretta and Brad Ausmus in the second, a walk to Lance Berkman in the third and retired the other 12 hitters he faced. 
"I've pitched out of the bullpen before," Vargas said. "I just take the ball, try to get loose and try to make my pitch­es. That's what I did." 
Houston took 1-0 lead in the first inning before Sheets departed. 

Rookie Josh Anderson led off with a double down the left­field line, went to third on Craig Biggio's bunt and scored on Berkman's single up the middle. Anderson is 12-for-25 since the Astros recalled him from the minors on Sept. 1. 
Sheets came out to start the second inning, threw a few warmup pitches, then signaled to the dugout that he was hurt. Manager Ned Yost walked to the mound with a trainer and the right-handed Sheets pointed to his lower left leg. 
"It didn't pop," Sheets said. "It just gradually grabbed worse and worse every time." 
Sheets jogged around the infield and threw a warmup pitch before walking off the field. lie's already missed a month this season with a sprained finger and strained his groin in April. 
''I'm mentally fried from injuries this year," he said. "The 
© 2007 KPMG LLP, the U.S. member firm of KPMG International_ a Swiss cooperative. No phone calls or agencies please. KPMG is an Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer. M/F/DN. KPMG maintains a drug-free workplace. 
guys picked me up nicely. That made me feel better. I don't know about the injuries, though. They keep happening." 
Paulino allowed only one hit through the first three innings before crumbling in the fourth. 
After Joe Dillon led off with a ground out, Braun tripled over Anderson's head in straight­away center and Fielder fol­lowed with a broken-bat single to left that tied the game at 1. 
Corey Hart doubled down the left-field line and Paulino inten­tionally walked Gabe Gross to load the bases for Estrada, who hit a grand slam off Astros reliever Rick White at Miller Park on June 26. 
"It took me five years to hit one," Estrada said. "After I hit the first one, I figured it would take five more to hit another one." 
Turns out it took less than three months. 
This time, Estrada drove a 2­2 pitch from Paulino over the right-field wall, just inside the foul pole. Estrada is 6-for-10 with 19 RBis with the bases loaded this season. 
Left-bander Trever Miller relieved Paulino to start the fifth. He walked Dillon before Braun lined his 31st homer of the season a few feet inside the left-field foul pole. 
Geoff Jenkins and Rickie Weeks hit back-to-back homers off Brian Moehler in the ninth. 
Seth McClung, Derrick Turnbow and Greg Aquino com­bined to shut out the Astros without a hit over the final four innings. Houston has lost 10 of' its last 13 games. 

skills experience wealth character communities networks a life 
At KPMG, we network across the globe to help businesses respond to an always-evolving global economy. We're focused on Global Mobility ­with international internships, training and assignments that can broaden your abilities and help us share knowledge across borders. 
The KPMG 
International 
Network of Firms is the second-largest of the Big Four firms offering services outside of the U.S. Continuing success in this arena requires that our people think and act globally. 

From the moment you start building your career at KPMG in the U.S., you can be exposed to opportunities for international training, experiences and assignments that enable our people to be the very best at working in the business environment-in the U.S. and abroad. 
Find out more about how you can build your networks, your global experience, and your career at KPMG. 
kpmgcareers.com 
A great place to build your career. 

AUDIT • TAX • ADVISORY 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
NCAA FooTBALL 

Purdue quarterback Taylor breaks left arm 
Associate<! Press 

INI>IANAI'OI.IS -Purdue running bark JayeiHl Taylor could n~turn in six wonks af'tPr lw brokn his h•rt arm Saturday against Central Michigan. roach Jon Tiller said Ttwsday. 
TillPr originally thought Taylor might he out for tlw smtson, but the f'arl that the injury was a rlean bn~ak rhangnd tlw prog­nosis. 

"ll1~ possibly could ~~ome hark and play," TillPr said at his weekly lldnronfPfiHlre. "Whetlwr or not that comes to fruition. of' course, remains lo be SOIHl." 
The junior left Saturday's ganw for good after a 5-yard run laln in the first quarter, and Ialor found out that he broke both bones in his lower arm. lie had succ1~ssf'ul surgery on Monday, and plates were put on both hmws. 
"To me, any break is not a good deal. hut apparently, this was the best we could have hoped for. and that Jaycen could have hopPd for. coming out of' this," Tiller said. 
Tiller said he expects Taylor to say lw's n~ady beforn six Wetlks pass. 
"lin probably will," Tiller said. "I don't know if we can heli1we him, but I'll be surpris1ld if ho doesn't." 
Taylor. a junior eollngn trans­fer. entered last season expect­ing to have to work his way into tlw rotation because starter Kory Shnnts ran for 571 yards and I 0 touchdowns as a fresh­man. Instead. Taylor l'inished with 677 rushing yards and four touchdowns and played regular­ly as Slwets' backup. Tiller pro­moted Taylor to starter in the spring. 
Taylor rushed for 197 yards on 2X carries this season before tlw injury. 
''I'm concerned quite a bit about the running baek posi­tion," Tiller said. "I think the 
Zook hopes to defeat Indiana on hoine turf 
Coach currently 0-2 in series vs. Hoosiers 
Associated Press 
CIIAMPAJ(;N, Ill. -Hon Zook says he won't usn the fact that Illinois hasn't beaten Indiana in his two-plus seasons in Champaign as a motivator for Saturday's game between the two teams. 
Not his style, Zook says. 
But don't believe that the 

Illini's 0-2 record sinee 2005 
against their eastern rwighbor 
is far from Zook's thoughts. 
"Like I told our team last night. this is the third limn wn'rn gonna' play and wn havpn't won yet," Zook said during his rl'gular Ttwsday rwws conferl'nr.P. 
"Our progmms an~ vnry, vPry similar. We're both kind of improving at tlw sanw rate. Tlw t h i n g t h a t tlwy' v e done is tlwy'vn twatl'n us twice," he said. 
If tlw lllini's bar.k-to-baek losses against Indiana don't give Saturday's ganw in Bloomington I'Xtra significance for Illinois. those similarities might. 
Indiana Pntl'rs tlw game at :{­0, with talPntPd sophomore quartNbaek KPllPn l.1~wis load­ing an olTPnSP that's averaging 47X yards a ganw. Illinois is 2­1, and has ~~onseeutivn wins for tlw first tinw sin en Zook 's first two garrws in 2005 and eonws off a 4 I -20 dissee ti on or Syracuse on tlw road. 
Tlw winnPr opens Big Tnn play 1-0 and should get a big lift. The lospr will nntnr thn next week looking for its first win against tougher competi­tion Indiana at Iowa and Illinois at horne against Penn State. 
Illinois' dPfnnsP versus Lewis ligures to bn onn of the game's key matdurps. 
The lllini haven't allowed an opposing back to run for more than 100 yards this season, 
while Lnwis has 317 yards 
rushing_ including 199 last 
wnekend in a 41-24 win over 
Akron. lin's sixth in the Big Ten 
in rushing yards, right behind 
Illinois running back Hashard 
Mendenhall. 
Lewis, a sophomore, also has passnd for 643 yards _ 214 yards a game _ and nine touch­downs while throwing three interceptions. 
"lie ean beat you with his feet and his arm," Zook said. "llow do you defend that?" 
Zook also said Tuesday that hasn't forgottnn that Lewis had orw of his first strong games last season in Champaign. 
Lewis punched holns in the Illinois defense with his feet, rushing for 4 7 yards and a touchdown, and his arm with 240 yards passing. The lloosiers camH back from a 15­point first quarter dnlieit to win, :{4-32. 
"lin was just using athletic ability and the skill around him," Zook said. 
Linnbacker Brit Miller com­pared Lewis to lllini quarter­hack Juice Williams. Both can run the ball. and are sometimes more dangerous when a play lm~aks down than wlwn stick­ing to the playbook, Miller said. 
"For the most part, you don't areount l'or the quartnrbaek in a lot ol' breakdown situations," he said. "It's not about the straightaway speed, it's about tlwir 11iusiveness." 
Williams is coming ofT what some say is his best college game. The sophomon) threw for 1)7 yards and a touehdown, ran l'o~ 90 more and another TI> and. most importantly, did­n't makn a fatal mistake. 
lie and Mendenhall will, at times, l'aen eight-and nine-man l'ronts, Zook said Tuesday. 
Mnndm1hall. who ran for 150 yards and three touchdowns last wenkend at Syracuse, is practicing this week with a slight ankle sprain, Zook said, adding that the running back should be finn by Saturday. 
loss of Taylor was pretty big." 
Slwets, who will resume his starting role, had career highs of' 21 carries and 144 yards against Central Michigan, but fumbled twice. The junior has rushed for 1,622 yards and 24 touchdowns at Purdue. 
Dan Dierking steps in at the No. 2 running back spot. His father, Seott, ran for 2,863 yards from 1973 to 1976. Tiller thinks some of that talent rubbed ofl'. 
"I think he's a fast learner," Tiller said. "lie's been coached well, certainly by his high school coaches, and maybe by his daddy." 
Quarterback Curtis Painter belinves Dierking will succeed in his expanded role. 
"I think he's very .similar to Kory and Jaycen in that he plays extremely hard," Painter said. "lie picked up a couple blocks in this pa~t game. That's always a good sign, that they're not so worried about not getting the ball that they won't block." 



Wednesday, September 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
FIFA WoMEN's WoRLD CuP 
U.S. defeats Nigeria in World Cup quarterfinals 
Chalupny scores sole goal within first minute of play; the favored squad looks for its third championship title 
Associated Press 
SHANGHAI -Lori Chalupny gave the United States the fast start it was looking for in a 1-0 victory over Nigeria on Tuesday, a win that put the top-ranked Americans into the Women's World Cup quarterfinals. 
Chalupny's goal after only 55 seconds set up a quarterfinal match against England on Saturday in the northern city of Tianjin. The Americans have won six of nine games against England (with two losses and a tie). The last game was a 1-1 draw eight months ago. 
Sweden defeated North Korea 2-1 on Tuesday in Tianjin. Despite the loss, North Korea advances to a quarterfinal against defending champion Germany on Saturday in Wuhan. 
Sluggish in the first two games against North Korea and Sweden in Group B. the Americans raced ahead in a heavy downpour at Hongkou Stadium and pushed their undefeated streak to 50 games. 
"You take any goal you can, but getting a quick one -now they've got to come at you," American coach Greg Ryan said. "It gives you better chances going the other direction. It's a great way to start." 
Off a throw-in from Cat Whitehill, Abby Wambach head­ed a ball to midfielder Chalupny, who settled it off her chest and then chipped a close-in right­footed shot that deflected off a Nigerian player behind keeper Precious Dede. It was her fifth goal for the national team and the quickest of the tournament. 
"It's a set piece we've been working on," Chalupny said. "Abby just got the perfect flick on it, kind of what we draw up in practice, and it just happened to bounce right to me. So I was able to get a touch on it and slide it away." 
Looking for its third title to go with World Cups in '91 and '99, the United States finished with seven points in Group B, consid­ered the toughest in the tourna­ment. 
The wet field and driving rain slowed many attacks and kept the crowd down to several thou­sand in the 34,000-seat stadium. 
Nigeria had only one shot in the first half; the Americans had a half dozen. 
Wambach headed the ball just over the bar in the 20th minute and Kristine Lilly's free kick from 18 yards sailed just high in the 25th. Dede also leaped to stop a header in the 36th. In the 41st, Lilly found Chalupny in the box, but she headed the ball just wide. 
In the 43rd, Wambach's close­in header was deflected just over the bar by Dede following Lilly's cross. 


APPLICATION 
EETING 
FOR FALL 2008 & SPRING 2009 Wecltl.esclay, Septe111.l)er 19, 20()7 101 :DeBartolo 6:00 ptn 
SOPHC)~10RES FRO~l ALL COLI~EGES ARE WELCO~~IE! 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
WNBA 

Mercury captures first WNBA championship
-
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -The Phoenix Mercury's slogan for the 2007 WNBA playoll's was "One team, one city, one goal." 

On Tuesday, it was one big party as the new WNBA cham­pions and about 1,000 of their fans celebratnd at a U.S. Airways Cnntnr rally. A champi­onship banner was unfurled as purple and gold confetti flut­tnrnd from tlw ceiling. 
"You stuek with us through thick and thin, and there was quitn a bit of thin," All-Star for­ward Penny Taylor told the crowd. "We fought for you." 
Taylor wasn't kidding. She hor1~ four bruises and an inch­long scratch on hnr arms, evi­dnru:n of an intnnso, physical snrins with the l>ntroit Sl10ck. 
'Inn Mercury have had a small but ardent fan base since their inception in 1997. Some of the rally's loudnst cheers were reserved for Mercury assistant wad1 Bridget Pettis. who seored the first basket in tl~am history. 
"I feel that I'm asleep right now, and I'm having the best dn~am of my life," an emotional Pettis said. 
It was a dream season for the Mnrcury, who seored a WNBA­rncord I{IJ points per gamn and bncame the lirst tnam in league history to clinch a title on the road. 
Phonnix rallied from a 2-1 del'icit to hPat Detroit in tho best-of-five series.The final pro sports teams, only the score of the clincher -PHX Arizona Diamondbacks, in 2001, 108, I>ET 92 -flashed on a have brought a trophy to the scoreboard above the dais. desert. 
Championships are rare in Perhaps that why the rally this eity. Among the four major stirred so many emotions. 
Arizona fans haven't been year." spoiled by success. Before the 12:30 p.m. rally, 
"From the bottom of our the Mercury gathered on an hearts, thank you so much," All­underground practice court to Star Diana Taurasi said. "We're have a team photo taken with going to do it all again next the WNBA trophy. 
Kellogg Institute International Film Series 
it 

A DecentFactory
.~~F~~jf 
~..,!.~.. -~ ......~!:,..bof' ~~....·"Ht:· 

TONIGHT! at 7pm Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
Can the Finnish electronics firm Nokia balance profit-making with social morality? Filmmaker Thomas Balmes covers three years of Nokia's investigative journey. 
KELLOGG INSTITUTE Cosponsored by the Higgins Labor Research Center 
"Health Care Reforms: AnE . 'A " 
conomtsts ssessment 
William Evans Keough-Hesburgh Professor of Economics 
12:00 Noon Saturday, September 22, 2007 
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt 
For a list of all the Kellogg Institute events, visit kellogg.nd.edu/events 
Fall 2007 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues of our times. 
~ 9/01-Georgia Tech "Why is Goethe's Faust rhe Grearest Work of German Literature?'' Vittorio Hosie, Paul G. Kimball Professor ofArts and Letters 
~ 9/22-Michigan State "Health Care Reforms: An Economist's Assessment" William Evans, Keough-Hesburgh Professor of Economics 


~ 10/13-Boston College "Global Ireland: From Celtic Twilight ro Celtic Tiger" Luke Gibbons, Donald R. Keough Family Professor ofirish Srudies 
~ 10/20-USC "Combating Extremism: Democratic Virtues and Pluralism in Islam" Asma Afsaruddin, Associate Protessor of Arabic and Islan1ic Studies 
~ 11/03-Navy "Cops. Protest, and Rioring~ ~ Daniel Myers, Director of Research and Faculty Development, Joan B. Kroc Institute for lnternarional Peace Studies, Professor ofSociology 
~ 11110-Air Force "1heological But Not Religious: The Case ofJohn Milton" Stephen Fallon, Professor, Program of Liberal Studies 
~ 11/17-Duke "Words and Music, Music and Words: The Songs ofFranz Schubert" Susan Youens, ].W. Van Gorkom Professor of Music 
3-112 hours before kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium, Snire Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted). For more information, visit http:// saturdayscholar.nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
-~---~----­
Wednesday, September 19, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
McNabb says black QBs scrutinized 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Philadelphia Eagles star Donovan McNabb says black quarterbacks face greater scrutiny than their white counterparts. 
In an interview on HBO's "Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel" to be broadcast Tuesday, McNabb said black quarterbacks "have to do a lit­tle bit extra" because there are relatively few of them, adding "people didn't want us to play this position." 
McNabb said if he passes for 300 yards and his team wins by a touchdown, critics will say, "Oh, he could have made this throw here. We would have scored more points if he would have done this." 
Asked if white quarterbacks such as Peyton Manning and Carson Palmer are held to the same standards, McNabb replied: "Let me start by say­ing, I love those guys. But they don't get criticized as much as we do. They don't." 
McNabb is one of six black starting quarterbacks in the NFL. The others are David Garrard of Jacksonville, Vince Young of Tennessee, Steve McNair of Baltimore, Jason Campbell of Washington and Tarvaris Jackson of Minnesota. 
McNabb, a five-time Pro Bowl selection, is 91/2 months removed from major knee sur­gery and has missed 13 games the past two seasons because of injuries. On Monday night, he misfired on several throws and couldn't create big plays during the Eagles' 20-12 loss to Washington. 

In 2003, conservative com­mentator Rush Limbaugh, briefly part of ESPN's pregame show, said he didn't think McNabb was as good as per­ceived. 
"I think what we've had here is a little social concern in the NFL," Limbaugh said. "The media has been very desirous that a black quarterback do well." 

STEROIDS 
St. Louis company 
fined $10.5 million 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -A company that distributed human growth hor­mone to "well known athletes and entertainers" has agreed to pay a $10.5 million penalty and cooperate with ongoing law enforcement investiga­tions, federal prosecutors said Tuesday. 
Under the terms of the agree­ment, Specialty Distribution Services Inc., a subsidiary of Express Scripts Inc., will not face prosecution for three years if it fully complies with terms of the agreement. 
Steve Littlejohn, a spokesman for St. Louis-based Express Scripts, said the company fully cooperated in the federal investigation and has already implemented procedures to prevent the illegal distribution of human growth hormone. 
"Express Scripts does not condone the use of huma:tl growth hormone for anti-aging, cosmetic or performance enhancement purposes," the company said in ·a news release. 
Specialty Distribution Services "knowingly distributed human growth hormone to cer­tain well known athletes and entertainers, including a well known athlete in Massachusetts, knowing that their intended use was athletic performance enhancement, cosmetic or anti-aging," in vio­lation of federal law, the U.S. attorney's office said in a news release. 
Prosecutors did not mention any names of those believed to have bought HGH from the firm. ~ 
The drug in question was approved by the Food and Drug Administration only for specific purposes, including treatment of children with growth failure due to inade­quate growth hormones, prose­cutors said. 
"The public should also real­ize that human growth hor­mone has not been shown to be safe and effective for athletic, cosmetic or anti-aging uses. and it must not be promoted or distributed for such uses," U.S. Attorney Michael Sullivan said in a statement. 
The company illegally shipped the drugs five times between October 2000 and December 2005, according to court documents prosecutors filed with the agreement. 
Human growth hormone was sent to a "well known profes­sional athlete in Massachusetts" in January 2002 and again in October 2003 following a doctor's request, the documents said. 

Men ofNotre Dame ...
Corby Night 
Is God calling you? Join us. 
Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross com1nunity at Notre Dame for an hour ofprayer, pizza, 
and informal discussion. 
Wednesday, Sept. 19, 8pm at Corby Hall 
vocation.nd.edu 
Questions? calll-6385 


Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 
Thomas allegedly used slurs, curses 
Associated Press 
NEW YOBK-Just months 

af'ter berating her in 11Xpletive­
lilled tirades, Nnw York Knieks 
road1 and president lsiah 
Thomas rnovPd from cursing to 
rourting a f.-llow PXm~utive now 
suing the basketball llall of 
Farner for sexual harassment. a 
former team employee testilind 
Tu!lsday. 
Jei"J"rey Nix. a I !i-year 
employee of' thn NBA tnam, 
took tlw stand in U.S. District 
Court to rPeount a sPries of' 
conversations hn had with his 
friend and 1:o-worker. plaintiff 
Anur.ha Browne Sanders, 
throughout 2004. · 
Browne Sanders, in tones of 
disgust, dntaiiPd how Thomas 
initially tn1atPd lwr with con­
tempt shortly after his 
Dncnmbnr 2003 arrival in New 
York. Nix testified. 
At onn nH1eting meant to 
resolve any issues between 
Brow1w Sanders and Thomas, 
the two-time NBA champion 
guard Iaslwd out at her by 
announdng. "Don't forget. you 
r--bitch. I'm the president 
of' this 1'--team," Nix said 
his f'ritmd told him. 
Browne Sanders also told Nix, 
he testif"ind, that Thomas had 
asked her in March 2004, 
"What the I:__ is your job'? What 
are your job responsibilities, 
you f--ho'?" 
By thn end of the year. though, Nix testified that he saw Thomas embracing Browne Sanders in Madison Square Garden after a Knir.ks' victory -and watched as his friend pushed the coach away. 
"You're not going to believe what he just said," Nix quoted Browne Sanders as saying. "He just said, 'I'm in love with you. It's like Ithe movie I 'Love and Basketball."" 
Browne Sanders is suing Thomas and Madison Square Garden for $10 million in a sex­ual harassment suit that also seeks reinstatement to the job that she held for five years with the onee-storied franchise that won its last title in 1973. 
Attorneys for Browne Sanders rPsted their ease Tuesday artnrnoon arter calling the plaintifl"'s sister, Huth. and her ex-administrative assistant to buttress her elaims. They also played a videotapnd depo­sition from MSG Chairman Jamns L. Dolan. who said thn deeision to lirn Browne Sanders was his almw. 
Asked if' it was appropriate for MS<; ern ploynes to rnfnr to 1:o-worknrs as a "black bitch." as star Knir.ks guard Stephon Marbury allngedly did to Browne SandPrs. Dolan quiekly said it was not. 
"It is also not appropriatn to 
murder anyone," Dolan contin­
uml. "I don't know that that has 
happmwd Pitlwr." 
Thomas, who has denied the allegations, sat with his hands folded in front of his race at the dnfense table. tiltnd his head slightly and listened intently as Nix testili11d. Nix. who held a variety of bench and front oflice jobs with the Knicks, was let go by the Thomas regimo at tho end of August. 
Tho defense case, with Thomas expected to testify at some point, should begin Wednesday morning. · 
Nix said Browne Sanders was upset and confused by Thomas' switch from verbally abusive to amorous. When the two spokt~ in spring 200!i, Nix rocalled Browne Sanders telling him, "It wnnt from last year bitch and ho to now hn's in love with me." 
Brownn Sanders, a married mother of throe and former Northwestern basketball star, joini1d the Knieks in late 2000. Tlw vke presidnnt of marknting and business operations was fired in January 2006; she claimed the dismissal came aftnr she complained to MSG management. 
The Garden elaims she was dismissed for a failure to "fulfill profossional responsibilities." 
Nix appeared one day after jurors watehed a videotaped deposition where Thomas insisted that he had never eursed at the plaintiff. During ttw questioning, Thomas also said he would find it more offensive if a white male called a black female a "bitch." than if a black r'nal•~ made tho same comment. 
, 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles travel to last-place Albion 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's returns to the court after six days off to face last-place Albion (1-7, 0-4 MIAA) tonight at 7 in Albion, Mieh. 
Albion may be in last. but it boasts the most reeent MIM player of' the week. Britons outside hitter Morgan Waller had a combined 52 kills and 26 digs in Albion's league losses to Alma and Olivet. 
Saint Mary's had two honor­able mentions for the MIAA player of the week -senior setter Amanda David and sophomore outside hitter Lorna Slupczynski. 
The Belles meet the Britons with a 2-2 eonference record and an overall record of 5-6. 
Players strive to be the MIM player of the week, but the Belles want to go beyond that prize. 
"This season our goals are a little higher than last year both on and off the court,·: David said. "We have raised our team GPA goal to a 3.4 or higher, which is very feasible. On the court we are pushing hard for a regional ranking, 



which is also very possible." In their six days off, the Belles kept up the work. 
"Wn will be working on really making both our offense and our defense crisper, coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "Our game is coming together nice­ly, but we still hav1~ a lot of work to go to get to where we want to be." 
Although Albion is in last, its stats arc competitive with 
presents 


Cushwa Center Lecture 
American Catholicism in a World Made Small: The Fusion and Fracturing ofa Global Identity, 1945-1989 
Joseph Chinnici, O.F.M. Franciscan School of Theology 
Wednesday, September 19, 2007 4:15p.m. DeBartolo Hall, Room I 02 
Saint Mary's. Both tnams average about 12 kills, 11 assists and two. blocks a game. Albion is ahead of Saint Mary's in digs per a game with 22.21 digs to the Belles' 14.7. 
But thn statisties haven't meant much for Albion. The Belles will return home Friday to l"aee Kalamazoo. 
Contact Samantha Leonard sleonaO1@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, September 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
corner of the end zone. competitive, and it feels really diving interception and Laura Boward coach Tim An extra point would have good to win my senior year." Geisman had two picks of her Baumgartner said the team
Walsh 
continued from page 24 
After a punt return to mid­field, Chaos junior quarter­back Katie Dunn completed three straight passes to get her team within five yards of a touchdown. After a two­yard scramble by Dunn, Cavana-ugh faced a fourth­and-gual from the Walsh 2­yard line. Senior captain Tarah Brom attempted to cross the plann on a sweep but was stopped behind the line by Walsh defender Julie Campbell. 
The Chaos was given a sec­ond chance when Lauren Cummings intercepted a Sullivan pass moments later. On third down, Dunn was pressured by Walsh's defense, but managed connect while on the run with receiver Sarah Van Mill, who was standing unguarded in the 
tied the score, but Dunn was stopped just before she could dive across the goal line, leaving the Wild Women with the slim edge. 
Cavanaugh got another chance to win the game with 
1:23 remaining, but three straight incomplete passes ensured victory for the Wild Women. 
After the game, Sullivan was awarded the offensive MVP for Walsh, with Campbell winning defensive MVP. Both players received a piece of "the rock" as a reward. 
"[Campbell's! stop at the end of the game was absolutely crucial," Walsh coach Mike Schaefer said. 
Sullivan, meanwhile, enjoyed the moment after defeating her team's arch­rivals. 
"It's a pretty intense rival­ry," she said. "It's always 
Though disappointed with the loss, Cavanaugh coach Hunter Land refused to look at the negatives and was already looking forward to exacting revenge. 
"Our defense played really well the second half," he said. "Walsh played a hell of a game and we wish them the best of luck this season. We definitely hope to play them one more time, though." 
PE 14, Howard 14 
Although Howard's defense had bee.n powerful against McGlinn Sunday, it collapsed against Pasquerilla East in a hard-fought tie. 
The Ducks started the game with a long pass from fresh­man quarterback Kayla Bishop to freshman receiver Leslie Allen, but were stopped shortly thereafter. 
Howard's defense played well; Emily Stewart made a own. After her second inter­ception, Howard's rushing and passing attack took the Ducks down the field. 

Pasquerilla East's coaches attributed Howard's passing success to the height of their 
receivers.  Howard's  two  
touchdowns came  on deep  
passes.  

"Howard is a small team of girls, but they are pretty good," Pyros co-coach Laura Hansen said. "I bet every one of them is over 5-[foot]-1 0." 
Pasquerilla East worked their way down the field and eventually evened the score, but neither team could pull ahead. 
Pyros co-coach Kyle Carter admitted didn't have a solid game plan. 
"We just go out and make up plays, pretty much," Carter said. " ... P.E. was a lot faster than we were. They've got speed." 

MY PHONE DOWN THE SEWER, ALL MY FRIENDS' NUMBERS WON'T GO WITH IT. 
My Contacts Backup from 
u.s.~ gives you the peace 
of mind and security of knowing you 
can rescue all your contacts, even 
if you can't (or would rather not) 
rescue your phone. 
u.s. Cellutar is wireless where you matter most... 
*US.Cellular 
getusc.com 1-888-BUY-uscc 

faced a tough opponent. 
"They kept us guessing with that play-calling -they ran reverses and things that we just weren't ready for," he said. 
One of Howard's players saw the need to change their defensive alignment. 
"I've got to give credit to Christina Sensabaugh; during our timeout she told us the defense wasn't working, and then she came up with a scheme that held PE back for the rest of the game," Carter said. 
McGlinn 0, Farley 0 
Defense was the name of the game as McGlinn and Farley blocked and tackled their way to scoreless tie Tuesday at Rihele Field. 

The Finest defense got going early, when they drove McGlinn to a three-and-out on its first possession and forced a punt. Farley senior quarterback and captain Jenny Rolfs completed four passes in a row to senior receiver Kim Crehan. But the Finest were stopped short of a first down and yielded the ball to the Shamrocks. 
Rolfs completed 15-of-19 passes but threw three inter­ceptions. In addition, a five­yard false start penalty in the second half caused the offense to stumble. 
"The offense has a lot of new players," Holfs said. "I think we did a good job of moving the ball." 
McGlinn's offense was based on the run, with sophomore running back Tina Noranha getting the majority of the carries. The Shamrocks, play­ing sophomore backup quar­terback Christie Haller, were held to only one first down. Haller was 2-of-7 passing with two interceptions. 
"You've got to hand it to Farley's defense," senior McGlinn coach Jeff Paramore said. "They really stopped our run." 
The football changed hands many times at the end of the second half. 
With two minutes left on the clock, McGlinn turned the ball over on downs. The Farley possession began with a 25­yard rush by Rolfs, followed by three passes to Crehan. But Shamrocks freshman Kathleen Stanley had several tackles to prevent the Finest from scoring. 
McGlinn took over with 30 seconds remammg, but Farley senior Anna Pursley intercepted Haller's pass. The Finest regained possession with time for one more play, but Rolfs' pass attempt was intercepted by senior Shamrocks captain Katie Zedler to end the game. 
"We showed a lot of promise today," Zedler said. "We are implementing a new offense, and have a lot of new players. The rest is yet unwritten." 
Senior Farley coach Matt Barcus also saw potential in his team. 
"I think we can win with 
this team," Barcus said. "Six 
ties and we go to the play­
offs." 
The Farley Finest play Cavanaugh Sunday at 1 p.m., and McGlinn's next challenger is also Cavanaugh, on Sept. 25 at 7 p.m. 
Contact Sam Wemer at swemer@nd.edu, Rachel Plassmeyer at rplassme@nd.edu and Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
Ca01p 
continued from page 28 
of tho hall," Weis said. "We 
want to run tlw ball with mor11 
physicality -and pass block 
for that matter." 
Weis said that aside from 

improving physieality, taekling 
to tlw ground also allows tho 
staff to get a better read on a 
players' jwrf'ormance. When 
tlw Irish wm·p merdy wrapping 
up ball £~arriers b11f'orn a whistle 
blnw. the eoadws had no way of 
knowing how wnll a dl'l'endnr 
could tackle or how well a run­
ning back could break ta1:klns. 
"There's no way to hide ]now!," Weis said. "If you'rn a running baek, you'rn going to tlw ground. If you'rp a receivnr, you·n~ going to tlw ground. If you'n~ a ta1:kler, you have to take them all the way to the grou.nd. There's no whistle that's going to blow the play dnad." 
Weis said thn team took the transition to morn physieal praetices well. 
"I didn't know on Sunday how they would respond having just playml a ganw and having lost by a lopsidml score ... and thnn !wing out thern and going full pads." hn said. "J'vn been encouraged by the tempo we've had." 
All of ttw hitting is in lieu of a spneifk gamn plan for Michigan State, whom Notre Dame plays on Saturday. Weis said the Irish will focus less on "Xs and Os" this wnnk and morn on doing the little things well. 
"We'w~ knpt it very simple on both sides of the ball.," Wnis said. "Wn're letting people ten ofT on nach other and sen who wins." 
Weis introducnd specific game plans for both Georgia Tech and Michigan, utilizing the spread­option to try to neutralize his tl~am's inexperienee. In both easns, the oll'ense strugglnd. lie said tho days of spedal oiTenses wnek-to-wenk are ovnr, at l11ast for now. For the next fow wonks, the Irish will work on mastnring their base playbook. 
"Somntimns when you try to find the Xs and Os schematics to best exploit the other team's weaknessos, you don't really have an identity," Weis said. "The identity that I've always dealt with on the oll'ensive side of the ball is multiple forma­tions and multiple formations that ean all run the same plays. We haven't gotten that yet. Hight now we're trying to g1~t to the core, because that ean build on· tlw corn." 
W1~is also said that the spneial ofTnnses wnre designed to mask his team's weaknessP.s, but he's now dneidPd to buckle down and correct the weaknesses. 
"You have to start force-feed­ing who they am," he said. "At this point you can't be trying to l'igurn out what they can do. You havn to say 'we're going to do this.' And then you have to do it, and do it, and do it, and do it, until you gel it right." 
Evon if the optimism on Weis' fa en conws true and the Irish improve significantly this week, tlw eoadt said he will keep his lnam hilling hard in practicH for most of the season. 
"I think you have to keep somn nlnmnnt of this in your planning so you don't have a setback," h11 said. "Say you go and win on Saturday. That doesn't mean you're okay. You still got tlw erap kick11d out of you in thrne straight games and you're 1-3." 
Notes: 
+ The Fort Wayne Journal Gazette rnported on its website Tunsday night that quarterback I>emntrius Jones will not be released from his scholarship, meaning he will have to pay his own tuition at Northern Illinois this ynar. 
Weis said that he talked to Jones on Monday evening, four days after the sophomore abruptly left South Bend, but that he was not involved direct­ly in Jones' transfer. 
''I'm not involved in any of that stufl'," he said. "It goes from athletic director to athletic director." 
+ Wnis confirmed Tuesday that sophomore offensive line­man Dan Wenger has suffered an injury. but would not com­ment on the specifics. 
"lie's iffy for  a  little while,"  
Weis said.  
+ Suspended  nose  guard  

Darrell lland will be back in uniform and is expected to play against Michigan State after missing the first three games of the year, Weis said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey1@nd.edu 
l-loul1;: T!.a.IWm.'fri. ··!l:OO&m.to!t:OOp.m TIYJ.-12:00roonto7i)()p.!n 


Sot·· 9'00amto I'OOpm Mcn-CI<>iod 
EWA HAIR STUDIO 
"lol: (574l?.8'1"Hll 0015. Mmg;ml'l SWI>!lonli,IN40001 

for women and children 25% off for students 
No ordinary salon, No ordinary color 
Atria Salon 2 
Specializing in color 
574.271.8804  
-Highlights, Cut & Style:  $79.00 reg. $125.+  
-Haircut, conditioner treatment & Style  $29.00 reg. $68.  
-Lowlight your Blonde & Haircut'& Style  $69.00 reg. $125. +  
-Color, few Foils & Haircut & Style  $79.00 reg. $112.+  

EXPIRES October lst, 2007 Must present ad ro receptionist before services are performed. 
2039 south bend ave south bend in 4663 7 t.2 71.8804. 
•certain restrictions apply. www.AtriaSalonl.com 
"You're trying to think one step ahead of the game," she said. 
Without the ball, she tries to spread thP field and makP room fi1r lmr teammates or make her way deep int;, the attacking third for a long pass. With the ball, she looks for one-touch passns to her teammates. 
No mattl~r where slw is or what position she plays, Cinalli exemplifies the roln of 1.;aptain with both her skill and attitude. 
"I just try to go out then• evPry game and play with my heart, work my hardest," she said. ''I'm out there fiw my teammates the whole time, and I nnvnr stop until that ending whistle blows." 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill/Jrink at wbrink@nd. edu 
Cinalli 
continued from page 28 
dribbil~." 
Cinalli attributed her creativity in large part to her relationship with I lanks, with whom she has developnd an on-Jield rapport. 
"She's so creative, so techni­cal, she knows the game so well." Cinalli said. "It's nmlly fun to play with her bneausn you can do a lot of good fun combina­tions with her. Since we've been playing together for the past three years we kind of under­stand where we're ~oing to go with the ball. We kind of antici­pate ... £meh other and work really well together." 
It's Cinalli's ability to cooper­ate with her teammates that allows her to play multiple posi­tions. She started the first three games at forward, but played the last three at midfield. 
"I just felt like, with the three forwards, we were struggling a little bit to hold the ball up front," Waldrum said. "Wnjust didn't have anybody that was doing a good job of holding it." 
Waldrum made an allusion to the low-post position in basket­ball. The Irish strugglnd at times with getting the ball in the box and holding it there so otlwr players can get open for a shot. 
Cinalli, who likes both posi­tions and has played both since ehildhood, understands the roles she is expected to fill. 
"Ifl I'm playing] in the mid­field, ]my role is] trying to eon­trot the ball and playmakn and play up to the forward's rent," Cinalli said. "If it's up front. it's being able to hold on to the ball and turn and get some goals." 
Cinalli's soecer brain knows exactly what she should bn doing on every possession. 
thrilled with the freshmen today," Holt said. "It was nice to SHe our younger golfers contribute and hnlp us on to vie tory." 
Notre Dame will look to start a season three-for-three for the first time when it tees off at the Wolverine Invitational on Snpt. 29 and 30 at the University of Michigan Golf Coursn. 
Despite the team's early success, Holt said, thn golfers are not worried about any other teams and focusing on themsHlves. 
"We're not concerned of what other people think about our program," Holt said. "We're just out there playing golf. We're not play­ing for anyone else. We're playing for Notre Dame, and each other." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
Victory 
continued from page 24 
The Cardinals finished the tournament second at 881 (295-295-291 ). Augusta State took third with an 890 (289­303-298). Georgia State was fourth at 896 (303-291-302), and Middle Tennessee State rounded out the top five, shooting a 912 (302-300-310) on the tournament. 
"There is a little bit of luek involved in golf," Holt said. "I think they're getting commit­ted to the game plan and exe­cuting it." 
The Irish charge was led by a freshman competing in her second collegiate tournament. So-1-Iyun Park claimed medal­ist honors with her three­under-par 213 (70-71-72). 
Junior Lisa Maunu was the second best golfer for the Irish with her five-over-par 
Recycle:"f~~: The 

Observer. 
221. After placing first in the Cougar Classic, the eo-cap­tain notehed her sncond top­1 0 finish after she plaeed in a three-way tie for sixth. It marked the second time in program history that Irish golfers have won baek-to­back events. 
Sophomore Kristin Wetzel had a career-best three­round tournament at the Cardinal Club with a 223 (75­71-77) to land her in a tie for 13th place. 
Fellow sophomore Annie Brophy finished the tourna­ment in a tie for No. 21 with a 226 (77-73-76). ller fresh­man teammate, Katie Conway, shared a spot with her at 21st with a 226 (78-75­73). 
Holt acknowledged that the play of the underclassmen was a large part of the su£:­cess during the first two vic­tories. 
"The upperclassmen were 

Abit ofIreland in your own backyard. 
' s 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstufFed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(WaterfOrd Estates Lod,c¥! has hotel rooms atw.asonable rates fur upcoming NDfuotball weekends.) 

Wednesday, September 19, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
BLAcK DoG 
I \.JDNI:>Eit IF THEY 
STIL.L HAVE THOSE PEAI'li.IT BuTTER. MJI> JE.L.I.Y Dai'IUTS IN TliE 
C>ltollN6-_:_:H:::,:AL::I..:;.;·-..."""':!:!::?r-'l 
DEUCES MANOR 
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
Y.:>LI HAVE. FD~AKEN YoLIR.. 
PltOVI> S~VIR!ta. HQiiAH! You 1.11/E. AMD/Illr HVMAIJ~. '(ou ~oW FAT OFF iH£11t­
ttEFI.ISE". You'ltE.IJO $E.1TEJt. 
"THAN A U>t1M~ Ci-41~1'\Ut.IIC.! -1r--,.,.....--""'M-r-'\. 
Yo <.IlL DoJI.-'f 11o!'E 

!.,.-,~-.~7.<!JF SI<L.VATio.V IS To 
(2£r-JOU/>J~E. Y<>o..IR. \.Jf~IC.Eb W4)1; A>JI> 1tE. TUIW To THE. P"'TI"I ~F­It\1:-HTEoV.S>J£~. I '"lAVE Sl"ok.OJoJ. 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA, & PAUL TASSINARI 
If this happens, I reccomend 
moving on to a younger, more famous celebrity, perhaps a supermodPl...they don't eat enough to get pn~gnant. 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 


CROSSWORD 
Across 28 Hard-rock Toyota Camry connector model 29 Cheerful 
7 Dietary needs 30 Reason the kids 11 Salaam's beast were left alone? 14 1980 John 34 Eiger, e.g. 
Carpenter chiller 37 A/C meas. 15 Sarcastic reply 38 Na Na 16 Rap's Dr._ 39 Get stuck with, 17 Channel as the cost 
swimmer 40 Reward for a Gertrude Ringling 18 Novelist Jaffe invention? 19 Crude, e.g. 441n progress 20 Back-to-the­
45 La-la lead-in slammer order? 46 Devil Ray or 23 Readies, briefly 
Blue Jay, for short

24 "_ a traveler from an antique 50 Prefix with cab land": or cure 
"Ozymandias" 51 Baba _,Gilda 25 Son of Judah Radner "S.N.L." 27 Opposite of character 
ecto-53 Coward's lack 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
54 Scuff marks on the prairie? 57 Bespectacled dwarf 
58 "Young Frankenstein" hunchback 
59 TV's Howser 
60 "Norma 
61 Poetic times 
62 Museum guide 
63 Since Jan. 1 64 Be in a stew 65 Alley pickups 
Down Grassy expanse 2 "Shoot!" 3 Looked like a wolf 4 Music from across the 
Atlantic 5 Diner basketful 6 Posthumous 
Pulitzer winner 

WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Donna S. Levin  
28Graphic_  35 1944 Hitchcock  49 Turns to 0, say  
29 1970s tennis great Smith 31 Border on 32 Woman's shoe style 33 1969 and 2000 World Series  classic 36 Cranked out 41 Do 42 Least favorably 43 Starchy dessert 47 Hang around  51 It might be placed at a window 52 Without equal 53 Hawk's descent 55 Feudal estate  
venue  48 Object of a  56 Throws in  
34 Put _  on (limit)  tuneup  57 Prohibitionist  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JIIJJWJ1JrbrE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 

-
one letter to each square, 
Do it right if to form four ordinary words. 
EBILE 
(IJ I I 
@2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
l~ffi []
tBAUSCA I 
WHY THE: MOBSTER'S
J I I [] 

www.jumble.com TAll-OR QUIT
tBLUJEM I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J (J I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: IT WAS A" [ 

I I I I J" [II] 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: ARMOR CUBIC ACCENT NAUSEA Answer: Easy to get when one trains ­A STRAIN 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: James Marsden, 34; Jada Pinkett Smith, 36; James Gandolfini, 46; Fred Willard, 68 
Happy Birthday: Emotions will be running high so control your reactions. It is a time of change so do your best to set your goals and stick to them. Don't rely on others, rather, trust in your own abilities. Your numbers are 11, 16, 22, 25, 34, 44 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19): A trip, taking a course or attending a conference will open your mind to new ideas. Be careful not to tread on toes of someone who can influence your progress. Love and romance are looking good. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A change in the way you live and how you do things is evident. Contracts can be signed and changes to your future put into play. You will get help from someone older. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): There are too many variables to make any firm de­cision today. You may want to take time out, enjoy the company of friends or family and forget about everything else. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): There may be some problems that crop up regard­ing a colleague, peer or even one of your pets. Don't let any minor health issues tum into sometlring bigger. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This is the perfect day to spend time with people you love or to get out and find someone new. Most of all, focus on friends and family but don't overspend. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't believe everything you hear. Something you are trying to do will not work out the way you want because funds are lacking or someone is causing you grief. Put your differences aside. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0et. 22): Make your plans and follow through even if someone disappoints you and opts out. You will end up meeting someone who is fun and entertaining and can open your eyes to new interests. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Tie up loose ends and do what you must to stay within your budget. Stay in control by not allowing anyone to push you in a di­rection you feel isn't in your best interest. You can do just fine alone. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your emotions will be difficult to control and, if you let your heart lead your head, you are likely to make mistakes. Listen but do not make promises. Overindulging will be your downfall. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Chances are good that you can make some cash or position yourself well for your next move. Residential moves or changes will provide you with what you need to improve your status. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone from your past will offer you some­thing that is hard to turn down. Think carefully before accepting --you will prob­ably get an even sweeter deal. You can tum something you enjoy doing into a prosperous venture. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If something sounds too good to be true, it prob­ably is. You will probably have to make some changes that will affect the people you either live with or are close to. Think before you proceed. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: Fearless, adventuresome and charming can lead to precarious situations throughout life. You can see the big picture clearly and you are quick to react to whatever happens. You are strong and unwilling to back down. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 


7 Dalmatian's master, sometimes 
8 Superior to 
9 Group doctrine 1 0 Marquee topper 11 "Oklahoma!" gal 12 Ceylon, now 13 Condiment for 
pommes frites 21 Revolt 22Go bad 
26 Duma denial 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, September 19, 2007 
page 28 
-
FooTBALL 

Weis says starters to stay 

NO WoMEN's SoccER CoMMENTARY 
Cinalli leads Irish by exa111ple, puts squad ahead of self 
Amanda Cinalli will be the first seconds, she streaks up the mid­team. She shared the 2007 gram's 20 years. "It's not just one sets keeps opposing teams from to tell you that one player does dle of the field and sends a shot Francis Patrick O'Connor award person. I think everyonn brings a focusing on one player. not make a team. But when into the right side of the net for -whieh honors characteristics unique part to the game." "The thing we've always liked watching her play, that can be her first goal of the season. She'II such as team spirit and inspira­Cinalli isn'tjust being modest; about our team, and Amanda lil'> hard to believe. scorn again, tapping in one of tion for Notre Dame student ath­instead, she's using what coach into that puzzle great, is we have 
The day sophomore forward Michelle letes-with hockey captain T.J. Randy Waldrum refers to as her thrne dillerent kinds of players is Sept. 14. Bill Brink Wnissnnhofer's flip throws, and Jindra. She was also a member of "soccer brain" to understand that up front," Waldrum said. "She's <:inalli, the will also notch an assist on junior the Under-21 National Team that while she clearly has talent, shp,'s the one that has that ability to bn snnior eap-Sports Writer f(lrward Kerri llanks' goal. Notre has played in the past two Nordic still a cog in a system that creative, shn's got probably the tain, was Dame wins 4-2. Cups. Despite her individual hon­requires that the necessary most overall skill level of the held out of Cinalli's talent has not gone ors, Cinalli remains humble. pieces be present for completion. three forwards. She's more tech­practice all week beeause of hip unnoticed. She was plaeed on the "Obviously our whole team is Waldrum said each of Notre nical, she's morn clnan with the problems and is not in the start­45-player prnseason I lermann critically important for our entire Dame's forwards brings a diller­ball, she can beat you ofT the ing linnup. She checks into the Trophy watch list and was named ofl{mse," said Cinalli, only the ent skill set to the offense, and game in the 25th minutn. Within to the preseason All-Big East third Irish captain in the pro-that the combination of those skill see CINALLI/page 26 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL
NO WoMEN's GoLF 

Walsh tops Cavanaugh; 
Perfection continues for team 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
As Notre .J>ame coach Susan Holt was traveling back to campus with her team from their second straight victory Tuesday, her golfers told hnr the main reason behind the unit's success. 
"Good chnmistry," they shouted to her as she fielded questions about the team's 

\. promising start. Notre Damn is a perfect two­for-two this season. A week after their triumph in the Cougar Classic, the Irish took the Napa Hiver Grill Cardinal Cup in Simpsonville, Ky. The Irish edged out host team Louisville by thrne strokes with a 878 (292-290­
296) mark over three rounds. 
see VICTORY/page 26 

Ducks' defense falters 
By SAM WERNER, RACHEL PLASSMEYER & LAURA MYERS Sports Writers 
Walsh seems to have found a rallying point for its season. 
As the team's pre-game cheer indicates, they "have the rock" -a small piece of stone that was once a part of the Berlin Wall. The team ral­lied around the rock, its unof­ficial mascot, to defeat Cavanaugh 7-6 at Riehle Field on Tuesday night. 
After receiving the ball to start the game, the Wild Women wasted no time taking advantage of a Chaos defense.­that was playing its first 
PHIL MULit:LO>UN/ 
game of the regular season. 

Junior Lisa Maunu and the Irish have two wins In their first On the opening drive, senior 
two events of the season. quarterback Mary Claire 
Sullivan led her team down the field almost single-hand­edly, rushing the ball three times and connecting on three long passes to sopho­more receiver Sierra Smith. 
On a third-down play from the Cavanaugh 15-yard line, Smith, surrounded by three Chaos defenders, brought the ball in to secure the touch­down and take a lead Walsh would not surrender. Senior captain Marie Brenner ran in the extra point to give Walsh a 7-0 lead. 
After the opening drive, both defenses buckled down and neither offense could generate any momentum. The teams exchanged punts until midway through the second half. 
see WALSH/page 25 
Coach pleased with week's two practices 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 

A smiling Charlie Weis walked into the media room at thn Guglielmino Athletics Complex Tuesday to address reporters. 
Th(~ Notre Dame coach hasn't had much to smile about this season, with thrne blowout loss­ns, negative total rushing yards, and the transfer of the opening day starting quarterback loom­ing over his head -but the smile was on his face, anyway. 
After losing 3X-O to Michigan Saturday, Weis said his team was going to "back to training eamp." 
But that change hasn't result­ed in any significant changes to the starting lineup, Weis said. lie said that, while the coaching staiT is learning more about the playnrs this week, most startnrs will retain their position on the depth chart -even along the oiTnnsive line, which has allowed 23 sacks this season. 
"I didn't want to start making massive changes bncause then you're making sacrificial lambs," Weis said. "You're say­ing, 'You're the problem' or 'You're the problem.' Well, when you lose 38-0, there are a lot of problems." 
For four hours Sunday and for two more hours Tuesday, the Irish were in full pads, sim­ulating game hits and tackling to the ground for the first time this fall -all in an effort to fix thn blocking and tackling defi­ciencies that have led to more than 230 yards per game in rushing by opponents and neg­ative-4. 7 per game on the ground for the Irish. 
Judging by Weis' demeanor, those deficiencies must be slow­ly disappearing. 
'Tm trying to develop a more physical mentality on both sides 
see WEIS/page 26 








