
THE 
SMC parkingraises funds for athletics 
By KATIE STAAK 
News Writer 
As ears streamed into South Bend for football games this fall, sports teams at Saint Mary's raised money by coordi­nating parking on the College's campus, said Director of Athletks Lynn Kachmarik. 
The teams raised an average of $6.000 to $12,000 each home football weekend, which goes to cover athletie expenses incurred by Saint Mary's teams. 
Freshman Andrea Sasgen, a volleyball player, parked cars for the Notre Dame-Air Force game date. 
"It was fun, but I don't think we raised as much as other teams," she said. 
Many of the teams spend their fundraising money on team apparel and traveling expenses during away games and tournaments. The money from football parking is divided evenly between the teams. 
"It's a wonderful fundraiser for the whole athletic depart­ment," volleyball coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "It raises money for all of our athletes. It helps fund all of our programs and helps to offset all the travel expenses, which were horrible this year." 
The better the football season 
see PARKING/page 6 

ND honors A CCI ON president 
Otero receives prizefor Distinguished Public Service in Latin America 
By CLAIRE REISING 
News Writer 
"Teresa" struggled to make a living by baking bread in a mud oven, but with a loan from ACCION International, a non-profit microfinance organization, she was able to buy more ovens, increase her customer base and earn money to send her children to high school. 
"She had really become a forward-looking and inven­tive entrepreneur," said Maria Otero, president and CEO of ACCION International. "Like her, there are millions." 
Otero received the 2007 
see OTERO/page 8 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 54 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER20, 2007 a. 
Student wins state beauty pageant 
Buhler becomes first African-American to hold Miss South Dakota USA title 

By AMBER TRAVIS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame sophomore Charlie Buhler became the first African-American to win the title of Miss South Dakota USA on Nov. 11. 
"It was incredibly important to me," Buhler. 19, said. "I feel as if it was a step for­ward in pageantry, because it shows that you don't have to look a certain way and fit into a certain mold to be a title holder." 
Buhler was the only minori­ty in the pageant. She has participated in pageants for three years, starting with the Miss Teen South Dakota USA contest in 2006. She was in the contest a second time the 
Pokagon Band part of ND history, land 

Relationship with Potawatomi tribe celebrated during Native American Heritage Month 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
While driving around South Bend, students might notice Potawatomi Park, Potawatomi Zoo and Pokagon Street-places all named after former residents of the area, the Potawatomi American Indian tribe and its local division, the Pokagon Band. 
But not all passers-by may be aware that the land upon which Notre Dame was built once belonged to the Pokagon Band. 
As a part of Native American Heritage Month, Notre Dame's Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS) will host a series of events bringing mem­bers of the Potawatomi tribe to campus to relay the history between the tribe and the University. As part of this series, MSPS will host a dinner Dec. 4 featuring members of the Potawatomi tribe to share their history. 
Before Notre Dame founder Father Edward Sorin claimed this plot of land on Nov. 26, 1842, the land had been inhabited by the Pokagon Band, said Kevin following year. 
The Miss USA Pageant doesn't fit the stereotype of other beauty contests, Buhler said. 
"I feel that it's a common misconception that you have to fit a certain stereotype, but the Miss Universe Organization looks for girls from all different back­grounds," she said. 
Buhler began preparing for last week's pageant almost immediately after the 2007 event ended. 
"Everything is a process," Buhler said. "Even after you pick out the dress, it still has to be fitted." 
Preparation for the contest involves rehearsing walks 
see PAGEANT/page 8 

Photo courtesy of Charliebuhler.com!The Observer Sophomore Charlie Buhler is crowned Miss South Dakota USA on Nov. 11. She has competed in pageants for three years. 
Daugherty, educational resource developer for the Pokagon Band. 
The Chicago Treaty of 1833, however, ordered the removal of Indians in the northern Indiana region, Daugherty said. Leopold Pokagon, a prominent Potawatomi leader and the spokesperson after whom the Pokagon Band is named, negoti­ated the right to stay on the land and was given a sum of money, Daugherty said. Pokagon used this money to buy land northwest of modern-day Dowagiac, Mich., where Daugherty said many members of the band still reside today. 
During the 17th and 18th cen­turies, Potawatomi land stretched from what is now Chicago to Detroit, Daugherty said. 
Many different villages popu­lated this region and considered themselves Potawatomi, sharing a common language and culture. Such villages had alliances but operated independently on a local level. 
The Pokagon Band of the Potawatomi Indians resided in 
see POKAGON/page 9 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Officers arrest 21, ticket 13 

Alcohol responsible for Duke game offenses 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Assistant News Editor 
Police arrested 21 people and issued 13 more arrest tickets before, during and after the Duke-Notre Dame game Saturday, said Phillip Johnson, director of the Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP). 
Working with the Indiana State Excise Police, the St. Joseph County Police and the South Bend Police, NDSP made 21 custodial arrests for alco­hol-related offenses, most of which were for public intoxica­tion. Some arrests were made for minor consumption of alco­hol and minor intoxication, Johnson said in an e-mail to The Observer Monday. 
Those arrested were taken to the St. Joseph County Jail. 
Three people were taken by ambulance to a local hospital due to high levels of intoxica­tion, Johnson said. 
Police cited four juveniles for underage consumption of alco­hol, and issued 12 arrest tick­ets to adults and the final tick­et to a juvenile; the offenses were for alcohol-related offenses such as minor con­suming and minor in posses­sion of alcohol, Johnson said. 
Four of these people were taken to the St. Joseph County Jail for public intoxication, 
see ARRESTS/page 6 

.------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 20, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Povver trips 
Tho definitive, wholly subjective Jist of Notre Dame's most powerful alumni: 
1. Condoleezza Hice -For being the first female secretary of state to earn a post­
Ken Fowler
graduatn degree from a Catholic institu­Managing tion in the Editor Midwnst. 
2t. University President Father John Jenkins-For running one of the premier Catholic institutions in the country. 
2t. University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh -For having the most awe-inspiring ollice view in Indiana-and access to No. 1. 
4. 
Charlie Weis-For running an operation that brings in nearly $70 million each year and helps produce a profit of more than $20 million to be used for the academy. 

5. 
Hichard Notebaert-For stabi­lizing Qwest and directing the Notre Damn Board of Trustees. 

6. 
Jell' Faine-This NFL o~nter is definitnly "powerful." (Just Google his image.l 

7. 
Jon O'Neill-For having the ear of President Bush and. allegedly, introdudng the president to First Lady Laura Bush. 


H. Steve Bartman -For single­handedly (or, alternatively, with help from a certain shortstopl keeping the Curse of the Billy Goat alive. 
9. 
Anne Thompson-For her envi­ronmental reporting for NBC News. 

10. 
Hop. Peter King-For his posi­tion as a ranking member on the llonwland Security Committee. 

11. 
Tim Hoerner -For his work on the 9/11 Commission. 

12. 
Former Panamanian President Ernesto Perez Balladares-For his innuence in his horne country and elsewhere in the Americas. 

13. 
Mike Cofl'ey-For feeding addictions. 

14. 
Bob Golic-For his exemplary, oft-eited and critically acelaimed act­ing in "Saved by the Bell: The College Years." 

15. 
Mike Golic-For being the brother of Bob Golic. 

16. 
Chris Thomas -For being a basketball rnegastar. 

17. 
Alan Page-For his work on the Minnesota State Supreme Court. 


1R. Nicholas Sparks-For writing "The Notebook" (which made me cry). 
19. 
Patrick J. Borchers-For his insightful analysis and service to Creighton University. 

20. 
Brady Quinn-For his dashing good looks -and his top-1 0 most popular jersey in the NFL. 

21. 
Chuck Lennon-For his roof­raising ability. 

22. 
Steve Curl-For being so effeminate that Pangborn was con­verted to a girl's dorm the year after he left. 

23. 
IIugh Andrews-For his work as president of Andrews McMeel Publishing. 

24. 
Hannah Storm-For her work as a host of CBS's morning show. 

25. 
The guys who made Shrek­For their creative genius. 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @n d. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due rn an editing ermr in the Nov. 19 article "Griffins win second Bonde of ( :hapel." the score ofthe Keenan­Stanford lmcrhall football championship game was incorrectly reponed as Stanford 12, Keenan 8. The acrual score was Sranford 7. Keenan 0. The Observer regrets the error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU WERE A TURKEY, WHERE WOULD YOU HIDE? 







Steve Tortorello Tom Staudt 
senior sophomore O'Neill O'Neill 
"In the country "'n the oven. " "In the secret "Inside another "In Mario Turkey." attic ofa turkey." Manningham 's 
chicken coop. " 
OFFBEAT 

Panty flash earns cheer­leaders suspension 
RIPON, Calif. -Six cheerleaders are fighting suspensions after they flashed football fans a mes­sage on their underpants. 
Vice Principal Ken Goeken ordered the girls to serve suspensions Tuesday and Wednesday for defying their coach and going ahead with a special cheer they choreographed for the last day of the football sea­son. 
At the end of the cheer, the girls bent over, lifted their skirts and showed the crowd the words "Indians No. 1" on their bloomers. 
The girls -who missed reading scenes from William Shakespeare's "Macbeth" and fear their grades will suffer -are asking to make up course­work and instead be banned from cheering at an upcoming basketball game. 
100-year-old receives high school diploma 
MADISON, Ala. -A woman who led a full life on the West Coast after dropping out of school received an honorary high school diploma at her 1OOth birthday party. 
Dozens of Elva Cook's relatives from as far away as Washington, Oregon and California came to Ivey's Restaurant to wish her a happy birthday and attend her graduation ceremony Sunday. 
Huntsville City Council President Glenn Watson read a resolution congratu­lating Cook, who accepted the diploma from William Winlock Miller High School in Olympia, Wash. She quit attending the one-room school in 1925 with her best friend and another classmate. 
"We thought we knew more than the teachers, so we stopped going," Cook said. "We wanted to sleep in. We were having so much fun." 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

...... <C 
(.) 



.s HIGH 60 HIGH 50 HIGH 50 HIGH 35 LOW 45 LOW 40 LOW 30 LOW 27 

Sophomore Daniel Kamp places a pizza in the oven of Zaland's pizzeria. Keenan Hall claims to have "the best pizza in Za-land." 
front yard, because he can't catch anything." 
IN BRIEF 

Notre Dame hockey will play Bowling Green tonight at 7::l5 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The Multicultural Student Programs and Services will host a Thanksgiving Study Break tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom from 7 
p.m. to 9. All are invited to come eat. 

Thern will be a panel discus­sion titled: "The Evolution of Microfinance: One Tool to Address Global Poverty" today at 12:30 p.m. in C-100 Hesburgh Center auditorium. Maria Otero, President & CEO, ACCION International and Recipient of' the 2007 Notre Dame Prize for Distinguished Public Service in Latin America and Tara Kenney, Managing Director, Deutsche Asset Management, Inc. will speak. 
Craig Cramer will deliver a faculty organ recital today at 8 p.m. in Reyes Organ and Choral Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Student tickets are $3. 
Thanksgiving mass will be celebrated Friday at 11:30 
a.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Notre Dame women's basket­ball team will play Boston College Saturday at noon at the Joyce Center. Tickets can be purchased by calling the ticket ollice at 574-631-7356. 
Classes resume at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Monday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 



39 
30 

Atlanta 72 I 49 Boston 45 I 35 Chicago 61 I 48 Denver 49 I 34 Houston 80 I 65 Los Angeles 71 I 55 Minneapolis 42 I 37 New York 52 I 37 Philadelphia 53 I 40 Phoenix 83 I 57 Seattle 451 36 St. Louis 75 I 59 Tampa 82 I 62 Washington 58 I 39 

Tuesday, November 20, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group sponsors vvon1an fron1 vvar-torn region 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) will help sponsor a woman from a war-torn region through the Women for Women International organization, BOG missions commissioner Mary Frantz said. 
The organization was cre­ated to help protect the rights of women in strife­laden countries, to provide job training and give small­businesses assistance. The sponsorship is a year-long commitment to donate $30 each month. 
"They are helping women in war-torn regions by pro­viding emotional and physi­cal support," Frantz said. 
The sponsorship may also include direct correspon­dence with the woman in need. 
Women for Women International was founded in 1993. Since its founding, the organization has helped more than 125,000 women in 105 countries -including Afghanistan. Rwanda, Iraq, Sudan and Nigeria. 
Frantz is working to make applications for sponsorship available to students, but currently BOG is focused on a group effort. The idea is still in the early stages, and the group is hoping to send out more information in the com­ing months. 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
Cassie Calion, the stu­dent activities board presi­dent, announced there will be festivities during finals week. On Dec. 13, the Student Activities Board will show the movie "The Holiday." 

The Student Activities Board will also sponsor a breakfast in Le Mans Hall on Dec. 14. A free spa day will take place on Dec. 16 in the lounge of the Student Center. Exact times and locations will be announced at a later date. 

+ 
Disabilities Week will take place after Thanksgiving break, student diversity board president Abby Hinchy said. There will be a movie showing in Vander Vennet Theatre called "Emmanuel's Gift" as part of the week. 


There will also be an eye­glass drive that week. Students are encouraged to bring old eyeglasses so they can be fixed and donated to the needy. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



Task forces present progress 
Second to last meetingfocuses on groups' objectives, accomplishments 
ByJENNMETZ Assistant News Editor 
In Monday's penultimate meeting of the Campus Life Council this semester, task force leaders informed the group of the progress made toward their objectives. 
Task Force on Campus Environment chair Sheena Plamoottil announced that the second of three green summits will take place today at 4 p.m. This summit is intended for rectors, but due to scheduling conflicts with a rector meeting, "hopefully rectors will send a representative of hall staff," she said. 
Knott Hall Rector Brother Jerome Meyer said the date of the summit was a "bad choice." 
"This is a week when every­one is busy," he said. The third green summit will take place Dec. 3. Plamoottil gave a brief fol­low-up of Campus Architect 
Doug Marsh's visit to the Council on Nov. 5. She said she asked student senators to ask members of their residences if they would be interested in seeing Marsh's presentation in small groups. The presentation outlined possible future plans for campus expansion and highlighted current construc­tion projects on campus. 
Student body president Liz Brown presented for the Task Force on Student Development in place of absent student body vice president Maris Braun. 
Brown said the Task Force is continuing to plan Honor Code awareness events but will be handing off most of the respon­sibility to the University Code of Honor Committee. 
"We will keep in talks with the University Code of Honor Committee, but it will become less a Campus Life Council issue," she said. 
The Task Force will continue to work on issues of student gambling and Frosh-0 activi­ties outlined in earlier meet­ings. 
Keenan senator Gus Gari presented for the Task Force on Community Relations, which has "finally finalized" the text of Notre Dame's ver­sion of "The Good Neighbor Guide," based on a University of Virginia pamphlet of the same name. 
Gari said a professor in the Law School will be looking over the text from a legal point of view. The Task Force is in the process of hearing about production logistics for the pamphlet from University of Virginia officials. 
The next step will be to take the text to Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman's office to "see how to put it all together," Gari said. 
Next week the task forces will convene to finish working on this semester's objectives and discuss goals for the rest of the year. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

DIALOG uET~~c uLTU REs 
MICHAEL BAXTER PAOLO CAROZZA ARCHBISHOP ELIAS CHACOUR JUDE DOUGHERTY JEAN BETHKE ELSHTAIN 
H. TRISTRAM ENGLHARDT, JR WAEL FAROUQ_ RUSSELL HITTINGER GEORGE LOPEZ MARGARET MONAHAN HOGAN 
REV. PAUL KOLLMAN, CSC ALASDAIR MACINTYRE RALPH MCINERNY REV. PAULINAS 0DOZOR, REV. KHALIL SAMIR, SJ GEORGE WEIGEL RALPH WOOD 
REGISTER ONLINE AT https://marketplace.nd.edu/cce 
NO REGISTRATION FEE FOR NOTRE DAME, SAINT MARY'S AND HOLY CROSS FACULTY, STAFF OR STUDENTS 
WWW.ETHICSCENTER ND EDU 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 20, 2007 



Saint Mary's students win accounting prize 
College team of juniors and seniors rank third in state competition; first time SMC places in contest's finals 
By KATIE KOHLER 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Four Saint Mary's students placed third in the Indiana Certifind Public Account (CPA) Society 2007 Case Study Competition. which bngan on Nov. 2. Saint Mary's has partieipated in the con­tnst sporadically for years, but this is the first year the College plaeed in the f'inals. 
The competition was open to evnry college in Indiana, said Mary Ann Merryman, chair of' the Department of' Business Administration and Economics and advisor to the tnam. 
"Tiwro is a sense of' pride in competing against such case-study evaluation in large schools," she said, ref­which the teams had 10 days erencing Purdue, Ball State to research the designated and Indiana University. " ... topic and write a lengthy They are big solution to the players, and I'm problem. This really proud of year's topic was
"Once we received 
[the Saint succession plan­
the case, we did a lot
Mary's team[ for ning how doing so well." of background small compa­The team was research on the nies prepare for com posed of seamless
Internet, as well as
seniors Erica turnover. Heidenbach and talking to CPAs. " "The girls had Noreen Sherred even less time and juniors than they were
Anna Hoefer
Mogan Clarkson supposed to
team member
and Anna because of fall II oefer. The break," prize for third place was Merryman said. "But each $500 per student. student carried their share of The contest consisted of a the load and was committed 


to the project." Lawton & Company in South 
Hoefer said she felt the Bend and Paul Matvey of pressure from the time-inten­Schneider Downs & Co. in sive project. Pittsburgh. 
"Since we did-Noreen, a 
n't know what "It was truly a great double major in 
the case would accounting and
experience that 
be until the f'irst economics, also day of the com­helped build my felt the pressure petition, we of her senior
teamwork and 
couldn't really comprehension
leadership skills. " 
prepare," she project, a said. "Once we requirement for received the Noreen Sherred graduation at case, we did a Saint Mary's.
team member 
lot of back­"The competi­ground research tion came at a on the Internet, as well as very hectic time in everyone's talking to CPAs." schedules. Erica and I were 
They also gathered infor­balaneing our senior compre­mation by contacting CPAs hension paper on top of the Jeff McGowan of' Kruggel, case study," she said. "The 
week we found out we made 
it to the finals was another 
crazy night filled with long 
hours and sleepless nights. 
We just needed to practice as 
much as we could." 
Merryman acted as the fac­ulty advisor, although the Indiana CPA Society discour­ages outside help from pro­fessors and other profession­als. 
"I acted as a coach for the girls and a resource," she said. "It was their work that got them to the f'inals." 
Of the participating schools, six were chosen to advance to the finals and present their case study to a panel of practicing CPAs in Indianapolis. 
Saint Mary's came in third behind the University of Southern Indiana, which has won the competition the past four years, and Valparaiso. Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI), Butler and Manchester College filled out the rest of the finalists. 
"Southern Indiana really has it down to a science," Merryman said. 
Typically, the Saint Mary's team is composed strictly of seniors. 
"It is such a big time com­mitment for seniors, so I thought it would be a good idea to include juniors who are willing to put in the time and effort," Merryman said. 
She said Southern Indiana's continuity-enhancing practice of including juniors and sen­iors on the team has aided in its success. 
Noreen hopes for continued success with Saint Mary's participation in this event. 
"This is the best showing we have ever had," she said. "It was truly a great experi­ence that helped build my teamwork and leadership skills." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 20, 2007 CoMPILED FROA~t TI-IE OBSERVER'S w1 RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Cambodian leader formally charged 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia -Cambodia's U.N.­backed genocide tribunal arrested the former Khmer Rouge head of state and charged him Monday with crimes against humanity and war crimes, a spokesman said. 
Khieu Samphan was the last of five senior offi­cials of the brutal mgime to be taken in custody ahead of a long-delayed genocide trial. 
Police armsted Khieu Samphan, 76, at a Phnom Penh hospital where he had been undergoing trnatment sincn Nov. 14 atl.er a strokfl. Oflicers held his arms to support him as they led him to a police mr, which sped away in a heavily guarded convoy to thn tribunal's offices. 
Khieu Samphan later was "formally charged with crimes against humanity and war crimes" during hL'i appearance bni(Jre the co-invflstigating judges, said tribunal spoknsman Reach Sambath. 
Tigers die at Chinese animal park 
BEIJING-Animal rights activists called Monday for improved living conditions at China's wild animal parks after the deaths of captive tignrs from disease and starvation, including a tiger killed by four other cats in a fight over meager food supplies at a zoo in northeast China. 
The morn than 30 tigers in the Bing Chuan park in Shenyang have been receiving less than their normal allowance of about 11 pounds of frozen chicken and beef per day because of lack of funding, said a park official. who gave only his surname, Li. 
While the park relies on entrance fees for most of its income, cold weather has kept visi­tors away, Li said. 
"The winter in northeast China is too cold, no one wants to come out and go to the zoo, so there are almost no visitors during the winter," Li told The A<>sociated Press by telephone. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

New proposal for seat belts on buses 
MORHISVILLE, N.C. -U.S. Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters proposed new rules Monday to improve the safety of school bus seats and expand the use of shoulder belts, but she declined to order that all new buses include seat belt'i. 
Peters rode a packed school bus to Morrisville Elementary School, among the first schools in the country to equip some of its new buses with seat belt'i, then said she wants to increase the height of seat backs on all school buses from 20 inches to 24 inches to help protect children during accidents. 
Peters also proposed a new requirement for short school buses -the style more prone to rollover accidents -to begin using shoulder straps. For longer buses, however, she in'itead pro­posed allowing states the option of using federal highway safety funds to retrofit them with seat bell'i. 
3 young boys charged with rape 
ACWOHTII, Ga.-Three boys, ages 8 and 9, were being held Monday ill a detention center on charges of kidnapping and raping an 11-year-old girl near a suburban apartment complex, officials said. 
The alleged attack happened Thursday and the girl's mother reported it to authorities Sunday, Acworth police Capt. Wayne Dennard said. · 
"The victim said thfly were playing outdoors and the girl was forced into a wooded area where she was sexually assaulted, where one of the boys raped her," Dennard told The Associated Press. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Cyclist killed in collison with deer 
GEOHGETOWN, Ind.-A southern Indiana man died when his motorcycle collided with a deer and he was thrown from his vehicle into the path of an oncoming car, State Police said. 
Charles T. Spaulding, 43, of Lanesville was westbound on Interstate 64 near Georgetown, Ind., when he struck a deer that ran into the road about 8:30 p.m. Saturday, police said in a release. 
Spaulding was thrown from his motorcycle into the roadway and was then struck by a westbound car driven by James A. Murphy, 46, of Jeffersonville, Ind., the release said. 
IRAN 


Leaders vow to destroy U.S. emp-ire 
Iranian, Venezuelan presidents hope to defeat America as the value of the dollar decreases 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN, Iran -The presidents of Venezuela and Iran boasted Monday that they will defeat U.S. imperialism together, say­ing the fall of the dollar is a prelude to the end of Washington's global domi­nance. 
Hugo Chavez's visit to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in Tehran followed a failed weekend attempt by the firebrand duo to push the Organization of Petroleum Exporting States away from trading in the slump­ing greenback. 
Their proposal at an OPEC summit was over­ruled by other cartel members led by Saudi Arabia, a strong U.S. ally. But the cartel agreed to have OPEC finance minis­ters discuss the idea, and the two allies' move showed their potential for stirring up problems for the U.S. 

The alliance between Chavez and Ahmadinejad has blossomed with sever­al exchanged visits ­Monday's was Chavez's fourth time in Tehran in two years -a string of technical agreements and a torrent of rhetoric pre­senting their two countries as an example of how meeting in Riyadh, Saudi for refusing to suspend specifically express con­smaller nations can stand Arabia, that prices would uranium enrichment. cern over the dollar's slide up to the superpower. more than double to $200 Ahmadinejad backed his in its final statement. 
"Here are two brother if the U.S. attacked Iran or "dear brother" Chavez in Saudi Arabia blocked countries, united like a Venezuela. their joint fight with the those moves. Saudi single fist," Chavez said "The U.S. empire is com­Bush administration. Arabia's foreign minister upon his arrival in Tehran, ing down," Chavez told "We have common view­cautioned that even talk­according to Venezuela's Venezuelan TV, calling the points and we will stand ing publicly about the cur­state-run Bolivarian News European Union's euro a by each other until we rency's decline could fur­Agency. better option and saying capture the high peaks. ther hurt its value. 
"God willing, with the Latin American nations God is with us and victory Chavez repeated his fall of the dollar, the were also considering a is awaiting us," warnings that attacking deviant U.S. imperialism common currency. Ahmadinejad was quoted Iran would further will fall as soon as possi­The leftist Venezuelan is as saying by IRNA. He said increase oil prices. "It's ble, too," Chavez said a fierce critic of President he and Chavez would stick very important that they after a two-hour closed Bush, and Iran's Islamic together to defend their leave us in peace, the meeting with government is in a bitter "nations and ideals to the major oil-producing coun­Ahmadinejad, the Iranian standoff with Washington end." tries," he said. state news agency IRNA over Tehran's nuclear pro­During the OPEC meet­"If it occurs to Bush to reported. gram. The U.S. accuses ing, Iran and Venezuela invade Iran, I'm sure the 
As the dollar weakens, Iran of seeking to develop proposed that the cartel Iranians will resist, and oil prices have soared nuclear weapons, a claim begins pricing its oil in a they aren't going to allow toward $100 a barrel. Tehran denies, and Iran basket of currencies, them to take away their Chavez said over the has been hit with two rather than just the dollar, oil, just as we Venezuelans weekend at the OPEC rounds of U.N. sanctions and wanted the summit to wouldn't allow it," he said. 

FBI reports large increase in hate cri111es 
Associated Press motivated by racial prejudice, but the Justice Department headquarters here. 
report did not even pick up all the The department said it investigated the 
WASHINGTON -Hate crime inci­racially motivated incidents last year. Jena incident but decided not to prose­dents rose nearly 8 percent last year, Although the noose incidents and cute because the federal government the FBI reported Monday, as civil beatings among students at Jena, La., does not typically bring hate crime rights advocates increasingly take to high school occurred in the last half of charges against juveniles. the streets to protest what they call 2006, they were not included in the Organizers said 100 busloads of pro­official indifference to intimidation and report. Only 12,600 of the nation's testers joined Friday's march here. In attacks against blacks and other more than 17,000 local, county, state September, an estimated 20,000 pro­minorities. and federal police agencies participat­testers marched through Jena. On Nov. 
Police across the nation reported ed in the hate crime reporting program 3, hundreds of protesters marched 7,722 criminal incidents in 2006 tar­in 2006 and neither Jena nor LaSalle through downtown Charleston, W. Va., geting victims or property as a result of Parish, in which the town is located, to urge prosecutors to add hate crime bias against a race, religion, sexual were among thfl agencies reporting. charges against six white people orientation. ethnic or national origin or Nevertheless, the Jena incidents, and charged in the beating, torture and physical or mental disability. That was a subsequent rash of noose and other sexual assault of a 20-year-old black up 7.8 percent from 7,163 incidents racial incidents around the country, woman who was discovered Sept. 8 reported in 2005. have spawned civil rights demonstra­after several days of alleged captivity 
More than half the incidents were tions that culminated last week at in a rural trailer. 

Tuesday, November 20, 2007

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

join North Dining Hall uor a 6pecial 





Bu et 

November 22nd. 12:oo p.m. -3:30p.m. 
Adult6: $15.75 Children age6 6-12: $7.88 Children 5 and under: Free 
Menu 
Seabood Sherry Bit.que 
Pf.ymouth Com Chowder 
RoaM Tom Turkey Green Bean CaMerole 
Baked Ham with lrit.h Whiokey Glaze julienned Carrott. & Zucchini 
Applewood Smoked Rainbow Trout i\1et.clun Spring .Mix 
Candied Sweet Potatoeo Fret.h Spinach Salad 
Freo/1 Maohed Potatoeo with Garlic Fruit Salad with Tangerine DreMins 
Nf!RTH 

Cranberry Compote with Pecant. Dutch Apple Pie and Pumpkin Pie FOOD COURT 
Arrests 
continued from page I 
Johnson said. 
In Notro Dame Stadium, five people were asked to leave for violating stadium rules regarding alcohol, Johnson said. Alcohol is prohibited within the Stadium. 
"NDSP works with area police ofl1eials for the home football games to promote a family-friendly environment on campus, including parking 

Parking 
continued from page I 
Notre Dame is having, the more people come in for the games, and the more money Saint Mary's raises, Kachmarik said. 
All the money goes to the teams to support events like training trips, assistant coach­es' salaries and equipment, she said. 
areas," Johnson said. 
Johnson said in his e-mail that Cappy Gagnon, the coor­dinator of stadium personnel, reported that 82 people were removed from the stadium for violating rules that prohibit throwing objects in the stands. Many students in the senior section threw marshmallows during halftime to mark the last home game at Notre Dame Stadium for the 2007 season. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at 
kriely@nd.edu 
"We do have to pay some extra security expenses to help to get cars off campus after the game," Kachmari said. 
The teams' game-day morn­ings start at about 7:30 a.m. The teams park cars on the campus for a $20 fee until one hour prior to kickoff. Saint Mary's is approximately two miles away from Notre Dame Stadium. 
Contact Katie Staak at kstaakO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

SMC junior receives NCC a-ward 
Mcinerney to represent residence hall boards ofGreat-rakes region nationally 
This is Mcinerney's second Since winning the award,
By KATIE KOHLER 

year as NCC at Saint Mary's, Mcinerney will have a new 
Saint Mary's Editor 

allowing her to fully come set of responsibilities in addi­
into the role this year. tion to Saint Mary's NCC. 
Saint Mary's junior Katie "Last year, I didn't know "Winning this award means Mcinerney received the what I was doing and I want­I will represent the Great National Communications ed to fix that this year and do Lakes region on the national Coordinator the best I level," she said. (NCC) of the thought I There will be a national Year award "/was excitedjust to could," she conference in May where she from the Great will be nominated again for
be nominated, but said. "I wanted 
Lakes Affiliate Saint Mary's to the award, but against the of College and winning means my be known at representatives from all University work is recognized on these confer­seven regions of HI-lA boards Residence Halls ences and for in the nation.
a national/eve!."
(GLACUIUI) at a the women who "We are very proud of Katie recent confer­are student because GLACUHII is a very ence. Katie Mcinerney leaders here to large and competitive 
The NCC is a SMC junior really take region," Quaglia said. "Katie position that something out has also been so dedicated in exists on of the confer­teaching a younger HilA Residence Hall Association ences they were attending. It board about the HilA commu­(RHA) boards across the means a lot that the work I nity and how we can grow country. It is both demanding did was well worth it and rec­and expand." and time consuming, Saint ognized." NCC is equiv­Mary's HHA president Cassie Quaglia alent to a full­
"We are very proud of
Quaglia said. praised time intern­
"Her dedication to Saint Mcinerney's Katie because ship, Quaglia Mary's and to her NCC posi­efforts this year s a i d
GLACURH is a very
tion is unquestionable," as NCC. Mcinerney is
large and competitive
Quaglia said. "She has been "The NCC of also a resident able to do both jobs great jus­the Year Award region.'' advisor in tice." is given to an McCandless 
Mcinerney's duties involve NCC who has Hall.
Cassie Quaglia 
intercollegiate communica­contributed sig­GLACUHH 
RHA president
tions and conference organi­nificantly io includes Ball zation at the state, regional their school, State, Illinois and national level. state and region," she said. State, Loyola, Purdue, 
"Winning this award was a " ... Katie's leadership and Michigan, Michigan State, bit of a shock," Mcinerney guidance over the past two Wisconsin and the University said. "I was excited just to be years has made it possible to of Windsor. nominated, but winning expand interaction with the means my work is recognized HI-lA community at the state, Contact Katie Kohler at on a national level." regional and national levels." kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Tuesday, November 20, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,958.44 -218.35
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,478 99 1,793 4,171,045,935 

AMEX  2,342.19  ,.:63"22  
NASDAQ  2,593.38  -43.86  
NYSE  9,49733  ;;2€f~tQ$  
S&P 500  1,433.27  -25.47  
NIKKEI (Tokyo)  14,797.45  -245.11  
FTSE 100 (London)  6,120.80  -170.40  

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -1.39 -2.03 143.76 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -1.15 -0.58 49.70 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -2.69 -0.82 26.69 !SHARE RUS 2000 INDX (IWM) -1.98 -1.51 74.66 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.71 -0.071 4.079 13-WEEK BILL -0.46 -0.015 3.275 30-YEAR BOND -0.99 -0.045 4.478 5-YEAR NOTE -2.91 -0.107 3.569 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.80 94.64 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -9.00 787.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.28 89.40 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 109.9000 EURO 0.6829 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9851 BRITISH POUND 0.4885 
IN BRIEF 

Mortgage mailing campaign beings 
WASIIINGTON -An alliance created to combat a rising flood of mortgage foreclosures began a nationwide mail campaign Monday, offering help to homeowners who may be hav­ing trouble meeting their mortgage payments. 
The Hope Now alliance will mail 300,000 of the one-page letters before the end of next week. The letters urge the recipients to seek information on the options available to avoid defaulting on their mortgages. 
"Homeowners can easily fmd out about relief options that may include repayment plans, changes that can be made to the terms of a loan and other alternatives for which homeowners may be eligible," the letters state, proyiding a toll-free telephone number, 888-995-HOPE. 
The Hope Now alliance, a partnership between mortgage companies and nonprofit housing counselors, is being backed by the Bush administration, which believes it will overcome the reluctance of many homeowners to make contact with their mortgage companies when they start to become worried about meet­ing their monthly payments. 
French rail workers keep strike 
PARIS -Transport workers causing havoc on French rails voted to extend their strike into a seventh day Tm~sday, when they will be joined by a mass walkout of civil servants, increasing pressure on President Nicolas Sarkozy to backtrack on his reforms. 
But the government stood its ground, with Prime Minister Francois Filion saying the reforms must go through -even though the strikes are costing the government at least $439.6 million a day. 
Strikes led by train drivers angry over Sarkozy's plans to extend their retirement age have hampered rail traffic and public trans­port and snarled roads again Monday. Schools and postal and tax services will fall victim Tuesday to a strike by civil servants seeking higher salaries and job security. Air traffic, too, will be affected. 



THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Charitable donations on the decline 
Slowing housing market may be to blame for fewer gifts to nation's needy 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON -The  
housing market bust has  
punished homebuilders,  
lenders and investors.  
Now the homeless and the  
hungry may be victimized.  
Charity executives are  
nervously monitoring the  
mortgage debacle while  
food and energy costs  
continue to rise. Food  
banks and homeless shel­ 
ters are already grappling  
with reduced federal aid  
as fears grow that more  
people will need help just  
as charity giving starts to  
decline.  
Shelters and food banks  
are already reporting  
more need among house­ 
holds. One shelter in  
Minneapolis served as  
many people by the end of  
September as in all of last  
year. In New York, food  
banks are serving 24 per­ 
cent more people, but  
receiving half as much  
federal aid as in 2004.  
"There is some growing  
concern" about the effect  
of the housing slowdown  
on charitable donations,  
said Michael Nilsen, a  
spokesman for the  
Association of  
Fundraising Professionals.  
The backbone of those  
charities, U.S. households AP  
with $200,000 or more in Julie Rack stocks the nearly empty shelves at St. Vincent's food pantry on Nov. 15 in  
annual income or more  
Cincinnati. Charitable donations are declining.than $1 million in assets,  
are also the ones most  ried out the Bank of  bank -she wouldn't  said Rick Belous, United  
likely hit by the recent  America study in 2006.  name the company -has  Way's vice president of  
drop in stock prices  Despite the roller-coast­ reduced its donation by  research.  
sparked by the mortgage  er ride stocks have taken  60 percent this year, cit­ Food pantries around  
mess, according to  in recent months, the  ing the fallout from mort­ the country are scram­ 
research.  Standard & Poor's 500 is  gage losses.  bling to meet rising  
Those households make  up 2.9 percent so far this  If a recession can't be  demand from households  
almost two-thirds of char­ year. But as of Nov. 16,  avoided, look out. The  that can't afford food  
itable donations, accord­ the benchmark index was  inflation-adjusted level of  because of rising housing  
ing to Bank of America  6.3 percent lower than a  private donations fell in  costs.  
Corp.-funded study. But  record high hit in October.  2001-2002 -amid the  The crisis also affects  
research also shows stock  There are anecdotal  aftermath of the  renters, who are heading  
prices have more of an  reports the mortgage  September 11 terrorist  for emergency shelters  
effect on their giving than  mess is forcing corpora­ attacks and Internet stock  after landlord-owners  
income changes, said  tions to pull back too.  bubble bust.  foreclose on apartments  
Patrick Rooney, director  Carol Schneider, media  Unfortunately, when giv­ and houses, said Steve  
of research at Indiana  relations manager for the  ing falls, it's most often  Berg, vice president of the  
University's Center for  Food Bank for New York  when demands on chari­ National Alliance to End  
Philanthropy, which car- City, said a major U.S.  table groups are rising,  Homelessness.  



Judge rules to stop immigration scam 
The lawsuit also alleged that memberships or representing the
Associated Press immigrants were told they would Kaweah Indian Nation as an WICHITA, Kan. -A judge in be entitled to receive U.S. citizen­acknowledged tribe. It also bars Texas on Monday ordered a group ship once the tribe was federally them from promising that tribal that claims to be an American recognized. membership will lead to a Social Indian tribe to stop selling mem­The Bureau of Indian Affairs Security number, protection from berships to immigrants with the ruled in 1984 that the Kaweah deportation and U.S. citizenship. false promise that they would group had no historical link to Gonzalez also ordered them to become U.S. citizens. American Indian tribes and that not conceal or destroy any docu­State District Judge Noe Gonzalez Webber is not an Indian. ments related to their business and ruled that Malcolm Webber and his A federal indictment charging prohibited them from claiming that Wichita-based Kaweah Indian the group, Webber and 10 other the Bureau of Citizenship and Nation admitted the allegations by people with mail fraud and other Immigration Services has approved default by failing to respond to a counts was unsealed in September. any services for sale by them. lawsuit filed by Texas Attorney A trial is set for Aug. 5, but a fed­Kurt Kerns, the court-appointed General Greg Abbott. eral prosecutor said earlier this defense attorney representing the The lawsuit, filed in August, month that he expects to add tribe and Webber in the federal alleges that the tribe violated the defendants and charges in the case, did not immediately return a Texas Deceptive Trade Practices complex case, when spans at least call for comment. Kerns previously Act by selling memberships for up 10 states and involves an estimat­has said that Webber was a victim to $400 per person to immigrants ed 10,000 victims. of renegade underlings who sold by saying that members could get a Monday's ruling prohibits tribal memberships to immigrants Social Security number. Kaweah and Webber from selling and pocketed the money. 

Tuesday, November 20, 2007 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Otero 
continued from page 1 
Notro Damn Prize for Distinguished Public Service in Latin America yesterday for hnr leadership at ACCION, which, along with other organizations it has created, has givnn loans to about throe 
million people like Tnrnsa. 
Otero was presented the award by Univnrsity Prnsident Fathnr John Jenkins at a dinnnr in the Main Building on Monday night. 
"[I admire! Otero's vision and her leadnr­ship to empow­er thosn with­
out access to anything," said Tara Knnney, a 19S2 Notrn Dame graduate, who nominat­ed Otero for the prizn. Kenney is on thn Board of Directors of ACCION. 
Notrn Dame's Kellogg Institute for International Studies awardnd Otero the prize, which was established in 1999 with funding from the Coca-Cola Foundation. accord­ing to the Kellogg Institute's 
Wnb site. 
lntnrim Director Kellogg Institute Beatty said prize redpinnts must be Latin American and have con­tributed to human welfare in Latin America. Otero was a strong candidate, he said, because she can work 
with inlluential ACCION board of directors She said 
p o Ii t. i ~~ a I a n d 
busirwss lnad­
ers. as well as the impover­
islwd entrepreneurs ACCION 
assists. 
"Siw has tlw ability to con­ned with pnople in the highest places in soriety and people who arn marginaliznd." Beatty said. 
Otc~ro·s interest in ACCION bngan wlwn shn was working with wonwn in Afriea and saw thny rwednd to make monny for thmnsnlves. She wanted to join an organization that hnlped poor pnople bncome sn1f-c~mployed and foundnd ACCION. whore she has worknd for the past 20 years. 
"Wiwn you go to some of those rnally poor villages, it became dear that women need to earn some money, to be able to work, to rnally look after their families," she said. 
ACCION bngan using miero­finanee to help the poor in 197:~. Otero said. Microl'inance institutions pro­vidn loans for pnople who nor­mally would not be eligible for thn eredit they need to obtain eapital for starting small busi­nesS!$. 
Morwy lenders would charge the poor unrl'asonable rates, sonwtinws loaning fivn dollars at t.lw beginning of the day and nxpecting six dollars bark at t lw end of t h n day. llownv(~r. with ACCION's loans. ()tnro obsPrvl'd that about 98 fH'rrnHt of tlw Pntrnprnrwurs worn ahiP to makn lhnir pay­mnn ts. 
"II' ltlw poor! arn givnn an opportunity, tlwy will usn tlw monny in a productive way, and thny will pay it back," she 
"If[the poor} are given an opportunity, they will use the money in a productive way and they will pay it back. " 
Marla Otero CEO ACCION International 
of the Edward 

"/1 admire} Otero's vision and her leadership to empower those without access to anything." 
Tara Kenney member 
said. 
Besides giving impoverished people a means to help them­selves, Otero said microfi­nance institutions such as ACCION can create economi­cally self-sufficient banks, since banks allow organiza­tions access to larger amounts of money than donors have. She added that when ACCION first created a bank in 1992, it 
that microfinancn has recently gained popularity throughout the world. The United Nations declared 2005 to be the International Year of Microcredit, and in 2006, Dr. Muhammad Yunus won the Nobel Peace Prize for begin­ning microfinance work in Bangladesh. 
ACCION International also ereated a United States branch, ACCION USA, which helps small business owners 
in the U.S. "We did 
although thn 

U.S. appnars to bfl wnalthy, it is often difficult to start a small business. llowcwer, Mas added that small businesses can help 

REO SPEEDWA<iOrt 
Frl<kly FczbrUGry 29, 2008 Morris Performing flrts Ccrntcrr 
this because it became clear to us that there were impover­ished pockets of the coun­try," Otero said. Senior Michelle Mas interned at ACCION USA last summer as a loan officer. 
drew attention to microfinance. 
"The amount of money that's out on the street in those loans [from organiza­tions that ACCION creat­ed] is about 2.8 billion dollars," Otero said. "The only way you can get [bil­lions of dollars] is to become a bank." 
Otero said 
families improve their lives. 
"I think this is the best way to go if you're an immigrant," she said. "You can help your family, help yourself up. Isn't this what the American Dream is all about?" 
Otero next plans to expand ACCION in Africa and India and to make the loan process faster and cheaper. 
"I had worked in Africa and Asia and thought, 'We have to go there."' she said. "There's such a need." 
ACCION, however, has expe­rienced difficulties in some countries, especially when laws impede setting up banks. 
"Sometimes [the countries[ don't allow you to set up a bank like this, but more importantly, they take forev­er," Otero said. "It took us two and a half years in Nigeria to set up a bank, and the bank in the first two months had a thousand clients. The laws for the central bank are poorly developed." 
Otero received $15,000 for her prize, with a matching $15,000 for a Latin American charity, and she will give the matching funds to the Organization of Youth Empowerment (OYE). which operates in Honduras. 
Justin Eldridge-Otero, Otero's son and an OYE co­founder, said the organization concentrates on educating orphans in Honduras so they will be prepared for life when they leave the orphanage. 
"This coming year, we're going to have our first two graduates, one in engineering and one in psychology," Eldridge-Otero said. "The ulti­mate goal is to get these young women to go to college and reverse the cycle of poverty that's been afflicting their families forever." 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin@nd.edu 



Abit ofIreland in 


your own backyard. 
' s 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the flreplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all theAames. And we're open seven night-; a week, too. 
(Waterfurd Estates Lodge has hotel rooms atreasonable rate$ fOr upc"'Orning ND fOothall weekends.) 

Pageant 
continued from page 1 
and turns and picking out­fits. But Buhler was unable to begin intense preparation 
for the pag­eant until she went home to South Dakota for fall break, which gave her approxi­mately one month. 
Buhler had a number of supporters who encour­aged her dur­ing the pag­eant. 
"I definitely felt the sup­port and love from my fami-
Each con­testant received scores based on an inter­v i e w . swimwear and evening gown. No talent is required for the Miss USA pageant. 
Even with her participa­
tion in pageants, Buhler said, school has always come first. 
"School is always my num­ber one priority," Buhler said. "In fact, I had the pag­eant on Sunday. Immediately after the pag­eant, I jumped on the plane, flew back to Notre Dame and was in class on Monday 
"/feel that its a common misconception that you have to fit a certain stereotype, but the Miss Universe Organization looks for girls from all different backgrounds." 
Charlie Buhler sophomore 
"/ definitely felt the support and love from my family and the Notre Dame family back here." 
Charlie Buhler sophomore 
morning" 
Buhler, a double major in film, television and theatre and American studies, said her pageant titles haven't changed her life. 
"It really hasn't changed much," she said. "I still go 
doing my homework well in advance," Buhler said. "It will all be worth it in the 
end." 
She will compete in the Miss USA Pageant, which will be broadcast on NBC, in the spring of 2008. 
Contact Amber Travis at atravis@nd.edu 
to all of my elasses. I'm back at Notre Dame and doing my homework." 
She also promotes a more positive image of pag­eants, like Miss South Dakota USA. 
"I feel like there are so many oppor­tunities that pageantry provides, which include 
interviews and appearances throughout the state. But they will only take place on weekends dur­ing the school year. 
"It will be a struggle, but it will be a matter of give and take and ly and the Notre Dame fami­ly back here," she said. "My Notre Dame family was very supportive with text mes­sages and phone calls." 

the development or commu­nication skills and acquiring poise," Buhler said. 
Buhler's future plans as Miss South Dakota include 

Tuesday, November 20, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 

Pokagon 
continued from page 1 
the southwest Michigan and northern Indiana region, includ­ing the grounds where campus is now. 
"They of course moved around a bit," Daugherty said. "They moved along the St. Joseph River to farm, hunt and gather." 
Notre Dame anthropology pro­fessor Mark Schurr led an archaeological survey along the St. Joseph Hiver about five years ago. The survey, a joint effort of a Notre Dame field school and the Pokagon Band, lasted about three years and revealed a few village sites along the river, Schurr said. 
American settlers began mov­ing west and consequently pushed for removal of American Indians by the U.S. government, Daugherty said. 
In compliance with settlers' demands for westward migration, the Indian Removal Act of 1830 dictated that all native peoples east of the Mississippi River move to present day states of Kansas and Oklahoma, said Ben Secunda, a Notre Dame history professor. 
Just as the Cherokee's removal was called the "Trail of Tears," Secunda said, the Potawatomi called their removal the "Trail of Death." The Potawatomi tribe, along with sympathetic whites such as the Catholic missionaries and traders friendly to the Indians, strongly protested it. 
Secunda noted that violent roundups, led by governmental officials like Indian agent John Tipton, occurred throughout the Midwest except in the area of Michigan where Leopold Pokagon had secured land for his people. Pokagon's land, Secunda said, became a safe haven for refugees evading the removal to Kansas. Baptist missionaries in the area supported such removals, he said. 
To resist such removal, Leopold Pokagon, in 1830, trekked to Detroit to the Catholic headquar­ters to make an appeal, Secunda said. He asked for a Catholic priest to come back with him, one who would aid in removal resist­ance, convincing Father Stephen Badin and the Catholic missionar­ies to come down to the South Bend area, Secunda said. 
Badin and the missionaries came and worked out of Pokagon's log chapel, the famous historic landmark next to Saint Mary's Lake, Secunda said. This became their base of operations. 
Essentially, he said, out of Leopold Pokagon's appeal came Notre Dame. 
"The Pokagon band, Roman Catholic Church and Notre Dame priests supplemented each other at a key point in their history," Schurr said. "Since then the groups have gone their separate ways. None would be as success­ful as they are now." 
Badin and the other Catholic missionaries successfully replaced the other pro-removal missionaries. 
"The forerunners of the University did the right thing," Secunda said. "With their help, the Potawatomi people were able to maintain a level of self-suffi­ciency, avoid removal, become Catholic and basically survive as a people." 
When Sorin arrived in the area in fall of 1841, "the Pokagons and the Catholics were interacting readily," Daugherty said. 
From the beginning, the Potawatomi in the area coexisted peacefully with the new settlers, Schurr said. 
In fact, he said, Badin and the other priests shared many meals with the tribe members. They also lived in close proximity with the tribe. 
The Pokagon Band today is scattered throughout Midwest. This dispersal is not totally unprecedented, Daugherty said. 
"We have never had a land base or tribal ownership," he said. 
Though there is dispersal, the largest Pokagon population today is located in northern Indiana and southwestern Michigan. 
About 3,300 members are in the Band today, and Daugherty said roughly 40 percent live with­in about 30 miles of Dowagiac. There is also a large concentra­tion of people in the Kalamazoo area, with the remainder scat­tered across the Midwest. 
Native American Heritage Month at Notre Dame includes a number of programs. In addition to the Dec. 4 dinner, the agenda includes a workshop in black ash basketry on Nov. 26. A visual dis­play on contemporary American Indians will be displayed in the library for the remainder of the month. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
Sex scandal rocks Atlanta church 
Pastor claims uncle to be his father; paternity test confirms allegation 
Associated Press 
DECATUR, Ga. -The 80­year-old leader of a subur­ban Atlanta megachurch is at the center of a sex scan­dal of biblical dimensions: He slept with his brother's wife and fathered a child by her. 
Members of Archbishop Earl Paulk's family stood at the pulpit of the Cathedral of the Holy Spirit at Chapel Hill Harvester Church a few Sundays ago and revealed the secret exposed by a recent court-ordered pater­nity test. 
In truth, this is not the first -or even the second -sex scandal to engulf Paulk and the 

Bureau of Investigation, which are investigating Earl Paulk for possible per­jury and false-swearing charges stemming from a lawsuit. 
The archbishop, his brother and the church are being sued by former church employee Mona Brewer, who says Earl Paulk manipulated her into an affair from 1989 to 2003 by telling her it was her only path to salvation. Earl Paulk admitted to the affair in front of the church last January. 
In a 2006 deposition stemming from the lawsuit, the archbishop said under oath that the only woman he had ever 
independent, "It was a necessary had sex with 
charismatic outside of his
evil to bring
church. But marriage was this time, he us back to a Brewer. But 
could be in God-consciousness.'' the paternity 
trouble with test said oth­the law for erwise. 
D.E. Paulk

lying under So far no oath about head pastor charges have 
the affair. 
The living proof of that lie is 34-year-old D.E. Paulk, who for years was known publicly as Earl Paulk's nephew. 
"I am so very sorry for the collateral damage it's caused our family and the families hurt by the remov­ing of the veil that hid our humanity and our sinful­ness," said D.E. Paulk, who received the mantle of head pastor a year and a half ago. 
D.E. Paulk said he did not learn the secret of his parentage until the paterni­ty test. "I was disappointed, and I was surprised," he said. 
Earl Paulk, his brother, Don, and his sister-in-law, Clariece, did not return calls for comment. 
A judge ordered the test at the request of the Cobb County district attorney's office and the Georgia been filed 

against Earl 
Paulk. District Attorney Pat Head and GBI spokesman John Bankhead would not com­ment. 
The shocking results of the paternity test are speeding up a transforma­tion already under way in the church after more than a decade of sex scandals and lawsuits involving the Paulks, D.E. Paulk said. 
"It was a necessary evil to bring us back to a God-con­sciousness," said the younger Paulk, explaining that the church had become too personality-driven and prone to pastor worship. 
The flashy megachurch began in 1960 with just a few dozen members in the Little Five Points neighbor­hood of Atlanta. Now, it is in the suburbs on a 100­acre expanse, a collection of buildings surrounding a neo-Gothic cathedral. 
For years the church was at the forefront of many social movements -admit­ting black members in the 1960s, ordaining women and opening its doors to gays. 
At its peak in the early 1990s, it claimed about 10,000 members and 24 pastors and was a media powerhouse. By soliciting tithes of 10 percent from each member's income, the church was able to build a Bible college, two schools, a worldwide TV ministry and a $12 million sanctuary the size of a fortress. 
Today, though, member­ship is down to about 1,500, the church has 18 pastors, most of them vol­unteers, and the Bible col­lege and TV ministry have shuttered-a downturn blamed largely on com­plaints about the alleged sexual transgressions of the elder Paulks. 
In 1992, a church mem­ber claimed she was pres­sured into a sexual rela­tionship with Don Paulk. Other women also claimed they had been coerced into sex with Earl Paulk and other members of the church's administration. 
The church countered with a $24 million libel suit against seven former church members. The law­suit was later dropped. 
Jan Royston, who left the church in 1992, started an online support group for former members to discuss their crushed faith and hurt feelings. 
"This is a cult. And you escape from a cult," she said. "We all escaped." 
These days, Earl Paulk has a much-reduced role at the cathedral, giving 10­minute lectures as part of Sunday morning worship each week. 
"My uncle is 100 percent guilty, but his accusers are guilty as well," D.E. Paulk said, declining to talk fur­ther about the lawsuits. 




Peterson says he's worried about missing wife 
Lawyer asserts he does not expect former Chicago police officer to face charges in disappeared fourth wife 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-A lawyer repre­senting a former police officer suspected in the disappearance of his wife said Monday he does not believe his client will face charges stemming from the investigation. 
Speaking on NBC's "Today" show, lawyer Joel Brodsky also criticized the media for their coverage of Drew Peterson, who resigned as a Bolingbrook police sergeant after his 23-year-old fourth wife, Stacy, vanished three weeks ago. 
Police have named the 53­year-old Peterson as a suspect in her disappearance, and authorities have called the case a possible homicide. He has denied any involvement in her disappearance. 
"We do not expect to be charged in these cases," Brodsky said. "This is out of control. It's a rush to judgment fueled by people, by entertain­ment and people seem to want to be entertained by what's going on." 
Brodsky, who began repre­senting Peterson on Friday, declined to let his client respond to most questions during Monday's short interview. 
Peterson, whose children with Stacy Peterson are 2 and 4, answered "yes" when asked if he was worried she may never. return home. "Kids need a mom," he said. 
Asked if he was worried about his wife, he said: "Of course. Your wife leaves you and I have kids at home, you're very much worried about her." 
Peterson reiterated that he thinks his wife left him for another man. ''I'd like to have her publicly show herself so we can clear all this up," said Peterson, who has older chil­dren from an earlier marriage. 
After returning from a hotel where he appeared on the "Today" show via satellite, Peterson stopped and talked to reporters in the driveway of his Bolingbrook home. He called the attention paid to his life "mind-boggling." 
"People are looking at me under a magnifying glass. It's very upsetting. You know, I mean, what I had for breakfast is newsworthy. So it's crazy. Look at these people," he said, gesturing to the media. "This is hilarious. It's just not how I want to be spending my retire­ment." 
Peterson later participated in a photo shoot in his backyard, but it was not immediately clear which media outlet commis­sioned it. 
Stacy Peterson, who was studying nursing at a junior col­lege, disappeared from the cou­ple's suburban Chicago home Oct. 28. Volunteers have been canvassing fields, lakes and construction sites near the fami­ly's house, but have found no traces of the woman. 

Still, the investigation into her disappearance caused prosecu­tors to reopen the investigation into the death of Peterson's third wife, Kathleen Savio, whose body was found in a bathtub in 2004. 
At the time, authorities ruled her death an accidental drown­ing, but investigators exhumed her body last week at the request of a prosecutor, who has said after examining evi­dence he believes her death was a homicide staged to look like an accident. 
A pathologist who conducted another autopsy on Savio's body for her family said last week he believes the woman was mur­dered. 
Savio's remains were returned Monday to th~ cemetery, according to the Will County coroner's office. The state's attorney's office said it could be a couple weeks before investi­gators have final results from tests related to the autopsy. 
Peterson also has denied any role in Savio's death. He was asked Monday for his reaction to speculation that Savio was murdered. "Yes, I'm upset to hear something like that said. Very much so," he said on the "Today" show. 
Later, he denied claims made by his second wife, Vicki Connolly, that Peterson told her he could kill her and make it look like an accident. Connolly said that while she didn't believe he ever would kill her, she confided in Bolingbrook police officers she considered friends. 
"I've never said anything like that, or even thought anything like that," Peterson said. "I don't know what's going through her head. I thought her and I had a good relationship. I thought we were friends. For her to say something like that, I don't know if it was driven by the media or whatever. Who knows?" 
THE QBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, November 20, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Maddit· Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Kt•n Fowler Kyle West 
Ass·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen bngley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hinc SCENE EUITOR: 'fae Andrew' 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EmTOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly (;ronli CONTROLIJ,R: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(174) 631-7471 fAX (174) 6.31-6927 
ADVERTISING 
('574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('574) 6.31-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6j1-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 6.31-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vit'Wpoint.1 @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4'543 'porrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
('574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONUN£ www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the indt·pcndem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Uniwrsity ofNmrc Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colkoge. Editorial contt•nt, including adverriscments, is nor governed by policies of rhe adminisrmrion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refi1se advcrti.,cmenrs based on content. 
Tht• news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Un~igncd editorials represent rhe opinion of 1hc majority ofthe Editor in Chic[ Managing Editor, A<sisrant Managing Editors and department editors. ( :omrnenrarks, letters .111d columns presem rhc views of rhc authors and not necessarily rhosc ofThe ()bserv,·r. 
Vi<:wpoim space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions 1hrough letters is enmuragcd. IA'ttcr' to rhc Ediror must be signed and muM indude mntacl inlormarion. 
Qu~tiow r~xarding Obumerpolici~s should be directed tfl l:ditor in ChiefMaddir Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

·n,l" Oh~m-r (l!SI1;<, .,,>tJ .l-4ll0fll•• puhl,alu:tl Muml..y thruugl• Nklo~y OIXpt durmg u.un ami V",l•<'lillll .~m.d. A ~ulo..c,rtpt••m tn Titf.' (lbicrver •~ Slllfl fur 1111r .u...tdcmk 
Y\'.H: s~s Inc Ill)<; SCIIIOCCT 
I ht Ob•crvc-r ir. puhl•~ht:d .u I'OHMASTER 02<1 S!o1nh l>inmK H.UI Send Jddrcs.,~ ("nrrcctiom rn: Nnrrc O.mw, IN 4MI)6-0779 Tl.cOh~c:rvcr l'enl"l\{Lil pnu,lKe p~td ~~ Nutrt' L)o~mc HO. Box 779 .1/ltl.u.Jdiuon~l m.ulmg nfficC':\. 014 S.1u1h Dinmg ildll 
Nunc D.unc, IN '1M'.i6-oniJ 
Tl1c nh~crvt:r il .a nu~mhcr ulrhc Ast.KJ.ucd Prc3.". All u:prutluctinn nWm arc r~.:~~Crv~l 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kaitlynn Hiely Dan Murphy Maurnen Mullen Michael Bryan Nikki Taylor Griffin Dassatti Graphics Scene Matt Hudson Tae Andrews Viewpoint Michelle Johnson 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Finding religious convergence 
If you use current headlines as a barometer of Christian-Muslim rela­tions, you may come to the conclu­sion that there is little convergence between Christianity and Islam. But if you suspect that it might be unfair to compare the ideals of one's own reli­gion (e.g., that the Beatitudes call Christians to be peacemakers, but we do not always live up to this} with the realities of another (e.g., that the extremists depicted in the nightly news may in fact be condemned by many Muslims as un-Islamic}, then where can you go for a brief summa­ry comparing Christian and Muslim belinfs? 
In addition to consulting Muslim sourees, a handy resource for Catholies is a short but signifieant document from the Sneond Vatiean Couneil, Nostra !lelale (Declaration on the Helation of the Church to non­Christians}, which is the first sub­stantive conciliar teaching about Islam (and Judaism, for that matter). In its section on Islam, Nostra Aelale lists areas of theological convergence and divergence. Areas of conver­gence include belief in one God, judg­ment day and the resurrection of the body (ours, not Christ's}; it also men­tions that both religions also honor Mary. The document singles out three practices Muslims and Christians share: prayer, fasting and almsgiving. It also mentions points of disagree-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If we knew what we were doing, it 
would not be called 'research,' 
would it?" 
Albert Einstein physicist 

mont, such as the fact that Muslims consider Jesus a prophet but not divine. Interestingly, the document is silent about two othnr significant points of Christian-Muslim diver­gence: the status of Muhammad as a prophet and the Quran as revelation. 
Christian knowledge of these areas of convergence and divergence is not new; even 12th-eentury theologians who knew very little about Islam (and were eritical of it) recognized that Muslims were monotheists who prac­ticed prayer, fasting and almsgiving. So what is revolutionary about 
Nostra Aetate? 

Nostra Aetate is significant as the first positive statement about Islam issuing from a church council. Its section three begins, "The Chureh regards with esteem the Muslims." The importance of this phrase and what follows cannot be underestimat­ed. While there an~ examples from history of individual theologians whose writings ineluded sporadic praise of Islam-e.g., medieval l'ig­ures like Hamon Llull, William of Tripoli and Pope Gregory VII -Noslra Aetate is the first unequivo­cally positive statement about Islam from the highest level of church authority, the Council. 
Nostra Aetate is important for another reason. After outlining basic doctrinal similarities and differences, it concludes by exhorting Catholics 
·Le'tter
..,,.:Mn; · 
to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 



and Muslims to "work sincerely for mutual understanding and to pre­serve as wnll as promote" soeial jus­tiee, peaee and freedom. The doeu­ment encourages-indeed, ealls­Catholics to enter into dialogue and collaboration with Muslims. Nostra Aetale is in faet the impetus for all Catholie interreligious relations: We do it not bneause it's the "in" thing to do, but beeause it's the Catholic thing to do. 
Nostra Aelate's call to dialogue over 40 years ago has sinee sparked many encounters: From formal dis­cussions between bishops and imams in Home and Cairo to grassroots meetings between Catholic and Muslim moms in suburban Bridgeview, Illinois. Unfortunately, these dialogues don't make the head­lines. But they should, bneause these ordinary encounters arn in faet a supremely important kind of eonver­gence between Islam and Christianity:\ One that is relational, not theological. After all, there really is no sueh thing as a dialogue between "Catholieism" and "Islam"­there are only relationships between Catholics and Muslims. 
Rita George Tvrtkovic visiting faculty Depanmenl ofTheology Nov. 19 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"First love is a kind of vaccination 
which saves a man from catching the 
complaint a second time. " · 
Honore de Balzac French novelist 



THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 20, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The halftime marshmallow fight is a tradition Notre Dame students look forward to for three years. The morn­ing of the last football game, seniors can be found all over campus finding creative ways to elude ushers and smuggle precious marshmallows inside -whether by shoving them down their pants or duct taping bags to their armpits, for Notre Dame students, when there is a will, there is a way. Despite the University's best efforts, which included forcing students to remove clothing to gain entrance to the Stadium, Saturday's marshmallow fight attracted more attention than the half­time show, proving that our beloved ushers had failed. 
Not to be outdone, however, the ush­ers had a plan. Rather than make any 
Bad call, ushers 

attempt to stop the fight in action, con­fiscate marshmallows during the fight, or even display their displeasure, the five or six ushers in my section appeared to be enjoying the spectacle. The mood quickly changed when the students ran out of marshmallows and the fight calmed down, prompting ush­ers to switch gears and randomly choose at least 20 students to be kicked out of the game. When one stu­dent was asked why she was being kicked out of the stadium, an usher responded "we're making an example out of you." The usher then explained that they were plucking students of'f the ends of the sections since it was too hard to get the students in the middle. Clearly, law enforcement at its best. 
I've heard many different arguments against marshmallow fighting: They are extremely hard to clean up, they can injure people if heavy objects are shoved inside, marshmallows landing on the field pose a safety hazard, etc. All I have to say is, graduating from Notre Dame is hard, too. Most people are smart enough not to put hard objects into marshmallows and as harsh as it may sound, I'm not terribly worried about Trevor Laws, Jimmy Clausen or anyone else being downed by a white fluffy projectile. I can understand taking away all the marsh­mallows you can find upon entering the stadium. I can understand kicking someone out for being hopelessly intoxicated and chucking marshmal­lows at the grandmas sitting in the neighboring general admission sec­tions. What I cannot understand is sharing delight with students and then ejecting some at random, after they have spent over $100,000 to gain the honor of throwing a few harmless marshmallows. They say tradition never graduates, but news flash -we do. Those 20 students were robbed of their last home game, when the rest of us were just as guilty as they were. Ushers, we appreciate your hard work, but let's face it: On Saturday it was you, not Charlie Weis, who made the bad call. 
Katy Sidrow 
senwr 
Pasquerilla West Hall Nov. 18 


Continued discussion of moral relativism 
Errors In terminology 
Kevin Sharron's article ("Absolute moral code not necessary for moral behavior," Nov. 18) is well intentioned, but it incorrectly employs terminology. We'll start from the beginning. 
The idea of an "absolute moral truth" is that within human beings there are inherent standards of conduct which we can derive using logic and common experiences. The idea is not the equiva­lent of a political or religious structure, though structures employ the idea from time to time. For instance, the Catholic Church uses moral law to formulate doc­trine and social justice teachings. Absolute moral standards are part of the Church's tradition, in line with the Church's belief' that God created the human mind oriented towards himself, towards truth and love. Sharron actually confirms this by his example of a hypo­thetical situation. "If your code and all laws ceased existing at this very moment, what would you do? Would you commit murder or steal from the person sitting next to you?...I would not commit 
these crimes because I care about humankind and value order in society." Thus, he asserts that if all government structures were to fall, he would still feel responsibility to act justly towards his neighbor; regardless of the circum­stances, he still feels the tug of justice and order. This is precisely the assertion of the person who believes in an absolute moral code; I applaud Sharron for understanding the concept even if he misuses the terminology and he himself is evidence of this inherent standard of justice. 
And now, a hypothetical of my own. Fred, the moral relativist, disagrees that there is an inherent standard of conduct. That means he has no rules. He thinks that what's okay for GK might be wrong for Lewis, or that Lewis can't formulate an opinion on GK's behavior unless GK is harming Lewis. Fred has the right to do anything, for he is the only one allowed to decide what Fred can do. GK and Lewis get nervous because if Fred is right and there is no such thing a moral absolutism, GK and Lewis might be toast. To this, Fred replies that "morality is rel­ative, so long as it does not harm other people" or "morality is relative, and peo­ple can be harmed only for the common good," but GK and Lewis snicker to themselves because they know that Fred has just added an absolute requisite to his relativistic philosophy. Thus, Fred joins the chorus with Karl and Pete (a great singer) in a rousing hymn of "There is no such thing as absolute truth, except for this statement!" 
Cynthia Weber freshman Pasquerilla West Hall Nov. 20 
Circular judgment 
This is a response to Kevin Sherrin's letter on moral relativism ("Absolute moral code not necessary for moral behavior," Nov. 18). Mr. Sherrin writes: "By claiming that no universal standard of morality exists, moral relativists allow themselves to judge the goodness of actions by whatever standard they choose." While that may be the case, such a judgment is circular. When relativists judge by whatever standard they choose, they are making a judgment call between competing standards. In the end, either their method of deci­sion is reducible to an absolutely cor­rect standard or their judgment is reduced to mere opinion. 
Matthew Balkey freshman Dillon Hall Nov.l9 

Actions speak louder than words 
In his Nov. 19 letter ("Absolute moral code not necessary for moral behavior"), Kevin Sherrin says that he finds "it strange that [Nathan Loyd[ believes that moral relativism denies us the ability to decide the morality of certain actions .... By claiming that no universal standard of morality exist.<;, moral relativists ... judge the goodness of actions by whatever stan­dard they choose." I agree with Sherrin that "this stance" does not impair an indi­vidual's ability to make decisions; however, as one who believes that some moral absolutes exist, I argue that "this stance" allows that individual to make underin­formed moral judgments. An uninformed moral absolutist -one who believes in the existence of moral absolutes -is also capable of making underinformed deci­sions. 
Sherrin also offers: "I believe that Loyd meant to say that moral relativism ques­tions our ability to reaffirm that extra­marital sex is undoubtedly wrong." I sug­gest that instead of undoubtedly, one could try the word universally or absolutely. Surely a relativist cannot assert such a thing! 
Sherrin asks about the importance of an individual's ability to independently make moral judgments. Loyd argued that "with­out an absolute moral code, we could have no law." !flaw refers to the act of effecting laws in an absolutely just manner, Loyd is probably right. However, Sherrin seems to be correct that moral relativists would not fall into anarchy, a point William Golding asserts in "Lord of the Flies." Likewise, if all common laws ceased to exist, we would not immediately start committing crimes because many of us are essentially decent people. I agree that people do have their own "sets of beliefs as to what is right or wrong without an absolute moral code to guide them" -i.e. their own morals and values, but moral relativists are unable to make sound moral judgments about right and wrong. 
One should also remember that actions speak louder than words. Consider the scenario of doctor Delia Surridge from the movie "V for Vendetta." She had hoped her whole life to fmd cures for diseases and participated in horrible atrocities against other human beings. She had felt guilty for participating in this effort but hopeful about finding this cure for a good cause. In exacting his own sort of justice, the protagonist V states: "I have not come for what you had hoped to do. I have come for what you did." Delia's actions were morally wrong although she had initally hoped that they would lead to some fur­ther good; she ignored the consequences of her active participation in a project that actually committed crimes against human­ity. Delia is an ethical relativist. V may be a moral absolutist. As a nominal Christian, I turn to the parable of the good Samaritan. Jesus states: "Whatsoever you do to the least of my people, that you do unto me" (Matthew 25:40). The set of moral absolutes includes a commandment to actively love your neighbor as yourself. Love is part of a universal human con­science that all people are capable of agreeing upon. 
My advice is this: Stay informed and alert, and listen to your conscience. Make decisions based on true facts. Grow in wis­dom and understanding. Make a positive difference. How? In the words of Aristotle, "Where your talents and the needs of the world cross, there lies your vocation." Actions speak louder than words. Live that vocation, and live it well. 
Daniel Dugovic 
senior 
Keenan Hall Nov.l9 


THE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, November 20, 2007 


By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
Every kid, college or otherwise, has the saJne: to go to Disney World. Junior Andrew Nesi did just that this semester, but hi<> dreaJn trip took on a fairy tale twist different than most pnople making the trip to the Mecca of ma!-,riC. 
lie did it for free. 
Two of Nesi's dasses this semester-U.S. I~nvironmental Ili<>tory and Di<>ney in Film and Ameriean culture -required long final papers. The first required an analysis of nature in an American source aJld the second called for a research paper on anything Disney-related. So naturally, Nesi, who writes a biweekly column for The Observer, did what any resourceful eollege kid would -he decid­ed to kill two litnrary birds with one st<mn and combine the papers with a trip l<> Orlando to do research on Di<>ney World aJld nature. 
Nesi spent five days in Orlando from Nov. 1 through Nov. 5. A Underbrraduate Researeh Opportunities (UHOP) grant paid fi>r his air­fh.re, hotel, rental car, park tickets and meals during the trip. Nesi footed the bill for sou­venirs and a picture of himself on Splash Mountain. He spent the first day reading locm newspaper clippings from the 1970s in the Orlm1do Public library, researching the begin­nin!-,'S of lli<>ney World and the initial plans for tim park. Nesi then spent three days in Disney World. That included a behind-the-scenes tour of tiw Animal Kingdom on tho first day, a trip l<> EPCOT visit l<> "Future World," an obligatory trip to the Magic Kingdom for fireworks, a nighttime ride on Splash Mountain. a Jungle Cruise, quality time spent in Tomorrowland, Frontierland, and Adventureland m1d a stay at the high-end Animal Kingdom I ,odgR 
After talking with Disney experts about nature, Nesi leamnd that park ollkials have l<> rneoneile ti1eir wL<>h l<> keep ti1e pm·k a "natu­ral" environment while still making it appeal­ing to children. Originally, park ollieials didn't want I.<J have Di<>nny characters strewn about the place, but high demand fim:ed them to accede to the wi<>hes of their cust<>mers. Even so, they eontinue l<> try and keep animated ani­mal<> away from the real ones. As Nesi put it: 'The monkeys will never see Balloo." (Fun fact: the Animal Kingdom uses biodegradable paper straws, which Nesi describes as "weird l<> use" but are supposedly better for the envi­ronment) 
"like EPCOl~ I think the Magic Kingdom li>cuses on nature as a tool of progress," he said. "[It's] not something to be conserved for il<> own sake." 
Of course, Nesi had to do his homework before going out to play. After writing a live-page grant pro­posal, obtaining a let­ter of recommenda­tion and drafting a budget proposal, he applied for a grant through UHOI~ 
'!be rest, as they say, is history -although Nesi wasn't sure his proposal would be taken snriou-;ly. "I wa<; worried that they wouldn't believe me that it was a legitimate project," he said, "so I had to do pretty sub­stantial research before I proposed the idea to demonstrate that I was serious about this and I wasn't just in it tor the fireworks over Cinderella's Castle." 
"Going to Disney alone was fun becausn it let me move at my own pace <md ride whauwer I wanted whenever I wantnd," he said, noting that lines are much shorter fbr singles ti1an fbr groups. "But you also feel sort of creepy some­times walking around alone, standing in line behind little kids and taking extensivn not<1s." 
Like many other young people who have vis­ited Disney, Nesi said hl-; only regret was timt he had to return home. He lamented the change in climate in particular, mentioning that on his last day in Florida it was 85 degress. Whnn he got home, "it wa<; flurrying." 
To answer tim obligai.!Jry qunstion: Nesi did see Mickey Mou<;e during hi<> time in Orlcu1do, three times in all, dressed once as a Park Ranger, once tbr a parade and once to meet kids in his hou-;e in tim Animal Kingdom. 
'Tie's a pretty versatile guy," Nesi said. "I even took a picture ofhim." 
lie went on l<> say that. he has three favorite Disney rides from the trip, one from eaeh park. "In the Animal Kingdom, it was definitely Kilimanjaro Safari," he said. The ride takes thrill seekers on a no-boundaries tour com­plete with lions, giraffes and elephants. Nesi said his EPCOT favorite was a new ride called "Soarin,"' which takes riders on a mock llyover of California complete with the smell of fresh oranges. "It was a great ride," he said. Finally, Nesi said his favorite Magic Kingdom ride was, and has always been, Splash Mountain, having ridden it seven times during his most recent visit. "The drop always gets me, even ifthe rest ofthe ride ran be kind ofannoying," he said. 
To wit, Nesi rates "The Lion King" his 

Photo courtesy of nd.edu 

Keenan Hall lost to Stanford In the lnterhall championship game. 
Keenan responds to colun1n 
Lnt nw prdacn with this: Congratulations on your victory, Stanford, in the lnterhall cham­pionship game. It was a well­fought game on both sides and a truly rivalry garno. 
Tae Kang

My nanw­sake wrotl' an 
Scene & Heard

article dmnnaning my beloved home and this cannot stand. lie's done something that we at Notre Danw nxp1wt BC to do: gloat ~~xcnssivPiy. Yes, you won. Yes, Tn~gg Duerson scon.,d a touch­down. Yns. thnrl' wnrn birds hov­nring owr the Stadium. Congratulations onen again. I'm sure l.'rndo Corlnonn had good days too. 
In Kennan llall. wn take pride in being "The Classiest Gnntll~mnn's Dorm on Campus." It is a divino birthright being a Kennan Knight for it comes with the n~sponsibility of volunteering at thn GrPat Pumpkin, partieipat­ing in Muddy Sunday, acting in the K1HHHlll Hnvw1, and flat out bning onn of the "Fratms in Cristo". We'rn proud that we're activo and good at what we do. If that makes us "dastardly do­goodnrs, boy scouts, and boy wonders" then so be it. If you're happy boing "belligerent and boistnrous". then that's good too. I'm surn your parents are proud. Like thn other Tae. I am a fan of the X-Men and I remnmber that it was Cyclops, not Wolverine, who marries Jean Grey. 
Other Tan also talked about Stanford winning llall of the Year in 2006. That's bncause Student Activitins enjoys being egalitari­an and communist in handing out thnsn awards. lfjustiee were snrvnd. then Kennan would get it evnry y1~ar without fail. No other dorm dons what we do as good as we do. So when you come over 
t.o Zaland next time: rnmember your older brother still loves you vnry mtu~h. 
P.S. Come watch the Keenan Hevue Jan.30-Feb.1 
The IJiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obser/Jer. 
Contact Tae Kang at tkang@nd.edu 
favoril<l Disney film, but dtes "Beauty and the Beast" as a "close second." 
"lbn lion King ha<> it all," hn said. "The ani­mation i<> great, and the mw;ic i<> even better. But the best scene in mw lli<>ney movie ha<> t<> be in Beauty and the Beast. When they're daneing in the ballroom, the 1u1imation takes you up to the ceiling and swoops down through the ehanddier to them dancing. It's the best animation I've seen all semnst<1r in my Disney in Film and American Culture da'>.<>." 
I laving eonquernd ti1e Magie Kingom, Nesi has since contemplated setting hi-; sight<> on new research opportunities. "I loved the research experience," he said. ''I'm al'it> con­sidering applying li>r otimr b'Tanl'i l<> work in Beijing on anothnr paper this summer on American Media Coverage of the Olympics." lie al-;o hasn't rulnd out a seeond trip, ti1i'i time l<> California's DL-;neyhmd, l<> build on hi-; cur­rent research. 
"When you tell people you'rn going on a research trip 1.<> Disrwy World, or that you'm taking a class timt n~quires you l<> watch tiw 'Littln Mermaid,' they t<md to laugh,'' Nesi said. "But ti1is was a serious projm:t. Obviously, it was a lot of fun, UK>, but it was rL'Seareh first and foremost." 
Nesi plans to spend time during the lbank.<>briving break in the llesburgh library to wril<l hi<> paper. 
"What's great about funding grants like this," he said, "is that it encourages kids to think big -and creatively -about thf~ possi­biliti~~ for what thny can do with their time here. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 


Tuesday, November 20, 2007 


By JESS SHAFFER Scene Writer 
If you have yet to hear Ms. Colbie Caillat's pervasive hit, "Bubbly," you must be wearing some heavy-duty ear­muffs. · 
But seriously, though, if you're oblivi­ous to this chart topper you should probably consider rejoining the human race. This song is nearly impossible to avoid (at least if you engage in normal human activity). Whether you're a blogger, Lifetime addict, or just your average radio listener, you've no doubt 
CoCo 

Colbie Caillat Label: Universal Republic 
''One Fine Wire' and "lied Down" 
The Hollywood writers' strike may have yielded repeat after repeat of your favorite shows. Usually a habitue of Conan O'Brien and Jay Leno, I had almost given up on watching late-night television for the time being until I James Costa saw a repeat of an episode from this Scene & Heard past summer on NBC last week fea­turing a rock band called the Cold War Kids. Sounding like angry brew of early Matchbox Twenty and Ryan Adams with hints of Maroon 5 and even Hadiohead, I turned up the volume to better hear this eatchy new blend of fringe pop. 
Jumping around my television, albeit not live (damn TV writers), was a rau­cous and wild indie rock group from Long Beaeh, Calif., that played pop hooks with the energy of The Clash. I was sold. Usually late night appear­ances are a tepid event featuring shoe­gazing hipsters strumming tunes eerily similar to Elvis Costello or Beck songs. The Cold War Kids seemed to walk the tight-rope between indie-rock ingenu­ity and the energy and zeal of a classic roek cover band covering "Free Bird" at the end of a long night. It was so good that I drove over to Barnes and Noble on Grape Road to pick up their been inundated with Caillat's serenad­ing. 
You don't have to be "Top 20" addict to appreciate Caillat. And even if you don't enjoy Britney Spears, Ashlee Simpson and the typical girl solo act, be assured that your venture into pop culture will not be a waste of your time. Caillat avoids the sometimes ridiculous female musician image, and instead opts for a sweet yet stylish sound wrapped in a down to earth package. She's kind of the California girl-next-door of music: relaxed and real, if not sometimes a bit simplistic. 
Her recent release, the self-titled, 
"Coco," debuts her clear 
musical potential. Caillat 
seems to have won the musical lottery. That or she just has executed some seriously smart strategy to achieve her 
success. She has the typi­

Recommended Tracks: "Bubbly," "Oxygen," 
cal story of girl finds music, decides to try her hand at singing, embraces the soul exploring power of song writing, and then has the Cinderella-esque discovery. But rather than debuting on "Mickey Mouse Club" or clawing 

latest album, "Robbers and Cowards." 
After a first listen, it reminds me of Mute Math's recent work, yet different in how it uses live studio recordings with creepy and mechanical sonic effects to create an indelible sound. Like most all 
resem­
current 

Robbers and Cowards 

"smart" bands, 
blance 
to the
the Cold War 
Cold War Kids 

1996­
Kids have an 
era
affinity for 
Label: Downtown 

MB20.
showing off just 
Recommended Tracks: 'We Used to 

They
how smart and 
clever they are. 
seem to
Vacation" and "Hospital Beds" 


This is seen most in their plentiful use of references to Salinger, Garcia Marquez and Jesus. Indeed, the references are the type that would make a slightly brainy high school kid grin with glee at his ability to understand the meaning of the lyrics, however they can get a bit old. 
Back to Matchbox Twenty for a sec­ond. Back with MB20 came out with its debut album, "Yourself or Someone Like You," the band was hailed as slightly off-beat, fresh and positively rocking. Then a series of follow-up her way to the top through ruthless commercialization, Caillat's suceess is actually web based. 
Her discovery results from the MySpace cultural phenomenon. Caillat's decision to put her then unknown work on the site paid off. As of yesterday her MySpace site has had 14,175,936 hits. That type of populari­ty gave her songs the exposure it takes to break into the industry. Not to men­tion, having an already intact fan base, assuredly made her an intriguing prospect for what is now her label, Universal Republic. Organic talent plus bloggers apparently does yield an almost unprecedented rise to fame -a tantalizing ideal for any musician play­ing in relative obscurity. In fact, if you give her page a quick glance you'll find a wall overwhelmed with cries of sup­port from hundreds of struggling artists. 
If anything, "Coco" is a commendable departure from pop culture norms and redundancy. Perhaps she will pick up where artists like Jack Johnson start­ed, but "Coco" may not be the cd to do it. Caillat still has a long way to go in terms of musical maturity. While her style of charming and cheerful melodies is extremely catchy, lacks the sophistication to make true lasting 
albums over the next few years came out and they could never regain the fantastic sound and enthusiasm that propelled them to superstardom in the first place. The trouble with The Cold War Kids is that they show a little too 
close a 
promise a fresh take on an oft­used and anti­quated 
sound, and it almost works. Yet unfor­tunately, too many of the sounds fall into the realm of cliched mainstream parading as underground -very much like the trouble encountered by Matchbox. 
This isn't to say it's all bad though. Two songs in particular, "We Used to Vacation" and "Hospital Beds," are a real joy to listen to. In "We Used to Vacation," the listener is treated to a 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

classics. "Bubbly" may be exception to the rule, and is the solid high point of the album. Caillat makes the' mistake of front-loading her Coco with tunes like "Oxygen," "One Fine Wire" and "My Feelings Show." She would have done well to conclude her CD with as much power and energy as she started it with. Songs like "Capri" disappoint compared to her earlier tracks. 
In a break from her inexperienced repetitiveness, "Tied Down," is Caillat's attempt at musical experimentation. In this track she tacks advantage of her cool, fun vocals, coupling them with a ukulele instrumental. This winning combination is a path that Caillat would benefit from exploring more in the future. With tracks like this, her future in the music business looks bright indeed. 
Though Colbie Caillat has a long way to go artistically, Coco is a promising start. Check out her album's highlights. But unless you're totally infatuated with this up and coming artist don't rush out to purchase the entire album. And if you're looking for a relaxing exam pick me up, Caillat's better tracks are sure to satisfy the most stressed studier. 
ContactJess Shaffer at jshaffel @nd.edu 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

sad but upbeat tale of domestic difficul­ties and the trouble with having an alcoholic father who is intent on chang­ing his ways but just can't overcome the hurdles of sobriety. "Hospital Beds" details life in a hospital and the weird reality of living in a world of strangers and despair. Using a pounding piano along with rough but strong lyrics, lead singer Nathan Willet wails, "I got one friend laying across from me I I did not choose him I He did not choose me. I We've got no chance of recovering I In the hospital I The joy of misery." Just a moment later, some obvious Christian imagery is presented with the bap­tismal reference, "Put out the fire on us." While wading dangerously close to being too much, Willet sings it all with enough gusto and emotion to make it worth the listen. 
This bad isn't going to save the world. They aren't the "Best New Band in the World" like it was proclaimed in NME. However, they're pretty good and worth the $14 bucks or so it'll take to own the CD. And if you do buy it, get it in the store and not on iTunes because the cover art and booklet is pretty sweet. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact James Costa atjcostal@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 20, 2007 
NBA 
Magic continue hot start with win over injury-plagued Hornets; Wallace and Felton key Bobcats win over Blazers 
Swift's 24 points lead Grizzlies over Sonics 125-108 

Associated Press  nected on 14 of' their next 16. Memphis hit its opening live 3­ lost Tyson Chandler in the sec­ond quarter when the starting  
MEMPIIIS, Tenn.  - Stromile  pointers, but also worked the  center hyperextended his right  
Swift scon~d  a season-high 24  ball into the paint to build a 16­ knee.  Hornets  officials said  
points, Mike Miller added 19  point lead in the first quarter.  Chandler was day to day pending  
points and seven assisl<; and the  Throughout much of the first  further evaluation.  
Memphis  Grizzlies  beat  the  half, Memphis' interior players  Jameer  Nelson  scored  16  
Seattle Supersonies 125-108 on  were able to get to the rim as the  points for Orlando, hitting on a  
Monday night.  Supersonics failed to rotate on  crucial driving layup and  a  
Damon Stoudamire had 16  delimse.  jumper in the final minutes.  
points and  seven assists and  Seattle was able to ehip away  Keyon  Dooling  and  Hedo  
I Jakim Warrick added 16 for the  at the lead, and even got it under  Turkoglu each scored 15, with  
Grizzlies, who stopped a  three­ 10 in the latter stages of the sec­ Turkoglu hitting two 3-pointers  
game skid. Pau Gasol had 14  ond quarter, despite foul trouble  in the fourth quarter.  
points, seven  rebounds, five  that sent big men Wilcox, Johan  The Magic nearly blew a 20­ 
assists and seven  blocks,  one  Petro and Nick Collison to the  point lead before holding on to  
short of his eareer-high for rnjec­ bench with three fouls each.  beat Boston on Sunday. They  
ticms.  Memphis continued to extend  showed the same resilience on  
I>elonte West led Seattle with  the lead in the second half as the  the road a night later, blowing a  
17 points, Chris Wilcox added 16,  Grizzlies continually played a  21-point lead and falling behind  
and Jell" Green had 11 points and  high-low game with their big  by as many as five points in the  
14 mbounds.  men. The Grizzlies had 13 assists  fourth quarter before rallying to  
Memphis built an early lead  on their 14 field goals in the third  tie their best-ever 12-game start  
and Seattle never really threat­ as Memphis built the lead to 27  at 10-2.  
nned in the seeond half. The  before carrying a 102-77 advan­ Peja Stojakovic scored 21 to Hornets forward Peja Stojakovlc posts up on Magic forward Trevor  
Grizzlies shot 58 percent through  tage into the fourth.  lead New Orleans, which fell to Ariza in Orlando's 95-88 win over New Orleans on Monday night.  
the tirst three quarters, building  9-3 after its best start in fran­ 
the lead to as many as 27 before  Magic 95, Hornets 88  chise history. Jannero Pargo,  pretty good shape.  Bobcats.  
c~oasting to the their largest mar­ Dwight Howard had 24 points  who started for Paul, scored 18  Behind Gerald Wallace's third  Portland's leading scorer and  
gin of victory this season.  and 15 rebounds and Hashard  points. David West scored 14 for  straight game of 27 points and a  rebounder coming into the game,  
With Memphis center Darko  Lewis  scored  19  to  lift  the  New  Orleans  and  Morris  stifling defense that shut down  Aldridge got into early foul trou­ 
Milieie out with a bad left thumb,  Orlando  Magic  to  a  second  Peterson 11.  LaMarcus Aldridge, the Bobcats  ble and was held to seven poinl<>  
Swift started in  the middle,  straight impressive victory, 95-88  The Hornets were down 46-31  beat the Portland Trail Blazers  and one rebound in 20 minutes  
allowing Gay to play small for­ over the New Orleans Hornets on  when Chandler crashed to the  101-92 on Monday night.  on 2-for-6 shooting. Aldridge had  
ward. Part of the reason for the  Monday night.  floor in obvious pain. He lay on  The Bobcats' second straight  been averaging 19.5 points and  
switch was to keep Gay, who has  Coming  one  night  after  his back, holding his knee,  an  win and third in a row at home  8.1 rebounds.  
struggled with foul problems,  Orlando  handed  the  Boston  image that seemed to inspire his  left them 6-4, the best they've  "It's toughness. We're getting  
from guarding Wilcox, Seattle's  Celtics their first loss of the sea­ teammates, who  ran the floor  been in their four-year history.  pushed around," McMillan said.  
bulky forward.  son, the Magic's fifth-straight vic­ with a renewed sense of purpose  "All playoff teams take advan­ "Not to blame LaMarcus and Joel  
But Swift's presence also paid  tory snapped the Hornets' five­ and energy thereafter.  tage of home games," Wallace  (Przybilla), but the two of those  
ofT on  the offensive end. lie  game winning streak.  A dunk by Melvin Ely, followed  said. "Those are easy eover-ups  guys had two rebounds. We've  
smred 12 points in the first half  It was a loss for New Orleans  by 3-pointers from Peterson and  for tough nights when you're out  got to have more boards than  
as Memphis built a  68-53 half­ on  multiple levels. Already play­ Stojakovic, helped the Hornets  on the road."  that."  
lime lead.  ing without Chris Paul, who  pull to 53-43 by halftime.  With their arena set to host  Jarrett Jack scored 18 points,  
Arter missing live of their first  missed his second game with a  New Orleans then opened the  three college basketball tourna­ Brandon Hoy had 17 on 4-for-13  
snven shots, the Grizzlies con- sprained right ankle, the Hornets  second half with a 14-3 run that  ments in the spring, the Bobcats  shooting and Martell Webster  
enlivened  he  home  crowd.  will be on the road for 18 of their  scored 15 for Portland, which  
Stojakovic's short jumper gave  fmal 27 games. If they're going to  committed 19 turnovers.  
the Hornets their first lead, 57­ make the playoffs for the first  "They were really physical  
56, with 8:25 left in the third  time, they'll have to take advan­ inside," Hoy said. "Once we came  
quarter.  tage of playing 27 of their first 42  back on them, they just contin­ 
Orlando ealled timeout and set­ at home.  ued to pound us."  
tled down, battling New Orleans  "We know we have to have a  Wallace's dunk with a  little  
point-for-point until the final  great start," guard Haymond  more than 9 minutes left put  
minutes. Lewis' second 3-pointer  Felton said. "We're on the road  Charlotte  ahead  to  stay.  
of  the  fourth  quarter  gave  for just about all of March."  Following Felton's 3-pointer,  
Orlando an 89-84 lead with 1:26  Felton had 24 points and 10  Wallace stole the ball from Hoy  
to go, marking the beginning of  assists and Jason Richardson  - one of his six steals  - and  
the end for New Orleans.  scored 24 points. They teamed  dunked it at the other end to  
Howard, who threw down sev­ with Wallace, who hit 10 of 19  extend Charlotte's lead to 84-76.  
eral thunderous dunks during  shots and had a key dunk, steal  Hichardson's layup on the next  
the game, got the Magic off to a  and layup in Charlotte's decisive  possession made it a  10-point  
fast start with 10 points and  run  midway through the fourth  game.  
eight rebounds in the first quar­ quarter, to drop the Trail Blazers  Hichardson scored 14 points in  
ter alone.  to 0-7 on the road.  the third quarter, inducting con­ 
His last basket of the quarter  Portland coach Nate McMillan  secutive 3-pointers to give the  
came after he twice rebounded  kept the locker room closed for  Bobcats  a  50-40  lead.  But  
his own misses. Dooley added a  almost 20 minutes after the  Portland rallied despite Aldridge  
f'astbreak layup soon afterward  game, and he could be heard  being on  the bench with four  
as the Magic closed out the quar­ yelling at the team from the hall­ fouls for the final 10 minutes of  
ter with a 33-17 lead.  way.  the quarter.  
"Nobody is going to come here  Webster's 3-pointer in the final  
Bobcats 101, Trail Blazers 92  and rescue us," McMillan said.  seconds cut Charlotte's lead to  
With a tough road sehedule at  "We have 15 guaranteed con­ 63-61  entering  the  fourth.  
the  end  of the  season,  the  tracts. We can't bring in anybody  Portland then took the lead on  
AP  Charlotte Bobcats knew they had  to help with the situation right  Hoy's turnaround jumper and  
Grizzlies guard Kyle Lowry drives past Sonics rookie Kevin  to get ofT to a quiek start.  now. We've got to get it done."  Jack's three-point play to start  
Durant Monday In Memphis' 125-108 win over Seattle.  Through 10 games, they're in  Aldridge couldn't against the  the fourth quarter.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

FoR SALE 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.$295PERSON/ MO.GJLLISRENTALS.COM. 272-6306 
3 bdrm/2 bath home for sale $95,000/lor rent $900. 706 N. St. Louis. Contact Brad 574-220-8666. 

FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes now showing 08-09 & 09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester sale. $200 P/S just off campus "alumni owned". Bluegoldrentals.com 
Large house available for 2008­2009. 516 N. Saint Joseph, 4 bdrm, 
1.5 bath. 1014 N. St. Louis, 4 bdrm, 2 bath. Very clean homes. 574-276-3176. 


PERSONAL 
Looking 4 Morrissey SYR Date ­Call Chris S. @ 630-862-8225 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 

Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
When the Wolfman Ken works, it's all about business baby. 
Chase Daniel =Heisman 
If you go to a costume party at your boss's house, wouldn't you think a good costume would be to dress up like the boss's wife? 
Trust me, it's not. 





OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 20, 2007 
NCAA Men's Basketball AP Top 25 
team record previous 
1 North Carolina (26) 2·0 1 2 UCLA (26) 3·0 2 3 Memphis (19) 4-0 3 4 Kansas 3-0 4 5 Georgetown (1) 2·0 5 6 Louisville 2·0 6 7 Tennessee 3-0 7 8 Indiana 2-0 8 9 Washington Stale 2·0 9 10 Michigan Stale 2·0 12 11 Marquette 2-0 10 12 Oregon 4-0 11 13 Duke 2·0 13 14 Gonzaga 3·0 14 15 Texas 3-0 16 16 TexasA&M 4·0 15 17 Pittsburgh 4·0 19 18 Kansas Stale 3·0 22 19 Southern Illinois 1·0 23 20 Villanova 2-0 24 21 Syracuse 3·0 NR 22 Buller 3·0 25 23 Virginia 3·0 NR 24 Clemson 3-0 NR 25 Florida 4-0 NR 
NCAA Men's Basketball Coaches' Top 25 
team record previous 
1 North Carolina (14) 2-0 1 2 UCLA (10) 3-0 2 3 Memphls(6) 4-0 3 4 Kansas (1) 3-0 4 5 Georgetown 2-0 5 6 Louisville 2-0 6 7 Tennessee. 3-0 1 8 Indiana 2·0 8 g Washington Stale 3-0 9 10 Duke 2-0 10 11 Oregon 4-0 13 12 Michigan Stale 2-0 12 13 Marquette 2-0 11 14 Gonzaga 3·0 14 15 TexasA&M 4-0 15 16 Texas 3-0 16 17 Pittsburgh 4·0 19 18 Southern Illinois 1·0 21 19 Villanova 2-0 23 20 Kansas State 3·0 24 21 Syracuse 3·0 25 22 Clemson 3-0 NR 23 Buller 3·0 NR 24 Florida 4-0 NR 25 Davison 1-1 NR 
MIAA Women's Volleyball Final Standings 
team conference ooerall 
1 Calvin 15-1 30-5 2 Hope 14-2 24-9 3 Adrian 11·5 18-13 4 Tri-State 10-6 13-15 5 SAINT MARY'S 6-10 13-18 6 Albion 6·10 11-18 7 Kalamazoo 5-11 11-20 8 Alma 3-13 8·22 9 Olivet 2-14 5-25 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Middle Tennessee at Troy 7 p.m., ESPN 2 

CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVER'S wmE SERVICEs page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


AP 

Former Michigan coach Uoyd Carr, right, congratulates senior quarterback Chad Henne during the Wolverines' 38-0 win over Notre Dame on Sept. 16. Carr announced his resignation Monday. 
Carr resigns after 13 seasons in Ann Arbor 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. ­Lloyd Carr alternately choked up and chuckled for nearly 40 minutes Monday, as he announced his 13th sea­son as Michigan football coach will be his last. 
"I wanted to be able to walk out of here know­ing that to the very last minute, I did my job to the best of my ability," Carr said with watery eyes. "And I know I'll be able to do that." 
The best of Carr's abil­ity brought Michigan a national title and five Big Ten championships. 
It  also  included  an  
unsightly  loss  to  
Appalachian  State  to  

open this season and a fourth consecutive 

defeat and sixth in seven years to Jim Tressel and Ohio State to close it. 
Many of those memo­ries were very close to the surface at Monday's news conference during which the public that rarely got to see his true personality also learned what had happened behind closed doors the previous day when Carr broke the news to his players and staff. 
"I cried more tears than I knew I had," said Carr, who spent 28 sea­sons on the Michigan coaching staff. "And I've never laughed so hard in my life because there were so many memo­ries." 
Carr will coach the Wolverines in their bowl game, likely to be either the Alamo Bowl in San Antonio or the Outback Bowl in Tampa, Fla. Following the bowl game he will become an asso­ciate athletic director. 
The retirement announcement surprised no one. 
Last winter, Carr had his contract reworked to pave the way for this to be his last season and later made sure the school gave his assis­tants unprecedented two-year deals. 
The only unknown was when the 62~year-old Carr would choose to step away from the side­line: Monday, as he did, or after the bowl game. 
"My timing is based on one thing, what is best for Michigan football," he said. "There arc no other motives. 
"To do it after a bowl game would have been absolutely ridiculous." 
The departure opens a job at the nation's win­ningest football program and the timing of it might make things uncomfortable for top­ranked LSU and coach Les Miles. 
Miles seems to be at the top of the list in Ann Arbor. lie played for Bo Schembechler at Michigan, where he met his wife and later became an assistant under Schembechler. 
On Monday in Baton Rouge, La., though, Miles insisted he's not looking for a job and said Michigan has not called him. 
"I love LSU," he said. 
IN BRIEF Tyson serves one day in jail
for DUI 
MESA, Ariz. -Mike Tyson could have received more than four years in prison. He left the courtroom having to serve all of one day in an open-air jail. 
The former heavyweight champion was sentenced Monday for cocaine possession and driving under the influ­ence. 
"I take responsibility for my actions," Tyson told the judge. lie left the courthouse flanked by supporters, lit a cigar and drove away in the back of a black Mercedes. 
The 41-year-old boxer will serve his day in jail Tuesday for DUI. He received three years of probation for the cocaine charge and also will have to pay a fine, submit to drug test­ing and serve 360 hours of community service. 

Chicago's Garland shipped
to Angels for Cabrera 
CIIICAGO -Gold Glove short­stop Orlando Cabrera was traded by the Los Angeles Angels to the Chicago White Sox for pitcher Jon Garland on Monday in a sur­prising swap of dependable play­ers. 
The deal came 12 days after the White Sox re-signed short­stop Juan Uribe to a $4.5 million, one-year contract. Now, he could wind up on the bench or with another team. 
"We saw an opportunity to acquire one of the best short­stops in the game and one of the smartest in the game. Somebody who can fit into the No. 2 spot in our lineup for 155 games," Chicago general manager Ken Williams said, adding the trade frees up money that could help the White Sox pull off another deal. 
Vick surrenders, ~prisonsentence three wee~CS eafly 
RICHMOND, Va. -Michael Vick got a head start on a possible long prison stretch Monday, sur­rendering three weeks before he was to be sentenced for his involvement in a bloody dogfight­ing ring. 
The disgraced Atlanta Falcons quarterback surrendered to U.S. marshals in what his lawyer said was another step in his public repentance. 
"From the beginning, Mr. Vick has accepted responsibility for his actions, and his self-surren­der further demonstrates that acceptance," attorney Billy Martin said in a statement. "Michael wants to again apolo­gize to everyone who has been hurt in this matter, and he thanks all of the people who have offered him and his family prayers and support during this time." 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuseday, November 20, 2007 
MLB 

A-Rod wins MVP award, still looking for ring 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Alex Hodriguez has millions of dollars in his invnstrmmt accounts, thrnn AL MVP awards for his trophy ease -and zero World Series rings for his fingers. 
"Thorn's definitely a huge hole in the resume. And I moan, it's my third MVP and I'm hrwo to say that I would trade all three for orw world championship. I wouldn't think twiee about it," llodrigunz said. 
Of coursn, a World Series will have to wait. But for now, he has the satisfaction of his latest MVP, won Monday in a romp over Detroit's Magglio Ordonez. 
While A-Hod wouldn't address why he opted out of his old Yankees contract or the reasons for his decision to reverse course and rf1turn to New York, he did slip this into a 30-minute eonference call: Yankees gener­al manager Brian Cashman asked him after the 2006 sea­son, aftf1r he was dropped to eighth in the batting order in the playoff finale against Detroit, whether he'd prefer a trade. 
"I had many, many opportuni­ties," Rodriguez said. ~'There was a lot of interest from a lot of other teams and I felt I didn't want to go anywhere." 
Cashman later confirmed that he approached A-Hod after the 2006 playoff elimination and asked the star third baseman whether he wanted to be trad­ed. Despitn four seasons in New York that filled more tabloid headlines than most players get in a lifetime, Hodriguez wants to stay. If and when he breaks Barry Bonds' eareer home run record, he wants to do it with the Yankees. 
"It's something magical when you go in that field in front of 55,000 people, and then when you make championships and all-time records. I mean, the potential of it is exciting," he said. 
By then, the Yankees will be in their new stadium, one Hodrigucz hopes to put his stamp on. lie admitted playing in the glare of the Big Apple took a long time to get used to. 
"I banged my head against 

New York; New York didn't bang me against the head. I felt like I madn a lot of mistakes," he said. "I was trying to please every­body rather than do what made mn happy." 
!lis new attitude produced his best season and it showed in the MVP race. Hodriguez received 26 first-place votes and 382 points in balloting by the BasPball Writers' Association of America. while Ordonez had two firsts and 258 points. 
Hodriguez won his first MVP in 2003, his last season with the Texas Hangers. He also won with the Yankees in 2005. Those yearly fluctuations bother him. 
"It's something I'm aware of and something that needs to stop," he said. ''I'd much rather have above average every year or great every year or good every year." 
Rodriguez started this year wilh 14 homers in his first 18 games, hit .314 for the season and led the majors with 54 homers, 156 HBis and 143 runs. He was the first player since New York's Roger Maris in 1961 to lead the majors in homers, HBis and runs, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
An 11-time All-Star, Rodriguez became the ninth player to win the MVP three or more times. Barry Bonds holds the record with seven -all in the NL ­and Yogi Berra, Roy Campanella, Joe DiMaggio, Jimmie Foxx, Mickey Mantle, Stan Musial and Mike Schmidt won three apiece. 
''I'm expected to do great things, I mean, for a lot of rea­sons, and I understand that," Hodriguez said. 
The only two first-place votes that didn't go to Rodriguez were from Tom Gage of The Detroit News and Jim Hawkins of The Oakland Press in Pontiac, Mich. 
"Magglio is a friend and had an unbelievable season," Rodriguez said. "I've been on that side of the fence many, many times." 
lie remembered back to his first full season in the majors with Seattle, when he finished three points behind Texas' Juan Gonzalez in MVP balloting. 
"I was almost in tears in 1996 when I didn't win the award, and it was very painful," Rodriguez said. "At the time, I was 20 years old and thought I would never get another chance to win it." 


Still, there is the absence of a title. lie's spoken with quarter­back John Elway about the need for one to validate a eareer. 
"Definitely the exclamation point in his career was the two championships at the end, and I have tremnndous faith that I will be a world champion," Rodriguez said. "What better place to do it than in New York?" 
Rodriguez didn't want to talk about his negotiations with the Yankees that are leading toward a $275 million, 10-year con­tract. "There is a finish line in sight," Rodriguez said, adding he would talk about the contract "when the time is right." 

He also wouldn't detail the advice he was given by investor Warren Buffet. 
"We usually visit every year. Warren is a friend,"' Hodriguez said. "He's done a great job of foreseeing things in business. Now he's doing it in baseball, too, so that's pretty good." 
A-Rod struggled in the play­offs again this year as the Yankees lost to Cleveland in the first round. He went 4-for-15 (.267) with one RBI against the Indians, leaving him in an 8-for­59 (.136) postseason funk dating to 2004 and hitless in his past 18 playoff at-bats with runners in scoring position. 
He had talked about his desire to get more postseason at-bats, but that didn't happen. 
"Part of the reason I'm not getting those at-bats is because I'm not performing," he said. 
As soon as Rodriguez arrived at spring training this year, he took a new approach. He finally admitted he no longer was best buddies with Yankees captain Derek Jeter, ending a charade that had gone on for three sea­sons. 
"I thought being honest was the best policy," he said. 

Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza 
Interested in IRELAND? Want to study in IRELAND? Want to work in IRELAND? 
Information meeting 
GREAT HALL, O'SHAG Tuesday, 27 Nov., 2007 8:00-9:00 pm 
Faculty will be available to answer your questions about courses in Irish Language and Literature and Irish Studies and about the MINOR IN IRISH LANGUAGE AND LITERATVRE and the MINOR IN IRISH STUDII;:S. 
Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza 
Sponsored by the Department ofIrish Language and Literature and the Keough-Naughton ln.~titute for Irish Studies 
Tuesday, November 20, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Glavine returns to Atlanta with one-year deal 
Associated Press  month, they were doing it for me. I didn't feel good about  accompanied their negotia­tions after the 2002 season.  
ATLANTA -Tom Glavine  asking them to do it any­ Atlanta started out with a  
never got used to making that  more."  one-year offer and a series of  
unfamiliar turn in the tunnel  After turning down a $13  club options, then carne back  
beneath Turner Field, the one  million option with the Mets  with a proposal that included  
that took him to the visiting  for 2008, taking a $3 million  millions in deferred money.  
clubhouse the last five years.  buyout, he turned his atten­ After Glavine signed a four­ 
Now he's back with the  tion toward the Braves. He  year, $42.5 million deal with  
horne team.  gave Atlanta a hometown dis­ the Mets, then-Braves general  
Glavine returned to the  count, agreeing to an $8 mil­ manager John Schuerholz  
Braves on Monday to finish a  lion, one-year deal that was  held an extraordinary news  
career that likely will send  the lowest he was willing to  conference to go over the  
him to the Hall of Fame,  play for and wasn't available  negotiations step by step.  
though this isn't just a senti­ to anyone else.  Later, he wrote about the  
mental farewell. Atlanta  The Braves jumped on it  whole affair in his book,  
believes the crafty left-ban­ quickly, wrapping up the  angering Glavine.  
der, who will turn 42 before  negotiations in less than a  Most Atlanta fans seemed to  
next season, can help them  week. No one else -not even  side with Schuerholz, booing  
get back to the playoffs after  the Mets -were ever in the  Glavine whenever he returned  
a two-year hiatus.  mix.  with the Mets, though the  
"Starting pitching has been  "I have an opportunity at  jeers lessened in recent years.  
our Achilles' heel. We just  this stage of my career to  "For a long time, I didn't  
didn't have the depth we had  combine the best of both  understand it. I guess I was  
in past years, and we wanted  worlds," the two-time NL Cy  angered by it a little bit,"  
to address that," new general  Young Award winner said. "I  Glavine said. "I learned to live  
manager Frank Wren said.  can be horne, work at horne  with it over time."  
"To~rny was our No. 1 tar­ and be around my wife and  Last month, Schuerholz left  
get.  kids more than I have the last  the GM job after 17 seasons,  
This was an easy one to hit.  five years. I'm ecstatic."  moving up to become team  
Glavine, who is married and  So are the Braves, who  president and handing his  
has four children, was eager  were eager to add depth to a  former post to Wren. But  
to return to Atlanta, where he  rotation that relied heavily on  everyone said that move had  
spent the first 16 years of his  John Smaltz and Tim Hudson.  nothing to with Glavine  
career and kept his home  The team never settled on  returning to Atlanta.  
even after moving to the New  reliable options in the fourth  Schuerholz met with  
York Mets. If the 303-game  and fifth slots, finishing third  Glavine and his wife,  
winner had not gotten an  in the NL East for the second  Christine, at a charity event  
offer from the Braves, he  year in a row. Glavine,  over the weekend. The former  
planned to retire rather than  despite a dismal end to his  GM planned to attend  
subject his family to another  season, went 13-8 with a 4.45  Monday's news conference  
year of splitting time between  ERA in 200 1-3 innings for  until he got word that his eld­ 
two cities.  the Mets.  erly mother had died.  
''I'm supposed to be doing  "Sentiment goes a long  "John really wanted to be  
things for my kids," Glavine  way," Braves manager Bobby  here," Wren said.  
said. "But more and more, my  Cox said, "but we all think  Glavine said he relied on his  
kids were sacrificing for me,  Tommy can still win at the  faith to cope with the disap­ 
whether it was missing their  major league level. That's the  pointment he felt about leav­ 
ballgames or missing their·  bottom line."  ing Atlanta.  
friends' birthday parties.  Proving you can go horne  "The biggest moments in all  
When they were getting on a  again, Glavine and the Braves  our lives, where things hap­ 
plane two or three times a  got over the bitterness that  pen and decisions are made,  


Larr~ £1~~.s ~~. 
Hoover Institution, Stanford University, and senior advisor on governance to the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad (2004) 
6 pm-Tuesda~, November27 Hesburgh Center Auditorium 


Diamond is also presenting the lecture "The Globalization of Democracy" as part 
ft KELLOGG INSTITUTE

of the Kellogg lecture Series at 12:30 pm in the Hesburgh Center, room C-103. 
Cosponsored by the Kroc lnst1tute for International Peace Studies 


we can look back and say, 'Well, geez, if this conversa­tion had gone a little different or this situation had gone a little different, then the out­come would have been differ­ent,"' Glavine said. "Things happen for a reason." 
While he got more and more comfortable with the Mets, he always felt a little strange corning to Turner Field. 
Glavine was drafted and nurtured by the Braves. lie came up with an amazing group of young pitchers that included Smoltz and Steve Avery, helping Atlanta go from worst-to-first in 1991 and all the way to Game 7 of a memorable World Series loss to Minnesota. 
During his 16-year tenure, Glavine had five 20-win sea­sons, captured Cy Young Awards in 1991 and '98, and helped the Braves win the first 11 of their unprecedent­ed 14 straight division titles. He was MVP of their only World Series championship during the run, pitching eight scoreless innings in the decid­ing game of a 1995 victory over Cleveland. 
"No place I ever went to as a visiting player was ever as remotely strange as coming here as a visiting player," Glavine said. 
Which is probably why his wife teared up when he tried on his Braves cap and jersey in the training room before the news conference. 
And that's probably why Wren couldn't stop smiling when Glavine buttoned up his No. 47 jersey with "Braves" written across the front and modeled the red-and-blue hat with an "A" above the bill. 
"Looks good, doesn't it'?" Wren said. 


Siz~lene (Sizzlelini®)­
EveryTuesday enjoy our Sizzlelini® Specialty (enough for two) for just $1 0.95 
Asizzling skillet of tende1-chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B:J-}efie (Bellini)­Afmsty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian wor·k of art for $2 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERYTuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 20, 2007 
NHL 
DiPietro nets lOOth win as Isles edge Rangers 
THE CORE COUNCIL FOR GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDENTS IS SEEKING 
NEW UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT 
MEMBERS 

fOR 2008-2009 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Hiek DiPietro earned his 1 OOth N Ill, vietory with an 1X-savn of"fort Monday night and thn Nnw York Islanders beat tlw Nnw York Hangors for the third time this season, 2-1. 
Dil'intro, tlw first goalie evor draftnd No. I when thn lslandnrs took tho Massaehusof.l<.; native in 2000, followed up a 1-0 win l;riday against Now Jnrsny with anothnr stPilar performance against Long Island's biggest rival. 
The Islanders are X-1-2 in their last 11 against t.lw Hangers. and now haw SOO road wins in fran­chise history. DiPietro earned his IOth victory owr Nnw York and snapped tlw HangPrs' winning streak at livn. 
Tlw lslandPrs' last s1wnn ganws wern all dnddnd by one goal and in rngulation. 
The Hangnrs carne homo aftnr a four-gamn road swoop and had won nirw of I0. but arn 0-3 against tho lslandnrs. 
Huslan Fmlotnnko and Josef Vasicnk staked tlw Islanders to a 2-0 lead in thn SPcond pnriod. 
Michal Hozsival scorod for thn Hangers. who got 22 saves from llnnrik Lundqvist but I'd! to X-3 at honw. 
Aft1~r a sluggish first period in whid1 tlw tnarns rornbinnd f()r 11 shots, and tlw Islanders worn whistled for ieing five times in the first 3:11, the aetion picked up in the second. 
Fedotenko broke the scoreless deadlock 8 seconds in, taking advantage of a penalty against Hozsival. 
The puck squirted free follow­ing a neutral zone faceofT and slid into the Rangers zone. Fndotonko tracked it in the left circle and smaeked it past I ,undqvist to make it 1-0 on the Islanders' sixth shot. 
Vasieek did most of the work minutes later to double the lead. Sean Bnrgenheim worked the puck loose along the boards and nudged it to Vasieek, who racnd down left wing on a 3-on-2 broak. lie earried all the way to tho loft cirdn dot and snapped a shot that sailnd past Lundqvist's loft shouldor at 5:51. 
Wlwn Blair Betts went oil' for tripping 2 snconds later, the lslandors Slltmwd primnd to turn this onn into a rout. 
Not so fast. 
Tlw Hangers' run of offense from dnfensnmen continued when Hozsival earned his second short-handed goal in two games at fd7 to cut the deficit in half. Counting all the goals seored in the Hangers' 4-3 overtime win at Pittsburgh on Saturday-inelud­ing two by Hozsival-they had live straight tallies from defense-men. 

We welcome both "allies" and gay, lesbian or bi-sexual students. 
Applications are available on the Core Council Web Site: 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu 
or can be picked up from The Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building Bam to 5pm Monday-Friday 
Completed Applications are due Monday, December 3 by 5pm in the Office of Student Affairs 
Your participation in this Council will: 
• 
Assist with identifying the ongoing needs ofgay, lesbian and bi-sexual students 

• 
Assist in implementing campus-wide educational programming on gay and lesbian issues 


Please visit our web site for more information: http://corecouncil.nd.edu 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Love leads UCLA to win over Terps 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The shots wnren't falling, the ball seemed to sail out of bounds more often than it went in the basket. 
(;ood thing UCLA ean play defensn. 
Kevin Love seored 18 points and grabbed 16 rebounds, help­ing second-ranked UCLA over­come a sloppy first half in a 71­S9 victory over Maryland on Monday night in the semifinals of the CBE Classic. 
UCLA (4-01 had just eight scholarship players in uniform due to injuries to several key players and it showed early with numerous turnovers and bad shots. But the Bruins, led by Love's crisp passing against Maryland's prnss, settled things down by tho second half. 
UCLA shot just 37 percent, including 4-of-13 from 3-point range, but out-rebounded the Tnrrapins 44-29 to move onto the championship game Tunsday night against PithPr No. 10 Michigan State or Missouri, which played later Monday. 
"To win shooting :H percnnt says a lot about our defense," UClA eoaeh Ben llowland said. 
Maryland (:~-I) strugglnd its past two games, ban'lly bPating llarnpton and Northeastern. The Terrapins had nvcn mom prob­lems against UClA. falling into an early hole, thanks to poor shooting and oven worse ball handling, that they never fully recovernd from. 
Maryland had 21 turnovers and was just 1-for-11 on 3­pointers, keeping its streak of at least one 3-pointer alive at 289 games when Eric Hayes con­nected with 28 seconds left. Greivis Vasquez had 18 points and Bambale Osby added 13 for the Terrapins, who had 11 fewer offensive rebounds. 
"They were always getting second shots when they did miss," Maryland coach Gary Williams said. "Rebounding a lot of times is effort, not tech­nique." 
Love had his way the first three games, averaging 20.7 points and 10.3 rebounds, while shooting 65 percent. But that was against the likes of Portland State, Youngstown State and Cal State-San Bernadino. 
The burly 6-foot-1 0 forward didn't have as much luck against the bigger, stronger Terrapins early, forcing up sev­eral shots against double teams without much success. He fig­ured it out quiekly, though, using patience against the bang­ing instead of trying to bull through it. 
Love had 10 rebounds in the first half and hit a 3-pointer before flipping in a quick tip shot at the buzzer to put the Bruins up 28-18. 
lin then hit a couple of tip-ins to start the second half, starting a 15-5 run that put UCLA up 43­23, and later made a crisp pass to break the press, setting up a 3-pointer by Hussell Westbrook to end a brief Maryland run. 

tr"Home torlayl 


\Ve don't just offer Auto Loans, we offer competitive rates, a variety offinancing tem1s, and ea~)' pa}Tilent options. Plus, you'll receive the san1e low fixed rate on a new or used vehicle. 
New Car. Fan1ily Car. Dreatn Car. No matterwhat you're looking for, we can help! 

Tuesday, November 20, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 



NEW [SPRING 2008] 
POVERTY STU 
Gain knowledge of how policies, 
structures, and systems cause and 
alleviate poverty and diminish and 
foster human capability:' 
0 fj 
page 20 Tuesday, November 20, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS 

NFL 
Big plays put Broncos in tie atop AFC West 
Associated Press 
DENVEH-Eighty yards here, 62 there, another 4H somewhere else. Nnxt thing they knew, the Dnnver Broncos found thorn­selves in a spot thny only eould have dreamed of a few weeks ago -tied for first place in the AFC West. 
.Jay Cutler threw touchdown passes of 41 and 48 yards and little-known (;lt•nn Martinez and Andre llall added to Denver's slnw of big sroring plays Monday night in a :H-20 victory over the Tnnnessnn Titans. 
"It's bnnn a long S(mson, up and down. a little panic in DPnvnr," CutiPr said. "But we pulled it togntlwr. That's two big wins tlw last two weeks." 
Vincn Young threw for a r.arenr high -30H yards -for t.lw second straight W<H~k. but this OIW also resulted in a loss l'or tlw Titans (h-4), who phtynd catchup against D<~nvnr the sanw way tlwy did in a 2H-I :~ loss to .Jaeksonvilln last wenk. 
Martinez. a S(~cond-ynar receivnr signf~d ofT thn praeti(:e squad in Snptmnbnr, returned a punt HO yards to give Dnnvnr a 14-0 load in thn first. 
llall, a first-year player with night carrins this season. turnml his ninth into a 62-yard seorn to hdp thn Broncos regain control of the game after they'd watched a 17 -point lead slip to seven. 
I Jail was in after Selvin Young, who started in place of Travis Henry, went out with a knee injury. 
"lie was our last tailback and Andre took advantage of his opportunity," coach Mike Shanahan said. "We needed a big play at that time and that's one thing about the running ganw. You keep pounding and nvery once in a while, you break one of those." 
The Broncos improved to 5-5, good nnough to tie San Diego for tlw league in the woeful West. 
But suddenly, the Broncos, who have 44-7 and 41-3 losses on tlwir wildly disparate score­card this year, are playing like real eontendcrs. They piled up :{59 yards against the Titans, who were missing Albert llayrwsworth on the defensive linn but nonetheless came in with the sneond-ranked defense in tlw league. 
Not that the Broncos are per­feet, or anywhere near New England level. 
Martinez also muiTed a punt that led to a Tennessee touch­down late in the third 
That touchdown, a 4-yard run by Young, eame aftnr the second of two ill-advised timeouts called by Denver. 
Broncos linebacker Nate Webster called a timeout just before the snap on third-and­goal from the 1, a play in which Young was held out of the end zone as he reached for the pylon. 
But the timeout gave Tennessee coach Jeff Fisher a chance to review the previous play, in which Young scored on a similar play but had been ruled out of bounds at the 1. 
At the end of the first half, Shanahan, trying to duplicate the move that helped him foil Sebastian Janikowski's game­winning attempt against Oakland several wonks ago, called timeout a split second before Hob Bironas tried a 56­yarder before halftime. 
Bironas' kick sailed about 20 yards wide of the goalpost, but given another chance, he nailed it to trim Tennessee' deficit to 20-10. 
"Don't anybody every question me about those field goals and timeouts again," said Shanahan, who started a trend with that timeout against Oakland. "I told you this would happen sooner or later. You live by the sword and die by the sword." 
And really, this one wasn't so much about field goals as big plays fi1r the Broncos. · 
A team that had only one 


tolli.:hdown of 20 yards or more all season on offense got its sec­ond early, when Cutler found Brandon Stokley in the middle of the field and Stokley outran the Titans defense for a 48-yard score. 
On tho first drive of the third quarter, Cutler found Brandon Marshall in single coverage on Calvin Lowrey, who went for the ball and missed, allowing Marshall to seorn from 41 yards for a 27-10 lead. 

NHL 
Smith picks up fourth career shutout in Dallas victory 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -This time, the Dallas Stars didn't just protect a third-period lead. They expand­edit. 
Steve Ott scored a rare goal, and Mike Smith stopped 22 shots for his fourth career shutout to send the Stars to a 3­0 vietory over the Los Angeles Kings on Monday night. 
In their last meeting on Nov. 10, the Stars gave away a 4-0 third-pt~riod lead and lost to the Kings in owrtinw 6-5. 
Three days later, owner Tom llieks initiated a front-off'ice shah-up that induded the fir­ing of general manager Doug Armstrong, and since then the Stars are 2-0-l. 
Dallas hadn't forgotten the wasted opportunity against the Kings, and Niklas Jlagman and Jere Lf~htinen scored in the third period to exttmd tlw Stars' lead to 3-0. 
"It didn't twen need to be nwntioned." Ott said. "It was still in the back of all of our minds. We rnnwmbernd it and wanted to have a big game against them." 
Ott, known morn as a checker and instigator than for his goal­sr:oring, notched his 12th in 214 earner games late in thn seeond period to put Dallas in front, and the Stars went on to beat the Kings in Dallas for the IOth straight time. 
llagman added his team-high ninth goal on a breakaway at 
J:U 0 of the third, and Lehtirwn sr:ored his sixth on a power play 
2:14 later to giw Dallas a 3-0 advantage. 
"It was good to play the way we did in thn third, especially re11wmbnring what happened last ga11w against these guys," llagman said. 
The Stars got off to a slow start before pieking up the pace in the second period, following up on Friday night's 6-1 win over the Colorado Avalanche, Dallas' most complete perform­ance of the season. 
Smith, Dallas' backup goalie, was making his second straight start for the Stars in place of Marty Turco. Smith's strong effort in the victory over Colorado earned him another start and he got his first shutout of' the season. 
Coaeh Dave Tippett said he 
wouldn't decide on his starting goalie for Wednesday night's game against Anaheim until the pregame skate that morning. 
"We need both guys to be very good to be successful," Tippett said. "(Smith) has done what he's supposed to do. That gives you stability." 
Smith came up with a big stop on former Stars forward Ladislav Nagy's backhand from the slot at 11:38 of the final period to preserve the shutout. 
Before these back-to-back starts, Smith had gone five 

games without playing, making it difficult to stay sharp. 
''I'm going to enjoy this while I have it," Smith said. ''I'm just going with the flow right now. The coach wants to keep (who starts) a secret as much as he can." 
Jason LaBarbera had 23 saves for the Kings, 0-3-1 in their last four games. 
Behind by only one goal at the start of the third period, the Kings felt good about their chances for a comeback. 
"But we can't rely on that all the time," Los Angeles' Anze Kopitar said. "It was a one-goal game so we were back in it with one shot. But we can't give up two more goals like that and expect to win." 
The Stars opened the scoring on Ott's deflection of Loui Eriksson's shot at 18:37 that went through the pads of LaBarbera. It was Ott's second goal of the season. 
"I got a one-handed little deflection and put it on the net," Ott said. "It wasn't a planned play. I just redirected it." 


Tuesday, November 20, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to find consistency against Ravens 
Kessler leads young team with 16 points per game this season 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Arter bringing in their first victory of the year against Aurora University on Saturday, Saint Mary's faces Anderson University tonight at 7 p.m. 
The Belles lost 75-56 in their season opener to Wheaton College on Friday in the Lee Pfund Invitational at Wheaton, but rebounded with an 83-47 win against Aurora. 
"We are excited to have the season underway. Anderson will be a good challenge for us on Tuesday," Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. "We did not play as well as we could have against Wheaton College. Our second-half defense was terrible. This team bounced back the next day and did a much better job with Aurora." 
The Belles, with 77 rebounds in their first two games, are in a bit of a rebuilding phase. Star guard Bridget Lipke grad­uated in May, though all-MIAA shooting guard Alison Kessler is poised to take over some of Lipke's responsibilities. 
Kessler has gracefully stepped into Lipke's shoes in terms of team leadership, on the court and with her stats. She leads the team with 16 points per game and is tied for fourth in rebounds with junior Katie Rashid. She is closely fol­lowed in points by junior Erin Newsom, who has 15 per game. Newsom leads the team in rebounds with a total of nine. 
As Saint Mary's prepares to take on Anderson, Henley has a few improvements she would like to see on the court. 
"We still need to establish a stronger inside game," Henley said. "We need to have more control on the boards and con­tinue improving our free-throw percentage." 
Henley expects Anderson to make the Belles work tonight. The Havens will be looking for revenge after a three-point loss last season to the Belles. Kessler sunk a free throw and Newsom hit a lay-up to pull out the last minute victory. 
"Anderson is going to be very physical and have a lot of hard denial defense," Henley said. "They are a solid team.:· 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiOl @saintmarys.edu 


Lost 
continued from page 24 
loss in as many nights, this time 70-69 to the Hamblin' Wreck. 
The Irish fell to Baylor 68-64 in the semifinals of tbe tournament Sunday. 
Like in their loss to the Bears, Notre Dame (2-2) led much of the game Monday night ­including the entire second half until Causey's fall-away three­pointer. Georgia Tech (3-2) used a 12-3 run over the last 2:30 to erase an eight-point deficit and come away with the win. 
The Yellow Jackets made four straight 3-point attempts during that span, with Causey making two and junior guard Lewis Clinch draining the other two. 
For the night, Georgia Tech was 1 0-of-17 from behind the arc and just 17 -of-42 from inside it. 
Clinch, senior forward Jeremis Smith and senior guard Anthony Morrow led the Yellow Jackets with 12 points each. Causey added 11. 
llarangody had his second straight 20-point game for the Irish. After pouring in 22 Sunday night, the sophomore forward 

CMU 
continued from page 24 
the 34 minutes. 
"She really came in and played well. I thought that she got some really good shots," McGraw said of the freshman. "She played a lit­tle more on the perimeter than she had in the 
Final Four team. I think that's how you get better," she said. 
McGraw said the team's practices have focused on the 3-point line on both ends of the court. The Terrapins dominated the Irish from beyond the arch, scoring on 60 percent of their shots. On the other hand, Notre Dame was only 1-of-12 from 3­
point dis­
tance. 

first couple "It's always good " T h a t of games whole line
to play a ranked
and she is a problem 
looked real­team and really good for us. It's a 
ly comfort­team and a probable problem at 
able. I think both ends.
Final Four team. I
Irish junior Zach Hillesland takes on a St. Edward's defender 
that she got It's disap­
during Notre Dame's 71-56 win on Nov. 7 at the Joyce Center. 
a lot of think that's how pointing," 
scored that number again on Monday, while adding 12 rebounds. 
Senior forward Rob Kurz had 15 against the Yellow Jackets, joining him and Harangody in double figures were junior for­ward Zach Hillesland (12) and sophomore point guard Tory Jackson (10). 
The game was sloppy from start to finish. Each team fin­ished with more than 20 turnovers, and the Yellow 
g 0 0 d you get better." McGraw 
looks." said.
Jackets were whistled for 26 

McGraw McGraw
fouls. 

Muffet McGraw
said one of said she
Georgia Tech jumped out to an 

the reasons Irish coach expects
early 6-2 lead, but Notre Dame g u a r d 
Ashley Barlow to have the best 3­point shooting percentage on the team this season because she is more selec­tive with her shots from long distance. McGraw also expects freshman Brittany Mallory to step up and be the consistent 3-point threat the Irish need. 
The coach also said that one reason her squad hasn't gotten many looks is because the teams they have played this season have played a lot of man-to-man defense against the Irish. McGraw added that she doesn't expect to change her offen­sive philosophy considerably, because pull-up jumpers are working best for Notre Dame this season. 
The Chippewas have spread the ball around on offense this season. Their leading scorer so far is guard Angel Chan (12 .0 points per game), while guards Latisha Luckett 
(11.3) and Shonda Long (9.7) are not far behind. 
Even though Central Michigan does not have any post players as tall as Notre Dame's duo of 6-foot-3 Erica Williamson and 6-foot-5 Melissa D'Amico, it has five 6-footers on the roster, which could create matchup problems for the Irish. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
went up 7-6 on a McAlarney lay­up and held the lead until Causey's shot with two seconds to go. 
The Yellow Jackets finished in third place in the Paradise Jam, while the Irish took fourth. 
Contact Chris Khorey at 
ckhorey@nd.edu 

that she feels confi­dent before playing Central Michigan is because of her team's play in the NIT ­especially against Maryland, despite the 16-point loss. 
"It's always good to play a ranked team and a really good team and a probable 

-··---------­

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 20, 2007 
FOOTBALL 
Stadium to import greener grass soon 
plete at some point next week. 
Fresh turf will be put 
The sod will come from a Colorado turf farm, the same
down on football field 
supplier as for the recently­beginning this Friday installed new grass field at Wrigley Field in Chicago. Overseeing installation of the 
Special to The Observer 
new Lield is George Toma, con­
Thnre's a new grass football sidered the country's leading field in the works for Notre authority on grass athletic Dame Stadium. fields. He has overseen grass 
Workmen this morning began installation and preparations tearing out the eurrent turf. for all the NFL Super Bowls which has been in use for Live played to date. seasons. On Friday, they will The new Notre Dame Stadium begin installation of the new field will be ready for use by the grass field, with that portion of Irish during spring football thn project expected to be com-drills in April 2008. 
offense with 50 assists and 14 middle blocker Kellie Seiacca digs. who earned a career-best 14
Vols 

"I think that we showed a kills. continued from page 24 lot of heart and fight in the "We played well in both 
Big East tournament," Stasiuk matches. Louisville has some the season to pick up the No. said. "We fought as hard as very big athletes who out 4 seed in the conference tour­we could, and you can never matched us on Saturday," Fesl nament in Milwaukee. be disappointed with that." said. "We were out of system 
The Irish started strong Notre Dame moved on to with our passing more on with a 3-1 (30-26, 30-24, 23-the semifinals where they Saturday, and Louisville took 30, 30-24) played top­advantage of that. We played win over Lifth-s e e d e d our hardest and it was a s e e d e d Louisville. tough loss to Louisville." Cincinnati Despite beat­The Irish have not played Friday night. "/ think that we ing the the Vols (11-17) since the end 
The Irish Cardinals the of the 2005 season. The Irish
showed a lot ofheart 
extended previous hosted Tennessee at the Irish
and fight in the Big 
their winning week, the Thanksgiving Invitational and streak to five East tournament." Irish were lost 3-2. games thanks unable to "Since Tennessee will prob­to great play repeat the ably be our last match of the
Adrianna Stasiuk 
from Stasiuk performance season, and Adrianna
Irish outside hitter
and sopho­and ultimately [Stasiuk] and Ashley's more outside fell 3-0 (30-[Tarutisllast match in college, hitter Megan 25, 30-20, 30-we're really going to go all Fesl. Stasiuk 27). Fesl and out and play our hardest," earned 20 kills and 17 digs, Stasiuk, who had 11 and 15 Fesl said. while Fesl reeorded 21 kills kills, respectively, led the and nine digs. Senior setter Irish again. Also contributing Contact Ellyn Michalak at Ashley Taurutis also aided the to the offense was freshman emichala@nd.edu 
Falcons 
continued from page 24 
2 CCIIAI for the second of f(ltlr gamns between the two squads this season-Jackson's third behind the Irish bench. 
"I comnwntnd when wn played I Bowling Cnwn I last year that thny worn a much bPlter hockey team than tlwy wnrn narly in the year." Jackson said. "I sensml that llwy wnrP starling to The Irish ofl'ense, however, took a big step forward last weekend when it bombarded Western Michigan with 71 shots in two games. 
Notre Dame had been con­cerned in the several weeks prior to the Western Michigan series that it was not generating nnough scoring chances at even strength. But that concern senms to have disappeared, along with the team's struggles to gain supmior puek control to 
ils opponent. 
"We're start­

turn tlw cor­ing to value the
"They're a bunch of 
liP r, and I puck a lot more
hard workers, but they 
think that car­instead of just ried ovor into have some pretty throwing it this year." away," Jackson
good talent over 
Thn Irish said. "It's good
there this year. " 
dnfnated to see beeause Bowling (;rnnn we've spent a ((J-3, 5-2 Mark Van Guilder lot of time on CCIIAI 4-2 on it."
Irish captain on 
the road on The Irish
Bowling Green 
Oct. 2:{, but won't be able to 
after that ganw the Falcons won five out of six. Tlwy sit in fourth placn in thn leagun, only four points bnhind third-placn Notrn Dame, and wnrn ranknd No. 21 in this wnek's national poll. 
l.ast snason. Bowling Green finislwd last in tlw CCI lA. and it was pir.knd in this ymtr's prnsna­son poll to finish in thn basenwnt once again. 
"Tiwy've always playml hard." Irish captain Mark Van Cuilder said of llw Falcons. "Tiwy'm a bunch of hard workers. but llwy havn sonw prntty good talent ovnr l.lwrP this yPar. It's going to lw a diiTnn~nt Bowling (;reen than wn'vn snm1 in a whiln." 
Thn htlcons an~ avnraging :t3 goals per ganw behind t.lw ommsn of senior f(>rward l>nrnk Whitmore (II goals. thrnn assistsl. while Notn~ Dame is averaging :{.I goals per ganw. 
sit down to their Thanksgiving turkeys after the Bowling Grnen game. They will travnl Wednesday night to Troy, N.Y., to play in the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (HPI) lloliday Tournament. 
Notre Dame committed to the tournament in order to honor a prior commitment to play two games against HPJ -a deal that was agrnnd upon bnf(Jrn Jackson became coach. Jackson accepted Hl'l's invitation to its holiday tournament. and thnn he invitnd tho Hed llawks to Notre Dame's I,ightning College !Iockey Classic in latn December to l'ulfi II the two-game promise. 
Jackson said he prnfers to play non-conference opponents in tournaments like the HPJ lloliday Tournament because tho tnam ntn play f(Jr a trophy. 
"It's nice to play for some­thing," he said. "It's kind of like a practice to play at Joe Louis Arena or the NCAA Tournament. It's just two different opponents in a short period of time, so we have to be able to make quick adjustments." 
The Irish will face an all-too­familiar foe in the first game of the HPI tournament -Alabama­Huntsville. The Chargers and the Irish !ought each other in a double-overtime marathon in the first round of last year's NCAA Tournament that the Irish eventually won 3-2. 
Alabama-Huntsville entered the NCAA matchup with a 13­19-3 season record and had only made the Tournament by win­ning the College Hockey America playoffs. Notre Dame then had to play the next night against Miehigan State, losing 2­1 to the eventual national eham­pions. 
"We were definitely gassed after playing Alabama," Van Guilder said. "They gave us everything we could handle. I've tried to forget about that whole weekend, but we're detinitely not going to look past them at all this year." 
Depending upon the outcome of the first game, Notre Dame will play either RPI or American International in the weekend tournament's final game. Between the tournament, the mid-week game against Bowling Green and last weekend's series with Western Michigan, the Irish will have played Live games in nine days. 
"I don't think the conditioning is a problem," Van Guilder said of handling the heavy workload. "I think its more locus with hav­ing elasses and everything. Focus is more of a problem, not so much conditioning." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Tar Heels 
continued from page 24 
injuries. 
"Both teams had some play­ers missing back then and there have been some lineup changes," Waldrum said. 
The Irish know they have a challenge ahead of them, especially having to travel down the unfriendly tobaeco road, but more than two­thirds of their lineup is made up of veterans of the team 
that made a run to the nation­al title game last season. 
And, after going undefeated in Big East regular season play, they feel they are good enough to beat anyone in the country. 
"You have to beat good teams along the way to win the national championship. so we just take them as they come," Waldrum said. 
The Irish face the Tar lleels at 12 p.m. Saturday at North Carolina's Fetzer Field. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 



THIS WEEK IN 
'j·.·' 

Tuesday, November 20, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

WILLSHORTZ 

47 Soft powder  58 Suffix with Israel  
38 Mini-plateau  
39 "Will you marry  49 Biblical suffix  59 Dr. provider  
me?." e.g.  50 Stable sound  60Japanese  
40 Brandy fruit  51 Come afterward  moolah  
42 Hoops official  52 Wretched  61  _  Paulo, Brazil  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JUMBLE 
JJlJJM®J1IE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DYSUK 
(l] 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved.  
RIPEV jI I r BELFEE j  (]  
(] [ www.jumble.comtCOSHUL j  I I  
Yesterday's  I Jumbles:  FAINT  

Answer: When they met on the tennis court and later married, it was a -MATCH MATCH 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Kerri Strug, 30; Jodie Foster, 45; Meg Ryan, 46; Larry King, 74 
Happy Birthday: You'll have a good eye and opportunities to take advantage of what you see as a good deal or investment this year. This is a progressive and productive year for you so don't even think about holidays and playtime. Put all 
your efforts into your life goals during this creative, original and imaginative 
time. Your numbers are 11, 23, 26, 27, 37, 44 
ARIES (Marcb 21-Aprll 19): Getting angry will be a waste of time. Learn from whatever personal experience you have and move on. A short trip will open your 
mind to a geographical move. a great investment, a better future. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Good moves can be made but taking a little bit different approach will probably work best. Someone with experience will lead you in the right direction. A good talk with someone you are in a partnership with will briog positive results. 4 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may have great ideas and feel certain that you can make things work but, you are better off taking your time. Moving too quickly or spending too much will not bring you the results you want. Love is on 
the rise. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-july 22): You can make some fabulous decisions regarding 
work, hobbies. children or even a social event you want to attend. Now is the time to sign up7 be proactive and secure your position. Don't let someone else's 
insecurity hold you hack. 5 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Concentrate on how you can improve your f'mancial situation. You may be confused about some of the people in your life. Look for ulterior motives and, if someone appears to be hanging around you for the wrong reason, address the situation promptly. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may feel as if you are in a push-pull situation. Be analytical and make any decision required based on fact, not emotions. You will be able to convince others to follow you if you have your facts straight. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct.. 22): You can make some physical improvements or find a bargain if you go shopping. You should be talking to people who may have in­sight into a career opportunity. Anger will be counterproductive, so avoid anyone who is looking for a fight. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You've got a whole lot more going for you than you realize. You are gifted, so muster up some confidence and you'll do great. Travel or making changes at home will lead to greater success. 5 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can't take chances and expect to get ahead. Your charm may work on some people, some of the time, but not today. Do things properly or you may damage your reputation. Love is looking good but you have to be honest. 2 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jau. 19): Focus on work, career and getting ahead. You've got everything going for you but, if you become impatient, angry and im­pulsive, you will miss out on something worth pursuing. Pick your battles wisely or avoid them all together. 4 stars AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): Think before you speak. Your emotions will be running high but. before you make a promise or delve into something that may not be completely upfront, think about the consequences. Be gracious and patient with others. 3 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be very changeable and this may be mis­leading to those who have to deal with you. You are better off working alone, fo­cusing on finance, getting your own thing off the ground and dealing with settle­ments, legal concerns, children and your health. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are incredibly insightful as well as creative, original and imaginative. You are quick to respond and know how to get what you want. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
CROSSWORD 
Across 37 Gives a stage cue
Speaks, informally 40 Honeybunch or cutie pie 
4 Speak 41 Glowing
9 Smokey remnants of aRobinson's fire
music genre, for short 42 Abbr. after many a general's 14 de France name 
15 End of a 43 Meyerbeer's hangman's rope "_ Huguenots" 
16 Love to bits 44 Painting surface 
17 Bore 45 Publisher of 20 Have in Cosmopolitan one's head and Good 21 and outs Housekeeping 
22 The "I" in T.G.I.F. 48 Boer 53 Before. in poetry
23 Boar 55 Baseballer Mel 
28 Nap 
56"Maria ........• 

29 "Golden" song 
Jimmy Dorsey 32 Ad-lib, musically #1 hit 
35 Sign before 57 Bohr Virgo 
62 Actress Garbo 

36 Person 63 "Er ... um .. ." performing an 64 Old tennis racket exorcism string material 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
65 Stand for a portrait 
66 Taboos 
67 Cry before "Get your hands off!" 
Down Have a chair by, as a table 2 _Yale, for whom Yale University is 
named 3 Six in 1,000,000 4 Out of sight 5 Also 6 _Sawyer 7 Reverse of 
WNW 8 Fix the electrical connections of 9 Didn't have enough supplies 
1 0 Problem in focusing, for short 
11 "Don't worry about it" 12 "Phooey!" 13 Panhandles 18 Club with a lodge 19 Bankbook abbr. 24 Knuckleheads 
25 Tribulations 
26 ........... dye 
27 Lena or Ken of 
film 30 "This Then" (Jennifer Lopez album) 31 French summers 32 Computer image file format 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, November 20, 2007 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Paradise lost 
Hoopsters drop two at Jam tournament in 
U.S. Virgin Islands 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Ediwr 
c;eorgia Tech guard Matt Causey came around a screPn, took tlw ball and found himsp,lf sandwidwd lwtwnen sophomore l.ukn llarangody and the side­linn. 
But thn lif'th-year senior was undauntml. lin heaved thn ball toward th1~ basket anyway, watehing it swish and give the Yellow Jackets a one-point lead over Notre Dame with two see­onds lnl't in tlw third-plaee game of the Paradise Jam Tournament in tho Virgin Islands Monday. 
The Irish got a chance to rnspond, but when junior guard Kyle MeAlarney's jumper went in and out at the buzzer, Notre Damn sulTered its second elose 
see LOSTIpage 21 


NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish finish 
• 
seasonm. Tennessee 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Spons Writer 
Notre Dame's loss to No. 22 Louisville last weekend in the semifinals of the Big East tour­naml~nt must likely means that its season will end Friday with a match at Tennessee. 
Thn Irish needed to advance farther into the league tourna­ment to give thm11 a legitimate shot at being selectp,d for the NCAA Tournament. 
"Against Tennessee, we all just want to have as much fun playing as possible. Playing with nothing to losn and finish­ing strong will be key," senior captain Adrianna Stasiuk said. 
Notre Damn defeated both Cincinnati and Louisville in the team's last two home games of 
see VOLS/page 22 

NO WoMEN's SoccER 
ND faces Tar Heels in championship rematch 
Hound of 16 of the NCAA ed to play next week," Irish win over UNC-Greensboro this She also hit the back of the
Team takes on one-seed 
Tournament at noon Saturday. coach Randy Waldrum said. Sunday, the Tar Heels moved net in the victory over UNC­The third-round match will "It's a great place to play and to 19-3-1 on the season. The Greensboro this weekend.
UNC in Round of16 
end one of the team's chances they are a No. 1 seed .... It squad has also advanced to The Irish (17 -4-2), mean­
of' a repeat Final Four appear­will be a difficult task trying the third round in all 26 while, are deeper than the 
By FRAN TOLAN ance. to beat them on their field but NCAA Tournaments and won team that tied visiting North 
Spons Writer Despite being a No. 4 seed our players will be fired up 18 of 20 ACC tournaments. Carolina on Aug. 19 and out­
and underdog against top­for the challenge." Last week, North Carolina shot the Tar Heels 14-7 in 
Notrt~ Dame will head to seeded North Carolina, the The Irish have outscored sophomore defender Nikki that game. In the preseason Chapel Hill, N.C., to take on Irish are eager for the match opponents 44-6 in their last Washington was named match, junior defender Carrie defending NCAA champion against a team they tied 2-2 15 games. Soccer America's national Dew and senior forward North Carolina in a rematch in an August exhibition But North Carolina might be player of the week after scor­Susan Pinnick sat out with of' last year's national title match. the toughest test Notre Dame ing in all three of her team's game -this time, in the "Our kids will be very excit-has encountered. With a 3-1 conference tournament wins. see TAR HEELS/page 22 
HOCKEY 
Upstart Falcons enter JACC 
By KYLE CASSILY Spons Wri1er 
Notre l>anw mach .Jell' .Jackson saw the Irish in tho latter half of his first year begin to take the steps that eventually produced a leaguo championship in his sec­ond season. 
Yet no one recognized it, and Notro Dame ww> picked to finish smack in thfl middle of the CCI lA he foro .Jackson's sophomore ('.Cllllpaign. lnst1~ad of' moandoring to tho middle of the hmgue. the Irish roekotml to No. 1 in the country. 
And now Jaekson has wit­nessed anotlwr team start to turn tho eornor similar to how the Irish onco did. That team­Bowling C~rnnn -will travel to the Joyce Centf'r tonight at 7:30 to faeo No. 9 Notre Dame (9-4, 7­
WU YUEfThe Observer 

Sophomore defenseman Brett Blatchford drives to net during see FALCONS/page 22 Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Western Michigan on Friday. 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Chippewas up next for McGraw and Co. 
Squad looks to rebound from NIT loss to Terps 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Ediwr 
After falling to No. 3 Maryland in the third round of' the Women's Preseason NIT, No. 23 Notre Dame will start its regular season with a road game against Central Michigan tonight at 7. 
McGraw said that her team made some crucial mistakes. that cost the team in the 7 5­59 loss -things that have to be corrected before the game against the Chippewas. 
"Just one person does some­thing wrong and it affects the whole team, so we have to be more disciplined," she said. 
One of the highlights in the loss at College Park, Md., was the team's turnovor margin. The Irish committed only throe turnovers during the contest and Maryland had no steals -both Notre Dame records. On the other end of the court, the Irish forced Maryland to 1X turnovers, two shy of McGraw's goal of 20 for every game. 
McGraw said that one rca­son for the stark turnover dif­ferential was Notre Damn's refusal to force the ball inside as often as Maryland did. 
One bright spot after three games this season has been thH play of freshman center Devereaux Peters. Peters had 12 points and six rebounds in 
see CMU/page 21 









