
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 65 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11,2007 
Students interested in Iowa caucuses 
Primaries hold national focus; NO groups eventually will support presidential candidates 
By KATIE PERALTA and JENN METZ 
News Writers 
When Notre Dame sopho­mores Lindsey !Iough and Matthew Callanan return to their homes in Iowa for winter break, they will be tossed right into the center of heated politi­cal races, as Democrats and Hepublicans battle in the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3. 
The caucuses, the first pri­mary competition in the country for the 2008 presidential candi­dates. have been a focus of national attention for weeks. Caucuses are different from 
200-plus graduate in January 
Students from '07, '08 classes receive degrees 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Although most Notre Dame seniors will complete their degrees in May, 224 University students will graduate in .January. 
Tho number, however, ineludes graduate students as well as undergraduates, asso­ciate registrar Chuck Hurley said. 
"About half of these students aro part of the class of 2008 graduating early, and the other half arc class of 2007 students graduating a little late," he said. 
.January 6, 2008, is the offi­eial date of January gradua­tion. There is no graduation ceremony, but January gradu­ates can join in the May com­mencement ceremonies with tho rest of their class. 
Students usually walk with their elass. Hurley said. which means some January gradu­ates walked in the ceremony last May while others will walk this May. August graduates also have the option of walk­ing in the May ceremony. 
llurlcy said there are many reasons students graduate in .January. 
"There are so many special circumstances -everything from fina·ncial reasons to someone whose parent had cancer during their senior year so they took oiT a semes­ter and came back to gradu­ate," he said. "It's about what best !its that student." 
see GRADS/page 6 other primary elections in their form. Most primaries are decid­ed by secret-ballot votes, but Iowa has a system that requires voters to assemble at an assigned location, listen to speeches by supporters of dif­ferent candidates and publicly express support and be counted for one person running. 

Sen. Barack Obama, a Democrat from Illinois, and for­mer Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, a Republican, cur­rently lead their respective par­ties in the state, according to a recent Des Moines Register Iowa poll. 
Hough, of Shelby County, Iowa, said she plans to partici­pate in the caucus in Des Moines. 
"Both parties have their own set of caucuses in Iowa, and most of the top-tier candidates will travel around to different locations to speak," Hough said. 
She said she plans to observe candidates before deciding whom she will support. 
"I think I want to get a better feel for things, talk to a few peo­ple there [in Des Moines], before making up my mind," she said. 
Callanan, of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, also plans to participate in the caucuses. 
"It is going to depend on my work schedule and everything, but I have not had that much time to focus on the candi­dates," Callanan said. He said it was important to be informed about a candidate before he voted. 

"You should know where a candidate stands," Callanan said. 
The Notre Dame College Republicans and College Democrats have been spreading messages about Republican and Democratic themes to the University community. 
Each group works to elect members of their own parties to political office by gathering sup­port on campus. 
see ELECTION/page 3 
Teain wins, Bookstore discounts 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Ediror 
A new partnership between the Shaheen Bookstore and the Saint Mary's athletic department means that when the Belles' basketball team wins, the campus benefits. 
The Bookstore has teamed up with Saint Mary's athletic department for Monday Madness, a new fundraiser that discounts Bookstore merchandise the Monday after each home victory for the Belles. 
Mike Hicks, director of campus stores, described the event as a "challenge" to cheer on athletic teams. 
"There is a lot of spirit here at Saint Mary's," he said. "We want to show our support for the Saint Mary's 
see DISCOUNTS/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
LaFleur to leaveSports Info Dept. 
Women's Soccer SID spent 11 years at NO 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
News Writer 
After 11 years in the Notre Dame Sports Information Department, Pete LaFleur is moving on. 
LaFleur, a 1990 graduate of the University, will take a 

·job as the public relations director for Geneva Glen sum­mer camp i n Evergreen, Colo. During his time at the Sports Information Department, LaFleur worked with the hockey, golf, fenc­ing, baseball and women's soccer teams and -like the rest of the sports informa­tion staff -worked at every home football game. He is known among reporters and co-workers for his in-depth game wraps, extensive his­torical knowledge and the little-known statistics that were hallmarks of his notes packages. LaFleur said that his slo­gan in life has always been to go the "extra mile." "That's kind of been my approach," he said. "I hope I don't ever seem like I'm over doing it, but I try to give stuff what it deserves. whether it's writing some-

see LEGEND/page 4 

NDSP warns of break burglaries 
By JOSEPH McMAHON News Writer 
Local landlords and the Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) are encouraging stu­dents to safeguard their valuables as they leave for winter break. 
Burglaries and petty crimes on and off campus often increase just as breaks begin, NDSP said in an e­mail sent to the student body on Dec. 6. 
"We often experience an increase in thefts just before breaks, especially from Library study areas and the dining halls," the e-mail said. "Maintain extra vigi­lance on your laptops, book bags, purses, etc." 
For students who live off campus, NDSP is providing a Christmas storage option. Off-campus students can bring their valuables to the NDSP Investigation Section on the second floor of the Hammes Mowbray Hall on Wednesday or Thursday from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. or 
1:30 p.m. to 3:30. 
Many landlords, mean­while, have begun hiring their own security teams to patrol their properties and protect students' valuables. Mark Kramer, who manages more than 150 properties, said there was an attempted break-in on his properties last year during Christmas break. 
see SECURITYI page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, December 11, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Cover 111y car 
I'm from Michigan. 
I downgraded in snow when I travnled south to eome here for school. 

While most of campus freaks out 
about "South  
Bend winters," 1  Chris Khorey  
wonder why we  
only have one measly foot of  Sports Editor  
the whitf1 stuff  

and why whiteout conditions aren't a nightly occurrence. 
But there is one part of South Bend winter that I can't stand­wiping snow off my car. 

Surn, I wiped snow off my car in high school. Every morning, I grabbed the brush from the back seat and knocked ofT whatever had aecumulated. 
But at Notre Dame, there's a huge dil'ferencn. I don't drive every day. So when I go to collect my car from D2, I discover not only the snow from tho night bnl'ore, but thn bliz­zanl from last Thursday, the ice storm from two wonks ago, a layer of f'ossiliwd hail and the remnants of thn tiny snowfall from before Thanksgiving that didn't evnn stick to thn ground but rnanagnd to stay on my car. 
And that's just on top of' the ear. Undnrrwath and behind it is a layer of' light brown sludgn that the snow plow has paeknd in so hard I'm afraid it will dPnt my bumper if I try to drivn through it. 
Unlik(~ tlw simpln daily brush ofT. n1moving all of' this snow is a solid half-hour job that r11quires both the brush and scrapPr nnds of my handy snow-rmnoval tool. Sonwtinws it also rnquires a shovnl. 
And it's not just tlw hassle of cleaning ofT a car covnred with a we11k's worth of' snow. That mueh cold wat(1r surround a ear is absolutnly awful for it. Evnry car stored in D2, D6 or thn C-lot over the wintnr is slowly rusting away. 

I have no rncours11 for this. All of cam pus parking is wide open to the elenwnts. 
But it doesn't have to be this way. 
The University should covnr all of its long-term parking (by which I mean certainly D2 and D6 and probably portions of the C-lot). 
This fits right with Notre Dame's long term plan. In the D2 area, two new dorms are planned. They will take space away from D2 parking. So why not build another level on top of' the existing lot? That would doubln thn parking, and cover the cars below. 
()('COUrse, the SPCOnd level WOUld also need to be covered, so how about a nice-looking roof over the top'! 
The same thing could be built in 1>6, next to where the University (eventually) wants to build a hotel. It would provide extra parking for the guests, while allowing students eovered parking-and saving us all from having to brush, shovel and scrape snow and ice off our cars. 
So, administration, what do you think? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at cklwrey@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Dec. I 0 edition of The Observer. the Scene section featured a picture which was cited as Silkk the Shocker. The rapper in the picture was actually Master I~ The Observer regrets the error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW DO YOU PLAN TO CELEBRATE THE LAST DAY OF CLASSES? 






Eric Petrucci Courtney Hummel Lindsey Hough Allison Salmons Shea Streeter 
senior junior sophomore junior senior Fisher Lewis Howard Lewis Cavanaugh 
"Lighting "Going to the "Clover Ridge. " "Dreaming of "Sorry ... it another candle Toschi Station the Bun Run.'' wouldn't be 
on my  to pick up some  
menorah."  power  
converters."  

Woman allegedly shoots men over decorations 
BATON HOUGE, La. ­Authorities say a Springfield woman was booked on attempted mur­der counts for allegedly shooting two men whose dog damaged Christmas decorations at her home. Ethel Shannon McKinney, 28, was booked on two counts of attempted sec­ond-degree murder and illegal use of a weapon, Jason Ard, a spokesman for the Livingston Parish Sheriff's Department, said. 
McKinney and her boyfriend got into an argu­ment with the men over 

CASEY CARNEYffhe ObseJVer 
Sophomores Zach Montez and Cassie Montoya prepare for the last day of class on the first floor of Siegfried Hall. 
OFFBEAT 
when the uninvited guest arrived. 
Ritter called Joe Battaglia, the on-call main­tenance workers at his Traverse City apartment, and they tried to corral the 25-pound bird as it flapped around on the carpet amid blood and shards of glass. 
After about 30 minutes of trying to ease the turkey toward the window with a broomstick and a fishing pole, Hitter cornered the bird, grabbed it by the neck and threw it out the window. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
D:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
!ci: 
LLI 

3: ' -' 
.... 

0
< 
the damaged decorations, and McKinney allegedly fired at the men, Ard said. 
The man was hit in the upper torso and arm; the other, in an arm. Ard said none of the injuries were life threatening. 
The incident happened around 9:30p.m. Sunday. 
Turkey crashes through window in home 
TRAVEHSE CITY, Mich. -The noise that Chuck Ritter heard while sitting in his living room was a turkey that crashed through a third-story bed­room window. Hitter, 83, was relaxing Saturday 
(.) 

0 HIGH 37 HIGH 30 HIGH 33 HIGH 35
...I 

LOW 27 LOW 20 LOW 23 LOW 20 
~~r:<r~ 


e~1J. 
rf.? 


Observer appropriate. " 
IN BRIEF 

The last day of classes at Notre Dame is today. 
There will be an Advent Penance Service today at 7 p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Tlw service will indude pray11r, musie, rel'lection and Confi1ssion. 
Tlw Nil Celebration Choir, Voices from Campus and Instrumentalists will pnrf'orm at a benefit ('Oncerl f'or Christmas at thn first l'loo1· lounge, Coleman Morse Center, today at 
7:30 p.m. Admission is free with a donation. All proee11ds bmwfit tlw lloly Cross l.itnraey School and Boys llomo, Dhaka, Bangladesh. 
The hL'it day of dasses at Saint Mary's will be Wednesday. 
A Mass for the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe will be held Wednesday at 5:15p.m. in the Basilica of the Sa(~red Heart. 
Reading days at Notre Dame are tomorrow, Thursday and Sunday. Heading days at Saint Mary's are Thursday and Sunday. 
Exams at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will take place on Friday, Saturday, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. 
Father Jenkins, Father Hesburgh and oth11r Holy Cross Priests will be signing a book compiled by two seminarians Friday in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore from 1-4 p.m. The book is "The Cross, Our Only Hope. Daily Reflections in the Holy Cross Tradition." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 30 HIGH 28 LOW 18 LOW 20 
Atlanta 78 I 57 Bost.on 36 I ~5 Chicago 35 I .19 Denver 23 I 12 Houston 77 I 65 Los Angeles 66 1 42 Minneapolis 25 1 6 New York 40 I 40 Philadelphia 42 I 42 Phoemx 58 I 41 Seattle 45 I 34 St. Louis 38 I 33 Tampa 83161 Washington 47146 
Tuesday, December 11, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Students have lunch with reformer 
Revolutionary addresses SMC community at College's fifth Leadership Luncheon 
By KRISTEN EDELEN 
News Writer 
Libusa Radkova, a reformer in her native country of Slovakia, sat down for lunch Monday with Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff during the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership's (CWIL) fifth Leadership Luncheon of the semester. 
ller visit came  after  a  long  
journey  from  eas tern  
Europe.  

Hadkova decided to travel 
work as a field of study at St. Elisabeth University, which was something origi­nal in her country. 
Leadership Luncheons 
will continue next semester as often as once every two weeks. 
can bring ideas from the Bratislava. '7t is very useful to see The next program back to Slovakia. The idea of [social] problems from speaker will "It is very useful to see charitable be Paula
outside, from a point of
[social] problems from out­giving exists Dawning, the side, from a point of differ­in the U.S., different culture.,, former ent culture," she said. but not in superintend­Radkova spoke to 25 to 30 Slovakia, she ent of Benton
libusa Radkova
people, the largest audience said. A great Harbor
reformer 

Election 
continued from page 1 
Under current Student Activities Office rules, students cannot create groups to support individual primary candidates because those groups would be, by their nature, temporary. Furthermore, the CCC does not allocate funds to groups that support specific candidates for public office. 
Senior Josh Kempf, the chair­man of the College Republicans, said next semester, after many of the state primaries, the group will "jump into action." 
"Because they are primaries, we as a club do not support any candidates," Kempf said, adding that members do tend to per­sonally support various Republican Party candidates on their own. 
After the primaries, Kempf said, College Republicans and College Democrats will begin their official support for their party's presidential candidate. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu and Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 


to Saint Mary's to learn about the CWIL-implement­ed Bridges Out of Poverty program. She intends to spend time at local non­profit organizations, such as the Hope Rescue Mission, and witness Bridges Out of Poverty in action -so she 
about the state of social work and the problems with poverty in Slovakia. She also highlighted her own individual work and research as a social work professor at St. Elisabeth University in schools in 
Michigan, 
who is a cur­
rent member on the College's Board of Trustees, Fritzler said. 
Senior Sarita Fritzler, a student worker for CWIL, said speakers scheduled for each Leadership Luncheon are usually from the com­munity and will always be women. 
"But having Libusa, from abroad, was such a great opportunity," she said. 
The CWIL and Board of Governance-sponsored Leadership Lunch series began this semester as an avenue for students at Saint Mary's to interact with women in the community, Fritzler says. 
Contact Kristen Edelen at kedeleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
at a CWIL luncheon yet, 
Observer 

dependence on govern­ment was created dur­ing the totalitarian regime, which was ended in 1989 by the Velvet Revolution. But even today, she said, "a subtle but powerful fear exists" for citizens to engage in the previously outlawed idea of communi­ty. 
Bonnie Bazata, the associ­ate director for CWIL, said the idea behind the Bridges Out of Poverty model is to encourage a community to help alleviate problems sur­rounding poverty. She also suggests that a college can partner with the community to help solve these prob­lems. 
Radkova is considered revolutionary because she helped to pioneer social 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December I I, 2007 
was hard work tracing thn statistics back through the

Legend 

ynars. "Nobody knew that," he
continued from page I 

said of the Hanks' statistic. "I thing, or researehing it or had to research and turn just putting it in the right over a lot of rocks to figure it historieal perspnetivc." all out. It really legitimized 
LaFleur also takes pietures what Kerri did that season. for thn athlntie department's People were like, 'Wow, she Wnb sitn, und.eom, during did something only the great sporting events -something Mia llarnm had ever done."' he said is "not in my job Because of LaFleur's deseription," but whieh, he rnsearch skills, he is often said, the athletes deserve. chosen to write historical 
"If you have the time and features for und.com. lie has creativity to put something in written several obituaries for that's going to make a differ­the Web site, including those e 111:e to pno pin's memories for former football stars and their enjoyment, that's Angelo Bertelli, Leon Hart sornnthing that's always been and Harry Oliver. important to me," he said. Most recently, LaFleur 
On oceasion, LaFleur wrote the obituary for Hyan includes statistics and notes Shay, the former Notre Dame that are comieally obscure­trark star who died during t 0 tllP p 0 i n t an Olympic thoy are 1wen marathon trial
''I've been working
noted by in New York post1~rs on really hard to get on Nov. 3. 
lntnrnet-mes­ahead so I can just Upon seeing 
sago hoards. the story on
hand it off"
One poster on the Web site. NI>N ation.rom Shay's family gives out a Pete LaFleur contacted weekly LaFleur to
sports Information " II e i s I e r thank him.
department
Award," erro­neously nanwd after Senior Assoeiate Athletic: Director John Heisler, whieh is given to the strangnst or most humorous stat ineluded in that week's football game notes. 
But a fnw jokes haven't stopped LaFleur from looking deep into tlw annals of Notre Dame athletics history to find tidbits to compare to today, as he did during the 200h women's soeeer season. 
Then-sophomore forward Kerri Hanks seored 22 goals and 22 assists that season, both making her first in the nation. People knew that leading tlw nation in both eategorins was extrnmely rare, but they didn't know how rarn until LaFinur lookod it up-and found out that the only other eollege playnr to ever lnad the nation in both eatl~gories was future 
U.S. national team star Mia II am rn. 
LaFIPur, who is eonsidered by some to be thn nation's best women's soeeer sports information director, said because historical records for wonwn's soecer were not we II k~~ p t u n t i I r n en n tly, it 

Please recycle The Observer. 
"That makes 
it all worth­while, when the family says it means something to them," he said. 
llis hard work has not gone unnoticed. LaFleur has earned several honors for his thorough media guides, including having the 2006 baseball media guide ranked No. 1 in the country by the College Sports Information Directors Association, com­monly known as CoSIDA. 
But all that hard work has tahn its toll on LaFleur. lie said when his friends come back from campus for foot­ball games, he rarely gets to spend much time with them. 
"A lot of my friends will eome back and I get to see them for like 10 minutes because I've got a soccer game on Friday, then the football game on Saturday and a soccer game on Sunday," he said. 
LaFleur, who is unmarried and wants the time needed to start a family, said the rigors or his job limit how orten he sees his relatives. 
''I've had to miss a lot of weddings," he said. "For my nincns and nephews, I've 
missed a lot of baptisms and 
stuff." 

And because of that, 
LaFleur is returning to his 
roots. He attended Geneva 
Glen in his youth and worked 
as a counselor there during 
the summers in the early 
1990s, just after graduating 
from Notre Damn. 

In his new position, LaFleur will help Geneva Glen with their ambitious new marketing program, which includes upgrades to their Web site and brochures. 
"It's more of a nine-to-five 
job than what I have now," 
he said. 

But LaFleur won't com­
pletely leave sports behind. 
lie said he plans to do free­
lance work, ineluding possi­
bly television and radio 
broadcasting. lie is also con­
sidering starting a eollege 
fencing web site. 
Both LaFleur's uncle and 
father graduated from Notre 
Dame, as did both of his sis­
ters and three of his cousins. 
lie lived in Holy Cross Hall 
before tho dorm was torn 
down -and he stayed a few 
extra days to make sure he 
was the last one to live in it. 
In addition to working for The Observer, Scholastic and the Sports Information Department while in school, LaFleur was also elected president of Holy Cross llall. 

LaFleur's first job after col­lege was at the University of San Francisco, where he was paid $5,000 a year to do stats for all of their athletic teams. The job only ran dur­ing the school year, so he returned to Geneva Glen to work during the summers. 
In 1995, LaFleur took a job at University of Virginia, but only stayed there for a year before finding out about a job opening at Notre Dame. 
As he gets ready to leave, LaFleur said he is trying to get as much work done as possible for the fencing team so as not to leave his co­workers out to dry. 

"I've been working really hard to get ahead so I can just hand it ofT," he said. "I know what it's like when people leave and you have to pick up the slack. It's kind of been wearing me out a lit­tle." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

The discount program is in a pilot stage, but Hicks
Discounts 
expects the program to con­continued from page 1 tinue for the whole basket­
ball season, llieks said. athletes and sports pro­Hicks hopes the program grams. This is an invitation will encouragn more stu­to our eampus to come out dents and faeulty members and cheer our to attend teams onto vic-Belles athletic tory." events.
"We don't have any
Presently, the "We feel that
worries about losing 
program only cheering on applies to the money ifthe team your team to basketball victory is very
does well." 

team, but rewarding," he Hicks hopes to said. "We hope expand it to Mike Hicks that this pro­other sports director gram will teams, depend­campus stores encourage oth­ing on its ini­ers to sharn in tial suecess. that reward." 
"We have been working on Since the amount of dis­this idea for some time. It is counts the Bookstore will just a coincidence that we give on Mondays is dnpend­ironed out all the issues nnt on the basketball team's prior to the basketball sea­success, Hicks couldn't son," hn said. "We wanted determine in advanee the to make sure that there bookstorn's profit margin or would not be loss from the any problems program.
with the ath-"This is an invitation Hicks said he 
letic depart­to our campus to does not antic­ment if we ipate a nega­
come out and cheer
offered a pro­tive effect on 
our teams onto
gram like sales. 
this." victory." "We don't T h e think this pro­Bookstore will gram should
Mike Hicks

ofTnr discounts negatively
director

on all clothing, afl'net our contingent on campus stores sales and prof­
the margin of the basketball team's win. A two-point vic­tory warrants 20 percent off; four points. 40 percent. If the team wins by 10 or more, merchandise will be 50 percent off. No discounts will exceed 50 percent. 
Students will only be eligi­ble to receive the diseounts the Monday following thn game. They must bring a stamped program showing proof of attendance. 
its," he said. 
"We don't have any worries about losing money if the team does well. We hope and want the bas­ketball team, as well as all of our SMC teams, to do well. We support Saint Mary's athletos." 
Thn Belles' next horne game is on Jan. 19 against Tri-State at:~ p.m. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



LaFortune Student Center 
In the Dooley Room December 14th, 15th, 17th, 18th, & 19th from 1 Oam until Spm Sunday December 16th from Noon-5pm 
While you're there•••••••check out our selection of Irish Holiday Items 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, December 11, 2007 CoMPILED FROM T!-IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Indians take diplomats hostage 
RIO DE JANEIHO, Brazil-A U.N. representa­tive and three other people have been taken hostage by Indians, and federal officials were fly­ing to the jungle on Monday to negotiate their releasfl. 
The Cinta Larga Indians invited David Martins Castro, a representative of the U.N. the High Commission for Human Rights, to a meeting Sunday on their reservation. Martins came with a federal prosecutor and two other people. The Indians prevented all four from leaving. 
"Hight now the situation is calm, the hostages arc being well treated. We are only waiting" for Federal Indian Bureau President Marcio Moira to negotiate, police inspector Rodrigo Carvalho said by phone from the state capital of Hondonia. 
Moira was Hying to the reservation on Monday to nngotiatn their release, said a spokeswoman who declinnd to be identified according to agency policy. 
British P.M. visits troops in Iraq 
BASHA. Iraq -British Prime Minister Gordon Brown flew into southern Iraq Sunday to rally troops and confirm that Iraqi forces will take command of the last region under British control in mid-December. 
Soldiers lined the staircases of an airport base to watch Brown arrive for his hourlong visit, offering thunderous applause as he prais11d their efforts to maintain security in the south. 
"We have managed now to get Iraq to a far better position.... We're able to move to provincial control and that is thanks to what you have achieved," Brown told soldiers. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Attorney general admits to affair 
TOPEKA. Kan. -Kansas' attorney general has admitted having an extramarital affair with a former staffer, and the governor said Monday he should resign if allegations includ­ing workplace sexual harassment are proven. 
The former staffer liled a civil rights claim against Attorney General Paul Morrison last month with the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. According to her account, the affair began in September 2005 and last11d about two years. Linda Carter also accused him of attempting to influence a fed­eral lawsuit involving a political opponent. 
Morrison. who is married and has three chil­dren. said Sunday that many of Carter's claims are "patently false," but he confirmed they had a relationship. A spokeswoman said he has no plans to resign. 
N.J. near to ending death penalty 
THENTON, N.J. -New Jersey took a major step Monday toward becoming the first state to abolish the death penalty in more than 40 years, a change that is expect to become law within a month. 
The state Senate approved a measure to replace the death sentence with life without parole, which would spare the life of a sex oll'ender whose crimes sparked Megan's Law. The bill has the support of the Democrat-con­trolled Assembly and the Democratic gover­nor. 
New Jersey has eight men on death row and hasn't executed anyone since 1963. It reinstat­ed the death penalty in 1982, six years after the U.S. Supreme Court allowed states to resume executions. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Factory worker killed in accident 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Authorities say the death of a worker at the South Bend Chocolate Company factory appears to have been an acci­dent. 
South Bend police say 49-year-old Gerald Barr was working alone when he died early Saturday morning. 
Company president Mark Tarner says Barr was elec:ming a machine inside the Chocolate Company factory when he died. but it was hard to tell exactly what happened. 
St. Joseph County Deputy Coroner Charles I Iurley said the machine was running when Barr died, and his death appears to be an accident. The preliminary cause of death is listed as head trauma. 
NORWAY 

Gore accepts Nobel Peace Prize 
Former VP tells big polluters to stand accountable, lead charge to reduce greenhouse gases 
Associated Press 
OSLO -Saying it's "time to make peace with the planet," AI Gore accepted the Nobel Peace Prize on Monday with a call for humanity to rise up against a looming climate crisis and stop waging war on the environment. 
The United States and China -the world's leading emitters of greenhouse gases -will stand accountable before history if they don't take the lead in that global challenge, the former vice president said. 
"Without realizing it, we have begun to wage war on the Earth itself," Gore said in his acceptance speech. "Now, we and the Earth's climate are locked in a relationship familiar to war planners: 'Mutually assured destruc­tion.' It is time to make peace with the planet." 
Gore was awarded the prize for sounding the alarm over global warming and spreading awareness on how to counteract it. His co-win­ner, the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, was repre­sented by the panel's leader, Rajendra Pachauri. 

They received their Nobel gold medals and diplomas at a gala ceremony at Oslo's city hall, while the Nobel prizes for medicine, chemistry, physics, literature and eco­stop blaming each other for He likened the current acceptance speech. "It is nomics were presented in a the stalemate over warming. "planetary emergency" to within the reach of human separate ceremony in Instead, they should take wartime. "We must quickly society to meet these Stockholm, Sweden. the lead in solving a problem mobilize our civilization with threats." 
Gore urged government for which they bear a large the urgency and resolve that Before presenting the officials at a U.N. climate responsibility, he said, or be has previously been seen award to Gore and Pachauri, conference in Bali, "accountable before history only when nations mobilized the chairman of the Indonesia, to prepare the for their failure to act." for war," he said. Norwegian Nobel awards ground for quick negotiations He drew a parallel Although Pachauri committee, Ole Danbolt on an emissions-limitation between leaders who ignore described the threat largely Mjoes, praised them for mov­treaty to replace the 1997 the climate crisis and those in measured, scientific terms, ing climate to the top of the Kyoto Protocol on global who didn't act as Nazi he warned of a grim fate if world agenda. warming. Germany rearmed before greenhouse gases emissions "We thank you for what 
Gore and Pachauri will World War II. are not limited. A warming you have done for Mother leave for the U.N. meeting "Too many of the world's climate could lead to Earth," Mjoes said. Wednesday. "I will urge the leaders are still best swamped coastlines, disrup­Gore's wife, Tipper, in the delegates in Bali to adopt a described in the words tions to food supply, spread audience with their four chil­bold mandate for a treaty," Winston Churchill applied to of disease and loss of biodi­dren, smiled broadly when Gore said. those who ignored Adolf versity, he said. he accepted the award, 
In a speech that quoted Hitler's threat: 'They go on in "Neglect in protecting our which includes a $1.6 million Churchill, Gandhi and the strange paradox, decided heritage of natural resources stipend to be shared equally Bible, Gore said the world's only to be undecided, could prove extremely harm­between the two winners. biggest producers of carbon resolved to be irresolute, ful for the human race and The audience, including dioxide and other green­adamant for drift, solid for for all species that share Norway's King Harald V and house gases -the United fluidity, all powerful to be common space on Planet Queen Sonja, rose for sus­States and China -must impotent,"' Gore said. Earth," Pachauri said in his tained applause. 


Winter storm causes havoc across Mid-west 
Associated Press  as he shoveled ice off his driveway.  Electric, the state's largest utility.  
The National Weather Service posted  Roughly 11,000 customers were  
ice  and  winter  storm  warnings  blacked out in southern Illinois and  
OKLAHOMA CITY ­ A wintry storm  Tuesday for parts of Missouri, Kansas,  more than 5,000 had  no electric heat  
caked the center of the nation with a  Nebraska, Iowa and Illinois. Missouri  or  lights in  Kansas,  where  Gov.  
thick layer of ice Monday, blacking out  declared an emergency on Sunday and  Kathleen Sebelius declared a statewide  
more than 600,000 homes and busi­ put the National Guard on alert.  state of emergency.  
nesses, and  more icy weather was on  Oklahoma utilities said a half-million  At O'Hare International Airport,  
the  way.  At  least  15  deaths  in  customers were blacked out as power  about 100 flights were canceled by  
Oklahoma and Missouri were blamed  lines snapped under the weight of ice  Monday afternoon, with delays of  
on the conditions, with 13 of them  and falling tree branches, the biggest  about  45  minutes,  said  Chicago  
killed on slick highways.  power outage in state history, and utili- Department of Aviation spokeswoman  
A state of emergency was declared  . ties  in  Missouri  said  more  than  Karen Pride. No flights were canceled  
for all of Oklahoma, where the sound  100,000 homes and business had no  at Midway Airport, but a handful of  
of branches snapping under the weight  power there.  flights were delayed about an hour, she  
of the ice echoed through Oklahoma  "If you do the math, probably one  said.  
City.  out of three Oklahomans has no elec­ Ice was as much as an inch thick on  
"You can hear them falling every­ tricity at this point," said Gil Broyles, a  tree limbs and power lines in parts of  
where," Lonnie Compton said Monday  spokesman for  Oklahoma  Gas  &  the region.  

r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 11, 2007 

Grads 
continued from page 1 
Tlw biggest reason, Hurley said. is that students are trying to save on tuition. Somn stu­dents conw out of high school with AI' ITmlit. he said, so tlwy can graduato early. 
Sonior Nicolo Crnich. a dou­bln major in film. t nl evision and tlwatro and .Japanese, will graduate in .January. Crnich has applied to tho Japan ExchangP and Teaching IJETl I'r o gr a mnw. a n d i f s he is accepti'CI, sho will movo to Japan to tearh l·:nglish. Crnich wants to SJWnd timo with lwr 

Security 
continued from page 1 
Kramer decidPd lw needed 
to inrrPasn around his proportiPs this year when tl'nants experil'nrnd car brPak­ins. 
"We ta kl' nvnry precau­tion that WP possibly can. and that includns hir­ing a privati' 
thn security 
s1~eurity rompany," Kramnr said. 
Thn Majestic Security Company patrols all of Kramor's 
them to eon tact local police departments to rnquest daytime house patrols during wintnr break. 
"Plus the maintnnanee staff and myself always keep an eye on it," he said. After each student loaves for Christmas break, Kramer said either he or a nwmber of his staff will go to the property to ensure that tho doors and windows arn locked and the alarm is aetivatod. 
"That itself probably pro­vents 99 pnrcent of crime," 1\.ranwr said. 
Kramnr is not tho only landlord to usn a privatn security fore!'. Judy Logan, the property manager for Castle Point Apartnwnts. reg­ularly has tiHne night wateh­mnn on duty. In addition, a lora! poli1:n olTicnr lives in nach rwighborhood snetion of t.lw largn romplPx. 
"WP don't havn a lot of nime," Logan said. "But wn don'l want to lweornP vulner­

able.  so  we  takn every prn­ 
l:aution."  
Although  both  landlords  

havn faith in llwir security systnms. tlwy agren that ulti­mately it is the stud1~nts that ean lwst prot1~ct thnmsnlvns by taking simple pn~cautions. For nxarnple. Kramer encour­ages studnnts to placn all tlwir valuablos, such as a tel­evision. in a bndroorn and thnn deadbolt tlw door shut. 
Logan said tlw bost thing students can do is to avoid becoming vulrwrable. 
family before her possible move. 
"I love Notre Dame, but I'm really excited to graduate early," she said. 
She said deciding to graduate a snmester ahead of her elass­mates was a hard process. 
"I made this big chart of pros and cons," Crnich said. 
"Tiwre were so many pros," slw said, which helped her tip the balance toward early grad­uation. "The money I'm saving is dPiinitnly a big issue. 
"The biggest con for me was being so f'ar away from my friends --becausn I'll bP living in Chicago next semester -­instead of fivn minutes away," Crnich said. "All of my closest 
"Wn arn living in the wild, wild Wost," Logan said. "Everyone needs to lock their doors and make sure their balconies and patios are loeknd." 
For students who want to protnet their bikes from theft 
"We take every precaution that we pos . .,·ihly can. and that includes hiring a private security company.·· 
Mark Kramer local landlord 
and from the nlnments, NDSP is hold­ing its Annual NDSP Winter Bike S t o r a g e Thursday and Sunday. Students can b r i n g tiHl i r bikes to the Notre Damn Stadium 

bdwenn 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Thursday and between 11 
a.m. and 5 p.m. Sunday. 
Students who plan to leave their 

properties "Everyone needs to lock cars on 
from tho campus dur­
their doors and make sure
evoning ing break 
until the their balconies and patios are encour­early morn­are locked. " aged to park ing. Kramer them in the Properties 02 South
Judy Logan 

sent tenants Lot. The an e-mail property manager parking Jot 1-m eouraging Castle Point Apartments will be 
locked dur­ing winter break. 

"The lot will receive special attention from NDSP patrols during the break," the e-mail from NDSP said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
friends are going to be here next semester." But Crnich said she is ready to graduate. 
''I've been studying so hard for so long," she said. "I don't know if I could mentally han­dle another semester of work­ing as hard as I have been." 
Crnich still plans to walk at graduation in May. 
''I'm very, vnry happy with my deeision," she said. ''I'm really satisfied with tl11~ time I've spent here at Notrn Dame, and it's been enough for me." 
Senior Angela Spisak, a polit­ical seiencP major, has also decided to graduate in January. "It helped when I did­n't got an HA position, so I did-
n't have to be here all year," she said. Spisak also intends to walk in the May ceremony. 
Alex Henfro, a philosophy and Japanese major, will grad­uate in January, but h1~ admits there are a lot of negatives in missing spring semester of senior year. 
"You leave evnry01w -all your friends--behind," Henfro said. "You're on a totally dif'­ferent schedule. The things you're worrying about are totally different from the things they're worrying about. 
"You feel like you have to tell everybody you'ro graduat­ing early because you're like a 

'special ease,"' he joked. "When you tell people you're leaving early, they're like, 'Why would you want to do that?"' 
Despite these drawbacks, ''I'm kind of ready to get out there, out of the bubble," Henfro quipped. 
lie said monny was tho biggest factor in his deeision to graduate early. 
"It's been a crunch. I f'1dt roally rushed this semester," Henfro said of finishing his last semester at Notre Dame. 
''I'm kind of ready to move on," ho said. 
Contact Theresa Civanto at tcivanto@nd.edu 

neBartolo Han  II  
STl!llY oc.~c.· 12: Dec L~: Oec.· 16:  OATES AND TI!VIE7arn to 3:00arn 7.luu to 3:U0an• 7arn to 3:00am  S: IVIidnighC Snacks!  
Dec.~ 19: D-.dlar-tolo Hall closes :'o n1inutes aftc.••· last c.·x~un scheduled by the H.egistrar's ()ffi<.~c.·. !VIidnight Snacks available only <lut·ing Study days. 


Finals we..l•: f)(~(~ 14, ·; 5, J7 • I 8. J 9: Rotnll_,. uvuilub"' except whe11 scheduled by the Regi.-.,rrar •.1-· t~.tJit..:e. 
See Building S'upport fJersounel ifyou hal'e spec~fic needs: Roon1 103, /()4. 

C'olcrnan-J\Ilorse: Dec 12-19: 
l't Floor: 7:00am-4:00arn 2"'1 Hour : 7:00an1-3:00anl 3'-" Floor: 7:00aan-1.2arn 
See Building Support Person Roont 101 ~f·you have a spec~fic need. 

()"Shaughnessy: Roon1s available for open study except when scheduled by the Registrar~s office. 
Dec 12, :13, 16 : 8:00am to 1:OOam l)ec 14, 1.5,16-19: 6pn1 to 3:00atn Jloamsuvailt~hlt!exceptwhen 
scltetluled bJ.· rhe Regi.srrar'.s: o.fflce. 
Rooms: 106, 107, .114, 1 15, 116, 117, 118, 204, 20t>, 207, 208, 209. 
.-!11'~ Good Luck with Finals -~ 
.'S.'ptn~/(1/ tlwnk~· to Bu.>i-hte.·u Opertu/tn,,'i. C.'":anlpu.~· iWiui,!<.'fi:V a~uf the S'udenr l/nit.,rt lltJant 
·--------------··•·············· ···································-----' 


...----------------------------------------~-------­
Tuesday, December 11, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,727.03 +101.45

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,629 92 1,553 3,059,825,801 
AMEX 2,426.84 +24.83 NASDAQ 2,718.95 +42.95 NYSE 10,104A2 +80.84­S&P 500 1,515.96 +11.30 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,037.72 +113.:33 FTSE 100 (London) 6,565.40 +10.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.78 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +2.12 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.40 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.77 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.70 13-WEEK BILL -1.66 30-YEAR BOND +0.65 5-YEAR NOTE +0.88 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 


Exchange Rates 
YEN 
EURO 
CANADIAN DOLLAR 
BRITISH POUND +1.17 152.08 +0.66 31.86 +0.21 52.54 +0.21 27.66 
+0.029 4.149 -0.050 2.970 +0.030 4.615 +0.031 3.539 
-0.42 87.86 +13.30 813.50 +1.15 92.48 
111.8150 0.6797 1.0061 0.4885 

IN BRIEF Ecuador threatens to drill in reserve 
QUITO, Ecuador -Ecuador will open bidding for a nu~jor oil project in a jungle nature reserve in Junn if the poor Andean country does not wceive international funding to abandon the pro­posal, the oil minister said Monday. 
The government is snr~king a minimum of $350 million a year from the international community f(lr 10 years not to drill in the Ishpingo-Tiputini­Tamboeocha fields located in Yasuni National Park. in Ecuador's northeastern jungle. The money is to compensate Ecuador for income it would have generated by drilling for oil at the site. 
The jungle area. which holds dose to 1 billion barrels of crude, is part of a UNESCO Biosphere Heserve. Some environmentalists say the reserve has more varieties of plant life than the United States and Canada combined. 
President Rafead Correa has said Ecuador was not asking for the money as "charity" but as a way for the international community to recognize its "shared responsibility" for preserving Yasuni as a major source of biodiversity. 
On Monday, Ecuadorean Oil Minister Galo Chiriboga told Teleamazonas lV that ifthe money is not collected by June 15, bidding on the fields will begin the following day. 

UBS loses $10 billion from subprimes 
ZURICII, Switzerland -UBS AG will write off a further $10 billion in losses from the U.S. sub­prime lending market, the Swiss bank said Monday, and raise billions in capital through share sales to Singapore and an unidentified investor in the Middle East. 
UBS said it will post a loss for the fourth quar­ter and may now record a loss for the full year as well. That comes on top of the 4.2 billion francs written off in its third quarter, making 14.2 billion francs ($12.6 billion) in writedowns from the sub­prime crisis by UBS this year. 
The Government of Singapore Investment Corp., a sovereign-wealth fund, is investing 11 billion Swiss francs ($9.75 billion), while an undisclosed strategic investor in the Middle East is contributing 2 billion francs ($1.77 billion). 
As recently as the middle of November, UBS had predicted a profit for the fourth quarter despite ongoing speculation about its subprime holdings. 

THE OBSERVER_ 









USINESS 
page 7 

Auto industry hit by slow market 
Nervous public blamed for sluggish car sales; workers forced to cope with changes 
Associated Press 
DETHOIT-TheN. Keller General Contracting Co. of Loxahatchee, Fla., probably should replace its 7 -year-old Ford F-350 Super Duty pick­up. 
But business in Palm Beach County isn't what it used to be, and like many contractors who work in Florida's slug­gish housing industry, co­owner Jennifer Keller isn't inclined to spend the money just yet. 
Not exactly what Detroit's automakers, who have spent the past two years shedding thousands of jobs and restructuring to avoid the industrial graveyard, want to hear. 
Just as they are about to reap savings from job cuts, globalization and a new cost­saving labor contract, and just as many of their new prod­ucts are starting to sell, the auto companies are staring at a slowing U.S. market. 
Because of the nationwide housing slump and the squeeze on credit, many auto industry analysts are predict­ing U.S. sales of just over 16 million vehicles this year. Many say that is likely to drop by 500,000 or more in 2008, the worst performance since 1998. 
"The mode for next year seems to be get through the year," said Jeff Schuster, exec­utive director of global fore­casting for J.D. Power and Associates. 
That's true for Keller, whose core business of remodeling stores has held steady, but concrete-cutting work on once-ubiquitous condomini­um projects has all but dried up. 
The diesel-powered F-350, one of three pickups in the family owned company's fleet, still looks great and runs well, Keller said. Although they probably could afford to replace it now, they are too wary of the future to borrow 


A row of unsold 2007 Ford Freestyles sit outside a car dealership in the Denver suburb of Lakewood, Colo. The auto industry is currently suffering from a surplus. 
the money single-family homes in the 
"You don't want to take on U.S. in October skidded to the an additional payment lowest level in 16 years, and because you don't know pickup sales followed, sliding where you're going to be six 11.2 percent in November months from now," she said. and 5.5 percent for the year. "We're still doing OK, but That's particularly bad news we're smart enough to look at for Ford Motor Co. and everyone else around us. Chrysler LLC, who are both 
Trucks, including pickups introducing new versions of and sport utility vehicles, still their flagship pickups in 2008. make up 53 percent of the "When housing goes down, 
U.S. auto market, according trucks tank right along with it. to Autodata Corp., and they There isn't any lag at all," generate a big chunk of the said Erich Merkle, vice presi­Detroit Three's revenue. dent of auto industry forecast­
But sales of pickups, many ing for the consulting firm of them used as work trucks, IRN Inc. in Grand Rapids. slow down when housing Throw in high oil prices, sales drop. Construction of rising adjustable rate mort­gages, sliding home values and the subprime mortgage mess and you've got a recipe for a down U.S. sales year for not just pickups but for all autos. 
Many analysts say car and truck buyers may stay on the sidelines or look at used vehi­cles while the economy sput­ters. 
Ed Wuerth, who owns an auto repair garage in Brownstown Township, Mich., south of Detroit, said he's already seeing people keeping ears longer and delaying repairs. Many com­plain about having to pay col­lege tuition costs. 

Newspaper mogul Black gets 78 months 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Former newspaper mogul Conrad Black was sentenced Monday to 6 112 years in prison, far less than sought by prosecutors, for swin­dling shareholders in his Hollinger media empire out of $6 million. 
"Mr. Black, you have violated your duty to Hollinger International share­holders," U.S. District Judge Amy J. St. Eve told the silver-haired millionaire member of the British House of Lords known throughout the newspaper industry for his lavish lifestyle and flam­boyant use of words. 
Black also was fined $125,000 and ordered to pay part of $6.1 million in restitution. 
Prosecutors had asked for as many as 30 years in prison for the Canadian­born Black, saying he had not shown "one shred of remorse" for looting the company that once owned the Chicago Sun-Times, Daily Telegraph of London, Jerusalem Post and hundreds of U.S. and Canadian community newspapers. 
"Obviously, there's a great deal of relief' at the lighter-than-expected sen­tence, said Black attorney Jeffrey B. Steinback, who delivered a passionate, hour long appeal for leniency. 
Before the sentencing, lead prosecu­tor Eric H. Sussman urged St. Eve to impose a stem sentence as a warning to other potential corporate criminals and because that Black had not "shown one shred of remorse." 
Defiant to the end, Black told the court that Hollinger's stock was still in double digits when he was removed as chairman and suggested its current value of less than $2 a share was the fault of those who came after him. 
"I do wish to profess my profound regret and sadness at the severe hard­ship of all the shareholders at the evap­oration of $1.8 billion in shareholder value under my successors," Lord Black of Crossharbour said. 
But a shareholder, Eugene Fox, man­aging director of Connecticut-based Cardinal Capital Management Co., gave a victim-impact statement urging St. Eve to punish Black in a way that would warn other executives not to defraud the shareholders. He said Black showed contempt for shareholders. 
"He called us idiots and greedy fools," Fox said. Reporters asked U.S. Attorney Patrick 
J. Fitzgerald if he was satisfied with the length of the sentence. 
"Mr. Black is going to prison a convict­ed felon, convicted of fraud," Fitzgerald said. "So we proved the case. The bot­tom line is Mr. Black will do 6 1;2 years in jail. That's a serious amount of time. 
St. Eve rejected a request from prose­cutors to have Black locked up immedi­ately and gave him until March 3 to report to prison. At Steinback's request, she recommended the federal correc­tional center at Eglin Air Force Base in Florida, not far from the Palm Beach estate where Black has been living while out on $21 million bond. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, December 11 , 2007 
Court says judges have leew-ay in cocaine cases 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Supreme Court, weighing in on an issue with racial undertones, ruled Monday that federal judges have broad leeway to impose shorter prison terms for crack c:oc:aine in a ease that bol­sters tho argument for rcdueing the diiTerenee in sentenecs for erack and powder cocaine. 
The court. by 7-2 votes in the crack ease and one other involv­ing drugs, upheld more lenient sentences imposed by judges who rejected federal sentencing guidelines as too harsh. 
The decision was announced ahead of a vote scheduled for Tuesday by the U.S. Sentcneing Commission. whieh sets the guidelines, that could eut prison time for as many as 19,500 fed­eral inmates eonvieted of craek crimes. 
Justiee Huth Bader Ginsburg, writing for the majority in the crack ease, said a 15-year sen­tenee given to Derrick Kimbrough was acceptable, even though federal sentencing guidelines called for Kimbrough to reeeive 19 to 22 years. 
"ln making that determina­tion, the judge may consider the disparity between the guide­lines' treatment of crack and powder cocaine offenses," Ginsburg said. 
Kimbrough, a veteran of the first Gulf War, is black, as are more than SO percent of federal defendants sentenced in crack cases. By contrast. just over a quarter of those convicted of powder cocaine <Times last year were black. 
The Sentencing Commission recently changed the guidelines to reduce the disparity in prison time for the two crimes. New guidelines took effect Nov. 1 afler Congress took no action to overturn the change. Tuesday's vote is whether to apply the guidelines retroactively. 
Monday's Suprmne Court rul­ing grew out of a deeision three years ago in which the justices ruled that judges need not strict­ly follow tlw sentencing guide­lines. Instead, appellate courts would review sentfmces for rea­sonableness, although the court has sinen struggled to del'ine what it meant by that term. 
The guidelines were estab­lished by the Sentencing Commission, at Congress' direc­tion, in the mid-1980s to help produce uniform punishments for similar crimes. 
Justice Samuel Alito, who with 
Justice Clarence Thomas dis­
sented in both cases, said that 
after Monday's decisions, 
"Sentencing disparities will 
gradually increase." 
The second case decided by the court did not involve cocaine. The justices upheld a sentence of probation for Brian Gall for his role in a conspiracy to sell 10,000 pills of ecstasy. 
U.S. District Judge Robert Pratt of Des Moines, Iowa, deter­mined that Gall had voluntarily quit selling drugs several years before he was implicated, stopped drinking, graduated from college and built a success­ful business. The guidelines said Gall should have been sent to prison for 30 to 37 months. 
'The sentence imposed by the experienced district judge in this case was reasonable," Justice John Paul Stevens said in his majority opinion. 
Stevens cautioned federal appeals courts to step in only when judges abuse their discre­tion. 
Appeals courts in both cases tossed out the lesser sentences imposed by the judges. The Bush administration urged the Supreme Court to follow suit and order tougher sentences. 
Monday's rulings could embolden trial judges to vary their sentences from the guide­lines more frequently and dimin­ish the chances that appeals courts will overturn those sen­tences, said Douglas Berman, a sentencing expert at the Ohio State University law school. 
Kimbrough's case, though, did not present the justices with the ultimate question of the fairness of the disparity in crack and powder cocaine sentences. Congress wrote the harsher treatment for crack into a law that sets a mandatory minimum five-year prison sentence for trafficking in 5 grams of crack cocaine or 100 times as much cocaine powder. The law also sets maximum terms. 


MODELS NEEDED 
Spring Semester 
MALE/FEMALE Oothed -S15/hour Nude -$20/hour 

Department of Art, Art History & Design 
Contact: Mary Kutemeier 574/631·7602 or email: Kutemeier.. l @nd.edu 


Bill Clinton aids Hillary's campaign 
Former U.S. president tells Iowa crowd about his wife's intelligence 
Associated Press 
AMES, Iowa -Campaigning for his wife, former President Clinton says that when they were starting out he was so struck by her intellect and ability he once suggested she should just dump him and jump into her own political career. 
That didn't happen, of course, and on Monday he gave an Iowa crowd his version of why it did­n't. 
"I thought it would be wrong for me to rob her of the chance to be what I thought she should be," said Clinton. "She laughed and said, 'First I love you and, second, I'm not going to run for anything, I'm too hardheaded."' 
Hillary Rodham Clinton is run­ning now, and husband Bill was stumping for her in the 2008 campaign's leadoff caucus state -two days after rival Democrat Barack Obama got a full week­end's worth of attention by bringing in talk show queen Oprah Winfrey to campaign for him. 
The former president opened a two-day swing through Iowa on behalf of his wife, packing nearly 500 people into a theater on the campus of Iowa State University. 
"She has spent a lifetime as a change agent when she had the option to do other things," he said. 
"I thought she was the most gifted person of our generation," said Clinton, who said he told her, "You know, you really should dump me and go back home to Chicago or go to New York and take one of those oilers you've got and run for oiTice." 
Now that she's a New York senator and in a tight Democratic contest -with Illinois Sen. Obama and former North Carolina Sen. John Edwards -the former president said he wanted to persuade vot­ers that she has "the best combi­nation of mind and heart." 
He offered a self-deprecating view of the couple's early life in Arkansas. 
"When she came down there and we got married, I was a defeated candidate for Congress with a $26,000 salary and a $42,000 campaign debt," said Clinton. "If she were half as cal­culating as someone said, that's a really great way to run for president." 

q-7-ie •:r--..f:_:.,r:-re 'IJantc Cei£6-rar:--io-u C~/iv-ft-. '"\,.?oices c:_F Can~pus an__d-:lns-r-ru?nen-r-L--Zlfs.r:-s _rn-es.cnt: 



Chr-istmas at rfie Co-~o Co't'-z.cerr a ~Ben--~fir for 'Ba.n.-gladesfi ~~esday~ ~ecem6er 11, 2£..'>07 
7:3o_pm 
_first::_fCoor Cole-n-'1-a.:J'l.-•7v1_orse r;_-,1_./.7'1.-Be 
u _tr~e-vvilT ..ff~riHt_J ">vilT assisT' •J-I~'>t"y c-r..~ss •J\..1is5' ,._,,__-" 

I-~ • 




Coming Soon 



Call for Froposals 
januar9 2008 
the Notre Dame 
odergraduate Scholars Conference 
a universi~-wide presentation of undergraduate research, 

Tuesday, December 11, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Hayden called to explain CIA tapes 
White House stays silent as Congress presses for answers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Congress summoned CIA Director Gen. Michafll Hayden to Capitol Hill to explain his agency's dflstruetion of interrogation videotapes, as multiple inves­tigations began into who knew about and approved the dncision. 
Hayden is to testify in a dosed snssion Tuesday before the Senate Intelligence Committee, and on Wednesday before the House IntelligPnce Committen. 
Among tho questions he '11 face is whflther Congmss was noti l'ied about the tapes' dnstruetion. The chairman of the House panni. Hep. Silvestre Heyns, D-Texas, said llaydnn's assnrtion last week that lawmakers were informnd "does not appear to bn trun." 
Hayden told CIA employees on Thursday that thn CIA had tapPd the interrogations of two t!'rrorist suspnets in 2002. 11~1 said Congress was notified in 2003 both of thfl tapes' existence and the CIA's intent to destroy them. 
The tapes were dostroyed ~~ 2005 but Congress was not tl1ld until 2006 at the earliest. The House Intelligence Committee did not learn of the tapes' destruction until March 2007, and then indi­rectly during a general brief­ing about the CIA's interroga­tion program. Heyes said. 
The tapes spanned hun­dreds of hours but "only a small fraction" showed the actual interrogation of the two men, a counterterrorism official said Monday. 
Most of the tapes of one suspect, Abu Zubaydah, were to document his medical treatment, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the tapes are classified. Zubaydah came into CIA custody with a gunshot wound and the CIA wanted to prove it gave him proper medical care in the event he died, the official said. 
The Justice Department and the CIA's internal watch­dog are conducting a joint inquiry into the matter to determine whether a full investigation is warranted. With that review ongoing, the White House counsel's office has instructed White House press secretary Dana Perino not to get into details with reporters. 
"l think that that's appro­priate, and I'll adhere to it," Perino said Monday. She said her previous statement remains accurate -that President Hush has no recol­lection of hearing about the tapes' existence or their destruction before being briefed about it last Thursday. 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Hice said Monday she has no memory of the CIA videotapes. 
Former White House eoun­snl Harriet Miers did know about them, and recommend­ed to the CIA in 2005 that the tapes not be destroyed, according to an offlcial famil­iar with the probe. The offi­cial spoke on condition of anonymity because the per­son was not authorized to speak about the inquiry. 
White House employees have been directed by the counsel's offlce to preserve all documents and e-mails relat­ed to the matter, Perino said. 
Attorneys for one detainee say the destruction of the tapes may have violated a court order and have asked a federal judge to hold a hear­ing. In a court filing, attor­neys for Yemeni national Mahmoad Abdah point to a June 10, 2005, court order telling the government to "preserve and maintain all evidence and information regarding the torture, mis­treatment, and abuse of detainees." 



Shooter had history at school 
Megachurch gunman was former student of missionary training center 
Associated Press 

COLORADO SPHINGS, Colo. ­The gunman believed to have killed four people at a megachurch and a missionary training school had been thrown out of the school a few years ago and had been sending it hate mail, police said in court papers Monday. 
The gunman was identified as Matthew Murray, 24, who was home-schooled in what a friend said was a deeply religious Christian household. Murray's father is a neurologist and a lead­ing multiple-sclerosis researcher. 
Five people -including Murray -were killed, and five others wounded Sunday in the two eruptions of violence 12 hours and 65 miles apart. 
The first attack took place at Youth With a Mission, a training center for missionaries in the Denver suburb of Arvada; the other occurred at the New Life Church in Colorado Springs, whnre Murray was shot by a security guard, though investiga­tors said he may have died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. 
"Through both investigations it has been determined that most likely the suspect in both shoot­ings are onn in the same," police said in court papers. 
Colorado Springs police said the "common denominator in both locations" was Youth With a Mission. The training center maintains an office at the 10,000­member church. 
"It appears that the suspect had been kicked out of the pro­gram three years prior and dur­ing the past few weeks had sent different forms of hate mail to the program and-or its director," police said. 
Murray's relatives said they were grief-stricken and baffled. 
"Our family cannot express the magnitude of our grief for the vic­tims and families of this tragedy. On our behalf of our family, and our son, we ask for forgiveness. We cannot understand why this has happened," they said in a statement read by the gunman's uncle, Phil Abeyta, who fought back tears. 
In a statement, the training center said health problems kept Murray from finishing the pro­gram. It did not elaborate. Murray did not complete the lec­ture phase or a field assignment as part of a 12-week program, Youth With a Mission said. 
"The program directors felt that issues with his health made it inappropriate for him to" finish, it said. 
Police gave no immediate details on the hate mail. And the training centnr said that Murray left in 2002 -live years ago. not three -and that no one there can recall any visits or other com­munication from him since then. 
Earlier Monday, a law enforce­ment official who spoke on condi­
tion  of  anonymity  said  it  
appeared  Murray  "hated  
Christians."  

Investigators have not said whether Murray singled out his victims. But the two people killed at the church -sisters Stephanie and Hachael Works, ages 18 and 16 -frequented the training center, their uncle Mark Schaepe of Lincoln, Neb., told The Gazette of Colorado Springs. 
Authorities searched the Murray house on a quiet street in Englewood on Monday for guns, ammunition and computers. No one was home when a reporter visited the split-level brick home early Monday. Murray's father, Honald S. Murray, is chief execu­tive of the Hocky Mountain Multiple Sclerosis Center in Englewood. 
Matthew Murray lived there along with a brother, Christopher, 21, a student at Oral Hoberts University in Tulsa, Okla. 
A neighbor, Cody A'ikeland, 19, said the brothers were home­schooled. describing the whole family as "very, very religious." 
Christopher studied for a semestflr at Colorado Christian University before transferring to Oral Hoberts, said Honald Rex, dean of admissions and market­ing at Colorado Christian. He said Matthew Murray had been in contact with school oflieials this summer about attending thP school but decided he wasn't interested because he thought the sehool was too expensive. 
Police said Murray's only pnwi­ous brush with the law was a traffic ticket earlier this year. 
Senior Pastor Brady Boyd of New Life Church said the gun­man had no connection to the church. "We don't know this shooter," Boyd said. "lie showed up on our property yesterday with a gun with the intention of hurting people, and he did." 
The gunman opened fin~ at 
12:30 a.m. at the Youth With a Mission center. Witnesses said the man asked to spend the night there and opened fire with a handgun when he was turned down. They described him as a young man, perhaps 20, in a dark jacket and cap. 
Later, at New Life Church, a gunman wearing a trench coat and carrying a high-powered rifle opened fire in the parking lot and later walked into the church as a service was letting out. 


----------, 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, December II, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Compass of dissent 
I~O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Diningl-laii. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie IIanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken l'owlt·r Kyle West 
A.~ST. MANAGING EmTOR: Kyle Cassily A~s·1: MANAI;JNG EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen l"tngley 
VII\WI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR~: Chris Khorey Chris I line SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AI> DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Cronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 63I-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
·rhe Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Oame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advcrtisemt•nts based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned ediwrials represent the opinion of the majority nf the Editor in Chief, Managing E.ditor, A<sistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters dnd columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThc ( )hscrvt·r. 
Vitwpoint space is available to all readers. The free t•xpr<·ssion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.<'ttt'r.; to the Ediror must be signed and must include mntact infimnation. 
Qtwtimu rty,arding OIJSmJtT policitS should he dirrrud to J:ditor i11 Chit[Maddie !Jmmtl. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
n,,. Ul...n'VI'f (li"'P" ,.,,, 2-40UUJ It puhh~lled McuHI•• yduuu~h l·n.lo~y L'X4.ept dunn~-: •·Jwt1 .m.l v.•• ~tiu11j'l('f1Ud" A "'lo'OIIf!JIIklll fll.l he-(lh-...·rv.:r j~ $JOH (nr <lilt' ..,;a,lrmi• ·:::.:u: $'i'i lm !!!~' "mntn 
l'hr ( )JI.Wrvcr I• puhll)h,·,J.u PmTMASTER lll-1 Sotuh llu1i11f.\ I [~JI 'icu<l.uldrt"~t.~ currr~;lion~ w· Nocr~ ll.uw:.IN 4t,•,-. ., 1J:-:''J 11u0h">Crvcr 
l'cru~tlt,,d pml,il(t p.&td ill N<•lrc [l,mu:: ro R•1x 779 .md .t•ldiwm,tl nwlintt tttlil•. Ul<1 ~1Urlt llmm.:fl.lll Nutrc D.nnc, IN 46'5'56-07711 
rlu:' lh~crwr '' J mtnlh('t ullhc A.wK:t.w:.t Pr~-... All rt"prmlucrann nKitt, .ar.: '~rvc•l. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kaitlynn Hiely Fran Tolan Maureen Mullen Chris Khorey Graphics Ellyn Michalak Matt Jludson Greg Arbogast Viewpoint Laura Myers Michelle Johnson Scene Tae Andrews 

This past weekend saw the theatrical debut of another children's fantasy book adaptation: ''The Golden Compass," based on the first volume in Philip Pullman's "I lis Dark Materials" trilogy. The movie has garnered a healthy sham of James Dechant nwdia attention rncPntly due to oblo­
Foregone
quy by various 
Conclusion

Christian organiza­tions. The groups point to the blatantly anti-Christian, even anti-religious, tone of the book and movie. Some of these critiques make the mistake of trying to contain art rather than letting it speak for iL<;e)f, good or bad, a misstep we can all appreciate hen1 on campus. 
Their concerns certainly hold merit. Pullman has dnscriblld his books as being "about killing God" with the express pur­pose of undermining the basis of Christian belief. The trilogy is a modern reversal of "Paradise Lost" in which the characters celebrate rather than mourn their independence from the divine, a rill' on the plot of Shelley's "Prometheus Unbound." Pullman is an outspoken, bel­licose atheist who sees evil in all organ­ized reli1-,rions and regularly speaks out against ecclesial hierarchy. 
The funny thing is, "The Golden Compass" and its sflquels actually do a better job of making a ease for humanism or atheism than they do attacking reli­gious institutions -which would seem the easier target. The book promotes free human action and virtue without any divine referent and makes serious, ardent ideological arguments for atheism. Its attacks against the Church, however, are laughable. Pullman uses priests in the book as cookie-cutter villains who pursue and harass the protagonists, but he demonizes them so unequivocally that his puerile characterizations of their institu­tion cannot be taken seriously. 
The Church clergy who make up the film version's evil antagonists-here referred to as the Magisterium -are even more laughable as a mass-produced 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

pastiche. They sit in their tower plotting how to captun1 children and suppress the world's freedom. Sinister music accompa­nies their few brief scenes and Christopher Lee, legendary cinema vil­lain, makes a short appearance as the token plotting mastermind. 
In case you're wondering, the movie is an average flick overall. Director Christ Weitz has watnred down the antireligious messagn considerably. The film moves quickly from one goal-orientnd action scene to another without giving the char­acters much time to develop any of the book's philosophical themes, played down in this version. In short, the books are better. 
Given the strident vitriol of "His Dark Materials," one can see why the Catholic League, an American anti-defamation organization, finds the movie upsetting. They say the film may bait viewers into buying the books for their children. Valid point. But their strategy for countering the book and film's message calls for a boycott of the movie. 
Unfortunately, the League does not understand that calling for this boycott only brightens the spotlight on the film. Perhaps "any news is good news" goes too far, but calling for a boycott on a film or book is like asking for a host of media attention. The Catholic League hopes the film's box office take will disappoint because of their efforts. Instead. you can bet all the attention they give it will only spike profits, no matter their relation to projections. 
The trilogy is profoundly anti-Catholic and anti-religious, even avowedly so. Nevertheless, there are elements in the books that make for a good story and a good tale -and many even make a good moral message. The plot is well paced and Pullman turns the book's universal themes into beautiful writing, particularly towards the trilogy's end. The Catholic League fails to recognize this redeeming content, but other groups do not. 
The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops responded differently-and, as I see it, much more intelligently. It acknowlndges the bounty of ofl'nnsive material in the book but notes its dramatic reduction in this adaptation. The bishops' Film and Broadeasting O!lice even gives the film a positive review and calls it "an exdting adventum story with, at its core, a tradi­tional struggle bdwoen good and evil and a generalized rPjection of authoritarian­ism." They cite the heroism and self-sac­rifice exhibited by the film's altruistic characters. Mornover, they weleome the potential pedago1-,ric value to bn had in an honest inquiry of the book's contenl'i. "Rather than banning the movie or books, parents might instead take the opportuni­ty to talk through any thorny philosophi­cal issues with their teens," they advise. 
The film's varied responsfJS from Christians should provide a Jesson on how to deal with material that any group finds threatening or irreconcilablo. Trying to control the media rnalrn should be aban­doned in favor of allowing art to spnak il<> part. The message applies to everyone from government<> keen on suppmssing dissenters to colleges questioning the aca­demic validity of performance art. Notre Dame itsnlf hopnfully learnnd a lnsson when it questioned the place of 'The Vagina Monologues" here on eampus. 
That doesn't mean art is free to do whatever it wanl<> scot-free, but you can­not damp down on it from an authoritari­an position. Instnad of the "don't touch," hands-on· approach that the Catholic League advocates, we should adopt the constructive hands-on approach of the bishops. We must be willing to engage diflicult questions and grapple with provocative themes. We must welcome dissent. 
James Dechant will be spending his Christmas in the tropical paradise of western Kansas. Heretical and blasphe­mous reading material can be sent to him at jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Do not fear to be eccentric in 
opinion,-for every opinion fl:Ol£ 
acceptea was once eccentnc. 
Bertrand Russell philosopher 

Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
·····www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Any word you have to hunt for in the 
thesaurus is the wrong word. There 
are no exceptions to this rule. " 
Stephen King author 




THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, December 11, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Comics offensively unfunny 


U-WIRE 

Putting the I can' back in I candidate' 
By the time classes resume for the spring semester, voting in the 2008 election will have alnmdy gotten underway. With the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary in the very near future (Jan. 3 and 8, respectively) the Daily would like to take this last opportuni­ty to offer some parting reflections. 
We're excited about the upcoming election for several reasons. Eight years of an admin­istration that refused to face realities, both in the Middle East and at home. subverted the Constitution and never admitted its failings, was Staff Editorial eight years too many. A new face in the White House is long overdue. 
It has aL'io been nice to see the concrete proposals that have been coming out of primary races thus far. Instead of spewing nebulous Tufts Daily promises to end the war in Iraq and to fund universal heath care coverage, campaigns have put forth specific timetables for withdraw­
Tufts 
al and precise health care plans 
University
In short, we are hopeful that the next year will bring fruitful debate and a truly new direction for the country. But there is one aspect of the political process that we hope won't be too prevalent in the coming months: Attempts from candidates to appear folksy, down-to-earth, and just like the Average Joe are not wel­come, especially after nearly eight years of President Bush. 
Bush represented the worst of this anti-intellectual streak. Although he comes from the most privileged of backgrounds, his feeble attempts at scholarship in school seemed to be a personal way of rebelling against the elitist Ivory Tower 

A summa cum laude degree from Yale shouldn't be a prerequisite for presidency, but it sure doesn't hurt. What's most bothersome about Bush is his persistent lack of intellectual curiosity, manifested in the fact that he doesn't read daily papers and didn't seem interest­ed in succeeding in higher education 
We aren't looking for a president with whom we can sit down and drink a beer. We don't want an Average Joe ascending to one of the most powerful positions in the Western World; we want to see a leader who jumps at intellectual and political challenges and who can relate to the population without reaching to the lowest common denominator. 
A candidate who promises to be just like the rest of us isn't a leader at all, and being in tune with the needs of Americans does not eqliate to taking up the same entertainment and lifestyle choices of the rest of the country: 
We hope that the coming months will feature rich debates that go beyond the clothing choice of candidates and instead serve as forums for nationwide discussions. With any luck, the election will be headed in exactly that direction as we take up our books again in January. 
This article originally appeared in the Dec. 10 issue ofthe Tufts Daily, the daily publica­tion ofTufts University. The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Throughout this semester, the Obsnrver comics have continually offended me-all of them. Is it their topics? Their style? Certainly not. Any style or subject can be made into something funny. Wait, that's it! They're just not funny­such that I feel truly offended. I can hardly recall any Observer cornic inducing some sort oflaugh from me. Perhaps a short guffaw from "Black Dog" or a chuckle from "Tastes like Failure." Certainly nothing from the embarrassingly awful"Deuces Manor." But even those reactions arc few and far between. I attribute this to the often weak punch lines from the first two, and the relative absence of one in thf~ la'it. 
I know that comedy is purely sub­jective, but am I really alone with my criticism? For instance, I don't recall a single person among friends, classmates, and coworkers who has given me a positive response about the Observer comics. The best I have heard is "mediocre" or "Hey, they try." Maybe I should just ask more peo­ple; perhaps a random poll around campus would prove me wrong. But this late in the semester, that seems pointless. 
Instead, I hope that The Observer prepares a clean slate for next semester and takes out every comic from its syndication to give others a chance. I think the best approach for this is to hold a one week tryout for new comics and let the readers decide. (Please, no voting by e-mail. I'm sure someone on the Observer staff can ask around during meal times.) I know that I am taking these comics rather seriously, but previous Viewpoint letters prove I'm not the only one. "Offensive" materi­al doesn't bother me, but bad mate­rial does. Newspaper comics give Notre Dame students, both artists and writers, a chance to practice their creative skill<> and present them publicly. Instead, these comics seem to be in The Observer just so there are comics in The Observer. There are Notre Dame students who would work hard to create quality comedic material for The Observer, and we owe it these peo­ple to give them a decent chance. 

The comic to the right was drawn by the author ofthis letter. 
Ryan Simmons junior Keough Hall Dec.9 
Look at quality first 
While I agree with Pat McHugh that "Pie is an overlooked dessert option" ("Dining hall menu needs adjusting," Dec. 7), I must comment that the pie offered at the South Food Market is subpar, mediocre at best. McHugh would like to rectify this perceived "lack of pie" with more of the same. This is simply not the correct path to take. Hather, South Food Market should seek out new vendors in an aggressive campaign to improve the quality of pie offered. 
Only then should we begin to ask, "What is up with the Oriental line?" 
Scott Vitter sophomore Alumni Hall Dec. 9 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, December 11, 2007 
Choir to perfortn concert 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Ediwr 
The Notrn Dame Cnlnbration Choir pul'i on il'i "Christmas at the CoMo" concert tonight at 7:30 in the Main Lounge of' Coleman-Morse Center. 
"This show is very similar to our previous shows in fimnat," said alto ( :hristine (;age, who has also sung a<; a tenor in past shows. The choir will perfiwm a variety of Christmas music, inducting both familiar 
"Christmas at

l'avoritflS and loss common the CoMo" carols. Some 
Tonight

of the tried­
7:JO

and-tnm tunes include "0 Main Lounge lloly Night" 
Coleman-Morse 

and "!lark the 
llerald Angels 
Sing," while an example of a nnw song 
is "I>o You IIear What I llea.r." 
"Whenever we pPrfimn, we indude a few pieces that stretch us as a choir," c;age said. The h>Joup will per­form a movement from Handel's "Messiah" ("And the Glory of the Lord") in addition to Gesu Bambino and the Candlelight Carol. 
"These are our morn tnchn ieally complicatnd pieces," Gage said, "though I would have to say that all pinces havn their dillkulties." 
Thn pnrfi1rmancll will Hmturn a vol­untary collection to a<;sist a lloly Cross mission in disaster areas of Banglad11sh in addition to a short presentation on the mission. International students will aL<;o speak bri111ly on Chri'itma'i traditions in other countries. 
or the dwir ensemble's 40 mem­b!lrs. singers and instrumentalists alik11 agrnnd that the !Iande! musk posed the h>Jeatest challenge from a perf'orman1:e standpoint. "The most dillicult piece in our repertoire fbr the eoneert would probably be 'And The <;tory Of The Lord' from Handel's 'Messiah,"' Celebration Choir presi­dllnt Chris Perkins said. Perkins is one ofsix tenors in the group. 
The choir members will perform songs that challenge their limits as singers and performers. "The most difficult piece for us has been an 11xcerpt from Handel's 'Messiah,"' cel­list Brian Camus said. "This is the first limn we have 11vnr sang 1mything from this piem, so not only is it new but it i'> also quite chall1mhring." 
The choir added extra rehearsals dun to tim limited time between il<; la<;l Stepan Mass performance and the "C:hrisllmL'i at the CoMo" mncert. 
"!The llandel piece! hiL'> a bunch of odd rhythms and entrances that took us awhil!l to get down," soprano Carolyn Shivers said. Shivers also said t.he Choir W<L'i able to seled morn difli­ntlt !'.ompositions to pnrfiwm because it had morn pnophl than it ha'i had in tlw past. "It's nice to have enough altos and sopranos to sing the divisi." she said. Tho divisi parl'i fimturn two or morn notes written filr ead1 vocal part. 
I·:V!'n with thP rww music. the choir nxpn!'ls a show similar to years p<L<;t. "TIH• mncPrl will be litirly rmniniscPnt of past Christmas corH~Prls," Perkins said. "Wp'll haw pl('llty of traditional rarols along with sowral rwwPr pieces whirh should providP our audienen with a wonderful way to uslwr in tho (:hrisllll1L'i Se/L<;on." 
Contact Tac Andrews at tandrewI @nd.cdu 


MATT HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

If you were a new indie rock band that made a stunning debut in the past five years, you put out another album in 2007 (The Arcade Fire, Iron & Wine, The Shins, LCD Soundsystem, Feist, Beirut). If you were an already established indie rock band with a 
Sean Hoban 

long string of albums (Wilco, Ted Leo, Bright Scene & Heard 
Eyes, White Stripes), you also put out an album in 2007. As such, top-1 0 lists already creeping out on the internet and in the zines are bound to be weighed down by the big 
names. However, none of these bands/ musi­cians made my top 10 list. How come? While each put out pretty solid albums, they weren't phenomenal. To be blunt, it is the music lovers typical (and annoyingly over­used) statement, "Well, I liked their early stuff better." But it's true -mostly these bands borrow very heavily from the amaz­ing albums they put out in the past few years: Arcade Fire's earth -shattering self -titled, Iron & Wine's memorable collabo­ration with Calexico, Beirut's exploratory Soviet sound, The Shins folksy Simon & Garfunkel style. They each have added some new complexities, and were even remark­able, but just not top of the pile. Others have stuck pretty much entirely in the same slightly more fun generation of young music lovers. Vaguely sinister, but also lovely. 
5. 
St. Vincent, "Marry Me." Competing with Jens for most beautiful record, every song is different, some jarring and some whisper soft, but all breathtaking. 

6. 
Panda Bear, "Person Pitch." One of the first great records of the year, its cheery optimism is still getting played and talked about eight months later. 

7. 
The 1900s, "Cold & Kind" For fans of Belle and Sebastian with a slightly country rock feel, very young and lively. Along with the Fiery Furnaces, this group is from Chicago, so you may get to see them soon. 

8. 
Bat For Lashes, "Fur and Gold." Hather creepy at first with a slightly Arabian nights feel, dark and aromatic, honest but confus­ing, easy to get lost in, etc. 

9. 
Kate Nash, "Made of Bricks." Alternately fun/ spunky, endearingly inno­cent/naive and ernest/ heartfelt, she replaces Lilly Allen as my favorite British girl singer. 

10. 
Battles, "Mirrored." Weird, innovative, difficult, mind bending, CHAZY. And another phenomenal live show. Some congratula­tions are in order, of course, for all the bands listed in the first paragraph for con­tinuing their line careers-they certainly 


have not slacked off. Particularly fun were the 
lens Lekman "Night Falls Over Kortedala" 

sound we're used to -These new faces have put White Stripes, the Shins, Ted Leo, Wilco, etc. Good Of Montreal, Deerhoof,
out career defining debut 
music, all of it, but too and the Animal Collective. static, too safe, and we Also fantastic, although
records that can be likened 
demand something new, to little else this year, full of not albums proper, were something we haven't the following: the stark
compelling, captivating and
heard. and moving Neil Young In summary, excite­enigmatic sounds. "Live at Massey Hall 
ment and freshness was found elsewhere, outside the big names. Six of the following are nearly brand new artists, on their first album. These new faces have put out career defining debut records that can be likened to little else this year, full of compelling, captivating and enigmatic sounds. The remaining four (only two with more than two real albums) have altered their sound in a fresh and enlighten­ing way that puts their new material at least on par with the songs that first took you by the hand and showed you something bril­liant. 
1. 
Jens Lekman, "Night Falls Over Kortedala." Possibly the most beautiful release of the year, while still remaining lighthearted; as inspiring or more so than the first time you heard Sufjan Stevens (also one of the best live acts of the year). 

2. 
Fiery Furnaces, "Widow City." The brother-sister duo add some tough rock & roll elements to their quirky, literary and downright weird sound. You might even think the guitars resemble 70s rock, or grunge, but they are as inventive as ever, Pspecially on the standout track 'cabaret of the seven devils.' 

3. 
Hyan Adams, "Hasy Tiger." His most rnl'ined and eonsistnnl album by far (of 1~ourse, that is not saying much), this latest in a long line of records blends the bare ele­nwnts of Heartbreaker with his unabashedly country twang. There is both the soul bar­ing honesty of .Joni Mitchell and thn cocky rock n' roller. 

4. 
Chromaties, "Night Drive." Everything good about the 80s underground is distilled and redefined for a brighter and 


1971"; the sleek, dark and sexy "After Dark" compilation of artists on the Italians Do It Better imprint (see the Chromatics); the noise -rock self-titled EP from Health. Finally, complements to MIA and Justice for my two favorite songs of fall 2007, "Paper Planes" and "D -A-N -C-E." 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Sean Hoban at shoban@nd.edu 



~---------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, December 11, 2007 
page 13 

MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

The year is coming to an end and the the year. topic at the top of every music lover's Top Albums: mind is: The Best Album Lists of 2007. "Health," by Health Whether you read them on the internet, Health is pretty much the only experi­refer to magazines, or just ask around, mental noise band that I can really stom­The Best ach. Really I not only stomach it, but I Album list is a really enjoy this noisy/trippy freshman 
Christine Nguyen

fun way to album. This is saying a lot, as they have wrap up the crafted some amazing amounts of chaos 
Scene & Heard

year and see into controlled melodies while never los­what new ing the rawness of their sound. developments have occurred (or not) in "Sound of Silver," by LCD Soundsystem music. The WVFI Music Committee offer Sure, some people don't like really you our favorites to read while taking a good dance music that isn't techno. I'm break from bio-chemistry chapters and not one of those people. I am normal. crunching accounting problems. Therefore, I believe Sounds of Silver hits 
This year in top album lists there the spot when a dance party needs to be seems to be a disparity between actually picked up. quality records and what the industry "The Magic Position," by Patrick Wolf thinks they need to acknowledge to keep Patrick Wolfs sophomore album proves their music cred !lowing. Abysmal lists him to be a proprietor of not only beauti­from several print magazines (Filter, fully orchestrated songs but also in con­llarp, UnCut) as well as trusted music trol of one of the most unique presences blogs (My Old in music. Sheer joy and cheer­Kentucky Blog, seem iness are contained the title to signal a need for This year in top album track while the rest of The reinvention). Magic Position never moves has already voiced their distaste for the messy beehive and whacked-out eyeliner 


lists there seems to be
Arter the top 1 0 too far from his industrial label, Klaxons are sonically beat driven, and take a listen to "Love is a Losing
a disparity between 
there seems to be background. A nice mix mak­while keeping rock in mind. Anything Game" it will melt your heart. nothing more than a actually quality ing for a truly interesting that promotes kids dressed in neon "Night Drive," by Chromatics gamete of the best album. thrashing around to post apocalyptic The Chromatics mix lo-fi electronic 
records and what the 
in die artists of the "Rise Above," by Dirty beats and lyrics based on futurist mani­beats with airy echo-y vocals, to create
industry thinks they 
last live years filling Projectors festos is worth a listen. hauntingly beautiful songs. Minimal at up the rest of the need to acknowledge Rise Above is composed of "Favourite Worst Nightmare," by Arctic their very best, Night Drive has the abili­amazingly long top some really unique sounds: Monkeys ty to sound full while sometimes employ­
to keep their music 
albums lists. If a bells, whistles, choir like The Arctic Monkeys are young, about ing no more than guitar and a voice, not
cred flowing. 
band made a fantas­hums, computer beats, etc. our age, and part of me wants to say a feat to be ignored. tic album live years However, The Dirty Projects "look, we can make great rock music!" "Easy Tiger," by Ryan Adams ago why is that an invitation for its have been making sounds that are totally and the other side of me is green with Knowing fully that mentioning "that mediocre album to invade 2007's lists? Is accessible, while never leaving the listen­envy for their talent and ability to take new Ryan Adams record" is the musical there a need for a top 100 if only 1-57 er board, though perhaps a bit confused. naivete and turn it into songs about long­equivalent to the lead-up for a punch are actually deserving of any recogni­"Cross," by Justice ing that never border on pathetic. It's as line, Easy Tiger presents itself as Adam's tion'? And why in the world is The Good, French Pop is the new... everything that if they took all the most fun and most most accessible, maybe due to his sobri­The Bad and the Queen getting into the is great and good in music. Danceable, frustrating parts of youth and channeled ety. Not Heartbreaker, but still employing top live? loud, and catchy as all out, Ed Banger them into tales that make nostalgia some serious sincerity and heart tugging 
We get it, you all miss the Gorillaz. Records' token child is push dance music appear as fast as events occur. lyrics, Easy Tiger is maybe "Adams Lite" However, TGTBATQ are not them, and beyond techno beats, filtering the obnox­"Back to Black," by Amy Winehouse presented to the public for pop consump­even if Damian is heading up the project, ious repetition of beeps and sirens for Despite the constant flurry of "Britain's tion. gold does not !low from his fingertips. To well-placed beats and stressed sounds. If version of Britney Spears" its hard to be fair, going through other lists and "D.A.N.C.E" doesn't do it for you, you ignore that talent that ultimately cata­The views expressed in Scene and voicing my dismay, makes me realize might consider dropping out and moving pulted Winehouse into celebrity. Her Heard are those ofthe author and not that I will never be able to make every­into a retirement home. songs work both as throwbacks to 50's necessarily those ofThe Observer. one happy, but nevertheless I present my "Myths of the Near Future," by Klaxons girl groups and fresh approaches to the Contact Christine Nguyen at asleeping­list of best (read: personal favorites) of New Rave references aside, the band female singer genre. Try and ignore her ly@gmail. com 

Klaxons released "Myths of the Near Future" in Arctic Monkeys dropped "Favourite Worst Nightmare" The ited with starting the "New Rave" music movement. ues to impress with its mix of high-energy guitars and distinct vocals. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, December 11, 2007 
NBA 


Sixers continue surge with win over Rockets 
Smith's monster game leads Hawks to third straight win while dealing Magic first losing streak of season 
The Sixers took advantage of a after Stefanski was hired, and
Assodated Press 

scheduling break to go on their almost everyone played at least 
I'IIII.AI>l~LI'IIIA -Andre first winning streak. The first 10 minutes. lguodala and tlw suddenly sue­two wins were against the New Yes, the scorn was one reason cnssful l'hiladnlphia 76nrs gave York Knicks, and the road-weary for the bloatnd minutes l'or subs orw of tlw largest erowds of thn Hockets were playing their see­like Hodney Carney. But rookies season their money's worth for ond game in two days after los­like Thasdeus Young and Jason 
onCI~. 

ing at Toronto. Smith reeeivod substantial play­
Thn SixPrs' only worry this The Sixers can make it four ing time in the first half and week has been learning how to straight against the NBA-worst helped the Sixers take an early play with a huge lead instead or Minnesota Timberwolves on double-digit lead that was never trying to rally against one. Wednesday. rnally threatened. 
lguodala scored 1(> points, "We've got to keep this up. We The Hoekets opened the fourth Andre Miller had 17 points and can't lay down," lguodala said. quarter on a 15-2 run that was 12 assisl-; and the Sixers led by Tracy MeGrady scored 12 about two quarters too late. as many as 31 points in a 100-HH points for the Hockets before They eut the deficit to 10 points vietory over the llouston Hockets leaving th1~ game in the second with 1:50 left, but it really didn't on Monday night. half with a sprained right ankle. matter at that point to the Sixers. 
"I don't think about being up Bonzi Wells scored 24 points, "We have to learn how to play by :m. I think about playing good Luther Head had 18 and Yao with that type of lead," Cheeks basketball," lguodala said. Ming 12. The Rockets played said. "I hope we have a lot of 
Not even Ed Stefanski, hired without Hafer Alston, out with a them." last week as tmun president and groin injury. Samuel Dalembert, who general manager, could have "They were quicker in every grabbed 13 rebounds, set the pn~dicted a turnaround quite phase," Hockets eoach Hick tone early with his stiff rejection likn this. The Sixers are on a Adelman said. "We didn't have of a shot by McGrady that throe-game winning streak for any energy. We'll look at it and Iguodala quickly eonverted into a tlw J'irst time this season and evaluate it. Everybody has to thunderous dunk on the other used all sorts of new and unique ev~!uate how they ean do bet­end. lineups to throw ofT the Rockets. ter. The Sixers had another one for 
Willie Green seored 20 points Sixers eoach Maurice Cheeks the highlight reel when Young for tlw Sixers and Kyle Korver said he planned to stick with his surprised Yao and stripped him had 14. new game plan of expanding of the ball under the basket, games [in 2004-05]." added 12. I !oward was just 6-of­
"Nobody seems to be in a funk beyond an eight-man rotation, passed the ball out to Miller who The Hawks dealt Orlando its 14 from the free throw line. 
right now," lguodala said. an idea that blossomed shortly hit Korver for an open 3. That seeond straight loss. and won The loss meant Orlando's first eapped a 15-2 run and helped their third straight, picking up a losing strnak this season. the Sixers take a 56-42 lead into potentially important game over "It's frustrating, of eourse, we halftime. the Southeast Division-leading lost th1~ game, but it's not the 
Miller swiped the ball midway Magic (16-6). end of the world," Lewis said. through the third and dished to The Hawks led all but the "We're still 16-6, one of the best lguodala, who went the length of opening 90 seconds, and held reeords in the leahrue. This hap­the eourt for a breakaway, one­Orlando's prolific 3-point shoot­pens in the NBA -we lost two handed pump slam that stirred a ers in eheck almost all game. in a row." rare enthusiastie crowd. Orlando shot a season-low ;{9.7 Atlanta led 49-41 at halftime, 
"I feel like we're playing with percent, though Atlanta wasn't and blew the game open early in more energy and our defense much better. The Hawks shot the third quarter with an 8-2 has been there," Korver said. 42.7 percent, but capitalized on run over a 1:45 span. The "We're finally seoring some 19 Magic turnovers for 29 Hawks took their biggest l11ad, points and if' we're able to do points. 59-44, on Marvin Williams' that and still play solid defense, "We did make some mistakes, turnaround jumper with 8:55 we're going to be OK." but I actually thought a lot of it left in the third quarter. 
was them," Magie coaeh Stan The Magie finally made a run Hawks 98, Magic 87 Van Gundy said. "They've got two minutes later. Despite miss­
Josh Smith remembers losing. great, great quickness as a ing soveral open shots-indud­The Atlanta I lawks forward had team, and good length. I thought ing at least three open 3s ­more rebounds Monday night they made it very. very diflkult Orlando finished the quarter on than his team had wins in his on us to get quality shots -tlwy a 12-4 run and trailed 69-63 entire rookie season. eontested shots better than any­entering the fourth. 
Smith had 25 points and a sea­body that we've played against." The Magie drew to 7 5-72 on son-high 16 rebounds as the Joe Johnson scored 24 points consecutive 3s from Turkoglu llawks evened their reeord at for Atlanta -11 in the f'irst and Keyon Dooling, then didn't 10-1 0 with a victory over the quarter -and Anthony .Johnson seore for the next 3:42. Orlando Magie. had 15 points and five assists. "They made a eouple, but I 
"This win is real big-just for Hedo Turkoglu led Orlando thought we defended the 3-point us to get to .500," said Smith, with 22 points, while Dwight line well tonight," llawks coach 
AP who added four blocks and five lloward had 14 points and 18 Mike Woodson said. "We just assists. "I have been on this team rebounds, Rashard Lewis scored had a total 48-minutn ballgame since day one, when we won 13 15 points and Keith Hogans that was right on the money." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day trom 8 a.m. to 2 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.$295.PER­SON/MO.GILLISRENTALS.COM.27 2-6306 


WANTED 
WINTER BREAK WORK $16.25 base-appt., flexible, no experience needed. customer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 18+, call now, start after finals. may continue during the spring, posilions lhrough the US. 574-273-3835, www.winter­breakwork.com 
We have 3 full-time & 3 part-time positions open in our Marketing Dept. in our South Michigan St. opti­cal center. Ambitious & outgoing traits are a plus. Good pay & flex hrs. Email mikemccauley@cbop­ticalone.com 

Child Care starting Spring. ND fami­ly needs a responsible caring play­ful student to look after our 3-yr-old boy in our Granger home 1-2 after­noons per week. Rate negotiable, flexible schedule, we work with you. 
ndfamil~2004 @~ahoo.com 
FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes now showing 08-09 & 09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester sale. $200 P/S just off campus 'alumni owned'. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Walk to campus! Good neighbor­hood. 3 bedroom 1 bath. Washer/dryer in basement. Landlord does the yardwork. $750/mo. No pets. No Section 8. Credil check and criminal back­ground check required. 574-250­1266. 
ROOMMATE DRIVING YOU NUTS? WANT OUT OF THE DORMS? GREAT house for rent 
available January 1st! 
4 bed, 1 bath. 2 mi from ND & near 
new jogging trail, garage, central 
AIC. basement, 
NICE! $1100/mo. 
503-757-8125 
or 
visit 
domerhomes.wetpaint.com for info & pies. 

5 bedroom house available now and for next school year great location 105 Marquette just off of Angela & 31. 232-6964. 
4 BR furnished home, walk to ND, 
lg.yd,air.dishwasher, washer & 
dryer. 
574-287-4961. 

or 2 bdrm. apt. Quiet historic neighborhood. 1 mi.toND. Recent renovations & laundry. $500/mo. 574-532-8718. 
HOUSE FOR RENT CLOSE TO CAMPUS (North Shore Triangle neighborhood) 3 bedrooms, 1 bath A/C, dishwasher, washer/dryer Rent $695 per month plus utilities Available immediately Call243-7763 Email cventer@ nd.edu Female grad student with cat seeks people to rent a house with or a room in group house. For spring semester and ideally through summer. csarver1 @ nd.edu 


PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do nor go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
jwillys Bar and Grille. Receive 10% discount w/student ID. Thursdays 35 cent wings all day. U93 LIVE 5-7pm. Trivia contest. 52885 SR 933 jwillys.com 
Now hiring all positions. 

HAPPY HOLIDAYS EVERYONE. THIS IS THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER UNTIL WEDNESDAY, JAN. 16. GOOD LUCK WITH FINALS AND HAVE A SAFE BREAK. 
When the Jets beat lhe Patriots this Sunday: -great Jets win? OR... -greatest Jets win? 




OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, December 11, 2007 CoMPILED FROM Tru OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pts. last 10 
New Jersey 16·10·3 35 9·0·1 NY Rangers 16·12·2 34 4-5-1 Philadelphia 15-10·2 32 4·4-2 Pittsburgh 15-12·2 32 7·2-1 NY Islanders 14·12·2 30 3"5·2 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Otlawa 18·7·3 39 3-4·3 Boston 15·10·2 33 6·3·1 Montreal 14-11·4 32 3·6·1 Toronto 12-12-6 30 5·4-1 Buffalo 13-13·1 27 N·O 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Detroit 21-6-2 44 8·1"1 St. Louis 16-18-1 33 6·3·1 Columbus 13-11·5 31 4·4·2 Nashville 14-11-2 30 5-4-1 Chicago 14-13-2 30 4:0&;1 
Western Conference, Northwest Division· 
team 
Vancouver Minnesota Colorado Calgary Edmonton 
record  pts.  last 10  
16-10-3  35  6·2·2  
16-11·2  34  6•4•0  
16·12-1  33  5·5·0  
12·13-5  29  •H•2  
13-16·1  27  6•4"0  

Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pts; @~t.i'tl.· 
San Jose 15·H 34 Dalfas 15~11-4 34 .. Anaheim 14·13-4 32 Phoenix 13·1&;0 26 Los Angeles 11·16~2 24 

:::.·:·.· 

.·. =··.~~;:.:· 
NCAA Women's Basketball ::·<~;d~~H: APPoll 

team tecord preuiariS·· 
1 Tennessee 7-0 t:: 2 Connecticut 7-0 2 3 North Carolina 10·1 3 4 Maryland 13·1 4 5 Stanford 7·1 5 6 Rutgers 6-2 6 7 Georgia 9-0 7 8 LSU 6·2 8 9 Oklahoma 6-2 9 10 Baylor 6-0 10 11 California 8-1 11 12 Texas A&M 8-1 12 13 West Virginia 8-1 13 14 Auburn 9-0 14 15 Duke 7·3 15 16 DePaul 7-0 16 17 NOTRE DAME 8-1 17 18 Arizona Stale 5-3 18 19 Ohio State 6·2 19 20 Texas 7·2 20 21 Michigan State 7-2 21 22 Oklahoma Slate 8·0 22 23 Vanderbilt 8-3 23 24 Wyoming 8-1 24 25 Old Dominion 6-3 25 
around the dial 
NBA 
Supersonics at Bulls 8:30p.m., WGN 
NFL 


AP 

Two hopeful Dolphins fans invoke St. Nick's help Sunday during Miami's 38-17 loss to Buffalo. The loss dropped the Dolphins to 0-13, causing worries about Miami coach Cam Cameron's job security. 
Cameron faces questions after 0-13 record 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. -When Cam Cameron began his first training camp as an NFL head coach in late July, he said he was unfazed by the many chal­lenges facing the Miami Dolphins. 
''I'm not a worrier," he said. "I don't go down that road." 
Maybe that's why Cameron appeared remarkably relaxed Monday. He even cracked a hint of a smile a couple of times. 
Most coaches would be ready to explode or implode. An 0-13 record tends to have that effect. But Cameron calmly repeated the pledge to per­severance that has become his mantra. 

"We've said it all along: We're not in the position we want to be in," he said. "But we have to face it. We need to deal with it. We need to attack it." 
The clock is running. Cameron has been on the job nearly 11 months and still seeks his first victory, which raises a question: How much longer does he have with the Dolphins? 
His job may be in jeop­ardy after only one season if he becomes the first 
coach to go 0-16. "We are all in this thing together," Cameron said. 
But his future may hinge on his players, a scary proposition because the team that may be remem­bered as the most woeful in NFL history seems to be getting worse. 
The Dolphins have lost their past two games by a combined 78-30. In Sunday's 38-17 loss at snowy Buffalo, Miami had a franchise record eight fumbles and tied a team record by giving up 24 points in the first quarter. 
The defeat was Miami's 16th in a row-a season's 
IN BRIEF Vick sentenced on charges
of dogfighting, lying 
RICHMOND, Va. -Michael Vick was sentenced to prison Monday for running a dogfighting operation and will stay there longer than two co­defendants, up to 23 months, because he lied about his involve­ment when he was supposed to be coming clean to the judge who would decide his fate. 
The disgraced NFL star received a harsher sentence than the others in the federal conspiracy case because of "less than truthful" statements about killing pit bulls. 
Vick said he accepted responsibili­ty for his actions, but U.S. District Judge Henry E. Hudson said he was­n't so sure. 
''I'm not convinced you've fully accepted responsibility," Hudson told Vick, who arrived in court wearing the black-and-white striped prison uniform he was issued when he vol­untarily surrendered Nov. 19 to begin serving his sentence early. 

Tibet barred from forming 
own Olympic team 
LAUSANNE, Switzerland -The International Olympic Committee has rejected an attempt by Tibet to field its own team at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. 
More than 100 Tibet supporters­including some Buddhist monks ­waved banners and Tibetan flags outside the IOC headquarters Monday, as delegates from the unof­ficial Tibetan National Olympic Committee met with the organiza­tion's officials to discuss the request. 
"The IOC is not in a position to accept our application," said Wangpo Tethong, a president of the Tibetan group. 
Michel Filliau, a senior IOC official who took part in the meeting, said a rule change in 1996 meant only national committees from countries recognized by the international community can take part in the Olympics. 
worth. "Obviously it hasn't got­ten easier," Cameron said. 
The Dolphins are last and least in the league by such a wide margin they're already virtually assured of the No. 1 pick in the NFL draft for first time. 
Owner Wayne Huizenga last spoke to the media in October, when he said Cameron had done a "great job" keeping the team together and the atmosphere positive despite an 0-7 start. But Huizenga must be alarmed by the direction of a fran­chise that has become a national punch line. 

Royals' Guillen backed by
Umon in steroids case 
NEW YORK-The players' associa­tion filed a grievance Monday to over­turn the 15-day suspension given to Kansas City Royals outfielder Jose Guillen for violating baseball's drug program. 
Guillen and Baltimore's Jay Gibbons were suspended last Thursday by com­missioner Bud Selig following media reports that they received human growth hormone after January 2005, when it was banned by baseball. Gibbons chose not to contest his penal­ty. 
Arbitrator Shyam Das will decide whether Selig's suspension of Guillen was proper. The penalty is to be served at the start of next season. 
"It's been agreed that the matter needs to be resolved prior to opening day," said Michael Weiner, the union's general counsel. 
Guillen has not been charged by the government with a crime, and he is not known to have failed a drug test. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December I I, 2007 
NFL 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Tampa Bay's QB 
FSU coach vvill stay another season 
Associated Press


expected to return 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -For the first timn in threP wncks, there's delinitivn word on Jnl'f' Garda's sore back. 
Tlw Tampa Bay quarterback is nxpn<~tnd to return to the line­up this wnek after missing two ganws and most of a third with a lownr back bruise that has kept opposing tnams guessing about his availability. 
Coach .Jon Grudnn said Monday that despite vague statnments lw made about Carda's status leading up to gamns against Nnw Orleans and llouston. he rwver plannnd his lwalth." 

"A lot of guys ean play hurt. Jeff clearly could have played," Gruden said. "It was our deci­sion as an organization to hold him for two games." 
McCown threw for 266 yards and no intereeptions, but was sacked four times and lost a fumble that set up a touchdown in a 2S-l4 loss that stopped the Bues (S-5) from clinching the NFC South. 
While (~ruden is looking for­ward to getting his regular starter back on the field, he said he saw enough from McCown the past two weeks to feel better about the team's back­
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Jimbo Fisher will succeed Bobby Bowden as Florida State's next football coaeh ­someday. 
President T.K. Wetherell designated offensive coordi­nator Fisher as "head eoach­in waiting," but skipped out of a somewhat unusual news conference Monday without answering questions about tho contracts that are not yet finalized. 
Bowden, major college foot­ball's winningest coach, agreed to return for a 33rd season with options to stay longer. 
"Every year I'll just re-sign it and tell 'em if I want to coach another year," Bowden 

to  play  him  "/just don't think the  up situation.  said. "I couldn't ask for any­ 
against Saints Tnxans.  tlw or  opponent needs to know exactly who to  B r u c e Gradkowski replaced (iarcia  thing better than that." Bowden, Fisher and interim athletic director Bill Proctor  
"I just don't  prepare for."  against  the  all skirted questions about  
think tlw oppo­ Hedskins, but was  what Proctor deseribed  as  
t]()nt rwnds to know nxartly who to prnparn  Jon Gruden Buccaneers coach  so ineffective after Tampa Bay took an early lead  "agreoment(s) in principle" that give "stability to our pro­gram."  

for." Cruden 
said. nm phasiz­
ing lw's conlidm1t tlw :H-year­
old now has had adequatn time 
to recov<·r from the injury and 
will play Sunday against the 
Atlanta Falcons. 
"I don't hPiiPVP I should apol­ogize, but I don't feel like we havn to divulge nverything or ld evt~ryone know exactly whnrn it is in u~rms of the tinwtabln for Jnll'. We felt it was a two-wnek injury.... We feel wn did the right thing, the only thir~.g to let the injury get bet­ter. 
Garda. injured Nov. 25 on the first play of' a vietory over Washington, practiced last Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, fueling speeulation he might bn ready to play against llouston. Gruden waited until just bnl'ore kickoll' to reveal that backup Luke MeCown would start. 
Tho coach said Garcia proba­bly could have played, but dedaring him the third quarter­baek was "what we felt was the best interest of' Jell' Gareia and 

changed. As long as I'm 
healthy," he said, "[and! if I 
can win enough games." 

It's th.e falloff in wins in 
reeont years that has 
increased focus on Bowdon's 
age. 

"I do have an obligation to 
the university to win llJHWgh ·ball games," said Bowden, who is 14-11 the past two seasons heading into a Dec. 31 Music City Bowl game 
against Kentucky. 

Fisher, a disciple of the 
Bowden coaching family who 
played and coached for Terry 
Bowden, spent mueh of his 
time praising the family patri­
arch and avoiding details on what exaetly he agroed to. 
"This gives me some peace," said Fisher, who has .not boen a h.oad cocu:h before. 
''I'm content to wait for it." 

Torry Bowden, who has been out of coaching for a deeadn sinee being fired at Auburn, helped persuade Fisher to take the o!Tnnsivc coordinator's job earlier this year. TIH~ job opened when younger brother Jeff Bowden was bought out by dissatislind ' boosters late in the 2006 soa­son. 
A West Virginia native, Fisher was paid roughly $420,000 as offensive coordi­nator this year. 
that Gruden sent 

Garcia back into the game in the fourth quarter. McCown had a big day passing and led a last-minute TD drive to bnat tlw Saints two weeks ago, but was not nearly as sharp against the Texans. 
"Clearly there wen~ seven or eight plays in the game that weren't as good as the others, but I'm really pleased with what he's done," Gruden said. "There's still plenty of room to grow, but I think what we all see is a big, athletic guy that has promise and potential to be outstanding." 
· Bowden, 78, said he sup­ported the plan brought to him last woek by the presi­dent and Proctor, who havo both known the coach since the early 1960s. 
"I think it's a great plan," Bowden said. "Hey, you get 78 years of age, it's hard to say how you're going out, but we've got a plan. It kind of all started with my contract." 
Bowden, whose present live-year deal with the sehool expires in three weeks, made just over $2 million in 2006, state records show. 
"My position hasn't 
Garcia may be back, but receiver Ike Hilliard's status is less certain. He left Sunday's game with what Gruden described as an upper back injury that trainers were still evaluating on Monday. 
Without the sure-handed Hilliard, who has a team-lead­ing 58 eatches for 663 yards and is the Bucs' most effective receiver on third downs, the 
Annual Walk-On Tryouts 
Bucs converted just 3-ol'-13 third-down plays. 
The Notre Dame Football Program will be holding walk-on tryouts at the 

Attention Arts & Letters Students 
Ro.:ad tho.: issue of the d\rts s.~ ~ettl!rs QAo:ettl! and if you think hard .... 

. d'
...You could win an lpO . 
Answer the questions on the back page and submit to I04 O'Shaughnessy by Dec. 20'" Look for your copy of the Gazette in your mailbox or Pick one up in I 04 O'Shaughnessy 
beginning of the spring semester. 
If you are interested: 
Pick-up/Fill-out & Return: Information Form & Medical Forms 
Forms to be filled out are at the Reception Desk at the Football Office in the Guglielmino Complex. 
You must have the forms filled out and returned by January 18, 2007. 
Following our receipt of all information & medical forms, we will have an informational meeting and a series of tryouts/workouts. 
Tuesday, December 11, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 


Chargers star linebacker sprains left knee ligament 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -"Lights Out" is going to be on the shelf for at least one game, maybe longer. 
Star outside linebacker Shawne Merriman will miss San Diego's home game against Detroit because of a sprained lig­ament in his left Monday. ''I'll be back to domi­coach and the trainer as far as nating in no time." giving you the information," he 
Coach Norv Turner said said. "I don't try to get caught Merriman's injury isn't season­up in all the scientific words ending. that are used." 
''I'm not going to speculate, Rivers wore a knee brace to but it could be a couple of his news conference on weeks," Turner said. Monday. 
B o t h "It was pretty sore this morn­Merriman and ing, but it shouldn't be any­Rivers were thing I can't manage and get 
knee that 'Til be back to hurt in the sec­better during the week," Rivers knocked him out ond quarter of said.
dominating in

of Sunday's game San Diego's 23-With three games to go, the 
no time.''

at Tennessee, 17 overtime Chargers (8-5) lead the AFC which the win at West by two games over Chargers won in Shawne Merriman Tennessee, a Denver. The Chargers can win overtime. hard-hitting the division for the second
Chargers linebacker
Quarterback Philip Rivers is in a little better shape, saying he expects to play against the Lions even though he, too, has a sprained left knee. 
"It will be at least one game," Merriman said in an e-mail to The Associated Press on 
game in which straight season if they beat the several players Lions and the Broncos lose to were hurt. the Houston Texans on The team refused to give Thursday night. 
more details about the injuries. Merriman had two sacks Rivers either didn't want to Sunday before he was hurt, be specific about his injury or pushing his season total to 11 was told not to discuss it with 1/2. Nicknamed "Lights Out" the media. for his punishing hits, 
"I'll leave that up to the Merriman is the sixth player in NFL history to get 10 or more sacks in his first three seasons. His career total is 38 1/2. 
He had an NFL-high 17 sacks last season in 12 games. He was suspended four games after testing positive for steroids. 
Some Chargers thought
-:.:lt ,;..;;:~ .. ~~:H ·;·;•.&~.; .i-1:~; U\:i! :'-:.t~ t:.:.:!"::z•...: 
0 .;;; ;,·,,,,.,,.: .-_· "f•• 'O.L::Il' t~;-;.·~~1:':. o'f.ti-~ .!.i~ • • : 
Merriman was hurt on a dirty play. 
Asked if he thought it was a dirty game, running back LaDainian Tomlinson said: "I don't know what you classify 'dirty' as. I don't know. I think it was a competitive game. I
Of IINO~QAOUATF 
think sometimes throughout a competitive game things hap­pen. Guys go to extra distance to make a play, make things happen. 
"But understand something 


-that's the way the game was Rivers handed the ball to played a long time ago, when Tomlinson, rolled out and was guys like Deacon Jones clipped to the ground. He tried played," Tomlinson said. to walk off the field, nearly 
"I think sometimes we forget falling on his way to the side­it's football and guys before us line. played the game harder than Rivers headed to the locker the way we play it now. There's room, and was replaced by so many rules; you can't do Billy Volek. But he was back for 
this, you can't  San Diego's open­ 
do that. And so  ing series of the  
when things like yesterday  "It was as physical of  third quarter. "I think it was  
happen, people always say, 'Well it was a  a game I've been involved with."  one of those freak accidents, really," Rivers  
dirty  game,  said. "It was as  
dirty play.' I don't know. It's behind us now.  Philip Rivers Chargers quarterback  physical of a game I've been involved with."  
This ain't the  Rivers returned  
only time we're  for the start of  

going to get played like that. the second half and played well We're going to have to face it down the stretch. again." He threw a 2-yard touchdown 
Rivers limped off the field pass to Antonio Gates with 9 after taking a blow from defen­seconds left to send the game sive end Antwan Odom in the into overtime, when Tomlinson second quarter. won it with a 16-yard run. 
goo c(i~e IN\11Tet> TO 11 11-(tN.UI{I{-(tft CebeB~-(tTION 
,:~,-:_-,._,'!!.:_ :.:17: >!-__ ,. 
7:00 Tu{laday WeL-§11 Y"(tMibY
iL"""I(!-{lli..,. • -.,·:1 ,~-· ot,1_·~ 2 _T, -~­
.·;l,...~--. ,;-f :·--:,~{_"q'j¥. ;'". 
f>rteszmbra ttu. 241100~ .bOONGe 
~~''·'· '·''if'!li"-··· ""'-'··;...,11-.···' . I' · .; •··~il'< ,;w."" 

Undergraduate Research Scholarship Creative Endeavor 





UR ND 
JOIN US FOR AN

www.nd.edu/~urnd 
EVENING OF FOOD, MUSIC, DANCE AND
anew website 
CULTURE 
SPONSORED BY THE JEWISH CLUBofND&: WELSH FAMILY HALL 
.__________________________________ -~----~~ 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 11, 2007 
NFL 

After scandal, Jets will play Patriots 
Associated Press 

FOXBOIWUGII. Mass. -Bill 
Bnliehiek has been watd1ing 
vidnotapn of' tlw Nnw York .Jets 
-tlw kind that won't cost him 
$500,000. 

Tlw kind that could lwlp his 
Patriots stay unbnatnn rwxt 
Sunday by lwat.ing tlw tnam that 
turned him in li>r having an on­
liPid 1~anwra snoop on thn sidn­
lirw. 

In preparing for Sunday's :H­I:~ win owr Pittsburgh, Bnlkhirk studied tapP of' a ganw thrnn WPnks ParliPr wlrnn tlw .Jets upset. tlu• StPPlnrs I !J-16 in over­linw. 
"My improssion of' tlwm was in tlw Pittsburgh ganw thny played vnry well. And thny bnat Pittsburgh," lw said Monday. "Tiwy havn sonw outstanding playnrs." 
Bnlichick didn't nwntion Jnts 
eoach l~rk Mangini, his fornwr 
dnfl'nsive <'Oordinator who blow 
tlw whistlP on him after Nnw 
l~ngland's :~S-14 snason-opnning 
win ovnr Nnw York -the first in 
a string of I:{ wins that loaves 
llw l'atriolo.; just throe short ol' a 
perli1d regular soason. 

In thn first quarter of that gamn, t.hn Jets had a Patriots sidnlirw camera shut down. Thny 1~omplairwd tlw Patriots wnrn trying to steal their coaches' defensive signals in violation of lnagun ruins. 
Thn punishmnnt: NFL eommis­siorwr Hognr Goodnll finod Bnlichick $500,000 and tho team $250,000 and took away orw of tho Patriolo.; two first-round draft 
choiCI~S. 

Is it payback tinw? Will thn juggernaut accused of running up thn score in some blowout wins make those look like sqtwakers'? 
Bnlidrick wasn't saying. 

lin was asked live times at his rwws confernncn Monday about llw impact or tho spying scandal on Sunday's rnmatch and responded with his stock answer: Bnlichiek will preparn the same way he dons li>r all games. 
Any addnd motivation? "We'rn 
going to approach it like evPry 
other game." 
And what is that approach'? "Just thn way we've done all of them. Como in. look at thP tihn. get togntlwr a game plan, try to ligurn out tlw bost way to attack and dnfend them. Try to win." 
Whotlwr Beliehkk or his play­nrs rnvnal thnir trun l'nelings, thn complaint about tlw camera should provide extra incentive. It did wlwn Nnw England cruslwd San Diego 3S-14 thren days after GoodPII slapped tho Patriots and their coach for thP shenanigans. 
"Aftl'r Pwrything that went on this wnnk. wo wantnd to do our bnst for Bl'lichick," Tom Brady said aftpr the win over thP <:hargPrs. 
And just last week. they used Pittsburgh safoty Anthony Smith's guarantee of a vktory to lirn themselves up. 
"W11 took it as a challengP. Wn wem going to como out here and show tlwm what we had," said .Iabar Gaffney, who burned Smith for a 56-yard touchdown rncnption. 
Even Belichick, who rarely criticizes an opponent, took a public swipe at Smith aller the game. 
"We've played against a lot bntt11r safeties than him," Bnliehick said. 
But lw was back in his bland mode Monday: "Thnre's no points for any quotns that were or wernn't in the paper. (The) plays that we exncutml woll, we gainod yards on. The plays that we didn't, we didn't gain yards on and there wore some of both." 
The Patriots had pulled out their previous two games by three points each with fourth­quarter comebacks against los­ing teams. Then they dominatod the Stnnlers, as they did most ol' thoir first 10 opponnnts, when thnir averagn vietory margin was 
25.4 points. 
Tom Brady throw for 399 yards and four touchdowns and wasn't sacked by a defense that had allowed the fewest yards in the NFL. 
MASTER MINI;~;li< _ WAREHOUSE Store Your Stuff! 


2044 11 1h St. Niles, Ml 
269-683-1959 
mastermini@pogodaco.com www. selfstoragespecialists. com Pay Your Rent Online! 
4 x4 x 8= $90 + $25 Cleaning Deposit = $115 4 x 8 x 8= $125 +$25 Cleaning Deposit= $150 5 x 10 x 10= $155 + $25 Cleaning Deposit= $180 8 x 10 x 1 0= $195 + $25 Cleaning Deposit= $220 10 x 20 x 12= $275 + $25 Cleanrng Deposit= $300 
(Cieamng depos1t requ~reu on all rentals, 11 will be refunded when storage unit is left broom dean; can not be comb•ned with any other offer; with th•s ad; expires 12/31/07) 
NCAA FooTBALL 




Illini go to Rose Bovvl for fifth fune 
Associated Press 

CHAMPAIGN, Ill. -The score at halftime was 56-3. Most of Penn State's starters spent the second half parked on the bench, and by the time the game linally Pnded, Illinois had given up the most points in Memorial Stadium history. 
Even for a program used to medioerity. that loss in October 2005 was a debacle. 
"During the game, I said, 'I've never been here before.' We were getting killed," Illinois coach Ron Zook n~called. "I said. 'Fellas, this is as bad as it's going to get. It will mwer be any worse than it is tonight."' 
In the silence and humilia­tion or that awful night, the sm~ds for a turnaround were plantPd. Two years later, the Illini are one of' the biggest sur­JWises in college football. Their 9-3 record is a seven-game improvement !'rom last year, and earned them an unexpect­nd Hos1~ Bowl date with USC. 
It is only the fifth time in school history -and lirst time since 1983 -that Illinois will go to Pasadena. 
"I expected to be in a bowl game," junior linebaeker Brit Miller said. "But to end up in the Hose Bowl was not expect­oct at all. ll' someone would have told us we'd end up in tho Hose Bowl in camp, we proba­bly would have looked at them a little differently." 
Doing things differently is what Zook set out. to do when hP arrivnd three years ago, six weeks aftPr being fired at Florida. 
Illinois was hardly a Big Ten power or oven a contender, really. At least, not in the last 50 years. Tlu~ lllini would usu­ally put tognthor ono impres­sivo season a deeadn, but records of 4-6, 6-5 and 5-5 were morn typical. After lllinois went to thn Sugar Bowl after the 2001 season, live los­ing seasons followed. 
"You don't go to college say­ing, 'I want to bo on a losing team.' Everybody wants to win," said linebacker J Lnman, who won only night games his lirst four y1~ars at Illinois. "To go 2-30 in your own confer­oneo, whore you'm supposed to be competitive, at a school like Illinois, that's not somn­thing to be vory proud of at all." 
Perhaps worst were the expectations. Or lack thereof. While a 7-5 season would be a disappointment at Ohio State or Michigan, that was consid-

en~d a great yoar at Illinois. And those years whon the lllini wnnt 2-9 or 0-11 '! Well. bas­ketball season was right around the corner. 
"I rnmmnber two years ago, it was the last game of' the year, we came out against Northwestern and there worn likn 20,000 poople," MiliM said. "It felt likn wn were back in high school again." 
But Zook saw potential at Illinois. lie alrnady had f~stab­lished himself' as orw of the country's hotter recruiters ­ho rocruitod most ol' Florida's national championship tPam last year -and despite his strugglns with the Gators, hn was confident he was a good eoach. lln and his staff just nnedod the right sntting, thn right players and tinw for thnir systom to take hold. 


IJNt:AN 
All 


Information Meeting 
for men interested in learning about the process for applying to live in Duncan Hall 
Tuesday, December 11 • 7:00PM Thursday, January 24 7:00PM 
Montgomery Auditorium I LaFortune Student Center 
Learn more about Notre Dame's newest living option 
orlh.nd.edu 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
305 Main Building 1 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone: 574.631.5878 I E-Mail: orlh@nd.edu 

Tuesday, December 11, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Cavs welcome back James and Varejao 
the best ball of his career when
Associated Press 
he got hurt. was surprised the 
CLiiVHAND LeBron Cavs played so poorly without .lames' injured finger passnd him . the rnquirnd practice test. It's "OfTensivflly not as much, but game timn. defensively we struggled," he 
.Jamns. who has missed said. "You have mental lapses Clevnland's past five games -ofTensively, but you ean't have all losses-with a sprairwd left those defnnsively no matter indnx lingPr, is expected to bP who is playing. We had a couple back in tlw lineup on Tuesday games where we just didn't give night wlwn tlw effort." Cavaliers host Along with 
tlw In di an a Pacers.  "We're going to leave  James, Cavaliers  the may  
Following practice on Monday, .Janws  it as a game-time decision."  welcome bar.k for­ward Anderson Varejao on  
said tlw lingPr  Tuesday. Varejao,  
has im provPd  LeBron James  who ended a eon­ 
and  that  he  Cavaliers forward  tract holdout by  
didn't haw any  signing a  three- 
problems with  year, $17 million  
it  after  two  deal  last  week,  

days of contact. The Cavaliers' was in Canada getting his work mngastar sound(ld eonfident visa. that lw would dress l'or the If thn Brazilian gets back in Pacers. time. Cavs (:oach Mike Brown 
"Wp're going to leave it as a said lw would likPly play him game-limn decision," lw said. against the Pacers. "l'vn bnPn through two eontad Anderson's return, along with praclit:Ps OK. Wn'll sec what guard Larry llughes being back happens." af'ter missing time with a leg 
Janws has be1m wearing a bruise, has renewed eoniidenee protnetivn glovn over tlw knur.k­for the Cavaliers, the defending lP on his fingnr, which was Eastern Conference champions injured on Nov. 28 when fktroit who an~ off to a 9-12 start. forward Nazr Mohammed "It's starting to feel good whacked his around here, hand whilP he especially the last was driving for "It's starting to feel eouple days of a shot in a loss practice," James
good around here, 
to the Pistons. said. "Everyone is 
"It's better especially the last back now so than it was a couple days of we're ready to week and half start playing win­
practice."

ago," James ning basketball said. "The pain again." is going away LeBron James James, who had little by little. Cavaliers forward never missed It's not 100 more than four percent at all games in a sea­right now and it probably won't son, said not being able to play be until the offseason. and I has been excruciating. don't have an offseason until "It's not good for me," he 2009." said. "It's not like I'm learning 
lie will play for the United anything from watching. I don't States in the Beijing Olympics learn nothing from watching. this summer. It's tiring. I could really fall 
James, the NBA's leading asleep on the bench if I wanted scorer who was playing some of to." 
L E 
Beautiful Music for the Season 
with David Eicher, organist 
featuring Ottorino Respighi's beautiful 
Laud tQ tbe Nativity 
and the world premieres of n~w wor~s by American composers Cary Boyce and Axel Theimer 
Sunday, December 16, 2007 Church ofOur Lady ofLoretto Saint Mary's College 7:30P.M. 

Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's Colletfe Box Offi<:e in O'Laugh!in Audituttutth 9~M.-5P.M., Monday-Friday, or caU (57;4}'284-4626, 


.,Ill~ cmu·t'rt f~· spansrm:d h1 part l~'f fum! H. f:tluJI/rtb mu/Veidre Tlwm;lJ. 
Vhit our Weh Sit(' at: wW\"\o·.SouthRendChamberSingers.org. 
NFL 
Colts could set NFL -win record 
Associated Press  
INDIANAPOLIS -Tony  
Dungy spent nearly two  
decades trying to get to 12  
wins in a season as a r.oach.  
In Indianapolis, it has  
bP.eome part of the Colts'  
annual routine.  
After wrapping up their  
eighth playoff appearance in  
nine years Sunday and all but  
clinehing their fifth straight  
AFC South title, the Colts  
stand on the precipice of  
another historic achievement.  
By winning just one of its linal  
three regular-season games,  
Indy will become the first  
team in league history with  
five straight 12-win seasons  
-something even the perfect  
Patriots can't claim.  
"I was wondering about it,"  
the Colts coach said Monday, a Indianapolis' 44-20 win over the Ravens on Sunday. 
day after winning in  
Baltimore. "It's not easy to do.  After starting 7-0 and then  seven1d?  
Before I got here, I had never  enduring a two-game slump  "It takes ewryone," Dungy  
coached on a team that won  in November, the Colts havfl  said. "We've had contributions  
12 gamos. I played on a team  rebounded with four straight  f'rorn everybody on this 53­ 
in Pittsburgh that won 14  wins -each morn impressive  man unit. That's what you try  
on(:e. but it's hard to do year in and year out."  than the last. Tlwy survived a low-sr.oring  to do when you go to training eamp is develop a 53-man  
EspPcially in today's chal­ affair to beat Kansas City;  roster in which PVPryone con­ 
lenging environment of salary  recovered from a 10-0 first­ tributes."  
r.ap rnstrictions, tougher  quarter deficit at Atlanta to  In the Colts' case, Dungy  
schedules and, of r.ourse, the  win 31-13; took control quick­ truly means every onn.  
propensity for season-altering  ly against Jar.ksonville and  Of the nine defensive line­ 
injuries. None of those poten­ held ofT a late rally for a 28­ men listed on tlw aetive ros­ 
tial obstacles, however, has derailed the Colts (11-2).  25 victory; and built a 30-0 second-quarter lead Sunday  ter, eight have at least one sack. Nine players have inter­ 
Only one other team, the  en route to a 44-20 drubbing  ceptions and eight offensive  
Dallas Cowboys from 1992-95,  of the Ravens.  players, including such previ­ 
won 12 times in four straight  They've even won those  ously anonymous names as  
years. The Colts can break  games without injured Pro  Luke Lawton and Kenton  
that mark Sunday at Oakland  Bowl receiver Marvin  Keith, have scored touch­ 
or by winning either of their  Harrison and Pro Bowl defen­ downs.  
final two home games.  sive end Dwight Freeney, who  Yet they've won seven  
Given the way Indy has per­ is out for the season after  games by at least 18 points  
formed over the past month,  having foot surgery.  and have overcome a grueling  
the milestone seems a lock.  So how have the Colts per- schedule.  




DIC 
DOLLARS FOR INNOVATIVE &CREATIVE ENTERTAINMENT Student groups looking to fund late night weekend events in the Spring 2008 semester sho~Jd check out: http://sao.nd.edu/studentgroups/programs/dice 

STUDENT ACTIVInES 
Questions? 
lAD

Contact Erin Sekerak at ese 
SAD.ND.EDU 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 11, 2007 
NHL 


Capitals upset breaks Devils unbeaten streak 


Notre Dame Club ofSaint Joseph Valley 
t>resents ••• 
THE 2007 HESBURGH LECTl!RE 
Wednesday, Dec. 12, 2007 Dm•id T. Link, l'hJ> Warren Golf Course Club House 
THE IDEA OF A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY 
6: I 5 PM HORS D'OEUVRES & CASH BAR 
7:00 PM LECTVRE 
This ewnt is FREE and open to the public. A dessert rcn·ption and open convt·rsation on the topic \Viii follow. 
! '-1·-i i.i11~, I'hD, H d~~.·.fo.'c:/Jh :·t :\~~tson J\,,};'"t:l an~l D,)tiTi nfl.~v: ftfl.'1·:::1' 'I:.!;,-Notr~.· IJamt' !_.:!« ~chunl r..md.; rrttJL'\HIUHall:uci!ll with th:: ~ •'HJ!ft'!;lltion of rht• Prlf.lh ,J:h,-~at.Tl·d He.lrt uf }c.~u.->. 
while he skated toward the net. Ellis went low to block the shot, and Filppula shot it over the goalie. 
The Predators cut tlw Detroit lead to 2-1 with 24 seconds lel't in the second period. After fail­ing to score on three power­play attempts in the period, the Predators got a short-handed goal. David Legwand was skat­ing in on a breakaway and lost the puck. 
Despite Auld's play, Boston coach Claude Julien said Tim Thomas will continue to be Boston's starter when he fully recovers from a groin injury sustained last week. Still, Julien praised Auld's showing against the Sabres. 
Red Wings 2, Predators 1 
Tomas Kopecky and Valtteri Filppula scored and the Detroit Red Wings won their seventh 
straight, over the Nashville Predators. Martin Gelinas scored for Nashville. Kopecky opened the scoring 
7:10 into the game, firing a one­timer from inside the right cir­cle that found the net between goalie Dan Ellis and the left post. 
At 15:06, Pilppula was award­ed a penalty shot after he was tripped by Jerred Smithson 
Auld makes 44 saves as Bruins beat Sabres; Wings top Predators 
Associated Press 

WASIIIN(;TON -It seenwd like anothPr mismatch. Tlw Now JprsPy Dnvils, who hadn't lost in regulation in 11 ganws against tlw team with the fewnst points in tlw NIIL. 
InstPad. two unknowns led 
tlw Washington Capitals to a 3­
2 win that snappPd tlw Dnvils' 
point strnak at 10 on Monday 
nighl. 

.!niT Schultz. who had just onP goal in his first !JlJ NIIL ganws. scon~d for thP sncond straight ganw. ()uintin Laing, stuck in hockey obsrurity, rwttPd his first ovnrall. 
Srhultz and Laing an• a gn~at match for coach BrucP Boudrnau. who knorknd around tlw huslws for dncadns. Sinn~ Boudn•au was prornotPd from llw All L's lfprslwy Bnars to suc­ClHHI (;(en llanlon on Nov. 22. tlw Capitals havP irnprovPd ­going 5-:{-1 . 
Orw of thosP lossns was last l!riday against NPw .Jprsey, and Boudrnau blistPrPd his tnam for its slow start. On Monday, Boudreau jokPd about tlw sud­denly rrowdPd prnss room. 
"It's gntting ridiculous," hP lauglwd. Two of tlw players lw coached in llnrslwy-Schultz and Laing 
wPrn suddnnly stars. Bo u d rna u was l~S pn c i ally plnasPd for tlw 2S-yP.ar-old Laing, playing just his eighth NII L g a nw -h is f'i rt h with Washington. 
"That's a guy who's toiled for most of his lifo linl the low minors. To scorn tlw winning goal in an important game for us. that's a n~ally cool thing," Boudn~au said. 
Laing scorPd tlw final goal for l.hn Capitals on a rebound of .John Hrskirw's shot at 1S:OS of tlw sncond pnriod to give them a :{-1 lead -and lw has plans for tlw purk. 
"I won't ld it out of my sight," Laing said. 
"It was kind of a harmless shol. ... I would have liked it to havn bl~en the insurance goal. but the ganw-winner I'll take." 
Schultz. with whom he played at llnrshny, is suddenly turning into a scornr. 
"Hvidnntly, but I never would have thought it," Boudreau said. 
The Devils lost for the second 
consecutive night after winning 
nine straight They earned one 
point Sunday during a 1-0 over­
time defeat in New York against 
the Hangers. New Jersey hadn't 
been beaten in regulation since 
anotiH~r 1-0 loss on Nov. 16 to 
the New York Islanders. 
The Devils took a 1-0 lead 
when .John Madden scored at 
5:5(> or the first period. lie 
flieknd the puck to the left or 
goalie <Hie Kolzig for his eighth 
goal of the season. Brian Gionta 
snnt a pass to Madden from 
behind the net. 
With the Capitals on a power play, Nicklas Backstrom slickly marwuVPred through two Devils dnf'nndPrs and scored the tying goal through the pads of Kevin Wnnkes, who started in goal for tlw first time since Nov. 12. Victor Kozlov sent a pass from just bnhind the net to Backstrom. 
Schultz. who didn't have a goal in 38 games last season, fin~d a shot from the right cirde that beat Weekes and gave the Capitals a 2-1 lead. Alex Ovechkin had an assist, giving him nine points (four goals and five assists) in live games. 
Bruins 4, Sabres 1 
Alex Auld is quickly earning tiH~ respect or his Boston team­mates. 
Auld made 44 saves in his second start since being acquired from Phoenix on Thursday. and Mare Savard had a goal and assist to lif't the Bruins to a win over the Buffalo Sabres on Monday night. 
Auld was spectacular in his socond straight win, and made several scintillating saves in the second and third periods when Boston was outshot by a 33-15 margin. 
"When he played for Florida last year he had our number, so I knew hP was a good goal­temler," Savard said. "Phoenix had a lot of goalies, so their loss is our gain right now for sure." 
The 26-year-old Auld was just 3-f> with a 3.54 goals-against average and one shutout in nine games with the Coyotes this season before being assigned to San Antonio of the AIIL. He made 25 saves in his Boston debut Saturday at Toronto, a 2­1 Bruins win. 
"I have a lot of confidence in what I can do, but at the same time you don't want to get too alwad of yourself," Auld said. "I feel I can play in this league and I fflel it's where I belong." 
NO SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Athletes to train in Florida 
By JARED JEDICK, 
CHRIS DOYEN and 
SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Writers 
The most important part of the season is here for the men's and women's squads as the teams put in hard work that they hope will pay off down the road. 
The women get a much­needed break and are per­mitted to return home for Christmas. Irish women's assistant coach Joel White said time the swimmers spend with their families is key for establishing the men­tal and physical endurance necessary for their diff'icult upcoming training schedule. 
"The girls get to go home for seven days, the most ever," White said. "They need the rest to be ready for the remainder of a really long season that lasts until July and the Olympic trials." 
The men will get to take a break from swimming until Dec. 28. Once training resumes, the squad's intensi­ty level will pick up consider­ably. 
"We'll want to recuperate from exams, and we want everyone to be with their families for Christmas, but once we get back, we have a few weeks where we'll be training with great intensity," men's head coach Tim Welsh said. "The schedule goes straight on through the Big East Championships in February." 
Following the almost month-long break from com­petitive action, the men will 
Tuesday, December II, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Busy 
continued from page 24 
the Otterbein 0 Club Tournament and games against Kenyon (3-5) on Dec. 28 and either Franklin (4-3) or host Otterbein (4-4) on Dec. 29. 
The Belles will visit Alma (3-4, 1-0) on Jan. 5 and Albion (6-1) on Jan. 9 before classes resume on Jan. 14. 
Saturday's 82-68 victory at Tri-State gave Saint Mary's its first conference win and marked the beginning of eight straight games on the road for the Belles. The team has yet to win consecutive games and has struggled with in­game consistency, especially during second halves of con­tests. 
The Belles have Jed at half­time in six of their seven games, outscoring opponents 240-178 in the opening peri­od. But the team has been outscored 246-227 following intermission. 
head to Boca Raton, Fla. to train beginning on Dec. 30. The athletes will then travel to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., for their first-ever dual meet with Louisiana State on New Year's Day. The Irish will look to build on a solid showing at the Ohio State Invitational and hope to see improve­ments based on their rigor­ous training. 
The men, who are 2-3 in dual meets, will face an LSU 
squad that has been dealt losses by 
"The girls are able to 
national pow­
get through it based on
e r h o u s e Stanford and their great dedication 
conference foe and support for 
Georgia. Most 
one another."

recently, the Tigers were runners-up to Carrie Nixon Florida State, 
Irish women's head coach 
finishing a convincing 
in a meet against LSU on Jan. 
2. After that event comes sev­eral more days of training before the squad finishes up with a meet against the University of Miami. 
"It's our last push," women's head coach Carrie Nixon said. "The girls are only able to get through it based on their great dedica­tion and their support for one another." 
The training is not easy, as 

the women will be put­ting in days of intense physi­cal condition­ing: more than four hours of swimming practice every day in combi­nation with dry-land cir­cuits, weight 


Lunch and Conve~sation ... 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, December 13 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian, and b•sexual members of the Notre Dame family. the•r friends, and supporters to an informal lunch at the Co-Mo 
Eve!Yone is welcome and tonfidentialrty is assured. 
Lunch will be served 
r::.if!t CIJUMCE FOR GAY &LESBIAN

STUDENTS 

Henley said her squad has to display better fundamen­tals in order to reach a more consistent level of play. 
"We nend to continue to improve on our team defense and shutting down opponents in the paint, and we also need to focus on limiting our turnovers and taking away second shot opportunities from opponents," the coach said. 
Despite the Belles' early struggles, Henley is encour­aged by her team's efforts, especially the contributions of senior guard Alison Kessler 
(16.6 points, 6.0 rebounds per game), junior forward Erin Newsom (l1.6 points, MIAA­high 9. 7 rebounds) and soph­omore forward Anna Kammrath (10. 7 points, 8.1 rebounds). 
"At this point in the season, this team has shown that they can score a lot of points and that our transition game is pretty good," Henley said. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
UL's Pitino still looking for SOOth career win 
second at the Georgia Tech Invitational. 
The most recent CSCAA national rankings indicate the meet should be competi­tive. LSU is ranked 21st with 92 points, while Notre Dame is only two points behind in 22nd. 
Following the holiday showdown with the Tigers, the Irish will stay in the Sunshine State and travel to Boca Raton for the Saint Andrew's Invitational on Jan. 5. 
The women, meanwhile, will head to Miami to train as soon as their break is over on Dec. 27. 
The team will follow a rig­orous schedule of training for a few days, then competing training, cardio and yoga. 
The team hopes this last push will leave it well pre­pared for the postseason. The men and women want to take this time to perfect their techniques and their tempo for the upcoming Big East finale. 
The women will return to competition in South Bend against Michigan, Indiana and Illinois on Jan. 10. The Irish hope to earn as many NCAA national championship automatic qualifications as they can. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@ndu, Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu and Samantha Leonard at sieonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Rick 
Pitino isn't much on nostalgia. 
The game ball from his first 
win as a college head coach, a 
75-71 win by Boston University 
over St. Peters as a fresh-faced 
26-year-old on Nov. 28, 1978? 
Missing. Ditto for most of the 
mementoes from Pitino's 30­
year coaching career. 
"I have no idea where most of 
them are, probably in storage 
somewhere," he said. 
That doesn't bode well for the 
ball Pitino will be handed after 
claiming his SOOth victory as a 
college head coach. His first 
shot at joining the 500-win club 
was denied Saturday, when the 
14th-ranked Cardinals lost 70­
65 to Dayton. 
His next opportunity will 
come against Purdue in the 
John Wooden Tradition next 
Saturday in Indianapolis. 
Reaching 500 wins is rarified 
air to be sure, but there's still a 
whiff of missed opportunity for 
the only coach in NCAA history 
to lead three different teams to 
the Final Four. · Pitino spent eight years 
coaching in the NBA during two 
stints with the New York Knicks 
and one with the Boston Celtics. 
If he'd been in the college ranks 
those years, adding the 23.5 
wins per season he's averaged 
in 21 years as a college coach, 
he'd be on the cusp of 700 wins 
by now. 
The number rises consider­
ably if you bump the wins per 
year to 30.8 -what Kentucky 
averaged under Pitino in the 
five years before he bolted for 
the Celtics in 1997. It was a 
heady pace that could have put 
the 55-year-old on track to sur­
pass 1,000 career victories. 
Mention to Pitino that his 
sojourns in the NBA might have 
cost him a shot at becoming 
college basketball's winningest 
coach, and he admits there 
were things he sacrificed by 
leaving the comfort of the col­
lege game. 
"From the standpoint of miss­
ing out on some golden years at 
the college level, then~'s no 
doubt I did that," he said. 
How golden? He's younger 
than almost all of the 16 active Division I coaches ahead of him in career wins, and none of them spent nearly a decade outside of the college game dur­ing their prime. 
Ask if he ever wonders what would have happened if he'd been able to resist the lure of the NBA, and he admits there are times he looks back at the brash young coach who kept one eye on the court and the other looking for the next opportunity and wishes he would have relaxed and just enjoyed what was in front of him. 
"I was so anxious to move on and prove myself both finan­cially and personally for myself and my family," he said. "I look back and I look at mistakes I've made, and the one thing I preach to everybody is learn from the past, don't live in it. Plan for the future, but don't live in it. 
"At Providence I was enjoying it. At Kentucky we had it rolling. I don't think there was a program any hotter at the time," added Pitino, who won the national title with the Wildcats in 1996 and lost to Arizona in the national champi­onship game a year later. "I wonder how long we could have kept it going." 
He'll never know. 
By '97 he had rf1stored Kentucky's reputation. But hav­ing grown up in the Northeast watching the battles between the Knicks and the Celtics, Pitino couldn't resist the oppor­tunity of trying to resurrect the NBA's most storied franchise. 
"l thought that type of situa­tion would be fun, it's what gets you going," he said. 
It ended up not going any­where. Pitino's collegiate suc­cess never fully translated to the pros, though he maintains the lessons learned with the Knicks and the Celtics made him a better coach. 
"It made me more mature, much more understanding of why you win and why you lose," Pitino said. "Although we lost and there were some rough times, l wouldn't trade the adversity." 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 11, 2007 
FOOTBALL 




Weis to sign autographs 
sign potential Christmas gifts All students or employees
Spedal to the Observer 
fur people this year," Weis must have valid identification 
Notre Dame coach Charlie said in a statement. "As verifying their affiliation with Weis will be available to opposed to having people try Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or autograph up to two items to catch me early in the Holy Cross and enter through Friday for any student. facul­morning or late in the the west door at the ty or staff member at Notre evening outside the Gug, I Guglielmino Athletics Dame. Saint Mary's or Holy thought it would be best to Complex by 8 a.m. on Friday Cross. Weis will sign at 8 set up an organized signing morning. Weis will autograph 
a . m . in the (; u g I i e I m i no period. Therefore, I'll get off up to two items for everyone Auditorium. the road from recruiting who arrives by 8 a.m. 
"Then~ have btwn numer­Thursday night and will sign Everyone interested must ous inqutrtes regarding for everyone who shows up arrive at the Guglielmino whethnr I'd be availabln to Friday morning." Complex before that hour. 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

Irish guard Tulyah Gaines defends on the perimeter during Notre Dame's 93-47 win over Canlslus Nov. 27 at the Joyce Center. 
nnabled her to show coaehes to get better. They're pretty what shn ean do in game situa­foeused on one game."
Valpo 
tions. 
continued from page 24 "In the Maryland game I felt Contact Bill Brink at like we needed defense, so it wbrink@nd.edu 
year." was a good opportunity for her 
Valparaiso C~-51 presents a to mme in. and she played nmlly thnmt to NotrP llanw's low post well," 1\kGraw said. "So it was a play and also boasts a fimnida­eonfidenee boost for her. but it bln perinwter ganw. Me<;raw also gave us a chance to see said. what she's capable of doing." 
'Thny havn more spned in the McGraw said she talked with post," Md;raw said. "They have Bruszewski about her shooting the ability to shoot the three. habits and told her to look for Tlwy'm smart, they run good different types of shots than stuff on ofTense. It's a really those of eenters Melissa D'Amico tough match up for us." and Erica Williamson. 
But Me<;raw said freshman "She started doing that in forward Devereaux Peters will practiee. She started getting dif­give Valparaiso problems inside. ferent kinds of shots," MeGraw 
"She plays WPII in the center said. "I think she just needed to spot. She's a tough matchup for fenI comfortable." tlwm." McGraw said. "She's a After facing Valparaiso, the shot blocker. she can rebound. Irish are off until Dee. 21, when slw can do a lot of things." they play IUPUI on the road. 
Peters and fnllow freshman Playing over the break, MeGraw forward Becea Brusznwski have said, can help forge a better sdtlnd into their roles for the atmosphere for the players. Irish. Peters started strong, but "I think it's a little easier Md;raw said slw has recently because there's no sehool," improvtHI her ability to stay Mc:Graw said. 'There's no study­forused after getting in foul ing, there's no tests, so it's all trouble. Peters had two fouls in basketball. I think that's a little the f"irst 15 minutes against morn fun. They get to bond real­Purdtw Saturday, but McGraw ly wn~!· so the ehemistry's always said she rPLaiiwd her composure good. in the snwnd half. Notre Dame will play the 
"I thought Saturday slw did a Volunteers at home before trav­great job in the second half." nling to faee Louisville and West Md;raw said. "Normally she Virginia. McGraw's philosophy is gnts rtHtlly down on herstdf consistent no matter who the wlwn slw gPLs a couple of fouls Irish faee, she said. but I thought shn rnally 1:ame "We tell them the same thing," out. in thn second half and Mc:Graw said of her message to played great. maybe her best the team. ganw of tlw smL'ion." Not only does her style stay 
Brusznwski, Md;raw said. sot­constant, but she said the team, tied into a groovn aftnr sonw in ell"oct, polices itself. om~nsivn adjustnwnL'i. "This is a team that's never 
"Siw was still trying to find her satisfied when thny eomn out of plat:!' on llw team in terms of a game," McGraw said. "The lwr rolf' and what was expnctPd Bowling Gwnn game, they were of" lwr." McCraw said. n~ally disappointnd with thn way 
Bruszewski madn quieknr they play1~d. It's not enough for progrnss on the defensive mul of thnm just to win. They know tlw floor, and McGraw said that they have to play better in order 

Big East 
continued from page 24 
road. 
The first game eomes against San Francisco three days before Christmas. Notre Dame will enter the contest riding a five-game winning streak and looking to extend its reeord-setting streak of 25 straight vietories at the .Joyec Center. 
The Dons are 4-5, with losses to Oklahoma and Oregon in their only two matehups with power conference opponents so far. They have games against UC-Irvine and Long Beach State before tak­ing on the Irish. 
After Christmas. Notre Dame will play Brown and North Florida on Dee. 29 and Dee. 31, respectively. The Bears are 5-4 this season. including a 74-55 win over Eastern Michigan, a tnam the Irish deiP.ated 76-65 on Dnc. 1. 
The Ospreys, who hail from Jacksonville. Fla .. arc 1-(> this year, with only their only win eoming at home over Concordia on Nov. 16. 
On .Jan. 3, Notre Dame begins il'i Big East sehedule with a show­down against West Virginia. The Mountaineers are 7-1; the only blflmish on their record is a two­point loss to No. 12 Tennessee on Nov. 23. 
Two days after that, Connecticut eomes calling at the .Joyce Center. The Huskies are 6­2, with both losses eoming against ranked teams -Memphis and Gonzaga. 
Finally, to conelude winter break, Notre Dame travels to Milwauk£le to take on Marquette. Coming off a big win over Wisconsin this wnekend. the Golden Eagles are 6-1. Only a four-point loss at Duke blotches their n)sume. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Championship! or Jan NCAA! n~gional tournanwnt. It simu­

Lightning 
lates the Frozen Four." 
continued from page 24 The Irish won the CCIIA tour­nanwnt at Jofl Louis Awna last devnlop tho tournamnnt. season. but lost 2-1 to Mil"higan 
The St. Pnte Forum -homn StatP in the regional tourna­of the tournament and the nwnt one game shy of the Lightning -will Froz1m Four. host the 2012 Jackson says his Frozen Four. ''Anytime you play team still has work The ownnrs in a tournament you to do but is hoping wanted these to put itstdl" in
are playing for 
games played good position there in order to something." heading into the build up a eol­playol"l"s. legc hockey fan "We want to
Jeff Jackson 
base over the solidify home ice
Irish coach 
next live years. in the playofl"s and 
.Jaekson said get ourselves in his team bene-position to do fits from the tournament-style some damage in the playoffs. play. That's all you can ask is to get 
"Anytime you play in a tour­yourself in that position." nament you are playing l"or Jackson said. something," Jaekson said. "It simulates Jon Louis lArena, the Contact Dan Murphy at venue of the CCII;\ dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Join N.D Ri ht to.Life in Washin ton D.C. for the 
HA.Il~H FOil LIF:E! 
January 22, 2008  
Service trip: January 18th to 23rd  $85**  
Standard trip: January 19th to 23rd  $75**  
Short trip: January 21st to 23rd  $50  

More information 8: trip details at: www.nd.edu/-prolife 
REGISTER ONLINE NOW: www.nd.edu/ -prolife 
or Monday Et Tuesday in the Dining Halls 
registration ends & payment due January 5 

Tuesday, December 11, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

DEUCES MANOR 

TASTES LIKE fAILURE RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

CROSSWORD 
Across Peak 5 Chattered incessantly 10 TV horse introduced in 1955 ... or a Plymouth model introduced in 
1956 14 Partiality 15 Seeing red 16 Prime draft 
status 17 Drug-yielding plant 18 Opposite of 
serenity 19 Cartoonist AI 20 Scary sound 
from the ocean? 23 Park, e.g., in 
N.Y.C. 25 "Sting like a bee" 
athlete 26 Having seniority 28 Scary sound 
from a war zone? 33 Juillet's season 34 Kodiak native 
35 Physics unit 36 Theory's start 37 Scary sound 
from a cornfield? 41 Splinter group 44 Motel-discount 
grp. 45 Sales slips: Abbr. 49 Galley implement 50 Scary sound 
from a steeple? 53 Tedious 55 Boot part 56"Whew!" 57 Misspells, say, 
as a ghost might at 20-, 28-, 37­and 50-Across? 
62 Abominate 63 African antelope 64 Hot rod's rod 67 Lackawanna 
Railroad 68 Countryish 69 Boot part 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

70 Card game for three 
71 Walk leisurely 
72 Stealth bomber org. 
Down Charles Gibson's 
network 2 A.F.L.-_ 3 Cane cutter 4 Biblical son who 
sold his birthright 5 Wavelet 6 Language 
whose alphabet starts alit, ba, ta, tha ... 
7 Child's caretaker 8 Suffix with hypn­9 Part of a bottle or a guitar 
10 Kind of point 
11 Helpless? 
12 Filled to the gills 
13 Big fat mouth 
21 Country just south of Sicily 22 Moo goo gai pan pan 23 Lawyers' org. 24 Kilmer of "The Doors" 
27 Irvin, classic artist for The New Yorker 
29 Cowlick, e.g. 
30 Fit for a king 
31 Blunder 
32 "Long _ and far away ... " 36 Creep (along) 38 Name that's an 
anagram of 27­Down 39 de mer 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Gary Steinmehl 

40 Egyptian dry 46 Co. addresses, 58 Hospital 
measure equal often shipments 
to about five­47 A duo 59 Styptic agent 
and-a-half 48 Crafty 60 Part of a bushels 50 Tournament fishhook 41 Soak (up) pass 61 Island with 
Waimea Bay

51 Like some music 62 Gentlemen 42 Tag for a 
particular 52 Musically 65 Meadow 
purpose improvise 66 Shoemaker's 
54 Sport utilizing a
43 Neighbor of helper, in a fairy Slovenia clay disk tale 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JUMBLE 



JJWJW&lhd! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SASEY 
l I I 
b
@2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 


r~rf~j. 

tNORBIN t[j 
J I I J 

www.jumble.com 
I LEWLOY I 
. [ J I [] 
HENRI ARNOLD tv1IKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
**%$#11! You're 30 minutes behind 

WHAT THE SERVERS TURNED INTO WHEN THE KITCHEN WAS BACKED UP. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form th13 surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: "[IIIIIIJ" 
Yesterday's  IJumbles;  TABOO  FABLE  (Answers tomorrow) SPEEDY HOOKUP  
Answer:  Often follows when a business falls into the  
red  -THE BLUES  

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Raven-Symone, 22; Kenneth Branagh, 47; Michael Clarke Duncan, 50; Susan Dey, 55 
Happy Birthday: You must move with the times but don't force change. There is money to be made if you put in the time and are willing to compromise. Fighting, being difficult to get along with, overreacting or inflating your worth will all lead to your demise. A partnership will be necessary so keep things ami­cable. Your numbers are 8, 14, 26, 28, 31,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Gains are apparent if you are aggressive and follow through. Be proactive and go the distance whether it is a mental or physi­cal journey. Don't deal with personal issues or spend too much time at home today. 5 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A relative or old friend will shed an interesting light on a problem you face. Love is in the stars and a change in the way you ap­proach someone will lead to a much better partnership. Restrict your spending. 5 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't be daunted by the •changes brought on by other people. By accepting what's going on, you will strengthen your own posi­tion. Someone you are in a partnership with may throw you a curve ball. Walk away or simply decline the offer. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will do much better if you don't get emo­tional about changes going on around you at work. Th{• less fuss made, the better off you'll be. A love interest is looking very positive. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Ang. 22): Take a step in the right direction and you will find you have plenty of followers. Strategize each move to optimize your good fortune. This isn't the time to show anger--set a positive example. 3 stars VffiGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Do a little shopping or plan to meet someone you enjoy for lunch but don't stick around home where things are likely to go wrong for you. This isn't the best time to make changes to your residence or to give someone you live with an ultimatum. 5 stars LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will have some wonderful gift ideas for the special people in your life. Travel plans should be in the works. Don't limit yourself because someone tries to tell.you that you can't do something. 4 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your mind may be on bow you are going to come up with the money you need to get through to the end of the year. Trust in your own ability, creative accounting and intuition. There is much to be gained if you don't sabotage yourself. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You probably won't listen to anyone, in­cluding me today but, if you let things go to your head or you think or do things too extravagantly, you will end up paying for it. Be mGre patient and less of a know-it-all. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have to keep a secret. If you share your plans with anyone, he or she will spill the beans. A different or unusual way of presenting something you can offer will probably tead to advancement for you. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The help you offer others will pay big divi­dends. You will have some interesting ideas but don't ~:o too far off the beaten track. Someone who depends on you may get on your nerves. 4 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can work effectively on something special or creative. Putting your efforts into an idea you have cam lead to your own finan­cial freedom. You will fmd the perfect gift for someon•e today. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are dynamic, creative, curious and a little impulsive. You are emotional, demanding and like to be in control. You are always searching for a new thrill. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

THE ()BSERVER 




PORTS
TuesJay, December I I, 2007 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
What break? 
Squad prepares for busy seizedule after first semester ends 
By BILL BRINK Spons Writer 

Class1~s may tw ending, but for Notrn l>anw. the work is not. Valparaiso will conw to South Bend to face the No. 17 Irish (S­
1) Wednesday in Notre Dame's linal game before winter break. Notre Damn has six games over the holiday, including contests against Tennessee, Louisville and West Virginia after Christmas Day. 
Notre Dame defeated Valparaiso by one point last sea­son wlwn then-senior guard Brnona (;ray hit a free throw to give tho Irish the win with one se1:ond rmnaining. 
"Wn're definitely not taking them lightly," Irish coach Mullet McGraw said of the Crusaders. 
Valparaiso has won its last thnHJ games. In each, guard Agnieszka Kulaga has led the team in scoring with 21, 1 S and 25 points. ller season scoring average is also a team-best at I:~.S poinl<> per game. 
"!The Crusaders areljust going to keep getting better as they go," Md;raw said. "Now they're playing much b1•ttnr than they were at the bPginning of the 
see VALPO/page 22 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish gear up for league play 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
lln'd likP to play nvnry night. 

But right now, Notrn Damn guard Kyl1~ McAlarnny has other things on his mind. It's finals wnek. 
"I havn a couple of papers and my exams startled I Monday," said McAlarrwy, who already took his lirst exam -fin· a half­SPmestnr coursn. 
The Irish (7-2) don't play again until Dnc. 22 against San J!randsw and didn't hold full team prac.tic1~ Monday, and will not prac.tic:e today or w,~dnnsday. 
"We have to li1cus on ;u:adem­ic:s," McAiarrwy said. 
While the players study, eoach Mikn Brey is out recruiting. !key left Sunday and will rnturn Wednesday, and is focusing his salns pitches mainly on high school juniors. 
"With a li•w wenks oil', it puts me in a position to g1~t on tlw road for about fin1r days," Brny said. "It giws nw a ehanen to gl't OUt and Sl'l' SOllie kPy kids." 
Coarlws c:annol. c:omnHmt on spedfir. n~cruits under NCAA ruh~s. 
But evPn with Brny out of town, thn players will still be in the gym. though not as a com­plnte unit. Tlwy will work out evnry day, and. in position groups of thrne or finJr, they will work on individual skills with assistant coaches. 

"We usually get in an hour or so pnr day," junior guard Hyan Ayers said. "We go in and !ill and get sonw conditioning in." 
With two weeks of downtime beforn tlw next game, Ayers said the Irish will try to work on fun­damnntals. 
"Wn want to use this as a ehanen to gnt bntter as a team," he said. "We'll be antsy, but it'll be a good time for us." 
When Notre Dame does retake the eourt in its uniforms, the Irish will have three non­conference games and then begin their Big East slate. Overall, the team has six games during Christmas break-five at the Joyr:e Center and one on the 
see BIG EAST/page 21 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Tea111·set for busy fevvweeks 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's (3-4, 1-1 MIAAl will have to keep focused as the Belles head into a stretch that will see them play seven games between Dec. 21 and Jan. 9. That break schedule includes a pair of tournaments and three conference matchups. 
"We have a lot of basketball to play over the holiday break from classes, so main­taining our focus will be key," Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. "There are no bad teams in the MIAA, just bad records. You have to be pre­pared every night you step on the court to play, and you can never overlook an opponent." 
The Belles will play Hope College (7-0, 1-0) to open the Hope Classic in llolland. Mich., on Dec. 21. That game will count toward the MIAA standings. Saint Mary's will face either North Park (0-6) or Hanover (4-2) in the scr:­ond round of the tournament the next day. 
Saint Mary's will then trav­el to Westerville, Ohio, for 
see BUSY 

HOCKEY 

Jackson vvill not play 'patsies' during break 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sporrs Ediror 
As the college hockey world enters its annual three-week hibernation, No. 6 Notre Dame finds itself in a very familiar position. 
At the onset of the break, the Irish (16-4) have a virtually identical record and ranking to last year's 16-3-1 team. After starting 4-3, coach Jeff Jackson has pulled together his young and talented squad to win 12 of its last 13 games against some of the country's top teams. Two of the team's four losses have come against top-five teams (a pair of 3-1 losses to No. 2 Miami and No. 4 Denver). 
"I think we started this year with a lot more questions than last year ... but once we got those answered we started to show we could be a pretty good team," Jackson said. "I think we are as far if not further ahead than we were last year." 
But the second half of the season will bring plenty of obstades for Notre Dame. Tho Irish are slated l'or two-game series with both No. 1 Miehigan and No. 5 Michigan State in January. 
Notre Dame's nnxt game will be on Dee. 29 against No. 9 Massachusetts at the Lightning College Hockey Classic in St. Petl~rsburg, Fla. II' they beat the Minutemen, the Irish will play the following night in the cham­pionship game against either No. 3 Colorado College or No. 16 Hensselaer Polytechnic Institute. 
Tho Irish won the first-ever Lightning Classic last season in late November, beating Air Force 2-0 in the final. This time around, the competition will bn much stiffer. 
"I wanted UMass and Colorado College in there because I know they are both good programs. Now that tour­nament is shaping up to be one of the best in the country," Jackson said. "I didn't want to go in and play a bunch or pat­sics." 
The third-ynar coach has played a big role in setting up the tournament and increasing the talnnt lcwol during his time at Notrn Dame. Jackson has a personal connection with mw or the members of the Tampa Bay Lightning ownership group, and the pair has worked together to 
see LIGHTNING/page 22 







