
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 88 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20,2007 
Few sex crimes reported annually 
National trends indicate many incidents not brought to police; victims seek other options 

By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Rape and sexual assault are the most underreported crimes in the U.S., said a rep­resentative from S-0-S of Madison Center, the St. Joseph County rape crisis center in South Bend -and judging from statistics, Notre Security/Police (NDSP) statis­tics from 2003-05 show just one to two incidents of reported sex offenses each year -more recent numbers aren't available, but there were two more just last week -61 students reported "some kind of victimization experience" to the University Counseling Center last year, according to Rita Donley, the Center's associate director. 
Dame is  no  exception to this  
statement.  
While  Notre  Dame  

These incidents may include 
see ASSAULTS/ page 6 

Campus construction projects begin 
improvements in sewer systems and other utilities, which will in turn allow for the planned addi­tion and reconstruction of the Joyce Center, he said. 
"The [area] will have grass, landscaping and a nice pedes­trian feel," Lyphout said. "We expect to be done before the first home football game." 
Throughout the project, all entrances to the Joyce Center will accessible, Lyphout said. 
The second project will increase sanitary sewer capaci­ty leading to Notre Dame Stadinm, Lyphout said. Construction will begin immedi­ately east of Breen-Phillips Hall and continue southeast toward Notre Dame Stadium. 
The project was scheduled to begin this week, and Lyphout said they hope to begin con­struction within 10 days to two 
see PROJECTS/page 4 


By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Two major campus construc­tion projects -a sanitary sewer job and removal of a por­tion of Juniper Road -are slat­ed to begin this week, accord­ing to a Feb. 12 University press release. 
Both projects will cause mini­mal closures in certain areas on campus, University Vice President for Business Operations Jim Lyphout said Monday. 
On Monday, Lyphout said, snow removal began on the first section of Juniper to be removed -between Notre Dame Stadium and the Joyce Center. 
The road will be eliminated and replaced with a pedestrian­friendly plaza. In addition, the project will make possible 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
STUDENT GOVERNMENTS 
COR,BOC 
con1bine for meeting 
Shappell, Mcllduff bring groups together 
By KATIE KOHLER Assistant News Editor 
Nearly two months ago, Notre Dame Student Body President Lizzi Shappell and her Saint Mary's counterpart ·Susan Mcllduff scheduled a meeting to engage their student govern­ments in discussion of important issues facing both schools. The meeting will be the first of its kind in over four years. 
Tonight at 5:30 in the Student Government Offices at Saint Mary's, both presidents will for­mally meet for the third time this year, this time alongside the Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) and the Notre Dame Council of Representatives (COR). 
"The meeting was our own idea and we are really using it as a networking session," Shappell said. "There is no set agenda." 
Agenda aside, a Feb. 13 col­umn by Observer columnist Jonathan Klingler attacked the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's rela­tionship, claiming that Saint Mary's is taking more than it is giving back. Shappell and Mcllduff, however, say they scheduled the meeting long before the editorial was printed and plan to keep the focus of the meeting on familiarizing their groups with the student govern-
see MEETING/page 4 

Senior's portraits adorn local Club's hallw-ay 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
For senior Kelly Hardy, her paintings are far more than something beautiful to look at ­they're a way to give back to South Bend. 
After spending last summer working at the Boys and Girls Club of St. Joseph County, Hardy created seven portraits of the children she had worked with as an assignment for her Multilevel Painting class. 
Hardy worked on the project for the entire Fall2006 semester -a feat that, until recently, she thought she would never accom­plish. 
"I had never really painted people before. It was something that I had always avoided even though I had been painting a long time," Hardy admitted. "[But] I decided ... to dive right in with huge, oversized [por­traits]." 
For Hardy, who first attended a painting class in second grade, art influences the way she inter­acts with kids today. 
"I think the best part about this was getting to know the kids individually by working with them, and then getting to know them at a different level by paint­ing them. .. . It brought a whole new level of meaning," Hardy said. 
Although Hardy did not origi­nally plan to donate the paint­ings, she felt that the Club would benefit most from them. 
"There were seven pretty over­
see PORTRAIT/page 6 

ND plans Mardi Gras meals, parties 
By MEGHAN WON~ News Writer 
You don't have to travel to New Orleans to celebrate "the feast before the fast" today, since Notre D·ame is bringing some Cajun culture to campus for Mardi Gras. 
French for "Fat Tuesday," Mardi Gras is the day of celebra­tion before Ash Wednesday, a solemn day which marks the beginning of the Lenten fasting season. 
If you want to partake in feast­ing, you can take a trip South ­to South Dining Hall -where chefs have been busy preparing for the annual Fat Tuesday feast. 
South Dining Hall will serve some Cajun favorites for dinner tonight, including rum raisin bread pudding, Louisiana red 
see MARDI GRAS/ page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 20, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Delayed departure 

It's a Sunday night (technically early Monday morning) as I sit here writing. I'm sitting at a desk in my room at the Detroit Airport Days Inn. My luxurious surround­ings include walls with peeling paint and a leaky toilet. I can E 
hear sounds from va HBO's "Rome" in Binda the background. I 
News Wire

didn't realize the 
Editor

Romans cursed so much. Anyway ... why am I here? Well, I guess the story begins a couple of days ago. 
I had a bad feeling. My flight was sched­uled for 1:30 p.m. on Friday afternoon. I was going home. I thought I should be more excited, but instead all I could think about was a Monday afternoon Theology exam (and 20 percent of my grade) looming in the distance. 
Needless to say, I did not leave South Bend at 1:30 p.m. Instead my fate consisted of delayed flights, a rebooking with another airline and a canceled flight before I finally arrived in Baltimore at 10 p.m. From there it was a short drive to my home city of Washington, D.C. 
I could barely enjoy the weekend before it was Sunday evening and time to head back to the airport. 
Once I arrived, I got through security eas­ily enough. Despite the fact the monitor proudly displayed On Time at my gate, we were delayed in D.C. for an hour. There goes my one hour layover in Detroit. .. 
I was off the plane in Detroit at 10:40 

p.m. My flight to South Bend left the gate at 
10:30 p.m. I was alone and spending the night in Detroit. 
Just as I was about to sit down and have a good cry, I spotted a girl at the gate count­er talking about South Bend. I immediately went up to her and introduced myself. Her name was Laura. 
Just knowing someone else was in my sit­uation and I suddenly wasn't alone in the world calmed me down. We walked togeth­er through the airport and swapped week­end horror stories. 
We arrived at ticket counter to get rebooked. I went first to an agent who said she would put me on a flight to South Bend via Cincinnati in the morning. Soon another agent showed up who helped Laura. 
'Try to get her on the same flight," said my ticket agent. 
As it ended up, Laura's agent must have been faster because she was booked on the flight and I wasn't. 
My ticket agent attempted to whisper to the other agent, "I don't have any more availability." 
I was too numb to be upset. Instead I wit­nessed one of the nicest things a stranger has ever tried to do for me . .Laura pleaded with the agent to cancel her booking so that I could have it. When she was told it would­n't work, she asked ifmy name could be put on the ticket instead. 
I couldn't believe it. She didn't even know me. Despite the reality that we had arrived at the counter together and she had as much right to be first as me, she was gen­uinely sorry about getting the ticket. 
Not only did she attempt to give me her seat, but she did this after being told all flights to South Bend were fully booked for the next day. 
But it all ended up working out. Somehow the agent found a seat for me on a direct flight to South Bend at 12:05 p.m. the next day and Laura kept her reservation. Within an hour, we were on a shuttle to a hotel and the next day, we both returned to Notre Dame. 
Contact Eva Binda atjbinda@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to an editing error in the Feb.J9 Viewpoint section ofThe Observer, the letter to the editor titled "Dialogue is not dead" listed the name of the writer incorrectly. The author's name is Mary Elizabeth Walter. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How ARE YOU CELEBRATING FAT TUESDAY? 





Angela Sutton David Okiyama Elizabeth Ludemann 
freshman
sophomore senior 
Carroll
Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla East 
"Eat lots of "Drinking soda, ''I'm giving up "Going to the "What's Fat "Go to one of Subway not pop. " elevators for hot spot-NDH. " Tuesday?" the dining halls 



,,

cookies. Lent, so I'm going to ride as 
many as I can on campus. 
Couple plans to wed in graveyard ceremony 
PACIFIC, Mo. -It's not the traditional "till death do us part," but Scott Amsler and Miranda Patterson believe getting hitched in a graveyard is just thinking outside the box. 
Come .September, the Illinois couple expects to pledge their undying love among the dearly depart­ed in this St. Louis sub­urb's city cemetery, even though those · who approved the request are dead set against seeing it become a trend. 
The wedding wouldn't be out of character for Amsler, 27, a computer expert for a financial company by day and rehabber of old hearses by night. 
The graveyard, he said, just has a certain tran­quility and thriftiness for nuptials the young couple insists will be small, pri­vate and traditional ­except for the bagpipes, Amsler's refurbished hearse and the throng of eternally silent witnesses. 
Thousands make snow angel In record attempt BISMARCK, N.D. ­Among the thousands of people frantically flap­ping in the snow Saturday in an attempt to set the record for the 
most snow angels ever made were parents, chil­dren, even snowplow drivers. 
And then there was Pauline Jaeger -who on her 99th birthday, was making her very first angel. 
"It's fun," Jaeger said. "I feel just like a kid." 
More than 8,900 people flapped their arms and legs on the state Capitol grounds Saturday in an attempt to reclaim the record, which was snatched away about a year ago in Michigan. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
LLI ::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
c( 
(,) 


0 

HIGH 32 HIGH 25 HIGH 35 HIGH 35
..... 

LOW 25 LOW 18 LOW 27 LOW 27 
and steal a whole tub of moose tracks ice cream. Rolla. " 
IN BRIEF 

There will be a. panel discus­sion on "Imaging War: From Vietnam to Iraq" today at 4:30 
p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. Diana Matthias, curator of education and aca­demic programs at the Snite, will moderate a panel comprised of members of the University com­munity including U.S. Army Lt. Col. Kelly Jordan, writing pro­gram adjunct instructor David Griffith and doctoral candidate Todd Thorpe. 
Author Lance Olsen will read' from his book "Nietzsche's Kisses" today night at 7:30 in the Hospitality Room of Reekers. 
This Wednesday marks the beginning of the Lenten season for Christians. Mass will be cele­brated at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15p.m. 
As part of the Foreign Film Series, "Milagros: Made in Mexico" will be shown Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The film is receded by a recep­tion with Mexican cuisine at 6 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Great Hall. 
Stations of the Cross will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 7:15 p.m. Friday. Stations will be held at the Basilica each Friday during Lent. 
Notre Dame men's ice hockey will play Ferris State at 7:05 
p.m. at the Joyce Center Saturday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 37 HIGH 40 LOW 32 LOW 35 

ANDREW STEVESfThe Observer Sophomore Elise Yahner and junior Oscar Garcia took advantage of the warmer weather Monday to build a snowman on North Quad In front of Haggar Hall. 
OFFBEAT 

Atlanta 56 I 40 Boston 44 I 19 Chicago 39 I 29 Denver 46 I 21 Houston 75 I 60 Los Angeles 67 I 49 Minneapolis 35 I 21 New York 47 I 24 Philadelphia 47 I 26 Phoenix 68 I 51 Seattle 46 I 39 St. Louis 46 I 37 Tampa 73 I 46 Washington 51 I 32 
Tuesday, February 20, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Poorman responds to recently passed resolutions 
Vice President for Student Affairs commends Council for freshman 'disorientations,' Domer Dollars work 

By KATHLEEN McDONNELL 
News Writer 
A letter from Vice President of Student Affairs Mark Poorman, which addressed the Campus Life Council's resolutions on freshman "disorientation" events and the reliability of the campus Domer Dollar swipe card system, topped the agenda at the council's meeting last night. 
Student Affairs recently con­resolution suggested. vened a rector task group to "I commend the CLC Task examine freshman orientation Force on its thoughtful report, " 
in the halls, Poorman wrote, and the group will consult with repre­sentatives from the Student Activities Office, the Office of Residence Life and Housing, the Conduct Awareness Task Force of the CLC, the Office of Residence 
"/ commend the CLC Task Force·on its thoughtful report. I will forward the resolution to the newly formed rector task group, and am sure that the findings outlined in the report will be helpful as they begin their work., 
Father Mark Poorman Vice President Student Affairs 
Poorman wrote. "I will forward the resolution to the newly formed rector task group, and am sure that the findings outlined in the report will be helpful as they begin their work." 
In addition, Poorman for­warded the Domer Dollar resolution to James Lyphout, vice president for Business 

Life and Housing, the Conduct Operations. Given "fruitful con­Awareness Task force of the versations in the past on mat­CLC, the Office of Alcohol and ters related to student life," Drug Education and the Gender Poorman anticipates Mr. Relations Center -as CLC's Lyphout's "sincere attention to this issue." 
In other CLC news: 
+ 
Liz Brown, chief executive assistant and task force on stu­dent voice and input chair, said that after a few changes are made to the Du Lac pamphlet per suggestion by the Office of Residence Life and Housing and the Student Union Board finish­es the design, the pamphlet should be printed. 

+ 
Bill Andrichik, student body vice president and task force on conduct awareness chair, said his committee has reviewed the University's report on gambling and hopes to become involved in the education efforts the report outlines. The aim is to educate the student body on the illegality of gambling in Indiana as well as to add to various existing resources available for hall staffs. 


Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
Seniors \Veigh choices for graduation gift to University 
Class of '07 members can vote on one of three monetary options, present will be given in Caitlin Brann's memory 
"In the Committee's first meet­significance of the gift. statue located near the Bookstore. Contributions to the Class of 
By BECKY HOGAN 
ing, a few members asked me if "At one of our first meetings it "Any of the three gifts would 2007 Gift can be made online at 
News Writer 
the gift could be made in memory was decided across the board ... really be great for our class," supporting.nd.edu or can be sub­
of Caitlin," said Moira Madden, that the gift should be given in Pelligra said. "Those are the three mitted by check or credit card. 
As the class of 2007 finishes up assistant director of the Notre Caitlin's name because she passed that most represent our class. I Seniors who live on-campus can one last semester, it plans to leave Dame Annual Fund. "After some away during our senior year and think the UROP gift would be donate their $50 dorm room behind a reminder of its legacy at discussion, all of the committee this affected a lot of people in our great because so many members deposits -an option which Notre Dame. With the help of the members agreed unanimously class," Pelligra said. "The fact that of our class have studied abroad Madden said is widely used by Notre Dame Annual Fund, the that regardless of the allocation it [will be] in Caitlin's name makes or have taken part in research graduating seniors. senior class will choose a class gift that the class voted to support, it even more special since it was a opportunities." "From what I've heard a lot of to give something back to the the gift would be made in memo­traumatic loss for our class." Although there is no deadline people do plan on donating University. ry of Caitlin Brann. Past Senior Committee chairman Rosie for the gift, there are some incen­because it is in Caitlin's name and 
Last Wednesday marked the Class Gifts have also been made DePaoli said the Senior Class Gift tives for seniors to fulfill their it's a really great thing to do to last day seniors could vote on the in memory of classmates who Committee held its first meeting pledges before the end of the year. give back to the University," class gift from the three options passed away before the class before Christmas break in If seniors make their contribu­Pelligra said. selected by the Senior Class Gift graduated." December and has been meeting tions before May 1, they receive a The final decision on the Senior Committee. The money raised by The committee is comprised of as a group once a month. "token of appreciation" from the Class Gift will be announced Feb. the committee will either be given 10 seniors, Madden said. According to the Notre Dame Annual Fund. Also, seniors can be 28 in LaFortune's Sorin Room at to the Erasmus Institute "In past years, the Annual Fund Annual Fund's Web site, the entered in the 2008 football ticket the 'Thanksgiving in February" Endowment, the Undergraduate has worked with the senior class University appreciates "contribu­lottery if their gifts are received event from noon to 7 p.m. Research Opportunities Program council," she said. "However, this tions which are not designed for a before Dec. 31. "I think that most people see (UROP) or Student Activities. year. we decided to expand the specific project but can be used to "I think [the lottery] will gener­[the class gift] as great way to cre­Seniors were able to vote from the program and created the Senior address the University's most ate a big response because alum­ate oilr own legacy as a class of three different options by e-mail­Class Gift Committee. Some of the pressing needs." ni love to come back for ND foot­Notre Dame -leaving a tangible ing the Annual Fund's e-mail senior class council members are Madden said although the ball Saturdays and partake in all mark that we can carry on in the address. members of the Senior Class Gift Senior Class Gift is usually a mon­the traditions associated with coming years and that will benefit 
The gift from the class of 2007 Committee as well." etary gift to a University depart­them," DePaoli said. "As soon-to­many Domers in the future," will be donated in memory of Senior Class Council chair ment or program, it may some­be young alumni, it is one of the Depaoli said. Caitlin Brann, a member of the Stephanie Pelligra said the fact times be a physical gift as in the best excuses to come back for a class of 2007 who died in that the gift will be donated in case of the class of 2002, which weekend and meet up with Contact Becky Hogan at November 2006. Caitlin Brann's name adds to the donated the "Jesus the Teacher" friends." rhogan2@nd.edu 
UES. J FEB. 20 7:00PM 
DEPAUL 

YOU COULD VVIN 
; I 

MCDONALD'S ONE YEAR! 
m 

Launches tlzis Ash -wednesda
>)))))) ) ) 

www.nd ra ercast.or C-M 
Cam 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 20, 2007 
Projects 
continued from page 1 
weeks as plans are finalized. 
Pedestrians can expect mini­mal detours in the areas between Breen-Phillips Hall and the Hesburgh Library, and on the Hesburgh Library quadrangle, he said. 
The sewer system expansion is necessary due to recent growth, Lyphout said. 
"The sewer system has been taxed as the campus has grown," he said, noting that in the mid­1990s there was some flooding in Galvin Hall, Hesburgh Library and the IT building related to sewer use at Notre Dame Stadium. The project is intended to reduce the possibility of simi­lar backups in the future. 
They expect the project to be completed in six weeks, Lyphout said. 
Both project completion dates are subject to change due to weather and other factors. Still, weather issues tend to delay con­struction by "only a few days," Lyphout said. 
Lyphout said both projects are part of the University's "long term, master plan." 
The creation of the pedestrian plaza between the Joyce Center and Notre Dame Stadium is part of the scheduled removal of Juniper Road between Edison and Douglas Roads. The removal will continue north in the coming months, leading to construction of new service routes to Hank, Galvin, Friemann and Lobund buildings and reconstruction of the Hesburgh Library circle, including additional parking near the library. Construction to remove the portion of Juniper Road between the Band C park­ing lots south of the Joyce Center and Notre Dame Stadium will begin in March. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
Meeting 
continued from page 1 
ments of their counterparts. 

"This meeting has been on the book for a while and this just happened to be the best time that worked with every­one's schedules," Mcllduff said. 
Both Shappell and Mcllduff recognized, however, that the Viewpoint issue cannot be com­pletely avoided. 
"Our three "Our three schQols bettflr represen­schools are so tation," Mclldufl'
are so integrated
integrated that said.
that it is important 
it is important Shappell said to establish to establish good she was also good relations interested in
relations with each 
with each getting a high
other."
other," Shappell turnout of COH said. "I am sure members. the Viewpoint Lizzi Shappell "We are hop­
issue will come student body president ing to get as 
up and we are willing to have conversations about it, but it is not our pri­mary focus." 
Mcllduff shared similar sen­timents about Klinger's column and the reaction it caused within the student body. 
"We don't want to go back [to that issue]. We are just going to focus on issues affect­ing both schools and the com­munity," she said. 
For the past two years, a member of BOG has held the position of tri-campus commis­sioner, attending weekly COR meetings at Notre Dame and also working with Holy Cross. This year, Alanna Cheifari holds that position. 
"Alanna has been coming a lot more regularly than other tri-campus commissioners and her efforts have helped," Shappell said. 
Conversely, a member of COR has represented Notre Dame on BOG in past years. This year, however, no one holds that position. 
"It is not constitutionally mandated by Notre Dame that someone has to sit on our board. This year, Lizzi LShappell] chose not to appoint someone," Mclldufl' said. 
Both presidents have invited all board members to attend, and there have been a few unavoidable conflicts. 
"The meeting is mandatory for BOG members, but we did our best to accommodate as many COR members too so there would be 
many COH members as their schedules allow to attend," Shappell said. 
The groups will also be dis­cussing up-and-coming issues such as the Community Summit at Notre Dame. 
"We just hope this meeting will give our boards the oppor­tunity to get to know how other student government structures work so we can bet­ter understand the other sys­tems," Shappell said. 
Shappell and Mcllduff said they hope this is the first of many meetings between the two groups. 
"I would recommend meet­ing once a semester -once at Notre Dame and once at Saint Mary's," Mclldull' said. "I think that would be really important in beginning to addross issues we both share." 
Tonight's meeting is open to all members or each student body. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Dinner 
continued from page 1 
beans and rice, jambalaya with chicken and ham and a host of indulgent desserts. 
If Cajun food isn't prefer­able, the Student Union Board (SUB) is sponsoring an event called "Multi-Cultural Mardi Gras" from 8 to 10 
p.m. in LaFortune's Sorin Room. They will serve Chinese food from Golden Dragon, Mexican food from Hacienda and Indian food from Star of India. 
Beth Melia, director of pro­gramming for SUB, said she hopes students enjoy the free food and will come "to eat up, celebrate 
"Contrary to popular belief, you don't really have to do anything for the beads. They just kept throwing them off of the floats and we collected quite a bunch," Summerville said. She said she and a friend attended a ball "with thousands of people" Saturday evening in the Superdome -the site of Notre Dame's Sugar Bowl loss. She said American Idol 
· winner Taylor Hicks, Journey and Styx all performed at the ball. 
"The drive was worth every minute of our time in New Orleans," Summerville said of her Mardi Gras experi­ence. 
Senior Thomas McCall also traveled t 0 Louisiana 

Fat Tuesday "Contrary to popular this past and celebrate weekend,
belief, you don't really 
life." but he 
For those have to do anything for bypassed 
21 and older, the beads. They just kept Bourbon South Bend's Street for
throwing them offofthe
Linebacker his home­
floats and we collected
Lounge is town of commemorat­quite a bunch." L a k e ing Mardi Charles to Gras with a partake in
Lucy Summerville 
Cajun style a more 
senior
buffet that tradition­
"will begin at 11 in the morning and last until the food runs out," Linebacker bartender, waitress and "jack of all trades" Paula Walsh said. 
"We'll have everything from shrimp au gratin to jambalaya to whiskey cake and there will be all kinds of drink specials," she said. 
While many students got a taste of the New Orleans nightlife while in town for the Sugar Bowl, some returned to experience one of the most famous Mardi Gras celebrations in the world this weekend. 
Senior Luey Summerville 
al, historic 
M a r d i Gras celebration -a debu­tante ball. 
McCall and seven of his Notre Dame friends made the approximately 1,100 mile drive on Thursday night and returned back to South Bend in time for class Monday morning at about 6:30 a.m., McCall said. 
McCall said he and his friends experienced "a very traditional Mardi Gras cele­bration, not the touristy Mardi Gras" that people usu­ally picture when they think of the holiday. 
They attended a crawfish boil on Friday night and got 

Co~ne and Listen Co~ne and Read Co~ne and Play 
Lectio@Eieven 
A Late-Night Cabaret for the Soul 
11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
February 20 featuring: 
Music by d'Oscar Readings by Prof. Henry Weinfield (PLS) 
(Program postponed from February 13) 
Lectio@Eleven brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame 
community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! 

We are ahvays looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser at 
jcouser@nd.edu or call631-3923. Sponsored by First Year of Studies 
left Thursday night around dressed up in tuxedos on 10 to make the 18-hour road Saturday night to serve as trip to New · Orleans. escorts for some of the Summerville said there were town's young women who eight girls and three guys in made their debuts at the two vans and they all took ball. turns driving in shifts to lie said it was a great time make it to Nnw Orleans and on Monday afternoon he around 3 p.m. Friday. joked that he "planned to 
Summerville said she and take a 25-hour nap" to her friends got a taste of the recover from the road trip. Freneh Quarter at a huge parade on Saint Charles Contact Meghan Woos at Street Friday night. mwons@nd.edu 
Every Tuesday enjoy our specialty Sizzlelini with Chicken, Sausage or both. 
Frosty Bellinis only $2 
Try raspberry, green apple or peach. 
ALlAN KITCHEN 5 

Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
51 I 0 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 
Reservations Accepted 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 20, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THr ()BsERvr.:rrs WIRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iranian nuclear construction delayed 
MOSCOW-The launch of a Russian-built nuclear power plant in Iran could be delayed because Iran has fallen behind in payments, Russian officials said Monday. Top Iranian offi­cials swiftly denied that payments had been di'>­rupted, in the latest dispute surrounding the deal at the heart of the two countries' nuclear cooper­ation. 
Last year, Russia agreed to ship nuclear fuel to Bushehr-Iran's first nuclear plant-by March 2007 and launch the facility in September, with electricity generation to start by November. Under a separate deal, Iran agreed to return to Russia all spent fuel from the plant in southern Iran for reprocessing -a move intended to assuage global concerns that the fuel could be used to make nuclear weapons. 
Iran broke the schedule of payments this year under the $1 billion contract, said a Russian offi­cial. He said the Iranians blamed the delay on the need to switch payments from dollars to euros. 
Russia wary of U.S. missiles in Europe 
MOSCOW -In a statement reflecting the grow­ing distrust between Moscow and the West, a top Russian general on Monday warned that Poland and the Czech Republic risk being targeted by Russian missiles if they agree to host U.S. missil1;1 defense bases. 
The stark threat, by missile forces chief GPn. Nikolai Solovtsov. was one of the most bellicose comments yet by Russian officials on the issue, which 10 days ago led President Vladimir Putin to warn of a "new Cold War" in a speech in Munkh that shocked Western governments. 
"If the governments of Poland and the Czech Republic take such a step, the Strategic Missile Forces will be capable of targeting these facilities if a relevant decision is made," Solovtsov told reporters in Moscow, asserting the U.S. plan could upset strategic balance of power in the region. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
New Jersey offers same sex civil unions 
TEANECK, N.J.-Hundreds of gay couples won the same legal rights, if not the title, as married couples Monday as New Jersey became the third state to offer civil unions. More than a dozen other couples applied for licenses for ceremonies later in the week. 
The civil unions, which offer the legal benefits but not the title of marriage, were granted automatically to the hundreds of gay New Jersey couples who had previously been joined in civil unions or married in other states or nations. 
Couples who had not been joined previously could apply for licenses but must wait 72 hours before they can hold civil union ceremonies, the same waiting period for weddings. 
Diocese of San Diego mulls bankrupcy 
SAN DIEGO -The Roman Catholic Diocese of San Diego said in a letter to parishioners this weekend that it is considering declaring bankruptcy to avoid going to trial on more than 140 lawsuits alleging sexual abuse by priests. 
The pastoral statement, signed by Bishop Robert Brom, said if fair settlements can't be reached with abuse victims, "the diocese may be forced to file a Chapter 11 reorganization in bankruptcy court." 
The diocese is concerned "that settlements not cripple the ability of the Church to accom­plish its mission and ministries," the letter said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
State considers video game restrictions 
INDIANAPOLIS -Lawmakers watched clips of violent beatings, topless strippers and other adult material Monday as they considered a bill that would restrict the sale of certain video games to young people. 
Committee chairman Sen. David Ford, R­Hartford City, took responsibility for the decision to show the clips and said he could have handled the situation differently. But he said lawmakers needed to realize the graphic content of some video games. 
The bill cleared the Senate Technology Committee 5-2 and now moves to the full Senate for consideration. 
ISRAEL 

Summit ends with no new agreements 
Rice calls two-hour talks with Israeli, Palestinian representatives 'productive' 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM ­A Mideast  
peace summit designed to  
open a new chapter for  
Israelis and Palestinians fed  
up with violence concluded  
Monday with no new agree­ 
ments and a pledge to keep  
talking.  
The United States, which  
had pushed for the session,  
said it was an accomplish­ 
ment merely to hold such a  
get together for the first  
time in six years. After two  
hours of talks with Israeli  
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert  
and Palestinian President  
Mahmoud Abbas, Secretary  
of State Con'doleezza Rice  
stood alone in a bare-bones  
hotel function room to call  
the session "useful and pro­ 
ductive."  
The prospect of any  
immediate success here  
essentially was hijacked by  
Abbas' surprise announce­ 
ment last week that he will  
govern hand-in-hand with  
the militant group Hamas.  
-The United States and Israel  
list Hamas as a terrorist  
group and refuse all deal­ 
ings with the group.  
Speaking to reporters,  
Hice said the meeting was  
particularly valuable, how­ 
ever, in light of the lingering AP  
uncertainties over Abbas' Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in Jerusalem Monday. Rice's hopes were  
pact with Hamas. hampered by the refusal of the Palestinian group Hamas to recognize Israel.  
"I think the real value  
here is that they sat down to  "What we have heard  covering the Gaza Strip to  Meanwhile, Israeli police  
talk with each other pretty  today has nothing to do with  include the West Bank, said  arrested three protesters  
early in this process," Rice  a partnership," said  Palestinian negotiator Saeb  who managed to enter the  
said.  Mohammed Dahlan, an  Ere kat.  floor of the Jerusalem hotel  
"I could have made the  Abbas confidant.  llamas spokesman Ismail  where Rice is staying, a  
decision that, well, I'll just  "Abu Mazen is determined  Radwan _called Monday's  spokesman said.  
wait until this all sorts out,"  to go ahead with this nation­ summit a failure.  The three entered the  
Rice said, but she said that  al unity government. There  "Rice did not succeed in  hotel, climbed the stairs to  
could have created new  is no backing down," Dahlan  pressuring President Abbas  the floor where Rice is stay­ 
obstacles. "We thought it  said.  ·to withdraw from the unity  ing and shouted before they  
would be best to go ahead,"  Abbas has said that the  government. We call on the  were stopped by body­ 
the secretary added.­ deal brokered by Saudi  U.S. administration to  guards, police spokesman  
Neither Rice nor other  Arabia is the best one he  respect the Palestinian peo­ Micky Rosenfeld said. They  
U.S. officials would describe  could get from Hamas, and  ple's will and recognize the  called on the United States  
the content of the session,  that he would move ahead  government and open a dia­ to free Jonathan Pollard, an  
although Israeli and  with forming a coalition.  logue with the government,"  American who is serving a  
Palestinian officials offered  The power-sharing deal is  he said.  life term in the United States  
some details.  seen as crucial to halting  A senior State Department  for spying for Israel.  
Olmert said he and Abbas  internal Palestinian fighting  · official, speaking on condi­ Israeli police arrested the  
agreed to maintain an open  that has killed more than  tion of anonymity to  three before they got very  
channel of communication,  130 since May.  describe the closed-door  close to Rice's room,  
focused both on improving  Abbas and Olmert also  session, said it was an "an  Rosenfeld said. It was not  
the lives of Palestinians and  discussed possibly extending  irreplaceable opportunity to  clear if Rice was in the room  
stopping terrorism.  a 3-month-old cease-fire  clear the air."  at the time, he said.  

Patriot Act bars Vietnamese refugees 
recognition of their Vietnam era efforts. The anti-terror restrictions, which
Associated Press "Clearly, it's absurd that people who have ensnared other groups as well, also WASHINGTON -Another irony of his­fought with us -people who have bar people who provided "material sup­tory: Sept. 11-era laws aimed at keeping received special exemptions from the port" to terrorist organizations. Last terrorists out of the United States have law precisely for that conduct -should month the Bush administration disqualified many Hmong refugees, the be barred from coming to the U.S. as announced it was granting waivers of very peop.le specially recognized by refugees as a result of that conduct," that restriction to eight groups, but the Congress for helping An1erican troops in said Melanie Nezer, an attorney for the Hmong was not among them. the Vietnam war. Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, who is In Thailand, a group of 153 Hmong Under provisions of the USA Patriot coordinating a working group aimed at refugees have been in limbo as they Act and the Real ID Act, the Hmong who changing the laws. await resettlement from an immigration fought alongside the Americans in the The Hmong began arriving in large detention center in the northern town of "secret war" against communists in Laos numbers during the 1970s, in the after­Nang Khai. A few weeks ago, the Thai are considered terrorists and are there­math of Vietnam, and there were about government aborted plans to send the fore ineligible for asylum or green cards. 170,000 in the U.S. as of the 2000 U.S. Hmong back to neighboring Laos, after These are laws from the same Congress Census, with most settled in California, the men in the group resisted and U.N. that in 2000 passed a law easing the citi­Minnesota and Wisconsin. A later wave and U.S. officials expressed concern zenship requirements for the Hmong in of about 15,000 settled in in 2005. about the planned deportation. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 20, 2007 
with information about the sexual offense in 200:~. two ual assault by making procedure that will follow if in 2004 and one in 2005, all resources readily available 
PortraitAssaults 
a student reports a sex on campus. for students. offense to' University offi­The Web site defines a Kirk and Associate Vice 
continued from page 1continued from page 1 
cials or NDSP. Preacher esti­forcible sex offense as "any President for Student Affairs sexual assault, rape, mated she receives approxi­sexual act directed against Ann Firth are eo-chairs of sized portraits of the kids I worked with at the Boys and Girls Club, and I unwanted sexual contact or mately 12-to-15 calls each another person, forcibly the Sexual Assault Advisory childhood sexual abuse, she school year about sexual and/or against that person's Committee, which Preacher decided that the best thing that I could do with them was share themsaid in an e-mail. This num­offense incidents. will; or not forcibly or said is changing its name to with the kids who inspired them," 
ber does not reflect the But Preacher said she against the person's will thn Committee on Sexual 
Hardy said. 
instances of sexual assault rarely gets calls from a stu­where the victim is inca­Assault Prevention. The goal The portraits now adorn the mainthat occur on campus, dent right after an incident pable of giving consent." of this group, which includes Donley said, since students occurs. Rather, she more This includes forcible rape, faculty, staff and students, is 
hallway of the Club on Sample Street. "Kelly has been a long-time volun­may come to the Counseling often receives them sodomy or fondling and sex­to work on sexual assault tfJer and stall" member, and it meansCenter to talk about another throughout the year, some­ual assault with an object. prevention and education a lot when a staff member invests soissue and bring up past times from the victim, other Boston College, a school and improve University much time into [the Club]," said
instances of sexual assault. times from friends or rec­with a reported population response to incidents, she 
Kregg VanMeter, director of develop­
Still, there's a significant tors. of 14,561, had 10 reported said. 
ment at the Club. "The paintingsgap between a few incidents S-0-S of Madison Center sex offenses in 2003, five in Donley said it is never and the dozens that are Assistant Director and 2004 and nine in 2005. In "easy" to for a victim of sex­
bring a typical hallway to life and reported to the Counseling Therapist Crystal Whitlow 2004 and 2005, two of these ual assault to come forward, 
show the mission WP have with the kids."
Center. "Loyal Daughters," a said Notre Dame and Saint offenses occurred on public but said tho University has play performed last fall Mary's students -mostly property each year. proved several outlets ­
Hardy worked at the Club during written by senior Emily females -come to S-0-S to University of Dayton, with from services like Hesidence 
her freshman year and then returned Weisbecker, featured real use their counseling servic­a reported population of Life, the GendPr Hesource 
early last summer. This year, she works in its art room. 
stories from Notre Dame es, but also said these may 10,495, had 13 reported sex Center and the CounsPling students and pointed at the not be recent cases, but offenses in 2003, 14 in 2004 Center -for students to 
Hardy used photographic refer­ences to create the seven portraits,discrepancy between report­incidents that occurred in and 12 in 2005. One of the use. 
each of whieh features a child partic­
ed and non-reported cases the past which the student is reported offenses in 200:~. Assistant Director for 
ipating in the various activities the-something also attested just starting to address. four in 2004 and two in NDSP David Chapman to by Associate Vice "Between Notre Dame and 2005 occurred on public encouraged students who 
Club offers. President for Residence Life Saint Mary's, we have seen property. . are victims of sp,xual assault 
"They are not exaetly realist ... they are more impressionist portraits Bill Kirk. dozens of victims in the last But Kirk said it's hard to to S!~ek help from the police -with pretty active brush strokes,""For various reasons ... year," Whitlow said. compare statistics and say and other counseling servic­Hardy said. "[The kids at the Boys
the reporting on this doesn't In most of the cases S-0-S Notre Dame has relatively es. 
and Girls Club] act very adult-like,reflect what I think is very employees see, the incident little incidents of sexual "We want the young vic­and I wanted to catch them at their
legitimately the occurrence is acquaintance rape. assault, due to the differ­tims to know that they arn 
childlike moments." 
of this crime on campus and "Usually alcohol is fre­ence in campuses, tho dif­in control of the situation Although I tardy has never donatedoff," he said. quently involved, but almost ferent residence life systems and we are there to help her work before, some of her paint­So why don't victims always the person is known and the frequently unreport­them," Chapman said. 
ings will appear in the 2007 editionalways report? to the victim," she said. ed nature of sexual assault. NDSP snnt e-mails to the of the Dome yearbook.
A victim of sexual offenses The U.S. Department of "If you compare our data student body last week might not tell police or offi­Education's Office of Post with other campuses, we'd announc:ing two separate 
llardy is currently applying for a cials because he or she is Secondary Education main­look good," Kirk said. " ... incidents of sexual offenses 
teaching service projects including Teaeh for America and Alliance for
afraid the authorities will tains an online database But the last thing we'd want -a•forcible fondling sex not believe the report, that shows crime statistics to do is get a false sense of oiTense and a sexual assault 
Catholic Edt~eatiun, and eventually plans to pursue a career working
Donley said. Another com­from colleges throughout confidence because our -that oecurred within a 
with children in art therapy. 
mon deterrent is when too the United States. Notre numbers are very low com­few days of each other. much time has passed and Dame, a school with a pared to other schools." there is no physical evi­reported population of But Notre Dame is trying Contact Kaidynn Riely at 
Contact Becky Hogan at dence, so the victim may 11,479, had one forcible to combat the silenc1~ of sex-kriely@nd.edu 
rhogan2@nd.edu think it is not worth pursu­ing. 
Other reasons include shame, embarrassment and "fear that the process will feel victimizing too," she said. 
Ava Preacher, the victim's resource person for the University, can provide stu­dents or interested parties Tuesday, February 20, 2007 


Dow 
12,767.57 +2.56

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I,634 140 1,618 2,400,320,940 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -0.33  -0.15  44.71  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -0.05  -0.07  145.73  
ONYX PHARM INC (ONXX)  +12.35  +3.05  27.75  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -2.44  -0.72  28.74  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.534  -0.016  4.690  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.20  +0.01  5.030  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.33  -0.0 16  4.788  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.23  -o.o r1  4.676  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +1.40  59.39  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +1.40  672.80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.65  103.05  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  119.6450  
EURO  0. 7602  
POUND  0.5125  
CANADIAN$  1.1653  
IN BRIEF  
mately 50 percent of the 


JetBlue 'paralyzed' by snowstorm 
NEW YORK -The six-day siege of angry and disgruntled travelers at JetBlue's Kennepy .air­port terminal appeared to ease on Monday as service desks functioned more smoothly and cus­tomer calm prevailed despite flight cancellations. 
The beleaguered company said it was cancel­ing almost a quarter of its flights on Monday but planned to restore full operations on Tuesday, a week after a Valentine's Day snowstorm created a travel meltdown that virtually paralyzed JetBlue. 
The service breakdown "was absolutely painful to watch," said David G. Neeleman, the company's founder and chief executive, on Monday. 
He said the storm problems led to other prob­lems, including an overwhelmed reservations system and many of the company's pilots and flight crews being stuck away from where they were needed. The company didn't have a system in place to track the stranded crews and reroute them, something JetBlue is working to rectify, Neeleman said. 
Wal-Mart to target 'areas in need' 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -Wal-Mart Stores Inc. announced Monday its plans for nine stores in areas in need of economic revitalization and said it will use those stores to help other businesses in the area develop. 
Wal-Mart Vice Chairman John Menzer, who heads the company's U.S. operation, was traveling to Indianapolis and Pittsburgh to announce that the company is moving into neighborhoods in each of those cities where commerce has faltered. 
Menzer said Wal-Mart is working with local chambers of commerce, business groups and minority-owned businesses with the goal of guid­ing new suppliQrs and helping new or existing shops thrive. 
"We're looking at working families that need us the most," Menzer said. "That's where we want to go." 
As jobs are created around the new Wal-Mart stores, tax revenue will rise and the neighborhood economy will improve, Menzer said. Two of the stores are already open -in Chicago and Portsmouth, Va. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

XM, Sirius Satellite to merge 
Sirius CEO to lead combined company; XM shareholders to receive $4.57 billion 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK XM 
Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. 
and Sirius Satellite Radio 
Inc., rivals in the lledgling 
satellite radio industry, 
have agreed to combine in a 
deal that investors hope will 
result in lower costs, 
assuming it overcomes sig­
nificant regulatory hurdles. 
The companies billed the 
deal announced Monday as 
a merger of equals, with 
shareholders of both com­
panies owning approxi­
combined entity. However, 
Sirius will be giving $4.57 
billion of its stock to XM 
.shareholders. a substantial 
premium to the value of 
their shares. 

Sirius' Chief Executive 
Mel Karmazin will lead the 
combined company, and 
XM's CEO Hugh Panero will 
st~y on only until the deal is 
closed. XM Chairman Gary 
Parsons will remain in that 
role. 

The deal faces substantial 
obstacles in Washin.gton, 
including a Federal 
Communications 
Commission provision that 
specifically forbids the two . 
companies to combine. 
Analysts have noted that 
the FCC could change the 
rule, but in a statement late 
Monday FCC Chairman 
Kevin Martin said that the 
"hurdle" would be "high" to non-satellite digital radio. would make up for soften­gramming that's currently 
prove that the deal would The XM shareholders will ing retail demand for satel­exclusive to one provider to 
be in the public interest. receive 4.6 shares of Sirius lite radio units. Both servic­listeners of the other, such 
"The companies would stock for every share they es offer dozens of channels as getting Major League 
need to demonstrate that own, valuing them at of talk and commercial-free Baseball games -currently 
consumers would clearly be $17.02 each based on music for monthly fees of only available on XM -to 
better off with both more Friday's closing price for about $13. Sirius listeners. 
choice and affordable Sirius shares. That gives XM radio receivers can't "We will be taking every 
prices," Martin said. XM shareholders a premi­receive signals from Sirius, effort to fmd the best possi­
A combination would also um of 22 percent to the and vice versa. But ble programming combina­
have to meet antitrust $13.98 closing value of Karmazin and Parsons said tion," Parsons said. 
approval from the their stock on Friday. in an interview that the It's too early to say what 
Department of Justice. The Markets were closed companies are working on the deal will mean for sub­
companies are expected to Monday for the Presidents' developing a receiver that scription prices. The merg­
argue that they compete not Day holiday. could receive both signals. er could bring down the 
only with each other but Investors and analysts In the meantime, they cost of providing service, 
also with traditional radio have been speculating said,-assuming the deal but at the same time give 
and a growing base of digi­about a deal for months, goes through, the compa­the company more pricing 
tal audio sources such as and are hoping that the cost nies would make other power as the only U.S. 
iPods, mobile phones and savings that would result arrangements to bring pro-satellite radio provider. 

Rural poor anticipate wage increase 
Associated Press "Of course it would be helpful, lion workers would be affected, 
going to school and supporting myself either directly or indirectly. The insti­
CHERAW, S.C. -Louise McQueen right now," said Platt, 19. tute estimates that workers already. has scrimped all her life, working More than 10 percent of hourly making the new federal minimum two jobs while raising two daughters workers in South Carolina, Louisiana could expect pay hikes after lower­alone and now earning $5.47 an hour and Mississippi would see wage wage earners start making more. as a cook in a small restaurant. So increases if the federal proposal goes South Carolina tourism officials and it's a comfort to her in this rural cor­through -the highest such percent­advocates for the poor say the rising ner of South Carolina that Congress ages in the nation, according to the tide effect would especially be felt this week was poised to raise the Washington-based Economic Policy among those who work in the state's minimum hourly wage to $7.25 over Institute. In South Carolina, that $16 billion tourism industry and the next two years. translates to 179,000 people. other areas where employers already 
"I can get by, but tliis is going to The House and Senate have pay close to the proposed increase 
help me a lot," said McQueen, 54, appr.oved bills raising the hourly min­because they have trouble finding 
who has taken one vacation in her imum wage from $5.15 to $7.25 over workers. 
life and who considers her sole luxu­two years. The Senate bill paired the Louisiana's health care industry is 
ry to be watching television. wage hike with tax breaks for small another good example. Officials say a 
Some 160 miles away, outside businesses. The House, initially reluc­worker shortage caused by Charleston, Kirby Platt juggles tuition tant to add similar tax cuts, was set Hurricane Katrina drove up hospital and rent while working a part-time to pass a smaller tax package on wages in the southern part of the job for $6.50 an hour to help pay her Friday. House and Senate negotiators state, and they fear the effects of a way through technical college. She's will have to work out the differences. federal wage hike on overall health also hoping for the federal pay bump. Nationwide, an estimated 13 mil-care costs. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, February 20, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Tlw bukpnuknt, lJdiJy Newspaper &ruing Nom Dame arul Saini M.tryS 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDIIDR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOID EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: jeffAlben 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofTbe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers, The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obsc:rver (USPS 599 24000} is pub!pd Monday through Friday ex~:cpt during exam and vacation periods. A subscripdon to The Obscrv.::r i~ $100 for om: ~cad~mi~: year, $55 fur one semester, 
The Observer is published ac POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall &nd addrc:s.s eorncrions w: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 ThcO!mrver 
Periodical postllge paid at Notte Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional m.UHng offices-. 024 SoU{h Dining Hall 
Noue Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member oFthe Atwcia!cd Press. An reproduc:tiOll :rights are reserved. 

Undeclared lVar and the role of Congress 
Heady for a surprise? A membnr of Congress has introduced, on the Middle East, a bill embodying common sense and constitutional principle. No kidding. 
H.J. 
Hes. 14, introduced by Congressman Waltnr 

B. 
Jones (H-NC), with two Hepubliean and four Demoeratie co­sponsors, provides that no previously enaeted law "shall bn construed to authorize the use of military force by the United States against Iran." The punch line is in the next seetion: "Absent a national emergency ernated by attack by Iran, or a demonstrably imminent attack by Iran, upon the United States, its tnrritories or possessions or its armed l'orees, the President shall consult with Congrnss. and receive specilie authorization pur­suant to law from Congress, prior to ini­tiating any usn of military l'oree against Iran." 


Substantial evidnnee supports a description of' the Iraq war as a mistake in its inception and llawnd in its execu­tion. ILJ. Hns. 14 seeks to prevent a worse replay in Iran, by requiring that a new war must be initiated pursuant to constitutional proeess. 
On Aug. 17, 1787, aceording to James Madison's notes of the debates, the Constitutional Convention gave Congress the power to "deelare" rather than to "make" war, "leaving to the Exeeutive the power to repel sudden attacks." 'The Exeeutive," Hoger Sherman said, "[should] b~1 able to repel and not to eommenee war." Elbridge Gerry said he "never expected to hear in a republic a motion to empower the Executive alone to deelare war." George Mason "was against giving the power or war to the Exeeutive, because Ihn was! not safely to be trusted with it." 

Tlw Constitution created, in Justice Hobert Jaekson'swords, "a zone of twi­light," with coneurnmt war powers in the Prnsident and Congress but no bright line of' separation. Presidents have put l'orees into combat more than 200 times, all with nxplicit or implieit Congressional approval bel'orn or af'tnr the fact. As Alexandor llamilton notod even in 17S7, "the cornmony of a formal denunciation or war has or latn fallen into disuse." Congress has declared war only live times. But it is still true that Congress should deeidn whether to go to war, with or without a formal declara­tion, and tho Prnsidnnt should eonduet it. 
Tho Prnsidnnt is "Commander in Chief of the army and navy" because, as llamilton said, "the direction of war ... demands ... exercise of power by a sin­gle hand." Congress has no right to for­bid the "surge" of mm·e troops to Iraq or to eut oil' funds l'or that "surgo." Congress, lwwovnr, has thn power of' appropriation and could cut ofT funds l'or continuation of the 1m tire war, as was done in Cambodia and Vietnam. If tho Presidnnt vetond a eut-of'l' of funds, an ovorridn of' that veto would require a two-thirds voto in tho llouso and Senate. And impeachment of the President l'or his position on the war would require a two-thirds vote in the Snnatn to eonviet him. The Pnlsidnnt, ineidentally, is "Commander in ChinI' of' the army and navy," not or the country. 
An attaek on Iran would be a new war rather merely an incident or the Iraq war. Opinions differ on whether a war against Iran would bn justified and nee­nssary. But Congress should make that eall. In 2002 Congress gave the President authority to decide whether to go to war against Iraq "as he deter­mines to be necessary and appropriate." That sort of blank check should not be given again. The members of' Congress should make the actual decision whether or not to go to war, and aceount l'or it to their eonstituents. 
"Too many times," said Congressman Jones, "Congress has abdieated its ... duty...... IWihile the Commander in Chief has the power to eonduct wars­only Congress has the power to author­ize war..... !Tihere is ... concern ... that Administration oflieials are eontemplat­ing military aetion against Iran. .. .. We understand the ... thn~ats posed by Iran .... The question is how best to address these threats .... If the President is eon­templating eommitting our blood and treasure in another war -then he and his administration must eome to Congress and make their case. The Congress answers to the American peo­ple .... It is our Constitutional rosponsi­bility ... to hold hearings, ... to 1waluate the throats and to determine the best way to eounter these throats. II' military action against Iran is necessary, then we in Congress will meet our ... rosponsibil­ity and authorizo it. If no military action is contmnplatlld, then there should be no objection to this commonsense resolu­tion." 
The military personnel of tho United States are relativ1~ly l'ew. But thny are the very best among us. They have a moral and legal right to have military power used, and themsolves put at risk, only through a decision made in aecord with the Constitution and therefore made with proper authority. ILl. Res. 14 should be enaeted to achieve that end. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law S'choolfaculty. He can be reached at 
(574) 633-4415 or at rice.l@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those. ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL

Kaitlynn Riely Kate Gales Eileen Duffy Chris Hine John-Paul Witt Bill Brink How will you observe Lent? Viewpoint Scene Bethany Chris McGrady 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m.
Whitfield 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com
Graphics Matt Hudson 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Submit aLetter
•• • N •• ••••••• ·•·· ••• ••• • •• ········•··· • •• • .•• 
I 

"A person is never happy except at the price of some ignorance. " 
Anatole France French novelist 

·to tbe Editor at 1 
www.ndsmcobse~ver.com I 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 20, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Loyal Daughters' humor detracts from true dialogue 
In fairness to the advocates of "The Vagina Monologues," it is a popular play that is part of our modern, nation­al culture. In some sense, it is not unreasonable for it to be considered in a modern university setting, say in a course on gender studies or sexual assault. Although, in my opinion and in the opinion of many others, its content conflicts not only with Catholic values but also with academic values, it never­theless has made a large enough impact to be considered in a limited and appro­priate way by students. 
Now, by "appropriate way" I do not mean an annual performance by ama­teur actresses. The greatest classics of the West, such as Hamlet or Oedipus Rex, are only performed once a decade, if at all. Some of the best plays reach the stage only once or twice a genera­tion, if we're lucky. Even if it is tolera­ble for such a trashy and explicit play (by comparison) to be performed and sponsored at Notre Dame on one occa­sion, there is certainly no reason to jus­tify it being performed six years in a row. 
As suggested by Mary Elizabeth Walter ("Dialogue is not dead," Feb. 19), there are many more effective ways for dialogue about the issue of the equal dignity of men and women. The Edith Stein Conference and the Right to Life Collegiate Conference are great examples of the issue considered in an intellectual and academic setting. She suggested another option, however, one with which I take issue. She seemed to imply that the performance of Loyal Daughters is a better way to explore the issues of sexual assault on campus. This play is pure sophistry and in no way adds to the important pursuit of Truth, to which Walter alluded. Although it is less explicit, it is much more dangerous. It does not address the issues in an intelligent way, but rather uses humor, stories and catchy tunes to attack the Catholic view of chastity and Notre Dame. These attacks are fallacious and have no grounding in reason. They in no way resemble an intellectual consideration of the real problems we are facing. 
The clearest example of this is the skit involving a logic professor who (ironically enough) uses false logic to try to point out a contradiction in University policy that does not exist. Since ihe skit imita,tes a well-known logician on campus and employs exag­gerated gestures, viewers are too busy laughing to actually think, "Wait a s~c­ond: this is terrible logic!" The perform­ance is marked by many such skits that "prove" their points not by reason but by jokes and jabs. 
Now, I don't know if the writers, per­formers and advocates of Loyal Daughters are aware of their error, whether it is done out of ignorance or malice. I do know that because of its humor and seemingly innocuous con­tent it is much more effective in keep­ing viewers from any intellectual con­sideration of the issues than "The Vagina Monologues" was, and therefore is much more dangerous. The reason that Plato argued in The Republic for censorship was not because the poetry and drama in question were explicit, but because they led people away from living by reason and toward living by delight. And since the goal of the uni­versity is to pursue universal truth, anything which hinders students' ability to think clearly and pursue this truth effectively is inconsistent with our aca­demic character. "The Vagina Monologues" was accordingly inconsis­tent and now lacks sponsorship. To a much greater degree, Loyal Daughters mocks these same academic values. University President Father John Jenkins initially saw the inconsistency of a play called "Loyal Daughters" with our Catholic character. If only we real­ized that its offense is first and fore­most against our academic character, then our University would continue its laudable work and deny sponsorship to Loyal Daughters as well. 
Jon Buttaci sophomore Morrissey Manor Feb. 19 

Positive sibling relationship should be fostered 
Over the past week, we have heard a great many responses from Saint Mary's women in regard to Jonathan Klingler's article "Saint Mary's-we need to talk" (Feb. 13). We believe that the voices of Notre Dame students, however, have been surprisingly mute. On this point, we ~ould like to offer our own humble opinion. In Klingler's article, he refers to the historical relationship between Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross as " ... one of mutual benefit, respect and affection." In Klingler's opinion, this historical relationship has changed to a parasitical relationship in which Saint Mary's, although claiming to be separate and proud, has taken most of the benefits of our relationship. 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross were founded as a family of schools run by the priests, sisters and brothers of the esc. respectively. Indeed, the status of these schools as three related, but distinctly separate, entities follows the original vision of Congregation of Holy Cross founder Father Basil Moreau. When he founded the esc. he believed it best to always have priests, sisters and brothers neigh­boring each other and working coopera­tively, but living in separate communi­ties. In this way, we are all a family. 
Yes, siblings bicker. Whether it be for the last bit of pie or a fight for who gets the car, this is inherent in the nature of siblings. If you have older siblings, you know that while you look up to them, the most annoying thing they can do is demand that you be like them. This is true also of our schools. We bicker over football tickets and relationship status. Notre Dame is the big older brother and as such should help its younger siblings grow along their own path. We are three independent and proud schools, but we each have something to learn from each other. 
We feel that class sharing, ticket shar­ing and event sharing can only help our three schools grow stronger. It is possi­ble that through our communion with each other we can grow into three of the finest schools in the world. We do not feel that Saint Mary's students are "taking our seats;" rather, they are beside us cheering on our student ath-· letes as we should do for theirs. We do not feel that Saint Mary's students are stealing the benefits of a Notre Dame education; rather, they are using the opportunities that they have available to become better people, as we should do with ours. 
Finally, we do not feel that Saint Mary's is hypocritical for calling itself "Separate and Proud;" rather, they are growing up as all families have, togeth­er and individually with their siblings. As a family of colleges, we should be encouraging growth and communication amongst ourselves so that we can all broaden our perspectives and grow to be more worldly people. We challenge those who haven't had the chance yet to go out and explore Saint Mary's and Holy Cross, be it through classes, per­formance opportunities or just by mak­ing a new friend. For our part, we wouldn't have met many of our wonder­ful friends if it hadn't been for the close relationship that Notre Dame shares with Holy Cross and Saint Mary's. 
Finally, and on a slightly separate note, we find the written and verbal attacks on the women of our family dis­gusting. The 'inferiority' of a women's college, the 'easiness' of either college's women and the reference to the ugli­ness of the women angers us. Women of our colleges are not gremlins, they are not inferiors and they are not to be stereotyped. While all of us can take a joke, the constant harassment of the female community has gone too far. It is in this vein that we ask all of you to please respect those of differing race, religion and especially gender in the future. 
Simon Joseph, Nathan Menendez, Tim Politano, Chris Tracy, Mike Albrecht undergraduates Notre Dame Feb. 18 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER. 
CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, February 20, 2007 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Film adaptation of tale impresses viewers 
By ERIN McGINN 
Assistant Scene Ediror 
It is always a diffieult task when a beloved children's book is adapted into a film. Children's books lock away so many emo­tions and memories for young readers that it becomes both painful and frustrating when a film doesn't live up to its original souree material. "Bridge to Terabithia" by Katherine Patterson is one of those books that has been treasured dearly by young readers since it was first published in 1977. A feature film of the work hadn't been tack­led until now because of the dilemmas in creating the world of Terabithia as well as the intensity of the story. Fortunately the film. scripted by David Patterson (the son of the original author), lives up to the novel and is destined to be a children's classic. 
"Bridge to Terabithia" tells the story of Jesse Aarons (Josh Hutcherson), a fifth grade misfit who deals with problems both at school and home through his artwork. His routine life changes when Leslie Burke 
Bridge to Terabithia 


Director: Gabor Csupo Writers: Jeff Stockwell, David Paterson (screenplay) and Katherine Paterson (book) Starring: Josh Hutcherson and AnnaSophia Robb 
(AnnaSophia Robb) arrives at school. Leslie is the daughter of two writers and has a wild imagination and an outgoing pArsonal­ity. The two become friends and they create their own fantasy world called Terabithia, where they use their imaginations to escape from reality and find ways to cope with their problems in the real world. 
"Bridge to Terabithia" uses the special effects team that was created by Peter Jackson when he filmed his "Lord of the Rings" trilogy in order to create the world of Terabithia. In the trailers. they promote the special effects as a strong selling point, hop­ing to attract the same crowds that turned out to see "Lord of the Rings" and "The lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe." Even though the lilm plays up the fantasy much more than the novel, the actual scenes make up a small percentage of the whole movie. 
In the novel, only a small amount of detail is given about Terabithia since it exists only in the minds of the children. This is easily the film's weakest point since the computer graphics tend to blur the line between fantasy and reality, which is always clearly demareated in the book. At some points it is clear that the troll they see really is just a tree, but at other points (such as when the "troll" catches Jesse) that dis­tinction doesn't exist. The filmmakers would have done better to model their fantasy sequences after Peter Jaekson's "Heavenly Creatures" in which two girls also create their own fantasy worlds. That film does a much better job of showing that their fanta­sy exists solely in their minds. 

The core of the story, in contrast to the trailers, lies in the human element -in the friendship between Jesse and Leslie. Hutcherson and Robb both do excellent jobs in portraying the children and in dealing with the occasionally dillicult subject mat­ter. They both succeed in endearing them­selves to the audience, who in turn invests their emotions into the charaeters. 
The supporting cast is less noteworthy, with the exceptions of Jesse's father (Robert Patrick) and their music teacher Ms. Edmonds (Zooey Deschancl) who both do great jobs of showing contrasting adult per­spectives to the children. 
Pans of the book will definitely not be dis­appointed by the film version of "Bridge to Terabithia." The film is just as endearing and emotionally powerful as the original novel. Those familiar with the book already know about the tragic twist that the plot takes, and the film is no less heart-wrench­ing. For those who don't know how its ends, be forewarned that it is impossible to leave without emptying a box of tissues. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
CD REVIEW 
'Emmerick' has a sound for everyone with 'North' 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Southern rock exists in the popular mind -incarnated by bands such as Lynyrd Skynyrd and .38 Special. The genre is no longer popular for emerg­ing artists to emulate -at least not artists that want to find mainstream success. Perhaps this is because the bands that came before them were just so talented at what they did, they set a benchmark no one can hope to match. 
Tim Emmerick and Cold Front County make a valiant and somewhat successful attempt, but cant quite match what came before them. It's album, "North," is an excellent array of rock, country and the melding of those two genres. It does make some in-roads in combining genres-and it does it better than most mainstream bands. However, it can't match· the greats of either musical genre and falls into the trappings of mainstream pop that should be edgier than Matchbox 20. 
The album opens with the raucous 


roots. This is
Tim Emmerick and 

also the best written song on
Cold Front County 

the album as Emmerick sings
North 

about the fail­ings of his per­
Red One Records 

sonal religion and how faith can be do good in the world but can also be a very dangerous
Recommended tracks: 'Chapter and Verse' and 'Storm' 
tool that some will use to put 
"Black River Bridge," which tears through its surprisingly long 4:49 run time. This song sounds shorter than it is and Emmerick and County keeps the rock gods appeased in this open­ing track. However, the gods will smite the next song, "Fall to the Leaves," that sounds only remotely rock and simpl-y tries too hard with forced guitar solos that seem out of place in the factory-scaled blandness that is this song. 
On a slower note, "Intentions Fade" brings about apparitions of The Eagles and manages to keep a toe­tapping tempo going as Emmerick sings about death and mourning. The bluegrass edge to this song is a wel­come addition to the album as most of the other tracks sound they eould have come from anywhere. This one is unique and the talent the band put into this one shows. 
As the album progresses, the rock and roll punch that made the opening track so fun transforms into straight up steel guitar old-school country on "Chapter and Verse." For the fan of country a Ia George Strait and early Alan Jackson, this song will certainly 
appeal to their 

down others. 

"North" could have closed on a stronger note than "Mercy," which clocks in at 6::34 -far too long for a closing track. This song could have benefited off some of the energy from the opening, which would have been appropriate close to this sometimes loud, sometimes ponderous album. 
With something for everyone, Tim Emmerick and Cold Front County promises something for everyone who are fans of the country rock and what falls in between. The tracks on this album that are good are really good and the tracks that are mediocre are really medioere. There are no horri­ble songs on this album but some are certainly better than others. Its too bad Emmerick couldn't keep up the energy through the whole album that he opened with. They should take a note out of Skynyrd's and George Strait's book -the tradition from both old country and southern rock could make this album much better than it is. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, February 20, 2007 
page 11 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Illusionist' fails to realiz~ magic potential 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Many films try to recreate the past and immerse the audience into some far distant time with kings, wars and chivalry. Few modern films, though, try to immerse us in a viewing experience as those viewers of the past would have had. "The Illusionist," however, does exactly this. A tale about a magician who travels to Vienna at the turn of the 19th century, this flick is not so much about the past but about the past viewings offilms. 
Starring Edward Norton and Jessica Biel, "The Illusionist" weaves a plot around the peasant who becomes the famous Eisenheim the Illusionist (Norton). He falls in love with a Countess (Biel) who has caught the eye of the crown price of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Rufus Sewell deftly plays Crown Prince Leopold whose unique voice brings an unmistakable men­ace to the character. The hubris that Sewell brings suits the character well and counters 
The Illusionist 


Director: Neil Burger Writers: Neil Burger (screenplay) and Steven Millhauser (short story) Starring: Edward Norton, Paul Giamatti and Jessica Biel Norton's Eisenheim in a way that is not complicated or subtle but works well for what the film is -an entertaining yarn about magic, love and little else. 
The standout in "The Illusionist" is Paul Giamatti who never fails to impress. He plays the ambitious yet righteous Inspector Uhl. The plot revolves around his inspection ofEisenheim and the desire to learn how his secrets are performed. Giamatti's Uhl is the only character with complication and thus is the most interesting. Eisenheim is the peasant angry at the aristocracy, Leopold is the aristocrat who wants people in their place and Biel is the Countess who wishes she could love who she wants but can't-these are all basic stock characters. Only Uhl examines social mores and roles and questions what he is doing and yet still attempts to legitimize his doing it -this isn't an Oscar caliber performance but it keeps the story interesting. 
The DVD has a commentary by the writer and director Neil Burger that is interesting and insightful. The making of the film is also of note due to the highly detailed sets and costumes. This is where the film shines through the most because it seems the art department is one of the few that actually took their jobs seriously. Except for a certain sword that looks like something out of a·cracker-jack box, the sumptuous costumes and varied sets are explored in this making of featurette that is sure to impress. Jessica Biel on "The Illusionist" is nothing too impressive. Her acting was sub-par, as was her interview on the film. It would have been far more inter-esting if they had interviewed veteran film actors Norton or Giamatti. 

Overall, this film is entertaining and high­ly watchable. The ending has some pre­dictable twists alongside some not so pre­dictable twists that keep the plot interesting. This is not a film that deserves a blind-buy but instead should be watched before being purchased. Fans of magic, mystery and period pieces will erijoy it thoroughly. If, however, you aren't into genres of that ilk, this may not be the film .for you. It may have 
.. ,. 
received more credit if it hadn't been released right in line with the similar (and better) "The Prestige" but it still can hold its own. This is not Norton's nor is it Giamatti's best, but each performance is entertaining in its own way. Netflix or Blockbuster deserves your business for this one but per­haps not Best Buy -unless you're a magic lover. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Rider' takes the fast lane to cinematic trash heap 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Writer 
The first sign that something's gone horribly, horribly wrong with "Ghost Rider" comes 15 minutes into the movie. 
Life is good for young Johnny Blaze, a hotshot motorcycle-riding stuntman ­until he finds a (rather conveniently placed) doctor's diagnosis lying around the house, saying his father has cancer. Fortunately, a mysterious stranger named Mephistopheles (Peter Fonda) offers a miraculous cure for his dear old dad. All Johnny has to do, naturally, is sign away his soul. 
He's thinking about it, and while read­ing the agreement, he pricks his finger on a sharp edge of the devilish docu­ment. A small drop of blood splatters on the dotted line. 
"That's good enough," says Mephisto, a crafty old dodger. And that's that ­Johnny's fate is sealed. Too bad Mephisto never told Johnny that his cancer-free dad would ride headlong into the outer rim of a ring of fire the next day. 
Wait, didn't the snazzy tagline on all the "Ghost Rider" movie posters proclaim that, "long ago he made a deal to save someone he loved"? Clearly, the filmmak­ers didn't get the memo when forming this steaming hot pile of hellish tripe. 
Ghost Rider 


Director: Mark Steven Johnson Writers: Mark Steven Johnson Starring: Nicolas Cage, Peter Fonda, Matt Long and Raquel Alessi 
That Johnny never willfully signs the damned paper is the first of many signs that our hero, and this picture, is beyond saving. 
A paper-thin plot gets slimmer still when director/writer Mark Steven Johnson cranks time forward to the pres­ent. When he's not plotting death-defying stunts, grownup Johnny (Nicolas Cage) enjoys eating jelly beans out of martini glasses, jamming to Karen Carpenter and reading dusty old tomes about the occult. But -surprise, surprise -Mephisto comes calling when his vile son, Blackheart (Wes Bentley), wants to move in on daddy's turf. Mephisto unleashes the dormant Ghost Rider and sets Cage -err, the Rider -loose to wreck unholy vengeance on us, err, those who deserve it. 
As comic book properties go, Ghost Rider is the redheaded stepchild of the Marvel Comics family. He'll never have the name recognition of a Spider-Man or Wolverine, but his full head of flames and goth-chic getup of black leather jacket, chains and a wicked hog means he's always trying. Sadly, this Rider careens into a ditch, and the culprits are Cage and Johnson. 
"Daredevil," Johnson's last feature film, was a passable and sometimes genuinely entertaining take on another lesser­known hero in the Marvel Comics stable. But here, his skills seem to have devolved. 
The dialogue in "Ghost Rider" is atro­cious. Many of the zaniest one-liners are left for Bentley's Blackheart to contend with. It's hard enough to fear a villain who dares to proclaim, "I will retire your Ghost Rider. And then I will retire you ... Father." But it's a downright embarrass­ment to villainy when his encore is, "We are Legion ... because we are many!" Pathetic. 

For diehard comic book fans, Joel Schumacher's 1997 film "Batman and Robin" is a registered crime against humanity for how badly it crippled the Dark Knight. Ghost Rider purists have good reason to weep, for Johnson comes dangerously close to dunking their beloved Flamehead under water for good. 
As for Mr. Cage, he seems content to spend his screen time making a mockery of the character and himself. When pro­ducers were looking to land Johnny Depp for the role, Cage stepped in and revealed his deep love -and body art ­for the character. Ironically (or fittingly), Cage had to have his Ghost Rider tattoo covered with make-up to play Johnny Blaze. 
When he's not hiding behind a heinous­ly bad computer-generated skull, Cage ceaselessly points at his victims and ges­ticulates about justice. His Ghost Rider rarely bothers to punch someone with those oven-hot mitts of his, preferring instead to utilize his Penance Stare. After locking eyes with his victim in a short­lived staring contest, Ghost Rider reflects back all of the pain that the wrongdoer has inflicted on other people and increas­es the agony tenfold. 
It is our deep misfortune that the real Ghost Rider is nowhere in sight to save us, for surely he would unleash the Penance Stare on Johnson and Cage, making them suffer the full horror of what they've done. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIED$ Tuesday, February 20, 2007 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Fields, not Gray, leads Panthers over Seton Hall 
Pitt notches 11th Big East victory without its injured star center 
Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Levance Fields scored seven of his 15 points in the final 2 1/2 minutes to help short-handed No. 10 Pittsburgh hold off Seton Hall 71-68 Monday night. 
Levon Kendall had 14 points and eight rebounds and Sam Young added 11 points for the Panthers (24-4, 11-2 Big East), who were without injured 7­foot center Aaron Gray. The victory was the 1 DOth for Pittsburgh coach Jamie Dixon (100-26), who reached the milestone faster than any coach in school history. 
Eugene Harvey scored 19 of his 24 points in the second half, Jamar Nutter had 19 and Brian Laing added 12 points and eight rebounds for Seton Hall (12-14, 3-10). 
The Pirates, who fell behind by 14 with 5 1/2 minutes to go, 
pulled  to  64-61  on  Paul  
Gause's  tip-in  with  1:20  
remaining.  ·  

Fields, who made five free throws in the final minute, hit two to push Pitt's lead to 6 7-61 with 49 seconds left. After Harvey's layup pulled Seton Hall to within three with 16 seconds remaining, Fields made two more from the line less than a second later. 
Nutter then hit his fourth 3­pointer of the game to pull the Pirates to 70-68 with about 5 seconds remaining, and Fields made 1 of 2 free throws to make it a three-point game. Nutter's desperation 3 from inside half court at the buzzer bounced high off the rim. 
Pittsburgh moved one-half game ahead of Georgetown for first place in the conference, and visits the Hoyas on Saturday. 
Gray, who sprained his left ankle in the final minute of a win over Washington on Saturday, was on the bench in warmups with a protective boot on his foot. 
After missing their one free­throw attempt in the opening period, the Pirates made their charge by making 16-for-19 from the line in the second half. 
The teams traded baskets for the first 5 112 minutes of the second half, before Seton Hall pulled to 39-37 on two free throws each by Harvey and Nutter. Keith Benjamin's dunk pushed Pitt's lead back to four. 
Harvey's basket with 11:01 
CLASSIFIEDS 
left cut the Pirates' deficit to · 43-41, and the Panthers had a shot-clock violation on the 
ensuing possession. 
No. 16 Marquette 80 
Villanova 67 
As far as Lazar Hayward was 
concerned, it was about time. 
The freshman scored a 
career-high 18 points to lead 
No. 16 Marquette to an victory 
over Villanova. 
Hayward, who entered the 
game averaging· six points per 
game, had 13 in the flrst half 
before fouling out late in the 
second. 
"Guys were making fun of 
me how it was about time I 
start playing this way," said 
Hayward, who was 5-for-7 
from the floor. "I can't let this 
be a one-hit wonder." 
Dominic James added 18 
points and Wesley Matthews 
had 16 points for the Golden 
Eagles (22-7, 9-5 Big East). 
who snapped a three-game 
losing streak. 
Marquette made all 16 of its 
free throws in the flnal 5:58 of 
the game. Matthews was 12­
for-12 from the line. 
For the game, Marquette 
shot 31-35 (88.6 percent) from 
the foul line. The team entered 
the game with a 64.2 shooting 
percentage, 15th out of 16 Big 
East teams. 
"They've been struggling 
shooting free throws, but they 
were drilling them," Villanova 
coach Jay Wright said. 
Scottie Reynolds scored 25 
points for Villanova (18-9, 6­
7), which lost its second 
straight game. 
"If there's a better freshman 
guard in the country, I'm not 
sure who it is," Marquette 
coach Tom Crean said of 
Reynolds. 
Curtis Sumpter added 14 
points for the Wildcats, whose 
last four losses have come 
against Top 25 teams. 
"You're going to lose some 
games," Sumpter said. "You 
can't worry about that. You've 
got to focus on your next 
game." 
Mike Nardi made two free 
throws to cut Marquette's lead 
to 70-64 with 2:24 remaining, 
but Villanova scored just three 
points, all on free throws, the 
rest of the way. 
The Wildcats missed three 
straight 3-pointers and 
Marquette made all 11 of its 
free throws in the final1:29. 
No. 6 Kansas 71 
Kansas State 62 
Freshman reserve Sherron Collins scored 20 points and led a key second-half run, and No. 6 Kansas beat Kansas State to extend its winning 


streak in Manhattan to 24 games. 
Mario Chalmers added 17 points, Darrell Arthur had 13 points and 12 rebounds, and Brandon Hush finished with 11 points for Kansas (24-4, 11-2 Big 12), which has never lost in Bramlage Coliseum since it opened for the 1988-89 sea­son. The Jayhawks' last loss in Manhattan was a 58-57 defeat on Jan. 29, 1983, in Ahearn Fieldhouse. 
Kansas trailed by one at the break and didn't take control until the midpoint of the sec­ond half. 
Two 3-pointers by Cartier Martin and another by Lance Harris pulled the Wildcats (19­9, 8-5) even at 43-all with 
11:12 to go. But Collins answered with a 3-pointer that ignited a 16-4 run for the Jayhawks. 
A basket by Hush and two free throws by Collins gave Kansas its first double-digit lead, 59-47, with 5:39 to go. 
Kansas State got to 68-62 on Clent Stewart's layup with 46.9 to go, and then got the ball back on Akeem Wright's steal. But David Hoskins missed a 2­footer with 15 seconds left, and Hush iced it when he hit one free throw, missed the sec­ond and put back his miss with· just under 7 seconds to go. 
The Wildcats shot just 32.3 percent (20-for-621. 
Martin led Kansas State with 19 points. Stewart added 13 points and Harris had 10 for the Wildcats 
No. 15 Butler 68 Wisconsin-Green Bay 58 
A.J. Graves scored 20 points, Brandon Crone added 17 and No. 15 Butler beat Wisconsin­Green Bay. 
The Bulldogs (25-4, 12-2 Horizon League) battled through a physical game after they had lost two of their pre­vious three in the past nine days with setbacks at Wright State on Feb. 10 and No. 13 Southern Illinois on Saturday. 
Green Bay (16-13, 7 -8) had won four of its previous five, but lost its 11th straight game against a Top 25 opponent after hitting just one field goal in the flnal 5:47. 
Hyan Evanochko, who fin­ished with 10 points, made two free throws to cut Butler's lead to 58-56 with 2:19 to play, but Graves answered with a 3­pointer and Crone grabbed a rebound off Mike Schachtner's shot and was fouled. 
Crone hit both free throws to make it 63-56 and Green Bay never came back within strik­ing distance, missing six of its final seven shots. 
Mike Green scored 13 points and Pete Campbell added 11 for Butler. 
Schachtner finished with 13 points for the Phoenix, which also got 11 each from Terry Evans and Hyan Tillema. 
Green Bay, which last beat a ranked team in 1998, took a five-point lead in the second half before the Bulldogs changed tactics and tried to speed up the game by pushing the tempo off missed shots. 
A quick run by Butler erased the deficit, and Campbell hit three 3-pointers as part of a 9­1 run to give the Bulldogs' a 47-40 lead. 
Graves, who went 6-of-17 from the field and 3-of-11 from beyond the arc, slashed through the lane and hit a layup to make it 54-46 with just under 6 minutes to play, and Green Bay's drought began after Troy Cotton's 3­pointer made it 55-51. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content withoUt issuing refunds. 
FOR SALE FoR RENT 
Luxury townhome,walk to ND. Leases available for 2007-08: PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­
3,4,5 bdrm,3 bath homes,frpls,2-car ONE WHO IS? 
3or4 bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. garages. PERSONAL 
$600/Bed/mo. You do not have to be alone. We Condo For Sale in SB 2 bdrm Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do want to help. twnhse great condition & neighbor-House available for 2007-2008. 574-360-2569. 5038. not go it alone. If you or someone 
hood new sunroom call 269-445­ you Jove needs confidential support  Call our 24 hour confidential hotline  
2765. $93,000  Very Large,  BETIER HOMES,  Room for rent in huge home  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  at  
Close to Campus,  1 block east of campus. Very clean,  Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more  
2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR- Just Renovated.  BETIER AREAS,  safe & private. Great student price.  information, visit our web site at  1-800-No-ABORT  
QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT  239-707-2025.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg- 
CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE  Contact  BETIER DEALS.  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  or visit our website at  
OWNER,$6,500. CALL 243-5454.  MacSwain@ gmail.com  BlueGoldRentals.com  andersonNDrentals.com  in The Observer.  www.lifecall.org  



OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, February 20, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wmE SERVICES page 13 
Men's Basketball Associated Press Top 25 

team  tedtrd  points  
1  Wisconsin  28~2  1;747  
2  Ohio State  24~3  1;7~3  
3  Florida  24-3  1,647  
4  UCLA  23~3  . ·1;~11····  
5  North carolina  23;.4  1,474  
6  Kansas  •23•4  1,403  
7  Memphis  23·3  1,378  
8  TexasA&M  22,4  1,283  
9  Washington State  22~4  1,172  
10  PiHsburgh  .23-4  1,161  
11  Nevada  24·2  1,146  
12  Georgetown  20·5  1,009  
13  Southern Illinois  23-5  962  
14  Air Force  23·4  831  
15  Butler  24-4  695  
16  Marquelle  21•7  510  
17  Vanderbilt  18·8  413  
18  Duke  20·7  410  
19  Texas  19·7  332  
20  louisville  19·8  286  
21  BYU  20·6  264  
22  West Virginia  20·6  240  
23  Oregon  20·7  218  
24  Virginia  18-7  185  
25  Alabama  19·7  177  

Women's Basketball Associated Press Top 25 
team record points· 

1 Duke 28·0 1,250 2 Tennessee 24·2 1,190 3 Connecticut 24•2 1;129 4 North Carolina 26·2 1;116 5 Ohio State 24,2 917 6 Maryland 254 957 7 LSU 234 947 8 Stanford 23·4 869 9 George Washington 23·2 846 10 Arizona State 25·3 829 11 Georgia ·23·5 77(} 12 Vanderbilt 23•4 665 13 Oklahoma 20·4 629 14 Baylor 23·4 609 15 Purdue 23·5 532 16 TexasA&M 20•5 498 17 Middle Tennessee Sl. 24·3 465 18 Bowling Green 24·2 437 19 Marquette 22·4 304 2(} Michigan State 21·6 300 21 Rutgers 17-7 256 22 James Madison 24·2 157 23 Louisville 22·5 107 24 Wise. Green Bay 21·3 102 25 Nebraska 21·6 90 
NCAA Women's Basketball MIAA Standings 
·team conferem:e overall record. record 

1 Calvin 
2 Hope 
3 SAINT MARY'S 
4 Albion 
4 Olivet 
6 Alma 
7 Tri-State 
8 Adrian 
9 Kalamazoo 


around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
LSU at Kentucky 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Denver at San Antonio 8 p.m., TNT 
Phoenix at LA. Clippers 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
NFL 


Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -Norv Turner got his third shot at an NFL head coaching job when he was hired Monday by the San Diego Chargers, a week after the surprise firing of Marty Schottenheimer. 
The hiring came less than 24 hours after the Chargers wrapped up their inter­views. The Chargers also hired Ted Cottrell as defen­sive coordinator. 
Turner, the San Francisco 49ers' offensive coordina­tor, was the only one of the six candidates who's been an NFL head coach, and the only one from the offen­sive side of the ball. 
He inherits a team that was an NFL-best 14-2 last season but melted down in its playoff opener, a stun­ning 24-21 loss to the New England Patriots. 
Last Monday, the Chargers again surprised the NFL when president Dean Spanos fired Schottenheimer, citing a "dysfunctional situation" between the coach and general manager A.J. Smith. 
Turner had trouble win­ning in the regular season, going 58-82-1 in head coaching stints with Washington and Oakland. Schottenheimer had trou­ble winning in the postsea­son, going 5-13 overall and 
IN BRIEF 

Swindal returns to work,
apologizes for distractions 
TAMPA, Fla. -Steve Swindal returned to work at Legends Field on Monday and apologized for becom­ing a distraction. He wouldn't specu­late whether his arrest last week for driving under the influence would alter his role as George Steinbrenner's designated successor to run the New York Yankees. 
Swindal was arrested early Thursday by the St. Petersburg Police, who claimed he was driving 61 mph in a 35 mph zone. Swindal was released on $250 bond and has a March 15 court date. 
"I just wanted to tell you on a per­sonal level how embarrassed I am for my family, for the Yankees, the fans. I know I let a lot of people down, and I promise to do better and put this behind me," he said, stand­ing in front of a photograph of Billy Martin in the Legends Field press box. 
0-2 with the Chargers. 
Turner was San Diego's offensive coordinator in 2001, when LaDainian Tomlinson was a rookie and Smith was the assis· tant to the late John Butler. 
The Chargers still use the same offense Turner installed. 
"This isn't a team where you're rebuilding," Turner said. "We should start fast. We should be good early and we should be good late. Not having to go through the normal things you have to go through when you make a coaching change is going to help the players more than anyone." 
Turner was fired by the Raiders in 2005 after going 

Colts place franchise tag on 
Freeney despite poor season 
INDIANAPOLIS-The Indianapolis Colts made defensive end Dwight Freeney their franchise player on Monday, keeping him with the Super Bowl champions for at least one more season while they work on a long-term contract. 
Freeney, a first-round draft pick in 2002, missed the Pro Bowl this year for the first time since his rookie season. He was held to a career-low 5 1/2 sacks while fighting shoulder and leg injuries. 
Still, the Colts were not going to let him get away. 
"He wasn't going to go anywhere," team president Bill Polian said. "There's no timeline, but we're still talking (to his agent) with the idea of putting together a longer deal. He's a key part of our team." 
Freeney would have become an unrestricted free agent March 2 without a new contract. 
9-23 in two seasons. 
San Francisco's Mike Nolan quickly hired Turner to take over the NFL's 32nd-ranked offense. Turner got remarkable progress from quarterback Alex Smith and an improved offensive line. He helped Frank Gore become the NFC's leading rusher in a breakout season. 
Turner will be able to help with the continued development of quarter­back Philip Rivers, who was voted to the Pro Bowl but saw his play tail off down the stretch. Tomlinson was the league's MVP after setting NFL records with 31 touch­downs and 186 points. 

Federer ties record for 
longest stretch atop rankings 
LONDON -Roger Federer tied Jimmy Connors' record of 160 con­secutive weeks as the top-ranked · player in men's tennis Monday. 
The 10-time Grand Slam champi­on has held the No. 1 ATP Tour ranking since Feb. 2, 2004. The Swiss star is assured of breaking the record next week. 
"Breaking records and doing something that hasn't been done for a long time, it's really nice," Federer said recently. 
Connors was No. 1 "from July 1974 to August 1977. He is now coaching one of Federer's biggest rivals, Andy Roddick. 
Federer, who has won six of the last seven Grand Slam titles, hasn't played since beating Fernando Gonzalez in the Australian Open final on Jan. 28. He returns to action next week at the Dubai Open. 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 20, 2007 
NFL 
Bears won't retain defensive coordinator Rivera 
Assistant coach crafted one ofthe league's top defenses in Chicago 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. Chicago defensive coordinator Ron Rivera has gone from head coaching candidate to out of a job -a little more than two weeks after Bears were in the Super Bowl. 
Rivera, who has talked with eight different NFL teams about their head coaching positions over the last two seasons, had a three-year contract with the Bears that was set to expire next week. The NFC champions announced Monday he will not be back. 
Head coach Lovie Smith had been pushing Rivera for head coaching jobs, now he's pusheq him off his staff. 
"It's just something that coach decided he was going to shuffle his staff and we'll go from there," Rivera said during a conference call. 
Rivera said he wanted to return and was told a few days ago he wouldn't. 
Was there a personality conflict with Smith? 
"No, no, no, no, please. I don't think there is. I really don't," he said. 
"I believe this is just a foot­ball decision and it was made. Emotionally, I'm disap­pointed in not getting the opportunity to come back in '07 because as I said at the end of the year after the loss that this is a football team that's headed in the right direction." 
Smith, a defensive-oriented coach, insisted there no philosophical differences with Rivera. 
"As much as anything, it's just a fit that we have and right now the direction I would like to go and the direction that Hon would like to go, we're going in two dif­ferent directions," Smith said during a conference call. 
"It's been my goal all along to help Hon, to do everything I could to get Hon an opportu­nity to get a head football coaching job and it's no more than that. We've tried to do that. l{on had a contract. I don't see it as a firing or any­thing like that. llis contract expired and he wants to go in one direction, and I'd like to go in one. No more than that." 
Hivera was a linebacker on Chicago's Super Bowl champi­on team in 1986 and then led a defense that helped the Bears make the playoffs in back-to-hack seasons. Chicago had trouble contain­ing Indianapolis in the Super Bowl. losing 29-17 to the Peyton Manning-led Indianapolis Colts. 
Rivera has been an assis­tant coach for 10 years in the NFL beginning as a quality control coach with the Bears in 1997. lie spent five years with the Philadelphia Eagles as their linebackers coach and then the last three in charge of Chicago's defense. 
The Bears led the NFL with 44 takeaways in the regular season, but the defense was slowed in the latter stages of the season after injuries to 


defensive tackle Tommie Harris and safety Mike Brown. 
Smith did not elaborate when asked if there were things about Hivera's per­formance he did not like. 
"Those are the things Hon 
Do you know about OIS's Summer Programs! 

and I talked about," Smith said. "We feel good about the things wn did together during that time, but no more needs to be said about that. That's between he and 1." 
Hivera was a candidate last season for head coaching jobs in Green Bay and St. Louis. This year he talked with Pittsburgh, Miami, Atlanta and Arizona before the Bears started postseason play. After Chicago lost the Super Bowl, he interviewPd for coaching vacancies at Dallas and just a few days ago at San Diego. 
Smith said he would move quickly to replace Hivera. Linebackers coach Bob Babich is considered a top candidate. 
Even though many NFL coaching spots are already filled, Rivera said he is confi­dent he will get a job. 
"The timing sometimes could have been better or it could have been worse. It is what it is right now," he said. 
Tuesday, February 20, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Rodriguez admits relationship issues with Jeter 
("It's pretty cool") and his

Yanks infielder speaks 
refusal to rule out exercisingfrankly about problems the opt-out provision in his con­
tract after this season {"I under­

with captain, himself. stand my options"). 
A-Rod and Jeter were buddy­Associated Press buddy back in the 1990s, when Rodriguez was a young star TAMPA, Fla. -Yes, it's true, shortstop in Seattle and Jeter admitted Alex Rodriguez, his emerged as a force that helped relationship with Derek Jeter is the New York Yankees win four not what it once was. World Series titles in five years. 
Surrounded by reporters and But A-Rod dissect Jeter in a cameras as he sat in the first-2001 Esquire article, saying base dugout Monday at Legends "Jeter's been blessed with great Field, A-Rod played true confes-talent around him" and "he's sions, acknowl-never had to edging they no lead." longer have "People start assuming "You go into sleepovers and h h' l New York, you
don't go out t at t mgs are a ot wanna stop together all the worse than what they are, Bernie {Williams) ti~e anymore. which they're not. But a';d . , {Paul) 
Peo~le .start they're obviously not as 0 Neill, A-Rod 
assummg that was quoted as things are a lot great as they used to be. saying. "You 
worse than what We were like blood never say, 'Don't they are, which brothers., let Derek beat they're not. But you.' He's never they're obvious-your concern." ly not as great Alex Rodriguez S i n c e 
as they used to Yankees third baseman Rodriguez was be. We were like acquired by the blood brothers," Yankees in 2004, 
Rodriguez said. "You don't have their relationship has been ana­to go to dinner with a guy four, lyzed and dissected, a soap­five times a week to do what opera sidebar to New York's you're doing. It's actually much repeated postseason failures. better than all you guys expect, Until now, A-Rod had denied but I just want to let the truth their relationship had changed. be known." Sitting in jeans and a black 
On the first day of his fourth sweat jacket, Rodriguez said it season with the Yankees, he did was "important" that people three rounds of interviews -heard the truth diredly from English-language television, him. Spanish-language television and "Let's make a contract," print reporters. He talked about Rodriguez said after the first his poor postseason ("I stunk"), Jeter question. "You don't ask his pride at being the highest-me about Derek anymore, and I paid player in U.S. team sports promise I'll stop lying to all you guys.'' together." 
"The reality is there's been a While Rodriguez won the AL change in the relationship over MVP award for the second time 14 years and, hopefully, we can in 2005, he was booed for just put it behind us," he went stretches at Yankee Stadium on. "You go from sleeping over last season, when he hit made at somebody's house five days a 24 errors. Some thought that if week, and now Jeter spoke out you don't sleep on A-Rod's over. It's just not "They're probably not behalf, fans that big of a deal.'' would go easier
as tight as they used to
Jeter had left on him. the clubhouse by be, but it's not a "Derek can't the time reporters situation where they stop the fans were allowed back from booing.
don't look at each other 
in. His agent, They boo all of 
Casey Close, said anddon'tsay, 'Hi."' .us," catcher later that Jeter Jorge Posada didn't want to 
Jason Giambi said. 
comment. And then 
Yankees designated hitter came another
Most of the Yankees have long abysmal post­concluded the season for relationship between their cap­Rodriguez. He's 4-for-41 {.098) tain and Rodriguez is a non­without an RBI in his last 12 issue. playoff games dating to 2004. 
"They're probably not as tight He got just one hit in last year's as they used to be, but it's not a playoff loss to Detroit. 
situation where they don't look at each other and don't say, 'Hi.' They're teammates and they're still friends," Jason Giambi said. 
"I suspect it's nowhere near as bad as the general percep­tion is," general manager Brian Cashman added. 
During the offseason, former Yankee Darryl Strawberry said Jeter needs to "embrace" Rodriguez. A-Rod said he didn't feel Jeter needed to support him more. 
''I'm a big boy. I'm 31 years old now, so I should be able to help myself out there," he said. "I care about what he thinks about me on the field. I think it's important for us to be on the right page. And we are. We're here to win a championship 
"I stunk. And when you stink, sometimes, you have to call it," he said. "I went 1-for-14 last year with an error and that's pretty lousy." 
As the Yankees were eliminat­ed in Game 4, he was dropped to eighth in the batting order for the first time in a decade. 
"It was very disappointing," he said. "Yes, I was embar­rassed." 
Rodriguez is entering the sev­enth season of his $252 million, 10-year contract, a deal he signed with the Texas Rangers. He can terminate the agreement after the season, forfeit the $72 million owed in the final three years and become a free agent. He also could pressure New York for an extension. 
He said he wants to remain a Yankee, but wouldn't promise that he will. Like Mariano Rivera, he is thinking ahead to the new ballpark scheduled to open in 2009. 


Announcing the Year 
· 2007 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the :year 2007 annual competition for travel in suppOli ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000. and will not nonnally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian: will involve the study ofItalian language. literature, and culture: and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include. but arc not limited to: Loyola University in Rome. Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa. Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy HalL 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 

l)  an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals;  
3)  a description of the r·esearch project or the program they intend to follow:  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved:  
5)  two letters of recommendation  
6)  a transcl'ipt showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list of other sources of funding (being sought or confirmed) for the same project  
(i.e. Office of International Studies, Nanovic Institute, etc.)  
Application Deadline: Friday, Febmary 23, 2007  
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University of Notre Dame  

CAMP SWEENEY 
Amedical sports summer camp In Texas. 
Ctlrrently has openings for male counselors. 
IIaIIil'JI1\'tt Feb 2lst. .................... 8 pm 
DeBartolo Hall -Group Information Setting 
Feb 22nd ....... 9 atn -5 ptn 
Planner Hall -Walk-in Interviews 
CONTACT: 
John Sissney 903-651-9575 or Skip Rigsby 940-665-2011 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 20, 2007 
PGA TOUR 

Woods shoots for eighth straight Tour victory 
Tiger can reboundfrom overseas loss with win in J!ccenture tourney 
Associated Press 

MARANA, Ariz. -Tiger Woods ran into one player and got two reminders. 
He was zipping along The Gallery during a practice round Monday, his first look at a new course for the Accenture Match Play Championship where he will try to win his eighth straight PGA Tour event. Some people will argue it's not really a winning streak, for Woods has failed to win four times overseas. 
So it was only fitting that he caught up to Shaun Micheel on the second green. 
"Do you think I should wish him luck this week?" said Tony Lingard, the caddie for Michenl. 

Tho streak in its purest form ended Sept. 14 on a gray after­noon in the English countryside when Mieheel, the last seed in the 16-man field of the IISBC World Match Play Championship, pulled off a stunner and beat Woods, 4 and 3. 
That never came up during the next 16 holns of a course that stretehes some 3 miles out into thn desert and eventually 

This way u 
Start at Ernst &Young, and your career is headed in the right direction. With our award-winning training programs, you'll have the resources you need to 
LLI z 0 

enhance your skills. It's an environment that promotes your personal and professional growth and success. So there's only one way to go-up. Visit us on campus or at ey.comjusjcareers. 
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 
just north of Tucson, with two par 5s over 600 yards and two par 4s that can be reached off the tee. 
It's a new course for all 64 players in the field after the World Golf Championship event left soggy La Cos_ta Hesort north of San Diego. Phil Mickelson was due on Tuesday, and he joked last week that he couldn't remember the last time he played a regular prac­tice round anywhere exeept the majors. 
It is rare for Woods to show up on Monday, but he knew nothing about the course, and didn't learn much except to notice it was green, brown and white with some marvelous vis­tas of the valley below. 
At stake this week is the streak with the asterisk. 
Counting only PGA Tour events, the last time he didn't go home with a trophy was July 9, when he was second at the Wnstern Open. Woods believes his streak ended when he lost to Mieheel. although he also reeognizes that his PGA Tour streak is seven and counting, and each week brings him clos­er to the 11 in a row that Byron Nelson won in 1945. 
More than anything, be real­izes there are no guarantees at the Aecenture Match Play Championship. 
Woods is a two-timH champi­on of this fickle event. but he also has lost in every round except the semifinals. A year ago, hn was bounced by Chad Campbell in the third round. 
And while this WGC ev~mt is played over 18 holes until the 36-holn championship match, even the purest form of match play -36 holes every match ­didn't spare Woods a defeat at Wentworth last September. 
"J eherish my win against him," said Micheel, who lost in the championship match that week to Paul Casey. "It's excit­ing to be playing in the same generation with a guy who arguably is the best ever." 
And what does Micheel think when he hears about. the win­ning streak? 
"''m not too much of a histo­rian," he said, "But I don't think guys were going overseas back in Byron's day. Golf was nothing like it is today. Tiger's streak is a PGA Tour streak, and it's amazing. But this can be the one tournament that gets him." 
Micheel won't face Woods in the first round Thursday -he will play third-seeded Adam Scott, while Woods takes on No. 64 J .J. Henry, who got into the field when Chari Schwartzel withdrew. The former PGA champion would have to win all his matches, and Woods would have to win all his, for them to meet again. 
Micheel already has the end­ing scripted.­
"J think it's interesting that Byron's streak ended in Memphis," he said. "Wouldn't that be something if a guy from Memphis could stop Tiger's tour streak?" 
That's getting too far ahead. Most players know better than to look past Wednesday. 
The only player who should be concerned about Woods ­and vice versa -is Henry. Maybe it was just a coinci­dence, but Henry was on the flight to Tucson with Micheel on Sunday night. 

winds baek through cactus and shrub toward the clubhouse. 
They talknd about the birth of Micheel's daughter, Marin Belle born on Feb. 9, and Micheel asked him if Woods knew what gender his child would be when it comes this summer. 
"We're not going to lind out," Woods told him. "It's got to be one or the other." 
The rest of the round was spent navigating the 7,446­yard course at Dove Mountain 
© 2007 EP.Nsr & YouNG w• 

Quality In Everything We Do 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, February 20, 2007  The Observer+ SPORTS  page 17  
FOOTBALL  

New personnel highlight Irish coaching staff 
Nine hirings include old, familiar faces 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Ediror 
A month after naming Corwin Brown its new defensive coordi­nator, Notre Dame on Monday delineated Brown's position tasks and specified other staff changes. 
In a news release sent to media by e-mail, Irish coach Charlie Weis announced that Brown will lead outside line­backers in the team's new "3-4 personnel" defensive scheme. Current special teams coach Brian }lolian will split his duties between his current position and the inside linebackers. 
With Polian splitting time between his two responsibilities, current tight ends coach Bernie Parmalee will serve as concur­rent special teams coach. 
The Irish added a second intern this year -Kevin Loney -to focus on offense. The status of 2006 intern Jesse Minter, the son of Rick Minter, who was Brown's predecessor before 
Streak 
continued from page 20 
was cold from the free-throw line, sinking just 41.2 percent of its foul shots. On Dec. 30, the Irish shot well but made only 
66.7 percent of their free throws and forced just 15 turnovers. 
Against Connecticut Jan. 27, the defense created plenty of turnovers but the team shot just 
24.2 percent for the game. 
Sometimes all the factors are present, but still don't add up to a victory. Against Indiana Dec. 3, Notre Dame shot 41.7 percent from the field, 83.3 percent from the free-throw line and forced 21 turnovers, but still lost 54-51. 
But in the past five games, the Weis "went in a different direc­tion" wit)l the defense, was unknown Monday. 
With Ron Powlus promoted to quarterbacks coach, Notre Dame also changed the titles for its director of personnel develop­ment and its coordinator of per­sonnel development. Tim McDonnell, who served in 2006 as coordinator of quality control, will become director of football personnel. Dave Peloquin, who was coordinator of football per­sonnel development, will now be director of football development. 
Nick Mainieri, the son of for­mer Irish baseball coach Paul Mainieri, will take McDonnell's position as coordinator of quality control. 
Notre Dame also hired Patrick Graham as its graduate assistant on defense. He replaces Jeff Burrow, whose two-year stint in the position ended after the 2006-07 season. Director of Football Media Relations Brian Hardin said Shane Waldron, the current offensive graduate assis­tant, might apply for a third year. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

New faces and new titles 
Notre Da1ne football 
Corwin Brown ­
Defensive Coordinator, Outside Linebackers Coach RonPowlus­Quarterbacks Coach Brian Polian ­Inside Linebackers, Special Teams Coach 
Tim McDonnell ­Director of Football Personnel 
Nick Mainieri ­Coordinator of Quality Control 
Kevin Loney ­Intern-Offense 
Bernie Parmalee ­Tight Ends, Special Teams Coach 
Dave Peloquin ­Director of Football Development 
Patrick Graham ­Graduate Assistant -Defense 
Irish have shined. They've aver­Field goals aged 19.8 turnovers per game, Allen is averaging 24.8 points shot 45.3 percent from the field per game on 52 percent shoot­and 73.4 percent from the free­ing during the win streak, Gray throw line. is averaging 9.2 points per game 
"We have shot the ball well at shooting 41 percent and different times," Lechlitner is Irish coach Muffet averaging 8.6 McGraw said in her "I think overall, points per game bi-monthly confer­on 43 percent
we're really put­
ence call. "Melissa shooting. 
Lechlitner, I think ting the ball in the The Irish have one of the best basketba little bit steadily shooters on our improved their
more. 
team, has really in shooting the last two games throughout the shot the ball very Muffet McGraw streak. They well. Breona Gray is Irish coach began sinking shooting the ball 40.4 percent very well right now, against West and Charel Allen Virginia Feb. 4. has shot well the last eight That number climbed gradually games." to 49.1 percent in their win over 
Providence Feb. 17. 
"I think overall, we're really putting the ball in the basket a little bit more," McGraw said. "I don't think our shot selection is any difl'erent, I just think we're really confident right now." 
Foul shots 
The free throw line has also been an important source of points for Notre Dame. 
The team set the tone by sink­ing 33-of-39 free throws against West Virginia, a scorching 84.6 percent. What's amazing about this particular aspect is the lack of attention paid to it by McGraw. 
"Its funny, we haven't worked on it at all," she said. "We're pretty good free-throw shooters in general." 
Last summer, center Melissa D'Amico and forward Crystal Erwin were told to improve their free-throw shooting, as both were under 60 percent. The work paid off-D'Amico now shoots 81.1 percent from the line. 
"They both obviously worked on it very well, Mel in particu­lar," McGraw said. "She's shot the ball very well from the free throw line. And I think our freshmen were good free throw shooters in high school and they continue to do that." 
McGraw went on to call this year's team the best free-throw shooting team she's ever coached. 

Turnovers 
Notre Dame has caused prob­lems on defense all season, but the success wasn't always cou­pled with the offensive produc­tion it now enjoys. Villanova's offense was immeasurably ham­pered due to the turnovers the Irish caused, and the 24­turnover performance played a large role in upsetting then-No. 17 Louisville Feb. 7. 
Still, McGraw is not entirely pleased. 
"I was a little disappointed against Providence," she said. "They have very good guards, and they handled our pressure very well. That's the first game in a while that a team hasn't turned the ball over 20 times, so we are really going to focus on that a little bit more, and try to develop maybe a little something different for the stretch run and the Big East tournament." 
With three games left in the regular season, Notre Dame has a tentative hold on the final first-round bye in the Big East tournament. Nothing is guaran­teed, but if the Irish continue to combine the successful elements of their game, it could mean good things for the postseason. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 20, 2007 
De01ons 
continued from page 20 

breaker as well. "This is the biggest week of our season," Falls said. The Irish finish the regular season March 3 at Rutgers. 
With just three games to go and Big East seeding and an NCAA Tournament bid on the line, jam for fourth place and need to win out to have a shot at the Big Dance. 
Notre Dame big men Rob Kurz and Luke Harangody will be tested by DePaul for­wards Chandler, Karron Clarke and Marcus Heard, who average a combined 28 points per game. 
The Irish interior defense struggled in the first 
matchup, allow­
ing the Blue 


Falls said the team Demon trio to
"We're not going 

is the most focused combine for 41 it's been. to lose games of DePaul's 67 "We're not going down the points. to lose games Kurz made up
stretch based 

down the stretch for it on the 
on effort.''

based on effort," offensive end of the senior said. the floor, scor­Falls is coming Colin Falls ing 15 points, off a 23-point per­but Harangody
Irish guard 

formance Saturday against Cincinnati, his fourth straight game as high-point man for the Irish. For the season, he is averaging 14.8 points per game, second on the team to senior guard Russell Carter's 
17.2. Falls had 20 points in the first matchup, while Carter struggled to just nine against the quick DePaul defense. 
The Blue Demons (16-11, 7­

6) have plenty of motivation tonight as well. They are sit­ting one game behind the log-
struggled 
against Wilson's 
defense, shoot­ing just 2-of-10 from the floor and scoring five points. 
Irish . forward Zach Hillesland could prove to be the difference in the game. Hillesland played just 12 minutes in the first matchup, scoring two points, but has come on strong of late ­averaging 10.5 points per game since. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Fights 

continued from page·20 
ered holding a preliminary competition in The Pit to nar­row down the number of con­tenders that would fight under the lights and before the crowd, senior captain Dan Ward said. 
But, as it happens every year, at least 20 boxers dropped out of the bouts on weigh-in day and a spot was found for every fighter in the main events, Ward said. 
"Logistically speaking, we can't fight from 6 p.m. till 4 

a.m. two nights in a row," Ward said. "It wound up working itself out." 
The preliminary round, which will begin with 4 7 fights Wednesday fr.om the 129-pound to 160-pound weight classes and conclude Thursday with 45 fights from the 163-pound class to the super heavyweights, marks The planning for the Bouts the culmination of over six began soon after school start­months of planning, condi­ed in August, McGill said. The tioning and training for the captains coordinated sched­Bouts' captains and boxers. ules and held meetings to 
Six months during which garner interest in the Boxing the captains pushed the box­Club, in preparation for the ers to their physical and men­novice season for beginning 
tal limits,  some- boxers  that  
times  in  an  ·began  after  
attempt to lower numbers.  "We really pushed the  Fall Break. McGi II and  
"There  were  guys and to give the  the other cap­ 
even times, as captains, where we would take a week and try to  .  guys a lot ofcredit, they stayed with it. We made it enjoyable  tains, six sen­iors and three juniors, taught the young box­ 
limit the  num­ but at the same time  ers  how  to  
bers, work  to try them  to so  challenging.,  throw punch­es, the  
hard they're not  .mechanics of  
going to want to  Andrew McGill  their  stance  
stay," McGill said. "We really  Bengal Bouts president  and monts  move-and  
pushed the guys  how  to  bloek  
and to give the  opponents'  

guys a lot of credit, they attacks in the latter half of stayed with it. We made it the fall semester. enjoyable but at the same "We really push them hard time challenging." with pushups and sit-ups," 
McGill said. "We really try to the butterflies out of their condition them as much as stomachs," McGill said. "It's possible." pretty different boxing down 
Then, during study days, here, training down here and the club brought in EMTs and then going upstairs and being referees to workouts so the in an atmosphere where the novices could entire arena is spar and get a dark. You're in feel for the ring. a ring in front Upon returning of a thousand
"The best thing 
from winter or so people or break, it was about the Bengal more and all time for the meat the lights are
Bouts is that it takes 
of the season, focused on you
an individual sport, 
when the veter­and your oppo­ans and novices in boxing, and nent." combined, to Senior
turns it into 
begin. Nathan Dyer,
a team sport. '' 
"Everyday we who has fought decide what we since his fresh­want to work Andrew McGill man year and on," MeGill said. made it to the
Bengal Bouts president
"At the begin­semifinals in ning we'll have a the 145-pound day where we division last work on legs, a year, remem­day whero it's all upper body bered how nerve wracking it -running, conditioning. We was to step through the ropes ehange it around a little bit." for the first time. 
In ord{Jr to accommodate "I was completely nervous, th11 increased numbers in the scared, I didn't know what I Boxing Club this season, they was getting myself into," he set up two rings for the first said. "I had no idea what I time so that double the was doing. I was going purely amount of )Joxnrs eould spar ofT adrenaline maybe, instinct evnryday, MeGill said. Tho maybe, I was just a wreek. I snnior captain also said thn just walkod in therP and tried length of the training season to remember how to fight." and its intnnsity lnnds itsnlf Ward, who will compete in not only to bettnr boxnrs, hut the 1 SO-pound elass and who in developing bntter pnople. already has won a champi­
"Yo·u ean rnally snn thnir onship, has his own approach ehara1;ter dovel"op as thny to the ring. progrnss through the pro­"Personally, I kind of blaek gram," lw said. "You ean snn out for a littlo bit," he said. nvnrymw maturn. As thn .sna­"You don't think --you just son progrnssns, you <:an son rnact. Tho bost I can deseribo ovnryono bneomn bost it is just going blank for a lit­rrinnds. Tlw lwst thing about tin bit, and praying that your tho Hnngal Bouts is that it body knows what to do when takns an individual sport, in it's moving different ways." boxing, and turns it. into a MeGill quotod from a book toam sport." called "Tho l'owor of One" 
Thorn will bn no rematclws that tho captains and coaches or last ynar's snmil"inal or use to preaeh mental tough­championship bouts in the ness for those about to step prnliminary rounds because into The Sweet Scienee. or tho bracket systnm the "Boxing is as much mental Club usns to separate the as it is physical," he said. "To main contenders, MeGill said. quote from thfl Power of One, It will, however, bo the prov­'First with the head, then ing ground for many inexperi­with the heart."' enced boxers.

Bengal Bouts president Andrew McGill lands a punch against Tommy Fork in last year's "The first round is a lot of Contact Kyle Cassily at tournament. This year, a record number of participants will take part in the event. guys getting in and getting kcassily@nd.edu 
Tuesday, February 20, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CROISSANTWORLD  ADAM FAIRHOLM  
1/11 A' WOJtLD ... £NCRUSIEO £!1 Plll\r'f $NOW STUPeNrs  uE.T A \-tOLD or: 'f()4J.R.SEJ..F! IHE.'f '~<:.E. CoMINt:J ~ W£1VE (:JOT lb ~'( WE. [AN MAto:-£ II OUT" OF' OUR ~POT AI'JP --rb T.HE C::tA-r£. ,.......... ­...,;'I'JOU've <:xo-r -ro BE. 5.112.oNC:rf  
BLAcK DoG  MICHAEL MIKUSKA  


LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 38 Picture starring DOWN 11D/55D

1 Carson 1 Carbo-loader's predecessor 42 As_ (so far) fare 5 1970's-80's 43 PIN takers 2 Lumberjack Renault 
44 Poetry Muse 3 Actor Delon 10 Deck cleaner 
45 Bone-dry 4 Prot. or Cath.

14 Wheel holder 47 Elec. program 5 Chinese nut15 Tehran native since 1933 6 Author Jong16 A Chaplin 48 Hunter's lure 7 Lawrence of17 Picture starring 51 Picture starring Arabia's ride11D/55D 11D/55D 
8 Hydrocarbo~

20 Mai 
57 Give a pep talk suffix21 "_homo" (cry 
59 Pigeon-_

in John 19:5) 9 Very sweet and 60 "Eldorado" rock full of calories
22 Take care of grp. 
10 Oklahoma23 Picture starring 61 Picture starring athlete11D/55D 11D/55D 11 With 55-Down,26 Pundit Alan 64 Bone-chilling: star of this

27 _-night 
Var. puzzledoubleheader 65 Flared dress 12 Common sprain28 " ... after" site66 Get in a stew30 N.F.L. coaching 13 Diamondlegend Don 67 Forum 42 

corners 33 Alder or elder 68 Friars event Puzzle by Ed Early
18 Wiggle room

35 Runner 69 Sandberg of 37 Freudian 47 N.Y.C. opera 54 Visibly upset
19 Croupier's

Sebastian Cooperstown concern venue
implement 55 See 11-Down 39 Realm of Ares 
48 Neuter
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 24" have to 56 Nick of do" 49 Stand out "48 HRS." 

40 Lake Tahoe 25 Yorkshire city state 50 Oteri of 58 Pre-1917 29 Neckline shape "Saturday Night autocrat
41 "Darn!" 

Live"
30 Hardly 62 Showman gregarious 45 Wife of 11 D/550 52 Skylit rooms Ziegfeld 
31 Weeder's tool 46 Bronte heroine 53 High times? 63 Producer: Abbr. 32 Final: Abbr. 33 Tribal emblem For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
34 CD-

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday35 Org. in the 2006 crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. film "The Good 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000Shepherd" 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young prov. solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

t:HA"t SCAAtJ'SleiOWOJ'IO (i.il.Mg 
&t H\!>'R!'' Aftdd ~mJ M~J~ A<j)itiilitl, 

M::t,oj{ nmmgn !ha o:::irdnd btmrn 
ll;) ~fm It~ $Ur1)rio~;< <lll:?"''~"l•\ II$ !iu!JiffiSlS.J t'J 1~ <!00\oft •C<lfiOO!l 
(P.V!SWllffi kl11'iO<HWiJ 

C;OI)f'E PRONE REtlEEM !i'\1"'1".4XE 'Att...~i rw &a <~liB< 7!!f .:x.m~y. :ar~11 par'l)< -HE 'RETIRED 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Justine Bateman, 41; Seal, 44: Jeff Daniels, 52; Smokey Robinson, 67 ­
Happy Birthday: Your inclination to overdo. overuse and overindulge will gel you into trouble this year. Have no impulsive moves or actions. Restraint and moderation will be what counts and what helps you balance your world the first three quarters of the year. After that. you can breath easy. Your numbers are 7, 13, 19, 25, 27,38 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Someone is likely to divulge secret information that will come in handy regarding a legal or health matter. Don't let yourself get all worked up over nothing or you will miss out on something that you want to do. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Look for the less obvious and you will get a dearer picture of what's actually going on. Someone will surprise you with his or her interest in what you are doing. Don't take anything for granted--if someone offers you something be sure to get it in writing. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): As much as you want to do what's right, it will be ditlicult. Expect someone to cause you worry or cost you dearly. Rely on someone older or who has more experience to help you out. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have to take advantage of whatever comes your way today. A money or investment opportunity is looking good. The chance to make a move that will lead to a better paying position is apparent. Leave some time for a little loving and romancing. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone may be trying to take advantage of you financially. Don't get involved in a dubious get-rich-quick scheme. You are likely to end up with the short end of the stick. Gambling, traveling and being gullible will all lead to losses. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't rely on anyone but yourself. Someone you are close to or live with will take advantage of you. Aggressive behavior or actions will not solve anything. Be upfront about the way you feel. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your emotions will be ditlicult to control. Focus on work and money and leave your personal matters alone for the time being. You need more information and certainly more time to sort through what is going on. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Everyone will be counting on you today. Be honest about what you can and cannot do. A love connection will grow stronger if you put time aside to nurture it today. Get serious about your plans. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): As much as you would like to ignore emotional matters, you must deal with them. Running never solves anything so get to it. It will ease your stress and any guilt you are experiencing if you do. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It's time for a big change. Travel, the way you earn your living and what you want to do with the rest of your life are all up for discussion. Be true to yourself and your needs and don't give in to what someone else wants. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't try to fool yourself into thinking that everything is perfect if you haven't actually reached your goals. This isn't the day to give up or give in. Reevaluate to find a way to get what you want. Take action now.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Listen, observe and take your time making a decision. You may feel the urge to be impulsive but that will only lead you in the wrong direction. Someone you think you know well is not being honest with you. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, caring and intuitive. You can imitate, create and invent with originality and ease: You are a storyteller, colorful and persuasive. You are a master at the art of manipulation. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenia/ast.comfor confidential consultations 

...----------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, February 20, 2007 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Exorcising Demons 
Irish look for revenge at home against DePaul 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Spans Ediror 
Colin Falls called it the "hardest loss of [his] career." 
Last week, Notre Dame fell to DePaul 67-66 on a dunk in the closing seconds by for­ward Wilson Chandler. Falls had been holding the ball near mid-court when Blue Demons guard Draelon Burns stole it and hit a streaking Chandler for the winning basket. 
Tonight, the Irish senior guard and his teammates have a chance at revenge as they take on the Blue Demons at 7 at the Joyce Center. 
"We owe them," Falls said. "They're a good basketball team but this is a huge week for us and we're really excit­ed." 

The No. 23 Irish (20-6, 8-5 Big East) are chasing a bye in the Big East tournament. They are currently in a four­way tie for fourth place, but control their own destiny. Notre Dame holds tie-break­ers over fellow 8-5 teams Syracuse and West Virginia and plays Marquette Saturday with a chance to earn that head-to-head tie-DAN Observer 
Irish forward Rob Kurz creates room against Alabama forward Jennareo Davidson in Notre Dame's 99-85 see DEMONS/page 18 win over the Crimson Tide Dec. 7. Notre Dame tips off against DePaul tonight at 7 in the Joyce Center. 

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Golic, Jr. conunitsto 2012 class 
Observer Staff Report 

Notre Dame landed its first recruit for the class of 2012, the Chicago Tribune reported Monday. 
Mike Golic, Jr., the son of the former Irish d e f e n s i v e See Also tackle and 
"New personnel
current ESPN Radio highlight Irish morning 
coaching staff"

show host, verbally page 17 committed to Irish· coach Charlie Weis Monday, the Tribune reported. Golic is a 6­foot-5, 260-pount center from Northwest Catholic High School in New Haven, Conn. 
The commitment is the first since Weis' statements on national signing day Feb. 7, in which he criticized the trend of high school seniors committing to one program while actually keeping their recruitment open. Weis said all new "commits" would have to promise him that they would not take telephone calls from other coaches or travel to other schools for visits after the promise. Three play­ers who had previously com­mitted to Notre Dame decided to go elsewhere in the final three weeks of the recruiting cycle. 
BENGAL BOUTS 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Two days before the open­ing blows of the 77th annual Bengal Bouts will resound throughout a darkened Joyce Center Fieldhouse, over 200 boxers crammed into the bowels of The Pit to get in some last-minute condition­ing for what will be the largest Bouts tournament ever. 
The amateur boxers were led Monday by junior and senior captains through calis­thenics in the basketball gym, while others jumped rope, shadow boxed and hit the heavy bag in an adjoining room underneath the Joyce. Among the group were eight returning champions, dozens of experienced fighters and a large number of novice box­ers who will conclude months 
o.f training when the prelimi­nary round of the Bouts begins Wednesday at 6:30 
p.m. and continues at the same time Thursday evening. 
Bengal Bouts President and senior captain Andrew McGill said that the 200 and plus boxers that will compete this year blew away the previous record of 150 set last season. The Bouts captains were faced with so many prospec­tive boxers that they consid­
see FIGHTS/page 18 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL -ANALYSIS 
Fundatnentals spark vvin streak 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Sometimes the formula for winning lies in the little things. 
Since Feb. 4, Notre Dame has won five straight Big East games by an average seore of 
12.2 points per game. Charel Allen has scored 25 or more points in four of those five eon­tests. The Irish defense is better than ever. It oven out-rebound­ed Louisville, the best rebound­ing team in the Big East. But no single faetor is responsible. 
Hegardless of what results may show, field goals, foul shots and turnovers have been Notre Dame's strong points this sea­son. But often they've had one or two and lacked the other. 
In a loss to USC Nov. 24, the team forced 27 turnovers but 
see STREAK/page 17 


MlB
fOOTBAll 
Nfl 
NFL

NFL 
The Irish have added Tiger Woods looks to 

New York Yankees 
The Chicago Bears 
The San Diego 
The Indianapolis 
nine new coaches for win his eighth straight 

third baseman Alex 
refuse to rehire 
Chargers hire former 
Colts designate 
next season. PGA Tour event this 

Rodriguez discusses his 
defensive coordinator 
San Francisco offensive 
defensive end Dwight 

relationship with
weekend at the 

Ron Rivera. 
coordinator Norv 
Freeney a franchise 
Accenture Match Play 

shortstop Derek Jeter. 
Turner as new head 
player Monday. 
Championship. 
coach Monday. 
page 17 page 16 
page 15 
page 14 

page 13 
page 13 



