
rise," Brubaker said. 
"Because this is a campus setting where we share many things -space and facilities -you're just more prone to getting staph," she said. 
Staphylococcus aureus bac­teria are normally found on the skin or in the nose of about 1/3 of the population, according to the Mayo Clinic's Web site. 
"Not everybody gets sick from it," Brubaker said. 
The problem arises when the bacteria gets under the skin, either because of a break in the skin, dry skin or an abrasion. Then, an infection 
appears on the skin resem­bling a pimple or boil, she said. 
There are students at the University with staph infec­tions right now, Brubaker said, but they "have been instructed on what they're supposed to do." 
"The students who have those kinds of infections are told how to cover the wound and given strict instructions on how to act on campus so it's not spread," she said. 
The incidence of staph infec­tions at Notre Dame is not an "outbreak," Brubaker said, because there is no traceable 
common origin of the infec­
tions. 
''I'm not saying we're not a 
little worried when we see it, 
but we're good at treating it," 
she said. 
In order to treat the infec­
tions with an effective antibi­
otic, doctors must look for the 
source, Brubaker said. 
"Two students last year had 
infections related to the fact 
they hadn't washed their 
sheets ... you could get an 
infection in an open area just . by dirty laundry," she said. Living in shared spaces and 
see INFECTION/page 3 
Band tnetnbers plan trip abroad 
Concert ensembles to visit China, Japan on tour next summer 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
A group of students in the Notre Dame marching band will have the chance to experience other cultures this summer on a two­week trip to China and Japan. 
Every other year, members of the band's concert ensembles travel internationally to represent the University and play concerts in nationally acclaimed concert halls. Past destinations have included Scandinavia, Australia, Austria and the Czech Republic. 
"The students will perform at several universities and have time to interact with local students," 
see BAND/page 4 

Members of the Notre Dame marching band will perform at concerts in China and Japan this summer. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
FACULTY SENATE 


Professors discuss hiring 
Senators grapple with Catholic faculty report 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
A report from the Office of the Provost on the hiring of Catholic professors and the faculty's response to the docu­ment were at the center of the Faculty Senate meeting Wednesday. 
Senate chair Colin Jessop said after the meeting that the report -which was released last week by University Provost Thomas Burish ­addressed the steadily decreasing percentage of Catholics teaching at Notre Dame and the University's pos­sible actions to ensure a healthy supply of Catholic pro­fessors in the long run. 
And while he said the Senate will work to develop mecha­nisms to gauge the faculty's in­depth opinions on the report, Jessop, a physics professor, said there is already a broad sense of disquiet surrounding the idea of hiring with reli­gious affiliation in mind. 
"The University is worried about the decline in the per­centage of Catholic faculty members and the faculty members, in turn, are worried that in trying to rectify this sit­uation, the University will move away from hiring solely 
see FACULTY/page 6 
By KAJTLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 

The Student Senate decid­ed Wednesday to send back to the Oversight committee a resolution that would require the student body president to attend all Community/Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC) meetings and provide the Student Senate with "any and all doc­umentation pertaining to the CCAC." 
The resolution, proposed by Siegfried senator Jim Lockwood, refers to the coalition created by the 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 47 THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 8, 2007 
STUDENT SENATE 



Senate to rework Lockwood proposal 
Resolution requiring student body president to report on city council meetings debated 

South Bend Common Council to bring together city, resi­dent, student and college representatives from South Bend. The CCAC's goal is to help the Council identify neighborhood concerns related to the local colleges, to propose solutions, and to develop long-term strategies regarding community rela­tions. 
The CCAC was created as a final amendment to the party permit ordinance passed by the Common Council Sept. 24. 
Lockwood's amendment 
see SENATE/page 4 

Staph infection conunon on college can1puses 
Antibiotic-resistant strain afflicts students at Notre Dame; cases not suggestive of outbreak 
ByJENNMETZ Assistant News Editor 
A staph infection caused by the antibiotic-resistant "super­bug," known as MRSA. is a common problem on college campuses and serves as a reminder of the importance of hand-washing and personal hygiene, Assistant Director of Clinical Services Pat Brubaker said. 
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MHSA) was first found in hospitals, but a strain called community­acquired MHSA is "on the 


Welch speaks out against death penalty 
Father of Me Veigh victim visits campus 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY News Writer 
Bud Welch, the father of one of the 168 people who died in the Oklahoma City bombing, spoke against the death penalty during Wednesday's Right to Life meeting in LaFortune. 
"Normal human beings do not feel good out of watching another human being's last breath," Welch said. He said Americans have a limited understanding of the death penalty and need to learn more. 
"Education, education, edu­cation," he said. During his talk, Welch 
focused on his struggle to for­give Timothy McVeigh, who bombed the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City on April 19, 1995. Welch's daughter, Julie, who worked at the Oklahoma City federal building, was among the people killed. 
Welch was devastated when his daughter died. He wanted to see McVeigh killed. 
"All of my life I opposed the death penalty. Now, I didn't even want them to have a trial." Welch said. He turned to alcohol to ease the pain. 
But one day, as he stood in front of the memorial that was built up in front of the Federal 
see WELCH/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Keep the rrtic 

a-way 
Don Shula. the famous NFL coach 

who led the 1972 Miami Dolphins to a 
perfect, undnfeated season (culminat­
ing in a Supor Bowl win) is thn win­
ningnst hnad coach in thn history of 
football. lie is a 
tremendous Pat Stynes 
coach, a font of 
football wisdom Sports Wire 
and, I am sure, a Editor 
nicn man. 
After his 

coaching career. hn opened a line of 
steakhouses and appeared on various 
comnwrcials, and was successful in 
each endeavor. 
However recently Coach Shula 

decided to throw opinion into the pub­
lic forum of sports journalism, com­
menting on the Patriots' run toward 
an undefeated season and their cam­
era-spying incident earlier this year. 
"The Spygate thing has diminished 

what thny've accomplished. You would 
hate to have that attached to your 
accomplishments. They've got it," 
Shula said. "Belichiek was lined 
$500,000, the team was fined $250,00 
and they lost a first-round draft 
choice. That tells you the seriousness 
or signilicance of what they found." 
I find Shula's opinion absolutely pre­

posterous, and it almost sounds like 
whining. 
i\s a native New Yorker, I can certain 

tell you that I hate Boston sports as 
much as the nnxt guy. llowevor, I have 
always believed you have to give credit 
where cn~dit is due. The Patriots are 
simply playing at a level beyond any­
one in tlw NFL this year, murdering 
mediocre opponents and knocking off 
good ones. 
Yet despite the fact that not only is stealing signals eommon in the NFL (the Patriots are just the 11rst to get caught), but it is clear when looking at the quality of the Jets and the Patriots that the signal-filming was not need­ed. 
"I guess you got the same thing as putting an asterisk by Barry Bonds' home run record," Shula continued. "I guess it will be noted that the Patriots wenl fined, and a No.1 draft choice was taken away during that year of aecomplishment." 
I won't even address the reference to Bonds, as it is so farfetched it is not even worth discussing. 
What got me thinking though, is the fact that the 1972 Miami Dolphins themselves are not necessarily unde­serving of an asterisk. 
For one, they played a 14 game reg­ular season -should we asterisk their team now? In looking at their sched­ule, according to NFL.com, the Dolphins did not beat a single playoff tnam, and the best record of a team they played was 8-6. So should we asterisk the 1972 season saying that their strength of schedule was so laughable the perfeet season was too nasy'? 
Let's get serious: stealing signals is common in every single sport, Belichick is no innovator when it comes to this. Also, the Patriots look like a varsity team playing the fresh­man B-squad most of the games this year. If they are able to run the table this year, the Patriots deserve the un­tarnished, un-asterisked record in Canton. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Pat .\'tynes at pstyne@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives !clr the highest standards ofjournalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conract us ar 631-4541 so we can connect our error. 
Thursday, November 8, 2007 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD HAVE ANY ANIMAL AS A PET, WHAT WOULD IT BE AND WHY? 





Bobby Arbogast  Francesca Pennino  Patrick Finnigan  Paul Spadafora  Peter Blava  
Fisher law student  junior Walsh Hall  senior St. Edward's  senior Dillon  senior offcampus  
"A squirrel from any of the quads. They're really friendly. "  ''A Notre Dame squirrel because they are chubby and spirited. And a  ''A tiger. It could take down your pets. "  ''A monkey. 'Cause haven't you always wanted a mon-key. "  ''I'll keep a tiger, because they are ferocious, and that's my  

penguin. I don't think that needs an explanation. " 

QUENTIN STENGER/ The Observer The Shagadelic Hair Club for Men, left, and the Brutal Butyls, right, face off in the fl~al round of Notre Dame's c::ampus College Quiz Bowl Competition Wednesday. The wmners of the campus trlv1a contest wlll go on to the regional competition at Southern Illinois University. 
OFFBEAT 

Shop owner finds urn in 5, 2003, according to a States. back of Buick newspaper obituary. That makes him 2 inches 
CHARLESTON, S.C. -McElveen called taller than the NBA's cur­The back seat of a Buick Charleston County Coroner rent tallest player, Yao wasn't intended to be Izetta Rae Wooten, who said fami­Ming, but too short to be Dickerson's final resting ly members plan to have the world's tallest living place, but that's where a the remains buried. man. He stands below, car repair shop owner according to Guinness, found an urn containing Tallest man in U.S. stands Ukraine's 8-foot-5.5 Leonid her cremated remains. at 7-foot-8 Stadnyk and China's Bao Xi 
"The owner said he does­NORFOLK, Va. -To all Shun, who is 7 feet 8.95 n't know how it got there," those people who blurt out inches. said Demond McElveen, "Wow, you're tall!" as they To answer the inevitable whose shop bought the car stare up at George Bell: He questions: after it was towed there. knows. And now, the world Bell wears size-19 shoes, "She's in there, it's got the will know, too. The lanky, pants with a 43-inch number on the bag." 7-foot-8 Norfolk sheriff's inseam and shirts with 45­
Dickerson was from deputy is being recognized inch sleeves. North Charleston and the Thursday by Guinness widow of Franklin World Records as the Information compiled by Dickerson. She died March Tallest Man in the United the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY SUNDAY MONDAY 

...I 
<C 
(..) 



,3 HIGH 48 HIGH HIGH 47 HIGH 60 HIGH LOW 32 LOW LOW 35 LOW 50 LOW 
Atlanta 60 I 35 Bos~on 45 I ~4 Chicago 49 I ~2 Denver 71 I 37 Houston 72 I 47 Los Angeles 71 156 Minneapolis 43 128 New York 50 I 37 Philadelphia 52 I 37 Phoemx 91 I 64 Seattle 58 I 45 St. Louis 59 I 37 Tampa 72 I 50 Washington 50 135 
-------------------------------------------~----------------~ 

Chinese horoscope. " 
IN BRIEF 
Ohio State University pro­fessor James Bartholomew will deliver the lecture "Is There Anything Unique /\bout Modern Japanese Seience?" today at 4:15 p.m. in 215 DeBartolo Hall. 
Heather Stoll, a professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara, will deliver the lecture "Presidents, Powers and Parties: The Sources of Legislative Electoral Coordination in Presidential Hegimes" today at 4:15 p.m. in Hoom C-HJ:{ of the Hesburgh Center. 
The 2007 MBA Diversity Conference will take place Friday from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. Punam Mathur, the senior vice president for corporate diversity and community afl'airs for MGM Mirage, will be the keynote speaker. lie will speak at 6 p.m. in Room F of North Dining Hall. More information about the confer­ence can be found at http://www.nd.edu/-mba/dive rsityconference/agenda.shtml 
As part of the Boardroom Insights lecture series, Paul Orfalea, former Kinko's chief executive officer will speak in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business Friday at 10:40 a.m. 
The Glee Club will perform its fall concert Friday at 8:30 
p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section ofThe Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
HIGH 57 LOW 47 
62 
45 





38 25 
------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------. 
Thursday, November 8, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Infection 
continued from page 1 
not practicing good hygiene make college students more susce1ptiblc to staph infections. Iloweve1r, out of thn 140 cases of students diagnosed with "wound infections'' since January, probably six are MHSA-related. Brubaker said. 
"The population of the col­lngf~ campus feels that they're invincible and they don't wash 
their hands enough." she said. 
Washing hands, wiping down shared equipment, cleaning linens with bleach and drying linens in a vnry hot dryer can prevent staph infections, she said. 
University workout facili­ties and locker rooms are 
"doing what they can, Brubaker said. 
"Our facilities, like the train­ing room at the Joyce Center, HecSports and the Rock, are all well aware of the increased incidences of MRSA. They have polieies about the cleaning of nquipment, the use of whirlpools, etc.," she said. 
The bacteria can live on inanimate surfaces for hours, shn said. but antibacterial wipes and cleaning can pre­vent infnetion. 
Shaving puts people at incnmsed risk for staph infec­tion, especially on skin folds, since the razor breaks the skin. 
One of the causes of MRSA is the overuse and misuse of antibiotics, which has caused germs to "become bolder and stronger." 
Because of this, it is difficult to treat the resistant infection. 
"Even if we had three cases in front of us, they might be on three different antibiotics," Brubaker said. 
"The only common thing is that penicillin will not work for 
"Because this is a campus setting where we share many things -space and facilities -you're just more prone to getting staph." 
Pat Brubaker assistant director Clinical Services 
any of them," she said. 
The best ini­tial treatment for staph is a hot wet com­press to encour­age the infection to drain, Brubaker said. One should see a doctor if a pimple-like infection gets worse, or multi­ple areas become infect­ed. 
"You should not try to pinch it ~ that makes the infection go in further rather than get out," she said. 
CA-MRSA can be potentially fatal, but it is "rare that any­one in this age group would die from staph," Brubaker said. 
Most deaths related to the bacteria occur when people have weakened immune sys­tems or when the infection gets internalized in the bloodstream or joints. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edn 



Native An1erican singer perforn1s 
By KATIE STAAK 
News Writer 
In honor of Native American Heritage Month, the Saint Mary's Office of Multicultural Affairs sponsored singer-songwriter Michael Jacobs Wednesday night at Dalloway's, the cafe on campus. 
Jacobs, a Cherokee recording artist, shared not only his music but also his Native American her­itage with the audience. Hi<> per­formance filled Dalloway's, and few seats were left when the music began. 
Jacobs explained what each of his songs meant before he per­formed them. Many songs had stories that he shared along with the music. 
"I sing about life from an Native American perspective," he said. "But, also life in general, so it is accessible to everyone." 
He used his guitar and voice for the majority of the night. For one song, however, he used a Native American flute that he taught himself to play a few years ago. 
Office of Multicultural Affairs Director Larisa Olin Ortiz said Saint Mary's invited Jacobs to help celebrate the month. 
"It is important to say that this month is National American Indian Heritage Month," she said. "By organizing this type of pro­gram, educating the community, providing resources such as books, publications and documen­taries and sharing information about events taking place on and ofl' campus, we are recognizing the many contributions of American Indians and Alaskan Natives, something we should not only celebrate in November, but throughout the year." 

Ortiz and her office run a year­long cultural campaign to help inform and diversify the Saint Mary's campus. 
Wednesday was the second time Jacobs has performed at the College. He performed last year, again in celebration of Native American Heritage Month. 
"He knows how to connect with the audience by sharing his jour­ney to discover his American Indian roots with his passion for music," Ortiz said. 
Saint Mary's junior Mariam Eskander called Jacobs' perform­ance "amazing." 
"He wa<> so fresh," she said. 
Many girls applauded after each song and laughed at the jokes Jacobs told in between his music. 
"I loved his voice and his style," junior Andrea Ortiz said. 
Jacobs spoke about how he started his music career and what got him where he is today. 
''I've been playing since I've been a kid and I've always want­ed to do it," he said. 
Jacobs was in a rock band dur­ing the 1980s. He then retired, but in 2002 decided to get back into professional music by going solo. 
"I started pursuing my culture and writing songs about this," he said. These songs, which he wrote mainly for his friends, eventually became his first solo album. 
Jacobs said the purpose of his m~!c i<> "to humanize native peo­ple. 
"I want people to view them as real people, rather than have them demonized," he said. 
Contact Katie Staak at kstaakO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ND vs AIR FORCE BOOK BIGNINGB 
FRIDAY, NOV. 9 

11am-1 pm Dorthy Corson 
Cave ofCandles 
1pm-3pm Fr. Malloy, CSC 

Terrorism, Counterterrorism, and the Ethics of Warfare 
(3-disc CD) 

3pm-5pm Sharon Bui 

Future Domers A Child's Guide to Notre Dame 
11am-1 pm Mel Tardy (signing for his mother, JoAnne Tardy) 
A Light Will Rise in Darkness 


1pm-3pm Matthew Cashore & Kerry Temple 
Celebrating Notre Dame 



3pm-Spm George Porter-Young 
Boy Amidst the Rubble 

BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndtolalog.tom 



SATURDAY, NOV. 10 




9:30am-11 :30am 9:30am-11 :30am John Heisler Peter Quinn 
Then Ara Said to Looking for Jimmy Joe 
9:30am-11 :30am Karen Heisler 
Fighting Irish Legends, Lists and Lore 



ThankingFatheriJ · 

Ted 


11 :30am-1:30pm 11 :30am-1:30pm 11 :30am-1:30pm Rudy Kackmann, M.D. Phillip Brooks Christine Romano Welcome to Forward Pass Klauer, Kathleen Your Mind Body Cekanski-Farrand, and Jean Collier 
Thanking Father Ted 

Events are subject to change. Please call 574-631-5757 to confirm. 
0700LF1 02607 A 
Thursday, November 8, 2007 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Senate 
continued from page I 
calls for the student body prns­idnnt, or "any qualified person ading on· bnhalf tlwrnof." to give the Snnatn doeunwntation from thn CCAC meetings. 
"This shall indudn (hut shall not lm limited tol agnndas and minutns, spePrhes and prnsnn­t a ti o 11 s , d i s 1: u s s i o n s a n d doball~s. and tho introduetion and passagn of any nwasures," the proposnd amendment roads. "ThP studnnt body pros­idont. must provido said docu­montation to tlw Student Snnato at its first regular nwnting af'tpr any nHwting ol' tho CCAC." 
Lockwood askPd tlw snnators to support his n~solution pro­posing tl11• amPtHlnwnt. 
"f jUSl. t hi II k iII l'o rIll iII g f. h0 Senatn or tlw iSSUI'S that arn t a k i n g pIa 1: o i11 t h n co utu: iI monting will allow us to go back to our dorms. like wo are su pposml to. and toll our con­stitUIHJts, what the city has ­president should interact with the c:oalition, and also with the Senate after CCAC meetings. _ lie said language can be changed later if it is found to bo too rostrictive. 

"The constitution is a living doeumen t." Secviar said. "It's not a big deal to ropeal or change things. In fact, that's why my committee exists." 
Keenan senator Gus Gari proposed an amendment to the amendment, although it was later votnd down. lie proposod changing tho amendment to rnad: "Thn Student Body presi­dnnt shall attend meetings of the Community/Campus Advisory Coalition (CCACl as the rPprosentativo of the stu­dent body of tho University of Notre Dame. The Student Body l'rnsidnnt or any qualified per­son acting on behalf tlu~reof shall brinf the Student Senate with regards to the CCAC." 
Further dnbate ensued about the language of the amend­ment to the amondment, so the S1H1ate decided to send the resolution back to the 
Oversight 
Committee. 
eoneorns a, b "I don't think that Seeviar invit­and e -and this is any way out of ed the senators 
how we ean to attend the 
sync with what's been 
address this, so committee 
it doosn't nsea­previously put into meeting to give latn into any rift the constitution." their recom­between the mendations and University and also invited 

lan Secviar 
the eommunity," them to e-mail Loekwood said. chair him with c:om­Oversight Oversight committee ments. 
eommittee chair 
Ian Se1:viar said the amendment was passed unanimously in his eommittee. 
lin compared the proposed ordinance with current lan­guage present in the Constitution. stating that the studnnt body pn!sidnnt is required to rPpiHt to the Sonatn about what takes place 

i11  ~he  Cou neil  of  
Beprnsnntativns  (COlO  meet­ 
ings.  

"I don't think that this is any way out of sync with what's bonn previously put into the eonstitution," lw said. 
Studnnt body pn~sidnnt Liz Brown disagrnPd with Snr.viar's comparison bntween the proposed amendment and the wording stipulating that slw report baek about COH nH~etings. She said the COH rnl'eronrn is "oxtremely gener­al," whoroas the proposed anwndnwnt details the doeu­nwnts the student president must bring to tlw Senate. 
Brown said shn found the proJHlsnd amendnwnt "over­lwaring." 
"Thorn is nowhere else in the constitution whorn the stu­dent body prnsidont is rnquirnd to bring dorumnnta­tion such as this bark." she said. 
In somn situations, Brown said, thP CCAC may diseuss isstws that would rPquirn thn mnntings to h1~ dosml. 

"I would just say that, in my nxpnrinncP in thn last 1:oupln months, in all tlw discussions ol" thP !South Bnnd Common Council's party p1~rmitl ordi­IHLIH~n. tlwrn arn enrt.ain things that shouldn't bP distributed to tlw widnr publie during enr­t.ain poin!s in disr·ussion." shn said. 
Brown said thnn~ an~ other ways to indudP a provision in tlw constitution to rnquirn tlw st.udnnt body presidnnt rnport bark on the CCAC. 
"I think tlwrn's a way to do it," Brown said. "and I think this is overbnaring." 
Seeviar said the Senate should darify the student body president's role on the CCAC to give a dnscription of how thn Following dis­
cussion of Loc:kwood's proposed amend­ment, the Senate voted to send a letter to University President Father John Jenkins request­ing he make "minority faculty reeruitment and retention" one of his administration's top prioritios for the academic ymtr. 
"Whiln the University has mado trenHmdous efforts to attract minority studonts through programs such as Spring Visitation Weekend," tlw letter said, "we feel then~ has not been equal emphasis on rncruiting and retaining minority faculty." 
The letter, presented by Multieultural Affairs commit­tee chair Ninny Wan, is a fol­low-up to a similar letter sent by tlw Senate to Jenkins last Marel1. The letter said student government has yet to receive a response to the last letter from tho Pn~sidnnt's Office. 
The letter from the Senate to Jenkins passed with 21 sena­tors voting for it, four against and three abstaining. 
The Senate unanimously passed .a resolulion saying it "respectfully encourages [the 0 ITice of Information Technologies] to establish an online printing quota deposito­ry system." Aeademie Affairs chair Carol llendriekson and Pasqtwrilla East senator Kelly Dunbar presented the resolu­tion, which suggests creating an online system where stu­dents eould use eredit or debit card payment to increase their print quota. 
Notrn Dame studonts receive a $100 print quota each aca­demic year. Currently, to add more money to their print quota, students must do so in 1l5A DeBartolo llall. 


In other Senate news: 
+ Student govornment will host a student-faculty debate Tunsday at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Hoom of LaFortune. Tlw topie is religion and poli­ties. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Welch 
continued from page 1 
Building, Welch realized he needed to move forward. 
"Julie not only opposed tho death penalty, she was active against it," Welch said. Three weeks after he stood in front of the Federal Building, Welch decided the death penalty was wrong. IIe started to speak out and tell Julie's story. 
As a teenager, Julie Wnleh was very interested in foreign languago. She traveled to Spain as an exchange student during her junior year of high school and .later got a scholarship to Marquette for her aehinvement in foreign language. She attended Marquotto and, dur­ing her sophomore year, went abroad again. Shn got her degree in Spanish and became a translator. 
When Welch saw Bill McVeigh, Timothy McVeigh's father, doing an interview on television shortly after the bombing occurred, he decided he wanted to meet him and tell him he did not blame Bill McVeigh for what his son had done. Three years later, he got his chance. 
Weleh visited Bill McVeigh in Buffalo, N.Y., in the house where Timothy was raised. While he was at the house, he also met Timothy's sister, Jennifer. The thrno of them sat at the dining room table and talked. 
After a couple hours, Wolch got up to leave. flo shook Bill MeVeigh's hand, and when he went to shake Jennifer's hand, she hugged him instead. They began to cry, and ho looknd hnr in the eye and said, "I don't want your brothor to die, and I'll do everything I can do to make sure that doesn't hap­pen." 

Despite Welc:h's eiTorts, on June 11, 2001, McVeigh was killed. 
"Thoy took Timothy McV1~igh out of his eage and killed bim," W1~leh said. "When parnnts din, we take them to the hilltop and bury thmn. When childmn die, we bury them in our )warts." 
Thn Notrn Damn Against State Killing campaign brought Weleh to campus as tlw fourth speaknr in its fall event sPries. Notrn Damn Hight to Life and thn Law Srhool's Coalition to Abolish tlw Death Pnnalty co­sponson~d Woleh:s visit. Weleh will speak today at 12:15 in room I 01 of tlw Law School and again at 7:30p.m. in room C-HU of' tlw llesburgh Center. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 


Band 
continued from page I 
said Tina Durski, the senior administrative assistant for the marehing band. 
Durski estimated that 60 to 70 students will go, but said that number is not yet deter­mined. 
The tour begins in Beijing with concerts at the Beijing Concert Hall and the National Academy of Chinese Theater Arts. The band will then travel to Xi'an, Shanghai and Tokyo. 
The band has also arranged for participants to tour histori­cal sites and experience cul­tural activities in both coun­ior Katie l'utz, who plays the saxophonn. 
Fellow saxophonn player and junior Matt Meinig callnd the trip a "remarkable, once in a lifetime opportunity." 
"Not only would I get to trav­el. but I would get to chance to play at some amazing venues," he said. 
While the overall experienc:e is what attracts Meinig the most, if solected for the trip, he would like to see historical sites in the countries. 
"II' I had to pick one site, it would probably have to bn the Great Wall because it is so iconic of China," he said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO I @saintmarys."edu 
tries. Band membnrs will be able to attend an aerobatie show and tour the factory that manufactures terraeotta war­riors aRd horses in China. They will also try meals like dumpling and traditional duc:k banquet. 
Band fundraising will finance the trip, though stu­dents will be asked to help pay, Durski said. 
Prospective participants are going through an application process. They find out this month if they are accepted to the program, Durski said. 
Band members said they were interested in making the trip. 
"I applied becauso it seoms like such a fun trip," said jun-


NOW PLAYING 
CHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTINGS 
OR LOG ON TO LOVESURVIVES.COM FOR TICKET INFORMATION 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 8, 2007 CoMPILED FROA,t Tl-IE OssERVIR'S WIRE SEKV1CES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Gunmen shoot Venezuelan protesters 
CARACAS -Gunmen opened fire on students returning from a march Wednesday in which RO,OOO people denounced President Hugo Chavez's attempts to expand his power. At least one person was killed and six were wounded, officials said. 
Photographers tor The Associated Press saw at least two gumnen -one wearing a ski mask and another covering his face with a T-shirt -firing handguns at the anti-Chavez crowd. Terrified stu­dents ran through the campus as ambulances arrived. 
National Guard troops gathered outside the cam­pus, Vnnezuela's largest and a center for opposition to Chavez's government. Venezuelan law bars state security forcp,s from entnring the campus, but Luis Acuna, thn minister of higher education, said they could be called in if the university requests them. 
Seven killed in Fmland school shooting 
TUUSULA-An 1R-year-old gunman opened fire at his high school in this plaeid town in southern Finland on Wndnesday, killing seven other studnnts and the principal before mortally wounding himself in a rampage that stunned a nation where gun crime Ls rarn. 
Police were analyzing YouTube postings that appearnd to anticipate the massacre, including clips in which a young man calls for revolution and apparently prepares for the attack by test firing a semiautomatic handgun. 
Investigators said the gunman, who was not identified, shot himself in the head after the shoot­ing spree at Jokela High School in Tuusula, some 30 miles north of the capital, Helsinki. He died later at Toolo Hospital in IIelsinki. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Space shuttle Discovery returns to Earth 
CAPE CANAVERAL -Discovery and its crew returned to Earth on Wednesday and concluded a 15-day space station build and repair mission that was among the most challenging -and heroic ­in shuttle hlstory. 
The space shuttle touched down on a crisp and bright t~tll afternoon after safely crossing the conti­nent in the first coast-to-coast re-entry since the Columbia disaster almost five years ago. 
The seven shuttle astronauts and three residents of the international space station teamed up dur­ing the docked mission to save a mangled solar wing. It was one of the most diflicult and danger­ous repairs ever attempted in orbit, but the future of the space station was riding on it and Scott Parazynski pulled it off in a single spacewalk. 

lnunigrant workers arrested at O'Hare 
CIIICAGO -Nearly two dozen illegal immi­grants were arn~sted Wednesday, accused of using lake security badges to work in critical areas of O'Hare International Airport, including the tar­mac, authorities said. 
The 23 illegal workers were employed by Ideal Statling Solutions Inc., whose corporate secretary and office manager also were arrested after an eight-month investigation that involved federal, state and Chicago authorities. 
The company contracted work for carriers including United Airlines, KLM and Qantas, said Elissa A. Brown, a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent. 
"The investigation identifies a vulnerability that could compromise national security, while bring­ing criminal charges against individuals who built an illegal work force into their business practice," Brown said. then, the solar panel was already extended 90 feet of its 115 feet. 
LOCAL NEWS 
17-year veteran lawmaker retires 
INDIANAPOLIS -Longtime Democratic state Rep. Jerry Denbo of French Lick, who spent years pushing legislation to authorize a casino in his southern Indiana hometown before getting it passed in 2003, retired from the House on Wedm)sday. 
Meanwhile. Greg Simms, D-Valparaiso, was sworn in as the newest representative of House District 10 during a ceremony earlier Wednesday. IIe is filling a spot left vacant after the death of Hep. Jack Clem. Clem was a replacement for longtime lawmaker Duane Cheney, who resigned his position after relocating to southern Indiana. 
Dnnbo, who has represented District 62 since he was first elected in 1990, said he enjoyed his 17 years in the House. 
ISRAEL 



Israel ready for deal with Palestine 
Despite government's pledge to give up territory, construction continue_s in West Bank 
Associated Press 

BETAR ILLIT -The pounding chatter of jack­hammers echoes over a wind-swept West Bank hill­top as workers lay bricks at a new apartment building rising in this sprawling Jewish settlement. 
The Israeli government says it's ready to make a deal that would give. Palestinians their own state. But realities on the ground -outlined in a report Wednesday showing vigor­ous Israeli construction in the West Bank -hold important implications for the latest U.S. peace push. 
Israel insists on retaining some settlements to keep a foothold around Jerusalem and create a broader cush­ion at its narrow Tel Aviv­area waist. 
Palestinians want a viable state, and the settlements ­along with Israeli roads and a separation barrier jutting into the West Bank ­threaten to fragment the territory and cut off east Jerusalem. where they want to establish their capital. 
It has been a bitter issue 
for years, and finding a solu­
tion will tax efforts to work 
out a final peace accord. 

"Everything that Israel is doing on the ground is, of course, an obstacle to what we are trying to achieve," obligations under the "road leadership now in charge of Cabinet minister. said Rafiq Husseini, a top map," a U.S.-backed peace the West Bank. Israeli Prime Minister aide to Palestinian President plan being revived in hopes Israel and Abbas' admin­Ehud Olmert said this week Mahmoud Abbas. of boosting confidence istration hope the U.S.-spon­that Israel is willing to meet Nonetheless, he said, the between the two sides sored peace conference will its road map obligations. He Palestinians want to negoti­ahead of a peace conference launch full-fledged peace also urged the Palestinians ate "until the last minute." later this month. negotiations that will tackle to fulfill their commitment 
Israel continues to expand The plan's initial stage all the key issues at the under the plan to crack many of the 122 settlements called for Israel to freeze heart of their 60-year-old down on militant groups in the West Bank, where West Bank settlement con­conflict, including the status that stage attacks on 267,500 Israelis lived as of struction and dismantle of Jewish settlements. Israelis. last month, according to dozens of settlement out­The settlements are a key Israeli officials have spo­government statistics. posts scattered across the issue for the Palestinians, ken about a large-scale pull­
Peace Now, an Israeli set­territory. But the road map who want their future state out from the West Bank, not tlement-watchdog group, foundered after its introduc­to include all of the West unlike the Israeli withdraw­issued a report Wednesday tion four years ago, with Bank, which Israel captured al from the Gaza Strip two saying building is going on each side accusing the other in the 196 7 Mideast war. years ago. in 88 of the settlements, of not meeting obligations. "Since the very beginning But Israelis are firm on though most of the work is Yet the violent takeover of of the peace process, the keeping large settlement in the areas Israel hopes to the Gaza Strip last June by Palestinians warned that the blocs, mostly around retain in a peace ·deal. the Islamic militants of the peace process and settle­Jerusalem. These account 
The Palestinians said Hamas movement has para­ment process are incompati­for about 8 percent of West Monday that they received doxically led to renewed ble and cannot move togeth­Bank land, and Palestinians assurances from peacemaking between er, and one of them will kill are demanding a state equal Washington that Israel Israel's government and the the other," said Ghassan in size to the entire West would meet its short-term more moderate Palestinian Khatib, a former Palestinian Bank and Gaza Strip. 


Si111pson could face up to life in prison 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS -After being acquit­ted more than a decade ago in one of the most sensational murder cases in U.S. history, O.J. Simpson could be looking at hard time if convicted in a seemingly half­baked scheme to grab some sports memorabilia he claimed belonged to him. 
Whether prosecutors can make the charges stick remains to be seen. But if they can, the 60-year­old former football star will almost certainly go to prison. 
One charge alone -robbery with the use of a deadly weapon -car­ries a mandatory sentence of two to 15 years. Kidnapping could bring a life sentence with the possi­bility of parole. 
The defense and the public will get a preview of the prosecution's case beginning Thursday at a pre­liminary hearing where a judge will be asked to decide whether there is enough evidence to take the case to trial sometime next year. 
Simpson was arrested and accused along with five others of bursting into a Las Vegas hotel­casino room with guns Sept. 13 and stealing a trove of sports items from two memorabilia dealers. Prosecutors say at least one gun was drawn. 
Michael Shapiro, a New York defense lawyer who provided com­mentary during Simpson's 1995 acquittal in the slayings of his wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Ronald Goldman, said the Las Vegas case "reminds me of the old Mad magazine cartoon 'Spy vs. Spy"' in its amateurishness -"if it weren't for the presence of a gun or guns." 
"That ups the ante," Shapiro said. "When guns come into play, bad things can happen." 
The case is likely to pivot on Simpson's contention that he didn't ask anyone to bring guns, that he didn't know anyone had guns, and that no guns were displayed. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, November 8, 2007 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 
on academic merit," Jessop said. 
Burish created an ad hoc committee to explore the issue and produce the report, asking the group -which was made up of 13 professors and admin­istrators -for "help and guid­ance in developing strategic thin king and in proposing actions we might take" to iden­tify and recruit Catholic facul­ty. 
The University's percentage of self-identified Catholic facul­ty has dropped from approxi­

"We need to take a
mately 64 percent ulty is really in 11JH6 to about leadership role in this thinking we 53 percent in will also need
issue that is so 
2006, Burish said some kind of
important to every
in his charge to anonymous 
the ad hoc com­faculty member.,, outlet to go mittee. The group with the mnt from January forum," said
Dan Lapsley
through June this senator Sarah 

senator
year and deter­mined that any practices adopted to recruit Catholic scholars "should not compromise the University's academic quality." 
"The Catholic faculty mem­bers recruited by these initia­tives cannot be perceived as ­and must not be -academi­cally inferior to other hires," the report said. 
But the committee's report acknowledged that among qualilied candidates and on a 1:ase-by-case basis, "mission lit may well be determinative" when hiring a new proJ'nssor. 
And weighing the faculty's diverse opinions on the sensi­tive subject may be tricky. On Wednesday, senators struggled to come up with proper sys­tems to poll current profes­sors. 

Many senators immediately proposed hosting a forum where the faculty could gather to openly discuss the report and the issue. But some sena­tors were skeptical of a town­hall meeting, saying the topics at hand are of a sensitive nature. Many faculty members -especially the non-Catholic and untenured -might be unwilling to speak freely in such a public setting, they said. 
"I think that in order to get a 
full scope of 
what the fac­
McKibben, 

professor in the Irish language and litera­ture department. "The Senate needs to develop a mechanism through which faculty mem­bers can voice and submit their concerns and thoughts to us, anonymously." 
Many senators agreed on the need to allow anonymous opin­ions, but they were unsure how the Senate should collect that information. 
Senator Dan Lapsley, a psy­chology professor, suggested all senators focus on gathering opinions in their respective departments and constituen­eies. 
"We each need to take a leadership role in this issue that is so important to every faculty member," Lapsley said. 
The report had already expressed fears of "misunder­standings and damaging rumors both within the University and outside about any distinctive policy of recruiting Catholics in all departments because of their Catholicism." 
Professor Seth Brown, chair of the administrative affairs committee and a member of the ad hoc committee that pro­duced the report, proposed the Senate's scheduled meeting with Burish next month be strictly limited to an in-depth discussion of the issue. The Senate agreed by a voice vote. 
In other Faculty Senate news: 
+ 
Jessop told senators the seven proposed revisions to the Academic Articles, discussed during the Senate's October meeting, were forwarded to the Academic Council ad hoc committee and the executive board of the Academic Council for their consideration. 

+ 
Jessop said he presented Burish with the idea of a club for faculty members that could replace the University Club, which closed its doors earlier this semester to give way to the construction of a new Law School building. He said Burish told him the administration would be receptive to the idea of building a faculty club if fac­ulty members demonstrate demand. 


Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

Study reveals n1any hon1eless are veterans 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Veterans make up one in four homeless people in the United States, though they are only 11 per­cent of the general adult popu­lation, according to a report to be released Thursday. 

And homelessness is not just a problem among middle-age and elderly veterans. Younger veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan are trickling into shelters and soup kitchens seeking services, treatment or help with finding a job. 
The Veterans Affairs Department has identified 1,500 homeless veterans from the current wars and says 400 of them have participated in its programs specifically targeting homelessness. 
The National Alliance to End Homelessness, a public educa­tion nonprofit, based the find­ings of its report on numbers from Veterans AfTairs and the Census Bureau. 2005 data esti­mated that 194,254 homeless people out of 744,313 on any given night were veterans. 
In comparison, the VA says that 20 years ago, the estimat­ed number of veterans who were homeless on any given night was 250,000. 
Some advocates say the early presence of veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan at shelters does not bode well for the future. It took roughly a decade for the lives of Vietnam veterans to unravel to the point that they started showing up among the homeless. Advocates worry that intense and repeated deployments leave newer veterans particu­larly vulnerable. 
"We're going to be having a tsunami of them eventually because the mental health toll from this war is enormous," said Daniel Tooth, director of veterans affairs for Lancaster County, Pa. 
While services to homeless veterans have improved in the past 20 years, advocates say more financial resources still are needed. With the spotlight on the plight of Iraq veterans, they hope more will b!~ done to prevent homelessness and pro­vide affordable housing to the younger veterans while there's a window of opportunity. 
"When the Vietnam War ended, that was part of the problem. The war was over, it was ofl' TV, nobody wanted to hear about it," said John Keaveney, a Vietnam veteran and a founder of New Directions in Los Angeles, which provide!) substance abuse help, job training and shelter to veterans. · 
"I think they'll be forgotten," Keaveney said of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans. "People get tired of it. It's not glitzy that these are young, honor­able, patriotic Americans. They'll just be veterans, and that happens al't.!~r every war." 
CLEARANCE SALE Located at the South End of the Football Stadium Between Gates B &C Look for the Big White Clearance Tent The Clearance Sale will be Open on Sunday November 11th & 18th from 1Oam until 3pm ~ Parking is Available and Free of Charge NoTRitDAM~1in the Stadium Parking Lot BOOKSTORE IN THE ECK CENTER phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndcotolog.com  

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, November 8, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,300.02 -360.92
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
307 56 3,052 58,198,140 
AMEX 2,499.99 -38.92 NASDAQ 2,748.76 -76.42 NYSE 9,830.15 -272.26 S&P 500 1,475.62 -44.65 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16.096.68 0.00 FTSE 100 'London~ 61385.10 -89.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C)  -4.76  
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -2.74  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -2.43  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -5.74  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.53 13-WEEK BILL -7.44 30-YEAR BOND +0.34 5-YEAR NOTE +1.81 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 

Exchange Rates 

YEN EURO CANADIAN DOLLAR BRmSH POUND 
-1.67 -4.16 -1.33 -1.74  33.41 147.91 53.35 30.06  
-0.023 -0.270 +0.016 -0.072  4.334 3.360 4.668 3.901  
-0.33 +10.10 -0.45  96.37 833.50 84".75  

112.6400 0.6832 0.9338 0.4758 

IN BRIEF National debt hits $9 trillion for first time 
WASIIINGTON -The national debt has hit $9 trillion for the first time. 
The Treasury Department, which issues a daily accounting of the debt, said Wednesday that the debt subject to limit was at $9 trillion on Tuesday. It was $8.996 trillion on Monday. 
Last month, Congress passed and President Bush signed into law an increase in the gov­ernment's borrowing ceiling to $9.815 trillion. It was the fifth debt limit increase since Bush took office in January 2001. Those increases have totaled $3.865 trillion. 
The administration contends the rising debt reflects such factors as slow economic growth during the 2001 recession, the Sept. 11 attacks and the cost of lighting terrorism. 
Date rape drug found in children's toys 
WASIIINGTON -Millions of Chinese-made toys for children have been pulled from shelves in North America and Australia after scientists found they contain a chemical that converts into a powerful "date rape" drug when ingested. 
Two children in the U.S. and three in Australia were hospitalized after swallowing the beads. 
In the United States, the toy goes by the name Aqua Dots, a highly popular holiday toy distributed by Toronto-based Spin Master Toys. They are called Bindeez in Australia, when~ they were named toy of the year at an industry function earlier this year. 
It could not immediately be learned whether Aqua Dots beads are made in the same facto­ries as tlw Bindeez product. Both are sold by Australia-based Moose Enterprises. 
The toy beads are sold in general merchan­dise stores and over the Internet for use in arts and crafts projects. They can be arranged into designs and fused together when sprayed with water. 
Scientists say a chemical coating on the beads. when ingested, metabolizes into the so­called date rape drug gamma hydroxy butyrate. When eaten, the compound -made from common and easily available ingredients -can induce unconsciousness, seizures, drowsiness, coma and death. 



THE OBSERVER 









USINESS 
page 7 
Oil prices reach record high 
Traders worry whether supplies will meet demand for heating fuel in winter 
Associated Press 
VIENNA -Record oil prices edged closer to $100 a barrel Wednesday amid expectations of declining 
U.S. supplies. The weak dol­lar and OPEC's apparent reluctance to pump more crude into the market also boosted prices. 
Light, sweet crude for December delivery rose $1.05 to $97.75 a barrel by afternoon in Europe after earlier reaching a record $98.62 in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
The contract hit a high of $97.10 Tuesday before clos­ing at $96.70 a barrel. a record settlement 66 percent higher than the close on the first trading day of the year. 
That left crude prices within the range of inflation­adjusted highs set in early 1980. Depending on the how the adjustment is caleulated, $38 a barrel then would be worth $96 to $103 or more today. 
In London, Brent crude rose 86 cents to $94.12 a barrel on the ICE Futures exchange. A number of North Sea oil platforms were evacuated Tuesday ahead of expected severe weather, and BP PLC said it expects to shut production Thursday from its Valhall oil and gas field. 
Traders remain worried about whether supplies will be adequate to meet demand for heating fuel in the approaching Northern Hemisphere winter. News of an attack Monday on an oil pipeline in Yemen added to those concerns. 
"The oil market sentiment remains bullish ... there is an overall upward trend toward the $100 level," said Victor Shum, energy analyst with Purvin & Gertz in Singapore. "Meanwhile, we can expect extreme volatility where on the one hand some traders will take profit while others average, that crude oil will buy back positions." inventories fell by 1.6 million 


Global Insight energy ana­barrels. lyst Simon Wardell was even "The price rise is really more unequivocal. driven by expectations of 
"The run on $100 ... (a drawdowns in crude oil and barrel) now seems distillate stocks inventories inevitable," he said in a in the U.S. inventory report," research note. "In the short said Shum. "Some cold term all eyes will be fixed on weather reports out of the the U.S. government's U.S. and Europe serve as a Energy Information reminder that winter is corn­Administration ...-inventory ing and that there are still data." supply concerns." 
Those figures to be On Tuesday, the U.S. released later Wednesday Department of Energy's EIA are expected to show crude said oil stocks in the coun­supplies dropped last week. tries of the Organization for Analysts surveyed by Dow Economic Cooperation and Jones Newswires predict, on Development are foreca..<>t to fall this winter, ending the year at the lowest level since January 2005. 
In London, International Energy Agency head Nobuo Tanaka said he shared those concerns. 
"Stocks provide an impor­tant cushion between supply and demand," he told reporters. "They add supply side flexibility, reduce volatil­ity and minimize the incen­tive for speculation. 
"At current prices the market is signaling that stocks need to be higher ­something that is in the power of producers to address. 

General Motors reports $39 billion loss 
Associated Press 

DETROIT -General Motors Corp. posted a company record $39 billion loss Wednesday for the third quarter, as a charge involving unused tax credits brought an abrupt end to a string of three profitable quarters for the nation's largest autornaker. 
The loss was one of the biggest quarterly corporate deficits ever. GM's shares closed more than 6 per­cent lower. Standard & Poor's down­graded GM shares from hold to sell, and said GM's near-term outlook has worsened significantly in part due to reduced U.S. sales. 
GM attributed most of the third­quarter loss to a $38.6 billion non­cash charge related to accumulated deferred tax credits in the U.S., Canada and Germany. Accounting rules require companies to write down the value of such credits if they have scant prospects for a return to profitability in the near term. 
GM also reported a loss of $757 million from its 49 percent stake in GMAC Financial Services, due large­ly to losses at ResCap, GMAC's mort­gage arm. 
It was the second-worst quarterly net loss in U.S. corporate history, exceeded only by AOL Time Warner's $44.9 billion loss in the fourth quarter of 2002 when the value of the AOL operations was marked down, according to Howard Silverblatt, a senior index analyst for Standard & Poor's. 
GM Chairman and Chief Executive Rick Wagoner said the aceounting shift is not easy to explain but does­n't have a substantial impact on the business. 
"I would stress: No impact whatso­ever on our cash position, no impact on our ability to use the tax offsets in the future, and from my perspective, really no change whatsoever in our outlook or optimism about the future of getting the business turned around," he said. 

What might be considered more troubling for GM is continuing losses in its home market. North America, where it reported a net loss of $24 7 million without the charge for the latest quarter. That compares with a net loss of $667 million in the year­ago period. 
The company reported an overall loss of $1.6 billion, or $2.80 per share, excluding special items. Besides the accounting change, spe­cial items included a $3.5 billion after-tax gain on the $5.4 billion sale of Allison Transmission in August. 
The net loss contrasts with rival Toyota Motor Corp.'s announcement Wednesday that its profit for the fis­cal second quarter rose 11 percent to a company record $4 billion. Toyota and GM are vying for the title of world's largest autornaker by sales this year. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, November 8, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
An unpardonable action 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
Ass'l~ MANAGING EDITOR! Kyle Cassily ASS'I~ MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
Nh"WS EDITOR: Kart'n Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS ED11URS: Chris Khorey Chris I line SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

PIIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Corte7. 

An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROu.ER! Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(S74) 6.31-6900 obsl·rvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6.31-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-454 I obsmc@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(S74) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-530.3 vilwpoinr.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-454.3 sports. I @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the indcpendcm, daily newspaper . published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverriscmems, is not gowrned by policies ofthe administration ofeither institUtion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on comem. 
Tlw news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigrwd editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and departmem editors. Commemarit·s, letters and columns present the views of the aurhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vit·wpoinr space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.t·rrcrs to the Editor must be signed and musr include contact in!orrnarion. 
Quertiow "[tttrding Oburver polici•s should b, dirmed to Editor in ChiefMttddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

·n.~ (lhv:rvn {lJSPS Olj!)? 2..4000) •• pubhahcd M.u.d.,v •h•··u~h Frid.!y exc.q11 duril'i: n.tm Jm{ v.u:;uion pcrtuds. A lUIIM·npti<Jn1U'I1Jc ()(ht'rvcr 1!'1 $1Ufl fur nm· atJdcmiL year. S'iS ft•runc~c:mc.<~rcr 
The Oh,crvn i• puhli1hCii .u POSTMA~TER 

024 St1u1h Dlnmg lbll Stnd .1dJ~ corrcccioru to~ 
Nottl' lhmc.IN .. 6556·0779 Tht' Ol~rvc:r 
Prricwh~·o~J Jki"JKC p;uJ ill None DJmc 1!0. l\t1117J9 ,U\d !lddidonJI m.tilintt uffico. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre D01mc, IN 46'iSI:•-On9 
The Ob~~eJvcr 1~ • mc111hcr ol the A.~nu ..ucd f'rw. All rcptuthu:uun n~hu 11rc rtsci'Vt'd. 
Marc Hich decided to use his billions to flee to Switzerland rather than stand trial for tax evasion. Oscar Collazo attempted to assassinate President Truman, and in doing so shut and killed a 
John Everett
White House 
police officer. 
Orlando Bosch 
Kids These 
placed an explo­
Days
·sive device in the 
bathroom of a 
Cuban airplane, killing all 73 people 
on board. 
Do you know what these men have in common? United States presidents, who swear to protect and defend the Constitution, thought fit to give them unconditional pardons for their offens­es, circumventing this country's justice system through the use of a Constitutional relic which must be abolished. 
If you think that such unquestioned power as provided in the form of the pardon is more appropriate for a monarch than for a President who is supposed to be aecountable to the public, you are quite right. The pardon is a carry-over from the English monarchy, and the story .of its inclu­sion in our system of government is a testament to its egregiousness. 
At the Constitutional Convention in 171:'.7, the pardon's inclusion was one of the pet causes of Alexander Hamilton. Hamilton, though more famous for his finaneial wizardry as the first secretary of the treasury, and of course for being shot by Aaron Burr, was well known in his day as a supporter of a powerful federal gov­ernment. Many of his proposals at the Philadelphia Convention were inter­preted by his peers as supporting a sort of elected monarch, a charge which was levied against him in later years, sullying his reputation. The pardon is one of the few of Hamilton's ideas which was adopted. 

Hamilton defended plaeing the unchecked power of the pardon in the hands of the president in Federalist No. 74. His argument is more like a defense of kingly power in general than a specific reasoning in favor of the pardon. Hamilton states that the pardon is a necessary part of govern­ment to mitigate the occasional severi­ty of the law. Therefore, Hamilton focuses his argument on why it is not so bad that the power should be vest­ed in one person. According to Hamilton, the loeation of the power in a single person "would naturally inspire scrupulousness and caution" and that "the dread of being accused of ... connivance" would also make the president pause. 
Of course, American presidents have always been known for their fear of perceived "connivance." This fear per­fectly explains why Bill Clinton stead­fastly refused to grant a pardon to his half-brother, Huger, and why George 
W. Bush resisted pressure from his own vice president to force Scooter Libby to pay off his debt to society. Oops. 
President Bush can try to impress Americans by saying he deliberated at length over his choice to grant a reprieve to a man whose guilt is not even really contested, but it doesn't really matter how lung you consider a question if you still get the answer wrong. Libby's sentence was not com­muted in an attempt to show mercy on someone deserving of it, instead it was a political favor done to help the vice president's friend, and, unlike any other action the president may take, there is nothing anyone can do about it but complain. Congress is unable to review a pardon and the courts can not reverse it. As a second-term presi­dent, Bush no longer has to worry about the public turning him out of office, either. 
Hamilton's other argument in favor 
of the pardon power being in the pres­
ident's hands instnad of thn legislature 
is that, in cnrtain circumstances, it 
will be benellcial to aet quiekly, and 
the legislature might allow "the golden 
opportunity" to pass. Like his first 
argument, this is more of a defense of 
monarchical power in total than a 
defense of the pardon, as the same 
argument could bn applied universally, 
to every issue that can be raised. 
The Founders decided that the leg­
islative and judicial branches, as 
checks to the power of the president 
and to each other, were important 
enough to ovnrcome the dr:awbacks of 
delay and indeeision. Hamilton's dis­
agreement with this philosophy is evi­
dent in his writing, so it remains a 
mystery why the pardon power snuck 
through as really the only unchecked 
power of the presidnnt. 
Whether presidents have ever been as serupulous or cautious as llamilton nxpeeted them to be is a matter of debatn. What has bneome abundantly dear over the coursn of the last sevnr­al ad ministrations, of both partins, is that they no longer are. There an~ times when pardons are called for, certainly, but why not let the issue be debated, or at least, held in check by the othm branches of government'? At the vnry least, administration officials like Scooter Libby would have to think twice before committing a crime, unable to count on a favor from a friend in a high place. 
John Everett is a senior English major. He is thought to be soinei.LJhere between 21 and 45 years of age. lie is armed only with a sharp wit and is considered cantankerous. If you have any information regarding his where­abouts, please contact jeverett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

'The Dreaded Sign' shuts out study space 
We came to Notre Dame to get a solid, valuable education. In order to receive that education, we must do a considerable amount of studying and work. Fur us Walshies, and for most South, West, and God Quad residents, the Coleman Morse Lounge is an ideal workplace. Complete with pop­corn, soda, coffee, and a general aura of joy and happiness, CoMo makes the Library look like the bot­tom of St. Joe's Lake. Unfortunately, our happiness in in this oasis. of potential knowledge is constantly threatened by the Dreaded Sign. All too often, students who frequent the Coleman Morse Lounge are faced with these words: "x group has reserved this space for the next 72 hours ... at least." Okay, so we exag­gerated. but it sure feels like that to those of us who planned our entire day's work around the notion that we would have this space available to study in. 

You may argue, why not go to the library? Simple answer: No. Never. It's freezing. It was sleeting today. Didn't you see? You may argue, why not study in your room? Simple answer: Have you seen the size of our rooms? It's impossible. You may argue, why not study in LaFortune? Simple answer: If we wanted to study in a bar, we would. Unfortunately, we can't get our calculus problems done when there are three football games on TV and 67 people shouting about why Charlie Weis should or shouldn't be fired this week. 
There is only one solution to this dilemma. Destroy the signs and all that they entail. Really, with all the money this institution spends on equipped facilities, it isn't necessary that one of three common study spaces on campus be occupied five times a week. We niTer the following solutions: Either eliminate this prob­lem altogether, or meet us halfway. We know for a fact that there are more available classrooms on the upper lloors of CoMo than are actual­ly opened for use after hours. These elassrooms should be put to use. It all comes down to one very simple ques­tion: Does the Univnristy of Notre Dame want successful students? Or not? We think you know what to do. 
Lindsay Schanzer Hallie Brewster Amanda Spiegelberg freshmen Walsh Hall Nov. 6 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Viewpoint Kaitlynn Hiely Jordan Gamble Jenn Metz Graphics Maureen Mullen Madeline Nics Charlie Weis' future? John Tierney Scene "A great many people think they are Sports Cassie Belek thinking when they are reallY,
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. rearranging their prejudices. ' 
Jay Fitzpatrick Greg Arbogast at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
William James Matt Gamber American psychologist and philosopher 
---------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 8, 2007 page 9 
'Sex' in the dorms 
Once on retreat, I asked my 70-year-old spiritual director, a Trappist monk, "When does your sex drive fmally calm down?" After a moment's pause, he answered, "As best I can tell, about a half-hour after you 
die." Father Lou 
So much for easy 

solutions. Growing DelFra into sexual maturity is a life-long journey, FaithPoint without many short­
cuts. 
Many, many students on our campus­male and female -are struggling with the role of pornography in their lives. It is not surprising. Take one ofyour deepest, most powerful, often seemingly insatiable human drives -your sex drive -and offer it instant, stimulating, no-strings­attached, anonymous, and often free grati­fication, especially at a time when, biologi­cally, you are at the peak ofyour sexual lives. Add to this the technological explo­sion of personal computer products. Throw in the general stress levels with being a student in a competitive environment. Given this set of conditions, what would really be surprising was ifpornography use on campus was somehow declining, which as you know, it is not. 
So, in the midst of this extraordinarily explosive set of circumstances, I want first to say thank you to the many students who have had the courage, and desire for wholeness, to bring this up, and to share their struggles, and to seek for mature ways to live out their sexual lives. Your wit­ness -even ifyou have not overcome this temptation but are still struggling with it ­is a light illuminating a dark, labyrinthine street. Though it is a confusing and some­times seemingly overwhelming road, it is one on which our God, who gave us this gift of sexuality, promises to walk closely with us -continually offering us true inti­macy and ways to live out our lives with integrity and true joy. 
Your struggles have illuminated for me some of the subtly harmful consequences ofrepeated pornography use-ones that seem barely apparent in any single moment of consumption, but begin to form corrosive patterns over time. I bring them up here in the hope that they may be help­ful to others. 
Pornography seems to tarnish the way its users relate tq other people, including peo­ple they really want to love. Because pornography is so immediately stimulating and does not require the interpersonal, longer-term effort that friendship requires, and also because pornography generally requires solitude and anonymity, many stu­dents have noticed in themselves a damp­ened desire to deepen friendships with oth­ers. This includes a decreased interest in deepening friendships with other people you actually find yourself attracted to -a fact that reveals how deviously isolating the practice of viewing pornography can be. Not surprisingly, students have also expressed concern that pornography seems to increase their tendency to view other people -again, perhaps most frus­tratingly, especially people to whom they are attracted-primarily as sexual objects. 
Pornography also, over time, leaves its users with an increased sense of loneliness and emptiness -the exact opposite of the fulfillment it promises. As intimate as the act of viewing pornography may feel in the moment-alone, another human being unveiled before you -your deepest self is not duped because no truly human rela­tionship is ever formed. It is all virtual. 
Perhaps one ofthe most tempting features ofpornography is that no follow-up with your "partner" is needed -a feature that seems extremely convenient at the time, but which actually frustrates our deep human desire for companionship. It proba­bly is also worth reminding ourselves -for the sake ofbreaking through the fantasy­that, as spontaneous as pornographic acts present themselves, in fact they are almost entirely calculated, non-spontaneous, deliberately filmed and edited products of a $2 billion a year industry that is interested in making money, not fulfilling any human need for relationship. In fact, the industry can hardly make money ifit actually suc­ceeds in fulfilling your companionship needs. Its increasing profits -and they are increasing at an amazing rate -are dependent on repeated use. 
Perhaps the most pernicious conse­quence that students have struggled with is that, over time, repeated pornography use threatens to tum sexuality into an enemy. Students who struggle with pornography frequently talk about their sexuality prima­rily as something they need to ove~come. In fact, it is the use ofpomography.they are so desperate to overcome, but often this slips into a general adversarial relationship with one's entire sexuality. This is squarely at odds with the life -including the sexual life-that God, who gifted us with our sex­uality, intends for us. We are not created to be enemies ofthe gifts which God has planted deep within us. As Jesus protec­tively describes the presence ofthe gift of the Spirit within him against those who believe he is possessed of an evil spirit, "A house divided against itself cannot stand." Father Ron Rolheiser, who offers a com­pelling, positive, and explicitly Christian understanding of sexuality in his book, "The Holy Longing," writes, "For a Christian, sex is something sacred. Hence, it can never be simply a casual, unimpor­tant, neutral thing. If its proper nature is respected, it builds the soul as a sacra­ment, and it brings God's physical touch to us. Conversely, though, ifits proper nature is not respected, it ... works at disintegrat­ing the soul." Each of God's gifts, including our sexuality, is given for the purpose of building our souls. 
Of the set of conditions that students have identified as helping to make pornog­raphy such a growing trend on college campuses-its accessibility, its anonymity, its power to stimulate -few are likely to change in the near future, and in fact will likely increase. Two, however, that remain in our control are anonymity and the mes­sages about sexuality that permeate our community. What courageous students have revealed is that honestly sharing their struggles with pornography with another person whom they trust -a priest, minis­ter, mentor, friend -is an incredibly pow­erful step towards breaking its hold. What a beautiful insight into the power of Christian community -characterized as it is by encouragement, forgiveness, healing, true freedom, true love, real relationship and, infusing it all, the compassion of Christ. He has entered totally into our humanity, in all its complexity, and promis­es to bring every part of us -including our sexuality -into intimate union with Him. 
Father Lou DelFra is the director ofBible Studies in the Office ofCampus Ministry. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Burger King ignores slavery in their fields 
Do you eat tomatoes in the dining halls? Do you put ketchup on your fries? Would you still eat those toma­toes if you knew they were picked by people who may as well be (and some­times are) enslaved? 
In the fields of Florida right now, workers have to pick two tons of toma­1 toes in order to make $50, two and a half tons to make the minimum wage in Florida. This is something only possible during the peak seasons of picking, when competition for wages makes it possible to work only two to three days a week. Typically, workers make less than $40 per day, and rarely have a full work week. Injuries are also com­mon. As a result of this, farmworkers have to live with upwards of 10 people in a dingy trailer..because it rents for $300 -$500 per week (that's not a typo), and work in the fields for 10-12 hours per day. Actual cases of slavery are still being uncovered, with other cases still working through the courts. 
The Coalition of Immokalee Workers (CIW), formed in 1993 to fight these injustices, has been instrumental in achieving better wages and working conditions for farmworkers. In 2004, Taco Bell signed an agreement to pay ~ penny more per pound to workers, which increased wages for tomato pickers by 70 percent. That may seem like a lot, but it had been 30 years since farmworkers had received a raise. And last year, McDonalds signed on to a similar agreement. These cor­porations are the same ones that have asked for lower and lower costs for years, which were passed down to the workers. Unfortunately, these agree­ments represent only one to two per­cent of the industry. 
Currently, Burger King is refusing to sign the type of agreement that McDonalds and Taco Bell have. In response to this, and with the knowl­edge that the previous agreements only came after long, hard struggles, the CIW will be holding a protest Nov. 30 at Burger King's corporate headquarters in Miami, Fl. 
In support of this action, Notre Dame students have joined in this fight as well. On Oct. 31, wearing masks of the "King" that read, "Burger King Exploits Farmworkers," 16 students sat outside the Burger King in LaFortune, trying to raise awareness of these issues. 
Students who have further interest in these problems or would like to join our cause should direct their questions to MEChA (Movimiento Estudantil Chicano de Azthin), or are welcome to e-mail me at mgotsch@nd.edu. If nei­ther of those options appeal to you, I ask that you simply remember the peo­ple in the fields making it possible for you to have ketchup with those fries. 
All statistics about the daily life of farm workers came from the CSC's Migrant Experiences Seminar 2007, held in Immokalee, Fl., and from www.ciw-online.org. 
Mike Gotsch junior Keough Hall Nov. 7 

EDITORIAL CARTOON
Volleyball needs student support 
Dear Students, the Louisville match, one lucky student will win 
This weekend the volleyball team closes out free books for a semester from Hammes the regular season at the Joyce Center with two Bookstore. very important Big East matches. Friday, before Finally, Sunday is also Senior Day. This will be the pep rally, we play Cincinnati at 4 p.m. Please your last chance to watch our outstanding pair come out early to the pep rally, receive a free T­of seniors, Ashley Tarutis and Adrianna Stasiuk, shirt, and warm up your vocal cords. Cincinnati as they take the floor for the final time at the is 8-4 in the Big East and 17-9 overall. One of Joyce Center. With wins in the final two match­our sophomores, Megan Fesl, has a sister who es, we will earn a 13th consecutive berth in the plays for Cincinnati so this match is an impor­Big East tournament. The team would love to tant one for our team. hear our great student body make some noise 
On Sunday at 2 p.m. we battle No. 17 and cheer us on to victory. GO IRISH! Louisville, which is undefeated in Big East play at 12-0 and 19-4 overall. This is a huge match, Debbie Brown as it will air live to a national audience on ESPN Irish volleyball coach U, so bring your friends and be seen on TV. At Nov.? 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Thursday, November 8, 2007 

MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 

of' the tremendous quality of program," Stowe said. The first half of By TAEANDREWS Tchaikovsky's craftsmanship in writing the concert includes music by Morales, Sct·ne Editor for the orchestra," Stowe said. "I think La Hue and Josquin, in addition to 20th­
Tchaikovsky is very much underrated eentury pieces by Poulenc, Distler and 
Thn Notre Damn Symphony Orchestra by many critics in this respnet." Biehl. and the Notre Damn Clee Club will per­lie went on to say that he selected the The Renaissance songs represent form their respective annual fall con­Copland ballet songs because they allow Stowe's efforts to branch out and infuse certs tonight and tomorrow night in the tho orchostra to show a different aspect the concert with variety, particularly l.(lighton Concert llall in the DeBartolo of its versatility that it doesn't normally among the works from the latter three l'nrf'orming Arts get to demon­artists. Poulene's four-piece set entitled Cnntnr. strate. "Laudes of St. Anthony" features what 
Thn Symphony "The Copland Stowe calls "very interesting harmony,"
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra
Orchestra's reper­really swings, while three Distler pieces are poems by
Fall Concert 2007
toire ineludns all too," Stowe said. the German poet Eduard Moerike set to balld music this Leighton Concert Hall, DPAC "Orchestras don't music. All three contrast in tone and ynar, including aetually get much quality, Stowe said. 
Thursday, Nov. 8 
T (: h a i k o v s k y ' s of an opportunity In addition to the new songs, the Glee
8p.m.
famous to swing like a big Club will also stick with tried-and-true "Nutcracker" Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 band, but they do numbers including Franz Biehl's "Ave Suitn and in this piece." Maria." along with an arrangement of
seniors and $3 students 
Copland's In addition to "Danny Boy" written for the Glee Club "Hodno." Tlw pro-conducting the by 2000 Notre Dame graduate and for­gram also features "Invitation to the nearly 80 members of the Symphony mer Glee Club member Patrick Quigley. Dancn," a lesser-known ballnt by Carl Orchestra, Stowe also conducts the 55 Stowe mentioned one type of music as Maria von Weber. one of' Beethoven's voices of the Notre a particular con­youngnr eontemporarins, who was 15 Damn Glee Club. cert favorite. ynars his junior. Unlike the orches­Notre Dame Glee Club "Barbershop is 
"I wanted to do a ballet eoneert with tra's all-ballet line­always great fun
Fall Concert 2007 Photo courtesy of "u·"'uw-·,y'"
the orchnstra centered on the up, Stowe says the for singer and 
Daniel Stowe conducts both the
Leighton Concert Hall, DPAC

'Nutcracker' Suite," said conductor Clee Club concert audience alike," he 
Symphony Orchestra and the Glee Club. 
Daniel Stowe in an email Monday, "and has no real theme, Friday, Nov. 9 said. The Biehl I thought the Copland 'Hodeo' music featuring a first music is also popu­performers and audience alike," he
8:30p.m.

would be a good pairing." half of classical lar, Stowe said. said. "While it may be easier to appeal
Tickets $8, $6 faculty/staff, $5
The show will feature four selections music and a second In arranging the to a broader audience with the Glee from thn ballnt. concluding with the half of spirituals, seniors and $3 students performances of Club, since lit! embracelsl both popular famous "lloe-I>own" musie. Both suites folk songs, barber­both the Symphony and elassical musical styles in [itsl per­run about 25 minutes. shop pieces and Orchestra and the formances, I continually try to debunk 
Stowe said hn chose the Nutcracker Notre Dame songs. The Undertones, the Glee Club, Stowe said his greatest chal­the myth that classical music is by a set for the quality of' its musie in addi­12-member a cappella group made up lenge is creating concerts that appeal to bunch of dead guys and not relevant to tion to its status as a popular winter of Glee Club members, will also perform both classical music aficionados and us. I think it can speak to everyone, not music suite. · during the second half. easual audience members. just to the performers on stage." 
"The 'Nutcracker' Suite, for all its "For the Glee Club, I always like to do "In assembling programs, one always familiarity, is just a joy to play because some Henaissance sacred music in each aims to entertain, educate, and inspire Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
SCENE AND HEARD 

Sportscasters put spotlight on then1selves, not on sports 

Oh, ESPN, how far you have fallen. 
It used to be that ESPN was my favorite channel-the perfect oasis for any rabid sports fan. But these days, ESI'N is about as entertaining as a ball of lint. 
Tho prohlmn starts with the Chris McGrady sportscasters. Tlwy make a joke-likP 
Assistant 
n~rnark about 
.'..;cene Editor 
everything they cornnwnt on. I say joke-like hocausll, woll. it's mnant to IH~ a joke but it's missing that one key 
oI(HJHm t -humor. 
l.istnning to thn sportscasters on I·:SI'N is like listening to a group of over-hyped tem~agers battln it out to son who ~~llll rnakn tho cute girl in elass laugh. With ridiculous puns, analogies and broad and basnlnss sweeping statnnwnts, ESI'N has ruined its image in my mind. 
Every telecast, show and pi(H:e is so overblown that I can hardly stand it. Tho other night on SportsCnntnr, I~SPN's cm1terpince show, host Stuart Scott had a froelance, beat poetry intro. Did you catch that'! Poetry. 
Then thorn is Chris Berman. This guy was great. lin has rm:nived thren awards for best sportscaster. 
Unfortunately, the most recent was about 20 years ago. Now he is most famous for his annoying sounds. I lis signature noise is something he makes when an athlete (usually a football player) jukes another player. It goes something like this: WI-lOP! Think high-pitched, like a flamingo in heat. Do it with me-WHOP! It's mildly nntnrtaining-WIIOP! -until you have-WIIOP! -heard it for thn­WIIOP! -20th-WHOP! -time. Get my drift? 
llow lame is ESPN now? Well, they gave Keyshawn Johnson a microphone and said, "Here, tell the world what you think." Listening to Keyshawn is about as enlightnning as a brain frepze. I think I will just save myself the time and pack my head in ice, thank you very much. 
Then there are the blowhards who attack debates like freight trains -Miehael Wilbon and Mark May. Despite being Notre Dame haters from the word go (save a seat at that tablo for writer Pat Forde), these guys arn just annoying and as predictable as Britney Spears' next meltdown. Ugh. 
There are a few sportscasters on ESPN I do like-Ron Jaworski, Mark Schlereth and Lou Holtz (of course)­but these gems are few and far between. The biggest problem with ESPN is that most of the people on the network feel they have become bigger than the sport themsolves. It has stopped being about the game or the result, but rather who can make the most ridiculous statement and drive the ratings up the highest. 

I more or less avoid ESPN now. I'll tune in if it is carrying a sporting event that I want to watch and can't see elsewhere, but otherwise, consider me· a lost eustomer. Bnsides, if I want to see two blowhards go at it in a boring debate, Election zoog is just around the eorner. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in ,C..,'cene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, November 8, 2007 
page 11 

By CAIT LISTRO Scene Wrirer 
On Tuesday night, a group of students gathered in the Coleman Morse Lounge for a celebration of the written word. Ten students whose works of poetry and prose had been selected by the Studnnt Union Board read their works aloud as a part of the Notre Dame Literary Festival Student Night. 
Audience members enjoyed a wide variety of offerings highlighting the literery talents of every class, from freshmen to graduate students. Meaghan McGinley kicked off the evening with two poems about a forgot­ten mirror and growing older and a humorous retelling of the Rapunzel fairy tale. David Karapetyan shifted to a slightly darker mood with four poems about subjects ranging from office life to a cynic's view of French townspeople, and Tanya Barrios shared her tributes to a friend and to her personal sanctu­ary. 
The serious mood continued with Sade Murphy's glimpses into a shat­tered relationship and the superficiality of Barbie, and lightened with Joe Eno's reworking of a Shakespearian sonnet, urge towards carpe diem, and a humor­ous ode to Keystone Light. Michael McDonald and Loren Higbee shared their stream-of-con­sciousness impres­
sions of life, The festival has continued However, during the Michael's in the form in the spirit ofthe original, week of the festival, 
of journal entries the nation was rocked
with increasing 
from his journey to by a surge of protests Uganda and Loren's interaction between the over the Vietnam War, 
in the form of poems authors and students. Martin Luther King 
penned from Decio Commons. 
Freshman Lillian Civantos shared her poetic thoughts about the transition from high school to college, and Mychal Stanley closed the evening with a short story recounting the awkward first meeting of a girl and boy brought together by a burning building. 
Fortuitous beginnings 
The student event marked the begin­ning of this year's Notre Dame Literary Festival. which is celebrating its 41st year. Inspired by an event held at the University of Mississippi, the festival started in 1967 with Notre Dame stu­dent J. Richard Rossi as a series of films and lectures by literary scholars on the works and life of William Faulkner. Hossi passed the responsibili­ty of organizing the festival to sopho­more John Mroz. Mroz wanted to expand the festival into a major event featuring nationally known writers, but with only $2.72 in the festival bank account and meager support from the University, bringing these authors to Notre Dame seemed impossible. 
Salvation arrived at the hands of Father Charles Sheedy, then-dean of the College of Arts and Letters, who gave Mroz his first contact -Joseph Heller, author of "Catch 22," Sheedy began exchanging letters with him shortly after the book's publication and soon, Mroz found success -Heller agreed to attend the festival. Soon, other writers responded, and the program expanded to include Norman Mailer, Wright Morris, Halph Ellison, Granville Hicks, William F. Buckley Jr., Kurt Vonnegut, and Isaac Bashevis Singer. 

National exposure 
The festival stirred up enthusiasm at a national level, and international film critics even attended to view Norman Mailer's new film, "Beyond the Law." 
Jr.'s assassination and 

President Lyndon B. Johnson's announcement to forego re­election. The authors' lectures and the final symposium were flavored with commentary on the recent events. Yet the festival managed to be both a suit­able celebration of the authors' literary talents and a fitting commentary on world issues. 
The festival has continued in the spir­it of the original, with increasing inter­action between the authors and stu­
dents. Past authors include John Knowles, Gwendolyn Brooks, Chaim Potok, Tennessee Williams, Robert Fitzgerald, Tom Clancy and Nikki Giovanni. 
This year, the festival moves to November and expands into a month­long celebration of fiction, poetry, film and song. This year's featured authors are as diverse as their work. 

Patricia Smith 

Patricia Smith, a performance poet, playwright, biographer and children's author, will be holding a question-and­answer session at Montgomery Auditorium in LaFortune at 4 p.m. on Tuesday, Nov. 13, and a poetry slam at 8 p.m. on the same day. Smith has per­formed poetry at venues ranging from Carnegie Hall and the Poets Stage in Stockholm to Lollapalooza and Paris' Sorbonne. Her books of poetry include "Close to Death" and "Teahouse of the Almighty," which was chosen for the 2005 National Poetry Series. Her works of fiction include "Africans in America," "Janna and the Kings" and "Mahina, the Mad Mad Moon." Smith also per­forms with her band, Bop Thunderous, and sings with the jazz group Paradigm Shift. 

Lydia Davis 

Lydia Davis, a short story author, translator and novelist, will be holding a question-and-answer session Nov. 15 in the McNeill Room of LaFortune at 5 p.m., and a reading at 8 p.m. and a reception at 9 p.m. in the same room. Her works include the novel "The End of the Story," as well as several collec­tions of short fiction including "Varieties of Disturbance," "Break It Down" and "Samuel Johnson Is Indignant." Davis has also translated many memoirs, novels, and literary criticisms from French into English; her translation of Marcel Proust's "Swann's Way" earned the French-American Foundation Annual Translation Prize. 

Steve Almond 

Steve Almond is a journalist, com­mentator and fiction writer. On Nov. 19, his question-and-answer session will be at 4 p.m. in the McNeill Room in LaFortune and his reading and recep­tion will be at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Almond has written two story collections -"My Life in Heavy Metal" and "The Evil B.B. Chow" -the mem­oir "Candyfreak" and the novel "Which Brings Me to You" in collaboration with Julianna Baggott. His recent work, "Not That You Asked," is a collection of essays featuring various life experi­ences and commentary, from his resig­nation from Boston College after Condoleezza Rice was chosen as the commencement speaker to his fight with Sean Hannity and his obsession with Kurt Vonnegut. 

Larry Doyle 
Larry Doyle is a novelist, film and tel­evision writer and a producer. On Nov. 27, he will be holding a question and answer session at the McNeill Room at 4 p.m., a reading at 7:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Room, and a reception at 
8:30 p.m. in the Dooley Room. He cur­rently writes screenplays and pieces for the "New Yorker," "Esquire" and other magazines. His television writing cred­its include "Beavis and Butt-Head," "Looney Tunes" and "The Simpsons" and his film writing credits include "Looney Tunes: Back in Action" and "Duplex." 

Michael Martone 
Michael Martone, short story author, non-fiction writer and editor, will be holding a question-and-answer session at 5 p.m. in the McNeill Room and a reading and reception at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom on Nov. 28. His short story collections include "Double­wide," a recently-published collection of early stories, as well as "Fort Wayne is Seventh on Hitler's List" and "Alive and Dead in Indiana." His stories have also appeared in several magazines, includ­ing "Harper's" and "Story." He has pub­lished several works of nonfiction, including "The Blue Guide to Indiana" and "The Flatness and Other Landscapes." He currently teaches at the University of Alabama. 
Contact Cait Listro at clistro@nd.edu 



Photo courtesy of blueflowerarts.com Photo courtesy of nd.edu Lydia Davis has won awards for her Michael Martone will hold a question­French to English translations. and-answer session on Nov. 28. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 8, 2007 
NBA 



Hawks ruin Nash's big game with 105-96 win 
Big three lead Boston to blowout win over Denver; Bobcats almost set franchise-low for points scored in 94-63 loss 

Associated Press 

ATlANTA -The stands were p<H:ked. and the home team made every big shot down the stn~tch. Could this possibly be an Atlanta llawks game'? 
.Josh Smith scored 22 points, rookie AI Ilorford led a domi­nant pnrformance on the boards and the llawks bt~at another 60­win team from last season, hold­ing off Steve Nash and the Phoenix Suns 105-96 on Wmlnesday night. 
Atlanta, which hasn't made the playoiTs since 1999, got back to .500 in a brutal opening stretch of games and added to its opening-night win over Dallas. Once again, the Hawks drew a sellout crowd to watch them bnat a Western Conference powerhouse. 
"The atmosphere here this year is incredible," said Marvin Williams, one of three Hawks to put up a double-double with 20 points and 12 n~bounds. "It real­ly giv~;s us a boost of confi­dence. 
Atlanta led throughout the second half, but the Suns were right there when Nash drove for a basket with 4:42 remaining. Williams responded by hitting back-to-baek jumpers when left open at the top of the key. 
"I guess it was my night," he said. 
Actually, several players came up huge. Smith sealed it in the linal 2 minutns, lighting hard on the offensive boards to get a couple of chances off Joe Johnson's missed jumper. The second one rolled in, and Smith was fouled by Grant Hill. 
The Atlanta forward let out a yell and slapped hands hard with Ade Law, then went to the line and linished off the three­point play that gave the Hawks a 99-89 lead with 1:47 remaining. 
"We feel good about our chances this year," Smith said. "This is the team (Phoenix) that everyone has winning the NBA title this year. To play the way we played against them shows we belong in this league." 
Ilorford grabbed 15 rebounds to lead four Atlanta players in double figures. Smith had 10 rebounds for a double-double and the Hawks finished with a 56-40 rebounding edge, leading to a 29-9 advantage in second­chance points. Josh Childress also had 10 rebounds to go along with 19 points. 
Nash scored 34 points, but Shawn Marion, with 20, was the only other significant offensive contributor. The Suns played their third straight game with­out Amare Stoudemire, who sat out because of a sore knee. 
"We ran into a team that's more athletic than we are," Nash said, a huge compliment to the Hawks. 
Celtlcs 119, Nuggets 93 
liard to believe, but Boston's newest Big Three thinks it can play even better. 
Paul Pierce scored 26 points, 

AP 

Kevin Garnett added 23 points and 13 rebounds, and the Celtics shot 72 percent during an overpowering first half en route to a victory over the Denver Nuggets on Wednesday night. 
"We are just scratching the surface on what we can do," Pierce said. "We enjoy seeing the next player make a great play and no one cares who gets credit." 
Boston improved to 3-0 overall and has won both its home games by an average of 24 points. Ray Allen scored 22 points and is shooting 63 per­cent since joining the Celtics. 
"They (Garnett, Pierce and Allen) like each other," Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. "They've all decided that they don't need anything individually and it is all about what's best for the team." 
The Celtics barely broke a sweat in building a 77-38 half­time lead. Boston had multiple uncontested layups, dunks and an array of' dazzling passes, out­rebounded Denver 25-9 and dominated essentially every sta­tistic on the box score. 
Allen Iverson led the Nuggets with 22 points, but Carmelo Anthony was held to only 11 on 3-of-13 shooting. Denver dropped an emotional game on Tuesday in New York, 119-112, after blowing a double-digit lead in the fourth quarter and has lost three straight overall. 
"It's a game we never had a shot in," Iverson said. "They jumped right on us and we were never able to take care of busi­ness." 
Slxers guard Andre lguodala, left, shoots over Bobcats guard Derek Anderson during Philadelphia's 9463 win Wednesday over Charlotte. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Iverson appeared to be the only Nuggets player fazed by the huge early deficit. After Eduardo Najera picked up a technical early in the second quarter with Denver trailing 50­25, Iverson barked to referee Scott Wall, "We're down 25, isn't that enough'?" 
Rivers returned for Boston after missing a game due to the death of his father. 
"Doc has been preaching to us about repetition," Garnett said. "We knew Denver could put up 150 points if they wanted to, but 
we want to be defensive team."  known  as a  
Sixers 94, BobcaThe Bobcats  ts 63 went  from  

unbeaten in the lirst two games to beaten badly in the next two. 
So much for the confidence and momentum built olT their perfect start. 
Andre Iguodala scored 19 points, Willie Green had 14 and the Philadelphia 76ers jumped on Charlottf~ early and never let up in a win Wednesday night. sending the Bobcats back to .500 after a brief undefeated streak. 
"It all fell apart," Bobcats coach Sam Vincent said. 
The Bobcats played without point guard Raymond Felton after he hurt his left knee a night earlier against Phoenix. Without the speedy Felton lead­ing Charlotte's up-tempo offense, the Bobcats flopped from the start. 
Charlotte's 2-0 start was the first time the fourth-year team had ever been two games above .500 at any point. But the Bobcats were blown out by 32 points against the Suns on Tuesday night and then narrow­ly avoided a record-low point total, needing one last jumper against the Sixers to surpass the 62 scored against Houston on Dec. 8, 2006. 
"We just have to forget about it," guard Derek Anderson said. "We've got to figure out a way to do things right." 
Matt Carroll scored 16 points and Emeka Okaf'or had 11 points and 11 rebounds, but the Bobcats had 29 turnovers. 
While Charlotte has the same record (2-2) as the Sixers, the attitude was much more upbeat in the home locker room. Pieked to linish near the bottom of the Eastern Conference, the Sixers have been competitive in all four games and want to be over .500 by the end of their four-game homestand, whieh ends Sunday. 
Philadelphia coaeh Maurice Cheeks has stressed the impor­tanee of making the most of a favorable schedule that has the Sixers playing 14 of their first 23 games at home . 
"It helps when you have a chance to have a game like that," Cheeks said. 
The Sixers blew open the game in the second quarter and built a 20-point lead in front of about 6,000 fans. Not that the nearly empty arena mattered much to Philly. 
"When I'm playing, I'm just focused on the court," forward Rodney Carney said. "It could be 20,000 people or 5,000. I'm just concerned about winning." 

The Observer accep1s dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 f.m. a1 1he Noue Dame office, 024 Sou1h Dining Hall. Deadline for nex1-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds mus1 be prepaid. The charge is 5 cems per charac1er per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves 1he righ1 10 edi1 all classifieds for comem wi1hou1 issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
FSB0-6.2 miles to NO-Colonial 2story home 4bdr 2-1/2 baths close to schools county tax many xtrs. 
574-291-2899 

FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes now showing 
08-09 & 09-10. 
Bluegoldrentals.com 
Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester sale. $200 P/S just off campus 'alumni owned'. Bluegoldrentals.com 


TICKETS 
WANTED · ND FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. www.victorytickets.com 
ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 
574-288-2726. 


PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? 
You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
superproofer.com 
j willys bar and grille www.jwillys.com Monday: 35 cent wings Tuesday: $1 tacos Thursday: happy hour buffet 5-7pm. Now hir­ing servers 
Read the Jets Update 
The Shagadellic Hair Club for Men can not be stopped. Beware Southern lllinoi. We come for you. 
Single Japanese wannabe seeking single panda. Cuddly a must. If interested, contact 720-318-5183 





OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, November 8, 2007 
NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team  record  perc.  streak  GB  
Boston  2-0  1.000  W2  0.0  
New Jersey  3-1  .750  W2  0.0  
New York  2-1  .667  W2  0.5  
Toronto  2-2  .500  l2  1.0  
Philadelphia  1-2  .333  l1  1.5  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record perc. streak GB 
Detroit 3·0 1.000 W3 0.0 Indiana 3-0 1.000 W3 0.0 Milwaukee 2-2 .500 W2 1.5 Cleveland 2-2 .500 W1 1.5 Chicago D-4 .000 l4 3.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record perc . streak GB 
Orlando 3·1 .750 W2 0.0 Charlotte 2-1 .667 l1 0.5 Atlanta 1-2 .333 L2 1.5 Washington 0-3 .DOD l3 2.5 Miami 0-3 .DOD l3 2.5 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record perc . streak GB 
Denver 2-2 .500 L2 0.0 Utah 2-2 .500 L1 o.o Portland 0-3 .000 l3 1.5 Minnesota 0-3 .000 L3 1.5 Seattle 0-4 .DDO l4 2.0 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record perc. streak GB 
L.A. Clippers 3-0 1.0DO W3 0.0 Phoenix 3-1 .750 W2 D.5 L.A. Lakers 2-2 .500 l1 1.5 Sacramento 1·3 .250 W1 2.5 Golden State D·4 .DOO l4 3.5 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record perc. streak GB 
New Orleans 4-0 1.0DO W4 0.0 Houston 4·1 .800 W1 0.5 Dallas 3·1 .750 W2 1.0 San Antonio 3-1 .750 L1 2.0 Memphis 0-2 .DOO L2 3.0 
NCAA Women's Basketball Preseason Coaches' Poll 
team last yr. previous 
1 Tennessee 28·3 1 
2 Connecticut 29·3 5 
3 Rutgers 22·8 2 
4 Maryland 27·5 14 
5 LSU 26·7 4 
6 Oklahoma 26·4 9 
7 North Carolina 30·3 3 
8 Stanford 28·4 16 
9 Duke 30·1 6 
1D Georgia 25-6 13 
11 TexasA&M 24-6 21 
12 Arizona Slate 28·4 8 
13 George Washington 26·3 11 
14 California 23·9 NR 
15 Baylor 25-7 2D 
16 Ohio stale 28-3· 18 
17 Vanderbilt 27·5 17 
18 Michigan state 23·8 25 
19 Florida Stale 24·10 19 
2D Purdue 28·5 7 
21 Pittsburgh 24-9 NR 
22 West Virginia 21-11 NR 
23 Louisville 26·7 24 
24 Texas 18·14 NR 
25 N.C. stale 23-9 12 

around the dial 
NBA Pistons at Bulls 8 p.m., TNT 
NBA 
Mavericks at Warriors 
10:30 p.m., TNT 

. COMPI LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES 
NFL 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. ­NFL commissioner Roger Goodell told Titans corner­back Adam "Pacman" Jones in April to sit out the 2007 season. On Tuesday, the commissioner informed Jones he still hasn't changed his mind. 
Jones had met with the commissioner last week in New York, pleading for some leniency and an early return. But the cor­nerback whose biggest community service was buying wrestling tickets for Atlanta students to watch him at a pay-per­view event last month did­n't convince Goodell. 
The commissioner told 


AP Tennessee Titan's comerback Adam "Pacman" Jones, right, is interviewed prior to his pro wrestling debut on Aug. 12. Jones' one-year suspension for violating the NR:s personal conduct policy was upheld by NFL commissioner Roger Goodell on Tuesday. 
Goodell upholds Jones' year-long suspension 
Jones his suspension will last through this season, which would include the playoffs if the Titans (6-2) qualify. 
"He will be eligible to begin working out at the Titans' facility following the conclusion of the team's season," the league said in a statement late Tuesday afternoon. 
Attorney Worrick Robinson said Jones received a letter from the NFL notifying him of the commissioner's decision earlier Tuesday. They planned to talk further Tuesday night and a for­mal statement may follow Wednesday. 
"He is very disappoint­ed," Robinson said. "We're 
looking at different options." 
Goodell had promised Jones' case would be reviewed after Tennessee's 1Oth game of the season. He met with Jones last Friday -two days before the Titans' eighth game. 
But the Titans, who have replaced their best defen­sive player, had been expecting the suspension to stand. 
"As we have said all through this process, we understood the suspension was for a year and made preparations to move our team forward without Adam Jones," the team said in a statement. "We will continue to monitor his situation and will 
page 13 

address his future when he is reinstated by the com­missioner." 
Goodell originally sus­pended Jones in April for violating the league's per­sonal conduct policy. At the time, Jones had been arrested five times since the Titans drafted him with the sixth overall pick in the 2005 draft. 
The suspension followed a Las Vegas strip club fight Feb. 19 in which police accused Jones of inciting a fight inside that led to a triple shooting outside that left one man paralyzed. Jones was arrested on two felony counts of coercion in June after dropping an appeal of his NFL punish­ment. 
IN BRIEF Clemens signs with Astros as 

personal-services consultant 
ORLANDO, Fla.-Roger Clemens is ready to join the Houston Astros -as a consultant. 
In a sign that Clemens' pitching career could be over, his agent told the Astros on Wednesday that the seven-time Cy Young winner is set to start his personal-services contract with the team. 
"He's moving toward retirement and leaving open the possibility of playing," agent Randy Hendricks said. "As Roger has stated several times, he's failed at retirement repeatedly." 
Hendricks sent Astros owner Drayton McLane an e-mail informing him of the decision. This was the first time Hendricks formally told Houston that Clemens was ready to work ofT the field. 
It was not clear how Clemens would respond if the Yankees or Astros asked him to pitch next year. 

Angels' Matthews meets with 

MLB over HGH allegations 
NEW YORK -Los Angeles Angels outfielder Gary Matthews Jr. met with baseball officials Wednesday to discuss allegations that he received human growth hor­mone. 
Matthews was sent HGH in 2004 from a pharmacy being investigated for illegal distribution of perform­ance-enhancing drugs, The Times Union of Albany, N.Y., reported last winter. Matthews denied using HGH, which was not banned by baseball until 2005. 
Several other players implicated in receiving performance-enhancing drugs also have met with baseball officials. Baseball is trying to arrange an interview with Cleveland pitcher Paul Byrd, who said last month that he took HGH for a medical condition before it was banned. 
Bengals' Henry, recently

reinstated, in trouble again 
CINCINNATI -Receiver Chris Henry allegedly was involved in an altercation with a parking attendant on the eve of rejoining the Cincinnati Bengals from his eight-game suspen­sion. 
Henry practiced with the Bengals on Wednesday and will be eligible to play Sunday in Baltimore. Commissioner Roger Goodell sus­pended him for the first half of the season for repeatedly violating the NFL's conduct policy. 
The third-year receiver stayed out of trouble during the suspension and was allowed to practice with the team for the last two weeks. 
On Tuesday night, police in Newport, Ky., a suburb on the other side of the Ohio River within view of Paul Brown Stadium, were called to an entertainment district following a dispute over a parking fee. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 8, 2007 
MLB 

NYY will not trade pitchingfor Cabrera 
A..sociatcd Press 
OHLANI>O. Fla. -llank Sleinbnmnnr was dear on what llw Nnw York Yankees won't do to got Migw•l Cabrera. 
"It's prnlly obvious which play­ers we 'rp not going to trade," the owner's son said Wednnsday, bdorn rattling ofT the team's most-prized young pitclwrs.
"<: ham b~~rIa i n . lluglws and even K1•nrwdy. Not for a position play­
nr·." 
As tlw Florida Marlins try to gauge what teams would givP llwm for their All-Star third baseman. tlw Yan kens an~ showing qualifiPd interest. Yes. they'd lovP Cabrera to 

"It:<; pretly obvious which players we're not going to trade. Chamberlain, 1/ughes and even Kennedy. Not for a position player." 
Hank Steinbrenner Yankees owner's son 
to be an option. 
"I personally be.Iieve ~he pla~­er s pref11rPncn IS to stay in Boston, first and fore­most," he said. 
On the third day of the gener­al managers' 
-meetings, each GM stood up and stated what their offseason goals were. Many men­tioned specific players they 
replace Alex Hodrigunz, but thny'ro prnpared to wait for the asking price to go down. For now, when other teams inquin1, .loba Chamlwrlain. Phil Ilughes and Ian Kennedy aren't avail­able. 
'Tv1~ been tested on those guys this wePk and obviously llw sum­mer during tlw ltradel deadline, and I'll ronlinuP to be tested on it," gerwral managt~r Brian Cashman said. "I know that all three of those guys, the 29 other dubs would have no problems pitching at lnast onn of them if not all of them in their rotations." 
llughns, just 21, showed poisn and overpowering pitches, even while slowed by hamstring and ankle injuries that sidelinnd "mal asking price." 

"I'm not looking to overpay. If you want to ovnrpay, that's the only way you move fast. If' you do something that someone says yes to l'h that," Cashman said, snapping his lingers, "that proba­bly moans you did something wrong. Or somebody did." 
Cashman does not think World Series MVP Mike Lowell is going 
"/personally believe
him li>r much of wanted to make the snason. /Mike Lowell's} sure that he had Chamberlain, a chance to
preference is to stay in 
22, was instant articulate to
Boston, first 
nlnetricity and Johnny how he on many nights andforemost." sees him fitting unhittable as for the Yankees Mariano in '08,"
Brian Cashman 
Hivnra's set-up Cashman said. "I
Yankees general manager
man down tlw don't expect to 
were making available. The idea was suggested by Boston's Theo Epstein and Florida's Larry Bninfnst, co-chairs of this year's meeting. 
"Usually it takes a while to be able to reach all 29 othnr teams and lwar what they're trying to do. This im~reasnd our elliciency trmn1mdously. It savns us all a lot of time," Epstein said. "Some teams were specific. Some were morn guarded." 
On the Yankees front, outfinld­nr Johnny Damon dropped by the hotel to speak with new manager .Joe Girardi. Damon was slowed by injuries this year, slumped at the plate and lost the regular starting job in center field to 
Melky Cabrera. 
"I think Joe 
stretch. Kennedy, who turns 23 next month, was polislwd and msern­bled a young Mike Mussina in thrnn Snptembnr starts. 
"It's like Cashman said: You never say untouc.habln, but at lnast least-touchable," Stninhremwr said. 
In addition to Cabrera, a four­limn All-Star. Chicago While SIJx third baseman .Jon Cmde is also available on tlw tradn market. Cashman prPdictl'd it would take time l'or teams to reveal their move Johnny." 

Cashman envisions that Damon will be his leadoff hitter and starting left fielder and that llideki MaL'iui will sharo time at designated hitter with Jason Giambi, who will occasionally play first. 
"Is he the ideal first-base situa­tion'? No. Can he play there seven days a week? We haven't had him doing that, obviously, for a while," Cashman said. "So I think that you're going to see him more Dll-ing for us, but we'll sec." 
-) __.-J NOVEMBER I8, 2007 
/ 

An Exce[1tional Event for Brides. 
~ 
10:30 a.m. · 12 noon Th(' Morris Bistro 211 N. Michig.on St., South B<nd Bella Bridal Brunch foatum o delicwu.; rhampr~t;nt brunch and CJ jJrel'ltW <~f"wedd111K must-hut'<' looks und trrnds.fudhc seawn. lickdsi'r thi> r<Jtnl also inclt~de tl~e Bndull:'tJtlll f.· S_llile Show. 
"Ticket' $30 in adl'<lnct onJy pvNauember 13. 

12 noon-5 p.m. Po1lai~ Ra~·ale Ballroom 105 W. Colfax Ave., South Bend 
71lt Btl/a B•idol Ewni ond Style Show off'-r> everylltingfu~your .•prriul d~v incluclmg ·'~ylc <iwlt;< at 1:30 p.m. and,'?: 30 p.m.• ji>Od and beverage ta.<ling and the lute.;f in wedrbng style. 
Tickets $5 in advance. $/Oaf the door 
PiJrrhase lirk·et~ at the Morris Box Office 574-235-9190 oronlille ot 
www. bellabridalevent.com 
NCAA FooTBALL 



Nevv clock rules 111ake games faster 
Associated Press 

Tho NCAA's rules changes have done what they wore expected to do to college foot­ball this season. 
More kickoffs are being returned, more plays are being run and more points are being scored. On a less positive note, more games are dragging on. 
The most sig­nilieant changes dealt with kick­offs and the doek. 
Kickoffs now takn plaec from the kicking team's 30 instead of the 
35. The idea was to eliminate some of the bor­ing touchbacks 

"It's been interesting to see the d{[ferent philosophies teams have taken in regard to the kickoff." 
Sylvester Croom Mississippi State coach 
and create more opportunities for exciting returns. 
Mission accomplished. 

Last season, there were about six kickofl's returned per game. That number is up to almost nine this season. There wem 42 kickoff return touch­downs last season in 1,506 major eollege football games, including bowl games. This season there have alrnady been 50 in 1,099 games. 
"I think it adds to the game," Virginia Tech coach Frank Beamer said Wednesday dur­ing a conference call. "With not as many balls kicked into the end zone, that becomes a play in the ballgame that's impor­tant." 
Less touchbacks have also given offenses better starting field position. 
"There's a big difference in starting at the 35 and starting at the 20," Beamer said. 
The move has forced teams without strong-leg kicknrs to use unorthodox kickoff tech­niques. 
"It's been interesting to see the different philosophies teams have taken in regard to the kickoff," Mississippi State coach Sylvester Croom said. 
Squib kicks that bounce down the field have becom1~ more popular. Otlwr tnams 
have resorted to short, high kicks that don't allow much chance of a return but rarely travel inside tho receiving team's 30. 
"I'm seeing morn blooper kicks this year than I have ever 
seen," Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said. "All those blooper kicks arn-not that exeiting." 
Teams with especially dan­gerous return men have been 
getting a stnady dose of bloops and squibs. 
"With the returners that I have, they don't kick it to them anymore, Arkansas coach Houston Nutt said. 
Arkansas run­ning back Felix Jones is averag­ing 31 yards per return with two 

"With not as many balls kicked into the end zone, that becomes a play in the ballgame that's important." 
Frank Beamer Virginia Tech coach 
touchdowns on 14 returns. The Razorbacks also will oceasion­ally use All-American Darrnn McFadden to return kicks. 
Nutt's overall opinion of the rule change seems to fall in line with most coaches. 
"I like it morn receiving. don't likn it when I'm kicking oil"," he said. 
The biggest eon1:nrn coaches had with the spot of kickoffs being moved back was the potential for more injuries because of the increasn in high-spend collision plays. 
The NCAA planned to moni­tor injuries on kickoffs and adjust the rule if necessary. Hon Courson, head trainer at (ieorgia and a nwmbnr of the National Athletic Trainers association, said the data will be studied at thn end of tho s1mson. 
The other major changes were to af'f'nct the lnngth of games. 
Last year, the NCAA impln­mnnted several rules to piek up the pace of games, which wore creeping toward an average of 3? hours to play. 
Tho solution was to keep the dock moving during a change of possession and to start the dock on kiekofl's when the ball 
was kicked instead of whm1 tho receiving team touched it. 
Those changes didn't go over well with coaches and ended up taking about 14 plays on aver­ago from each gamn, whieh led to a drop in scoring to about 48 points per 
game. 
Those rules wPnl repealed. 
"I think every rule change this season was in favor of the offense," Georgia coach Mark Hieht said. 


ffOt! tit lfftitr// 
'l11e StudentVisa® from Notre Dmne J:tederaJ Credit Union carries: 
• 
no annual fee 

• 
a25-daygrace period 

• 
a low, fixed interest rate 

• 
a $1,500 line-of-credit 


Plus, a 
balance 
(;ive yourself a 


~.NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
~· tn&n-6e'l.~ ltlatt!J4 

574/631-8222. 800/522-6611 WW\V.JJdfcu.org 
011 transfers fmm another filllllld!l imlitnlion's t•rt·dit no kh:::for tral1sfcrring a halmK'l' to this ac:c:ount. "llKw is uo t'redit. Ct·rtain n·slrktious appl>. lndepcudmt of the !1i'tive£'>il~. 
Thursday, November 8, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 


Arenas has left knee drained again 
Coach expects guard to play at New Jersey 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Even if Gilbert Arenas is having prob­lems with his left knee, Washington Wizards coach Eddie Jordan isn't quite ready to worry. 
Arenas' surgically repaired knee was drained for the second timf1 in three weeks Wednesday, forcing him to miss practice for a third consecutive day. Still, Jordan expects Arenas to play against New Jersey on Thursday night. 
"There's no red flags," Jordan said. "He just has to keep get­ting through his therapy, his rehab, and getting some rest when he can." 
Asked how long it might be until Arenas is 100 percent healthy, the coach said: "We don't know how long it's going to take. You know, Gil's pretty da~n good at "':?atever percent hf1 s at, anyway. 
Arenas said his knee felt stiff 

after Washington's last game, a 
94-82 loss to Orlando on 
Saturday that dropped the 
Wizards to 0-3. He hasn't prac­
ticnd sincf1. 
"It feels like a 5-pound weight is on it," Arenas said that night, adding he thought he might need to have fluid drained. His left knee also was drained of excess fluid Oct. 17. 
Arenas did not speak to reporters Wednesday, but he did refer to the knee on his blog. 
"I have to get my knee drained and get the fluid out so I can be ready for the next 15 days. I guess it's like a 15-day period after I drain my knee that I'm at 100 percent," the blog says. "There's no pain, it's just stiffness." 
Arenas spoke Saturday about tailing off in what was his first set of back-to-hack games since hurting his knee in April. 
"That's where I thought he wasn't his explosive self," Jordan said. "That's the only game." 
Arenas made his first three shots against Orlando, then went 2-for-12 the rest of the way. He shot 0-for-4 on 3-point­ers that night, making him 1­for-17 from beyond the arc this season. Arenas is shooting 33 percent overall. 
"''m just shooting really bad right now," his blog says, "but I'll get the mojo back in a minute." 
The Wizards began the season by playing three games in four nights, and they have another such stretch now: Thursday's game is followed by one at home against Denver on Friday, then a game at Atlanta on Sunday. 
Arenas went five days without playing in an exhibition game after his knee was drained last month. But Wizards captain Antawn Jamison said Arenas told him he'll be ready to play Thursday. 
"From my understanding, he said he was mentally ready and physically he felt good," Jamison said. "So we'll see tomorrow." 
Added teammate DeShawn Stevenson: "Gil's a gamer. He can sit out five games and come out and play the way he plays. ... He's going to be all right." 
The Wizards probably could use Arenas against the Nets. New Jersey won all four of the teams' meetings last season, with Nets point guard Jason Kidd averaging a double-double in those games. 
Plus, there's this: Washington is shooting an NBA-worst 35.4 percent so far -only one other team, the Chicago Bulls, is under 40 percent -and aver­aging only 91.7 points, a decrease of more than 12 points from last season's output. 






Large Pizza 
Cheese & 2 Toppings 



$ ~! 
ONLY On Campus 

Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas & 
charges may vary by location. Excludes other 
offers. Good at participating locations only. 


SOUTH BEND 
52750 IN 933 (N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
(Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 

• 

.574-243-1122
P1zza 

Visit us on the Web at www.marco.s.com Cl2007 Marco's Franchising, LLC 5724ND-1007 
NFL 

McNabb: I'm not only one to blame 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Donovan MeNabb doesn't miss blocks or run wrong routes, and he can't be held responsible for the defense allowing points. 
So the five-time Pro Bowl quarterback feels it's unfair to blame him for the Philadelphia Eagles' 3-5 start. 
'Tm definitely not the whole reason why we lost these games," McNabb said Wednesday. "Can I help? Yes, I can. But I'm not fully to blame for everything that goes on around here. I can help, but I'm not that main solution. I'm a piece of the puzzle, and when the puzzle's put together, then we'll have success." 
Just two days after coach Andy Reid left the door slight­ly open for a change at his position, McNabb seemed a bit defensive. 
"We all have to play well," he said. "We all have to do our jobs individually. If we all step up and do our job, then we wouldn't be sitting here right now (at 3-5). But I'm definitely not the single rea­son for what's going on right now." 
McNabb had a fumble and two interceptions in a 38-17 loss to Dallas on Sunday night, with two of those turnovers leading to 14 points in the first half. 
Asked Monday if McNabb would remain the starter for the rest of the season, barring injury, Reid said: "That's where I'm looking at things. Again, nothing is guaranteed. That's how I'm looking at it, yes." 
The fact Reid said it's not "guaranteed" was a departure from the coach's usual stance. Instead, the honest response suggests Reid would consider benching McNabb at some point, especially if Philadelphia was mathemati­cally eliminated. 
The Eagles are last in the NFC East and trail nine teams in the conference. With rookie Kevin Kolb expected to be McNabb's eventual successor, the future could come as early as next month. 
McNabb, of course, wouldn't support that decision. 
"No, that's my job," he said. "Why would I want to give up my job?" 
Less than one year removed from knee surgery for a torn ligament, McNabb clearly isn't the same player who led the 
Eagles to four consecutive NFC title games and one Super Bowl. 
However, his mobility is improving and his overall numbers this season are respectable. McNabb has a 
59.9 completion percentage, 2,044 yards passing, nine touchdowns, four intercep­tions and a passer rating of 86.3. 
''I'm not happy about the way I've played," McNabb said. "I have to do my job bet­ter, and everyone else has to, as well." 
Teammates rallied around McNabb, offering support and flatly dismissing any need for a switch. 
"Everything that goes wrong on this team is not Donovan's fault," running back Brian Westbrook said. "Everything from fumbles to interceptions to sacks, those are not all Donovan's fault, not totally. Because it's a team sport, one man can't make a football team.... I've seen Donovan do great things, and I know he still has that in him." 
Backup QB A.J. Feeley agreed. 
"He's getting better," Feeley said. "You make changes where there's problems. If you're going to make a corre­lation between the quarter­back play and the problems, I don't see it. I don't see a need for a change." 
The Eagles could use the final eight games to make a decision on McNabb for next season. McNabb is signed through 2013, but he certain­ly won't be around to collect the $52.4 million he's due to earn in the last four years of his contract. 
His base salary next year is $6.3 million and $9.2 million for 2009. If the team feels starting Kolb next year would­n't be a significant down­grade, McNabb could be used as trade bait. Or McNabb could be let go if the organi­zation decides to rebuild and let Kolb get on-the-job experi­ence. 
Despite the speculation, McNabb still thinks he'll end his career in Philadelphia. 
''I'm sure you probably won't write that, but I do," he said. "Everyone goes through ups and downs. All quarter­backs do. Brett Favre went through it; other quarterbacks have. This is a situation, if you continue to build, do you start over? It's not my deci­sion, but I expect to be here." 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 8, 2007 
MLB 


Laperriere nets two goals in Avs' win 
Associated Press 
I>ENVEH -Ian Laperrinro won't win any bt~auty pageants. 
Neither will his goals. 

Lapnrrinre scored two goals and assistPd on another as the Colorado Avalanche beat the 1\dmonton Oilnrs 4-:~ in a shootout Wndnnsday night. 
Wojtnk Wolski and Marek Svatos seonHI shootout goals and tlw Avalandw won for tlw sixth tirnn in stwt•n games. 
Tlwrn's nothing com plicatnd ahout L<qH'rrit~rp's game ­crash tlw net. rind thn puck, knock it in. lln'll do whatnvnr it takns to srort•. 
That's nvidnnt by his fanL I lis nosn is lwnt to the right. lw's Colorado's red-hot second line, tho Avalanche's checking line of I.aperrinm, Bun Guitn and Tyler Arnason picked up the slack. Arnason had a goal and an assist and Guite chipped in an assist. 
"I think thny were very good," Colorado coach Joel Quennovilln said. 
Hyan Smyth playt~d against his former tnam for the second time this snason. I lis wrist shot in the shootout was stuffed by Holoson. lie logged 20 minutes, 32 seeonds of icn tinw and took thrno shots. 
Smyth played parts of 12 sea­sons with Edmonton, appearing in 770 rngular season games. It's the lifth most in franchise his­
got stitrhns ovnr "J,aperriere scores tory. his left nyn and 
against us 
bruises on his Blackhawks 5,
all the time. 
Inn cheek bonn. Blue Jackets 2 lin'II sat:riliee his Junkyard goals. " The Chicago body for thn Black hawks good of tho team. Craig MacTavish erasnd a third­
''I'm not a goal period deficit
Oilers coach 
scorer but I know I t:un hnlp thn tnam in that rngard," l.apnrrinn~ said. "I was at the right place at the right timn." 
That always StH•ms to bn tho ease wlwn hn's playing 1\dmonton. l.apnrriere's last two-goal game eanw last March against tho Oilers. 
"l.apnrrim·e scorns against us all thn tirnn," Oilers coach Craig MacTavish said. "Junkyard goals." 
Budaj finished the gamn with :~o saves, but eanw up big in tho shootout, turning back Sam Cagner, Ales Ilnmsky and Marty 
lkasont~r. 
"They have good shooters," Budaj said. "But thn guys carne through. It was a hig win." 
Thn Oilnrs rmnain winless in 
with one dizzy­
ing stretch. 

Jonathan Toews, Brnnt Snahrook and Duncan Keith s1:orod during an impressive sequence in tho final period, and thn Blackhawks rallied to bnat tho Columbus Blue Jackets Wndnosday night. 
Chicago dominatnd for most of the game, but fell behind 2-1 artnr Columbus' Hostislav Klesla and Nikolai Zherdev scored 1:25 apart early in the third. 
Toews, Seabrook and Keith then seored in a 3:57 span mid­way through the period to give Chicago a 4-2 lead. Patrick Sharp completed the scoring with 11.2 seconds left. 
"We rind different ways to win," Blackhawks coach Denis Savard said. "I thought we could 
their last four games. Yet tlw Edmon ton play­ors take solaen in the efTort after losing 5-2 to tlw Minnesota Wild on Monday night. 
"We camn out and shownd that wn eared, showed that wn havn respnct for thn organiza­tion," Jarrnt Stoll said. "We wnren't happy 
"/ thought we could have put them away in the second period and had lots of chances. We stuck with the game plan and our character showed up. " 
Denis Savard Blackhawks coach 
have put them away in the sec­ond period and had lots of chancns. We stuck with the game plan and our character showt~d up." 
Defense men J a m n s Wi s n i e w s k i, Seabrook and Keith drove to the net to score from close range. 
"Three goals 

with our last outing. We played really hard and battled in every arna. Thny arn a good hockey tnam." 
J>waynn Holoson feels like an unlueky goalie right now. Holoson gavn up thrt~e goals on night lirst-pnriod shots against tho Wild. before being yanked. 
lin bounced baek with 35 savns against Colorado, but couldn't prnservo a 3-2 lead. Laperrinrn scorod his seeond goal of the game 2:20 into the third period to tin the game at :~. 
"I didn't havn any luek tonight," Holoson said. 
The Oilnrs scorPd three times in the first pPriod on goals from Kylo Brodziak, Tom Gilbert and llmnsky. It was a change of paee as Edmonton had bonn held seoroless in thn opening period of its last throe garnns. 
"Way morP positives than nPg­ativns," Stoll said. 
Although tho Oilers stopped 

from dofonsmncn: That's some­thing Savvy is getting on us to do, jumping up into the play." Seabrook said. "We're getting more eomfortable with doing that." 
The Blue Jackets were 5-0-1 in their previous six games. Their last regulation loss was a 4-1 setback against Vancouver on Oct. 21. 
"Execpt lbr the last 5 minutes of the second period and first 8 of the third, we didn't have any energy," Columbus coaeh Ken Hitchcock said. "We played a very loose game and paid for it. 
"We played right into their hands and didn't follow our plan. Thrne of their goals were on odd-man rushes." 
Patrick Lalime stopped 24 shots for Chieago and Toews, a rookie, added an assist for his first multipoint game. 
Fredrik Norrena madn 30 saves for Columbus. 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Gardner-Webb stuns Kentucky 
Gillispie loses to mid­major in second game 
Associated Press 

LEXINGTON, Ky. -Billy Gillispie's second game as Kentucky's eoach was one he'd rather forget -and Gardner­Webb will remember for a long time. 
Grayson Flittncr scored 22 points to help Gardner-Webb beat the No. 20 Wildcats H4-68 Wednesday night in the 2K Sports College I loops Classic. 
"You can't just. show up on the court and think you're going to beat somebody because you wear a certain jer­sey," said Gillispie, who turned 48 WndnPsday. "We didn't play like a huntnr tonight." 
Instead, the Wildcats were thn prey the entire game, falling behind 14-0 and never cutting the deficit undnr seven points. 
"A Jot of people will think this is a misprint, but I hope not," Gardner-Webb coach Hick Scruggs said. "I hope they get to see it and can enjoy it. It's going t~ take a few days to set­tle in." 
Kentucky, Division J's win­ningest program, hadn't lost a regular-season game to a mid­major since falling to Western Kentucky on Nov. 15, 20()1, in that season's opener. It lost to Alabama-Birmingham in 2004 in the first round of the NCM tournamnnt. 
Kentucky's last home loss to an unranknd nonconfernnce !'on was Dec. 3, 2005, against North Carolina. 
"It's embarrassing when you lose, especially when it happens at home," Kentucky forward 


Perry Stevenson said. "We've just got to keep working hard and make sure it doesn't hap­pml again." 
The tournament, benel'iting Coaches vs. Cancer, had been set up to send four top pro­grams -No. 3 Memphis, Connecticut, Oklahoma and Kentucky to Nnw York next wonk to play in the semifinals. 
However, instead of the Wildcats, Gardner-Webb, whieh finished 9-21 last season and tied for seventh in the Atlantic Sun Conference, will play the winner of Thursday night's gamn between Buffalo and Connecticut. 
"We had confidence," Gardner-Webb forward Thomas 
Sanders said. "We wanted to play four minutes at a time and go timeout to timeout and give ourselves a chanen to win in thn final minutns. We ondnd up not nnnding to do that, though." 
As it turnt)d out, the Wildcats IHwnr had control of this gamn, trailing 14-0 just 4 minutes in, missing its lirst li1ur shots and turning tht~ ball over four times during that span. 
Flittner hit a critical 3 mid­way through the lirst half that opened the Bulldogs' lead to 26-10. 

Kentueky cut tho dnl'ieit to seven loss than 3 minutes later on a long jurnpnr by Joe Crawford but would get no dos­er. 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
424 N. Frances Street 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 


(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

Thursday, November 8, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Bock 
continued from page 20 
years, they have not simply bmm beating up on weak con­fenmce foes. Irish coach Handy Waldrum has frequently said that the Big East is much stronger than it was even five years ago. The conference boasts four top-25 teams. 
In the semifinals of the Big East tournament this Friday in Morgantown, W. Va, the Irish will take on Georgetown. In their first meeting with Georgntown, who upsni No. 24 Connecticut Sunday, the Irish beat the I loyas 3-0. 
If thn Irish are able to dis­patch Georgetown. they will play tho winner of tho other semifinal between No. 12 West Virginia and No. 23 Louisville. On Sept. 28, the Irish defeated Louisville 1-0 on the road. dnspite a hostile Cardinals crowd that Waldrum called one of the most intimidating in the country. 
If host West Virginia beats Louisville, it may prove to be the most difficult conference test the Irish face. The Mountaineers (14-4-1) have won their past five matches, including a 1-0 win over Villanova in the quarterfinals. 
Early in the season, the Irish defense might have had severe trouble against West Virginia. But the Notre Dame back line should be able avoid the mental mistakes that plagued it in its first few games together. Irish defenders Elise Weber, Julie Scheidler and Lauren Fowlkes, all newcomers to the squad, sufl'ered several difficult losses 

WU YUE!The Observer Irish forward Kerri Hanks eludes a Villanova defender during Notre Dame's 5-0 win Oct. 14 over the Wildcats. 
during the first month of play but have grown into a dominant unit. The defense, which is led by junior Carrie Dew, has regis­tered seven shutouts in confer­ence play. 
In a possible final against West Virginia, there is also no reason to think that the Irish offense would be unable to pep­per the back of the net like it has the past month. The Mountaineers recently lost 2-0 to Connecticut and surrendered three goals in a win over Georgetown. 
The Irish attack is led by jun­ior Kerri Hanks, who recently became the third player in NCAA history to notch 50 goals and 50 assists before her senior year. 
And Bock should return to provide a potent threat in the air on Hanks' corner kicks and sophomore forward Michelle Weisenhofer's long throw-ins. Bock has 16 header goals in less than three seasons with the. Irish. When senior midfielder Amanda Cinalli is added to the offensive mix, the Irish can con­trol the tempo against anyone. 
So unless the Hoyas or Mountaineers can figure out something as difficult as finding a proverbial needle in a haystack, the Irish should cap­ture their 1Oth Big East crown during their 13 years in the league. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

GET IN ON THE ACT! 

We're seeking Notre Dame and StMary's student actors, directors, stage managers and prodLKtion assistants 1n all areas~ 
YOUNG COMPANY PROGRAM 
2008 Summer Season Informational Meeting 
Vvednesday, November 14 5:00 '"' 6~00 pm Decio Theatre DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
GET IN THE KNOW TO GET IN ON THE FUN! 
Contact Pt·oducingAnistJc Dlnzctcw jay Skelton at 63 I~2636 or gskelton@nd.edtl for questions or additional information. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
West Virginia continues to 111ove tovvard BCS 
West Virginia has one of the 
Associated Press 
top turnover margins in the 
MOHGANTOWN, W.Va. -country this season and its West Virginia coach Hich improved defense is coming off Rodriguez doesn't put much its best showing of the season stock in destiny. in a 31-3 win at Hutgers. 
Hodriguez has seen the movie Louisville, despite its strug­"Evan Almighty" twice, includ­gles this season, could present ing during the team's most a much tougher test for the recent road trip when the com­Mountaineers. The Cardinals edy about a congressman have scored 44 points in each recruited by God to build an of the past two games against ark was the in-flight movie. West Virginia. with Brian 
"In the movie they kept say­Brohm averaging 315 yards ing it was all about destiny," passing yards. Hodriguez said. ''I'm not a Brohm is already at 3,229 believer in being destined to yards this season with 26 win a championship. touchdowns and seven inter­
No. 6 West Virginia (7-1, 2-1) ceptions. ..­controls its own destiny in the "That man puts the ball on Big East and can win the con­the money," West Virginia line­ference and a Bowl backer Mortty Ivy said. "He is Championship Series berth by able to audible out there and winning its final four games, do some things other quarter­starting Thursday night at backs can't do. He puts the ball home against in tight spaces Louisville (5-4, where most 2-2). defenders can't 
West Virginia "Our players know get to the ball." has won three West Virginia's
determination wins
straight since a junior backfield
championships. " 
loss at South duo of quarter-Florida. back Pat White "Our players Rich Rodriguez and Steve Slaton know determi­has made a sim­
West Virginia coach 
nation wins championships, and we have a chance to control that play by play," Hodriguez said. "Our guys have taken that approach since that loss." 
Since the USF loss, South Florida, Hutgers and Cincinnati have lost a combined eight games to leave the Mountaineers behind only Connecticut in the Big East. The Mountaineers play the Huskies in Morgantown in two weeks. West Virginia also trav­els to Cincinnati next week and finishes the regular season at home against Pittsburgh on Dec. 1. 
Thursday's game doesn't have the build up of last sea­son, when both teams were ranked in the top 10 and unde­feated heading into a Thursday night matchup in Louisville. 
Detern1ination got West Virginia only so far against the Cardinals in that one. Six fum­bles, blown pass coverages and special teams gaffes con­tributed to Louisville's 44-34 win and ended the Mountaineers' 14-game win­ning streak. 
ilar impression 
on Louisville 

first-year coach Steve Kragthorpe. 
Slaton is headed toward his third straight 1.000-yard sea­son and White ran for 156 yards and threw for 144 against Hutgers. 
"People talk about yards after contact," Kragthorpe said. "With these guys, they ought to talk about yards after juke. 
"They've done a great job of not just breaking tackles but creating vapor tackles. There are tacklers there, and they're just swinging at air." 
The Cardinals were a top 10 earlier this season, but their poor defense and sloppy play has made them one of the big­ger disappointments in the country. 
Still, a strong finish and lots of help could still get them back to the BCS for a second straight season. 
The way things have gone this season in the Big East, anything seems possible. 
"Hopefully they have a sad bus ride or plane flight home," Slaton said. 
FROM THE BESTSELLING AUTHOR OF ABOUT A BOY AND HIGH FIDELITY, 
NICK HORNBY 
#1 NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLER 
"Hornby's witty, NICK gentle genius shines through." HORNBY 
-USA TODAY 
"Hilarious." 
-THE WASHINGTON POST 
"Hornby truthfully dissects the male psyche." 
-ENTERTAINMENT WEEKLY 


G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS .\VAILABLE AS A" ALJDIO A DIVISION OF PENGUIN GROUP (USA) INC. 
··~'Y 
;.,;!N 
.t.U DIO HOOf.: .<\ND E-BOOf.:. 

WWW.MYSPACE.COMINICKSBOOKS 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 8, 2007 



leers 
continued from page 20 
Milwlla. 
Saturday's ganw was also t.lw ddHtl for highly-louted freshman goallPnder Brad Phillips. Phillips was randy tt•st.ed but was able to knnp his focus and looked comfortable lwt.wnen t.hP pipPs. 
.Junior .Jordan PPan~n. who has playPd every ollwr game in rwt. for l.lw Irish. has also donn WPII rnplacing Dave Brown. Nnillwr of llw goal ins bring llw nxperinncP nor hockey smarts that. last. yPar's CCII!\ MVP had. but knnping llw puck out or t.hn nnt has not bnen a problem. 
Thp, main inconsistnneins on thn i<:<~ have bnnn with the man advanlagP. Notrl' Damn has shuffled through countlnss linn-ups f'or the pownr play, but .Jackson has still not settled on 

--a No. I unit. Tlwy startnd rnd­hot with fivn power-play goals in their first thrne games, but hit a cold streak going 1-f'or-24 ovnr tlw nnxt thrnn. Success on special teams will lw a key f'or the Irish as the young tnam gets usnd to play­ing with orw anotlwr. II' thn powN play can dnvnlop consis­l<•nt.cy and llw pnnalty kill can contimw at llwir strong paen 
(I) :L :~ pn rcP nl s u ccnssf'ully killed thus far). the team 


should be able to stay on the ·list as a national contender. 
This weekend Jackson and 
his tnam will get a rnalily 
rlwek as thny head to Oxford, 
Ohio, to take on No. 1 Miami. 
Thn Hndllawks have sprinted 
through their first eight 
gamns without so much as a 
scratch on their perfect record. The match will be a measuring stick and an even better learning experience for a team that, Jackson believes, is starting to come around. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


Fesl 
continued from page 20 

have similar interests and have always been involved in the same things." 
The sisters were closn friends, varsity starters and key elements to their team's Junior Olympics all-tournament team selection, among other awards. 
Megan and Armin finally split paths after graduation. Each d1ose difl'ernnt Big East schools. 
The face-off bPt.ween Uw sis­ters begins tomorrow at 4 p.m. in the Joyce Centnr. The bngin­ning of' the match will high­light yet another 

success. The duo Fnsl whnn the
"Annie and I are
combined their girls' father. talents to lead the really. really good Hich. will sing Hersey team to friends." llw National the slate champi­Anthem. onship in 2004. "The match is
Megan Fesl
Annie set f'or going to be one Megan's powerful Irish hitter of' our most 
hits. 

With each other's assis­tance, the Fesls achieved a lot. Annie was selected twice to the all-state team, and was named Mid-Suburban League East Player of the Year during her senior year. Megan was named the 14th best high school senior by prepvolleyball.com, an AAU All-American in 2006, and a important games of' the season." Fesl said. "It's 
the last weekend of regular sea­son and both of our teams are vying for a spot in the Big East Tournam<mt. This is going to be a very competitive match and it's going to be a lot. of' fun." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 



Irish 
continued from page 20 
twit:e about diving f(,r loosn balls or shying away from contact. l·:vPn though tlw Irish IPl St. I ·:dward 's hang around most of t.lw gamn, llarangody's 14 sec­ond-half points made sun~ tho. llilltoppPrs didn't hPat tlw Irish likP l;indlay and (;rand Vallny St.atn upsPt. Ohio St.at.n and Mi<~higan Stall\ r<'SJWCtivnly, in t.lw past wnnk. 
"1\t. times it had tlw makings of' !that gamnl," Bn•y said. "Thny madn us play a littln quick. I wish WI~ could havn bnPn bnttnr with thn basknt.ball." 
Notrn l>anw had I1J lu rnowrs against St. l·:dward's hut ovnr­camn iL-; sloppy ofli•nsivn play by gntting the ball to llarangody in thn sncond half. Broy said the strategy in thn second half rnvolved around getting llarangody the ball on mtch pos­snssion. 
"That's basically where we wnrn," Brey said. "They had us puslwd out a little bit. What we said was a low-post toueh ... We were talking about six passes, rnversing the ball. a low-post touch, a I larangody-toueh beforn we do anything. And that's no mystery. That's how we're going to play." 
St. Edward's trailed 38-28 at half't.inw and made things inler­nsling in tlw bnginning of th1~. snmnd half". 

!\f'tnr sophomorn guard Tory .Jackson, who linislwd with 11 poinL-; whiln playing with the llu. hit a thrnn t.o put Notrn Dam<~ up 41-30. St. Edward's wnnt on a 9­2 run to cut tlw seon• to 43-39. Tlwn llarangody went to work, scoring SIWI'n points during an 1 1-:~ Notrn Danw run that madn tlw scorn 54-4:~ with 10:45 n~maining. 
"I think lllarangodyl did a groat. job," said senior forward Hob Kurz. who linishnd with 15 points and nine rebounds. "It's amazing to sen him out there playing. lie hasn't. been able to move his wrist in thrne weeks and then to come out tlwre, he did a gmat joq and is only going to gnl bntll~r and bntt1~r." 
St. Edward's got as close as eight the rnst of the way. 
llarangody played 11 minutes in the first half but only scored one point. Kurz picked up the slack in the first haJJ. lie had 13 poinL-; in the first hall', while jun­ior guard Kyle Mci\larney had 10 of his 12 poinl'>. But Mei\larney and Jackson combined for 10 of Notre Dame's 19 turnovers. Jackson said that although he had the llu, he was still disap­pointnd with how he played. 
"I f{~lt so terrible out there, but lint it get to me," Jackson said. "I should've nevnr let that happen bneause it afTected my team. I got to gnt betllw at that. No mat­ter what's wrong with me, l can't show any weakness." 
Notrn Dame jumped out to an 18-10 lnad, but turnovers and missnd shots allowed the llillloppnrs to gnt within four at 21-17 with 5:22 to play in the first half'. Thn Irish rngroupnd and outscored St. Edward's 17­11 thn n~st of' the half' to go into the lorknr room ahead 38-28. 
St. Edward's sophomorl' guard .Janniek Zimmer led the I lilltoppors with 12 points while senior guard Shawn Weinstein and sophomorn forward Cory Griffin each added 1 0. 
Notes: 
+13rny said he was happy with the Big East's decision to allow all 16 confenmec teams to play in the Big East tournament beginning in 2009. 
''I'm shocked we got it this early," Brey said. "We've been lobbying for a while ... I think it's very fitting that everybody goes to New York." 
+Brey said freshman guard Ty Proffitt sat out Wednesday with a groin injury. 
"We're hoping he'll be baek in practice on Saturday," Brey said. "But he pulled a groin in Sunday's practice, and we're just trying to be eautious with it." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 



Thursday, November 8, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
69 Walletful. informally 70 Like many games 71 Hunter-gatherer types 
Down Drop bait lightly 
on the water 2 Eggs in labs 3 A.L. team, on 
scoreboards 4 Still-life object 5 Carvey of 
"Wayne's World" 6 Extreme sort 7 Alan Jay 
Lerner's "_ Wasn't You" 
8 _Valley Conference in college sports 
9 Gen. Rob!. 1 0 Alternatively 11 20,320-foot 
Alaskan peak 12 Capacity of many a flash 
drive, informally 13 Not dawdle 18 Information desk 
offering 22 Some carriers 23 Old King Cole 
accessory 24 Kind of card 25 Soapstone, e.g. 27 Plant nursery 
activity 30 Pseudonym of Jean Baptiste Poquelin 31 _ Report of the 1990s 33 Breakfast place 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
WILLSHORTZ 
muscles 52 Pretend 64 Culmination
42 Common injury 55 Locale of many site Italian vineyards 65 "You bet!" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


Puzzle by Peter Wentz 
34 Beach sights 45 Franciscan 56 Bawl (out) locale
36 Second in a 58 It's rarely seen Latin series 46 Unpopular, in a under a hat 
39 Damned one way 59 Originate
47 Makes 40 Samoan capital applesauce, e.g. 62 Sauce ingredient 41 Like some 48 One helping 
63 Mauna 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form lour ordinary words. 
COHLT 





[ J I b
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved. 
GYDUP 
rJ In
1 
HINSAV 
rJ 
1 
www.jumble.com 
TAU BEY 
rJ 
1 
Answer here: 


"[IIIJ"[IIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: MERCY GLOAT VOLUME FABRIC 
Yesterday's Answer: 

Where the paper boy went when he rescued the cat -OUT ON A LIMB 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Jason and Jeremy London, 35; Todd McKee, 
44: Jorii Mitchell, 64 

Happy Birthday: Put an extra push on something that really excites you. Now is the time to excel with your dreams. Say what you have to say and it will be much eal)ier to get on with your life. Your numbers are 4, 17, 27, 32, 38, 41 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Don't get drawn into a discussion 'With someone you know won't budge. You are better off addressing issues from your past. visiting old friends or taking up an interest that will help you further your career or moneymaking ability. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Focus on what you can do for others. A chance to de­velop a new relationship must be pursued. Mixing business v.i.th pleasure will bring great results. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You've got the goods, so go after what you want. Pro­mote and present and you will get backing. suggestions and support, encouraging you to move forward with added discipline. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't get angry--do something about your sitnation and you will eliminate any regret. Emotional matters can be expected but they don't have to debilitate you or cause you to miss out on something that means a lot to you. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Spend time nurturing the ones you love and the setting that makes you most comfort,.;'lble. It's worth a little time and effort to make sure everyone in your life is happy. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Work from home ifyou can. A change may be required in a partnership, so do whatever has to be done promptly. Uncertainty will only cloud your vision. so keep things mo,ing regardless ofopposition. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will touch the hearts of everyone you encounter if you are honest about how you feel. Speak directly to the people who will be influenced by your decisions. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't share secrets. Make some personal changes to your surrowulings or to your appearance and you \\·ill feel better about your future. Dist·ipline will help you stick to something that you need to finish in order to get ahead. 3 stars 
SAGfiTARIDS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may have the desire to help others but a need to comfort and spoil yourself will set in, causing some opposiiiou from people ex­pecting more from you. Be fair. Change will occur rapidly if you take chances but be carefnl. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec, 22-Jan. 19): Do you really want to please everyone or just those who country You don't have to spread yourself so thin or let your emotions be tampered with. Don't let someone's wrath stand in your way. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be able to talk your way in or out ofany­thing today. Once you put any minor problelll5 behind you, the freedom to move for· ward and follow your dreams will be yours. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A partnership is on shaky ground. If you have been a little secretive or dishonest, come clean now before it's too late. Money is in the stars and will come to you in an unusual form or from an unexpected source. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are quick to make changes but not always for the right reasons. 
You are giving, a good friend and very passionate about everything you do. 
Eugenio's Web sires: asrroadt•ice.comjor jun. eugenia/ast.comjor confidetllia/ cons111lations 
. 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
WHEN SHE PLAYED THE: ROL..E OF A SE:C.RETARY/ THE STARL..ET WAS--­


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

-
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
WOW DID YOU HEAR ABOUT THIS? KIEFER SUTHERL.ANO, A¥.A JAC~ BAUER, HAS BEEN ARRESTED FOR DRUN~ DRIVING .. 

CROSSWORD 
Across End of many college 

addresses 7 Fictional pirate 11 Suffix with 
official 14 "I do." e.g. 15 King's position, 
in a game 16 "Another Green 
World" musician 17 90 19 The Silver State: 
Abbr. 20 Like white elephants 21 Damp basement cause 23 One way to stand 26 Prime Cuts 
maker 

28 This and that 
29 Shia leaders 
32 3 
35 Jai alai ball 
37 Lake 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
381 43 Present-day 
Persian 44 Don't stop 45 7 49 Criticize sneakily 50 Skittles variety 51 Weary worker's 
cry 53 Roll call call 54 Auto accident 
sound 57 Cruise ship Empress of the 
60 Turner in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame . 
61 What is being held in 17-, 32-, 38-and 45­Across 
66 Receive 67 Captain of literature 68 "The Power and the Glory" novelist, 1940 


THE OBSERVER 







PORTS
Thursday, November 8, 2007 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

King of the Hill 
Harangody returns from injury, leads Irish past Hilltoppers 

·­
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
I.uk11 llarangody wasn't going to lnt sonwthing as small as an injurml thumb alli1ct tlw way lw playnd. 
Thn sophomorn forward. who is I'IH:ovPring from a torn liga­nwnt in his right thumb, OV11r­mmn first-hall' "jittnrs" in his first ganw back to l'inish with I5 poinL'i and night rnbounds in 26 rninutns in Notre Damn's 71-56 win Wndrwsday over St. 
l~dward's. 
"When I first went in thorn I was thinking about !the thumb! a little bit and finally I just said, 'If' somnthing happens it happens,"' llarangody said. 
llarangody played with his usual wrecking-ball mentality in the second hall', never thinking 
see IRISH/page 18 


FOOTBALL 


Clausen to start this vveekend 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Associate Sports Fdiror 
Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen will start Saturday against Air Foree, Notre Dame Director of Football Media Helations Brian Hardin told reporters Wednesday. 
Clausen started every game from Sept. 8 at Penn State to Oct. 13 against Boston Collegn. I le has 618 yards one touch­down and five intereeptions. 
Junior Evan Sharpley started Notre Damn's losses to USC and Navy and played most of the second half against Boston College. I le has 736 yards, five touchdowns and three intercep­tions in eight gamns this sea­son. 
This is Notre Dame's third change of starting quarterback. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
HOCKEY ANALYSIS 

Young squad starting to put it all together 
Leading a slew of young, irwx­player in the country. in both games. them play like that yet this sea­had six points on the weekend pHrienend talent, Notre Dame Sound eerily familiar? Prior to those games, Notre son. (five on the first night alone), coach Jell' Jackson is in his third The Irish are oft' to an incon­Dame had given up 10 of its 17 A lot of the change had to do and Van Guilder added five of year behind thn bonch l'or the sistent 6-3 start, but fans goals in the final period. Three with junior right wing Erik his own. Irish. llis team lost night seniors shouldn't worry about this win­of those came in a 4-1 loss to Condra moving to play with sen­The Irish offense is rounded to gradua-ter turning into this fall. No. 14 Wisconsin to open the ior captain Mark Van Guilder out with a dangerously quiek tion indud-Dan Murphy Last weekend, Notre Dame season and two more in a disap­and freshman Robin Bergman. third line and a bruiser line fea­i ng a posted 11 goals in a two-game pointing 3-0 shutout to Ferris Jackson moved freshman play­turing the Christian II o b n y swnep of a weak Lake Superior State. maker Ben Ryan into Condra's Mercenaries -6-foot-4 junior
Associate

B a k n r State team. The Irish showed a Jackson said he felt the team spot alongside sharpshooters Christian Hanson and 215­
Sports Editor 

finalist who killer instinct that had been starting to click after Friday Kevin Deeth and Ryan Thang. pound sophomore Christiaan w a s lacking in the first few weeks night's 4-1 'victory over the The move proved to be the arguably the most valuable and finally connocted on the ice Lakers. He said he hadn't seen spark the team needed. Condra see ICERS/page 18 
NO VOLLEYBALL

ND WoMEN's SoccER ANALYSIS 

Fesl sisters go head-to­
Bock kick starts Irish offense 
Imagine nailing Jnll-0 to a wall. Or fitting a squarn png into a round hoh~. Hngardless of' the l'.orny rnntaphor you prefer. both dnscribn what it has boon like to do fond N o t r o Fran Tolan llamn's 
during its currnnt 12-,'-!'ports Writer ganw win stroak. 
On Sunday, tlw No. 11 Irish ( 14-4-1) bnat Hutgnrs 2-0 dnspitn th1~ absm1ce of' thrnn key playnrs, including junior f'or­ward Br·ittany Bock. who sat out with a bruised IPg. 
Sinr.n moving from the mid­liPid up to hnr curnmt forward spot, Bock has sparknd. an Irish attack that won all 13 of thnir Big Jo:ast. ganws while outscoring opponents 41-5. 
And. unlike in sonw past 
see BOCK/page 17 

head with high stakes 
Iowa and introduced Megan and Annie to the sport at a young age. 
"I My mom I r:oordinates all of the leagues, dasses and clinics for middle and high school kids for the Arlington Heights Park District, so we wern always in the gym with her and we started playing I volleyball! at a relatively young age," Fesl said. 
When the sisters started mid­dle school, their mother began to coach their dub volleyball team. where they first became compet­itively involved in the sport. Megan and Annie played side­by-side throughout high school as varsity starters at llersPy II igh School. 
"Annie and I are really, really good f'riends," Fesl said, "We 
see FESL/page 18 
By ELLYN MICHALAK 
Spans Wrirer 

The outcome of Friday's mateh against Cincinnati will determine whether the Irish gain a spot in the Big East conference tourna­ment. 
But the match means much more than that to sophomore hitter Megan Fesl, who will be playing against her younger sis­ter, Annie, a starting setter f'or the Bearcats. 
Fest calls the matchup "Fest Fest '07" 
The match will mark the first time the sisters have competed in a Division 1 game. 
The Fesls were rais11d in a vol­leyball household in Arlington 
Junior forward Brittany Bock dribbles the ball upfield during Heights, Ill. Fesl's mother. 
Joanie, played volleyball f'or

Notre Dame's 5-0 win over Villanova on Oct. 14. 






