
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Counseling Center offers services 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
As more information seeps out about the mental state of Cho Seung-Hui, who shot and killed 32 people at Virginia Tech Monday before turning his gun on himself, university counseling services have become a nation­wide issue. 
In news conferences Thursday, VIrginia Tech officials said Cho did not receive any treatment from the school's counseling center, and the court did not tell the institution when Cho was released from outpa­tient treatment at a local clinic. 
Nonetheless, more and more 
see UCC/page 4 

Tragedy prompts campus action 

Jenkins e-mail explains University security 
By KEN FOWLER News Writer 
Though Notre Dame created a task force in 2006 to review crisis plans, the deaths of 33 people at Virginia Tech Monday "will spur even greater review and prepared­ness," University President Father John Jenkins said in an e-mail to students Thursday. 
Though limited in scope, Jenkins' message .was the most in-depth explanation of Notre Dame's security meas­

ures  since Monday's shoot­ 
ings.  
In  the  700-word  letter,  

· see JENKINS/page 9 



LGBTQ activists take new approach 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 
A Holocaust Memorial lined the east part of South Quad Tuesday as part of Stand Against Hate Week, organized by different campus groups and departments to send the message that "we here at Notre Dame do not di<>criminate or tolerate hate, specifically toward our lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or ques­tioning students." 
The display was just one indication of altering tactics used by those cam­paigning for rights and respect for LGBTQ students. 
Despite high visibility enjoyed by the "Gay? Fine By Me" campaign, the week's student organizers decided to take a different approach. 
"People are almost getting bored 
with this push for equality and acceptance for gay students," said ·senior co-organizer Casey Scott. "There's a whole lot more to be asked for. There isn't any way, shape or . form.full acceptance. I don't think this issue is going to go away for a while nor should it." 
In addition to the memorial and the distribution of T-shirts for the Stand Against Hate campaign, a Day of Silence was organized Wednesday. Participating students took a daylong vow of silence to represent the silence of LGBTQ students and their rights. 
Scott said she considers the week a success especially for its first time on campus. 
"I think it's a great event. [ ... ] It's widespread and I'm excited we're a 
see LGBTQ/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Sorinsends students to Uganda 
Men's dorm raises funds for St. Jude 
By JOHN PAUL WITT News 'Writer 
Notre Dame students may have heard about the prob­lems facing Uganda through classes, academic forums and campus events this year, but it's likely few realize that Sorin College has been sending stu­dents and money to the East African country for almost four years now. 
Since the summer of 2003, Sorin has worked with the Center for Social Concerns and the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross to send one student each sum­mer for an eight-week place­ment at St. Jude Primary School, a Catholic grade school in Buwekula, Uganda. 
. Last summer, junior Patrick Reidy was chosen to work at St. Jude and had an experi­ence he said has "stolen a piece of his heart." 
It's not every day that stu­dents are willing to work in a country famous for its long­standing civil conflict, though Reidy admits that his reasons for going were "selfish." 
"I never needed anything growing up, and I wanted to see if I could be the good per­son I hope I am when things aren't as easy, when things are really difficult," he said. "It wasn't a very Africa-oriented reason." 
Reidy said his most impor­
see AFRICA/page 9 

The Shirt 2007 to be revealed 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
With this weekend's Blue-Gold Game festivities in full swing, football excitement is in the air along with anticipation for next fall's games-and for the unveil­ing of the unofficial attire worn to those games, in the form of The Shirt 2007. 
The Shirt will be revealed to Notre Dame football fans this afternoon at the Hammes Bookstore. Celebrating 18 years of the project, this year's The Shirt will be "special." said soph­omore Brad Lenoir, president of The Shirt committee. 
"When designing The Shirt, we wanted to incorporate all that is the Notre Dame football experi­ence," he said. "We wanted to bring everything together, show 
see SHIRT/page 6 




Notre Dan1e alumnus 
part of Pulitzer team 
By JOHN PAUL WITT News Writer 

Rob Finch, who graduated from the University in 1998, is part of a team of journalists at The Oregonian newspaper in Portland, Ore., awarded the Pulitzer Prize Monday for their coverage of the disappearance of James Kim and his family in southern Oregon's Siskiyou mountains last December. 
Finch, part of the New Media department at The Oregonian, used Google Earth technology to develop maps of the path Kim took through the mountains, using an innovative "three-dimensional" approach to enable readers to bet­ter understand what occurred. 
He is the fourth Notre Dame graduate and former Observer employee to win the award ­either individually or as part of a staff-in the past seven years. 
'We were trying to give readers 
an idea of 


where the car was found with the rest of the family and the surround­ing terrain," Finch said. "We got GPS coordinates for 
Finch where the car-

was [and] used that along with narration and still photographs to try to explain to people what happened and how 
see PULITZER/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

For<;a Bar<;a 
101 
If you're still replaying in your head Messi's goal against Getafe Wednesday, maybe you love Barcelona soccer as much as me. No, wait. I doubt you come close, but it's a start. 
If tears flooded Marcela Berrios your eyes when Eto' o was booed 
Associate
during the Zaragoza match News Editor for his skin, then you're off to a very good start. 
If you see in Messi the rebirth of Maradona, we might be on the same page and you may appreciate my reflections on the greatest team in the history of soccer. 
Is it wrong to fmd a group of soccer players covered in sweat, jumping on each other and kissing as they cele­brate a goal, absolutely adorable? Is this the equivalent of men's fascina­tion with lesbians? I don't know. I do know that Ronaldinho alone is won­derful. Messi alone is wonderful too. Put Ronaldinho and Messi together, however, and the wonderfulness explodes. 
Why won't coach Rijkaard let Saviola play more? I can understand Saviola's mammoth paycheck could create rivalries within the team­but benching him can't be the solu­tion. My heart weeps when I see his youth and skill squandered. Rijkaard, you're killing a mockingbird! 
While we're on Rijkaard's question­able coaching decisions, let's talk about his defense. Coach, off the top of my head, I can name a dozen other goalkeepers to fill Valdes' clown shoes. Give me someone along the lines of Real Madrid's Casillas, and Valdes can be a fantastic understudy. 
If Rijkaard wants to keep Puyol on the field, he needs to offset the cap­tain's retirement age with an impene­trable defense. What does he do instead? He calls Marquez, Mexico's Aztec Kaiser. Mexico, that's laugh­able. 
Marquez is the foil to Ronaldinho's clean game. He's incompetent too, allowing the other teams to come near Valdes when "leave it to Valdes" is the shortest way to defeat, fol­lowed closely by "leave it to Marquez." 
Is it sad that I only wake up every morning because I know it brings me one day closer to the next Real Madrid-Barcelona game? No, it's not sad because Barcelona is "mes que un club." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aber­rios@nd. edu 
FROM THE EDITOR 
The picture accompanying the front­page Student Senate story in the April 19 edition of The Observer was an inappro­priate choice, given the article's subject matter. 
The photo, which showed student body president liz Brown and vice president Maris Braun laughing, was not taken during the Senate's discussion on how to respond to the shootings at Virginia Tech -although the headline may have implied that. Rather, it was taken at a different point in the group's meeting. 
The photo was poorly chosen during The Observer's production process, its placement was misleading, and we regret any confusion it caused. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irselfas a professional publication and strives fur the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, howevet, recognize that we will make mis­takes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our erro& 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, April 20, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SLOGAN WOULD YOU PUT ON THE SHIRT? 



Johanna Kirsch  Andy Tran  Caitlin Brown  
freshman McGlinn  freshman Carroll  freshman Badin  
"God says we're gonna win. He told me 'cause I go to Notre Dame. "  "Fight me, I'm Irish."  "Kiss me, I'm Irish."  



Sean McGowan  Michael Nadorff  Tim Falvey  
senior Siegfried  senior Fisher  senior Dillon  
"Maybe this year we can make a  ''The second coming ofJ. C ... Jimmy Clausen  "Charlie Rice ­Not Charlie Weis. I I and 2."  

mediocre bowl and actually win. " 

son when he made the boy wear a large sandwich­board sign saying, "I abused and sold drugs." 
''I'm not out here doing this to humiliate my son," the father told WATE-TV as the teenager walked up and down the sidewalk Wednesday in front of Cedar Bluff Middle School. 
''I'm doing this because I love him," he said. "We do have an extreme drug prob­lem in America, and maybe it's time for extreme meas­ures that parents need to take to monitor this prob­lem that we have." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
School to have Port-A­Potty prom 
MAGNOLIA, Ark. Plumbing problems at an armory that will host the Magnolia High School prom Saturday night has prompt­ed organizers to arrange for portable toilets outside. 
The National Guard is debating whether to repair or replace sewer lines lead­ing from the armory at Southern Arkansas University. The high school was notified about the prob­lem last week and decided to leave the prom at the armory, which has air con­Whitney Whitelaw said stu­dents have reacted well, remarking that they would be sure to pose for photo­graphs in front of the portable toilets for their scrapbooks. 
ditioning  and  adequate  
parking.  
Prom  coordinator  

School district spokesman Scott Nipper said "deluxe" portable toilets would be available, along with a hand-washing station. Also, golf carts will be standing by to take students to anoth­er campus building to use restrooms there, if desired. 
Dad makes son wear sign for using drugs 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -A father says he wasn't trying to shame his 14-year-old 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

-1 
c( 
(.) 



42 
38 


.9 HIGH 60 HIGH 70 HIGH 77 LOW 44 LOW 50 LOW 55 
that is." 
IN BRIEF 
"The Shirt" will be unveiled at 6 p.m. today at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The Glee Club, marching band, porn squad, cheerleaders and leprechaun will join the fanfare, which will include free food, drinks and activities. 
The Notre Dame baseball team · will play against West Virginia 
today at 6:15 p.m. in Frank Eck 
Stadium. 
A candlelight rosary service will be held at 7:30 p.m today at the Grotto to remember the 32 students and faculty members killed Monday at Virginia Tech University. The public is invited to attend. Organized by Notre Dame's Student Government, the service will include the lighting of 32 candles decorated with Virginia Tech ribbons. 
Voices of Faith Gospel Choir will give their spring concert today at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are available at the door. They are $5 for students and $7 for other guest<>. 
The annual Blue/Gold game will start Saturday at 1:35 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play against West Virginia Saturday at 3:05 p.m. in Frank Eck Stadium. 
Africa Night, an evening of musical performances, storytelling and dancing celebrating the peo­ple and cultures of Africa, will take place Saturday at 7:30p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets can be purchased at the LaFortune Box Office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer; e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


67 55 

65 55 

Friday, April 20, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

SMC hosts annual dance n1arathon for hospital 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
With their comfortable shoes in tow, students will crowd into Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility tonight to raise money for Riley Hospital for Children in the College's second annu­al dance marathon. 
Close to 270 Saint Mary's, ·Notre Dame and Holy Cross students have already registered to participate in the marathon, which begins at 6 p.m. and runs until 6 a.m. Saturday, Dance Marathon co-presidents Francesca Johnson and Pauline Kistka said. 
"There are a lot of critically ill chil­dren in South Bend that go to Riley's," Johnson said. "We wanted to bring something here to benefit the Hospi~.al, and make it a tri-campus event. 
Last year, Saint Mary's raised $21,047.42 during its first ever marathon. 
"It was more than double any col­lege for the first year of a marathon," fundraising chair Sarah Voss said. 
Not only did the marathon raise the most money for a new dance marathon in Indiana, but it was also recognized last July at the Children's Miracle Network Dance Marathon Leadership Conference 2006 as the Best New Dance·Marathon. 
Organizers have held multiple fundraisers throughout the course of the school year to benefit the marathon, including selling sweat­shirts and holding a Battle of the Bands in December. 
The main fundraising initiative, however, is a letter-writing campaign. Each registered dancer provides addresses of family and friends back home to which organizers sent letters asking for donations to the hospital. The amount raised will be revealed at the end of the event Saturday morn­ing 
"We chose for it to be a surprise," Voss said. 
The organizers aim to beat their goal and raise as much money as they can for the hospital, Johnson said. 
Participants, who paid $12 to enter, are not allowed to sit down, Johnson said, and must remain on the premise the entire 12 hours. 
Entertainment will include perform­ances by The Undertones, the Notre Dame Swing Club, Troop ND, Katius, Becca Schiappa and Harper's Valley. There will also be a Morale Dance that will be taught to participants in stages throughout the night, and the event will culminate in completing the dance. 
More than 50 families personally involved in Riley Hospital will be attending the event and telling their stories throughout the night. 
Registration starts at 5 p.m. and anyone can register at the door. 
"We hope to have at least 300 dancers," Johnson said. "Our slogan is, 'We dance because we can. We stand for those who can't."' 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Fans flock to Blue-Gold 
their tosses for the Blue and By KATIE PERALTA Gold teams, respectively. The News Writer four are competing to replace former Irish stand­out Brady Quinn, who is 
Saturday afternoon will preparing for the NFL Draft, have the feel of a typical fall which starts April 28. football weekend at Notre Clausen, Frazer, Jones and Dame, complete with the Sharpley will alternate fans, the concession stands, series. the cheers and the Fight Freshman Jessie Jenkins Song. plans to attend and is excited 
But as added  because it will  
bonuses,  be  her  first  
Saturday is expected to bring beautiful spring weather  "With Brady Quinn gone, it will be interesting to see  Blue-Gold Game. "The dynam­ic is just going  
along with leg­endary Notre Dame coaches  where the spotlight will shine."  to be so differ­ent without Quinn, so I'll  
Lou Holtz and  be interested  
A  r  a  Andy Ostrowski  to  see  who  
Parseghian, in  junior  wins out," said  

town for the annual Blue-Gold spring football game. 
The game squares mem­bers of the team against each other in a bout that will give fans a taste of what to expect for next year and who to watch out for. The game has a running clock of four 15-minute quarters. 
After a coin toss Wednesday, starting posi­tions were conferred to early-entry freshman quar­terback Jimmy Clausen and rising sophomore Zach Frazer. Frazer's classmate Demetrius Jones and rising junior Evan Sharpley lost 
Jenkins, who 

added that she will miss former safety Chine dum Ndukwe and Quinn. 
Junior Andy Ostrowski, who has attended Blue-Gold game each of the last two seasons, is looking forward to watching some of the new quarterbacks play. 
"With Brady Quinn gone, it will be interesting to see where the spotlight will shine," Ostrowski said. "I think that Jimmy Clausen will do well. I don't expect him to let us down." 
Freshman Jackie Mirandola Mullen, who hails from the same town in Georgia as former running back Darius Walker, shares Ostrowski's enthusiasm. Since this is her first Blue­Gold game, she is excited to see all of the new players after the departure of Walker and last season's seniors. 
"I think that [running back] James Aldridge will do well next year. I am also excited to see [cornerback] Munir Prince as well as the new quarterbacks," she said. 
The Notre Dame ticket office expects a record high of ticket sales for this year's game. 
Ticket prices are $12 and $10 for adults and children, respectively, if bought in advance. On game day, the prices go up to $15 for adults and $10 for children. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents are admitted for free with a valid ID and are to enter through Gate E. The game begins at 1:30 p.m. 
Holtz, head coach at Notre Dame from 1986 until 1996, will be the honorary head coach for the Gold team. Ara Parseghian, head coach from 1964 until 197 4, will be the honorary head coach for the Blue team. He was recently inducted into the AT&T Cotton Bowl Hall of Fame. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 20, 2007 
ucc 
continued from page 1 
accounts from classmates ofthe dis­turbed student and the intense cov­erage of the incident have reinforced the crucial role counseling facilities play for many college students. 
At Notre Dame, the University Counseling Center (UCC) has a wide variety of options for students who "face any problem or concern that may require professional assis­tance," according to the UCC's brochure. 
In the 2005-06 school year, the vee saw approximately 950 stu­dents for individual counseling, said Susan Steibe-Pasalich, the vee director and assistant professor in the psychology department. Of those students, 14 percent were fresh­men, 21 percent sophomores, 19 percent juniors, 21 percent seniors and 21 percent graduate students, Steibe-Pasalich said. Three percent did not report their academic year. 
The UCC has 12 psychologists, eight employees under supervision who either are working toward or have received a Master's degree, one consulting psychiatrist and one consulting nutritionist. 
"We do think we have very quali­fied people here. We have licensed psychologists who are experts in col­lege student development," Steibe­Pasalich said. 
Although data on whether stu­dents visited these staff members as a result of the Virginia Tech shoot­ings is not available, the vee has added a links to its Web site for stu­dents, faculty and staff to give tips for managing distress in the after­math of the shootings. 
In University President Father John Jenkins' e-mail to students Thursday, he encouraged students, faculty and staff members with a need to discuss the shootings to con­tact the vee. 
Reasons for visits 
While Notre Dame students may visit the vee for a variety of reasons, 4 7 percent ofstudents seen last year reported depression, according to Steibe-Pasalich. Twenty-seven per­cent of students reported anxiety. 
"They really are our top two issues," she said. 
The vee asks counselors to report what issues they "work on" with students. Steibe-Pasalich said that 53 percent reported that they worked with students to deal with "interpersonal concerns," which could include relationships with family members, peers, classmates, roommates, or boyfriend<; and girl­friends. 
"I think it's really just not feeling good -feeling down, feeling depressed, feeling anxious -that brings students in, and the reasons for that could be all over the board," she said. 
Last year, 19 percent of students who visited the vee reported aca­demic adjustment as an issue. 
While Notre Dame strives to maintain a Catholic identity, some­thing the vee must take into account, Steibe-Pasalich said stu­dent<; are not counseled in a particu­lar religious direction. 
"We certainly are sensitive to a Catholic student body in that they are unique and it behooves us to pay attention to how that uniqueness manifests itself," she said. 
And with some students not used to the grey skies of a South Bend winter, seasonal affective disorder seems to impact "students who come from warm and sunny cli­mates," Steibe-Pasalich said. The vee. which sees slightly more females than males, has a light box to help with this in its Inner Resources Room. 


Rules ax! regulations 
Whether for faculty, undergradu­ate students or graduate student<;, the vee upholds the same confiden­tiality policy. 
"Legally, because we are staffed by licensed psychologist'>, we do, by law, have to maintain students' con­fidentiality," she said. "Exceptions to that are if a student is suicidal or homicidal. We might need to alert somebody to that fad in order that the student and others are kept safe." 
The Virginia Tech slayings have caused many to a<;k whether or not university counseling c~nters have the authority to force students to seek counseling. 
At Notre Dame's UCC, it is not pos­sible to make a student go to coun­seling, Steibe-Pasalich said. DuLac, however, does give faculty or Hall Staff permission to mandate an assessment. 
"A rector may say [to a student] 'I want you to present yourself to a counselor for psychological assess­ment in order for you to !>iay in thn hall," she said. 
When an assessment is mandat­ed, Steibe-Pasalich said, the UCC can make recommendations for that student, and the student will usually have the vee let his or her rector know that the student visited. 
However, if an assessment indi­cates that a student may be in or cause harm, the vee has the authority to hospitalize the student. 
Ultimately, students who want to want to make psychological changes must want to receive help. 
"The student has to want help, to be motivated," Steibe-Pa'ialich said. 
Off-site referrals from the UCC are not too common and are handled carefully. 
"We don't refer out many stu­dents," Steibe-Pasalich said. "We are careful when we refer out. We docu­ment that. We usually see the stu­dent untillhe or she] has connected with someone else, unless if medica­tion is the only issue." 
Reasons a student may be referred off site inelude the need lor medication, if a student is in so much distrflss he needs more than once-a-week counseling or if a stu­dent wishes to receive long term counseling with the same counselor, which can conflict with the UCC's brief therapy model. 
"We would like to see a student decrease their need for counseling," Steibc-Pasalich said, adding that the vee has an ethical obligation to refer students who do not seem to be "getting better" elsewhere. The vee may also suggest that !>tudents who do not comply with treatment recommendations seek help else­where. 

The beginning of help 
The recently renovated UCC ­located on the third floor of Saint Liam Hall -includes group and individual counseling rooms, a con­ference room and a library. The Inner Resource Room, which was the gift of the Oass of 2004, includes a massage ehair, biofeedback tech­nology and software games to help control breathing and increase relaxation. White noise machines in the halls keep counseling private and confidential. There are also rooms in which students can fill out intake paperwork. 
This intake paperwork -filled out on a student's frrst visit to the vee -helps see what a student<; issue is, Steibe-Pasalich said. It al'io helps the vee gather statistics and demographics to "determine who we're not meeting enough with" and to help the vee tailor services to specific groups of students when necessary. 
Once a student has completed intake fonns, the UCC's Disposition Team -a group of staff members that meets twice a week -discuss­es a student's case to determine whether the vee is the best place for the student to receive help, Steibe-Pasalich said. 
Along with regular scheduled counseling appointments, the vee offers options for students in emer­gency situations. 
"We have a walk-in emergency service. If a student or someone con­cerned for a student can't wait to come in !for a scheduled appoint­ment]," she said. "[We have] a 247 emergency call system. One of us is always available to help a student in di<;tress.... Our availability is para­mount, I think." 
Counselors are available by the call system to answer phone calls from students or anybody who may be concerned about a student. 
Students who are in distress themselves, have concerns about another distressed student, or are wondering what to do in the event that another student displays violent tendencies are encouraged to call 631-7336 between 9 a.m. and 5 
p.m. and request to speak with a "warm line" counselor. 
Along with individual and emer­gency counseling services, the vee offers group counseling and out­reach programs. vee groups deal with issues such as obsessive-com­pulsive disorder, depression, stress, alcohol, food and body image, per­sonal growth and relaxation. There is also a group for graduate stu­dents. 
In addition to helping students, the counseling center also advises facul­ty and staffon dealing with students. 
"We're also consultants to faculty and staff who need advice on han­dling a distressed student," Steibe­Pasalich said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at 
edriscol@nd.edu 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


ORLD & NATION 


Friday, April 20, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Suicide bomb rips Baghdad 
BAGHDAD -A suicide bomber slipped past security barriers to kill 12 people Thursday, the latest in a wave of attacks that have shown the resilience of insurgents in the face of a U.S.-led crackdown on major violence in Iraq's capital. 
The attack in a mostly Shiite district showed yet again the ability of insurgents to penetrate Baghdad's heavy security presence, a day after more than 230 people died in the worst spasm of mass killings since President Bush announced his plan in January to increase American troop levels in Iraq by 30,000. 
Iraq's prime minister, Nouri al-Maliki, said an "open battle" was being waged for control of his nation. 
Child soldiers rampant in Congo 
DAKAR, Senegal --Congo's new govern­ment has failed to stop the use of child sol­diers _ merging forces of former warlords into the regular army without weeding out hundreds of underage fighters, an interna­tional human rights group said Thursday. 
New York-based Human Rights Watch said 300 to 500 children, some as young as 13, are serving in newly combined army brigades in remote North Kivu province. The group said the figures came from local and international child protection workers. 
"The head of the army has given the order that child soldiers need to be demobilized and taken out of the ranks, but despite the order, nothing is happening," said Anneke Van Woudenberg, a London-based Congo researcher with Human Rights Watch. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Record vaccine doses to be produced 
ATLANTA--Flu vaccine manufacturers expect to have a record 132 million doses ready for the 2007-2008 flu season, and even more could be available if a fifth company joins their ranks, officials said Thursday. 
CSL Biotherapies, an Australian company, applied last month for federal approval to sell its flu vaccine in the United States this fall. 
Government health officials have been expand­ing their flu shot recommendations to cover more age groups, and they now say that more than 200 million Americans should get vaccinat­ed each year. But setbacks in recent years­including vaccine delays and shortages --have left doctors and patients soured and confused. 
Influenza kills an estimated 36,000 Americans each year, and hospitalizes another 200,000, according to the CDC. 

Preacher's wife convicted 
SELMER, Tenn. -A preacher's wife who claimed her husband abused her was convicted Thursday of voluntary manslaughter for shoot­ing him. 
Mary Wmkler, 33, showed no emotion as the verdict was read. Prosecutors had asked that Winkler be convict­ed of first-degree murder, but the jury settled on the lesser charge after deliberating for eight hours. She faces three to six years in prison. 
Winkler had told jurors that her husband, Matthew, abused her physically and sexually, but she said the shotgun went off accidentally as she pointed it at him. 
The prosecution said it was ludicrous to sug­gest the shooting was an accident. 
LOCAL NEWS 

State bill allows slots at tracks 
INDlANAPOUS-The House and Senate have both approved plans to put slot machines at Indiana horse racing tracks, but on Thursday it seemed lawmakers have a pretty large gap to close between the two proposals before a com­promise bill can be reached. 
The House and Senate versions of the proposal include many differences -including the amount of upfront fees required, the number of slot machines permitted and the taxing struc­tures. The versions would also use the state's share of the money for different uses. 
"We've got some significant work to do on this," said Rep. Trent Van Haaften, D-Mount Vernon. "We need to find the right price and the right structure." 
CoMP[LED FROtvt THE 0BSERVDtS WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 


Gates says Iraq's 'clock is ticking' 
Defense secretary tells leaders that American commitment isn't open-ended 
Associated Press 
FALLUJAH U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates landed in Baghdad on Thursday to deliver a sharp message to Iraqi political leaders: The U.S. military's commitment to the war is not open-ended. 
"The clock is ticking," Gates told reporters, saying he will warn Iraqi officials that they must move faster on political reconciliation. "I know it's difficult, and clear­ly the attack on the council of representatives has made people nervous, but I think that it's very important that they bend every effort to getting this legislation done as quickly as possible." 
A suicide bomber infiltrat­ed the parliament building in the heavily fortified Green Zone a week ago, delivering a major blow to the U.S.-led effort to pacify the capital's streets. 
Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki called the violence in Baghdad an "open battle." 
Gates, traveling to Iraq for the third time in four months, took a decidedly stronger tone this time, reflecting U.S. frustration and the political tumult in Washington where President Bush and Congress are deadlocked over whether to set an end date for the war. 
The defense secretary stressed again, however, that the debate has been helpful in letting the Iraqis know that American patience with the war is ebbing. Democrats have seized on those remarks to bolster their arguments that there must be a deadline for the Pentagon to begin with­drawing troops from Iraq. 
The last time a U.S. defense secretary visited Fallujah -which until late 2004 was a key stronghold of the Sunni insurgency --it was Donald H. Rumsfeld, who stopped here in December 2005 to announce a plan to begin reducing U.S. troops. Small reduc­tions were made, but shortly afterward troop levels began climbing again. In February 2006 the spectacular bomb­ing of a mosque in Samarra, north of Baghdad, set off a wave of sectarian retribu­tion and a surge of civilian deaths that scuttled U.S. plans to pull out more troops. 
Meantime, Gates said the Iraqis must, as quickly as possible, push through legis­lation on political niconcilia­tion and the sharing of oil revenues among the Sunni, Shiites and Kurds. 
"It's not that these laws are going to change the situ­ation immediately, but I think ... the ability to get them done communicates a willingness to work togeth­er," he said. 


Those efforts, Gates said, would, in turn, create an environment in which vio­lence could be reduced. But he acknowledged, ''I'm sym­pathetic with some of the challenges that they face." 
Shortly after landing in Baghdad, Gates boarded a helicopter to Camp Fallujah, about 35 miles west of the capital city. There, he met with top military command­ers, including Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Peter Pace, and the top U.S. commander in Iraq, Army Gen. David Petraeus. 
There commanders agreed that the recent uptick in violence is trouble­some, occurring just as they were starting' to see some improvements. 

Gates' visit comes on the heels of Iraq's bloodiest day since the U.S. troop buildup ordered by Bush began nine weeks ago. On Wednesday, four bomb blasts killed 230 people. 
"Yesterday was a bad day, there's no two ways about it," said Petraeus. "And a day like that can have a real psychological impact, and it came at a time where frankly ... (we) felt like we were getting a bit of trac­
.

tion. " 
Petraeus added that while the changes are almost imperceptible at times, there had been slow progress both in Anbar and with the Baghdad security plan. 


Gonzales struggles to sway skeptics 
troversy to rest. "I am committed to
Associated Press working with you in trying to restore the faith and confidence you need to WASHINGTON -Attorney General work with me," he said. Alberto Gonzales confronted a fresh The exchange punctuated a long Republican call for his resignation day in the witness chair for the attor­Thursday as he struggled to survive a ney general, who doggedly advanced withering, bipartisan Senate attack a careful, lawyerly defense of the dis­on his credibility in the case of eight missals of the federal prosecutors. fired prosecutors. He readily admitted mistakes, yet "The best way to put this behind us told lawmakers he had "never sought is your resignation," Sen. Tom to deceive them," and added he Coburn bluntly told Gonzales -one would make the same firings decision GOP conservative to another-at a again. daylong Senate Judiciary Committee "At the end of the day I know I did hearing. not do anything improper," he said. Gonzales disagreed and told the Gonzales sat alone at the witness Oklahoma senator he didn't know table in a crowded room for the that his departure would put the con-widely anticipated hearing. There 
was no doubt about the stakes for a member of President Bush's inner circle, and support from fellow Republicans was critical to his attempt to hold his job. 
"The moment I believe I can no longer be effective I will resign as attorney general," Gonzales said after making it clear he did not believe it had come to that. 
The hearing was drawing to a close on Capitol Hill when Bush spokesman Tony Fratto told reporters at the White House, "The attorney general has the confidence of the president.... The attorney gen­eral acted to replace the U.S. attor­neys and there was nothing improp­er." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 20, 2007 
very rough draft, after multiple success," junior Mike Youngmark has come over 18 years," Parnell squad, cheerleaders and Matt 
revisions and some insight from said. "It will be interesting to see if said. "Our posters feature a col­Phipps, Notre Dame's new lep­
Shirt 
continued from page 1 
how unique it is, and the power it contains." 
This year's designer, sophomore Andrew Parnell, said he wanted to create a shirt that expressed exactly what Notre Dame football fans feel every fall. 
Lenoir thinks Parnell succeed­ed. 
'The Shirt is a unifying factor of Notre Dame fans," Lenoir said. "It brings everyone together: the. stu­dents, alumni, fans and the foot­ball team. It is something special that has become a part of the Notre Dame football tradition." 
Although the design started as a the committee, a great finished product resulted, Lenoir said. 

Parnell agreed. 
"When you see The Shirt, you think, 'Now that is what Notre Dame football is all about,"' Parnell said. 
Although specifics regarding the look of The Shirt could not be revealed earlier this week, Parnell said students "can expect a com­fortable fitting quality made shirt " 
0 

Many students are interested in seeing how this year's shirt will stack up against its predecessor, The Shirt 2006. Last year's record-breaking campaign sold more than 150,000 units. 
"Last year's shirt was a huge this year's shirt can meet the high expectations we have from last year." 
But Lenoir said the committee "didn't feel any added pressure this year." 
"The beauty of The Shirt pr~ject is that it is a fresh start every year. We understood that last year was successful, but this is this year," he said. 
Although the committee did not look to old shirts for design inspi­ration, it did use shirts from the past in its promotional campaign. Posters across campus feature students wearing past designs of The Shirt. 
"In our campaign, we wanted to show everyone how far The Shirt lection of past shirts, from the navy blue 2006 Tradition' shirt way back to the original kelly green 1990 shirt." 
At the unveiling, the eommittee hopes to have all of the past shirts on display to show how far the project has eome, Lenoir said. 
Also at the unveiling will be a Johnsonville brat truck with the world's largest grill, measuring 64 feet long. The grill will be supply­ing 2,000 free brats to those in attendance. There will also be inflatables and a bike give-a-way at the event. 
Scheduled to appear at the unveiling are Alumni Association President Chuek Lennon, the Glee Club, the marching band, the porn rechaun. 
Festivities kick off at 5 p.m., with the official unveiling starting an hour later. The committee moved this year's release to the evening to accommodate the schedules of the students and community, Lenoir said. 
The Shirt will again sell for $15, but today only, students present­ing their ID can purchase The Shirt at a discounted price of $11. 
Proceeds from The Shirt go to student organizations and are donated to charity. During its 18 years, the project has raised over $4 million. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 

Pulitzer 
continued from page 1 
the kids survived." 
Finch credited the entire staff of The Oregonian with the award and said it was "cool to be part of such a team effort." 
''I'm proud of the work we did and effort it took to do that," Finch said. "This wasn't an individual award-it was the entire newspa­per's award -because 100 people touched these stories in one way, shape or form." 
But the award is bittersweet, Fineh said, the story was so tragic. 
"You're celebrating something that wouldn't have been a story if this guy hadn't died," Finch said, "It's a hard thing to accept." 
Finch worked as a photographer for The Observer when he was an undergraduate and covered Notre Dame's football game against Navy in Ireland in 1996. He credited Notre Dame with providing him with "many opportunities" and inspiring him with a sense of "new­ness and creativity." 

The other three recent Notre Dame Pulitzer winners are also former Observer staffers. 1995 graduate and Saint Paul Pioneer Press reporter George Dorhmann won the 2000 beat reporting award for a series on academic fraud within the University of Minnesota's men's basketball pro­gram, and 1994 graduate David Kinney was a member of the Newark Star-Ledger's Pulitzer-win­ning staff in 2005. The stall' won for its coverage of the resignation of New Jersey governor James McGreevey after he admitted to appointing his extramarital male lover to a state security leadership post. 
Former Observer Editor in Chief Michelle Krupa was part of last year's Pulitzer-winning New Orleans Times Picayune staff, which received the award for its coverage of Hurricane Katrina. The Pulitzer Board awarded the 2006 breaking news reporting prize to the Times-Picayune stall' for its aggressive coverage of the di<>aster, and the papnr won a sec­ond Pulitzer for public service for its multi-facetnd covnrag!~ of the hwTieann and il'> aftermath. 
Krupa served as editor in ehief of The Observer during the 1999­2000 acadnmic year. 
At least two other Notrn Damn alumni have won individual Pulitzers, A<>sistant Vice Pmsident lor News and Information Dennis Brown told The Observer last spring. 1939 graduate Edwin O'Connor won lbr fiction ("The Last Hurrah") in 1962, and 1927 gradu­atn and sports columnist Hod Smith won in 1976. 
Contact John Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 
LGBTQ 
continued from page 1 
part of it," she said. 
Seott was aL'io pleased that the Day of Silence could be brought to campus. She said the day is observed around thn country at 

. other universities, high schools and even middle schools. 
For freshman Patrick Bears, remaining silent all day "was the hardest thing in my life." 
"I hope what I did will hnlp the awareness of LGBT issues that are facnd by people at this and other universities," he said. 
Scott said she felt the Holocaust Memorial display on South Quad was particularly suceessful and had "the most reach in terms of all the events we did." 
"Just even walking by the few times that I did. it seemed that people took notice of it. I think that had a big impact," she said. 

To make an even bigger splash next year, Scott said she hopes to see "more interactive events," like the Day of Silence, so more students can partieipate. 
"While I'm happy with the amount of people who did par­take in the Day of Silence, I would love to see many more people participate," said Scott, who hopes the day will bncome a "significant campus-wide event." 
The week was put on by the Core Council for Lesbian and Gay Studenl<>. the sociology and history departnwnts, student government, Jewish Club of Notre Dame, Progressive Student Alliance, Feminist Voice, Graduate Student Union, the Gender Helations Center and the University Counseling Center. 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 

Did you know that Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors and entering Grad students can join Army ROTC and receive afull scholarship? Did you know that Army ROTC only requires about 5hours of your time per week? Did you know that ROTC scholarships cover full tuition, fees, $900 per year for books and pays a monthly stipend? Get the facts; contact Captain Kelley Osborne at (574) 631-4656 or eosborne@nd.edu. 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Friday, April 20, 2007 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 

12,808.63 +4. 79
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I, 159 161 2,033 2,982,620,999 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -0.03  -0.04  147.23  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  +0.31  +0.14  45.15  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.31  +0.09  28.69  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.84  -0.05  5.89  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +2.15  +0.46  21.81  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.34  +0.016  4.67  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.1 0  -0.005  4.845  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.35  +0.0 17  4.836  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.09  +0.004  4.569  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.30  61.83  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -5.00  688.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.68  I 04.88  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  118.6250  
EURO  0.7343  
POUND  0.4992  
CANADIAN$  1.1286  

IN BRIEF 
Newspapers face rocky quarter 
CHICAGO -Media companies announced lackluster earnings during their latest quarter as declining revenue, profit and circulation fig­ures dealt the newspaper industry its latest fmancial blow. 
Gannett Co., Tribune Co., New York Times Co. and Media General Inc. all reported lower earn­ings Thursday, as classified advertising dwin­dled and overall online revenue growth began to slow, analysts said. 
At Chicago-based Tribune, interactive revenue grew 17 percent to $60 million. That segment grew 30 percent during the first quarter in 2006. 
"The big problem and the big red flag for newspaper companies is that the slowing in online revenue growth means that their ability to make up that print loss is eroding very quick­ly," said Ken Doctor, a media analyst for Outsell, Inc. 
Newspaper publishers have been struggling for years as readers turn to the Internet for their news and advertisers -particularly clas­sified advertisers -follow them. That trend has continued. During the latest quarter, classified revenue at Tribune and Media General fell 14 percent, while dipping nearly 12 percent at New York Times and 3 percent for Gannett. 
Michael Simonton, newspaper analyst at the credit ratings service Fitch Ratings Inc. said an 8 percent drop in print ad revenue at Gannett's flagship USA Today was a cause for concern. 
Wall street finishes on flat note 
NEW YORK -Wall Street closed essentially flat Thursday after struggling to resume a modest upward trend while investors juggled upbeat economic data, divergent earnings reports and a pullback in Chinese stocks. The Dow Jones industrials edged higher to a record close for the second straight day. 
While a mix of profit reports pushed and tugged at stocks Thursday, investors also watched markets abroad, where stocks fell following word that economic growth in China's first quarter jumped a higher-than­expected 11.1 percent and inflation increased at the fastest pace in more than two years. 



Google's first-quarter profit rises 
Company's three-month earnings increase 69 percent, exceeding analyst estimates 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO Google Inc.'s first-quarter profit rose 69 percent, main­taining the online search leader's penchant for obliter­ating analyst estimates. 
The stellar results released Thursday left little doubt that Google has widened its lead over its closest rival in Internet search and advertis­ing, Yahoo Inc., whose first­quarter earnings eroded. 
Google detailed its sparkling performance on the same day that several major U.S. newspaper com­panies announced another quarter of financial decay, underscoring an advertising shift that is enriching Internet upstarts at the expense of traditional media outlets struggling to adapt to a new order. 
Born less than decade ago, Google now reigns as the most profitable -and prob­ably most powerful -force on the Web. 
In the latest demonstration 
of its clout, Google earned $1 
billion, or $3.18 cents per 
share, during the first three 
months of the year. That 
compared with net income 
of $592.3 million, or $1.95 
per share, in the same peri­
od last year. It was also the 
second consecutive quarter 
in which Google earned $1 

billion -nearly as much payments to its partners, in all but one of 11 quarters accustomed to the compa­
money as the nation's largest Google's revenue totaled since its ballyhooed initial ny's eye-popping earnings 
newspaper publisher, $2.53 billion. That amount public offering of stock in growth, said Global Crown 
Gannett Co., made all of last was about $40 million above August 2004. Capital analyst Martin 
year. analyst estimates. That track record had Pyykkonen. "The stock isn't 
If not for expenses "We are ecstatic about our helped elevate Google's mar­going to double or triple like incurred for employee stock financial results this past ket value to nearly $150 bil­a few years ago, but it's still compensation, Google would quarter," Google Chief lion, even before the stock a good growth stock to have have earned $3.68 per Executive Officer Eric price surged $12.55, or 2.7 in your portfolio," he said. share. That figure topped Schmidt crowed in a percent, in Thursday's As usual, Google's financial the average estimate of Thursday conference call extended trading. Google firepower flowed from its $3.30 per share among ana­with analysts. Schmidt, shares fell $4.36 to close at search engine. That ubiqui­lysts surveyed by Thomson Google's CEO for nearly six $471.65, in regular trading tous tool has become the Financial. years, also will become on the Nasdaq Stock Market hub of the Internet's largest 
Quarterly revenue reached chairman of the board in a before the report was marketing network and a new company high of promotion announced released. · appears to be getting even $3.66 billion, a 63 percent Thursday. It has become more diffi­better at identifying the right increase from $2.25 billion a Pleasant earnings surpris­cult for Google to impress ads to display with its search year earlier. es have become routine for Wall Street because its stock results, which in turn helps 
After subtracting advertis­Google, which has succeeded is scaling lofty heights and elicit more revenue-generat­ing commissions and other in beating analyst estimates investors have become ing clicks. 


Wolfowitz fights to keep his position 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Fighting to keep his job, World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz is offering to make manage­ment changes at the institution, offi­cials close to the situation said Thursday. 
The overture -which came during a meeting of bank vice presidents on Wednesday -was made as Wolfowitz is facing mounting calls for his resig­nation. The controversy is over Wolfowitz's role in arranging a high­paying job for Shaha Riza, a bank employee who he has dated. 
The World Bank's 24-member board 
is expected to meet behind closed 
doors on Thursday to discuss the mat­
ter. It is not clear what action, if any, 
the board might take. Wolfowitz has 
said he made a mistake and has apol­ogized. 
At Wednesday's meeting, Wolfowitz stated anew that he did not intend to step down, according to the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not permitted to speak on behalf of the bank. They said Wolfowitz spoke in general terms for the need to improve the bank's man­agement, including that of his inner office, and to soften his management style. He also invited recommenda­tions. 
The United States -the bank's largest shareholder-has been stand­ing by Wolfowitz. "As we've said before, the president has confidence in Paul Wolfowitz," White House spokes­woman Dana Perino said Thursday in a fresh statement of support. She also said it is appropriate to let the board's review process take place. 
Although they have not said so pub­licly, some European governments would like to see Wolfowitz go but do not want to provoke a fight with the United States over the issue. 
Under an informal agreement, the United States names the head of the World Bank and the Europeans chose the leader of its sister institution, the International Monetary Fund. The controversy over Wolfowitz could bring this informal arrangement into question ifhe resigns or is fired. 
Documents released last week showed that Wolfowitz had a direct hand in securing a State Department job for Riza in September 2005 that pays her $193,590. Before the trans­fer, Riza was earning close to $133,000 as a communications advis­er in the bank's Middle East depart­ment. 

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 20, 2007 Friday, April 20, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

response procedures as a In an interview with The major incidents on campus telephones in the public areas safety precaution, so that Observer at the beginning of and work with other local of each residence hall.
Jenkins 
security details of the plan the school year, emergency Jenkins did not detail a spe­continued from page 1 would not be compromised. Director of responders to cific plan of action for NDSP "There had been a sense all Integrated "Please know that control a crisis in the event of a major cam­Jenkins said Notre Dame during the week that at some Communications scene. pus incident and did not say
safety is of 

has procedures in place to point it would be appropriate Services at OIT "These men what University officials have
paramount

respond to natural emergen­to address the issues," Wycliff Steven Ellis said and women the authority to declare a cies as well as acts of vio­said. "Today seemed appro­only 60 students importance to all of receive regular lock-down on potions campus lence. The University contin­priate." initially paid a training to or specific buildings. 
us at Notre Dame." 

ues to search for the best Jenkins reaffirmed the $161 fee to have address a wide "Please know that safety is ways to communicate with University's desire to have the the dorm phones variety of emer­of paramount importance to 
Father John Jenkins

students in the event of a service fully operational by in their room. gency situations, all of us at Notre Dame," campus crisis. fall and said officials would Every resident University president and the depart­Jenkins said. "While we 
Jenkins noted the Office of encourage students to partici­assistant, howev­ment maintains believe we are ready to Information Technology's pilot pate in "this important and er, does have a a productive and respond to a myriad of cir­program to send text mes­innovative communications landline, provided free. close relationship with all cumstances, the tragedy at sages to all students who pro­initiative." In the e-mail, Jenkins public safety agencies in the Virginia Tech will spur even vide their cell phone numbers. The question of communica­expressed confidence that area," Jenkins said. greater review and prepared­
University spokesman Don tion is only heightened by the Notre Dame Sectrrity/Police's For emergency situations, ness." Wycliff said Thursday that University's decision in 2006 (NDSP) 28 police officers and Jenkins said, the University Jenkins' letter did not go into to de-standardize land tele­35 additional security person­maintains 48 call boxes Contact Ken Fowler at more detail about specific phone lines in dorm rooms. nel could adequately handle throughout campus and keeps kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
dated, standardized curricu­administrators in Uganda. health, where he spoke about to see that the dorm could do lum. "Ten thousand dollars is an his experiences with AIDS in something more to help.
Africa 
"It was hard to communi­impossible amount ... when a Uganda. "I got students interested by cate," he said. "I can't speak sweet roll and a bottle of Coke Sorin College's involvement posting pictures of the kids in
continued from page 1 
their language and they can't costs a family its weekly with Uganda began after rec­Uganda and I realized that we tant lesson came not in the speak English well -imagine income, maybe more," he said. tor Father Jim King attended a could probably get a grant to classroom, but through his teaching a religion class to Back in the U.S., the Sorin presentation given by Brother start a summer placement for daily interactions with kids in middle school and try­students have been successful John Bailanda, then Director a Sorin resident in Uganda," Ugandans. ing to answer, 'How can I in their fundraising. The dorm of Development for the King said. 
"The people [in Uganda] believe in God if I can't see recently surpassed $75,000 in Congregation of Holy Cross in After students returned from aren't looking for you to save him?"' funds raised for St. Jude and in East Africa. Uganda, their experiences them," he said, "They want Despite this, Reidy said the support of future summer "There were lots of pictures "motivated others to engage in you to share in their struggle, experience of teaching was placements. of kids who obviously needed service" both in the local com­to know, and to care." tremendously rewarding. Reidy and senior Michael help and I realized that this is munity and abroad, King said. 
Reidy, a political science "In an eight-week program Dewan have both won awards the sort of thing that college "Our students, coming into major, was at first slated to you either find a way to swim for their work in Uganda with students would like to help contact with the Ugandan peo­teach social studies, but wound or you drown," he said. Sorin College. Reidy was with," King said. ple have enriched their lives ­up teaching religion, math, Reidy, like the Sorin students recently recognized with the King offered to raise money the best part for me is seeing physical education and sci­who visited Uganda before prestigious Lou Holtz for Holy Cross' projects. how student's lives have been ence. him, engaged in fundraising Leadership Scholarship for Bailanda suggested the pro­transformed by their desire to 
For Reidy -who said he for St. Jude when he returned outstanding campus leader­ceeds be used for St. Jude go back [to Uganda] and do "didn't know anything about to the U.S. -something he ship, and Dewan was awarded School, since it was particular­good and make a difference," Ugandan history" -crossing was not obligated to do. the senior award for ly in need. King said. ethnic, cultural and linguistic A problem he faced was the Outstanding Service. Dewan King began to take up a col­barriers in the classroom was enormous cost of expanding was also a panelist in Notre lection at dorm Masses on foot­Contact John Paul Witt at not easy, despite a state-man-the school to parents and Dame's academic forum on ball weekends, but then began jwittl@nd.edu 


ATTENTION: STUDY ABROAD STUDENTSII! NOW OFFERING HALF·YEA.R LEASES!! 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
·• 4 m1d·5 Bedroorn n:J1Nn!1omes 
• 6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 
It's a whole new placel 
r~iew locat r;wn~rship ~~ mat?a,grnent ftJ'envlv remodeled For 2007..2()08 

www.kramerhousea.com 
Renting fast· call today for 2007. 2008 

Contact Kramer at f574J 315-5032 or f57'4J 234-2436 

page 10 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on comenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe aurhors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ~(USPS 599 2-4000) 1$ published Monday rhnJUgh Friday ucepr during exam and vacation periods, A subscrip1ion to Thr-Ol~rver i~ $100 for mi.c aC<~demh.: 
year;$55forone:.eme~>tcr. 
The Observer is published at~ POSTMA.Sl'£R 024 South Dining Hall Send address corm:rions to: Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage p2id at None Dame P.O. Bux 779 and additi~ mailing offices. 024 Sou(h Dining Hall 
Nom: Dame. IN 46556-0n9 
The Obsc:rvcr is .t mem~r ofthe Associated Pres5. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT 
Friday, April 20, 2007 

Security with transparency 
There are still plenty of questions surrounding what hap­pened Monday at Virginia Tech. 
But one thing that isn't up for discussion is that Notre Dame should have a plan in case the unthinkable happnns here. 
Which is why University President Father John Jenkins' n­mail Thursday discussing emorgency plans was a welcome -and much needed -announcement for students, faculty and, maybe most of all, O Lfhe an e-mail that, while somewhat vague, promises the University will work to further prepare for anything that may come along. 
It's understandable that Notre Dame would need time to work out certain details before making a plan public. Still, when information of this nature isn't being released, it's important to tell people why, instead of generating anxious 
speculation that no plan exists. 
Hopefully, Notre Dame's plan will eventually 
parents. include the text-message initiative, one of the That message didn't come, however, until few specifies Jenkins included in his e-mail. If days after the shooting -days of wonder­implemented, the procedure would go a long way 
Editorial ing and worrying and wanting to know wha( to helping Notre Dame not repeat the delay in Notre Dame would do. warning students that happened in Blacksburg. 
Earlier this week, members of the administration and While other details of the plan will likely always be kept Notre Dame Security/Police were unwilling to comment on secret, it's necessary to be open about all procedures and the University's preparedness for such an emergency, leav­safety measures that do not compromise security -and ing students questioning if the plan was fully developed. open in telling students when information isn't released due 
But now, Jenkins has reassured the community through to security concerns. 

Well wishes for the Class of '007 
Rarely does a year's numerical arrangement offer a cute correlation to an icon like the parallel this year between the Class of '007 with the fic­tional international spy James Bond. But this week is not a cute one with the massacre at Virginia Tech. Neither is this a charming year with the carnage that defies under­standing of both young Americans and Iraqis in the Middle East. The feel of our time is remi­niscent of my second semester of fresh­man year when four students were murdered at Kent State. 
It may seem whimsically befitting that at this time of international strife and uncertainty, this year's seniors can be branded with the James Bond code name of "007." Yet it is evident that for the near future, the years ahead will be filled with learning experiences in hope of healing an unsettled world. Life at times is cruel, shocking and unforgiving. Ask the families of sons and daughters lost on the Virginia Tech campus. Ask the maimed servicemen and servicewomen who return from Iraq each day with the scars and nightmares of war. 
Within a month, the Notre Dame senior class will march onward to many person­al and individual victories. Graduates will disperse in every direction like the high­flying seeds of a mature dandelion scat­tering on a windy day. Their choices in life can be motivated by either fear or love. All of us must decide if we are moti­vated by fear so that we are reactive, or if we are motivated by love so that we reach out to others in a proactive way. Tragically, many of us never know that 

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 

we have a choice. 
Notre Dame teaches its graduates to know better, to be better and to act bntter -not in a sell'-rightP.ous way, but in serv­ice to others. The bonds of love felt at Virginia T0ch in light of this week's tragedy are the bonds Notre Dame slow­ly, subtly instills in its graduates through­out their four-year journey. Many times, though, graduates who believe in absolute certainties diminish their ability for tolerance, open-mindedness and acceptance. However, sometimes the greater forces of the universe change individuals through an abrupt tragedy or death. 
This column regularly recalls Notre Dame's so-called "angels," the great friends and teachers who change or mold a student's outlook. In my era, Frank O'Malley, Tom Stritch and Father Robert Griflin were among the iconic figures in our hearts. Most recently, former Notre Dame Security/Police Director Rex Hakow joined that heavenly group. Their thoughts, their deeds and their warmth were the formula that sprouted their wings, but more importantly, touched our hearts. 
The members of the Class of '007 can­not conform like puppets to a small seg­ment of our society-although they have sought acceptance within the campus community for nearly four years. Do not confine yourselves to your sense of belonging, to your sense of behavior, or to your sense of morality. If you do limit yoursp,Jves, you will strike out against those who are difl'erent rather than embrace and tolerate others in our world. 
In the family of nations, wisdom is the first cousin of freedom while freedom is the glory of our nation. Without wisdom we cannot be a beacon of light. We can­not be brave, gallant or kind. This nation once stood as the be aeon of truth because others yearned for our ideals. Heeently, we lost our moral authority with secret prisons, torture, indifference and duplicity. Our leaders replaced wis­dom with an ideology. 
Does anyone think the world can fmd answers when we have no dialogue? One thing is for sure, when the Class of '007 grasps the torch of leadership, our nation will be less bigoted and more inclusive. The world will know that this year's graduates have asked the questions and extended a hand. It may take a decade to solve today's current international mess, but it is possible to heal and unite the world. Just when we have walked through a valley thinking that the sun has gone down on us, we should remem­ber that it always comes up again. 
Wisdom sometimes comes from the most unlikely sources, and we must learn to open our eyes to everyone. Robert Stroud, the famous prisoner known as "the Birdman of Aleatraz," found a baby sparrow and raised it to maturity. Whenever he thought it was time for the bird to go out into the world on its own, he said, "You best go find out who you are. Kick up dust, dance to fiddle music, taste sweet whiskey and red-eyed gravy. Bite the stars for me." 
In the true tradition of Bond, James Bond, this writer has high hopes for the future of this year's graduates and wishes the Class of '007 many bites at the stars. The dust, fiddle music, whiskey and red­eyed gravy are at your discretfon. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a political strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Submit a Letter to the Editor or G Column to viewpoint.l@nd.edu or online at '""l(""•r;11Jt.~·~··'-"·"'"'."
.· bserver.com. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL Kate Antonacci Jay Fitzpatrick Jenn Metz Fran Tolan 

VVho will be the starting quarterback this fall? 
Becky Hogan Jay Wade 
a. 
%of votes #of votes
Viewpoint Scene 

a. Demetrius Jones 33% 322
Kara King Analise Lipari 

b. Zach Frazer 9% 87 Graphics c. Jirruny Clausen 45% 437 d.Tom Hanculak d. Evan Sharpley 12% 121 
This poll is based on the re~ult of 96 7 
votes at http://www.ndsmcobserver.com/ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is impossible to make people understand their ignorance; }or it requires knowledge to perceive it and therefore he that can perceive it hath it not." 
Jeremy Taylor English prelate 

-----------~---------­

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, April 20, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
What I really think about NDLS 
This week has seen opinions from all over the spectrum of viewpoints about Notre Dame Law School. One of those opinions was found in this paper, and attributed to me. Many of the other opin­ions were in response to my quotes in The Observer. But, none of those view­points were entirely mine. The quotes were out of context and didn't do justice to what I really feel about the school. And as the responses referenced those same quotes, they didn't get my position correct either. So, I'd like to explain what was said, what should have been said, and what was omitted, to provide a full under­standing of my much discussed opinion of NDLS. 
First, regarding what was actually said, Ken Fowler called my cell phone this past Monday and requested an interview about the Law School's drop in rankings. · Of course I obliged Ken. I knew who he was since I was his TA for Father Bob Dowd's Religion and Politics course last spring. I figured we'd talk. Our conversa­tion lasted roughly 25 minutes, and I explained my views of the school. At one point, I said, "And you can quote me on this," assuming that apart from that instance, I could drop my guard because I would not be quoted. But (and I have now been told that this is common practice) I was recorded without my knowledge, and everything I said was "fair game" for the article. 
As I'm sure my friends (and enemies) can agree, this law student has a tenden­cy to embellish his point. That's just one of the many skills the NDLS Trial Advocacy program teaches you. Unfortunately, when a paper reports "sound bytes," a speaker's more colorful statements can be divorced from their intended purpose. The quotes used were taken out of their context, and should be seen for what they were -about 30 sec­onds from a conversation that lasted roughly 1,750. 
Next, what should have been said (more clearly) in the article? Well, my first point to Ken was that, in my opinion, the Law School requires particular courses that aren't the most practical, vis. Jurisprudence and Ethics II, and that those courses are inappropriately under­stood as an integral part of the Law School's mission to educate a "different" kind of lawyer. And my second point was to suggest that while these courses are highlighted, other elements of a full legal education, which I explained to Ken included the study of the Federal Rules of Evidence and Trial Ad[ vocacy], are eclipsed. 
Part of making those points was to make abundantly clear to Ken my opinion that jurisprudence isn't very practical ... or as I put it, "jurisprudence is a joke." I have nothing against jurisprudence, per se; I have a BA with dual majors in poli­tics and legal philosophy and a MA in legal philosophy. It's the implementation that I fmd problematic. The administra­tion can require the course, but it cannot tell the faculty how to teach or evaluate the classes. That results in a marked gap between the concept of the course and the rather deficient-form it actually takes, or what many students would call a waste of our time. The law is important, as is good philosophy. But when you require nearly 100 adults to squeeze into .an over­crowded room and be force fed some mutation of legal philosophy, that exercise rings more comical than constructive. 
As a corollary, I had hoped to make it clear that this school lacks a strong focus on the practical, particularly the Trial Advocacy program. Consider the follow­ing. This Law School does not have one room that is capable of properly accom­modating a jury trial. And the drawings of the new courtroom show it is designed for appellate arguments, and not trials. 
Here's a shocker; you generally don't have an appeal unless you have a trial, but here at NDLS, that's apparently not a concern. How does that make sense? 
Finally, what was completely omitted from the article was my actual opinion of NDLS. Simply stated, I am proud that I will be a graduate of such a great Law School. I like the faculty, the administra­tion and the strong community here. Most importantly, I feel as though I have received an education that has prepared me to enter the workforce better equipped than students from almost any other school. 
In addition, I am personally committed to NDLS' Catholic mission, as exemplified in the character of faculty and scholar­ship at this school. I find that often it is the Christian ethic of professors, such as professor Matt Barrett, that can motivate them to pursue their vocation as educa­tors with an unparalleled dedication. Equally as important is the work of pro­fessor John Finnis, who is the epitome of a Catholic law professor and foremost among my intellectual heroes. 
Now it is my personal opinion that when the commitment to a "Catholic mis­sion" supersedes the practical necessities of a legal education, this school gets into trouble. And this, I believe, is one reason why the school's rankings are not as high as they could be. This can be seen in the failure to require something as simple as a course on evidence instead of a second ethics course. It can be seen in the unwa­veringly conservative approach to admin­istration that underlies many other actions at the school. And it can be seen in the employment of professors best suit­ed for philosophy-based courses as instructors in the secular law. 
A mix of both young and seasoned legal scholars, all of whom respect the school's Catholic mission, are responsible for teaching these Catholic or philosophy-based courses. I find it unfortunate that additional responsibilities are placed on several seasoned professor:s who would be better employed to provide the "differ­ent" aspects of the NDLS education, facul­ty who, in my opinion, are unable to teach any substantive -dare I say real -Law School course as well as other teachers. A contract is not a bread bowl. This is a divisive point, but one I am willing to make. The quality of a professor has nothing to do with religious affiliation. Neither does directing the Career Service Office, or being a librarian. But ifthe first hiring criterion is the ability to promote Catholic thought, the ability to teach sub­stantive law (or do anything else) must come second, or third, or fourth ... 
So, here's a suggestion. Hire the best professors you can. Get the best contracts professor. Get the best criminal law pro­fessor. Get the best international law pro­fessor (oh ... we already have her). Use some of that money and get Chemerinsky to come to NDLS. And do it while main­taining a balance between the concept of a Catholic mission and a "secular" legal education. 
I am confident that this school enjoys a position among the best Law Schools in the nation in large part because of the contributions of the faculty and the cur­rent administration. I am grateful for Dean O'Hara's leadership both in bringing the Law School into a new and much needed building, as well as working to strengthen the relationship between the administration and the students. I believe that most of the faculty are ranks above their academic peers in scholarship and teaching ability. As with all things in life, I think that there is still room for growth. But ... that's just one man's opinion. 
Jim Paulino third-year law student Aprill9 

Awareness main goal ofT-shirts 
I would like to thank Thomas Klepach for his Letter to the Editor ("T-shirts raise awareness, limit funds," April 18). As activists, we must always ask ourselves how we can b~st deliver our message, work toward our cause, and not lose sight of the real goal at hand. Social justice activists, in particular, must avoid becoming good-inten­tioned people who lose sight of the real purpose of their work. However, in regards to the choice of the Millennium Development Goals Task Force of the CSC to use T-shirts in their action week advocacy, I will give no apology. 
First, unlike Klepach speculated, the cost of the MDG T­shirts were entirely funded through a private company, which holds the Millennium DevelopmentGoals and the work of this task force close to its heart. Its generosity in donating the T-shirts is what enables us to give the entire $10 cost of each T-shirt to the Malaria No More bed-net distribution in Africa. The shirt is by no means intended to encourage "publicly lauding the self for donating to an anti'-malaria cause." On the contrary, the main purpose of these shirts is to raise awareness about all eight of the Millennium Development Goals -thus the large eight on the shirt -to which many students at Notre Dame have had little to no exposure. 
This is about teaching our campus that these goals exist and that the U.S. government has not fulfilled its commitments to them. The shirt aims to encourage peo­ple to ask questions, such as Klepach's, and to inspire students to help make the goals a reality. Furthermore, issues like malaria are not simply about "garnering resources for a charitable effort on another continent," as Klepach states. This is exactly the mentality about global issues that we hope to squash in our action week. Although monetary donations are obviously important, the largest impact we can have on issues of poverty, inequality, environmental injustice, etc. is through chang­ing our ways of thinking about the marginalized, chang­ing the way our government prioritizes its funds and the way we decide to spend our time. 
We are trying to shift the paradigm that led to these inequalities, in the first place. Awareness is the first step. If this task force were primarily a fundraising group, which we are not, then perhaps it would have been more helpful to the children of Africa to donate the money from our sponsor company directly to the bed net fundraiser. But then our already informed task force would be the only people learning anything. Through our T-shirt cam­paign we have the potential to create hundreds more dedicated students to the MDGs and, in the future, the number of bed-net donations will far exceed anything a few individuals could do. 
This T-shirt will serve as a constant reminder of our commitment to think and act toward these goals each day we wear it. For these reasons, we feel that the benefits of our campaign far outweigh the costs. 
Ashley Mayworm sophomore Lewis Hall Aprill9 

Value of a life 
This past Monday, people across the coun­try were glued to their television screens, witnessing the chaos that ensued as the result of the violence carried out on the Virginia Tech campus. Deservedly, this event received a great deal of publicity-it was on the front page of The Observer and also had multi-page layouts and analysis in the Chicago Tribune and New York Times. What didn't receive due media attention were the 37 Iraqi civilians who died the same day of the very same unwarranted and selfish vio­lence, as well as others in Darfur, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and other war-torn regions who perish daily. 
These stories were overshadowed by the story which undoubtedly hit much closer to home for many on the Notre Dame campus. But we must remember that regardless of the locality of violence, it is still violence. The Virginia Tech students who died are no more or no less human than the countless people who die-every day. 
This is neither a pro-nor anti-war debate. This is a life debate. The murders at Virginia Tech are indeed a tragedy, but pleas.e be aware that in many"countries vio­lence of this nature is part of their bleak, everyday reality. The frequency of this sort of violence should not discount its impact on our conscience. We must be thankful that we don't suffer from the fear of bombs and bloodshed on a daily basis but also be more mindful about the tragedies and suffering that are experienced by those stretched across the world. 
Sean Mallin sophomore Keough Hall Aprill8 
THE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 12 
Friday, April 20, 2007 
THEATRE PREVIEW 

Love takes center stage in 'La Locandiera' 
By MICHELLE FORD ICE Assistant Scene Editor 
As one of the few foreign language pro­ductions on campus, "La Locandiera" ("The Innkeeper") is an excellent addition to Notre Dame's theatre season. A strong and excited cast and crew have brought what could have been a very unapproachable play -both in setting and language -to a point where it can be 

First. the posters advertising the play come in both Italian and English versions. The score from an opera based on "La Locandiera," composed by Antonio Salieri, will be played throughout the intermis­sions. Lastly, all of the ushers will speak Italian. 
"La Locandiera," chosen to commemo­rate the 300th anniversary of its author, Carlo Goldoni, tells the tale of Mirandolina, an innkeeper whose beauty and charm 
have left her with a promi­must surmount to experience "La Locandiera" is the Italian language. Students of Italian should take advantage of hearing the language spoken, but the rest should not be afraid. The plot is easy to follow (especially with the detailed synopsis provided in the program), and many of the jokes and emotions are universally under­stood. Thankfully, there are few places where the action is too difficult to grasp. 

"La Locandiera" should not be missed by any of Notre Dame's Italian community, and would be a wonderful new experience for those less familiar with the language. The themes it approaches and entertain­ment it provides can be universally enjoyed. 
"La Locandiera" will show Saturday and Sunday at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Philbin Theatre at 2:30 p.m. and 7:30p.m. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 


appreciated by a nent set of suitors. wider audience. Foremost are the 
The Notre Dame Marchese, a penniless Italian Theatre noble, and the Conte. his Company, which is ne'wly moneyed rival. But presenting the pro­while Mirandolina keeps duction, is composed these men guessing, she of students taking the still has to remember that one credit Italian her hand is already prom­Theatre Workshop ised to the waiter Fabrizio. course taught by pro­Amid these plot twists fessor Laura enters Cavaliere, a man Colangelo. The stu­who despises all women. dents are immersed Mirandolina decides to in Italian, as they make him fall in love with speak the language her, beginning this humor­at every stage of pro­ous tale of love, money and 
duction. Participants serve as actors, set and costume designers, publicists, sound and light technicians, and multiple other roles. As it is an academic course, students were required to do some writing as well, including character analy­ses displayed at the play. 
The company makes an effort to fully surround the audience with the experience of an Italian theatre setting in several ways. 

manipulation. 
The interaction between the audience and the actors is echoed in the set of "La Locandiera." The play is performed in the DPAC's Black Box Theatre, and the sets are placed around the space so that they nearly surround the audience, creating a very inti­mate effect. This closeness also makes the foreign language more accessible. 
One obstacle a Notre Dame audience 
DVD REVIEW 

'Half Nelson' highlights power of relationships 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Senior StaffWrii'er 
When Ryan Gosling climbs into char­acter and takes his place by the chalk­board in "Half Nelson," he commands complete attention. 
Although he was nominated for an Academy Award, Gosling is not the first actor to play this role. But the familiar­ity he brings to Dan Dunne, a charis­matic but flawed inner-city teacher, makes all the difference. 
Not because you've seen this charac­ter in some other movie, but because Gosling makes you feel like you've met the man before. Exuding the warmth and comfort of a formative school­teacher, he entices you to lean forward and listen more closely to his words. 


This tactile connection between actor and audience drives "Half Nelson," a wonderfully understated and frequent­ly touching film. Dunne leads two very different lives. 
By day, he's a dedicated and caring middle-school teacher and basketball coach. 
But at night, he wanders through parties and streets, limp and lifeless, searching for his next crack cocaine fix. As the movie progresses, night and day begin to blur precariously. After one particularly long day, Dunne ducks into a locker room to get high, thinking he's alone. 
Fortunately, Trey (Shareeka Epps), a mature but reserved girl from Dunne's class, walks in on him sitting dazed in one of the bathroom stalls, legs pulled up to avoid being detected. 
This scene is chilling in its effective­ness. Played almost entirely without dialogue, the emotion tugs at us through looks stained with pain, shock and shame. 
Like many of the best moments in the l'ilm, it boils the action down to one profound relationship. Soon, an unlike­ly friendship develops between teacher 
. and student that extends beyond the classroom, and with far greater conse­quences. At its heart, "Half Nelson" works as a simple, somewhat predictable story told well. Regardless, the film thrives on its approach to the material, where much is left unsaid and there are no easy answers for .Dunne's pitiable con­dition. All of this is elevated by the remarkable chemistry between Gosling and Epps. With its recent release on a single­disc DVD, "Half Nelson" is finally avail-

able to the wide audience it deserved but never got during its limited art­house theatrical run. With crisp video and audio quality, the film's striking cinematography and nuanced sound­track are on fine display. 
For special features, the disc includes deleted scenes, outtakes and a music video. The main attraction, however, is a meticulous commentary from Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck, the talented writer-director team behind the pic­ture. 
Consistently entertaining, they dis­cuss how a sub-million dollar inde­pendent film gets financed and made and the various technical and acting choices used to bring the material to life. Only a "Half Nelson" trailer is lacking here. 
Gosling's rare empathic ability to capture us within minutes of his arrival ensures that Dunne's troubles become our own -the mark of any fine drama. "Half Nelson" is one of those all-too­rare films that test your patience for much of the running time, before final­ly rewarding you for your indulgence. 
It subtly builds to a final, entirely silent confrontation between mentor and pupil. The sad little smile Gosling gives to Epps is heartbreaking in its sincerity, a quiet moment of truth that is as raw and moving a segment of cin­ema as the medium can muster. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

-



By ANALISE LIPARI Assistant Scene Editor 

You may know him as that kid from "Holes," Keanu Reeves' sidekick in the epic "Constantine," or most likely as Louis Stevens, the perennial prankster from the Disney Channel's now-defunct series "Even Stevens."· But Shia LaBeouf, with this summer's massive "Transformers" live-action blockbuster and current box­office champ "Disturbia," is fast becoming both a household name and a critical dar­ling. 
A Hollywood kid by birth, the mop­topped Shia (pronounced SHY-ah) was born in Los Angeles and grew up with the drive to perform. The little LaBeouf often toured around his childhood neighbor­hood with a self-designed comedy act, and eventually decided to hunt for an agent and go professional. At age seven, he phoned in an appointment with an agency and, after performing his routine, got himself some representation. Not bad for a kid whose contemporaries were barely starting first grade. 
LaBeouf continued his rise to fame with his most high-profile role, that of Louis Stevens, the youngest kid of the Stevens clan on the eponymous Disney sitcom. The show -which ran until LaBeouf's first major movie, "Holes," came out in 2003 -was hugely popular with Disney's tween fanbase and critics alike, and LaBeouf even won a daytime Emmy for the role. Louis, with best friends Twitty and Tawny, took his Sacramento middle school and its hapless principal, Mr. Wexler, by storm with his crazy schemes and ridiculous, slapstick-style comedy. LaBeouf's sweet, affable and completely goofy performance endeared him to the tail end of Generation Y and their older siblings, and the accessibility of exposure on the Disney Channel has helped him as 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
There are a couple things in this world that are just not smart to do. It's not smart to yell "fire" in a movie theatre,. for example. It's also not smart to remake classic films -especially Hitchcock movies. 
Even though the new film "Disturbia" isn't an official remake of the Jimmy Stewart/Grace Kelly classic, "Rear Window," it's hard not to make compar­isons between the two. This strongly works to the disadvantage of "Disturbia." While it's not a bad film on its 
own, it pales in Disturbia Caruso stumbles comparison to its 
where Hitchcock cinematic prede­succeed best -the cessor. suspense of won­The film stars dering if Kale is Shia LaBeouf as Director: D.J. Caruso really onto some­
•Kale (or the Jimmy Writer: Carl Ellsworth and thing, or if his Stewart role), the Christopher B. Landon cabin fever is get­troubled youth Starring: Shia LaBeouf, Aaron Yoo, Sarah ting the best of who is confmed to Roemer, David Morse and Carrie-Anne Moss him. What Caruso 
his house. Where Stewart's charac­ter was injured and wheelchair-bound, the modern technological counterpart is an ankle bracelet that Kale received after punching his teacher at school. 
Bored at home, Kale starts surveying the neighborhood with his best friend Ronnie (Aaron Yoo) and a pair of binocu­lars. Added to their group is Ashley (Sarah Roemer), the hot blonde in the bikini who recently moved in next door and met the pair after she noticed Kale spying on her. 
Ashley isn't the only one Kale watches, however. Another neighbor, for example, has an affair with his housekeeper. And the younger kids who've been teasing the confined Kale apparently watch a lot of porn. Most importantly, though, is the neighbor behind Kale's house -Mr. Turner (David Morse), a strange guy who seems to have unhealthy relationships with women that might be prostitutes. To make matters worse, he drives a car that looks suspiciously like one that the cops suspect may belong to a high-profile 
serial killer. 
But director D.J. 
does get right, 
however -and where the film manages to distance itself from "Rear Window" -is in the ways the kids relate and interact in a modern world where iPods and laptop are ubiq­uitous, and where much of their daily lives is reducible to digital blips. Cell phones, the Internet and even a garage door opener all play pivotal roles in the detective story, often adding a nice layer of suspense to the film. 
While LaBeouf and Roemer can't com­pare to the classic elegance of Jimmy Stewart and Grace Kelly, they do have their own endearing teenage qualities. LaBeouf in particular possesses the same kind of dorky charm that John Cusack did in his youth. All of the teenagers come across as real characters, which is always good to see (and hard to find) in teen flicks. David Morse delivers an exceedingly creepy performance as the potential bad guy. He exudes an evil air that dominates the film as the tone pro­gresses from a teen comedy into a gen­uinely frightening thriller. 
Admittedly, "Disturbia" starts out a bit slow, but once the detective story takes off, it's an enjoyable popcorn-thriller with a surprisingly good cast and a much better story than expected. Yes, it's hard to ignore the film's obvious cinematic roots, but in the end, the repackaging is good enough that it almost stands on its own. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
courtesy of mnv'IRw,m.~r>m 

Shia LaBeouf, right, stars with Sarah Roemer in "Disturbia." LaBeouf, formerly the star of Disney's "Even Stevens," has become one of Hollywood's brightest new stars. 
he expands his acting range into more complex roles. 
LaBeoufs first big film role, the protag­onist in "Holes," was an easy bridge between television and cinema for the young actor. Stanley Yelnats, the slightly goofy mop-top who finds himself at the center of a crime circle rooted in Wild West legends and a century-long treasure hunt, was a character not too different from the fun_-loving Louis that fans had grown to love, but with a twinge of heart and a touch of the serious. The success of "Holes," based on the best-selling novel by children's author Louis Sachar, proved that LaBeouf was ready for the big time. 
Other films of note in LaBeoufs rise to fame include "A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints," a coming-of-age drama starring Robert Downey Jr., "The Battle of Shaker Heights," the second in Matt Damon and Ben Affleck's "Project Greenlight" series, and "Bobby," the 2006 critically acclaimed ensemble piece about the Robert F. Kennedy assassination. 
Currently, LaBeouf's latest film, "Disturbia," is turning heads and ticket turnstiles. "Disturbia," a horror/thriller type flick that draws its roots from clas­sics of the genre, most notably Hitchcock's "Rear Window," was recently the top draw at the box office, making over $20 million dollars. LaBeoufs lead role, in a project that's about as far from "Even Stevens" as you can get, shows how much this versatile young actor is capable of. 
LaBeouf is also versatile off of the silver screen. For example, LaBeouf, with best friend and fellow actor Lorenzo Eduardo, has begun his own hip-hop group and record label, Element, as well as a pro­duction company. 
With this diverse career path and a bright future ahead, former Disney tot Shia LaBeouf looks as though he's on his way to becoming one of his generation's most multitalented actors. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 20, 2007 
MLB 


A-Rod hits walkoff HR in ninth-inning rally 
-
Cora triples home go-ahead run as Boston tops Toronto; Peavy hits two-run triple in Padres' win over Diamondbacks 
Associated Press win." since they won five straight A-Rod connected on a belt­there in one series in August. 
NEW YORK-Alex Rodriguez high pitch from Joe Borowski Andy Pettitte opposes Boston kind of chuckled, and declared (0-1) and sent the ball soaring right-hander Curt Schilling in the best thing about his game­to center. Rodriguez knew the opener of the weekend winning homer Thursday was immediately it was gone, flip­series Friday night. trying to hit Yankees coach ping his bat toward the Larry Bowa in the head as he Yankees' dugout and raising Red Sox 5, Blue Jays 3 rounded third. both hands in triumph. Alex Cora saved the Boston 
Yes, Rodriguez is one happy He slapped the hands of Bowa Red Sox with his glove, then superstar right now, and the after rounding third, then won the game with his bat. Yankees are winning because of slammed his helmet to the Cora was upended on a dou­it. ground. ble play, then tripled home the 
Rodriguez hit a three-run "It's what Alex is capable of," go-ahead run in the ninth homer that capped a comeback Yankees manager Joe Torre inning as the Red Sox beat the from a four-run deficit with two said. "He's got such incredible Toronto Blue Jays Thursday outs in the ninth inning, giving ability and now he's letting it and headed home to Boston the New York Yankees an 8-6 speak for itself." with a victory going into their victory over the Cleveland Sean Henn (1-0) pitched one first series of the year against Indians that completed a three­inning, following Chase Wright the New York Yankees. game sweep. and Kei lgawa to become the Cora, playing at shortstop, 
By homering for the third third Yankees rookie in three was toppled by Lyle Overbay as straight game, Rodriguez games to get his first major he made the relay throw on a increased his major league­league win. That hadn't hap­1-6-3 double play that got Mike leading totals to 10 homers and pened since Norm Branch, Timlin (1-0) out of an eighth­26 RBis. His latest drive came Charlie Stanceu and Steve Peek inning jam. after he went hitless in his first did it from May 20-22, 1941, Vernon Wells led off with a four at-bats and committed a according to Elias Sports double and advanced on Frank throwing error that allowed the Bureau. Thomas' groundout. Overbay Indians' final run to score. The Yankees (8-6), two games was walked intentionally to 
"It's just fun," Rodriguez said. over .500 for the first time this bring up Aaron Hill, who of the season, a two-out drive solo homer among his three "It's going out and not trying to season, headed to Boston for grounded back to the mound. off Shaun Marcum (1-1). hits, and scored three times. do too much, and help the team their first trip fo Fenway Park Timlin's throw was high and "We've all seen Manny take Peavy's triple, which he fin­
wide, but Cora caught the ball one swing and then get in a ished with a headfirst slide, and got the relay throw off groove for a long time," Red highlighted the five-run third before Overbay sent him flying. Sox manager Terry Francona and helped the Padres take a 7­
"It was a tackle," Cora said. "I said. "That would be tremen­0 lead. don't mind people going hard, dous." The cushion came in handy but when you see the replay, because Peavy (3-0) went from he's going in with his hands up, Padres 11, Diamondbacks 6 pitching lights-out to getting he can't reach the bag. I don't Jake Peavy's hitting was bet­pulled with the bases loaded mind when they go hard, but ter than his pitching. and one out in the 'sixth. He not with their hands up." The Padres' ace drove in two struck out eight but allowed 
Cora didn't accuse Overbay of runs with his first career triple five runs, four earned, on 10 dirty play but said he doesn't and added a double for the hits and two walks, and his enjoy being taken out. Padres, who beat the Arizona ERA rose from 0.90 to 2.13. · "That's something I really Diamondbacks on Thursday. Peavy allowed only three don't like in the game," Cora Khalil Greene and Rob Bowen baserunners -one of whom he said. "That part really bothers hit solo homers for the Padres, picked off -through four me sometimes." who've struggled offensively scoreless innings, then got 
Timlin said Cora did well to this year but managed to score worked over by the bottom of keep the throw from sailing into a season-high in runs. Bowen the Diamondbacks' order. The the outfield. had three RBis and scored right-hander allowed nine of 
"He wasn't as close to the bag three runs, both career-highs. his last 13 batters to reach as I thought he was," Timlin The Padres split the two­base. said. "When I let it go I kind of game homestand, with the win Young hit a solo homer with short-armed the ball a little bit. coming less than 24 hours after one out in the fifth, his second. He picked me up." they lost 5-3 in 12 innings. It Diamondbacks starter Livan 
Coco Crisp had reached on a was the most runs the Padres Hernandez kept the inning alive bunt single against Roy scored at spacious Petco Park with a two-out single, and Halladay leading off the top of since July 18, when they beat Arizona added three more sin­the eighth, and Manny Ramirez Philadelphia 10-6. gles, including Orlando tied it 3-3 with his first homer Arizona's Chris Young had a Hudson's two-run base hit. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classitleds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9.  WALK TO CAMPUS!! JAMISON  Room in beautiful home overlooking  Adopt: A young loving couple long  
WANTED  FoR RENT  Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. Call Anlan  RESIDENTIAL 3 BDRM 2 BA LUX­URY CONDO. ACROSS B-BALL  private golf course. 1.2 mi to ND. Privileges include kitchen for light  to share their Hearts and home with a newborn &will provide Endless  
Properties at 532-1896.  STADIUM FROM CAMPUS.  cooking. WID. $275/mo. Call 574­ love. Expenses paid call Eileen &  
SUMMER WORK -$15.50 base­ andersonNDrentals.com  Very large home for rent for next  SLEEPS UP TO 4 STUDENTS.  232-7564. Avail. now and/or for 07­ Ed at 1-800-718-6577  
appt. flexible schedules, no  BETTER HOMES,BETTER  school year. 1 block east of cam- EXCELLENT RENTAL FOR 2  08. Addl room avail for football  
exp.needed,  AREAS,BETTER DEALS.  pus.  GRAD STUDENTS OR FOR PRI- weekends at $125/night.  If you or someone you care about  
customer sales/service,  BlueGoldRentals.com  Walk to class/food/shops. 4 huge  VACY. CONVERT 3RD BEDROOM  has been sexually assaulted, visit  
conditions apply,  bedrms/3 full baths/large kitchen- TO STUDY. CAB,NET,GAS,ELEC,  2 bedroom, 1.5 bath house avail- http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape  
all ages 17+,  3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for  lam rm &laundry rm.  INCLUDED. $1600 PER MONTH  able for 2007 football weekends.  to learn about resources at ND and  
positions throughout the US,  07/08 school year. On line see rent­ 3 decks overlook huge fenced yard.  BEGINNING 6/1.  Walk to campus. Call219-873-3759  in South Bend.  
apply now,  nd.com or mmmrentals.com.  Very private &safe! Must see!  CALL MARK @ 310-940-9444.  
 
start after finals, www. workforstudents.com  Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb­spot. net or phone 574-277-4759.  239-707-2025.  5 Bedroom House; 105 Marquette  PERSONAL  Shia! It rhymes with Fiya!  
2 bdrm home close to ND. Avail  Ave; Great Neighborhood,close to  We <3 Gremlins: Little lads who  
Sitter for 11-year-old girl in Granger  Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt  Now. $650/mo + utilities. Call  campus;232-6964.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  love berries and cream.  
and sometimes older sisters, 15 &  loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli.  Peggy 269-687-3096.  OFF CAMPUS HOUSING: House  Do not go it alone.  
17. Days, 30-40 hours/week now  AIC,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 +  for rent 1/2 mile from NO. 3 bdrms  If you or someone you love needs  DEAREST C-MAC,  
through summer. Reply:  util. 630-417­ New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to  &2 full baths, A/C. Newly remod­ confidential support or assistance,  
Linda.Harmon1 @comcast.net  8763/MCL214@aol.com  campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi,AC,  eled. Must see! Call Darin 574-255­ please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­ I missed you last night. Please  
2 car gar. No pets. $1650/mo plus  8935.  7819.  come by to cuddle. I'll be waiting.  
FoR SALE  4 Bedrooms 2 Baths Swanson Highlands;  util. 914-232-3328.  Across the street from ND, Corner  For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart- Love,  

 For rent: Nicest house in area. 4  Lot. 4 BR,2 full baths. AIC &heat.  ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi- A Cup ofTae  
*NO CONDOS* NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath  Central Heating &air; remodeled  bedrooms,AIC, security. 5 blocks  Extra parking. 269-362-0498.  weekly ad in The Observer.  
condos Minutes from campus  appliances;  from campus. 289-4071 .  Hey, let's all take the moustache  
- Starting in $130,000s 574-252­ $1250/mo;  2-6 BDRMS HOMES.GREAT  1-bdrm apts. Quiet historic neigh- PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME- ride!  
2427 ndcondos.com Reserve Yours  RATES.574-329-0308  borhood. Laundry &security.  ONE WHO IS?  
Today!  Responsible parties,  $575/mo. 574-532-8718.  You do not have to be alone. We  What did the SOH at dinner  
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. 6-bdrms  want to help. Call our 24 hour confi- Thursday and the Scene depart­ 
3 bdrm,2 bath ranch, finished lower  students OK.  &3 bdrms still available for 07-08.  3bdrm furnished house close to ND  dential hotline at 1-800-No-ABORT  ment in 2005-2006 have in com- 
level, all amenities. 10 yrs. old & 1  Call Cosima 277-1875. bumbaca­ renting for 07-08. Call661-703­ or visit our website at  mon?  
mi to ND. $144,900.574-277-2176  574-243-2778  houses.com  7200.  www.lifecall.org  Both had Tater Tots!  



r--------------~---------­





OUND THE NATION 
Friday, April 20, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 15 
NHL
Major League Baseball 
American League East 
team record perc. last 10 GB Boston 9-5 .643 7-3 New York 8·6 .571 6-4 1.0 Baltimore 8-7 .533 7-3 1.5 Toronto 8-7 .533 5·5 1.5 Tampa Bay 6-9 .400 4·6 3.5 
American League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Minnesota 9-5 .643 6·4 Detroit 9-6 .600 6·4 0.5 Cleveland 6-6 .500 4•6 2.0 Chicago 6-7 .462 5·5 2.5 Kansas City 4-11 ..267 5.5 5.5 
American League West 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Oakland 8-7 .533 6·4 Seattle 5-5 .500 5·5 .5 Texas 6·8 .429 5·5 1.5 Los Angeles 6·9 .400 2·8 2.0 
National League East 
team record perc. last 10--GB 
Atlanta 10·4 .714 7-3 New York 9-4 .692 6-4 .5 Florida 6·8 .429 4-6 4.0 Washington 5·11 .313 4-6 6.0 Philadelphia 4·10 .286 3-7 6.0 
National League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Milwaukee 9·6 .600 7·3 Houston 7·6 538 7·3 1.0 Cincinnati 8·7 .533 4·6 1.0 Pittsburgh 6·8 .429 3·7 2.5 St.louis 6·9 .400 5·5 3.0 Chicago 5·9 .357 3·7 3.5 
National League West. 

team record perc. last 10 GB los Angeles 11·5 .688 7-3 Associated Press had gone 172-258-62 surprised," he said. "You teams would I trade ours Arizona 10·7 .588 5·5 1.5 since joining the league in hear the rumors but you for? Not many." San Diego 9-7 .563 5·5 2.0 COLUMBUS, Ohio -The 2000 and 33-42-7 this past just figure it comes with MacLean was Colorado 7-9 .438 4·6 4.0 Columbus Blue Jackets season . not meeting expectations. McConnell's first hire San Francisco 6-8 .429 5·5 4.0 fired president and gener· Led by coach Ken Then when the other shoe when Columbus secured a! manager Doug Hitchcock, and with play­drops, you're still the franchise. He super­MacLean, whose teams did ers such as Rick Nash and shocked." vised all the drafts and not come within 19 points Sergei Fedorov, the Blue MacLean did not return trades, some that were
Men's Tennis 

of the playoffs in the fran­Jackets finished 23 points messages seeking com­overwhelming successes Fila/ITA Rankings chise's six seasons. out of the final playoff spot ment left on his cell phone. and others that were Team spokesman Todd in the Western Conference. He had two years abysmal failures. team Sharrock confirmed the Their record this season is remaining on a contract MacLean even dumped
points 

firing on Thursday morn­24th among the league's that paid him around $1 the team's first head1 Georgia 97 ing after several media 30 teams. million per season with coach, Dave King, and
2 Virginia 

89 reports said MacLean had Sharrock said team offi­incentives. took over behind the
3 Ohio State 

87 been let go Wednesday cials would hold a news ''I'm unbelievably disap­bench. But the Blue
4 Baylor 

82 night. conference later Thursday. pointed about where we Jackets did not respond
5 North Carolina 

79 Principal owner John H. Jody Shelley, with the are but I think we've got under MacLean, going just
6 NOTRE DAME 

78 McConnell, minority own­team from its first year, an unbelievable founda­9-21-4-3 at the start of the
7 Mississippi 

72 ers and team officials met said he was stunned by the tion in place," MacLean 2003-2004 season before
8 usc 

70 Wednesday and agreed to dismissal despite the lack said after the season. ''I'm he stepped aside and ele·
9 Illinois 
68 

dismiss MacLean, the of success by the team. telling you, I look around vated assistant coach
10 UCLA 
61 

architect of a team that "As a player, I'm really the league and how many Gerard Gallant.
11 Wake Forest 
63
12 LSU 6213 Texas 
61
14 Oklahoma State 
58 IN BRIEF
15 Alabama 
57

16 Duke 17 Florida 55 PitchinJ! ace to miss starts Joe Frazier drops lawsuit Oden to declare for NBA
54

18 Michigan 53 due to slrain in elbow against daughter draft, skip sophomore year 19 Pepperdlne SEATTLE -Seattle Mariners ace PHILADELPHIA -Former heavy­COLUMBUS, Ohio-Ohio State
53

20 Clemson Felix Hernandez, the pitching star of weight champion Joe Frazier told his freshman Greg Oden will make
50 

the young season, will likely miss lawyer on Thursday to drop a law­himself available for the NBA draft two to three starts with a flexor­suit against his daughter after she Friday, a family friend said pronator strain inside his right, pledged to help him locate his miss­Thursday night. pitching elbow and forearm. ing business records. "There will be a release in the 
Mariners medical director Dr. Ed The files at the center of the legal morning from Ohio State. Greg Khalfayan said Thursday that the dispute never left "Smokin' Joe's" Oden will be hiring an agent," said 21-year-old will not throw at all for North Philadelphia gym, a lawyer for AI Powell, who has been a party to
around the dial 
five days, and then will play only Jacquelyn Frazier-Lyde said meetings between Oden and two catch initially. Thursday. other Buckeyes freshmen stars 
"I think 10 to 20 days is a reason­"I talked to my father today and he considering the draft. able estimate," Khalfayan said when asked me how I was doing and I told As for the two others, Powell was asked when Hernandez might again him that I loved him," Frazier-Lyde less specific. pitch in a game. said at a press conference that "Mike Conley Jr. and Daequan 
"That's as good a news as you can focused on her campaign for city Cook will not be hiring an agent at
NHL 

get from an elbow injury," the doctor judge. this time," said Powell, a paid
Islanders at Sabres 

said. Frazier's lawyer said he reluctantly assistant coach at Dayton's Dunbar
7 p.m., Versus 

He added that had Hernandez con­agreed to drop the suit at his client's High School who helped coach all tinued to pitch with the strain he request, although he vowed to refile three players when they played Sharks at Predators could have stressed elbow so severe­it if Frazier-Lyde does not comply. AAU ball. ly he would have required ligament "This is about a father's love for If Conley and Cook don't hire
9 p.m., Versus 

replacement surgery and been lost his daughter," lawyer Michael P. agents, they'll retain the option of for the season. Kelly said. returning to school next fall. 

page 16 The Observer + ClASSIFIEDS Friday, April 20, 2007 
MLB 

A-Rod hits walkoff HR in ninth-inning rally 
Cora triples home go-ahead run as Boston tops Toronto; Peavy hits two-run triple in Padres' win over Diamondbacks 
Associated Press win." since they won five straight A-Rod connected on a belt­there in one series in August. 
NEW YORK -Alex Rodriguez high pitch from Joe Borowski Andy Pettitte opposes Boston kind of chuckled, and declared (0-1) and sent the ball soaring right-hander Curt Schilling in the best thing about his game­to center. Rodriguez knew the opener of the weekend winning homer Thursday was immediately it was gone, flip­series Friday night. trying to hit Yankees coach ping his bat toward the Larry Bowa in the head as he Yankees' dugout and raising Red Sox 5, Blue Jays 3 rounded third. both hands in triumph. Alex Cora saved the Boston 
Yes, Rodriguez is one happy He slapped the hands of Bowa Red Sox with his glove, then superstar right now, and the after rounding third, then won the game with his bat. Yankees are winning because of slammed his helmet to the Cora was upended on a dou­it. ground. ble play, then tripled home the 
Rodriguez hit a three-run "It's what Alex is capable of," go-ahead run in the ninth homer that capped a comeback Yankees manager Joe Torre inning as the Red Sox beat the from a four-run deficit with two said. "He's got such incredible Toronto Blue Jays Thursday outs in the ninth inning, giving ability and now he's letting it and headed home to Boston the New York Yankees an 8-6 speak for itself." with a victory going into their victory over the Cleveland Sean Henn (1-0) pitched one first series of the year against Indians that completed a three­inning, following Chase Wright the New York Yankees. game sweep. and Kei lgawa to become the Cora, playing at shortstop, 
By homering for the third third Yankees rookie in three was toppled by Lyle Overbay as straight game, Rodriguez games to get his first major he made the relay throw on a increased his major league­league win. That hadn't hap­1-6-3 double play that got Mike leading totals to 10 homers and pened since Norm Branch, Timlin (1-0) out of an eighth­26 RBis. His latest drive came Charlie Stanceu and Steve Peek inningjam. after he went hitless in his first did it from May 20-22, 1941, Vernon Wells led off with a four at-bats and committed a according to Elias Sports double and advanced on Frank throwing error that allowed the Bureau. Thomas' groundout. Overbay Indians' final run to score. The Yankees (8-6), two games was walked intentionally to 
"It's just fun," Rodriguez said. over .500 for the first time this bring up Aaron Hill, who of the season, a two-out drive solo homer among his three "It's going out and not trying to season, headed to Boston for grounded back to the mound. off Shaun Marcum (1-1). hits, and scored three times. do too much, and help the team their first trip to Fenway Park Timlin's throw was high and "We've all seen Manny take Peavy's triple, which he fin­
wide, but Cora caught the ball one swing and then get in a ished with a headfirst slide, and got the relay throw off groove for a long time," Red highlighted the five-run third before Overbay sent him flying. Sox manager Terry Francona and helped the Padres take a 7­
"It was a tackle," Cora said. "I said. "That would be tremen­0 lead. don't mind people going hard, dous." The cushion came in handy but when you see the replay, because Peavy (3-0) went from he's going in with his hands up, Padres 11, Diamondbacks 6 pitching lights-out to getting he can't reach the bag. I don't Jake Peavy's hitting was bet­pulled with the bases loaded mind when they go hard, but ter than his pitching. and one out in the sixth. He not with their hands up." The Padres' ace drove in two struck out eight but allowed 
Cora didn't accuse Overbay of runs with his first career triple five runs, four earned, on 10 dirty play but said he doesn't and added a double for the hits and two walks, and his enjoy being taken out. Padres, who beat the Arizona ERA rose from 0.90 to 2.13. 
"That's something I really Diamondbacks on Thursday. Peavy allowed only three don't like in the game," Cora Khalil Greene and Rob Bowen baserunners -one of whom he said. "That part really bothers hit solo homers for the Padres, picked off -through four 
• " I

me sometimes. who've struggled offensively scoreless innings, then got 
Timlin said Cora did well to this year but managed to score worked over by the bottom of keep the throw from sailing into a season-high in runs. Bowen the Diamondbacks' order. The the outfield. had three RBis and scored right-hander allowed nine of 
"He wasn't as close to the bag three runs, both career-highs. his last 13 batters to reach as I thought he was," Timlin The Padres split the two­base. said. "When I let it go I kind of game homestand, with the win Young hit a solo homer with short-armed the ball a little bit. coming less than 24 hours after one out in the fifth, his second. He picked me up." they lost 5-3 in 12 innings. It Diamondbacks starter Livan 
Coco Crisp had reached on a was the most runs the Padres Hernandez kept the inning alive bunt single against Roy scored at spacious Petco Park with a two-out single, and Halladay leading off the top of since July 18, when they beat Arizona added three more sin­the eighth, and Manny Ramirez Philadelphia 1 0-6. gles, including Orlando tied it 3-3 with his first homer Arizona's Chris Young had a Hudson's two-run base hit. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 



WANTED FoR RENT 
SUMMER WORK-$15.50 base-andersonNDrentals.com appt. flexible schedules, no BEITER HOMES,BETIER exp.needed, AREAS,BETIER DEALS. customer sales/service, BlueGoldRentals.com conditions apply, all ages 17+, 3 to 6 bedroom .homes for rent for positions throughout the US, 07/08 school year. On line see rent-apply now, nd.com or mmmrentals.com. start after finals, Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb­www.workforstudents.com spot. net or phone 574-277-4759. 
Sitter for 11-year-old girl in Granger and sometimes older sisters, 15 & 17. Days, 30-40 hours/week now through summer. Reply: Linda.Harmon1 @comcast.net  Condo for rent-walk to NO/SM. Grt loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli. A/C,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 + uti!. 630-417­8763/MCL214@aol.com  
FoR SALE  4 Bedrooms 2 Baths Swanson Highlands;  
*NO CONDOS* NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos Minutes from campus Starting in $130,000s 574-252­2427 ndcondos.com Reserve Yours  Central Heating &air; remodeled appliances; $1250/mo;  
Today!  Responsible parties,  

3 bdrm,2 bath ranch, finished lower  students OK.  
level, all amenities. 10 yrs. old & 1  
mi to NO. $144,900.574-277-2176  574-243-2778  


Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9. Close to campus. 
3-9 bedrooms. Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896. Very large home for rent for next school year. 1 block east of cam­pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4 huge bedrms/3 full baths/large kitchen-lam rm &laundry rm. 3 decks overlook huge fenced yard. Very private &safe! Must see! 239-707-2025. 
2 bdrm home close to NO. Avail Now. $650/mo + utilities. Call Peggy 269-687-3096. 
New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi,AC, 2 car gar. No pets. $1650/mo plus uti!. 914-232-3328. 
For rent: Nicest house in area. 4 bedrooms,A/C, security. 5 blocks from campus. 289-4071. 2-6 BDRMS HOMES. GREAT RATES.57 4-329-0308 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. 6-bdrms &3 bdrms still available for 07-08. Call Cosimo 277-1875. bumbaca­houses. com 
WALK TO CAMPUS! I JAMISON RESIDENTIAL 3 BDRM 2 BA LUX­URY CONDO. ACROSS B-BALL STADIUM FROM CAMPUS. SLEEPS UP TO 4 STUDENTS. EXCELLENT RENTAL FOR 2 GRAD STUDENTS OR FOR PRI­VACY. CONVERT 3RD BEDROOM TO STUDY. CAB,NET,GAS,ELEC, INCLUDED. $1600 PER MONTH BEGINNING 6/1. CALL MARK@ 310-940-9444. 
5 Bedroom House; 105 Marquette Ave; Great Neighborhood,close to campus;232-6964. OFF CAMPUS HOUSING: House for rent 1/2 mile from NO. 3 bdrms &2 full baths, A/C. Newly remod­eled. Must see! Call Darin 574-255­8935. 
Across the street from NO, Corner Lot. 4 BR,2 full baths. A/C &heat. Extra parking. 269-362-0498. 
Room in beautiful home overlooking  Adopt: A young loving couple long  
private golf course. 1.2 mi to NO.  to share their Hearts and home with  
Privileges include kitchen for light  a newborn &will provide Endless  
cooking. WID. $275/mo. Call 574­ love. Expenses paid call Eileen &  
232-7564. Avail. now and/or for 07­ Ed at 1-800-718-6577  
08. Add! room avail for football  
weekends at $125/night.  If you or someone you care about  
has been sexually assaulted, visit  
2 bedroom, 1.5 bath house avail- http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape  
able for 2007 football weekends.  to learn about resources at NO and  
Walk to campus. Call219-873-3759  in South Bend.  
Shia! It rhymes with Fiya!  
PERSONAL  
We <3 Gremlins: Little lads who  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  love berries and cream.  
Do not go it alone.  
If you or someone you love needs  DEAREST C-MAC,  
confidential support or assistance,  
please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­ I missed you last night. Please  
7819.  come by to cuddle. I'll be waiting.  
For more information, visit our web  
site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart- Love,  
ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi- A Cup ofTae  
weekly ad in The Observer.  

Hey, let's all take the moustache 1-bdrm apts. Quiet historic neigh-PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-ride! borhood. Laundry &security. ONE WHO IS? $575/mo. 574-532-8718. You do not have to be alone. We What did the SOH at dinner 
want to help. Call our 24 hour confi-Thursday and the Scene depart­3bdrm furnished house close to NO dential hotline at 1-800-No-ABORT ment in 2005-2006 have in com-renting for 07-08. Call661-703-or visit our website at mon? 7200. www.lifecall.org Both had Tater Tots! 
----------~------------------, 
Friday, April20, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC GoLF 
O'Brien leads Belles to conderencetournannent 
By KATE ARNOLD 
News Writer 
The weather has finally decid­ed to cooperate with the Belles. 
After yet another delay, mem­bers of the Saint Mary's squad will travel this weekend to Marshall, Mich., to compete in the two-day, 36-hole first round of the MIAA NCAA qualifying tournament. The first round was originally scheduled to start April 12, but was post­poned due to poor weather con­ditions. 
Last October, captain Katie O'Brien fired an 85, leading the team to a fourth-place finish in the fall MIAA NCAA Championships. After three 18­hole jamborees and an 18-hole tournament, the Belles finished with a total team score of 373, falling behind Olivet, Tri-State University and Albion. Each of those squads will compete again this weekend. Although Saint Mary's has not beat Olivet yet this year, the team is anxious to prove themselves today. 
Saint Mary's has not played competitively since March 25, when it placed 19th in the Northern Kentucky Open. Belles coach Mark Hamilton said the three-week layoff will not have a positive effect on the team, but he is confident that the Belles will place well. 
"This will be the easiest course we have played all spring," Hamilton said. "The tournament will be won on the greens." 
The team has been working especially hard to eliminate wasted strokes on and near the putting surface. 
The third and fmal qualifying round will be held April 24 at Tri-State University's Zollnar golf course. The winning team after the three rounds will advance to the NCAA Championships, taking place May 8-11 at El Campeon Golf Course at the Mission Inn Resort & Club in Howey-in-the­Hills, Fla. 
Contact Kate Arnold at karnold2@nd.edu 

NO WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
ND finish season with ·RU 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team will attempt to give its seniors a final home vic­tory as they finish the regular season Saturday against No. 18 Rutgers. 
For the Irish, currently in a three-way tie for first in the Big East with Georgetown and Syracuse, the game will deter­mine the team's final standing in the conference, as well as seeding for the inaugural Big East tournament. 
With a Notre Dame win and Syracuse loss against Loyola, the Irish would win the regular season Big East title and cap­ture the No. 1 seed in the con­ference tournament. If all three teams win Saturday, the tiebreaker will be determined by each team's goal differential in Big East play. A loss against the Scarlet Knights would likely drop Notre Dame to the No. 4 seed. 
Despite the importance of the Syracuse and Georgetown games this the weekend, Irish coach Tracy Coyne said her team will be focused only on a victory over Rutgers. 

"It's a must-win game for us, and before we start thinking about anyone else or tiebreak­ers, we need to just win our game," Coyne said. 
Rutgers enters the match with an 11-3 record, having lost only to ranked teams Georgetown, Syracuse and Princeton. Despite their impressive record, the Scarlet Knights will be looking for their first big win of the sea­son against the Irish. 
Defensively, Notre Dame will focus on Rutgers All-American Katie Batiuk. The senior leads the Big East in points with 39 goals and 23 assists. Kate Shomo, Nina Frankowski and Michelle Poole also lead the Scarlet Knights offense, each tallying more than 24 goals on the year. 
The Irish will look to send their seniors out with a victory in the final home game of their careers. Coyne said seniors Meaghan Fitzpatrick, Lena Zentgraf, Kaki Orr, Meghan Murphy and Kristin Hopson have been integral to Notre Dame's success. 
"The seniors have done an 

..
amazing job, and have been outstanding leaders," Coyne said. "At the same time, though, they're still looking to do some things to establish themselves and leave a legacy." 
Zentgraf. Orr and Murphy have made huge contributions offensively to a balanced scor­ing attack. Orr and Zentgraf have been excellent in draw control for the Irish, and Murphy has 18 goals and 16 assists on the year. 
Hopson and Fitzpatrick have led the team defensively all sea­son, often matching up with opponents' toughest players. The duo has helped the Irish become one of the best defen­sive squads in the Big East. 
The senior class will look to build on its legacy in the coming weeks, with one of the team's main goals being a champi­onship in the first-ever Big East tournament. In addition, with an NCAA Tournament berth, the senior class would make its third tournament appearance -the most ever by a Notre Dame class. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

ELlA'S Mediterranean Cuisine ------------~~~~-----------­Open: Tues.-Sat. 11am-2pm & -lpm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering ------------~~-----------­We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North (574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 Accepting reservations for graduation parties  



ATRIA SALON2 
Specializing in color 
271.8804 
The Original 
"Specializing in Color" 
Salon 
HIGHLIGHTS & CUT...$79.00 Starting April 24th-May 1Oth 2007 
NO ORDINARY SALON. 

-
MONDAY, April23rd 
12:00 pm, LaFortune Ballroom 
12:30 pm, LaFortune Ballroom 4:00pm, LaFortune Ballroom 

Atria Salon o 2039 South Bend Ave., South Bend, IN 46637 o t: 574.271.8804 *CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS APPLY. MUST PRESENT THIS AD 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 20, 2007 
MEN'S GOLF 

Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Akhmatova, 
Irish compete in Tchaikovsky, Stravinsky, Prokofiev, Chagall, Pavlov, Baryshnikov...
Big East tourney 

top-seeded Louisville. CurrentBy CHRIS DOYEN 
sophomore Josh Sandman's 
Sports Writer 
birdie on the first hole of the sudden death playoff securedAfter two straight weekends a victory for the Irish.
of battling harsh conditions, 
Three of the four golfers who the Irish will get a break as 

posted sub-par scores on that
they expect good weather for 
final day have graduated, so
the Big East championships at 
the Irish need contributions
the Cardinal Club in Louisville, 
from some newer faces.
Ky. 
Kubinski said two of last year'sBut while the elements· won't stars, Sandman and senior co­be a problem for the Irish, the captain and All-America can­conference opponents will pro­didate Cole !shan, will lead thevide a different kind of chal­team in Louisville.
lenge. 
"If Cole and Josh play up to
The Irish have faced a. Big 
their capability, we shouldEast opponent only once in have a great chance to wintournament play this spring, 
come Tuesday," he said.
last weekend when Louisville 
With Greg Rodgers, Doug
was in the field 
Fortner, andfor the Kepler 
Adam GiffordIntercollegiate in rounding out the
"We're ready to
Columbus, Ohio. 
lineup for the
Louisville won play, and we feel 
Irish, Kubinskithe tournament, 
loose and free, and said Notre Dame
finishing 37 
will have a solid
we're ready to just
strokes ahead of five-man team
the 11th-place have fun." 
for the first timeIrish. 
this season.
But Irish coach 
Jim Kubinski And, even
Jim Kubinski said 
though the Irish
Irish coach 
last weekend was enter the tourna­
not entirely ment as three­indicative of time defending champions,
where the two teams stand. 
they won't be feeling any pres­"They've had a great season, 
sure.
but the conditions [last week­
"This year, the pressure is
end] were the worst I've ever 
squarely on Louisville,"played in, coached in, or 
Kubinski said. "They've been
watched on TV," he said. 
in the top 20 all year, and"[Last week's scores aren't] 
they're playing at home. We'reindicative of anything. We had 
ready to play, and we feel 
a tough start, and the more we 
loose and free, and we'retried to catch up, the more 
ready to just have fun."
ground we lost. I never even 
The tournament runs from
looked at the leaderboard." 
Sunday through Tuesday, andThe Irish have won the con­the Irish hope to again upsetference title each of the past 
top-seeded Louisville as the
three years. In 2006, they did tournament's second seed. 
so in dramatic fashion. The second-seeded Irish erased a 12-stroke deficit in the final Contact Chris Doyen at round to force a playoff with cdoyen@nd.edu 
The UPS Store 
"May Move Out" '07

-
NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 10am-5pm 9am-5pm -Fri, Sat, Mon 


LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS Wednesday, May 9 -Saturday, May 12 
WElSH FAMibY liAIJ:;· Monday, May 1 ~ Saturday, May 12 Tf'tt.fr§d~. May 17t $atutd~y. May 1~ 
· · Monday, May 21 • 
LOBBY OF LE MANS HALL Thursday, May 1 0-Friday, May 11 
$1.00 off Shipping PER BOX FREE PICK UP Pickup is free, but no discounts will be accepted with pickup. PERMANENT LOCATION Martin's Plaza-S.R. 23 Hours: M-F 9am -7pm, Sat: 9am -6pm 57 4.277.6245 

N.A.S.A. Payload Specialist, 
U.S. Arms Control Liaison, World Bank Investment Adviser. . . 
WHAT DO THEY HAVE IN COMMON? 
RUSSIAN 
RUSSIAN 10101, FALL 2007 NO PREREQUISITE 
http://www.nd.edu/---grl 
Department of Music Presents 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CHORALE 
& CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR PAIVI EKROTH, PIANO 

BYRD ~ MOZART ~ BEETHOVEN ~ BRAHMS BRUCKNER~ DEBUSSY~ STRAVINSKY 8:00P.M. SATURDAY, APRIL 21, 2007 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
MARIE I'. DEBARTOLO CENTER fOR THE I'EilFORMING ARTS 
Tickets ?10, ?8, ?6, ~3 
phone 574-631-2800 
,''*'~;:, D E B A R T 0 l 0 
..,,<~' PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 



Friday, April 20, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
SMC TENNIS 

Doubles crucial in close victory 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Davison helps Belles svveep Goshen 
a base in the first game, mark­again," she said. "We were ableBy BECKY SLINGER ing the first time in her career to hit our base runners in." 
Sports Writer 
that she has swiped a bag. With several rescheduled Senior third baseman Laura games adding to an already­
Saint Mary's (14-8) was in Heli.ne hit two singles and a heavy slate of games, the Belles total command of Thursday's home run in the routs. may feel pressure and fatigue. doubleheader against Goshen In the second game of the But their victory over Goshen College, hammering the Leafs sweep, sophomore pitcher shows the team is still fired up 8-0 and 9-0. Both games ended Kristin Amram (1.22 ERA) and focused for the rest of the in five innings due to the pitched a one-hitter in the season. slaughter rule. Belles' 9-0 blanking of the "It's nice to be able to go 
Belles sophomore pitcher Leafs. Davison, playing center game-to-game and learn from Calli Davison (3.57 ERA) field, hit her first home run of each game," Fusaro said. "We pitched a two-hit shutout in the the season. can keep moving forward." first game against the Leafs. Junior captain McKenna The Belles will face MIAA Sophomore catcher Ashley Corrigan believes the sweep of opponent Olivet Saturday at 1 Fusaro led the Belles' offense, Goshen will help the team in its p.m. at Gainey Field. going four-for-six in the two next conference game Saturday. games, hitting a double and "The games gave us some Contact Becky Slinger at three singles. Fusaro also stole confidence behind our backs rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
CAUGHT RED-HANDED 

Irish shortstop Brett Lilley tags out Boilermaker catcher Jeff Mojzik in a steal attempt during Notre Dame's 1-0, 10-inning win over Purdue Wednesday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
THIS GRADUATIO~,J DAY GIVE A GIFT OF A LIFETitv1E OF MEfV'lORIES 
SCENES lf\-JCLUDE: THE GOLDEN DOME A DORM THE STADIUlv1 THE GROTTO .Af\JD 43 OTHER SCENES 
INCLUDII\JG SAII\JT MARY'S COLLEGE 


EACH HANDCOLORED PRINT COMES IN AN 11X14 DOUBLE MAT $37.50 PLUS SHIPPING 
KEf\J DA\/10 \!VATERCOLORS 3680 f\JE 15TH TERRACE POMPAf\JO BEACH, FL 33064 954.782.3924 
FOR COLOR PICTURES OF ALL SCEf\JES VISIT MY STORE, GOOGLE, e-Bay stores notred aneo:>llecitbles: Category 1 md clink: on link Satisfaction GJ cranteed or your money bad<. 
By ELLYN MICHAlAK Sports Writer 

The Belles used strong dou­bles play to narrowly defeat Bethel College 5-4 in a non­conference match Thursday, bettering their overall record 
to 10-11. 
"We had a good match­we basically came together and played to the best of our ability," senior captain Kelly McDavitt said. "This match will help us to prepare for our final con­ference match." 
The Belles 

"We had a good match 
McDavitt -we basically came defeated Oles 6-1, 6-1. In the
together and played to 
second singles

the best ofour ability. , 
match of the day, standout freshman Gebert domi­

Kelly McDavitt 
Belles captain 
nated, beating 
Vermillion 6-2, 
6-2. 
The Belles 
was rough, but I think we worked through all [ofl our problems," Kaplan said. "We overcame our obstacles and pulled out the win. It was nice because some of the girls that normally don't get to play got a chance to show their skills. Overall it was a great experi­ence [and] good way to end three matches 
.in a row." 
In the day's 
single play, 

dominated doubles play had a change of luck in the No. against the Pilots, winning two 3 singles spot, when freshman of three matches. The duo of Lisa Rubino lost in a tiebreaker 
Camille Gebert  11-9 to Walus.  
and  McDavitt  She  won  the  
upended Pilots sophomore Bree  "Playing away from  first set 6-1 and lost the second  
Oles and junior  home was rough,  set  2-6.  Tara  
Missy Vermillion in the No. 1 spot 8-4.  but I think we worked through all  O'Brien also fell narrowly in a tiebreaker at  
In the second  [ofj our problems.,  No.  4  singles  
doubles match of  after  beating  
the day, the freshman Belles  Erin Kaplan  Hostetler 6-1 in the first set and  
duo  of  Liana  Belles freshman  then falling 6-7  

Rohr and Erin Kaplan narrowly defeated Pilots players Abbie Hostetler and Erin Katterheinrich. 
The Belles fell in their final doubles match of the day. The sister duo of senior Tara O'Brien and freshman Caitlin O'Brien fell to sophomores Jade Walus and Sherra Milender 8-5. 
The victory against Bethel College was important for the Belles as they head into their final home conference match, which will take place this Saturday. 
"Playing away from home 
in the second 
set. 
In the No. 5 singles match, Belles junior Cassie Quaglia fell to Milender 6-2, 6-1. In the No. 6 singles spot, Belles sen­ior Grace Gordon defeated Pilots freshman Julia Horn 6-1. 7-5. 
The Belles next and final home conference match is Saturday against Albion, which boasts a 4-1 MIAA record and a 10-5 overall record. The match will begin at 1 p.m. at Eck Tennis Pavillion. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

On Campus Graduation Weekend Special May19-23, 2007 
Come early, stay late, same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $100.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. For reservations call574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 
page 20 
ND SOFTBALL 

Bargar shuts out Valpo as Irish roll 

By LORENZO REYES Sporrs Wrirer 

Coming off her no-hit per­formance Wednesday, sopho­more Brittney Bargar pitched another gem against Valparaiso Thursday at Ivy Field. In her 17th complete game of the season, the soph­omore allowed seven hits and two walks on seven strikeouts in the 5-0 win. 
In her home starts, Bargar has been unstoppable, rack­ing up a 9-0 record with a 
0.22 ERA. The Irish improved to 24-14 on the season with the win. 
Notre Dame's bats heated up early and often, taking all five of their runs in the first inning. Senior Stephanie Brown continued her impres­sive play with a leadoff single, later advancing to second on a sacrifice bunt. 
Junior Katie Laing then smacked a double down the left field line, scoring Brown from second. This two-bagger gave Laing a season-best four­game hitting streak. Freshman Christine Lux responded with another dou­ble, scoring Laing. Lux would later advance to third on a balk. 
Sophomore Linda Kohan then singled to bring Lux in for an RBI. Kohan then scored all the way from first on soph­omore Beth Northway's dou­ble. Bargar helped out her own cause when she singled to bring in Northway, scoring 
ERASMus BooKs 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
the fifth and final run of the inning. 
The Irish would later tack on some hits leading to base runners, and nearly scored another until a player was tagged out in a rundown. 
That was more than enough for Bargar, who improved to 16-7 on the season, extending her scoreless inning streak to 20. 
Bargar and senior pitcher Kenya Fuemmeler will need to continue their impressive pitching this weekend with doubleheaders on both Saturday and Sunday. 
To start off the weekend, Louisville will travel to Ivy Field for a pair of conference games begininng at noon Saturday. The Cardinals are currently behind the Irish in the Big East standings at third place with a 7-1 conference record and a 25-18 mark overall. After the Cardinals, the Irish stay at home for another doubleheader Sunday at noon against South Florida. 
The Bulls are in a tie for fourth in the conference at 5­3 and are 33-19 overall. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

storage
space
• 
Lighted &Paved 

• 
Free Lock with Ellery Unlt 


4 Month spectar May rnrouall August For Notre Dame Students 
5X10 ..$1Mh DEl' 10 X10 ,..$199+ OEP Call 574·247.78C5 
Between Notre Dame ana AirPort atthe comerof Mayflower fj £dis on 

The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 20, 2007 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Squad set for Big East tournament 
ByJAY WADE Sporrs Writer 
All the hard work this season has paid o(T. 
No. 6 Notre Dame was rewarded for its 21-3 record this season when it was named the No. 1 seed in the Big East tournament, which begins today at South florida in Tampa, Fla. 
Since the Big East has only eight men's tennis teams and does not have a format where all league teams play each other, seeding for the tourna­ment is based on overall record and ranking. 
The Irish, who joined the Big East 11 years ago, has a suc­cessful past in the Big East tournament. This year marks the third year in a row -and ninth time overall -that the Irish have been the top seed. On top of that, the Irish have reached the finals of the tour­nament every year since joining the league, winning five it times, most recently in 2005. 
In 2006, second-seeded Louisville upset Notre Dame in the finals. The Irish do not expect a similar fate this year, however, with one of their high­est rankings and best records in school history. 
The Irish will face eighth­seeded and unranked Villanova in the first round. Going into the match, the Irish are not only riding a four-match win­ning streak and also have a 33 game win streak against unranked opponents. They are also 95-3 all-time against teams in the Big East. The team's phi­losophy all year, however, has been to take it one match at a time, and they are not ready to overlook Villanova. 


The Wildcats are coming off two successive wins -by 5-2 and 7-0 margins -against Quinnipiac and Sacred Heart, respectively. Louisville is now 5-9. 
"They have six pretty good players who are all pretty well balanced but I feel good about our chances," said head coach Bobby Bayliss. 
The winner of this weekend's competition gets an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament. More important for the Irish, winning the tournament is paramount in getting the team 
tested and ready for the NCAAs. 
"Our goals are bigger than [the Big East Tournament]," Bayliss said. "The idea is to really condition ourselves to do well in the NCAA Tournament and this is the first step in our postseason goals." 
The first serve will be at 9 
a.m. today. The winner of the first game will face either fourth-seeded DePaul or fifth­seeded St. John's in the second round. 
Contact Jay Wade at jwade@nd.edu 

t'tJit!t'ft't' /11tl 
For all of your skin care needs ... 
Now COLOURS by Jane lredale makeup comes to our South Bend office, located just minutes from campus on North Michigan Street. COLOURS by Jane lredale is the # 1 mineral-based makeup used by such stars as Halle Berry, Ashley Judd, and Sharon Stone. 
Along with this new line of makeup, our Licensed Aesthetician Peggy Dibble offers facials, waxing, a complete line of skin care products and more! 
From your face to your legs, Peggy will have your skin looking sensational this Spring! Call today for your FREE skin care consultation! 

Friday, April 20, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
TRACK 
Irish look to record additional qualifiers 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Heading into this week­end's meets, Notre Dame has earned 16 bids to the NCAA Mideast Regional meet. The Irish, however, are far from finished. 
This weekend, some will runners will head to Eugene, Ore., for the Oregon Invitational, some will trav­el to Ypsilanti, Mich., to com­pete in the Central Collegiate Championship and others will go to West Lafayette, Ind. for the Dave Rankin Invitational. Each meet could see additional Irish athletes achieve qualifying times. 
Junior sprinter Domenique Manning missed qualifying in the 100-meter hurdles by 
0.01 seconds last weekend at the Azusa Pacific Invitational. Junior Crysta Swayzer and freshman Joanna Shultz should also qualify in the 400 meters, according to sprints coach John Millar. 
"Joanna's a tenth [of a sec­ond] off, Crysta's two tenths off," he said. "Over the last couple weeks they've consis­tently come down in their times, 
the high jump, but she is recovering from surgery on both legs. 
"She's getting her strength back," jumps coach Scott Windsor said. "She's made some pretty good strides this season." 
Senior thrower Garet Koxlien can qualify in both the discus and the hammer throw, but suffered a torn groin muscle last weekend at the Mount SAC Relays. 
"He's right there," throw­ing coach B.J. Linnenbrink said. "He's had a couple injuries that have set us back a little bit. But once we get recovered he'll be fine." 
Despite the injury prob­lems plaguing some of the field athletes, several others are in good position to quali­fy. Linnenbrink expects sophomore Anna Weber and junior Mike Schubert to qualify by the time the regional meet rolls around. He also said the way his throwers are practicing is a sign of positive things to come. 
"Right now it's just a mat­ter of doing what we do in practice and having that carry over into competition," he said. "In practice every d_ay, we're 

so I would "Right now it,s just a throwing well. 
think that We just have to
matter ofdoing what 

by the con­get it to come 
ference we do in practice and together now meet hope­having that carry over during competi­fully they'll tion."
into competition." 

h a v e Sophomore achieved pole vaulter those stan­B.J. Linnenbrink Mary Saxer and 
dards." Irish throwing coach senior jumper 
Junior Austin Wechter and senior Jordan Powell both lack regional qualifications. Millar said Powell is about half a second away from the standard and has a good chance to achieve it. 
Millar was optimistic about the abilities of his sprinters. 
"All five of those I'd ven­ture to say are legitimate athletes with potential to do it, and ones that we sort of expect to see come through by the end of the season," he said. 
The field athletes have been hampered with injuries of late. Senior Cassie Gullickson has the ability to qualify but suffers from plantar fasciitis in her foot and may not compete. Sophomore Lauren Bascardi has a chance to qualify in 
Chris Jacques 
round out the 
field of poten­
tial qualifiers for the Irish. Saxer cleared the necessary height last weekend, but the event was moved indoors because of bad weather. Any competi­tion moved indoors cannot count towards a qualifying spot. 
Jacques' recent perform­ances bode well for him. 
"He came real close in this past weekend out at Azusa in the high jump," Windsor said of Jacques, who com­petes in both the long jump and the high jump. "He was looking real good at 2.10 [meters]. He came real close to clearing it. And in the long jump he did pretty well." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
WO(Y)€1)'S }g~SS€ 
SATURDAY, APRIL 21 @3PM VS. RUTGERS Free T-shirt fot the first 200 fans 
~~~~ ~~tb:ml§m 

starting the season 3-3, we knew we needed to change
Lax 

things around if we wanted to continued from page 24 make anything out of the sea­
son. A couple of position Lucius Polk said. "I think we're changes and a little bit of an focused on winning. If your attitude change, and we were goal is winning all your home able to get the ball rolling." games and winning a national The recent surge has Notre championship, winning all Dame sitting atop the Greater 
your  home  Western Lacrosse  
games comes along with that." Winning is something the  "We,ve really changed our attitude since the beginning of  League standings at 3-0. The Irish are a half-game better than Ohio State, currently 2­ 
Irish have been  the season. "  0  in GWLL  play.  
doing  a  lot of  The two teams will  
lately. After stumbling to an 0-3 start, Notre  Lucius Polk Irish midfielder  face off April 28 in Columbus in a game that will like- 
Dame  has  ly determine who  
responded with  gets the league's  

five consecutive victories, automatic post-season birth. including convincing defeats of For now, however, Notre Air Force and Denver last Dame is concerned solely with weekend, which ran the team's Lehigh. Although the Mountain consecutive home winning Hawks carry a pedestrian 4-8 streak to 13 games. Over their overall record and 2-4 mark in last five contests, the Irish Patriot League play, they have have outscored their opponents shown the ability to compete by a staggering 67-21 margin. with elite teams this season. 
"We've really changed our The results of their five games attitude since the beginning of against ranked opponents this the season," Polk said. "After season include one-goal losses to No. 8 Army and No. 20 Stony Brook in addition to an 8-6 win over No. 17 Drexel. 
"They have a lot of seniors on their team, and since this is their last game -they didn't qualify for their conference tournament -they're going to be pretty hungry," senior Brian Hubschmann said. "They have a lot of motivation despite their losing record." 
On defense, the Irish will have to account for senior attack Stephen Marino, who leads the Mountain Hawks in both points (33) and assists (18). On the offensive end, Notre Dame will look to exploit a Lehigh defense that has allowed 57 first-half goals this season. 
The Irish have the balanced offensive attack to do so. Notre Dame has four players that have netted 18 or more goals on the season. Sophomore attack Ryan Hoff leads the way with 28 goals on the year, and his 2.55 goals per game aver­age is 13th in the nation. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
wvu 
continued from page 24 
over Purdue 1-0 Wednesday, with both winning runs coming in the last Irish at bat. 
The Irish rotation for the weekend is set, with sopho­more ace David Phelps getting the start Friday. Last week, in a 10-0 victory over Georgetown. Phelps threw seven scoreless innings to lower his ERA to 1.34 on the season. He also struck out eight while passing out just two walks. 
Lefthander Wade Korpi will take the hill for the Irish Saturday. In the win against Purdue, Korpi warmed in the bullpen as sophomore Sam Elam ran up his pitch count in the late innings. But Korpi never entered the game as Elam held the Boilermakers scoreless over nine innings. Korpi takes a 3. 99 ERA into the matchup with West Virginia. 
"I would have never guessed that Sam Elam would give us nine innings like he did," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. 


Junior righty Tony Langford came in to pitch the 1Oth against Purdue before the Irish scored the deciding run in their half of the inning. 
On Sunday, freshman righty Eric Maust gets the ball for the Irish. Schrage said Maust, also a punter on the football team, was originally scheduled to start Saturday. But Schrage altered the rotation so that Maust could play in the Blue­Gold Game. 
The Irish, who are 10-4 at home, are hitting .320 with men on base this season but have struggled badly in losses with runners on. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
where you win about half of them," he continued. "You're never going to win them all but if you can win about half you're going to be a darn good football. Right now we're probably win­ning 30 to 40 percent. They've been doing an excellent, excel­lentjob." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Crist 
continued from page 24 
field. Whatever happens, Frank said Crist's commitment is fur­ther evidence of Weis' ability to bring top prospects to Notre Dame. For example, Crist's teammate, linebacker Anthony McDonald, also committed to the Irish this spring. 

"Notre Dame is hitting with the big boys right now and they're winning some," Frank said. "Before [Weis] got here, a lot of times they weren't even in the race to get these big target, four and five star players. Now, Notre Dame's in the race and they're actually winning some of these. 
"You want to get to a point 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 20, 2007 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
Rourke came up with a pair of steals leading to fast break points. 
Frank Kendrick senior R.J Kornhaas displayed excel­lent court vision finding his teammates and classmates Alex Pelkey and Billy trol the whole way, especial­ly as the second half wore on and fatigue began to set in for both teams. 
Aggressive play was evi­dent throughout the contest, with several fouls called and loose balls leapt on by multiple players. Post's inside presence led to sever­al blocks and rebounds, and he also contributed four points. 
"We definitely brought the 
trout," McElrath 
said. 

Kane. 30% Chan.ce's
"We saw that we

On one play Warren Scott led in the second had a height his team with half, Kane advantage so we five points, with drove through all of his baskets
tried to get the ball 

the paint, coming on off­
inside to the post.,

went to a balance jumpers behind-the­and acrobatic b a c k drives. In the
R.J. Kornhaas 

crossover and end though, it
Frank Kedrick player

converted the layup. The next trip down the court, Kane pulled up for a transition jumper and swished it home. 
Using height advantage, Frank Kendrick controlled the offensive glass, winning second chance opportuni­ties. The team was also able to penetrate and dish the ball to its big men in the post for points. 
Frank Kendrick sometimes got sloppy with the ball pos­session, but displayed good team chemistry and strong low post play, helping it thwart a late rally from the team of mostly freshmen. 
Kornhaas spoke briefly about the team's strategy 
heading into Air Force, a
"Today is a sad day

the game. freshman
for America. The 

"We wanted squad led by to go out and President has been captain and see our oppo­floor leader
assassinated. '' 

nents first, and Hich Ybarra, then decide on proved to be how to match. Nelson Way too much for up against The Air Force player the opposition 
them," he said. "We saw that we had a height advantage so we tried to get the ball inside the post." 
Dropping Trout 21, There's A 30% Chance We're Already Playing 8 
Dropping Trout's size advantage proved crucial Thursday, helping it domi­nate inside en route to a victory over There's A 30% Chance We're Already Playing. 
The big man for Dropping Trout, Dave Post, displayed full confidence in Cory McElrath, the team's cap­tain, referring to him as the "fearless leader." 
McElrath did not disap­

point. He led all scorers with eight points, and his high-energy style of play kept Dropping Trout in con-
was not enough 
to stop the phys­
ically dominant Dropping Trout. The victors are now within two wins of reaching their goal: making it to the final 32 teams. 
The Air Force 21, The President and His Thugs 2 
In a fast-paced contest, The Air Force disposed of The President and His Thugs quickly and painless­ly Wednesday night. 
The outcome was never in doubt, but The President and His Thugs, a group of graduate students led by captain Konrad Kulacki, put forth a valiant effort. They seemed confident before the start of the game, but The 
to handle. 
A high-octane 
offense and several steals by Joe DeMott led to plenty of fast-break opportunities for The Air Force, and those opportuni­ties were not wasted. Scoring was distributed among all five team mem­bers, and everyone also contributed suffocating defense, dominant rebound­ing and jaw dropping pass­ing. 
"We were flying high today," said defensive spe­cialist Nelson Way, who set the tone early with his relentless pressure. "Today is a sad day for America. The President has been assassinated." 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu and Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish head to championships 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will travel to Louisville Sunday for the Big East championships at the Oxmoor Country Club. The three-day tournament will end Tuesday. 
The Irish enter a field of seven, joining Georgetown, Hutgers, USF, Cincinnati, St. John's and Louisville. 
The course is a par-72, 6,067-yard course that will bring out the best from each Big East team vying for the top spot. 
Coach Susan Holt said the team hadn't done anything dif­ferent to prepare for the tour­nament. 
"We have been going about everything as business as usual, practicing hard every day," she said 
She made no distinction as to where the team's focus has been, 
"Our main goal is to do our best and win it all," she said. 
Starting the championships 

for the Irish is senior co-cap­tain -and the most consistent Irish golfer this season -Noriko Nakazaki, who is com­ing off her season-best second­place finish at the Indiana Invitational. Nakazaki has led the team in shooting in all but one event this season. 
Taking the second spot is freshman Annie Brophy, who has been a solid contributor throughout the season. The freshman has become a solid golfer from the second posi­tion, earning the Irish valuable points to aid the team's overall standing. 
Teeing off third spot of the lineup will be fellow freshman Kristin Wetzel, whose best per­formance came at the end of the UNLV Invitational last March, shooting an even-par 
72. Following her will be class­mate Julie Kim. Both Wetzel and Kim have proven to be a solid core of young talent at the middle of the lineup for Notre Dame. 
The fifth and final position will go to sophomore Lisa Maunu, who has rounded up the lineup with solid perform­ances, most notably her even­par 72 at the UNLV Invitational. 
Maunu said Notre Dame is optimistic heading into the conference championship. 
"We are excited to play well, everyone has been practicing hard and I think we have been waiting all year to break through and this is going to be the tournament," she said. 
The Irish have learned from past failures and improved their overall play, Maunu said. 
"We all can hit the ball, putt the ball, but it is the break­down of our mental game," she said. "We however, learned our mistakes last tournament [Indiana Invitational] and will not let that happen again." 
One thing that Holt has stressed to her team in prac­tice is confidence. 
"She knows we can do it and we just all have to come together and play our best golf," Maunu said. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

MLB 
Phillies, Astros eke out victories 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Jamie Moyer and Aaron Rowand helped the Philadelphia Phillies give manager Charlie Manuel a victory. 
Moyer took a two-hit shutout into the ninth inning, and Rowand hit his first homer of 2007, leading the slumping Phillies past the Washington Nationals 4-2 Thursday. 
Tossing in the 60s and 70s mph -and, only occasionally, in the low 80s -Moyer (2-1) allowed a single in the second, another in the third, and noth­ing inore until Ryan Zimmerman's double leading off the ninth. Dmitri Young fol­lowed with an RBI double, and that was it for Moyer. 
Tom Gordon came on and made things interesting, hitting his first batter, then allowing a single that loaded the bases with no outs. 
Pinch-hitter Robert Fick's sacrifice fly made it 4-2, but Gordon secured his third save by getting Brian Schneider to ground out and striking out Chris Snelling. 
Philadelphia, which entered a league-worst 3-10, won despite playing without reigning NL MVP Hyan Howard, who hurt his left leg during Wednesday. night's 13-inning loss to Washington. 
The Phillies also won despite more problems with runners in scoring position, going 3-l'or-16 in such situations Thursday and 4-f'or-27 in the series. 
Oh, right, and then there's this: Manuel is under intense scrutiny because of the team's slow start and his heated exchange with a radio talk­show host Tuesday night. 
General manager Pat Gillick offered a tepid defense of his manager before Thursday's game, saying: "We've got basi­cally the same guys we had at the end of the season ... so I don't see that much decline.... He can't go up there and hit for them." 
During the third inning, four Phillies fans tried to tell Gillick their opinion about Manuel, unfurling a banner in the upper deck that read: "Hey Pat, Phire Charlie! Save Our Team!" 
Astros 8, Reds 6 
Same inning. Same rally. Same disbelief for the Reds. 
Luke Scott hit a bases-loaded double to highlight another eighth-inning rally, and the Houston Astros completed a two-game sweep of the Cincinnati Reds with a bookend victory on Thursday night. 
"It's hard to believe you could have back-to-hack nights where you give up five runs in the eighth inning," Heds man­ager Jerry Narron said. 
The Astros believed it the entire time. 
They scored five runs in the eighth inning for a 7-2 victory on Wednesday night, with Jason Lane's three-run homer leading the way. 
That was still fresh in their minds when they headed into the eighth trailing 6-2 this time around. 
"In any situation, whenever you come back like that, it's positive energy," Scott said. Manager Phil Garner could sense it, too. 
"There was a feeling like we were in the ballgame," Garner said. 
Lance Berkman started the comeback sequel with a run­scoring single -his lOOth career RBI against the Reds ­and the Astros loaded the bases against closer David Weathers (0-2), who was summoned early with the game slipping away. 


Friday, April 20, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
-
· -::., Ashley Judd, 39: Tim Curry. 61 
Happy Birthday: Be honest about your likes and dislikes. You can't continue to do things because everyone else wants you to. If you follow through with your own plan. you will achieve your goals. Listen to what your body and your intuition are telling you and respond. Change is upon you bul don'l fret: it's way overdue. Your numbers are 10, 14. 26. 29. 34. 45 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Look for any excuse to take a lrip_ sign up for a course or attend a conference. You will be able to put whatever information you acquire to good use immediately. Romance will lead to something very good_ 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get involved in group activities. Volunteering your services ­will lead to an interesting opportunity. Don't get emotional over issues that arise concerning an older relative or friend-Do what you can but don't meddle_ 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't leave anything to the last minute_ Expect the unexpected and don't be surprised if someone leaves you in a vulnerable position. Luckily, you will be thinking fast and able to take action without skipping a beaL 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): If you need to finish something. do so before someone brings it to your attention. The people you have to deal with may overreact, causing you stress. Keep your emotions intact and avoid using the poor-me approach. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put yourself in a position that will allow you to learn and pick up valuable information for the future_ By offering your time or skills now, you will meet someone you impress who can and will suggest you for an interesting project. Socialize and network_ 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't count on the people you are closest to. Be careful whal you say and of whom you make requests. Emotional instability will prevail if you don't address issues promptly. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Plan something nice for yourself and the one you love or want to get to know better. You can make progress if you let your chann, generosity and innovative actions show how wonderful you can be_ Partnerships look promising_ 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take advantage of a financial opportunity_ You should be able to invest, buy and sell or even get a <Jew ll).oneymaking project off the ground. Grants. loans and getting financial support look positive. Your talents are worth more than you realize_ 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can expect to overreact and cause some emotional turmoil when dealing with friends, relatives and your lover. Partnerships will be questioned and your inability to see matters clearly can cost you dearly today. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Look at what you have. what you have built and where you see yourself heading. This is a good time to consider your next professional and personal move_ Tie up loose ends and take care of paperwork. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Put a hold on everything and make some romantic plans. If you are single, get out and find love_ If you are in a relationship, take it to the next leveL Commitment and plans should be discussed_ 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Put your priorities in order. Not everyone will agree with your to-do list but you can't let that keep you from moving forward_ It will be the simple route that will get you to your destination. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are channing, intellectual and a great speaker. You are a leader who stands up for your beliefs_ You can dominate any situation if you want 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
HENRI ARNOLDADAM FAIRHOLM JUMBLE

CROISSANTWORLD 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJ(]JMJIDrbJE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words_ 
EVAUM 
I I I 

©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
UPTYT ± 
tBERBOR I

IIJ I I 
www.jumble.com
tDAYDEL I 
Now arrange the circled letters 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: LOONY SYNOD WHEEZE HANSOM Answer: You might see this in a classroom ­
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES B(lRN ON THIS DAY: Hayden Christensen, 26: Kate Hudson. 28; 


~....--=-­
WHIL.E ouR. 

YouNG-AU: IN THE .r:-~ ~_,___\{ "' Woi"\B, C.E.I.!.. l: PAS~ Fltol"\ otJE. E-MB!t.'( o T• \( (~C:: 
TI1E "'6)(1, C.AIJSIN'-E.Al.H TWIN TO C-ONTAIN "SITS'' oF-ti.S Sii3L.IIJ?. AS A 
~$UI..-T, IT IS PoS~lBlE FoR-A MAiiU·-!oSt;T To F'R.DDUC..E S\".Eib-1 TI-'\AT CONTAII\JS IT~ 
C>ltD-rfo\Q'S' I>NA. 

LIAMMORAN
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
good. I got Intermediate 

Yeah well they' II be washing
Basketweaving, History of Music in 
our cars in a few years.
Motorsport Movies, and 2 other 
We're a REAL school with
easy A classes. I'm going out 
REAL academic standards. 
night next year. 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 30 First lady before 61 Communist Eleanor collectives
1 He appointed the first 31 2000 best seller 62 Bit 
chairman of the on social 
A. E. C. epidemics DOWN 
37 Climax at4 Secretive places 1 Precipitate 

Daytona 14 Simple choice 2 1987 BP
38 Title boy in a acquisition16 What a standard nursery rhyme 3 Jack's place deviation 

39 Ability lo let a measures pitch go by 4 Program 
introduced by17 Oscar-41 Historic R.W.R.

nominated beginning? actress for 
5 Person of42 Budget item
"Leaving Las intelligence? 43 Doesn't follow 
Vegas" 6 Begin, say
the party line 

18 Like some fears 7 Body shops? 
47 Pension 8 Row

19 Hint supplements 9 Singer/film 
21 City at the 51 Make good composer Jon 
confluence of progress the Lehigh and 
10 In harmony
53 Yellow bloomer Delaware rivers 11 "Henry & June" 
54 Artful gossip role22 Team member 58 Crackerjack 12 Big inits. in 

24 Without a break 59 Common camping elevator stop 
28 Christmas at St. 13 Broadcast from 35 Baseball, in 46 Things 52 Start of a Peter's so Hedge fun? Rockefeller Ctr. slang Christmas 48 Be a bad chorus
15 "Go easy" 36 Dental routine winnerANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 20 Office 54 Possibilities

40 Cicero or

communications 49 Where you
Publius 55 Picked peeve
23 How some may have a stock is bought 44 Feed for a fee, yen for 56 Mme. of La as cattle Mancha
shopping

25 Go straight 26 Kind of section 45 Fictional 50 1994 Sandra 57 Traffic at Union 
~R~~IIII!I..:;:..j..;,:~:.fll!l!~ -=::+.;..+.;.+:~;..~ 27 Person in a 
matchmaker Bullock film Sta. class of one 29 Part of a ship For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
31 Cookbook amts. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
32 Compassion 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 33 Hall-of-Fame 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
Viking Carl 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 34 Tales of derring­Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young do solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 




-
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, April 20, 2007 
page 24 
-
FOOTBALL 
Weis secures verbal commitment from Crist 
ing to scout.com -turned down yards and 17 touchdowns while really well," Frank said. "His probably some mechanicalBy CHRIS HINE reported offers from Michigan throwing three interceptions. His ability to evade the rush and things that they'll probably need 
Sports Editor 
and USC to become Notre 6-foot-5, 221-pound frame is throw on the run is very compa­to tweak a little bit -footwork Dame's eighth verbal commit­comparable to that of former rable to [Quinn's], though he's and maybe some throwing 
Notre Dame coach Charlie ment for the Class of 2012, the Irish quarterback Brady Quinn. probably a little bit bigger." motion things-but you don't Weis has been busy this spring Los Angeles Times reported But Mike Frank, who covers In addition to his throwing get kids this big that move that choosing between four candi­Thursday. Crist officially Notre Dame recruiting for ability, Crist ean move out of the well very often." dates for starting quarterback. announced his decision to play irisheyes.com, says Crist has a pocket with ease. He has a 4.6-The quarterback race could be But in 2008, he may have to for the Irish at a press confer­leg up on Quinn in terms of his second 40-yard dash time and wide open next year as well, throw another name into the mix ence late Thursday night, Los size. rushed for 500 yards during his especially if one of the four can­-Dayne Crist. Angeles time. "[Crist] is a lot bigger than junior season. didates this year does not set 
The Sherman Oaks, Calif. Playing seven games in his jun­[Quinn] coming in. He's a very "He's a really good athlete for himself apart from the rest of the native -one of the top 100 ior season at Notre Dame High big kid, strong. But the nice thing .a guy his size, and a heck of an prospects in the country, accord-School, Crist threw for 1,200 about this kid is that he moves arm," Frank said. "I think there's see CRIST/page 21 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXVI 
. 

Narrowing the field 
Frank Kendrick, Air 
Force, Dropping  
Trout cruise to wins  
By CHRIS DOYEN and  
LORENZO REYES  
Sports Writers  
Frank Kendrick Basketball  
Camp 21, Team 173 9  
It was a tale of two halves  
at Bookstore Court No. 4 as  
Frank Kendrick Basketball  
Camp pulled out a win  
Thursday by using its transi­ 
tion game wisely.  
Kendrick entered the game  
prepared to score as many  
points as it pleased in the  
short first half. In those 15  
minutes, Team 179 was only  
able to muster three points to  
Frank Kendrick's 11.  
However, once the second  
half rolled along, Team 179  
was able to slow the tempo  
down. Freshman Brendan O'·  
CHRISTIAN SAGARDIA!The Observer  
Sophomore Ryan Cleary dribbles past a defender In a Bookstore Basketball showdown at the  
see BOOKSTORE/page 22  Bookstore courts Sunday.  

BASEBALL 
Tea111 gets ready for BigEastfoe 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
After winning its first confer­ence series of the season last weekend and taking its two midweek games in dramatic fashion, Notre Dame heads into a weekend series against West Virginia having won five of its last six contests. 
West Virginia comes into the showdown with a 5-6 Big East record to go along with its 21­11 overall mark. The Irish are 4-7 in conference play -18­17 overall -and figure to bat­tle the Mountaineers for a spot in the Big East tournament May 22-26 in Brooklyn, N.Y. 
After taking two of three from Georgetown last week­end, the Irish defeated Toledo 8-7 Tuesday and triumphed 
see WVU/page 21 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Seniors focused on championship 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
After setting the program record for consecutive home victories with last weekend's win over Air Force, the No. 11 Irish will return to the friend­ly confines of Moose-Krause Stadium Saturday at 11 a.m. to take on Lehigh. 
For Notre Dame's nine sen­iors, it will be the final regu­lar-season game in which they
-compete on the home field that has treated them so well throughout their careers. But extending their winning streak -not playing in their last home game -is at the fo.refront of those seniors' minds. "I haven't really thought about [playing my final home game] that much," senior 
see LAX/page 21 


ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Top-seeded Irish 
to take on UConn 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
No. 1 seed and two-time defend­ing champion Notre Dame will take on Conneeticut in the quarter­finals of the Big East tournament today. 
The Irish earned a bye in the first round due to their consistent play throughout the season, which gave them a 23-2 dual mateh record. 
Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback expects junior Brook Buck to take part in the doubles matches, but said she will sit out No. 6 singles. 
"I don't know who'll play No. 6 singles, but the doubles will be full strength," Louderback said. 
Today marks the first time Buck and her doubles partner, sopho­more Kelcy Tefft, will be competing together since March 16. Together, they have a 21-5 record from the No.2 slot. 
Louderback said his team, which is 11-2 against top-25 opponents this season, is not looking past today's mateh. 
"[Connecticut] just competes and their doubles teams .... looked pret­ty good," Louderback said. "I think it'll be a good match for us, espe­cially the first match out. I think we're definitely the more talented team but they look like a bunch of kids who compete very well." 
The Irish battle Connecticut at 9 
a.m. today, and should they win, they will face the winner of Marquette and Rutgers Saturday. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


. . . . . . 

....... ~ page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 20, 2007 

Spring Roster 

No. Name Pos. Ht. WI. YR
Who's ready to party like it's 2005? 
I D.). Hord WR 6-1 192 jR 2 Darrin Walls DB 6-0 180 SR 3 Demetrius Jones RB 6-4 210 so 4 GaryGray DB 5-11 5-11 FR
Young, disrespected Irish squad ready to prove critics wrong, just like two years ago 
5 Armando Allen RB 5-10 190 FR 6 Ray Herring DB 5-10 190 JR 7 jimmy Clausen QB 6-5 207 FR
Don't expect a lot from son, having fun regardless of be Notre Dame's 2007. 8 Raeshon McNeil DB 6-0 184 so Notre Dame, It reminded him a little of where they're at on the From Thomas' perspec­DB 210
9 Tom Zbikowski 6-0 SR 11 David Grimes WR 6-0 174 JR
Four inr:Jxperienced sig­the transition time depth chart, high or low," tive as a fifth-year on a 12 Zach Frazer QB 6-4 226 so 
13 Evan Sharpley QB 6-2 212 JR
nal-callers battling for the between Ty Willingham Thomas said. "Every day squad thought to be 
15 Leo Ferrine DB 6-0 189 SR 
starting quarterback job, and Charlie Weis, we hit it hard. [Offensive rebuilding, the expecta­16 Justin Gmett QB 5-11 180 SR 
17 Geoffrey Price r 6-3 196 SR
three tail­Expectations were low, coordinator Michael] tions are internal instead 19 George W<•st WR 5-8 188 so backs of changes were Haywood's of externaL 20 Terrail Lambert DB 5-11 191 SR 21 Barry Gallup Jr. WR 5-11 181 so
varying vast and the pushing us "We obviously feel like 22 Ambrose Wooden DB 5-11 190 SR 
23 W. David Williams DB 5-10 173 SR
age fight­team had fire real hard, we have something to 
24 Leonard Gordon DB 5-11 190 so ing for the in its eyes. Welcome to 2005, ·and it's a prove, That's why we came 24 Brandon Erickson WR 6-0 185 SR 25 Munir Prince RB 5-10 184 so
top run­Thomas Part II: Low good thing, back. We just want to go 
26 Travis Thomas RB 6-0 218 SR 
ning back knows those "We look out there, have fun, play 27 David Bruton DB 6-2 202 JR 
27 john Lyons RB 6-1 205 SR
expectations, a loose
spot, a characteristics forward to ball, play hard, raise 28 Kyle McCarthy DB 6-0 200 JR new fit the 2007 team and a whole lot going out expectatiQns and raise the 29 jashaad Gaines 6-0
DB 196 so 29 jake Richardville WR 6-0 180 so
defensive squad just as offun. there every bar," Thomas said of the 31 Sergio Brown DB 6-1 196 so 
32 Luke Schmidt RB 6-3 252 so
scheme well as they day and fifth-years. "I don't think K
33 Nate Whitaker 5-9 165 so and a did for the getting bet­there's anything left for us 34 james Aldridge RB 6-0 213 so 
36 Dex Cure 6-0 220 so
ter." to see. I mean, we've been RB
revamping team two sea-37 junior jabbie RB 5-11 190 SR of the Sports Wn'ter sons ago. While the team as a through coaching changes; 38 Wade lams DB 5-9 183 SR 
39 Ryan Bnrkhart K 5-11 196 so
wide And today, as both whole has dropped in the we've been through the 39 Kevin Brooks TE 6-2 230 so 
40 Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 225 SR
receiver Thomas and David Grimes esteem of most outside ups, the downs, 
41 Scott Smith LB 6-3 244 jR 
corps means only on thing put it, everyone's "hungry." observers after losing so "Now it's just putting 42 Kevin Washington LB 6-1 240 JR 
42 David Costanzo WR 5-9 165 )R
is sure for the Irish: Hungry to be the one who many seniors, Grimes feels everything together and 
43 Eric Maust r 6-1 177 so They're going be having makes the plays that put a like a rising star. This making it a smooth transi­43 Mike Anello DB 5-10 170 JR 
44 Asaph Schwapp RB 6-0 255 )R
a heck of a lot of fun, wry smile on the face of a spring he tion with the 45 Kris Patterson WR 5-11 185 
JR 46 Michael Planalp TE 6-4 248 JR
The look was in Travis distant fan expecting noth­has new guys com­
48 Steve Quinn LB 6-2 231 JR
Thomas' eyes Monday after ing more than effort from ascended ing in," 49 Toryan Smith LB 6-0 244 so 
51 Dan Wenger OL 6-4 282 so
practice. He was excited the Irish in 2007. to the No. Sound famil­
52 joe Brockington LB 6-1 235 SR 
about the Hungry to 1 wide Just don't expect the iar? It should. 53 Morrice Richardson LB 6-2 . 235 so 
54 Anthony Vemaglia LB 6-3 233 SR
competi­prove that the receiver Welcome to 55 Eric Olsen OL 6-4 300 so
It reminded [Thomas] a same results from the
tion he's coaching staff position. 2005, Part II: 57 Dwight Stephenson DL 6-2 257 SR 
59 Chris Stewart OL 6-5 340 so
sequel. If you do, you'll
been get­little of the transition made the And Low expecta­
61 ).).jansen LS 6-3 242 SR 63 jeff lisak OL 6-3 300 so
ting at right decision even now ruin the ride. tions, a loose
time between Ty 

67 T. Bemenderfer OL 6-5 285 · JR tailback on the depth he longs team and a 69 Neil Kennedy DL 5-11 266 SR 
71 Bartley Webb 6-7 290 so
Willingham and Charlie

from high­chart by tak­for his whole lot of OL 
72 Paul Duncan OL 6-7 291 JR 73 Matt Carufel OL 6-5 295 so 74 Sam Young OL 6-7 315 so
ly-regard­Weis. Expectations were ing full pressure-fun. 
ed fresh-low, changes were vast advantage of free exis-Just don't 75 Chris Frome DL 6-5 268 SR 
76 Bob Morton OL 6-4 292 SR
man every oppor­tence as the No. 3, expect the same results 
77 Michael Turkovich OL 6-6 299 so
and the team had fire in

Armando tunity. "Last year ... it was the from the sequeL If you do, 78 john Sullivan OL 6-4 290 SR 
80 Richard jackson WR 6-3 204 so
Allen and its eyes. Hungry to best time of my life," you'll ruin the ride. 
HI Darrin Bragg WR 6-1 192 SR highly­attack when Grimes said 82 Robby Parris WR 6-3 201 so 84 Will Yeatman TE 6-6 263 so
regarded-it seems like It was the best time of his The views expressed in 86 Mike Talerico TE 6-5 250 SR freshman -turned-promis­they should be the prey. life because he wasn't the this column are those of 
88 Konrad Reuland TE 6-6 255 so R9 John Carlson TE 6-6 259 SR
ing-sophomore James That hunger can go a target of all the focus and the author and not neces­DL 6-5 244 so 
~g ~~~e~f~~nd DL 6-3 287 jR
Aldridge. long way, could concentrate on sim­sarily those of The 
93 Paddy Mullen DL 6-5 285 so 
Thomas talked about the "I can see it in spring ply perrorming well with­Observer. 94 Justin Brown DL 6-3 255 SR 
96 Pat Kuntz DL 6-2 272 jR
team being loose, excited ball already. The competi­out grandiose expectations, Contact Ken Fowler at 
97 Kallen Wade DL 6-5 240 so 
SRand energized for the sea-tion's healthy, Everyone's Grimes' 2006 just might kfowler 1 @nd. edu 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-1 295 


BLuE AND GoLD RosTERS 

+Players' names in alphabetical order at each position +Players who will be on both teams are in green 


----.-------------­
Friday, April 20, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Crum Jr. leads revamped linebacking corps 
a unit,"' Crum said. "I thinkLast year's team leader I've started to step into my 
role."

in tackles helps ease 
This new role means leadingadjustment to 3-:4 a linebacking corps that has to adjust to playing new positions. It means making sure every­
ay CHRIS HINE body is on the same page in the 
Sports Editor 
huddle, and it means motivat­ing his teammates to go that 

Whether the Irish play a 3-4 extra mile in workouts and or the 4-3, it doesn't matter to practice -especially when rising senior Maurice Crum Jr. things are not going so well. -as long as he gets to play "He's a student of the game. football. He knows everything you're 
"I could care less what sys­doing. lie helps with the calls,'' tem we're running," Crum rising sophomore linebacker said. "I really don't care. I just John Ryan said. "Obviously he's like lining up and making all the going." calls, but you 
Crum played know he'II yell out
"I could care less 

both middle and reminders to me.
what systen we're

outside linebacker You know little during his time running. I really pick-me-ups when under former don't care. I just you don't make a defensive coordi-great play, 'Don't
like lining up and

nator Rick worry, you'll get Minter's 4-3 going. the next one.' I scheme. Last year, mean he's just a playing middle real good leader." 
Maurice Crum Jr. 
Observer File Photo

linebacker, Crum Ryan could see
Irish linebackerled the team with 100 tackles.  time this season flanking Crum as  After leading the Irish in tackles last season, rising senior Maurice Crum Jr. returns to anchor Notre Dame's linebackers in defensive coordinator Corwin Brown's new personnel defensive  
Now, under the  an  outside  line­ 
3-4 personnel system of new  backer. Ryan, rising senior  offense really  never  knows  "I think for us it's just a mat­ Crum said. "We want to set the  
defensive coordinator Corwin  Dwight Stephenson and rising  which one is which: Is this guy  ter of us playing and spending  tone day in or day out. That's  
Brown, Crum will occupy one  sophomore Morrice Richardson  a linebacker in this play? Or is  more time together," Crum  going to be our mentality."  
of the inside linebacker spots.  are examples of "tweeners"  - he  a  defensive end  on  this  said. "It's just little things. We  Saturday's Blue and Gold  
He said his experience playing  which means the coaching staff  play? By natural view of that, it  still gotta gel and get the per- game marks the end of Notre  
the different linebacker posi­ thinks they are too slow to play  causes confusion."  sonalities  Dame's spring practice  - a  
tions will ease the transition to  linebacker in a 4-3 set, but not  Throughout the  together. I mean  spring practice filled with com­ 
the new defensive system next year. "For the most part I think it's  big enough to occupy a spot on the front line. As a result, Weis and Brown  spring, Crum likes what he sees at that position.  "It's going to be hit or be hit. We want  it's a new system for us, so I think once everyone's  petition for starting spots on both sides of the ball. But for Crum, it just means more wait­ 
just a comfort level with myself knowing that I can do this, and I can do that," Crum said. "So,  are moving to a 3-4 personnel system that places these "tweeners" in a linebacking  "Everyone adds their· own special thing to that par­ to set the tone day in and day out. "  comfortable in the system, the sky's the limit."  ing until he can lace up and ge't back on the field. "It's kind of bittersweet. I'm a  
I think being able to switch and  position, but starts them closer  ticular. position,"  The  team's  football guy. I'm going to miss  
do multiple things has helped  to the opponents' offensive line  he  said.  "So,  I  Maurice Crum Jr.  acclimation with  waking up every morning com­ 
build my confidence." But Crum will be asked to do  than they would otherwise be in a 4-3. This way, they can .  mean, it's tough to point out one par­ Irish linebacker  the 3-4 person­nel set will  ing to do this,'' Crum said. "A couple days off, the first few  
more  than just put up solid  maximize their combination of  ticular guy because  extend from the  days it'll be like, 'Yes I don't  
numbers again this season. He  strength and speed outside the  everyone's  been  summer up until  got anything to do,' but after a  
will now lead the linebackers  offensive line.  doing a  great job since day  the first snap September 1  while you get that edge, and  
as they try to adjust to the new  "You know, this gives you a  one."  against Georgia Tech. But one  you want to come out again.  
defensive scheme and develop  lot more flexibility because  Brown said his defense has  constant this spring has been  "Basically, that's what I was  
a new identity.  now, both those guys, both the  shown improvement since the  the implementation of a new  put on this earth to do. I'm a  
"I think this year I'm defi­ guys on the outside are capable  beginning of spring. But over­ demeanor  in  the  way  the  football player, and that's what  
nitely not afraid to say 'Let's  of being either a defensive end  all, there is still work that  defense plays each day - and  I plan to do."  
go,' or when we're lagging to  or a linebacker on every play,"  needs to be done. Crum feels  Crum has played a  big part  
pull everybody in the group  Weis said March 21. "And this  that with time, the defense will  developing this attitude.  Contact Chris Hine at  
and say, 'We gotta pick it up as  way  the  defense  and  the  adjust to the new defense.  "It's going to be hit or be hit,"  chine@nd.edu  

-: 
FRANCESCA SETA!fhe Observer 

Irish linebacker Maurice Crum Jr. fights off blockers in Notre Dame's 38-14 win over Navy Oct. 28. Crum is learning his third new position in three years this spring under the new 3-4 defensive system. 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 20, 2007 
Fantas 
Notre Dame's young quarterbacks have one spring to show they have the right stuff to replc 
' ,~ 

Zach Frazer, left, throws during an April 16 practice at the Loftus Sports Center. Demetrius Jones, right, runs drills during a March 26 practice on Cartier Field. 

By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Brady has left the building. 

A year ago at this time, Brady Quinn was the center of atten­tion. After each spring practice, the face of Notre Dame football who carried the team on his right arm, would enter the press room at the Guglielmino Athletic Center and immediately be surrounded by a gaggle reporters, sometimes three and four deep on every side. People wanted every last sound-bite from the Heisman candidate, Notre Dame's most recent Golden Boy. 
But today things arc different. Quinn, holder of dozens of school records, is going through a different media circus, and 146 touchdowns in that span. 
All the success strained his arm once he arrived at Notre Dame in January as an early enrollee. Weis told Clausen to rest his arm in preparation for spring practice and the freshman was ready to go when camp opened March 21. 
The coach also tried to make the Clausen's life easier b~ sequestering him from publicit~ all spring. Weis has a policy ol restricting media access to fresh­man, and in that sense Clausen was no exception. 
The Life of the Party 

Jones sees being a quarterback as more than just an on-field role -he also says the quarterback should be an off-field resource 
for his team­
mates. 

"As a quar­
terback it's 
this time his "There are four guys that we important to pre-draft, are developing chemistry find. out what'~ 
talk-show cir­going on witt
with. They all got a lot better 
cuit rounds. everybody," hE 
lie even sang this spring. " s a i d "Take Me Out "Everybody ha~ to the social problems
John Carlson
Ballgame" at and famil~
Irish tight end
Wrigley Field problems. I tr) 
Monday. 

Back in South Bend, things have changed even more. Four quar­terbacks -rising junior Evan Sharpley, rising sophomores Demetrius Jones and Zach Frazer, and early-entry freshman .Jimmy Clausen -have splintered the media horde that used to fol­low Quinn wherever he went. In fact, when they walk into the press room after practice, some reporters hang back awkwardly, unsure of which quarterback is which. 
There are no school records among the four. As a group, they amassed only seven collegiate passing yards, all of them by Sharpley. Most Irish fans -and even many of their fellow stu­dents -know them only by their jersey numbers and perhaps the number of stars next to their names on various recruiting web­sites. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis has said that he will narrow the race from four to two based on spring practice -a decision he will announce at the end of May. Until then, however, each of the four divergent personalities is con­vinced that he will be Notre Dame's next "cult hero," as Weis used to call Quinn. 
So who are these masked men? 
The Hollywood Superstar 

Clausen is the most recogniza­ble face among the four competi­tors. · 
The 6-foot-5, 207-pounder out of Westlake Village, Calif., was the top-rated quarterback nation­ally in last year's recruiting class. He committed to the Irish the morning of last year's Blue-Gold Game at the College Football Hall of Fame in downtown South Bend. 
The announcement ceremony, which included Clausen pulling up in a Hummer limousine, was witnessed by most of the media assembled for the scrimmage later that day. 
But the excitement around Clausen wasn't just because of his elaborate ceremony. The younger brother of former Tennessee quarterbacks Casey and Rick Clausen, Jimmy started all four years at Oaks Christian High School, going 42-0. He threw for more than 10;000 yards to be a peopl€ 
person." 
Whether it'1 
celebrating ~ sunny day with his bright rec "summer shoes" or hinting abou the "G-Code" that he and hi! friends in his native Chicago use Jones loves to goof around. HE says his sense of humor and out· going personality helps him be l leader on the team. 
"The same guys you slap on th~ back of the head before class an the guys blocking for you," h~ said. "The same people you tease are the. ones catching passes for you." 
But it hasn't been all fun anc games for Jones this spring. Ir addition to the nerve-rackin! competition for starting quarter back, he also has to worry abou his grandmother, Gloria Pierce who was diagnosed with stomach cancer. 
Jones said his faith has helpec him get through the tough times. 
''I'm a pretty Biblical persor anq I believe everything happen! for a reason," he said. 
Pierce recently moved from heJ home in Selma, Ala., t~ Indianapolis to seek better care which means he can visit he. more often. He's planning on see­ing her soon after the Blue-Gold Game. 
But Jones said her health prob­lems won't affect him on the field -Pierce wouldn't allow it. 
"She says not to worry about her, because this is one of my dreams," he said. "She would b mad if worrying about her mad me do worse on the field." 
Jones is perhaps the most ver satile of the four quarterbacks leading to some speculation out side of the team that he might switch positions if he doesn't earn the starting job. 
Jones rejects these ideas -but he's also confidentthat that ques­tion will never need to be asked. 
"I didn't come here to be a back up and I didn't come here to be anyone's sidekick," he said. 
The Cannon-Armed Prototype 
If the quarterback race was based solely on who looks like the most like Quinn when in uniform Frazer would win hands down. 
At 6-foot-4, 226 pounds, he i~ the largest of the four competin~ quarterbacks, and comes closes· to Quinn, who was 6-foot-4, 23~ 
---------.-.---.-.---~-------------------~. 
--------------~~---~..~~--~---------~-~ 
Friday, April 20, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

ic Four 
e one of the school's all-time greats and take over college football's most scrutinized position 
pounds. 
"Being able to see the field is my strength, along with my arm," he said. 
Frazer's teammates agree on his arm strength 
"Zach has a strong arm," rising junior wide receiver David Grimes said. "I think he can probably throw the ball 70 or 80 yards." 
After red-shirting last fall, Frazer said he couldn't wait for spring practice and the competi­tion with the other quarterbacks to begin. 
"I was counting down the days from 100 days before spring," he said. 
Frazer said the experience he gained this past season on the sidelines watching Quinn pre­pared him well for the competi­tion this spring. 
"I was little nervous on the first day of practice, but after that I felt very confident moving in there and moving the ball," he said. 
That confidence extends to more than just the playbook. Frazer said playing in front of tens of thousands of people for the first time Saturday won't rat­tle him at all. 
"You have to go out and have a good time," he said. "You can't hype it too much or you'll get nervous." 
And Frazer has no reason to be nervous, because, according to him, he's already the best option at quarterback. 
"In my eyes, I'm number one," he said. 
The Elder Statesman 
Sharpley is the only one of the four quarterbacks who was enrolled at Notre Dame ball." 
Sharpley said he would like to emulate the two-sport career of former Notre Dame wide receiv­er/pitcher Jeff Samardzija, but that being a position player in baseball makes his task more dif­ficult than Samardzija's, who only had to pitch in one game per week. 
"His situation was a lot differ­ent than mine, him being a pitch­er and then obviously already establishing himself in both sports so he had a little leeway there with time constraints where he could do a little bit more," Sharpley said. 
So while his baseball career might be on hold right now, Sharpley said it is for the best. 
"In my situation right now, I need to be here at football trying to establish myself," he said. 
What's next? 
Notre Dame has had mixed suc­cess replacing highly successful quarterbacks in the past. 
After Joe Montana graduated in 1979, the Irish used several quar­terbacks, all with limited success, and finished just 7A. 
On the other hand, in 1969, Terry Hanratty, who led Notre Dame to the 1966 national cham­pionship, gave way seamlessly to Joe Theismann, who would set one of the few school records Quinn never broke with his 526 passing yards against USC in 1970. 
In 1997, then-coach Bob Davie attempted to ease the transition between then-senior Ron Powlus (now the Irish quarterbacks coach) and then-junior Jarious Jackson by having Jackson play at various times during games. 


during the 2005 "Patience is a virtue, and Davie took 
football season. we've been waiting this long. heat when He is also the the offense
It won't kill us to wait a

only one that has sputtered, 
appeared in a little longer." but Jackson regulation college stepped game -and the smoothly
Demetrius Jones 

only one that has into the
Irish quarterback

completed a pass. starter role 
And the 6-foot­4, 212 pound ris­ing junior out of Marshall, Mich., says that gives him an advantage. 
"I was able to sit back and kind of be a sponge and learn from Coach Weis and Brady -whoev­er was there.... It was good for me," he said. "You learn a lot of nuances, a lot of little things that are helpful in picking up the play­book." 
Of course, with that experience comes the responsibility of being a leader to younger players ­even those that Sharpley is com­peting with for playing time. 
"It's difficult in that respect because we're all going after the same position, and you'd like to help as much as you can, but you also have to realize it's someone you're competing against," he said. "We have a great relation off the field as well as on, and it's just kind of, I guess almost a mutual fondness for each other where we're out there trying to help each other compete." · 
In between spring workouts, quarterback meetings and going to class, Sharpley is also a first baseman the Irish baseball team. He has appeared in 11 games this year, driving in two runs on his lone hit. 
Weis said he's grateful that Sharpley has decided to make football his top priority. 
"Evan's been here for all the football practices," he said. "He's putting a heavy emphasis on foot-
the next 
year. 
Weis never gave that method a thought. With Quinn playing well and expectations through the roof, there was little opportunity to get meaningful snaps for a back-up. 
Instead, Weis used this spring to judge which quarterback will fill Quinn's enormous shoes. 
For other players on the roster, the transition from one experi­enced leader under center to four young players still learning the playbook has not been easy, but veterans like fifth-year senior tight end John Carlson say they are making the best of the situa­tion. 
"There are four guys that we are developing chemistry with," he said. "They all got a lot better this spring." 
. Weis will narrow down his choice to two in about a month, and next fall he'll reveal which of the four has earned the right to start against Georgia Tech in the first game of the season. 
It's a long time to wait for the four competitors, but as Jones pointed out, it means that Weis took as much as possible into consideration. 
"Patience is a virtue, and we've been waiting this long," he said. "It won't kill us to wait a little longer." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
JESSICA LEEflhe Observer 

Jimmy Clausen, left, and Evan Sharpley, right, throw during a spring practice March 30 at the Loftus Sports Center. Clausen and Sharpley are two of four quarterbacks competing for the starting job. 

.----.--.--~---------------.---­
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 20, 2007 
Cut from the same clOth 
New defensive coordinator Corwin Brown learned the ins and outs of football from the same teachers as Weis 
Parcells. The Patriots took the By JAY FITZPATRICK Wolverines strong safety in the Associare Spons Ediwr fourth round of the 1993 NFL 
Draft with the 11 Oth overall pick. 

This offseason, Irish coach Brown continued to learn under Charlie Weis realized something one of the top coaching staffs in needed to be done. the NFL, including position coach­
Last season. Notre Dame's es AI Groh, Romeo Crennel and defense ranked 65th out of 119 Charlie Weis. Eventually, Bill Division 1 schools, surrendered Belichik joined the stall' in 1996 as 
5.48 yards per play and allowed the defensive backs eoach. This the toughest teams it played -coaching staff led the Patriots to Michigan, USC and LSU -to the Super Bowl and gave Brown a score more than 40 points each. premium education in coaching. 
Weis did not renew former "Nobody's born knowing this defensive coordinator Hick stuff. And if you're fortunate Minter's contract in January and enough to be around good guys, began a search for a new def{m­which I have been, you just try to sive coordinator. lie turned to take something from them," some of the greatest football Brown said. "You try to see what minds in the game today for they do, what worked, and you try advice to fill the vacancy. to apply that for yourself." 
"I called up [Cowboys] Coach Brown followed Parcells to the [Bill] Parcells. I called up [Patriots] New York Jets in 1997 before fin­Coach [Bill] Belichick. I called up ishing his career with two seasons [Browns] Coach fHomeo] Crennel in Detroit. In 1998, Brown earned and called up !Virginia] Coach [Al] his only Pro Bowl selection as the Groh. And they came ·up with one special teams alternate for the name," Weis said in a Jan. 19 AFC. press conference. Brown was a special teams 
"They said you should hire standout during his NFL career, Corwin Brown." registering at least 10 special teams tackles per season from The player 1994-2000. In total, he finished 
Brown was born in Chicago, the with 177 tackles in 120 games placekicker David Green left early, ed Brown as he must adapt to a "He knows a lot about how to play son of two public school teachers, played, including 20 starts. Brown continued working with new school, but the defensive the position. Heally a lot of tech­and at an early age he became an With his playing days behind young players to keep tho Cavalier players who have to learn how nique things I need to work on." athlete, playing football and run­him in 2001, Brown knew he kicking game strong in 2002-3. their new eoach operates. Stewart missed time earlier this ning track at Julian High School. wanted to stay in football and Brown's speeial teams saw a lot "LBrown's coaching style] is spring with an ankle injury, but Brown had an impressive football found a way to keep involved -of success during his last two more of a passive-aggressive. He remains confident going into the career at Julian, earning all-state coaching. years at Virginia. In 2002, the just wants us to relax and play," Blue-Gold game as part of a con­honors as a defensive back. punt coverage unit allowed less cornerback Ambrose Wooden tinuing process of his move to 
Because of this success, The coach than 10 yards per return for the said. "l-Ie's been there before-he defense. Michigan coach Bo Schernbechler "I knew Corwin wanted to be a first time in five years, while the knows what it's like to be out "Things like this take time. We'll offered Brown a scholarship to coach six months after I met him kickoff coverage team ranked sec­there. And that's what we try to just see how it develops." Stewart play safety with the Wolverines. his rookie year in 1993," Bill ond in the ACC. This success focus on -being more patient said. ''I'm steadily making Brown spent four years (1989-Parcells said of Brown in a state­spilled over into the 2003 cam­and just being physical at the line progress despite the setback. I 1992) in Ann Arbor on teams that ment released by Notre Dame. paign when the Cavaliers aver­of scrimmage." think it will turn into a good never finished the season ranked Brown finally got his wish in aged 9.3 yards per return on Fifth-year senior safety Tom move." below No. 7 in the final polls, 2001 when Groh asked him to punts and 24.8 yards per return Zbikowski said Brown and the The other major change is at the accumulating a 38-7-3 record coach Virginia's special teams. In on kickoffs. defensive players have meshed linebacker position. Although during Brown's time there with three years in Charlottesville, he The next big jump in Brown's well together this spring. Notre Dame returns two backers three Rose Bowl appearances. learned the intricacies of college career came in 2004 when then­"I think the players accepted this year -Maurice Crum, Jr. and 
In his senior year with the coaching, including the recruiting New York Jets head coach Herro him and he accepted us as play­Joe Brockington-they will have Wolverines, he was named a tri­process and how to blend upper­Edwards offered him a job as the ers," he said. "If you're not run­to learn how to operate with only captain and came in second on the classmen and incoming freshmen assistant special teams and assis­ning the ball, if you're not playing three men in front of them. team with 82 tackles. Brown won to get the most effective unit possi­tant defensive backs coach. hard, you're gonna get taken out The one part of the defense that first-team All-Big Ten honors in ble. Edwards later promoted him to no matter who you are, and that's has the least adjustment to make 1992. Brown began his work with a defensive backs coach before the what I think why we respect him is the secondary. Zbikowski under­
Brown's impressive college veteran special teams lineup, 2004 training camp -a position as players." stands that as the rest of the career caught the eye of the New including All-ACC punter Mike he held for the next three years. But as they learn what their defense changes, his job remains England Patriots' staff, led by Bill Abrams. Although Abrams and Brown helped improve the Jets coach expects of them, the players constant. 
secondary drastically in his first have also had to learn a complete­"Sometimes [the linebacker will] season. The defensive backs ly new system this season -be wider, as opposed to [defensive nabbed 14 of the Jets' 19 intercep­Brown's 3-4 defense. ends] Vic [Abiamiri] or [Chris] tions -a 40 percent increase Frome last year, who were down from 2003. Brown also molded The34 in the three. It's just a different rookie Erik Coleman -a fifth­One of the most important facet<; view for that," he said. "But as a round choice in the 2004 draft -of the 2007 spring practices has defensive back, you're going to be to an NFL starter. Coleman fin­been how Notre Dame's defensive playing the same coverage no ished the season third on the team players will adjust to Corwin matter what." with 88 tackles and also recorded Brown's 3-4 personnel scheme. Although schematically the sec­four picks and two sacks while Brown said in his introductory ondary will not change much, starting all 16 games. press conference Jan. 19 that he Brown is focused on giving up 
Brown's secondary continued to has experience working with and fewer "explosives" -big plays improve the next two years. In coaching both a 3-4 and a 4-3 caused by offensive skill players 2005, the Jets allowed only 172.2 defense and would look at the per­getting behind the defense ­passing yards per game, second­sonnel to determine which system more than ever before. best in the NFL. Last season, the he would implement. Early in the "I think Coach Brown and the New York's defensive backs spring, Brown chose to revamp coaches have a diflerent mindset. accounted for 14 of the team's 16 the Irish defense. They're just making it that certain picks while allowing only 21 plays The most obvious change in the things are unacceptable. And of 25 yards or more. defense comes with the front that's definitely stuck in my mind," 
But after six successful seasons seven. Hising fifth-year senior Wooden said. "I could name on as a position coach, Brown was Trevor Laws, who started the last 100 fingers how many explosives ready to move on and accepted two seasons at defensive tackle. in we've given up since I've been Weis' oll'er in January to boeome the 4-3 deli.mse, made one of the here. And I've definitely been a the newest defensive coordinator most high-profile moves, switch­part of them. That was never at Notrn Dame. ing to play on the end. Although preached on like it is now." 
As Brown re-entered college the rest of the line is not set-and After watching his defense in coaching this year. he remained may not bn set until August prac­the 3-4 all spring, Brown still focused on the task at hand -tices -one of the main competi­knows there is work to be done. wjnning. tors to play alongside Laws at "I am not satisfied right now 
"I really haven't even had time nose tackle is sophomore Chris and when I say I, I mean we as a to think about Ithe transition I." Stewart. Stewart entered Notre staff," he said. "We're not satisfied Brown said. "Because you come in Dame as an offensive lineman. but -we've got work to do collective­and its recruiting, thnn we'n~ try­made tho switch to defense ly. But there has been some ing to get tho system implement­because he could best serve the progress." ed. then you start spring ball and team there. Stewart said Brown And with the experience and you're still recruiting. So it's really has been incredibly helpful with instruction he has. he would know. not about me anyway, it never has the transition. been." "It basieally is his defense, and Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
The change has not only impact-he's familiar with it," Stewart said. jfitzpaS@nd.edu 



Friday, April 20, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Early-entry fresh111en adjust to nevv lifestyles, pressures 
Controllert WelfDesigh~r~g !'YS"!elnsManager 
for 2007-.08. 
The Controllet;:positig!) 
accounting experience, ise 
two-year .p@SitiOn~fl~J(f tlt~ 2008~09 
The Web Designer position is openfo any student with advanced scripting skills. SyStems Manager applicants should be highly adept at computertroubleshooting. 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
They're the newest of the new, Notre Dame's most valuable unknown commodity, starting col­lege halfWay through their senior year of high school and sprinting into the heat of competition. 
Notre Dame's second trio of early-entree freshmen -quarter­back Jimmy Clausen, running back Armando Allen and corner­back Gary Gray -all came to the Irish in January with high expec­tations. 
Clausen was the consensus high school player of the year, finishing his career at Oaks Christian in California 42-0. Allen, a product of Hialeah-Miami Lakes in Florida, is supposed to be the speed threat out of the backfield that Notre Dame has long sought. And Irish coach Charlie Weis said Gray, from Hichland Northeast in Columbia, S.C., could become a shut-down cover corner in his col­legiate career. 
For the first two, Saturday's scrimmage should be a bench­mark of their progress as the con­tinue to compete for major play­ing time -and starting roles each -while Gray remains side­lined with a broken arm. 
The success of the first few batches of "gray-shirts" -the colloquial term lor early-entrant<> -may affect Weis' ability to con­tinue the practice and attract top prospects for open slol<>. 
A year ago, running back James Aldridge, wide receiver George West and lineman Chris Stewart became the school's first-ever early-entree trio. But the expecta­tions then were different. · 
Aldridge was coming off a seri­ous knee injury that slowed his 

e 
progress and kept him out of six of the first seven games of 2006. He amassed 142 rushing yards on the season, but never came close to being the featured back behind former Irish tailback Darius Walker. 
West played in every game, but saw most of his action on special teams. He touched the ball only three times on offense -though his lone rush on an end-around saw the fleet-footed freshman break the plane on an 11-yard scamper. 
And Stewart, who entered as a tremendous offensive guard prospect, did not play a single down last season. The 6-foot-5, 340-pound lineman from Spring, Texas, will have completed the equivalent of nearly two academic years of classes by the time he first lines up for his first snap ­and he'll likely be on the defen­sive side of the neutral zone as a nose tackle when he does. 
But this year's group is differ­ent. 
Every college football fan knew Clausen was going to compete immediately for Notre Dame's starting quarterback job -the most closely watched and highly scrutinized position in the sport. 
And yet, despite a sore arm ­revealed to the press by Allen in an interview with a Miami news­paper -all signs are positive for Clausen. 
Of course, there are struggles. 
"It's tough coming in and being a freshman," Sharpley said of Clausen. "I think we've all kind of been there for each other, and it's a learning process. Especially being young, being away from home, it's tough. I think we're kind of all there for each other." 
And the problems Clausen has faced were not limited to the 

server rs now a 
young freshman. Fifth-year senior Travis Thomas said he tormented all four candidates for the starting gig -Clausen, rising junior Evan Sharpley and sophomores Demetrius Jones and Zach Frazer -about their cadences at the line of scrimmage. 
In the quarterback race, Clausen came in with the disad­vantage of no experience in the system. But the race itself has given him the distinct advantage of knowing he could be on the field as soon as Notre Dame and Georgia Tech kick otT at 3:42 p.m. on Sept. 1. 
And Clausen could be handing off to Allen on that day. Though Thomas, with four years of expe­rience and a proven ability to cre­ate plays, is the favorite for the starting job, the senior said the competition between he, Aldridge and Allen has been anything but easy. 
"I can say he's not running like a freshman; he's running like he belongs here and like he's been here before," Thomas said of Allen, who is listed as 5-foot-1 0 and 190 pounds. "He's tough for his size. I don't know what size he is-maybe 5-9, 5-10, the most­and he runs real hard. Good vision, great speed, good hands. ... l-Ie's progressing real well." 
While Allen progresses on the field, the final member of the trio, Gray, has to take his strides for­ward on the sidelines. 

"The thing that an injured play­er, any injured player, has to do is they've got to be a good classroom student," Irish defensive backs coach Bill Lewis said. "Any time a player's injured, I try to impress upon him how important his classroom meetings are." 
Lewis said his hope is that Gray latches on to a veteran, who can be a "positive role model." position must do on each play, 

"In the case of Gary, what Gary studying both the defensive calls needs to do is he needs to hang on and the offensive formations. somebody, he needs to hang his Gray's test of how he has pro­hat on somebody. gressed will come in August when 
"[But] that doesn't automatically the Irish start fall camp. But for happen" Clausen and Allen, Saturday 
Even more than that, though, marks their time to show what Lewis said an injured young play­they can do. er like Gray must go through "mental repetitions" -thinking Contact Ken Fowler at through what the person in his kfowler1@nd.edu 
g 
ons 
Please 


-~. 

page 8 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 20, 2007 
LIKELY 2007 STARTERS 


QUARTERBACK 
In onn of the most hyp0d spring position battlns of the spring, four players compPt­ed this spring for the quarterbaek position: freshman Jimmy Clausen, rising soph­
omores  Demetrius  
Jonns  and  Zach  
Frazp,r  and  rising  

junior Evan Sharpley. 


Sharpley has the only game expnrienee, ·taking late gamH snaps as Brady Quinn's backup last season. Wnis said that does not give him a largp, advan­tagn and that each quarterback has an nqual chance of win­ning the starting job. 
TIGHT END 

JOHN CARLSON 
5TH-YEAR SENIOR 
Carlson put up historic numbers last season last season. Weis used .Carlson off the line and in the slot effectively. The l'irth-year gives the Irish consistfmcy on an offense that loses its top two wide outs. 
G"'ARDS 
FULLBACK 
ASAPH SCHWAPP 
JUNIOR 
Sehwapp missed most of last season aft11r suffering a knee injury against Penn State, but was effeetive his freshman year opening holes in the middle. He looks to continue to do that in 2007. 

WIDE RECEIVER No. 2 
Although Irish eoaeh Charlie Weis has run rising sophomore George West with thH l'irst team offense most of this spring, he has given no indica­tion that West defi­nitely will be the No. 2 wide out. I'Using junior D.J. 
Hord returns this season after an injury sidelined him for all of. 2006. Incoming freshmen Duval Kumara and Golden Tate could also complicate the depth chart at wide receiver once they arrive in August for fall practices. 
LEFT TACKLE 
PAUL DUNCAN JUNIOR 
Duncan has no starting experience, offensive line coach John Latina is con­fident he can effectively replace Ryan Harris. 


CENTER 
JOHN SULLIVAN 
5TH-YEAR SENIOR 
Sullivan anchored the Irish line last season, starting all 13 games. The fifth-year senior returns as most expe­rfenced lineman. 

NOSE TACKLE 
INSIDE LB 
MAURICE CRUM, JR. 
SENIOR 
Crum led the Irish with 100 ta-ckles last sea­son in addition to on pick. He looks to be even more effective in Corwin Brown's 3-4 defense. 
CORNERBACK 
TERRAIL lAMBERT SENIOR 


Lambert was inconsistent for the Irish last sea­son. He capped off the Michigan State win with two late picks but had only one more last year. 

One of the most he can make the important posi­transition tions to fill in smoothly from the new 3-4 the offensive defense is the line. Line coach nose tackle. Jappy Oliver Rising sopho­also said rising more Chris junior Pat Kuntz Stewart is the has played well favorite to at the nose anchor the tackle this defensive line if spring. 
INSIDE LB 
JoE BROCKINGTON 5TH-YEAR SENIOR 
Brockington took a fifth-year to join Crum in the middle of Notre Dame's new 3-4 look. lie had 59 tackles in a breakout year last season. 
STRONG SAFETY 
TOM ZBIKOWSKI 5TH-YEAR SENIOR 
The explosive Zbikowski returns to the Irish for a final year of eligibility after a shoulder injury slowed the speedster in 2006. 
Notre Dame replaees. both guards this sea­son after the gradua­tion of Bob Morton and Dan Santucci. The spring leaders to lake over as the guards are rising sophomores Dan Wenger, Dan Carufel and Eric Olsen and rising junior Mike Turkovich. None of the potential starters have significant game experience to give them any advan­tage. These four have not been trying out for one speeifie start­ing spot, but rather, We is said, the best two guards will be the starters. Although Wenger and Turkovitch worked out with the first team offense early in the spring, there was no indication that they would be the starters next fall. 
DEFENSIVE ENDS 
Fifth-year son;c~r Trevor . Laws, right, is the only def­inite on the line. Laws played as a tackle in Hick Minter's 4-3 defense, but will move to end in Corwin Brown's 3-4. The move should open up more chances for Laws to make plays. No clear leader emerged early in the spring to take over the 
defensive end slot opposite Laws. although Justin Brown and Pat Kuntz have some backup experience at the end from last season. Paddy Mullen is also in the running for the second defensive line sport. Brown and Oliver have made no indication of whieh player will be the starter going into the 2007 season. 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 
FREE SAFETY 
With the departure of senior Chinedum Ndukwe, the free safety position is free for less-experi­enced players to step up. The two leaders during the spring are jun­iors David Bruton and Hay Herring. Bruton played mainly on special teams last year, while Herring filled in for Zbikowski when he was injured part of last season. .Freshman Harrison Smith could complicate things in August. 
RIGHT TACKLE 
SAM YOUNG SOPHOMORE 
Young started all 13 games as right tackle last season as a true freshman, and Weis feels that the best option is to keep him there in 2007. 



The biggest question mark on defense remains which two players will be the outside linebackers. Four players are in the running for the two spots -John Ryan, Anthony Vernaglia, Dwight Stephenson, Jr. and Morrice Hichardson. Hyan, left, and Vernaglia, right, are the favorites going into the spring game because they have practiced with the first team defense for most of the spring. 
CORNERBACK 
AMBROSE WooDEN 5TH-YEAR SENIOR 



Wooden lost his starting job last year after an injury, but has since regained it. Darrin Walls, Haeshon MeN eil and Gary Gray could unseat him. 




