
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 105 FRIDAY, MARCH 23,2007 
NCAA hockey costs jump for fans 
$55 increase Regionals passes since 2004 keeps some students away from weekend action 

By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
More than 375 students, fac­ulty and staff members and South Bend residents will get ready, set and run Sunday at 10 
a.m. in the third-annual Holy Half Marathon, a 13.1-mile race around the Notre Dame campus to benefit charitable organizations. 
Holy Half director Kathleen Coverick, a junior, said the race raised more than $6,000 last year to benefit Catholic Charities -a figure organizers hope to surpass this weekend. 
Sponsored by the Class of 2008, Circle K and the Women's Running Club, the race will col­lect money to benefit Hurricane Katrina victims in Louisiana through Operation Helping Hands, a volunteer program under the umbrella of Catholic 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
NDSP promotes Johnson 
21-year veteran officer replaces Rex Rakow 
By KEN FOWLER 
News Writer 
It's a promotion that comes with the heaviest of hearts. 

Two weeks after the death of Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) director Rex Rakow, longtime friend and current associate director of NDSP, Phil Johnson, was named Rakow's successor Thursday. 
''I'm very humbled and hon­ored by the appointment," Johnson said. "I think that Rex worked very hard through the years to form a wonderful group of people -a group of people I'm honored to lead.... This department has had great lead­ership, and I've been lucky to be a part of a great leadership team for many years." 
Johnson assumed Rakow's day-to-day responsibilities as head of the department when the former director became too sick to work and went on leave in January. Rakow battled cancer for 18 months before his death March 7. 
Johnson joined NDSP as an assistant director in 1986 and was promoted to associate direc­tor in 2005. Before coming to Notre Dame, Johnson served as director of security at Carleton College in Northfield, Minn., and director of campus safety at Aquinas College in Grand Rapids, Mich. He said his years at Carleton and Aquinas were "formative," though his 21 years 
see NDSP/page 4 By KEN FOWLER 
News Writer 
Three years and a 12-place jump in the polls apparently make a difference of $55 for Notre Dame students hoping to travel to the NCAA hockey regionals beginning tonight in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Senior Johnny McDermott has fond memories of traveling in 2004 to then-No. 13 Notre Dame's only previous game in the NCAA hockey tournament. He got a bus trip, a box lunch and a multi-game pass for $10. But as the now-No. 1 Irish pre­pare for Alabama-Huntsville tonight, students will be paying more then six times the amount they paid three years ago for a chance to see the Irish on the ice. 
"I was kind of surprised that they weren't doing something with regard to the [ticket] prices," said McDermott, who is driving to tonight's game. 
The increase in cost is not the result of Notre Dame raising prices but rather the athletic department's decision not to subsidize the ticket cost for students as it did in 2004. 

"That would be something you'd have to do on your own," associate athletic director John Heisler said of a subsidy for student tickets. "We can do whatever we want, but for the tickets that we receive from the NCAA, there's only one price. It's not like they provide a routine student discount." 
Nonetheless, Ticket Office director Josh Berlo said Notre Dame had sold 128 three-day passes to students for this year's action after selling 115 such passes in 2004. As a whole, the Notre Dame ticket office has sold approximately 265 three-game passes at $65 apiece for this weekend's events, said Matt McCormack, coordinator of athletic promo­tions. 
But for sophomore Anna Jones, the cost was too steep. 
Jones, who attended the team's conference playoff games and often lined up near­ly two hours before Irish hock­ey home contests, said she immediately decided against going when she saw the dollar figure for the tickets. She said 
see HOCKEY/page 4 


Holy Half benefits Helping Hands 
Charities. 
Jen Richard, president of the Women's Running Club, said the race promised to be a good time and for a good cause. 
"The Holy Half is a fun, well­organized race," Richard said. "The Holy Half Marathon organizing committee does an amazing job, and they deserve a lot of credit." 
Holy Half organizers said Operation Helping Hands' dedi­cation to the continued relief of the Greater New Orleans area devastated by Hurricane Katrina made the charity an ideal destination for the race's funds. 
The program organizes a large volunteer corps of several 10-15 person groups who travel to Louisiana to volunteer their time and labor for different time periods, ranging from a 
see MARATHON/page 4 

Research office updates software, bookkeeping 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Assistant News Editor 
The Office of Research recently introduced two new initiatives -a change to the business process and the implementation of a new type of electronic research soft­ware to streamline research procedures at Notre Dame. 
For faculty researchers like chemical and biomolecular engineering professor Edward Maginn, these new systems will make filing research pro­posals and tracking grants much easier. 
A new business system 
Under the new business sys­tem, which the Office of Research started in December, Maginn has three research administrators assigned to his proposals -a pre-award research administrator, a post-award administrator and a research accountant. 
This new team is helpful because the management and tracking of a research project can be a time-consuming process, Maginn said. The fed­eral government requires that research proposals go through Grants.gov -"a really com­plicated software interface," Maginn said. 
Just figuring out how to turn in the proposal can take sev­eral hours, he said. 
"It requires a lot of expert­ise," Maginn said. "The nice 
see RESEARCH/page 6 
Bruton discusses US-EU relations 
Ambassador speaks on peacekeeping, economy in Europe, America 
ByEVA BINDA 
News Writer 
There wasn't an empty seat Thursday in the Jordan Auditorium as students and faculty members packed in to hear European Union (EU) Ambassador to the U.S. John Bruton deliver the lecture "The Future of Economic and Political Relations between the European Union and the United States." The lecture was as much an explanation of the nature of the European Union as it was an analysis of current polit­ical problems facing Europe and America. 
Bruton, formerly the youngest 
see EU/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, March 23, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Why I Hate Grey's 

By now, if you're an undergraduate at Notre Dame and don't live in a cave (or perhaps Carroll Hall), undoubtedly you've seen an episode of "Grey's Anatomy," the worst show on television. There are several reasons for hating Tae Andrews this medical drama, but for brevity's sake I'll Scene Editor start with the main reason I despise this show: George. 
George (T.R. Knight) is a simpering, fawning little twerp who spends much of his time growing out his hair, listen­ing to Death Cab for Cutie and lament­ing how hard his life is. Despite having lived with multiple attractive women throughout the course of the show, George has neither the guts nor the game to actually ask said women out and instead spends his free time onscreen trying to act cute and endear­ingly awkward. Quit whining, wimper­ing and generally acting like a little wuss, George. 
The second reason I hate "Grey's Anatomy:" Dr. Meredith Grey herself, quite possibly the most annoying char­acter of all time. In fact, when I heard the news that Grey had possibly died, I rejoiced. No more pretentious ending monologues about the meaning of life. No more whiny soliloquies about the pain of her unrequited love with "McDreamy," and no more on-again, ofl'-again romance with "McDreamy," 
a.k.a. Dr. Shepherd. 
Finally, there's Dr. Yang (Sandra Oh), who manages to irk me almost as mueh as George does through her neurotic, self-important state of perpetual PMS. As unattractive as she is obnoxious, Yang exists on the show only to detract from Dr. Burke (the homophobic Isaiah Washington) and to enrage the audi­ence. 
In addition, "Grey's Anatomy" never fails to deliver with the most ridiculous and inane plot lines. On one episode, a man is suspected of being pregnant before delivering a tumor baby. That's right, a tumor baby. As in a baby­shaped tumor, or perhaps a tumor­shaped baby. Take your pick. Then in another shining moment, two patients found themselves transfixed by a steel pole. Finally, in perhaps the best exam­ple of "Grey's Anatomy's" shining plot lines, one unfortunate patient found himself with a bomb stuck in his stom­ach. You heard me right. A bomb. In. His. Stomach. If only we would be so lucky as for a freak medical accident to wipe out all of the three characters mentioned above, I might even be induced to start watching this show again. 
Even worse is the way "Grey's Anatomy" has affected the male popu­lation on campus. Friends of mine, good guys who normally spend their time reading the Sports Illustrated's (is it porn, is it not?) Swimsuit Edition, watching football, swearing and pursu­ing other manly pursuits, fastidiously set their clocks so they don't (gasp) miss an episode of "Grey's Anatomy." It's time for a gut-check, gentlemen. "Grey's Anatomy" is this year's 'The O.C.": a dying show which needs to be put out its misery. It's about time we pulled the plug on this fiasco. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tan drew 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU TALKED TO YOUR PARENTS AND WHY? 







Jane Lee  Adebola Giwa  Adam Hipp  Stephen Barbera  Joe Nava  
sophomore Pasquerilla East  sophomore Alumni  junior Dillon  juniors Alumni  senior Alumni  
"Today because I love my mommy.  "' called my mom to tell her I made it to Midway and my dad to tell my mom I made it to school."  "Today because my dad knows how to use AIM."  "Yesterday because I forgot my cell phone charger at home and need it mailed because I'm good like that. "  "Yesterday. My mom's freaking out because I'm finally graduating. "  

Peeping Tom in hot water over shampoo camera 
MANCHESTER, Conn. -A man landed in hot water after police say he hid a tiny camera in a shampoo bottle to watch two of his female roommates as they took showers. 
A male roommate, curious why the shampoo wasn't moved for some time, found wires protruding from the back of the bottle, then called police, authorities said. 
The camera recorded through a pinhole, and the images were sent to Steven Thibodeau's television, police said. Thibodeau, 25, had placed the camera to record worship. 

The Rev. Craig X Rubin, 41, is the founder of Temple 420, which holds that pot is a reli­gious herb. 
"Our congregation man­dates members study the Bible, have faith in God and regularly burn the herb cannabis [The Tree of Life mentioned in the Bible] as sacrament," says the lawsuit filed Wednesday in court. 
Rubin, his son and another man were charged last fall with two felony counts each of selling or transporting marijuana 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
the women showering and made video of one of them changing clothes, according to police. 
Thibodeau was arraigned Wednesday on 15 counts of voyeurism and one count of evidence tampering, which alleges he tried to delete some images. 
L.A. minister sues over marijuana bust 
LOS ANGELES -A minis­ter who was arrested on charges of marijuana posses­sion has sued police for $30 million, contending his civil and religious right<> were vio­lated because he heads a church that uses pot during 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
0:: 
IJJ ::J: 
!;: 
IJJ 
3: 
.... 
cc 
(,) 0 



HIGH 57 HIGH 52 HIGH HIGH
.... 
LOW 40 LOW 38 LOW LOW 


IN BRIEF 

As part of the Clarke Family Medical Ethics Conference, keynote speaker Margaret Monahan Hogan, an ethics professor at the University of Portland will deliver the lecture "Bioethics and Its Gordian Knot" at McKenna Hall at 4 
p.m. today. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play against South Florida at Frank Eck Stadium at 5:05 p.m. today. 
The Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will present the film "Black Gold" at 7 and 10 p.m. tonight. Admission is $3 for students. 
Toby Foyeh & Orchestra Africa will play traditional African beats and rhythms with helpings of jazz, rock, pop, and Latin at Legends tonight at 10. Admission is free. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play against South Florida at Frank Eck Stadium at 1:05 p.m. Saturday. 
The Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will present the film "Voiver" at 7 and 10 p.m. Saturday. Admission is $3 for students. 
The Holy Half Marathon will kick off behind South Dining Hall at 10 a.m. Sunday. Registration cost is $15 and proceeds will benefit Catholic Charities and Operation Helping Hands assisting hurri­cane relief in New Orleans. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 



HIGH 57 LOW 38 
Atlanta 76 I 54 Boston 59 I 33 Chicago 60 I 41 Denver 66 I 34 Houston 77 I 63 Los Angeles 73 I 54 Minneapolis 56 133 New York 61 I 48 Philadelphia 66 I 52 Phoenix 77 I 61 Seattle 55 I 42 St. Louis 68 I 53 Tampa 88 I 61 Washington 71 154 
Friday, March 23, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


InFocus conference opens up 
Conference caters to entire student body, highlights Asian culture 
kick off the conference. South Bend Clinic, and a Martial 
ByROHAN ANAND "He fits in well with the vision of Arts demonstration by Master 
News Writer our conference," Chan said. Hong, an instructor of tae kwon 
"American culture [like stand-up do. 
The Asian American comedyl has influenced the Asian Additionally, guest speaker A'isociation (AAA) is hoping it has culture and vice versa, so his Josephine Det will fly in from New found a signature event that will example shows how both societies York to speak about Asian fashion cross ethnic lines as it hosts the benefit one another." in the business culture and her three-day InFocus conference this A mix of cultural presentations experiences running a companyweekend. and lectures Saturday will cater to that outsources projects for 
One indication promising the almost all interests and tastes, Victoria's Secret and Calvin Klein. potential success of the confer­with speakers ranging from a pro­All of the conference's sessions ence is its original theme, "mosa­fessional chef and a plastic sur­highlight popular fields of interest ic," which will explore how people geon to a tae kwon do instructor. about Asian culture in connection with different personalities "fit During the first session, from with the Asian-American commu­into communities at large," said 10:40 a.m. until lunchtime, Kim nity's desire to blend in American junior Ashley Chan, a member of lim, a chef at Penang Malaysian society.the conference's organizational Restaurant in Chicago, will be "Americans love Asian food and team. hosting a cooking session titled self-defense for all," Chan said. 
"We're hoping to bring together "The Fusion of Asian and "But by and large ... we can see 
not only the Asian community but American Cuisines." that there is still a huge complex the entire campus to see how we Simultaneously, Jacqueline in trying to fit in." all fit into the big picture," she Schmidt, a 2001 Notre Dame At midnight, the Indian said. "If you see America as a graduate, will be presenting alec­Students Association will be host­mosaic, we're many different peo­ture called "Hapas." She will ing a Bhangra Bash at Legends,
ple with different personalities." speak about being half-Asian and celebrating Indian dance and 
AM president Vmce Niou was the hardships of trying to uphold music. optimistic about the weekend, her heritage between two worlds. "We're really stretching to rec­predicting the conference will put Lunchtime will bring a cultural ognize all of the demographics on 
a positive spotlight on diversity fair presented by the Chinese campus and bridge the gapsissues at Notre Dame. Cultural Society, The Japan Club, between them," Lee said. "And 
"If we cater the conference just and the Vietnamese, Indian we're hoping that through the use for minority students, it adds to Filipino, and Korean Students of pop culture, we're going to the stigma that we're just here for Associations. Ethnic foods and achieve that end and attract more the benefit of minorities," said displays will be served to partici­participants."
Niou, a senior. "Our main goal is pants. Besides the AAA, other major to provide events and activities for "It will really highlight the sponsors of InFocus include the entire student body to enjoy as uniqueness of the smaller cultural Multicultural Student Programs a whole." groups of Asian descent," said and Services, the International Eliot Chang, a stand-up comedi­junior Kathy Lee, another confer­Student Services Association and an from Comedy Central, will lead ence organizer. the Student Activities Office. 
a workshop titled "Asians in the The day will conclude with a Media" in the Carey Auditorium of presentation from Jesse Hsieh, a Contact Rohan Anand at the Hesburgh Library today to physician and president of the ranand@nd.edu 

Midnight Madness offers prizes for all 
Sodexho Food Services and the 
By AMANDA SHROPSHIRE 
department of Information 
News Writer 
Technology -and local busi­nesses and faculty members,With the slogan "Take it to 
more than 200 students in 
the limit," Saint Mary's stu­each class will be eligible to 
dents will unwind at the 
win prizes, Kachmarik said. 
Angela Athletic Facility tonight "I would go out on a limb and let the free food, contests 
and say that everybody that 
and prizes of the eighth annual 
wants to participate in an 
Midnight Madness take over event is going to be able to and 
for four hours of spirited 
will walk away with some kind 
games. 
of prize, and that is probablyIn an office filled with the the biggest change we've had,"
balloons and prizes for 
she said. 
tonight's event, Athletic 
Besides more prizes, stu­
Director Lynn Kachmarik said dents at Angela tonight should she came up with the idea to 
expect participation by the 
offer students a way to cele­alumni board, entertainment brate school spirit at Saint from Chicago City Limits 
Mary's. 
improvisational comedy group
really fortunate

"We are and the presentation of popu­
because not only students but lar communication professor
the administration love and 
John Pauley as this year's mas­
support this event and do 
ter of ceremonies. 
everything possible to keep it The event will carry on the going," Kachmarik said. 
tradition of color-coded class 
The event's popularity at the T-shirts, a tug of war, obstacle College has spread in recent 

courses, relays and musical years with three-figure cash 
chairs -but it will also incor­
prizes, vouchers for free 
porate less traditional games,
restaurant dinners and a trip including rounds of "Fear 
to Chicago up for grabs. 
Factor" challenges and a big
But students told this year's surprise for those who stay all organizational committee that night, Kachmarik said. 

they felt they did not always "I want it to be about Saint 
have a chance to win prizes, Mary's and I would say for the prize committee co-chair Julie majority of women that come,DeMaio said Monday. 
that is what it is about,"
With more donations, howev­Kachmarik said. 

er, from the community and campus groups -including Contact Amanda Shropshire at the Board of Governance, ashropO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Its a whole new place! New local ownership & management -Newly remodeled for 2007 -2008 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
424 N. Frances Street 
• 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 

• 
Off-Street Parking 

• 
Washer and Dryer 

• 
Dishwasher 

• 
Central Air 

• 
Security System 



Renting fast -call today for 2007 -2008 

Contact Kramer at (574J 315-5032 or (574J 234-2436 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 23, 2007 
our mission and our values, and I Security/Police," vice president Vice President for Residence tor-at-large of the International think we have a very good vision for Student Affairs Mark Life Bill Kirk called Johnson "the Association of Campus Law

NDSP 

of the future," Johnson said. Poorman said. "His service, espe­natural choice" to replace Rakow. Enforcement Administrators and continued from page 1 Notre Dame officials praised cially over the last few months, "He is an excellent administra­serves on the board of the Family 
Johnson Thursday in a news has been a genuine inspiration to tor, an outstanding police officer, Justice Center of St. Joseph of experience at Notre Dame will release. the department, and he is an and a person truly committed to County. be the key to his success as direc­"I am grateful that Phil has eminently respected professional serving our students well," Kirk tor ofNDSP. accepted our offer to assume the in the law enforcement communi-said. Contact Ken Fowler at 
"We have a really good sense of leadership of Notre Dame ty." Johnson is currently the direc-kfowler 1 @nd.ed 
EU 
growing economy known as the Regarding global warming,
involved with that stuff again." 
"Celtic Tiger," would never have Bruton said the EU and the
Shaughnessy said she has
Marathon 

transformed itself into an eco­United States needed to accept
been training for the marathon 
continued from page 1 nomic power if it had not joined responsibility for past actions that 
continued from page 1 for approximately two months. 
the EU. may have contributed to the cri­
The 13 .1-mile course will 
prime minister in Ireland's histo­Bruton, however, said the sis.
handful of days to several take the sisters, and the rest of 
ry, began his address by providing United States should not view the "The bulk of the greenhouse
weeks, the Catholic Charities the Holy Half participants 
background information about EU as a rival because both bodies gases that are causing problems 
Web site said. across campus, with the start­
the European Union. Founded 50 are heavily invested in each other. haven't been put there by the
Volunteers help some of the ing line located behind South 
years ago this Sunday, the EU is "We're not rivals. We own part Chinese, by the Indians, the
20,000 homeowners in the area Dining Hall, outside McGlinn 
composed of 27 member nations of the United States, and you own Africans or anyone other than us
without flood insurance to Hall. 

and is the only multi-national part of the EU," he said referring -the U.S. and Europe," he said. 
rebuild their lives by recon­The running path will loop 
democracy in the world, he said. to the fact that the U.S. is the Bruton stressed the importance
structing some of the 200,000 around campus, from the Main 
"The 700 members of the largest investor in the EU and the of taking the lead and making
homes destroyed by Katrina. Gate down Edison Road, up the 
Parliament are elected directly by EU is the largest investor in the sacrifices to solve environmental
And while the prospect of newly reconstructed 
the European people," Bruton u.s. problems.
contributing to disaster relief is Twyckenham Avenue and past 
said. "It's without precedent and "U.S. companies make more The ambassador also said
the race's appeal to many run­Hammes-Mowbray Hall, organ­
proving to be a very good modeL" profits in the EU than anywhere Europeans would be willing to
ners, other participants find the izers said. 

In addition to direct elections, else," Bruton said. "American strive for lower greenhouse gas
athletic challenge daunting. Runners will then conclude 
Bruton said, the EU Parliament companies make three times emissions if the United States
Sophomore Denise Pineda the half-marathon jog around 
requires "full agreement of each more from investments in Ireland agreed to the same standards.
participated last year to support Saint Joseph's and Saint Mary's 
member" before any measure is alone than in China." Finally, Bruton said the period
the charitable effort, but her Lakes. 

passed. This means that if one But he didn't deny there is a during which Europeans and
commitment to Holy Half was In preparation for the race 
country does not agree to a treaty, feeling of natural competitiveness Americans have the steering
also triggered by a desire to get Sunday, the Holy Half Task 
it will not be approved, he said. from both sides. wheel and can set their agenda
in shape after indulging in too Force will host a mass Saturday 
"We've created a political "Europeans may feel superior probably won't last more than 20
many baked goods, she said. evening at Dillon Hall, followed 
union that has expanded with the when things go badly for the or 30 more years. 
"One night after eating a lot by a carbo-loading pasta dinner 
agreement of its members at U.S.," Bruton said. "You some­"After that, other countries will
of a very tasty carrot cake, I in the Coleman-Morse Lounge 
every stage," the ambassador said times have the same feeling about be sharing the predominance
was on a sugar rush," Pineda for participants. 
proudly. Europe, but it's important that we with us," he said. 
said. "Tommy, a very good Though 375 runners have 
Bruton also discussed certain get on." Bruton challenged students to
friend of mine, and I decided to already signed up, there is 
requirements of membership in Not only are the EU and United make a difference during the
go running like at 9 p.m. That always room for more partici­
the EU. A country must "pass States conjoined by economic remaining supremacy of the EU
was how we started running. pants, Richard said. 
80,000 pages of legislation" that interests, but also by other issues and U.S.
We saw the Holy Half fliers in Students who may be inter­
includes everything from environ­such as the proliferation of "Your generation has a choice.
the dining hall and thought that ested in running the Holy Half 
mental regulations to workplace nuclear weapons, the conflict Are we going to use our power to
it would be fun." marathon who have not regis­
safety standards, he said. The between Israel and Palestine and make sure everyone has the same
Pineda and her friend, sopho­tered may· do it Sunday morn­
country must also be a democracy global warming. chance to be free, to live in a
more Tommy Osberger, will ing between 8:30 a.m. and 9:45 
and not allow the death penalty. Bruton said the EU and U.S. are world with peace?" he asked his
compete again this year. a.m. behind South Dining Hall. 
In return, countries reap the "working very closely" to deal audience. "We, Europeans and
Freshman runner Meghan The entry fee is $15, and 
economic benefits of a common with the issues of nuclear prolifer­Americans working together, can
Shaughnessy said she signed up checks can be made payable to 
market. For example, a citizen ation and the Israel-Palestine con­do more than any people in histo­
for the Holy Half because she the Class of 2008, organizers 
from any EU country can work flict. ry to change things in the next 20 
loves to run and thought it said. 

anywhere in the EU and goods "If we can work together with years."
would be an enjoyable experi­If the desire to help Katrina 
from any member country can be energy, commitment and vigor,
ence to share with her sister, a victims, get in shape and have a 
sold anywhere in the Union. we can fmd the answers," Bruton Contact Eva Binda at
fellow runner Saturday.• good time is not enough motiva-· 
Bruton said Ireland, a rapidly said. jbinda@nd.edu
"My sister asked ifI wanted to tion to sign up, Richard said 
do it with her, so I thought it would be something fun we could do together," Shaughnessy said. "And I also ran in high school and have missed that, so I thought this would be a good chance to get maybe the free T-shirt all regis­tered participants will receive may encourage more students to join the Holy Half effort. 

Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

Hockey 
continued from page 1 
the $65 price tag was too much, especially since a second Notre Dame game isn't guaranteed. 
Although Notre Dame won't be contributirig toward the cost of student tickets, it will provide transportation and food for stu­dents as it did three years ago. McCormack stressed that the buses and the meals come at a significant cost to Notre Dame. 
"We won't even come close to breaking even since there are two buses going up without anybody paying -which is great," McCormack said. "The main thing is to just get a good contingent ... of students, who have been great supporting the team all year." 
The promotions office will send three buses to Friday night's action and, if the Irish win in the first round, to Saturday's game. Although stu­dents could reserve seats on the bus through Thursday for free, the cost for the general public was $25 per person per day, McCormack said. 
McCormack said the cost of each bus would be approxi­mately $1,000 per trip, plus gratuities. He said the promo­tions office has filled one bus with 56 fans from the general public, while about 50 students have reserved seats for Friday and 70 have done it for Saturday. 

And while most of the contin­gent of Irish fans heading up to Grand Rapids on the buses has bought the three-day passes, fans could also buy single-game tickets for $35 through the Van Andel Arena ticket office, where the teams will meet. 
The buses will leave from Gate 4 of the Joyce Center at 2 
p.m. today and 5 p.m. Saturday, provided the top-seeded Irish win their first contest. Notre Dame plays at 5 p.m. today, and McCormack said the buses like­ly would return after the second game tonight, so fans could watch Notre Dame's opponent for Saturday's second round game. But if there is enough demand to return immediately, McCormack said, one bus may return after Notre Dame's game. 
McCormack said Notre Dame initially received 200 tickets from the arena to sell to stu­dents and the public, but the promotions office quickly asked for additional passes because the demand exceeded the sup­ply. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
THE OFFICE OF UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS 
PLANS TO HIRE 






NEW TOUR GUIDES 
FOR SUMMER AND FALL 2007 
B 


Applications can &. ~ «:r w_ tfw_ Admissions Reception Area 220~ffi~ ~ ~ &_ ~tc tfw, ~(9~ ~ Spm on April 5 
• Q.UJ!Sf!ONS'f COI''UCT: JUifJ! tUUDiCESSI {EGIUDiCE@IXU~:tHJ} OR ~ATT O'ROUD.IJi (~Jl£UHJRI:1®11LEDU} 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 23, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
lbree arrested in London bombings 
LONDON-Counter-terrorist police arrest­ed three men Thursday in the 2005 suicide attacks on the London transit system, the first major development in the investigation in months. Two of the suspects were detained as they prepared to board a flight to Pakistan. 
The third man was arrested in Leeds -the northern city that was home to three of the four bombers. Police also raided five proper­ties in the city -at least one on the same street where one of the bombers lived. 
"Anybody who imagined that this had sim­ply been treated as four lone wolves or a lone pack of wolves on July 7, 2005 is very wrong," Lord Carlile, the government's inde­pendent reviewer of terror laws, told the British Broadcasting Corp. "There is a lot of work going on." 

Archbishop urges Zimbabwe protest 
HARARE, Zimbabwe -An outspoken Catholic archbishop urged Zimbabweans to fill the streets to protest a surge in state-orchestrated violence, saying Thursday he was willing to lead a campaign of peaceful resistance to force President Robert Mugabe out of office. 
Mugabe's opponents reported that a hospital­ized activist had died of injuries suffered when police fired tear gas, live ammunition and water cannons to stop a March 11 prayer meeting protesting his rule. Police did not confirm the death of Itai Manyeruki, who would be the sec­ond activist to die as a result of violence. Gift Tandare, 31, was fatally shot as the meeting was dispersed. 
NATIONAL NEWS . 

House postpones vote on DC seat 
WASHINGTON -Legislation to give the District of Columbia a full vote. in the U.S. House stalled Thursday when Republicans unexpectedly injected the volatile issue of gun control. 
Apparently fearful they might lose control of the proceedings, Democrats decided to put off action indefinitely on the voting rights meas­ure, which had appeared to be moving toward passage. 
Republicans protested the delay and sought a quick vote on their attempt to repeal the capi­tal city's ban on handguns. Democratic leaders "shamefully exploited a rule to kill debate and postpone the vote indefinitely,". said Republican leader John Boehner of Ohio. 

Senate defeats Medicare measure 
WASHINGTON -The Senate easily defeat­ed conservative Republicans' efforts to curb the Medicare program's spiraling growth as debate on a $2.9 trillion budget outline for 2008 entered a third day Thursday. 
And a vote is likely Friday on a bid by Sen. Gordon Smith, R-Ore., to increase tobacco taxes to pay for a big boost in a popular pro­gram providing health insurance for children from low-income families. 
On Medicare, the Senate voted 74-23 to dis­miss a bid by Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, to trim $34 billion from the program's $2.2 tril­lion budget over the next five years. His plan was aimed at reducing payment increases to Medicare providers and was roughly half the size of the cost curbs President Bush pro­posed in February. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Lawmakers discuss mass transit 
INDIANAPOLIS -Public transportation sys­tems need to be explored further as Indiana deals with traffic, pollution and energy chal­lenges in the near future, lawmakers said during a hearing on the subject Wednesday. 
"It's all a matter of priorities," said Rep. Matt Pierce, D-Bloomington. "We control our own destiny." 
Rep. Terri Austin, D-Anderson, who helped organize the meeting, said much attention has been focused on Gov. Mitch Daniels' latest roads proposals, but not much time had been devoted to the topic of public transportation. 
CotvtP£LED FROM THE ()BSERVEifS WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 


Rocket welcomes U.N. chief to capital 
Ban's first visit to Baghdad marred by insurgent attack near Green Zone 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -The U.N. chief ducked, as if to find shelter behind the red and white flowers on the podi­um. He narrowed his eyes, and looked left and right. 
Beside him, Iraq's usually dour prime minister didn't even flinch, and managed a slight smile at the startling welcome to Baghdad for 
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-nioon. 
The U.N. leader was standing next to Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki when a Katyusha rocket exploded about 50 yards from the building in the capital's high-security Green Zone where they were answering questions from reporters. 
Al-Maliki hardly blinked, but Ban -seemingly less accustomed to the tumult of war -quickly crouched, and appeared shaken. The blast came just minutes after al-Maliki said Ban's visit showed Baghdad was "on the road to stability." 
The rocket was fired from a mainly Shiite area on the east bank of the Tigris River, not far from The Associated Press office. The heavily guarded Green Zone on the opposite bank is home to the U.S. Embassy, Iraq's government and the parliament. 
Ban's unannounced stop in the Iraqi capital was the first visit by a U.N. secre­tary-general since Kofi Annan, his predecessor, came to Baghdad in November 2005. The U.N. Security Council issued a statement strongly con­demning the rocket firing as an "abhorrent terrorist attack." 
The U.N. presence in Iraq has been much smaller than planned since militants bombed the organization's Baghdad headquarters on Aug. 19, 2003, and killed 22 people, including the top 
U.N. envoy, Sergio Vieira de Mello. 
That was one of the first major attacks as Sunni Arab insurgents began ral-lying against American forces and other foreign troops after the U.S.-led invasion. Foreign U.N. staff withdrew from Iraq in October 200.3 after a second assault on its offices and other attacks on humanitar­ian workers. A small staff has gradually been allowed to return since August 2004. 


Iraq's Shiite-dominated government has been quiet­ly pushing for a greater 
U.N. role and was banking on decreased violence in the capital to show that it was returning to normal six weeks into a joint security crackdown with American forces. 
"We consider it a positive message to [the] world in which you confirm that Baghdad has returned to playing host to important world figures because it has made huge strides on the road toward stability," al­Maliki told Ban moments before the rocket attack. 
Ban's presence was broadcast after he arrived, but the trip had been kept so secret even his press spokeswoman didn't know he was in Iraq. His public schedule had called for Ban to leave New York on Thursday for a trip to Egypt, Israel and an African Union summit in Saudi Arabia. 
The U.S. military announced three Americans died in combat Wednesday -an Army soldier slain in Baghdad and another sol­dier and a Marine killed in Anbar province. At least 44 Iraqis were killed or found dead Thursday, including 25 bodies dumped in the capital, all showing signs of torture, police said. 

The military also reported a major breakthrough in the campaign against rogue Shiite militants, saying it captured two brothers responsible for a sneak attack Jan. 20 that killed five U.S. soldiers guarding the provincial headquarters in Karbala, a city 50 miles south of Baghdad. 
Qais al-Khazaali, his brother Laith al-Khazaali and several other members ·' 
' 
of their network were 
' 
' 
rounded up over the past ' 
' 
three days, the military said. 
Gunmen speaking English, wearing U.S. mili­tary uniforms and carrying American weapons killed one American soldier dur­ing that attack, then carried off four captured soldiers and-later shot them to death about 25 miles from Karbala. 

Edwards presses on with campaign 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Democrat John Edwards said Thursday that his presidential campaign "goes on strongly" in the face of a repeat cancer diagnosis for his wife, Elizabeth, a somber development that thrust his White House bid into uncharted territory. 
The couple revealed that Elizabeth Edwards' breast cancer had spread to her bone during a news conference designed to reas­sure the public about the prognosis for her health and his candidacy. 
"The bottom line is, her cancer is back," said John Edwards, the 2004 vice presidential nominee and for­mer senator, at a news conference in their hometown of Chapel Hill, 

N.C. "We are very optimistic about this, because having been through some struggles together in the past, we know that the key is to keep your head up and keep moving and be strong." . 
The Edwardses suffered through the death of their teenage son, Wade, in 1996 and Mrs. Edwards' breast cancer diagnosis the day after John Kerry and John Edwards lost the 2004 election. She was treated with surgery and several months of radiation and chemotherapy. 
The recurrence of the cancer presents a setback for the couple, both personally and politically. 
"Getting these .results was not a good day for us," John Edwards allowed. 
Elizabeth Edwards' illness and treatment are certain to affect her husband's campaign schedule and may raise questions about the via­bility of his campaign, especially among financial donors wondering whether he will be in for the long haul. The first fundraising deadline is fast approaching on March 31. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 23, 2007 
year for an InfoEd program. It should be fully operational by
Research 

June 2008, Edwards said. 
continued from page 1 

thing about this [new system] is that people with this expertise ·are being dedicated to that," he said. 
Each faculty researcher works with a pre-award admin­istrator, a post-award adminis­trator and a research account­ant at different stages in the development of research proj­ects. 
The pre-award administrator helps the researcher with the parts of the proposal that do not directly involve the "sci­ence." Once the grant is obtained, the post-award administrator takes over and aids the researcher in the administration of the project. The accountant takes charge of managing the money that the researcher obtains from the grant. 
Now that the Office of Research assigns administra­tors to be "partners" with the faculty -rather than overseers of their progress -it is reliev­ing the faculty from much of the burden of handling the admin­istrative aspects of their research projects, Maginn said. 
"Any time you can take some of the administrative burden off the faculty and let the faculty do the research part and not have to do the administrative part, you are going to be more productive," he said. "The idea is, if you can make the faculty more productive, they can spend more time with students and doing research and not doing accounting and book­keeping." 
Since the new business sys­tem was started, Maginn said he has submitted six proposals for research grants -including three in the past week. And, he said, the process of submitting these last six "definitely" went much faster than before the implementation of the new business system. 
New software 

The second new initiative is the implementation of a new software program from InfoEd, a company that makes an inte­grated software package that can manage the whole research process, Maginn said. The research admin­istrators can use 
InfoEd for sev­"Any time you can one of the things eral steps of the take some of the that they pointed process to out -that the
administrative 
ensure that paperwork burden researchers win burden offthe of the proposals ... grants and com­faculty and let the took up so much of ply with the their time," Hall
faculty do the
guidelines of the said. 
grants, he said. research part and 
Now that the InfoEd is cur­not have to do the Office of Research rently used by has assumed a lot
administrative
leading research of the non-science
part, you are going
universities like and scholarly activi­Columbia, to be more ty of the process, Northwestern, the faculty mem­
productive. " 
Duke and UCLA. bers can focus more The idea for on their research bringing this Edward Maginn projects -a busi­new system to engineering professor ness process 
Notre Dame developed from discussions about how "to streamline the process and become paperless," said Michael Edwards, director of the Office of Research. 
Since many federal govern­ment agencies have converted -and many are planning to convert -to an eleCtronic for­mat for grant proposal submis­sions. Notre Dame needed to implement a new system to adjust to this change, he said. 
The Office of Research began the 18-month long implementa~ tion process at the start of the 
These two new initiatives sig­nal a step forward in Notre Dame's ambitious effort to join the ranks of top-tier research institutions, an objective University President. Father John Jenkins described in his address to the faculty last fall and which Provost Tom Burish echoed in a subsequent address. 
Jenkins told faculty members that Notre Dame has made sig­nificant strides in research in the past several years but said the University has the potential to rise much higher in the rank­ings of top research universi­ties. 
Now that the Office of Research operates under this new business model and with the scheduled implementation of new software, Edwards said he is confident that the number of research grant proposals will increase. 
Every research administrator in the Office of Research can handle 200 proposals a year, Edwards said, so the office will be able to process up to 1,200 proposals a year. This year between 800 and 900 proposals will be submitted, he said. 
"We fully expect that the number of proposals will increase," Edwards said. "We expect the number of awards to increase." 
Maginn said the new initia­tives ·streamline the administra­tive aspects of the research process -an improvement to the infrastructure that is vital for Notre Dame to improve its reputation as a research uni­versity. 
"The analogy is that if we want to have a good football program, we need to have good facilities for the football team," he said. "If you want to have a great research university, you have to have great research infrastructure. A big part of that is supporting the people who get the grants to pay for the research." 
Terri Hall, the associate director of pre-award teams, said since the new business process was started in December, the reaction from faculty members has been "very, very encouraging." 
"We did a couple of faculty 
surveys a year or so 
ago, and that was 


The Core Council is seeking new undergraduate student members, regardless of sexual orientation. 
Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Core Council web site http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Tuesday, March 23, 2007, and can be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 


UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Nominations for the 


heedy ward 
Edwards called 
"revolutionary." 

"From an industry standard ... this is a very different way of handling proposal submission," he said. 
Edwards said he believes this is the best process because it creates a closer relationship between faculty members and research administrators. 
"It's a very important rela­tionship," he said. "Researchers need as much support as we can give them." 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April 9, 2007 


\ 
-
TtfE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Friday, March 23, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
12,461.14 +13.62
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,652 143 1,588 3,184.479~692 

_ Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE + 1.5 7 +0.071 4.589 13-WEEK BILL +0.20 +0.01 4.92 30-YEAR BOND + 1.83 +0.086 4.782 5-YEARNOTE + 1.52 +0.067 4.482 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.08 61.69 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.20 664.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.3 3 I 04.20 
Excha Rates 

YEN 118.0550 
EURO 0.7504 
POUND 
0.5093 CANADIAN$ I I ~t.t. 
IN BRIEF Blackstone Group plans to go public 
NEW YORK-Blackstone Group LP, one of the world's biggest private equity firms, on Thursday said it seeks to raise up to $4 billion in a highly anticipated initial public offering. 
The New York-based firm, known for multibil­lion dollar takeovers like February's $23 billion buyout of Equity Office Properties, announced its intentions to go public in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm plans to list on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Blackstone -founded in 1985 by former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankers Stephen Schwarzman and Pete Peterson -said the initial public offering will allow it to tap new sources of capital for buyouts. In addition, it helps extend Blackstone's brand name and gives management a way to profit from the increased value of their stakes. 
Stocks mixed, investors await data 
NEW YORK -Wall Street finished mixed Thursday, nudging the Dow Jones industrials higher for a fourth straight session but moving cautiously as investors awaited new data to assess whether their hopes for an interest rate cut are justified. 
A surprise warning that cell phone maker Motorola Inc. will post a loss for the first quar­ter also made the market uneasy as it looked ahead to earnings reports that begin next month. 
Investors seemed uncertain about where to take stocks a day after the Federal Reserve issued an economic assessment interpreted as opening up the possibility of a reduction in short-term rates. The statement unleashed a wave of buying that boosted the Dow by 159 points Wednesday, but Thursday's session was erratic, with the Dow weaving in and out of positive territory throughout the day. 
Investors remained optimistic about the statement but reined in their buying as they took note of climbing energy costs, which made it look unlikely that inflation will cool enough to provoke a rate cut, and as market experts debated whether the Fed's slight change in language truly suggested a shift in policy. 
"At the end of the day, I don't think it means a heck of a lot," said Stephen Massocca, presi­dent of Pacific Growth Equities. "The market received it very, very well, but ultimately the Fed is news-dependent." 


EU backs aviation deal with U.S. 
"Open Skies" deal will open up restricted trans-Atlantic routes March 2008 
Associated Press  
BRUSSELS, Belgium - 
The European Union  
approved an aviation deal  
with the United States on  
Thursday that opens up  
restricted trans-Atlantic  
routes to new rivals, but  
bowed to British concerns  
in delaying when the  
agreement takes effect. ·  
The "Open Skies" deal  
will allow airlines to fly  
from anywhere in the EU to  
any point in the U.S., shed­ 
ding limitations that also  
discourage them from  
charging what they like or  
combining with other carri­ 
ers.  
The EU said its 27  
nations had unanimously  
voted for the deal, which  
will take effect at the end  
of March 2008. European  
negotiators will now have  
to secure U.S. agreement to  
delay the pact, originally  
scheduled to begin Oct. 28,  
and want to push on with  
new talks to eliminate  
remaining barriers on air­ 
line ownership.  
Britain won its demand  
for extra time before open­ 
ing up London Heathrow,  
the EU's busiest airport, to  
more carriers.  
Only four airlines -AP  
British Airways PLC, Virgin A British Airways flight takes off from Heathrow Airport in London Thursday. The EU  
Atlantic Airways Ltd., AMR agreed to an aviation deal with the U.S. which will open up restricted routes.  
Corp.'s American Airlines  
and UAL Corp.'s United  U.K. will have the right­ to bear on the U.S.," he  from New York to London,  
Airlines -currently have  in 2010 -to re-impose  said.  where they can pick up  
the right to fly from  some or all of the restric­ British Airways CEO  passengers and fly on to  
Heathrow to the U.S., a  tions that U.S. carriers face  Willi!'l Walsh, however, said  Stockholm-offering com­ 
lucrative route that repre­ today," said British  Britain had to stand by its  petition on trips within the  
sents around a third of all  Transport Minister Douglas  pledge to withdraw traffic  EU. But EU airlines will still  
EU flights to the United  Alexander. "I hope very  rights if the U.S. did not  not be able to operate  
States.  much that this will not be  open up to EU airlines. He  domestic American routes.  
EU governments also  necessary. But this sends a  claimed the EUhad already  Virgin Atlantic was satis­ 
stipulated they could sus­ very clear signal to the U.S.  given away its most valu­ fied, though, saying it  
pend parts of the deal - that we are serious about  able negotiating asset by  wants to expand the num­ 
curtailing U.S. airlines' new  making early progress to a  opening up Heathrow.  ber of its flights from key  
rights in Europe -if fur­ second-stage deal."  "So far the U.S. has made  European hubs to New  
ther talks don't lead to  EU Transport  no meaningful conces­ York in the next two years,  
more concessions from the  Commissioner Jacques  sions," he said. "American  adding 500 jobs.  
United States within three  Barrot said he did not  carriers can now fly into  EU officials have repeat­ 
years.  believe such sanctions  Heathrow, Europe and  edly said they were disap­ 
The only nation likely to  would ever be levied  beyond while their own  pointed with the U.S. fail­ 
do this is Britain, which  because by 2010 both the  backyard remains a no-go  ure to lift a rule that bars  
protested opening up  EU and U.S. would be mov­ area for EU carriers and  foreign investors from own­ 
Heathrow when the U.S.  ing toward total liberaliza­ foreign ownership of their  ing more than 25 percent  
had not made concessions  tion for the aviation indus­ airlines remains  of an American airline's  
the Europeans had asked  try.  unchanged."  voting shares -the key  
for.  "The idea behind this  U.S. carriers, for exam­ precondition it set for a  
"I have ensured that the  clause is to bring pressure  ple, will now be able to fly  deal.  

Regulators blamed for risky market 
standards for making riskier mortgage were called to account before the
Associated Press 

loans during the boom. banking panel. 
WASHINGTON -Charges of blame "Our nation's financial regulators The distress in subprime mortgages were flying Thursday for the meltdown were supposed to be the cops on the -higher-priced home loans for people of the high-risk mortgage market as beat, protecting hardworking with tarnished credit or low incomes pressure mounted for Congress to do Americans from unscrupulous fman­who are considered greater risks ­something about rising foreclosures cial actors," Dodd said. "Yet they were has roiled financial markets and stoked among homeowners unable to meet spectators for far too long." anxiety that it could spill over into the high payments. Many mortgage lenders haven't broader economy. 
Under fire from lawmakers, federal come under the Federal Reserve's Company executives said they had regulators said they lacked full authori­supervision because their primary reg­tightened their lending practices and ty to prevent the crisis spawned during ulators are state banking authorities. eliminated some higher-risk types of the soaring housing boom of 2003-However, Dodd and others maintain, mortgages and urged Congress not to 2005. the central bank does have authority rush in and overreact. 
Sen. Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., under federal law to exert jurisdiction "We take the situation very seriously 
chairman of the Senate Banking over those companies and broaden and we're taking strong steps" to cor­
Committee, laid out what he called a lending regulations to cover them. rect problems, testified Brendan 
"chronology of regulatory neglect" as Some of the biggest companies in the McDonagh, the chief executive of HSBC 
banks and other lenders loosened their so-called subprime mortgage market Finance Corp. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 23, 2007 
The Notre Dame community welcomes our 2007 Early Action Admitted Students Participating in the Reilly Scholars Visitation Weekend!! Thursday, March 22-Sunday, March 25, 2007 We ·are happy that you are visiting us! 
Gregory Angle  Danielle Mai  
Daniel Belatti  Kyle Mallinak  
Elizabeth Benson  Andrew Matas  

Jennifer Berry Sean McGee 
Chase Boren Kevin McKernan Timothy Bossidy Chanel Mosby Andres Bravo Stephen Motter Jonathan Browalski Brian Murphy Molly Bryan Claire Naus Alyssa Ceretti Soeren Palumbo Patrick Corcoran Alexander Pelan Kevin Danchisko -Jonathan Pfrommer Andrew Ea Andrew Pierce Brian Ea David Rudy Jessica Everage Kevin Sallah Kale-Frank James Shirey Michelle Giezeman Andrew Skoda Jessica Hedrich Kathleen Snyder Derry Herlihy Cara Sweeney Jenelle Huddleston Caroline Swinehart David Jerome Laura Szejka Cecilia Jou Valerie Terranova Will Joyce Jakub Voboril Kimberly Kukurba Kelly Werner .Emily Kutil Emily Whalen Peter Lobaccaro Erich Wolz Grace Loppnow Jaclyn Woodruff Theresa Lyons Timothy Zintak 
------~------­
Friday, March 23, 2007 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
RUSSIA 




U.S. developerto be fifth space tourist 
Associated Press organisms inside the space sta­
tion. 
STAR CITY -Decades before "He will work responsibly helping to write the programs and with full dedication," said that led to Microsoft Word and Kotov, who said Simonyi was Microsoft Excel, Charles well-qualified for the trip. "If Simonyi learned the basics on you look at the program of his a clunky, Soviet-era computer flight, he practically doesn't called Ural-2. have spare time." 
Next month, the U.S. billion­Born in Communist Hungary, aire programmer will carry a . Simony first leaned computer paper-tape memento from that programming on a Soviet-built first computer and put his faith computer called Ural-2 -he in the heirs to that Soviet-era said he has kept the paper technology when he blasts into tapes from the computer all space aboard a Soyuz rocket to this time as a reminder of how become the world's fifth space dramatically technology has tourist. changed. He left his homeland 
"I will take one of those when he was 17 to work as a paper tapes with me to remind computer programmer in me where it all started," Denmark and moved to the Simonyi told reporters United States in 1968. Thursday at Russia's Star City After working for the Xerox cosmonaut preparation center. Corp. in California for eight 
Simonyi's skill at computers years, he moved to Microsoft in and his work in helping to 1981, where he worked until develop the world's most com­leaving to found Intentional monly used word processing Software Corp. in 2002 in and spreadsheet programs Bellevue, Wash. earned him enough money to Simonyi follows in the foot­spare more than $20 million to steps of Dennis Tito, Mark become the world's fifth "space Shuttleworth, Gregory Olsen, tourist," set to blast off early and Anousheh Ansari -all next month. "space flight participants" who 
Simonyi, 58, will travel to the have also traveled to the inter­international space station national space station aboard aboard a Soyuz TMA-1 0 cap­Russian rockets in trips bro­sule together with Russian cos­kered by the U.S.-based com­monauts Fyodor Yurchikhin pany Space Adventures Ltd. and Oleg Kotov and return to Like all crew members on the Earth 11 days later with its orbiting station, Simonyi will current crew -Russian cos­be able to phone relatives, monaut Mikhail Tyurin and write e-mails, contact his sup­Spanish-born U.S. astronaut port team and even write an Miguel Lopez-Internet blog. He Alegria. also plans to
"I am nervous
U.S. astronaut treat five crew Sunita Williams is about public members to a expected to remain gourmet dinner
appearances and 
on board the sta­including wine­
press conferences, 
tion until June, roasted quail, when she is but I think that duck breast and replaced by rice pudding ­
about the flight I 
Clayton Anderson. specially pre­
am not nervous
Since beginning pared to be con­training at Star at all." sumed in space. City in October, The dinner, Simonyi, like the which Simonyi
Charles Simonyi 
other "space said cost him

future space tourist 
tourists" before "like a meal at him, has had to the Four learn to walk and breathe in a Seasons in New York," will cumbersome space suit, use take place on April 12, when special gas masks, practice Russia celebrates Cosmonauts helicopter rescues in case of a Day. water landing, and other tasks. While Simonyi will spend just 
The hardest thing of all, he a few days on the station, the said, has been spinning in a two Russians will spend 190 high-speed rotating chair to days in space. Yurchikhin help train against dizziness in played down the fact that he space -along with learning had never ridden a Soyuz cap­some Russian. Now that he is sule before and that Kotov had finished training, he says he is never been in space before, sure the trip will go without a saying they were perfectly hitch. qualified for the job. 
"I am nervous about public "The answer to that question appearances and press confer­is very simple -neither Yuri ences, but I think that about Alekseyevich Gagarin, nor the flight I am not nervous at German Stepanovich Titov ... all," the soft-spoken Simonyi nor the others had had any said. "I've learned about the flight experience," Yurchikhin system and the more I learn, said referring to the Soviet cos­the more sure I am about the monauts who were the first backups ... and I think it's per­humans in space. "But they ful­fectly safe." filled their task wonderfully." 
His mother needed some Interested in space since reassuring, however, he said. childhood, Simonyi hopes the 
"My mother is very worried, trip will help popularize space but very understanding and I science among others, espe­think we'll be all right," he cially children. But he also said later told The Associated Press he is hoping for an unforget­in an interview. table experience. 
At the station, he will con­"Space is very much on our duct a number of experiments, minds," he told AP. "You can including measuring radiation fly ... the sky is black instead of levels and studying biological blue, you can see the globe." 
-----------------·---. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, March 23, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB AOMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

WEBo~titV£~o~l1NE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Maddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

"l1u:: Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publismd Monday through F:riday w:cpt during -exam and wtQ~tion pefiods. A&ubsf;;ription fQ The Ob&erv~r 1.$ $l QO for one acad~mic yrar; $55 for QllC srmcsu:r~ 
1'lK Observe£ is published -at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corteai(lns. to: 
Noue Dame. IN 46556-0779 Th<Ob== 
fteriodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O.Box779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South OinJng Hall 
Norre Dame, IN 465-56-0n9 
The Obsccvu b: a tmmber ofth.e &sodatal Press. All repmdua;ian righu iU'e 
'~ 
TODAY'S STAFF 

Jenkins, Senate to be commended 
Student government meetings are often a lot of words and little action, but at Wednesday's session of Student Senate, that was the goal -and it was a positive conversation, not a frustrating imbalance. 
University President Father John Jenkins stopped by for a question and answer session with the senators, a visit he first made during last spring's debate about academic free­dom and Catholic character and a practice that hopefully will be repeated many times O Jhe 
userver 
certain policies, clarifying, for instance, that the University does not promote discriminating against homosexuals but is worried about what a blanket statement in its non-discrimi­nation policy would commit it to. 
Jenkins should not have answered concerns about the cost of tuition by implying that the high salaries many Notre Dame students expect after graduation justify the ever-increasing price tag, but he even managed to recover from that after Morrissey senator Greg 
during his presidency. Dworjan explained how that attitude discour­The two organizations -the University ages graduates from going into community administration and student government -like service.
Editorial 
to talk about dialogue, but on Wednesday there actually was some, and both sides did their part. Jenkins took time out of his day to meet with senators, but the students also asked tough questions -and the president responded sincerely. 
Senators peppered Jenkins with queries ranging from why sexual orientation has not been added to the University's anti-discrimination policy to why tuition continues to rise. To their credit, the senators were persistent, asking follow-up questions after Jenkins had given his original answer. 
And on the president's side, Jenkins did his best to explain 
The problem of post-graduation debt. needs to be addressed, Jenkins responded -an admission that meant Dworjan effectively made his point without creating antagonism. The administration may or may not take steps to try to reduce debt in the future, but it was important that students brought the issue to Jenkins' attention in an atmos­phere of mutual respect. 
That respect is essential, and the openness and candor from the administration and student government is refresh­ing. If both parties continue to engage in constructive dia­logue, the entire campus community will benefit. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Submit a Letter to the Editor or Guest Column to viewpoint.l@nd.edu or online at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

Letters to the length. Guest must include a byline with name, year, and major. All submissions must include the author's name and contact phone number. 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Marcela Berrios Jay Fitzpatrick Liz Harter Bill Brink 
How far will Notre Dame go in the NCAA Hockey tournament? 
a.

Becky Hogan Jay Wade 
"It is fortunate to be ofhigh birth, but it is 
%of votes #of votes
Viewpoint Scene 
no 1ess so to be ofsuch character that 
a. National OJ.ampionship 69% 354

Kara King Analise Lipari 
people do not care to know whether you 
b. 2nd place 4% 23 
are or are not. " 

Graphics c. Frozen Four 21% 107 Tom Hanculak d. Won't advance beyond regional 5% 28 
Jean de Ia BruyereFrench moralist 
This poll is based on the re~ult of 512 
votes at http://www.ndsmcobserver.com/ 
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
Friday, March 23, 2007 page 11 
Our reputation: a sobering reality 
Eight. Four. One. 
Initially, it seems as if you might have fallen asleep and are dreaming that your math professor is asking you to write out answers to a series (if only math prob­
lems here were that  Megan  
easy).Unfortunately, that  Rybarczyk  
is not the case, and  Guest  
this bad dream is  Columnist  
actually a nightmare.  

Eight is the number of students (to the best of my knowledge) who paid their respects to the Emergency Room in a local hospital last semester in one night due to intoxication. Four is the number of times I nearly stepped in vomit on various sidewalks on campus one Sunday morning a few weeks ago. And one? One is a number I hope we can avoid. 
I recently had two discussions, one with a local health care employee who works in the emergency room where I volunteer on Saturday mornings and one with an alumnus of the university. Like any other student, I was proud to say that I am attending Notre Dame. Unfortunately, while I was expecting the usual congratulations and admiration, what I received may have been likened to disgust and disappointment. I would like to say that I was shocked to learn of our notoriety on account of the extracur­ricular activities on campus, but after volunteering in that particular Emergency Room for a third semester, I was not. Employees at this particular facility strongly dislike (I believe the word "hate" was actually used ... ) stu­dents from Notre Dame due to their fre­quent presence in that establishment as a result of intoxication. You know, it really is quite difficult to adequately take care of legitimately ill individuals when there are eight intoxicated students to deal with throughout the night as well. 
Now that I have addressed the disgust (I will spare you my own personal dis­gust experienced during my Sunday morning walk), I will discuss the disap­pointment I encountered. My conversa­tion with the alumnus also revealed a great deal about how we are viewed from the community. This person informed me of his disappointment of the toleration of alcohol on campus and the lack of adequate surveillance and disciplinary action for intoxication to such extremes. It disappointed him to see our reputation falling and such intel­ligent student make such decisions to place their lives and the lives of others at risk. 

For example, when a friend told me that some alcohol that he/she had con­sumed was absolutely terrible and I inquired as to his/her reasons for contin­uing to consume it in large quantities in light of that fact, the unfulfilling response I received was, "I don't know." 
Yes, I understand that the majority of the students here take on a great amount of stress, and, for some reason, many think that alcohol is a way to relieve stress, have fun, open up, to be more social, etc. But, what kinds of rea­sons are these for such dangerous extremes? Will these be adequate to explain the fate of the one? 
You may say that I am exaggerating, but the odds favor this potential fate as a result of the direction in which we are heading. I have brought up the issue of our reputation, but so much more is at stake. Please be responsible and do not make me encounter the one in the Emergency Room who will never be able to answer my question, "Why?" 
Megan Rybarczyk is a sophomore bio­logical sciences major. She can be con­tacted at mrybarcz@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Thank you, Coach Jackson 
It shouldn't be any secret by now that Jeff who aren't able to make the trip with the band Jackson has worked wonders for our hockey -out of his own pocket. Kudos to you, Coach program. To refresh your memory, he has taken Jackson-you obviously understand the "Notre a team that won five games two years ago to a Dame spirit." I hope I speak on behalf of the stu­program record for wins, our first conference dent body when I thank you, your assistants Paul championship and the No. 1 ranking in the Pooley and Andy Slaggert and the rest of the national polls. Oh yeah, and the team went 3-0 hockey program for everything you've done and against Michigan this year, too. But, unlike the will continue to do for us. And one more thing: old Lombardism, winning ISN'T the only thing to Brown for Robey. coach Jackson, as he recently made a very gen­erous gesture. Because only a fraction of the David Heroux hockey band is allowed to travel to the NCAA sophomore regional this weekend, coach has offered to pro­Zahm Hall vide tickets and transportation to those members March 21 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
JN BeRLIN,  
ANIMAL R\GHT~ ACTIVI~T~  
~ANT AN ORPHANeD  
PoLAR BeAR CUB  
8JTAANI"Z.eD RA1H€R  
THAN...  
1rSUFF€R Trle ~VMILIAT10N  
OF BetNG, TReA;e'() As A DoMesTIC PeT.''  
--ASfb~MAN >AIO  
THE?Y Feel SIMilAR~V  
ABOUT ANGeUNA 10Lie's  
LATe>T ADoP1ioN.  

U-WIRE 

A princess of our time 
At this month's news release in New Orleans, Disney announced its first-ever black princess. According to the Disney Web site, the movie, The Frog Princess, will be set in New Orleans where Maddy, the princess, will be living amid the charming elegance and grandeur of the fabled French Quarter. 
Maddy will be added to the list of the Staff Editorial other Disney princesses and also used at the theme parks and in consumer products. Illinois State 
Not only is this a first for the company, The Daily with a black princess as the main charac­Vidette ter, but they have also announced the return of the hand-drawn animation rather than computer animated. 
It's nice that Disney is going back to its hand-drawn style for this film. This way it'll be easier to group this film with 
the older "original" movies. And looking back on this film years from now, hopefully people will also consider it a clas­sic. 
This new movie idea was sparked when parents began put­ting pressure on the company to make a character that was not white like the majority of other princesses in the past, with the exceptions of Pocahontas and Jasmine. 
It's hard to say though if children know, or even care, about the color of the character's skin. Most children are interested in the story line and not so much with what the characters look like. 
Given the choice though, a young black girl could be more likely to choose a black doll over a white one at the Disney Store, which she could more easily relate to because of the similar skin color. 
While this push for a black princess came from mostly par­ents wanting equal time for the races in these movies, we too agree that it's about time. We live in a world where diversity is a huge issue. 
And because Disney has one of the biggest influences on kids today, it is important that they have made this choice. 
The company already has shows on television that feature black characters, such as "That's So Raven," and we are sure that most kids watching the show aren't thinking, "She's black." 
Even some of the cartoons they have produced feature black characters, so the release of the movie shouldn't be such a big deal right? 
One of the things that could spark further debate or ques­tioning is the setting for this film. While other Disney classics have a broader setting and aren't really clear, this one has a defined place for the action to happen. 
We're hoping that the issues of race are not one this princess will have to face in her movie, and it will be interest­ing to see what kind of problems they give this young girl to overcome. It's just kind of strange to see this movie coming out so soon, after all the events that have taken place in New Orleans in the past years. 
Hopefully most families will enjoy this movie and see it as a classic story rather than a movie about the struggles of a black princess. 
This column first appeared in the March 22 edition of The Daily Vzdette, the daily paper ofIllinois State University. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Friday, March 23, 2007 
DVD REVIEWS 
1 Bicycle Thieves' gets new DVD treatment 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Writer 
Following World War II, hopefulness was in short supply across Europe. The conti­nent was in ruins, and countries could no longer afford to entertain their citizens with escapist cinema. Out of this despair came a movement that irrevocably changed global cinema-Italian neorealism. 
From the many notable films of this movement, one in particular -"Bicycle Thieves," Vittorio De Sica's masterful 1948 tale -has withstood the test of time. Its intimately detailed story of a father and son chasing down their stolen bicycle remains as powerful today as it was nearly 60 years ago. Tales of impoverishment, a popular topic in Hollywood and world cinema at this time, had never felt this raw or palpable. 
The story of "Bicycle Thieves" is a simple one, but its deep emotions keep it from ever becoming simplistic. Antonio Ricci (Lamberto Maggiorani) struggles to provide for his family at a time when jobs were scarcer than hope. Against all odds, he gets a coveted position putting up posters around the city, a task that requires a bicy­cle. Scrapped for money, Ricci's wife even sells the family bed sheets to buy the cycle. Hope seems just around the comer. 
But when a pack of thieves steal the bike, the family's livelihood, Ricci enlists the help of his young, impressionable son Bruno (Enzo Staiola). Together, they scour the streets of Rome in a frantic search. 
The pioneers of Italian neorealism fol­lowed one mantra: "We must capture life as it is." They used amateur actors like Maggiorani and Staiola to invest true emo­tion into their pieces, shooting on location in every corner of Italy and telling stories about the working class. Minimalist story­telling revealed the truest of feelings. 
As with most socially conscious fare, "Bicycle Thieves" is not an entertaining film. But that never diminishes its power. Unlike the self-importance that seeps from many Best Picture winners, "Thieves" never feels like a morality play. Part of this stems from its simplicity, but mostly it's because Ricci and Bruno captivate our emotions. 
Like many films from the period, "Bicycle Thieves" has suffered in its video releases. The Criterion Collection recently released a beautiful two-disc set of' the film, complete with a 75-page commemo­rative booklet. The ftrst DVD of "Thieves" 
suffered from horrible 


video quality, marred by scratches, dirt and general wear. With
Bicycle Thieves 
this release, Criterion has drasticallyThe Criterion 
improved the audio and video quality.
Collection 
Although some seg­ments still suffer from scratches, it's unlikely the material can ever look better on a DVD release. 


As for the supplements, Criterion has assembled three impressive documentaries for the second disc. Collecting interviews from actors, screenwriters and scholars, they offer a glut of information about De Sica, screenwriter Cesare Zavattini, the Italian neorealist movement and the film's place among the best films of that era. The only regrettable omL<>sion is a commentary. 
Criterion recruits top scholars to com­ment on some of the most significant films ever made, but not "Bicycle Thieves". It seems incomprehensible that a scholar couldn't be found to shed light on this film. 
Critics of the movie often complain that nothing happens in "Bicycle Thieves." What they don't realize is the payoff to "Thieves" isn't whether Bruno and Ricci catch the thieves. More than just a bicycle, father and son are chasing down a far more tenuous commodity in these lean times -hope. Hope for the future and for their lives, how­ever small they may seem after the destruc­tion of the war. 
Like so much of life, it's the journey in "Bicycle Thieves" -not the destination ­that matters most. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
Cohen amuses, challenges Americans with 'Borat' 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Two words describe the "Borat" DVD ­"very niiice." The DVD release of the filrn that took the United States by storm marks the entrance of Sacha Baron Cohen's Borat into the homes of America. The over-the­top "Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan" is a hilarious, campy and sub­tly intelligent film that comes in a decent package. 
When the case of the "Borat" DVD is opened, it's obvious that Cohen (or the maker of the DVD) is up to his old tricks. The actual DVD resembles a homemade copy, with "Borat" written out in what looks like Sharpie marker (complete with backwards 'R'). Aside from the creative packaging, the menu is one of the most original and clever in recent memory. 
With a full chorus belting out (Cohen's version oO the Kazakh National Anthem, the menu looks like something made in a basement video production house. Sporting dancing bear heads, the menu looks fuzzy and grainy -exactly what an American audience thinks of when the words "Soviet of the film is one of criticism and exposi­tion of the ills of American society. Borat may make us uncomfortable -or make us laugh uncomfortably. In the end, America needs Borat to show us what we can change and make better. 

Propaganda" are mentioned. It is the rare DVD that warrants commentary on its menu, but "Borat" certainly deserves lau­rels for its creative presentation. 
The film itself is the DVD's real gem. The character of Borat was created by Brit Cohen for his television program, "Da Ali G Show." Along with gangsta Ali G and flam­boyant Austrian fashion reporter Bruno, Kazakh journalist Borat forms the comedic trinity of Cohen. He first released a film based around Ali G entitled "Ali G Indahouse." "Borat," the second film released by Cohen, follows the eponymous journalist around the United States as he tries to learn what makes America great. 
The anti-Semitic and misogynistic Borat causes quite a stir wherever he goes. In particular, one of the most entertaining ­and mind opening -parts of Borat occurs when he angers a crowd at a small town rodeo. Falling right into his ploy, the local NBC affiliate actually covered the story before the release of the film, thinking that Cohen was serious. 
The newscast can be accessed in the extras as part of the deleted scenes. While it probably would have detract­ed from the film, this scene epitomizes what "Borat" is trying to do. 
The main trajectory 


The DVD is a single disc with some rather good extras. The "National P.R. Tour" section includes the appearance of Borat at film premieres and on both Conan O'Brien and Jay Lena's late night shows. The "Jay Leno" bit includes a scene where Martha Stewart tries to teach Borat how to make a bed. Needless to say, the scene ends with Borat in the bed sans undergar­ments. 
Other deleted scenes round out the extras on the DVD. This film, however, deserves a larger version. 
The video transfer is very good and the 5.1 audio mix performs well. This isn't a film that needs the expansive 5.1 mix, but it's good nonetheless. 
What makes Cohen's work so great is its ability to make Americans howl with laugh­ter at themselves. Even though he did face legal repercussions regarding some of the scenes, he shows America a side of itself that it rarely sees -or rarely wants to see. But, as "Borat" shows, we might as well laugh while we see it. 
Contact Marty,.Schroeder at mschroel @nd.edu 

TtiE OBSERVER 


CENE
Friday, March 23, 2007 
page 13 

Literary counterparts could use a little advice 

DVD REVIEW 

Wayne, 'Searchers' shine in two-disc release 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
When "The Searchers" was released over 50 years ago, it was seen as just another John Ford western. Starring John Wayne and featuring the Southwest's iconic Monument Valley, it didn't seem overly dif­ferent from other Ford features like "Stagecoach" or "Fort Apache." 
Yet years after its release, "The Searchers" can be regarded as not only Ford's fmest film, but one of the greatest and most influential pictures of all time. Available for years only as a single-disc DVD, it has recently been re-mastered and released by Warner Bros. in a special edi­tion to commemorate its 50th anniversary. 
French New Wave directors such as Jean­Luc Godard and Francois Truffaut cited "The Searchers" as an example of exempla­ry American filmmaking, and it remains one of Ford's most enduring works. It was also a major thematic basis for "Taxi Driver," and its dark undercurrent and technical mastery won it many supporters in the years after its release. 
"The Searchers" is the story of Ethan Edwards (John Wayne), a Civil War veteran who sets off with his nephew Martin (Jeffrey Hunter) and a search party to res­cue his niece, who was kidnapped by a Native American tribe. The trip takes years; and as it progresses, Martin begins to see the depth of Ethan's obsession. 
Ethan Edwards is perhaps the greatest of all of John Wayne's roles -an erstwhile war veteran and anti-hero whose vigilante­like obsession drives him to complete his quest, no matter how futile it seems. 
He anchors the picture throughout, which is especially evident in the fmal iconic shot of Wayne in a darkened doorway, overlook­ing the endless desert. The shot serves to emphasize the differentiation between Edwards and the ordinary folk who popu­late the rest of the film. 
Warner's special edition of "The Searchers" has been long overdue, though it was released last year specifically to coincide with its 50th anniversary. A major step up from the original single-disc release, the new edition is superior to the old in 
every way. 
Foremost, the pic­ture quality is stun­ning-Warner has taken major steps to restore the film, and it shows. Ford shot "The Searchers" in "Vistavision" and Technicolor, and the image pops off the screen. This is the best that "The Searchers" has looked 

A Note to a Select Group of Literary Figures: 
Greetings, my dears. My name is Analise, and I have been a faithful reader of your respective works for quite some time. I'm writing to you not as a critic, but as a friend. We've had some great times together ­lazy summer after­noons in the sun, indoor recesses of yore, even whole rainy days spent in each other's company. I love you all for various rea­sons, but I'm of the opinion that in every good, loving relation­ship, one needs honest and open commu­nication to keep things running smoothly. In that light, I have to tell you guys the truth. 
It's not me -it's you. 
As awesome as you are, each in your own way, you have some issues that need to be addressed. Therefore, I've taken it upon myself to enlighten you as to how you've been frustrating me and other readers with bad decisions and general naivete. 
Call them instructions, tips or nuggets of wizened advice, but I suggest that you pay close attention. Your future fans will thank me. 
I have to say, Jane Eyre, that I do love your novel. That, however, doesn't excuse your general lack of a personality. Yes, you're a vivid personification of Victorian morality, and you're a nice person, sure, but even those strengths don't excuse the fact that you almost married your cousin because you couldn't speak up for your­self. Also, I suggest investing in some fireproof belongings -you and your Byronic-Hero-of-a-husband will thank me later. 

To Elizabeth Bennett of "Pride and Prejudice," I only have one suggestion. Nip the Mr. Collins issue in the bud as quickly as possible. Nothing says "romance-killer" like a nervous clergy­man with a penchant for accidentally insulting people. 
And to Mr. Collins himself, "no" actual­ly does mean "no," especially in the case of a proposal of marriage. Save yourself the humiliation, man. It's for your own good. Now shoo. 
A general point of advice to Dostoevsky's Raskolnikov, Shakepeare's Hamlet and other loquacious leading men -stop talking. Or at least cut back a bit on the excessive speeches that you all feel compelled to make. To Raskolnikov, especially, I suggest a little less introspection. You should get out more. 
The same goes for you, Emily Dickinson. The sun is a good thing. As is proper punctuation, but we can deal with that later. 
Disney's Thumper got it right the first time, Emma Woodhouse -ifyou can't say something nice, don't say anything at all. 
And Beowulf. Fighting beasts at your age? Shame on you. I understand that you have ego issues that even Freud did­n't see coming. But the Geats need you. 
Or, at least, they need you to stay alive for another few months without being fatally scorched by dragon breath. 
Also, just because Moby Dick emascu­lated you so cruelly by taking your leg, Captain Ahab, doesn't mean you have the right to risk the lives of everyone else you know by rabidly following the Great White Whale. I suggest some sort of grief counseling or anger management semi­nar. 
Lastly, as a general announcement to Gilbert Blythe of "Anne of Green Gables" -what do you think ofjumping off of the page and into the three-dimensional world? You'd be surprised at what sci­ence can accomplish these days. 
I hope that these tips can help you all deal with your issues, and I wish you the best in your future literary endeavors. Just no badly-written sequels or pre­quels, please. I don't need to see "The Scarlet B" in my local bookstore anytime soon. 
Faithfully yours in reading, 
Analise Lipari 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 
I John Wayne stars as Civil War veteran Ethan Edwards in John Ford's iconic film, "The Searchers." Wayne's performance is considered one of the best of his career. 
since its original release, and it accentuates the film's cinematography. The sound comes in the original mono, which is a solid track -often these are re-mastered in a digital 5.1 version, but Warner wisely retained the sound as it was first heard. 
The extra features include a commentary by director Peter Bogdanovich. Unfortunately, both Ford and Wayne have passed on, but the remaining features showcase both prominently. 
There are three documentaries featured: "The Searchers: An Appreciation," "A Turning of the Earth: John Ford, John Wayne and The Searchers" and "Behind the Cameras: Meet Jeffrey Hunter, Monument Valley, Meet Natalie Wood, Setting Up Production." All three are insightful and extensive, with a surprising amount of background detail. 
Fifty years after its original release, "The Searchers" has only grown in stature. As an iconic piece of American cinema, and per­haps the greatest western of all time, its reputation will surely continue to grow over the next half century. Warner has fmally given the film the release it deserves, which makes it a rich and important addition to any film library. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

'. ' 
' 
' 
' page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 23, 2007 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Tigers make Elite 8 with tight win over Aggies 
Late free throws propel Memphis over Texas A&M; Led by Rush, Kansas advances with win over Southern Illinois 
Associated Press shot from just inside half-court the most, and·might have creat­was woefully short. ed a dill'erent outcome. 
SAN ANTONIO -Visualize Kirk took the final shot Hunt, the Tigers' sixth man, this: The Memphis Tigers are instead of "Captain Clutch," had 19 points. Chris Douglas­one win away from the NCAA senior Acie Law, who had 13 Roberts, wearing a brace to Final Four. points. He was only 6-of-17 support his sprained left ankle 
Forget those season-long from the field in his final game sustained last weekend, scored struggles from the free throw for the Aggies -and blew a 15 points on 5-of-8 shooting. line. The Tigers are making layup with just under a minute Antanas Kavaliauskas had 17 them when it counts, with left after he took a long inbound points and eight rebounds for Antonio Anderson hitting two pass. the Aggies, who played in their with 3.1 seconds left Thursday That was the last good shot first regional semifinal since night for a 65-64 victory over the Aggies got. 1980. Joseph Jones scored 14 Texas A&M in the NCAA South Texas A&M was unable to points. Regional semifinal. take advantage of a partisan Now there will be questions 
Anderson came in shooting 64 crowd, the stands in the about if Gillispie remains at percent from the free throw line Alamodome filled mostly with Texas A&M. The coach is and was 1-for-4 when he went maroon-clad fans providing a already being mentioned as a to the line after being fouled at football-like atmosphere and possible replacement at the end of a wild sequence in waiting to celebrate another big Kentucky after Tubby Smith left which the Tigers missed three victory. the Wildcats to become quick shots. Instead, it was the small con­Minnesota's coach. 
The Tigers have been one of tingency of fans in blue behind the nation's worst free throw­the Memphis bench -including Kansas 61 shooting teams all season. They former Tigers star Penny Southern Illinois 58 were so bad that coach John Hardaway -who were cheer­The Kansas Jayhawks knew Calipari quit having them shoot ing at the end. they had to abandon the beau­in postseason practice and told After Law's blown layup, tiful game they usually play to his players to visualize making Jeremy Hunt missed a 3-pointer beat Southern Illinois. The them instead. for the Tigers. But Anderson got Jayhawks admit they don't like 
Memphis (33-3) stretched its the rebound and they called winning ugly -but they like winning streak to 25 games and timeout with 26 seconds left. losing even less. advanced to a regional final for Andre Allen missed a 3-point­When the Salukis slowed the second straight year. The er with 11 seconds left and their NCAA tournament run to Tigers, who last went to the Hunt and Robert Dozier missed a crawl, Brandon Rush and his Final Four in 1985, will play follow-up attempts before Kansas teammates stooped Ohio State or Tennessee on Anderson grabbed another down into the grit for a win Saturday. rebound -and was fouled by that put them on the brink of the hands of the Missouri game was on the line, we han­
Texas A&M (27-7), three sea­Donald Sloan while trying his the Final Four. Valley Conference, which dled it pretty well." sons with coach Billy Gillispie own putback. Hush scored 12 points with­takes the "mid" out of mid­Jamaal Tatum scored 19 removed from an 0-16 record in Texas A&M outrebounded the out missing a shot, and Kansas major with each passing year. points in his final college game the Big 12, had one final Tigers 36-31, but didn't get the eked out a 61-58 victory over Bradley beat the Jayhawks for the fourth-seeded Salukis chance, but Dominique Kirk's ones at the end that mattered Southern Illinois in the West last season, but Kansas (29-7), who couldn't get the 
Hegional semifinals Thursday advanced to face the winner of break they needed to reach night. UCLA's late game against the round of eight for the first 
Darrell Arthur and Hussell Pittsburgh. time in school history with just Hobinson scored nine points Southern Illinois decisively their second loss in 1 7 games. apiece to help the Jayhawks won the matchup's clash of Julian Wright's free throw (33-4) barely avoid yet anoth­styles, forcing a deliberate with 1:23 left put Kansas up er Saluki surprise and another tempo on the high-flying 58-53, but Tatum hit a 3­disappointing exit from the Jayhawks while keeping the pointer moments later. tournament. possessions long and the score Chalmers hit a free throw, and 
Kansas went into the locker low. The Salukis' defensive Tatum added another jumper room bickering and muttering aggression and offensive to cut the Jayhawks' lead to at Southern Illinois' tenacity, rebounding were complement­59-58. yet still won its 14th straight ed by just enough big shots But Hush confidently drove game by nursing a small lead from its struggling scorers to the lane with 25 seconds left through the final minutes keep it close. and flicked home a basket against a defense that made But Kansas adjusted with a with the poise that might the Jayhawks' future NBA maturity that wasn't present someday make him the best of stars work exceptionally hard in coach Bill Self's last two his three basketball-playing for every basket. teams. Nine players got a field brothers. 
"It shows that we can win goal for the Jayhawks, who "Somebody had to step up whatever the circumstances patiently waited for holes in down the stretch and make a are," said Kansas guard Mario the Salukis' defense -and good play, and I'm glad I did," Chalmers, who scored just then threw themselves into Rush said. nine points. "Everyone knows defending the other end. Rush's layup provided the we like an uptempo game in It was elemental basketball, game's final points, but Tatum the 80s, but we can take our and Kansas put all the ele­missed a chance to tie it on a time and slow it down with the ments together. 3-pointer with 8 seconds left. best of them, too." "Whoever plays Southern "The shot I took is a shot 
When Tony Young missed a isn't going to look good offen­I've practiced numerous times desperate 3-point attempt sively," Self said. "It just isn't in the gym at night (and) in AP from half-court at the buzzer, going to happen.... I was dis­between classes," Tatum said. 
Memphis guard Doneal Mack shoots through tough defense 
Kansas dodged its second appointed how some guys han­"It felt good. I don't know 
during the Tigers' 65-64 win over Texas A&M Thursday. 
straight tournament loss at dled the heat, but when the what to say." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notte Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Now leasing for 2007/8. Great  3-bdrm 1-bath house. Walk to NO.  Beautiful 3-story townhouse over- PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ 
WANTED  FoR SALE  houses close to campus. Anlanproperties@comcast.net  1219 N. Twyckenham. Call574­231-0967.  looking river, 112 mi. to NO.2 decks, large windows, 3 bdrm, 3.5 bath, 2,000 sq.ft., 2-car garage,  ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help.  
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS.  *NO CONDOS*  OFF CAMPUS HOUSING.  Large 2-bdrm condos, 18027 &  $1500/mo OBO. Avail. April!. Call  Call our 24 hour  
$15.50 base-appt.  NEW 213 BR,2 bath condos  Bumbaca houses offer you BIG  18041 Bulla Rd. Call574-233-4590.  Ben 574-302-7415.  confidential hotline at  
flexible schedules, no exp.needed,  Minutes from campus  Savings for 2 or 3 year lease.  1-800-No-ABORT  
customer sales/service,  Starting in $130,000s  Visit our web site  RENTLIKEACHAMPION  or visit our website at  
conditions apply, all ages 17+,  574-252-2427, ndcondos.com.  Bumbacahouses.com.  3-5 bdrms avail for 07-08.  PERSONAL  www.lifecall.org  
positions in all of  Reserve Yours Todal£!  Call Cosimo  $250/bdrm.  
Indiana & Michigan,  574-277-1875.  Call312-545-5123 or  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Adopt: A young loving couple long  
273-3835.  email mitchell.58@nd.edu  not go it alone. If you or someone  to share their Hearts and home with  
www.workforstudents.com  FoR RENT  3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for  you love needs confidential support  a newborn & will provide Endless  
07/08 school year.  1 bdrm apts available  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  love.  
NEED A SUMMER JOB? Camp  andersonNDrentals.com  On line see rentnd.com  summer & fall 07. 1 mi to NO  Dunn, OP, at 1-7819.  Expenses paid call Eileen & Ed at  
Tannadoonah is hiring 2007 camp  or mmmrentals.com.  in quiet historic neighborhood.  For more information, visit our web­ 1-800-718-6577  

staff. Have the best summer of your BETTER HOMES,BETTER life! AREAS,BETTER DEALS. Visit www.tannadoonah.org BlueGoldRentals.com 
Contact Gary at Grooms @ourwebspot.net or phone 574-277-4759. 
$575/mo. Laundry/Security. Call574-532-8718. 

site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
Lysander, where art thou? Love, Hermia 

. '
. 



OUND THE NATION 
Friday, March 23, 2007 CoJv\PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 

USCHO~com/CSTV n 
Hockey Rankings 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

1 NOTRE DAME 2 Minnesota 3 Clarkson 4 Boston College 5 New Hampshire 6 North Dakota 7 St. Cloud State 8 Michigan 9 Boston University 10 Michigan State 11 St. lawrence 12 Massachusetts 13 Miami 14 Maine 15 Denver 16 Quinnlpiac 17 Wisconsin 18 Dartmouth 19 Michigan Tech 20 Colorado College 
Record Points 
31-6·3 727 30-9-3 714 25-8·5 637 26·1H 625 26·10·2 « i 681 22·13·5 567 22·10-7 518 26·13·1 484 20-9-9 465 22·13-3 399 23·13-2 356 20·12-5 340 23·13-4 285 21-14-2 . 207 21-15-4 204 21-14·5 150 19-18-4 148 18-12-3 128 18-17-5 126 18·17-4 54 
USA TODAYI ESPN Division 1 Baseball Coaches'• Poll 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 
16 17 18 19 20 
Vanderbilt Florida State South Carolina Oregon State Virginia North Carolina Clemson Rice Texas TexasA&M Arkansas Peppenline Arizona State Wichita State Cal State Fullerton Kentucky Costal Carolina Mississippi Oklahoma State long Beach State 

Record 
21·1 23·0 
17~3 
20.3 19-4 18·3 14·4 17-7 .19-7 20.3 16-6 17q . ''i!1g.7 1&<5 13·9 26-2 19-3 15-7 
17·5 
12~7 
ESPN.com/USA Softball Division 1 Rankings 
Record 
1 Tennessee 28·2 2 Alabama 3 Oklahoma 4 TexasA&M 5 Arizona 
·...···. 21·7 6 Michigan 23·3 1 Arizona State 29·5 8 Northwestern 19·5 9 lSU 28·4 10 Stanford 
,,,,.,.,:, 21"5 11 Texas 12 Baylor · 13 Oregon 14 UCLA 15 louisiana-lafayette 16 Washington 17 Illinois State 18 DePaul 19 Georgia 20 Georgia Teeb 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Florida vs. Butler 7:10p.m., CBS 

Georgetown vs. Vanderbilt 
7:25 p.m., CBS 
Oregon vs. UNLV 
9:40 p.m., CBS 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -With Kentucky fans dogging him after another disappointing fmish, Tubby Smith is bolt­ing the bluegrass for Minnesota. 
Smith will be introduced as the 16th coach of the Golden Gophers at a noon press conference Friday, ending a 10-year tenure in Lexington that seemed to be nearing an end even before Minnesota contacted him. 
The Wildcats went 22-12 this season and made it to the NCAA tournament, but lost to top-seeded Kansas in the second round, turning up the heat on the coach of college basketball's win­ningest program. 

Smith led Kentucky to the national championship in his first season in 1998, but the Wildcats haven't been back to the Final Four since, their longest drought since the NCAA tournament began. The team has lost 10 or more games in a sea­son five times under his watch, prompting the demanding fan base to nickname him "10-loss Tubby." 
"On behalf of the University of Kentucky, I'd like to express sincere appreciation to Tubby Smith, his family and his staff," Kentucky athletic director Mitch Barnhart said in a statement. "We wish him the very best at the University of Minnesota. They are getting a solid coach and a great person." 
Minnesota was 9-22 this season, the most losses in the 111-year history of the program, and averaged just 
60.6 points a game, its low­est in 56 years. Former coach Dan Monson was forced to resign seven games into this season with a 118-106 record in eight seasons. 
Thursday morning, Minnesota asked for Barnhart's permission to talk to Smith, said Kentucky basketball spokesman Scott Stricklin. 
Smith never was able live 
IN BRIEF 
Artest pleads not guilty to 
charges of battery 
AUBURN, Calif.-Sacramento Kings forward Ron Artest pleaded not guilty Thursday to misdemeanor charges stemming from a domestic dispute with his wife earlier this month. 
A Placer County Superior Court judge also ordered him to stay at least 100 yards away from his wife and chil­dren until further notice. 
Artest's attorney, William Portanova, entered pleas of not guilty to charges of battery and corporal injury to a spouse, false imprisonment and dis­suading a witness from reporting a crime. 
The former Indiana Pacers player sat in the audience section of the small courtroom among other defendants and members of the media. He spoke only when asked direct questions by Judge Francis Kearney, responding no when asked if he owned firearms and yes when asked if he understood the conditions of the restraining order. 

Peyton Mannin_g to star on 
"saturday Night uve" 
INDIANAPOLIS -"Saturday Night Live" is just another game for Peyton Manning. . 
He'll dress up, work with his team­mates and audible at every opportuni­ty. Then the Super Bowl MVP hopes it all works in perfect concert -which, of course, it never does on live televi­sion. Or minus receivers Marvin Harrison and Reggie Wayne. 
"The only thing I've done live is play football, and that's the best thing I do," Manning said. ''I've told everyone those commercials are very taped and very edited, but being live is kind of like a game." 
Manning has dared to dress up before, donning wigs and mustaches to poke fun at himself.Thankfully, the straight-laced Indianapolis Colts quar­terback with a mind that always seems immersed in football has always had someone there to protect his polished image. 
up to the standard set by the man he replaced at Kentucky. Rick Pitino became a legend in Lexington, leading the Wildcats to three Final Fours, including the 1996 national title and the 1997 championship game, before leaving to coach the Boston Celtics. 
Wildcats fans grew even more restless when Pitino returned to the state of Kentucky, leading rival Louisville to the 2005 Final Four. 
"In our league, we have passionate fans that want to see success," said SEC commissioner Mike Slive about the expectations at Kentucky. 
This week, Manning must do it himself. Papelbon returns to Red Sox bullpen as closer 
The Boston Red Sox suddenly have a closer again. Same one as last season. 
Jonathan Papelbon is switching back to the bullpen, filling a major void for Boston after spending most of spring training preparing to be a starting pitcher. But he said the move has nothing to do with the fact that Mike Timlin's injury left the Red Sox in dire need of late­inning relief. 
"This is something I want to do for the rest of my career," Papelbon said Thursday. "It has nothing to do with Timlin's health or us not having a closer or my shoulder. I broke into the league as a closer. They drafted me as a clos­er. In college, I learned to pitch in the bullpen. It's where my heart is." 
.' . 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, March 23, 2007 
CRICKET 
Pakistani coach killed after loss in World Cup 
Cricket coach's death may be gambling-related 


AP Pakistani Cricket captain lnzamam-ui-Haq, right, and manager Talat Ali mourn their deceased coach, Bob Woolmer. 
Associated Press 
KINGSTON, Jamaica Pakistan's cricket coach Bob Woolmer was strangled in his hotel room after the team's shocking World Cup loss to Ireland, police said Thursday. 
Police Commissioner Lucius Thomas said in a statement that the pathologist report found Bob Woolmer's death was due to "asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation." 
The statement, which was read by a police spokesman at the Jamaica Pegasus Hotel where Woolmer was killed on Sunday, said police were now treating the case as a murder investigation. Police said they were reviewing security cameras at the hotel and seeking witnesses to the crime. 
"It is our belief that those asso­ciated with or having access with Mr. Woolmer may have vital information to assist this inquiry," Thomas said in the statement. 
Woolmer, 58, was found uncon­scious in his blood-and vomit­splattered hotel room in Jamaica on Sunday, a day after his team's upset loss to Ireland on St. Patrick's Day sealed Pakistan's ouster from the tournament. He was later declared dead at a hos­pital. 
Pakistan cricketers were fin­gerprinted and interviewed on Thursday by police investigating his death. They were allowed to leave the hotel in the afternoon and travel to Montego Bay. 
No arrests have been made and there are no suspects in the case, police said. 
It was not clear if the team would be asked to remain in Jamaica pending the investiga­tion, but Mark Shields, a deputy police commissioner at the press conference, said the players have pledged full cooperation whether they are on the Caribbean island or back home in Pakistan. 
Earlier Thursday, Assistant Police Commissioner Les Green, formerly of Scotland Yard, said the team was fingerprinted as part of standard procedure "to eliminate persons from finger­prints which would be found in the room." 
"After a thorough investigation, fmgerprints not belonging to Mr. Woolmer were found in the room," he told The Associated Press. 
On Wednesday, a forensics team spent hours combing Woolmer's room on the 12th floor of the hotel in Kingston. 
Investigators had called in an American pathologist to help determine the cause of death amid local media reports that Woolmer had been strangled. An initial autopsy was inconclusive. 
Shields declined to comment when asked about media reports describing the condition of Woolmer's body. "There are some issues surrounding marks on his body, but for the moment I would rather we stick to the cause of death, which is asphyxia," he said. 
Woolmer's wife, Gill, said Thursday in an interview from South Africa with Britain's Sky TV that she had not ruled out that her husband was murdered. 
"I mean some of the cricketing fraternity, fans are extremely volatile and passionate about the game and what happens in the game, and also a lot of it in Asia, so I suppose there is always the possibility that it could be that (murder)," she said. 
Former Pakistani player Sarfraz Nawaz speculated earlier in the week that the coach was killed by gambling interests. 
But his widow said her hus­band had not recently mentioned anything about match fixing. He had been South Africa's coach in the 1990s when the team's cap­tain, Hansie Cronje, admitted taking money to fix matches and was banned for life. Woolmer was never implicated. 
Lord Paul Congdon, head of the International Cricket Council's anti-corruption unit, will investi­gate if corruption played a role in Woolmer's death, ICC chief exec­utive Malcolm Speed said. 
Woolmer's death has caused a sensation in the proper world of cricket and left the Pakistan national team in tatters and tears. Team captain Inzamam-ul­Haq announced his resignation and retirement from one-day cricket after Woolmer's death, then led Pakistan to an emotional victory Wednesday against Zimbabwe. A fan at the match hoisted a sign saying: "Do it for Bob." 
The burly, bearded team cap­tain left the field weeping after the victory he dedicated to Woolmer. "He's not in this world now and every Pakistani and every cricket lover is sad," he said. 
Woolmer, who is British, was born in India, played for England and recently split his time between Pakistan and South Africa. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Oden seals Ohio State win 
Buckeye center's block as time expires gives OSU 85-84 victory 
Associated Press 

SAN ANTONIO -Maybe now folks will realize there's more to Ohio State than Greg Oden. 
The big man finally looked like a freshman, getting mired in foul trouble as the top-seed­ed Buckeyes fell bPhind by 20 points before halrtime. But senior Hon Lewis and fellow freshman Mike Conley bailed out Oden and lifted Ohio State past Tennessee, 85-84 Thursday night in the semifi­nals of the NCAA South Hegional. 
"In this tournament, the two most important words are 'survive' and 'advance,' and we've been very, very fortu­nate the last couple of games to do those things," said Buckeyes coach Thad Matta, whose club needed a furious final minute and overtime to get past Xavier in the second round. 
Lewis, who hit the big 3­pointer in the Xavier rally, scored 18 of his 25 points in the second half and Conley had nine of his 17 from the foul line -including the winner with 6.5 seconds left. 
But Conley missed a second shot, giving Tennessee one last chance. Ramar Smith grabbed the rebound and went all the way to the rim with Conley defending him. They went up together and time expin~d with his ball in the air. 
Then it was Oden to the res­cue, swatting the ball into the Volunteers' cheerleaders and dropping back to earth himself with his biggest smile of the night, while Smith planted himself facedown in front of the Tennessee bench. 
The Buckeyes (33-3) won their 20th straight game, keep­ing alive their longest run in the tournament since reaching the Final Four in 1999. They can get there again with a vic­tory Saturday against Memphis, a 65-64 winner over Texas A&M earlier Thursday. 
For the Volunteers (24-11), this was a second straight heartbreaking loss to one of the nation's top teams. The first was a 68-66 defeat in Columbus, Ohio, in mid­January when Oden had the first breakout game of his career. 
"We played about as well in the first half, I think, as we can 
Sponsored bq first Year of Studies 
play," Tennessee coach Bruce Pearl said. "We're terribly dis­appointed. We've proven we can beat some of the best teams in the country. We've also proven we can come close to beating some of the best teams in the country." 
The 7 -foot, 270-pound Oden scored only nine points, matching his lowest in 15 games, and set a season-low with three rebounds. He never fouled out, though, needing quick substitutions in the final few minutes to avoid getting disqualified. He played only nine minutes in each half, a season-low total of 18. 
After the game, Oden needed stitches in his chin because of a collision during the second half. 

C9!~ii6 t\i5bt; 
tg~4~~ ~cl5 27/ 11:00 p.t». 
Come and Listen Come and Read Con1e and Play 
Lectio®Eleven 

ALa.te.-Night Cabaret lor the Soul 
llOOpmTuesdaysatRecker's free pizzasupplied by firstYear of Studies! 
lectJo@flevenis a cabaret olgreat tuuslc and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame conumutitq. Come to Recker's and hear It with 90ur ownearJ. 
Weare alwa'l" looking for more readers and musicians. IfInterested, contact Jonathan Couser Bt jcouser@nJ.edu or call631-3923. 
'l ' 
Friday, March 23, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Prior's latest start positive 
Oft-injured pitcher throws four innings, gives up four hits 
Associated Press 
PEORIA, Ariz. --Mark Prior 
had his best outing of the spring. 
Whether he'll start the season on 
the Chicago Cubs' active roster is 
still unclear. 
With the rotation pretty much 
set a week before the Cubs break 
camp and with Wade Miller the 
top candidate to be the fifth 
starter, there might not be a spot 
for Prior. At least not right away. 
"He threw the ball better, that's the most important thing. A really nice step forward for him," man­ager Lou Piniella said after Prior's ·four-inning outing Thursday in a 1-0 loss to the San Diego Padres. "I think the idea of not rushing him, giving him time, it's the right 
tonic." 
Prior gave up four straight two­
out singles in the first -the only 
four hits he allowed. But he sur­
rendered only one run, thanks to 
a nice throw to the plate from left 
fielder Matt Murton to cut down a 
runner. 
Prior threw 59 pitches, walked 
two and struck out three. He 
whizzed a fastball by Khalil 
Greene for the final out in the 
third. He hit 89 mph with his 
fastest pitch in a game called 
after five innings because of rain. 
Prior was making just his third 
appearance and second start of 
the spring and has now worked 
only 7 1-3 innings. That's well 
below the 25 to 27 innings 
Piniella said he wanted to give his 
starters. 
"I felt good and the arm feels 
great," Prior said. "There weren't 

C~unpus Afinist:ry presents 
§ospel Sounds 
C)f Dayron, C)hio 
Saturday, March 24th, 2007 10:00-11:30 am Music '\Vorkshop 
All invited; c:::olernan Morse Rootn 329 
7:30 pm Concert 
I<ecnan-Stanford Chapel, l::.'rcc adn'lission 
'\XTorkshop participants, including the N.rJ Folk and C:debration C::hoirs, "Will be invit<::d H> part:icipat:<:: in the COtlCt.~rt \Nit:h this dynamic and faith-filled group. 

NCAA BASKETBAl-L 
UCLA defeats Pitt, advances to Elite 8 
Bruins hit 23-of-26 free throws in 64-55 win 
Associated Press and Aaron Gray was held to 
10 in his final college game. 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Ben "They're a very good defen­Howland set the tone early, sive team," Gray said. crouching into a defensive "Obviously we knew that stance with his arms in the going in. We knew it wasn't air, yelling out assignments. going to be an up-and-down 
And he's only UCLA's coach. game. You got to give them a 
His players paid just as lot of credit. They did a great much attention at the defen­job forcing us out of our stuff. sive end in a style all-too­At the same time, we missed familiar for Pittsburgh. The a lot of shots that we're style Howland employed in accustomed to making." four years at Pitt ended up The Panthers shot just 2-of­knocking the 12 to open the Panthers out of second half, the NCAA tour­missing more
"Our defense was
nament when than a dozen the Bruins won spectacular layups as UCLA's the West big men allowed
tonight. It had to
Regional semifi­nothing easy
be or we weren't
nal 64-55 underneath. Thursday night. going to win They never real­
"It starts with ly threatened
this game." 
our coach," UCLA after that point guard and finished the Darren Collison Ben Howland game at 36 per­said. "He UCLA coach cent shooting. · too many good swings off me and they didn't really hit too many balls hard." 
When Prior completed his fourth inning by slipping a called third strike past former teammate Greg Maddux, he walked off the field and was greeted by a hand­shake and pat on the back from pitching coach Larry Rothschild. Prior entered the game with an 0­1 record and 18.90 ERA in two short outings. He'd also pitched four innings last week in an intrasquad game. 
Maddux was sharp in his first start against a major league line­up since March 8. The right-han­der held the Cubs to three hits in five shutout innings. Maddux pitched against Texas Rangers minor leaguers on Saturday. He skipped his previous start with a lower abdominal strain. 
"I felt pretty good," Maddux said. "You'd like to get a little bet­ter each time out." 
Prior's performance Thursday came after Piniella said before the game that Miller was pretty much -but not 100 percent-set as the No. 5 starter, joining the rota­tion of Carlos Zambrano, Ted Lilly, Jason Marquis and Rich Hill. 
But not so fast. 
"We'll see where we go from here. But obviously it was an improvement and I'm happy to see it," Piniella said after the game, adding that Prior was able to get his breaking pitch over and also looked more comfortable on the mound. 
Piniella said he didn't know if Prior would pitch again this spring. 

emphasizes defense all year long and we showed it pays to be physical." 
The second-seeded Bruins (29-5) never trailed in the grind-it-out game that matched Howland against his best friend and former assis­tant, Jamie Dixon. With teams using the same tight defensive style, sometimes the only way to score was when the shots weren't contested. 
That's just what Arron Afflalo and the Bruins did. Affialo made all 10 of his free throws and UCLA shot 23-for­26 from the line, scoring 12 of its final 18 points on foul shots. 
"We did a great job to knock 

down free throws, and it's a 
good thing we did because we 
weren't scoring a lot," for­
ward Josh Shipp said. "I think 
we're just getting down to 
business and focusing on free 
throws." 
Third-seeded Pitt (29-8) cut 

a 12-point lead down to five 
when Levance Fields hit a 
pair of 3s and Ronald Ramon 
added another in an 88-sec­
ond span, but Michael Roll's 
baseline jumper with 51.5 
seconds left put the Bruins up 
58-51. 
"We never really pulled away," Afflalo said. "That team kept competing and they did a great job staying in the game. We were very fortunate tonight." 
The Bruins advanced to 

play Kansas (33-4) in 
Saturday's regional final in a 
matchup of two of college 
basketball's most storied 
teams. The top-seeded 
Jayhawks beat Southern 
Illinois 61-58 ih the first game 
in San Jose. 
Afflalo finished with 17 

points, going 3-for-11 from 
the floor in another poor 
shooting night. Shipp added 
16 and Collison had 12 as the 
Bruins advanced to regional 
finals in consecutive years for 
the first time since 1979-80. 
Ramon scored 12 points to lead the Panthers, who lost in the regional semifinals for the fourth time in six seasons. They haven't been to the round of eight since 1974, when it took only two wins to get there. Fields added 11 
"Our defense 

was spectacular tonight," Howland said. "It had to be or we weren't going to win this game." 
Shipp, who missed the Bruins' run to the title game a year ago because of a hip injury, hit two key 3-pointers early in the half. The rest was done at the foul line. Even Lorenzo Mata got into foul shooting rhythm, making a pair in the second half despite being a 37 percent foul shoot­er on the season. That got a big round of applause from the pro-Bruins crowd that filled the arena. 
This matchup between coaches who are also best friends could only have hap­pened in the NCAA tourna­ment. The two have said they would never schedule a regu­lar-season meeting because they saw no benefit to playing a close friend. 
"It's emotional for me," Howland said. "I've got a lot of good friends over there. I hope we never have to play again." 
The relationship between the coaches runs deep, dating to when Howland recruited Dixon to play at UC Santa Barbara in the early 1980s. The two then worked together at UCSB, Northern Arizona and Pitt over the years before Howland left for UCLA follow­ing the 2002-03 season and Dixon replaced him. 
"There were a few instances when I recognized the play calls and the motion that they were running," Afflalo said. "That probably worked to our advantage, but maybe they could say the same thing." 
The Panthers opened the game 5-for-19 shooting, unable to get open looks against UCLA's stifling man­to-man defense. Pitt went more than 5 minutes without a field goal in one stretch, but only trailed by seven because of their own defense and abil­ity to get to the foul line. 
"I can't remember another game where we missed that many layups or easy looks," Pitt forward Levon Kendall said. "I don't know what it was. Just one of those things." 
~ 
. 
•
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 23, 2007 
ND SOFTBALL 
Bargar leads team to victory 
Sophomore throws complete game with four hits and three Ks 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame snapped a three­game losing streak Thursday with a 6-1 win over IUPUI in its home opener. 
Right-hander Brittney Bargar pitched a complete game for the Irish, picking up the win to improve to 7-7 on the year. 
"Right now, we're going to take the wins as they come," Bargar said. "We always shoot for a shutout, but we'll take the win." 
Bargar allowed only four hits while striking out three in her league-leading 11th complete game of the season. 
The offense got started early for the Irish (10-12), putting up two runs in the bottom of the first inning. Third baseman Heather Johnson doubled home senior Stephanie Brown with two outs to drive in the first run of the game and shortstop Katie Laing fol­lowed with a double of her own to give the Irish the 2-0 lead. Johnson picked up three hits and two RBI in the first home game of her career. 
Notre Dame picked up another two-out run in the third after sec­ond baseman Linda Kohan walked. Junior Sarah Smith pinch-ran for Kohan, and scored all the way from first on another double by Johnson. 
With the Jaguars (5-13) still scoreless in the sixth, the Irish put the game out of reach with three more runs. Center fielder Stephanie Brown earned an RBI, beating out an infield single with two outs that scored a run, fol­lowed by left fielder Beth Northway scoring on an error. Notre Dame senior Gessica Hufuagle singled home Brown for the sixth and final run for the Irish. 
Brown also picked up two hits and scored two runs, increasing her team-leading batting average to .444. 
IUPUI finally got on the board in the seventh inning when pinch hitter Susan Jones hit into a field­er's choice, driving home center fielder Sarah Needy for the Jaguars' only run of the day. 
Irish Coach Deanna Gumpf said the team's tough losses in the Judi Garman Classic over spring break may have helped the team. 
"In California, we saw some girls who were really throwing hard and with a lot of move­ment," Gumpf said. "Now we can come back and see some girls who are good, but they don't look so tough anymore." 
Sophomore Breanna Howell gave up four earned runs over 5 2/3 innings to take the loss for IUPUI. 
While the Irish have had their early season struggles, Gumpf believes the most important part of the season begins in conlerence play. 
"Right now, our record doesn't mean anything," she said. "The only thing that matters is how well we prepared ourselves to play in the Big East." 
Notre Dame will begin its con­ference schedule this weekend with doubleheaders at home against St. John's Saturday and Seton Hall Sunday. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles return hoine 
after 10 road games 
By REBECCA SLINGER 
Sports Writer 
After 10 road games -all in Florida -Saint Mary's is fmal­ly playing in front of its home crowd. 
The Belles (9-1) take on Hose-Hulman (7-5) Sunday at 2 
p.m. in their home opener. 
"There's always apprehen­sion for the first game, and the weather is different here from Florida," Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. "But in general, the team is just excited." 
Even though the Engineers don't quite have the Belles record, their offense features four players hitting above .400. Switch-hitting second baseman Ashley Montgomery leads Rose-llulman at the plate with a .488 average, 16 runs and 21 hits. 
Sullivan is confident Belles pitchers Calli Davison and Kristen Amram will be able to shut down the Engineers strong offense. 
"We'll just mix it up. We stay away from hitters' strengths," Sullivan said. 
Davison and Amram have a combined EHA of 1.42. By com­parison, the Engineers staff has a team EHA of 4 .41. 
Last year, the Belles easily took a doubleheader against the Engineers, 10-1 and 15-1. But Sullivan knows that last year's performance won't have a big impact this time. This season, the Engineers are in first place in the Heartland Collegiate Athletic Conference. 
"We can't assume we're going to win. We're sueh a dif­ferent team this year," Sullivan said. "We expect to beat every­body -that's our goal." 
The Belles will also need to adjust to the weather change, having only played in sunny Ft. Myers, Fla., during spring break. Forecasts have called for isolated thunderstorms at game time. 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

CREW 
Irish travel to Ann Arbor to compete in 4-team regatta 
The Irish novice-eight crew Sunday, and they put up a win the second varsity and the Oct. 28, but the race was can­By DANIELL£ KELLER looks to extend its undefeated strong showing against No. 13 novice races to take the event. celled due to inclement weath­
Sports Writer 
season, while the other varsity Minnesota and No. 9 Tennessee Michigan State raced well in er. and novice boats will look for a Saturday. the. fall but lost in its most' Michigan also had a strong 
After an impressive perform­strong finish. Saturday's regat­Clemson has been active recent regatta -an exhibition showing in the American ance last Sunday against ta marks Notre Dame's second already this spring, winning March 10 with Virginia. The Heritage Hegatta. Its three var­Alabama and Cincinnati, the match of its spring season. five of six races Saturday at the Spartans finished their fall sea­sity-eight boats finished sec­No. 11 Irish take on Clemson, Irish coach Martin Stone Clemson Challenge. Clemson son on a high note by winning ond, third and sixth in the race. Michigan and Michigan State declined to comment on the took the first, second and third the American Heritage Hegatta In the varsity-four event, the Saturday in Ann Arbor, Mich. team's upcoming competition. . varsity-eight races, winning the Nov. 5 against Michigan and Wolverines placed second, 
The Wolverines and Spartans After claiming the Big East first-team race by two boat Eastern Michigar. Michigan fourth and sixth. have both started off strong title last year, this year's team lengths against Indiana. State took first and second in The four-team event takes this season and are ranked No. has high hopes of clinching its The Tigers and Spartans have that race, with the novice fin­place all day Saturday. 15 and No. 14, respectively, in fourth-consecutive team title. already squared off once this ishing one spot behind the var­the US Rowing/Collegiate The Irish are off to a good season in a scrimmage March sity squad. Rowing Coaches Association start this season. They finished 9. Despite losing the first varsi­Michigan State was sched­Contact Danielle Keller at poll. first in four of five races ty race, Michigan came back to uled to scull against the Irish dkeller@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Squad travels to face IW after fast hoine start 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
After crushing Olivet 8-1 in its home opener, Saint Mary's (5-4, 1-0) will travel this weekend to take on Indiana Wesleyan University. 
The Belles got off to a good start this season with the Olivet victory Wednesday -the team's first conference match. 
"Though we struggled a little bit in doubles, we did very well in singles," Belles coach Dee Stevenson said. 
But Saint Mary's will face a much tougher opponent Saturday against the Wildcats. 
Indiana Wesleyan had a perfect season last fall, with a conference record of 8-0 and an overall record of 13-0 -outscoring opponents 106-9 in dual matches. 
"It'll be a tough match," Stevenson said. "They're probably one of the top schools in our divi­sion throughout the Midwest." 
Saint Mary's will look to avenge last year's 8-1 loss to Indiana Wesleyan, as well. Belles senior captain Kelly McDavitt leads the team at the No. 1 singles spot and freshman Camille Gebert plays behind her in the second spot. The duo also comprises the Belles' top doubles team. 
Indiana Wesleyan boasts three All-conference players from the fall season in junior Sarah Bauss, junior Kristi Haddad and sopho­more Julia Hedgebeth. · 
"This year we're going into the season with a new attitude," McDavitt said. "Since Indiana Wesleyan is not in our confer­ence, we are focusing on going into the match with a positive atti­tude. Though they are a strong team, we hope that it will give us good practice and prepare us for the rest of our conference sea­son." 
The match will take place Saturday at noon at Indiana Wesleyan. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
SMC GoLF 

Clubbers go for warmth 
Team makes trip to Kentucky to play in multi-school event 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Five Saint Mary's golfers will travel to Perry Park, Ky., to com­pete in the Northern Kentucky Invitational, which takes place Saturday and Sunday. 
In just their second spring tournament appearance, the Belles hope to improve on their previous performance at the Fairfield University InvitationaL 
Junior Katie O'Brien, sopho­mores Perri Hamma and Meredith Fantom, and freshmen Theresa Tonyan and Meaghan Fontain will all travel south. O'Brien led the Belles last week by shooting a two-round total of 191 strokes, good for 4 7 -over. 
Saint Mary's coach Mark Hamilton said that the team has some improving to do. 
"They're really more deter­mined to show the rest of the country that the scores we shot were a little inflated," he said. "They can play much better, and they're excited to come out and prove themselves." 
For players like O'Brien and Fantom, who remained in con­tention all of last weekend, the key to vaulting to the next level may not lie in the physical aspect of the game but in the mental portion. 
''They need confidence, know­ing that they can do it, and they're capable," Hamilton said. "Some fine-tuning and mechani­cal things. But really, getting on a roll out there, getting some pars under your belt, and believing in yourself that they can do it." 

The team's play last week exposed areas of improvement the team worked on this week. Long-range chip shots weren't landing close enough to the pin, and With the course it will play this weekend, the team has focused on shots in the 20-40 yard range. 
"We've worked on a lot of long chip shots this week simply because this golf course is designed quite a bit differently than a lot of the courses we play down south," Hamilton said. "There are a lot of big greens at this course, so we'll tend to have a few more chips than pitches." 
With the. nice weather this week, the Belles have been able to practice outside. The course the Belles use to practice opened a couple of days ago, and the team has also hit balls at their outdoor facility. 
The team will likely face tough competition in Perry Park. DePauw, the No. 2 Division III team in the nation, will compete in the Invitational as well. The competition doesn't get any easi­er after DePauw. 
"There will also be quite a few Division II and some smaller Division I schools there too," Hamilton said. "It will be pretty stiff competition, probably just as stiff as we faced down south." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

---~ 
~
••~
Friday, March 23, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 ~ 
l ~ ••
• 
I• ' 
' 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS
ND MEN'S TENNIS 
Squad defeats Wisconsin, 
Bass, Irish take on Purdue 
Irish ranked in top-5 for the first time since March of2002 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Notre Dame takes on Purdue Sunday, while ranked nationally in the top-five for the first time since the Irish were No. 4 in the Intercollegiate Tennis Association poll in March 2002. 
Despite breaking into the top-five, Notre Dame coach Bobby Bayliss said he prefers not to think too when it mattered," he said. 
No. 1 singles player, sen­ior Stephen Bass, also rose in the rankings from No. 12 to No. 8 -his highest career ranking. 
Bayliss said that Bass deserves the ranking and has been determined since he fi.rst stepped foot on Notre Dame's courts. As a freshman, Bass struggled with his serve and forehand but never gave up, Bayliss noted. 
"He was a guy that made you hit a lot of balls, and you had to beat him because he wasn't going to beat himself," he said. "He has really maximized his abilities and should be 
much about rankings. 
"I really don't put a whole lot of credence into the rankings at this point," he said. "There's still a lot of tennis to be played." 
Even though Bayliss is not focused on the rankings, he is still proud of the way the team is performing this season. 
"It's a tribute to the fact that our guys have made big commitments this year and have stayed together as a team and have performed 
"/ really don't put a whole lot of credence into the rankings at this point. There's still a lot ofTennis to be played." 
Bobby Bayliss Head coach 
extremely proud of what he's been able to achieve." 
B a s s defeated Tulsa's No. 5 Arnau Brugues in the semifi­nals of the Blue/Gray Classic March 17. Bayliss said the victory 

was one of the best the sen­ior has ever played. 
"When he beat Brugues, he did it by attacking and anybody that knew Stephen a couple o~ years ago prob­ably wouldn't have recog­nized his play," Bayliss said. 
extends vvin streak to 11 
Being able to play tough 
cotppetition outdoors at the Blue/Gray Classic last week has allowed the Irish an insight into the rest of their season. Notre Dame knocked off No. 14 Alabama in the finals of the Blue/Gray Classic to take the title. 
"We had ten straight days of play outdoors," Bayliss said. "And that's something that has given us a lot of confidence." 
Notre Dame dropped the doubles points in both the semifinals and finals of the Blue/Gray and will look to regain that strength against Purdue, Bayliss said. The No. 7 duo of senior Ryan Keckley and junior Sheeva Parbhu will likely take on Purdue's Branko Kuzmanovic and Paul Rose. Notre Dame's top duo dropped their last match 8­3 to Alabama's Dan Buikema and Mathieu Thibaudeau 
Bayliss feels that Purdue will present the Irish with a challenge but is confident that team is up for the task. 
''I'm most concerned with our ability to play well and to simply continue to show improvement as the year goes on," he said. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

By DAN MALOOF Sports Writer 
Fresh off victories over two top­25 opponents last week, No. 3 Notre Dame stretched its winning streak to 11 matches and improved its overall record to 16-1 with a domi­nating 7-0 win over the Wisconsin Badgers on Thursday. 
"We played really well," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "It's a combination of the fact that their confidence is down since they haven't been playing well, and our confidence is up since we have been playing well." 
Both teams were dealing with injuries as Notre Dame was without junior Brook Buck and freshman Colleen Rielley, who were unable to play with undisclosed injuries. The Badgers' best player, No. 18 Caitlin Burke, was just returning from an injury that had kept her sidelined for two months, forcing her to play only in the No. 2 doubles match. 
With neither team at full strength, the Irish stepped up their level of play. 
"It gave some of our other kids who haven't played much singles a chance to play, and we played well," Louderback said. "We only lost three games in the singles and .. . I just kept waiting to see us miss some balls and no one was missing any." 
Freshmen Cosmina Ciobanu and Kali Krisik controlled the No. 3 dou­bles match with an 8-1 triumph over Wisconsin's Chelsea Nussock 
and Kim Roberts. No. 4 ranked 
doubles team Christian and Catrina 
Thompson shut out the Badgers' tandem of Kaylan Caiati and Elizabeth Carpenter 8-0 to clinch the doubles point. 
After gaining the doubles point, the Irish singles easily won all six singles points. Kali Krisik, playing in her first singles dual action, got the first singles point in straight sets beating Wisconsin freshman Kim Roberts 6-1, 6-0. 
Sophomore Katie Potts continued Notre Dame's rout in her first sin­gles since Feb. 14 by defeating jun­ior Morgan Tuttle 6-1, 6-1. 
Sophomore Kelcy Tefft clinched the match with a 6-0, 6-0 shutout of junior Chelsea Nusslock. 
No. 62 Ciobanu and No. 19 Catrina Thompson emerged victori­ous with 6-0, 6-0 triumphs while Christian Thompson won for the first time in her last four matches, defeating Elizabeth Carpenter 6-0, 6-1. 
Louderback was pleased with Christian Thompson's ability to put her previous defeats behind her to emerge victorious against one of Wisconsin's top players. 
"She played with a little more confidence and very positively and she wasn't worried about losing a few points," Louderback said. 
Next up for the Irish is No. 21 Wichita State on March 30. 
Contact Dan Maloofat dmaloof@nd.edu 

SALES EVENT 
2007 IMPREZA 2.5i
2007 FORESTER 2.5 X 
AS LOWAS 

Sign & llrlve
$209 
$209
24 month lease. 

4;2 month lease. 




120 W. McKinlev Ave. •MISHAWAKA 
514-256-5421
SUBARU. 

GurlevleepSubaru.com 
lmpreza Sign & Drive payments based on $0 cash down, 42 months, 10,000 miles per year plus tax. Forester lease payments based on $1,999 due at signing, 24 months, 10,000 miles per year plus tax. $0 security deposit. With approved credit. 
.----------­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 23, 2007 
Loyola 
continued from page 24 
players scored a point in the victory. Sophomore Jane Stoeckert and senior Meghan Murphy had four points apiece. 
The Irish hounded the Buckeyes defensively, forcing 16 turnovers on the game. Notre Dame also out-shot Ohio State 33-16. 
"It was a very good game Wednesday, but we're not happy with just a win over Ohio State" Coyne said. "We have to go game by game, and we have to win. With the goals we have, losing is not an option." 
Against Loyola Sunday, the Irish will key its defense on Greyhounds junior Maura Kenny, leading her squad in scoring for the second season in a row. 
On the offensive end, Notre Dame will look to take advan­tage of the sophomore Byers and junior McKinney. Both goal-scorers were recently named to the Tewaaraton Trophy watch list for the best player in women's lacrosse. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
NBA 
Thotnas' last second tip-in gives Bulls vvin 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Tyrus Thomas wasn't quite sure what hap­pened. The details were a little fuzzy, so he might want to save the video because this one is worth another look. 
The rookie scored on a tip-in with two-tenths of a second left after Ben Gordon's missed jumper, giving the Chicago Bulls a 109-108 victory over the Denver Nuggets on Thursday night. 
"I don't know what hap­pened," Thomas said. "I am just glad we got the win. Now, I just have to put this game behind 
me." 
Allen Iverson's drive along the right side gave the Nuggets a 108-107 lead with 13.1 seconds left, but the Nuggets saw their five-game win streak end in a wild fmish. 
The Bulls immediately called a timeout, and Kirk Hinrich lost the ball off a Nugget player along the baseline with 9.8 sec­onds left. 
Gordon got trapped in the right corner after catching the inbounds pass and threw a weak pass toward P.J. Brown on the wing. The ball got deflected, and a diving Brown beat the Nuggets' Eduardo Najera. Gordon got it back and missed a jumper from the cor­ner, but Deng -battling with Carmelo Anthony -kept it alive for Thomas. 
"I told P.J. he had a nice tack­le on the play," coach Scott Skiles said. "I felt like we were fortunate to come up with a shot from Ben Gordon, that he could get the ball and get the shot right there. That set off the series of events, and Tyrus was in the right spot and active on the glass." 
Gordon finished with 25 points to lead the Bulls, who had lost two straight to Memphis and the Los Angeles Clippers. 
Deng had 22 points and 14 rebounds, and Hinrich scored 21 points. Brown added 16 points and seven rebounds, and 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 
Thomas finished with nine points and 11 rebounds. 
"I told P.J. I was going to take him to dinner," Gordon said. "He was the one who kept the play alive. I think Luol got a fin­ger on it, and Tyrus took it home for us." 
Iverson led Denver with 31 points, Anthony added 28, and Nene had 18 points and 12 rebounds. 
''I'd rather lose by 100 points than lose by a tip-in like that," Anthony said. "We can't let this shatter our confidence." 
He thought the outcome might have been different had Marcus Camby not left with back spasms in the third quar­ter. 
Either way, it was a much­needed victory for the Bulls after losing to two teams with losing records. 
One of the Bulls' goals is to finish with fewer than 10 losses at home, and it's still within reach -barely. They're 26-9, with six games left at the United Center. Two of those are against Detroit and Cleveland, so achieving that goal will be difficult. 
More important for the Bulls is securing home-court advan­tage in the first round of the playoffs. That could be the dif­ference between a postseason run and an early exit, given their 14-21 road record. 
MLB 

La Russa faces DUI charges 
Cardinals manager registered BAC of 
0.093 Thursday night 
Associated Press 
JUPITER, Fla. -St. Louis Cardinals manager Tony La Russa was arrested Thursday on a drunken driv­ing charge after police said they found him asleep inside his running sport utility vehicle at a stop light. 
La Russa gave two breath samples and had a blood alcohol content of 0.093 per­cent, Jupiter police said in a statement. Florida's legal driving limit is 0.08 percent. 
''I'm not sure what type of statement to give," La Russa said after his t cam's 2 -1 spring training loss to the Florida Marlins on Thursday. "I've been scribbling stuff. 
"Last night's situation is the opposite or feeling good. It was an embarrassment, so I apologize to anyone who is close to me, members of the Cardinals organization, our to police and jail records. He fans. I regret it, take respon­was released about 8:30 sibility and I'm not sure a.m. after posting $500 cash there is anything else I can bond, said Paul Miller, a say." Palm Beach County sheriff's 

Undercover officers saw La office spokesman. 
Russ a's  SUV  When  La  
sitting partial­ Russa walked  
ly in an inter­section around midnight and  "Last night's situation is the opposite offeeling  onto the field before Thursday's  
not  moving  good."  game,  many  
de·spite  two  fans stood and  
green police  lights, said.  Tony La Russa  applauded. "That was  a  
Officers  Cardinals manager  really  nice  

knocked on the window and La Hussa did not initially respond. 
The SUV was in drive and running, with La Hussa's foot on the brake, police said. When he woke up, the offi­cers asked him to get out of the SUV. La Hussa was coop­erative during his arrest, police said. 
The 62-ycar-old La Russa was booked into the Palm Beach County jail on the misdemeanor count about four hours later, according 
gesture when 

the game started," La Russa said. "I guess because over the years, you've done things so you don't want it to go in the other direction and that's a couple steps last night, so." 
The Cardinals said in a statement that the team takes "these matters very seriously" and apologized for any embarrassment and dis­tractions.. "The Cardinals organization remains sup­portive of Tony," the team said. 

"All Evefling ofPrayer from ArouTtd the World" 
Experience an Eastem Orthodox Vespers Service as the fifth in a series exploring the beliefs and practices of the world's great faith traditions: 
Please join us for an Eastern Orthodox Vespers Service Tuesday, March 27,2007 7:00-7:45 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry, ND Orthodox Christian Fellowship, International Student Services and Activities, GSU, FOG Graduate Residences, University Village, 
and the Muslim Student Association 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 



Friday, March 23, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NCAA 
continued from page 24 
teams set to square off in the first round today, it's time to take a broader look at how the Tournament will project and how fortunate the Irish, in fact, are. 
Alabama-Huntsville is not only on the fringes of college hockey geographically, but the Chargers play in a five-team conference­College Hockey America -that has been rumored to be in the process of disbanding. The CHA is awarded one automatic bid into the tournament for its play­off winner -one of six leagues turn earn an auto-bid -but many across the country feel, rightly, that it is not deserved. 
Michigan State coach Rick Comley told USCHO.com after the tournament field was announced that he was not satis­fied that the NCAA continued to award the CHA a bid. 
"What I would like to see is a play-in game," he said. "The CHA should not have an auto­matic bid under any circum­stance whatsoever. They should have a play-in opportunity." 
Anything can happen when it comes to tournament time -evi­denced by fourth-seeded Holy Cross' upset of top-seeded Minnesota last year -but the Chargers are not Holy Cross. Alabama-Huntsville made the Tournament because they made an underdog playoff run against four teams that can barely be found on the college hockey or geographical map -go ahead, point out where Bemidji State is. 
With Atlantic Hockey Association champion Air Force and its Hobey Baker candidate Eric Ehn, and traditional main­stays Miami and Massachusetts in the other tourney four-spots, Notre Dame has, by far, the easi­est first-round opponent of any­one in the field. 
And things in the other half of the four-team Grand Rapids regional have shaped up more favorably for the Irish than ifthe team had been sent to any of the other three locations -Denver, Rochester, N.Y., and Manchester, N.H. 
Notre Dame will face the win­ner of a Boston University­Michigan State pairing. The Spartans squeaked out a third­place finish in the CCHA playoffs last weekend with a 7-6 overtime win over Lake Superior State, but not before they surrendered 11 goals in two games to the Lakers and Michigan. Michigan State looked overmatched, out­worked and just plain sloppy in the two games, and Spartans goalie Jeff Lerg was beaten more times than an Irish secondary. 
Boston University is a defen­sive team along the lines of Notre Dame but lacks some of the fire­power up front that the Irish pro­vide with their "little-guy line" of Ryan Thang, Kevin Deeth and Erik Condra. The Irish defense would provide more than enough time for the forward lines to pen­etrate the Terriers defense and their former walk-on-and now Hobey Baker finalist-goal­tender John Curry. 
With Michigan State or Boston University the prize for beating cupcake Alabama-Huntsville, the Grand Rapids regional must seem like a trip to Disney World for overall No. 1 seed Minnesota. 
The Golden Gophers were placed at the top of the Denver regional-a bracket so stacked that it brings to mind the World Cup's "Death Groups" that com­bine four of the world's most dangerous teams into one devi­ously sinister trap. In the Mile High City, Minnesota will be joined by offensively stacked 
Michigan and the Fighting Sioux 
of North Dakota, along with an Air Force squadron that will 
enjoy a near-home ice situation. 
Whichever team emerges from that quagmire will be the most seasoned and capable team to advance to the Frozen Four­and, yet again, the Irish pull the long straw and avoid a matchup with the deadly victor ifthey advance to St. Louis. 
The Grand Rapids winner is bracketed to face whoever emerges from Rochester, N.Y.­a watered-down regional with no dominant team. Top-seeded Clarkson could easily be upset in the tournament's opener with Massachusetts and second-seed­ed St. Cloud will face Maine in a battle of two teams who lost twice in their league tourna­ments to end their pre-tourney season. In short, ifthere was a choice before the tournament of which region's winner to face in the Frozen Four, any Vegas odds­maker would finger Rochester. 
And what about the ultimate step -the National Championship? 
Well, let's save that one for later. It's time will come.. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd. edu 

UAH 
continued from page 24 
when they erased a 4-0 deficit to defeat Robert Morris 5-4 in overtime. 
"They never quit. That's the way [Alabama-Huntsville coach] Doug Ross is -he's retiring, his kids are all moti­vated," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "They're going to play right to the final buzzer regardless of the score." 
Ross' retirement has cer­tainly been an added source of motivation for the Chargers. The coach, who played his college hockey at Lake Superior State, has been behind the bench for Alabama-Huntsville for the past 25 years. 
Ross has won two Division II national championships with the Chargers, but, like the Irish, he is still looking for his first victory in the Division I tournament. 
On the ice, the Chargers are led by their top scoring line of seniors Brett McConnachie, Grant Selinger and David Nimmo. Nimmo, the center, leads the team in scoring with 35 points, while his two linemates are close behind in second and third. 
Alabama-Huntsville plays a loose, offensive-minded style of hockey similar to what Notre Dame saw against Michigan in the CCHA finals last Saturday. 
"We just have to do what we do," O'Neill said. "We shut down a pretty good offensive 
team in Michigan, limiting them to one goal. We just have to do the same thing against these guys." 
With the top defense in the country, Notre Dame has shut down potent scorers all post­season, but the Irish backlin­ers have also contributed on the offensive end. O'Neill, who failed to score during the regular season, has netted three goals in the playoffs. 
"We just have to pick our spots and jump in when we get the opportunities," he said. 
If Notre Dame makes it past Huntsville tonight, it will play again Saturday against the winner of Michigan State and Boston University for a chance to move to the Frozen Four. 
Both the Spartans and Terriers play a defensive style of hockey, similar to the Irish. 
"There is a big difference between the styles of play," Jackson said. "All I know is that both teams are very capable of being in the Frozen Four." 
Boston University goal­tender John Curry and the Spartans' Jeff Lerg both have been terrific in net all season. Curry is currently ranked third in the country in goals­against average at 1.92. Only Notre Dame's Dave Brown and Vermont's Joe Fallon have done better this year. 
Saturday's game starts at 

8:30 p.m., and all of this weekend's games can be seen on ESPNU. 
Contact Dan Murphy at 
dmurphy6@nd.edu 

vs. 

MARCH 25 
@ 1:05PM 

. t
! . 
• page 22 The Observer + SPORTS
•
•
' Irish pitchers David Phelps,
• 
Wade Korpi and Dan Kapala !' will lead Notre Dame from the 
! ' Bulls
• 
~ 
continued from page 24 mound this weekend. Phelps 
. • ' ' 
' has been a force, boasting a 
• 16-7 record, the top in the Big 1.20 ERA in 30 innings. The East. right-hander helped Notre
' 
' Irish junior shortstop Brett Dame defeat top teams Texas
' 
'
• Lilley and freshman A.J. Christian and Nebraska.' ' Pollock have led the Irish "[Phelps has] been great all
' 
' offensively so far. Pollock and season, he's been the most
t 
Lilley lead the team with .390 and .370 aver­ages, respective­ly. Most recently,
'
• Pollock had five
' 
' hits against
' 
' Western
~ 
Michigan and Lilley drove in five runs. 
After posting a season-high 17 runs against Western 
consistent starter," Irish

"[Schrage] always 
coach Dave 

stresses less mistakes Schrage said. 
on defense, don't give Schrage said the team is
other teams more 
aware of the

opportunities to get 
strong pitchers runs, don't give them they will be fac­ing this weekend.
free bases. , 
Right-banders Danny Otero, 

A.J. Pollock Daniel Thomas 
Irish third baseman and Chris Delaney head up 
great arms this weekend. It will be a real challenge to our offense." 
Pollock said the team will look to counter South Florida's strong pitching by focusing on cutting down on errors. 
"[Schrage! always stresses less mistakes on defense, don't give other teams more oppor­tunities to get runs, don't give them free bases," Pollock said. "So if we can cut that down we will definitely be a very good team." 
Schrage also noted the advantage Notre Dame will have playing at home. South Florida has yet to play a game outside of the Sunshine State and likely will have some diffi­culty adjusting to the northern climate. Beyond the weather advantage, the Irish are ready to take on the Bulls and see how they will match up against a top team. 
"It will be great for us to open with [South Plorida]," Schrage said. "I think it will be a good test to see where we are at." 
Friday, March 23, 2007 
CRADLE TO THE GRAVE 


LAURIE HUNT!The Observer Irish midfielder Bill Liva cradles past Knights midfielder Bryan Brown during Notre Dame's ll.-3 win over Bellarmine Tuesday. 
ATRIA SALON2 
Specializing in color 
271.8804 
The Original "Specializing in Color" Salon, where we make blondes "BLONDE"! 
HIGHLIGHTS & CUTS: $79.00 
STARTING MARCH 215 r-APRIL 10m 2007 
NO ORDINARY SALON, NO ORDINARY BLONDES. 
"CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 
Atria Salon 2039 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 t: 574.271.8804 
-MUST PRESENT THIS AD­

~ 
CliAMBERSI1\lGEHS Nancy Menk, Conductor 
Favorite Opera Choruses Presented with Scenic Video 
with special guests, the LaPorte High School Mixed Chorale Thomas Coe. Director 
Sunday, March 25, 2007 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Moreau Center for the Art~ Saint Mary's College 7:30P.M. 
For group discount information, or to purchase tickets, call the Saint Mary's College box office at 
(574) 284-4626. 
MorcauCenter.com 
ARI'SJINDIANA
·-·f%t­

l~Klt""'A.NIJ'il:OW..:!5.~l('t:-.,
SAINT 

Rf.GI<:>NAl PARINHt'
MARY'S 

:<:~ ..... WI~I~o-:~1"-.<<• 
1-(r~,;~$1-•I".Mily~lC
COLLEGE 

t<>;o ln.foo."""'·'tlo ~""""-·· ~ •t+·
NOTRE DAME, tN ~.C'M'l"h~o:f....~-~ 
:?<l:>e"'t< ~!«otr->IK~r>') 


Michigan, Notre Dame is pre­pared to sharpen the defen­sive end of its game this weekend, Pollock said. 
"Going into the Big East, we have to limit teams to fewer base runners," he said. "Not 
give them a chance to get Bulls] have very good pitching. Contact Deirdre Krasula at runs off or give them errors." We are going to face some dkrasula@nd.edu 

Run to Rebuild 
A Benefit for "Rebuilding Together" Join RecSports & Food Services in the annual Spring Run 



•K6101tllUNt p_· LU&f 2 ILl WALIC 
Saturday, April 14, 2007 ( 
11:00 A.M. Race will begin at Legends 
Opens at 10:00 A.M. 
Refreshments & T-Shirts to all Finishers Register in Advance at RecSports $10.00 In Advance or $15.00 Day of Race Advance Registration Begins 3/26, .Ends @ 5:00 p.m. 4/13 Student and Staff Divisions 


the Bulls' staff. Thomas leads the three-man rotation with an ERA of 1.27 and is 2-1 in five appearances. Otero has a team-high 32 strikeouts. 
"It's going to be a tough series," Schrage said. "[The 


.. 
Friday, March 23, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 


MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

t'\IL.'D ·MANN ·q• PllESII>E>IT 
JOf-IN jE.NKIN S"ITS IN HIS oi'F"E, 
ATTE.t.lt>lt.l G-TO HIS AI>MI>~IS Tli:ATtiiE_ 
t>O,.t wllE.IJ S l.lb!>E.IJ L 'I' ... 
Sf'li:.lt-16-IN~ INTO AC.TIOrJ HE. SHIOI>S S£t:ll.ET II>EIJT•TY AND 3EL"MES••• 
CROISSANTWORLD 
BLAcK DoG 
fo!C:. YEAttS ~OTIU DAME 1-\A.S STool> AS A !>f-STION oF C/tTHCLt~ VALIJES:. BoT Now THE. Lot-JEL Y INW.AiliTANT~ oF AN I~OL.ATE!> M-4LE DoRM 1-\AVE &-IVEIJ TI-4EMSELVES o>/E It T" 
SI!VIS7/!R. 
LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
I'd tell you about the To become a priest 
70's but I don't want had to take a vow of 
to date myself... poverty... 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Steps up 
10 Treasured instrument 
15 Strike out 
16 Goes down 
17 Polka heard frequently on "The Benny Hill Show" 
18Partofa chronicle 
19 Frustrate 
20 1950's political slogan 
22 A, B or C, often: Abbr. 
23 Part of a telephone worker's routine 
24 Baseball's Vizquel 
27 Hunter of literature 12 "Maybe" musical 

13 Durable woods 
14 Dot on a map, maybe 
21 How a snake may be caught? 
retitled: Abbr. 25 War preceder 26 Flu symptom 29 Bearer of 
catkins 
58 "He seemed like such boy" 
59 Chance 
60 When to see Ia luna 
61 Votaries 
DOWN 1 Country rocker Joe and others 2 You might run 
for it 3 Forming clumps 4 Parts of some 
services 5 Admit 6 "I understand 
now" 7 Set-_ a Like spam 9 Masters topics 
10 Realization 11 "Unbar aux Folies-Bergere" artist 
WILLSHORTZ 

40 A bad way to be 48 least left 
49 Like some 
32 Make attractive  44 "Th~ Rights  stocks  
33 Words with shame or boy  45 Heavens:  52 Brio  
34 Order at a horse show  Prefix 46 Nervine, for one  53 Cartoonist Walker  
35 Levelheaded  47 Methuselah's  54 Criteria: Abbr.  
37 TV witch  father  57 Geom. figure  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HENRI ARNOLD ]
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION j
• 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 

letter to each square, Why hasn't this I can't find to fonm four ordinary words. 
been delivered? the messenger 
AGGUE 

[l] 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc~ All Rights Reserved. 
SABSY 
I I I
tNIPPOL 
J I I 
www.jumble.com
tGAMIPE 
J I I 


A: A (
'l I I I J' WAS I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: CHOKE STOKE TRUISM CIPHERYesterday's 
Answer: What she experienced when she shopped for a cactus plant-"STICKER" SHOCK 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Reese Witherspoon. 31: Elvis Stojko. 35: 
Matthew Modinc, 48: Andrew Lloyd Webber. 59 
Happy Birthday: You will be tempted to splurge this year but overindulgence must be kept in check. If you overdo. do so with work and making money. That way. you have something to show for your hard work if you get complaints from people who don't think you are spending enough time having fun or relaxing with friends. lovers or family. Your numbers arc 5, 18, 27, 28. 36, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't gel upset about something you can'\ change. Keep an open mind and move forward with enthusiasm. Doors will open if you talk about your ideas and your latest direction. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Pamper yourself or spend the day with someone you arc into and want to get to know better. A change regarding your finances may be a surprise. Be careful where you pul your money. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 2I-June 20): You may think you know what's going to happen but someone you least expect is likely to make a change at the last minute. Keep things thai you arc doing a secret for now. The more mysterious you are, the greater the advantage you will have. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Focus on what you can do for others. Offering your services or even just lending a helping hand will lead to something good. A change in your current direction or vocation can help with finances. Love is on the rise. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can't count on anyone today. If it's important to get something done, do it yourself. Beware of someone telling you what you want to hear instead of what you need to hear. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You are in the driver's seat. You mustn't give up power or give in to idle threats. Network, travel and get your ideas out. Don'tlet your personal life interfere with your productivity. 5 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't be fooled into thinking something has more value than it actually has. Be a smart investor. An opportunity to learn. travel or get advice from someone you consider to be experienced is evident. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a closer look at what's going on in your own back yard. You may have to put an end to something or someone slowing you down. A romantic connection will be passionate if you take time out for a little loving. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 2I): There isn't anything that you can't accomplish from home, so why travel unnecessarily? Concentrate on what you want to achieve and take the shortest route to get there. 3 stars 

WHY THE SENATOR DIDN'T SUBMIT HIS REPORT. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put time aside for family or the one you love. This is a perfect time to relax, putter around home or make some welcome additions that will contribute to your entertainment and comfort. Financial security can be obtained. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't be too concerned about what others think. Volunteering for something that will help your community or a cause you believe in will bring good results. Get serious about a partnership or making a commitment. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take a look at the possibilities. A chance meeting will remind you of an old idea. You can make money if you manipulate the situation when discussing the possibilities with someone who can help you out. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have plenty of charisma and charm. You are inventive, imaginative and powerful when it comes to using your attributes to excel. You are sensitive. compassionate and caring. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astrvadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidel!tial consultations 

28 Part of CORE 
31 Marks off 
36 Doesn't puff 
idly 38 Subject of the biography "All or Nothing at All" 39 Develops 
anacusis 41 Spurs 42 Pollster Roper 43 the Great 
(detective of kids' books) 44 One end of a canal 48 Chemical ending 50 Frequent area of auto damage 51 Symbols 55 Lord's realm 56 Boeing employee 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
r
• 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, March 23, 2007 
page 20 
HOCKEY 
The puck drops here 
leers take on UAH in NCAA first round 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
No. 1 Notre Dame will attempt to make history once again tonight by winning their first-ever NCAA Tournament game. The Irish face off with College Hockey America cham­pion Alabama-Huntsville at 5 
p.m. in the first round of the regional in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
The Irish have made only one appearance in the tourna­ment in their 37-year history. Three years ago they lost 5-2 to No. 1 seed Minnesota in the opening round. 
"We're just focused on going up there and making a step in Notre Dame history-winning a game in the NCAA Tournament," senior defense­man Wes O'Neill said. 
The Irish are heavily favored in the contest, but Alabama­Huntsville brings a boatload of motivation and momentum into the regional with them. The Chargers arrived in Grand Rapids after they went on a Cinderella run through the CHA tournament, twice coming from behind to knock off high­er seeds along the way. Their most impressive victory came in the championship game 
see UAH/page 21 


Notre Dame has clear path to Frozen Four 
No draw is an easy draw, but Notre Dame may very well have gotten the freshly Zambonied path to the National Championship when the NCAA 
Selection Committee announced the four regional brackets Sunday. 
The No.1 Irish were saved the 


week-long Kyle Cassily burden of 
traveling by plane to the Sports Writer Rockies or Northeast after the icers were shipped two hours up the road to be the one­seed in the Grand Rapids region­al. The decision put to rest more than a month of controversial and disputed hockey bracketol­ogy over which teams will be sent where and who will fall off the bubble in the 16-team NCAA Tournament. 

When the snow spray settled, the Irish were given the second­overall ranking in the tourna­ment and a matchup V\-ith the only college hockey team south of the Mason-Dixon line-the sub­.500 Alabama-Huntsville Chargers. And with the two 
see NCAA/ page 21 

BASEBALL 
Squad has 3-gallle set with USF 
Young arms lead staff in Big East opener 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
The three-game series against Notre Dame this 
weekend  could  be  a  cold  
wake-up  call  for  South  
Florida. The series  - which  

kicks off today at 5:05 p.m. -is the first time the Bulls will travel out of state this season, as well as the first Big East game for the Irish. 
Despite struggling in early non-conference games with a 10-9 record, the Irish have had a strong burst coming into their series against South Florida. Notre Dame defeated Cleveland State 5-3 in its home opener Tuesday and went on to rout Western Michigan 17-9 Wednesday. Notre Dame has won six of its last seven games. 
The Irish have a successful history with South Florida, going 4-1 all-time against the Bulls. This season could prove to be more of a chal­lenge as South Florida arrives in South Bend with a 
see BULLS/page 22 


PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer Irish right-hander Brett Graffy delivers a pitch during Notre Dame's 12-1 win over Cleveland State May 2, 2006. 
NO WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish try to bounce back in Baltimore 
Afterfalling to Orange Sunday, team travels to meet Greyhounds 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
No. 12 Notre Dame will look to earn its first Big East victory of the season Sunday in Baltimore against Loyola. 
The Irish (6-2) will face the struggling Greyhounds (1-5) in the conference opener for Loyola. Notre Dame opened its Big East schedule with a 16-13 loss at Syracuse Sunday. 
The Greyhounds, who fin­ished 7-8 last season, have started the season slow after the loss of several seniors from the 2006 campaign. Facing No. 10 Princeton Wednesday, Loyola fell 14-6 on the road despite three goals from junior Kate Flippelli. 
The only win of the season so far for the Greyhounds came in a 10-9 victory over mid-major Maryland-Baltimore County. 
Notre Dame coach Tracy Coyne said despite Loyola's recent struggles the Greyhounds are still a danger­ous team. 
"It's scary because I don't think they've played up to their full talent level," Coyne said. "They have too much tradition and history not to turn their season around -we're just making sure it won't happen on Sunday." 
In last year's matchup. the Irish defeated the Greyhounds 13-9 in Florida. Caitlin McKinney and Jillian Byers scored three goals each in the victory. 
Notre Dame is coming off a dominant performance Wednesday at home against Ohio State, routing the Buckeyes 16-9. After several games in a row where the Irish trailed early, Notre Dame stormed out of the gate to take a 9-1 halftime lead. 
After the half the Buckeyes made a quick run to cut the deficit to 9-5, but Notre Dame quickly responded to put the game out of Ohio State's reach. 
In a balanced offensive attack, nine different Irish 
see LOYOLA/page 20 





