------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Faculty, administrators discuss hiring 
Conversations center on ad hoc committee's report regarding recruitment ofCatholic professors 
addressed the administration's
By MARCELA BERRIOS 

concerns that "without a critical 
Assistant News Editor 

mass of Catholic faculty, the dis­tinctive identity of Notre Dame 
A series of discussions would waver, perhaps be lost," between faculty members and the report said. administrators on the hiring of Burish created an ad hoc Catholic faculty will continue committee of 13 professors and 
Wednesday when University administrators, who met from Provost Thomas Burish attends January through June 2007, to this month's Faculty Senate produce the report. meeting. "If Notre Dame is to be a truly 
Burish will hear its recom­Catholic university, the faculty mendations on a recent report must include -as [University addressing the issue of the President] Father [John] steadily decreasing percentage Jenkins has said -a critical of Catholic professors at Notre number of devoted followers of 
Dame. the Catholic faith," Burish said 
The private report -which in his charge to the committee. the Office of the Provost sent to "Indeed, the University's mis-the entire faculty during the last week of October -specifically see FACULTY/page 4 
SbJ.ECTl'.D REt:OMMENl>;\TlONS TO INCRI\ASE THE Pl~Cf'.NTA<iE OF CATHOI.lCS THA<:!UNG AT NOTilE l">AMI~ 
"Having departments keep records of all promising applicants ... who expressed interest in Notre Dame because of our Catholic mission." 
"Hosting invited seminars and conferences that regularly bring to the University potential Catholic faculty members ..." 
"All advertisements for faculty positions should state that the University is especially interested in recruiting women, minorities and scholars interested in teaching at a Catholic university. Phrasing of this kind invites individuals to self­identify as Catholics..." 
"All schools and colleges now disc\.tss the Catholic mission with prospective candidates, effectively asking them, 'How do you think you might contribute to the Catholic mission of the University?"' 


Jared Wafer/Observer graphic 

Students serve in volunteer programs 
Centerfor Social Concerns' winter break opportunities attract record numbers ofstudent applicants 
over 400 people applying for 280 
By CLAIRE REISING 

spots. News Writer 
Senior Allyson PL<>hko, an Urban Plunge Task Force Leader, said she was pleased with the studentSeveral Notre Dame students interest in the program but hadwill spend part of their winter trouble choosing which applicantsbreaks in impoverished urban to accept.
arnas or at the U.S.-Mexico border "It was amazing we got so manyas part of the Center for Social people," she said. "It was hardConcerns' winter seminars. 
rejecting people because you don'tThe CSC is holding four want to turn people away fromExperiential Learning Seminars: 
the CSC."
The Church and Social Action Although Purcell said greater(Urban Plunge), Border Issues, advertising might have attractedOrganizing, Power and Hope and more applicants for Urban Plunge, Iloly Cross Mission in Education. 
she could not identify an exactBill Purcell. director of the reason. However, Jim Paladino,Urban Plunge and Holy Cross 
director of the Border Issues
Mission in Education programs, Seminar, attributes this seminar's
said all the programs had an 
increase in applicants to the immi­

increase in applicants this year. Five percent of undergraduates applied for Urban Plunge, with see SERVICE/page 6 

SMC Advent event unites community 
munity, included members By KATIE KOHLER from the Michiana area, who Saint Mary's Editor comprise the Loretto Schola 
Choir, said campus minister Sister Betty Smoyer. 
More than 135 singers spread "About 300 people from the
Christmas spirit at the 25th 
Michiana community also joinannual "Lessons and Carols" in the 100 students in the assem­the Church of Loretto at Saint bly and add great gusto to theMary's on Sunday night. 
communal singing of the car­The Women's Choir, ols," she said. "Because a stu­
Collegiate Choir, Liturgical 
dent from SMC-TV runs the in­Choir. lland Bell Choir and 
house TV cameras [in the
Liturgical Dancers. in coordina­church]. the Sisters of the Holytion with campus ministry, the Cross in the convent can watch
music departmont and the 
and pray and sing with us."
Sisters of the Holy Cross. per­"Lessons and Carols," whichformed seasonal choral selec­began in 1982, is the tradition­
tions, accompanied by 
al Christmas Eve service before
Christmas-themed readings. The event, which was widely attended by the College com-see LESSONS/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Skate club performs at the JACC 
ND, SMC students showcase ice routines 
By KATIE STAAK 
News Writer 
The 17 members of the Notre Dame Figure Skating Club took to the ice Sunday in their annual "JACC Frost" performance. 
"It went really well overall and the team performed well together," said Tracy Mulherin, the club's head coach. 
The performance consisted of 19 routines. The girls per­formed solos, duets, trios and 
ended  with  a  "Haunted  
Medley" piece.  
Mulherin  said  she  was  

proud of the team's hard work and dedication with finals approaching. 
"I hope to improve our score from last weekend's competition, hope for a per­sonal best at Midwestern competition in February and qualify for Nationals," she said. 
This is Mulherin's fifth year coaching the club and syn­chronized skating team. 
The club is lead by the three senior captains, Annie Davis, Sara Medek and Amy Reinthaler. 
Davis, a senior at Saint Mary's, echoed Reinthaler's sentiments. 
"It went 10 times better than last year," she said. "Everyone had fun and that's what really matters." 
The captains also have high 
see SKATING/page 6 


Latina addresses philanthropy 
President of California organization speaks about social change 
Foundation, a $670 million foun­marched for an improvement in 
8 LIZ MILLER dation that is one of the largest Latino Civil Bights. Many of the 
News Writer and most active philanthropic students that she worked with 
organizations in Southern were put in jail, Hernandez said. 
Recalling her experiences as a California. In her lecture, Hernandez had found her call­minority who faced discrimina­Hernandez shared her personal ing. tion, Antonia Hernandez spoke story and beliefs as a Latina "I went to law school for one about the importance of generat­woman. purpose and one purpose only ­ing social Born in Mexico and raised in to use the law as a tool to be an change in 
East Los Angeles, Hernandez agent of change to improve the America in her called herself a, "product of pub­quality of life for my society," she lecture Friday lic education." Though neither of said. titled, "Latinos, her parents spoke English, they She ignored the criticism she Philanthropy pushed Hernandez and her six received from her family mem­and Civic younger siblings to earn college bers over her decision. Her uncle Engagement." degrees. told her, "You're a girl, and you'll 
"If you're While she initially hoped to cry when you go to court." really a continue her academic career "The only one who ever cried Catholic, you Hernandez and become a historian, an inci­was my uncle when he needed should be a dent at Theodore Boosevelt High my help," she said revolutionary," Hernandez said. School in 1968, where she As a young lawyer, Hernandez 
Hernandez is currently the worked, changed her mind. was invited by a friend to apply president and CEO of the At that time, thousands of stu­California Community dents walked out of schools and see LATINA/page 6 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, December 1 0, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

No scripts? No problen1 
Tlw writer's strike has been 
pulling the plug on all thn popular 
rwtwork television shows since 
Nov. 5. False. 
Whiln "Crey's" 
and "Colbert" 
Katie Kohler 
arn showing re­runs. there is anotlwr brand of Saint Mary:c; television thriv­Editor ing in thnir absnncn. You gunssnd it: n~ality TV. No actors, no writors, no problem. The reali­ty surgn is heating up even more with snason finales coming up this wonk. Who will Nnw York choose: Buddha. Punk or Tailor Made? What's nnxt for thn loveable girl­next-door Lauren Conrad? Who roally is America's Most Smartest Modnl? All of these qunstions will be answered during primetime this week; with no interruptions from thosn sitcoms and dramas. 
While some viewers hate reality TV, it is the only option if you're too hon~d to watch re-runs. I, for one, love reality TV. I never miss a minute of' "I Love New York" or "Tho Hills" and I am not ashamed of that. 
Sure. I onjoy "Grey's" and "The OITicn" as much as thn next per­son, but there's something about thn rawness of n~ality in "The Hnal World" and "Tila Tnquila." Unpredictable. Hivnting. Awesome. 
Hnality TV is a guilty piP.asurn becausn although you know the shows are ridiculous, stupid, !wart wrenching, it's so hard not to watch. Do you .-.~ally want to he thn only person who donsn't know who America's Next Top Model is? Probably not. 
Thn otlwr great thing about reality TV is that it's real -or as rnal as it can got with 15 bache­lorettes fighting for thn affection of ono undeserving guy. No regu­lar person can rnlate to a brain surgeon, but we can relate to sonworw who is just livin' the lifn and look in· for love. 
Thnre's no telling how long the strikn will go on, but even though rnality TV has bnnn compensating for its absencn, all good things must comn to an end. 
In tlw coming weeks, there will be no more "Kid Nation." No more "Top Model'' ... and still no network 
TV. 
Enter: "American Idol." Jan. 15. 
Five sweet, sweet months of singing, rwurotic and cruel judges and audience interaction. Some peopln watch "Idol" in the begin­ning to make fun of all the William flung wannabes. But the select fnw (of us) stick it out to the end, thnreby being able to fully appre­ciate tlw greatnnss that is Kelly Clarkson. 
I like drama. I like comedy. I like the occasional TV break. Heality TV gives you a chance to satisfy all thnH~ of' thosn needs. 
Evon though the writer's strike has boon going on for far too long, it's nothing a bit of reality gold ean't fix. 
The fliews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserl!er. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a prolessional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WERE YOUR GOALS FOR 2007 AND DID YOU MEET THEM? 







Adriana Gadaka-Maria Brad Mattan Danny Rosas Kelly Poupore Yang Chen 
sophomore senior junior junior sophomore
Cavanaugh Keough Alumni Cavanaugh Keenan 
"Kiss a rector. "Figure out a "Take a break ':4 goal? I don't "See Britney
,
Yes. post-grad plan. from dancing. play soccer. " Spears come 
,
Yes. N

0. , 

The experimental indie rock band Cloud Cult performed at Legends Saturday. Cloud Cult is an independent group that promotes environmentalism. 
OFFBEAT 
81-year-old Scotch sells for $54,000 
NEW YORK-A bottle of 81-year-old Scotch sold for $54,000 at this New York's first liquor auction since Prohibition. 
An anonymous collector bought the pricey potable at Christie's sale of wines and spirits on Saturday. 
The 1 00-lot auction sold a total of $304,800 worth of rare wine and liquor. The top lot was a collection of' 729 bottles of whisky, which went for $102,000. 
The $54,000 bottle was distilled at Macallan in Scotland in 1926, bottled in 1986 and rebottled in 2002. 
Prohibition lasted from 1920 to 1933, but New York State did not allow auctions of spirits until this year. 
Horse survives plunge into frozen pool 
DOHSET, Vt. -A horse was rescued after acciden­tally taking an iey plunge in a swimming pool. Jet, a 6­year-old quarterhorse, walked onto the frozen in­ground pool Thursday and broke through six inches of ice into about 3 1/2 feet of water, becoming trapped. 
"It just looked like a meadow to him, and he stepped on the ice," said his owner, Janet Waite. 

The animal shook uncon­
trollably and was losing 
strength as several rescue 
attempts failed, according 
to Vermont State Police Cpl. 
Gary Shuhart, who 
responded to the incident 
after being flagged down by 
a passerby. 
Finally, rescuers broke the ice in a corner of the pool and got a rope around the horse's neck, pulling him to safety and wrapping him in a blanket. lie was taken to a veterinarian and treated for a cut to his left hind leg. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::E: 
,J"\?Y,J.
!;;: 
LLI 
~-$
3: 
...I 
~ 
c:t 
A{/<r!P­

~m
y 

~ 
(.) 
0 

HIGH 32 HIGH 22 HIGH 31 HIGH 34
..J 
LOW 25 LOW 15 LOW 27 LOW 25 
back. No, it didn't happen. " 
IN BRIEF 
The rosary will be said tonight at 6:45 at the Grotto. The rosary is said daily. 
Student body president Liz Brown and vice president Maris Braun will speak at the fireside chat/luncheon, "Telling HEHstory" today at noon in the Coleman-Morse Study Lounge. Drinks and cookins will be provided. This initiative is sponsored by First Year of Studies and takes place monthly. 
The last day of' classes at 
Notre  Dame  will  be  
tomorrow.  
Th1He will  be  an  Advent  

Penance Service tomorrow at 7 p.m. at the Basilica of' the Sacred Heart. The service will include praynr, m usie, reflec­tion and Confession. 
The NO Celebration Choir, Voices from Campus and Instrumentalists will perform at a benefit concert for Christmas at the first floor lounge, Coleman Morse Center, tomorrow at 7:30 
p.m. Admission is free with a donation. All proceeds bnnefit the lloly Cross Literaey School and Boys Home, Dhaka, Bangladesh. 
Thn last day of classes at Saint Mary's will be Wednesday. 
A mass for the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe will be held Wednesday at 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0 

HIGH 32 HIGH 31 LOW 28 LOW 24 
Atlanta 60 I 49 Boston 41 I 34 Chicago 34 I 21 Denver 40 I 23 Houston 82 I 68 Los Angeles 58 I 47 Minneapolis 16 I 10 New York 39 I 36 Philadelphia 41 I 36 Phoenix 66 I 51 Seattle 40 I 29 St. Louis 45 I 35 Tampa 80 I 62 Washington 43 I 40 
Monday, December 10, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Belles ring for charity group 
Saint Mary's students collect money for Salvation Army campaign 
By MANDl STIRONE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students got in the Christmas spirit by volunteering at the University Park Mall this weekend, ringing Salvation Army's famous little bell for the "Red Kettle Campaign." 
The first "Bells for Belles" took place Dec. 1 and continued this past Saturday. Community mem­bers signed up with the Office for Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) and took hour-long shifts either alone or with a club or cause. 
"This past Saturday we had about twenty people participate in the bell ringing at the UP Mall, in front of Macy's," OSCE director Carrie Call said. As of Wednesday, there were 12 peo­ple signed up with one spot still open, she said 
So far the success of "Bells for Belles" has looked promising, Call said. She hopes that with the support she has received from the student body, the program will be able to continue to become an annual event. 
"The response was very posi­tive, so I hope to do it every year," Call said. 
"Bells for Belles" is run entirely through OCSE, with no student organization, Call said. It is unaf­filiated with any club on campus, she added. They are working specifically through the Salvation Army. 
"The Salvation Army, an evan­gelical part of the universal the bulk of their money raised for Christian church, has been sup­the year. I think it's important for porting those in need in His us to support this as they do name without discrimination wonderful work in the communi­since 1865," according to ring­ty," Call said. bells.org, the official Web site of Another reason for Saint the "Red Kettle Campaign." Mary's participation this year is 

After discovering how easy it is exposure. to sign up for the campaign, Call "It gets the faces of students, 
decided to make  faculty and staff  
it available to the Saint Mary's com­munity, she said. "I thought that it would be an easy, fun way for  "/ thought it would be an easy, fun way to make a difference."  out into the com­munity so people can see that" we care about service as a college," she said.  
us to help make a  Students partici­ 
difference.  Our  Carrie Call  pate for a variety of  
students consis­ OCSE Director  reasons  - from  

tently look for ways to give back to the community, and this was a particularly easy one," Call said. 
The "Red Kettle Campaign," is an important fundraiser for the Saint Mary's community to sup­port, Call said. The campaign, which has been in existence since 1891, is the Salvation Army's "most prominent fundraiser," according to ring­bells.org. 
"The Red Kettle Christmas Campaign enables the Army to provide food, toys and clothing to over six million people during the Christmas season and helps more than 34 million Americans recovering from all kinds of per­sonal disasters nationwide," the Web site said. It brought in over $100 million in 2004. 
"The Salvation Army depends on the Red Kettle campaign for clubs to dorm sec­
tion events, Call said. Even College staff get involved. Saint Mary's Director of Institutional Research Jessica Ickes took a shift along with her husband, Call said. 
Resident Assistant Jackie Rothschild took part of her sec­tion in Regina Hall to work an hour shift. 
"We wanted to do a service project with the section," she said. "We had five girls come." 
For junior Emily Tarnacki, it was a rewarding experience. 
"I did it to get into the holiday spirit, and I thought it was for a good cause," she said. "I really enjoyed myself and everyone was friendly and generous. I would definitely do it again next year." 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Foundation avvards 
$500,000 science grant 
Special to The Observer 
The National Science Foundation has recently acknowledged Notre Dame's growing influence as a resource for high school sci­ence teacher enrichment with a $500,000 grant for continu­ing support of the Research Experience for Teachers (RET) program. 
The three-year grant was awarded to Wolfgang Porod, Frank M. Freimann Professor of Electrical Engineering, and Alexander Hahn, professor of mathematics and director of the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning, to support RET@ND. 
As RET educators bring their summer experiences back to the classroom, they inspire a new, younger gener­ation of potential scientists. The program addresses "a shortage of teachers and a shortage of students going into science and engineering," Porod said. 
"A parallel motivation," Hahn added, "is to enhance the success of faculty in sci­ence, engineering and mathe­matics who seek to respond to the 'broader impact' criteria that so many grant applica­tions include." 
Grants from the National Science Foundation, in partic­ular, increasingly demand that projects demonstrate this broader impact. RET@ND establishes a structure of community outreach to educa­tors. 
While on campus, RET teachers become both Notre Dame employees, who earn research stipends, and schol­arship students, who earn tuition-free course credits. 
Besides performing research side-by-side with some of Notre Dame's most accom­plished scientists and engi­neers, RET teachers are asked to infuse their experience into their high school curricula. Nevin Longenecker, a cele­brated Adams High School sci­ence teacher and noted sup­porter of high school-levellab­oratory research, is the liaison between RET@ND and the high school classroom experi­ence. 
"Nevin knows how to trans­form discoveries made in the laboratory into classroom enriching elements," Hahn said. 
The NSF grant specifically funds engineering RET activi­ties. A parallel set of high school teachers receive stipends and credit for work­ing in College of Science labs and mathematics workshops. Stipends for science and mathematics are supported by such sources as the College of Science, the Siemens Foundation, the Community Foundation of St. Joseph County, and Teachers Credit Union. 

Get Your 


When: Dec.12 & Dec.13 

Where: Hesburgh Library Lounge Time: 8pm -until Why: Study Stress Relief 
*FREE* I S 


Co-Sponsored by 
0$-Hesburgh Libraries & First Year of' Studies 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, December 10, 2007 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 
sion statement explains that 'the Catholic identity of the University depends upon, and is nurtured by, the continuing presence of a predominant num­ber of Catholic intellectuals."' 
The percentage of Notre Dame faeulty who identify themselves as Catholics has dropped from approximately 64 percent in 1986 to approximately 53 per­cent in 2006, Burish told the 
"If Notre Dame is to 

Father Hobert be a truly Catholic mission of th 
Sullivan, who University?" committee. to the Catholic 
university, the faculty 

chaired the com­But before thes 
must include ... a

mittee, said the recommendation steady decrease critical number of become Universit in those num­policy, the Offic
devoted followers of

bers beeame the of the Provost wil 
the Catholic faith.,

cause of wide­continue to hea spread concern suggestions fro among the Thomas Burlsh the faculty on th trustees, alumni report. Sulliva
University Provost 

and administra­tors charged with preserving the University's Catholic identity. 
And if "persons of other faiths and none (within the faculty] contribute decisively to forging and advancing Notre Dame's identity," as the report said, then their concerns could be justified, said Sullivan, a history professor. 
lie said the 1968 book "The Aeademic Hevolution," by sociol­ogist David Hiesman and Christopher Jencks, posed the theory that sinco universities compete for outstanding schol­ars and professors, the faculty that are in a stratngic position to influence policies. In other words, the faculty really steer a university's course, the book says. 
"If this book has any single mossage," Jencks and Hies man wrote, "it is that the academic profession increasingly deter­mines the character of under­graduate education in America." 
Sullivan said Hiesman and Jencks visited Notre Dame while they were writing the book for their specific analysis of the fac­ulty in Catholic schools. 
"(Hiesman and Jencks! deter­mined that the only thing that could actually give a Catholic school a religious identity is hav­ing brotlwrs, sist£1rs and priests teaching and running the place." 
But Notre Dame has changed a lot since Riesman and Jencks visited. 
While the University's presi­dlmt is still a Holy Cross priest and many rnsidence halls are run by priesl'i and nuns, the pnr­centage of Catholics in the facul­ty has eroded eonsiderably. 
"It was almost inevitable," Sullivan said. "As the University expanded, hiring could no longer be centralized in the Main Building, as it was during 
the  IUniversity  Prnsidcnt  
Enwritus  Father  Theodore]  
lleshurgh era."  

lin said each growing depart­nwnt and discipline began hiring profossors as it doomed fit and some fields -like psychology and biology -slowly became secularized. 
But the administration will put forth polieins to tight that ero­sion of Cath olie professors, inducting "indirect information gathering" techniques to identify Catholics in a pool of potential hires, the report said. 
"Sonw committee members think il fair and helpful to usn information available in the pub­lic domain ... for evidence that an academic is or may be Catholic," the report said. 
Some committee members, however. thought searching pub­lie sources for evidence of an aeadmnie's possible Catholicism is "an improper intrusion o individual privacy." 
So the report recommende all advertisements for facult positions state that th University is especially interest ed in hiring "women, minoritie. and scholars interested in teach ing at a Catholic university" a this kind of phrasing "invite individuals to self-identify a Catholics." 
Moreover, the committe urged all schools and colleges a Notre Dame to ask potentia hires during interviews, "Ho 
you think yo 
might contribut 
will accompan 
Burish when h attends the Faculty Senate meet ing Wednesday to hear assessment of the faculty's reac tion to the document. 
During the Faculty Senate' meeting Nov. 7, Chair Coli Jessop, a physics professor, sai he sensed disquiet among th faeulty about the idea of hirin with religious affiliation in mind. 
"The University is worrie about the decline in the percent age of Catholic faculty member and the faculty members, i turn, are worried that in tryin to rectify this situation, th University will move away fro hiring solely on academi merit," Jessop said after th meeting. 
He and the senators hav spent the last month collectin feedback from the faculty on th report's recommendations t increase the number of Catholi professors, Jessop said Friday But he couldn't comment on th content of the feedback becaus the Senate, the administratio and the committee agreed t keep all discussions about th report confidential unti January, when the Oflice of th Provost will be finished collect ing suggestions from the faeulty. 
Sullivan and Executiv Assistant to the Provost Brando Hoach also said they preferre not to comment on the report o the ongoing dialogue betwee the Ollice of the Provost and th1 faculty about the issue. 
But Sullivan did say he expect­ed many faculty members ­especially those who are not Catholic -to be "scratching their heads, thinking, 'Is there a place for me here?'" after read­ing the report. 
The document, however, through all of its recommenda­tions, reiterated that "it is imperative that the University maintain an environment where faculty of other faiths and none are included as full members of the community." 
But some of the report's rec­ommendations might make achieving that goal complicated. 
The report, for example, said the University "must of course" appoint leaders who believe in the necessity and value of Catholic hiring, both as deans and chairpersons. 

While Sullivan could not com­ment directly on that recom­mendation, he did say a person's religious affiliation "has no bear­ing in getting tenure or promot­ed to higher positions." But the people appointed to these posi­tions, he said, should support the University's Catholic mission. 
The report also suggests fund­ing a program that would bring to campus more academics that combine their scholarly, scientif­ic or artistic work with Catholicism as lecturers, short­term scholars-in-residence or as visiting professors. 
"Departments that have identi­fied multiple outstanding candi­dates might be permitted to make simultaneous offers for a given opening. This practice can increase the probability of hiring Catholic faculty," the report said. 
But the committee made it clear throughout the doeuments that any faculty recruited by these initiatives should not be perceived as academically inferi­or to other hires. Among quali­fied candidates and on a case­by-case basis, however, "mission lit may well be determinative" when hiring a new professor, the report said. 
The report also expressed fears of misunderstandings and damaging rumors both within the University and outside about any distinctive policy of recruit­ing Catholics in all departments because of their Catholicism. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 


Annual Walk-On Tryouts 
The Notre Dame Football Program will be holding walk-on tryouts at the beginning of the spring semester. 
If you are interested: 
Pick-up/Fill-out & Return: Information Form & Medical Forms 
Forms to be filled out are at the Reception Desk at the Football Office in the Guglielmino Complex. 
You must have the forms filled out and returned by January 18, 2007. 
Following our receipt of all information & medical forms, we will have an informational meeting and a series of tryouts/workouts. 



ORLD & NATION 
Monday, December 10, 2007 CoMPILED fRO/vi THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraq prepares crackdown in province 
BAGHDAD -Iraq's defense minister promised on Sunday to wage a new crackdown in a volatile province northeast of Baghdad where militants are trying to regroup after being routed from their urban stronghold there last summer. 
Suicide attacks have killed more than 20 people in the lac;t three days in Diyala province, a tribal patchwork of Sunni Arabs, Shiites and Kurds that stretches from Baghdad to the border with Iran. 
Defense Minister Abdul-Qader al-Obeidi told The Associated Press that preparations had begun for a fresh military operation in the provincial capital, Baqouba, about 35 miles from Baghdad. 
Sharif party to participate in elections 
ISLAMABAD -The party of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif announced Sunday that it would participate in Pakistan's parliamentary elections next month after failing to convince rival Benazir Bhutto to join a boycott. 
Greater participation will make the balloting look more open, bolstering President Pervez Musharraf"s democratic credentials, which took a hit over his Nov. 3 deelaration of a state of emer­gency and his dismissal of independent-minded judges. 
But having by the opposition in the field also will siphon votes and seats from Musharraf's party, weakening the U.S.-backed leader. 
While some parties still say they won't partici­pate in the Jan. 8 polls, the prospect of a general opposition boycott has now collapsed with deci­sions by the two largest opposition groups to field candidates. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
6 killed in Colorado church shootings 
1\HVADA, Colo. -A gunman killed two staff members at a missionary training center early Sunday after being told he couldn't spend the night, and about 12 hours later four people were shot at a busy megachurch in Colorado Springs. 
Colorado Springs police Lt. Fletcher Howard said a suspect had been detained in the shoot­ings at the New Life Church, but a source who was locked down at the church Sunday after­noon said a security guard had shot and killed the gunman. Authorities in Arvada, a Denver suburb about 65 miles north, said no one had bnen captured in the shootings there. 
It was not immediately known whether the shootings were related, but Arvada authorities said they were sharing information with Colorado Springs investigators. 
Student arrested for threat of violence 
LOS ANGELES -Los Angeles police arrest­ed a 21-year-old Loyola Marymount University student in connection with an online threat to shoot people on campus, officials said Saturday. 
Police arrested Carlos Huerta, a senior at Loyola, for investigation of making criminal threats. Huerta was taken into custody on Saturday night near his apartment on campus. 
Huerta is suspected of posting a message that he would shoot and kill as many people as possible on campus before being killed himself by police, authorities said. The threat appeared on Juicycampus.com, a chat board that describes itself as having the "simple mis­sion of enabling online anonymous free speech on college campuses." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Gary woman faces I 0 years in prison 
CHOWN POINT, Ind.-A Gary woman was sentenced to 10 years in prison for having sex numerous times with a 14-year-old neighbor boy. 
Johana Marie Kalinowicz, 32, pleaded guilty Nov. 27 to a felony charge of sexual misconduct with a minor and was sentenced in Lake Superior Court on Friday by Judge Thomas P. Stefaniak Jr. 
Prosecutor Bernard A. Carter said Kalinowicz had sex with the boy several times between Dec. 2, 2005, and Sept. 2, 2006. 
The boy's father told the court that the crime continues to affect the family. His son, now 16, changed from a typical student to a chronic run­away who now is a ward of the state. 
SOUTH KOREA 
Thousands help clean up oil spill 
Supertanker crash dumps 2.8 million gallons into sea offenvironmentally-rich beach 
Associated Press 
MALLIPO BEACH Thousands of people mobi­lized by South Korea's Coast Guard used shovels and buckets Sunday to clean up a disastrous oil spill polluting a swathe of the country's scenic and environmentally rich west­ern coast. 
About 100 ships, includ­ing Coast Guard, navy and private fishing boats, were also to help contain and clean up South Korea's worst spill, said Coast Guard official Kim Young­hwan. 
At total of 7,500 police, military, civil servants and volunteers struggled to remove the oil, some bat­tling headaches, dizziness and nausea. 
The oil started hitting beaches Saturday, a day after a Hong Kong-regis­tered supertanker was slammed by a South Korean-owned barge that came unmoored from its tugboat in rough seas about seven miles off Mallipo, one of South Korea's best-known beaches. The area also includes a national mar­itime park. 
On Saturday, tides of dark sea water crashed ashore at Mallipo beach, while the odor reached along an 11-mile stretch of Choi, wearing a thick The affected areas areas a half-mile away. coast, defying efforts to winter coat, said the include 181 maritime 
Kim Sun-seon, who contain it by dropping oil strong odor of oil had sick­farms that produce works for an ocean clean­fences into the ocean and ened his wife. abalone, brown seaweed, up business on South using chemicals to break it "But I came here laver, littleneck clams and Korea's southeast coast, up. Mats were placed on because I have to do some­sea cucumbers, said Lee wore rubber gloves and a the beach to absorb the thing," he said. "I don't Seung-yop, an official with mask to cope with the oil. know when we can finish. the Taean county govern­strong smell. The Coast Guard said But we have to continue." ment, which includes the 
"We don't know when the last of three leaks in Cho Yoo-soon, who runs beach. Aquatic farmers in we can finish this work," the tanker had been a raw fish restaurant at the area number about she said. "We have been plugged Sunday morning. Mallipo beach, 95 miles 4,000, he said. shoveling oil since yester­Mallipo, an important southwest of Seoul, said "A lot of damage is day but the waves just stopover for migrating the situation was over­feared to these farms, keep bringing more oil. I birds including snipe, mal­whelming. She said although we don't have an feel dizzy." lards and great crested restaurants in the area estimate yet," Lee said 
Nearly 2.8 million gal­grebes, also has an abun­were closing, and she Saturday. lons of crude gushed into dant fishing industry. could not pump fresh sea Local raw fish restau­the ocean, more than Choi Kyung-hwan, a 58-water into her tanks. rants such as Lee Ok­twice as much as in South year-old fisherman, came "Without fresh sea hwa's were suffering. Korea's worst previous to the beach Sunday to water, the fish will start "I haven't had any cus­spill in 1995. help, but despaired for the going bad after a week," tomers since news of the 
Thick, smelly waves of area where he has lived she said. "We can't even oil spill Friday," said Lee, crude washed ashore, for 30 years. walk around here because who had previously served turning seagulls black and "Mallipo is finished," he the entire beach is covered 200 tourists and others a threatening fish farms said. with oil." day. 

Diocese secedes fro111 Episcopal Church 
Associated Press Province of the Southern Cone, based The Episcopal rift over theology 
in South America. began decades ago and is now focused 
The decision is almost certain to on whether the Bible condemns gay 
SAN FRANCISCO-The conservative spark a court fight over control of the relationships. Diocese of San Joaquin voted Saturday diocese's multimillion-dollar real estate "We have leadership in the Episcopal to split from the liberal-leaning holdings and other assets. Church that has drastically and radical­Episcopal Church, becoming the first The Episcopal Church is the U.S. ly changed directions," McCalister said. full diocese to secede from the denomi­member of the global Anglican "They have pulled the rug out from nation in the debate over the Bible and Communion, a 77 million-member fel­under us. They've started teaching homosexuality. lowship that traces its roots to the something very different, something 
Clergy and lay members of the Church of England. very new and novel, and it's impossible Episcopal Diocese of San Joaquin voted Anglicans have been moving toward for us to follow a leadership that has so 173-22 at their annual convention to a worldwide schism since 2003, when drastically reinvented itself." remove all references to the national the Episcopal Church consecrated the Episcopal and Anglican advocates for church from the diocese's constitution, first openly gay bishop, V. Gene accepting gay relationships say they said the Rev. Van McCalister, a diocesan Robinson of New Hampshire. San are guided by biblical teachings on spokesman. Joaquin is also one of the three social justice and tolerance. 
The diocese, based in Fresno, plans Episcopal dioceses that will not ordain Traditionalists believe that gay relation­to align with the like-minded Anglican women. ships violate Scripture. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, December 10, 2007 
Service 
continued from page 1 
gration topic at tlw Notm Dame Forum Oct. S 
"It was three students for eVI~ry one wo could accept," he said. 
Dospitl' the shortnned winter brnak, PurcPll said it will only alli~d the lloly Cross Mission in 1-:clucation Seminar. One day was nliminatnd from the pro~-,rram so participants will not be able to spend as much timn with Las Liagas, a tutoring program for public sdwol childrnn. 
"Things arn morn condensed, so lstudenLo:;] will have less time with somn of the non-profit, after-school pro­j.,Tfluns with public zations, pastors and loaders who do community organizing in Chkago," program director Jay Caponi~-,rro said. 

Student Coordinator Stuart Mora emphasized that this pro­gram is not a service seminar, but an opportunity for students with service experience to learn how community loaders became involved with their line of work. 
"The whole idea is broad­based community organization, which means drawing from all kinds of organizations and bring­ing them all together to work on eommon issues," Mora said. 
The Border Issues Seminar also has a large educational component and its 10 partici­pants will spend a week at Annuneiation House, which is on the border of El Paso, Texas, 
school kids," he and Ciudad
"[Students will/ get a 
said. Juarez,
face ofwhat is poverty 
In addition to Mexico. tutoring, studenL'i and be able to do an According to on the lloly Cross analysis around Campus Mission in Ministry Intern 
structural problems 

Education Dan Allen, stu­Smninar will work ofpoverty. " denLo:; will meet with childrnn at with "people St. .John Viannoy who arc think­
Stuart Mora

Catholic Sdwol in ing about mak­
Student Coordinator 
Goodyear, Ariz., and will visit vari­ous outreach pro­grams around Phoenix, such as a soup kitdwn, a job-placement agency that servos the homeless and a program for pregnant wonwn. Families of St. John Vianrwy Parish will host the stu­dnnL'>. 
StudnnL'i will also do outm1u:h work in Urban Plunge, a 48­hour immersion program in var­ious cities throughout the United States. Partieipants will learn about urban povnrty by visiting service agencies, such as soup kitchens and halfway houses and by nweting with eity resi­denL'>. 
Pishko said her Urban Plunge nxperinnen in l'itLo:;burgh made her awan~ of all thn help that is nnedPd in U.S. cities. She was espncially aiTt~cted by Gwen's (;iris, an agency that hnlps trou­bled girls in tlw anm. 
"It rnally was an eye-opener," she said. "I newr rnally knew all of the servicn agencies that exist­ed tlwrn." 
Whiln students in Urban l'lungn engagn in service out­reach in the art~a. thn 10 partici­pants in Organizing, Power and llopo will nuwt with community lnadPrs and h•arn how to organ­ize resources to combat poverty and other soda! problems. 
"Wn're learning from organi-
Lessons 
continued from page 1 
mass in the Anglican tradi­tion, Smoyer said. 
"In its original form, it con­sists of a series of seven Scripture rPadings, along with a varinty of choral selections and carols for our assembly," shn said. "At Saint Mary's, we have adapted that structure to mont our nnnds and creat­Pd a candlnlight service of' praynr, readings, carols, choral snlnctions and liturgi­cal dancn." 
Whiln dPPply rooted in thn Christmas tradition, "Lnssons and Carols" also brings thn Collngn r.ommunity tognther. 
"It is an ~~runwnical cele­bration of tlw Advnnt and Christmas sPasons for Saint Mary's," SmoyPr said. "We havt~ tlw opportunity for shar­ing thn mystPriPs of thn sna­sons from a varinty ol' n~ad­ings both sniptural and other ing a new life 

in America or 
have tried or 
failnd," as well as with the U.S. 
Border Patrol. 
AllPn hopes students will learn about both sides of the immigra­tion debate. lie also wants the experience to make immigration a personal issue lilr participants, instead of an abstrad dLo:;cussion topic. 
"I Immigration I is an issue I think is very prossing in our country, and the human side of it doesn't get spoken about enough," he said. 
To incrnase their understand­ing of the seminars, students will have readings and dassroom sessions prior to thnir immersion expnrience and discuss social, political, economic and theologi­cal faceLo:; of thn issues they will liten. 
"!Students will] get a face of what is poverty and be able to do an analysis around structural problmns of poverty," he said. 
Another goal of the seminars is for students to stay involved with service adivities later in their lives. Pishko said she is considering the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) or Teach lin· America after gradua­tion. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 
sacred texts." 
"Lessons and Carols" helps the community, by donating canned goods and money to tho Sr. Maura Brannick llealth Clinic on Chapin Street and Western Ave. 
"We step baek and celebrate together the doseness of our God to us in the midst of the busy end or the semester rush," Smoyer said. 
Thn tradition of "Lessons and Carols" has remained unchanged for over 20 years, Smoyer said. 
"Alumnae write back to lmusie director! Dr. Menk and I and describe how much they miss celebrating the season without Lessons and Carols and how treasured their memories are or that closing ritual," shn said. "The singing ol' "Silent Night," the dancing and thn candlnlight snem to offer a healing enPrgy that sustains well beyond the nvening." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohlcO I @saintmarys.edu 
level and implement social change. After serving as president
Latina 

and general counsel of the Mexican American Legal Defense
continued from page 1 

and Educational Fund (MALDEF), 
Hernandez joined the California for counsel to the United States Community Foundation (CCF) as Senate Committee on the president and CEO in February Judiciary. 2004. 
"I didn't know "Philanthropy is that this is one of' another tool to
"Philanthropy is 
the most coveted change the norms of
another tool to
positions from the society for the bet­legal perspective in change the norms ter," she said. "Last the U.S.," year, CCF gave $245
ofsociety for the 
Hernandez said. million. or that, we
better."
She helped devel­control $25 million." op the 1980 The foundation Hefugee Act, a law Antonia Hernandez allocates funding to designed to admit projects it believes
California Community 
refugees into the will succeed, such
Foundation
United States for as chartering new 
President and CEO
humanitarian rea­schools, funding sons that is still in emerging artists and effect today. helping new immigrants learn 
"Working in the public policy English. arena is a very important way to "In this country, to be success­change the rules of the game," ful, you have to spnak English. llermindez said. Period," Hermindez said. 
While she loved her work in Besidn ra1smg funds, law, llermindez had a newfound Hernandez believes that identify­desire to work at the grassroots ing crucial community issues is an 
dards of the United States Figure Skating Association
Skating 

(USFSA). Some of these moves include the spoke pinwheel
continued from page 1 and backward linn. 

hopes for the synchronized The synchronized team per­
team this season. forms in competitions 
"I hope we do well at throughout the school year. It Midwestern in Nashville in placed 11th in its first compe­February and qualify to go to tition during the lirst weekend Nationals," in December at Davis said. "We the Dr. Porter
"Everyone had a lot
have to place in competition. Midwestern for offun and that's The Dr. Porter Nationals." what really competition 
The synchro­allowed the syn­
matters."
nized skating chronized team one skaters to have part of the dub Annie Davis their perform­-is designed ances judged.
Saint Mary's senior 
for skaters who Also, they were have passed the given advice for juvenile moves in the field their future competitions. test, according to the stan-The Nationals will take 

l.>ec J 2: 7ant to 3:0(hun Midnight Snacks! l.>c(.~ 13: 7ani to 3:00ant Dec 16: 7ant to 3:00a•n Finals '\VeeI<: l·>ec 14, 15, l7, I 8, l 9: Roou•.v <n•Lril<rble e....·cepr ..,,,.,, 
,,.·(:·/l(!'<flllt/'tl bJ.~ File Hegi.s.·trar'·~-.. o..l.fice.. 
L>(.~C J 9: DeBartolo l·Iall closes 30 ntinutes af'tcr last exarn scheduled by the l~egist:a-ar•s Of'f'icc. Midnight Snacks availabl(.~ only during Stud,., days. .See /'lui/ding :s.~upport Personnel ~f-you haPe ...pec~fic needs: Roon' I03. I()4. 
C-:'oletnan-lVIorse: Dec I 2-19: 
l st Floor: 7:00an:a-4:00ant 2"d floor : 7:00ana-3:00ant 3rd F'loor: 7:00an-.-12arn 
~•;;iee f~uilding Supf70rt Per.<;.·on Roonz J()l if-_.,,ou have a .'iipecific need. 



O"Shaughnessy: Roorns available f"or open shuly exce1~t: 'VVhcn scheduled by the J~cgist.rar"s oCf'ice. 
l>ec 12, 1.3, ((..:;: 8:00ar:n to I:OOan• l.let.~ I 4~ I 5~ l 6-19: 6prn to 3:OOaIn N:oorn.• •n·ui/able e->:<:<!pt when 
.!.-t.·lteclulet/ b_-,· rile Negi:~rrtlr .._,... O:./_/],;·e~ noorns: 106,107,114,115,116, JI7,11H,204,206,207,20H, 
I 209. 

""~ ,.,.,.
<;ood l.uck 'With Finuls -..-· 
~'\P~·t·hxll'JuzuJ..,,.· 'o 
~ _:'":._'"_'·'_'.'l'_"_~P_"'_"'_"'_·,.._n,·, Om~us.::i•~:~~·· .."_'_'J_"_"_·..._..,_.,_·f<_,~,_"_'_'•_•i_"_"_H_'_"'_r_d. 
STlJI>V DAT.ES AND 'l'JMES: 
essential part of the social change process. 
llermindnz exprnssod her hope to further engage the Church in her projed lilr social change. She spoke warmly of the social activism of Cardinal Hoger Mahoney, archbishop of Los Angeles, who has pressed for change on tim immigration issue. 
For llermindez, philanthropy is an essential part of Catholicism. 
"It's about sharing, giving and taking care of your brother and sister.... Philanthropy is about supporting human beings," she said. "My belief in soeial change is from the Ten Commandments. The basic tenets of Catholicism, the communal nature of our reli­gion ... that's my lilil." 
Hernandez concluded by remarking on the process of social change. 
"Win some, you lose some, remember: Social change is incre­mental and very slow," she said. "You have to be committed for thP long run." 
Contact Liz Miller at emilie 1 O@nd.edu 

place in l'rovidnnce, ILl., later in the spring. 
The three captains said that students interested in joining the dub and possibly compet­ing on the team don't need prior experience. 
"You do not rwed previous skating ability, but it helps," Heinthaler said. "We have two girls this year who just start­ed and they have really excelled. And if you want to be a part or the synchronized team you need to pass the juvenile moves in tlw l'iold test." 
While only composed of women, the team is always looking for male members to join, Davis said. 
Contact Katie Staak at kstaakO 1 @nd.edu 

Monday, December 10, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 13,625.58 +5.69

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

AMEX NASDAQ 
NYSE 


S&P 500 1,504.66 -2.68 
MKK8(w~~z?ii:,::t~~~~:~~1iJri.ftl 
FTSE 100 (London) 6,554.90 +69.30 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.02 -0.03 150.91 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.02 +0.01 52.33 COMCAST CPA (CMCSA) -0.11 -0.02 18.28 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -1.33 -0.42 31.20 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +3.05 +0.122 4.12 13-WEEK BILL +2.03 -0.060 3.02 30-YEAR BOND +2.37 +0.106 4.585 5-YEAR NOTE +4.31 +0.145 3.508 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.95 88.28 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -6.90 800.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.08 91.33 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 111.55 EURO 0.6828 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0061 BRffiSH POUND 0.4922 

IN BRIEF Trade summit ends with no progress 
LISBON -The first summit between Europe and Africa in seven years came to an acrimo­nious end Sunday with leaders squabbling over human rights and no progress on a loom­ing trade pact deadline. 
Old divisions surfaced at the two-day sum­mit as leaders swapped accusations over the crises in Zimbabwe and Darfur, and postcolo­nial tensions deepened over free trade deals. 
The World Trade Organization has ruled that the EU's 30-year-old preferential trade agreement with Africa was unfair to other trading nations and violated international rules. New deals are meant to be finalized by Dec. 31. 
Senegalese President Abdoulaye Wade said most African leaders had rejected the European Union's free trade proposals, known as Economic Partnership Agreements, and wouldn't discuss them further. 
The proposals "aren't in Africa's interest," Wade said in angry comments at a news con­ference. 
Increase in credit card debt reported 
WA.';HINGTON -Consumer borrowing rose in October at a slightly faster rate than the previous month as shoppers continued to depend on their credit cards to finance purchases. 
The Federal Reserve reported Friday that con­sumer credit increased at an annual rate of 2.3 percent in October, faster than the 1.6 percent growth rate for September. 
The gain reflected an acceleration in the growth of credit card debt which offset a second straight month of declines in the category of debt that includes auto loans. 
Revolving credit, which includes credit card debt, increa'>ed at a rate of 8.3 percent in October following a gain of 6 percent in September and an even stronger pace of 10.6 percent in August. 
Credit card debt has been surging in recent months as consumers have started borrowing more heavily on their credit cards now that home refinancings have slowed. That slowdown has n~flected tighter bank lending conditions as a seri­cms slump in housing has sent home prices falling and increased the level of mortgage defaults. 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

VENEZUELA 
Chavez launches regional bank 
Leaders view Bank of the South as a move toward financial independence 
Associated Press  
BUENOS AIRES -Hugo  
Chavez and leaders of six  
other South American  
nations launched a region­ 
al development bank  
Sunday that the  
Venezuelan leader is tout­ 
ing as the continent's  
answer to U.S.-influenced  
international lenders.  
With as much as $7 bil­ 
lion in expected startup  
capital, backers say the  
Banco del Sur, or Bank of  
the South, will offer Latin  
American countries loans  
with fewer strings  
attached than those given  
by the World Bank, the  
International Monetary  
Fund or the Inter­ 
American Development  
Bank.  
The leaders signed the  
"founding act" at a cere­ 
mony at Argentina's presi­ 
dential palace hosted by  
President Nestor Kirchner  
and his wife, president­ 
elect Cristina Fernandez,  
who takes office Monday.  
South American digni­ 
taries and government  
officials cheered after the  
leaders signed the accord  
on a glass-topped table,  
backed by flags of their AP  
South American nations. Brazilian President Luiz lnazio Lula da Silvia, left, talks with Venezuelan President Hugo 
"This is the start of a Chavez, right, during a meeting Sunday to discuss the launching of a regional bank.  
historical moment," said  
Bolivian President Evo  da Silva said. "This will be  tal natural gas pipeline  Weisbrot of the  
Morales, whose country is  the first international  and trade alliances.  Washington-based Center  
the continent's poorest.  bank truly controlled by  Critics note much  for Economic and Policy  
He praised the bank as a  the nations of our conti­ remains to be determined  Research. "This is the first  
new tool to fight poverty  nent."  about how the bank will  step in creating an alter­ 
and ease inequalities and  Earlier, Chavez said the  operate and say it might  native."  
criticized what he charac­ bank is "aimed at freeing  turn out to be a largely  Finance ministers of  
terized as heavy-handed  us from the chains of  symbolic project used by  Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil,  
lending practices of inter­ dependence and underde­ Chavez to spread his oil­ Ecuador, Paraguay,  
national lenders who  velopment."  financed influence.  Uruguay and Venezuela  
demand austerity pre­ The institution is one of  But others call it a bold  will sit on the bank's  
scriptions as conditions  several far-reaching pro­ stroke for Latin America's  board. Officials say it will  
for extending credit.  posals under Chavez's  financial independence.  dispense loans for projects  
"Only strong and united  ambitious call to unite  "What you had in the  from road-building to anti­ 
can South America occupy  Latin American countries  past decade was the col­ poverty programs and  
its rightful place among  in a "confederation of  lapse of a very powerful  regional integration plans  
nations," Brazilian  republics." His vision also  creditors' cartel headed by  such as cross-border rail  
President Luiz lnacio Lula  includes a transcontinen­ the IMF," said Mark  lines.  

Fed considers another interest rate cut 
point cut. ensure the banking system is sound
Associated Press 
Banks, financial companies and and financial markets run smoothly. 
other investors who made loans to "There is a link between Wall 
WASHINGTON -What a difference people with spotty credit or put Street and Main Street. The Fed is in economic conditions since the money into securities backed by taking the right actions, but they Federal Reserve last met in October. those subprime mortgages have lost should be careful," said Victor Li, an 
Credit has become harder to billions of dollars. Investors in the economics professor at the Villanova obtain, Wall Street has convulsed U.S. and abroad have grown more School of Business. again and the housing slump has wary of buying new debt, thereby The fear among economists is that intensified. And policymakers at the aggravating the credit crunch. the negative forces rattling investors central bank now appear to have All this has added to the turmoil on could spread, forcing consumers and changed their minds about the need Wall Street, and Bernanke and other businesses to restrain spending and to drop interest rates again. Fed officials say they must take it investment. While the odds of a 
Twice the Fed had cut rates this into account when deciding their recession have grown, Fed officials, year and officials suggested in next move. the Bush administration and most October that might be enough for the But does lowering rates mean the economists are hopeful the country year to help the economy survive all Fed essentially is bailing out can tackle the problems and avoid that stress. Then the problems snow­investors or encouraging more slop­that fate. balled, leading Fed Chairman Ben py decision-making? In other words, "The Federal Reserve is following Bernanke to sign that one more cut what exactly is the Fed's job? the evolution of financial conditions might be needed. Bernanke and other Fed officials carefully, with particular attention to 
Analysts expect the Fed to trim its say it is to make policy that keeps the the question of how strains in finan­key rate, now at 4.5 percent, by one­economy growing and inflation low, a cial markets might affect the broader quarter of a percentage point at the stable climate that benefits individu­economy," Bernanke said in a recent meeting Tuesday. Some even specu­als, businesses and investors. The speech where he opened the door to late about the possibility of a half-Fed also has a responsibility to a further rate cut. 
..----------~ 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, December I 0, 2007 

THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box n9, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANA(; lNG EDITOR: Kyle Cassily Ass·1; MANA!;ING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen l.1ngley 
VIEWPOINT EDI'IUR: Joey King 
SPOR'IS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Him· ScENE EVITOR: Tae Andrt·ws 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohle-r 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
AI>VEJHISING MANA<;ER: Je•sica Cortez 
Au DK\IGN MANAGF.It: Kelly Cronli CONTROU.F.R: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS AllMINJsrRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
()74) 631-6')00 ohscrvad~l>nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(S74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ohsmc@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vkwpoint.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the indcpendem, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the sruden!S of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Coll~e. Editorial content, including advertisemen!S, is not gowrned by policies of the administration of either institution. Th~ Observ~r reserves the right 10 refuse advcrtisemcn!S based on contcm. 
The nt·ws is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Edimr in Chief, Managing Edimr, A~sistant Managing Editors and dcpartmt•nt editors. Commentaries, leners and columns prescm the vit"Ws of the authors and not necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available 10 all readers. The free <'Xpression ofall opinions through lcners is encouraged. l.eners to the Ediror must be signed and must indudc comact int(,rmation. 
QueJ'tiow rtgardi11g Obsrrvt'T policies should be dirtcted to Editor ill CfJiifMaddie Ha11n11. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'IlK Oho.rrvcr (USPS'')<) 2-41MJO) '" J>ttbhdtcd Muuday tlmJUfth f:rido~y ~err durmg rum .mel v;&~";ttiun pt"fltM.L• A •nh~npliuntrl11u: Ollkl'vcr i1 $100 hn onr o~cadcmk y(',u; $~5 tm nne ll('lfiC'I(t'l 
1 he U~rver •• pu~11Ju:.l .u: ronMASTER Ul4 \uuch Dium~ot Hall Send .td<lrc-~• corre..:1inm m 
Nntrc Oitnu;, IN 46,56--071') ThcOb...crvcr 
l'ctlt~tlic-..1 pt)lt;tgc p;ud ;u None O.~mr P.O. Unx 779 and ~ddiunu.tl ma•lin!( oflica. 021 Sourh Dinin~t Ho~ll 
Not~ Dame. IN 4Mo;n.on9 
Thl" Observer i• .1 mrmhe1 ulthc A»uci.llctl Prc:.s. AlllcJlfotluclion ngtm arc ti:"U'rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Kohler Dan Murphy Katie Peralta Michael Bryan 

Madeline Buckley Sam Werner Graphics Scene Jared Wafer Analise Lipari Vil~wpoint l.ianna Brauweiler 
U-WIRE 
Affordable and thoughtful gifts not mutually exclusive 
Everybody wants something particular for Christmas. There's always that one gift that will make a person's holi­day just perfect, no matter what happens. 
II' you're the sort of person who goes out of your way to f'ind that girt, this article isn't for you. 
Some of us, however, are just aver­age college students. "It's the thought Erik Johnson that counts" is morH of a lifnline than a saying when it comns to buying 
The Bradley 

your friends gifts. When you barely 
Scout

have morwy to get a sandwich, how arn you supposed to make everybody Bradley on the Christmas list happy? 
University

Fortunately, people have been dodging tho expensive-gift bullet for years, and now their expertise can be passed to you. 
Tho macaroni necklace: This one is highly useful because if you replace th1~ word "maearoni" with "diamond," you rnalize thn only diiTenmce bntween noodles and diamonds is tightly-bonded carbon. 
And aren't we siek of carbon? Isn't it part of carbon diox­id!~'! That means the same thing costing $1)00 to put on a chain and wear on your neck is slowly boiling the Earth. 
This is a perfect gift for your significant other because it costs about $3 to make, but it shows you really care. Granted, you only eared enough to put some noodles on a string, but if you give it in a really romantic way-or if your significant other is a 3-year-old-then you'll still get a good response. 
If all else fails, you can take the noodles off the string and eook them. 
Somebody else's elothes: Let's not mince words-clothes from Goodwill rule. Some of the coolest shirts I've ever owned were bought for two dollars in the T-shirt section of a Goodwill. You'll find a wonderful cross-section of retro T­shirts, creepy trench coats and extravagantly cheap dress­es. And the best part is the most expensive thing in the store is a couch that costs $75. 
Just imagine what you could come up with if you look really hard. A DVD costs about $20 anywhere else, but that could buy you 10 awesome T-shirts at Goodwill! And wash­ing a DVD doesn't mean it's as good the second time. 
Inside jokes: This one is incredibly easy, and you can even make it up completely off the top of your head. If you already have a long-standing inside joke with somebody, 
the job is half done. If' not, go to your friend's 
room/house/cave right now, make some obscure reference 
and hope like hell he or she linds it funny. 
Once you have a suitable joke, lind a eheap way to repre­sent it. If it's about a person or plaee, find a pieture and print it out. 
Arter that, the choice is yours. You could put it on aT­shirt, but buying iron-ons is dangerously expensive IH~hav­ior. Or you could simply wrap a $10 gift card in paper made of the picture and call it a day. 
If the joke is about an objeet, it's even nasior. Either lind the objeet in question and box it up or, if it's too big or expensive, make a scale model. This can be donn hastily and poorly, and then you can latf\r blame your lacklustnr art on lits of giggles bnr:auso the joke is just so funny, and you knew they'd love it. 
Gift cards: This one is fairly self-explanatory. Everyone knows there is maybe one thing in Best Buy that costs less than $10, but everyone is still thrilled to have a $10 gift card from there. Gift 1:ards are great because they pack a lot of meaning into a littlll bit of effort. 
You're basieally giving them money, but beeause that would be tacky as a Christmas gift, you go further and deny them the option of going anywhere but a plaee of your choice. Be it a restaurant or store, you get to choose where they spend it, and that means that you eared enough to choose where they want to go. 
If all else fails, there's one more. 
Used DVD's: Used DVD's are cheap. This also applies to video games, CD's and books. If you can find the right store, you can get an incredible amount of stuff for a small amount of money. 
I recommend Acme Comics. One year I went there for my brother's birthday and I got him a movie, a video game and a comic book for $11. I watched the movie more times than he did, stole the comic book and sold the video game to buy an XBox, but that's beside the point. 
This column was originally published in the Dec. 7 edi­tion of The Bradley Scout, a publication of Bradley University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Victory for socialism 
With the defeat of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez's sweeping referendum, many are proclaiming a victory of democracy over socialism, freedom over totalitarianism and autocratic government. 
I would like to defend the notion that Chavez's referendum defeat is actually a victory for soeialism, rather than a defeat. This will provide us Nicholas Zettel with several lessons about socialism. 
Socialism is meant to introduce the 
The Marquette 

apparatus for communism, which is the 
Tribune

most diflicult of any modern political task because communism is politics with­
Marquette

out a state. Chavez lost sight of this goal 
University

of holding socialism to be a medium for ridding politics of the intervention of bureaucracies and states. 
Of course, thinking of politics without a state seems to be entirely counterintuitive. I would argue that this is actually the most important aspect of the challenge of soeialism and communism: It will necessarily challenge our thinking about our own politics by conceiving of tactical measures to rid poli­tics of the state. 
This brings us to our second lesson. Socialism is not opposed to freedom. Socialism, as a conduit for communism, is meant to be one particular development or strand of free­dom. Usually, in light of its developments in the 20th century, socialism is equated with totalitarianism and a state eeonomy, in contrast to the freedom of democracy and some sort of market economy. This line of thought is mistaken, however. Freedom is not limited to one type of regime and one type of economy. 
Socialism is not limited to totalitarianism and state economies. To equate socialism with those functions is to sim­ply equate socialism with one aspect of its political thrust, and forget that it serves a radical function of moving politics away from the state. 
Chavez's defeat is a victory for socialism because it refrains him from developing economic reforms alongside increased bureaucratic developments, especially term limits. 
Socialism should not be equated with totalitarianism, and opposed to freedom, because the tasks of socialism are ulti­mately oriented away from the state, and the totality of the state. 
Our final lesson? As soon as we make the leap to equating one regime type with freedom and dcmocraey, we will equally find ourselves en route to totalitarianism. 
This column was originally published in the Dec. 7 edition of The Marquette Tribune. a publication of Marquette University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Preachers in pulpits talked about 
Submit a Letter 
A~:

what a great message is in the 
book. No matter what you do, 
somebody always imputes mean­
to the Editor at 
ing into your books." 
www.ndsmcobserver.com
Theodor Seuss Geisel author 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ wonder whether they have rum and Coke in !leaven? Maybe it's too mundane a pleasure, but Thope so ­as a sun downer. Except, of course, the sun never goes down there. Oh, man, this heaven i~ going to ta,~e some get­tmg used to. 
Desmond Tutu political activist 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, December 10, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Fight for underprivileged at Notre Dallle 
I was shocked to read Donna Bromeling's Letter to the Editor ("Custodial staff deserves fair treatment," Dec. 4) in which she detailed her plight as a custodial staff employee, who claimed that she has been unfair­ly compensated and experienced contempt from her supervisors. With her letter, she helped put a face on the working poor among us here at Notre Dame. 
Last fall. I was excited to hear influential public officials tackle immigration issues at the annual forum. but now I worry that Americans, and indeed even our Notre Dame community, will ignore legal cit­izens who work hard and follow the rules. I believe that as Catholics, we have a moral obligation to advo­cate social justice and help those in need, just as Jesus taught us to "feed the hungry and clothe the 
Keep 'X' in X-mas 

Spend tuition dollars on something 
else 
Dear Bill Kirk, 
Have a merry X-mas. 
Sincerely, every Notre Dame student 

who is happy to see our tuition dollars spent to fund University employees and their frivolous pursuits. 
Conor Bindner sophomore Sarin College Dec. 8 

Ppl need abbrevs 
Last Fri., most coeds opened The Observer thinking TGIF, but instead they read 'bout Bill Kirk's assault on abbrev's and acronyms. The VP of Res Life, whose first name. job title, and department are all abbrevs, thinks its no prob to keep saying full words and phrases. He claims to want to "keep Christ in Christmas," but if you ask us, that's just TMI. 
W/out abbrevs, humans would spend an x-tra 200 mins speaking each day, fo' sho decreasing our productivity and low­ering our GPAs. Our 'rents didn't send us all the way out to SB. Ind. to attend ND and not learn how to max our time. (FYI, we think this is a BFD and this is not a jk.) This unprovoked aggression on the part of Hes Life is def not adding any­thing to the ND fam. Maybs u think its NBD and we should MOOB, but this is a slippery slope and we need to take a stand now, not L8r. What's next, the end of contractions as we know them? Summaries, synopses, movie previews, and Cliff-notes are all in danger. 
IDK 'bout u. but we're not going to just sit back and say whatevs as all forms of literary and verbal efficiency are lost. Obvi, we can't fix this prob alone, and we need you ppl to help out. If you feel ur life would be worse w/out watching TRL with your BFF while u both LMAO and LOL, then keep the X in X-mas this year. OK, G2G. Late. XOXO. 
El Bradley, Chris "X-opher" Ragni seniors off campus Dec. 7 

naked." Furthermore, Catholic social teachings have long upheld the value of human dignity, which demands a "fair day's wage for a fair day's labor." This in turn then, implies that we, as students, facul­ty, and staff, who fulfill our own job requirements should be paid a "fair day's wage." I would argue that a fair day's wage should at the very least be enough for a laborer to remain above the federal poverty level or at least enough to secure the basic necessities of life, including food, shelter, clothing, and health­care. 
Our Notre Dame leaders challenge us with the ques­tion "What would you fight for?" After considering Bromeling's concerns, I urge university officials and students to fight for human dignity and fair wages. 
Specifically, I urge the university, at large, to carefully examine the plight of our own working poor and then strive to be a model for the world in providing "fair wages" to each human being that allows them to flourish in the society with dignity and pride for the work that they perform. How can we as future lead­ers from Notre Dame expect to enact significant changes in the surrounding world unless we first address the needs of our own workers and poor here at Notre Dame? 
Christopher Douville freshman Stanford Hall Dec. 6 

U-WIRE 
Facebook does not have your back 
Facebook's alarming rise to prominence has already reached mythic proportions. In the world of technology, Facebook's story is told with a "Sword in the Stone" type of esteem, the same way one might embellish a story about the time they had sex with two roommates in one night. 
Launched in early 2004 by Harvard sophomore Mark Zuckerburg and his Alex Schaefer three roommates, the site had 100,000 users by June of that year and, as of 
The Daily 

this November, claims to have over 50 
Campus

million members. Its numbers cata­pulted when it altered the registration Universitycondition requiring users to have a 
ofConnecticut 

school e-mail address to access the site. Beforehand, having a Facebook account meant having a bit of pride. Users had gotten into college and as a reward they had this online community where they could interact with other sophisticates devoid of the distraction of those undereducated brutes who plague the web. Facebook's opening to the public was a source of minor outrage, mostly directed at the fact that high school kids could now access the hallowed site. 
The first change that threw the Facebook community into real turmoil was the introduction of the vaunted news feed. This feature compiled all moves made by its users and announced them for all to see on their friends' homepages. People reacted like Facebook had started typing up their diary and sending it to their friends. It felt like Facebook was trying to teach a course in Stalking 101. The problem was that Zuckerburg didn't phase in this new development by letting users choose what is displayed; he just threw up the new feature. This resulted in a backlash that was, pre­sumably, unexpected. Or maybe it was expected. Maybe he was just taking the same approach that my landlords did when we moved into our apartment and found that our rug smelled like it had been used as a sewage transfer station. Sure, they knew about the smell -I think people three towns over knew about it-but they didn't replace it until we complained. 
When Facebookers complained, Zuckerburg quickly made the needed changes, installing a privacy control and issuing a swift and genuine-sounding apology. He defended the news feed as a tool with endless beneficial possibilities, but said that users should have the ability to control what was displayed. Everyone accepted his apology and actually quickly accepted the news feed because, well, everyone kind of likes to stalk their friends. 
Facebook apparently learned from its mistakes, and its next significant augmentation -applications -was a fea­ture that users had to agree to use before installing. These independently-developed programs can be loaded onto a person's profile and range from various games to a decla­ration of fanhood for a team; there's even an application where users can anonymously disclose secrets. I'm sure the "Dirty Rumor" and "Embarrassing Childhood Story" appli­cations are in the works. Or maybe there'll just be a feature where parents can upload pictures of their young kid naked in the bathtub. 
Now it seems Facebook is back to its old tricks, although this time it was much more subtle. At the beginning of November, Facebook launched a new feature called Beacon. Many probably haven't heard of it because it was not an optional application, nor was it a visible one. 
When a computer visits a webpage it downloads "cook­ies" from that particular site. Facebook's cookies are not warm and soft. Rather, they communicate with a third­party site that tracks all of the members' personal online movements (purchases, tastes, preferences) on about 40 other partner sites, and sends that information back to Facebook-which uses this data to tailor its advertise­ments to appeal to each particular user. Also, until recently, it put the users' online purchases into the news feed. A per­son could have bought something on eBay, in a completely separate transaction, and had it announced on the site. 
The reason Facebook is such a progressive and influen­tial site is not because of its advancements in social net­working but because of its advancements in the field of marketing. One of marketing's main hurdles is reaching the target audience; it is a constant struggle and there is always collateral damage. Anti-marijuana ads aimed at dis­suading current smokers inevitably cause some curious children to ask their parents what this weird, forbidden. Mexican-sounding substance is. With Facebook, a company can be absolutely sure about who is seeing their ad because of the individual nature of the site. 
Most people didn't even know the Beacon controversy was occurring. Obviously, it caused a minor outrage among those in the know. A petition was started, letters were writ­ten and finally Zuckerburg issued an apology, making the necessary changes; he switched Beacon to an opt-in pro­gram rather than an opt-out service. 
While the apology again quelled the mob, the bravado with which Zuckerburg has marched around Silicon Valley is remarkable. Facebook's strategy now appears to be one of arrogantly confident risk. The site has become such an addiction that people are primed to forgive it, no matter how far it pushes the limits-as long as Facebook rectifies the mistake. 
Facebook, like most other websites, is designed so people will spend as much time as possible on the site. It really is an advertiser's dream. The concern with Facebook, and the thing to keep in mind, is that it does not have its user's interests at heart. It doesn't. It is truly and utterly motivat­ed by the business of the Internet. It's the same reason that companies can pay a fee to look at prospective employees' profiles and check their Facebook history. If it was really a network devoted to college students then this would not occur. I'm not saying this is necessarily a bad thing. For lack of a better expression, this is just how the world works. Just remember, Facebook is not your friend. 
This column was originally published in the Dec. 7 edi­tion of The Daily Campus, the daily publication of the University ofConnecticut. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Monday, December 10, 2007 

"In thn land of Mordor, in the tires of Mount Doorn. the Dark Lord Sauron forged in secret, a master ring, to con­trol all otlwrs. And into this ring he poun~d all his cruelty, his malice and his will to dorni­natn all life. Onn Tae Andrews ring to rule thmn all. One by one, thn Scene Editor free peoples of Middln Earth fell to thn pownr of the Bing. But tlwre were some who resistnd." 
Watching this year's NFL season has been very much akin to watching the critically-acclaimed "Lord of the Hings" trilogy. Thn New England Patriots head coach, likn the Dark Lord Sauron, has consumed himsnlf with a burning need for a ring. Perhaps not the One lUng of Power, but some might argue, an even morn important piecn of hardware: the NFL Championship ring. 
lie's had it before. And now he wants it baek. 
Bnlichick 's Gollum-like obsession for that most coveted of rings, yet another Super Bowl Championship, has spurred the Patriots to a perfect 13-0 record and restored their status as the bullies of the NFL. With each touchdown they scorn, the FOX NFL theme swells, and wn see Torn Brady, Handy Moss and Co. 
BEr*
nETWOAHS 

Imagine this: You're in a dorm room and you're flipping through the school's provided cable channels (sorry, no !lBO lwrn). In continuing the full sweep, you pass channnl No. 75. 
For most peo­

pln that liv1\ on Corbin Hicks 1~ampus, which is also indicative of S'cene Writer the student body hen~. channnl number 75 is either skipped or stopped on as a source of amusement. The chan­nel in question is none other than Blaek Entertainment Television, or BET. 
BET is the destination for people look­ing to get their fix of misogynistic rap music, rehashed MTV rnjeet shows with all-Black casts-"College Hill," I'm looking at you -and dating shows fea­turing midget devils. I'm convinced that Kennan Ivory Wayans owns stock in the ehannnl, bncause it's one-stop shopping for both "In Living Color" and "The Wayans Bros." 
Other staples of the channel indude "HJ(J & Park." "Hap City" and former UPN shows that have been canceled or are currently available in syndication. And yes, I'm crossing my lingers in hopes that "Maleolrn & Eddie" is added to the rotation. 
llowevnr. I haven't mentioned the true "diamond in the rough" of BET. That, high-living, trash-talking and generally 
putting down the rest of the league. 
It's not just that they've won; it's how they've won. The Patriots have destroyed nearly everyone on the slate, running up the score, going for it on fourth down with massive leads and gennrally disrespecting every hapless squad they've encountered, leaving a wake of battered and broken football teams. The Patriots have won with swagger and sneer. Their sheer hate factor is off the charts. 
Unlike the true patriots from which New England derives its name, who spent much of the Hevolutionary War using guerilla tactics to defeat the greater numbers of the imperial British, these modern-day Patriots are the decided favorites in every game they play. In the past offseason, they paired all-world quarterback Tom Brady with all-universe wide receiver Handy Moss, a eombination that has led to an offen­sive juggernaut of epic proportions. 
Having the Brady-to-Moss aerial bomb seems about as fair as having the dreaded Nine Hiders-the Nazgul­hop aboard their dragon-like steeds and plunge down upon their hapless foes, leaving them only death and despair. 
Then again, fair has nothing to do 
my friends, is the BET Blackbuster Movie of the Week. Yes, you read me right: "Black" buster. 
Once a week. preferably late at night on the weekends, the program directors over at headquarters dig through a crate of bootleg VHS tapes and lind a ditTerent movie to show. These vary from cine­matic classics like "Poetic 

For those ofyou who 

Justice" and "Holiday about an aspiring Heart," to gangsta flicks have never had the Houston rapper and the like "Boyz N Da Hood" pleasure ofwatching trials and tribulations that and "Menace to Society," occur during his quest for 
one ofthe movies that

to spoofs like ''I'm Gonna fame and stardom. Git You Sucka" and I've listed, I strongly Sound familiar to any­"Don't Be A Menace To urge you to do body? South Central While During the movie, which 
yourself the favor. 

The Hood"-yes, that's the full title -and even the "straight to barbershop" smashes like "3 Strikes" and "I Got The !look Up." 
My personal favorite is a tie between "Baller Blockin'" and "!lot Boyz," from the "Cash Money" and "No Limit" glory days. There's just something about New Orleans rappers trying to do serious films, with plots only using one camera, that I tind amusing. I'm convinced that Silkk the Shocker should have won an award for his captivating performance in "Hot Boyz." 
with it. The outcome of next week's game against my beloved Jets already looks grim, due to the fact that the CamnraGate scandal took place in week one during the New York-New England matchup. Can you say, "revenge game?" 
League officials caught the Patriots using cameras to tape opposing teams' signals. The Patriots paid a heavy price for their indiscretion (to the tune of a half-million dollar line for Belichick alone and another $250,000 for the team, plus the loss of its first-round draft pick in this year's draft), but the rest of the NFL may have paid a price far greater. By imposing the penalties on the Pats, the league incurred the wrath of the Beasts of the Northeast. 
The Patriots have three remaining games in their pursuit of season-long perfection against the New York Jets, Miami Dolphins and New York Giants, all decidedly Hobbit-sized underdogs. Of the three contests, two take place within the frigid (and therefore cozy) confines of Gillette Stadium, New England's home turf. 
Unfortunately, no matter how hard it is to watch, it appears as though Bill Belichick and his many sweatshirts will strut their way to yet another NFL Championship and an undefeated sea­
"Baller Blockin' ,"serious film that it is, is only 50 minutes long and ends with the classic "To Be Continued" motif. Needless to say, seven years later there still hasn't been a sequel, but I will be tirst in line to buy a ticket when there is. 
The newest Blackbuster movie is "The 
American Dream," star­
ring the one and only 
Mike Jones. The movie is 
the rapper's house or 
some other low-budget locale, the viewer is drawn in for the same reason most people watch trashy TV: because the girls look good. 
But I have digressed. 
For those of you who have never had the pleasure of watching one of the movies that I've listed, I strongly urge you to do yourself the favor. Although not all will be "Hide or Die" starring Duane Martin and Jadakiss, occasional­ly you'll have an enjoyable, fulfilling film experience. And remember, all of these big name actors have to start some-

New England Patriots coach Bill Belichick has dominated this season. 
son with relatively few obstacles. Abandon hope, all ye who watch here: Unlike "Lord of the Hings," there will be no happy ending to this season. There is no hope for Mid-Earth. 
The oiews expressed in ,'-,'cene and 1/eard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd. edu 


Photo courtesy of sixshot .com Sllkk the Shocker stars In "Hot Boyz," a BET Blackbuster Movie of the Week. 
where. 
If Wanda from "In Living Color" can get an Oscar, you never know what's around the corner. 
The oiews expressed in Scene and lleard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. 
Contact Corbin llicks at chicks2@nd. edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Monday, December 10, 2007 
page 11 

author Philip 
Analise Lipari

Pullman's epony­mous novel, the Assistant Scene first in the "His 
Editor 

Dark Materials" trilogy, "The Golden Compass" is the No. 1 film at the box ofTice. With the rise of fantasy fihnmak­ing in recent years, it seems likely that that trend will continue with director Chris Weitz' new fantasy epic. 
Lyra Belacqua (13-year old newcomer Dakota Blue Richards) is the young hero­ine at the center of Pullman's novel, a quiet girl who holds the mythic golden compass. Lyra uncovers the mystery of the Dust, the source of man's original sin, while encountering Mrs. Coulter (Nicole Kidman) and the underlings of the oppressive Magisterium. 
In a world inhabited by shape-shifting soul creatures called daemons, armored beasts and even James Bond-both Daniel Craig and his leading lady, Eva Green, appear in the film -Lyra must resist the Magesterium and fight for the freedom of the world. 
Written as something of a response to 
C.S. Lewis' Christian book series "The Chronicles of Narnia," Pullman's trilogy has garnered much praise from critics who cite the books' philosophical under­pinnings as more sophisticated fare than the usual young adult novel. Secular groups and die-hard fans of the fantasy novels have criticized New Line Cinema and Weitz' decision to water down these themes in the movie for a more main­stream audience. 
The strongest opposition to the film isn't coming from Comic-Con-goers, however, but from their parents. 
Groups like the Catholic League (which is not ofTicially tied to the Catholic Church) and others are speaking out against "The Golden Compass" for what they see as the film's assault on Christian beliefs. The original novel voic­es opposition to the type of power abuse that the Church has employed in its his­tory, with an explicitly clear anti-estab­lishment message in its epic final battle. It seems logical to think that similar ideas will surface in a film version whose advertising campaign is clearly targeted 
JARED WAFER I Observer Graphic 
at fans of the "Lord of the Rings" films and the "Harry Potter" series. The question at the debate's center is whether or not the "kids are all right." 
"My parents read me the books when I was nine," Richards said in an interview with Entertainment Weekly, "and I fell in love with them. I really didn't notice the religious themes back then." 
It was only during filming, Richards said later, that Pullman's anti-establish­ment themes made her think of organ­ized religion at all. 
If the books do aim to dismantle Christianity, the Church and the Almighty Himself, like Catholic League president Bill Donahue and others allege, then the kids will definitely not be all right. These groups target Weitz' film for glorifying what they see as Pullman's atheist agenda, as well as New Line for marketing the film as it would with "Harry Potter" or other children's fare. 
The problem with this movement, though, isn't the film: It's the ignorance of the protest. 
Yes, Pullman is an atheist. Yes, his books discuss complex philosophies, and yes, they also criticize organized religion and the historic abuses of the Church. But even the Catholic News Service, which gave the film a positive review, acknowledges that Christians don't need to fear the questions that Pullman's nov­els and Weitz' subsequent film have raised. 
If anything, a film like "The Golden Compass" is something to embrace. It's a chance for constructive dialogue and debate about the beliefs we might take for granted. The world questions and challenges the beliefs we hold, whatever they are, every day. If history is any indi­cation, backing away from those chal­lenges is a misguided effort that can only keep your mind closed -an aim that, to Pullman, opposes the heart of "His Dark Materials." 
"I don't think they promote anything," Pullman told Entertainment Weekly, "except the good qualities of kindness, courage, curiosity, open-mindedness." 
In the end, "The Golden Compass" is really asking moviegoers to find the answers themselves. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 
Photo courtesy of thecia.com.au 

Lyra Belacqua (Dakota Blue Richards) examines the mysterious golden compass In New Line's new film. "The Golden Compass" has faced criticism for its content. 
SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 


It's videos like this that 
, get you psyched to be a parent in post modern America. 
Biz's Beat of the Day 
You, too, can grow up to be arap superstar. 
Cloymation Carol of the Bells 
AChristmas-style blast from the past 
JARED WAFER I Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, December 10, 2007 
NFL 

Patriots stay perfect at 13-0 with rout of Steelers 
Ramo's last-second touchdown to Witten thwarts Lions upset attempt; Giants edge Eagles as Akers misses late FG 
Giants. Both of them put Smith in the 
Associated Press 

The Steelers would have spotlight, as he had been on 
FOXBOIHJUC;II. Mass.-The clinched a playoff berth with a Wednesday when he guaranteed Patriots an~ dominant once victory, but still lead the AFC a Pittsburgh victory. morn. And still unbeaten. North. On the 63-yard touchdown to 
Tom Brady thn•w four touch­Brady is four scoring passes Moss, Smith took a few steps for­down passes, shattl~ring Steelers shy of Peyton Manning's reeord ward and Moss 11cw by him and sal'ety Anthony Smith's guaran­of' 49 set in 2004 and moved had at least a I0-yard edge on tee of a victory. Handy Moss ahead of Dan Marino's 44 in Smith when he caught the ball. caught two of tlwm and New 1<JH6 into third place. Marino Then came a strange play in England eruslwd Pittsburgh 34-holds the second spot with 4H. which Moss was the middleman. 1:~ on Sunday. Moss caught touchdown passes 
Tlw lopsided victory against of 4 and 63 yards in a span of Cowboy 28, Uons 27 the NFL's stingiest dnl'ense fol­1:59 midway through the 11rst Tony Homo and Jason Witten lowed a two-game struggle in hall' and has 19 to move into sec­put mistakes behind them well which the PatrioL<; {13-0) noeded ond place for a season. Jerry enough to connect on a game­late comeba1:ks to beat tP.ams Hice's record of 22 is in sight. winning touchdown that gave the with losing rnc:ords. Philadelphia Brady also threw scoring pass­Dallas Cowboys the NFC East and Baltimon~. es of 56 yards to Jabar Gafl'ney title. 
They had a short week to prn­and 2 yards to Wes Welker. Homo threw a 16-yard pass to pare for the StPelers (9-4) al'ter It was a beating like so many of Witten with 18 seconds left, lift­beating tho Havens on Monday those the Patriots handed out in ing Dallas to a win over deflatP.d night on a touchdown with 44 their first 1 0 games, when their Detroit on Sunday. snconds left. average victory maq.,tin was 25.4 The quarterback fumbled near 
Still. the Patriots became the points. midfield on the drive and the fifth team with a 13-0 record. There may have been extra bouncing football was recovered joining the 1934 Chicago Bears, satisfaction because Smith was by a teammate after going 1972 Miami Dolphins, I 99H burned on both long touchdown through a linebacker's hands. Denver Broncos and 2005 passes. The tight end lost the football on Indianapolis Colts. They can Just before the 2-minute warn­the previous possession, less beconw the first tNLill since the ing at the end of the game, the than 1 yard from a go-ahead tackle Damien Woody. some how. some way we scratch 1972 Dolphins to finish a regular fans began chanting score. and find a way." season undefPalPd; those "Guarantee!" to mock Smith, "I was excited to have the ball Giants 16, Eagles 13 The defending NFC East cham­Dolphins wnrn 14-0. then won whose picture was shown on the back after thinking r lost the A dejected David Akers buried pion Eagles (5-8) can start look­throe postseason games for thn scoreboard. game for us," said Witten, who his head in his hands while the ing ahead to next year fiJllowing NFJ:s only pnrfm:t season. The Steelers were unlikely vic­set a franchise record with 15 New York Giants celebrated all their third straight loss and fifth 
The vietory clinch1~d a first­tims. They started the day allow­receptions and a career-high around him. loss by four points or less. round playof'l' bye, and the ing just 12.9 points per game with 138 yards receiving. It was the other way around McNabb hadn't played since Patriots should bP big I~LVorites to with only one reception of more Dallas (12-1) clinched the NFC the last time these teams met spraining his right ankle in thP take a 15-0 record into their sea­than 40 yards. The Patriots had East for the first time since 1998 here. second quarter against Miami on son finale at the New York two catches of over 50. and moved a step closer to earn­Eli Manning threw a 20-yard Nov. 18. A.J. Feeley led the 
ing home-field advantagp, in the touchdown pass to Plaxico Eagles to a win over the confenmce playofls. Burress, Lawrence Tynp,s made Dolphins, but threw eostly inter­
"It's important for us to win three short field goals and the ceptions in the final minutes of our division so that we can play Giants moved closer toward losses to New England and at home," said coach Wade clinching a playoff spot with a SP.attle. Phillips, sporting a white cham­16-13 victory over the After McNabb led the he pionship hat and T-shirt. "We're Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday. Eagles into the end zone on their going to play at least one game Akers hit the right upright on a first possession, they managed at home. We're now going to try 57 -yard attempt with one second just a pair of field goals the mst and get a bye and also get home left after Donovan McNabb drove of the game. field." the Eagles 50 yards in the final "It's really l'rustrating," 
The Lions (6-7) are left won­minute. McNabb said. "It's a collection of dering why their season fell Last January, Akers kicked a things at the wrong time that apart after winning six of their 3H-yarder with no time remain­keeps leading to us getting field first flight games, creating a posi­ing to give Philly a victory over goals instead of touchdowns." tive buzz for the first time since New York in a wild-card playoll' The Giants were driving to put Matt Millen took charge of the game. He was trying to tie his the game away whon defensiv1~ once-mediocre franchise in 2001. career-long kick. end .Juqua Thomas came from 
After losing five straight, they Now the Giants (9-4) have all behind and forced Brandon ollicially can't live up to quarter­but eliminated the Eagles !'rom Jacobs to fumble following a 21­back Jon Kitna's expectations of playoff contention with their yard gain. Thomas reecJVPred it a 10-win season. sixth consecutive win on the at the Eagles 5 with 5:51 left. 
ThP latest loss dP.layed the road. New York is almost lockPd Philly drove to New York's 44, inevitable. though. The Lions into the No. 5 seed in the confer­but McNabb's pass to Jason would've had trouble reaching ence with three games left. Avant on fourth-and-6 was the goal with a closing stretch "We'rp, playing pretty well on incomplete and thn Eagles didn't that includes road games against the road," Giants coach Tom get thP. ball again until thP final San Diego and Green Bay, along Coughlin said. "We hang togeth­minute. It appnarnd linebacker with a home game versus Kansas er. We battlP. We believe in each Antonio Pierce hit Avant (1arly, City. other. We believe that we can but no flag was thrown. 
Detroit put up a fight as a dou­lind a way to win and we nevP.r "It was a call that was missed, blP.-digit underdog, but that was­stop playing. We have good but the refs are human, too," n't enough to satisfy offensive heart. It's not always pretty, but Avant said. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classilieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right w edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED  FoR RENT  
WINTER BREAK WORK $16.25  2-6 BDRM HOMES.$295.PER­ 
base-appt., flexible. no experience  SON/MO.GILLISRENTALS.COM.  
needed. customer sales/service,  272-6306  
conditions apply, ages 18+, call  
now, start after finals, may continue  Blue &Gold Homes now showing  
during the spring, positions through  08-09 &09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com  
the us. 574·273·3835.  
www.winterbreakwork.com  Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester  
sale. $200 P/S just off campus  
We have 3 full-time &3 part·time posi­ "alumni owned".  
tions open in our Marketing Dept. in  Bluegoldrentals.com  
our South Michigan St. optical center.  
Ambitious &outgoing traits are a plus.  4 BR furnished home. walk to NO,  
Good pay &flex hrs. Email  lg.yd,air,dishwasher, washer &  
mikemccauley@ cbopticalone.com  dryer. 57 4-287-4961 .  

Walk to campus! Good neighbor­hood. 3 bedroom 1 bath. Washer/dryer in basement. Landlord does the yardwork. $750/mo. No pets. No Section 8. Credit check and criminal back­ground check required. 
574-250-1266. 
ROOMMATE DRIVING YOU NUTS? WANT OUT OF THE DORMS? GREAT house for rent available January 1st! 4 bed, 1 bath, 2 mi from NO &near new jog­ging trail, garage, central AJC, base­ment, NICE! $1100/mo. 503-757-8125 or visit domer­homes.wetpaint.com for info & pies. 
5 bedroom house available now and for next school year great loca­lion 105 Marquette just off of Angela & 31. 232-6964. 
1 or 2 bdrm. apt. Quiet historic neighborhood. 1 mi. to NO. Recent renovations & laundry. $500/mo. 574-532-8718. 
HOUSE FOR RENT CLOSE TO CAMPUS (North Shore Triangle neighborhood) 3 bedrooms, 1 bath AJC. dishwasher, washer/dryer Rent $695 per month plus utilities Available immediately Call 243-7763 Email cventer@nd.edu 
Female grad student with cat seeks If you or someone you care about people to rent a house with or a has been sexually assaulted, visit room in group house. For spring http:/ /osa. nd. edu/departm entslrape. semester and ideally through sum-shtml mer. csarver1 @nd.edu 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have toPERSONAL be alone. We want to help. Call our 
24 hour confidential hotline at UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 1-800-No Abort or visit not go it alone. If you or someone our web site at you love needs confidential support www.lifecall.org 
or assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. jwillys Bar and Grille. Receive 10% For more information. visit our web-discount w/student ID. Thursdays site at: 35 cent wings all day. U93 LIVE 5­http://osa.nd.edu/departrnents/preg-7pm. Trivia contest. 52885 SR 933 nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad jwillys.com in THE OBSERVER. Now hiring all positions. 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, December 10, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVERs WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NFL 
AFC East 

tnam New England Buffalo N.Y. Jets Miami  record 13·0 7-6 3-10 0-13  perc. 1.000 .538 .231 .000  PF 503 222 239 213  PA 222 291 315 355  
team Pittsburgh Cleveland Cincinnati Baltimore  AFC North record perc . 9-4 .692 8-5 .615 5-8 .385 4·8 .333  PF 309 360 310 206  PA 189 356 326 270  
team Indianapolis Jacksonville Tennessee Houston  AFC South record perc . 10-2 .833 9-4 .692 7-6 .538 6-7 .462  PF 337 305 249 291  PA 197 229 264 305  
AFC West  
team San Diego Denver Oakland Kansas City  record 8·5 6-7 4·9 4·9  perc . .615 .462 .308 .308  PF 308 282 241 179  PA 250 336 298 271  
team Dallas N.Y. Giants Washington Philadelphia  NFC East record perc. 12·1 .923 9-4 .692 6·7 .462 5-8 .385  PF 423 290 253 271  PA 275 270 273 262  
NFC North  
team Green Bay Minnesota Detroit Chicago  record 11·2 7-6 6·7 5·8  perc. .846 .538 .462 .385  PF 361 305 294 253  PA 229 244 339 296  
team Tampa Bay New Orleans Carolina Atlanta  NFC South record perc. 8·5 .615 5-7 .417 5·8 .385 3-9 .250  PF 255 266 210 111  PA 215 279 294 272  
NFC West  
team Seattle Arizona San Francisco St. Louis  record 9·4 6·7 3·10 3·10  perc. .692 .462 .231 .231  PF 315 302 171 206  PA 228 322 312 316  

CCHA Hockey Standings 

team record pts. overall Michigan 11·1·0 22 16·2·0 Miami (OH) 10-2-0 20 14-2·0 NOTRE DAME 10·2-0 20 16·4·0 Michigan State 8·2·0 16 12·3·2 Ferris State 6·6·0 12 7-8·1 Nebraska-Omaha 4·7·3 11 5·7-3 Bowling Green 5-5·0 10 8·6·0 Northern Michigan 5-9·0 10 6·10·0 Alaska 2-7·1 5 2·9·1 Ohio State 2·8·0 4 5·12·1 Western Michigan 2·8·0 4 6·10·0 Lake Superior 0·8·2 2 2·11-3 
around the dial 
NFL 
New Orleans at Atlanta 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 

NFL 

Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. -How much, if any, will Michael Vick's role as financier of a brutal dogfighting ring hurt him? What about his use of drugs while await­ing sentencing? 
Or will he benefit from his public apology? His cooperation? His voluntary early start on his prison term? 
Answers to these ques­tions, among others, will determine how much time the suspended Atlanta Falcons quarterback will serve in prison for his role in a federal dogfighting conspiracy. 
And the only man who knows the answers is U.S. District Judge Henry E. Hudson, who will sentence Vick in a packed court-
IN BRIEF 
Pacers' Tinsley unhurt in 
shooting 
INDIANAPOLIS -More late night trouble for Jamaal Tinsley could present more problems for the Indiana Pacers. 
Tinsley and several companions were targeted in a shooting Sunday morning that wounded one person. Tinsley was not injured, but he did not practice on Sunday, the team said. 
It was the third time since last October that Tinsley has been involved in a disturbance stemming from trips to bars or nightclubs. 
"I really didn't know what to think about it," team president Larry Bird told Pacers.com. "I was just hoping everybody was all right. You feel bad any time your players are in some situations, you feel bad for every­thing that happened. I just feel bad for the organization. We'll get through this, but it's tough right now." 
room Monday while the disgraced NFL star's sup­porters and animal-rights activists rally outside. 
Vick faces a maximum of five years in prison. Hudson is not bound by sentencing guidelines that suggest a year to 18 months, or prosecutors' recommendation. 
Hudson already has sen­tenced two of Vick's co­defendants to 18 months and 21 months -slightly more than prosecutors recommended, but still within the guidelines. 
Legal experts said Hudson's willingness to stick to the guidelines in those cases is a positive sign for Vick, but by no means a guarantee he will get similar treatment because so many factors could work against him. 

For example, Vick admitted he bankrolled the "Bad Newz Kennels" dog­fighting enterprise on a 15-acre property he owned in rural southeast­ern Virginia. He also gave his associates money to bet on the fights but said he did not share in any winnings. 
"The judge could say that but for the money, this might not have happened -or might not have hap­pened on the scale that it did," said Linda Malone, a law professor at the College of William & Mary. 
Richmond attorney Steve Benjamin, secretary of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, noted the plea agreement Vick negotiated with pros­ecutors did not include any sentencing enhancement 
Brewers sigu Gagne to one­
year, $10 million contract 
MADISON, Wis. -The Milwaukee Brewers reached a preliminary agreement on a $10 million, one-year contract with free-agent reliever Eric Gagne, giving the team another option at closer after losing Francisco Cordero to free agency. 
Gagne's deal, which is subject to him passing a physical, will allow him to earn an additional $1 million in performance bonuses, a person famil­iar with the negotiations said, speak­ing on condition of anonymity because the contract has not been finalized. 
Gagne's agreement was first report­ed by the Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel on its Web site. 
"We're not there yet," Brewers gen­eral manager Doug Melvin said Saturday night at the Marquette­Wisconsin basketball game. 
Melvin said the Brewers' interest in Gagne didn't indicate a lack of confi­dence in reliever Derrick Turnbow. 
for a leadership role in the conspiracy. But that does not preclude Hudson from considering that role, Benjamin said. 
Perhaps a bigger con­cern for Vick, according to Malone, is the extent of his involvement in executing dogs. Vick admitted help­ing kill six to eight pit bulls. Any details the judge learns about exactly what Vick did could weigh heav­ily in his decision, Malone said . 
She said Hudson also likely will take a dim view of Vick's positive test for marijuana in September ­a violation of the condi­tions set for Vick's release after he pleaded guilty. The infraction prompted Hudson to impose a cur­few and electronic moni­toring. 

Division ID plaY.er sets single­
game record With 34 assistS 
DES MOINES, Iowa -The points kept coming, and so did the assists. 
David N. Arseneault shattered the NCAA assists record when he had 34 in Grinnell College's 151­112 win over North Central University of Minnesota in a Division Ill game Saturday. He made a total of 86 passes. 
The previous high of 26 was set in 1989 by Hobert James of Division III Kean University. The Division I record of 22 was achieved by three players, includ­ing current Dallas Mavericks coach Avery Johnson at Southern in 1988 and Sherman Douglas of Syracuse in 1989. 
Grinnell, in central Iowa, is known for a unique style of play that includes rotating five players in and out as often as possible, pressing the entire game and shooting more than 50 3-pointers. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, December 10, 2007 

BOXING 

Mayweather stays 
unbeaten with KO 
Associated Press 
I.AS VEGAS Floyd Mayweather Jr. didn't need to dance to beat Hieky I latton. I lis fists proved a lot more potent than his feet. 
MaywClathnr l'nmainnd unbeaten Saturday night and retainml his daim to being the best pound-for-pound fighter in thn world by stopping I lattcm in tho IOth round of a brawl that featured none of tho fancy foot­work tlw American has shown in the ring and on reality TV. 
llatton wouldn't lot Mayweathnr move, but it didn't mattor as Mayweather used precision pundws to wear down the challenger for his 147-round crown. llatton kept trying to get inside and score points, but Mayweather had an answc~r for everything he did. 
Tho ond came after Mayweather landed a crushing lel"t hook that dropped llatton on his back in Mayweather's corner. Hatton got up at tho eount of eight, but Mayweather almost immediately got him on the ropes and landed anothor flurry of punches to the head. 
llattcm went down almost on a delayod n~action, while at the sanw time referee Joe Cortez movnd in to stop the tight and llatton's corner threw in the towel at I :35 of the round. 
It was the first loss for llatton, a brawler from Manchester, England. who did his best to do what no other lighter had ever done and break down Mayweather's defenses. It was elear from the early rounds, though, that Ilatton would have trouble doing that. Mayweather, fighting for the first time since beating Oscar De La lloya in May. was able to pile up points and seemed to be cruising for 

an easy deeision win when he 
shot out the lel"t hook that was 
the beginning of the end for 
Hatton. 

"I knew it was going to be 
tough," Mayweather said. 
"That's why I didn't do anything 
halfway. lie was definitely the 
toughest competitor I've ever 
faced." 

Mayweather (39-0) was ahead H9-81 on two ringside score­cards and 88-82 when he scored the thundering punches that both stopped llatton and answered critics who said he was a boring fighter who fought defensively and rarely took any chances when it counted. 
It was Mayweather's home­town, but Hatton's crowd at the MGM Grand hotel arena. A brass band played in the upper deck, among thousands of British fans who packed the arena and needed little urging to stand up with beers in hand to sing "There's only one Hicky Hatton" to the tune of "Winter Wonderland." 
David Beckham sat ringside in the arena just down the street from where his wife was per­forming at the Mandalay Bay on the Spice Girls reunion tour. Those unlucky enough to not get tickets going for thousands of dollars watched it on dosed cir­cuit at several Strip hotels, while back home some 350,000 British homes were expected to spend about $30 for a pay-per­view broadcast that began about 5 a.m. in London. 
Mayweather countered with a little star power himself. He was joined by fellow "Dancing With the Stars" competitors Mark Cuban, Wayne Newton and llelio Castroneves on his walk to the ring, an appearance that was roundly booed by most of the crowd. 
MLB 

Rangers agree to tern1s with Bradley for 1 year 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Outfielder Milton Bradley and the Texas Hangers reached a preliminary agremnnnt Sunday on a one­year contract worth just over $5 million. 
Bradley, who also had consid­ered re-signing with the San Diego Padres. could play out­field or bt) a designated hitter with the Hangers. His deal also contains performance bonuses. 
"I would bn very comfortable with Milton Bradley," Hangers manager Hon Washington said last week at the winter meet­ings. "If Milton were to become available to the Texas Hangers, we would like to have him." 
Washington was a coach with the Athletics when Bradley played for Oakland in 2006. 
Bradley was the second-half off'nnsive catalyst for the Padres, who fell one win short of going to their third straight trip to the playoiTs. But he tore the anterior erueiate ligament and damaged cartilage in his right knee when Padres manag­er Bud Black spun him to the ground while trying to keep him from going after umpire Mike Winters during a confrontation on Sept. 23. 

San Diego and Bradley, who has a history of losing his tem­per, daimed Winters baited the player into the confrontation and directed a profanity at him. Winters was suspended for the final five days of the regular season and didn't work the postseason. 
Bradley's injury was the eli­max of a bizarre sequence of events. 
A few innings before he was injured. Bradley inadvertently stepped on Mike Cameron's right hand as the two chased Garrett Atkins' inside-the-park home run. Cameron injured his thumb and made just one appearance the rest of the sea­son. 
Bradley finished the year hit­ting .306 with 13 homers and 37 HBis in 61 games with Oakland and San Diego. 
NBA 

Wade helps Riley reach 1,200 vvins 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-Pat Riley felt a whole lot better after his 1 ,200th regular-season victory as an NBA coach than he did Sunday morning when he brought the Miami Heat into Staples Center with a live-game losing streak. 
Dwyane Wade helped improve his coach's disposition consider­ably, getting 35 points and 10 assists in a 100-94 victory over the Los Angeles Clippers. 
"Two nights ago when I got here from Golden State," Hiley said, "I was feeling a little bit low. OK? My wife's in town, and I went to the 19th floor of the Four Seasons Hotel at about 
1:30 in the morning. I was out on the balcony looking down at Wilshire Boulevard, and she said: 'Honey, don't do it. It's not worth it.' ... The value of an NBAwife." 
Hiley is the third NBA coach to win 1,200 games, and he reached it in his 1 ,842nd game. That's 248 faster than Don Nelson, the next fastest. Hiley, in his 24th season as a coach, guided the Lakers to four NBA titles before winning another with the Ileal two seasons ago. 
"It's those kind of moments that you 'II always remember, good and bad," said Hiley, coaeh of the years with three organi­zations. "The first 600 15331 were here in Los Angeles -a lot of great players, guys. You know all of them. Dwyane thinks I'm extinet, but that's OK. That's what he said to me in there." 
Wade, who had 33 points in Friday's loss to the Warriors, has recorded consecutive games with 30 or more for the second time this season. Udonis Haslem and Rieky Davis each added 17 points. 

Corey Maggette had 24 poinl'i and 12 rebounds for the Clippers, who have lost eight of their last nine games. 
Fourteen-time All-Star Shaquille O'Neal got his first up­close look at the new-and­improved Chris Kaman, who is well on his way to a break­through season while Elton Brand recovers from offseason surgery to repair a ruptured left Achilles tendon. 
"It's always a touch matchup with someone like that because you have to bring a double­team, and that leaves someone else open," Kaman said. "l-Ie's just so big. When you try to go into the middle and shoot a jumper, he doesn't have to move very far to catch up with you if you beat him on the first step." 

Kaman, an early favorite for the league's most improved player, won the statistical matchup between the 7-foot centers with 14 points and 12 rebounds. It was his 15th dou­ble-double, one more than he had in 75 games last season. lie is averaging 18.5 points and 
13.6 boards. 

"We came into the league in the same drall class. I knew he was good then, but he's even better now," Wade said. "Every year he's getting better and bet­tf~r. and this year he's having a career year. lie's got a bright future." 
O'Neal, who complained pub­tidy during the week about not getting the ball enough from his teammates, was 4-for-8 from the field and finished with eight poinl'i and eight rebounds in 33 minutes. 

Lunch and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, December 13 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


TI1e Core Coundl for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay. lesbian. and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family. their friends. and supporters to an mformallunch at the Co-Mo. 
Evel)lone rs welcome and confrdentiality is assured 
Lunc/r will be setved 
CORE COUNC!t 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 

Monday, December 1 0, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NO WOMEN'S TRACK & FIELD 
Runners post positive results in Blue and Gold Invitational 
By ALEX BARKER AND 
ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writers 
Notre Dame got ofT to a solid start on Friday when it hosted the annual Blue and Gold Invitational against DePaul, Marquette and Detroit Mercy. 
Sophomore Joanna Schultz captured the 200 and 400­meters and many of her team members posted Big East quali­fying times at the meet. 
"Only a few years ago, we started inviting other teams to this meet because we discovered that these marks would qualify for the Big East meet," Irish coach Tim Connelly said. 'These would not be wasted marks." 
The men's and women's teams combined to pick up 40 Big East qualifying marks on Friday. However, even for those that did not qualify for the champi­onships, the meet was an oppor­tunity to gain some meaningful experience before the end of the fall semester. 
"It gives our team an opportu­nity to compete before going home for Christmas break. They have been training since September and this gives us a chance to evaluate our team," Connelly said. 
Connelly had plenty of good races to evaluate. 
The Irish swept the 500-meter dash. Out of the 14 competitors, the top seven finishers were all Irish runners. In addition, all seven qualified for the Big East championships with their times. The winner was freshman Cora Dayon, who ran a time of 1:14:37. 
In the distance races, the Irish were without their impact run­ners, senior Sunni Olding and freshman Marissa Treece. Both have struggled through injuries and illness since training began in September. Connelly said they were not yet at full strength and probably would not be fit until February. 

The Irish throwers performed well under new coach Adam Beltran. Anna Weber qualified for the Big East meet in the weight throw with a toss of 
17.54 meters. Weber and sopho­more Jaclyn Espinoza finished first and second, respectively, in the shot put. 
Irish junior Mary Saxer became a conference qualifier in the pole vault with a mark of 
3.4 meters. Sophomore Jaime Minor finished in first place in the triple jump with a mark of 
11.34 meters. 
The team will be off until returning from winter break. Their next meet will be the Notre Dame Indoor Opener on January 18. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu and Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 


NO MEN'S TRACK & FIELD 

Irish take 24 of 31 events 
Available at 
Hammes Notre 
Dame Bookstore 
or order online at 
AlllaZOn.com or 
aisforara.com. 
By PAT STYNES Sports Writer 
Notre Dame started its sea­son strong with an impressive 
perform­ance at the Blue and Gold invita­tional at the Loftus center Friday, claiming first in 24 of 31 events against competi­tion from DePaul, 
"There are a lot of terrific teams in our division, so we really have to do well ifwe hope to achieve our goal ofwinning the 
Big East." 
Joe Piane Irish coach 
Marquette, and Detroit Mercy. Senior Kurt Benninger set a solid example for his team-

January 22, 2008 
Service trip: January 18th to 23rd  $85**  
Standard trip: January 19th to 23rd  $75**  
Short trip: January 21st to 23rd  $50  

More information B: trip details at: www.nd.edu/-prolife 
REGISTER ONLINE NOW: www.nd.edu/ -prolife 
or Monday & Tuesday in the Dining Halls 
registration ends & payment due January 5 

mates. Benninger's time of 
8:05.22 in the 3,000-meter event was the highlight of the night and stands as the sec­ond-fastest time in the nation so far this season. Benninger 
finished 30 seconds before anyone else. Freshman Greg Davis showcased his rising talent on the team, placing first in the weight throw and nabbing a Big East qualification 
with a distance of 17.76 meters. 
"The freshmen are doing v e r y 

well. We lost a lot of talented players but I am optimistic with what the young athletes are doing," Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane said. "11 is good to see the underclassmen stepping up and helping us suc­ceed." 
Senior Adam Currie did not miss a step after earn­
ing Big East honors last year in the 1,000-meter race, as he streaked past all runners to first place, beating the second place runner by two seconds. Another Big East qualification was earned by senior Bob Kueny also earned a Big East 49.56 n the 400 meter race. Taking after his teammate, freshman Miklos Szebeny took first in the 200-meter run with a time of 21.9 seconds, which also earned a spot in the Big East meet. 
"The team looks good," Piano said. "Our main goal is to get as many guys qualified for the Big East as we can. [Connecticut), Georgetown, Pittsburgh ... there are a lot of terrific teams in our divi­sion, so we really have to do 
well if we hope to achieve 

'The freshman are our goal of winning
doing very well. We 
the Big

lost a lot oftalented 
East." 

players but I am T h i s year's Blue
optimistic with what 
and Gold

the young athletes 
invitation­are doing. It is al proved 
good to see the to be even 
m o r e

underclassmen 
lucrative stepping up and for the 
helping us succeed.,, team than 
last year's meet. The 

Joe Piane 
Irish took 

Irish coach home more than 40 qualifica­tions for the Big East championship meet, surpassing last year's total of an even 40. The team's next meet. the Notre Dame Indoor Opener, is scheduled for Jan. 18. 
Contact Pat Stynes at 

qualification with his time of pstynes@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, December I 0, 2007 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Careergame brings Irish win 
Barlow nets 19 points in second half to halt Purdue in West Lafayette 
By JAY FITZPATRICK A'sociare Spons Ediwr 
!\shiny Barlow had the best game of her college earner when Notre Dame needed it most. 
The sophomore guard l'in­islwd Saturday's ()\ -48 win over Purdue with a earner­high 22 points-I 9 of which came in the second half. 
With the Irish (8-1) down :HJ-32 with 12:40 left in the game, Barlow nailed a 3­point jumpshot to bring the Irish within one. Arter a turnover from Boilermakers guard FahKara Malone, Irish guard Brittany Mallory found Barlow open for another :{-point basket 35 seconds later to give the Irish the two-point lead. 
Barlow would add two steals and another jumper in the next minute to put even more distance between Notre Dame and Purdue. 
"I thought that IBarlowf took ovfH the game in the second half," McGraw said. "Baek-to-baek 3-pointers, hnr dnfensc was exceptional, she got some steals. She really just made things hap­pen in a stn>teh in the sec­ond half and rmtlly put the game firmly in control in the sneond half by us." 
Barlow's performance was especially important because Notre Dame's leading scorer -guard Charcl Allen -only shot !i-of-13 from the floor for I 0 points. Barlow's sec­ond-half performance picked up the slack and propelled the Irish to the win. 

McGraw said Allen does not always have to be the team's top scorer, as was the case last season. 
"I think that's the great thing about this team is our balance and our depth. And we have so many dif'l'erent weapons and everybody is out there ev(HY night trying to contribute in some way," McCraw said. "You know, when you have different players with that kind of tal­ent and Ashley steps up, it takes the pressure off of everybody." 
The coach added that she felt Allen's defensive per­formance and her eight rebounds and six assists were incredibly important to the Irish effort. 
The Irish sank into Purdue's slower style of offense in the first half and were down 25-20 going into the intermission. Early in the second half, the Boilermakers stretched their lead to eight points -the largest Purdue lead of the game. 
But the Irish offense came alive in the second half, outscoring Purdue 41-23. The 48 points allowed against the Boilermakers was the lowest score ever in the rivalry and was due to the t!Htms play in its zone defense, McGraw said. 
"To hold them under 50, I thought was a great thing to do. And our zone was really, really good. 1 was pleased because we played about 39 minutes of zone," she said. "And we've worked on it quite a bit, and so I was happy to see it work really good." 
One key part of the zone was to shut down Boilermakers forward Lakisha Freeman. Freeman entered Saturday's game scoring 14.1 points per game, but the Irish zone lu~ld her to 1-of-9 from the floor with her only basket coming from beyond the arc. 
"I thought the zone was really where she was," McGraw said. "We kept her on the perimeter and didn't really give her the driving lanes, and 1 thought that worked well for us." 
One player the Irish strug­gled against was Boilermakers center Danielle Campbell. Campbell finished with 13 points, seven rebounds and six blocks but failed to score in the paint because of the Irish zone. 
The win was Notre Dame's sixth straight since falling to Maryland 75-59 on Nov. 16. In nine previous trips to Mackey Arena in West Lafayette, Notre Dame has failed to come out with a vic­tory. But now McGraw knows what it feels like to get the win. 
"It was great. It feels good to finally know that I can go there and win," she said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles defeat Tri-State behind Kessler, Hovve 

By GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Sports Writer 
After winning the battles in the post and at the free throw line, Saint Mary's got its first conference win of the season, beating MIM rival Tri-State 82­68 on Friday. 
Senior guard Alison Kessler, who finished the game with 23 points, seven assists and five steals, continued to fill her role as the Belles' key performer. With the win, the team improved its overall record to 3-4 and its conference reeord to 1-1. 
Looking at the box score, the game appeared relatively even. Saint Mary's was 28-for-64 on field goals (44 percent), while Tri-State shot 27 -for-63 ( 43 per­cent). Each team made seven 3­point field goals. The difference, however, was at the charity stripe, where the Belles went 19-l'or-22 while the Thunder shot 7 -l'or-1 0. 
While many of Saint Mary's freB throws came as a result of Tri-State trying to extend the game by fouling, it was apparent from early in the contest that the Belle's had the gamn well in hand. They led the game for all but 3:18 and never trailed after taking a 15-14 lead with 11 :55 left in the first half. 
To the Belles' credit. the domi­nance was a team ell'ort. Three of Kessler's fellow starters scored in double digits. Junior guard Kelly Hashid finished with 17 points and juniors Erin Newsom and Meghan Conaty each netted 12 apiece. The Thunder had two scorers in dou­ble figures, led by sophomore guard Sarah Howe's 23 poinl'i. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassat@nd.edu 
NFL 

Packers dovvn Raiders, clinch NFC North title 
Associated Press 
GHEEN BAY, Wis. -The Creon Bay Packers are going back to the playoffs. 
And maybe they're bringing a running game with them. 
Green Bay didn't need Brett Favre to throw the ball all over the l'ield to elinch the NFC North on Sunday, relying on the rushing of Hyan Grant and a pair of speeial teams touch­downs from Will Blackmon in a 38-7 victory over the Oakland Haiders. 
The Packers ( 11-2) assured an end to their two-year absm1ce from the postseason with thnH~ games left. 
"I don't know if too many peo­ple gave us a shot to be at this position," Favre said. "It says a lot about this team. I'm feeling good about my decision to come baek, obviously." 
Grant's hard running and sharp cutbacks carne in handy on a day when Favre's aching right elbow and left shoulder hinderod tlw Packnrs' passing game. Favre lnf't last week's loss at Dallas bncausP of the injuries and was limited in practice this W(Wk, but still made his 2!i0th straight start. 
(;rant, who was acquin>d in a trade with the NPw York Giants just before the season and took over as the starter last month, rushed for a career-high 156 yards and a touchdown. It was his fourth 100-yard rushing game of the season. Grant's presence has boosted what had been one of the league's worst rushing oll'enses. 

"I can't say enough about Hyan Grant," Packers coach Mike McCarthy said. "I think he's really coming into his own." 
Just at the right time -as the weather turns colder in Green Bay. 
Haiders coach Lane Kiffin said the chilly 18-degree condi­tions didn't affect his team. The Haiders (4-9) trailed only 14-7 at halftime despite struggling on offense, only to unravel in the second half. 
"I don't think the cold didn't tackle today," Kiffin said. "I don't think the cold threw incompletions today. I don't think the cold had nine penal­ties. We did." 
Haiders quarterback Josh McCown, starting in placn of the injured Daunte Culpepper, was 7 -of-15 for 110 yards with a touchdown and two intercep­tions b.-fore he was replaced by Andrew Walter early in the fourth quarter. 
Students... Enjoy your Study Break? 

t 

Need Another? 
2 Large 2 Topping Pizzas for $17.99 or XL 2 Topping Pizza for $12.99 
Coup<m Required. Expires 05/31!2008; Customer pays all applicable related sales tax. Valid only at participating locations: Not valid with any other otTer: Additional toppmgs extra: 

Monday, December 1 0, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

Nine 
continued from page 20 
VeNard's first goal, the Irish struck again when senior Evan Rankin found his linemate Dan Kissel in the slot, who beat Princeton goalie Alan Reynolds for his first of two goals on the night. 
Kissel also added two helpers for a career-high four points in the game. 
Rankin and juniors Christian Hanson and Garrett Regan all scored, as Notre Dame tacked up four more in the second peri­od to blow the game open. 
Freshman Brad Phillips got the start in net and picked up his first career shutout with 24 saves, including 12 in the final period. 
"(Phillips] came up big two or three times near the end of the game. i was really pleased with his performance," Jackson said. "I thought he was very focused and he looked in control. It only bodes well for the future." 
Junior Jordan Pearce, who has started most of the season in net, was between the pipes for the Irish on Friday night and made 17 saves on 19 shots from the Tigers. 
Princeton got off to a quick start when right wing Eric Pridham beat Pearce on the power play for his first goal of the season. 
Three minutes later, Regan tied the game on a rebound opportunity. Senior captain Mark Van Guilder took the origi­nal shot and had two assists in the game. 
Notre Dame dominated the second period, outshooting the Tigers 14-3, but it took nearly 18 minutes for them to get one past Princeton netminder Zane Kalemba. Junior Justin White gave Notre Dame the lead for good and freshman Calle Ridderwall and sophomore Brett Blatchford picked up the assists. 
Princeton scored once more in the third period, but a short­handed goal from junior Erik Condra -his third of the year on the penalty kill -and a late goal from Ben Ryan were enough to give Notre Dame the win. 
The Irish will not play again until Dec. 29 at the Lightning College Hockey Classic. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Streak 
continued from page 20 
brought the score back to a manageable 24-18 with 
12:18 remaining in the first half. Then, Notre Dame switched its defense from man-to-man to zone and shut down the Huskies. The rest of the half, the Irish outscored the Huskies 33-7 to take a 57-25 lead into the locker room thanks to a 72 percent shooting perform­ance in the first half. Kurz had nine points during that stretch, and Harangody had one of three monster jams that sent the Joyce Center into a frenzy. 
Brey said the Irish had trouble defending screens and the Huskies perimeter game when in the man-to­man, and that precipitated the switch to zone. But Brey also added that sometimes the best defense is a red-hot offense. 
"A lot of times. offense like that is a great defense because it's demoralizing when shots are going in like that," Brey said. "This pro­gram has done that at times. Now we've gotten better at putting a body on people in the paint on the defensive end and that's where I think overall we've made a step over the last two years." 
Notre Dame continued to pour it on in the second half, which allowed Brey to give extended minutes to his freshmen and walk-ons. 
"The freshmen did great for us. They've been great 


with David Eicher, organist 
featuring Ottorino Respighi's ~cautiful 
Laud tQ tiJe Nativity 

and tbe world premieres ofnew wor,Ju; by American composers if Cary Boyce and Axel Theimef' \ 
Sunday, December 16,2007 Church ofOur Lady ofLoretto Saint Mary's College 

7:30P.M. 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Ofliceln. : O'l.aughlin Auditorium, 9,\;M.-5P.M., .·· Monday-Friday, or call (574) 284-4626. 


ThL'f Nmrt'rl it ~pnu.vtJrt>d iu pitrt ;'Y J1me H.. Hrllodrtl'i and li-i.drt" 71Jtnnu.t. 
Vi-;it our W'cb Site at: www.SoutbBcndChamhcrSing:ers.org. 
do, there are a lot of similari­Irish for the first 45 minutes. 
ties," Clark said. "I felt in the "It certainly may have been first half that hurt us a little an advantage [for Wake continued from page 20 bit. We couldn't get into our Forest]. the field was pretty rhythm to play because their much perfect, the stadium seem it was an imminent dan­pressure was was crammed ger as the move started," very good." full; it was an Irish coach Bobby Clark said. W a k e absolute per­No. 10 Notre Dame had Forest, who "The players all feel fect environ­built up momentum after has yet to that they did well and ment for the halftime and looked to be on lose a game players to play 
OvertiiDe 

that we really were
the attack going into the over­at home this in," Clark said. time period. The Irish outshot year, outshot very close to pulling Notre Dame the No. 2 Demon Deacons 5-4 Notre Dame it off" has played all in the second half and also 9-1 in the of its postsea­held a 3-2 advantage in cor­first half and son games
Bobby Clark 
ner kicks. However, the highly controlled under windy, talented Wake Forest defense the pace of Irish coach and usually kept Notre Dame from creat­the game. very cold, con­ing any serious scoring The home ditions. Clark chances throughout the game. team fed off of the energy of said it may have helped Notre 
''They are a very good team; the sold -out Spry Stadium on Dame if the game had been in they pressure very hard. They a warm, windless night and South Bend. do a lot of the same things we put relentless pressure on the This is the second-straight players since June and to see them get in there, I was real­ly proud to be their team­mate," Ayers said. "They played really hard. They all know how to play and obvi­ously it's just a highlight for the future and the next four years they're going to be here. There's good things to come for Notre Dame basket­ball." 
Abromaitis finished with seven points. Forward Tyrone Nash finished with six points and guard Ty Proffitt added three. Walk-ons Tom Kopko and Tim Andree each got in the mix, notching five and three points, respective­ly. 
Sophomore guard Tory Jackson did not play in the second half because of an arm injury, but Brey said after the game Jackson should be fine and ready to play when Notre Dame resumes play on Dec. 22. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Club ofSaint JosephValley 
presents ..• 
THE 2007 HESBURGH LECTURE 
Wednesday, Dec. 12, 2007 Warren Golf Course Clt.tb House 
THE IDEA OF A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY 
6:15 PM HORS D'OEUVRES & CASH BAR 
7:00 PM LECTURE 
This event is FREE and open to the public. A dessert reception and open conversation on the topic will follow. 
Dat-7J T Lmh ~ PhD t is rht .lu:ii!ph A. ,\.iatwm Professor and Dean f~f Law Emerit:.t~ :![ thi! Nt,tr:! Vame Law Sch~Y.Jl ar:J a rramitiona! d!.!acon with rh.: Con~.;re,~U!JiiH i-'f rh.~ Priest) uf the s~"'fl d H~~art of ]:.1:\U.,,.
1 

year Notre Dame has lost in the NCAA quarterfinals. In 2006, the Irish lost to Virginia 3-2 on the road. 
Clark said this year's oppo­nent was stronger and the team played better because they knew what to expect. 
"The players all feel that they did well and that we really were very close to pulling it off," Clark said. 
Saturday's loss was the final game for several key Irish players. The senior class was responsible for 20 of the 36 goals scored this year. The class brought Notre Dame to its first two quarterfinal appearances in school history. 
"This has been a great group of seniors. They have been great players and lead­ers, I am very sad to see them go," Clark said. "But if we are doing our job right, there should be players waiting in the wings to !ill their shoes." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, December 10,2007 
====~-----~--~========~====================================================== 
Se01inoles 
continued from page 20 
twice bd'ore DaCosta put Florida State alwad near the end of the sneond half. 
Forward Sanna Talonen start­ed the play on the right side of tho field outside tl11~ box and passt~d through throe Notre Damn dofenders to DaCosta, who blew past Irish midfielder Amanda Clark and toudwd the hall undnr keeper Lauren Karas for the game-winner. 
"I don't know how ITalonenl got through that," DaCosta said. "I just made a run, I guess it got through." 
Seminoles coach Mark Krikorian said he felt his team could find openings in Notre Damn's dnfi.msn. 
"I think that's one of our strengths, the combination of play and finding seams," Krikorian said. "I think that each of our goals wnre some­what similar. with the quick combination and tho through­ball for the forward to run to." 
Waldrum was surprised the Irish allowPd the goal and that the limited time remaining, ratlwr than his team's play, lim­itml their chanee to tie the game. 
"I didn't think we'd give the third goal up," Waldrum said. "Now the dock's 

your enemy. I "We worked hard, we del'lected off a wouldn't say we fought hard. Credit defender and out 
fell apart. I of bounds to give
our teammates for
would say wn the Irish another ran out of time." coming back." corner kick. This Florida State one rebounded forward Mimi out and gave for­
Kerri Hanks 

Yamaguchi ward Michele
Irish forward 
scornd off tho 
opening kick-oil' 
15 seconds into 
the game. The Seminoles took 
the kirk and mach~ a quiek pass 
to DaCosta. who found 
Yamaguchi with a through-ball 
behind the dnf'nnse. Karas 
ehargml. but Yamaguchi slippnd 
the ball into the right side of the 
goal. 
"Yamaguchi, she's just so good with tlw ball," Waldrum said. "If you don't keep lwr dosed down all tlw time, slw can really make sonw things happen." 
Thn Irish looked punch-drunk after tlw quick goal, but eventu­ally found their form. Forward Kerri llanks said the team could recov1~r beeause the players krww tlwir n~sponsibilities. 
"Wo· ro not a toam that's going to huddle it up and talk about what we nePd to do and what we don't rwod to do" llanks said. "As individual players. we alrnady know what we need to do." 
Tlw Irish ewned the scorn in tlw 15th minute when llanks' l'orrwr kirk from tlw right linrnd dof'PrHIPr Carril' Dow by the left post. I ll'w dPilPrtPd tlw kick oil' a Seminole liPfender and into the near r.orrwr. 
In tlw :nrd minutt~. Talonen r.<unP frPI' and ran onto a pass from Yamagurhi in tlw box. Slw LippPd the ball undonwath Karas and just inside the right post to rnakl' tlw scorn 2-1. 
"ITalorwnl is very good with lwr runs otT tlw ball," Waldrum said. "Siw's got good size, she knows how to tinw lwr runs." 
!;lorida Stale kPpt up with Notre Danw in tlw first half, sonwthing few le<uns have donn against tlw Irish this soason. As a rosult of trying to slow Florida Stale, Notre DamP committed 12 l'ouls in tlw first half to Florida Statn's six. 
Waldrum said tlw ganw had its ups and downs, but lw felt his tnam handled itself well. 
"Tlwn~ was sorrw ebb and flow to it." lw said. "Outside ol' tht~ goal 15 seconds in, once we got that past us, I thought we had a good 20 to 30 minutns, maybe, of' us really eon trolling the game. I thought that the last 15 of the first half. we made a few changes and started to get in rhythm." 

The Irish found their game early in the second half, whnn thny applied pressure to the Seminoles with shots and set pieces, a flurry of whieh eame in a live-minute pnriod and culmi­nated in Notre Dame's second goal. 
A Florida State defender knocked midfielder Amanda Cinalli's centering pass out of bounds in the 51st minute, giv­ing the Irish a corner kick. Hanks' corner kick fell short, but she was fouled while pursuing the rebound. Hanks appeared to be fouled in the 18-yard box, which would have given the Irish a penalty kick, but the om­dating crew ruled that the foul occurred just outside the box. 
"You watch it on the replay if you want," Hanks said when asked if the foul oceurred in the box. "Says it right there." 
Waldrum was displeased with the ruling as well but said he's not supposed to question the officiating. If he were to do so, he said with a wink, "Somebody get ready to pay the fine." 
Hanks' free kick 
rebounded to 
Clark, whose shot 
Weissenhofer a 
chance to flip­
throw the ball 
into the box. The throw bounced 
to Jlanks, whose shot was again 
de11eeted out. ller ensuing cor­
ner kick found Dew in the cen­
ter, but Dew's header flew just 
above the crossbar. 
One minute later, a Florida State foul gave Hanks a free kick from the right side. Her kick found Weissenhofer near the right side of the goal, but Wnissenhofer's header went indu~s wide of thn post. 
Defender Elise Weber tied the game in the 56th minute. Weber controlled the ball on the left side and started to the outside before cutting back in. She found an opening and fired a strong shot that ricocheted in oil' tho lnft post a few feet under the crossbar. 
"We thought they would get that second goal for a while lwcause they were prnssing and pn~ssing," Krikorian said. "Sooner or latfw thny were going to capitalize, and they did." 
Weber said the goal was help­ful. but that the tnam failed to finish the job. 
"I think it gave us a lot of momentum but WP just eouldn 't put the third goal away," Weber said. 
Thn Irish could not take the lnad before DaCosta's goal and failed to convert opportunities bPf'orn time expirnd. 
"It kind or npitornizes how this loam has bnen all year," Waldrum said. "I think this ganw just showed tlwir resilien­t~y again. A lot ol' teams would fall apart completnly after giving up thn first goal 15 seeonds into tlw semifinal." 
llanks said despite the out­come, she felt proud of her tPammates. 
"We worked hard, we fought hard," she said. "Credit our teammates for eoming baek." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Loss 
continued from page 20 
"It's hard to say you're the 
better team when you don't 
win but I thought at times we 
were better," Waldrum said. 
Unlike in Notre Dame's national championship game loss to North Carolina last season, the Irish employed their style of play for the entire 90 minutes against Florida State, eontrolling the tempo and winning the pos­session battle. 
Notre Dame's will to win was most evident in the sec­ond half. The Irish eame out of the gate aggressively, attempting to play a long ball off the kickoff for forward Michele Weissenhofer. While the play was unsuccessful, it set the tone for the rest of the contest. The Irish pressured Florida State until the final whistle, forcing the Seminoles to surrender numerous corner kicks and free kicks. 
Notre Dame's sense of urgency was reflected in the number of fouls the squad committed. The Irish were whistled for 23 infractions to Florida State's 16. 
Yes, some of those were fouls of frustration. Still, all displayed how much this team wanted to win. 
As the Irish sensed the time running out on their season, they did everything they could to punch in another goal. Weissenhofer and forward Brittany Boek flew all over the field, repeatedly diving into passing lanes in attempts to gain possession. Defender Carrie Dew kept constant pressure on Florida State's back line, charging forward to win every 50-50 ball she eould physically get to. In short, the Irish could not have exercised more effort. 

7:00 Tusz;£day ®sz;csz;mbsz;r 11th 
we~11 :P·(I.MibY 24 1i0Ui<. bOUNGe' 
JOIN US FOR AN EVENING OF FOOD, MUSIC, DANCE AND CULTURE 

But that's how the game of soccer goes. Sometimes all it takes to win is a few lucky bounces and an opportunistic mindset. Florida State got those bounees and had that mindset Friday. 
Despite the loss, it's hard to imagine a more resilient team than Notre Dame. 
The players eould have easi­ly gotten down on eaeh other after surrendering a goal 15 seconds into the game. But instead they fought baek. 
After forward Kerri Hanks was tripped inside the box and the team was not award­ed a penalty kick, the Irish could have resigned them­selves to the fact that they weren't destined to win. They could have mailed it in aftnr falling behind 2-1. 
Or certainly after giving up Florida State's third goal. But they kept fighting despitn those circumstanees. 
In fact, a team with less charaeter might even havn fallen apart after starting the season 3-4-1 like the Irish did. But that early record simply provided an incentive for the team to beat the rest of its opponents. And the Irish nearly did just that. 
Friday's game marked Notre Dame's first loss since they fell to Penn State on Sept. 23. After that setback, the Irish had more of a will to win than any of their opponents and that was often the factor that set them apart from other squads. 
The team's intensity peaked against Florida State as the Irish did all they eould to make it baek to the national title game. 
Notre Dame's. NCAA Tournament run ended Friday. But it eertainly wasn't due to lack of effort. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

you "(I'R.e INVITe® TO "t1 
t1~NOK.K.~t1 Cebe~'R.tlTION 


Monday, December 10, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG 
DEUCES MANOR 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


The 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
WILLSHORTZ 



. '"' 
Puzzle by Fred Piscop 
32 Prefix with 42 Split_ soup 51 Dr. Zhivago's dynamic love
44 Fishing line 33 Scots' caps winder 52 1964 Dave Clark 34Coupd'_ 46 Paid out Five song "Glad 
All
47 Nickels and

35 Japanese P.M. during W.W. II 
36 Mantel 57 Mileage rating
49 Sunken ship org.

38 Equine-looking finder 
fish 58 Cleopatra's biter
50 Furrowed part of 41 Take a siesta the head 59 Eastern "way" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.corn/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJWJW&It.LK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
­one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ABOOT 

j
rJ r I I 
@2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
f~f~flxJ 
tPYSEDE I 
OFTE:N FOLL.OWS

J [] I I 
WHEN A BUSINE:SS

www.jumble.com 
FALLS INTD tH: !<ED. 

tKOOPHU 
t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

rI I JrI I I I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's I Jumbles: MAGIC BASIC DECENT SEXTON Answer: What the single women did when they took a cruise -"MISSED" THE BOAT 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Jakob Dylan, 38; Allison Smith, 38; John Malkovich, 54; Beau Bridges, 66 
Happy Birthday: You will have added responsibilities this year. A partnership appears to be your saving grace. Don't grumble if a change is required or a move needs to be made. Your numbers are 12, 17, 22, 25, 40,44 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Travel is recommended, especially to visit old friends or family. You will find interesting items at bargain prices if you go on a shopping spree today. Put work aside --it's time for family fun. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will overspend if you go shopping or if you get involved in lavish entertainment. Spend time doing things that will save you money like baking or making gifts and decorations. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your focus should be on partnerships and what you can do to make them better. Someone may call your bluff or question your where­abouts. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take care of matters that concern older or younger people. Put time aside for the one you love or, ifyou are single, meet new people by attending functions that interest you and you will discover someone who cap­tures your attention. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be the center of attention, the one everyone looks up to. Your entertaining way of dealing with others will get you what you want, so spread yourself around and enjoy the moment. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Listen to complaints, don't make them. There will be plenty of change going on around you. Overspending, overindulgence and overdo­ing will all come into play --if not by you, then by the people you are close to. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Taking in the scenery or having fun with friends, neighbors or relatives should be your game plan. Your eye will catch something or someone unique that will influence what you offer others in the new year. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your mind will be working in overdrive regarding ways to make more money. Your ideas will be good but don't let them get out of hand. Start with baby steps and you will do much better financially. Don't fight change. 3 stars 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be hard to control, not easy to pin down and eager to do everything in a big way. Expect to face opposition. Think matters through and you will know what's best for you and will let others help. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): There may be a lot of skeletons in the closet right now, especially pertaining to financial matters and your professional future. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Helping others will be the best thing you can do for yourself. A chance to offer services of any kind will lead to an opportunity to do more of the same --equaling financial gains in the future. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Prepare for any year-end festivities. Love is high­lighted and a promise can be made. Money will come to you through a most un­usual way. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a survivor and a hands-on troubleshooter. You are pas­sionate, patriotic and very personable. You are an organizer and great friend. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvtce.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
CROSSWORD 
Across 33 Prefix with ­hedron

Started a cigarette 36 Is false to the world
6 Sail supporter 37 Get from
10 Rooters 
(progress14 Left one's seat slightly) 
15 Gumbo 38 Battle of the vegetable (men vs. women)
16 Track shape 39 Stadium section
17 Allotment of 40 Studiedheredity units? 
primarily, at 19 Parks who 
college pioneered in civil 
42 Holder of 88 rights keys 
20 Our language: 43 Caveman's era Abbr. 44 Vintage automotive inits.
21 Took the blue ribbon 45 Tennis great Arthur
22 Room to 46 Mediums' 
maneuver 
meetings24 Nuclear power 
50 Stewed to the 

apparatus 
gills 27 Top 10 tunes 
53 King Kong, e.g. 28 Hole-punching 54 Lacto­
-

tool vegetarian 29 Slender cigar 55 Sitarist Shankar 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
56 Preacher's sky-high feeling? 60 Twistable cookie 61 Turn at roulette 62 Decaf brand 63 Give an alert 64 Direction of sunup 65 Sticky problem 
Down Hearty brew 2 Jim Carrey 

comedy "Me, Myself&_" 3 Kingdom east of 
Fiji 4 Milk for all it's 
worth 5 Pay-_-view 6 Travel by car 7 Closely related 

(to) 8 Sign at a sellout 9 Bikini wearers' 
markings 1 0 TV channel for 
golfers? 11 State frankly 12 Shuttle­
launching org. 13 Murder 18 Delinquent G.l. 23 Greek H's 

,.lltmmttjl.:ru1!Tit1!1l 25 Pasta-and­
• potato-loving country? 26 Former rival of Pan Am 27 Safe place 29 Mischievous sprite 30 Director Kazan 

31 Claim on property 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, December I 0, 2007 
page 20 
-
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Irish season ends with disappointment in semis 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
COLLE<;E STATION, Texas ­Notre Dame fought hard to reach the national champi­onship game on Friday, but did not have quite enough to gain the uppnr hand on Florida State. 
Seminoles midfielder Amanda DaCosta's goal in the 72nd minute gave her team a 3-2 vic­tory ovPr Notre Damp in the College Cup sPmifinals. 
The loss endPd the season for the Irish. 
"I'm certainly disappointed for our team," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "I thought we had every opportunity to win today." 
The Seminoles lead 1-0 and 2­l, but thn Irish evennd the score 
sec SEMINOLES/page 18 

No easy way down 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Irish captain Amanda Clnalli, left, looks to pass while forward Kerri Hanks lines up a corner kick in Notre Dame's 3-2 loss to Florida State on Friday in the College Cup semifinals. 
NDfalls to FSU despite outplaying Seminoles 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas­Florida State got behind the Irish defense precisely three times. And the Seminoles scored on each occasion. 
Notre  
Dame had  Fran Tolan  
many more chances  Sports Writer  
than the  

Seminoles but capitalized just twice. There you have it: Florida State 3, Notre Dame 2. 

But after the game Florida State coach Mark Krikorian seemed to realize his team had dodged a bullet. 
"Overall, they probably domi­nated the game a whole lot more than we did," Krikorian said. 
And Irish coach Handy Waldrum knew Notre Dame 

see LOSS/page 18 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hotne vvin streak reaches 25 vvith defeat of N. Illinois 
llillesland lofted the ball forward Hyan Ayers, who fin­field and 14-for-25 (56 per­thing like that?" Irish coach By CHRIS HINE toward the right side of the ished with 11 points. "You can cent) from 3-point land. From Mike Brey said. "I mean, are 
Sports Editor 

rim. Abromaitis jumped and always mark that down when the opening tip, the Irish were you kidding me'! That was a 
slammed the ball home, com­you come back in 20 years seemingly f1awless. clinic. I'm hitting ]assistant 
Notre Damn junior forward pleting an electrifying alley­and say, 'IIey, I was a part of McAlarney spurred Notre coach Sean Kearney] and Zach llillesland dribblnd the oop on a night when Notre that team."' Dame early on, draining four going, 'This is fun.' Sen I ball in front of the scorers' Dame could do little wrong in Junior guard Kyle straight 3-pointers in the f'irst would've bought a bunch of tabln and attracted the atten­capturing its school-record McAlarney and senior forward four minutes of the game. tickets for tonight if I knew tion of every Northern Illinois 25th consecutive victory at the Rob Kurz each had 17 points Notre Dame had 22 points on that was going to happen. You defendnr. llillPsland, mnan­Joyee Center with a 108-62 while a leaping, diving and the board before the l"irst got your money's worth." while. had his eye lwhind the drubbing of Northern Illinois dunking Luke llarangody media timeout with 14:35 left Despite Notre Dame's fast dnfm1se on frnshman forward on Saturday. added 14 points and 12 in the half. start, Northern Illinois Tim Abromaitis, who was cut­"It feels really good to be a rebounds. The Irish shot 36-"The first six minutes of the ting toward the basket. part of history," said junior for-58 (62 percent) from the game, have you ever seen any-see STREAK/page 17 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Golden goal ends season 
Wake Forest downs men 1-0 in overtime 
By DAN MURPHY A~sociare Sports Ediwr 
Wakn Fornst sophomore Austin da Luz ended a score­

loss tin  - and Notrn Dame's  
snason  - with  a  goal  seven  
minutes  into  ovnrtime  in  

Winston-Salnm, N.C. on Saturday. 
.Junior forward Marcus Tracy carrind tlw ball up tho right side and cut it back to Da Luz just outside of the goalie box. T h n I 60-pound m idl'inlde r rippnd a low shot that snuc.k undnr Irish kPPpnr Chris Cahill into thn bottom Jpft corner or the not. 
"It was a great shot. It was a runny goal bncausn it didn't 
see OVERTIME/page 17 


HOCKEY 
Irish tnake it nine in a rovv with road victories 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
No. 6 Notre Dame extended its winning streak to nine games with a pair of wins against Princeton on the road this weekend, and defenseman Dan VeNard had the first multi-goal game of his career, continuing the offensive success of a senior who has had an up-and-down collegiate tenure. 
After falling behind early Friday night, the Irish scored three straight goals and later added an insurance goal from freshman Bon Hyan to win 4-2. The following night, the Irish dominated from start to finish, winning 7-0. 
"I thought that our guys were ready to play, and I didn't think Princeton was as energetic: as on Friday night and our guys capitalized on it," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said about the sec­ond game. 
VeNard opened the floodgates Saturday when he snuck a one­timer underneath the crossbar 10 minutes into the lirst period. VeNard also picked up another goal and an assist later in the game for the first multi-goal game of his career. 
"I think he's playing with con­lidence," Jackson said. "lie rnal­ly has never been allowed to establish himself or build the conlidnnce beforn this year." 
VeNard has racknd up eight points so far this year in Notro Damn's first 20 games, which matches his total for the previ­ous three years. 
Thirteen seconds artnr 
see NINE/page 17 






