
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 41: ISSUE 65 THURSDAY, JANUARY 18,2007 
ND joins ranks of Colutnbia with African effort 
Universities make unique contributions to development of Millennium Villages Project 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
Assistant News Editor 
For an institution steeped in tradition, Notre Dame's venture with the Millennium Villages Project has it tread­ing on relatively fresh ground -so fresh, in fact, tqat only one other universi­ty in the world has been there before. 
Though it has already sparked a worldwide effort, the Millennium Villages Project (MVP) is a very 

STUDENT SENATE 
recent development, created by the Earth Institute at Columbia University directed by economist and Notre Dame Forum speaker Jeffrey Sachs -in response to a set of Millennium Development Goals issued by the United Nations in 2002. Those goals inc"lude the reduction of extreme pover­ty, disease and hunger by 2015. 
The Project's first two research villages were estab­lished in 2005 -and, in addition to Notre Dame's vil­

lage in Nindye, Uganda, 10 
more have already been 
added. 
Commitment and connec­
tions were what allowed 
Notre Dame to become 
involved in MVP, according 
to Father Bob Dowd, director 
of the Notre Dame 
Millennium Development . Initiative (NDMDI). 
"Although other universi­
ties in the United States have 
expressed interest in partici­
pating in the project, only 
Notre Dame has actually 
made that commitment real at this point," Dowd said. "We are blessed with a gen­erous trustee and benefactor, Mr. Ray Chambers, who has offered to support the proj­ect in the name of Notre Dame." 
Chambers is chairman of Millennium Promise -the non-profit ·corporation behind MVP, whose declared mission is to end extreme poverty worldwide by 2025. University President Father John Jenkins also sits on 
see PROJECTIpage 6 




Shappell discusses semester goals 
Community, student-alumni relations addressed in State of the Student Union speech 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Student government has accomplished many of its objec­tives since the Shappell­Andrichik administration took office last April, student body president Lizzi Shappell said Wednesday, but it still has more goals to achieve before turnover occurs in the spring. 
Shappell focused on commu­nity and student-alumni rela­tions in her second State of the Student Union address, which she delivered before Wednesday night's Student Senate meeting. She told sena­tors she was confident in the progress they would make together in the coming months. 
"We have a lot of work to do to fulfill these goals, but the progress thus far proves that we can · and will follow through," she said. 
Student government repre­sentatives met with the South Bend Common Council last spring to discuss a controver­sial amendment to the disor­derly house ordinance. Passed in summer of 2005, the amend­ment allows the city to send residents a notice to abate after just one· reported noise viola­tion -a measure that can result in quick evictions. 
Shappell, student body vice president Bill Andrichik, Senate Community Relations commit­
tee  chair  Josh  Pasquesi,  
Judicial  Council  chair  Liz  
Kozlow  and  Northeast  

Neighborhood Council student representative Krystal Hardy met again with the council this fall to discuss their opposition 
see SENATE/page 6 



Folk Choir raises funds for south 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
When the University commu­nity headed south to the Sugar Bowl, the Notre Dame Folk Choir wasn't far behind with one goal in sight -using its tal­ent to benefit those in need. 
The group's Deep South Tour took choir members throughout the region from DATES, per­forming concerts that raised money solely for hurricane-rav­aged Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) schools in Biloxi and Gulfport, Miss. 
"We've never done a tour where we say the entire tour is going to go to one thing," Folk Choir director Steve Warner said. 
see CHOIR/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

SMC staff dovvnsized over break 


SAO loses two top admins, restructures 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 

The Saint Mary's Student Activities Office downsized over winter break after its director resigned and assistant director was terminated, College spokes­woman Melanie McDonald said Wednesday. 
Director of Student Activities George Rosenbush retired for health reasons, McDonald said, and Assistant Director of Student Activities Frances Bruder's posi­tion was eliminated as part of an ongoing "strategic restructuring plan" for Student Activities. 
The plan calls for Vice President of Student Affairs Karen Johnson to spend the rest of this year assessing the needs of the office, researching staffing levels at peer institutions and determining how Saint Mary's can better meet the needs of its students, McDonald said. 
Both Johnson and McDonald said the College plans to hire a new director of Student Activities, but has yet to set a definite date of replacement. 
Rosenbush worked at Saint Mary's for 23 years and announced her retirement in late December, a move that surprised Johnson. 

"I spoke at great length with George, and tried to convince her · to have a goodbye party," she said, "but she preferred to say goodbye in her own way." 
Bruder's position was eliminated on Jan. 2 -a decision that 
see FIRING/page 4 


Service opportunities attract many students 
ByJOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 
For hundreds of Notre Dame students, winter break was more than an endless chain of lazy mornings, football games and home cooked meals. 
More than 300 students utilized their month off as a time to inunerse themselves in one of the Center for Social Concerns' four winter service-learning seminars. 
The Church and Social Action: Urban Plunge; Organizing, Power and Hope; the Holy Cross Mission in Education; and Border Issues seminars drew 302 students -an increase from last year, said the CSC's urban programming direc­tor Rebecca Pettit. 
Junior Dmitri Martinez and sophomore Michael Angulo took advantage of these seminars, which are only offered during winter break. 
Martinez decided to attend the Holy Cross seminar since he has aspirations of teaching. 
''I'm considering applying to the ACE program, so the Holy Cross Education seminar was an easy choice," he said. 
Pettit said other participants were motivated by their personal passions or faith. 
Angulo said the "experiential learning" element of the seminars was important to his decision to attend. 
''I've been on the Appalachia 
see SERVICE/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, January 18, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Relocated 
•


Ineinories 
My high school was legendary for its crowded hallways. 
In eighth grade, when my friends went on their high school visits, they would return to school the next day talking about the cafeteria food, the uniforms Kaitlynn Riely and the classes of course, but a visit to 
Associate
Good Counsel 
News Editor 
invariably resulted in the same com­ment about congestion in the hallways. 
When I went to Good Counsel for the first time, I too returned with tales of a school bursting at the seams. But I decided to venture into the rush. 
Walking through those hallways required skill. You had to deftly maneu­ver through crowds of people going to class and retrieving books from their lockers. Propelling myself through hun­dreds of high school students in match­ing uniforms is not something I miss, but it is a fond memory I have of my high school days. 
When I visited Good Counsel over win­ter break, I moved through the hallways effortlessly. The surging masses were nonexistent, because the hallways were much wider. The reason for the breath­ing room -Good Counsel relocated to a different town and a larger facility over break. 
So I went to GC to walk through a school I graduated from but had never attended. Everything was bigger and better. The cafeteria was nicer, the labs were larger and the technology in the classrooms was impressive. I had a half­sized locker during my high school years, but all the lockers at this school were full-sized. 
The place looked pristine as I walked around it. There were no scuff marks on the floor, no crumbs on the carpet. 
For the money it costs to attend a Catholic high school, this was a much improved facility over the old Good Counsel. But when my former teachers asked me ifI wished the new school had been fullshed a few years earlier, I could honestly say no. 
The school was nice, but it had no character. No one had made any memo­ries there yet. They had picnic tables in the courtyard, but they were missing the messages and notes written on them from years ago. 
During jllllior year, my daily drive to school ended in a brief moment of panic as I tried to maneuver my car in the poorly designedjllllior parking lot. Now every student who drives can get a park­ing pass that assigns them his or her own numbered parking space. That should cut down on the number of car accidents that occurred each day at the old Good Counsel, but I would rather take the memory of pushing my driving skills to the limit every day to make it in and out of that parking lot with no scratches over the day I pulled into my very own parking spot. 
In a few years though, the new Good Counsel will mold its own character. Future students will probably not have to walk through the crowded hallways of my day, but classes will be taught, stu­dents will graduate and memories will be made. 
And my memories will stay with that small school long after it has been tom down. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reporting error, the Jan. 17 article "Nindye selected as project partner village" stated that Notre Dame is giving money to the Millennium Promise Corporation [MPC] for the implementa­
. tion ofthe project. The money is 
actually being given to the MPC in Notre Dame's name by benefactor· and trustee, Ray Chambers. The Observer regrets the error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE WINTER TIME ACCESSORY? 




Andrea Teske Annie Legault Gina Camarata Michael Henry Michelle Hoefer Nicole Campo 
freshman freshman freshman freshman freshman freshman Breen-Phillips Farley Howard Zahm Farley Farley 
"Scarves-"My earmuffs! "Scarves! I have 'Thermals!" "My skis. Yay "My Uggs. I am 
,
they keep me To keep my ears way too many. for places with from Florida so 
,,

nice and from freezing. _big mountains!" I finally have a 
warm!" 

Escaped chimp raids fridge, does housework 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -An escaped chimpanzee at the Little Rock Zoo in Arkansas raided a kitchen cupboard and did a little cleaning with a toilet brush before sedatives knocked her out on top of a refrigerator. 
The 120-pound primate, Judy, escaped Tuesday into a service area when a zookeeper opened a door to her sleeping quarters, unaware the animal was still inside. 
As keepers tried to woo Judy back into her cage, she rummaged through a refrigerator where chimp 
snacks are stored. She opened kitchen cupboards, pulled out juice and soft drinks and took a swig from bottles she managed to open. 
Keeper Ann Rademacher says Judy went into the bathroom, picked up a toi­let brush and cleaned the toilet. Rademacher says the 37-year-old Judy was a house pet before the zoo acquired her in 1988, so she may have been famil­iar with housekeeping chores. 
Father of chimpanzee baby remains mystery 
SHREVEPORT, La. -It's both a surprise and a mys­tery. At Caddo Parish's Chimp Haven, where retired male chimpanzees all get vasectomies, a female chimp has turned up pregnant. Chimp Haven managers knew something was up when they could not find one of their chimps last week. 
Teresa, who's been at Chimp Haven for the past year and a half, was miss­ing during the morning rounds. Later, she appeared with a newborn chimpanzee in her arms. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a::: 
1.&.1 
:::1: 

!;;: 
1.&.1 
~ 
...J 
<C 
(.) 


0 

..... HIGH 30 HIGH 25 HIGH 25 HIGH 25 LOW 21 LOW 21 LOW 12 LOW 14 

legitimate excuse to wear them., 
IN BRIEF 
The Snite Museum is hosting a new exhibit of 290 photos taken during the Vietnam War by photojournalists who died in the violence. The exhibit, titled "Requiem," will be on display at the museum from Jan. 4 through March 4. Admission is free. 
A lecture titled "Grand Challenges in Environmental Science and Engineering" will be held today from 4-5 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo. 
Student Activities is present­ing the movie "Fargo" tonight at 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. The movie is free, and so is a cup of hot chocolate. 
Play pool for free tonight from midnight on at Legends. Tables have been carted in for one night only. 
The Notre Dame Track and Field indoor opener will be held Friday at 5:30 p.m. at the Loftus Sports Center. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will play Syracuse Saturday at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will play South Florida Sunday at 1 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Students interested in joining the Wednesday Lunch Fast to fight poverty should e-mail their full name and NDID num­ber (the number on student IDs that begins with 90) to whc@nd.edu by Feb. 2. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 27 HIGH 27 LOW 19 LOW 14 
Atlanta 48 I 36 Boston 38 I 34 Chicago 31 I 19 Denver 30 I 12 Houston 50 I 44 Los Angeles 72 I 45 Minneapolis 24 I 11 New York 40 I 37 Philadelphia 41 I 35 Phoenix 66 I 46 Seattle 41 I 32 St. Louis 40 I 26 Tampa 77 I 60 Washington 42 I 35 
Thursday, January 18, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Cotntnittee chairs set new-goals for spring setnester 
Senate members enthusiastic about improving ND-South Bend area relations, plan to hold community summit 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Student Senate committee chairs echoed student body president Lizzi Shappell's enthusiastic outlook for the remainder of their terms Wednesday as they presented several objectives for the spring semester. 
Community Relations com­mittee chair Josh Pasquesi 
will head the planning of a community summit in February. The summit a gathering of government leaders and representatives from local col­leges and uni­versities -will aim to improve 


The new 

RED MOTORAZRTM V3m 
by Motorola 

APowerful phone on a Powerful Network. Designed to help eliminate AIDS in Africa. With each sale of a red MOTORAZR V3m acontribution 
will be made to help fight AIDS in Africa. 
JC!~REU.CllM 

FREE stereo headset Bluetooth® technology Built-in 1.3MP camera and camcorder Sprint TV1"' enabled Sprint Music Store1" enabled Sprint NFL Mobile enabled GPS enabled 




$39.99 

Save $220 instantly 
Reg. $259.99 

Requires in-store purchase and activation of anew line of service with atwo-year subscriber agreement and Vision. 
{ Sprinf) +.•~~i' 
MBTD!!!llA IS APROUD.PARJII£R !lf{~)•( ·.... 
SPRINT IS AOOHTRIBUTINS PARTYTO{PIIllBII$l}~· 
" ,.. :'. 
The RED MOTORAZR V3m is Sprint Music Store enabled. 
Wirelessly download digital tracks to your phone. Choose from hundreds of thousands of full-length songs from virtually every genre and listen to them wherever you go. 
between college running a tour of South Bend researching ways to charge students and the for next year's each class coun­South Bend and freshman class. cil with a cer­
"[The committee is] "We are going to
Mishawaka com­Approximately tain part of the starting to get the munities. 100 freshmen try to put [the Millennium Pasquesi said attended the first Village Project
ball rolling. '' Millennium Village 
he has also been sponsored tour of to build on
Project] forward. " 
speaking with South Bend last Notre Dame's 
Aly Baumgartner 
Mikki Dobski, August. recent commit­University Affairs director of com­Off-campus Mark Healy ment to partner­committee chair munications and senator Mark ing with a vil­
off-campus senator
special projects Healy told the lage in Uganda. for the South Senate the Social "We are going 
relations Bend mayor's office, about Concerns committee is to try to put that forward for 
the incoming class council coming in on April 1," Healy said. 
Sheena Plamoottil, chair of the Social Concerns commit­tee, said students can antici­pate a Darfur week this semester as well as stall notes that feature different countries involved in global conflict, the goal being increased awareness of the geography, flag and current events of that country. 
The schedule of events for the Eating Disorders and the Campus Culture Conference is now available on the Center for Continuing Education's Web site, Shappell said. Students do not need to register to attend, but they are encour­aged to do so through the site. 
The Residence Life commit­tee has an alcohol awareness week planned for later this semester, said committee chair Pat Knapp. The Senate should also expect a resolu­tion next week concerning Domer Dollars on campus, he said. 
Residence Life committee vice chair Mariana Montes said she has several meetings planned to discuss upgrading Web sites like WebCT for bet­ter integration between fac­ulty and students. She is also looking into a plan for the library to provide iPods for podcasts. 
The University Affairs com­mittee is "starting to get the ball rolling" on the Catholic Think Tank lecture series, said committee chair Aly Baumgartner. Politics and W<!men are two topics that will be addressed in the lec­tures. 
Destinee Delemos, chair of the Minority Affairs commit­tee, said she will explore ways for students to facilitate minority faculty recruitment. She also plans to evaluate the services available for minori­ty students and talk with multicultural clubs on cam­pus about planning events. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at 
kriely@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 18, 2007 


Service 
continued from page 1 
Urban Plunge, and now the Organizing, Power and Hope sem­inars, and I think that the method the esc uses of taking thoughts from the classroom and putting 
-them into practice is a great edu­cational tool," Angulo said. 
As part of the seminar, students are required to attend lectures and complete readings and write 

Choir 
continued from page 1 
Having a single goal and a familiarity with the ACE pro­gram "provided focus" for Folk Choir members, he said, and allowed choir members to "actu­ally see at the end a final figure." 
Although the grand total of funds raised is yet to be deter­mined, Warner said it would be "in excess of $55,000." 
Money was raised through free-will offerings at each of the Folk Choir's 10 tour stops. 
"We were really fortunate in that several alumni associations [in northern Florida and in Mobile] stepped up with $500 to $1,000 donations," Warner said. 
Bishop Robert Lynch of St. Petersburg, Fla. also made a $10,000 donation -a contribu­tion Warner said was "obviously something we were not counting 
on." 
Warner said the Folk Choir usually allows a parish to decide how to raise funds during. the concert. 
"Whenever the Folk Choir tours, we always do our work for free," Warner said. "We say to the church, 'You use us any way you want."' 
Parishes sometimes "dream very big" when the Folk Choir comes to town, he said, citing the scholarship task force campaign conducted by Saint Agnes Cathedral of Rockville Centre in Long Island, which raised a mil­lion and a half dollars before the Choir arrived. 
Forty-two members of the choir traveled more than 3,600 miles by bus to perform in Nashville, Mobile, Ala., Tampa, St. Petersburg, Fla., Jacksonville, Fla., Savannah, Ga., Mepkin Abbey in South Carolina, Charlotte, N.C., Alpharetta, Ga. and Columbus, Ohio. 
These cities were chosen because "we knew there would 

Firing 
continued from page 1 
Johnson and Rosenbush had pre­viously discussed, Johnson said. 
The elimination was not a budg­etary issue, Johnson said, but rather part of the reorganization of Student Activities. 
JohnsoiLdismissed rumors that Bruder's position was eliminated to boost or redistribute College funding, and said she "is working to understand Board of Governance spending, not take away from it." 
An e-mail sent to The Observer by College alumna Becca Doll claimed that "the new [vice presi­dent of Student Affairs] wanted to divert $30,000 of the student activ­ities budget to her own" -an idea that baffles Johnson. 
"My job is to make sure the stu­dents get what they want," she said. "Decisions were made not about money at all, but about pro­viding good service." 
Until the new director of Student a short reflective paper in the spring, which earns them one the­ology credit. 
Through the service seminars, participants engaged in various forms of direct service. Students in the Border Issues seminar worked in a house for migrant refugees in El Paso, Texas. Holy Cross Education seminar participants worked with children and teach­ers in a Catholic school in Goodyear, Ariz., as well as in a homeless shelter and in a pro­gram for expectant mothers. 
be a strong financial backing and . . . because there was a tradition of ACE already working [in these areas]," Warner said. Columbus was chosen because it was on the route back to Notre Dame, he said. 
Warner said the tour did not go to the Mississippi areas of Gulfport and Biloxi simply because "there was nothing there. No funds to be had." 
The Folk Choir began to work on the tour "as soon as Katrina hit," Warner said, and he antici­pated a media "drop off' in hur­ricane damage coverage. 
While Warner said Sugar Bowl reporting included some cover­age of the Katrina destruction, he thought there was more of a focus on the newly restored Louisiana Superdome. 
"I think [the Superdome] is a very damaging icon because you can look at it and say 'Wow, things are back to normal,' while really, less than a mile from that place, things are still in crisis," he said. 
The tour was funded through normal club allocations with a little help from the Club Coordination Council and from World library Publications from Chicago, Warner said. Students on the tour stayed with host fam­ilies. 
ACE staff members Amy Seamon and Matt Kloser spoke during the concerts about the ACE program and their goals, Warner said. They also discussed the problems that still stem from the hurricane damage, specifi­cally on the Mississippi coastal areas. 
"We've been given a wonderful gift of singing, but that doesn't mean it ends with us," Warner said. "We make music because we're trying to make some kind of situation better for someone. So in that respect, it's a fusion of arts and social justice." 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
Affairs is named, Johnson said she would work closely with Assistant Director of Student Affairs Abby Van Vlerah, Administrative Assistant Tena Johnson and Executive Administrative Assistant to the Vice President of Student Affairs Sandy Zielinski to make sure "everything happens in the best way possible." 
Johnson said she meets weekly with Van Vlerah to make sure all planned events are carried out, and she looks forward to hearing "new and old ideas" from the stu­dent body. 
McDonald said she also hopes to squelch circulating rumors regard­ing the restructuring plan and administrative decisions. 
"It is just important that people understand there can be the ten­dency to believe rumors . . . when this is ordinary College business," she said. 
The Observer was unable to con­tact Rosenbush and Bruder Wednesday. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Urban Plunge, the most popular winter seminar, attracted 273 stu­dents. Participants worked in social service organizations in dif­ferent urban environments across the country while spending their nights in the inner city. 
Since Urban Plunge sites were located in 35 different cities, Pettit said the program admitted more applicants than the seminars, which were limited to 15 partici­pants each. 
Notre Dame's bowl appearance did not deter applicants, Pettit said, and provisions were made for participants to watch the game. 
"The bowl game was integrated into our experience," Martinez said. "One evening we had a bowl watch with the ND alumni club of Phoenix." 
For Angulo, the chance to watch theirish take on LSU paled in comparison to the opportunity provided by the esc seminar. 
"I take learning about social jus­tice and democracy over Notre Dame football any day," Angulo said. "You have to prioritize your life. Luckily the CSC scheduled this seminar the week after the game." 
Contact John-Paul Witt at 
jwittl@nd.edu 


Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, January 23 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an info~mallunch at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone 1s welcome and confidentiality is assured. 

GORE CG!Jf~C!l FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 







ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 18, 2007 COMP[LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJ Rf SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Suicide car bomb kills 17 in Baghdad 
BAGHDAD -A suicide car bomber killed 17 Shiites at a teeming Sadr City market Wednesday, while gunmen in a predominantly Sunni neighborhood of Baghdad shot up a con­voy of democracy workers in an ambush that took the lives of an American woman and three bodyguards. 
The attack on the marketplace came one day after car bombings killed scores of university students just two miles away, indicating that al­Qaida-linked fighters are bent on a surge of bloodshed as U.S. and Iraqi forces gear up for a fresh neighborhood-by-neighborhood security sweep through the capital. 
Although nobody claimed responsibility for either day's car bombings, such attacks are the hallmark of Sunni militants, who appear to be taking advantage of a waiting period before the security crackdown to step up attacks on Shiites. There had been a relative lull in Baghdad vio­lence since the first of the year. 
U.N. supports traffic fine crack down 
UNITED NATIONS -The new U.N. secretery-general expressed support Wednesday for New York City's goal of recouping nearly $18 million in traffic fines owed by U.N. diplomats and members of the consular community. 
Most of that debt came prior to a city crackdown four years ago on envoys who routinely were cited for illegal parking on city streets but rarely paid because of diplo­matic immunity. 
When asked what he would say to diplo­mats to get rid of the backlog, Ban Ki-moon said: "It is important for diplomatic officials who enjoy diplomatic immunities and privi­leges to abide by and comply with all neces­sary regulations in force in the countries where one is working." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Kidnapped teenage boys resurface 
ST. LOUIS -More than four years ago when Shawn Hornbeck was snatched near his home, he was known as a spunky little boy who liked to ride his bike, play basket­ball, draw cartoons and spend time with his stepfather. 
Last week when he surfaced in a stunning conclusion to a kidnapping case, Shawn was a 15-year-old who had grown more than a foot, had a pierced lip and shy smile. But the change went beyond his appearance. 
As details trickled out, it appeared Shawn had settled into a domestic life with Michael Devlin, the man who allegedly abducted him and then on Jan. 8, snatched a 13-year-old boy and brought him to his suburban St. Louis apartment. Both boys were rescued last week by police after acting on a tip. 

Proposed bill sparks party tension 
WASHINGTON -A far-reaching ethics and lobbying bill, the first initiative of the new Democratic-controlled Senate, appeared headed for collapse late Wednesday. 
Republicans, upset that Democrats were blocking a GOP-sponsored amendment, were poised to vote against allowing debate on the proposal to proceed, effectively driving it from the Senate floor. 
Both parties blamed the other for the tem­porary demise of what they hailed, when debate on the legislation started a week ago, as a model for bipartisan cooperation. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Court continues Timberlake debate 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. -The Indiana Supreme Court stayed the execution Wednesday of a man scheduled to be put to death Friday in the 1993 slaying of an Indiana State trooper. 
The court, in its 3-2 decision, stated that the arguments raised by Norman Timberlake's attorneys that he should not be executed because he is mentally ill are simi­lar to those in a case the U.S. Supreme Court is reviewing in the case of a condemned Texas man. 
_ 
. 
UNITED KINGDOM 

'Doomsday Clock' ticks faster 
Scientists discuss dangers to Earth caused by climate changes, nuclear threats 
Associated Press 
LONDON-The world is nudging closer to nuclear or environmental apocalypse, a group of prominent scien­tists warned Wednesday as it pushed the hand of its symbolic Doomsday Clock closer to midnight. 
The clock, which was set two minutes forward to 11:55, represents the likeli­hood of a global cataclysm. Its ticks have given the clock's keepers a chance to speak out on the dangers they see threatening Earth. 
It was the fourth time since the Soviet collapse in 1991 that the clock ticked forward amid fears over what the scientists describe as a second nuclear age prompted largely by stand­offs with Iran and North Korea. But urgent warnings of climate change also played a role. 
The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, which sets the clock, was founded in 1945 as a newsletter distributed among nuclear physicists concerned about nuclear war, and midnight originally symbolized a widespread nuclear conflict. The bulletin has grown into an organiza­tion focused.more generally on manmade threats to human civilization. 
"The dangers posed by cli­mate change are nearly as climate change. years in logos, images and include Hawking and sci­dire as those posed by "We are transforming, publications. ence fiction writer Arthur C. nuclear weapons," said even ravaging the entire Since it was set to seven Clarke. Kennette Benedict, director biosphere. These environ­minutes to midnight in Despite the organization's of the bulletin. mentally driven threats -1947, the Doomsday Clock new focus on global warm­
Stephen W. Hawking, the threats without enemies -has been moved 18 times, ing, the prospect of nuclear renowned cosmologist and should loom as large as did including Wednesday's war remained its primary mathematician, told The the East-West divide during adjustment. It came closest concern, the bulletin's edi­Associated Press that global the Cold War era," said to midnight-just two min­tor, Mark Strauss, told The warming has eclipsed other Martin Rees, president of utes away -in 1953 after AP. threats to the planet, such the Royal Society, Britain's the successful test of a "It's important to empha­as terrorism. academy of science. hydrogen bomb by the size 50 of today's nuclear 
"Terror only kills hun­"Unless they rise higher United States. It has been as weapons could kill 200 mil­dreds or thousands of peo­on international agendas, far away as 17 minutes, set lion people," he said. ple," Hawking said. "Global remedial action may come there in 1991 following the The organization floated a warming could kill millions. too late," he added. demise of the Soviet Union. variety of proposals to help We should have a war on There is no actual The decision to move the control the threat of nuclear global warming rather than Doomsday Clock in keeping clock is made by the bul­proliferation and repeated a the war on terror." with the bulletin's symbolic letin's board, composed of call to nuclear nations to 
This is the first time the exercise. But the group has scientists and policy experts, whittle down their arsenals bulletin has explicitly used several makeshift in coordination with the and reduce the launch addressed the threat from clocks or replicas over the group's sponsors, who readiness of their weapons. 


Airplane crash in Kentucky kills 49 
Associated Press the Lexington, Ky., airstrip and "sterile cockpit rule" that forbids, 
said it looked "weird" because it among other things, extraneous 
had no lights. conversation during taxi, takeoff 

WASHINGTON -In the minutes The transcript was the first pub­and landing. before the crash of a commuter jet lic disclosure of the pilots' conver­As the pilots went through pre­that took off from the wrong run­sations during the ill-fated flight, flight procedures, Capt. Jeffrey way, the pilots discussed their fam­which killed 49 people in the dead­Clay talked about his young chil­ilies, their dogs and other job liest American aviation disaster in dren having colds, and co-pilot opportunities, and the airline said five years. James Polehinke discussed his four Wednesday that part of the conver­The transcript revealed that the dogs. The two men also talked sation violated a federal rule flight crew "did not follow Comair's about pay and working conditions, against extraneous cockpit chatter. general cockpit procedures," even as the controller occasionally 
The National Transportation Comair spokeswoman Kate Marx interrupted to provide instructions. Safety Board released a transcript said. "It is unclear what role, if "How old are they?" Polehinke Wednesday of the cockpit record­any, this played in the accident, so asked six minutes before the crash. ing aboard Comair Flight 5191. it would be premature to deter­"Three months and two years The recording also showed that mine that." old," Clay answered. one of the pilots noted something In 1981, the Federal Aviation "That's a nice range, age range," was amiss when he looked down Administration adopted a so-called Polehinke said. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 18, 2007 
Project 
continued from page 1 
Millennium Promise's Board of Directors. 
Notre Dame has also forged connections with Sachs and others at Columbia, who helped provide a model for university involvement in the MVP. Dowd said he and NOMOI assistant director Tim Lyden have spent time both with Sachs and the faculty and staff of the Earth Institute in order to learn from their experiences, and intend to keep in touch to share their own findings. 
"That's another great aspect of this project [NOMOI]," Dowd said. "We are not only collaborating with Uganda Martyrs University, but we are also working hand-in-hand with other universities so that we can learn about and con­tribute to human develop­ment as much as possible." 
While receiving guidance from other universities, Notre Dame will also be charting its own course with NOMOI. Dowd noted that not only does Nindye (the village where Notre Dame will be involved) present different challenges and situations than Ruhiira (where Columbia 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
to first offense evictions. 
"From this meeting we agreed upon the spirit of the ordinance and gained allies in opposing first offense student evictions," Shappell said. 
A later meeting with the manager of Turtle Creek Apartments demonstrated the interpretation of the ordinance has changed, Shappell said. She called this "major progress" in light of the several evictions that occurred in fall of 2005. 
"We are now confident that students will not be evicted from their homes after the first violation of the disorderly house ordinance," Shappell said. 
A central goal of the student government over the past two years has been to improve rela­tions between Notre Dame stu­dents and the local community, she said. 
"We have challenged each other to truly engage in the South Bend and Mishawaka communities, to move beyond the stereotypes of 'townies' and to live as good neighbors," Shappell said. "The concept of community relations is now common language on our cam­pus and it has resulted in incre­mental improvements." 
One method the student gov­ernment employed to improve the relationship was a tour of South Bend available for fresh­men during their first weekend at Notre Dame, co-sponsored by the South Bend mayor's office. Shappell said the tours -which attracted approxi­mately 100 freshmen -were "widely regarded as success­ful." 
"The purpose of this initiative is to assure that students have a positive impression of the community from their first weekend forward," Shappell said. 
But her administration's job of improving community rela­tions is not over. 
"We have a lot of work left to 

is involved), but that Notre Dame and Columbia them­selves are very different insti­tutions. 
"There really is no template carved in stone that we attempt to replicate. [ ... ] Our strengths are different than Columbia's strengths and our involvement in this project will be distinctive," he said. "I cannot emphasize enough that what we make of this opportunity is up to us." 
And while Notre Dame's Catholic character is perhaps its most notable difference from Columbia, Dowd said it was not a driving force in determining the University's involvement. 
"Religious affiliation should never be an issue when it comes to a project like this. Many members of the Notre Dame family may be involved in this project because we are motivated by our faith. This is great," he said. "[ ... ] However, this project is about human development, not about Catholic development, Protestant development or Muslim development. Religious sectarianism has absolutely no place in this project." 
Education, however, does have a place. Though MVP has other sources of funding and support -including everyone from individual 
do," Shappell said. 
Shappell is planning a com­munity summit this February with the theme of integrating students into South Bend. Notre Dame will invite local area leaders and representatives from Saint Mary's, Holy Cross, Indiana University South Bend and Bethel College to discuss ways to enhance interaction between students and commu­nity members through commu­nity service, internships and other initiatives. Shappell called the summit a "novel event." 
"The community summit will provide an opportunity to both formally talk about these issues and informally get to know our community leaders and fellow area college students," Shappell said. 
With regard to alumni-stu­dent relations, Shappell wants to continue to bridge what she called the "perceived discon­nect" between students and alumni by making the Go Irish networking group more acces­sible to students. 
"Seniors and graduate stu­dents are now able to access the network of over a hundred thousand alumni in every region and professional field," Shappell said. 
The network currently pro­vides contact information and search engines for users, but Shappell said she will work to increase the usability of the site with resume posting, opportu­nities for alumni to volunteer as mentors for undergraduate stu­dents and general information sharing capabilities. 
Andrichik is the undergradu­ate representative who will work on this project with the Alumni Association, Shappell said. He will sit on the career networking committee to incor­porate student needs into the Web site and the social net­working committee to continue the administration's work of providing student-alumni receptions on football weekend Fridays. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
donors to national govern­research that is devoted to not? ... As students and pro­ments -Dowd said educa­identifying and explaining fessors, we can make contri­tional institutions like Notre change," he said. "For exam­butions to the goals of the Dame and Columbia can play ple, as a social scientist, I project through our a unique role in the project. want to know if Millennium research." 
"I think the distinctive con­Villages Project is actually tribution that a university empowering people as it is Contact Amanda Michaels at makes has to do with intended to do. If not, why amichael@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Thursday, January 18, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 

12,582.59 +26.51
Jones 
U,X Some: Down: Composite Volume: I ,663 12 I 1,651 2,599,548.630 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) 
-0.07 -0.03 45.28 
INTEL CP (INTC) +o.n +0.17 22.30 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 0.00 0.00 6.06 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.16 -0.05 31.16 
Treasuries 
I0-YEAR NOTE -0.42 -0.020 4.75 I 
13-WEEKBILL 0.00 0.000 4.955 
30-YEAR BOND -0.35 -0.0 17 4.844 
5-YEARNOTE -0.46 -0.022 4.737 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.78 51.21 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.00 625.90 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.83 91.70 

Excha Rates 
YEN 120.8350 
EURO 0.7738 
POUND 0.5099 
CANADIAN$ 1.1761 
IN BRIEF 

Experts warn health club members 
NEW YORK -Many people who made New Year's resolutions to slim down are in the process of joining health clubs. Fitness and finance experts alike suggest consumers make sure they're selecting clubs with the facilities and amenities they want and that they read contracts carefully before signing to avoid problems if they don't stick to their new regimes. 
It's often easier to join health clubs than it is to quit, and failure to take that into account can cost the unwary consumer a lot of money. 
"We know memberships rise at the begin­ning of the year, generally because of resolu­tions and because people are motivated to make lifestyle changes," said Sheila Adkins, spokeswoman for the Council of Better Business Bureaus in Arlington, Va. "But by April or May, we start getting complaints, mainly from people with cancellation or refund issues." 
The Better Business Bureau logged more than 4,425 consumer complaints about health clubs in 2005, ranking it 30th among the 3,000 types of businesses the BBB tracks. 
The problem, Adkins said, is that people are often in such a hurry to sign up that they don't pay attention to details. 

Crude oil falls after two week high 
NEW YORK -Gold futures settled higher Wednesday, hitting a two-week high as crude oil contracts rallied off their lows and the . dollar declined. Natural gas dropped 6 per­cent after a forecast of warm weather. 
At settlement, most-active February gold was up $7.40 at $633.30 a troy ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Wednesday's strongest level of $634.80 an ounce was a two-week high for the contract. 
February gold had gotten off to a weak start Wednesday. Larry Young, senior trader at Infinity Brokerage, said a sell signal was touched off at the $623.20 an ounce level, taking the contract to a session low of $620.80 an ounce. 
However, buyers stepped in and took February gold into positive territory, just as the dollar fell from its highs and tumbling crude oil futures bounced off a fresh 20­month low of $50.28 a barrel. 



Apple achieves record profit 
Holiday sales of iPods, Macintosh computers yield best fiscal first quarter 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE -Apple Inc. on Wednesday posted a record profit in its fiscal first quarter, beating Wall Street estimates as earn­ings rose 78 percent amid strong holiday sales of its iPod music players and Macintosh computers. 
Investor enthusiasm 
over the blowout quarter, 
however, was curbed by a 
second-quarter outlook 
that fell below analyst 
expectations. Apple offi­
cials said the March quar­
ter forecast partly stems 
from expectations of 
slightly lower gross mar­
gins and slower software 
sales ahead of the compa­
ny's spring release of its 
upgrade to the Mac OS X 
operating system, dubbed 
Leopard. 
During the final three 
months of 2006, the 
Cupertino-based company 
Apple said it earned $1 
billion, or $1.14 per share, 
compared to $565 million, 
or 65 cents a share, in the 
year-ago period. 
Revenue for the quarter 
hit a record, reaching $7.1 
billion, up 24 percent from 
$5.7 billion the previous 
year. 
Analysts, on average, 
were expecting earnings of 
78 cents per share on 
sales of $6.42 billion, 
according to a Thomson that was three times high­54 cents to 56 cents. Apple's own internal 
Financial survey. er than the PC industry's Analysts had projected probe last year had dis­
"This one was for the during the quarter. The revenues of $5.22 billi,pn closed that discrepancy, 
record books," Apple Chief IDC market research firm and earnings per share of among thousands of other 
Financial Officer Peter also reported Wednesday 60 cents, according to mishandled grants. The 
Oppenheimer said in an that Apple's share of the Thomson Financial. company, however, said its 
interview. PC market in the U.S. had Apple is one of the most probe exonerated Jobs 
Apple shipped 1.6 mil­grown to 4. 7 percent in prominent among dozens and any current manage­
lion Macs and more than the quarter, up from 3.6 of companies facing scruti­ment from any wrongdo­
21 million iPods during percent a year ago. ny over its past accounting ing, while raising "serious 
the quarter, representing a Still, shares of Apple lost of stock options but Wall concerns" about the 
growth of 28 percent and $2.15 to close at $94.95 on Street has largely actions of two former offi­
50 percent respectively the Nasdaq Stock Market shrugged off the matter. cers. 
from the year-ago holiday as technology stocks in Last week, federal pros­Investors remain opti­
season. general tumbled. In ecutors confirmed that mistic about Apple's future 
That's an iPod sold for extended trading following they had opened an inves­as it reinvents itself as a nearly every Texan. Sales its report, Apple shares tigation into stock options consumer electronics com­of the iconic device initially jumped by about irregularities at Apple, pany. It even changed its accounted for $3.43 bil­4.5 percent then declined including an award grant­name last week -from lion, or nearly half, of the by 1 percent to $94. ed to CEO Steve Jobs that Apple Computer Inc. to company's total revenue. Apple forecast fiscal sec­carried a false October just Apple Inc. -to better 
Mac sales continued to ond-quarter revenue of 2001 date when it was reflect its broadening port­
be strong, Oppenheimer $4.8 billion to $4.9 billion actually approved in folio beyond computer 
said, with a growth rate · and earnings per share of December of that year. products. 


Investors surprised by PPI increase 
Associated Press cent in December _ slower than in make it likely for the Fed to raise 
November, but faster than the mar­rates." 
ket expected. Later, the Fed reported Also weighing on stocks was a 

NEW YORK -Wall Street fmished in its Beige Book of regional econom­rebound in oil prices and an outlook mixed Wednesday after the Federal ic conditions that the economy is from Intel Corp., the world's largest Reserve reported slow but steady moderating at a steady pace. chip maker, that suggested profits in regional economic growth, deflating Investors believed the reports not the technology sector might weaken hopes for an interest rate cut that only lowered the chances of a rate this year. were already dampened by a larger­cut, but also that the Fed might raise The Dow fell 5.44, or 0.04 percent, than-expected producer price index. rates to curb inflation, a move that to 12,577.15, after hitting a new 
Investors' rate worries trumped could crimp consumer spending and trading high of 12,614.00 earlier in their optimism about strong earnings hurt corporate profits. the session and after three straight in the financial services sector, which "Inflation may be a worry, and that days of record closes. earlier in the day helped nudge the is job one at the Fed: to control infla­Broader stock indicators also Dow Jones industrials above 12,600 tion," said Kim Caughey, equity slipped. The Standard & Poor's 500 for the first time. research analyst at Fort Pitt Capital index declined 1.28, or 0.09 percent, 
The Labor Department said before Group in Pittsburgh. Wednesday's to 1,430.62, and the technology­the market opened that the PPI, an PPI figure "makes it more unlikely laden Nasdaq composite index fell indicator of inflation, rose by 0. 9 per-that easing will happen, and may 18.36, or 0.74 percent, to 2,479.42. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT

page 8 Thursday, January 18, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Speaking in tongues 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining H3.ll, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGi!loon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama GottumukkaJa 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR> Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EotTOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EotTOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT flESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quertiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer{USPS 599-2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation pc:tiud,... A ~ubscription m T!1e Observer Is $100 for one ac:~.dc:mk year; $55 !Ur om: semester. 
The Observct is published .at: POSTMASTER 
024 S()Uth Dining Hall Send address CQI«:ctions to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Tftt Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notte-Dame P.O. Box779 
and additional maiHng offices. 02.4 South Dining HaU 
Nortt" Dame, lN 46:556-0n9 
The Obkn'Cr h a membtt ofthe 1\.lsoclatcd Ptes.i. AJln:p.ro.duaion rights ate n::scrve:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Sports  
-Kelly Meehan  Kate Gales  
Amanda Michaels  Chris Hine  
Jennifer Metz  Amy Dixon  
Viewpoint  ·Scene  
Alyssa  Erin McGinn  
Brauweiler  
Graphics  
Madel.ine Nies  


Most of us probably spent our winter break crying ourselves to sleep over the bowl game, keeping tabs on the 24-hour coverage of the Rosieffrump feud, or watching re-runs of "That's So Haven." What, that's not just me, right? Anybody? 
But while we Americans were busy returning Christmas gifts and revising our rash New Year's resolu­tions, those industri­ous Canadians were at itagain. Scientists from our Neighbor to the North announced last week the results of a research project which found that peo­ple who are fully bilingual, by using both languages on a day-to-day basis throughout their lives, can delay the onset of dementia by up to four years. Apparently, the extra effort needed to speak two separate languages boosts blood to the brain and exercises your nerve connections, two important defenses against the debilitating elderly disease. 
This probably comes as a shock to many of us in the good old U.S. of A., where our official language is American and we eat our cheeseburgers sans mayo, thank you very much. Oops, I slipped and used a foreign word there. Mea culpa. 
As it turns out, knowing a second lan­guage can actually do more for you than merely teach you dirty phrases or random gibberish, such as "the mon-· keys are stealing my pineapple under­pants" (although things like that are fun to say). Know that second language well, and you could be on the happy end of some solid health benefits. Your non­native tongue can help sharpen your 

James Dechant 
Foregone Conclusion 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
brain and keep it in good shape, like seniors doing water aerobics at the Y. Except for your brain, not your wrinkly thighs. 
I always thought it would have been pretty awesome to be raised in a bilin­gual family, or at least a family who used a different form of speech than the standard. But really, even if you're born and ra~sed American, it shouldn't set you back. There's no reason why you can't practice anotherlanguage and put your brain to good use. Ilere at Notre Dame we have language requirements, but the end of schooling is no reason to give up your study of foreign communi­cation. If you have never tried learning a language, no age is too late todive right in. Give yourself more of a mental hurdle to leap than a daily sudoku. 
Besides all those health benefits, moreover, knowing a second language makes you look cool. Of course, we all know there is an entire world of aca­demics opened up to you with a second language -reading philosophy in Greek, literary theory in French, theo­logical documents in Latin, Chinese his­tory in Mandarin -the list goes on. Nothing compares to the original. But set all that aside for a minute, and pic­ture yourself at a chic French restau­rant. Knowing a second language, you wouldn't have to blubber while trying to get yourself "some of that chicken cor­don bl-... bl-... " and just settling for "the chicken." Instead, you can confi­dently order your chicken cordon bleu dish, impress your girlfriend and rescue the date from doltish disaster, show her your intelligent side, wind up married with four kids and a waterfront villa, and live happily ever after. 
Sometimes we can get annoyed when people speak in their own language. It creates a barrier between them and you, which makes it all the more rewarding when you breach it by learn­ing thelanguage. But once again, this is America -no mayo on our burgers, and sure as heck no other language. Need I reiterate? The terrible price we all pay for having to comply with the saturation of other languages in our modern world takes its toll. We need to force our eyes past all that Spanish text printed on signs, and the extra step needed to select your'language over the phone or on an internet site that, well just eats up a lot of our precious time. 
The "official language" discussion opens up a whole new bag of worms, presenting a prickly and difficult sub­ject. So often in this country of immi­grants, we focus so much on unity-for instance, through a common language -that we shun any effort to preserve things that may impede that assimila­tion. And "diversity" has become such a catch-all term, devoid of any real mean­ing, that we consider discussion of it trite and cliche. But the next time we get mad in Wal-Mart while shopping for our ketchup and mustard and overhear a discussion in a language we can't understand, we can remember that maybe we should see past our own limi­tations and put in some work to learn another language ourselves. The exis­tence of one unifying language does not mean it has to be our only language. 
If you can't appreciate that, remem­ber that using a second language regu­larly will help your brain later on in life. Most importantly of all, it can bring you happiness, companionship and endless joy. And that waterfront villa. 
James Dechant is a junior studying abroad in Rome this semester. Questions, complaints, and rude remarks can be sent to jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


ISubmit a.Letter 


Ito the Editor at
::~ ..,. .... -: ·. :·: :·: ·.. :··':·:·:=:-·.:. ··•·•· :.·. .. .•..,.· .. .... ····~ .... 
1

11 www.ndsmcobserver.com 
,j 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Question with boldness even the existence ofa God; because, if there be one, he must more approve, ofthe homage ofreason, than that of blind-folded fear." 
Thomas Jefferson former U.S. president 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT

Thursday, January 18, 2007 page 9 
Finding community 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'But' can be the most important part 
In Eric Kosmo's Nov. 30 Letter to the Editor, "Stop using the 'but,"' he discusses the politicians today who use the "I am personally opposed, but..." line as a means to help leg­islate that which they claim to be morally opposed to. Kosmo is staunchly against this method of politics, claiming that "a politician cannot support publicly what he knows is wrong personally." 
This tactic seems to be ever more popular among current politicians, and politicians should not run for office under a moral campaign as a means of getting elected just to completely disregard these promises once in office. However, there are some cases when politicians need to realize that what they personally believe is not going to best suit the country. It is in these cases when it is important and necessary to go against their own morals. As former governor of New York Mario Cuomo said, "All religiously based values don't have an a priori place in our public morality. The community must decide ifwhat is being proposed would be better left to private discretion than public policy"(Religious Belief and Public Morality delivered to the University of Notre Dame on Sept. 13, 1984). A politician should use his morals as a framework for his decision making, but also know that as an elected official for the people, he will have to sometimes go against his beliefs to create a better country. Take, for example, a Catholic senator who does not believe in sex before marriage. This senator may try and impose his values on the society by banning the use of contraceptives, but by doing so he would not be doing his job; he is sup­posed to ensure that the legislation passed will best benefit the nation. In fact, there are some situations when a politician can support publicly what he knows is wrong person­ally. 
I know that I want my elected official to have a moral backbone to help guide him on important decisions. At the same time, I can only hope that our elected officials have the sense to realize when they can or cannot impose their moral beliefs on society. 
jennifer Burke freshman Farley Hall Dec. 6 

Identifying resources for treating eating disorders 
A recent article in Scholastic, "Confronting the Silence," stated that eating disorders receive little attention at Notre Dame and student government has planned a confer­ence in February to address the issue. I enthusiastically support efforts to increase a dialogue among students, faculty and staff about eating disorders. I also think it is important to heighten awareness to what is being done to address this problem. The University has a comprehensive approach to the treatment of eating disoders that includes a multi-disciplinary team of providers who collaborate to develop individual treatment plans for students who present with eating and body image concerns. The treatment team consists of a physician and nurse at Health Services with expertise in eating dis­orders. The University Counseling Center provides individual and group counseling services and nutritional consultation for stu­dents. This team consults regularly about clincial needs of students in treatment and has been involved in expanding collaborative efforts to include the dietitian in the athletic department. Team members also provide consultation to faculty, staff and students about eating disorders and how to approach individuals who they have concerns about. Statistics on the number of students on cam­pus with eating disorders may not be avail­able, but the development of this multi-disci­
plinary team and comprehensive approach to treatment is evidence of the University's awareness of this problem and commitment to providing resources for students. In October 2005, the UCC hosted a professional conference on eating disorders that brought together treatment providers and experts from across the country to focus on treatment interventions. The conference in February to be hosted by student government seems to be focused on creating a dialogue within the campus community about eating disorders which could be an exciting next step -chal­lenging the campus community to take responsibility for this issue. How can we as a community create an environment that sup­ports direct communication when there are concerns about an individual engaging in unhealthy diet practices or unhealthy com­parison of body shape and weight? Can we as a community recognize our biases and beliefs about weight, food, appearance, competition and success and how this impacts the Notre Dame environment? There are eating disor­der treatment resources on campus. My hope is that the February conference will encour­age members of this community to identify themselves as resources. 
Valerie Staples University Counseling Center Dec. 6 


Resolution ineffective 
Contrary to the rest of the Student Senate, I did not support the idea of the Fair Trade Coffee Resolution. Setting aside my personal disagreement with the concept, I think the resolution should have been pursued differently. The resolution, as passed, pairs an aggressive educational drive with the lofty goal of largely eliminat­ing non-fair trade coffee on campus. In the weeks since the Student Senate passed the Fair Trade Coffee Resolution, we have received several updates about the progress of meetings between Student Senate and University officials, but I do not believe I have heard of any dorm visits to get the word out among the students. This high­lights one problem with this resolution -when the policy is imple­mented by Notre Dame Food Services, the incentives for the educa­tion drive would evaporate. If the goal of exclusive fair trade coffee were accomplished, what would be the point of an educational drive? It's not as if we would be able to make a choice. Educating the student body about the differences between free trade coffee and fair trade coffee is a very worthwhile cause; it would be more meaningful if in addition to knowing the difference, we had a choice and a chance to make a statement by our actions, not by the deci­sions made by our student government. Foregoing the educational drive and leaving students with only one "choice" does nothing to extend the idea of "social responsibility" beyond the Notre Dame bubble. Everyone should be willing to let his beliefs stand on their merits in public rather than doing his work behind closed doors and beyond the view of the public. I would have rather seen the resolu­
. tion split into two resolutions that happen one after the other instead of simultaneously. The educational drive should be pursued first so we can gauge the support fair trade coffee could garner across cain pus. Mter assessing the success of the educational push, we could address the issue of chasing the evils of freedom and capi­talism off our campus in the name of Catholic Social Teaching. 
Drew Clary 
sophomore Alumni Hall Dec. 6 

Having trouble with spam, viruses and untimely hard­drive crashes? More seriously, have you felt guilty lately about how much time you're spending on the Internet (or about what sites you're visiting)? You might consider praying for guidance to St. Isidore of Seville, the patron saint of computer users and the Internet. Kate 
A patron saint of the Internet -Barrett who knew? Well, about eight years 
FaithPoint
ago, a group of Internet and comput­er experts who work for one of the pontifical councils of the Vatican did some research to fig­ure out which saint might be an appropriate patron of the (then) new frontier of cyberspace, and they decided on Isidore, a 6th-century scholar from Seville, Spain. 
Now before you snicker and turn to the back page to see who won the ND-Villanova game, think about this: don't we often say to family members or friends, "Pray for me, please"? In a time of need, sorrow or fear, we pick up the phone; we turn to our roommate; we send an email; we ask for help. Put this together with our Christian belief in the resurrection, that believers who have died now live in communion with God, and it makes a lot of sense that we could also ask the dead (especially those whom the Church recognizes as particularly holy) to pray for us as well. 
Community, for Christian believers, stretches not only across geography, but across time. We form a community of faith with believers around the world today, but also with people who lived, died, struggled and found joy hun­dreds of years ago or a thousand years ago. And people who aren't even born yet will become a part of our com­munity hundreds of years into the future. As ill-suited a match as a saint born in 556 might seem with YouTube, Google and blogs about blogs, the pairing of St. Isidore with contemporary computer users could give each of us a wonderful chance to think more clearly and carefully about just how we use the time and resources available to us every day. 
If you want to learn more about particular patron saints, they are certainly easy to find with a Web search.· The wider lesson about asking anyone to pray for us, however, whether it's the friend in the room next door or the ancient saint who nonetheless knows our modern doubts and fears, is not that we're gathering the troops to lobby God for a particular outcome. We absolutely have to recognize how much we need each other, and how much our lives on earth will look more like heaven -not because God's going to change the course of events for us, but because we've found God in our connections to one another. 
I had the privilege of attending the funeral Monday of one of the newest members of the communion of saints. Jody Schrage was new to the Notre Dame community as well as the local St. Joseph parish and school community, but her life of faith, energy and joy had already made an impact in both places. Anyone who had the privilege of meeting her before she died after a short, valiant battle with cancer knew how important it was to gather in the Basilica with her husband and daughters to celebrate her life. Father John DeRiso, who presided and preached at her funeral, spoke of how lucky we are to have the Schrage family in our midst, to have had even a brief taste of Jody's boundless enthusiasm for life, her ability to reach out and make friends wherever she went, her love of children of all ages. 
Perhaps ifSt. Isidore were alive today, he would urge us to take the time to remember what real community means -the strengthening of our invisible bonds of shared life and death; the attempt to bring our lives on earth a little closer to a glimpse of the Kingdom of God; the joy and gratitude found with others that we will never fmd alone. Never underestimate the power of asking another person to pray for you -or of offering to do so for someone else. 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Kate Barrett, direc­tor ofresources and special projects in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 10 
Thursday, January 18, 2007 
CD REVIEWS 
Akon's 1 Konvicted' is guilty of mediocrity 
By TAE ANDREWS Assistant Scene Editor 
After the great sueeess of his single "Locked Up" in 2004, the real ques­tion now is, who let Akon back out again? · 
Out on parole with the release of his second album, "Konvieted," .the whiny crooner is guilty of creating an unin­spired album sure to elieit as luke­warm a response as the R&B artist's ill-fated appearance in Notre Dame's The Show during fall 2005. 
Depending on the listener's personal point of view, Akon's nasally voice can be eonsidered either annoying or whiny. Regardless of the choice description, it is an irritating and tired gimmick that gets old even after a few minutes, never mind a few songs. 
At his best, Akon should be reserved only for use as the occasional hook on someone else's single. At his worst ­well, if you're intrigued, or just don't mind wasting a few bucks, piek up the album. 
The only certainty about Akon songs is that they are bound to be depress­ing. The creative genius that brought the public "Lonely" continues to build on his career portfolio of mournful songs in "Konvicted," cementing his status as the Eeyore of the hip-hop world. 
Akon paints a rather dreary picture throughout the album, and his "glass half empty" mindset pervades the entire disc. Halfway through the album, Akon's synth-heavy pop voeals beg the immortal question, "Would you like some cheese with that whine?" 

To make matters all the more con­fusing, Akon cannot seem to decide if he is condemning or glorifying the world of hip-hop -one moment he is lamenting life on the streets, and the next he is bragging about the bullets­and-babes ethos of life as a gangster. Akon's street cred is somewhat sus­pect as well. 
Sure, he drops enough four-letter words to slap a PARENTAL ADVISOHY sticker on the front of his disc, but his whiny voiee and general demeanor bring to mind the image of Dashboard 
Confessional 



trapped in the body of a young
Akon 
H&B singer. In other words,
Konvicted 
Akon is the pio­neer of an
Umvd Labels 
entirely new genre of musie: emo-hop. 
Much like in his previous album,

Recommended tracks: 'I Wanna Love You,''Blown 
"Trouble," Akon is reseued from himself by a few

Away,"Gangsta Bop' and 'Smack That' 

extremely catchy beats, some guest spots and a couple of elub hangers. Said hangers inelude the ehart-top­ping single "Smack That," a naughty track about the liner points of dance­floor spanking, and the sultry "I Wauna Love You," featuring the lyrical talents of the one and only Snoop Dogg. 
Akon also teams up again with the rapper Styles P on "Blown Away," the first tadio single off of the album. Unfortunately, it is no coincidence that the three best tracks all feature other artists. Akon appears to suffer from Nate Dogg syndrome -he is much 
better off with his name after the word "featuring" on track titles than before it. 
The only eonvineing thing about "Konvicted" is that Akon can't carry an album himself and should stick to guest spots. 
Fortunately, Akon's new pop-happy faux hip-hop album will in all likeli­hood rattle around dance floors and college eampuses for a few weeks, before it slips and swirls its way into the cesspool of forgotten songs that no one cares about. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 

Chumbawamba misses mark with newest album 
By CHRIS McGRADY Assistant Scene Editor 
When examining the long list of 1990s era one-hit wonders, the name Chumbawamba almost always finds its way into the discussion. After all, the band's historically catchy party-pop hit "Tubthumping" still reminds most of us of middle school dances. 
Perhaps dissatisfied with its "one hit then quit" status, Chumbawamba is making another run at the stop. This time, however, the band is ditching the electronic aids for an acoustic act. 
"A Singsong and a Scrap" is the name of Chumbawamba's latest release, a brand new take on the group's sound. What most peoJJle do not know is that the band is not really just a one-hit wonder, but has actually enjoyed mod­erate success (with a few very large suceesses) sinee its formation in 1984. 
The band formed in Leeds, England with an extremely political point of view. Considered anarchists, group members often wrote songs bashing the political goals of then-Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and even held benefit concerts to protest her position in offiee. It was not long after this that Chumbawamba's anti-govern­ment status elevated, and the group became the target of police raids. 
However, the average listener would be surprised to hear this after taking in the soft sounds of "A Singsong and a Scrap." 
The new album, although still steeped with political messages, is more likely to lull the listener t() sleep rather than inspire any revolutionary spirits to take arms and storm parlia­ment. 
The album opens with "Laughter in a Time of War," a harmonie folk­inspired song that uses melodie guitar­picking to produce a feel-good sound. The lyries, however, hint at a darker message as the band points out the irony in the general attitude towards 
war. 
"Walking into Battle with the Lord" is the fifth traek on the CD and brings reli­gious shading to the predomi­nantly political album. The song is mostly a cap­pella, and the band does an impressive job in this context. The lyrics are poignant and moving, and it is at this point that the listener begins to wonder if this is the same group behind "Tubthumping," 


""Fade Away" is another light-hearted piece. The song will draw comparisons to some of the happy-go-lucky sounds of folk singers from the past, such as Simon and Garfunkel. But it is this deja vu that eauses the downfall of the album -where is the originality? 
The album is surprisingly well thought-out and performed. A far cry from the "expected" Chumbawamba, the band has shown a musical diversity that would generally be unaffiliated with a group reputed to be a one-hit wonder. However, the music from the album is largely homogeneous and lacks anything new and refreshing to set itself apart from other groups that pioneered the folk genre. The lyrics and writing do take Chumbawamba to a slightly higher level, but overall the actual melodies do not help the album rise above mediocrity. 
Maybe Chumbawamba meant to sub­due its music in order to further spread its political message, but unfortunately, suppressing the sound makes for a very bland album. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl @nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, January 18, 2007 
page 11 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Lively 'Museum' entertains young at heart 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson, Robin Williams and Steve Coogan have made much better films than this winter's "Night at the Museum." The caveat, however, is that the five-year-old in every family could not see most of those movies. "Night at the Museum" is easily accessible to people of all ages to watch and have a great time. 
Directed by Shawn Levy, who helmed family film "Cheaper by the Dozen" a:rid teen-flick "Just Married," "Night at the Museum" is an attempt at blending those two genres. It is tame enough for the lit­tle brother and sister, but at the same time has just enough 
Larry Daley becomes the night guard at the New York Museum of Natural History, trying to hold down an actual job after a string of inventions and start­up companies left him with empty pock­ets. The surprise in store for Daley is that the denizens of the museum come to life during his shift. 
This includes everything from war­mongering Huns, cavemen, Teddy Roosevelt and one really pesky monkey. The film revolves around the problems Daley encounters in trying to do his job and some unexpected thievery occurring in the museum. 
The best acting in this film comes in groups. Wilson, as the fast-talking head of the Old West miniature display, and Coogan, as the Roman general Octavius, 
bantered in what 


romance and historical Night at the Museum are perhaps the trivia for the teenaged 
funniest parts of and parental crowd. the film -minus a However, that cre­certain driving ates a significant prob­scene that may lem. "Night at the Director: Shawn Levy have been funny Museum" tries to fit in Writers: Ben Garant for little kids, but both c;ategories and in just seems ridicu­
andThomas Lennon the attempt does not Starring: Ben Stiller, Dick Van Dyke, lous to anyone over manage to do either Robin Williams and Steve Coogan the age of six. Next 
particularly well ­just decently. The rela­tionships established between the char­acters -except for perhaps Teddy Roosevelt and his surprising wax figure's love interest -could have been fleshed out more, but that might have been more drama than the film could really handle. 
The plot is a very simple one: Stiller's 
to these younger 

actors were some well-known faces from the previous gen­eration of actors. Dick Van Dyke, Mickey Rooney and Bill Cobbs are the aging night guards Daley is hired to replace. They put in fine performances and prove to the audience they still know how to light up a big screen. If "Night at the Museum" is any indication, they are not done with their careers yet. Also, Ricky Gervais, the awkward boss from the British version of "The Office," fills the role of the overly concerned museum director. There are some humorous scenes between Stiller and Gervais; how­ever, Gervais' comedic genius does not reach its full potential in this film. 
Overall, "Night at the Museum" is a fun way to spend just under two hours without having to think too much or worry about being offended. This is a great film for kids, as well as for any person who loved museums as a child. However, it is worth waiting for it to reach the dollar theater. 
What the film could have been is one thing, but the final result is something else entirely. "Night at the Museum" is worth seeing on the big screen -just not one that costs more than six dollars. 
The actors in this film have certainly done more rewarding projects. However, it has already taken in over $190 mil­lion, so they will surely he pleased with the paycheck, if not an award-winning performance. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@od.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
'Talladega Nights' earns place among Ferrell's finest 
By SEAN SWEANY 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Bill Murray, Steve Martin, Jim Carrey and Mike Myers were all come­dians before they became acclaimed Hollywood superstars. One of the lat­est names to add to this list is Will Ferrell, who jumped from "Saturday Night Live" to the big screen with mega-hits like "Old School" and "Anchorman."­
His latest comic vehicle, "Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby," recently hit DVD shelves and is quickly becoming another Ferrell classic. In the usual way of the "SNL" alum, the movie showcases his talents while also poking fun at its subject matter -the world of NASCAR racing -in a subtle yet effective manner. 
The movie stars Ferrell as Ricky Bobby, a NASCAR superstar and crowd favorite who wins at all costs. His teammate and friend, Cal Naughton, Jr. (John C. Reilly, "The Aviator"), always finishes second to Bobby's first, which earns the duo the nickname 
Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby 
Sony Pictures 


"Shake 'n Bake." 
When French Formula One driver Jean Girard (Sacha Baron Cohen, "Borat") arrives to challenge Ricky Bobby in his NASCAR dominance, Bobby must overcome a new influx of personal problems involving both rac­ing and his personal life to return to the top of the racing world. 
"Talladega Nights" was clearly cre­ated with the intent of mimicking the style of Ferrell's previous movies that has brought him such success. The film is full of the non-sequiturs and absurd situations that audiences have come to expect from Ferrell's movies and most of these do not disappoint. 
Ferrell shows his usual skill and wit in delivery, and Reilly -who was originally cast in "Anchorman" as Champ Kind, only to withdraw due to scheduling conflicts with "The Aviator" -gives a good performance in another supporting actor role. Cohen also demonstrates his comedic talent and gives a better performance here than he does in "Borat." 
Other actors such as Michael Clarke Duncan, Amy Adams, Gary Cole, Jane Lynch and Andy 

Richter are per­fectly cast in sup­porting and cameo roles and provide a good. assortment of characters for Ferrell and Reilly to interact with throughout. 
If this movie suf­fers from any­thing, it is that at times the writing fails the actors, in spite of their good performances. Although Ferrell and Adam McKay wrote both "Talladega Nights" and "Anchorman," this film does not demonstrate the same hilarity that "Anchorman" had at every turn. 


The unrated DVD comes loaded with special features, some of which are worthless promotional spots that were no doubt included to cram as much product placement in the movie as possible, given the heavy built-in mar­keting that NASCAR already uses. 
Other features, however, such as a gag reel, extended scenes, interviews and deleted or alternate scenes with Ricky Bobby, Cal and Jean Girard reveal humorous material inexplicably left out of the final cut of the film. These show the comic ability. of the actors, especially Ferrell, and make the film funnier on a second viewing. 
Indeed, like many other Ferrell movies, "Talladega Nights" becomes better and funnier each successive time it plays. This is something all good comedies have in common and is a testament to not only the acting, but also the writing of a film. 
In this respect, Ferrell has produced. another success in his ever-increasing litany of films. While not on the elite level of "Anchorman," "Talladega Nights" finishes a close second. 
Con~ct Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 18, 2007 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Flowers leads Wisconsin in win over Purdue 
Ohio State tops Northwestern in Big 10 action, Vanderbilt upsets Alabama, Tar Heels cruise past Clemson 
Associated Press seven shots as North Carolina high 15 3-pointers in 28 
(16-2, 3-1) won its sixth straight attempts and shot 58 percent 
MADISON, Wis. -Michael over Clemson (17 -2, 3-2). overall in pulling ofl' their second Flowers scored 15 points to lead Less than a week ago, Clemson home upset of a ranked team in No. 2 Wisconsin to its 14th con­had been 17-0 and the nation's eight days. They beat then-No. secutive victory, 69-64 over only Division I unbeaten. The 16 Tennessee 82-81 on Jan. 10. Purdue on Wednesday night. perfect record ended last Vandy (12-6, 2-2 Southeastern 
The Badgers (18-1, 4-0 Big Saturday with a 92-87 loss at Conference) never let Alabama Ten), who are enjoying the high­Maryland. And the Tar Heels' (14-3, 1-2) get elose after the est ranking in school history, led speed and pressure made sure opening minutes in handing the by 10 points midway through the the Tigers wouldn't start another Tide a ninth straight loss in second half. winning streak. Nashville. Alabama hasn't won 
Keaton Grant's fast break "If people want to run with us, in Memorial Gym since 1990 layup with 39 seconds left we can run with them. That's under coach Wimp Sanderson. brought the Boilermakers (13-6, what we want to do," North Alabama's other conference 2-3) within 67-62. Kammron Carolina guard Wes Miller said. loss this season was 88-61 at Taylor made one of two free The Tar Heels' quickness Arkansas. throws for Wisconsin with 36 turned what was expected to be The Tide missed its first four seconds left. Purdue missed and a tight game into a Iaugher. shots and last led 14-12 after a rebounded two 3-point attempts, basket by Hichard llendrix. That finally settling for a putback by Ohio State 73, Northwestern was it as Vanderbilt just kept hit­Carl Landry that made it 68-64 41 ting shots in taking a 54-37 half­with 4.3 seconds left. Greg Oden had a new look and time lead and the Commodores 
Gordon Watt had 18 points for a couple of his teammates had a were up by as many as 25 points Purdue, which hasn't won on the new approach. in the final minutes. road in nearly three years. Ohio State's point-guard tan­Derrick Byars scored 15 points 
The Badgers' winning streak is dem of Mike Conley Jr. and for Vanderbilt, while Hoss tied with New Mexico State for Jamar Butler showed they could Neltner added 14 and Alex longest in the nation. do more than pass in leading the Gordon and Dan Cage each had 
Wisconsin missed its first nine seventh-ranked Buckeyes past 12. shots and was 3-for-17 from 3-Northwestern. Mykal Riley led Alabama with point range for the game. Conley scored a career-high 17 21 points, while Jermareo 
The Badgers did put together a points, Butler added 16 and both Davidson added 18, Hendrix 14 14-4 run midway through the had big baskets in the opening and Alonzo Gee 11. Honald second half-though there was­half as the Buckeyes (15-3, 3-1 Steele, who had been averaging n't much actual running Big Ten) pulled away to continue 10.5 points, had only live. involved, as they methodically their home domination of the Vanderbilt, which has beaten opened a 10-point lead over Wildcats. three straight ranked teams nearly 6 minutes. "Coach told us to penetrate, including a Dec. 9 win over then­
Wisconsin center Jason attack that middle man ·and try No. 25 Georgia Tech, needed this Chappell hit a 3-pointer to put to make plays," Conley said of victory badly. The Commodores the Badgers ahead 40-39 with the Buckeyes' plan to slice had lost two road games to start 
13:32 remaining, Wisconsin's through the Wildcats' 1~3-1 zone SEC play, and three of their next first lead of the second half. defense. four are on the road at No. 25 
Flowers threw up a haphazard Northwestern (10-8, 0-5) has Kentucky, No. 16 LSU and top­shot as he was stumbling out of not won in Columbus since Feb. ranked Florida. "He's a very capable shooter," Southeastern Conference) lead­bounds, and it fell in to put the 24, 1977 -a string of 24 con­Butler coach Todd Lickliter said. ing by one points and less than 5 Badgers ahead 51-43. Alando secutive losses on the Buckeyes' Bulter 67, Youngstown State The Bulldogs (16-2, 4-1 minutes to play, Martin and Tucker later scored on an inside home court. 39 Horizon League) made 14 of 24 Mitchell both hit big shots. move to push the Badgers' lead Othello Hunter added 10 points Pete Campbell gives Butler 3s and hit seven straight in a 4-Martin knocked down his to 10 with 7:47 remaining. for the Buckeyes, who have won instant offense, especially from minute stretch that broke the fourth 3-pointer of the game to 
five of their last six. behind the 3-point line. game open midway through the give LSU a 50-46 lead with 4:44 North Carolina 77, Clemson 55 Conley had 10 assists -two Campbell scored a season-high first half. Campbell hit all five of remaining. On the Tigers' next 
Brandan Wright wouldn't let more than Northwestern. 17 points and the 18th-ranked his 3-point tries in the first half. possession, Mitchell hit a 3 that one bad game get under his skin. ''They couldn't trap Mike and Bulldogs hit a season-best 14 3-"It's my best shooting game (at put them ahead 53-46. That's a freshman trait North Mike made a lot of plays," Butler pointers in a victory over Butler), for sure," said Campbell, Mississippi didn't get closer than Carolina fans can learn to love. said. Youngstown State. whose career high was 28 points five points the rest of the game. 
Wright, the Atlantic Coast Oden -clean shaven for the The 42 points on 3s, including with IPFW two years ago. ''I'm Glen Davis added 11 points for Conference leader in field goal first time in his brief collegiate 15 by Campbell, were enough to getting a lot more looks because LSU. percentage, was a miserable 1-career -finished with five beat the Penguins. I'm getting used to the system, Clarence Sanders paced the of-8 in a loss to VIrginia Tech last points, six rebounds and five "That's what I was initially getting used to knowing how to Rebels (12-6, 1-3) with 12 points, Saturday that cost the Tar Heels blocked shots. brought here to do. I've been a find my shot in the system." while Dwayne Curtis had all of their perfect conference mark "He looks faster," Conley said shooter. That's my strength," The Bulldogs were 10-of-13 on 11 in the second half and reserve and No. 1 ranking. with a grin of his former high said Campbell, who transferred 3s in taking a 42-18 halftime Kenny Williams added 10. 
Wright shook that off by scor­school teammate. "Our old coach from IPFW in 2005 and sat out lead. They widened it to as many · Two baskets by Mitchell gave ing 17 points on 8-of-1 0 shooting says after you get a haircut or last season. as 33 points with under 2 min­LSU a 24-13 lead with 7:36 left to help the fourth-ranked Tar shave that you look faster." "I came out and didn't want to utes left in the game. in the opening half. The Tigers Heels recover with a victory over Asked if he knew why Oden force anything, though when I made just one field goal the rest No. 19 Clemson. shaved, Conley laughed and said, get a good look, that's my job," LSU 62, Mississippi 55 of the half and had their lead 
"That's not the type of team "He said it was personal rea­he said of his 6-of-1 0 shooting. Tasmin Mitchell and Terry trimmed to 29-23. Williams that we are," Wright said refer­sons." ','My teammates did a good job Martin combined for 22 second­scored six points in the final 7 ring to the 94-88 loss to the setting me up and the coaches half points to lead No. 16th LSU minutes. Hokies. "We wanted to show Vanderbilt 94, Alabama 73 ran a few plays to get me open." to a victory over Mississippi. The Rebels fell behind 34-25 who we were. We put that Shan Foster scored 27 points Campbell, whose previous high Mitchell scored 14 of his 19 early in the second half, but behind us and took it to the next and Vanderbilt beat No. 10 with Butler was 12 points, was points in the second half, while Curtis hit three field goals as game." Alabama with its best shooting 5-of-7 from long range. He has Martin had eight of his 15 after Mississippi got within 37-34. 
The smooth 6-foot-9 freshman game this season. hit 16-of-25 3-pointers over the the break. Mississippi got within one point certainly did that. He hit his first The Commodores hit a season-past four games. With the Tigers (13-4, 2-1 three times in the second half. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off·campus homes & weekend rentals. 
Bluegoldrentals.com 
House available for 2007-2008. Very Large, Close to Campus, Just Renovated. 
Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 
Studio Apt. Stove, Refrig, Heat, Water, Sewage and Trash service Incl. $350/mo. 20 Min. to ND. 269­684·2268. 
Leases available for 2007·08: 3,4,5 bdrm, 3 bath homes, frpls, 2-car garages. Call574-232-4527 or 269­683·5038. 
Newly remodeled 3 and 4 bdrm houses available for sale/rent. 
Contact Meredith Allsop, Milligan Real Estate 220-9817. 
Houses for rent, 3 to 6 bedrooms, walking distance, mmmrentals@ aol.com. 
Call Gary 574·993-2208. Furnished, very clean, 3-room apt. in Roseland; utilities paid,quiet, wooded setting, 3 mins. to ND. 
Undergrad or grad student (one). Reasonable rent pays all. 272-6377 8 am·1 Opm 
TICKETS 

WANTED · 3 tix ND hockey Sat. Jan 27. Call 703·585·8663. 
PERSONAL 

"Freedom isn't free ... Freedom costs a buck·oh·five." 
"Sometimes, believing is all we have." 
"Promise me you will never die." "You know I can't promise that." 
"Maybe they're called feelings because they're something we can't explain." 
"In anything, if you want to go From just a beginner to a pro You need a montage Even Rocky had a montage. Always fade out in a montage. If you fade out it seems like more time has passed In a montage ... " UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1· 7819. 
For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml 
or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 






OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, January 18, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
Women's Basketball Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Duke  18·0  1235  
2  North Carolina  19-0  1212  
3  Maryland  18·1  1128  
4  Tennessee  16-1  1122  
5  Ohio State  15·1  1005  
6  Connecticut  14-1  1000  
7  Oklahoma  12-1  972  
8  LSU  16-2  873  
9  Stanford  14-3  856  
10  Arizona State  16-2  766  
11  George Washington  14-2  673  
12  Purdue  16-3  671  
13  Baylor  14-3  636  
14  Vanderbilt  16-2  633  
15  Louisville  17-1  503  
16  Georgia  14-4  485  
17  Texas A&M  12-3  444  
18  Bowling Green  14-2  367  
19  Marquette  16-2  359  
20  Middle Tenn. St.  15-3  268  
21  California  13-4  210  
22  Texas  13-4  177  
23  Michigan State  13-4  159  
. 24  Mississippi  "15-4  125  
25  Kansas State  14-2  74  

Women's Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team record points 
1 Duke 18-D 764 2 North Carolina 19·0 752 3 Maryland 184 705 4 Tennessee 16"1 693 5 Connecucut 14"1 625 6 Oklahoma 12~1 610 7 Ohio State 15-1 600 8 LSU 16·2 567 
g 
Stanford 14~3 509 10 Arizona State 16~2 478 11 Vanderbilt 16~2 434 12 Baylor ···1;4+3::-':::::':':':':':':'····' ....... 
419. 13 George Washington 14•2 403 14 Purdue 16~3 401 15 Louisville 17-1 334 16 Georgia 14-4 322 17 Bowling Green 14-2 267 18 TexasA&M 12.-3 258 19 Marquette 16·2 197 20 Middle Tenn. St. 15-3 180 21 Michigan Stale 13-4 124 22 California 13-4 106 23 TCU 13·4 64 24 Texas 13-4 43 25 Pittsburgh 13-3 39 
Women's Basketball Big East Standings 

Big East overall team record record 
1 Connecticut 4-0 
14-2 
2 Rutgers 5-1 
10·5 
3 Marquette 4-1 
16·2 
4 Louisville 3-1 
17-2 
5 South Florida 3-1 
14·4 
6 NOTRE DAME 3-1 
12-5 7 Providence 2-2 
12-5 
8 Cincinnati 2-3 
11-5 9 West Virginia 2-3 
11-7 10 Syracuse 2-3 
8·11 
11 Pittsburgh 1-2 
14·3 
12 DePaul 1·3 
12·6 
13 Villanova 1-3 
7-11 14 Georgetown 1-4 
11·7 15 Seton Hall 1-4 
9-8 16 St. John's 1-4 
5-11 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Wake Forest at Duke 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 


Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. ­Almost every player involved in the-Indiana Pacers' eight-man trade with the Golden State Warriors on Wednesday is likely to welcome the change of scenery. 
The Pacers traded Al Harrington and Stephen Jackson to Golden State for forwards Troy Murphy and Mike Dunleavy in a large, bold deal to shake up two struggling teams. 
The Pacers also sent guard Sarunas Jasikevicius and forward Josh Powell to the Warriors, who gave up for­ward Ike Diogu and guard Keith McLeod. According to Chris Mullin, the Warriors' vice president and a former player for both teams, the wholesale shuffle will benefit every­one involved. 

"This is a situation where both teams feel good about what's going to happen," Mullin said. "They're all key compo­nents. All these guys that are in the deal, they're going to have good roles with their new teams." 
Murphy, Dunleavy and Diogu had been reduced to high-priced backups for failing to produce more in new coach Don Nelson's offensive-minded system. Both Murphy and Dunleavy have hefty con­tracts that allowed Golden State to finish the deal · with significantly less financial impact than the Pacers. 
Harrington, the most accomplished player in the trade, struggled to get comfortable alongside Jermaine O'Neal in his first season back with Indiana. Meanwhile, Jackson has been dogged by legal troubles and atti­tude problems all season, embarrassing the club with an early season fight at a strip club and a spat with coach Rick Carlisle last month. 
"I think he was in a diffi­cult environment for him," 
IN BRIEF 
Pirates complete deal for 
Braves first baseman LaRoche 
After two months of trying, the Pittsburgh Pirates finally landed a deal for Atlanta power hitter Adam LaRoche on Wednesday when they agreed to acquire the first baseman for left-handed reliever Mike Gonzalez and another player. 
The trade will be announced after physicals are completed, according to a baseball official familiar with the negotiations who requested anonymity because the deal was still being finalized. The identity of the other player was not immediately known. 
· The Pirates, who hit an NL-low 141 homers during a 95-loss season last year, have been desperate to add a left-handed power bat to take advantage of PNC Park's short right­field deck. They targeted LaRoche weeks ago, but the Braves previously sought both Gonzalez and one of the Pirates· young starting pitchers. 

Sosa set to make comeback 
with Texas after year off 
Despite being out of baseball since 2005, Sammy Sosa showed enough pop in his bat to get an offer from the Texas Rangers. 
"He's strong. He's healthy," Rangers rookie manager Ron Washington said Wednesday. "I saw good bat speed. The ball made a lot of sound off his bat. I saw a great attitude. I saw a guy that is very con­fident in his ability." 
An agreement on a minor league contract appears likely, and could be completed by the end of the week. 
The 38-year-old Sosa, 12 home runs shy of 600, last played with the Baltimore Orioles. The seven-time All-Star hit .221 with 14 homers and 45 HBis in 102 games. 
That year got off to a poor start when Sosa testified during spring training before a congressional com­mittee looking into steroids use by professional baseball players. 
Pacers CEO Donnie Walsh said of Jackson, who aver­aged 14.1 points this sea­son. "No matter what he was going to do, he wasn't going to outlive that envi­ronment. So I think it's good for him to go to another city and start fresh, and I think it's good for our team as well." 
The deal left injury­plagued Golden State with just six healthy players on its roster for Wednesday night's game against the Los Angeles Clippers _ two fewer than the NBA mini­mum required to avoid forfeiting a game. The Warriors quickly signed NBA Development League forward Renaldo Major. 
Tennis great Sampras
elected to sport's Hall of Fame 
As a tennis history buff, Pete Sampras can't wait to walk around the sport's Hall of Fame when he goes there for the first time this summer. 
He's especially looking forward to seeing his own plaque. 
Sampras was elected to the International Tennis Hall of Fame on Wednesday, joined in the 2007 class by Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario, Sven Davidson and Russ Adams. 
"It's kind of icing on the cake for having a good career," Sampras said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. "It's an honor to be included with (Rod) Laver and the older generation, (John) McEnroe and (Jimmy) Connors. All those guys.. " 
Sampras has never visited the Hall of Fame in Newport, R.I., but he'll get a chance when he's there for the July 14 induction ceremony. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 18, 2007 
TENNIS 


Clisters advances in Open 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia­Kim Clijsters extended the win­ning start to her farewell tour, beating Akiko Morigami 6-3, 6­0 Thursday to reach the third round of the Australian Open .. 
The 23-year-old Belgian, who has announced she is retiring at the end of this season in the hope of starting a family, recovered from an inconsistent opening set to run through the second in 24 minutes. 
She started the year with a win over Maria Sharapova in the final of a Hong Kong exhi­bition tournament and last week won the Sydney International. 
Recently engaged Martina Hingis, into the second year of her comeback after three sea­sons on the sidelines, had a 6­2, 6-2 win over Russian Alia Kudryavtseva to move closer to a quarterfinal rematch with Clijsters. 
Clijsters won her first-round match without dropping a game but was erratic early against Morigami, making more unforced errors (12) than winners (11) and dropping serve twice. 
She clicked into gear in the second, making only three unforced errors in the last six games. 


She blamed the slow start on a late night, staying up to watch Frenchman Gael Monfils upset last year's finalist Marcos Baghdatis on Wednesday. 
"I went to bed maybe a little too late," she said. "But I'm playing well, and it's nice to be back on this court again." 
Sixth-seeded Ilingis, who became engaged to Czech play­er Radek Stepanek last month, moved closer to another quar­terfinal · showdown with Clijsters. 
Hingis won three straight Australian titles from 1997 and then lost three consecutive finals before quitting the tour because of nagging foot and ankle problems. 

'' ••• joy and happiaes

-Ro-........... 
NFL 

Schottenhein1er W"ill stay W"ith San Diego 
Chargers head coach to return for 2007 season 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO Marty Schottenheimer might be down to one last chance to get the San Diego Chargers to the Super Bowl. 
Three days after the talented Chargers melted down in a stunning 24-21 playoff loss to New England, team president Dean Spanos decided Wednesday that bringing Schottenheimer back for the final year of his contract gives San Diego its best chance to win. 
Schottenheimer, though, declined the team's offer of a one-year extension for 2008 worth $4.5 million, with a $1 million buyout. 
The coach did-n't offer specific straight in the postseason dating to 1993, and the ninth time a Schottenheimer-coached team lost its opening playoff game. llis teams have failed four times to capitalize on the home-field advantage that comes with own­ing the AFC's No. 1 seed. 
He is 47-33 in five seasons with the Chargers, including 35 wins and two AFC West titles in the last three seasons. 
Led by league MVP LaDainian Tomlinson, the Chargers were thought by many to be Super Bowl-caliber, with an NFL-best 14-2 record. But they had four turnovers and made numerous other mistakes in losing to the Patriots, their first defeat at home this season. 
Speculation grew following 
the loss that 
Schottenheimer 

reasons, but they  "We are so talented  might be fired,  
could have to do with the spiraling salaries given to  and the information that I got from  due in part to the front office's expectations of a  
other NFL head  everybody was,  deep playofl' run  
coaches, and per­haps to his  we're so close."  and his icy rela­tionship with  
strained relation­ Smith, believed  
ship with general  Dean Spanos  to  have devel­ 
manager  A.J.  Chargers team president  oped over per­ 

Smith. 
"Hight now, I wasn't comfortable accepting it," said Schottenheimer, who will earn more than $3 million in 2007, the final year of an extension he received after the 2004 season. 
Spanos said Schottenheimer didn't give him a reason. 
"I oiTered what I thought was a fair oll'er and it was surely up to him to make the decision as to whether to accept it or not, and he chose not to, and I respect that entirely," Spanos said. 
With a regular-season record of 200-126-1 with Cleveland, Kansas City, Washington and San Diego, Schottenheimer is the most successful coach never to have reached the Super Bowl. 
sonnel moves. 
Smith said that following the Joss, it wasn't automatic that he would recom­mend that Schottenheimer return. 
"Not in my mind. We had to stop and think," he said. 
Smith said he spent Tuesday speaking with Spal)os, players, front-office personnel and peo­ple around the league about Schottenheimer. 
"I made a recommendation which may surprise all of you, that we continue next year with Marty Schottenheimer based on the fact that we are so talented of a football team and the infor­mation that I got from every­body was, we're so close," Smith said. "We made some mistakes in that football game and still almost won I just felt that it was the best for this organization to continue." 

W~ ED 

J:iesident Advisors 
The Northwestern University College QUALIFICATIONS, 
Preparation Program is looking for • completion of sophomore year of college by June, 2007 
resident advisors to help gUide high 

• a consistent record of academic school students through a summer achievement 
of learning and fun at Northwestern. • previous experience as an RA, tutor, or camp counselor 
Earn salary, including room and 
• excellent communication, 
board: work w1th bright, motivated 
leadership, moti•ation, and 
problem-solving skills
high school students from around 
• a wtde range of extracurncular
the country and abroad: plan excit.. 
interests and activit1es 
ing events and gain valuable expen­
• enthusiasm and a genuine 
interest in working with high school students 
ence while enjoying Northwestern 
campus life and exploring Chicago 

• a strong sense of resi)Onsibility this summer! and a high le•el of maturity 
Apply by February 16, 2007! 
For information and to request an applica­tion, contact Breanne Heath at 847-491-NORTHWESTERN 3443 or b-heath@northwestern.edu. UNIVERSITY 


Thursday, January 18, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

TID &RIMMY-IOIIIITED PERfORMER& 01 DIE &TI&E 
fRIDIY, JIIUIRY 19 IT 8PM 
.JIUET&: S3D. Sf5 FICILTY/&TIFF/&EIIDRI.IID S15 ILL &TUDEIT& 
NEW ORLEANS JAZZ ORCHESTRA 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3 AT 8 PM I LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
TICKETS: $36,$30 FACULTY/STAFF, $30 SENIORS, AND $15 ALL STUDENTS 
Hungarian State Folk Ensemble 
Tuesday, February 13, 2007, at 7:30 pm 1Leighon Concert Hall Tickets: $36, $30 faculty/staff, $30 seniors, and $15 all students 
The Hungarian State Folk Ensemble's repertoire showcases the musical folk traditions that inspired Hungarian and international co~posers such as Liszt, Brahms, Kodaly and Bart6k. All of its choreography is based on authentic dances, some of which include elements dating back hundreds of years. 
Described by the New York Times as "unreservedly brilliant," the En­semble has performed in 44 countries for more than seven and a half million people, earning accolades for its high energy and vibrant colors. 
BROWNING 

CINEMA 
Old Joy (2006) 
Directed by Kelly Reichardt 
NR, 76 minutes 
English language 
35mm print 

Thu, Jan 18 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Sat, Jan 20 at 7 pm 
Marie Antoinette (2006) 
Directed by Sofia Coppola 
PG-13, 123 minutes 
English and French languages 
with English subtitles 
35mm print 

Fri, Jan 19 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Sat, Jan 20 at 1 0 pm 
Sunset Boulevard (1950) 
PAC Classic 100 
Directed by Billy Wilder 
NR, 11 0 minutes 
35mm print 

Sat, Jan 20 at 3 pm 
ND Student Film Festival (2007) 
Directed by N D Students 
NR, 120 minutes 
Thu, Jan 25 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Fri, Jan 26 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Sat, Jan 27 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
Watch The Final Cut 
An original movie review show, Wednesday nights at 11 pm on N Dtv Channel 53 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 18, 2007 
Progra01 
continued from page 20 
tiple drug tests and avoid fur­ther arrests for 12 months in order for the charges to be dropped. He is also responsible for paying mandatory fees to the court. 
McAlarney was arrested in the early hours of Dec. 29 after being pulled over in a routine traffic stop. The officer reported that McAlarney was driving erratically, and found a burnt blunt in the guard's car-which McAlarney admitted was his. 
The University, as of Wednesday evening, has not made a decision regarding his 

Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
when I thought we were in pretty good defensive position," Irish coach Mike Brey said in his post-game radio interview. "That was frustrating." 
Freshman guard Scottie Williams led the Wildcats with 27 
Notre Dame fell to 15-3 and 3-2 in conference with the loss, its second straight road defeat. 
''I'm going to talk to [the team] about having a better road demeanor," Brey said. 
us early," Brey said. "It was a tough hole to climb out of." 
Three-point shooting kept the Irish close, with six threes by guard Russell Carter and five more by guard Colin Falls. As a team, the Irish shot 44 percent from beyond the arc. 
Notre Dame made a late run, pulling within seven at 79-72 

Belles 
continued from page 20 
Babcock came right back with a four-point play after Kessler committed a foul, sending the game into overtime. 
With the score tied at 67 in the extra period, after four missed shots and four offensive rebounds for Saint Mary's, Babcock fouled Kessler, who missed the first free throw and made the second to put the Belles up by one. 
Babcock returned fire, sink­ing a jumper to put the Britons ahead by one. With 40 seconds left, senior guard Bridget Lipke fouled Briton guard Megan Garvey. Garvey sank both free throws, sealing the victory for Albion. 
The game was close through­out. Albion's largest lead was eight points and Saint Mary's was four points. At the half, disciplinary punishment. Related offenses are grounds for suspension or expulsion, as dic­tated by Du Lac, Notre Dame's official handbook. 
He is expected to appear before Residence Life and Housing in the coming days now that school is back in session. Irish coach Mike Brey suspend­ed McAlarney indefinitely fol­lowing the offense and the guard has missed the previous six games, including Notre Dame's loss at Villanova Wednesday. 
McAlarney, despite being sus­pended, is still practicing and traveling with the Irish. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
points, while for­"They made some ward Curtis big shots when I Sumpter added 
thought we were in
21. Forward 
D a n t e pretty good 
Cunningham and defensive position. guard Mike Nardi 
That was
both came just 
frustrating."
short of the 20­point barrier, scoring 19 and 18, Mike Breyrespectively. 
Irish coach 
with a little over five minutes remammg. The Wildcats responded with an 11-4 run, capped by a three from guard Shane Clark that sent the Pavillion crowd into convul­sions. 
"I liked the effort throughout the second half," Brny said. "But I didn't like the execution." 
Villanova sunk its free throws the rest of the way to stretch its 
lead. 
Carter led the Irish with 26 points on 9-of-19 shooting from the field. Falls added 17 points, 15 of them on his five three­pointers. Freshmen for­ward Luke I-larangody scored 13 points. 
Senior forward Rob Kurz added 11 for Notre 

Dame, but shot just 3-of-9 from the field. Irish freshmen point guards Tory Jackson and Jonathan 
Peoples com­bined for nine points on 3-of-9 shooting and nine assists. The two rookies have seen increased playing time since sophomore Kyle McAlarney was charged with marijuana possession Dec. 

Villanova jumped out to an early 16­6 and held the 10­point margin for most of the game, scoring nearly every time down the floor. 
"They jumped on 
''I'm going to talk to [the team] about having a better road demeanor. '' 
Mike Brey Irish coach 
29 and suspended indefinitely. 
The rest of the Irish will be back in action Sunday at the Joyce Center against South Florida. The Bulls are 10-9 overall and 1-4 in the Big East. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Albion led by just four. 
Saint Mary's was, for the most part, out shot. Albion shot 72 percent from the free throw line, while Saint Mary's was 53 percent. Saint Mary's hit just one of 10 three-point attempts in the first half. And in over­time, Albion shot 40 percent from the field to Saint Mary's 20 percent. 
The Belles defense was over­matched facing Babcock, who had 19 points on the night ­her second-highest total this season. Kessler had a career­high 31 points, and Lipke earned her first double-double of the season with 12 points and 10 assists. Freshmen cen­ter Anna Kammrath pulled down 12 rebounds on the night. 
After tonight's game, Saint Mary's is tied for third place in the MIAA with Albion and Olivet. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

lanned. 
gnancy? 
·n1 ,,._..,,~~~-•w• support and assistance available at Notre Dame: 
• Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF, Student Affairs, 1-7407 Sr. Sue Dunn, Ol~ Stmlent Affairs, 1-7819 
Campus i\linistry, 1-7163 Steihe-Pasalicll, Counseling Center, 1-7336 
'sCare Center, 234-0363 Charities, 234-3111 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 


STUDENTS 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
---~ 
Thursday, January 18, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Kvaratskhelia -even though the NCAA limit is four. Notre Dame was already under­continued from page 20 staffed when former Irish assistant Zoltan Dudas accepted the head coaching United States -where fenc­position at Princeton this 
ing is not as popular as it is summer. Bednarski hired in Europe -is difficult, Kvaratskhelia this fall to especially with teach foil, but tight NCAA lim-holes remain. itations on The biggest scholarships. problems with Each school "We need to produce the current 
has just 4.5 more ofour own coaching situa­scholarships tion, Bednarski 

Recruits 
fencers 'to the high 
for men and said, are the five for women, levels.'' lack of one numbers coach per Bednarski said weapon and
Janusz Bednarski 
he and other the limitations
Irish coach 

coaches around placed on indi­the country vidual instruc­would like to tion. see increase. "We need 
"We need to produce more coaches," he said. "It's hard of our own fencers to the to bring them from Europe. high levels," It's hard to he said. "It's find them in not easy to this country." bring them Bednarski here· through "We need simply to be said the ath­recruiting. We . letic depart­
able to produce more
need simply to ment supports
walk-ons, but we need
be able to pro­the search for duce more the coaches to be able a third paid walk-ons, but coach on the
to do that." 
we need the staff, though coaches to be meeting the 
Janusz Bednarski 
able to do NCAA limit of that." Irish coach four may take 
While Notre time. Dame may Still, he said, have filled the with the new talent gap with the recruits and current fencers, approaching departures of he believes Notre Dame 
its signature seniors and remains atop the nation for Olympic champion, another fencing programs. void remains. The Irish have 
only two coaches Contact Ken Fowler at Bednarski and assistant Gia kfowler 1 @nd.edu 





TONIGHT AT 9:00 PM 
LAFORTUNE 8ALLR 0 0 M 
Free movie. Free hot chocolate. Killer eli ate. 



This word 
is war overpriced. 
country {China] cQ:uld ht.! te• Government PJOVided with ·a. · ·~the foreigners pen, while ank:nl}}tcy pure and s~e. :itl'd 1rl)aru•:, the' Customs Rev~ year e;xce$ied all recorl$ l)y sanctittned by the Washin~n m .·reven1w·' tn· Hquidlitte the whole 
·. ·· ·.. ·wV¢$fiew~, ie~th.e rml rm~, ·the ~etnment. 111\tt: btft· WI·• •tlncl: a C~enmient fn 

If you didn't buy your textbooks at Half.com, you paid too much. Half.com has all the textbooks you need like chemistry, astronomy and history for a lot less. 


I,----------------,I 
: FOR ALIMITED TIME, : SAVE AN ADDITIONAL $5 ON PURCHASES OF $50 
I 

OR MORE: SIMPLY USE THIS CODE: SAVEBIGNOW
, ________________, 



fcom· 

by 
•$5 off promotian upen tu legal U.S. residents 18 years of age or nldar whn are first-time buyers on Half.com. $5 of! promnlinn good lor first-time purchase of $50 or more, oxcluding •hipping aml handling. nrr Half.onm only. limit one offer per user IU, and offer may not be combined with any otller offer, coupon or promotion. Void where prohihrterl. taxed or restrlcted. Offer expires February 28. 2fi01 at 1t5~:59pm PT. 



page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, January 18, 2006 
Break 
continued from page 20 
"I think we looked at that game and really learned a lot from that game," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I think the thing I was most impressed with this team is the resiliency, their abili­ty to bounce back. They don't dwell on losses." 
The Irish were able to shave off an 11-point second half deficit in order to win 67-58 against the Boilermakers Dec. 6. 
"I think to beat Purdue was a huge win for us, a great win for the NCAA Tournament," McGraw sq.id. "It was really important for our confidence." 
Notre Dame's two captains ­junior guard Tulyah Gaines (20 points, five assists) and senior guard Breonna Gray (22 points, two assists) -helped will the team to victory, scoring almost two-thirds of the team's total

' 
I. I points. ~ One of the keys to the Irish's I success in stopping the 
Boilermakers, especially in the second half, was their effective 1-3-1 zone. 
A strong 14-4 second half run by the Irish, capped off by a strong inside shot made by Gaines, brought the Irish to with­in one at 45-44. With three min­utes to play in the second half, Gray made a three-peinter to put Notre Dame ahead for the first time in the game at 53-52. 
Sloppy play by the Boilermakers, including shot clock violations and late turnovers, helped extend the Irish lead in the second half. 
Using momentum from Purdue, the Irish were able to cruise past IUPUI on Dec. 16 75­65 before a showdown at Valparaiso Dec. 19. Notre Dame used a similar strategy against the Crusaders as they had already done against Michigan Dec. 1 -stay close the length of the game and nail free throws late. 
"We always play poorly up there [in Valparaiso]," McGraw said. "I knew it was going to be a close game -I didn't know it was going to be a one-point game." 
The Irish led by three with 26 seconds left when Crusader for­ward Becky Rietema sank a layup whiled being fouled by Irish guard Charel Allen. Rietema made the free throw to tie the score. 
The Irish held onto the ball until almost the end of regula­tion, when Gray was fouled with 
1.2 seconds remaining. 
Gray sank the first of her two free throws to give the Irish a 60­59 lead, one they would hold onto in the final second to win. 
For McGraw, this game was crucial because it helped set the tone for the tough upcoming matches her team would have to face. 
"It was just really good to win that game because I think we were thinking about going home, it was the last game before break, and there was a lot going on," she said. 
Following the big win against Valparaiso, the Irish finished their four game win streak with an easy 94-55 win over Prairie View A&M Dec. 28 before head­ing south to face Tennessee in Knoxville. 

Tennessee 
The Irish entered the Thompson-Boling Arena riding a four-game win streak, but left with a 78-54 loss to the No. 4 Lady Volunteers to extend their overall record to 0-18 against Tennessee Dec 30. 
For both teams, it was their final game before heading into conference play. For the Lady Vols, they were playing an unranked Irish team that would help fme tune their game before heading into SEC play. But for McGraw and the Irish, this game was crucial in establishing where they stood as a team and how well they could expect to per­form in the Big East. 

"It's kind of a barometer of where you are and how things look for the NCAA Tournament," McGraw said. 
In the first half, the Irish were able to hang tough against the Lady Vols, trailing by no more than eight the entire half. Moreover, the Irish went on an 8­2 run to fmish the half down only 29-27. 
"We played really well in the first half of the Tennessee game and made them played bad,"· McGraw said. "I think the defense did a lot of good things." 
Even though Notre Dame con­tinued to hustle throughout the second half, they were no match for the overpow­ering Tennessee lineup, who had three players in 
their starting five  "We fee/like we're off  down the Irish  
with double-fig­ures in scoring Sidney Spencer (17  to a great start. We're playing well, we're confident. It's nice to  early, scoring the game's first five points and maintaining the  
points), Candace Parker (22 points) and  see us in the top part ofthe conference."  lead for the first six minutes of the game. But a  
Shannon Bobbitt  Gaines  layup  
(17 points).  Muffett McGraw  gave the Irish  
Tennessee's  Irish coach  the  lead  with  
lead slowly grew  12:46 remain- 
in  the  second  ing,  and  they  
half, but the Irish  never  looked  
never gave up ­ back. Cincinnati  

made evident by their 13-2 run would trail by as many as 19 in to finish off the game. The final the second half. score was even more important The first real test for the Irish in showing Notre Dame's effort came in their fmal game during as Tennessee led by as many as break on the road against South 34 with less than five minutes Florida Jan. 13. remaining in the game. The Irish struggled throughout 
McGraw credited her team's the game, committing a season­resilience as a constant factor in high 33 personal fouls against their successes this season, espe­the Bulls, sending them to the cially against the Lady Vols. line an Irish-opponent record 45 
"That's really been the most times en route to an 87-78 USF impressive thing about this win in overtime. group is that they're just ready to "We had three people foul out move on," she and four people said. "We never with four fouls, have to try to get so it was a hard them to practice game for us,"
"I think Purdue was

hard. They're just McGraw said. ready. Their a huge win for us, a "But to take it intensity and their great win for the into overtime work ethic -they when they beat
NCAA

bring it every us here last year day." Tournament." was big." The main rea-Freshman cen­son McGraw ter Erica

Muffett McGraw 

wanted her team Williamson led

Irish coach

to play in Knoxville in front of a sell-out crowd of over 19,000 was for the experience for later against Big East foes. 
"We need to know how to play when we go to Connecticut and when we go to some tough places in the Big East on the road," she said "It prepares us for that." 

The Big East 
Notre Dame opened its confer­ence play with strong wins over Seton Hall and Cincinnati before losing at USF in overtime. 
The first game against Seton Hall Jan. 2 was important for the Irish in establishing itself as an NCAA Tournament team. The 64-61 victory showcased Notre Dame's ability to win close games down the stretch, in addi­tion to providing a quality con­ference win on the road. 
"We went to Seton Hall and that we knew was going to be a tough game because they beat us last year." McGraw said. "Seton Hall plays really well at home and that was a must-win game 
the Irish effort 
against USF, tal­
lying the first 
double-double of her career with 10 points and a Notre Dame freshman record 18 rebounds. Another Irish fresh­man -guard Melissa Lechlitner -was also integral for the Irish, totaling 11 points and four assists in the loss. Most impor­tantly for Lechlitner, three of her 11 points game at the end of reg­ulation, when she sank a shot from beyond the arc to send the game into overtime. 
Despite the loss, Notre Dame has still started strong in its Big East schedule with a 3-1 record including Tuesday's win over St. John's. 
"Last year we started 0-2 and two games we should have won. This year we've taken care of beating the team's we're sup­posed to beat," McGraw said. "We feel like we're oJI to a great start. We're playing well, we're confident. It's nice to see us in the top part of the conference." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
for us. So I was really pleased to come out of there with a win." 
The Irish were unable to put the Pirates away, despite leading for most of the second half. The one time the Irish did fall behind in the second half, they were a:ble to go on an 8-2 run to reestablish their lead. Allen led the Irish in scoring with 16 points and 10 rebounds for the first double-double of her career. 
Late free throws by Gray cemented the Irish victory, giving them a three point lead with only seconds remaining. Despite a late layup by forward Beta Korpivaara to cut the lead to three, the Irish were able to hang onto their first conference win. 
. After topping Seton Hall, the Irish returned to the Joyce Center to face off against Cincinnati Jan. 10, easily win­ning by a final score of 81-70. Against the Bearcats, the offen­sive spark came from Gaines, who scored 27 points and notched five assists while leading 
Notre Dame's 
offense. 
Cincinnati was 
able to shut 



[}irs/ Oriyinaf Jfzza in ?011mI Since 19St 
Speci~lizing in lt?lian Entrees 
Tues.· Thurs.: 5:00PM· t1 :00 ?M fri. • Stlt.: 5:00PM· 1:00AM 531 North St louis • Sour1 Bend, !N 574-233·2464 

Sample fares From South Bend to:  Sample fares From Chicago to:  
Chicago  $151  Madrid  $258  
Minneapolis  $151  Rome  $304  




Thursday, January 18, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLf) 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


BLAcK DoG 

LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

CROSSWORD 
1 Sounds in a 32 Semidry 57 Bird with a coffee ad American white harsh cry wine
4 Sight in a coffee 58 Bridge site ad 33 Run up_ 
59 "Makes sense, 7 Clothe 34 Afio nuevo time doesn't it?" 
10 Hindu V.I.P. 36 Brand with a 60 AOL alternative giant target in
12 Gross unit 61 Literary inits.
its logo14 Proceed with 
37 Mingledifficulty DOWN

(through) 39 Louts 1 Some show
15 Maintain 41 Where to find horses
Rosa Parks

16 Remorseful 
Boulevard 2 Montana 17 Something to 
college town
42 Life know it

click named after a 
43 Deck officer

18 Studs French port 44 Debark
20 Snub 3 Say derisively 48 Hedy of
22 Addresses for 4 Soup or salad 
"Ecstasy," 1933

churches 5 Fearsome 
51 Tail

23 "And she shall weapons bring forth _ 52 Hospital 
6 Slammer... ":Matthew administration? 
7 Kind of shell
24 "Anyone _?" 53 Spinachlike plant aEffluvium
25 Like orchard trees 55 Pot over a fire 9 lntron and exon site 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Play down? 
12 Dummy up? 13 Line up? 
19 Hand (out) 21 Joint problem 23 Way out there 
26 Huey, Dewey and Louie, e.g. 
27 Prefix with spore 
28 Honor society no-nos 
29 Put into words 
WILLSHORTZ 


-'-+~::...f-':..j 14 Bear down? 

30  Reader  38 Arena sound  48 Some jeans  
(eclectic magazine) 31 Detective Houston  40 Dumbstruck 42 Depth charge, slangily  49 Supporting shaft 50 32-Down  
32 Census category 35 "In the Still of  45 One hardly giving a hoot? 46 Brings down  option 51 Small fluid holders  
the  47 Part of a  
(Boyz II Men hit)  bowling game  54 Run into hard  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

n-t.tT SCRAMSL£tl WORD QAMF; 
lb,-Hunol i....mdlllnd ~ ~idnn


~'i[g{h~ 
Un®cr.:;.mom WNJ$il trMr AJm~l:l, if!fliet'~Gr 11> !WI(;tl ~H~. !.oloun bur Ndinary .,.f'Jith:.. 


I t~E(l! I 
::K~·f;«.i:t'"lj~:~ Mf:~li ~~:~18:W'*"~ .. ~~-f:-­1.~. Hijf•t.• ~~f(""ii 

I () 

Ho·~>,( H~ ?AJD FOR THZ ~EZ.EiR 

f\a,1',11 arr;1r<g~ 111~ clrt:kK! lirtlflfl) 1D ~M Ill€' sw-p#S& 311!WffM. -9!! !rn!J!Y-'S".ed ~ th~ at'ttlYe ear!Ct.YI. 
Answertt.re.7 ~~[III.)'~ (III] 

t)i.nS'<~~-ers tolfltlf!1JW) EXUDE AMiTY MUFF~k OiJEAOO 'lihm ~ r:t~ plill'fi>J' ~M:~rti.~ f;<f'l ­"· ~MO'IEMENT 





trrr b , 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kid Rock, 35; Jim Carrey, 44; Susanna 
Hoffs, 47; Maury Povich, 67 

Happy Birthday: It's what you do for others that will carry you along this year. You can make incredible gains if you are giving, helpful and resourceful. This is a great year to invest wisely. An older person in your life may cause worry but giving your time, knowledge and assistance will reap rewards. Your numbers 
are 7, 12, 19, 22, 35, 40 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may have to prove yourself today. Don't 
take chances or assume anyone knows who you are or what you can do. Money 
can be made and a good position obtained but not without your undivided attention. *** 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Gear up, get ready and put on the big push today. You have everything going for you if you are honest and keep a close watch over anyone you feel may be stringing you along. Leave nothing to chance. 
***** 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can expect to feel a little left out today. So 
much will be going on but it will be difficult for you to get a piece of it Don't 
think so much about what everyone else has. Consider your own attributes** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will look at things differently today and that 
is a good thing. Don't back away from something because it appears to be too 
complicated. Now is the precise time to ferret through the debris and come out 
with a treasure. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You've been so serious lately. Put that side of you to 
work and you will prosper. Today is the perfect time to promote what you want 
to do. Don't let anything or anyone upset you. * * * 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Love, money, fame and taking a creative step into 
the future are possible today. You will discover something or someone who will 
grab your interest You should mix business with pleasure ifat all possible.*** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will do much better dealing with acquaintances 
rather than with those close to you. A problem with your home or personal life 
appears to be pressing. You can move forward with a financial deal but do check 
the fine print. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Form alliances or talk matters over with people 
you want to do things with in the future. A partnership is looking good but set up rules and boundaries. Change will be necessary but also very good for you. 
**** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Seal a deal or advance your position. Discussing your plans with the people you feel will play a role in what you do 
should be your top priority. Being knowledgeable and informative will do the trick. ** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Make a move and know that it is your time 
to excel. Don't hold back, waiting to see what everyone else is going to do. Set 
the standard and you will be a strong, prosperous leader. ***** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb, 18): It's time to weed out a few of the things that 
are taking up space but not benefiting you in any way. It can be very liberating 
and can help someone who can use those things for which you no longer have a use.*** 
·PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emotional ups and downs will leave you confused .. 
today. Try not to read something into what's being discussed. Keep things simple and you will stand a much better chance with both money matters and 
relationships.*** Birthday Baby: You have a strong will power and a very firm set of rules that 
you live by. You are persistent, loyal and quick to try to convert others to see 
things your way. 

Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fon, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 



THE OBSERVER 



PORTS
Thursday, January 18, 2007 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish fall to 3-2 in Big East with road loss at Villanova 102-86 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Fifty-seven percent field goal shooting, 102 points and two players scoring 20-plus were recipe for defeat in Notre Dame's road contest against Villanova Wednesday. 
A Wildcats offensive explo­sion handed the Irish their sec­ond conference loss, 102-86 in front of a rowdy sell out crowd at The Pavilion in Philadelphia. 
Villanova (12-5, 2-3 Big East) scored the most points of any Irish opponent this year. The previous high the Irish allowed was the 87 scored by Lehigh Nov. 27. 
"They made some big shots 
see WILDCATS/page 16 


Catnipped 

McAlarney could expunge drug charges by entering program 
By BOB GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
Weeks following Notre Dame guard Kyle McAlarney's arrest on marijuana possession charges, questions concerning legal ramifications and the sophomore's future with the team and the University are slowly being answered. 
McAlarney will enter the St. Josesph's County pretrial diver­sion program -not uncommon for related incidents regarding underage drinking and drug possession -which will poten­tially allow him to have the charges expunged from his record. 
McAlarney must undergo mul­
see PROGRAM/page 16 
FENCING 

Coach inks four recruits to replace seniors 
2008 Olympics, Bednarski graduate this spring -along be going to Notre Dame," On the men's side, Zuck is 
By KEN FOWLER 

signed four coveted fencers with All-American Matt Hassett said in a statement No. 11 on the American Sports Editor 
in the discipline to national Stearns -and Zagunis will issued by the Notre Dame under-20 list. 
letters of intent. leave the team next season athletics department on The fourth signee was 
Notre Dame head coach Three of the newcomers -as she trains to defend her und.com. "I was extremely Barron Nydam of Hancho Janusz Bednarski knows the Avery Zuck, Sarah Borrmann Olympic gold medal. impressed with the campus Santa Fe, Calif., who enters cost of success for the Irish is and Eileen Hassett -are Both Borrmann and Hassett and the students during my Notre Dame ranked No. 35 in steep. He also knows how to from the same area in are in the USFA's current visit last September.... I'm the senior USFA standings. minimize that cost. Oregon as senior sabres women's sabre top-12, with really looking forward' to For Bednarski, pulling in a 
As Notre Dame loses its Valerie Providenza and Hassett owning eighth in the fencing under · coach strong class was important. four top sabres next season Patrick Ghattas and junior rankings and Borrmann at Bednarski and being part of He said recruiting in the to graduation and national sabre Marie! Zagunis. No. 12. a great collegiate fencing teams in preparation for the Providenza and Ghattas will "I am absolutely thrilled to squad." see RECRUITS/page 17 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Strong road victories 
dictate productivebreak 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
While most Notre Dame stu­dents went home for winter break, the Irish continued their season,· winning six of eight games -including road victories at Valparaiso and Seton Hall. 
Notre Dame finished its non­conference schedule in style, going on a four-game winning streak before falling to No. 4 Tennessee in Knoxville 78-54. The Irish carried their quality play from their non-conference schedule into early matchups 
Nfl 
LLI 
c.,:) San Diego 

z Marty Schottenheimer will remain with the
::5

= Chargers despite their disappointing playoff
cc 

loss to the Patriots. 
!i page 14 
en 
against Big East opponents, starting off 3-1 against confer­ence foes, including an 83-65 win over St. John's Tuesday night. 
NoiH:onference play 
Going into the break, Notre Dame was coming off a tough home loss to in-state rival Indiana in front of one of the biggest crowds in Joyce Center history. But the Irish were able to regroup and recover in order to prepare for their next game against Pl-lrdue Dec. 6. 
coach 
see BREAK/page 18 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Australian Open 
Akiko Morigami falls to Kim Clijsters in the second round 6-3, 6-0. 
page 14 SMC BASKETBALL 




Belles lose overtime thriller 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
In a game decided in the final minute of overtime, one foul made all the differ­ence. 
The Albion Britons defeat­ed Saint Mary's 71-68 Wednesday. A 62-62 tie at the end of regulation forced the extra period. 
The Belles led 59-58 with 43 seconds left in regulation when junior guard Alison Kessler hit a three-pointer to stretch the lead to four. Albion senior guard Jessica 
see BELLES/page 16 


NBA 
The Pacers and the Warriors complete an eight player trade that sees former Irish hoop­ster Troy Murphy dealt to Indiana. 
page 13 

MUs 
Former Cubs slugger Sammy So sa signs minor league deal with the Texas Rangers. 
page 13 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
North Carolina 77 Clemson 55 
The Tar Heels rebound after their loss to Virginia Tech by defeating the Tigers. 
page 12 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
LSU 62 Mississippi 55 
The Tigers improve to 2-1 in the SEC with win over the Rebels. 
page 12 







