~---------------­
-

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 1 TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 11,2007 
Students, officials will celebrate Moreau 
Founder of the Congregation of the Holy Cross to be beatified in Le Mans, France 
By JOSEPH McMAHON News Wrirer 
One hundred seventy years after Father Basil Moreau found­nd the Congregation of lloly Cross in Le Mans. France, Notre Dame students. l'aeulty and administra­tors will travel to the site to cele­brate his beatification for three days ol' ceremonies to celebrate Mornau's life, beginning Friday. 
Father Hichard Warner, direc­tor of campus ministry at Notre Dame, described the importance of the beatification for the Notre Dame community. 
"For all of us, it is a very special moment," he said. "He was a great educator, and during our time as priests and brothers we have been educators." 
Warner is a member of the offi­cial party that will be closely involved in the weekend's festivi­ties. The official party consists of 800 people -15 from each Holy Cross province across the globe, as well as administrators from each of the Holy Cross schools and all the Holy Cross bishops. 
In addition to Warner, Notre Dame's delegation will include University President Father John Jenkins; Richard C. Notebaert, chair of the University's Board of Trustees; Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves; Associate Vice President Father James E. McDonald; Provost Thomas G. Burish; John Cavadini, the director of the Institute for Church Life; and Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman. 
In addition to the official group, 65 Notre Dame students studying in Europe -mainly in Angers, 
see MOREAU/page 3 

ROTC program bucks national trend 
Applicants for L[niversity's divisions remain high despite ongoing violence in Iraq 
education through military schol­arships is the ultimate dealmak­er. 
Army on pace 
Capt. Sean Straus, in charge of the Army ROTC's recruiting operations at Notre Dame, said he expects to have as many as 30 freshmen enrolled in the pro­gram by the end of the 2007-08 academic year. 
Currently, he said, there are only 24 new recruits at Notre Dame, but more should arrive next semester-putting the class of 2011 on the higher end of the program's averages. 
Straus said since 2001, the Army ROTC program has wel­comed between 20 and 25 new recruits out of more than 200 applicants each year. 
"The admissions standards at 
see ROTC/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Cell phone reception inconsistent 
College wants student response to fix problem 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
After cutting ol'f service to all dorm phones this sum­mer, Saint Mary's is respond­ing to student complaints that cell phone service is unavailable in their rooms. 
Students were required to disclose their cell numbers during room picks last spring, though they could opt out from having their num­ber listed on the directory. 
Information Technology has requested student participa­tion in a PRISM survey designed to locate problem areas, said Sandy Handley, telecommunications coordi­nator. 
"At this point, the objective is to define the areas that there are problems in," she said. "We need to know where the difficulties lie for every carrier.... We are look­ing at all the options." 
No solution will be attempted until student input arrives, so students are encouraged to participate, she said. 
"We understand the difl'i­culties that students are hav­ing with Lcell phone] service, and we would like to resolve those problems as quickly as possible," she said. 
Students seemed generally receptive to the new policy, 
see PHONES/page 4 


NBC, FIT team up for ND conunercial contest 
By PUJA PARIKH 
News Writer 
For the first time, NBC will air a Notre Dame commercial created and directed entirely by a University student. 
Students ean enter the contest through the the Film, Television and Theatre department, which is working collaboratively with NBC. The proposed spots, which are 30 seconds long, are due Friday. 
Three scripts will be chosen, greenlighted for production and posted on nbcsports.com -where fans will be able to vote on them and decide the final winner. 
Karen Heisler, supervisor of the FTT internship program, is one of the faculty members who will review the films. 
"This is a popular concept these days," Heisler said. "Go back to the Superbowl Doritos commercial and you see a lot of organizations doing these things. Video is accessible to everyone these days, and everyone has a camera or an editing pro­gram on hi.:; or her computer. 
"Everyone is into making movies and videos." 
This is the first time NBC and FTT have worked together in order to sponsor a student-made commercial. 
"NBC's idea is to target the 18-to­24 year old demographic," Hei.:;ler said. "They are trying to drive peo­ple to their Web site ... and make it more interactive to get students and other people to their web site." 
Heisler and NBC Sports decided 
see NBC/page 4 By MARCELA BERRIOS 


•Associate News Editor 

Across the United States, as the war in Iraq continues and the country mourns on the sixth anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, college ROTC programs are scrambling to attract incom­ing students. 
At Notre Dame, however, ROTC programs have received steady rates of applications -generally surpassing national averages since before the war began. 
Students who consider joining a ROTC program must weigh tuition benefits and an accelerat­ed career start with likely deployment after graduation. For some Notre Dame students, a sense of duty sounds stronger than any fear of serving over­seas. For others, the chance to make affordable a Notre Dame 
Writers say art transcends all 
Nobel Prize winner, New York native discuss homeland, heartland 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer  
Two famous writflrs  - one  
an  au thor  raised  in  the  
Dominican  Hepublic,  the  

other an artist who was born in China -came together Monday to discuss the ways in which creative expressions can transcend cultural bound­aries and other borders. 
The "Betwelln llorueland and Heartland" literary and arts event featured author Julia Alvarez and artist Gao Xingjian Monday in McKenna Hall. The presentation kicked off a !'our-day celebration of the arts that will explore the concept of home and identity. 
see CULTURE/page 4 


---------------------------------------~-------~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Pardon 111e if I svveat 
It's 10 o'dock on a Thursday which ean only mean mw thing: I am getting dressed and n~ady to go to Fever. What's my higg~~st wmry at the monwnt'! Will Jesus Cab be avail­able'! No. Do I have enough money to take a twenty out of tlw ATM'? No. Will nverymw be 
Kelly Higgins 

able to son tho 
buckets of swoat I 
am inevitably Associate 
going to leave on Photo Editor 
this shirt.'! Yes. As 
a rule, I will most 
likely choose something white or 
black; those garments mask the wet 
spots tho host. 
Since I hogan going to dances in 
middle school. I have boen strategi­
cally been choosing my clothing 
basod on how badly I antieipate my 
sweat to hn. I gauge my choice on a 
row factors: temperature outsid!~. 
number of poopl1~. amount of dancing 
I plan on doing, and dogree of dark­
ness. From my experience with my 
frionds, tlwse are not eonsidnrations 
that all girls must make on a regular 
basis. 
Bocause this fall has benn unusual­
ly warm, I have not had a reprieve 
from my bouts with sw1mtinnss. 
Although I must say it is comforting 
to look around the Backer at 1 :30 and 
realize 1woryorw is as sweaty as I am, 
that d1H~s not always make up for my 
discomlin·t at. the fad that I have 
been this swPaty since I got thern at 
11 . I>on 't g1•t me wrong, I am not orw of thos1~ people who is sweating next to you sitting in class. I am a motion sweater. The instant I start in on that elliptical or I start shaking it on the dancn lloor it starts. First it is my back. tlwn my dwst. face, and neck. I know I am ollidally out of control wlwn my thighs join tlw party. Now I know what you arn thinking and no. I am not an overwPight man. I am just a little lady with a big problem. 
Just last wonk, I must have apolo­gized at least six times for being so sweaty. I was even om~red a friends shirt to wipe tlw beads from my brow. Those interactions are most likely to happm1 wlwn I have stopped dancing. Somehow my sweat snnms morn prornirwnt while I am standing in line for thn bathroom. at the bar, or out­side cooling ofT (maybe it is just that on the dam~e lloor I am too lost in the moment to notice). No matter what, if you happen to brush up against me at one of tlwsn locations I reitnrat!~ what I have stat1~d above: pardon me if I sweat on you. 
I have come to terms with the increasnd activity of my sweat glands and I will obviously hn the first to joke about it. By now, my friends havn eonw to aecPpt it~ although I am sure they arn all looking forward to the wnather eooling oil' so they don't have to be snPn with the sweaty girl mud1 longer. What I would like is for nvnryonn to aecept those of us who aro swnaty; it is probably not 1wnn our fault. Blame our pan-mts and the genes thny passed down. We arn normal peopln who just happen to get a little hotter than you. When you see me on the dance floor remember: I am not gross, I am glistnning, and please, dear a spot of us by the fan. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kelly 1/iggins at khiggiO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and. strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mista~s. Ifwe have made a misrake, please contacr us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 11, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD BE YOUR IDEAL NOTRE DAME TELEVISION COMMERCIAL? 






Adam Carlson Chris Vanderhurst Emily Lyons John Mrugala Kate Zinsmeister Mary Frances Popit 
sophomore junior sophomore senior sophomore juniorDillon 
Knott Pangborn O'Neill McGlinn Welsh Family "Nudity." "Father Jenkins "It would show "Touchdown "Thurty seconds "Everyone in 
doing a keg  the closeness  Jesus and First  
stand."  and uniqueness  Down Moses  
ofthe different  doing pushups  
dorms, like at  in the stadium  
the pep rallies. "  with the  
student  
section. "  

Accused mugger licks woman's toes 
ST. PAUL, Minn. ~ Police said a man who robbed a woman of her keys and cell phone then took orr her shoes and licked her toes. 
Commander Kevin Casper said the attack was "weird sexual b11havior." 
The 24-year-old woman was leaving work around 1 
a.m. Saturday when the 27­year-old man approached her and demanded her keys and phone. After that he removed her shoes. 
Police say the woman was not hurt. Police arrested the man a few minutes later about 
four blocks away. The woman identified the sus­pect and police were able to recover her keys and phone. 
The man is in custody and has not yet been formally charged. 
Teen's yearbook photo banned for flower 
MERRIMACK, N.ll. ~A New Hampshire teenager's yearbook photo has been rejected, because she's holding a flower. Merrimack High School student Melissa Morin's senior photograph featured her and a small red flower. School officials, however, said the picture is not going to make it in the yearbook because props aren't allowed. 
In the photo, Morin, 17, who loves acting, is sitting on a costume trunk back­stage at the Palace Theatre in Manchester. She wore a black and white sundress and clutched the !lower. 
The policy stemmed from a 2005 controversy in Londonderry, where a stu­dent posed with his gun. A judge ruled in favor of the school, but Merrimack offi­cials said they didn't want to face similar seuffies. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

_, 
<C 
(,) 



0 
..... HIGH 75 HIGH 71 
LOW 64 LOW 49 

HIGH LOW 


ofBrady  the student  
Quinn. "  body wearing  
Jimmy Clausen  
jerseys. "  

IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame Peace Fellowship will host a candle­light prayer service of solidar­ity on Tuesday at S p.m. in front of Stonehenge at the Fieldhouse Mall. Prayers will be offered for the victims of the 9/11 attacks and their families, as well as for anyone affected by events in the Middle East. 
There will be a student mixer Tuesday nvening at 6::H) p.m. for nntrnprnneurial­minded students at Legends. The mixer will eombine short speeches, information tables from the Gigot Center for Entn~preneurial Studies, MBA Club and the Four Horsemen Club. 
Thnre will be a staged per­miern performance of "Ballade Nocturne" by play­wright Gao Xingjian Wednesday at 3:45 p.m. in McKenna Hall. The event is free and open to the public. 
The English I>npartment and Career Placement will present English Career Night for all Arts & Letters majors Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Notre Dame alumni and representa­tives from several carenrs will be available to answer ques­tions. 
Actors from the London Stage will present "Macbeth" at 7:30 on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday at Washington Hall. Tickets can be purchased by calling (574) 631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH LOW 


IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 

Near to Hayes-Healy Hall, a grounds maintenance worker reaches from a cherry picker to prune the trees. The cherry picker is also known as a boom lift or, rarely, as a hydraladder. It was invented for use in orchards -though not just cherry orchards. 
OFFBEAT 
Atlanta 89 I 71 Boston 71 I 63 Chicago 73 I 55 Denver 78 I 42 Houston 91 I 75 Los Angeles 84 I 63 Minneapolis 68 I 51 New York 77 I 70 Philadelphia 82 I 69 Phoenix 107 I 84 Seattle 84 I 56 St. Louis 78 I 62 Tampa 88 I 75 Washington 82 I 69 
Tuesday, September 11 , 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOG 
Group looks at funding 
Co-sponsorships discussed at weekly Board ofGovernance meeting 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY News Wrirer 
Discussion among Board of Governance (BOG) members Monday night on Saint Mary's campus focused on co-spon­sorship -the requests for funding from clubs or societies on campus. 
The second proposal for funding was for a trip to El Salvador for the organization Christians for Peace in El Salvador. 
The proposal was presented by Kimmy Case and Colette Zavala, representatives of a group of nine Saint Mary's students and two faculty members 
Chrissy "{The forum] creates a who hope to Homo, eo­make the
venue for the student body 
president of trip during
to address questions or
La Fuerza, fall break. s p o k e concerns they may have in W e about the would focus
order for our students to 
group's on the poli­
discuss the hot topics 
hope to tics of El bring the around campus.,, Salvador, salsa band and meet Orqunsta with politi­
Kim Hodges

Caribe to cians.
student IJody president

S a i n t church 
Mary's on Sept. 27. 
The event would be lwld in recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from Sept. 15 to Oct. 1 5. The group aims to bring awareness of Latina eulturn to campus. 
"I believe it will try to diver­sify but also educate the stu­dent body," Romo said. 
Students from Notre Dame and lloly Cross would also be invitml to attend. 
leaders and social activists 
while there," Case said. 
The trip is part of the social work program at Saint Mary's. Upon their return, the students would present their findings at the spring social work luncheon. 
In other BOG news: 
+ The BOG will hold forums every other week in the din­ing hall under the theme "Food for Thought." Student body president Kim Hodges spoke about the purpose of the group. 
"[The forum! creates a venue for the student body to address questions or concerns they may have in order for our students to discuss the hot topics around campus," she said. 
This week's forum will be held Thursday, from 5 to 7 p.m., and will focus on "Booze, Bands and Boys."
+ 
Campaigning for the first-year board will begin Tuesday, elections commis­sioner Maggie Siefert said. Six groups are campaigning, and the vote will be held Sept. 17. 

+ 
A five-kilometer walk for Making Strides Against Breast Cancer will be held on Oct. 6, health and wellness commis­sioner Penelope Trethewey said. Saint Mary's is sponsor­ing a team called the Belle Brigade.

+ 
A heritage display in the Student Center will feature a display in honor of Father Basil Moreau, Campus Ministry commissioner Mary Frantz said. Exact dates for the grand opening have not been set, but fliers will be posted around campus. 


Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Moreau 
continued from page 1 
Dublin, London, Toledo and Home -will attend the beatification ceremony. 
A dinner will be held for Notre Dame students and the delegation Thursday night. On Friday, stu­denl<> will visit historic sites in Le Mans, including Notre Dame du Sainte Croix (the mother t,hurch of the Congregation of the Holy Cross), the birth­place of Moreau and the 
Holy 

''The entire town will
Cross cemetery. McCarrick, arch­Also on Friday, be filled with music bishop emeritus the ofiicial Notre and the great of the Dame delegation Archdiocese of
medieval walls will be
will attend a Washington. 
restricted service completely lit up., Students will in Notre Dame du then return to Sainte Croix their study
Richard Warner 
before meeting abroad locations, 
director of campus
with the students and the Notre 
ministry
to attend a sepa­Dame delegation 
rate service held at the Catheclrale St-Julien. 
Jenkins will then host a recep­tion for the official party and the students. Afterwards. the towns­people of Le Mans will put on a sound and light show. 
"The entire town will be filled with music and the great medieval walls will bn completely lit up," Warner said. "It will really be quite a sight, and it really shows how much respect the peo­ple of Father Moreau's town have for him." 
On Saturday, Bishop Jaques Maurice Faivre will preside over the Mass of the beatification in the Centre Antares arena, during which Cardinal Jose Saraiva Martins will read a letter from Pope Benedict XVI establishing Moreau as blessed. A five-foot painting of him will then be unfurled in front of the entire crowd, which organizers expect to number around 8,000. Subsequently, a wine and cheese reception will be held for all those in attendance, after which the students and the official party will go out to dinner in downtown Le Mans. 
The schedule of events will con­clude Sunday with a Mass of Thanksgiving at the cathedral in Le Mans by Cardinal Theodore 
will return to the 
United States. 

Celebrations will continue, how­ever, during the remainder of thn year as different groups host campus events to honor Moreau and his legacy. 
"I don't think Father Moreau ever could have expected what he started 170 years ago," McDonald said. "It really shows that you never know what your life's work will amount to. It is a great honor for Notre Dame and all those afftl­iated with the Order of the Holy Cross, and it provides us with great motivation for the future." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


What are you doing next summer? 
from May 14 to June 15,2008 

../All r.:~turning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible ../Four and one-half week study in London ../Mid session study/travel to Paris, Normandy, Belfast, or Amsterdam ../Earn 6 credit hours ../Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 
][nformation Sessions for 2008 & 2009 Programmes: 
s  '  t  '  
11:45 to 12:30 P.M.  DeBartolo 101  
or  5:00 to 6:00P.M.  DeBartolo 131  

Applications are available at 305 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.edu/,..,sumlon 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 11, 2007 



Culture 
continued from page 1 
Though Alvarez and Gao como from difTnrent cultural backgrounds and use dif'rnr­ent nwdia, they agrned during the leeturn on a eommon thorne of art. Neither lan­guagn nor eulturn nor soeion­
1: on om i c status. they said, qualify or disqualify people from tlw ability to under­stand, apprnciatn and critique art. 
!;ao. tho ;woo Nohnl Prize 
in Literature winner, was 
horn in China. lin often takes 
a philosophical approach to 
his arl. as lw dnnwnstratnd in 
his 1:ollnction on display and 
Uw Shitn MusPum. 
lin nxplairwd thn "rn-nduca­
ti on" l hat h P r IH: Pi v n d in 
China. whieh evPntually drove 
him out of tlw rountry. With 
thn 111~w nrlturn that was 
lwginning tlwrP, almost all of 
his writings wnrn destroyed 
h1~cause thPy wPre philosophi­
cal and diffnrPnt from the 
norm. 
Alvarez, though born in 
New York, lived in then war­
torn Dominiean Bepuhlie from 
thn time he was an infant 
until age 10. 
Alvarez is most famous for 
her novel, In the Time of the 
Butterflies, which uses fie­
tiona! eharaeters to describe 
what her and her family actu­
ally went through as a ehild. 
"The Mirabal sisters may be 
fietional people but the hang­
ing of Trujillo and enduring 
dictatorship were all things 
my family and I went 
through," she said. 
Each artist expressed iden­
til'ieation with a home that 
was filled with turmoil and 
despair. 
Alvarez and c;ao both over­
came fhe forms of govern­
ment they endured and still 
found love in their homeland 
and expressed it through 
tlwir art. 
"We many speak the same language but we ean still nxpcri,~Jn,en ~aeh others' homes, (,ao said. 
Remaining Schedule: 
Sept. 11 
2 p.m. -Mabel Lee, a liter­ary translator of Gao's work, will provide context to his film "Silhouette/Shadow." 
4 p.m. -Alvarez will deliv­er a lecture titled "Stories I Steer by as a Writer." 
5:15 to 6:15 p.m. -Alvarez will sign copies or her books. 

Sept. 12 
l :45 p.m. Scholars lloward Goldblatt from Notre Dame, Gilbert Fong a transla­tor of Gao's plays from the Chinese University of Hong Kong and Claire Coneeison from Tufts University will serve as panelists for a pres­entation on Gao's plays. 
:~:45 p.m. -The staged rnading and pn~miere of Gao's "Balladn Nocturne," dirneted by Coneeison. 
3:45 p.m.-Performance of scenes from selected plays of !iao, directed by Anton .Juan of Notre Damn, at the Hegis Philbin Studio Theatre in the DeBartolo C!\nter for the Performing Arts. This is a frnn but ticketed !Went. 

Sept. 13 
7 p.m.-Screening of Gao's f'ilm "La Silhouette Sinon l'Ombre" in the Annenbnrg Auditorium. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO I @saintmarys.edu 
long as they produce the aetual film themselves.
NBC 
"The student is responsible for continued from page 1 producing the entire thing ... 
from graphics. sound, musie, and on thrne finalists because they editing," Heisler said. "We're wanted to allow many students excited to see the products." the opportunity to enter, while NBC has not yet decided if the 
making  the  final commercial  
videos easily  will be aired on  
aeeessible online fi1r vot­ing. Two submi'i­ "We don't know ifwe will get five submissions or so."  television or on the Internet. "NBC will look at the quality of  
sions had been  the video and the  
received by Monday night, but Heisler  Karen Heisler FTT internship  company will make a decision on where and  
said  she  coordinator  when it will air,"  
expects more  Heisler said.  
by  the  due  lleisler said she  
datn.  welcomed contact  

"Wn don't know if wn will get from students with questions. five submissions or 50," lleislnr Shfl can be reaelwd at said. "It will be interesting to heisler.4@nd.edu or (574) 631­SP.P." 74S6. 
Students who wish to make their own video but do not have the necessary equipment are Contact Puja Parikh at allownd to use FT"r equipment so pparikh@nd.edu 


Phones 
continued from page 1 

though not all reported trouble with their serviee. 
"I get really good serviee here. actually," said Megan Griffen, a freshman who uses Verizon. 
Still, Griffen said shn plans to fill out the survey. 
"I get a lot of dropped calls." said fresh man Katin Brown, whose earrinr is Sprint Nextel. 
Brown said she had not filled out the survey but planned to soon. ' 
Information Technology is also planning to oversee the removal of remaining dorm phonns in the Il!lar future, shn said. While no phones are operational. phone snts remain in rooms in LeMans and McCandless llalls, llandley said. They will bn removed around Christmas. 
The only phones that will remain in dorms are those located in the hallways for nmergency use, she said. At least some students use the hall phones, she said, though she did not know the extent of their use. Staff will also continue to have phones in their offices. 
Pauline Kistka, a resident assistant in LeMans hall, said that she has not had any problems with the phone being in the hallway. She has not received any complaints about nighttime calls and snveral girls in her half have been using the phone. 
She does miss having thn landlinc, though. 
"I actually appreciated the room phone," slw said. "It was nice be1:ause I did­n ' t h a v e to u s e m y c 1d I phone." 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO I @saintmarys.edu 
•.. .··':.r 
·:",:... 


If you like free, you'lllove U.S. Cellular'!" 
That'& because we'll give you a brand new 
Samsung a870 phone. for·tree: not to 
mention FREE. ltteomfhg lext & Pix on all 
plans plus FREE Incoming Calls on select plans. 
Yes, free. Honest!}. That's because, at U.S. Cellular, 
we. respect you and your hard·eamed money. 
U.S. Cellular is wireless where yp.u matttl'lr moat."'" 
-(<:.USCellular 

fimiD 
getusc.com 1·888·BUY·USCC 
$5999/month National Plan 
• 
900 Anytime Minutes 

• 
Unlimited Night and Weekend Minutes (starting at 1 p.m.) 


• With $60 mail·in reba1B & $9.1l5 Unltmited •syedge"' aa:e. pt.n. 
lllh.,._ __W~MJIII>"'"-:~ICJIII<ii~Wifll_.,_,-_,..ltlli~cdf$ml!Niondl~AIIIi,...;...,.--su~IR>..;l4'WJmi-OJt,ito&.~b~'-""'*$111>--<m•'-'·$;115_._ ~h ~~'11'~•'->IOIII~QY.~~ ll!ldlta.tU11P!I!-!MIIi·IIIIQ;I~~~if<M.~Jie;lltiil;lllillQI!I.. IMWl·~~-llilal'i11" ~~.....t-.lla&lltr;IIIQII· -~~llfl•lll•!lltotl$111tlllllllriiNllto.II!-.<Jl<,...;a.,<W!IJ!IliiUIDB.-~>QhWJJIIIilmo;-¢JlftdJIUIAII;I!IillillriiiRtctlill.lliiiEilll...,._. __~ftmm~./111""110JUJf<l!W""8Wlilllbl•~wltlon, ....,..,~IUIIIIIont)IAW'<llllilln~anaa.S....,IiJmrit,.,,.,f!>l,@lwla>lllldhnillld!Nill!llt&~--lllllldlllllntdawtfulq"''P,IFfri~WJI>m•tn·~l!llla.m;.lll'ldJoii•~Sliilw••""l<iiSltn~ llii!J/Iflllllldi~illl"",_ --iablll! I!IYrNy,.,..., J!~Nfi oaJihtQJ/11..... $H bmeJIW!IIl fl>lo ditlaiiS. ~imlll..._ io; flll.bjl"'it llo> <dlattWI'• $S:aJ nih.. notbaa· """1!1111<1di andi $1Hf1Si IIJJtilmi!N -.....··<Wit-!I'Jin II'Utml......t .......,... ..,_Jlkom lltUIII!!M-em a®IAI<nl• !toft 11111ltinum, 111! lO ~ Mill!"" 1!0!--11:1' WMM'"" Jmr l'o<llbu& ~iiQl. fl:lllteJr -cm®ot-1111'!14 S...,-·fQrr <bmoills. ll.imilltdl h""'· <tfhJn !t!!lliiQ17J 1111$ ltllfhJIIJJl ~""' 






~ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 11, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Musharraf defies national court 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan--President Gen. Pervez Musharraf defied Pakistan's Supreme Court on Monday, sending com­mandos to the airport and tossing out a bitter rival hours after he returned from exile in hopes of making a political come­back and opposing the military leader. The expulsion of Nawaz Sharif, who was ousted as an elected prime minister by Musharraf in a 1999 bloodless coup, could deepen the general's unpopularity and undermine the legitimacy of upcom­ing elections. 
Guatemalan elections down to 2 
GUATEMALA CITY -A tough-on-crime former general and a businessman who wants to solve Guatemala's problems by fighting poverty will meet in a Nov. 4 presidential runoff, according to results. Monday from a first round of elections. 
Alvaro Colom, a businessman making his third run for the presidency. had a 28 percent to 24 pereent lead over Otto Perez of the conservative Patriot Party, with 96 percent of the votes counted. 
Sunday's vote shflared away 10 other less-popular candidates, among them Nobel Laureatfl and Mayan activist Higobnrta Menchu. who got 3 percent. 
Perez has stressed the need to crack­down on crime as a way to create growth, while Colom says tlw fight against crime should start with job creation in a country where 51 percent of the population lives on less than $2 a day. 
Guatemala is Central America's most violent country and a corridor for Colombian cocainfl heading to the United States. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Mob ring prosecuted in Chicago 
CHICAGO -A federal jury found five aging men guilty Monday in a racketeering con­spiracy that involved decades of extortion, loan sharking and murder aimed at rubbing out anyone who dared stand in the way of the ruthless Chicago mob. 
The verdicts capped an extraordinary 10­week trial that laid bare some of the inner workings of The Outfit. 
The prosecution's star witness was an admitted hit man who took the stand against his own brother to spell out the allegations, crime by crime. Over 10 weeks, the jury heard about 18 killings, including the beat­ing death and cornfield burial of Tony "The Ant" Spilotro, the inspiration for Joe Pesci's character in the 1995 movie "Casino." The jury deliberated for only 20 hours. 

Hillary to return campaign funds 
WASHINGTON -Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton's presidential campaign said Monday it will return $850,000 in donations raised by Democratic fundraiser Norman Hsu, who is under federal investigation for allegedly vio­lating election laws. Clinton, D-N.Y., previ­ously had planned only to give to charity $23,000 she received from Hsu for her presi­dential and senatorial campaigns and to her political action committee, HillPac. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Man r~ceives 260 yt~ar sentence 
SOUTH BEND -A man convicted of killing four other homeless men and then dumping their bod­ies in manholes maintained his innocence and asked for the death penalty before a judge sen­tenced him to 260 years in prison. 
Randy Lee Reeder, 51, did not testify during his trial last month, but told a judge Friday that his trial was unfair. Daniel J. Sharp. who pleaded guilty in May to the deaths, testified during Heeder's trial that he and Reeder killed the four men in December. 
Petraeus recommends troop cuts 
Top general says 2,000 Marines will come home, but more cuts would be dangerous 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The top 
U.S. general in Iraq outlined plans Monday for the with­drawal of as many as 30,000 troops by next summer, drawing praise from the White House but a chilly reception from anti-war Democrats. 
Gen. David Petraeus said a 2,000-member Marine unit would return home this month without replacement in the first sizable cut since a 2003 U.S-led invasion top­pled Saddam Hussein and unleashed sectarian violence. 
Further "force reductions will continue," he told a nationally televised congres­sional hearing that was fre­quently interrupted by anti­war protesters. 
Petraeus said it would be "premature to make recom­mendations on the pace," and he recommended that President Bush wait until March 2008 to make any decisions. 
The cuts he outlined would return the U.S. foree appoxi­mately to levels in plaee when Bush ordered a buildup last winter to allow the Iraqi government time to forge a reconciliation among · feuding factions. 
Petraeus slid into the wit­ness chair at a politically piv­otal moment in a war that has claimed the lives of more than 3,700 U.S. troops in Inside the crowded con­adequate governmental Petraeus is both the archi­more than four years. The gressional hearing room, capacity, lingering sectarian tect and the commander of Pentagon reported nine Rep. Tom Lantos, the chair­mistrust and various forms last winter's change in strat­deaths on Monday. man of the House Foreign of corruption add to Iraq's egy, and private Republican 
The president invited con­Affairs Committee, told challenges." polls show him with greater gressional leaders to a meet­Petraeus his proposal As for the much-maligned public credibility that the ing Tuesday at the White amounted to only a "token Iraqi military, he said it is president. House, and is expected to withdrawal" after years of slowly gaining competence Majority Democrats make a nationwide speech war. and gradually "taking on returned from a summer on the war in the next few "What I recommended was more responsibility for their vacation determined to call days. White House press sec­a very substantial withdraw­security." for a troop withdrawal dead­retary Tony Snow said Bush al," the general replied even­Petraeus didn't say so, but line, and the administration will place a lot of weight on ly from the witness chair, his Ambassador Ryan Crocker, has been laboring to prevent his general's recommenda­uniform adorned by four the day's only other witness, wholesale Republican defec­tions. gleaming general's stars and strongly suggested that the tions. 
Snow said Bush "liked nine rows of medals. "Five administration's troop In long-awaited testimony, what he heard last week" Army brigade combat teams, buildup had prevented a the commanding general of when he was briefed on a Marine Expeditionary Unit debacle. the war said last winter's Petraeus' plans. "But he is and two Marine battalions Crocker said 2006 was a buildup in U.S. troops had commander in ehief and it represent a very significant "bad year for Iraq. The coun­met its military objectives "in will be up to him to make force." try came close to unraveling large measure." final determinations about Petraeus referred only politicall~ economically and As a result, "I believe that what he will recommend," obliquely to political .difficul­in security terms. 2007 has we will be able to reduce our the spokesman noted. ties in Iraq, saying, "Lack of brought improvement." forces to the pre-surge level." 


Officials warn of possible attacks 
are constantly revising their tactics and ticularly how to identify and track the
Associated Press adapting their strategy and their capa­nuclear materials. Chertoff also said the WASHINGTON -Weapons of mass bilities," said Homeland Security department is putting in place new 
destruction, small boats packed with Secretary Michael Chertoff. "And if we screening regulations that would explosives and Islamic radicalization stand still -or worse yet, ifwe retreat require providing information on flight are the greatest terrorist threats facing -we are going to be handing them an crews and passengers before a private
the country, top U.S. security officials advantage that we dare not see them aircraft departs from overseas bound said Monday on the eve of the sixth 
hold." for the United States. anniversary of the September 11 terror­He said the threat of a USS Cole-type The radicalization of potential new ist attacks. 
attack on U.S. ports -where a small terrorists, in the U.S. and abroad, is The officials told Congress the country 
boat packed with explosives detonates another growing concern, the intelli­is much better prepared to face terror 
in a harbor -is one of his top con­gence officials said at the hearing on the threats than it was then, but that terror­
cerns. nation's terrorism preparedness. ists' desire to attack the United States 
And while the department's goal is to FBI Director Hobert S. Mueller said remains strong -an assertion that has 
keep nuclear weapons from entering there is already a problem with radical­yet to be fully accepted by the American the country, he said it also is focusing on ization in the United States, and the public, according to a new poll. 
how it would respond should a nuclear Internet makes recruiting people to the "The enemy is not standing still. They device get through and explode -par-radical cause much easier. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September II, 2007 
Iraq completely," he said. "I did­And, like Piscal, he said his But for him and the other stu­oll'er a student full tuition at a 
n't feel that we as a country positive experiences in the pro­dents at Notre Dame that choose state school, or we can take that
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
Notre Damn wend out a lot peo­ple," he said. "It's easier to get tho IArrnyl scholarship than it is to get into Notre Dame." 
But students still try, despite tho possibility of serving amid the sectarian violence in Iraq after their college years. 
Senior !Iayden Piseal said she decided to join Army HOTC when she was a high school junior beeause tlw program would make a Notre Dame edueation all'ordable fi1r her family. 
"At first I deeided to do it bn1:ause it would pay for school, and it would bn a job right out of college that I would not have to worry about," she said. 
Piseal said she is happy with her decision to join HOTC bm:ausn she has found the lead­ership skills and sense of patriot­ism developed in the program have been rnwarding. Iter feel­ings toward the program, she said. havn moved beyond the financial perks it oll'tlrs. 
The possibility of b11ing sent to the Middle East never influenced her decision. 
"We have morn or less been told to nxpnd to dnploy within a year or two of commissioning," Piseal said. "But that has never made mn think twiee about join­ing the military." 
For senior Guy llippleheuser, the war in Iraq was a motivation to join Army HOTC at the end of his freshman year. 

"Around the time that I began thinking about HOTC, there were rumors spreading throughout the media about how our forces were spnmd thin enough to war­rant a draft or a pull-out from could allow this to happen. So I joined ROTC, hoping to fill one of the empty ranks in the military." 
Statistics show this sentiment 
is not the consensus among stu­
dents in the United States. 
In April, Time magazine reported that the non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) had announced there were only 25,100 HOTC cadets in universities nationwide in 2006 -6,000 shy of the tar­get. Representatives of the GAO also said the Army would dis­burse about $1 billion in 2007 to attract new soldiers and retain its old ones. A portion of those funds will go directly to ROTC scholarships across the country. 
"The Army in general is grow­ing," Straus said. "It's adding 60,000 soldiers and of those, a decent amount of those are going to have to be officers. So as a rnsult, they're going to turn to the ROTC more to try to meet those needs." 
A war in the Middle East requires manpower, he said, and the Army HOTC programs will oll'er full-tuition rides to students in exchange of an eight-year commitment to the military after graduation. 
Senior Bussell Fu said he switched to Army ROTC at the end of his freshman year because the program offered him more money than the Air Force HOTC did. 
"I had been part of Air Force ROTC my freshman year but vol­untarily left due to them having no more scholarships available," Fu said. "Army ROTC called me at the beginning of my sopho­more year, offering me a slot with a full scholarship, so I quiekly jumped on." 
gram have expanded his views 
about the Army beyond being a 
way to make eoJlege affordable. 
"I feel proud to give something in return to my country that has blessed me with so much free­dom," Fu said. "I feel honored to say that I defend this freedom for myself and my fellow country­men." 
Navy funding limited 
The Naval ROTC program has had limited growth because of tightening budgets. 
Todd Willebrand, deputy pub­lic affairs officer at the Naval Service Training Command (NSTC) in Great Lakes, Ill., said approximately 1,000 new schol­arships were issued to new Naval ROTC students across the nation, a 20 percent drop from the 2003 figure. 
But, he said, the war in Iraq was not responsible for that plunge, as the number of appli­cations the office received each year had actuaJly increased. The NSTC's ability to cover the expenses of all the students, however, had not. 
But Naval ROTC senior mid­shipman Dan Justice said he still believed fear of being deployed is a factor that plays into a high school student's decision to apply. 
"I can certainly sec how [Iraq] would, especially for the Marines and Army, affect kids' decision to join the military," Justice said. "I understand that concern and it's something you have to consider when you look at all the pros and cons of joining the service. 
"If it's such an important factor for you and it outweighs all the pros then the service probably isn't for you." 
that path of service, HOTC was a calling. 
Budget cuts hit Air Force 
Lt. Col. Shawn Braue of Notre Dame Air Force ROTC said he could not quantify the effect of the war in Iraq on Air Force ROTC recruiting because "there is not a mechanism in place to poll students on their reasons for not enrolling in ROTC." 
The war in Iraq, he said, may be one of a number of reasons why students choose not to enroll, though there's no way of verifying that. 
What he did eonfirm, however, is that budget cuts to Air Force HOTC programs everywhere have been bringing down the recruiting numbers annually. 
"Air Force scholarship money is less [than that of] other servic­es, and that might have a bigger impact on the numbers," Braue said. 
He said the 2007 national average of total students enrolled in any given school's Air Force ROTC program is 92, a sharp decline from the 2003 average. Since the war in Iraq began, the Air Force has seen its average ROTC program shrink from 115 members in 2004 to 95 in 2006. 
The budget cuts have affected the Notre Dame detachment, which was larger than the national average in 2003, but is now below the mean with only 83 students, Braue said. 
The budget cuts, paired with the rising costs of a Notre Dame education, he said, have made it impossible for the Air Force to offer more scholarships at the University. 
"We can take $15,000 and 
money and not even pay half of what it costs to go to Notre Dame," he said. 
More than fear of going to Iraq, he said, the current finan­cial limitations of the program were responsible for the decreases in recruiting numbers. 
Senior Tony Crosser, a member of Air Force ROTC, said the Air Force is currently cutting schol­arships for HOTC "because of a need to cut the numbers in the Air Force and increase the num­bers in the Army and Marines." 
"The cutting of scholarships is hurting enrollment in the Air Force ROTC program, but is making those who want the scholarship go to tho services that need more people," he said. 
Crosser pointed out the abun­dance of full tuition scholarships ti1r Army cadets and Marines ­who are in high demand in Iraq and are more likely to deploy after graduation -an incentive the Air Force can't afford presently. 
But as is the case with the Army, there are still students who join the program for more than the money, like junior Nathan Loyd. 
''I'll admit, the scholarship potential was very entieing," he said. "I Iowever, when I entered HOTC, I did not have a scholar­ship.... I wasn't given one until! had been in HOTC for a while, and so I developed a strong sense of purpose. I see that pur­pose in almost all of the cadets and midshipmen." 
" ... We are men and women training for a profession of arms." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at 
aberrios@nd.edu 

Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture Presents ... 


K~ng's 



A Panel Discussion of the Final Harry Potter Book 



"Harry Potter and the Cross of Christ" john o•callaghan, University of Notre Dame 
"love Bears All Things: Thomas Aquinas, Harry Potter and the Virtue of Courage" Rebecca DeYoung, Calvin College 
Reflections on the Series by Emerson Spartz, Founder of Mugglenet.com 


Wednesday, September 12 DeBartolo Hall Room 102 7:3 0 PM 


For more nforrnat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Tuesday, September 11, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 13,127.85 +14.47
Jones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,2284 65 1,002 2,396,630,975 
AMEX 2,229~28 *12.86 NASDAQ 2,559.11 -6.59 NYSE 9,457,64 -28.80 S&P 500 I ,451.70 -1.85 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,746.20 -18.77 FTSE 100 'London~ 6,134.10 -57.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.19 -0.28 145.79 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.06 -0.03 48.20 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.447 -0.12 25.35 SUN MIROSYS INC (JAVA) +0.37 +0.02 5.39 
Treas ries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.01 -0.044 4.324 13-WEEK BILL -1.78 -0.070 3.870 30-YEAR BOND -1.11 -0.052 4.641 5-YEAR NOTE -0.92 -0.037 3.983 

Comma ities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.79 77.49 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.50 712.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.10 87.10 

Exchang Rates 

YEN 113.5700 EURO 0.7251 POUND 0,4934 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0525 
IN BRIEF Wall Street suffers volatile Monday 
NEW YORK-Wall Street finished a volatile 
session mixed Monday as investors grappled 
with the possibility that the Federal Reserve 
might not lower interest rates as much as they 
hope. 
The stock market racheted up and down 
throughout the day, with Wall Street still nerv­ous after Friday's dismal employment report. The data, which showed the first monthly ·decline in jobs in four years, rekindled fears about housing and credit market weakness bleeding into the overall economy and squeez­
ing consumer spending. 
Speeches from Fed offidals Monday seemed 
to give investors a bit more reason to be opti­
mistic, but the officials avoided hinting at how 
the central bank might alter rates. 
Disney to start testling its own toys 
LOS ANGELES-Following the recall of mil­
lions of toys by Mattei Inc., The Walt Disney 
Co. said Monday it will independently test toys 
featuring its characters. 
The media and entertainment conglomerate 
will hire companies to randomly buy Disney­
branded toys from store shelves and test for 
lead paint and other safety issues such as 
small parts that could come lose, Disney con­
sumer products spokesman Gary Foster said. 
He said the ultimate responsibility for safety 
still lies with companies that license Disney 
characters for toys. 
"But Disney wants to give an added level of 
scrutiny and assurance to parents that a prod­
uct with a Disney character has gone through 
this process," Foster said. 
Disney's move comes as retailer Toys 'R' Us 
Inc. has stepped up its toy inspection efforts. 
Disney will also start requiring licensees 
such as Mattei to submit their own test results 
before allowing products to hit shelves. 
Foster said the company would be hiring 
more people in its product integrity office to 
oversee the program. 
The tests will begin in the next two weeks 
and will include all categories of products. 



Companies scrutinize health 
New added insurance charges given to obese, heart unhealthy employees 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI -First they tried nudging. Now compa­nies are penalizing workers who have high health risks such as obesity and high blood pressure or choles­terol as insurance costs climb. 
Lee Morrison, 51. doesn't mind the push, which came in the form of added insur­ance charges !'rom his employer, Western & Southern Financial Group. 
"I knew if I wanted to be healthier and pay less, it was up to me to do some­thing about it," said Morrison, who has lost 54 pounds and lowered his body mass index enough to earn refunds the past two years. 
A small number of com­panies have linked health factors to what employees pay for benefits, but the practice is expected to grow now that some feder­al rules have been final­ized, spelling out what's allowed by law. Employee advocates worry that other anti-discrimination laws such as the Americans with Disabilities Act won't cover the person who is 20 or 30 pounds overweight. 
AP

The businesses are 
Workers at the Tortilleria Chinantla factory in Brooklyn, New York. Because of hard 
deducting from employees' paychecks, adding insur­economic times, employers will begin penalizing workers like these for health risks. ance surcharges or offering the United States is esti-employees. Otherwise, will be required 'to com­insurance discounts or mated to reach $2.2 trillion wellness programs had plete an annual health risk rebates only to low-risk this year, with at least 54 been primarily voluntary, assessment and can appeal workers. percent of spending in the offering in-house fitness to have their fees dropped "Employers know they private sector, and is centers and free health if they show improvement. have to do something," said expected to nearly double screenings, for instance. "We want more people to Garry Mathiason, a senior by 2016, according to the But many employees of participate so that they can partner at the national National Coalition on Indianapolis-based Clarian take control of their employment and labor law Health Care. Health didn't use the pro-health,' Wide said. firm Littler Mendelson, A 2003-2004 National grams, hospital spokesman Some workers and based in Boston. "I believe Health and Nutrition James Wide said. employee advocates say that in just the next two Examination Survey In 2009 the company will companies are intruding in years more employers will showed about two-thirds of start reducing pay for workers' private lives. turn to penalties to change adults in the United States employees in its health The National Workrights employee behavior." were overweight and plan by $10 per paycheck if Institute says employers Mathiason said more almost one-third were their BMI -a measure-adopting the charges are than 300 companies have obese. A U.S. surgeon gen-ment of body fat through a trying to control private sought advice on creating eral's report said health height and weight ratio-behavior and amassing more aggressive wellness care costs of obesity totaled is in the obese range of huge amounts of personal programs since the firm more than $117 billion in more than 29.9. The health information. released a study in April on 2000. deduction will be $5 per "It's a backdoor approach legal issues and trends More employers have check if they don't meet to weeding out expensive associated with requiring charged higher insurance required cholesterol, blood employees," legal director healthy practices. premiums the past few pressure or blood glucose Jeremy Gruber' said for Health care spending in years for tobacco-using measurements. Workers them. 


Apple sells its millionth iPhone 
noted in a statement. dreds of early buyers who bought the 
Associated Press 

Last week, Apple knocked $200 off touch-screen gadget for top dollar. In 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Apple Inc. sold the price of the 8-gigabyte iPhone, response to all the negative reaction, its millionth iPhone over the weekend, bringing its price to $399, and discon­Jobs issued an apology the next day days after it slashed the price by a tinued the 4-gigabyte version. Apple and offered customers $100 credits. third to spur sales. spokeswoman Natalie Kerris declined Apple had said it was lowering the 
The milestone was reached weeks to comment on whether the price cut iPhone price to attract more cus­earlier than expected and sent shares helped spur sales. tomers, in time for the holiday sea­of Apple up $4.94, or 3.8 percent, to The price cut may have helped a son. $136.71. The stock regained some of hit, but Apple clearly was on track The move, which many analysts had the ground it lost after the price cut already to exceed its own expecta­predicted -but not quite so quickly spooked investors as a sign of weak tions, analysts say. -aqds pressure to Apple's rivals, but demand and slimmer margins. "I'd argue that sales have been fair­it also was possibly part of a broader 
It took just 7 4 days for the combina­ly strong, and this alleviates concerns strategy for its entire product lineup. tion cell phone-iPod to hit the 1 mil­that sales were weak,'' said Shaw Wu, On the same day Apple slashed the lion mark, which Apple ha9 said it analyst at American Technology iPhone price to $399, it unveiled a would achieve by the end of Research. new iPod, also for $399. The iPod September. By comparison, it took The swift price cut -not surprising Touch is basically the same as the two years for the company to sell 1 in the cell phone industry but rare iPhone but without the cell phone million iPods, Apple CEO Steve Jobs behavior for Apple -angered hun-capability. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September II, 2007 
--·--------===-=============================================================================================
~ 

Drug lord arrested in bust 
Montoya's leadership ofColumbian cartel put him on most-wanted list 
ance when the army finally to bring down the cartel. 
Associated Press 
cornered him in the cartel's Washington welcomed the 
BO<;OTJ\, Colombia stronghold of Valle del Cauca news. "Colombia's capture of Soldiers swarrllt~d onto a farm state in western Colombia, cocaine kingpin Diego Monday and 1~apturnd one of of'ficials said. lie is to be ques­Montoya shows what can be t.lw world's most wanted drug tioned bnfore being extradited accomplished by a govern­lords hiding in bushes in his to the U.S., a process that ment that is relentless, undPrWPar. Colombian ol'f'i­Santos said would take at focused and skilled in the cials called it thPir biggest most two months. effort to dismantle threats to drug war victory sirH~e tlw After months of planning, its democracy," said White IIJ1H slaying of MPdPllin car­elite commandos raided the House "drug czar" John P. tel leader l'ahlo 1-:scohar. small farm before dawn Walters. 
Dingo Montoya, who sits Monday and nabbed Montoya Better known as "Don with Osama bin l.adPn on the along with his mother, an Diego," Montoya is said to be 1.-Bl's 10 most-unele and in a bitter turf war with his wantPd list and three other cartel's other leader, Wilber has a $5 million cartel mem-Varela, who goes by tho nick­bounty on his "IJrug traj]ickers take bers, said name ".Jabon," or "Soap," and lwad, allPgPdly note: This is the }i1-ture the army is reported to be living in !Pads uu~ NorlP chiel', Gen. Venezuela. Hundreds have
that awaits you."
c!Pl Valle rartl'l. Mario died in fighting between thei~ It is dnPml'd Montoya, rival armed bands along Colomhi~t's most Juan Manuel Santos who is not Colombia's Paeifie coast. dang.. rous drug Columbian Defense related. A U.S. indietment unsealed gang and is The gov­in 2004 against Montoya and
Minister 
arr.usl'd of ship­ernment has Varela said that over the pm­ping hundr!'ds b1~en elosing vi()US 14 years, their cartel of tons of in on the had exported more than 1.2 corainP to thl' U.S. sinrn tlw cartel since last year, when million pounds -600 tons ­I1J9tls. soldiers killed eight members of cocaine worth more than 
()pfpnsn MinislPr .Juan of a private militia believed to $10 billion from Colombia to Mantwl Santos told a n<'WS lw protecting Montoya. But a Mexico and ultimately to the conf<'I'PIH'I' at Bogota's airport wide rwtwork of 1~artel United States for resale. that Montoya was n•sponsible informants had frustrated the Colombia's government has for I ,500 killings in his search for the alleged drug made major gains against the earner. boss h i ms n If. I.o1: a I media cartel this year. 
"Drug traJiirkPrs takP notP: hav1~ recently carried stories Montoya's brother, Eugenio This is tlw future that awaits on the eartel's allegpd infiltra­Montoya, was captured in you," Santos said IJI'forn thn tion_ of Colombia's army _and .January. Former cartel leader hPavy-sPI, 4'J-ypar-old navy. Luis Hernando Gomez Montoya limpnd out of an air Santos said the operation Bustamante, known as forTe plano wParing plastic was kept lop secn~l to avoid "Hasguno" or "Seratehy," was handrul'f's and PscortNI by leaks and was run entirely by extradited to the U.S. in July livP c~ornmandos. an elite army commando unit after pledging to cooperate 
Montoya put up no rnsist-that works with prosecutors with U.S. authorities. 
Viking burialn1ound exhlill1ed for research 
Cultural History told the

Associated Press 
Norwegian news agency NTB. 

OSLO, Norway "We hope the casket and the Archaeologists opened a Viking remains are intaet. We won't burial mound on Monday, seek­lind out until tomorrow." ing to learn more about two The casket was transported women -possibly a queen and baek to the Viking Ship Museum a princess -laid to rest there and will be opmwd under con­1,173 years ago. trolled conditions on Tuesday. 
In 1904, the mound in south­The remains will b1~ kept at the 
eastern Norway's Vestfold musnum for study. 
County surrendered orH~ of the As many as 300 JH~ople, 
country's greatest archaeologl­including schoolchildren, ·eal treasures, the Oseberg attended the grave opening. 
Viking longboat, which is now Wangen said sei!Hltists hope 
on display at the Viking Ship the remains are intact enough 
Museum in Oslo. to give more information about 
The 65-foot vessel was buried who the women were and how 
in 834 in the mHirmous mound they lived. 
as _the grave ship l'or a rirh and An earlier study ol' a few frag­
powerful Viking woman, ments of the remains that were 
according to the museum. not reburied, led by Per llolck 
The remains of the two at tlw University of Oslo, sug­women, one believed to have gested the older woman was been in her 60s and the other in thn pownful Viking <)ueen her 30s, were l'irst exhumed J\asa, while the younger orw during the ship excavation. could have been lwr daughter. They were reburied in the J\notlwr tlwory is that tlw sel:­mound in 1948 -in a modern ond woman was a slave, killed aluminum casket placed inside to aeeompany her master into a five-ton stone sarcophagus -the aftPrlife. in hopes that future sdentilk Later in the week. the archae­methods might reveal their ologists plan to reopen a second secrets. burial site, called the Gokstad 
When experts opened the sar­Mound, on the opposite sidn of cophagus Monday, it was filled the Oslo fjord. Viking-era bonn with water, although the casket fragrnt~nts wen~ n~buried therP itself may not havn been flood­in 192S, nearly 50 years after ed. tlw grave was opmwd to exca­
"We were surprised when .wn vate another Viking Ship in removed the lid ol' the sarcoph­1 SSO. That 79-foot ship, agus that it was filled with believed burind about 900, is water," project leader Vivian also on display at the Viking Wangen of the Museum of Ship Museum in Oslo. 

You Are Our Future.. Your Future Is Here. 
Employer presentation for u Tuesday, September 11r 2()07, 6:00""~~()() P: rn,tCRi'. -;­Fall Career Expo Wednesday, Septemt;:uar: 19, 200 e:OO.@:m,iiJO Re~ume sub d~C!Idlir1;; Wednesday. S~[Rt~rr!:p~r Full-time intervieW day Thursdayi :Sep~~mb~~ ?-"/;. 2QQ7 
M.S.::A Advi.sor for U·~S-'l"'r:ausact:ioa:,s Under $1. Billion 
Tuesday, September 11, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Private search begins for acclctillled aviator 
Associated Press 
MINDEN, Nevada Authorities worried Monday that a call for private volunteers to help the government search the rugged Nevada wilderness for missing aviator Steve Fossett may attract people who don't have proper training and could ulti­mately need saving themselves. 
A private search effort is being driven in part by hotel magnate Barron Hilton, who has opened the mile-long airstrip at his Flying M Ranch -the same run­
"/ am confident in his 
way Fossett took expressed con­off from a week ability to survive. " cern that partici­ago -to search pants in the planes and heli­National
Maj. Cynthia Ryan 
copters. On Championship Air

Civilian Air Patrol 
Sunday, a notice was posted on Fossett's Web site calling for pilots, helicopters and vohmteers to supplement the search. 
While the private effort has worked side by side with the gov­ernment during the eight-day hunt, offichtls said they are 
. becoming worried that the latest eall for volunteers eould bring in people who have no experience with combing the vast --and often dangerous -landscape. 
"It has not been condoned, nor is it necessarily helpful to the law enforcement community," Lyon County Undersheriff Joe Sanford said Sunday. "We don't want searchers to have to go out to look for searchers." 
On Monday, Sanford explained he was most concerned with the possibility that untrained searchers would begin conduct­ing independent ground searches 
I 


Did You Know? 

in the rugged, sparsely populated areas where Fossett is believed to be lost. Government-backed searchers also have followed false leads submitted by people looking at satellite images of the area available on the Internet, he said. 
Sanford said Monday that a lack of oversight sometimes leads to the official search effort cover­ing ground already searched by the private effort. He said the pri­vate effort was still welcome, but 
noted that it is 
"impossible to 
track." 
Officials also 
Races and Air 
Show in nearby 
Reno starting 

Wednesday could hamper the search effort. They pleaded with race participants and other pilots attending the event to stay away from the search area. 
The 63-year-old Fossett, a for­mer commodities trader who was the first to circle the globe in a balloon, was last heard from Sept. 3, when he took off from Hilton's ranch. Authorities believe he was carrying only one bottle of water, but he is considered an expert pilot and survivalist. 
"I am confident in his ability to survive this," said Civilian Air Patrol Maj. Cynthia Ryan. 
The search would continue indefinitely, she said, adding that the effort will stop when searchers have "exhausted every square inch, and we aren't even close to that." 
* 
China surpassed Mexico in 2003 as the United States' second most important supplier, behind Canada?

* 
China achieved 1'2 percent of the world economy on purchasing powE:r parity basis in 2004 (second to the United States)? 


*Between 2000 and 2005 China represented nearl.y 40% of the global growth in world demand for oil? 
The Mendoza College of Business presents 

Bin Laden to release video 
Second in a week will glorify terrorist, remember attacks ofSept. 11 
Associated Press 
CAIRO, Egypt -Osama bin Laden will appear for the second time in a week in a new video to mark the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, presenting the last will and testament of one of the suicide hijackers, al-Qaida announced Monday. 
Each year, al-Qaida has released videos of last statements by hijackers on the anniversary of the 2001 attacks, using the occasion to rally its synlpathiz­ers. 
But this year's releases under­line how bin Laden is re-emerg­ing to tout his leadership ­whether symbolic or effective ­of the jihad movement. While past anniversary videos featured old footage of bin Laden, the lat­est appears likely to include a newly made speech. 
Bin Laden had not appeared for nearly three years until a new video was released over the weekend. In that video, he addressed the American people, telling them the war in lraq is a failure and taking on a new anti­globalization rhetoric. He urged Americans to abandon capitalism and democracy and embrace Islam. 
Al-Qaida's media arm, Al­Sahab, announced the impend­ing second video Monday with an advertising banner posted on an Islamic militant Web forum where the group often posts its messages. 
The video was likely to be released within 24 hours to coin­cide with Sept. 11, said Ben Venzke, head of IntelCenter, a 
U.S. group that monitors and analyzes militant messages. 
"Coming soon, God willing, from the testaments of the mar­tyrs of the New York and Washington attacks: The testa­ment of the martyr Abu Musab Waleed al-Shehri, presented by Sheik Osama bin Laden, God preserve him," the banner read. 
Al-Shehri was one of the hijackers on American Airlines Flight 11 that crashed into the World Trade Center's north tower. 
The Web banner included a still image of bin Laden from the Qaida lieutenants. Among them were Mohammed Atef, who was later killed in a November 2001 
U.S. airstrike in Afghanistan, and Ramzi Binalshibh, who was cap­tured in 2002. 
The documentary also included the last testimonies of two Sept. 11 hijackers, Hamza al-Ghamdi and Wail al-Shehri, brother of Waleed al-Shehri. The video was accompanied by another with an address by bin Laden's deputy, 

upcoming video. Shown raising his fin­
"Coming soon, God willing, 

ger, he wears 
from the testaments of the

the same dyed-black martyrs of the New York beard and the 
and Washington Attackes: 

same clothes 
The testament of the

-white robe and round martyr Abu Musab Waleed cap and beige 
al-Shehri.' presented by 

cloak-that 
Sheik Osama bin Laden, 

he had on in the video God preserve him." posted on the Web on 

AI-Qaida advertising banner 

Saturday. Saturday's 
Ayman  al­ 
Zawalrri.  
0  n  

Sunday, President Bush's homeland security adviser, Frances F r a g o s Townsend, sought to play down bin Laden's new appear­ance in a video and 

video was probably filmed in early August and it is likely "that the (upcoming video) shows bin Laden in the same setting," Venzke said. 
Al-Qaida's media operations have become increasingly sophis­ticated, as have the anniversary videos. 
Last year, al-Qaida released a 55-minute documentary talking about the planning of the attacks that hit the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
The video included old but pre­viously unreleased footage show­ing bin Laden strolling through an Afghan training camp where the attacks were apparently planned and chatting with top al­questioned his importance, call­ing the al-Qaida leader "virtually impotent." 
But terrorism experts say al­Qaida's core leadership is regrouping in the Pakistan­Afghanistan border region. The latest National Intelligence Estimate says the network is growing in strength, intensifYing its effort to put operatives in the 
U.S. and plot new attacks. 
Bin Laden's video Saturday was his first message in over a year -since a July 1, 2006, audiotape. The images came under close scrutiny from U.S. intelligence agencies, looking for clues to the 50-year-old's health and whereabouts. 

Parents may be charged in case 
Father, mother now suspected in disappearance of daughter 
Associated Press 
ROTHLEY, England Documents on the investiga­tion into the disappearance of 4-year-old Madeleine McCann won't be given to Portuguese prosecutors by police until Tuesday, and her parents waited at their British home to see if they would be charged. 
Portuguese police had been expected to hand-deliver to prosecutors on Monday the results of their investigation into the girl's disappearance May 3 from a hotel in southern Portugal. Police named Kate and Gerry McCann as suspects Friday. 
But police spokesman Olegario Sousa said the prose­cutor would not receive the case until Tuesday, and he declined to provide further details, citing Portugal's secre­cy law covering ongoing inves­tigations. 
Portimao District Attorney Jose Cunha de Magalhaes e Meneses will then review the case files, which contain details of forensic evidence and police interviews with the parents. 
The McCanns, who returned to Britain on Sunday with their 2-year-old twins, kept a low profile Monday, avoiding reporters camped outside their home. 
Philomena McCann, Gerry's sister, accused the police of "clutching at straws" to clear the case up. 

"Kate and Gerry have been a thorn in their sides for a long time. What better than to cast them as the villains?" she told GMTV. 
The McCanns, who are both medical doctors, have hired a high profile legal team that includes Michael Caplan, who represented Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former Chilean dictator, when Spain tried to extradite him from Britain in 1999. 
The administrators of a $2 million fund set up to help find Madeleine were investigating whether some of the money could be used to help pay the McCanns' legal bills, Britain's Press Association quoted an unidentified family friend as saying. 
Sousa said he expected the public prosecutor to "quickly decide" on what action to take. The prosecutor's office df:!termines whether charges should be brought against anyone, whether more investi­gation is needed, or if the case should be dropped. 
Madeleine's disappearance, and her parents' campaign to find her, has attracted world­wide attention. The story took a startling twist Friday when Portuguese police formally named them as suspects. 
Until Friday, suspicion had centered on Robert Murat, a British man who lived near the hotel from which Madeleine disappeared and who was the only formal suspect. He has not been charged, and he has said he is innocent. 
Gerry McCann said Sunday it was "heartbreaking" to come home without Madeleine, despite an extensive effort to find her. His voice shaking, he said "it does not mean we are giving up the search for her." 
"We have played no part in the disappearance of our love­ly daughter, Madeleine," he said. 
In an interview with the Sunday Mirror, Kate_ McCann said Portuguese police pressed her to confess that she had killed Madeleine accidentally, then hid her body and pre­tended the girl had been abducted in a massive cover­up. She accused police of telling her that if she pleaded guilty she would only face a two or three year suspended sentence. 
"They want me to lie. I'm being framed," she was quot­ed as telling the newspaper after her first police interroga­tion. 
Although Portuguese police named the McCanns as sus­pects, they did not confiscate their passports or restrict their movements. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page I 0 Tuesday, September 1 1, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Free·the Jena six 
1~0. !lox 779, Nmrc D>mc, IN 46556 014 South I lining I fall, Notre Dame, IN 46S56 
EDnon IN Cmm: Maddie Hanna 

MANAGINI; EI>I'I'OII BUSINESS MANAGEII Ken l'owl<•r Kyle West 
Ass1; MANA<;ING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily AssT. MANAI;)N(; ElliTOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NI'.WS EDITOR: K.tren L1nglcy 
VIEWI'OINT EIIITOII: joey King 
SI'OIUS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy Chris !line Sn:NE EDITOR: 'Etc Andr<·ws 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
I'IIOTO EDITOR: Dtmin Mennella 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVI·I!TISING MANAGER: )<'"ict C:onez 
An DI'.SJ(;N MANAI;fR: Kelly Cronli 
CONTIIOL.IJ-.R: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAI'OR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (~74) (>.~ 1-7·171 FAX (~74) 631-6'127 ADVERTISING (574) 6.11-6')00 ohst•rvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 6.>1-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(~7 1i) (d 1-4~41 ohsrnclfllnd.t·du 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 6.~ 1-4.124 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-~3 u NEWS DESK ('\74) 6.11-'i323 ohsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK ('574) 63 1-530,'1 vicwpoim.l (0nd.edu SPORTS DESK (S74) 631-4'i43 spons.I@lnd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.<·du 
PHOTO DESK (574) 6.11-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
rHE 
OBSERVER ONUN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Ohserv<·r is the in<kpcndcm, daily newspaper published in prinr and online by the srudents of the Univmiry of Notre Dam<' du I "tc and Saint Mary's College. Fdirorial contcrtt, including advertisements, is not ~ovcrncd by polki<'S of rh1· adrninistrarion ofeither instirution. The Observer rl'SCI'V<'S the right to refuse advcrtiscmctm ha.,cd on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignt·d editorials rcpres<'lll rhe opinion of tlw majority of rhc Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, Assisr.mr M;waging Edirors and department editors. ( :omrnl·ntarit•s, lcttrrs and columns prcsenr the vilws of the amhors ;tnd not n<'Cessarily those ofThc ( )bs,·rvrr. 
Vitwpoint spat'<' i> availabk to all rC'Jders. The tree expression ofall opinions through lcrrcrs is encouraged. !.etters to the Editor must be signed and must include contatt inh>rnlarion. 
Qtmtiow rrxnrdiux (JbsmJfT policies should be dim·trd 1/1 l:ditor in 0Ji,fMaddie IIanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

\ h~·l 11 ....... I ,p.,. ''t'J!I .' II tOt• , J'Hht,.h~d Mu1111.1y thrnugh f·rid.tv r:J.o.llH tlunu~ 
,-~~m.uttl V.ll.ttt•••IJ>tru .. t. ·\ ~· 1·  "'Ill•• I lu lllt\o't"~r i• Slllfllur um·.n.t;knti,  
·.. ~.  ..' :...  
I IlL' I lh'lt'rYt't •~ pnhlt•hcd 11  Nl~'JMA.S"I\lt  
U-'4 '"uth I '""II~ I1£11  ·.. ,.,[ 1d.lrr~• t otrcllll>ll\ w·  
Notn· [J.uur.IN •li,:, ... d  ·r  Jl,.;i,.)h\('tVt'l  

l't•rto•li,Alj>~~<r •::' pond ~I Nuu~· [ l.o~IUt" r.u. nux ,.•) .md Jildifiun~l~~.ulms .. tr:.. ll21~1UIIlllminf!llo~IJ 
Nom O.mw.IN 1h'i,(,.077'1 
Tht· llh~crvcr J\ .1 mcmhrr .11 the A-JCU.ttJ l't<·· All r~·pru~lth.tlun nl(.l11~ JUC. ~rvr.l 

In .lena, Louisiana, a blaek high school student faces up to 15 years imprisonment for lighting a student that slurred him. Earlier in the year, white students taunted black students with nooses. This is 
James
2007. not 1H50. II' 
Dechant
you haven't heard or tlw .lena Six or if' you 

foregone
believe the fantasy 

Conclusion 
that racism is dead, 
read on. 

The key events: In August 2006, a black student asked permission to sit under an oak tree on campus at lunehtime, hithorto the unoflieial domain of whitn students only. When black students sat there~. three nooses hung from tho tree the following morning. The principal reeommended nxpulsion, but the sehool board and superintendent overruiPd him, opting instnad for throe days in-school sus­pension. The superintendent called the incidtmt a "prank" and "not a threat against anybody." This outright idioey and dospieablo license for hate led to months of' raeial tension. 
I loping to quell unrest, a school assembly brought in District Attorney Heed Walters, one of tlw murky play­ers in this story. fie told students "I can end your lives with the stroke of' a pnn," words that would prove prophet­
ic. On Sept. 10, black students attempted to addrnss the school board but were denied. The board believed it had. in its infallible wisdom. resolved the situation by ignoring it and encouraging racist attitudes. 
On Dec. 1. several white men insti­gated a fight with black students at a local party. One reportedly broke a beer bottle over the head of Robert Bailey, a black student. The attacker was later charged with simple battery and put on probation. The next day, Bailey was involved in an argument at a convenience store with a white stu­dent who grabbed a pistol-grip shot­gun (honest) from his pickup. He and Bailey tussled; Bailey took the gun and ran away. Bailey was later charged on three counts, including theft of a firearm; the white student was charged with nothing. See a double standard yet'? 
On Dec. 4. white student Justin Barker reportedly bragged about Bailey's beating at the earlier party. Walking into the school courtyard later, he was attacked by Bailey and five other black students, among them 
Mychal Bell. Barker took a beating. 
but he was released from the hospital 
that same day with minor injuries and 
attended a school ceremony in the 
evening. The six black students were 
arrested. 

Bell enjoyed all the benefits of our justice system: prosecuted by Heed Walters. who raised the charges from battery to attempted second-degree murder (he later reduced the charges to "merely" second-degree battery and conspiracy to commit the same); a lazy court-provided defense lawyer who callnd no witnesses; trial by an all­white jury; and no mention, in over 40 court documonts, of Septnmber's noose incident. Unsurprisingly, they found Bell guilty of battory and conspiracy, earrying up to a 22-year prison sen­tence. 
Not indignant yet'? In order to classi­fy as battery, Walters had to domon­strate the use of a "dangerous weapon" by Boll, so he argued that Bell's l!mnis shoes used to kick Barker were just that. Tho all-white jury ate this up. Hemember tho party where a white male attacknd Bailey's head with a beer bottle? Not as dangerous as tennis shoes, in Jnna-at least when you're black. 
If you don't believe this story exposes Jena's racist environment, consider the town's large soeioeconomic gap, where the 12% black population lives mostly in a concentrated lower-quality housing area. Consider that one bar­bershop in town, according to Newsweek, does not give haircuts to blaek people because white eitizens might object. Consider the great start Jena's high sehool has made to the new school year, banning "Free the Jena 6" t-shirts from campus. A great move by the same edueational institu­tion that considered nooses "just a prank." Over the summer, the school chopped down the infamous "white tree" for firewood, but that has not stemmed the raeial injustice currently flowering in Jena. 
If this whole story is news to you, blame our celebrity-obsessed. gossip­driven media. Foreign newspapers covered the story long before national press did. Only in the last few months have several news organizations (chiefly NPH) called attention to Jena. Now we await Mychal Bell's sentencing on Sept. 20. Heduced to aggravated battery, he still faces up to 15 years in 
prison. For a school fight. 
Let me be fair: the studnnts should 
be charged for their violent actions, 
and they ought to pay a price. But for 
juvenile crimes, not severe fnlonios; by 
a fair jury, not a racist all-white panel; 
without a DA who aeeusod tho stu­
dents of attempted murdnr, for (;od's 
sake, and grossly abused his pownr for 
the sycophantic sake of appealing to 
his racist white friends. And the stu­
dent who produeed a sawed-off' shot­
gun from his truck'! I low about some 
repercussions for thrnatening otlwrs 
with a firearm? 
So what should happon'? Bell and the others should bn nH.ried for simple battery. perhaps do sonw c:orreetional time, and nnter a probation program. The superintendent should step down and leave nducation forever so he can dedieate his life to tlw rc~smtrch of hate erimes. The school board should issue a formal apology for its inadequate~ n~sponse to the noosc~s and beconH~ extras in movies featuring seenos with gallows. DA Heed Walters should rnsign and movP to Myanmar to prac­tiee law more lwfitting his porsonality. All .lena students (and adults) should attend a mandatory racn-relations seminar from now until kingdom come. Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco, conspicuously and willingly oblivious to this egregious scandal, must stop shirking responsibility and step in to end this disgraeeful blot in her state. She should do what politi­cians eonsider anathema: make a deei­sive statement and aceompany it with strong action. 
As for us: spread the word. Learn more online. sign petitions and demand that these tragedies don't fly under the radar in the future. Stop buying into the fantasy that racism is eradicated and help eut the tree of prejudice and inequality at its very root. Help free the .lena Six. 
James Dechant is a senior English and Theology major who would like to use this space to inform you that you can help by sending money and letters ofsupport to: The Jena ,\'ix Defense Fund, PO. Box 2978, Jena, /A 71342. 1/e can be contacted at jdechant@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those r~f the author and not necessarily those r~f The Observer. 


TODAY's STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Karen I .angley Chris Khorey Liz llartnr Greg Arbogast Joseph McMahon Pat O'Brien When will Notre Dame win its Graphks Scene 
first football game this season? 
''A goal without a plan is just a wish. " 

Matt Hudson Chris McGrady Viewpoint 
Antoine de Salnt-Exupery Karct King Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. French writer 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 11, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE IEDITOR 
In defense of North 
c~iversity matters 
Equality, liberty and fraternity. These are the tenets upon which North Dining llall was founded. 
Equality with, although distinct from, South Dining Hall. Surely, South Dining llall boasts excellent pasta, diverse salad choices and consistently delicious grilled cheese sandwiches, but North offers students Fajita Fridays, make­your-own-pizza, crepes and easier cooked to order burgers. Although the food in South is all maintained in a cen­tral corral-like area, North's sprawl makes for less clustering between lines. 
Liberty, to make your own decisions on such weighty matters as ice-cream l1avors. North always keeps five to six different choices in its freezers, while South is only equipped for four. In addi­tion, North allows for the dissemination of free speech through its several con­venient television sets. 
Fraternity, in allowing assembly where and when you wi.sh. North Dining Hall not only plays music at a reason­able level for conversation, but accom­modates three distinct areas, so that student groups can be seated on the main level, the balconies or in the recessed television lounges. Perhaps it is only idle speculation on the author's part, but the natural sunlight present in North Dining Hall seems to induce a warm, welcoming atmosphere of fellow­ship. 
Notre Dame is founded on the belief that diversity and competition are the gateways to a better society. It would be a shame if tyrannical elements were allowed to undermine that sacred foun­dation. Diversity in students, diversity in faculty and diversity in dining hall choices are what make this University great. Tearing down North would lead to a more totalitarian state of uniformi­ty on campus. 
You're not a totalitarian, are you? 
John Minser sophomore Siegfried Hall Melissa Cruz junior Cavanaugh Hall Oscar Garcia semor off campus Sept. 10 
Tear down South 

Salutations to all students, facul­ty and staff of this fine University! 
I offer an alternative to Mr. Timothy Gotcher's article "Tear down North" (Sept. 10). Despite claiming South as a "true colle­giate dining hall ... systematically arranged for the benefit and satis­faction of all," it is, in fact, the lesser of the two dining halls for three (quite obvious) reasons. 
Despite the dining area's allure to the Harry Potter fans here (myself included), eating dinner at South without a wand or broom is a traffic nightmare. With a dozen food stations crowded into the cen­tral room, it creates a veritable funnel of humanity, resulting in spills, chills and general discon­tent. North, with its separate rooms and pleasantly open, well-lit rooms, is a far better choice to experience the true pleasures of college dining. 
Secondly, the food at South is far less satisfying than the offerings available at North. All a discerning food critic (or a picky eater!) needs to do is browse the rooms at North 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

to discover such culinary treasures as pasta stir-fry, make-your-own pizzas, crepe weekends and, of course, Fajita Fridays! 
Lastly, "Stone Age" South only has newspapers for information. North has long moved into the Technological Age by presenting both newspapers AND televisions, letting diners follow the latest news or football scores. 
I therefore propose that South be torn down and replaced with a dining hall built to correct its flaws. This new dining hall would appropriately be named "North Dining Hall South" to acknowledge its lesser status. It would contain all the amenities its frequenters have grown to love, yet still be spacious enough to please all resi­dents of the other half of campus. After all, it hasn't been a real din­ner until someone from Zahm knocks a cup down the stairs. 
Nick Hussey senwr Keenan Hall Sept. 10 
Ordinance illegality 
Reading the articles and letters regarding the new "party" ordinance that is being pushed through the South Bend Common Council, I have two points to raise, one statistical and one constitutional. 
First, the data shown at the recent presentation by Council member Buddy Kirsits should be questioned sharply. He shows a rise in drinking related hospital admissions during the football season. Nowhere did I see any mention of the fact that the population of South Bend increases by more than 50 percent during this time. The problem likely isn't just at boarding houses, but hotels, bars and tailgates. Perhaps the PA announce­ment during the game should not be not to drink too much and drive, but simply not to drink too much. Perception is reality. So if the people of South Bend think that students are a problem, then, for them, they are. 
The ordinance, however, does not deal with noise or drinking. It only directly limits the ability to gather freely. With the data correlating stu­dent behavior to the disruptions sketchy to begin with, it should take a first year law student about 10 min­utes to get an injunction if the ordi­nance is passed, for the City is clearly infringing on the residents of board­ing houses right to assemble freely, without meeting even the basest of justifications. There is no way this would stand up to judicial review. 
My suggestion to the student gov­ernment is to meet with Notre Dame's General Council to discuss potential legal action, and if they decline (it may be out of their hands as they represent the University, not the students) hire a lawyer on you own. This is a civil rights attorney's dream. 
Adam Istvan alumnus Class of 2005 Sept. 10 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, September II, 2007 
JOS 

RITTER 
Hittnr's songwriting abilities. 
The roughness of some of the record­ings only enhances the album's appeal when taken into context. It is clear that Hitter was not intent on creating a pol­ished and studio-finished quality to the music when creating the record. Hather, the best moments of the album come when it feels like you just found an old record in your grandmother's attic and are the first person to be listening to its delieate songs in decades. It's an antiquat­ed feel that becomes stirringly present as the album progresses on its long journey. 
Pulling from a multitude of inspirations as well as his own head, the listener can only guess at what Hitter had in mind for each song. There are moments through­out the record inspired by such ranging acts as Bob Dylan, Bruce Springsteen, Hyan Adams and Sufjan Stevens -just to name a few. Perhaps what is so extraordi­nary about the record is that when you seem to figure out where Ritter is coming from, another note sounds and your per­ception is forced to change to meet the new level of the song. 
The record is not a rip ofl' of Dylan or Springsteen or Adams or Stevens. Hather, it is an intricate delving into the conquests of John Hitter on a brilliant seale. 
If you're looking for a record that'll keep you pressing repeat long after the first lis­
••• < 
,J.j•
',,'''V'~. 
,_~. 
iii 
iff,-:Nt~ .~-:.K~.<,{--.l"~ 
Photo courtesy of bowsplusarrows.com Josh Ritter's most recent album is a complex and complete musical effort. 
ten, this is the one. It's not the simplest record out then\ but it's an immensely satisfying one. There isn't a wasted moment on the album, whieh these days is pretty special. 
Contact James Costa at jcosta1@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of hiphop.popcrunch.com 

By JAMES COSTA A<Sistant Scene Editor 
It isn't ol'tPn wlwn a rocord comns out that takns many listPns bnfore nvnn the most obvious of' its cornplexitins bngin to .-nwrgn. 
But in "Thn llistorical ConqU(~St'i oi'.Josh Bittnr." thn singPr-songwritnr constructs an nnvironnwnt intPnt on emating a dncp and profound imagn through intricate lyrics and instrunwntal sways. It's not a pop n~corcl. which makns it a littln bit toughnr to grasp. With many songs not rnlying on a catchy hook or <~horus, thn listn1wr must artivnly nngagn in each ele­ment of the record to fully appreciate its power. 
In Hitter's mastery of creating a visual environment to his songs, he often uses metaphor. One of the gems of the record, "The Temptation of Adam," tells the story of a young couple falling in and out of love in the shadow of the cold war and the curious romantic possibility of their growth in the presence of World War III. 
The song's reliance on gripping imagery draws the listener to the vague reality in which Hitter views the world and finds his songs. It also allows the listener to imag­ine the world that Hitter sings of so vividly that it seems to exist in a place not far 
from here. 
The Historical Conquests of Josh Ritter 
Josh Ritter Released by: Sony Recommended Tracks: Still Beating, To The Gods or Whoever, Empty Hearts 
Part of the enduring appeal of the album is Hitter's insistence on incorporating different genres into his musician­ship. Over the course of 14 songs, the listener is treated to music ranf,ring in style from country to alternative to pop. Yet regardless of which genre a song seems to fall into, they all rnmain under the umbrella of folk music. This feat is extraordinary and quite a testament to 
songs, there are a few songs that stand By MARK MANLEY out. 
"The People" is probably one of the best 
Scene Writer 
tracks on the album. This song focuses on Common's nnwnst album brings mom the daily struggle of the working class and mack than StPv<~ .Jobs. describes how Common relates to them. "Finding ForPwr" is a solid piece that Musically, it flits in between major and you can put on and run through even if' minor, betwnen the mon~ syncopated feel you'n~ not a diPhard hip-hop f'an. It putnpS or hip-hop and the smoothness ol' H&B ­
out rn~ativP and grabbing beats and thus illustrating the ups and downs of life mixns in smooth amas with jazz voieings, nonvnrbally. Meanwhile, the lyrics paint a crnating a song that is rnminisennt of Tlw similar picture. Boots. "I Want You" starts ofT with a heavy 
Tlw proclurN bPhind this work is none beat but quickly puts smooth voeals on ot.lwr than Kanyn West, so nxpnd nothing top. This is one of the dearest examples of lnss than a gn~at Iiston. Though the Common's pnnehant for contrast. A song 
strongnst part or tlw album is dnfinitnly its about lingering desire after a breakup, it ability to hn playPd without skipping deceptively sounds upbeat and the only lyrical hook is "I want you."
Finding Forever 
Another of the singles is "The Game." If you have
Common 

listened to even the tini­
Released by: Geffen Records 
est bit of rap, you can guess what this one is
Recommended Tracks: The People, I Want 
about. In this song,
You, The Game 
Common's lyrics fail to impress. Here he focuses on his desire to overcome all obstades and his need to be recognized as strong. As far as the music is eoncerned, Common does a mediocre 

Popular rapper Common's latest effort, "Finding Forever," was produced by Kanye West. The album is equal parts rap, R&B and social commentary. 
job. Although this song fits in well with the album, it does not seem to cateh the ear that much. 
Lyrically, the album doesn't break much new ground, despite Common's solid delivery and tendency to stay away from the typical themes of misogyny and vio­lence. Thus, he keeps his lyrics from being ordinary. Prevalent themes include strug­gling amidst poverty, black-on-black raeism, lost love and self-affirmation. 
After a few listens, the album's content sounds similar to Lupe Fiasco, who recently performed as part of "The Show" last Friday at the Joyce Center. However, Common takes another tone in this album. 
While both artists tackle similar sub­jects, Fiasco tends to take a more violent stance, calling police "pigs," criticizing the government in an unprofessional, and likely inefleetive, way. Common, on the other hand, talks with self-respeet and keeps away from bning too negative. 
Overall, Common does a great job with "Finding Forever." lie creates a cohesive work that strikes the listener on many of difl'ernnt levels and proves, despite a few low points, to largnly be a suc<:ess. 
Contact Mark Manley at mmanley@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 13 
Tuesday, September 11, 2007 
By CHRIS MCGRADY Assistant Scene Editor 
With the explosion of grunge in the American Northwest, a multitude of bands emerged, either from within 1:he grunge movement or as a by-product of the new sound sensation that was beginning to sweep the country. One of these bands, was Collective Soul, who has just released their latest, and 13th, effort entitled "Afterworld." 
Collective Soul formed in Stockbridge, Georgia in the early '90s, a by-product of the grunge/punk movement that had started in Seattle and was cruising across 
Photo courtesy of cavalierdaily.cam Collective Soul has been around since the mid-90s and returns to form with the album "Afterworld." The CD is available only online and in Target stores. 
Afterworld 

CollectivH Soul Released by: Handleman Entertainment Recommended Tracks: All That I Know, New Vibration, Persuasion of You, Adored 

By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
Maybe it's Touchdown Jesus. Maybe it's the leprechaun. Or maybe it's just sonwthing alluring about those gor­geous gold helmets. Whatever it is, there <:an be no denying that there is something spedal that separates Notre Dame from a myriad other programs dotting the college football landscape. 
"Tradition Never Graduates" is a behind-the-senncs documentary follow­ing the 2006 Fighting Irish football sea­son. Beyond the gridiron action itself, the film attempts to answer a question about what exactly makes Notre Dame the U.S. like a tidal wave. The band was formed by Ed Roland (lead singer/song­writer and keyboardist), Dean Roland (guitar), Joel Kosche (guitar), Will Turpin (bass/percussion) and Shane Evans (drums/percussion). They exploded onto the scene with their first album, "Hints Allegations and Things Left Unsaid" an album that blew up to a multi-platinum opening. By the end of 1994, the group had played with Aerosmith and was fea­tured as part of Woodstock. 
After a series of albums that varied in success, Collective Soul is back to its origi­nal form on "Afterworld." The CD opens with the track "New VIbration." Ironically, the song has strong influences from early 
work by the group, par­ticularly from the group's self-titled 1995 release. The song features the driven rock-riffs that helped the band establish itself. 
The fifth track, "All That I Know," is another strong effort. The song opens with a quirky drumbeat, before Roland echoes in with some well placed doo-wops. While the song is a bit cookie cutter in its overall 
so unique. Created by Notre Dame graduate Charlie Eberson, the film delves inside the hype and hysteria of the 2006 team and tails some Domers who bleed blue and gold. 
The camera follows the shenanigans of Kevin Brau, last year's mascot, as he bounces around on and off the field and attempts to whip the Irish faithful into a frenzy. It also tracks the progress of the Notre Dame marching band its per­cussive drumline, and of course, the master of ceremonies himself, Charlie Weis. 
There's something a tad nostalgic about watching the film and seeing the late and great Brady Quinn raining six­pointers on opposing secondaries, or 
Tradition Neve'r Graduates An Insider's Look Into Notre Dame Football 2006 
Directed by: Charlie Eb,arsol 

watching Jeff Samardzija vault into the end zone past a UCLA defender as Notre Dame Stadium erupts into mass hysteria. Of course, like last season itself, the film is a rollercoaster, soaring to ecstatic highs during improbably come-from­behind wins and sinking to very low lows after suffering drubbings at the hands of far superi­or opponents. But, sound, it does not stop it from being any more addictive or fun to listen to. Roland's falsetto breaks the song into manageable, and enjoyable, chunks. 
The ninth song, "Persuasion of You," opens with a gain-heavy guitar and Roland's forceful singing. This might be the most nostalgic of the songs on the album and will invoke memories of Collective Soul's previous-efforts "She Gathers Rain," "Where the River Flows" and "Gel." 
The album closes with "Adored," a fit­ting end to a fine CD. Mellow and harmo­
throughout it all, the loyalty to this football team, this nation and this uni­versity remains the same, whether it's the student section inside Notre Dame Stadium or the roving Ramblers who made the trips out to Southern California or down to Louisiana for matchups with USC and LSU. 
Regardless of the numbers posted in the win and loss columns, there remain certainties about every Notre Dame football game. There will be legions of Irish faithful showing their colors in the student section, wearing their hearts on their sleeves and fist-pumping and nious, the song closes the album on a superb note. It is always depressing when a CD ends on a bad note, leaving a sour taste in the listener's mouth. "Adored" does just the opposite -it makes the lis­tener wish the album weren't over. 
All in all, "Afterworld" is a fine effort ·and the best to come out of Collective Soul in years. For anyone wishing for a dose of nostalgia circa 1997, this is the album to buy. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 
MATT HUDSON I ObseJVer Graphic 
yelling in unison. There will be the finest band in all the land on the field, featuring a drum line loud enough to pop your eardrums. And at the end of every home game, win or lose, every Notre Dame student will wrap his or her arms around the people standing next to them and sing the alma mater while swaying to and fro. 
In other words, everyone here drinks the Kool Aid, and it's green. So love thee some Notre Dame and check out "Tradition Never Graduates." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew I @nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 11, 2007 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Ramirez blasts two clingers in rout of Cards 
Howard caps Philadelphia's 3-run comeback against Colorado; Armas shuts down Brewers .in easy Pirates' victory 
was a thing of beauty. We hit
Associated Pre'-' 

thn ball for power. We hit the 
CIIICACO-Tlw Cubs will ball in the gaps. We hit the gladly pardon tlw interrup­ball with men in scoring posi­tion ol' tlwir I0-ganw trip. tion," Cubs manager Lou 
Chicago got 17 hits during a l'iniella said. "A game like ono-ganw stopovnr at Wriglny this ean rnally get you going." Finld. lwlping Tnd Lilly win St. Louis, which started the his I !ith ganu~ and bnating the day three back of the St. Louis Cardinals 12-3. Brewers, lost its fourth 
"It is WPird." said Aramis straight and dropped to 69­Bamirez, who honwrnd twice 72. and had four hits. "We were Both teams made a quick supposed to lw in Houston dntour to play the makeup, having a day ofT today, and caused by an Aug. 19 rainout. wn're hnrP playing a game in The Cardinals came to Chicago." Chicago from Arizona and 
Hamirnz wasn't complain­didn't land until around 11:30 ing, just happy to see his p.m. Sunday night. Next, the tnammatns join him in a rare World Series champions have ofTnnsivn outburst. three games at the Reds. 
"WP struggled the last cou­"There's no doubt in my ple ol' weeks to put runs on mind we'll be ready to play in the board and we lost a cou­Cincinnati," Cardinals manag­ple of' tough games," Hamirez er Tony La Russa said. "I said. "It's fun when everybody know we're going to play is getting their hits, for per­hard enough, but then you sonal rnasons and for the have to play good enough. We team." were close in Arizona. This 
It was just the third win in was a game that got out of night games for Chicago, control. It was ugly." which fell out of first place Sunday for the first time since Phlllles 6, Rockies 5 (10) inning after Burrell tied the within 1 1/2 games of the idle back by losing two of three in Aug. 16 and began the Pat Burrell's second-half game with a dramatic homer wild card-leading Padres. The Pittsburgh over the weekend. Monday one gamf~ behind surge has Philadelphia on the in the seventh, leading the Hockies are 3 1/2 games back. Armas and relievers Milwaukee in the NL Central. brink of the wild-card lead. Phillies to a victory over the "I think we've kind of shift­Franquelis Osoria and Homulo 
Derrek Lee and Ramirez More games like this one and Colorado Hockies on Monday ed our attention away from Sanchez combined on the homered in a five-run fourth, the Phillies just might get night. the [NL East-leading] Mets," four-hitter, blanking a team and Hamirez added another there. "We've got to keep winning Burrell said. "I think six that broke loose at Cincinnati solo shot in a four-run eighth. Hyan Howard doubled home and playing hard," Burrell games at this point is too on Sunday with eight extra­
"Whore's that been? That the winning run in the 1Oth said. much. So we had to regroup. base hits in a 10-5 victory. 
While Burrell knew his Sometimes that's hard." "That's how it goes like home run was gone from the that," Brewers manager Ned moment it left his bat, Yorvit Pirates 9, Brewers 0 Yost said when asked how his Torrealba's shot left too much The Pittsburgh Pirates are team couldn't advance a run­doubt about clearing the in the middle of the NL ner past second after scoring fence in the fourth. The Central race despite being I 0 runs the day beforn. "lie Hockies' catcher ended up two losses from a 15th con­located his pitches very well. with a controversial ground­secutive losing season. changed speeds, kept tlw ball rule double, allowing Burrell's They're not close to first down and was on the attack swing to set up another plac·e, but they keep beating early in the count." thrilling win f'or the Phillies. the teams fighting for it. Armas (4-5), winless until 
Chase Utley led ofT the 1Oth Tony Armas pitched six Aug. 1, allowed three singles with a single off Taylor sharp innings a day after in shutting down tho Brewers Buchholz (6-5). the seventh Milwaukee hit six home runs, for his f'ourth victory in five pitcher for Colorado. After and Nate McLouth's two-run career decisions against Burrell struck out, Howard homer carried Pittsburgh to them. lie has won !'our of' his lined a double to left, and the another home-field victory last six overall after going 0-3 speedy Utley hustled all the over the Brewers, on Monday during the first half' of' the way around for the winning night. season. run as the Phillins continue to Milwaukee's loss, its fourth "You're soeing a very conn­gain ground in their playoff in five games in Pittsburgh dent pitchnr right now and a push. this season, dropped the pitelwr who's vnry comfort­
The Hoekies and Phillies are Brewers back into a first­able with his pitches," Pirates jostling in the NL wild-card place tie in the NL Central manager .Jim Tnu:y said. "lie standings, and Philadelphia with the Chicago Cubs, who kept them of'f' stride. They took the first game of the beat St. Louis earlier Monday. didn't get too many good four-game series to close The Cubs had fallen a game swings against him." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3j>.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
BABYSITTER NEEDED. Local lam-98 Saturn Sport Coupe, Furnished house for rent. 15 min. to FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? ily is seeking babysitter for 2-year-auto,power,AC,stereo,clean,66K. ND. 2BR, 6 acres 1/4 mile to lake. ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. WANTED old boy. Flexible hours, Tues!Thurs. $4500 Blue Book. 574-289-6432 Garne wkends or whole year. www. victorytickets.com Do not go it alone. preferred. Must have references. lv.message. Students welcome. 574-288-2726. 
574-271-0747. ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. If you or someone you love needs SOCCER REFEREES · needed for Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms. 574-288-2726. confidential support or assistance, southside elementary school. STUDENT WORK $12.75 base-Walk to ND. 574-876-7341. For please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­
FoR RENT
Located near Erskine Golf Course appt. Flexible schedules, no experi-Football weekends, call574-532-7819. on Miami St. $35/per game. Call ence needed, customer sales/serv-1408. For more information, visit our web-
PERSONAL

athletic director at ice, conditions apply, all ages 18+, LODGING FOR FOOTBALL site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­574-273-3835, www.workforstu-GAMES Visit www.amishcoun-FOOTBALL HOUSE -3 bedroom ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­574-291-4200. dents.com trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and home, 5 blocks from campus for LASER CREATIONS Unique weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Breakfast Accommodations. Non-rent on football weekends, JPW, Products Thru Laser Technology. Friendly smiling servers needed. smoking, Private Baths, Full Graduation. Operated as a week-Laser etched logo gifts, signs, If you or sorneone you care about Full or part time openings. If you are Breakfasts. end rental. Great alternative to stu-award plaques, name tags, rubber has been sexually assaulted, visit 
FoR SALE
friendly and smiling, we will train pid hotel prices on those weekends. stamps, glass etching, etc. Call http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. you. Some cook positions available Furn. apt., sleeps 4 maybe 6. ND www.notredameliving.corn or call Jack 574-273-8662 or email: laser-shtml too. Apply in person 52285 US 31 N FOR SALE -4BR, 2.5 Bath, 2800 home garnes. Right next to ND. Alex 212-418-6937. cr@comcast.net South Bend. Damons Grill eoe SF Fin bsmt. 3 mi to ND. $217,500 574-273-3030 Tony Ramo is on pace for 80 touch­
243-1953 Spring Break 2008. Sell Trips, Earn down this season Web Designer needed to create ask for Pat. Cash and Go Free. Call for group
TICKETS

new website. Experience with shop-BUY/SELL used CDs,DVDs, video discounts. Best Deals Guaranteed! Jim Nantz during the Jets-Patriots ping carts, autoresponders. games, video game systems and Bed & Breakfast lodging w/alum Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, game Sunday -"That was the their video/audio files desired. vinyl. Buyco, 3602 Grape Rd., family for ND home garnes. Great WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. deepest penetration of the game.· $10/hr. Mishawaka. rates & nice accommodations. PLEASE HELP! 800-648-4849 or 
That's what she said Jim. That's Call574-320-2522 after 5. 252-9222. 574-243-2628. 574-251-1570 www.ststravel.com what she said. 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September II, 2007 CoMPILED rROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
AP Orthopedic surgeon Andrew Cappuccino describes the injury Bills tight end Kevin Everett suffered in Buffalo's loss to Denver Sunday. Everett recieved a life-threatening spinal cord injury while trying to make a tackle. 
Everett likely to be paralyzed 
NFL 
AFC East 

team New England Buffalo N.Y. Jets Miami  record 1·0 0·1 0·1 0·1  perc. 1.000 .000 .000 .000  PF 38 14 14 13  PA 14 15 38 16  
AFC North  
team Pittsburgh Cincinnati Baltimore Cleveland  record 1·0 1·0 0-1 0-1  perc. 1.000 1.000 .000 .000  PF 34 27 20 7  PA 7 20 27 34  
AFC Soutl1  
tt~am Tennessee Indianapolis Houston Jacksonville  record 1·0 1·0 1·0 0·1  perc. 1.000 1.000 1.000 .000  PF 13 41 20 10  PA 10 10 3 13  
AFC West  
team Denver San Diego Kansas City Oakland  record 1·0 1·0 0·1 0·1  perc. 1.00D 1.00D .ODD .DOD  PF 15 14 3 21  PA 14 3 2D 36  
NFC East  
team Dallas Washington N.Y. Giants Philadelphia  record 1·0 1·0 0·1 0·1  perc. 1.000 1.000 .000 .000  PF 45 16 35 13  PA 35 13 45 16  
NFC North  
team Detroit Green Bay Minnesota Chicago  record 1·0 1·0 1·0 0·1  perc. 1.000 1.000 1.000 .000  PF 36 16 24 3  PA 21 13 3 14  
NFC South  
team Carolina Atlanta New Orleans Tampa Bay  record 1·0 0·1 0·1 0·1  perc. 1.000 .000 .000 .000  PF 27 3 10 6  PA 13 24 41 20  
NFC West  
team SeaHie Arizona San Francisco St. Louis  record 1·0 0·0 0·0 0·1  perc. 1.000 .000 .000 .000  PF 20 0 0 13  PA 6 0 0 27  

MIAA Women's Soccer 

team record 
1 Albion 4·0·0 1 Kalamazoo 4·0·0 3 SAINT MARY'S 3·0·0 4 Olivet 3·1·0 5 Alma 3·1·1 6 Hope 2·2·0 6 Adrian 2·2·0 8 Galvin 2·3-0 9 Tri-State 0-4-0 
around tl1e dial 
POKER World Series of Poker 8 p.m., ESPI\1 
WNBA 

Detroit Shock at Phoenix Mercury 9 p.m., ESPN 2 
NFL 


Associated Press 

ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. ­Kevin Everett sustained a "catastrophic" and life­threatening spinal-cord injury while trying to make a tackle during the Buffalo Bills' season opener and is unlikely to walk again, the surgeon who operated on him Monday said. 
"A best-case scenario is full recovery, but not likely," orthopedic surgeon Andrew Cappuccino said. "I believe there will be some perma­nent neurologic deficit." 
Everett was hurt Sunday after he ducked his head while tackling the Denver Broncos' Domenik Hixon during the second-half kick-
IN BRIEF 

MLB requests meeting with 
Gibbons regarding steroids 
NEW YOHK -Baltimore Orioles outfielder Jay Gibbons joined the list of players asked to meet with base­ball officials after being linked to a Florida pharmacy that distributed prescription performanceLenhancing drugs. 
A day after Sl.com reported Gibbons received steroids and human growth hormone from Signature Pharmacy after both substances were banned, baseball requested a meeting with the Orioles outfielder. 
No timetable was set for the meet­ing, a person familiar with the situa­tion said Monday, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity because no announcement was made. 
On Friday, baseball asked to meet with St. Louis' Rick Ankiel and Toronto's Troy Glaus after reports that they received performance­enhancing drugs from Signature Pharmacy several years ago. 
off. Everett dropped face­first to the ground after his helmet hit Hixon high on the left shoulder and side of the helmet. 
Cappuccino noted the 25­year-old reserve tight end did have touch sensation throughout his body and also showed signs of move­ment. But he cautioned that Everett's injury was life­threatening because he was still susceptible to blood clots, infection and breath­ing failure. 
Everett is in the intensive care unit of Buffalo's Millard Fillmore Gates Hospital, where he is under sedation and breathing through a respirator as doc­tors wait for the swelling to 
Hart remains certain that 
Michigan will win 
ANN ARBOR Mich. -Mike Hart did­n't meet with the mBdia Monday, but Michigan's star running back has said enough to last the rest of the week. 
Hart guaranteed the Wolverines would beat Notre Dame in a packed, postgame news conference Saturday after they iell to 0-2. 
He didn't back off his comments when a handful of reporters surround­ed him for follow-up questions. 
"I honestly think we're not going to lose," Hart said after the Ducks domi­nated Michigan 39-7. "There's really no doubt in my mind. After you go 0-2, there is nowhere to go but up. 
"Get beat again? It's not going to happen." 
Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said he might have made the same guaran­tee if he watched his team get routed in its fJrst two games, but he certainly plans to use the bulletin-board materi­al. 
lessen. Cappuccino said it will take up to three days to determine the severity of the injury and the recovery process. 
Cappuccino repaired a break between the third and fourth vertebrae and also alleviated the pressure on the spinal cord. In reconstructing his spine, doctors made a bone graft and inserted a plate, held in by four screws, and also inserted two small rods, held in place by another four screws. 
Doctors, however, weren't able to repair all the dam­age. 
Bills punter Brian Moorman immediately feared the worst when 
Rules relaxed on Rugby
World Cup videos 
PARIS -International news agencies reached an agreement Monday with organizers of the Rugby World Cup on relaxing restrictions for posting video on Web sites. 
Under the deal, The Associated Press, Heuters, Agence France­Presse and other agencies that cover tournament news confer­ences, training sessions and other non-match activities now can dis­tribute as much of their video as they think their subscribers need. 
Previously, rugby officials had sought to limit the agencies to three minutes of video per day of the 20­nation championship in France. 
"We're very glad this issue has been resolved and that the right of news organizations to manage the video they shoot has been affirmed," said the AP's executive editor, Kathleen Carroll. 
Everett showed no signs of movement as he was placed on a backboard and, with his head and body immobi­lized, carefully loaded into an ambulance. 
"It brought tears to my eyes," Moorman said after practice. He said the sight of Everett's motionless body brought back memories of Mike Utley, the former Detroit Lions guard, who was paralyzed below the chest after injuring his neck in a collision during a 1991 game. 
Utley, Moorman recalled, at least was able to give what's become a famous "thumbs up" sign as he was taken off the field. Everett didn't. 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page I6 Tuesday, September II, 2007
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Despite vvin, schedule keeps Titans focused 

Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -The Tennessee Titans have no time to enjoy their season-opening victory over AFC South rival Jacksonville. Not with the defending Super Bowl champs up next. 
The Titans watched their 13­10 victory over the Jaguars, a game in which they ran for 282 yards and held the ball for nnarly :H minutes. to identify tlw few mistakes that must be corroded. 
But tho home opener against tho Colts kept the Titans from enjoying their first season-opening win since 2004 for 

"Indy's a big week 
too long. Fisher was with 
"Indy's a big around here." the running pro­week around duction, he horn," deftmsive wants better
Kyle Vanden Bosch 
end Kyle production near
Titans defensive end 
Vanden Bosch 
said Monday. 
"Everybody gets 
excited for it. 
It's the defending Super Bowl 
champs. If we really want to 
make a name for ourselves, 
we h~ve to play well this 
week. 
The Nf'L didn't help the Titans much in the scheduling department. 
The Titans' first two games are against AFC South oppo­nents. a start that could trip a team up quickly. Coach Jeff Fisher noted the Colts (1-0l have had a few extra days to prnparn for their first road trip after optming the season last Thursday night. 
''I'm sure they got a good start.. and we have to catch up." Fislwr said. 
Tho Titans couldn't have got­tml off to a mueh better start thmnselvns a year after start­ing 0-5 before winning six of its final snvnn. That left them a gamn short of their first playoff berth sinee 2003. 
So they opened up 2007 with tlw sncond-bnst rushing game in team history. 
Tlw ofTPnse. hadn't held the hall this long since Oct. 11, 2004, wlwn tho Titans had it 38 minutes against Green Hay. A big improvement for an o!Tense that avPraged 27 min­ut.Ps ol" time of possession in 201H>. last in tlw NFL. 
Tlw Titans ranked fifth in tho lnagw~ rushing the ball last snason. They cut Travis Henry in Mareh ~~vPn though he ran for 1,211 yards, but each starter on tho offensive line n~turned. They opened huge holes against Jacksonville. 

Chris Brown, back on a one­year contract after finding lit­tle interest as a free agent, ran the ball better than anyone else Sunday in the NFL. His career-high 175 yards rushing on 19 carries -a staggering 9.2-yard average -was more than his 156 yards in 2006. 
Starter LenDale White ran 18 times for 66 yards and couldn't gain a yard at the Jags 1 on fourth-down. Fisher said he wants to split carries 60-40 and left open the chance that Brown might have earned his first start in nearly a year. 
"It is a week­
to-week thing," 
Fisher said. 
As happy as 
the goal line. 
They got inside 
the Jaguars 13 
four of their 

first seven drives and scored 
only two field goals and one 
touchdown. 
"You can't do that. Granted, their defense is a good defense, but we left points (om the board yesterday," Fisher said. 
Fisher said Vince Young did a good job managing the game, even though completing 11-of-18 for 78 yards didn't seem like much. Fisher said Young was very accurate on some tough throws that kept drives alive. 
The defense that gave up more yards per game than any other in the NFL in 2006 held Jacksonville to 272 and only 72 of those on the ground in what Vanden Bosch said they hope sets the tone for this sea­son. 
"We said the type of team we want to be, we want to stop the run. We want to run the ball on offm1se. That's exactly what we did. Hopefully, that's form f~.r us e_very game this season, he sa1d. 
The Titans split with Indianapolis last season, los­ing 14-13 on the road and pulling out a 20-17 win here in December on a 60-yard field goal. 
The game plan will be changing against Indianapolis, but not by much. 
"As we've shown, one way of effectively playing the Colts is keeping their offense off the field," Fisher said. "To do that. you have to hand the ball ofT." 
FIFA WoMEN's WoRLD CuP 
Germany sends message 
U.S. team takes notice of Germans' record­setting win in opener 
Associated Press 

SHANGHAI, China Germany sent an emphatic mes­sage with its 11-0 romp over Argentina in the Women's World Cup opener: The defend­ing champions will not give up their title easily. 
And contenders like the No. 1­ranked Americans, who play North Korea fn Group B in Chengdu on Tuesday, will cer­tainly take notice. 
Germany set a Women's World Cup for goals by one team and the largest margin of victory. The previous record for the most lopsided result was 8-0 twice: Sweden over Japan in 1991, and Norway over Nigeria in 1995. 
Birgit Prinz and Sandra Smisek each scored three goals. The last by Prinz was her 12th overall in the World Cup fmals, equaling American Michelle Akers' record for World Cup goals. 
It was no contest from the 12th minute in the Group A game when Argentina goal­keeper Vanina Correa tipped a corner kick into her own net. She gave up another own-goal in the final seconds of the game. 
"It was a nightmare start for our team," Argentine coach Jose Carlos Borrello said. 
Japan and England, the other teams in Group A, open play Tuesday in Shanghai. Play in Group C and D begins Wednesday, getting the 16-tour­nament up to full speed with play set for five cities around attention to top striker Kristine China. The final is Sept. 30 in LiUy. Shanghai. "They treated her like David 
Kerstin Garefrekes, and mid­Beckham," Hampone said. fielders Melanie Behringer and "Everywhere you go, even the Renate Lingor scored the other stairs, there's a security guard goals. there." 
The Germans dominated mid­Ameriean coach Greg Hyan field and knocked balls over the said the seeurity was much like smaller Argentine defenders. th~t ~t ~he Ath~m~ Olymp_ics... 
"It was easier than expected," Its fantastic, he sa1d. We 
Prinz said. "We  can  travel very  
had  a  lot  of  quickly with the  
open  space  police escorts and  
and we used that space. We took our  "It was easier than expected. "  our players feel very secure." Defender Kate  
chances well."  Markgraf said the  
A d d e d Germany  Birgit Prinz German forward  Americans have grown accus­ 

coach Silvia Neid: "Our offense never stopped going forward, and we played well down the wings." 
One of the world's top strik­ers, Prinz scored with a thump­ing header, knocked in a loose ball at the far post and then slipped a glancing header past Argentine goalkeeper Vanina Correa. 
For the Americans, in particu­lar, security is evident at the World Cup. The U.S. team is fol­lowed by a Chinese security force dressed all in black, sport­ing bulletproof vests and carry­ing sidearms and large auto­matic weapons. 
The heavy security could be a test for next year's Beijing Olympics or in anticipation of the team's opening on Sept. 11 in a highly charged game against North Korea. 
"It's like we have a SWAT team behind us when we go to practice," defender Christie Rampone said, noting the extra tomed to the spe­
eial attention. 
''We feel very 
safe here in China," Markgraf said. "When you are in another country play­ing in such a big tournament there are already so many pres­sures on you that the last thing you want tb think about is that you are unsafe." 
"Everywhere we go we wind up getting a lot of security," she added. "We all pretty used to it. It's become more normal. It doesn't faze us but we are grateful it's there." 
The 21 American women seem rnlaxed as they prepared to start playing. Twenty-four hours before the opening game, the main activity was painting fingernails red, white and blue. 
"I know, we're very rough and tough aren't we," Markgraf joked. "It's kind of really girlie, and that's what we like to do." 
Hyan, who is undefeated in 46 games since taking over as coach, has had to tell his team to ease up in practice. 
U.S. AIR I'ORCE 
R•O•T•C 

IF YOU SPEAK A FOREIGN LANGUAGE, SEE THE WORLD. 
If you speak a foreign Language or are currently learning one, we have countless opportunities awaiting you in Air Force ROTC. 
• Tuition assistance  • Officer. commission  
• Monthly living allowance  • See the world.  
Our current  language  needs  include  Chinese,  Persian.  Hindi,  

Indonesian and countless others. 
Call1-866-4AF-ROTC or visit AFROTC.COM. 

Tuesday, September 11, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
TENNIS 
Federer receives high praise from Sampras 
Record holder for all-time major championships says it's a matter of when, not if, Federer will break record 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Some advi,ce, sports fans: Be sure to appre­ciate Roger Federer, to relish his brilliance with a racket. to understand exactly what a rare treat a champion of his caliber and character is. 
Don't just take my word for it. 
Listen, instead, to someone who knows a lot more abqut tennis, someone who figures it is a matter of when -not whether Feden~r will break P(~te sages Federer received after­ward was one from his pal Tiger Woods, whose career is in many ways defined by his pursuit of Jack Nicklaus' record for golf majors. 
How quickly could Federer pass Sampras? 
Consider .this: In 2004, 2006 and 2007, Federer won three of each season's four majors. 
"It's exciting. Very exciting. I mean, I used to not like it so much. All that, 'He's the one who can break it.' Or, 'He will break it. He's so talented,' and stuff. And you're like, 'Ooof, my 
Sampras' "If there's a player God, I'm so far records of 14 away.' It's just
and a person that I'd 
Grand Slam hard, and it
like to see break this, 
titles. wears on you," Listen to it would be Roger." Federer told a Pistol Pete him­group of self. r e p ·o r t e r s
Pete Sampras

"I did all I Monday at a 
forme•· tennis player
could do in the Times Square 

'90s, and I real­ly thought the 14 would be tough to beat. Little did I know Hoger would come along and dominate the way he has -and that could last a while longer," Sampras said Monday in a telephone interview from Los Angele.s. 
"If there's a player and a person that I'd like to see break this, it would be Hoger. lie's a great guy. Lets his rack­et do the talking. One of those humble champions I like." 
Still only 26, Federer collect­ed his 12th Grand Slam title Sunday at the U.S. Open by beating Novak Djokovic 7-6 (4), 7-6 (2), 6-4. Among the 40 or so congratulatory text m!~s­


restaurant. 

"So to have caught up so quickly to Pete is a big bonus for me, already early on in my career.... And the focus is becoming more and more. the Grand Slams." 
In the next breath, Federer made sure to point out that he takes all tournaments, big and small, seriously. With 51 total titles, who could argue? But he clearly is signaling that he is finally ready to embrace the chase. 
So, to his credit, is the man whose mark is being pursued. 
And Sampras; who was 31 when he won the 2002 U.S. Open for his last major title, doesn't expect Federer to stop at 14. Or 15. 
"I won't be disappointed ­it's more respect than any­thing. Would I like my record to last forever? Of course. But 
Siz~le'ne (Sizzlelini®)­
Every Tuesday enjoy our Sizzlelini® Specialty (enough for two) for just $10.95 A sizzling skillet of tender chicken. savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous por-tion of spaghetti. 
Bd-I<~ fie (Bellini) ­

A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 

e. 

Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 
Reservations Accepted 
records are made to be bro­ken," Sampras said. "He'll win a ton more. Motivation will be his biggest hurdle, but he could win 17,18 majors the way he's going, if he's healthy." 
If there's a knock on Federer, it's pretty much the same as the only one people could come up with when Sampras ruled tennis. 
He's kinda boring, they say. Doesn't berate linesmen on the court the way Connors and McEnroe did, doesn't raise a ruckus off it the way Becker and Borg did. 1-Iasn't married an actress (Brooke) or a tennis star (Steffi) the way Agassi did. (Well, actually, Sampras did marry an actress.) 
Not surprisingly, Federer and Sampras think that sort of criticism is unwarranted. 
"That's really searching for something to say. Will he make headlines with his antics like some past champions? No, but that's not what he's about. That's why I like watching him," Sampras said. "I know what that's like. I wasn't excit­ing enough. I didn't do enough on the court or off the court." 
During the U.S. Open, the mild-mannered Federer was seen in contrast to the gregar­ious Djokovic, he of the per­fect impersonations of Maria Sharapova and Hafael Nadal right there in Arthur Ashe Stadium after a quarterfinal match. 
After Sunday's victory, Pederer said, "It's good to have a character like him out there," but he also noted that, "some guys weren't happy" about the late-night lounge act. You almost got the feeling Federer's thinking might be: "How about winning a Slam or two before you start goofing around?" 
Federer, meanwhile, does 
seem to be generating more 
buzz Stateside than in the 
past. 
He drew notice for his Man 
in Black outfits at the Open. 
He chatted Monday with Matt 
and Meredith on "Today," then 
spent time with "Regis and 
Kelly." He was greeted with 
applause when he walked into 
the Oscar de Ia Renta show at 
New York Fashion Week and 
sat next to Vogue editor-in­
chief Anna Wintour, a friend. 
Federer's bid to catch 
Sampras resumes in January 
at the Australian Open, a tour­
nament the Swiss star has 
won three of the past four 
years. Win again, and Federer 
will have 13 Slams come 
March 10, when he and 
Sampras meet in an exhibition 
at Madison Square Garden. 
They played for real only 
once, at Wimbledon in 2001, 
when Federer beat Sampras 
in five sets. At the time, 
Federer had yet to win a 
major; Sampras would go on 
to win one more. 
"I knew he was extremely talented then -a lot of power, didn't have holes in his ·game," Sampras said. "He fig­ured it out kind of how I fig­ured it out in my early 20s. Then, the way he started win­ning majors pretty much with ease, I just accepted that he was going to break my 
record." 
Now 36, Sampras knows he 
can't keep adding to his Slam 
count. 
Sure would feel nice to put 
the kid in his place for one 
day in the Big Apple, though. 
"I still serve well. Roger's 
Hoger. It's going to hopefully 
be competitive tennis," 
Sampras said. "We both want­
ed to do it because our names 
have been linked and will be 
linked for the next couple of 
years." 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 11, 2007 
PGA 

Nevv baby can't break Tiger'? winning ways 
Associated Press 
LEMONT, Ill. -Tlw massive gallery chasing Tiger Woods around Cog llill indudl'd his wife, Jo:lin, who was on tho golf' coursn for t.lw lirst limn siJl(~O giving birth to llwir daughtPr. It was a sign thny ar·p snttling bark into a rou­tinn, 1wen if' Woods rwvnr got out of OIW. 
lie's still winning. 
For thosP wondering how fatherhood might al'fnrt him, Woods is !ih undPr par in thn six tournamenl" lw has playnd sinn~ Sam AIPxis was horn a day after tlw U.S. 0 pn n. That includns thnw victories, orw of tlwm a nH\jor, and anothPr milestone. 
Woods donsn 't keep track of tlw numhnrs. so lw was mildly sur­pl'isPd to lnarn that his two-shot victory owr Aaron Baddeley in thn BMW Championship on Sunday was No. hO in a PGA Tour ('.amer that lwgan II years and 
I:~ days Parlinr. 
Only four otlwr players have won that many times -Sam Srwad, .lark Nicklaus. Ben I logan and · Arnold l'alrnnr -and no ously contending at the British Open, thorn was talk that swing eoaeh Ilank Hanp,y was holding him back. Never mind that Woods had won four of the previous eight llH\jors, and none of' his eon­temporaries have more than thr1~e for tlwir career. 

Woods quieted that talk with his victory at the PGA Championship. 
And lhr those who question his ability oil' the tne, he missed only two fairways the entim wnekend at Cog llill. Asked the last time he had struck tho ball that well. Woods mnntionnd Southern I !ills, noting that the I'GA fairways worn morn narrow. 
Memories can bn short. 
Justin Hosn has played with the world's No. 1 player on big stages likn MuirliPid and Carnoustic. But this was the first time in a final round. and he noticed a difl'nr­nnen. 
"lin's so intense. but he's also inerndibly relaxPd," Hose said. "You can see ho lets his round build. lin starts ofl' vnry relaxed, very ealm. doesn't let anything bother him. And then as the round 
orro has rc~aehPd gnts on and he
"And to have
that numlwr so gnts morn into it, quickly. Woods is this many wins, I he get~ more ~nd ;{I. Nicklaus was never could have more loeused. ;{!i and in his That's what
forseen that. " 
14th season on coach Butch tour when lw !Iarmon was try­rnadwd his hOth Tiger Woods ing to share with 
lour victory. American Golfer Phil Mickelson 
"I nnvnr, ever would have drnamt that this wuld havn happened this soon." Woods said aftor making eight hirdios, missing only one fairway and posting a h3 that neither Baddeley nor Steve Stricker eould matdr. 
''I've been out horn what, 11 years'! And to have this many wins, I nnver could have liJrese1m that," lw said. "I've exceeded my expectations, and it's bmm a lot of fun to mrjoy that road, that whole process to get to 60. It's been a lot of' work. Thorn have been some changes along the way. But I think that's all been grnat." 
The Tour Championship will be his final ollidal start of 2007, so Woods will have to wait until next year to surpass Palmer, who is fin1rth on thH career list with 62 victories. If he eontinues at this pac11, he also will pass I logan (64 vietorins) next year. 
Odds arn he will break Snead's rneord of 82 victories before he gets to Nicklaus' meord of 18 pro­filssional majors. 
Ac.; long and as often as Woods has bmm winning, the rate is no less alarming. 
Hemernber, it was only 13 months ago at the Buick Open that Woods reached his 50th earner victory. Since thon, he has won 1 0 times in 19 starlc.;. 
"Not bad, p,h'!" was the best response Woods could lind. 
But he smiled and half:-jokingly said another slump was eminent if he wAnt a coupiH of tourna­menlc.; without winning. 
Woods has been dealing with such expectations for the last eight years, and there are times he gets too sensitive over any cri­tique of' his game. A little subcu­taneous fat is better than thin skin. 
But it's amazing how quickly public opinion can changn. After failing to win while playing in the final group at the Masters and the U.S. Open, then never seri­about his former 
client. 
W h e n 

Mickelson won the Deutsche 
Bank Championship last week 
outside Boston while playing 
three rounds with Woods, he 
madH it sound as though Harmon 
had shamd some secrets. 
In fact, Harmon said the tips wen-1 the same thing Rose discov­ered. 
"One of the things he [Mickelson] can learn trom Tiger is he doesn't let anything bother him," Harmon said in a telephone interview last week. "Tiger's greatest strength is what you can't see -his mind, his heart, his desire. I explained things I learned in my 10 years being around Tiger, and it was geared toward making Phil more com­fortable in that environment." 
Along with reaching his 60th tour victory, the timing could not have been any better for the PGA Tour. 
The FedEx Cup now has the No. 1 player atop the standings going into the Tour Championship, with Stricker and Mickelson right behind and l;>oth capable of winning the $10 mil­lion prize. Woods winning the cup would lend some measure of credibility for the skeptics. Stricker or Mickelson as the FedEx Cup champion would mean they won two of the four playoff events. There's nothing wrong with that, either. 
Having those three among the top contenders will help take some attention away from the greens at East Lake, which are in bad enough shape that practice rounds effectively have been banned. 
Woods helped promote the FedEx Cup by doing TV spots for the tour, the first time he had done a commercial for free. He is among players who wonder about the shelf life of these PGA Tour PlayoiTs. But if there's a tro­phy on the line, he wants it. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

UW's Bielema seeing red 
Badgers' head coach wants home crowd to dress as one Saturday 
Associated Press 

MADISON, Wis.-Wiseonsin coaeh Bret Bielema doesn't want his players dwelling on the Badgers' 11-game winning streak. 
lie doesn't want them worry­ing about dropping two spots to No. 7 in the AP poll this week, dnspite a 2-0 record. 
Mainly, he donsn't want them thinking Saturday's opponent, The Citadel, will be an easy win just bocause the team comes from tho Football Championship Subdivision. 
Instead, Bielema wants his tnam to see rod. 
''I'd love to walk irito Camp Handall [Stadium[ and see a sea of red." Bielnma said Monday. "One of the things I bngan to see and expmience in eollegn football is people walk into an environment like that, with everybody all in one color, it's kind of an overwhelming thing for everybody to be a part
... 
0.1 

Bielerna broke with tradition for the Badgers' home opener two weeks ago against Washington State, dressing the players in all red instead of red and white. While the new uni­form drew a mixed reaction from fans, the players loved it, and Bielema said it will be baek against The Citadel. 
"I love to see just red swarm­ing the football," Bielema said. "As this thing hopefully gains momentum, it will have a huge ell'ect at Camp Randall." 
While time will toll if' Bielema's color scheme catches on, the Badgers arn riding an 11-game winning streak that is tops in the nation. Bielema, calling the stroak a "big thing." said he talknd to his team about it on the plane after the Badgers returned from a eorne­l'rom-behind 20-13 vietory against UNLV on Saturday night. 
"I knew they wore going to hear it, so I wanted them to hear it out of my mouth first. ... I wanted them to have it in the context of' the way we think around here," Bielema said. 
Not taking anything for grant­ed is the message this week as Wisconsin plays The Citadel for the first time. Like Appalachian State, which shocked Michigan with a victory in Ann Arbor on Snpt. 1, Tlw Citadel is a mem­ber of the Football Championship Subdivision. for­merly Division 1-AA. 

Tlw Citadel knows all about making history, too. It's 76-0 thrashing of Webber lntPrnational on Saturday was its highest scoring game since 1909. The win puts The Citadnl at 2-0, the best start for the Southern Conl'ernnce team sincn 1997. 
Ikspite dropping two spots in rankings, Binlema said he's not thinking about trying to make a statement against The Citadel. 
"I don't even worry about stating the ease. I worry about one game at a time," Bielema said. "If Wfl ever bngin to think about a statnment or thinking beyond where we're at right now, we'll never get there." 


Student International Business Council 

SIBC All-Council Informational Meeting TONIGHT!!! Tuesday, September 11th @7 PM Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza 
.fBecome involved in the largest student-run organization on campus .f Work on projects with BIG NAME companies (Deloitte, Starcom, etc.) .fBuildyour resume .fIntern abroad 
ALL Majors and Years Welcome! 
sibc.nd.edu 

"' PEACE THROUGH COMMERCE "' 
Tuesday, September 11, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Turnovers help Bengals defeat rival Ravens 
McNair leaves with injured groin, replacement Boller throws last-minute interception to end comeback effort 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -With wound­ed players shuffling orr in waves, what was left of the Cincinnati Bengals rallied for a win that hurt so good. 
Steve McNair's intercepLion -his fourth gaffe of the game -set up Carson Palmer's fourth-quarter touchdown pass, and Cincinnati's suspect defense pulled off a goal-line stand Monday night that pre­served a 27-20 victory over the Baltimore Ravens.z 
In a bruising season opener matching the last two AFC North champs, the Bengals were the last one standing ­barely. 
"We know it's going to be a hard-fought game when we play these guys -tough, physical," Bengals coach Marvin Lewis said. "It's important to in the physical football games because you put so much into it." 
Kyle Boller took over after McNair strained his groin in the fourth quarter -the last in a nonstop run of injuries for both teams -and led the Ravens to the 1-yard line in the closing seconds. 
A pass interference penalty on Todd Heap negated his catch in the end zone, and Boller's final pass deflected off Heap's shoulder and was ter. They also briefly lost kick­came up big for the Bengals, game to a frantic finish. fewest points and yards in the intercepted in the end zone by er Shayne Graham, costing catching five passes for 95 Safety Ed Reed returned a NFL. It was poised to assert diving lineman Michael them on an extra-point try. yards, including a 39-yard punt untouched 63 yards for a itself against the Bengals, who Myers. Even receiver Chad Johnson touchdown. touchdown that put the won it in 2005. 
The Bengals had to work limped off at one point, evi­"I told you I would give you Ravens ahead 20-19 early in Ravens linebacker Ray with a makeshift offensive dently suffering from a a show," Johnson said. the fourth quarter and Lewis got himself in the mood line that was missing three cramp. The Pro Bowl receiver Both teams overcame signif­silenced the crowd of 66,093, for the matchup by hopping starters by the second quar-and incessant self-promoter icant injuries to send the the second-largest in Paul and waving his arms in the 


STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two L•river Training Sessions in September. 
If you haye not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented v~~hicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 9th and SeP'tember 16th, at 7:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 30 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, fa1culty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. ~ee our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
If you have any questions on the Driver Training sessioltls or the Motor Pool you may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 
Brown Stadium's history. Reed had to return kicks because 
B.J. Sams sprained a knee. 
The emotional lift didn't last long. McNair had the most to do with that. 
In his second season run-. ning the Ravens' offense, he had one of his worst .games. McNair fumbled on a sack, muffed a handoff to running back Willis McGahee, and let the ball slip out of his hand on a pass attempt. Linebacker Landon Johnson caught that orange-striped end zone like a heavyweight getting ready for the opening bell. 
He was the first one knocked out of the game. 
On Cincinnati's first pass, Lewis lowered his shoulder and leveled Houshmandzadeh. The 32-year-old linebacker got up holding his right arm. 
The emotional leader of the NFL's top defense last year, Lewis jogged to the locker room to have his upper right arm examined and wrapped. 

fumble in mid­"We know it's He wasn't air and going to be a hard­around to see returned it 34 the celebration
fought game when we

yards for a that was meant 
touchdown. play these guys -partly for him. 
Despite all tough, physical." C h a d that, the Johnson, a defending divi­close friend
Marvin Lewis 

sion champs who talks to had a chance to Bengals coach Lewis a few 
hold the lead and pull out one of those make-or-break games on the road. Instead, McNair let it slip away with his last error. 
His high pass deflected off the hands of Derrick Mason, and Robert Geathers made a diving interception that was upheld on review. Two plays later, Palmer threw a 7-yard touchdown pass to T.J. Houshmandzadeh for the final lead. 
Cincinnati made the 2-point conversion on Rudi Johnson's run. 
McNair strained his groin on the next series and finished the game 20-of-34 for 203 yards. 
Baltimore won the division by five games last season with a defense that gave up the 
times each 
week, had promised him a special celebra­tion "if" he got into the end zone. Once there, he jogged to the sideline and pulled out a mock blazer for the "Monday Night Football" crowd. 
The back of the foam garb was inscribed: Future H.O.F. 20?? -a reference to the Hall of Fame. 
Other than that one play, the points and yards came at a price. 
The Bengals' offensive line was missing three starters at one point: tackles Willie Anders,on and Levi Jones, as well as center Eric Ghiaciuc. Ravens 10-time Pro Bowl left tackle Jonathan Ogden left in the second quarter; he missed most of preseason with a sore big toe on his left foot. 


page 20 
NFL 

49ers rename field after former coach 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO -The 
names on the Bay Area's sports 
arenas sometimes change faster 
than the names on the back of 
players' jerseys. 
The an~a·s live major-league Vfmuns have had a total of 17 oflieial nanws since 1995, with at least three appellations for nvnry building. When Northern California's thriving high-tech economy gets together with m o rwy-hungry landlords, they create monikf~rs ranging from tho euphonic (l'adlic Bell Park. Orade An~nal to the grating ( NetworkAo.;sodatPs Coliseum I to the hopnlnssly obtuse (Compaq Cmrtnr at San ./osP, anymw'!). 
Thn most bdoved and historic venue is aging Candlest.ir.k Park, whkh will spPrHI cme morn olli­rial year as Monster Park ­nvnn though tlw San Francisco 41Jt•rs and tlwir ronlractually obligatml broadrastnrs arn the only pnopiP who don't still call it by its birth IHLIIIC'. 
But lnaw il to Bill Walsh to be the source of tlw first new narnn that Bay Area sports fans can rc~ally support -Pvnn if it's only tho nanw of tlw grass inside the Monster. 
Though tlw swirling wind is still an unprPdictable mnnace and tlw turf always seems to bn erratically slick. Bill Walsh Field is the San Francisco 49ers' new horne inside llw verwrable stadi­LIIll with the tom porary name, starting with Monday night's ganw against the Arizona <:ardinals. 
"We 'vn just trit~d to recognize 
NASCAR 

Earnhardt Jr.'s faulty engines raise fans' ire 
Associated Press 
CHAHLOlTE, N.C. -If not for five blown engines, Dale Earnhardt Jr. would be racing lor a Nextel Cup ehampionship in this final season driving for his late litther's c~ompany. 
Instead, thrne failures in the last snven races -inducting one with six laps to go Saturday night at Hichmond -knocked NASCAR's most popular driver out of the Chase for the championship. 
"We broke anothnr motor, and thny seem to litll apart when they plug 'em into my ear," Junior said. "It's just really frustrating." 
It's also morn than a little suspi­cious to his legion of fans, who have wondered for weeks if this was sabotage on the part of his stepmother. 
Aftnr all, his relationship with Teresa Earnhardt "ain't a bed of roses," and .Junior's impending split isn't exactly amicable. Thny'vn publidy feuded since I>m~mnht~r-lw daims she's been unreasonable during negotiations and 1m's bolting ((,r rival Ilendriek Motorsporlo.; at the end of the sea­son. 
Thn squabbling has been so intensn on so many issuos _ most rtH~ently Ternsa's rdusal to let Earnhardt take his bdoved No. 8 with him to llnndriek -that the and memorialize what Bill has done," 49ers owner John York said of the club's weeks of memorials to its former coach and general manager. "I think this is very appropriate for Bill, and I'm glad we were able to do it." 

The 49ers made extensive prnparations in recent weeks for their regular-season tribute to Walsh, the Hall of Fame coach and the architect of the 49ers' Super Bowl dynasty. Walsh died of leukemia on July 30, and the city of San Francisco announced its plan to change the name of the field during a memorial servic1~ at Candlestick several days later. 
The dub printnd up commem­orative programs and posters for the regular-season debut of the nowly named field, and they put together a video tribute. Thanks to a whole lot of behind­thn-scnrws jockeying by York, tlw NFk also allownd the 49ers to wear their cherry-rnd throw­back jerseys _ tho same colors worn by the dub that Walsh led to three titles in just 10 seasons. 
Thn 49ors also will wear black "BW" patches on the back of tlwir helmets throughout the season. Walsh was selected last weHk as an honorary team cap­tain against the Cardinals, to be represented by former team executive John McVay. 
''I'm glad the NFL got behind us and let us wear the uniforms as a tribute," quarterback Alex Smith said. "I think it's a good idea to remember what he meant to this league and this franchise." 
idea that she would intentionally derail his season wouldn't sur­prise anyone. And because the DEI motors never even seem to sputter under the hoods of his teammates, it's actually believ­able. 
But DEI officials call the entire idea is preposterous. 
"I can assure you that's not the case," general manager John Story said Monday. "We under­stand that there might be a natu­ral assumption that because he is leaving, the team would say 'Who cares? We are not going to try for him.' 
"But if anything, it's the other way around. We tried hard to get him in the Chase. We wanted him to win a championship. We always said that would have been the most appropriate way for him to leave DEI." 
Of course, DEI is going to say that. And conspiracy theorists will forever be convinced Earnhardt was the victim of an intricate and evil plot to punish him for his bntrayal. 
It sounds awfully good. But it's probably not true. 
Sure, seeing Junior fail might bring a slight smile to Teresa Earnhardt's face, but it would be one of the most foolish business deeisions she could possibly make. 
The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 11, 2007 CLUB SPORTS 
Ultimate wins eight games 
Sailing takes second place at Fast Fury Regatta in Wisconsin 
Special to The Observer 
Ultimate Frisbee 

This weekend Notre Dame traveled to Naperville, Ill., for the Chicago Heavyweight Championships, a presti­gious club tournament that brings teams together from across the country. 
The. team was seeded low in the 48-team field, but proved over the course of the weekend they deserved a little more respPct. 
Play started Saturday with a game against a masters' club team from Milwaukee. The game was elose early on, but once Notre Dame settled down with the help of steady play from sophomore Andrew Schroeder, they pulled away with a 13-7 vic­tory. 
The win was followed by a second match against a mas­ters' club team from Chieago. Play was very simi­lar to the first game, and it wasn't until junior Danny Collom made some key plays that the team was able take a 13-8 win. 
The final pool play game was against sectional rival Northwestern. Notre Dame had more experience, and it showed in the result, 13-6 in favor of Notre Dame. 
This strong start put the team in good shape heading into the second series of pool play. The next game was against _Wisconsin. With solid play from junior Thomas Rivas at the start, the team jumped out to an 
A bit ofIreland in your own backyard. 
' s 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven night'> a week, too. 
(WaterfOrd Estates l..od~ has hotel rooms at reasonable ratesfur upcomi~ NDn.JOtball we.ekends.) 

early lead and never looked back on its way to a 12-6 win. 
Notre Dame had one more game Saturday, against Wheaton. 
Familiar with Wheaton from multiple games between the two teams last spring, the Irish were able to capitalize on their under­standing of the opponent. Led by graduate student Steve Kurtz, who played in 18 of the 22 points of the game, Notre Dame held on for a 13-9 victory. 
The 5-0 record Saturday put the team in great posi­tion for play on Sunday. The first game matched Notre Dame with a club team from Oklahoma. Again, a fast start gave the team the nne­essary edge to come out on top. Solid produetion from graduate student John Goodwin contributed to the 12-7 final score. 
The team now had to win in order to stay in con­tention. 
In a tough game against a club team from Cleveland. leadership from senior eo­captain Nick Chambers proved to be the difference as the Irish held on for an 11-8 win. This put Notre Dame· in its final game against a club team from Minnesota. The team strug­gled at the start and had to overcome fatigue from the brutal weekend tournament schedule. 
After getting into an early 3-1 hole, Notre Dame pro­ceeded to score 12 of the next 14 points on its way to a 15-7 rout. Junior Daniel Reimer continued to provide the same spark that he had all weekend, and the other team couldn't find an answer. 
By posting an 8-0 record, the Irish hope to use this success as a springboard toward greater achieve­ments during the College Series in the spring. 
The club will travel to Whitewater. Wis., for its next tournament Sept: 29-30. 
Sailing 
Notre Dame finished sec­ond in a 12-team field at tlw Fast Fury Hngalta in Wisconsin this wenkend. 
The Irish trailed only Minnesota at the end, with Wiseonsin Bed, Wisconsin Cardinal and Northwt\stern rounding out the top fivn. 
Michigan State, Miami of Ohio, Michigan, St. Thomas, Iowa, Marqueltn and Michigan Tech rounded out the field in that order of lin­ish. The Irish B division boat finishnd first in two of the five races and third in the remaining three races. 
The A division boat fin­ished top l'ivn in each of its races, including one sncond­plaee finish. Captain John Dailey led the Irish contin­gent to their strong showing. 
The sailing club also pro­vided rescue launch support for the Notre Dame Biathlon this wAekend on St. Joseph Lake. 


Tuesday, September 11, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 



Ho01e 
continued from page 24 
Watson from the outside to the right side," Schroeder­Biek said. 
Schroeder-Biek has put much responsibility on her freshmen this year, espe­cially Watson. 
"Watson is such a strong blocker and the right-side gets good blocking action 
With College Combo®, designed especially for college students, you get: 
• 
Free Wells Fargo College Checking® account* 

• 
No annual fee Wells Fargo® Check Card -now with Visa® payWave 

• 
Free access to Wells Fargo Online® Banking and Free Bill Pay 

• 
Free Direct Deposit of paychecks and/or financial aid 

• 
Free access to over 6,800 Wells Fargo ATMs Stop by your local Wells Fargo and talk with a banker today. 


*Eligibility subject to approval. Students must provide proof of enrollment at an accredited college/university or trade school when the account is opened. $100 minimum openi·ng deposit required for new checking account. Additional restrictions apply. 

on the opponents strong attacker," Schroeder-Biek said. 
Hellmann has been a strong defensive threat, posting her first double­double of the season against Geneva College, in last weekend's Hiram Tournament. 
"Kaela's floor defense is so solid moving her to the left-side will allow her to really play more floor defense as opposed to the 
middle blocking position, where her defense is always on the net," Schroeder-Biek said. 
She said she hopes her team will gel quickly with the two players in different places on the floor. 
"We need to adjust to our new positions, but more than anything play to win as a team," she said. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

© 2007 Wells Fargo Bank, N.i\. All rights reserved. Member FDIC. 

Talk with a Wells Fargo Banker and get your PhD in Money-omics. 
The Next Stage® 

ND WoMEN's GoLF 
Strong round puts squad in second 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is three strokes off the lead after the second round of the Cougar Classic at the Yeamans Hall Golf Club in Hanahan, S.C. 
A team effort of four-over par on the day has the Irish sitting in second place at 579 (287-292) heading into the final day. 
Tennessee currently controls the leader board with a score of 576 (288-288). Behind Notre Dame in third is Texas with a total of 581 (288-293), and Alabama, in fourth, which shot 584 (286-298). LSU (286-299) and North Carolina State (294­
291) are tied for fifth at 585. 
A pair of young golfers ­junior Lisa Maunu and fresh­man So-Hyun Park -is lead­ing Notre Dame's effort. A day after the junior co-captain had the best round of in program history -a six-under 66 -Maunu shot a two-over par 7 4 leaving her in a second-place tie. 
SMC GOLF 
Close to lead, Belles prepare for round 2 
mined to win. He has high

By KATE ARNOLD 
expectations for his team, for 

Sports Writer 
both this tournament and the 
season as a whole. 

After a second-place fmish in "Although we are a young Kalamazoo, Mich., over the team, there is no reason to think weekend, Saint Mary's hopes to that we can't be among the top continue its strong play today in teams in the league," Hamilton Angola, Ind. said. "There is a lot of talent on 
Tri-State University hosts the this team to not only to be suc­
second leg of the MIAA Jamboree, 
"Although we are a

which began at 
Kalamazoo on young team, there is Saturday. no reason to think that 
Today's round, 
we can ,t be among

at the Zollner 
golf course in the top teams in Angola, begins the league. ,, at 1 p.m. The Belles are cur­
Mark Hamilton

rently second only to Olivet Belles coach out of nine MIAA squads in 
Park is currently atop the entire field with a combined total of five-under-par 139 in her first collegiate tourna­ment. 
Sophomore Annie Brophy had a one-stroke improvement of her first round total and sits in a tie for 38th with an over­all score of 149 (75-74). 
Fellow sophomore Kristin Wetzel also shaved· a stroke off of her first round perform­ance, with a three-over par 
75. She is in a tie for 47th overall. 
Freshman Katie Conway is tied for 58th place after shoot­ing a three-over par 7 5 Monday -three strokes better than her first-round score. 
The Irish will tee off the third and final round today at 9 a.m. After the Cougar Classic, Notre Dame will only have six days to prepare for their second invitational of the season -the Napa River Grill Cardinal Cup in Louisville, Ky., which begins on Sept. 17. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edn 

cessful in the MIAA but also the nation." 
In the first round, senior captain Katie O'Brien took first place over­all by five strokes. 
Hamilton is confident that she will contin­ue this perform­ance. 
"Katie has the 

the Jamboree. 
With a score of 345, they scored only 10 points higher than the first-place Comets. In third place, Tri-State trails only two strokes behind Saint Mary's. 
After that, only 18 strokes sep­arate the Belles and sixth-place Albion, with Hope and Alma in fourth and fifth, respectively. 
The competition will be close "today again, and Saint Mary's coach Mark Hamilton is deter-experience and skill necessary to help us get back to the top," he said. "She knows what it takes to win at this level, and she will prove to be a valuable asset for this team in a variety of ways." 
The third and final round of the MIAA Jamboree will be held Sept. 25 in Alma, Mich. 
Contact Kate Arnold at karnold@nd.edu 



The Observer + SPORTS 
Tuesday, September II, 2007 

Irish junior forward Zach Hlllesland looks to pass in Notre Dame's 85-57 win over Bellarmine on Nov. 6, 2006. 
-page 22 Brey 
continued from page 24 
"With sc!H·duling, I always sit down with I Big Hast Comrnissionnrl MikP Tranglwsn, who is fomwr IH•ad of thn com­mitten, and IAssociate Commissioner( Dave (;;tvitl and say. 'llnn~·s what I"m thinking. What do you think'!' I always sign off on guys that am nxpnrts net. Last sea­many more shots

"It's a whole unit 
son, the team than last year. goals-against thing. It's not just Last season oppo­average was nents got off 5.9
the goalkeepers. " 
0.4. This sea­shots per game; son, it has this year they've allowed 2.09 Randy Waldrum managed 11.8. goals per Irish coach Waldrum said game. junior defender 
Waldrum Carrie Dew still was happy hasn't fully with the keeper's play early recovered from her ACL in the season but said their injury, and that has ham­performance has fallen orr pered the defense as well. since then. While the offense returned 
"Lauren was great for us fairly intact, the Irish lost against Florida. We got that, two senior defenders ­and we were excited about Christie Shaner and Kim i t • Lorenzen. The team also lost Waldrum senior Jill Krivacek, a defen­said. "She sive midf'ielder. Losing play­came out ers of their caliber created a Friday, and defensive vacuum that so far she really the team has not been able to struggled fill. Sophomore defenders in the first Haley Ford and Amanda half. Kelsey Clark and junior defender had a great Elise Weber, along with Dew, preseason, make up the current defen­and she really struggled." sive unit. 
Waldrum said that the Be it the caliber of their keepers might not be entirely opponents (Notre Dame faced 

Tournament. 
"First year (of the 1 f1-team Big East), wn got eight bids, could've argued for nine. We thought f:ineinnati should have got in. Last y1mr, only six bids, could have argued for snven," Bn~y said. "Is 1R leagw~ games going help us gPt bark to night bids'! If it is, all sixteen coaches will be singing the praises of 1 H league games. If we get six bids 
three top-10 teams in the first six games, including the preseason), the relatively green defense or a drop-off in goalkeeping talent from last season, the Irish face a chal­lenge that Waldrum said requires someone to assert 
Observer Irish junior point guard Kyle McAiarney drives to the basket in Notre Dame's 9045 win over Winston-Salem State on Nov. 29, 2007. 
again'! This is a tough league to coach in if you'r!' only getting six bids out of H1 and only 12 g1~t to go to tlw IBig Hast! tour­narnPnt. and it's not smart for long-term longevity." 
Notre Danw begins Big 1-:<tst play on Jan. ;{ at honw against WPst Virginia. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

with strength of' sehodule and strategy," he said. 
"You r.an't sit there and say. "Boy, we want to schedulo so our send is higher in tho NCAA Toumamnnt,' you better sdwd­ulP to gJ~t in tlw tournament," Bn~y said. "You have to be strategic about a bid and smart about it and not ovorschedulo, ospocially this first yqar benwse it's new territory." 
Tho Irish begin with two exhi­bitions and a gamo against 

Keepers 
continued from page 24 
eonsistnntly shown what Waldrum said lw is looking for -somnonn who can step up and makn plays in tho pnnalty box. 
"Bight now tlwy're afraid to como up to tlw linn and make mistakns," he said. "Wn 'vn got to havt~ somnonn that slw's going to step up and take chargn." 

Thn lev1d Karas of play in goal fnll significantly in rnla­tion to last snason. Karas startnd 25 gam1~s last stmson as a junior. a year in which tlw Irish WPnt 25-1-1 and lost to No. I North Carolina in the NCAA championship game. 
During tlu~ season, shn allownd an average of 
0.41 goals per gam!~, made 41 savns and had u .H04 save per­centage. Lysander Lysander

saw b;u~ k­up duty in night games, allowing one goal and making four saves. 


Long Island before hoading to tho U.S. Virgin Islands to play in thn Paradiso Jam tournament. Notrn Dame will also take on Kansas Stato at Madison Squaro Garden in New York City, but the rest of' the Irish schedule is filled with easy wins. 
The coach also said that Notre Dame might play a series of games with traditional l'oe UCLA in coming years in an effort to play a more challeng­ing early-season schedule. 
Brey said tho soft non-confer­once schedule this snason will be balanced by the 1 H-game Big East slate, which includes games against all 15 other schools in tho league -and two games against DePaul, Marquetto, and Connecticut. 
"I like that we play everybody. I like our repeat games. I think DePaul and Marquette are nat­urals for us as repeat games," Brey said. "So thoro's Pnough on tlw schedule to play your way in and do your thing. I think whnn wn play ovnrybody, it'll be a truer picture of one through twelve when we go to New York, and maybe the old sclwduln won't convolute who's first S!H:ond and third, which can cost peopln NCAA Tournamnnt bids and has in the past." 
Brey said he hopes the expand od selw d uIn is good overall in the confernncn and should avoid situations similar to last season when Syracusn won I 0 hmgue games but failed to qualify for the NCAA 
This season. Karas has allowed two goals per ganw and has just a .500 save pnr­cnntage. Lysander has allowml four goals per game, and Weiss has let in 1.11 per game. 
As a team last season, Notre Dame allowed seven percent of shots to result in a goal. This season, 19 percent of shots have rt~ ac bed the back of the at fault. The young defense needs some time to get itself togPilwr, he said. 
"It's a wholn unit thing, it's not just the goalkeepers," Waldrum said. "We've got some things we've got to sort out defensively for sure. We've got a young defense back there. We've got players we've been moving around." 
The defense has 
so far allowed the 
keepers to see 
herself. 
"We've got to get some con­sistency," he said. "We've got to get someone who can dom­inate the penalty box for us." 
Contact Bill Brink at 
wbrink@nd.edu 

Write sports 

Tuesday, September 11, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 • HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

BLAcK DoG 
DEUCES MANOR 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
CROSSWORD 
Across 36 Pawn Chews the fat 39 In the style of 5 Cleveland 
40 'Hipster cagers, briefly 
43 Cyndi Lauper's 9 1986 Indy 
"_Bop' winner Bobby 
44 Accompa,lying 14 breve 
46 Explorer 

15 Writer Waugh 
Zebulon 16 Maine college 
47 Book before Joel 

town 49 Lacking slack 
17 Paper quantity 51 Get going 
18Zig or zag 53 Kind of pool or
19 Pooh's creator medal 20 'Line formatting 
56 Common TV option dinner 
23 Go off course 
60 Part of A~;cap: 24 Blockbuster aisle Abbr. 
25 Prerequisite for 61 'Education overseers
sainthood 64 Ring-tailed 
27 Nixon's 1968 mammal
running mate 30 Big top noise 
66 Jason's craft 31 Coke competitor 67 Wharton degs. 34 Not of the cloth 68 Sought a1swers 
-

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PU2ZLE 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


RICH PROTIVA AND ANDY SPANGLER 

WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Allan E. Parrish  
31 Pussy foot?  45 Prosciutto  57 Artist Picasso  
32 QB Manning 33 'Kids' game 35 "Ricochet" co­star 37 Rebel Guevara  48 Living room piece 50 Positive aspect 52 Self-assurance 53 Musician/wit  58 Really steamed 59 Collectible Ford product 62 Voiced  
38 Mauna  Levant  63 Fairy-tale fiend  
41 Fiber­- cable  54 Not tied down  65 Private eye,  
42 Pulsate  55 Titleholder  slangily  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

69 Old female country teacher 70 Der _ (Konrad Adenauer) 
71 Model/volleyball er Gabrielle 
72 Commoner 73 Coward of the stage 
Down Singer Brooks 2 Last Oldsmobile 
to be made 3 Britain's P.M. 
until2007 4 Tennis star Pete 5 Grotto 6 Pub servings 7 27-Across, e.g., 
informally 8 "Get out!" 9 Cesar who 
played the Joker 10 "Exodus" hero 11 'College in 
Worcester, Mass. 12 One-year record 13 Lerner's musical partner 21 Sound reasoning 22 About, in dates 26 Satisfied sigh 28 ''The Time Machine" race 
29 Word following the last parts of the answers to the five starred clues 




r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, September I I, 2007 
page 24 
~========================================================================== 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Up for grabs 
Waldrum opens up keeper job to three contenders as defense struggles in early games 
By BILL BRINK Sport' Wri1er 
!'our gamns into tlw snason, Notrn Damn still doesn't have a bona l'idn starting goal­knnpnr. 
Irish roach Handy Waldrum has rotated threl' candidates, snnior l.aurnn Karas, sopho­morn Knlsny I.ysandnr and freshman Nikki Wniss, but has not found an answer. Walrlrum said thn void at knPpnr has east a shadow of doubt over thn entire dPfnnsn. 
"Wn'rn at a point right now whnrP dPfnnsivnly, nvery­body's worrind," Waldrum said Sunday. 
Waldrum gave Weiss the I.Pntativn starting nod for Friday's Inn at Saint Mary's Classic, hut said tho battle is "still wide o1wn." 
None of the keepers have 
see KEEPERS/Page 22 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles return hollle to face conference rival 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Brey reacts to released schedule 
Irish will play 18 Big East ga1nes for first tirne in 2007 
By CHRIS HINE Spons F.di10r 
This season, the Big East expands its schedule to an 1H­game regular season -a move that has ehangnd Irish coach Mike Brny's sclwduling philoso­phy. 
The expanded Big East sch~~ dule meant N.otn~ DamP could not sclwdult~ as many out of conference games. Brny said he ehose not to burden Notre Dame with a heavy workload before January, but feels the schedule is challenging enough with the two extra Big East games. 
see BREY/Pge 22 


Olivet visits for first contest of the fall at the Angela Center 
~SAMANTHA LEONARD Sports Wri1er 
Aftnr nin1~ garnPs, Saint Mary's is finally corning horne. 
The Bnllns host Olivnt tonight at 7 in tlw Angela Athlntir Cnntnr for their first honw ganw of thn sea­son. 
Coming oiT a busy wonkend t h at i n clu d1HI two w i n s and 

' 
two losses, the Belles are looking to improve their record in the conference. 
Saint Mary's is currently in last place in the MIA/\, with an 0-2 record in the league and a :3-6 overall mark. 
Coach Julie Schroeder­Biek said there is a great deal the Belles will need to work on against the Cornets. Tho coach will shuffle la~r lineup to better take advan­tage of Olivet's weaknesses. 
"I moved !junior! Kaola llnllmann to the outside attacking position from the middle and !freshman] Jacee 
see HOME/Page 21 

Irish unveil '07 schedule 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 

Associate Sports Editor Notre Dame Women's Basketball 
2007..os Schedule

Notre Dame will face 11 
teams that made the 2007 NCAA Tournament -including 11/1five that reached the Sweet 16 
11/5 

-in its 2007-08 schedule, released Sunday at'ter approval from the University's Faculty 
11/9
Board on Athleties. 
11/11-11/13

The highlights of the Irish 
11/14-11/15

home schedule are games against Connecticut and defend­11/17-11/18 ing champion Tennessee on Jan. 5 and Jan. 27, rflspectively. 11/20 Notre Dame is one of only two 11/24 schools, along with DePaul, that 11/27 plays both Tennessee and 12/2Connecticut this season. 
12/5

The Irish non-conference 
12/8

schedule also features games 
12/12

against Boston College on Nov. 
12/21

24, Michigan on Dec. 2 and a 
12/29

road game against Bowling 
1/2

Greenan Dec. 5. The Falcons were a Sweet 16 team a season 1/5 ago. 1/8 
Notre Dame will begin its sea­1/13· son in the preseason National 1/16 Invitational Tournament on Nov. 1/19 9 against Miami (Ohio). The 1122 preseason NIT changed formats 
1/27

this season, and the Irish are 
1130 

guaranteed at least three 
2/2
games. 
2/10

Notre Dame begins Big East 
2/13

play on Jan. 8 at Louisville. The 
2/16

Irish will play DePaul in a con­
2/19

ference home-and-home series !'or the third consecutive season. 2/24 DePaul and Notre Dame split 2/27 the regular season series last 3/1 year. but the Blue Demons beat 3/3 the Irish 76-71 in the first 3/8 round of the Big East tourna­3/22-3/25 ment in Hartford last season. 
3/29-4/1 4/6
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
4/8
jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
Southern Indiana -Exhibition Hillsdale -Exhibition 
Preseason WNIT Miami-Ohio Second Round/Consolation Semifinal/Consolation Final 
@Central Michigan Boston College Canisius Michigan @Bowling Green @Purdue Valparaiso @IUPUI St. Francis (PA) @Richmond Tennessee @Louisville @West Virginia Villanova @Georgetown DePaul Connecticut Providence @Cincinnati Pittsburgh Marquette @Syracuse @Rutgers @DePaul South Florida Seton Hall @St. John's Big East Championship NCAA First and Second Round NCAA Regionals NCAA Semifinals NCAA Championship Final 







