
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Mendoza College of Business hosts forum on employers' duties to increase awareness 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


CWILhosts 6th annual conference 
lEW highlights abroad programs for students 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
While Saint Mary's has had study abroad programs for 38 years, a centralized office to over­see international and intercultural learning at Saint Mary's was only created in 2002. 
To raise awareness about abroad programs and internation­al relations, Elaine Meyer-Lee, the director of the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL), and the the rest of the Saint Mary's community, will host International Education Week. 
"International Education Week is a joint initiative of the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Department of Education to cele­brate and promote a global exchange between the United States and other countries," Meyer-Lee said. 
This year's events mark the eighth-annual International Education Week across the coun­try and sixth at Saint Mary's. 
"Our observance of International Education Week started in 2002 with our first study-abroad fair for students and has grown every year with additional regular activi­ties and various new ones each year," Meyer-Lee said. 
The various speakers chosen for the events are in coordination with abroad programs in which Saint Mary's typically participates, Meyer-Lee said. 
see ABROAD/page 4 


By KATIE PERALTA News Writer 
A panel of six business pro­fessionals from various back­grounds agreed Friday that diversification in the work­force is the duty of the employer and that it is a process that is never com­pletely concluded. 
As a part of its first MBA Diversity Conference, the Mendoza College of Business hosted the panel in a discus­sion, titled "Diversity as a Strategy, Making a Difference in Mainstream Business," at Mendoza's Giovanini Commons. 

Addressing the issue of the importance of diversity in the workplace, Jannifer Crittendon, the director of institutional equity at Notre Dame, said that the impor­tance lies in three different categories: social justice, legal and regulatory compli­ance and application to cer­tain business cases. 
"[Maintaining diversity in the workplace] is just the right thing. It allows equal opportunity for education and employment," Crittendon said. Quoting Martin Luther King, Jr., Crittendon added: "Morality cannot be legislat­
ed, but behavior can be regu-Iated." Crittendon said businesses . enjoy many advantages in diversifying their workforce. 
"Companies need to under­stand that diversity can mean improvement," she said. "With more immigrants and minorities entering the work­force, there is a war for tal­ent." 
She added that businesses should strive to be the not only the employers of choice, but also the providers of choice "for its products and services." 
Andrew Givens, vice presi­dent of partnership market­ing for ESPN, said business is not as effective "if everyone looks and thinks alike." Speaking of his experience in the television industry, Givens said that Time Warner, Nickelodeon and MTV all have done good jobs in diversification. 
Ricardo Hernandez, Director of ITM Controlling and Supply Management and a native of Mexico City, said diversity is not always visi­ble, making it hard to fully diversify. 
"If different backgrounds are not represented [in the 
see MBA/page 4 

Hesburgh, ROTC honor fallen veterans 
Ceremony extolling virtues of program follows 24-hour vigil at Clarke Memorial Fountain 
By JOSH LEEUW News Writer 
University President Emeritus Father Theodore llesburgh extolled the virtues of Notre Dame's commitment to its Heserve Officer Training Corps (HOTC) program Friday at a cer­!-1mony honoring Veterans Day. 
"I can't think of a better place or better group of people who are committed to service to be honoring today," Hesburgh said. 
The ceremony followed a 24­hour vigil at the Clarke Memorial Fountain, informally known as Stonehenge. 
Beginning at 4 p.m. Thursday, members of the Notre Dame HOTC kept a 24-hour guard at the Clarke MemoriaL A rotating group of four cadets, represent" ing the branches of the ROTC program took their positions on each side of the memorial; by Friday afternoon, 152 cadets had participated. 

Following the 24-hour vigil, members of the ROTC and Notre Dame community gathered at the Clarke Memorial to honor the nation's fallen veterans. 
"Today we honor all who have given the ultimate sacrifice," said Cadet Lt. Col. Margaret Lindley, who served as the emcee for the ceremony. 
All the members of Notre Dame's ROTC were in atten­dance at the annual Veterans 
see VETS/page 4 


Liberal studies head rethinks Milton 
Fallon argues works are autobiographical, not rooted in religion 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY News Writer 
Belying on characters and thHmes in John Milton's writ­ings, NotrH DamH professor Stephen Fallon argued Saturday that Milton was not the religious writer history has dubbed him. 
As part of' the Snite Museum's Saturday Scholar Series, Fallon, the chairperson of' liberal stud­ies at Notre Dame, said Milton did not become a religious writer until thH end of his writ­ing career. 
"My argument is counterintu­itive," Fallon said. "I am going to argue that Milton. widely con-
see MILTON/page 6 



Students, professors vie for popular titnes 
Late morning classes among top choices 
By BRIAN McKENZIE News Writer 
While it may be obvious that students make all efforts to avoid 8 a.m. classHs in favor of more appealing choices later in the day, it seems the faculty does the same. With rostering for next semester quickly approaching, students and pro­fessors hope to fulfill their edu­cation requirements while maintaining convenience and scheduling ease. The University, too, strives to meet these demands. 
Still, convenience is one of many factors in the scheduling process. 
"Notre Dame's courses are scheduled with both efficiency and curricular needs in mind," Assistant Registrar Chris Temple said. 
"It's no accident" that courses fall in neat intervals, he said. For examplH, on Tuesdays and Thursdays one class will last from 9:30 to 10:45 a.m. and the next will start at 11. 
"We have to find certain stan­dard class times to use the class rooms efficiently.... The scheduling decision starts with the academic department," Temple said. "Then each col­lege dean assesses the situation and works with the depart­ments to negotiate what sched­ule makes the most sense for 
see TIMES/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



}un1ping the holiday gun 
Christmas falls on Dee. 25 every ynar. 1\xenpt nvory yoar, it seems to croep up earlier and earlier. 
Bnfon~ we oven got a ehanee to digest our Thanksgiving turkey, we aro bornbard­
od with Katie Kohler 
Christmas­

dorninatod Saint Mary's 
radio stations. 
Hditor
holiday door­
bustnrs and 
movie marathons. 

I love Christmas as much as the 
next porson. Actually, I love Christmas 
probably morn than the avorage por­
son. But, I rnfuso to acknowledge the 
datt~ until Thanksgiving. 
On top of that, I don't think it's fair to Thanksgiving to oven think about it until wo havo onough stuffing and cranborry sauce to last us the rest of the month. 
Thanksgiving is a great holiday and orw of tho only timos each year you can nat until you pass out and not feel bad about it. I'm in no rush ((Jr that to bn ovor. 
But that's not thn point. The point is that by jumpstarting Christmas in t~arly Novmnbnr, when it finally comes on Dee. 25, it fnnls like it's over before it 1wen began. 
For as many years as I can rmnem­bnr. I wake up on Christmas morning to Christmas earols and stoeking stuffnrs, opnn a few presnnts, go to ehun~h and tlwn suddonly realizn that Christmas-thn day for which I have bonn waiting and proparing for months-is over. 
We spend hundrnds of hours and usually thousands of dollars gotting rnady for Santa. but WI\ forget that Christmas. likn all days, is only 24 hours. Dec. 26 is just another day. 
The stretch of llalloweon, Thanksgiving and Christmas within two months of eaeh other is the best span of the year, only to be topped oil" with New Year's. People need to understand that getting ahead of our­selves is the very reason every Nov. 1, Nov. 25ish, Dee. 26 and Jan. 1 that we're serat1~hing our heads wondering where the time went and saying "What a shame. That wasn't as fun as it used to bn." 
In addition to over-preparing for Christmas, theroby decreasing its ovnral( luster, people are let down by what became of it. 
And who do we have to blame for this'? Storefronts putting out Christmas decorations in November, starting the "25 Days of Christmas" 45 days in advance and ofl"ering incen­tives for buying now-all eclipsing Thanksgiving in all its glory. 
I ask you to onjoy nach holiday, preparing for no longer than the win­dow snparating them. Believe me, Christmas (and Thanksgiving) come hut once a year. You might as well get your monny's worth (or your mashed potatoes worth). 
I am all for welcoming the spirit of Christmas early. I like putting up dec­orations weeks in advance. However, there must be a line drawn so that the Christmas holiday monopoly does not infringe on Thanksgiving. The pil­grims wouldn't have wantod it that way and neither do I. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The ( >bserver regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please conract us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Monday, November 12, 2007 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO THROW AT NO HOME GAMES? 





Steph Martinez  Alex Stuckley  Michelle Perone  Mike Benz  Bill Dipiero  Ashley Ahn  
sophomore Lyons  sophomore Morrissey  sophomore Walsh  junior Alumni  junior Knott  junior McGlinn  
'Td like to throw some punches. "  "A party afterward. "  "Touchdown passes.  "Fake Heisman trophies."  "Words of encouragement to the players and coaches. "  "Warm thoughts ofhippy love."  


VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer 

Students cheer during the alma mater after the Air Force game Saturday. Air Force beat Notre Dame 41-24. 
OFFBEAT 
Man, 70, charged In Pa. bank holdup 
ERIE, Pa. -Police say a 70-year-old man told them he tried to solve his frnancial problems with a grocery bag, bandanna and a 50-year-old handgun that doesn't work. 
Instead, Donald Cesare is in the Erie County Prison on federal bank robbery charges stemming from a holdup Thursday at the First National Bank in Millcreek Township. 
Authorities say Cesare has no criminal record and immediately apologized for the robbery when they tracked him down based on his description. Cesare also wants to apologize to the teller, police said. 
'Mr. Toilet' builds commode­shaped house 
SUWON, South Korea­Sim Jae-duck has made his political career as South Korea's Mr. Toilet by beauti­fying public restrooms. Now he's got a home befitting his title: a toilet-shaped domicile complete with the latest in lavatory luxury. 
Sim is building the two­story house set to be finished Sunday to commemorate the inaugural meeting later this month of the World Toilet Association. The group, sup­ported by the South Korean government, aims no less than to launch a "toilet revo­lution," by getting people to open their bathroom doors for the sake of improving worldwide hygiene. 
Representatives from 60 countries will gather in Seoul to spur the creation of national toilet associations of their own and spread the word about hygiene. Organizers argue the issue deserves greater attention and cite U.N. figures that some 2.5 billion people live without proper sanitation or water supplies. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

c::: 
LLI :::J: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
c( 
(.) 
~ 0 HIGH 62 HIGH 52 HIGH 55 HIGH 47 LOW 50 LOW 40 LOW 38 LOW 30 IN BRIEF 
Want to be a model'? BCAC is holding model tryouts ((Jr it..<; mulU­al Fashion Show 2008. Ladies please attend Sunday, Nov. 18, 
7:30 to 9:30 p.m. and gentlemen please attend Tuesday, Nov. 20, 8 to 10 p.m. Both tryouts am hold in Washington Hall. 
Men's basketball will play Long Island tonight at 7:30 at the Joyce Center. 
There will be a luncheon with Notre Dame Law School Admissions tomorrow at noon. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­denL'i who am considering Notrn Dame Law School arn invited to attend. There is no cost fbr tho luncheon. Contact Margaret Edgington, Senior Stan· Assistant, with questions or to HSVP: lawad­mit@nd.edu 
Notre Dame women's basket­ball will play in the seeond round preseason WNIT tomorrow at 7 
p.m. at tl1e Joyce Center. 

Tony Kushner's "A Bright Room Called Day" will be performed tomorrow at 7:30p.m. at Deeio Mainstage Theatre, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Student tickets are $8. Performances will run Nov. 13 to 16 and Nov. 18. 
The rosary will be said tonight at 6:45 at the Grotto. The rosary is said daily and is open to the pub­lic. 
The lilm "Working Women of the World" will be shown Wednesday at 7 p.m. in C1 00 llesburgh Center Auditorium as part of the film series "International Labor/1st World -3rd World Global Economy." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infonna­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
' 

'\'
\~-\<'Y-11./
~~ 
~/ '.'/
_, ~-­
,...._.,\ /~.. 
-~liT\~
~~ 
HIGH 38 HIGH 45 LOW 27 LOW 30 
Atlanta 68 I 44 Boston 52 I 35 Chicago 60/50 Denver 41 I 31 Houston 79 I 65 Los Angeles 72 I 53 Minneapolis 52 I 41 New York 52/ 38 Philadelphia 53 I 35 Phoenix 77 I 60 Seattle 51/ 42 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 80 I 58 Washington 56 I 38 
.------------------­
Monday, November 12, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Lane111an receives PECASE avvard 
Engineering prof recognized by President, also up for NSF honor 
Special to The Observer 
J. Nicholas Laneman, assistant professor of electrical engineer­ing at Notre Dame, has been named one of the 58 recipients of a Presidential Early Career Award for 
Scientists a n d Engineers (PECASE) and one of the 20 hon­orees nomi­nated by the NSF 

f r o m Laneman 
among the grantees of its Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) program. He and the other PECASE recipients were recog­nized in a ceremony Nov. 1 at the White House. 
The PECASE program, which was established in 1996, identi­fies and honors outstanding young researchers and is the highest honor that a beginning scientist or engineer can receive from the U.S. government. Selection is based on innovative research and community service as demonstrated through scien­tific leadership, education or out­reach. Nine government agen­cies. including the National Science Foundation (NSF), nomi­nate eandidates for the PECASE prohrram. 
"Because the PECASE honors young scholars for their out­standing research and teaching accomplishments and recognizes the potential impact they may have on future generations, it is an extraordinary award for a young faculty member," said James L. Merz, interim dean of the College of Engineering and the Frank M. Freimann Professor of Electrical Engineering. "We are delighted that Professor Laneman has been honored in this fashion." 
Laneman, who joined the University in 2002, specializes in the areas of communications and signal processing, with a particular emphasis on wireless communications and network­ing. Widely credited as a pioneer of cooperative diversity, an area of communications that deals with making wireless links more reliable through the use of signal relays, his seminal papers on the subject have been highly cited by other communications researchers. 
Laneman's award-winning CAREER (and subsequently PECASE) project, "Toward a Renaissance in Finite Blocklength Information Theory," focuses on fundamental performance trade-offs of com­munication systems and net­works for applications, such as wireless, in which transmission intervals are limited relative to the randomness of the communi­cations medium. Longer inter­vals enable more reliable trans­missions, but they also con­tribute to delays. Users who accept long delays for some applications, such as text mes­saging or e-mail, find them unacceptable for other applica­tions, such as cell phone calls or video streaming. The goal of the project is to provide a mathe­matical and computational framework for characterizing such trade-offs and designing more efficient systems. 
In addition to theoretical work, Laneman and his research group are developing a wireless network testbed, based upon software-defined radio (SDR), to encourage the implementation and verification of communica­tions algorithms and to enhance SDR technology. The team, which includes undergraduates as well as graduate students, is working to make SDR more portable, affordable and reliable for a variety of applications. 
As part of this effort, Laneman's team has obtained funding from the National Institute of Justice to develop SDR technology in order to help public safety and emergency response personnel better com­municate, especially during cata­strophic events, when traditional infrastructure is unavailable or inoperable. 
A native of St. Charles, Mo., Laneman earned bachelor's degrees in electrical engineering and in computer science from Washington University in St. Louis and master's and doctoral degrees in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 





ND law professor testifies to Congress 
Special to The Observer 
Mary Ellen O'Connell, Robert and Marion Short pro­fessor of law at Notre Dame, testified before Congress ear­lier this month as part of an expert panel on "Preserving America's Global Leadership through International Law 
and Justice." 
O'Connell, a professor of international law, reported that the United States has denied itself the advantages offered by international law by ignor­ing its tenets in invading Iraq, in how it occupied Iraq, and in 
tiona! law and have sought to promote it, to shape it, and to ensure our compliance with it." 
Yet, O'Connell testified, the United States was and contin­ues to be knowingly and will­ingly non-compliant with the same laws it helped to write and endorse. 
Disregard for Articles 2(4) 

':4s an occupying power, the United States has not restored nor maintained law and order to ensure public safety. '' 
Mary Ellen O'Connell law professor 
and 51 of the UN Charter, which prohibits the use of force except in self­defense to an armed attack, led to the United States' unlawful inva­sion of Iraq, says O'Connell. The U.S. also disobeyed the H a g u e Regulations, which govern 


how it has conducted interro­gation. 
O'Connell referenced the United Nations Charter, the Geneva Conventions, and the Convention against Torture in her statement at the forum organized by House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers. 
She stated that, since the nation's founding, "Our great­est statesmen have under­stood the benefits of interna­the rules on occupation. 
"As an occupying power, the United States has not restored nor maintained law and order to ensure public safety, as required by the Regulations." 
O'Connell cites numerous Articles of the Geneva Conventions that support her contention the U.S. broke international law through its employment of coercive inter­rogation techniques. 

Who says Deloitte is the #1 place to start a career? 

BusinessWeek, our employees and recent grads, to name a few. In fact, Deloitte ranked 
ahead of 49 companies you probably know by name. Of course, we had something to aim for; we were ranked number three in 2006. And. year after year, we've ranked on other leading lists. including Fortune magazine's "Best Companies to Work For" and Working Mother magazine's "100 Best Companies." If you're wondenng why, it's not just because we offer a strong benefits packr.1ge, a collaborative work environn·1ent, i;lnd the opportunity to work with some of the finest clients in the world. What ready makes us stand out is our culture of innovation. Take Mass Career Customization'". It redefines hovv careers are built. After ail, the one-size.. fits-al! approach to the corporate !adder is no 'yvay to build the workplace of the future. 
IID];m&CE$1 BusinessWeek ranks Deloitte #1 in "50 Best Places to Launch a Career," September 2007 . ... 'CARE£'R1 See more. To discover your opportunities with Deloitte and find out why BusinessWeek ranked us the best place to start 
_....·-····------·----------! 
l!ii§ii$411J a career, text "NOTREDAME" to 78573 or visit deloitte.com/us/notredame. ·-----··-..·--··-·---· ··-----···-·--·----·-·-·-'----·---·-·--·--·--··--····· 
Deloitte. 
Audit.Tali.Cmaultin8.Finandal Advisory 
As used ir.1his doc:ume:;t, "Oe-loitte" means D~loitte & Tou,he USA LLP ar.d its subsidiaries. PieJse see www deh.)!tteo.-:om:u:5Jabcut for a detailed description of th~?" lt:ga! strw:hlre of Deloitte & Touche USA LLP and its subsidiaries. MeiY1b€r of Oeioitte Tou<he Tohmatsu 
C{lp~ril)hl'© /.007 Deloitt;~ Devt::lnw!~t~nt U.C Ali ~:!~h:s 1e.sE:rved 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 12, 2007 
also those who would live lives ment represents those who Dame has stood strong sup­ence that "as long as we stand of valor," he said. gave the highest thing one ean porting soldiers in a cause for strong for country, this country
Vets 
He11ecting on the days of his give -one's peace, freedom will move forward with pride continued from page 1 early priesthood when he was own life -For and patriot­and security." 
a chaplain for the soldiers this country "As long as we stand ism." Following his address, Damn's IWTC were in attnn­serving in World War II, and for peace." strong for our country, W h e n llesburgh was given a gift from dancn at thn annual Veterans Hesburgh said "one of the Over the addressing the Lindley on behalf of the ROTC
this country will move 
Day cert~mony wearing their highlights of Notre Dame was years, many cadets, who program, for the his continued formal uniforms of grnnn during World War II when over higher educa­forward with pride were standing support of the program. (i\rrny), blue (Navy) and black 12,000 naval denizens were tion institu­and security." at full atten­"Taps" was then played in (i\ir Foree). here. They were fighting for tions have tion, Hesburgh remembrance of all the sol­
llesburgh addressed the freedom and the welfare of debated told them that diers who have given their
Father Theodore Hesburgh 
crowd gathered outside on an humanity." expelling ROTC they "are the lives during service. ovnrcast. windy afternoon. llesburgh also emphasized programs University President frontline of Tho Veterans Day Ceremony 
I lis address focused on tradi­the importance of the Clarke under political Emeritus America has been an annual tradition tion: lie said Notre Dame's tra­Memorial Fountain as a symbol pressures, marching for-for Notre Dame since Veterans dition of educating soldinrs to those wh,o have given the Hesbrugh said, ward, protect­Day -then called Armistice went to back to Notre Dame's ultimate sacrifice of military "yet the HOTC program at ing the country and evnn giving Day -was proclaimed in founder, Father Edward Sorin. service. Notre Dame endures." life if needed. For that we 1926. 
"Fathnr Sorin and Notre "This is a hallowed spot on In a time when the military is thank you." Dame wnre not only dndicated Notre Dame's eampus," under heavy scrutiny and criti­In his closing remarks, Contact Josh Leeuw at in educating young men, but llesburgh said. " ... This monu-cism, Hesburgh said, "Notre Ilesburgh reminded the audi-jleeuw@hcc-nd.edu 

Abroad 
continued from page 1 
Mnynr-Lnn said. 
"One of tlw speakers is from the National University of lrnland at Maynooth, as part of our celnbra­tion of :H> years of partrwring with that institution for our Ireland Program," she said. 
Moyer-Len hopns for a strong turnout at the various events throughout the wenk, but she rnc­O).,'Ilizns that scheduling can some­times be troublesome. Certain departmnnl.'i and programs, how­ever, rnquirn students to attend some of the event'>. 
"Tho intercultural learning showcasn is n~quired for all stu­dents who want to apply for a CWIL grant next smnester, and thn study abroad fair -and pre­doparturn orientation -draw a lot of students becausn Saint Mary's h<L'> high rates of participa­tion in abroad programs." Mnynr­l,nn said. 
"Wu aim liH· quality of nngagn­mnnt rathnr than quantity with any particular nvnnt and havn intnntionally ordwstratnd a broad rangu of activitins rathor than 
While Meyer-Lee hopes filr the success of the evenL'> on campus, she also notes the wider impact of this wonk and iL'i message. 
"International Education Week is an important time to recognize this essential dimension of a liber­al education in today's increasing­ly interdependent world," she said. "Saint Mary's is deeply com­mitted to international programs and over the past live years, we have increased our options from eight programs to 20 and increased our participation to where 41 percent of this year's graduates had studind abroad." 
But Meyer-Lee is still looking to expand the increasingly popular programs. 
"We are committ1-1d to continu­ous quality improvement of these programs and have gained nation­al recognition in the areas of assessment and curricular inte­gration," she said .. 
College president Carol Ann Mooney's recent strategic plan brought up for approval by the Board of Trustnns last month also discussed abroad options. Within that plan. incrnasnd global nduca­tion was a main goal, along with tho further strengthening of already existing programs. 

alization of our home campus" are the main components of this facet ofthe plan. 
"We look forward to the annual International Education Week each year as a tin1e to celebrate and renew that liJeus," Meyer-Lee said. 
CWIL fellows and faculty mem­bers today will discuss "How CWIL Fellows Address International Education in the Classroom." There will also be an International Learning Showcase tonight. 
On Tuesday, Mary Corcoran from the National University of Ireland, Maynooth will speak about social chance in Ireland. There will also be an Intercultural Living Community Open House in Regina Ilall. 
Brian Flora, from the U.S. Department of State, will deliver the keynote address Wednesday, called "Hepresenting Your Country !\broad." He will also speak later that evening on "Careers in International Diplomacy." 
There will be a faeulty panni on global poverty on Friday. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


[()(:using on one rm~jor knynotu so "lncrnasing study abroad partic­thnn~ is soml'lhing of inturest for ipation, in tnrnational studn n t nvnryorw," slw addnd. enrollment and other internation-
MBA 
continued from page 1 
workforce!." hn said, "the 
1:ompany is going to  miss out  
in t.lw markPl."  
Gina Shropshire, a  19R3 l'h.  

1>. Notre l>anw graduate with a B.i\. in i\mnrican S t II d i (~ S • 
nrnphasiznd "Companies are letting t.lw rwnd for 
the momentum die. 
continual 
I /Jil'ersification/ is 'not
Pvaluation within corn­something that is ever 
panins of its done. We need people
diversity. 
who can communicate
Shropshire said that the ideals ofa nvaluation company.within a com­pany is not a 
Gina Shropshire 
l'ixnd issun. "Cornpanios Notre Dame graduate 
arn ldting t h11 m o m n n ­tum din." she said. "ll>ivPrsif'icationl is not sonwthing that is nvnr donn. Wn nrwd people who can com­municate tlw ideals of a com­pany." 
llnrnandPz nehoPd this idna of divursilkation as a continu­al procnss wlwn hn said that eornpanins fail by lwlinving that divPrsification is not a process. but rathnr an llVnnt. "(Companins( havn to walk to talk. or (.~lse it will not work," hn said 
I•:mphasizing thn idna of 
valuing the contribution of each individual employee, Jamns Sumnwrs, president of Summers Consulting in South Bend. also said that two of the kny issues for businesses arc organizational effectiveness and sustainability. 
lin said the responsibility of having workers be as efTective 


\Vedncsday. November 14 at 5 PM 131 Decio Hall 
The Program in Arabic and f\'liddle East Studies Classics Department 631-7195 http://classics.nd.cdu 
the University of Michigan informnd him of a similar eonfPrnnce Michigan had bonn hosting for nearly 30 years. "So I thought, 'Why don't we have something like this?"' lw said. 
(;antt hopes to hand over thn ndgns to anothnr business student this year to keep the conference going for years to come. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
as possible is that of the employers. The innovative ideas of employers. llornandez said. bring the company high­nr profitability. 
The impetus for the confer­
onee  came  
from  Niek  
Gantt,  a  grad­ 

uate .'ltudent at the Mendoza Collnge of Business. i\ friend of his at 

ARABIC J>J~OGRAM INFOR1\1ATION SICSSION 
• 
Lea1·n about Notre Dame's Arabic Prognun 

• 
Car·eer Opportunities in Business, J\'lcdia, Govct·nment 

• 
l\1eet Arabic lVIa,jors and the Faculty 



Come, have some Pizza and a drink! 





ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 12, 2007 CoMPILED FROA,, TI-IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraqi PM says suicide attacks down 
BAGHDAD -Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki said Sunday suicide attacks and other bombings in the Iraqi capital have dropped dra­matically since last year's high, calling it a sign of the end of sectarian violence. A top U.S. general here said he believes the drop is sustainable, as Iraqis turn away from extremists. 
AI-Maliki said "terrorist acts" including car bombings and other spectacular, al-Qaida-style attacks dropped by 77 percent. He called it a sign that Sunni-Shiite violence was nearly gone from Baghdad. 
Accidental killing sparks soccer riots 
HOME -A police officer accidentally shot and killed a soccer fan Sunday while trying to break up a fight by a Tuscan highway between supporters of rival teams, authorities said. Enraged by the killing, hundreds of fans rioted in Home, attacking a police station. 
Fans stormed the yard of a police station near the Home's Olympic Stadium, hurled stones at passing police cars, and smashed windows at the nearby Italian Olympic Committee headquarters. 
Hundreds of youths, many with their faces covered by scarves and ski masks, dragged metal barricades and trash bins to block off one end of a bridge spanning the Tiber near the station. The rioters smashed a window in tlw police station and set a police vehicle on fire inside the gate. 
Sky TG24 TV showed images of flames from what it said was a bus set on !'ire near the barracks. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Racial gap in infant mortality remains 
The rate at which infants die in the United States has dropped substantially over the past half-century, but broad disparities remain among racial groups, and the country stacks up poorly next to other industrialized nations. 
In 2004. the most recent year for which statistics are available, roughly seven babies died for every 1,000 live births before reach­ing their first birthday, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says. That was down from about 26 in 1960. 
Babies born to black mothers died at two and a half times the rate of those born to white mothers, according to the CDC figures. 

Senators survey San Francisco oil spill 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Federal officials want a bird's-eye view of San Francisco Bay to observe environmental damage caused by the area's worst oil spill in nearly two decades. 
U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., and Coast Guard Commandant Adm. Thad Allen planned to take an aerial tour of the damage Sunday. 
A preliminary Coast Guard investigation found that "human error," not mechanical fail­ure, caused the cargo ship Cosco Busan to sideswipe a support on the San Francisco­Oakland Bay Bridge, leaving a gash nearly 100 feet long on the side of the 926-foot vessel. 
"There were skilled enough individuals on board this ship. They didn't carry out their missions correctly," said Hear Adm. Craig Bone, the Coast Guard's top official in California. 
LOCAL NEWS 

A dozen antiwar protesters arrested 
OLYMPIA. Wash.-At least a dozen people were arrested as demonstrators rallied to protest military cargo shipments arriving from Iraq at the port in the state capital. 
The arrests Saturday came a day after pro­testers wnrn able to stop two trucks from removing military equipmnnt that had been unloaded from a ship coming from Iraq. The equipment was bound for Fort Lewis, an Army base about 15 miles northeast of Olympia. 
Nine protesters were arrested Saturday for investigation of violating the dty's pedestrian interfererH~n ordinance. but all were later ndeased without being cited, said police Sgt. Ken Carlson. 

Bush declares trust in Musharraf 
President addresses "common goal" with Pakistan in defeating global terrorist networks 
Associated Press 
CRAWFORD, Texas ­President Bush stepped up praise of Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf Saturday, hail­ing "positive steps" the general took by promising to lift emergency rule, resign as army chief and hold elections. 
Indeed, Bush refused to pointedly criticize Musharraf at a joint news conference here with visit­ing German Chancellor Angela Merkel, continuing the cautious and measured response he's embraced in the week since Musharraf imposed the crackdown. 
Bush did, however, dodge a question whether Musharraf's moves, seen by many as an attempt to cling to power, constitute a dangerous distraction from the battle against al-Qaida insurgents. 
Speaking after two days of meetings with Merkel, the president said he has confidence in the commit­ment of Pakistan's leader­ship to stick with the U.S. in the fight against global terrorism. "We share a common goal," Bush said. 

Musharraf aligned him­self with Washington after the Sept. 11 attacks on U.S. soil, Bush noted, suggesting the Pakistani has given him no reason to doubt him since that decision. In fact, Opposition leader Benazir "He fully understands the ment program was a major Bush added, several ai­Bhutto spent Friday under dangers of al-Qaida," Bush topic of discussion. Russia Qaida leaders have been house arrest, for instance. said. "Benazir Bhutto fully and China -two of the five brought to justice, "and Hours before Bush's news understands the dangers of permanent members of the that wouldn't have hap­conference, Musharraf's ai-Qaida. By far the vast U.N. Security Council­pened without President government announced majority of people in are blocking the U.N. from Musharraf honoring his plans to lift the state of Pakistan want to live in a moving toward a third set word." emergency within one free and peaceful society, of harsher sanctions 
"I take a person for his month and hold parliamen­and they understand the against Iran. word until otherwise," tary elections by Feb. 15, dangers of al-Qaida.... I Both Bush and Merkel Bush said. "He made a one month later than origi­believe we will continue to emphasized that diplomatic clear decision to be with us nally scheduled. have good collaboration efforts with Iran have not and he's acted on that With U.S. officials not with the leadership in yet been exhausted. Bush advice." sure whether Musharraf Pakistan." dismissed a question about 
The remarks essentially will remain in power Merkel arrived Friday when patience with Iran were an endorsement of through the crisis, Bush with her husband, Joachim would run out. Musharraf. took the step of citing Sauer, for an overnight visit "What the Iranian regime 
The embattled Pakistani Bhutto by name. He linked at Bush's remote central must understand is that we insists he had no choice but her with Musharraf as Texas ranch. Their talks will continue to work to move aggressively to someone who understands spanned the globe, from together to solve this prob­prevent Islamic extremists the necessity of standing Afghanistan to Iran and lem diplomatically, which from gaining control of his firm against extremist ele­from Russia to Kosovo to means they will continue to nuclear-armed country. But ments and expressed confi­the United Nations. be isolated," said Bush, the crackdown has mostly dence that whoever leads Tehran's defiance of who has recently warned targeted his political, judi­Pakistan will feel the same international demands that that a nuclear-armed Iran cial and media critics. way. it halt its uranium enrich-could lead to World War III. 

Legal disputes ensue over desegregation 
only if the change improved "the country, from the Northeast to the
Associated Press ethnic balance of the receiving Southwest. that operate under fed­school and (did) not further imbal­eral court desegregation orders ­Officials in Shelby County, Tenn., ance the ethnic makeup of the some more than four decades old. complain they'll have to spend mil­home school." These districts are in a unique lions to satisfy a federal judge's But wait: Hasn't the U.S. and sharply debated position with "arbitrary" desegregation order. Supreme Court consistently moved respect to the Supreme Court's rul­It'll mean busing minority students away from using race as a factor in ings. They exist in what critics con­up to an hour away and replacing deciding where kids should go to sider a historical Twilight Zone, hundreds of white teachflrs with school? where federal judges can make black ones, they say. Didn't the high court recently put seemingly contradictory decisions. In Huntsville, Ala., under a simi­an exclamation point on that trend, "So which ruling do I violate?" lar court order, students can trans­ruling that two districts' heavy asks a perplexed Bobby Webb, fer from a school where they're in rnliance on race in student assign­superintendent of schools in Shelby the racial majority, but not the ment policies violated the County, where Memphis is located. other way around. Constitution's guarantee of equal "The judge's ruling now, or the ear­And in the Tucson, Ariz., Unified protection? lier rulings that we can't discrimi­School District, students could Yes, and yes. But there are still nate against people on the basis of move from one school to another hundreds of districts across the the color of their skin?" 
Monday, November I 2, 2007 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Milton 
continued from page 1 
s i d ~~ r n d a g r n a t r e I i g i o u s writer, is in an important sPnsn, not a rl'ligious writer at all." 
Fallon combinPd his knowi­PdgP or Milton's literature and lii'P to arguP that. although Milton explored theology in his writing, lw did not writP rPligiously. 
Milton, a Puritan in thP 

"Some say, 'There goes another anti-religious uni­versity professor, trying to recruit a great author to his eause.' Or, from the other sicll~. 'There goes a ]Notre Dame] professor sniping at Milton for being anti-Catholic and unorthodox,"' Fallon said. 
llowev1~r. Fallon argues that his rriteria come from information available in Milton's autobiography and tlw characters in Milton's 
poetry that resemble the author. 
"l am inter­ested in whether Milton is reli­gious as he writes. and the answer then~. l think, is no." Fallon said. 
lie went on to discuss Milton's own 

"llis story is impossible, so it begins to disintegrate when it is met with real life," Fallon said. "He uses the Gospnl to authorize divorce. Milton believes that someone can 'mutiny against God' and exit a marriage," Fallon said. 
Arter his writings on mar­riagP and divorce, Milton's writing about himself began to change, Fallon said. Characters that resemble him in his works began to accept their sinfulness in a way Milton himself never would. In one of his works, the character that is modeled most after him is Satan, Fallon said. The story elaims that Satan was cast out of !leaven because of his pride. Although Milton never admit­ted to his own pride -or d1~nied his perfection -he did question these qualities in his characters. 
Fallon noted the maturity of Milton's characters in admitting their own sins, fur­ther asserting tlw maturity Milton himself did not have. 
"By the end of his career, I am tempted to say, Milton was at last, in spite of him­self, becoming a religious writer," Fallon said. 
Ashley Charnley at acharnO I @saintmacys.edu 
Ti01es 
continued from page 1 
the faculty and students. 
"Once the colleges arc done, that information is forwarded to the rngistrar's oflice. We handle it l'rom the University's perspec­tive," he said. "We look at the sdwdulc primarily l'rom a dass­room-resources pPrspeetive, which means, 'Jlo we have enough elasses available l'or all the people that want to teach at 


a certain time'?'" "We look at the fessor in English. 
he said. schedule primarily dons not avoid That perspec­early morning
from a classroom­
tive is complicat­classes liw fear or ed bceause cer­lark of' attPntion
resources tain time-slots perspective. " hy thn students. are "inherently "I haw honestly desirable." Tlw havpn't noticed
Chris Temple
time slot on that students an~ Tuesdays and any less awake in
assistant registrar 
speetivc," he said. 
Sebastian Hosato, a professor of political seience, said lw wished thP length of classes was unil'orm across all subjects. 
"It's unncenssarily complicated to lit in 50-minute courses," he said. "You can't impart any information in 50 minutes, any­way." 
Hosato said that hn is "vpry happy" that lw will u~ach a course at 9:35. but lw says that it is "annoying" that his nnxt coursl' is not until 4 p.m. 
Sara Maurer. 
an assistant pro­
17th rl'ntury. is most known l'or his work "1'a1·adisP l.ost." liP, how­I'Vnr.. also w rotI' poP m s . 
SOilJWtS, OtJJI•r 
prose and an autobiography. II i s work 

"/lis story is impossible. so it hegins to disintegrate when it is met with real life. " 
Stephen Fallon chairman liberal studies department 
l'ocusPd strong­ly on rPiigious topics. Fallon said Milton lwliPvnd lw wrot1~ "divinPly inspired truth, and he h n I i e v n d lw co u I d surpass llonwr and Virgil lwcause his epic would lw truP." 
Fallon admits that his idea that Milton is not a religious writPr has goti.Pn sonw vary­ing rPartions. 

views on sin. Fallon said Milton bPiieved that he was sinless. lin bclievml that his works wnrc divinely true. 
Milton's self-proclaimed lack of sin came into ques­tion wlwn his first marriage l'nll apart. lie then made the claim that divoree is justifi­abll~ in the Bible. 
Thursdays l'rom 
11 a.m. through 
12:15 p.m. is the most popular. l'or both students and l'aculty, he said. But only so many class­rooms arc available at that time. 
"There's definitely competition for the popular time spots," he said. 
College deans decide which departments will have to shift thnir courses to less popular times, he said. The deans eon­sider whieh courses require par­ticular kinds of classrooms, such as a computer lab, a large lee­turn hall or a room Pquippnd with a projector, he said. 
Another consideration is that sornP courses, particularly in Arts and Letters, arc "hard to tead1 in 50 minutes." 
"That's a vnry room-resoun:es orinntatPd pnrspective. though, not a curriculum-driven per-
morning classes," 
she said. "But I've Iwvnr taught an H a.m. dass." 
Maurnr said some dassns have bad days, but that hasn't appnared to bn caused by time of' day. Slw also was sympatlwtie to tho rngistrar's sdwduling has­sles. 
"Tiwrc arn so many issuns to eonsidnr. to oll'nr a dn1:Pnt sPine­lion. to distributn rnquirnd 
eo.ursns a1~d tlwn ~·act.~lt~ eom­mitnwnts, slw said. Its very hard to accommodate 1wnrvonn." 
Tlw English dnpartni Pnt's selwd ul i ng p roenss is "very upl'ront." so faculty do not fnPI so disappointnd if' thny don't tnarh at tlwir prdi~ITPd timns, Maun•r said. 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 




Monday, November 12, 2007 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,042.74 -223.55
Jones 
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,623  78  1,752  1,189,699,722  
AMEX  2,436.84  ::48.57  
NASDAQ  2,627.94  -68.06  
NYSE  9;733.34  "'144.13  
S&P 500  1,453.70  -21.07  

NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,208.78 ""374.64 FTSE 100 'London~ 6i304.90 -77.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -3.34 -1.73 50.00 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -1.37 -2.02 145.14 CITIGROUP INC (C) +0.61 +0.20 33.10 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -0.76 -0.23 30.14 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.12 -0.048 4.225 13-WEEK BILL -3.35 -0.011 3.170 30-YEAR BOND -1.29 -0.006 4.602 5-YEAR NOTE -1.21 -0.046 3.756 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.86 96.32 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.80 834.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 83.75 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 110.0550 FIIRn n f;H17 
IN BRIEF 

China confirms "date rape" toys 
BEIJING -China's safety watchdog confirmed Saturday that toy beads recalled in the United States and Australia after sickening children contain a substance that can turn into the "date­rape" drug after ingested. 
The toys, coated with the industrial chemical 1,4-butanediol, were made by the Wangqi Product Factory in Shenzhen, a city just over the border from Hong Kong, the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection, and Quarantine said in a statement. 
When ingested, the chemical metabolizes into the "date-rape" drug gamma hydroxy butyrate, also known as GHB. which can cause breathing problems, loss of consciousness, seizures, drowsiness, coma and death. 
Millions of unite; of the popular toys, which are sold as Aqua Dots in the United States and as Bindm~z in Australia, were recalled in those countries as well as Britain. Malaysia, Singapore and elsewhere this past week after children began falling sick from swallowing the toy's bead-like parts. 

Uneven week ends with more drops 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street finished a turbulent week with another huge drop Friday after major banks warned of further losses on their debt portfolios, raising investor concerns that the credit market slump shows no sign of abating. The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 220 points. 
Bank of America Corp., .II>Morgan Chase & Co. and Wachovia Corp. all said the ongoing crndit crisis will cause another round of heavy losses during the fourth quarter. Financial insti­tutions took big hits during the last quarter as lossns from subprime mortgages hurt their bal­ance sheets. and these three companies were just the latest to report bad news that sent stocks lower. 
BofA said continued "market dislocations," induding those related to securities it owns that are backed by loans, will all'ect its fourth-quar­ter n1sults. The bank did not provide an esti­mate of how large the impact will bn. JPMorgan said difficult conditions may cause a fourth­quartnr writndown, but did not say how much. 



THE OBSERVER 








USINESS 
page 7 

Broadway shut down by strikes 
Stagehands strike over job cuts, shutting down two dozen plays and musicals 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Producers and theater owners say they're just looking for a fair agree­ment that wouldn't force them to hire extra work­ers they don't need. 
Stagehands counter by declaring their union "is open to exchanges on work rules and other areas," but will absolute­ly refuse any plan that would cut jobs. 
Therein lies the seem­ingly unbridgeable gap that has shut down most of Broadway, closing such well-known shows as "Wicked," "The Phantom of the Opera" and "Hairspray" as well as newer productions such as the Kevin Kline "Cyrano de Bergerac" and Disney's "The Little Mermaid," which was in previews and hadn't even officially opened. 
Local One struck more than two dozen plays and musicals Saturday, caus­ing confusion in the Times Square theater district and sending dis­appointed theatergoers home or to other enter­tainments. 

Actors were left with­out audiences. uled on Saturday and working conditions and, of DuBois, Pa., and her 
Patrick Page, who plays three on Sunday. most importantly, the daughter, Sherry the celebrated green "That's a lot of kids to respect of everyone who Antonetti, of Dover, Del., meanie in "Dr. Seuss' turn away from, the the­is part of the theatrical contemplated where to How the Grinch Stole ater," he added, although community." shop. They arrived Christmas," appeared in he said he had sympathy And the musicians Saturday morning to cel­front of the St. James for the stagehands, too. union, Local 802, which ebrate Wanda Antonetti's Theatre and sang for "They're the guys who struck Broadway for four 70th birthday and did not unhappy children who keep me safe when I get days in 2003, was equal­know about the strike couldn't see him on hoisted up; they're the ly supportive. "They until they arrived at the stage. guys who put light on stood strong for us, and theater. "We came a long 
"It's disappointing, me," he said. now we are here to way for lunch," Wanda most of all for these Solidarity among vari­return the favor," the Antonetti said. kids," said Page. "They ous theatrical unions union said. No new negotiations don't understand any­appeared strong. Page's Disgruntled theatergo­have been scheduled thing about contract union, Actors' Equity ers were not as sympa­between Local One and negotiations." Association, issued a thetic. the League of American 
The performer said statement saying mem­Outside the Gershwin Theatres and Producers. there were four sold-out bers of Local One Theatre where "Wicked" so the outlook for a quiek shows of "Grinch" sched-"deserve fair wages and plays, Wanda Antonetti, settlement is uncertain. 

CHINA 

Coal boom promotes unsafe mining 
Associated Press the life of an impoverished farmer­work. 
this time, with a steel rod in his leg. "Some miners fear poverty more 

CHANG'GOU TOWN -Digging Coal mining remains one of the than mining disasters," said Cao Yu, coal deep underground, Luo Xianglai world's most dangerous trades. In a senior at Hunan Normal University learned to listen hard to the sounds China, more than 4,700 people died who conducted surveys among min­the rocks made when struck with his last year in coal mines. ers in Hunan province in 2005 and pickax. The deaths underscore the human 2006. "Mining accidents create great 
A dull thud usually meant solid cost of a worldwide boom in coal stress. For them an accident means rock and safety. A whistling noise use, driven by economic growth in a colleague has departed the world signaled an impending cave-in. China and India and a return to coal but it also means the mine will stop 
"Usually you could tell it was com­for cheap electric power in the U.S. work." ing," said Luo, a squat 33-year-old and elsewhere. While Chinese min­Even in wealthy nations, where with broad shoulders, a buzz cut and ers toil for a couple hundred dollars mining is more mechanized and a worried look. "The rocks would a month, mine owners in Taiyuan, safety regulations better enforced, start singing. letting off a whistling the sooty capital of Shanxi province, risks remain. sound. We would get out in a rush." drive BMWs and invest in real estate The U.S. has had three major fatal 
On a cold December day two years in Beijing, the capital. accidents in the last two years. Most ago, the rocks did not sing. but dis­Miners themselves are often com­recently, a collapse at Utah's aster struck anyway. A eave-in plicit in the deadly bargain. Many Crandall Canyon Mine in August left buried Luo under fallen ceiling face reprisals if they report acci­six miners presumed dead. Federal planks and more than 6 feet of rock, dents. And some do not want to see inspectors had warned of hazardous 300 feet down a mine shaft. Ilis right their mine shut down for an accident conditions, though another federal leg was crushed, returning him to investigation, depriving them of agency had approved the work. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, November 12, 2007 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box n9. Notre Dame, IN 46556 

More discussion about Catholic faculty
024 South Dining flail. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDilUR: Kyle Cassity Ass1; MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
Vn-:WI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SroRTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy Chris Hine S<:F.NF. EDITOR: Tae Andrt'WS 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROI.IJ,R: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISllt\TOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING ('574) 631-6900 observad@nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) (>31-4~41 obsme(n)nd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-53 I:l NEWS DESK (574) 631-5J23 obsncws.I@nd.cdu VIEWPOINT DESK ('\74) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.cdu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-45'i3 <ports. t@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.J@)nd.cdu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK ('574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 63 l-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
Tht· Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the smdems of rhe Univr·r.;iry of Notre lYdme duLac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial contem, including advcn:iscmcnrs, is not goverm·d by polic-ies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer rescrvt•s the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
Thr· nt·ws is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned ediwrials represent the opinion of the majority of rhc Editor in Chief: Managing Editor, A<sistanr Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns prescnr the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vit'Wpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lr·rrers w the Editor must be signed and must include conran information. 
Qll<'>·tioru rt'garding Observer policif! should be direcud to Editor ir1 C'biifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'11~e (.)!,'o('.,rr {USI'S 'I}C) l__.UOO) i• puhl,ahcrl Mnml..y rl1ruuWt FriJ~y cx..-epr dunng rum and v-.a~-.triull)lCrllll.t.. Aaub~upu••n w 'l11c Oh.c:rver IJ SJOO for unr ;u:o~dcmi1· 
ycotn$55 J;Jr!JIIC"IICIUUI:Ct 
Thr OhKrvcr ~ puhliUlrd ..u. POSTMASTER 11.!4 Su111h 1Jm1ng H.tll Send JdJro., cometioru 10 Nom~ Diltnc. IN 4M56-0779 ·rncoh~rvcr l'eriodiuli pm1agc paid •t Norte D.Jmc: r.O.IlOK719 01nd ;ukliunn.tlmailingoffict'!t.. 021 Sourh Dining H..JI 
Notre O;ame. IN 46~56-0niJ 
Thc O~rvtr i• • nu:mbcr 1tf lilt' A.iw:"i.~.u:d Pr~\. All repmduaion nglu.o. 11tc 
l't:KrYC\1 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Kohler Chris Khorey 
Joseph McMahon Lorenzo Heyes Brian McKenzie Matt Gamber Graphics Scene 

Jared Wafer Analise Lipari ViewpointI Lianna Brauweiler 
I' 
I 
Worry about hiring solely Catholics 
A recent Observer article ("Professors discuss hiring," Nov. 8) reported a "broad sense of disquiet [among the faeulty] surrounding the idea of hiring with religious affiliation in mind" and quoted the chair of the Faeulty Senate as saying that "faeulty members ... are worried that [by trying to rnspond to the decline in Catholic faculty] the University will move away from hiring solely on academic merit." It seems to me that the provost and the president-like the diverse faeulty eommittee that recently produced a helpful report on strategies for Catholic hiring-have always been dear on this erueial point: The University's goal is and should be to eultivate, identity, hirn and recruit Catholic f'aeulty-and non-Catholie faculty who embrace Notn~ Dame's mission-who are, by every sound measure of "merit," out­standing. The goal is not, should not be <md never has been to settle for see­<md-ra.te scholars who happen to be Catholie or to denigrate the achieve­numL'> and eontributions of non­Catholic faculty. Notre Dame aspirns not only to hiw oul'itanding Catholie scholars, but also to increase the eth­nic, gender and soeioeeonomie diversi­ty of' il'> faculty. 
This aspiration, however, is not seen as cause for worry that "the University will move away from hiring solely on academic merit." Similarly, a eoncen­trated etli.>rt to deepen Notre Dame's Catholie identity through faculty hiring need not triggnr "disquiet" about the University's commitment to excellence. Indeed, there are good reasons to expect, and recent high-profile hires eonlirm, that it is precisely by empha­sizing that whieh makes Notre Dame 



EDITORIAL CARTOON 
What are you more excited about: Notre Dame Hockey or Notre Dame Basketball? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

distinctive that the University will be able to attract and retain increasingly accomplished scholars, Catholic and non-Catholic alike. Certainly, the mere fact that a certain percentage of a uni­versity's faculty (or studHnt body) self­identified as Catholic would hardly guarantee that it retained a meaningful and rich Catholic identity. No one should imagine that maintaining a pre­ponderance of Catholic faculty would complete the hard, rewarding and important work of really being a Catholic university, in a broad, indusive and critieally engaged way. 
At the same time, none of us should fi>rget that Notre Dame is interesting, and mattors because and only to tho extent that it is-in reality and not just in its history -a Catholic university. It is not enougl1 that there is at Notrn Dame a thriving Campus Ministry, an inspiring Center for Social Concerns and world-renowned individual sehol­ars who focus on specifieally "Catholic" topies. Nor is it nnough that Notrn Dame works visibly-as all universi­ties should -to allnviate poverty and promote social justice. Certainly. more than Catholie faculty arn n~quirnd, but Catholie faeulty are required. Certainly, elli.>rL'> to identify and hire Catholic fac­ulty should be responsible and earnful. not dumsy or naive. Given all the givens, the task is not an easy one. 
Still, the fact remains: Without a community of Catholic scholars, work· ing in a wide range of disciplines, Notre Dame would not be meaningfully Catholic, and therefore would not mat­ter. 
Richard W Garnett associate professor oflaw Nov. II 
Sub.mit·:ra letter to t.he Editor at 
Catholic staff for Catholic university 
As the Observer of Nov. 8 ("Prof(Jssors dis­cuss hiring"), poinL'> out, tho Provost's oflke ha...<> issued a report on the hiring of Catholic faeulty members. The provost and many oth­ers (University President Father John Jenkins, for example) are eoneerned, naturally enough, with the "Catholic eharaeter" of Notre Dame -or maybe the way to put it is that they are eoncerned with the way in whieh Notre Dame fulfills il<> mission a..<; a Catholic university. They think (1 l it's very mueh worth having a Catholic university, (2l that such a university has a mission, (3) that iL<> mission is not the same as that of' a seeular university (the University of' Michigan, for example), and (4l that iL'> l'ullillment of' that mission has sometl1ing to do with the propor­tion of Catholic faculty on board. 
Although I am not mysnll' Catholic, I mostly agree with them on thesn poinL'>. Notn~ Dame is a wonderful university, and certainly part of iL'> wonderfulness has to do with il'> being Christian, and indned Catholic. I think my own department-philosophy-js a splen­did departm<mt, and I'm dnlightnd to bP part of' it; part of what is splendid about it is il'i eonnnetion with Christianity and spncifkally Catholicism. 
And isn't it obvious that Notre Dame can 
fullill il'i mission as a Catholic univorsity only 
if it has the right kind of' fhculty'? 
Opportunities filr spiritual growth and f(w 
"good works" an~ vnry good things, but what 
goes on in the dassroom and in aeadmnic 
work more generally is at least nqually impor· 
tant. 
Well, what's "thn right kind" of !hculty? Surely this will inelude at least the sort of fae­ulty member that can eontribute to the Notn~ Dame's mL<>sion as a Catholic university. Clearly not all faculty members who ean do that are Catholics; equally dearly, not all Catholics ean do that. So aiming at a certain proportion of Catholic faculty is at best a bit of' a blunt instrument; but something in that neighborhood certainly seems right. 
A<:eording to the same Observer piece, on Nov. 7 the Faeulty Snnate turned iL'> attention to the Provost's report: "Faculty members are worried that in trying to rnetify this situation, the university will move away from hiring solely on academic merit." 
But if there is anything at all to the whole notion of a special mission fi.lr a Catholie uni­versity and lilr Notre Dame, and if the liu·.ulty is in some important way involved in l'ullilling this mission, won't it be p<~rfectly obvious that the university shouldn't hire solely on the basis of aeademie merit? Academic merit is of eourse crueial; it is of' utmost importance. But it can't be the whole shooting mateh. Not, at least, if Notre Damn really does have any kind ofspecial mission as a Catholic universi­ty. If it does have sueh a mission, then obvi­ously another kind of qualification that must be eonsidnred, in prospedive new !heulty, L'i ability to eon tribute to the f'ullillment of that mission and interest in doing so. 
The problem, of eourse, is to specify morn preeisely and in detail just what thn mi'ision of' this university is. and what that spndfication means for the various divisions and depart­ment<> of the University. That's thn rnally important question for Notre Dame (and one besides which the lilrtunes or misfi.Jrtunes of the football team pales into insignificance). 
Alvin Plantinga professor ofphilosophy Nov. II 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Familiar things happen, and 
mankind does not bother about 
them. It requires a very
unusual mind to undertake the 
analysis ofthe obvious." 
Alfred North Whitehead mathematician and philosopher 



~--­


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, November 12, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Debate about Victory March's lyrics continues 
Notre Dame-Patris? 
My brother and fellow Notre Dame alum recently e-mailed me the link to the letter written by Erin and Caity Schneeman regarding the gender­exclusive Victory March ("Reconsidering the Victory March," Oct. 30). "A fun read," he headlined the subject. Indeed, I chuckled as I started down the letter. I could picture the scene in my mind vividly: Two women incensed at the omission of "daughters" in the Victory March, then marching of!' (to The Observer!) to pen their "new idea" that the Victory March is not gender-inclusive! New idea? Hardly. I recalled the very same debate when I was a student in the early '90s. Like the Schneemans. I too belted out "sons and daughters" at a football game. I am &westruck that two highly educated Notre Dame women didn't real­ize, as I did the first time I tried it, that changing the words to a song (although amusing) didn't change a thing. At the end of the day, I knew who I was as a Notre Dame woman whether or not a song declared me as sueh. And, after all these years of hearing and singing "sons," I still know who I am. There are much bigger battles to fight in this world. 
It bothers me that this kind of energy isn't spent on worthier subjects. In fact, if that was all there was to the letter, I would have finished my chuckle and gone on with my day. Unfortunately, the Schneemans made one last comment that is worth my energy and should have caught the attention of all sons and daughters who read it: "What a shame it is that ... female students have to raise their hands on 'her,' which refers to Our Lady, and not to the women of Notre Dame." The real shame is on these two women who feel forced to raise their hands to Our Lady. In their so­called quest for equality, they carelessly elevated themselves above the greatest woman of all, the Holy Mother of God! As a woman, Catholic and proud alumna of Notre Dame, I am embarrassed that fellow Notre Dame women would write such an insult. If we're all this insecure about our gender, and quite sadly, this insensitive to the Divine, let's change the name of our great University to Notre Dame-Patris." 
Nicole (Verich) Browne alum class of 1992 Nov.IO 

Weis should pay 
Another home loss for the Irish. The total now stands at six for the season. In reality, the first Darner-comprised team to win inside the House That Hoekne Built this fall might be the winner of the Interhall Football Championship. We can watch that game for free, unlike the games of our Division I team, which cost each Notre Dame student $217 for the season. As a linanee major, I view this as a bad investment. In business, people do not continue to invest in an entity that does not produce positive returns. Approximately 11 ,000 students purchase a student ticket booklet each sea­son. Current prices dictate that the student body spends roughly $2.4 million per season on football tickets. I would like Charlie Weis to regain our trust­like a fund director offering incentives-by paying for our tickets next sea­son. His annual eontract, estimated to be in the $2 million range, ideally fits this cost structure. What do you say, Charlie? 
Matthew Quering junior Alumni Hall Nov. II 

Crack down on drunk driving 
Everyone knows that danger is inherently a part of driving. However, some people make choices that drastically increase the risk to others on the roads. In my opinion, and in the eyes of the law, drunk drivers really are criminals. 
Drunk driving is not a "mistake." It is a choice. A drunk driver (sometimes underage) chooses to drink alcohol and then get behind the wheel of a car. I am sick of excuses. Call a eab or stay where you are. There is absolutely no excuse for drunk driving, and in my opinion, neither Notre Dame nor Saint Mary's do enough to punish students who receive a DUI on or off campus. Fines and community service are not enough. I believe that all three schools need to partner up with the South Bend and Mishawaka police to create a registry that alerts the schools when a student receives a DUI. That student should then be expelled from the University or College, just as he or she should be for committing any other heinous crime. 
Drunk driving is not a joke, so we need to stop treating it like it is. Students who make the ridiculously unintelligent choice to drive drunk and gravely endanger the lives of those around them and innocent people in other cars must be punished justly. I urge the schools in this area to serious­ly reevaluate their polides on off-earn pus DUis and institute a much more strict policy. 
Kelsey Robertson 
sophomore 
Regina Hall 
Nov. II 

Lyric change long overdue 
A few weeks ago, I read a letter in The Observer ("Original version cherished," Nov. 1) that argued that we should not change the Notre Dame Fight Song to include both genders because the song, as is, represents "tradition" and that (obvious­ly) the University of Notre Dame was founded in 1842 as an all-male school. As a professor here for more than 20 years, I would like to say we definitely should change the lyrics of the fight song (and that we are way overdue in doing so). 
First, despite the faet that Notre Dame was traditionally an all-male university, it did become eo-ed, with Father Hesburgh's help and instigation, in the 1970s. The change in allowing women to attend neces­sitated many other structural and intellec­tual changes. For example, we built female dorms. More than that, some "traditional­ly" male dorms (such as Farley, where Father Malloy stayed as an undergraduate, but in which my own daughter stayed from 2000-2002) beeame female dorms. And new traditions were born. For example, at the dorm orientation for my daughter, I met a freshman female who was a legacy of that dorm: her mother had lived in Farley during her own undergraduate years. 
Arguing that we must keep things "as they are" (or, really, "as they were") is spe­cious. "Traditionally," the United States of America only granted full "equality" (specifically, in terms of the right to vote), to white, land-owning males. Our constitu­tion relegated African-Americans to being 3/5 human, Native Americans were dis­missed as "savages" and women weren't considered at all. But our country expand­ed ethically and extended full civil rights to African-American males, then females and ultimately people of all religions and races. Obviously, "tradition" didn't count-unless it was the deeper, abiding tradition of advocating freedom and inclusion (precise­ly what Notre Dame has done by eventually admitting minorities and women as well). 
Clearly, our constitution's words were changed with Amendments. A song cannot be changed in that way. However, its lyrics can be readily changed to reflect the spirit of inclusion that began many decades ago. The change is simple. The current lyrics have a certain number of syllables whose stresses fall on certain counts: "while her loyal sons are marching onward to victo­ry!" Replacing "sons are marching" with "sons and daughters" keeps the exact num­ber of syllables and stresses. Changing "onward to victory" to "march on to victo­ry" does the exact same thing. No need to change the rhythm. No awkward holds or pauses. Just a simple change reflecting the spiritual change in a place that has been, even since I came here, increasingly com­mitted to genuine "Catholicity" in its Catholic vision. 
Jacqueline Vaught Brogan professor of English Nov. 9 

U-WIRE 



Same heart, different body 
Whether subconsciously or consciously, many people are of the belief that "I need to feel safe, I need to fit in and I need to be accomplished." 
When we see someone else who may not fit this mold sometimes 
Jennifer Jacobs 
we criticize and poke fun in order to ingrain 
University of
in ourselves that we are 
Colorado
better, we are not and 
Campus Press
could never be like that. 
It's unfortunate because in order to secure this ideology we go after others and their appearances -so we detach, we categorize and we judge to protect ourselves. I am OK. I am normal. 
Today there are repercussions for preju­dice against race, gender and religion in our society. Yet what isn't recognized is this dis­criminatory attitude many Americans hold toward what others look like and those who may have weight issues. 
This is unfortunate because obesity is on the rise in America. Yet, so is this aggres­sively rude attitude towards people who are different. Do you see a problem? 
I remember learning in my general psy­chology class last year that the brain auto­matically judges the better-looking person as nicer. We seem to have this innate idea that external equals internal. 
There have been studies where people put on fat suits and go out with hidden cameras to see what reactions they get. The result is they get pushed around on the subway or laughed at and judged right in front of their faces. 
People go to jail or lose their jobs for dis­criminating against others and treating them in demoralizing and disrespectful fash­ions. Yet people on the other end of the spectrum, trying to get the job, may never get the opportunity to work for an important business because the interviewer judges them as lazy, uncontrolled and maybe even stupid. 
People are financially and emotionally punished for not making the same choices. Why aren't there laws for this type of dis­crimination? 
Obesity has been labeled as a disease and I really don't think we see an obese person the same way as someone with cancer. Both are diseases, yet I can't think of anyone in their right mind making fun of some woman who just came out of chemotherapy with her hair stripped away. 
It may sound like I'm a hippie or a flower child, but I really do believe that life is about being happy. This means loving other peo­ple, not bringing them down. But a lot of times we believe that if we bring someone down we rise higher. 
So what are we to do? 
Judgment is part of our reaction to things that are different, myself included. Yet, when we act on it, it becomes a problem. 
Everyone is entitled to their thoughts and their ideas. It becomes an issue when we make rash decisions based on our own fears and insecurities. 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 9 edition ofthe Campus Press, the daily publication at the University ofColorado. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Monday, November 12, 2007 


By RYAN RAFFIN Scene Writer 

Pretentious is a word that seems to get tossed around fairly often when describing post-hardcore outfit Thrice. After naming its 2005 effort "Vheissu" in reference to Thomas Pynchon's novel "V.," use of the word only increased. 
So when Thrice announced in late 2006 that it was recording four EPs, each the­matically connected to one of' Aristotle's lour elemenl'> (fire, water, earth and air), the haters had plenty of fuel. I low dare Thrice attempt something so ambitious? llave they no care f()r the fans? Luckily, the band paid no attm1tion and produced tlu~ excellent first entry of the two-part set, lengthily titled "The Alchemy Index, Vols. I & II: Fire & Water." 
This is admittedly a little confusing; tl1e first two EPs are packaged together, but they are not meant to be heard as one album. Each has 6 songs that are lyrically and musically distinct, two different sets of 20 odd minutes that go by too fast for the listener to ever tire of. 
The "Fire" EP is what you might guess based on its name. The louder, angrier side of Thrice, it's slightly reminiscent of their hardcore punk roots. Huge sounding choruses are everywhere -this is stuff that sounds good in a stadium. "Firebreailier" starl'i things off witl1 some of the heaviest rill's the band has ever recorded and with front man Dustin Kensrue singing an anthemic verse. The song even closes with a choir. 
Hight off the bat, the listener is given the rules: This is the new school -expect to hear different things. A programmed beat opens "The Messenger" before exploding into Kensrue's shouting and subsiding again.. It's an ebb and flow, creating one of the best songs the group has recorded. 
The subtle touches and flourishes of electronics are abundant throughout the album. Such ha'i been present in Thrice's sound for a couple of' years now but is best rnalized on "The Alehemy Index." 
Another complaint that has been lev­ellnd at the band n~cently is that lead gui­tarist Teppei Teranishi no longer plays ).,'llitar solos quitn as often as h11 used to. This may be true, but the guitar work here is consistently tightnr and more com­plex than ever before. Kensrue's vocal work is stellar, as usual: lie knows exactly how to sing or shout in order to best lit the song. A'i the EP dosns out on thn powerlul "The Flanw Deluge,'' it's tough not to bP left breathless. These six songs are so strong that it's tough to imagine how tlw "Water" EP can match them. 
Subdued from the start, "Water" doesn't hit you immediatdy like its counterpart, though it is just as good. The elnctronies and various effecL'> usnd on "Fire" eontin­uc, evident immediately upon listnning to first single, "Digital Sea." Keyboards an~ also very important for this EP, as nearly every song utilizes them in some way. Just like thp, eoncept of' flame was central to its counterpart, there is an aquatic motif in the lyrics and music. Unlike "Fire," though, this sounds almost nothing like what Thriee ha'i done before. Melodic and tranquil, the band l'ully succeeds in creat­ing an oceanic soundscape. 
The group's inl'luences really show through here: Hadiohead comparisons are inevitable, but wait lor "Night Diving" lor some very Pelican-nsque guitar work. The song shines, and normally you wouldn't expect a six-minute instrumental to grip the listener quite like this does. The whole EP seems like Thrien's interpretation of how alternative music should sound, almost liko a challonge to othnr bands. If "Fire" is Thrice proving tlwy can make music as loud and pownrl'ul as bel'ore, "Water" is the band showing that they ean do whatnver else thoy want as well. 
A lot of fans want the old Thrice back. Thny want to go back to tho days of' l~tst, 


The Alchemy Index, Vols. I & II: Fire and Water 
Thrice Label: Vagrant Records Recommended Tracks: "Firebreather," ''The Messenger," "Digital Sea" and "Night Diving" 

hard and loud. Sorry to dis­appoint, but it's not hap­pening anytime soon. "The Akhemy Index" is Thrice's latest progression, showing that the band is (:apable of creating any music they can think of', and doing it well. II' thH fans can't keep up with innovation, it's their loss. Wlwn tlwrp's musk this good out there, sonwone is going to hear it. This is one of the year's best-don't be Jell bPhind. 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edu 


embarking on an ambitious, Aristotle-inspired musical venture. 
-----------------------, 




NSIDER 
OTHE 
Monday, November 12, 2007 BSERVER Air Force 41, Notre Dame 24 

More of the same 

Running back's 272 all-purpose yards carry Air Force to victory, hand ND ninth loss 
By BILL BRINK Spons Writer 
The frustration Notre Dame has experienced all season can be summarized with one kick. 
When defensive end Trevor Laws booted the penalty flag after an ollsides call during the extra point attempt of Air Force's fifth touchdown of the Falcons' 41-24 win over the Irish, he symbolized the team's dissatisfaction with this historically bad season. 
Chad llall, who led the Air Force offense, caused much of Laws' frustration. Hall rushed 32 times for 142 yards. l-Ie also caught two passes for 31 yards, had 99 return yards and aver­aged 7.4 yards per touch in the game. 
"lie's a competitor, he competes out there so much and runs so hard," Laws said. "He wants to get as many yards as he can every play; he's out there loving what he's doing." 
Air Force improved to 8-3 on the season, coach Troy Calhoun's first with the Falcons. Notre Dame dropped to an all-time worst 1-9. 
Irish freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen had his best game of the season, completing 22-of­40 passes for 246 yards and three touchdowns. He didn't have the help of his receivers, however. On the first play from scrimmage, after Clausen hit tight end John Carlson for a 28-yard completion, Carlson fumbled, giving Air Force the ball on its own 42-yard line. The receivers continued to drop down. one yard.'' wrinkles than Navy had, so it was off 52 yards to Notre Dame's 33­passes for the rest of the game. "When you turn around and Notre Dame would have gone tough to stop.'' yard line, but Notre Dame's 
The Falcons drove down to the just hand the ball inside to the three-and-out again if not for a The Falcons' run game set up a defense held Air Force to a field Notre Dame 1-yard line, but nose fullback, you think the worst roughing-the-passer penalty after scoring chance on their first drive goal,. making the score 34-17. tackle Pat Kuntz stopped Falcons thing that's going to happen is Clausen's incomplete pass on in the second half, which ended Clausen went 5-of-7 on his next quarterback Shaun Carney you're going to get a couple of third down. The penalty gave the with Carney rolling out and hit­drive, including a swing pass to behind the line. Ryan Harrison yards and you're going to be play­Irish a first down on the Air Force ting wide receiver Sean Quintana running back Armando Allen for made a 19-yard field goal to put ing second and eight," Weis said. 32-yard line. On third and goal for a touchdown. a touchdown to make the score Air Force up 3-0. The Irish went three-and-out from the 2, Clausen hit Carlson in After two Notre Dame drives 34-24 with 7:56 remaining. Allen 
Notre Dame's next two drives on their next possession but the corner of the end zone on a ended in punts, Air Force capped had nine rushes for 29 yards and stalled when Air Force sacked received a stroke of luck. Carney play-action fake, and the Irish a 65-yard drive when Carney 2 receptions for 17 yards and the Clausen on blind-side blitzes. and Hall fumbled the option tied the score at 10-10. rolled right and hit tight end touchdown. Irish eoach Charlie Weis said that exchange, and linebacker Kerry "I thought that we were back in Keith Madsen amid defenders for Notre Dame forced a three­the blitzes were part of Air Neal fell on the ball. Nine plays it," said Carlson, who had four a 10-yard touchdown that gave and-out and got the ball back Force's defense and that he had a later, Notre Dame had a first receptions for 57 yards and the the Falcons a 31-10 lead with with 5:39 left, but Clausen fell plan in place to counter them -down on the Falcons' 11-yard touchdown. "I hoped we'd start 1:31left in the third quarter. short on a quarterback sneak on but it wasn't executod, he said. line. But three straight incom­rolling and score some more Clausen found a rhythm when fourth-and-1. Air Force capital­
"We know what they're doing," plete passes forced a Brandon points." Notre Dame got the ball back. ized on the short field and scored Weis said. "Here comes a weak Walker 28-yard field goal to make The Falcons' rushing game Running a no-huddle offense, he to put the game out of reach at corner. We've got two to block the score 10-3 with 8:29 remain­caught fire on the next drive, led a 10-play, 57-yard drive that 41-24. two. 'You block him. you block ing in the half. accounting for 56 of the drive's 66 culminated on a 21-yard touch­Laws said the team did not him.' And the quarterback's get­On fourth-and-1 on their own yards. Air Force made the score down pass to wide receiver David know the reason for its struggles ting hit in the back.'' 49-yard line on the Falcons' next 17-10 when wide receiver Grimes on fourth-and-9 to make this season. 
After the Irish forced an Air possession, Laws stufl'ed tailback Spencer Armstrong ran a reverse the score 31-17. "If we knew why, we'd be win­Force punt that gave them the Chad Smith at the line, forcing a eight yards for a touchdown with "We lined up and the corner ning games," Laws said. "I don't ball on their own 20-yard line, turnover on downs and giving the 1:09 remaining in the half. was pressed," said Grimes, who know why we're not playing as fullback A<>aph Schwapp bobbled Irish good field position. "They changed their offense led the Irish with six catches for well as we should be. I wish I did a handoll' and sent the ball flying "Could you punt it? Sure," Air every time we tried to get hold of 67 yards and the score. "He just know." into the air. It came down into the Force coach Troy Calhoun said. "I what they're doing," Laws said. checked down when he saw the hands of linebacker John Habold, felt like there was a very good "They ran a different option today coverage." Contact Bill Brink at who ran 19 yards for the touch-chance that we could convert the [with] a lot [more] different little Hall returned the ensuing kick-wbrink@nd.edu 

IAN GAVLICK!fhe Observer 

Falcons linebacker John Rabold stiff arms Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen after picking up a fumble. Rabold returned the fumble 19 yards for a touchdown during the first quarter of Air Force's 41-24 win over Notre Dame Saturday. 
player of the game 
Chad Hall 

The Falcons' running back was the major factor in Air Force's offense and special teams, gaining 272 all­purpose yards and helped set up each ofthe Falcons touchdowns. 
stat of the game 
7.4 

Yards per touch for Falcons Hall. Hall had I49 rushing yards, 3 I receiving yards and 99 return yards. 
play of the game 
Clausen's failed fourth-down conversion 
On a fourth-and-I for Notre Dame at its own 25-yard line, Clausen failed to rush past the marker, giv­ing Air Force the ball in good field position. 
quote of the game 
"Ijust don't know what happened. I'm in disbelief, still. /just think it's a dream and that I'm going to wake up one day." 
Maurice Crum, Jr. Irish linebacker 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 12, 2007 
report card 
8+ 


D D 8­
D 



C 
cover Falcons mmivnrs in the second 
+half. allowing Carney to tlrrow lilr two 
scorns in the sm:ond half on 10-ol~ 16 passing. 
c 
special teams: Punt coverage downnd two punts inside thn 20. but the punt tnam only had two yards on 
two punts. The kiekoll" team also 
gave up :n yards per return. 
D 
coaching: Weis said after the gamn that all the blame ean't go on him, but his team came out flat and was 
not able to keep up with Air Force on either side of the ball. 
quarterbacks: Clausen strugglnd in the 
first half but !imnd a ~-,rroovn while 
leading a Notre Dame comebaek. lie 
finished with 246 yards and three 
touehdowns with no pieks. 
running backs: The baeks failed to estab­lish the run gamn early, and fullbaek A'mph Schwapp fumbled fhr a Falcons seorn. The unit only averaged 1.6 yards per carry. 
receivers: Despite three touchdown 
nttches. the receivers dropp1~d night 
pas.c:;ns -some or which killed promis­
ing drives. Carlson also fumbled on the 
first play ofthn game. 

oHensive line: The line took a step backward after helping gain over 200 yards rushing against Navy, allowing six sacks and failing to open holes for the backs to run through. 
defensive fine: As a unit, thn linemen could not pressum Carney or ell'ective­ly stop the run. Individually, defensive end Trnvor Laws had a 1-,rreat game, n~gistPring 17 tackles in the loss. 
linebackers: Crum basically sat out, but Brockington, Smith and Neal elevated tlwir gmnes in support-including Smitl1's first touchdown. Vernaglia and Hyan continue to struggle. 
defensive backs: The secondary litiled to 
1.48 

overall: Notre Dame strug­gled early but managed to hang on in the first half. But late mistakes cost the Irish a ehance at the win. 
adding up the numbers 
Ranking of Notre Dame's pass defense out 
5 

of 119 Division 1 FBS teams. The Irish are 53rd in the nation In total defense. 
6 
Sacks Notre Dame allowed Saturday. The Irish 
have allowed an NCAA-worst 49 sacks for 361 yards this season. 
Fourth-down attempts for Notre Dame this season -most in Div. 1 FBS. The Irish 
32 
were 2-of-5 on fourth down Saturday. 

17 
Number of tackles for defensive end Trevor laws. He now has 98 on the season-fourth 
most lor adown-lineman in Irish history. 
Notre Dame's yards per rush against Air Force. The Irish average 1.61 yards per 
1.5 
carry this seaon. 

101 
More total yards of offense Air Force gained than Notre Dame on only one more offensive play 
Jimmy Clausen's touchdown passes this sea­son. Clausen had one against Purdue and 
4
three against Air Force. 

6 Red zone conversions for Air Force on six attempts. Notre Dame was 4-for-4 in the 
game. 

Football teams have 11 players on the field at any given time. Each one has a job to do on every play. 
When a team is playing well, those 11 players can seem like one smooth unit, moving seam­lessly together down the field. 
That has not happened this season for Notre Dame. 
It doesn't have to be a total team break­down. A lot of times, especially reeenlly, the problem has been only one or two players. 
And they're different players on every play. 
But this is a team game, and if just one player fails to his job. a play can break down. 
Take a couple examples from the 41-24 loss to Air Force on Saturday: 
+ In the third quarter, quarter­back Jimmy Clausen dropped back to pass. He was well protected. he scanned his pro­gressions and he 

Chris Khorey 
Sports Editor 
lost track of Falcons wide receiver 
Mark Root. The result was a 26­yard pass play that led to an Air 
Force touchdown. 
McNeil was fooled by the misdi­rection, so his mistake is under­standable. But some other mental mistakes came despite several rep­etitions in practice. 
+ Clausen was blindsided two times in the first half because run­ning backs didn't step up and block outside blitzers. But coach Charlie Weis said the Irish worked on piek­ing up that exact blitz package in practice. 
"We said, 'This is the blitz they run, and the lineman's going to get the first guy and the back's going to get the second guy," he said. "But it didn't happen that way, and the quarterback got hit." 
So what is causing these prob­lems? 
Sometimes as many as 1 0 players are doing their jobs effectively, but at least one man is making a physi­cal mistake, getting fooled by the opposition or forgetting what the team worked on in practiee. 
Part of the answer is youth. The imbalance toward the younger classes on this team's roster has 
been well docu­mented. 

rifled a perfect Sometimes as many as But when Grimes pass. is dropping passes
I o players are doing
Meanwhile, wide and fifth-year sen­
their jobs effectively, but
receiver David ior running back Grimes ran a crisp at least one man is Travis Thomas isn't route and was stepping up to block
making a physical mis­
open. But when the the right person,
take. getting fooled by 
ball arrived. he the priJblems aren't dropped it. the opposition or forget­only with young A perfectly exe­players.
ting what the team
cuted play-and a So is the problem
worked on in practice. 
promising drive -coaching? Possibly, 
was derailed by a dropped pass from a player that, otherwise, had a good game. 
+The problems aren't always physical. Early in the second half. Air Foree ran what looked like a quarterback sweep to the left side. But instead of cutting up the field. signal ealler Shaun Carney sudden­ly dropped back. Irish cornerback Haeshon McNeil came up to defend the running play and completely although Darius 
WalkPr didn't have any trouble learning blitz pickup, Maurice Stovall improved dramati­cally at catching the ball with his hands and Mike Hichardson devel­oped into a solid eover corner, all under this staff. 
Why aren't these players improv­ing the same way? There have been flashes, but then things regress again. 
"The improvement has been too spotty. One of the improvements 
you'd like to sen is more consisten­
cy," Weis said. "One of the things 
I'm most disappointed in as a 
teacher is that when you have intel­
ligent young men. that as the years 
goes on, that there would be some 
consistency that progressns from 
the ~.eginning of the year to the 
end. 
Even the players themselves are dumbfounded. 
"Look at the coaches' pedigrees," tight end John Carlson said. "They're good teachers. And the players on the team are students at the University of Notre Dame. You'd think thaf we're all fairly intelligent individuals. But something isn't dicking, and I don't know what it is." 
At least part of the problem is conlidencn. Notre Dame has many contributors that didn't play a lot last year. They've never had suc­cess without Brady Quinn or Jeff Samardzija on the roster. 
The only thing that can cure that is winning. For them, it would be b1~st to start next week against Duke or the week after against Stanford or at least next September against San Diego State. 
And once this season is over, the Irish coaching staff can redouble its efforts to fix this team's problems, eorrect the mistakes and get the 11 players on the field playing like one again. 
ln the meantime, as Carlson said after the game, all this team has to play for is pride. If that pride means that just one person on every play does his job a little bet­ter than he did the play before. then this Notre Dame team might just end the season on a high note and get some momentum for 2008. 
But every player on this tl~am needs to have that pride, bneause at any time, tlwy could bll callnd upon to bn one of those 11 players on the field. 
And it takes all 11 to succeed. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those r~{ The Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd. edu 

Weis: ''Wegot ourselves a quarterback'' 

By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
After weeks of ineffective performanc­es, Notre Dame freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen, who started for the first time since Notre Dame's 27-13 loss to Boston College on Oct. 13, had the best game of his young college career Saturday. 
The highly touted signal-caller threw for 246 yards, three touchdowns and no intorceptions on 22-of-40 passing. 
"Jimmy did a very, very good job in the second half stepping up and throwing the ball." Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "I'd say if there was one thing you walked out of that game saying, [it would be, I 'We got ourselves a quarter­back.'" 
Weis had benched Clausen the last two gamos in part because junior quarter­back Evan Sharpley was able to move the ball downfield easier and put more points on the board than Clausen, but Clausen showed the ability to sustain long drives and lead Notre Dame into the end zone against the Falcons ­especially in the second half. 
Clausen threw for only 54 yards in the first half on 5-for-11 passing, but one of terback. completion percentage could have been those completions was his touchdown "He shows very great composure for a higher, but Notre Dame dropped more pass to tight end John Carlson to tie the young guy, a freshman in college. He's passes against the Falcons than it had in score at 10-10 into that drive," Weis said. "Usually with any game this season by Weis' count, 
Clausen threw a lob pass to Carlson in a young quarterback you see him getting eight. tho corner of the end zone, a play remi­flustered as the game goes on, and I "[The drops were] very surprising," niscent of Clausen's only previous colle­don't see that with him, which is an Weis said. "They were all over. It wasn't giate touchdown pass, in Notre Dame's encouraging thing." like you could sit there and say it was 33-19 loss to Purdue on Sept. 29. Clausen threw for 192 yards on 17 -for one person; there were a number of 
In the second half. Clausen ignited a 29 passing in the second half, including them. It was disappointing." Notre Dame comeback effort that ulti­touchdown passes to junior wide receiv­A cause for concern with Clausen over mately fell short, but he showed his er David Grimes and freshman running the past few weeks had been his health. coach that he was maturing as a quar-back Armando Allen. Overall, Clausen's The freshman had a minor elbow sur­
gery over the summer, and during his first starts at Notre Dame, opposing defenses hit Clausen as much as-if not more than -any quarterback in college football. 
Air Force sacked Clausen six times, with multiple hits coming to Clausen's blind side thanks to a blitz scheme that involved Air Force bringing two defend­ers around the left edge of the offense line -a scheme Weis said Notre Dame worked on protecting all week in prac­tice. Despite Notre Dame's preparation, the Falcons were still able to get to Clausen. 
After the game, Weis compared the volume of treatment in Notre Dame's post-game locker room to a mobile army hospital but said Clausen was not being treated for anything serious. 
"Other than bumps and bruises, there's no injury," Weis said of Clausen. "He's not one of the people in the MASH unit, and he got probably got hit as many times as anyone, and that's an encouraging thing." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Notre Dame all-time worst 0-6 at home 
Monday, November 12, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
•
scoring 
suininary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Air Force  10  7  14  14  27  
Notre Dame  0  10  0  10  14  

First quarter Air Force 3, Notre Dame 0 
Ryan Harrison 19-yard field goal with 8:31 remaining. Drive: 14 plays, 56 yards, 6:11 elapsed. 
Air Force 10, Notre Dame 0 
John Rabold 19·yard fumble recovery with 
00:40 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 41 yards, 4:43 elapsed. 
Second quarter Air Force 10, Notre Dame 3 
Brandon Walker 28-yard field goal with 8:29 remaining. Drive: 13 plays, 52 yards, 4:27 elapsed. 
Air Force 10, Notre Dame 10 
John Carlson 2·yard pass from Jimmy Clausen with 2:32 remaining (Walker kick). Drive: 7 plays, 50 yards, 3:06 elapsed. 
Air Force 17, Notre Dame 10 
Spencer Armstrong 8·yard run with 1:09 remaining (Harrison kick). Drive: 7 plays, 66 yards, 1:23 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Air Force 24, Notre Dame 10 Sean Quintana 7-yard pass from Shaun Carney with 12:49 remaining (Harrison kick). Drive: 7 plays, 67 yards, 2:11 elapsed. 
Air Force 31, Notre Dame 10 
Keith Madson 10·yard pass from Carney with 
1:31 remaining (Harrison kick). Drive: 9 plays, 65 yards, 4:14 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Air Force 31, Notre Dame 17 
David Grimes 21·yard pass from Clausen with 
13:31 remaining (Walker kick). Drive: 10 plays, 57 yards, 3:24 elapsed. 
Air Force 34, Notre Dame 17 
Harrsion 37-yard field goal with 10:07 remain· ing. Drive: 7 plays, 13 yards, 3:24 elapsed. 
Air Force 34, Notre Dame 24 
Armando Allen 9·yard pass from Clausen with 
7:56 remaining (Walker kick). Drive: 8 plays, 71 yards, 2:11 elapsed. 
Air Force 41, Notre Dame 24 
Shaun Carney 1-yard run with 1:55 remaining (Harrison kick). Drive: 7 plays, 25 yards, 2:25 elapsed. 
statistics 
total yards 

passing yards 
xn 2-H) 
rushing yards 

-.·-""*;._:.._ 
return yards 

time of possession 
·_:-~-.:· ..-. ·:-·; -­'-~ -• '~---·. -~--<...::~ .·. 
: ~ ···-.... ~-·-·--. ::~;,.;:;:·. 

xn 25:5-1 
i 
I I 


• 
passing 
Clausen 40-22-0 Carney 16-10-0 


Kamara sits because ofacademic reasons 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's loss dropped the Irish to an all-time worst 0-6 at home this season. Notre Dame had never before lost six straight games at home. 
If the Irish lose to Duke next week. it will be the first sea­son since 1887 in which Notre Dame lost all its home games. That year, the Irish were 0-1. 
Kamara out for academic reasons 
Freshman wide receiver Duval Kamara missed Saturday's game due to aca­demic reasons. Irish coach Charlie Weis said Kamara 
missed too much practice time to play because the issues were not resolved until the end of the week. 
''I'm never going to be a hypocrite when it comes to academics; academics are always going to take the fore­front, and he understood it very clearly that that's the way it's going to be," Weis said. 
Maust takes over punting job 
Sophomore Eric Maust took over the punting job from sen­ior Geoff Price after Price strained a muscle in his leg in practice Thursday. 
Calhoun calls for different officiating crews 
Air Force coach Troy Calhoun said he hoped inter­conference games will use officiating crews from a third conference to avoid "putting officials in a bad position." 
"We gotta get to a point where you go play a game where there's no residue at all," Calhoun said. "There are no visages. At some point, can that maybe occur? If Oregon goes to play at Michigan, then use the Mountain West Conference?" 
Taylor honored for athletic, civic excellence 
Notre Dame presented for­mer offensive line All­American Aaron Taylor, who graduated in 1994 and played in the NFL, with the Harvey G. Foster award for athletic endeavors and civic or University excellence. 
Taylor has established LegendsOfSouthBend.com, which is a for-profit "social­profit" limited liability corpo­ration that will donate money to create a scholarship fund at the University. 
Former ADs commemorated. 
The University dedicated plaques honoring past athletic directors on the North Tunnel Plaza north of Notre Dame Stadium's tunnel entrance. Jesse Harper, Knute Rockne, Elmer Layden, Hugh Devore, Frank Leahy, Edward "Moose" Krause, Gene Corrigan and Dick Rosenthal all had plaques in their names placed on the wall around the plaza. Corrigan and Rosenthal them­selves, along with family members representing the others, received replicas of the plaques on the field before the game. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 12, 2007 



blunders 
Notre Damn was coming ofT a hard-fought. overtime loss to Navy 
but looked flat in the lirst half' against Air Force on Saturday. The Irish fell lwhind 10-0 in the first quarter. hut were able to respond with a 2H-yard field goal and a touchdown pass from freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen to tight end John Carlson to tie the seorn at I 0. But tlw Irish could not keep pace with the Falcons in the second half-or Faleons running back Chad Hall. The junior had 7.4 yards per touch as the Falcons tailback and kiek returner snt up every Air Force offensive touchdown. The Faleons racked up 21 unanswered points to raise their lead to 31-10. Clausen, howev­er, mounh~d a conwhack with touchdown strikes to wide receiver David (;rimes and running back Armando Allen to bring the Irish within 10 points. The Irish then had a chance to make it a one­scorn game in the fourth quarter. but Clausen failed to convert on a quarterback srwak on fourth-and-one, sealing the win for Air Force. 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 

~ 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, November 12, 2007 
page 11 

MiCrowave .noodles get 
a makeover. 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 
shrimp, crabmeat, spinach, broccoli, cab­By TAE ANDREWS 
bage and even cookies. Some of his more Scene Editor 
outlandish recipes include Hijacked Taco Bell Ramen, which requires the use of 10 Ramen is the quintessential college food. contraband packets of stolen Taco Bell Mild It requires only what author Eric Hites calls Sauce, and Orange "PEZ" Chicken Soup, a "lair amount of hunger," an eating utensil which includes five packs of Pez candy. and the ability to boil water, which even the Hites' "Fourth o' July Confetti Bean Salad" most domestically challenged undergradu­recipe also provides a way to celebrate our ates r.an usually manage. nation's independence while simultaneous­
In his book, "Everybody Loves Ramen: ly chowing down on some delicious Recipes. Stories, Games and ·Fun Facts legumes. About the Noodles You Love," author and Beyond providing an infusion of fresh self-described "noodle guru" Hites converts ideas for twists on the conventional Ramen eollege euisine into haute cuisine with over noodle soup, Hites also strews friendly tid­50 different recipes involving all manner of bits of Ramen trivia throughout the book, stylf1S, ranging from Asian including factoids and food to Italian food to Hamen "lore." One such American-themed fare. So even as you rock fact is that if you ate one 
For Hamenites accus­out with your wok out packet of Hamen a day, you tomnd to the traditional would eat your weight in
or break out the pots 
variety of flavors (the noo­Ramen noodles in 2. 34 dles come in Chicken. Beef. and pans, you'll only years, or that it would take Shrimp and Oriental fla­spend about 15 432,000 packages of vors. among others) Ramen to cover a football
minutes maximum 
"Everybody Loves Ramen" field, like the one suppos­offers a veritable smorgas­on any given edly in Notre Dame bord of different recipes. Ramen recipe. Stadium. Thern are healthy Ramen Clearly, Hites is a man recipes (Cholesterol-Killer who knows his noodles. Ramen), unhealthy Ramen recipes (911 The square, compact book is even shaped I Ieart Attack Ramen), vegetarian Ramen more or less like a packet of the stuff. recipes (Vegetarian's Power Dish), regal However, he still understands that the key Ramen recipes (Fit-for-a-King Salad), pau­attractiveness of Ramen (and its status as a per Ramen recipes (Cheap-as-It-Gets college diet staple) relies on how easy it is Hamen Salad) and even Ramen for the to make. So even as you rock out with your expecting (Super Pregnancy Ramen). wok out or break out the pots and pans, 
Talk about thinking outside the pre­you'll only spend about 15 minutes maxi­packed square wrapper. In his creative mum on any given Hamen recipe. And if concoctions, Hites drums up formulas for you really can't wait for your noodles, Hites his oodles of noodles that create pancakes, even included a "Top-Speed 3-Minute salads, pizzas, chilis, omelets, desserts, Ramen" recipe for Ramen racers desperate slaws and even burritos. Among other for a fix. things. he throws in ingredients like fish, "Everybody Loves Ramen" is definitely cheesP, beans, mushrooms, eggs, cashews, one of the more eccentric cookbooks out 



Snorlox Owns 
Everybody Loves Ramen 
Eric Hites Publisher: Andrews McMeel Recommended Recipes: Orange "PEZ' Chicken Soup and 911 Heart Attack Ramen 

there. Filled with random quotes and odes to the culi­nary goodness that is Ramen (and telling tidbits like this one: "If all the ramen noodles consumed by Americans in one day were stacked on top of each other, they would probably fall over"). "Everybody Loves Ramen" is like the pre-packed food itself: a quick, easy read and full of deliciousness. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew 1 @nd.edu 
Cheaper than take-out and more convenient than a meal plan, Ramen noodles provide microwaved nutrition for the cash-strapped college student in everyone. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 12, 2007 
NFL 

Bears win as Grossman replaces injured Griese 
Rian Lindell's game-winning FG keeps Dolphins the NFL's only winless team with worst start in franchise history 
right matchup all game, and we 
Associated Press 
couldn't get it, and then it hap­

OAKLAND, Calif. -With one pnnod," Borrian said. "At that perfect deep pass, Hex time of the game. we needed Grossman just might have won anything to happen, a long run back his starting quarterback or a long play." job and saved the Chicago Tho Bnars took advantage of' BPars · sPas on. man coverage by a backup cor­
Grossman replaced an injurnd nerback forced into a starting Brian c;rinsn and thrnw a 5'J­role because of injuries to yard pass to BPrnard Berrian Nnamdi Asomugha and Fabian for the go-alwad score with Washington. Carr was solid for 
3: I I remaining, leading the almost the Pntirn game, with six Bnars to a 17-6 victory over the tacklns and one pass breakup, Oakland Baiders on Sunday. but got beat on the one play 
"It was unbelinvabln, some­that mattered most. thing you can't describe to "They did a very good job of' sonwone who hasn't benn in selling me on the go route," that position," c;rossman said. Carr said. "lie gave me a little "It's a grnat fn~ding to comn in hesitation and I wasn't running and be able to pull one out." as fast as I should have been 
Sebastian Janikowski's 52-running. lie got a step on me. yard f'ield goal with 4:04 Once he got a step on me, he rmnaining gave Oakland (2-71 a got me." 6-:{ lead that looked as if it Grossman, who had been 5­eould· hn enough on a day wlwn for-12 for 72 yards before the nnitlwr ofTense eould move thn winning drive, leaped into ball. tnammatn John Tait's arms and 
Tlw n <; rossman, who had llaslwd a smile that hadn't been struggled in his first game since seen in a long while. Snpt. 23, turned back into Good Grossman was benched after Hex, thn q u art1~ rbaek who throwing six interceptions and !wiped lead the Bnars (4-5) to only one touchdown pass in the Super Bowl last season Chicago's first three games. instead of the one whose Combined with his 23 intercep­turnovers cost him his job earli­tions in 19 games last season, er this season. the Bears had grown tired of all 
After the Bears almost of Grossman's mistakes and But most importantly, he had no That's what 340 pounds of home game against unbeaten 
botdwd the kic~koff. Grossman decided to go with the veteran turnovers. frustration looks like. New England. hit Cedric Bnnson on an 11-Griese. "I hope people appreciate that "You have to finish a game," "This win tells a lot about our yard pass over the middln. The move back to Grossman Hex hasn't shut it down," Traylor said. "For some reason team," quarterback J.P. Losman 
On the next play, Berrian didn't look like it would pay ofT Kreutz said. "He hasn't moped we can't do it. It'll drive you said. "Our baeks were to the sprint~~d past Chris Carr, caught when he fumbled the first cen­around our building. He's kept crazy." wall. and we made enough the de11p pass in stride and ter exchange with Olin Kreutz. himself prepared and ready to The winless Dolphins con­plays when we had to." went into the end zonn with the lie did little positive other than play. I hope it shows a lot of trolled the ball for nearly 3 7 The Bills' only touchdown go-ahead seore. the one big pass to Berrian, fin­people what everybody on this minutes and led most of the came after Miami mounted a 
"We wnr11 trying to get the ishing 7-for-14 for 142 yards. team already knew about Rex. game Sunday, but Rian Lindell long touchdown march to take a He's still a professional, and kicked a 34-yard field goal with 10-2 Inad. Buffalo responded he's still going to be ready to 46 seconds left, and the Bufl'alo with a 66-yard drive capped by win." Bills earned their fourth consec­Marshawn Lynch's 3-yard run. 
The Bears won in their first utive victory. lie then ran for the 2-point game after the bye, but still The Dolphins (0-9) extended conversion, spinning across the have plenty more to do if they the worst start in franchise his­goal aftf~r hn was hit to make it want to make it back to the tory. Five defeats have been by 10-all. playoffs. It just might be three points, none more Miami's Ted Ginn Jr. returned Grossman who has to take them wrenching than the latest. the kiekoff 86 yards for. an there. Griese's shoulder injury "Who's the guy from Charlin apparent touchdown, but the is not believed to be serious, but Brown who has the gray cloud score was negated by a holding coach Lovie Smith said he want­following him around'?" dnfen­penalty on Greg Camarillo .. ed to savor this win before sive tackle Vonnie Holliday said. "I wish that could have been making any decisions about the "Pig Pen'? We're like Pig Pen." the play to take us into a victo­quarterback next week. The Dolphins committed no ry." said Camarillo, his voice 
The Haiders went three-and­turnovers, allowed Buffalo to shaking with emotion half an out on their next drive after convert only two third downs hour after the game. "I thought Grossman's TD pass. and benefited from a big day by it was a fair play, but the refs 
After a Chicago punt, Adewale journeyman Jesse Chatman, called it, and I'm guilty. I'll take Ogunleye then forced a fumble who rushed for a earner-high the blame for it." by Josh McCown that Israel 124 yards. Still they lost. The Dolphins made two first ldonije recovered at the 3 with When St. Louis earned its first downs before punting. and 
1:39 remaining. Benson ran it victory by beating New Orleans, Roscoe Parrish returned the in on the next play to seal the Miami became the NFL's last kick 40 yards to midfield with victory. Benson finished with 76 winless team. 4:37 left. Buffalo converted two yards on 29 carries. "That's what stinks about it," third-down situations to move 
Chatman said, "because we're to the 16 and set up Lindell's Bills 13, Dolphins 10 so much better than this reeord. field goal. Miami Dolphins nose tackle It's killing us." "I don't mind those situa­Keith Traylor sat at his locker The Bills (5-4) scored 11 tions," Lindell said. "You want 
AP stripped to his uniform pants, points in the final 9:46. They'll to make every kick, not just the shaking his head as his enor­take their longest winning ones at the end. In our world, mous shoulders sagged. streak since 2004 into Sunday's they're all big." 



The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhc right ro cdir all classifieds for conrenr wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  PREGNANT OR KNOW  
WANTED  FoR RENT  TICKETS  TICKETS  Do not go it alone. If you or  SOMEONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone.  

 someone you love needs c  We want to help.  
Looking for a playful,  Blue & Gold  WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX.  If you or someone you care about  onfidential support or  Call our 24 hour confidential  
Homes now showing  PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570  has been sexually assaulted. visit  assistance, please call  hotline at 1·800-No  
kind and responsible  08·09 & 09·10.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP.  Abort or visit our web site at  
Bluegoldrentals.com  FOR SALE:  shtml  at 1·7819. For more  www.lifecall.org  
person to watch my two children  NO FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME  information, visit  
Blue & Gold Homes  GAMES. 574·232·0964. www.victo·  Adopt: a young loving couple long  our website at:  Single West Virginian female seek·  
(6 & 10 yrs.) in my home  2nd semester sale.  rytickets.com  to share their hearts and home with  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg·  ing uncle or brother for marriage  
$200 PiS just off campus  a newborn. Will provide endless  nant.shtml  and children.  
occasionally. Please call Jill574-288-7118.  "alumni owned". Bluegoldrentals.com  ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. ..... 57 4-288·2726.  love. Expenses paid. Call Eileen and Ed 1·800·718·6577.  or see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  If interested, please contact Emily W. at 304·280·5007  



OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM TriE OssERVHts WIRE SERVICES

Monday, November 12, 2007 
NCAA Football BCS Top 25 

team  record  BCSavg.  
1  LSU  9·1  .9802  
2  Oregon  8·1  .9383  
3  Kansas  10·0  .9094  
4  Oklahoma  9·1  .8540  
5  Missouri  9·1  .8096  
6  West Virginia  8·1  .7863  
1  Ohio State  10·1  .7744  
8  Arizona Slate  9-1  .7500  
9  Georgia  8-2  .6724  
10  Virginia Tech  8-2  .6133  
11  usc  8-2  .5267  
12  Florida  7-3  .5047  
13  Texas  9·2  .4660  
14  Virginia  9·2  .4074  
15  Clemson  8-2  .3924  
16  Hawaii  9·0  .3858  
11  Boston College  8·2  .3627  
18  Boise State  9·1  .2621  
19  Illinois  8-3  .2447  
20  Tennessee  7-3  .2393  
21  Michigan  8·3  .1866  
22  Cincinnati  8·2  .1840  
23  Kentucky  7-3  .1135  
24  Connecticut  8-2  .1480  
25  Wisconsin  8·3  .1203  

NCAA Football Human Polls 

AP Coaches 
team team 
1 LSU (40) 2 Oregon (22) 
1 LSU (40) 

2 Oregon (22) 3 Oklahoma (1) 
3 Oklahoma (1) 4 Kansas (1) 
4 Kansas (1) 5 West Virginia (1) 
5 West Virginia (1) 6 Missouri 
6 Missouri 1 Ohio State 
1 Ohio State 8 Georgia 
8 Georgia 9 Arizona State 
9 Arizona State 10 Virginia Tech 
10 Virginia Tech 11 usc 
11 usc 12 Texas 
12 Texas 13 Hawaii 

13 Hawaii 14 Florida 
14 Florida 15 Clemson 
15 Clemson 16 Virginia 
16 Virginia 11 Boise Slate 
11 Boise Stale 18 Boston College 
18 Boston College 19 Tennessee 
19 Tennessee 20 Illinois 
20 Illinois 21 Cincinnati 
21 Cincinnati 22 Kentucky 
22 Kentucky 23 Michigan 
23 Michigan 24 Wisconsin 
24 Wisconsin 25 Connecticut 
25 Connecticut 
NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA/ adidas Poll 
team record previous 
1 UCLA (33) 14·1·2 1 
2 Texas A&M 16·2·1 2 
3 Portland 13·3·0 3 
4 North Carolina 15·3·0 4 
5 Stanford 3·2·3 5 
6 Penn State 15·3-1 1 
1 Virginia 11-3-4 6 
8 Purdue 16·2-2 8 
9 usc 13·2-2 11 
10 Texas 13·3·3 12 
11 NOTRE DAME 14·4-1 13 
12 West Virginia 14·4-1 14 
13 Georgia 15-2·2 17 
14 Florida Stale 11-4-3 15 
15 Tennessee 13-3·2 59 
16 Santa Clara 11·5·3 16 
11 Boston College 11·4·3 10 
18 Wake Forest 11·5·3 18 
19 California 12·5·0 19 
20 San Diego 14·2-3 20 
21 Florida 13-4·2 22 
22 Oklahoma Stale 12·5·2 25 
23 Missouri 12·6·0 21 
24 Connecticut 12·5·1 23 
25 Brigham Young 14-3·2 24 
around the dial 
NFL 
49ers at Seahawks 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 
NASCAR 
Associated Press 

AVONDALE, Ariz. ­Jimmie Johnson took com­mand of the Nextel Cup championship Sunday, win­ning at Phoenix International Raceway to open a daunting lead over teammate Jeff Gordon in the race to the title. 
Johnson, the defending Nextel Cup champion, heads to next week's season finale in Homestead, Fla., with a comfortable 86-point lead over Gordon. He needs to finish just 18th or better to become the first driver since Gordon in 1997 and 1998 to win consecutive titles. 
"It's over. It's over," con­ceded Gordon, the four-time series champion. "Even if we win it, it's because they have problems. While we'll accept it, we don't want to do it that way. 

"Those guys have flat-out killed everybody. And you've got to give credit where credit is due." 
Johnson was subdued in Victory Lane, and refused to claim the title. 
"Homestead is going to be a stressful weekend. We've got seven more days, I'm just going to try to keep my mind clear and focus on the things we need to do," Johnson said. "This is kind of where we were last year. We just have to go down there and be smart and see how it shakes out." 
Gordon was off all day. He 
IN BRIEF 

Riots ensue after soccer fan 
inadvertently killed by police 
ROME -A police officer accidentally shot and killed a soccer fan Sunday while trying to break up a fight by a Tuscan highway between supporters of rival teams, authorities said. Enraged by the killing, hundreds of fans rioted in Rome, attacking a police station. 
Fans stormed the yard of a police station near the Rome's Olympic Stadium, hurled stones at passing police cars, and smashed windows at the nearby Italian Olympic Committee headquarters. 
Hundreds of youths, many with their faces covered by scarves and ski masks, dragged metal barricades and trash bins to block off one end of a bridge spanning the Tiber near the sta­tion. The rioters smashed a window in the police station and set a police vehi­cle on fire inside the gate. 
Sky TG24 TV showed images of flames from what it said was a bus set on fire near the barracks. 
had a tire rub after making contact with Kevin Harvick, and finished a disappointing lOth. 
It was a crushing per­formance on a day when Johnson raced to his fourth consecutive victory and lOth of the season. He became the first driver to win four straight in a sea­son since Gordon did in 1998, and his season victory total is the most since Gordon won 13 races that same year. 
"They are as good as any group I've seen, including Jetr in his heyday when he was winning 10 races a year," said 2003 champion Matt Kenseth, who fmished third. 
Gordon, who hand-picked 

Mickelson overcomes ~nalty
strokes to win in playo-rf 
SHANGJ-W, China -Phil Mickelson glanced at the gleaming trophy on his left, rolled his eyes and broke into a sheepish grin. 
"I cannot believe I'm here as the champion right now," he said. 
Here's why. 
Lefty overcame six penalty strokes in the fmal round, blew a three-shot lead with seven to play, and still won Sunday's BSBC Champions tournament on the second hole of a three-way play­off with Englishmen Ross Fisher and Lee Westwood. 
The victory in Asia's richest tourna­ment earned Mickelson $833,000. It was his fourth victory this season. 
Fisher, ranked No. 141, had a one­stroke lead going to the 72nd hole. It seemed Mickelson would need several clutch shots to at least force a playoff. Instead, he dumped his long approach into water off the right edge of the green. 
page 13 
Johnson to join Hendrick Motorsports when the team expanded to four cars in 2002, marveled at how strong his protege has been during this championship hunt. It's put it nearly out of reach for Gordon, who dominated the "regular sea­son" and opened a lead of more than 300 points before the field was reset for the Chase. 
"Unless you lead every lap and beat Jimmie Johnson to win the race, we don't have a shot," Gordon said. "We're just coming up short at a crucial time. Those guys have just knocked it out of the ballpark, and it would be tough to beat that even if we were hitting on all eight cylinders." 
Henin wins 25th straight
by topping Sharapova 
MADRID, Spain -Justin Renin fin­ished her record-breaking season unde­feated after Wimbledon. 
She won the Sony Ericsson Championships on Sunday, rallying past Maria Sharapova 5-7, 7-5, 6-3 in the longest three-set final in tournament history. 
The top-ranked Belgian won her lOth title in 2007 and earned $1 million at the season-ending event, becoming the first woman to pass $5 million for a year. 
"What a way to fmish the season," said Benin, who ran into the crowd to hug her coach and family after winning her 39th career title. 
Following a semifmal loss to Marion Bartoli at Wimbledon, Bellin closed the season with 25 straight wins, the longest streak since Venus Williams won 35 in a row in 2000. The record is 38 by Steffi Graf, whose string began after a loss in the 1989 French Open final. 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 12, 2007 
NBA 

Williams' late shot propels Heat past Knicks 
Heat win for first time since April13; Yao scores season-high 34 points, McGrady nets 26 in close win over Bobcats 
son. was just 4-of-14 from the 
Associated Press 
liPid. 

NI·:W YOHK-Blowouts or Wade resumml praetidng ear­
squnaknrs. playoll's to prnsnason. linr this month. but doesn't want 
You nanw it. tlw Miami llnal to rome back too soon and risk 
linmd a way to losn it. bning in and out of the lineup. He 
Not this limP. could make his sc~ason debut 
.Jason Williams madP tho go­Ttwsday at Charlottn . 
alwad jumpnr with I!J snconds Without him. Miami has thn 
ldt. and lhn IIPal Parnnd thnir worst oll'tmsn in the league, aver­
rirst vklory of' tfw snaso11 by aging just X4.5 points. The I feat 
bPal.ing t.lw NPw York Knirks 75-scored 25 points in the first quar­
72 on Sunday night. ter, LIH•n had just 27 combined 
"It was a much-ru•PdPd win for OVPr tiH' lli'Xt two. 
us," rnnl.nr ShaquiiiP O'Nnal said. Still. tlwy stayed in the gamn 
"Wn haw foldPd umiPr tlw prns­and were down only one with 
surn tlw last roupiP of' gamns." under 5 minutes to go after five 
SwPpl. in tlw playoll's. winlnss straight points from Davis. But 
in tlw prnsnasorr and 0-5 to start tlwy turned it. over on c:onsnc:u­
this snason, tlw IIPat walkml oil tivn possPssions with a rhanc:n-to 
as winrwrs for lhP firsltimP siiH:n lake !.he IPad. with Lee's dunk on 
hPating Indiana on April I:~ in tlw sncond mw giving the Kni<:ks 
tlwir ROth ganw of las! snason. a 70-h7 lead with 3:24 lert. 
"I don't likP to losP," llnat Curry addPd two frne throws 
coach l'al HiiPy said. "It's not with 2::~0 to play, but that was it 
nHw.h full. Not a wholn lot of joy for llw Knit:ks. 
as a loam wlw11 you'rp in it." "We got to play hard for 4S 
With llwvarH' \Vadn still out rninutns," said Knieks forward 
and Zarh handolph not lwrP Quentin Hichardson, who left 
af'ltw his grandnwtlwr's dnath, with a hyperextended right 
both lnams Wl'rn missing llwir l'lbow af'tPr Davis landed on his 
lop playnrs. And it shownd with arm diving for a loose ball. "Wn 
long strntchns of' irwpt oll'nnsivn can't lose a game like this any 
play on both sidns. time. They've been struggling 
But tlw Ileal puiiPd it out al'ler right now. We should win this 
trailing by tivn with 2 minutes game." 
lulL Udonis llaslem made con­The Ileal led 25-20 after one 
sncutivn baskets, and al'ter and were ahead 35-24 after put Houston in the lead. and McGrady said. "It just goes to whole game, but we have to be a 
Slnphon Marbury threw the ball O'Neal's hook shot with 5:06 McGrady had 12 of his 26 points show how good we can be.... We lot better offensively than we 
away, Williams knockod down wmaining in the half. The Knieks in the final period as the Hockets found some way to keep our­were tonight." 
hisjurnpnr for a 73-721nad. scornd tho next 10 points, then won their third straight game. selves in the game. When it mat­Hichardson hit a driving layup 
The Kni<:ks turned it over brought a :~9-37 lead into half­"I don't think there's a better tered the most, myself and Yao to put the Bobcats back on top 
again trying to get the ball into time after Marbury's 3-pointer 1-2 combination ... they might be brought it home." S0-78 with 1:07 remaining, but 
Eddy Curry, and Williams added with 37 seconds left. the best combination since MJ Matt Carroll scornd 17 points McGrady made a 3-point play 1 :~ 
two fren throws with 9.4 seconds Marbury hit another 3 in the (Michael Jordan) and (Scottie) for· the Bobcats, who saw their seconds later to give the Hockets 
remaining. Marbury then missed final second of the third quarter, Pippen," Bobcats forward Gerald two-game winning streak the lead again. 
a potential tying 3. sending the Knieks to the fourth Wallace said. "Tracy is a great snapped. Jason Richardson and Charlotte took its last lead with 
llaslmn finishnd with 16 point'> with a 58-52 lead. offensive player ... and Yao Ming Raymond Felton had 16 points 38.1 seconds remaining on a pair and 16 rebounds for the lleat (1-is basically what they call him, each, Wallace scored 10 and of Felton free throws, but Yao 5), the last Eastern Confernnce Rockets 85, Bobcats 82 the Great Wall of China. Once he Emeka Okafor finished with 12 snagged Hafer Alston's missed 3­team to win after Washington Houston Hockets center Yao gets the ball, he's pretty much points and 11 rebounds. pointer and drew the foul, sntting beat Atlanta earlier Sunday. Ming and guard Tracy McGrady unstoppable." Carroll's 3-pointer gave up his game-winning free Having rebounded from an 0-7 have been called one of the Yao and McGrady combined to Charlotte a 74-67 lead with 6:07 throws. start to make the playoffs in NHA's best scoring tandems. The hit 22-of-35 from the field and remaining, but McGrady scored "I saw thB ball come to me," 2003-04, Wade's rookie year, Charlotte Bobcats won't dispute 15-of-1 7 from the free throw line nine points during an 11-4 run Yao said. "I said, 'I cannot let this Miami is rmuly to begin a similar that. for Houston, which saw its deci­that tied the score at 78 with go.' I was in perfect position. I dimb. McGrady and Yao led the sive 4 7-34 rebounding advantage 1:24 left. eouldn 't let this chance slip away. 
"The 0-7 team I don't think Hockel'i back from a seven-point offset by 20 turnovers. That "Down the stretch, we did "We need to train much was as talentml as this team," deficit in the fourth quarter to an made for a close game, with 15 what we had to do," Hockets stronger or I'll get a heart attack llaslem said. "I think we have a S5-82 win on Sunday night. lead changes and nine ties. head coach Hick Adelman said. or something. This was the clos­lot morn talnnt on this team. But Yao scored a season-high 34 "This was a game that we "We made some stops and exe­est game of our season, and we'll at thn same timo, like I said, we points, ineluding a pair of free should have lost, because we did­cuted. Tracy was terrific down have more. We have to prepare just havnn't bntHl abln to got throws with 20.4 seconds lef't to n't play particularly well," the stretch and Yao was good the for that." stops down tht~ strt~ll'h." 
Curry seort~d I1) points for the Knit:ks, who lost tlwir last two to finish 2-2 on a discouraging f(Jur­game honwstand. NI'W York shot :n pPrt:ent. had IS turnovers against I I assists, and bngins a f'our-gamt' WPStPrn trip TUI~sday a!. l'hotHlix. 
"I think wn just f'nll apart," Curry said. "Tiwy took the ganw away from us. Tlwy made plays at tlw mul ami took it a way from 
liS." 
Williams scorPd 17 points, and O'Nnal and Hieky Davis narh addnd 14 for tlw IIPat. 
David l.t~e had 14 points and 14 mbounds in his first start or lhn snason for lht• Knic:ks. lie rnplac:nd Handolph. who had doubln-doubJPS in !'Hdl of the f'i rst four gamPs but left for Indiana on Saturday aftnr learn­ing of' his grandmothnr's dnath late Friday. 
With l.nn in lhP linnup and Nate Hobinson playing just 3 minutt~s hm·.ausn of' a sore ham­string, tht• Knil'ks' lwrwh Iarknd its usual production. managing just four points. 
Marbury had 14 points and .Jamal Crawford I :J for tlw Knit·ks. Crawford. who swrl'd 52 against thP IIPat hPrn last sna-




Monday, November 12, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S BASKETBALL ND SWIMMING 


Irish to battle Long Island University 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
The l'irst few weeks of the college basketball season saw some high-profile teams lose games that should havB bBen easy wins. 
USC, Ohio State. Michigan State and KBntucky all feli to schools fBw people have evBr heard of -Mercer, Findlay, Grand Valley State and Gardner Webb. respectively. 
Notre Dame had a little troubl11 of its own Wednesday before ultimately defeating Division II opponent St. Edward's 71-56 and will tan­gle with Long Island University tonight at 7:30 in thn Joyce Center to officially tip off the 2007-08 season. 
In Notre Dame's win over St. Edward's, the llilltoppers wnre within eight points with fewer than 10 minutes to play bnfore Notre Dame pulled away. But before the Irish put the game out of reach, coach Mike Brey had Ohio State and Michigan States' losses on his mind. And just because teams like Long Island and St. Edward's look like easy wins on paper, doesn't mean they lack good players capable of playing at a high level, Brey said. 
''I'm telling you when 1St. Edward's] cut it to six or seven in thn seeond hall', I thought of Findlay and Grand Valley," Brny said. ''I'm telling you thnrn's good players every­whnn• and 1St. Edward's] was a good team; they were well­coached and they were on a high." 
Even though Notre Dame begins its Big East schndule 
A bit ofIreland in your own backyard. 
' s 
Just seconds from campus. With ib; many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the flreplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterfurd Est.'T!:e.s l..odge has hotel rooms at reasonable mtes -fix upcominS ND-fuotball weekends.) 
on Jan. 3 when it plays West Virginia, it will still have to play the physical brand of basketball that is a hallmark of Big East play in its out-of­conference schedule 
"I like how we played in the second half of [against St. Edward's] because it became a Big East, grind-it-out game and we madn free throws, we got the ball to our low-post guy and we defended in the half-court pretty well," Brey said. 
Irish forwards Hob Kurz and Luke Ilarangody, the latter of whom missed Notre Dame's first game against St. Ambrose with a torn ligament in his thumb, combined for 30 points and 17 rebounds against St. 
Edward's. 
The Long Island Blackbirds' leading returning scorer from last year is forward Eugene Kotorobai, who averaged 9. 7 points and 6.5 rebounds per game. 
Irish sophomore guard Tory Jackson wasn't himself against St. Edward's because he was battling the flu, Brey said. but Jackson still did a lot to help out the Irish. 
"I thought he really fought through it. In the second half, he bounced back," Brey said. "He made free throws, he made defensive plays, to help us win the basketball game." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
ND gets 111uch-needed vvin over Pittsburgh 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
The Irish men's swimming and diving team finally got the win they've been looking for -a 169-131 defeat of Pittsburgh on Friday to move their record to 1-3. 
Meanwhile, the women suf­fered a defeat as the Panthers eked out a 150-148 victory. 
The men racked up eight individual victories in addition to a first-place finish in the 
200-yard "In the last couple of breaststrokes. freestyle relay 
years, we've graduat­The Irish 

en route to the swept the top
ed a lot ofupper­

win. three positionsSophomores class leadership. So in both the John Lytle and 1,000-yard
it's coming at the 

MacKenzie freestyle and
right time. " 

LeBlanc came the 3-meter up big once diving. Junior again, combin­Tim Welsh Claire ing for four of Hutchinson led
Irish men's coach 

the team's eight the way in the . individual wins. 1,000 free, and 
Lytle won the 50-yard junior Laura l-Ungs continued freestyle with a time of 21.20 to impress with a victory in and the 100-yard freestyle in the 3-meter dive. 
46.50. He also was a part of In the last event of the night,the winning 200-free relay the 200-yard freestyle relay, team along with sophomore the top Irish team was dis­Andrew Hoffman, freshman qualified. The Panthers sweptJoshua Nosal, and sophomore the top three positions as a Ray Toomey. result and secured the victory.
LeBlanc's victories came in The Irish had teams disqual­the 200-yard fly (1:51.83) and ified in three out of five relays500-yard freestyle (4:36.87). as a result of swimmers diving
The other first-place finishes into the pool before their for the Irish teammate came in the touched the 
200-meter "It was a good win wall, a problemfreestyle for the team. We had that head coach 
(Nosal), 200-Carrie Nixon
some good swimming 

meter back­isn't worried 
stroke (fresh­and showed disci­about. man Michael pline, and we did a "At our meets, 
Sullivan), 100-we don't have
good job ofstaying

meter tly (soph­the electric tim­omore Hoss focused." ing system, and Moore), and 3-at Pitt they do," 
meter diving Nixon said.
Tim Welsh 

(junior Michael "They'll have
Irish men's coach 

Bulfin). 
The contribu­tions from some of the younger members of the team have been bright spots all year so far. 
"In the last couple of years, we've graduated a lot of upper-class leadership," men's head coach Tim Welsh said. "So it's coming at the right time." 
The win marked the fourth straight for the Irish men over the Panthers. Their record against Pittsburgh under Welsh now stands at 4-4. 
"It was a good win for the team," Welsh said. "We had some good swimming and showed discipline, and we did a good job of staying focused." 
The women's dual meet record now moves to 1-3 after losing to the Panthers in a meet that came down to the final race of the evening. Coming ofl' their first dual 
, , !'Efic Ll92Vf\i1PL\S Si lt:JPPe~. Ptazn ·{W+AW· (wiflt Stw!r 13~>!JdS mttl l3rl14U~ lhr l3mtt' i!lli"'~­
~ w ~'t~~ R.;:, 
Angel Nails Spa 
tloul's: 
1813 South Bend ;Avettue Mondt::Jy-Sahu•dtlY 10mn~8pm 
South Bend, ::JN 46637 Sunday 12pm-5pm (574) 271-4990 ' 
Limited thne offers for sh-tdents: 10% off with ll Hdl Servire. 
meet victory last weekend against Purdue, the Irish were unable to turn that momen­tum into a sec_ond straight win. 
The loss came despite that Notre Dame took first place in nine events. Senior Caroline Johnson and freshman Sam Maxwell continued their solid seasons with two individual wins apiece. Johnson's victo­ries came in the 100 and 200­yard backstrokes, while Maxwell came home first in the 100 and 200-yard 
them at nation­
als, and we just need some adjustments. It's an easily correctable thing." 
The Irish attributed the loss to the relay miscues. as well as the absence of a few top swimmers. 
"It was a good meet for us, but the relays being gone and thn fact that we left five of our best swimmers at home for academic reasons kind of put us in a hole," Nixon said. "It was a hard loss, but we'll get through it, shake it off and move on." 
The men and women will follow separate paths next weekend. The men will host Cleveland State on Friday, and the women will travel to Evanston. Ill.. to take on Northwestern and Wisconsin Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 


Monday, November 12, 2007 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
VoLLEYBALL 

Irish svveep earns team spotin Big East tourney 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
Feeding ofT the momentum 
from two wins last we1~kend's , 
Notre Dame defeated Cincinnati 
(18-1 0, 9-5 Big East) and No. 17 
Louisville (20-5, B-1) to secure 
a spot in the Big East tourna­
ment. 
"It feels unreal. Wn just playnd 
out of our minds," sophomore 
oulo.;idn hitter Megan Fesl said. 
With the two weekend victo­
ries, Notm Dame earned the No. 
4 seed in the Big East yourna­
nwnt. Then~ will be a quick 
rematch when the Irish face 
l"ifth-snednd Cincinnati on 
Friday at II a.m. in Milwaukee, 
Wis. 
"I know that our confidence 
has gone up so high, and we 
know the task that we havP 
alwad of' us. Wn'ro going to 
work really hard this wonk at 
practice to prepare for this 
weekend." Fnsl said. 
Tho Irish ( n-12, 9-5 Big East) heat tlw Bean:ats 3-1 (31-33, :~0-23. 30-28, :m-201 in a matrh that featun~d a noisy crowd of 7,523 fans in the Joyco Cent11r -the snmnd largest gathering in the program's history. Notre I>arne rmtde four service errors in the first game but benelitml from a lark of' lkarcat scoring in gamn two. Cincinnati only hit .054 in tlw snmnd game. 
Tlw Bnarcats oll"ense hnated up 11arly in tlw third game until tho Irish came up with big blocks. NotrP Damn was trailing 23-18 whon it used teamwork to rip ofT a 12-5 run and take a 1:rudal 2-1 lead. N'tnr that. the Irish made sure that the Bearcats would not make a eomeback and hit .471 in game four. 
Junior middle blocker .Justine Stremiek scored a team high 16 kills for the Irish while Fesl, freshman middle blocker Kellin Sciacca, and senior captain Adrianna Stasiuk all recorded double digit kills with 14, 11 and 11, respectively. Senior setter Ashley Tarutis topped the team with 51 assislo.;, while notching six kills and six digs. Stasiuk topped the team with 14 digs. 
Cincinnati was led defensively by sophomom libero Jaime Frey -she had a game-high 17 digs. Freshman setter Annie Fesl, sis­ter of Notre Dame's Mogan Fesl, reeorded 43 helpers while sen­ior outside hitter .Jenny Custer led with 16 kills. 
Notre Dame knocked down Louisville :~-I (:~0-28, 30-16, 25­:m. 30-281 to ruin what would havn bmm an unblmnishnd sea­son in the Big East for the 
Cardinals. It was the final home 
game for the Irish, and Notre 
Dame's two senior players -
Stasiuk and Tarutis -were 
honored before the game. 
Before the game, Stremick 
played the National Anthem for 
the seniors -and the crowd ­
on her saxophone. 
"I was really involved in music 
when I was in high school. I did 
a lot of band, choir, piano kind 
of things," Stremick said. "It was 
actually something I loarned in 
high school. Someone gave me 
kind of a jazzy rendition of the 
National Anthem. I actually play 
it once a year here -usually 
Senior Night. Ashley Tarutis 
rnqunsted that I do it." 
After winning a closely-con­tested first game, Notre Dame found ilo.;elf going back and forth in game two. The score was 15­1:~ in favor of the Irish at the media timeout, and then they played to near perfection, capi­talizing on Cardinals' mistakes and dosing out with a 15-3 run. 
After a few early ties in the third ganw, the Cardinals pulled away and led the Irish by five throughout most of tho second half. Tho Cardinals continued their great play into game four, and it had appoared that Irish might slide. 

The turning point, however, came when the Irish wore down I 2-9. Stasiuk was serving to only two backcourt recipients from tho Cardinals and blasted three sorvice aces in a row. From thorn, the game was tied and the Irish went on to squeak out the win in game four. 
"We have a bunch of great athletes on our team," Fesl said. "We went into the match believ­ing that we could win. We were in a good mind frame, and 1werythingjust seemod to click." 
Both seniors ended their final home games with double-dou­bles. Tarutis had 58 assists and 11 digs, while Stasiuk scored 11 kills and 11 digs (her 19th this season). Fest was the leading scorer of the game -she racked up 21 kills. 
"Everyone worked off each other, and there was great pass­ing, great setting and really intelligent game play," Fes1 said. "I think that helped my game just working ofT my teammates." 
Louisville was led by junior oul'lide hitter Jana Matiasovska, senior middle blocker Svetlana Dukule, and sophomore outside hitter Justine Landi. They recorded 16, 15 and 11 kills, respectively while Landi added a team-high 14 digs. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrienl@nd.edu 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Smyth qualifies for NCAA meet 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sporrs Writer 
Irish junior Patrick Smyth was the class of the field at the 2007 Great Lakes Regional meet at Indiana University on Saturday. 
He finished his 10 kilometers in 30:22.44, beating his closest com­petitor, Matt Withrow of Wisconsin, by nearly 16 seconds and securing his spot as an incli­vidual in next Saturday's NCAA championships in Terre Haute, Ind. Smyth also qualified for the NCAA championships last year on his way to earning All-America honors. 
Smyth became only the second runner in Notre Dame history to win the regional meet, joining current volunteer assistant coach Luke Watson, who accomplished the feat in 2000. 
Joining Smyth in Terre Haute will be senior Jake Watson, who finished fourth overall with a time of 30:46.98. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, however, they fmished third of 29 teams with 76 points, eight points behind Wisconsin and Michigan, who tied for first. Only the top two teams from each regional meet receive automatic berths to the NCAA championships, and the Irish will find out today if they will receive an at-large bid. The NCAA distributes 13 at-large bids, and the consistent perform­ance of the Irish puts them in a good position to receive one of them. 
All Irish scorers fmished in the top 35 overall. Following Smyth and Watson were sophomore Jake Walker in 14th (31:14.09), senior Brett Adams in 22nd 
(31 :29.40) and senior Mike Popejoy at No. 35 (31 :49.67). 
On the women's side, Miehigan State (60 points) and Miehigan (63 points) finished first and sec­ond and earned automatic bids to the NCAA championships. The Irish finished 11th of 30 partici­pating teams with 293 points. 
Senior Ann Mazur led the way for the Irish, finishing her six kilo­meters No. 26 overall with a time of 21:52.68. Nicole Edwards of Michigan won the individual title, fmishing in 20:30.76. 
Hounding out the scoring for the Irish women were junior Becca Bauman in 43rd (22:11.75), sophomore Emily Wauford in 53rd (22:23.83), freshman Abby Higgins in 79th 
(22:59.62) and sophomore Beth Tad in 94th (23:09.13). 
The women's season is likely over, but Smyth and Watson-and possibly the rest of the men ­will be back in action on Nov. 19 at the same course they traversed on Oct. 13 in the Pre-National Meet. Then, Smyth and Watson finished fifth and 17th overall, respectively, in a highly competi­tive field that featured many of the runners that will compete in the NCAA championships. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 




4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 
424 N. Frances Street 



~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, November 12, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

Mia01i 
continued from page 20 
team sits in third place in its conference, four points behind now one-loss Miami and two points behind one-loss Michigan. 
But the early going this year has been slowed by a top­heavy schedule with several mid-week games that severely limited practice time for a team playing freshmen and sophomores up and down the lineup. 
Pearce, a junior who is sec­ond in the nation in minutes played behind Michigan's Billy Sauer, surrendered only four goals in two games to a Miami offense that has averaged five goals per game while missing its top goal-scorer from last season in senior Nathan Davis. 
"I give Jordan Pearce a lot of credit," Jackson said. "It's the first timu he's played in that kind of game, and he handled it extremely well both nights." 
Davis scored Miami's only goal in the HedHawks 2-1 loss Friday night in his !irst game back after he was injured in the season opener. The goal came in the second period and was the only puck Pearce allowed to go past him on 33 shots. 
The Irish took a 2-0 lead in the first period on Christian Hanson's second goal of the season and Dan Kissel's first after missing time earlier in the season with a groin injury. Jackson called Kissel's tally "a great second-effort goal," after the sophomore took the puck out from a defender's skates before he beat Miami goalie Jeff Zatkoff. 
"We have to get production from our entire lineup," Jackson said. "When we're playing four lines, we're a bet­ter team. I think that we have depth in our third and fourth line, where [those lines] can contribute." 
On Saturday night the Irish found themselves down 3-0 after two periods, and Zatkoff stopped 27 of Notre Dame's 28 shots to split the series. 
"Miami was not going to be beat twice," Jackson said. "They played with a tremen­dous amount of energy. They were skating at full-throttle." 
The RedHawks' Nino Musitelli and Tommy Wingels scored first-period goals, and Pat Cannone added a third in the second to take the three­goal lead. Irish right wing Evan Hankin cut the lead to 3­1 when he jammed a rebound past Zatkoff just over two min­utes into the third period ­and a period after he had to leave the bench to get stitches after a center-ice hit. 
"[Steve Cady) is a loud build­ing, so they got a lot of momentum from that," Jackson said. "As time pro­gressed, our defense got a lit­tle bit tired. I think that even­tually they wore us down in certain parts of the game." 
The Irish will play a home­and-home s"eries this weekend against Western Michigan. The first game will be played Friday night in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 
Schrader 
continued from page 20 
in the game. 
"Lindsay, I thought especial­ly, really came out fired up," McGraw said. "She was ready to go. I was really happy with the way we shot the ball in the beginning." 
Notre Dame advanced to the second round of the 16-team tournament and will host Western Kentucky Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
Notre Dame took over the game with double-digit scor­ing runs in the first. The Irish jumped out to a 14-2 lead in the first five minutes of the game. After RedHawks senior guard Amanda Jackson hit two free throws, the Irish took off on a five minute, 16-point run. 
Miami went more than eight minutes in the first half with­out a field goal. 
After forward Michele Weynandt's baseline jumper with 17:27 to play in the half, Notre Dame did not allow a field goal until junior guard Jenna Schone came open off a screen and made a jump shot in the lane with 9:11 remain­ing. McGraw attributed the scoring runs and defensive stoutness to improved play in the paint and her bench play­ers. 
"We rebounded a little bit better," McGraw said. "Our transition game was working. We were able to run the floor. I think we were fresh because we were able to sub so fre­quently, and I think that's a big plus for us now, seeing how we can run with a little Mallory hit a buzzer-beating bit of rest." three-pointer from the corner 
The Irish may have gotten to end the half. too comfortable with the lead, The Irish started the second however. They stopped scoring half much like they did the and committed mental errors first, scoring seven points in -passing the ball out of the first three minutes and bounds, turning the ball over, forcing Schone to commit two 
and  leaving  quick  fouls.  
their feet too  Leading 55-31  
soon.  They  with  15:39  
allowed two quick three­pointers, one by Jackson and the other  "Our transition game was working. We were able to run the floor. "  remaining, the Irish went on a five-minute, 16-2 run. "We just  
by sophomore  continued to  
g  u  a  r  d  Muffet McGraw  be  active,"  
Courtney  Irish coach  said  sopho­ 

Reed, within 30 seconds. T h e Red Hawks went on a 13­2 run in a two-minute period and brought the score to 38­
21. 
"We had a little bit of a lull, but we responded," McGraw said. "We got in some serious foul trouble late in the half." 
The Notre Dame bench scored 38 points in the game. Sophomore center Erica Williamson had nine rebounds, and freshman for­ward Devereaux Peters had eight. 
In the last three minutes of the half, Notre Dame returned to its previous level of play and went on a 9-2 run. Senior guard Tulyah Gaines wove her way into the lane for a layup. Sophomore guard Melissa Lechlitner, who had 10 points and six assists, left her defender motionless with a quick spin move and had an open path to the basket. Freshman guard Brittany 
more guard 
Ashley 
Barlow, who 
had 19 points 
in the game, said of the scoring runs. "We got off to a good start." 
The teams traded points for the remainder of the game, but Notre Dame outscored Miami 27-17 in the final 10 minutes. 
Notre Dame played both zone and man defense with success -the Redllawks shot only 2 7. 9 percent from field goal range. 
Schrader was excited about how her team might be per­ceived after the game. 
"I want to know what their players and their coaches say about our team," Schrader said. "Before the game, and now after the game, and I want to see what the differ­ence is. I don't know what they said before game. But I bet it's changed." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 12, 2007 
dove to knock the ball away. best scoring chance with 30 min­begins this weekend. The field Friday. With six minutes remaining in utes left in the game. A cross from will be announced at 8 p.m. The Irish scored two goals in 38
Loss 
continued from page 20 

Butler's ldt, but the keeper guessed corn~ctly and dove for the stop. Dnlimdors Carrie Dew, Eliso Webor and Lauren Fowlkes all mado thnir attnmpl<>, but in vain. 
Ashley Banks, Kim Bonilla, Carolyn Blank, Sydney Metheny and Lisa DuCote all put their shots past Irish keeper Lauren Karas in the shootout, and the Mountaineers took home the tro­phy. 
The first four shot the ball to Karas' right. but she guessed tho wrong each time. On the last shot, DuCote shot the ball inside the other post. Karas guessed cor­rectly, but her hand came just short of knocking the ball away. 
"I'll have to watch the tape again, but I think certainly there wasn't much effort on the first throe !shots!," Waldrum said. "I think she's trying to get a read, but I think goalkeepers have to just go." 
Butler's first big save came in the first overtime period. Hanks p<L<>sed the ball from the right side to forward Brittany Bock in the middle. Bock slipped past two defenders and took a shot towards the far post, but Butler the second overtime, forward Miehele Weissenhofer's flip-throw landed right in the middle of the six-yard box. A serum ensued, but llanks, Bock and senior Amanda Cinalli could not convert. 
One minute later, Cinalli got around a defender and put a shot towards the far post, but again Butler elevated across the goal and knocked the ball away. 
"I was very pleased with the overtime," Waldrum said. "If we had played that way the entire game, I don't think we would have been in that position." 
The Irish opened the scoring in the 14th minute when f-lanks tapped a dribbling shot past Butler into the net. Midfielder Courtney Rosen chipped the ball into the right side of the box, and Hanks beat Butler and Mountaineers midfielder Greer Barnes to the ball. 
Notre Dame led 1-0 until the 39th minute, when Bonilla took a free kick from the far side. The ball came across the crease and Karas came out to cha<>e it. Blank headed the ball back into the cen­ter of the box, where forward Kiley Harris headed the ball into the center of the net to tie the score at one. 
The Mountaineers had their 


St. John's 
continued from page 20 
1:ross into the box from the right mrner. A St. John's cil~fender got his li10t on tlw ball but popped it straight up in the air rather than dearing it. Thiermann got a leg free from tlw defmHler who was marking him and poked the loose hall in for the game's lone goal. 
"lie's got a great career ahead ol' him," Clark said. " ... In the moment lw is playing a role and he did that lilr us today." 
Notrn Dame held ol'f the Hed Storm filr the rest of the game to pick up its 1Oth shutout of the sea<>on. Senior keeper Chris Cahill had two saves for the Irish, who played stin1-,ry on def{mse through­out the game. Clark said that the entirn t1~am was responsible for th1~ shutout. 
"You defend from the team out," Clark said. "The actual back four was terrific, but the whole team defimded well." 

The back line got a big boost from the return of junior defender Jack Traynor. Traynor had been out ti)r three weeks after fractur­ing his leg in a 3-2 loss to Indiana Oct. 1 7. Doetors removed his hard east early last week, and the leg wa<> ready lilr Sunday's game. 
"It was great having Jack back," Clark said. "To get him back as quickly as that is a tribute to the doctors and to our trainer." 

The St. John's defense, which had allownd only 19 goals in 21 games, matched Notre Dame in the first half, preventing the Irish from controlling the ball or setting up any great scoring chances. Notre Dame had seven shots ­compared to the Hed Storm's two -but was forced to play hopeful long balls to Lapira for most of the near side led forward Deana Everrett, who was unimpeded 10 yards in front of the goal, but the cross was just out of her reach. 
Notre Dame could not control the ball in the air. Keeper kicks and punts routinely went West VIrginia's way, and the Irish could not consistently clear their zone. For the rest of the first half and much of the second, West VIrginia did not give Notre Dame any space to create scoring chances. The Mountaineers closed on breakaways and deflected through-ball attempts. 
"I just felt very much like they were winning every 50/50 loose ball," Waldrum said. "Our mental­ity and our mindset wasn't where it needed to be. We were outhus­tled all over the field. I don't think we matched their intensity." 
Notre Dame increased its inten­sity in the final 10 minutes of reg­ulation. The Irish kept the ball in the attacking third and found open passing lanes to create scor­ing opportunities. With 1:27 left, Hanks sent Weissenhofer a through-ball that was just out of reach. Thirty seconds later, Weissenhofer fired oil' a shot, but Butler made the diving stop. 
The Irish now await their seed in the NCAA tournament, which 
the initial 45 minutes, without ever really setting up on offense. 
The Irish advance to the Big East semifinals with the win. They will travel to Storrs, Conn., to take on DePaul on Friday. The Blue Devils won the Hed Division of the conference in the regular sea<>on and beat Cincinnati Saturday reach tl1e semifmals. 
"There going to be a darn good team," Clark said of his opponent. 
A win over DePaul would put the Irish in the Big East Championship next Sunday in Storrs. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Monday on ESPNews. Notre Dame entered the weekend with a No. 16 RPI (ratings percentage index, a rating equation that fac­tors in strength of schedule), which is an important selection criteria. 
Waldrum said the team was dis­appointed but realized that their season wasn't over. He wanted his team to focus on the week ahead. 
"Because of our early losses, we're probably not going to have three rounds of easy games like we have in years past," Waldrum said. "We've got to put this one behind us and get ready to go this week and get a week of training in." 
Notre Dame reached the final with a 2-0 win over Georgetown seconds to extend their winning streak to 12 games in their victory over the lloya<>. 
Hanks and Bock combined to score the first goal in the 25th minute. Bock, running down the middle of the field, passed to llanks on the left side. 
Hanks sent the ball back to Bock near the far post, where Bock headed the ball in to put the Irish ahead 1-0. 
Half of Bock's 18 career goals have come on headers. 
Soon after, midfielder Courtney Rosen sent the ball across the box to Rose Augustine, who deflected the ball into the net. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


ready to go. Everyone works httrd. and I can only imagine
Gray 
there will be more success in 
their future seasons." But l'or now, all the focus 
"Everyone was exeited for turns to Gray, who will attempt rngionals, brought their ener­to improve on her finish at no. gy to the race, and I think 133 in last year's national !Saturday! was a great way of meet. And, Bauters said, Gray showing the girls that they is capable of doing so. have it in them." "Megan just has the ability to 
Though the season has push herself to the limit when nnded for she goes into all but (;ray, a race with Bauters was just how she 
continued from page 20 
enthusiastic "1/er dedication to the sport I' e e I s , " about what overcoming health issues Bauters said. her team. in "When she
and injuries over the years, 
its entirety, feels strong,
is inspiring proof that you 
-~ accom­she's going plished can get anything ifyou to run well. ft's been an
including a work hard enough for it." 
l'ourth-placn incredible MIAA finish, nxperienee
Jackie Bauters
the best in for me to school histo­Belles coach c o a c h ry. Whiln Megan, and (;ray was I'm excited 1:ertainly the that we have team's star and lnader. one more week of travels Bauters rrPdits some of the together in a Saint Mary's uni­youngsters for much of the form. team's success. "Her dedication to the sport, 
"The freshrnrn1 played a overcoming health issues and huge role on the team this injuries over the years, is year, with several consistently inspiring proof that you can scoring," Bauters said. "I feel get anything if you work hard like they all got a good taste of enough for it." what it's likn to run in college and will come back next sea­Contact Matt Gamber at son even morn prepared and mgamber@nd.edu 
*~ 
\_~ 
~ 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
2008-2009 RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS will be available on-line and in the 
Office ofStudent Af{ctirs 
316 Main Building beginning Monday, November 12, 2007 Through Friday, January 19, 2008 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE FOR llOWNLOADING AND PRINTING AT: OSA.ND.EDU OR OSA.ND.EDU/.JOIN_HALL_STAFF/RA.SHTM L 
Monday, November 12, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 


MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
You're from Andover, Mass, right? That's cooL You know what's funny? My birthday is in May, too_ And I love Entourage and The Office' We have so much in common' 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
DEUCES MANOR 

TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

A: A 
.. rI I I I J" rI I I I xJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Jumbles: TEASE DITTO INJURE EXCISE Saturday's Answer: 
No matter where in the world, marriages always become-THE "UNITED" STATES 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Leonardo DiCaprio, 33; Peta Wilson, 37; Calista Flockhart, 43; Demi Moore, 45 
Happy Birthday: Get over the past so that you can begin to take advantage of what the future has to offer. Don't bend to what everyone else wants --follow your heart. Stop feeling guilty, self-conscious or uncertain about what it is you desire. Take control now so you don't have regrets later. Your numbers are 5~ 12, 18, 27, 41, 44 
ARIES (March 21-Aprlll9): Contact someone you haven't seen for a long time or travel to some of the old familiar places. Spend time expanding your mind by remembering some of the things you experienced a long time ago. 5 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't get railroaded into spending money on things that aren't necessary. If you really want to entertain, do so on a budget and let your charming personality be what impresses the crowds. This is a great day to laze around. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-Jone 20): You'll be hard to read, difficult to deal with and ready to take on the world and flirt with everyone in sight. If you don't want to face criticism at home, curb your overdo, overindulge and overspend attitude. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): Get away from your normal routine today. It's what you experience and learn from new sights, scenery, social activities, experi­ences or relationships that will lead to a better future. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Ang. 22): You'll be fun, entertaining and the life of the party today. Let the Leo in you lead the way. Shower the ones you care about the most with affection and attention? not presents that cost a fortune and have little senti­ment. 5 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Too little, too late may be a problem for someone you know but, if you are smart, you will cut your losses and follow your good common sense. You have plenty to offer and should focus on what you can do for an organization or group that interests you. 2 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take a little day trip and you will f'md a world that helps you forget about your everyday stress and contributes to your creative ideas. Let go of any guilt you may feel for work or responsibilities left behind. Put yourself first. 4 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): There is no time to waste if you want to make progress next week. Go over all the last-minute details and ready yourself to hit hard and fast in whatever industry you have your sights set on. You can do it if you feel confident. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You won't be thinking straight and that can lead to mistakes if you aren't willing to back down. Put your time and effort into Jove and forget about beating everyone else to the punch. Enjoy being a spectator for a change. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.. 19): Don't let Jove lead you astray. Make important decisions based on facts, not what someone who isn't well-informed wants you to do. Deal with legal and financial problems by yourself and don't let anyone talk you into lending money or possessions. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll have the desire to make a commitment from tbe heart that will last a lifetime. Your dedication, love and respect will be what wins tbe heart of someone who feels the same way. 4 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Be careful not to upset someone who could affect your future. Tread carefully: Don't step on toes, don't take credit for someone else's work and don't promise something you can't deliver. Use your head. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are elever, demanding and to the point. You are original and will not apologize for your likes and dislikes. Yon stand tall and will challenge anyone who gets in your way. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astrotuhlice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DONUP 
± 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
RYTAR 
± 
DIPTUN 
[IJ (] 
www.jumble.com
tSCETOK t 
I J I J I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon 
IJ-I:t 
V'J\-V.\T n1E= e:c.ro WAS TO THE: BANKE:R. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 



CROSSWORD 
Across 
Wager 4 Gush 1 0 Willie of the 
1950s-'60s 
Giants 
14 Israeli submachine gun 
15 Last words of the Pledge of Allegiance 
16 vera 17 Atomic energy org. 
18 *Popular Sunshine State vacation destination 
20 Prepare to shoot 
22 Docs 
23 Stop for the 
night, as soldiers 25 Daughter's counterpart 26 Dartboard. for one 28 The "I" of I.M.F.: Abbr. 30 Austrian affirmatives 
33 "The Thin Man" pooch 
34Rim 
36 Put (down), as money 
38 Theater focal point 
40 Select, with "for" 
41 Language akin to Urdu 
42 Serious drinker 
43 Amaz of "I Love Lucy" 
45 Depression-era migrant 
46 "But I heard him exclaim.,-,_he drove ... 
47 Take too much of, briefly 49 Objected to 
51 Brouhaha 
52 Keep just below a boil 
54 Not deceitful 
58 Deck covering to keep out moisture 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


61 *Like players below the B team 
63 "This means __!" 
64 Sets of points, in math 
65 "Relax, soldier!" 
66 U.K. record label 
67 Newspaper essay 
68 Mascara goes on them 
69 King, in old Rome 
Down Part of a suicide squeeze 2 Poet Pound 
3 *Material for an old-fashioned parade 
4 Wipe off 5 Decorate with leaves 6 Erich who wrote "The Art of Loving" 7 Bygone Mideast 
in its. 8 Slender 9 Firstborn 
10 "........... Whoopee!" (1920s hit) 11 One of the Baldwin brothers 12 Toy that might go "around the world" 13 Period in Gong. 
19 Coach Rupp of college basketball 
21 Take on 24 *Sties 26 One of the five senses 27 Fur trader John Jacob 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Allan E. Parrish 

29 Basketball rim 37 Hampton of jazz 55 Breakfast attachments fame restaurant letters 
30 Location for the 39 Wore away 56 "Good shot!" ends of the 
44 Really, really big 
57 Kelt of old answers to the 48 fin comicsfour starred 
clues 

50 Representations 59 Designate 31 Actress 51 Pungent 
60 Cereal whoseMacDowell 
ads feature a 32 Schussed, e.g. Thomas "silly rabbit" 
53 N.BA coach 
35 Dumbbell 54 Normandy town 62 _ ipsa loquitur 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, November 12, 2007 
page 20 
MEN's SoccER 
First time's the charm 
Thiernzann's first-ever goal earns ND berth in Big East semzs 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Ediror 
l."reshman forward Josh Thiermann picked a gmat timn to scorn his first career goal for Notn~ Damn. 
Thinrmann beat St. .John's goal­knnpnr Jason Landers in the 73rd minute to givP thn Irish a 1-0 win ovnr the Hnd Storm in thnir Big East quarterfinal Sunday at Alumni Field. 
Thiermann, who has seen little action so far this smtson, rnplaend .Justin Morrow barely a minute beli>rn thn play. 
"Morrow had bmm carving up and down the lnft llank and we fi~lt we nnndnd someone who was a similar athlete. Josh Theirmann had a lot of the same qualities," Irish coaeh Bobby Clark said. 
Snnior forward Joseph Lapint started the play by sending a 
see ST. JOHN'S/page 18 


NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Waldnnn's teatn falls inpenalties 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Kerri Butler made thrnn game­saving stops down thn stretch, but one morn save was all she needed. 
West Virginia's fmshman keep­er collected Irish junior forward Kerri Hanks' shot during the Mountaineers' penalty kiek victo­ry over Notrn Dame on Sunday. The two teams were tied 1-1 through two overtimes in the game played at Diek Dlesk Stadium in Morgantown, W. Va. 
The win gave West Virginia il'i first-ever Big East title. 
"Honestly, we didn't play very well," Irish eoach Handy Waldrum said by telephone Sunday. ''I'm not sure we really deserved to win." 
Hanks, who had made all five of her penalty kiek attempts this season, shot the ball low to 
see LOSS/page 18 


HocKEY 
leers split series vvith nation's No.1 squad 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Gray qualifies for nationals 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
Megan Gray has earned the right to put on her Saint Mary's jersey for one last race. 
With a fourth-place finish at Saturday's Division III Great Lakes Hegional at Calvin College in Grand Hapids, Mich., the senior all-MIM per­former qualified for next Saturday's national meet at Saint Olaf's in Northfield, Minn. 
"Megan's race was solid and fun to watch," coach .Jaekie Bauters 
said of Gray, who advances to nationals for the sec­ond consec­utive year. "I knew she had the top-


five in her Gray before the start, but I didn't want to put that pressure on her." 
Gray carried the Belles as she has all season, but fresh­men Sam Wieczorek (78th place) and Catie Salyer (87th). sophomore Megan MeClowry (104th) and junior Caitlin Brodmerkel (134th) provided a solid supporting east, allowing the Belles to finish 15th out of 36 teams -a five-place improvement over last year's linish. 
"It was just a good day all around," Bauters said. 
see GRAY/page 17 


By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Irish goalie .Jordan Pnaree turnnd away (J4 shots from the nation's most potent offense in two games this weekend. and No. 12 Notrn Damn split a road sPrins with No. I Miami (Ohio). 
The Irish (7-4, 5-2 CCIIA) dnlivprnd the Bedllawks (9­1, 7-1 CCI lA) their first loss of tho snason in a 2-1, 1-3 weekend split at Steve Cady Ar~•na in Oxford, Ohio. It was the sncond year in a row that Notre Dame has upset an unbnaten No. I Learn on the road, after th1~ Irish obliter­ated Boston College 7-1 in October 2006. 
"We're making progress," Irish coach .Jeff .Jackson said of his young team. "I think we were out-chanced both nights. We have to do a bet­ter job of generating live-on­fivf~ scoring chances. Hight now that's my biggest eon­cern." 
Two-and-a-half months after tho Irish knocked ofT Boston College last season, they took over the No. 1 spot for the f'irst time in school history. To date this season, Notre Dame has played five of its 11 games against top­15 opponents and has a 2-3 record in those contests. The 
see MIAMI/page I 7 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish blast RedHavvks in opener 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Lindsay Schrader proved that the torn ACL she suffered before last season doesn't affect her anymore. 
At least not her jump shot, anyway. 
The junior guard hit 10 of her 12 shots from the field, including six straight in the first half, and Notre Dame beat Miami (Ohio) 98-50 in the first round of the preseason NIT Friday at the Joyce Center. 
"When you're feeling it, you're feeling it, I guess," said Schrader, who scored 20 points in only 17 minutes. 
Irish coach MuiTet McGraw liked Schrader's intensity early 
see SCHRADER!page I 7 



