
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
SAO rules frustrate political groups 
Long club recognition process makes it difficult for students to organizefor presidential candidates 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
The Students for Barack Obama Web site lists a Notre Dame chapter, but no Students for Barack Obama organiza­tion exists at Notre Dame-at least not officially. 
Last spring, junior Molly Slavin signed up on the Obama Web site with the intention of starting a grass­roots campaign at Notre Dame. She received a packet in the mail from the site last May. It included flyers to post around campus in support of 
STUDENT SENATE 
the U.S. senator from Illinois' campaign for president. But Slavin never put them up. 
All advertising must be approved by the Student Activities Office, according to duLac, Notre Dame's student handbook. Slavin said she went to Student Activities to get the flyers approved, but Student Activities would not approve them because the group was not a University­recognized student organiza­tion. She asked how her group could become official but, she said, a Student Activities offi­cial told her the office did not allow clubs that supported specific candidates. Slavin did not recall the name of the man she met in the office. 
Assistant Vice President of Student Activities Brian Coughlin said he did not meet with Slavin last year and was not sure with whom she spoke. 
''I'm sorry if she got that message last year," Coughlin said. "I don't know if that's necessarily a policy." 
Every group goes through the same process to become a University-recognized organi­zation, Coughlin said. He said he did not think Student Activities would tell a group before it applied that it would­n't be approved. 
"It seems like that wouldn't be an answer that we give," he said. 
Mary Kate Havlik, the stu­dent program coordinator in the Student Activities Office, said any group, political or not, must get two approvals ­one from Student Activities and one from the Club Coordination Council. 
"It comes down to a couple things," Havlik said. "Student Activities checks to see that it 
see GROUPS/page 4 



Electronic resetves resolution passes 
Executive Vice President Affleck-Graves briefs group members on campus development 
By KAITLYNN RIELY A~sistant News Editor 

Thn Student Senate passed a n~solution Wednesday that Pncourages professors to ir11:rnase their use of electron­ic n~snrves in place of course packets, which spiked in price this ynar. 
The resolution, presented by Snnatn Academic Affairs chair Carol l11~ndriekson and Fisher s1mator Stephen Bant, "rnspectl"ully nncourages" professors to use electronic reservns instead of course packets "when it seems in the best interests of their stu­dents based on the price and convenience of the materials." 
A similar resolution was presented to the Senate on Oct. 31 but failed to pass. lligh course packet prices have been discussed in the Senate over the past several weeks. Hendrickson and Bant conducted an e-mail survey of students last month and found that the majority of those who answered were unhappy with the higher prices of course packets. 
This semester, the packets 
see SENATE/page 8 

Wolllan president a possibility 
Professors discuss whether America is ready for female chiefexecutive 
By AMANDA JOHNSON News Writer 

American citizens are ready for a conservative. "brand nanw" woman president, agreed pannlists Wndnesday in a debate entitl<>d "Is America ready for a woman president?" 
Much of the discussion. which took plaee in the Oak Hoom of South Dining llall. focused on Snn. llillary Clinton's possible nomination as the Democratic eandidatn for the 2008 presiden­tial nlnrtion. 
To bngin thn discussion. histo­ry profnssor Gail Bederman qunstioned the phrasing of the nvnnt's title. She proposed the real question should be "Is the 
see DEBATE/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Firth talks aboutND 
•

JOUrney 
Student Affairs official daughter ofimmigrants 
By MEG MIRSHAK News Writer 

Ann Firth's father, a German doctor, was taken prisoner by the Russians and tortured during World War II. 
Notre Dame's associate vice president for student affairs described her journey as the daughter of immigrants to her posi­tion at the University during a t a I k Wednesday. 
Firth prefaced her story with her father's. After the Hussian army capture-d the doctor, who had been drafted into the German army, he was enslaved and tortured by the Hussian government. But Firth's father persuaded a Russian doctor he had tuber­culosis. He was then freed, since the Hussians feared he would infect other prisoners of war. 
After Firth's father and mother met, they immigrated to the U.S. but maintained 

see FIRTH/page 8 

SMC holds annual Hunger Banquet 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
More than 75 Saint Mary's students traded in a meal at the dining hall Wednesday to learn about woddwide hunger as part of the Student Diversity Board's third annual Hunger Banquet. 
Upon entering the West Wing of the Noble Family Dining Hall, students who reg­istered for the ~vent were asked to draw a colored card out of a bag without looking. This card designated their "social status" for the night. 
A select few students got to sit at a table and eat a full meal, representing the upper class. The middle class sat on chairs and ate beans and rice. The lower class, which com­prised more than half the peo­ple in attendance, sat on the floor, eating a scoop of rice. 
The cards also told a story about the life of a person in that situation. For example. an upper class-card might describe the life of a Hollywood plastic surgeon and a lower-class card might describe a girl in Africa who is HIV-positive or an unemployed teenage mother. 
After the meal, Sarah Barnes, the co-chair of the 
see HUNGER/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, November 15, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Conten1plate topics 
l.ikn all otlwr Notre Dame fresh­nwn, I am requirml take Contnmporary Topics to complete my 1'.1~. n~quirnnwnt. All I heard from students who had already 
taknn t.lw Madeline Buckley
class was 
relinf at bning donn, News Wire Editor and most peopln seemed to regard it as a joke. 
My first impression was that this 
dass has morn going against it 
than it can possibly achieve. On 
my first day, I was bombarded 
with fact after scary fact about 
what happens when a student 
drinks, does not get enough sleep, 
etc. 
Thn sad paradox of 
Contemporary Topics is that while 
I am sitting in elass learning 
about the importance of sleep, I 
c:ould he in my room receiving 
that extra hour of sleep that I so 
badly need. 
My question for the average 
Notre Dame freshman is, will this 
elass inspire you to change your 
habits'? Will most studcmts give up 
drinking on the weekends because 
they hear about all the adverse 
nfTeets in this dass? Will they go 
to bed an hour narlier every night 
lwcausn they lnarn that lack of 
slnnp c:auses health problnms? 
My gut feeling is no. I do not 
belicwP it is tlw fault of the class, 
hut rather the nature of the stu­
dents. It is the natural reaction of 
a studnnt to rebel against some­
one eontinually telling them to not 
do something, especially in a elass 
most deem a waste of time. 
Also. pnople are so entrenched in habits that it does not seem likPiy that information from one class will be reason enough for studnnts to ehange their lifestyle. Although I am sure there are some who will take what they learn in Contemporary Topics seriously, the best reaction the class will get out of many students is a slight twinge of guilt for their bad habits. 
Simply tnaching students about health dons not seem to be enough because as far as I can sec~. tlHl tc~aehing does not inspire action. What is the solution to this problem then'? Although the Glass seems to have minimal impact on studcmts, diseontinuing it just seems like giving up. Students should learn how to take care of thmnsnlves. 
Maybe it is too soon to gauge t.he nfTectiveness of the class. Perhaps the information will slowly filter into the minds of stu­dents, and then be reinforc11d by c1xperience. 
Maybe a gradual ehange will tak11 plaec. I am not sure. However, my personal solution is to make pnace with the class. 
Although I will resent dragging myself out of bed each morning to sit in a elass that will tell me how important it is to get enough sleep, I will try to open my mind, and maybe nven learn something. 
The l'iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbtu:kley(fllnd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a prolcssional publication and srrives for rhe highcsr srandards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize thar we will make misrakes. If we have made a mistake, please conracr us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: SHOULD A WOMAN BE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES? 







Mary Souder  Mary Reilly  Robert Scully  Mary Beth Scully  Nicole Medina  
freshman McCandless  freshman McCandless  junior Alumni  senior Cavanaugh  sophomore Pasquerilla West  
"Does Hillary count as a woman? Ifyes, then no."  "Only ifthat woman's me.  'These days anyone can be a woman.  "No matter what I say, it will be controversial."  "Yes, but not 1/illary."  

IN BRIEF 

"Loyal Daughters and Sons: Sexuality and Sexual Assault A'i Told by Notre Dame Students" will be performed at 8 tonight through Friday at Washington Hall. TickeL<; arn $5 and are avail­ablP. at the LaFortune Box Ofliee. 
"A Bright Hoom Called Day" will be performed on the Decio Main Stage in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight, tomorrow and Sunday at 7::~0 
p.m. There will also be a per­formance at 2::m p.m. Sunday. Tickets are $12 for the gnneral public, $10 for seniors, faeulty and staff and $8 for students. 
Thern will be a presentation on Careers in the State Department today at 6:30 p.m. in Montgomery Auditorium of LaFortune. 
Archbishop Celestino Migliore, the Vatican's permanent observer to the United Nations will deliver the lecture "Catholicism and Islam: Points of Convergence and Divergence, Encounter and Cooperation" today at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
The Notre Dame women's sm:­cer team will play against Loyola­Chicago tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. on Alumni Field. 
The Black Cultural Arts Council is holding modeling try­outs for iL'> annual fashion show Sunday from 7::~0 p.m. to 9:30. for any women interested. The men's tryouL'> will take place next Thesday from 8 p.m. to 10. Both tryouts will be held in Washington Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

QUENTIN STENGER!The Observer Students gather around the grill at an Alumni Hall Mentor Mixer. The mixer Is part of the "Big Dawgs" academic mentor program, intended to give freshmen the opportunity to seek advice from upperclassmen in similar programs of study. 
OFFBEAT 

Bank held up twice in one day 
WEST ST. PAUL, Minn. ­The TCF Bank in a Cub Foods was held up twice in one day -by different robbers. Kyle Loven, a supervisory special agent at the FBI's Minneapolis office. said the first rob­bery happened around 9 
a.m. Tuesday, when a man presented a demand note to a bank teller and implied he had a gun. 
The man got an undis­closed amount of cash, then left the grocery store and ran away to a wooded area. Police West St. Paul police officers, FBI and a 
TODAY D: 
canine team searched the area but could not find the suspect, West St. Paul police Chief Bud Shaver said. 
The law enforcement officers left after the first robbery, except for one West St. Paul investigators who stayed to gather more witness statements. He left the bank about 1:50 p.m. to get more paperwork out of his unmarked ear. 
That's when the second robber struck. 
Two stray pigs cause chase 
DAVENPOHT, Iowa ­Who wants a pig in a blan­ket? 
Two stray pot-bellied pigs stirred up a commo­tion Wednesday morning while on the run from two animal control officers, two police offieers and even a couple of utility company workers who joined the 35-minute ehase. 
Learning from her first pig ehase, animal control officer Leah Messmer knew to grab a blanket. 
"They're tough," she said. "They have no necks, so you really can't get a collar on them." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY 
LLI 
::1: 
-~1_\V~ 

"' 
~ 
LLI 

~~~ 
~ 

·~~ );::
(.., -­
3: 
....I 

~~ 
~wr~
0
<
(.) 

..J 0 HIGH 38 HIGH 28 HIGH 45 HIGH 46 LOW 27 LOW 20 LOW 30 LOW 31 
SUNDAY 
\. '!;-.f\:1 /l
"·\~-L-;f;t
'""-"! '7
~I b:
~)~ / .. ' 
~Jlf:' 
HIGH 45 LOW 33 
MONDAY 
\ ·;vV/;
.\;·)----/
'l \:;../
.....,.! )..­

·~·\ }~. 
~---l~"'
.')l '\'<
. ,, 

HIGH 55 LOW 40 
Atlanta 55 I 48 Boston 57 I 42 Chicago 43 I 34 Denver 60 I 21 Houston 72 I 59 Los Angeles 77 I 59 Minneapolis 42 1 28 New York 55 I 49 Philadelphia 53 I 52 Phoenix 81 I 61 Seattle 54/ 45 St. Louis 52 I 38 Tampa 79 I 63 Washington 52 I 48 

Thursday, November 15, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Professor, graduate speak about refugees 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
Hefugees need to be able to tell their stories and to feel like they can co'ntribute to society, 1984 Saint Mary's graduate Laurie Pintor said during Wednesday's Theology on Fire discussion at the College's stu­dent center. 
Pintor joined Saint Mary's phi­losophy professor Kevin McDonnell in talking about their experience as refugee sponsors at their parish in South Bend. 
"!Being a sponsor] has put so much into perspective in that it's about relationships and it's about thetr story and learning so much about people through that story," Pintar said. 
Pintor became involved in sponsoring refugees from coun­tries such as Bosnia, Hwanda and Vietnam through her church. St. Joseph Parish spon­sored its first refugee family in 1979 when McDonnell and his family took in seven Vietnamese refugees. 
"It's much like taking a young teenager through early adult­hood in two months," McDonnell said. "That's what sponsorship is." 
The refugees that come to America are completely mature in their own culture and society, McDonnell said, but they aren't in the United States, so they have to reach cultural adult­hood in the short time that sponsors aid them. 

In addition to the shelter that a sponsor provides, refugees need food, clothing, medical and dental care, schooling, employ­ment and most importantly, to learn English, McDonnell said. 
"They need jobs a:nd they need schooling," he said. "To get a job they need English." 
He said the South Bend public school system has an excellent English and second language program that helps refugees get a good education. 
The family that McDonnell sponsored moved out of his home and into their own in South Bend after they adjusted to life in the U.S. The father works at Notre Dame, and the mother works in building servic­es at Saint Mary's. 
"Why do the Vietnamese stay here? It's the ·weather," McDonnell joked. "No, they've been welcomed here." 
The Vietnamese refugees have created a community in South Bend, he said. 
"South Bend is a very good town for these people," McDonnell said. "There are enough people who have stayed in South Bend to make it a real community of people. You've got to have enough people here that they can feel some sense of con­tinuity with other people." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
OIS prepares students for abroad 
University works to ensure travelers know laws offoreign countries 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 

Before the next wave of Notre Dame students leave to study abroad in January and February, the Office of International Studies (OIS) wants to make sure they understand the laws of their new country. 
OIS program coordinator Lesley Sullivan said students are required to read and sign documents acknowledging that they will abide by the laws of the country in which they will study. 
"Students must be aware [of their country's laws]," Sullivan said. "For example, public intoxication is illegal in most countries." 
Sullivan, who has been direc­tor of the study abroad pro­grams in Angers, Bologna, Russia, Berlin and Rome's Intercollegiate Center for Classical Studies since the sum­mer of 2004, organized a pro­gram for women to discuss safety and health while living abroad. "Women and Study Abroad" addresses five areas: cultural cues and miscues, per­sonal health and safety, emo­tional health, alcohol and self­defense. 
The program features pre­sentations and testimonials from previous study abroad students. In addition, student 
representatives from PILLARS U.S. Embassy and an SOS num­(Peers Inspiring, Listening, ber that connects directly to Learning and Responsible the Notre Dame Socializing) come to discuss Security/Police. issues with students drinking Students are advised to use overseas. this card if they get in trouble 
While rules in other coun­with the law, have medical tries regarding drinking may emergencies, or in the case of a 
differ  from  terror  attack,  
those in the United States, Sullivan said  "Our students do a good job with  Opel said. The University is in no position  
she has never encountered drinking-relat­ behaving themselves.,,  to bail students out of jail or engage in any  
ed  problems  other legal mat­ 
with students  Kathleen Opel  ter,  she  said.  
studying  associate director  Sullivan  also  
abroad.  International Studies  said that Notre  

Personal safe­ty is a topic dis­cussed in great detail in the program, Sullivan said. Students are sometimes the victims of theft while abroad, she said. 
The meeting is required for women studying abroad, Sullivan said, but students studying in Washington are also invited to attend. 
Another safeguard for stu­dents studying in foreign coun­tries is the emergency informa­tion card the DIS office issues students, said Kathleen Opel, the associate director of International Studies Programs and director of programs in Tokyo, Beijing, Nagoya, Shanghai and Rome. The card includes numbers for the police, ambulances, taxis, the Dame does not • 
get involved in cases of stolen passports, which are a legal issue. 
"[Students] are bound by the laws of the country [in which they are studying]," Opel said. 
If a student faces legal trou­ble, the U.S. Embassy sends a representative to the jail to speak with him. Then, Opel said, the Embassy notifies the student's parents, guardians or anyone else the student might want to contact. 
Opel said she has never had any significant legal troubles with students studying abroad. 
"Our students do a good job with behaving themselves," Opel said. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

ND vs DUlCE BDDIC SIGNINGS 
FRIDAY, NOV. 18 



11am-1pm 11am-1pm 1pm-3pm Dorthy Corson Mel Tardy Karen Heisler (signing for his mother, JoAnne Tardy) Fighting Irish Legends,
Cave of Candles A Light Will Rise in Darkness Lists and Lore 

1pm-3pm Matt Cashore and Kerry Temple Celebrating Notre Dame 




3pm-5pm  3pm-5pm  3pm-5pm  
Sharon Bui  Angi Jurkovic  George Porter-Young  
Future Domers  Notre Dame Coloring  Boy Amidst the Rubble  
A Child's Guide to Notre Dame  and Activity Book  


SATURDAY, NOV. 17 


9:30am-11 :30pm Pete Connolly 
When shadows fell at No~re Dame 

ThankingFarheriJ. 
Ted 


11 :30am-1:30pm 11 :30am-1:30pm 11 :30am-1:30pm Matthew (ashore Phjllip Brooks Anne Cisle Murray74 & Kerry Temple Forward Pass Anne Giffels '82 Celebrating Notre Dame Bridget Keating '08 Jane Pitz72 
Thanking Father Ted 


~--------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 15, 2007 
--===========================================================================================================================
-----------~----_ 

Door-to-door solicitation is Costa, who has written arti­prohibited by duLac, Havlik cles for the Scene section of


Groups 

said in an e-mail. The only The Observer, said the group 
continued from page 1 excnption shn know of. she has not done much yet. but 
said, was for eampus student said he expects to be more lits within tlw Catholk charac­Plnctions. aetive eloser to the Iowa eau­tnr and mission of tlw Af'tnr fall brnak. Slavin said, euses on Jan. 3. Univl'rsity. Tlw Club the president of the CollngP "We haven't really nven Coordination Counril dwrks to I>emocrats, junior Spencer started doing much at all," he SI'P, is this a group that is Iloward. told her Student said. "We're just trying to get going to bn abll' to lw sus­Activitins had informed him lw it off the ground in terms of tairwd'? If WP arP going to allo­had to stop letting Slavin LISP organization." catn funds to thmn, t h e In the earning months, how­will thPy lw using Dnmocrats' rwer, Costa said he would like tlwnr wisdy'?" mnnting to be able to put up posters
"We want to make
According to the spacn for around campus to advnrtise 
sure ... there is a
Student Union Students !'or for their meetings. Fiscal l'oliry section proper and Obama "Students for Budy, in the of the appropriate way for mentings. eoming months, will do all it UndPrgraduatn "I gunss, can to involve all faents of the
students who support 
Stud1~nt Body as I was student body in learning more Constitution, thn a campaign to told, since about the mayor," hn said. Club Coordination ojflcially they are not Costa said he wants his Council would not a school­group to work with Student
advertise. " 
bn abln to fund a sanctioned Activities to follow their rules. group whosn goal it group, then "We want to make sure ... is to support a prns-Bob Costa they can't there is a proper and appro­idnntial candidatn. senior meet any­priate way for students who 
Section 1S.4(el of where on support a campaign to official­thn constitution campus, ly advertise," Costa said. "It's reads: "Allocated funds may and according to [Student so important that students are not bn usnd for the support of' Activities!. if they do, they can informed going into the 2008 candidates, whether f'nderal, get HesLifed," Howard said. election." statn, local or Univnrsity Havlik met with Howard but Havlik said the College level." said she did not tell him the Democrats and College 
The dnadline to apply to be group members would face Hepublicans can "talk about an official student organization diseiplinary action from the the candidates all they want." was Nov. 2. This year, Havlik Office of Residenee Life and "It is my hope that all stu­said. 24 groups applied f'or Housing. Havlik, who has dents find a way to be active in dub status. She expects the worked for Student Activities the political process and take groups to be notified of' the for three months, said she did an interest in learning about outconH~ of the process by not know what the disciplinary all candidates prior to voting February or March. process would be if an unap­in the upcoming elections," she 
Slavin said the Notre Dame proved group had met, and said. chaptnr of Students for Barack said she was "not completely Costa said he hopes to start Obama did not and will not familiar with the ResLife poli­holding meetings on and off apply as an official group cies." campus in the coming months, becausn if Obama wins the Associate Vice President for but for now, most of the organ­nomination in August, the Hesidence Life Bill Kirk said ization occurs through e-mail. College Democrats will support the University does not permit Both Costa and Slavin have him and her group will no the creation of groups and Facebook groups for their longer be necessary. organizations on campus with­respective candidates. 
Hepresentatives from the out going through the Student "We're trying to mobilize via Notre Dame chapter of the Activities process. This process Internet but there's really only College Democrats, along with is required for any group on so much you can do,'' Slavin the College Hepublicans and campus, he said. said. the College Libertarians, told "If they do fail to follow that The Observer that their groups process, there could be sanc­Contact Kaidynn Riely at would not support a specific tions," Kirk said. "But that's kriely@nd.edu candidate until their respective not a typical response, only partins name their presidential beeause I think students aren't ticket. trying to cause problems, they 
In the interim, Coughlin said, are just trying to form he suggests Slavin try to regis­groups." ter a demonstration. According According to duLac, students to duLac, individual students or student groups that want to may register for demonstra­schedule an activity or use tions with the Associate Viee University grounds must first President for Hesidence Life, contact Student Activities. Bill Kirk. 
sexism are traditions inherent to the United Stall~s. as support

Debate 
for this 1:ontrad ietion. continued from page 1 The goal of' tlw nation should 
be to show that rights are United States ready for a available to all, Hunt Botting woman chief executivn?" said. Bederman pointed to examples Hunt Botting also Pmpha­in 13th century B.C. Egypt, thn sizl'd tlw di1Tnrnr11:n twtwnPn 6th century Byzantine Empirl', voting liw a political candidate 16th century England and because of his or lwr sex VPr­modern-day women to give sus voting hn1:aust~ of his or lwr examples of females in execu­opinions. tive roles. Political seinr11:e profnssor 
"It's not that women have Darren Davis usml publie opin­never had power beforn, and ion polls to show voter tenden­now we're finally about to cies. Although onn poll shows break through into some sort of votnrs arn morn willing to elect modern state," Bednrman said. a woman to tlw Whitn I louse "Women have had political than an African-Amnriean, power for centuries at difl'erent Hispanic, Mormon or Jew, times depending on thn partic­Davis said he was skeptieal. ular time or place." "I don't beliove for a second 
Bederman examined the that peoplt~ arn tdling us the instances of WOillilll in polities truth," Davis said. in America. from Hebecea He suggested that when peo­Felton, who served one day in ple hear "woman president," the U.S. Senate in 1922, they think of llillary Clinton through the myriad of women since -she is eurnmtly running who servt~d due to family con­for that ol'fiee. This thinking nections, whether they were a/Iects their poll answers. Davis filling the vacancy of their hus­said. band or were appointed by "Is America ready for a their husband to a position of woman Prnsident'? I'm going to power. say 'yes' and 'no.' I'm going to 
"You need a brand name say 'yes' because of the partic­these days," Bederman said. ular characteristics of llillary "You need to be a Kennedy. Or Clinton," Davis said, citing a Bush. Or a Clinton." Clinton's name recognition, 
Bederman said women often position as senator of New York break into politics through fam­and her linandal resources. ily connections. When peopln call Clinton 
Political science professor "overly ambitious,'' they are Eileen Hunt Botting also exam­using a "sexist eodeword," ined the wording of the ques­Davis said. But, he said, there tion posed at the debate. The are only six female governors constitutionality of a woman and 15 female senators who president is not contestable, could possibly run a successful Hunt Botting said. campaign for presidency. 
"There seems to be a very "I think only a woman presi­sad tradition of a eontradiction dent can actually get us out of between our egalitarian politi­the mess" and invigorate the cal symbols innate in the United States, Davis said. Constitution," she said "... and The debate was sponsored by this tradition we have of Women in Politics, Pi Sigma excluding certain groups." Alpha and Gender Studies. 
Hunt Botting pointed to a the­sis written by a famous political Contact Amanda Johnson at scientist, which said racism and ajohns 15@nd.edu 
"If they want to do that, they Students for GOP candidates most eertainly ean register Sarah Way, the president of 
How-about the Catnpus
that type of rally," Coughlin the College Republicans, said 
said. the group's leadership does 
Ministry Internship?
not yet support any specific Meeting on campus presidential candidate. She When Slavin returned to said she has been contacted by 
Join us Thursday, November 15th 
eampus this August, the students who want to start CoJ.Iege Demoerats allowed organizations to support can­Students for Obama to hold didates -like former New 
at 5:30 p.m. in 316 Coleman­
their meetings in the spaee York mayor Rudy Giuliani, for­reserved by the College mer Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Democrats on the first floor of Homney and Kansas Sen. Sam 
Morse for pizza, information, and 
LaFortune. The College Brownback. Way said the DemtH:rats had reserved the College Hepublieuns do not room for an hour, but the fundraise for any of these 
plications. 
meetings were usually over in groups, but they do make their half that time, so they allowed members aware of volunteer Slavin to meet with anyone opportunities. Contact: interested in supporting Senior Bob Costa said his 
ulsen.l@nd.edu

Obama after the end of the campus chapter of Students mnntings. for Giuliani is still in its early 
Otlwr than holding meetings, stages. lie said he has not Slavin said, shn has not been applied for dub status with able to do anything else with Studnnt Activities -and does hnr group. · not plan to -since his group 
"We couldn't advnrtisn, wn intends to be a short-term couldn't fundraise, we couldn't political dub. do any of this," Slavin said. "So Coughlin said Studnnt 
basically, the only purposn our Activities has no proeed ure !'or group was snrving n~ally was expediting the process of rec­to coordinate voluntners to go ognizing student groups as knock on doors in Iowa." oflieial student organizations. 
Slavin wondered if lwr group "I think the hard part about, 1:ould 1:anvass on eampus by saying 'Hey, this is a unique knocking on dorm rooms, so situation,' is that every student slw snnt Student Aetivities an that is passionate about a dub, n-mail asking if shn could. and fenls that their situation is Student Activities said she unique, and they would want could not. to fast track it," he said. 
' 
L____ 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 15, 2007 CoMPILED fROJ'v1 Tt-lE OBSERVER'S WIRE S.ERVKES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS CHILE 
Russia completes troop withdrawal 
MOSCOW, Russia -A top Russian general said early Thursday that Russia has com­pleted its withdrawal of troops that had been based in Georgia since the Soviet col­lapse, according to the JTAR-Tass news agency. 
The presence of Russian troops in the ex­So\l.iet republic was one of the longtime irri­tants between Georgia and its giant neigh­bor. 
"There are no more Russian troops in Georgia, there remain only peacekeepers ... in Abkhazia and those that are part of the combined forces in South Ossetia with the participation of Georgia," the news agency quoted Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Ground Troops Gen. Alexei Maslov as saying. 
Iran charges former nuclear negotiator 
TEIIHAN, Iran -A former senior Iranian nuclear negotiator has been charged with passing classified information to foreigners, including the British Embassy, the Iranian intelligence minister said Wednesday, according to the official IRNA news agency. 
llossein Mousavian. who was a deputy of the top negotiator under reformist former President Mohammad Khatami, was briefly detained in May, again on suspicion of espi­onagn, according to the semiofficial Fars news agency. 
"llis crime from the viewpoint of the Intelligence Ministry is obvious and prov­able," IHNA quoted Intelligence Minister Gholam llossein Mohseni Ejehi as saying. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Governor drops immigrant license plan 
WASIIINGTON -New York Gov. Eliot Spitzflr announced Wednesday he was aban­doning a plan to issue driver's licenses to ille­gal immigrants, but said that the federal gov­ernment had "lost control" of its borders and Jp,ft states to deal with the consequences. 
"I have concluded that New York state can­not successfully address this problem on its own," Spitzer said at a news conference after meeting with members of the state's congres­sional delegation. 
Spitzer said overwhelming opposition led to his decision. "It does not take a stethoscope to hear the pulse of New Yorkers on this topic," he said. 
Jury finds Marine instructor guilty 
SAN DIEGO -A Marine boot camp drill instructor was convicted Wednesday of abus­ing recruits under his command. 
A military jury found Sgt. Jerrod M. Glass guilty of cruelty and maltreatment, destruction of personal property, assault, and violating orders on the proper treatment of recruits. 
Glass, who was relieved of duty as a drill instructor in February, faces as many as 11 years of confinement, dishonorable discharge, reduction in rank, and forfeiture of pay and benefits. A sentencing hearing began immedi­ately after the verdict. 
Telephone calls to Glass' attorney and his family were not immediately returned. 
Glass, who volunteered for two tours in Iraq, had worked as a drill instructor for less than a year when the mistreatment occurred at the Marine Corps Recruit Depot near downtown San Diego. 


LOCAL NEWS 
ACLU asks court to reconsider case 
INDIANAPOLIS -The American Civil Liberties Union of Indiana wants a federal appeals court to reconsider a decision that could allow the return of sectarian prayers to the state I louse of Representatives. 
The group filed a petition Tuesday asking for a hearing before the full U.S. 7th Circuit Court of Appnals. The court ruled 2-1 last month that taxpayers who sued over the prayers do not have the legal standing to do so. 
A hearing before the full court would involve 11 judges. 
ACLU of Indiana legal director Ken Falk said the group will argue that the judges incorrectly applied a 2007 U.S. Supreme Court decision to the case. 
Majorearthquake hitsnorthern Chile 
Magnitude 7. 7 quake felt zn Santiago, Peru, Bolivia; injures at least 20 people 
Associated Press 
SANTIAGO -A major earthquake struck northern Chile on Wednesday, toppling power lines, closing roads and sending terri­fied residents into the streets. Authorities reported 20 injuries but no deaths from the quake, which was felt in the capital as well as neighboring Peru and Bolivia. 
The earthquake, which struck at 12:40 
p.m. local time (10:40 
a.m. EST), measured magnitude 7. 7 and was centered 780 miles north of Santiago, or 25 miles east-southeast of Tocopilla, the U.S. Geological Survey said. The USGS said it occurred about 37.3 miles underground. 
The U.S. Pacific 
Tsunami Warning 
Center issued, then can­
celed a tsunami warn­
ing for Chile and Peru. 
It said the quake gener­
ated only a 2-foot wave. 
Aftershocks were felt 
in several cities, 
according to media 
reports from the area. 
Some houses were 

· Officials rope off a scene that resulted from Wednesday's 7. 7 earthquake in north­
damaged in the port city 


ern Chile where several cars were crushed after a roof collapsed. 
of Tocopilla, according to Deputy Interior mines in the region spokeswoman for the of La Paz, 385 miles Minister Felipe Harboe, were without power and Park Hotel in Calama, northeast of the epicen­"and some people were only emergency teams 60 miles from the epi-ter, some high-ri-Se injured, apparently were operating. Only center and site of the buildings were evacuat­none seriously." He gave minor landslides were large Chuquicamata ed, but there was no no figures but the gov­reported, it said. copper mine. apparent damage and ernment's Emergency Television images She said the quake people soon returned to Bureau said at least 20 showed cars crushed by knocked out power to their offices. people were injured in the collapse of a hotel the hotel, but caused no Stretching along the the small town of Maria entryway in damage. earthquake-prone Elena. A number of Antofagasta, 105 miles At the nearby Agua Pacific "Ring of Fire," houses were damaged south of the epicenter. A del Desierto Hotel, Chile has suffered many there, said Mayor reporter for Radio administrator Paola destructive temblors. A Eduardo Ahumada. Cooperativa said she Barria said she felt like 1939 quake killed 
Presidential saw cracks in the tar-she was riding on "a 2 8,000 people and in spokesman Ricardo mac at the airport in floating island." She 1960 a magnitude-9.5 Lagos Weber said power Antofagasta. reported downed power quake killed 5, 700 pea-was cut in several cities Schools, hospitals and lines, cracked windows pie. That remains the in northern Chile. other buildings were and fallen pieces of most powerful quake on 
The region is home to evacuated in several houses near the hotel. record. some of the country's cities. "I was very fright-On June 13, 2005, a largest copper mines. A "It was horribly ened. It was very magnitude 7.8 quake statement from mine strong. It was very long strong," she said. "I've near Tarapaca in north­operator Codelco and there was a lot of never felt one that ern Chile killed 11 pea­reported no "relevant" underground noise," strong." pie and left thousands damage, but said its said Andrea Riveros, In the Bolivian capital homeless. 

Police arrest 18 in sports ga111bling ring 
Associated Press authorities what to look for using the Lancellotti, both of Philadelphia. 
casino's eye-in-the-sky surveillance "They sought to escape detection 
cameras, Milgram said. by enlisting casino employees in their 
ATLANTIC CITY -An illegal sports The suspected ringleader of the crimes," Milgram said. ''I'm pleased 
gambling ring run out of a high­operation, Andrew Micali, 32, of to say they greatly underestimated 
stakes poker room in an Atlantic City Ventnor, is an associate of our vigilance and determination to 
casino was busted Wednesday, Philadelphia mob boss Joseph keep organized crime out of Atlantic 
authorities said, and 18 people were "Skinny Joey" Merlino, according to City casinos." 
arrested, including four with mob a New Jersey law enforcement offi­Twenty-three people in all are 
ties. cial who spoke on condition of charged, and authorities were seek­
Since March 2006, the ring took in anonymity because the criminal com­ing five on Wednesday. Most were 
$22 million in bets on college and plaints do not mention any reputed charged with promoting gambling or 
professional football and basketball mob ties. money laundering. 
in the poker room of the Borgata Three associates of Micali also Unlike Las Vegas, Atlantic City has 
Hotel Casino & Spa, said New Jersey were arrested on charges of promot­no legal sports book. 
Attorney General Anne Milgram. ing gambling, money laundering and Authorities said the Borgata coop­
The off-the-books exchanges of loan-sharking: Vincent Procopio, 41, erated with the investigation and let 
cash and casino chips were unrav­of Brigantine; and Anthony investigators use casino surveillance 
eled only when an informant told Nicodemo, 36, and Michael video. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 15, 2007 
"We decided to keep it local this year to drive it home that

Hunger 
there is poverty and hunger in 
South Bend," Barnes said. " ... 
It is a bigger problem than event. gave a talk about the students know about. They're dil'f'nrnnees betwnen poverty sheltered in the Notre Dame and hunger. llungnr and community." povnrty arn not the same, shn Like Barnes, event co-chair 
continued from page 1 
said. llunger is thn eompletn absnnen of food and nourish­ment. l'ovPrty is morn of an 
i s s u n i 11 t lw lJ .S .. slw said. although then~ arn X!i4 million pnopln suffnr­ing from hungnr world­widn. 
Thn past two years. the 
"We decided to keep it local this year to drive it home that there is poverty and hunger in South Bend." 
Sarah Barnes co-chair Hunger Banquet 
Adriana Hodriguez said she thought it was important to support a loeal charity this year. 
"I'm from South Bend, and I have seen peo­ple in South Bend who have nothing." she said. "I've seen it firsthand. I wanted people 

llunger Banquet proceeds went to an international organization called Oxfam. whi<~h gives people money not only for food but also for smaller farm animals. like chiek1ms. 
This YIHtr, the Diversity Board deeided to support the Jlope Hescun Mission. a local organization that provides food and shelter for people in the South Bend area. They do not ask for identification and all are weleome. 
to realize that it goes on here and globally, to make people aware of the situation." 
Many students participated in the event to show their sup­port of the Diversity Board and the Ilope Hescue Mission. 
"I was really happy with the turnout," she said. "It's always a little scary. The goal was 100 and I don't think we were far off." 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN



STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Baustista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Laffertv.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

Thursday, November 15, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,231.01 -76.08
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,623 78 1,752 1,189,699,722 
AMEX 2,408.-?Z"'""*.m,,,,:-4·90 NASDAQ 2,644.32 -29.33 NYSE 9,809.15 ili5l;~g S&P 500 1,470.58 -10.47 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,527.66 4-23.10 FTSE 100 (London) 6,432.10 +69.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -1.28 -0.65 50.09 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.28 -0.41 147.67 E*TRADE FINL CORP (ETFC) -+10.80 +0.54 5.54 CITIGROUP INC (C) +0.39 +0.14 36.04 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.31 +0.013 4.269 13-WEEK BILL -1.34 -0.045 3.315 30-YEAR BOND -0.02 -0.001 4.604 5-YEAR NOTE +0.57 +0.022 3.850 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.92 94.09 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +15.70 814.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.50 88.43 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 111.6450 EURO 0.6823 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9639 BRmSH POUND 0.4866 
IN BRIEF 
Ford workers ratify new contract 
DETHOIT -Ford Motor Co. no longer can complain about being hamstrung by high U.S. labor costs that prevent it from making money domestically. 
The automaker's hourly workers on Wednesday ratil'ied a historic four-year contract that sets lower pay for new hires and puts Ford's huge retiree health care liability into a trust run by the United Auto Workers. 
The UAW represents about 54,000 Ford workers, and 79 percent of those voted in favor of thP pact, the union said Wednesday. The UAW typically does not re l11ase vote totals. 
Workers at General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC already had ratified similar deals, with the contract passing at Chrysler by only a small margin. 
The deals are historic because they will help to rescue the troubled Detroit Three and make them more competitive with Japanese rivals who build cars in the U.S., said David Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor. 

Chevron pays $30 million settlement 
WASHINGTON -By agreeing to pay $30 million, Chevron Corp. has reached the largest of five settlements in the govern­ment's ongoing investigation of illegal kiekbacks made to Iraq in connection with thn U.N.'s oil-for-food program. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission on Wednnsday said Chevron settled ehargcs brought under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act without admitting or denying allegations that kickbacks were made as part of oil purchases in 2001 and 2002. But the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York said the nation's second-largest oil company still could be prosecutnd for criminal tax viola­tions. 
Chevron agreed to remit $25 million in profits and pay a $3 million civil penalty. Thn eompany also will pay the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Asset Con trois $2 million. 

-----------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

United, Delta deny merger rumors 
Anonymous official claims the nation's second-and third-largest carriers may combine 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA United Airlines and Delta Air Lines have been discussing a com­bination between the nation's second-and third­largest earriers that would keep the United name and the eorporate headquarters in Chieago, according to an official with knowledge of the talks. 
The reported talks come as all airline executives are wrestling with the implica­tion of oil prices hovering close to $100 a barrel. That has sharply boosted jet fuel expenses -and accelerated a search for ways to cut costs, which typically are the result of airline takoev­ers. 
Earlier Wednesday, Delta said its board established a special committee to work with management to review and analyze strategic options for the airline. Top exeeutives have said recent­ly they are trying to deter­mine whether consolidation makes sense for Delta. 

Delta issued a statement denying "published reports that it had engaged in merg­er talk with United." CEO Hichard Anderson was quot­ed as saying, "There have been no talks with United regarding any type of con­solidation transaction and received "feelers" from "They want to get some­with other airlines, the offi­there are no such ongoing United about a possible thing done before a new cial said, without specifying discussions." merger. administration gets in and whieh airline or the status of 
United called the report of There is a sense of so they get the dock ticking any sueh talks. recent talks "wholly inaccu­urgency in the most recent on" federal regulatory Shares of Delta rose 77 rate." talks, whieh have been approval, the official said. cents, or 4.1 percent, to 
The Wall Street Journal's going on for some time and Financial details were not $19.52 in trading online edition, citing uniden­continued as recently as a clear. But the talks involve Wednesday while UAL tified people, reported week or so ago, the official United being the name of shares gained 6 7 cents, or Wednesday that Anderson with knowledge of the talks the combined airlines, the 1.5 percent, to $44.17. has informally talked about said Wednesday. The official headquarters staying in When Anderson was consolidation possibilities spoke on condition of Chicago and Delta's Atlanta named in August as Delta with counterparts at other anonymity because the per­hub being an operational CEO to replace Grinstein, airlines, including senior son was not authorized to center for the two carriers, there was immediate specu­executives at United and speak publicly. The oflicial the official said. One possi­lation in the investment Northwest Airlines. stood by the assertions ble scenario involves Delta's community that Delta and 
Then-Delta CEO Gerald about the talks after learn­Anderson being the chief of Northwest might eventually Grinstein said during a stop ing of the statements by the combined airline, the merge. Anderson is a for­in New York on Oct. 12, Delta Air Lines Inc. and official said. mer CEO of Northwest 2006, that he had previously United, a unit of UAL Corp. Delta also has had talks Airlines Corp. 

Merrill Lynch names Thain new CEO 
Merrill Lynch through the unfolding Jr., a former chairman of Merrill
Associated Press 

credit market turmoil that threatens Lynch International whose father 
Wall Street's biggest investment was among Merrill's founders. "He 
NEW YORK -In the game of Wall houses. The broker took a $7.9 bil­has a great background, did a good Street musical chairs, one of the lion write-down during the third job stepping into NYSE when it had biggest seats has just been taken. quarter -an amount that shocked troubled times, and comes out of a . Merrill Lynch & Co. named the New investors because the broker origi­firm that has a very strong culture. York Stock Exchange's John Thain to nally pegged the amount at $4.5 bil­He can help bring the pride back." lead the world's biggest brokerage lion. Indeed, the transformation he just two weeks after it ousted Stan The crisis shows no sign of' abating made at NYS.E might serve as the O'Neal for presiding over the biggest -analysts expect another $4 billion blue print for how to do the same at quarterly loss in its 93-year history. charge this quarter. Merrill Lynch -which faces both 
Thain -also thought to be a can­Alberto Cribiore, Merrill Lynch's media scrutiny and troubled books. didate to become chief executive of interim non-executive chairman who At the NYSE, he took over after Citigroup Inc. after the departure of headed the search to find a new Richard Grasso was ousted over his Chuck Prince -faces a tough job CEO, said Thain is "the right per­controversial pay package. ahead as he fills Merrill's top seat. son." Not only was he able to rebuild 
The 52-year-old will need to lean lie already has widespread support confidence of NYSE board members on his reputation as a consensus -from academics to Wall Street and workers, but put the exchange builder to win the allegiance of analysts. He's viewed as one of the on the right track. His acquisition of Merrill's army of some 16,000 bro­smartest men on the Street after a electronic trading platform kers worldwide. Many felt betrayed career at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Archipelago Holdings Inc. set NYSE by O'Neal, who was forced out of his where he rose from a bond trader to up to go public, and then Thain job after the broker reported a $2.24 chief operating officer. snapped up Euronext to become the billion loss during the third quarter. "I think John is a very good candi­world's first trans-Atlantic stock 
The biggest challenge: Help guide date for the future," said Win Smith exchange. 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 15, 2007 
Firth 
continued from page 1 

their German heritage and identity. Firth spoke German, ate German food and wore German clothes -things she said were not easy as a 
child. important
"/have been 
"I apprnci­lessons on
extraordinarily blessed 
atn my how to han­(~erman her­to find work that/ love dle myself itage," she with great colleagues and how to said. "But at wield author­
who have allowed me the
the time, I ity graceful­was d ifl'nr­flexibility to fit it in with ly," Firth nnt." my family." said. Firth has She said long moved she learned 
Ann Firth

past the valuable les­rnemorins of associate vice president for sons on being those who student affairs a parent, 
tormented 
and tnased 
her as a 1:hild. but she under­

scored the importance of 
t.hosn who were kind to her. 
"Tiw l'irst lesson I learned 

at that stagn in my lifn was 
the importance of kindness," 
she said. This principle has 
rnmainnd with her since. 
Firth spokn to faculty, staff, 

rectors and students in the 
Coleman-Morsn Center 
lounge as part of the noon­
time lunehnon series titled 
"Telling II 1\Hstory." 
ller presentation was the 

third in the snries, which is 
an initiativn to highlight, 
honor and give a voice to 
women in leadership posi­
tions on cam pus. 
Firth shared memori1~s of nvents and influ~>.ntial moments that have directed her life as a student and pro­fessional woman at Notre Dame. 
Firth said her high school prineipal, a lloly Cross priest, was one of the people that helped dirnct her story. lie IHH:ouraged Firth to attend Notrn Dame, and she became a studnnt in I977. 
Since she attended Notre Damn in its early years as a co-educational institution, Firth said she has watehnd the evolution of women at Notrn Dame. 
"It is wonderful to sen the lnadnrship rolns I sne women nmbraeing on this campus," shn said. 
i\l'tnr Firth's undergraduate y n a r s , hn r m o tlw r IHl co ur­aged lwr to lwcomn a lawyer. 
!\ rn n n I. or s lw found at Notrn I>anw p!~rsuad!Hl her to attend Notre Damn Law School afll~r s1wing tho moral and nthical eoru:nrn J."irth had for the law. 
Firth practiend law in Chil'.ago for tlw ynar follow­ing hnr graduation from law school. and thnn married her frinnd and classmatn. She attributed her 22 years of marriagn and f'ivn childn~n to common values, faith and commitnwnl. 
Firth realiwd she did not want to praeticn law and movnd with lwr husband to South Bnnd, whnre she inquirl'(( about jobs at Notre Damn. Slw was ofTnrnd thn position as dirnctor of Hnsidnncl' Life and Housing, a nnwly crnatPd dnpal'lrnnnt at tlw time. 
"It was tho lwginning of a career that has far exceeded anything I could have hoped," Firth said. 

Firth became the primary hearing officer for discipli­nary matters and, at the age of 25, she was not far removed from the issues she encountered with students. 
"I had to 
learn some 
serving God 

and serving the Catholic Church during her career at Notre Dame. 
"I have been extraordinari­ly blessnd to lind work that I love with great coll!~agues who have allowed me the 11exibility to fit it in with my family," Firth said. 
Firth said she could never pretend to have all of the answers to balancing a career and family. She admit­ted that it is "a little hard to have it all, all at once." 
Firth said she could not tell her story without sharing her faith. Although her parents were not religious people, Firth said, she emulated her German grandmother, a very devout Catholic. 
"What I really want is for people say at the end of my life that I loved and served God," she said. 
The next speakers in the Telling IIERstory Series will be student body president Liz Brown and vice president Maris Braun on Dee. 10 in the Colnman-Morse Center Lounge. 
Contact Meg Mirshak at mmirshak@nd.edu 
CLeveLand Rd_ South Bend, IN 46637 l574' 272-8~~0 Fax: l574} 272-8~~4 
'IHTfT _ cppj _COli"l 

costs using e-reserves through University Libraries.
Senate 

According to the resolution, continued from page 1 the University Libraries' 
Course Reserves department were sold at the Hammes has said it is "willing and Notre Dame Bookstore able" to put more academic instead of copy centers materials on electronic around campus, as was done reserves, and also "willing in the past. The Bookstore and able to cover current added a profit markup, and future copyright costs resulting in complaints from for any materials they allow 
students  to be placed  
about  the  on  e- 
high prices they were paying for course mate­ "The building that's going on on campus is there to provide more  reserves." Bant and Hendrickson gave other  
rials. i\t the Oct. 17 Senate  opportunities for you. It's just the fact of  reasons why a switch to e­reserves  
meeting,  sen­ modern universities  would benefit  
ators passed a resolution  that you grow. "  students and faculty.  
recommend­ing course  John Affleck-Graves  Faculty members  
packets  no  executive vice president  would  have  

longer be sold exclu­sively through the Bookstore, but rather from campus copy centers, like those in Decio and O'Shaughnessy Halls. 
The senators were less receptive to the version of the resolution presented two weeks ago, which recom­mended professors increase their use of e-reserves to be environmentally friendly. 
The resolution presented Wednesday omitted that assertion and also included more research to show that students would be in support of a switch to e-reserves. 
"We are confident with our additional research ... that we have a better resolution to present to you today," Hendrickson said. 
Hendrickson and Bant gave a PowerPoint presentation in support of their resolution. Their survey, Bant said, showed that 67.3 percent of students were "very dissatis­fied" with course packet costs. 
Unlike with course packets, students will not have to pay for markup or copyright 

Best Value 1n Town Come See Why.' 
,. InatnJ:r/ Ou:ttlo~r Te.n.nis ~UJa Baske:thall 
,. Free T~UJ.ni.ng 
,. Hea:tetl P~ol 
,. Hela.zi.ng Jacuzzi 
"'" Ga:tetl Co:mm u.ni:ty 
,. Co:mm u.ni:ty Business Ce.n:ter 
... N~ Applica:tiO.J:J Fees for S:tu tle.n :ts 
"'" Close :to every:t.hi.ng_ __ far from ortli.nary! 
more 11exibil­
ity in adding materials to the e-reserves at points during the semes­ter, Hendrickson said. E­reserves are available any­where one has a computer and an Internet connection, Bant said. 
Students can use their yearlong $100 print quota if they choose to print their articles. That would allow students to print 1,000 sheets of paper. 
Students can currently add money to their print quotas in 115A DeBartolo Hall. The Senate passed a resolution Nov. 7 encouraging the Office of Information Technologies (01T) to estab­lish an online system for increasing printing quota, so students could use a credit or debit card to increase their print quota online, rather than going to the DeBartolo classroom. 
Hendrickson said she is working with OIT. and that right now, a print quota depository system is in the works. 
Hendrickson and Bant 
encouraged the senators to support their resolution. 
"We do not expect unanim­ity across campus or Senate," Hendrickson said. "But considering the student body at large, after extensive research, and much deliber­ation, our committfw has concluded that this option is the best for the majority of students." 
The resolution passed with 18 senators voting for it and three against it. 
Some senators left before the meeting was over, so the Senate did not have quorum and was unable to conduct any new business after the e-reserves vote. 
The amendment proposed by Siegfried senator Jim Lockwood, which asks the student body president to report the events that occur at Community/Campus Advisory Coalition meetings, will be discussed at the next Senate meeting. 
In other Senate news: 
Executive Vice President John Aflleek-Graves spoke to the Senate for more than 30 minutes about campus devel­opment plans for the next year or two. Using a detailed PowerPoint presentation, he walked the senators through the plan for the campus, showing architectural draw­ings of construction projects. i\ffleck-Graves pointed out Duncan Hall, a male resi­dence hall to open next fall; the new Law School, Stinson­Hemick llall, the new engi­neering building; athletic facilities development; and Eddy Street Commons. 
"The building that's going on on campus is there to provide more opportunities for you," i\ffleek-Graves told the senators. "It's just the fact or modern universities that you grow." . 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Thursday, November 15, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
CHINA 
CCP seeks help fro111 111inor political parties 
Communist government wants to retain full control but seeks input from smaller groups 

Associated Press 
BEIJING -China's communist government wants several small political parties to play a greater role in advising the leadership, though without challenging its authoritarian hold on Chinese soci­ety, the government said Thursday. 
The statement of support for the eight minor parties came in a poli­cy paper that follows on Chinese President Hu Jintao's call last month for more open, consultative decision-making to help the gov­ernment cope with a fast-changing society. 
While stressing the advisory and supervisory roles played by the small, powerless parties, the policy paper said plainly that the Communist Party "holds the lead­ing and ruling position." 
The Communist Party's leader­ship position "is the choice of his­tory and the people," the paper said. 
Trying to maintain the party's control while governing a society that has splintered into different interest groups is a key challenge for Ilu. The paper's recipe of call­ing for greater consultation while insisting that the party go unri­valed ha.<; be<m a hallmark of Hu's leadership of the 73-million-mem­ber party. 
The eight minor parties are holdovers from the early days of the revolution. De-fanged and co­opted by the party over the decades, they have served mainly to rubber stamp decisions taken by the leadership. Many of the parties' individual members remain influential in business and academic circles, providing a key conduit of communication for Chinese leaders. 
Though the Communist Party has the final say, it has shown a willingness to go outside for expertise. Earlier this year, China appointed two non-communists to the Cabinet-level posts of minister of health and minister of science and technology. 
Chen Zhu and Wang Gang, both of whom were educated in Europe, were the first nonparty members appointed to the Cabinet since the 1970s. 
Despite the appeals for greater consultation and Hu's constant use of the word "democracy," the gov­ernment has taken few steps to holding open elections. Limited elections are held at the neighbor­hood or village levels but most offices are filled by the party or people the authorities are comfort­able with. 
Disappearance opens older case 
Man's second wife vanishes; investigators examinefirst spouse's death 
Associated Press 
ROMEOVILLE, Ill. -Nobody listened when Kathleen Savio said she was afraid of her husband. But now, three years after she was found dead in a bathtub in what was ruled an accidental drowning, authorities are paying close attention. 
They suspect she was killed. But that theory did not dawn on them until her husband came under suspicion in the recent dis­appearance and possible murder ofhis new wife. 
Drew Peterson, a former police office in suburban Bolingbrook, denies any role in his wife's disap­pearance, saying she told him she was leaving him for another man. 
Stacy Peterson, 23, was report­ed missing Oct. 29, the day after failing to show up to help her sis­ter paint a house. She was 17 when she began dating Peterson. He was 47 and still married to Savio. 
Peterson believes his wife has left him for another man, and said he has no plans to look for her because he thinks she left willfully. 
"Why would I look for some­body who I don't believe is miss­ing? She's just gone. She's where she wants to be," Peterson told NBC's "Today" show. 
Peterson's troubles began dur­ing his marriage to Savio, who died in 2004. 
She left behind a trail of clues about the couple's stormy mar­riage, including an order of pro­tection she filed in 2002 after Peterson allegedly knocked her down, ripped a necklace off her and left marks on her body. Savio wrote in the order that she feared Peterson could kill her. 

"He wants me dead, and if he has to, he will burn the house down just to shut me up," she wrote. 
A coroner's report includes tes­timony from Savio's sister, who said Savio warned relatives that if she died, it may look like an acci­dent, but it would not be. 
Authorities have not said Peterson, now 53, is a suspect in Savio's death. But they have reviewed autopsy photos, police reports, court documents and even exhumed her body as they point the finger at Peterson in Stacy Peterson's disappearance. 
"I would say that right now Drew Peterson has gone from being a person of interest to clear­ly being a suspect" in his fourth wife's disappearance, Illinois State Police Capt. Carl Dobrich said last week. 
Peterson downplayed any simi­larities between the two cases but said his relationships with both women were troubled. Both suf­fered from emotional problems, he said. He denied having any­thing to do with the two cases. 
"I can look right in your eye and say I had nothing to do with either of those incidents," he told NBC. 
Authorities have been tightlipped about the specifics of their investigation, including what they hope to learn from examin­ing Savio's body. Will County State's Attorney James Glasgow said some tests that should have been conducted on Savio's remains never were. 
In the final days of her mar­riage, Savio traded battery allega­tions with her husband, who resigned from the police depart­ment this week. 
Drew Peterson twice persuaded the state's attorney's office to bring battery charges against his wife, but she was acquitted both times. Peterson never was charged, although Bolingbrook police have said officers investi­gated 18 domestic calls involving the couple. 
Savio's family suspects police were trying to protect one of their own. 
"She called it the 'good old boys club,"' said Charlie Doman, Savio's nephew. "Cops taking care of cops, is what it was." 
Among the documents Savio's family has kept for years is a copy of a letter they say she sent to an assistant state's attorney in Will County, claiming Peterson had beaten her several times, but police declined to file reports. 
They also have a report from a suburban Chicago hospital that Savio visited in 2002 for treat­ment of a sprained wrist after what she said was a confrontation with Peterson. The report includes a notation by someone, possibly her doctor, that Savio said her husband was a Bolingbrook police officer and that the police would not take a report on the incident. 
page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 15, 2007 
PUERTO RICO 
Anitnal control agencies inhun1anely kill strays 
Investigation found companies tossed scores off bridges 
Associated Press 
THU.IILLO ALTO -Back roads, gorges and garbage dumps on this tropical island are litten~d with the decaying carcasses of dogs and cats. An Associated Press investigation reveals why: possibly thousands of unwantnd animals have been tossed oiT bridges. burind alive and othnrwise inhumanely dis­posnd of by taxpayer-linaneed animal eontrol programs. 
Wit1wssns who spoke with the AP said that, despite pledges to dnliver adoptabln strays to shel­ters and humanely euthanize the rnst, the island's h~ading pri­vate animal eontrol companies gmwrally did neither. 
News that live animals had been thrown to their deaths from a bridge reached the pub­lic last month when Animal Control Solutions, a government eontraetor, was accused ol' inhu­manely killing some 80 dogs and eats seized from three housing projeets in the town or Barcclonnta. A half dozen sur­vived the fall of at least 50 feet. 
Thn AP probe, which included visits to two sitos where animals were slaugh­
"We have never
tered, found the anonymity for inhumane thrown animals off fear of retalia­killings were far tion. Both said
any place." 
morn nxtnnsive they left the ani­than that onn mal disposal ineidnnt. Tim AI' jobs voluntarily.
Julio Diaz saw and was told owner The AP eon-about a scale Animal Control Solutions taeted all eight 
the survivors back at its home," 
Kortright said. 
Animal welfare activists have complained to government agencies for years about allega­tions of improper disposal of animals, but say officials didn't act. Preventive action also is almost nonexistent: Puerto Hico has at least 100,000 stray dogs and eats -and no island-wide spaying or neutering programs. 
Aetivist Alfredo Figueroa said the animal disposal companies acted with impunity because government agencies ignored allegations of cruelty, rather than investigate the companies or address the overpopulation of strays. 
"There is apathy," Figueroa said. "No one wants to take responsibility." 
A former employee of one of Diaz's companies told the AP that the firms rounded up thou­sands of animals over the years, brutally killed many of them and discarded the corpses wherever it was convenient. One of the former employees led the AP to two different killing fields and he and another for­mer employee described a third. 
"Not a single animal was turned over to a shelter," a for­mer dogcatcher for Animal Control Solutions told the AP. Both he and an ex-employee of Pet Delivery, who was inter­viewed separate­ly, spoke on con­dition of 
and brutality far beyond even what animal welfare aetivists suspected, stretching ovf'r the last night years. 
A $22.5 million lawsuit againsl Animal Control Solutions and city officials ­i111~ lu ding those who lw I p e d round up tllf' animals -was l'ilnd on bPhalf of 16 Barcnlonnta l'amilins whose dogs or eats were snized under rules prohibiting pets at the city projects. The animals' dnaths show "a cold and depraved heart and has stirred public outrage around the whole world," the lawsuit says. 
.Julio Diaz, owner of Animal Control Solutions and a eo­founder of anotlwr company, Pet Delivery, declinnd AI' requests for an inte1·vinw but told reporters tlwrP is no proof his company was responsible for tlw Barenloneta pet mas­sacre. "We have nnvor thrown animals oil' any plaee," he said. 
A poliee investigation into the Barcelonnta killings has not lnd to ehargns, but polien Sgt. Wilbnrt Miranda, who lwads thn probe, said the information gathnrnd so far indicates Animal Control Solutions was responsible. lin dndinnd to give dntails. 
Maria Kortright, a lawyer involvnd in thn suit, said it's dear tlw pnts Animal Control Solutions rnrnoved from BarcelonPt.a were thn same ones hurled ol'l' the bridge bncause tlw survivors have bem1 identified by their owners. 
"Last Tuesday, I saw one of 
animal shelters 
and sanctuaries 
across Puerto 

Hico, and they confirmed that nmw had rnceived animals for potential adoption from Diaz's companies. 
Diaz eo-founded Pet Delivery in I999 and created Animal Control Solutions in 2002. Pet Dnlivnry appears to bn defunct, having reported no earnings since 2004. Facing little compe­tition. the companies had 85 contracts with municipalitins and other clients worth $1.1 million in the past eight years, aecording to the Puerto Hican comptroller's oiTice. 
The AI' could lind no sign that any of the municipalities checked to makn sure the com­panies dealt with the strays humanely. 
"It wasn't our responsibility," said Edwin Arroyo, special assistant to the mayor of Barcelonnta. which paid Animal Control Solutions up to $20,000 per year and in October hired the company to remove banned pets from housing projects ­allngndly the ones that wound up at the bottom of the bridge. 
The pet disposal scandal adds to Puerto Hieo's poor rnputation for treatment of animals. Cockl'ighting is legal, with matches shown on television. One of the island's beaches is known as Dt~ad Dog Beach -a plaen wherP teenagers drive over live puppies sealed in bags or cruelly kill them with machetes and arrows, accord­ing to animal welfare groups that photographed the atroci­ties. 
Thought you couldn't study abroad? Don't want to miss a semester on campus? 

Study Abroad this Summer through ND! 
Vienna, Austria 
Paris, France Dublin, Ireland Rome, Italy Puebla, Mexico Amsterdam, Netherlands Toledo, Spain Taipei, Taiwan Kampala, Uganda London, United Kingdom 
Come to an information session to learn more... 
Thursday, November 15, 2007 5:00pm 126 DeBartolo 
Application deadline is March 1, 2008 (except Kampala and London) http:/ /www.nd.edu/ -ois/Apply 



An American Master's Degree in 

It's possible at St. John's University­the only American University that offers this unique opportunity for graduate study in Rome. Whether you are interested in pursuing an 
M.B.A. degree in Finance, International Business or Marketing Management, or an M.A. degree in Government and Politics with a specialization in International Relations, our expert professors and the Eternal City itself, will help you prepare for the global arena. 

Thursday, November 15, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page II 
FDA warns Avandia users 
Popular diabetes drug may cause increased risk of heart attack 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -The gov­nrnnwnt slapped a prominent, though confusing, warning on the popular diabetes drug Avandia on Wednesday ­telling patients that it may, or may not, increase the risk of heart attacks. 
The move is less stringent than steps Canada took last week to restrict the drug's use to hard-to-treat diabetics. 
But the U.S. Food and Drug Administration concluded that studies are too contradictory to tell if Avandia really is riskier than other treatments for Type 2 diabetes. 
So the FDA described the 1:ontroversy in a black box on t\vandia's label -the most sevflff1 type of warning the agnncy can require -pending further research. Unlike most black-box warnings that urge strong caution, Avandia's says, "The available data on the risk ... are inconclusive." 
"It's still an open question," said Dr. John .Jenkins, FDA's drug ehief. Still, he said, "We want to make sure health care providers and patients are aware this signal of risk has been identified." 
Patients may need a medical dictionary to interpret the new warning. It says Avandia may be associated with "myocardial ischemie events such as angina or myocardial infarction." 
In layman's terms, that's chest pain or a heart attack. Manufacturer GlaxoSmithKline PI.C is to develop a pamphlet that will come with each bottle putting the warning in easier­to-understand language. 
Claxo also agreed to FDA's demand for a major study directly comparing Avandia and its competitors' heart effects. The study will begin by next November and won't end· until 2014, but the FDA will order interim checks to see how patients are faring and if it's possible to settle the issue any sooner. 
"It isn't as if we're going to be clueless until 2014," said Dr. Janet Woodcock, FDA's chief medical oflicer. 
For now, Type 2 diabetics who also have heart disease or arc at especially high risk for it should talk with their doctor about Avandia's potential heart effects as they· decide among treatment options, FDA advised. · 
In contrast, Canada's drug regulators last week withdrew approval of Avandia as a stand­alone therapy except for patients who can't tolerate older competitors. Health Canada announced that Avandia should be used only in combination with certain other drugs for hard-to-control blood sugar. 
Dr. Steven Nissen of the Cleveland Clinic, who first brought the heart attack issue to public attention, said he pre­ferred Canada's approach ­but that Wednesday's warning is important, if imprecise. 
"It is a black-box warning, and no matter what the lan­guage says, it's telling you something," Nissen said. "A black-box warning is telling you there's enough evidence here that physicians and patients ought to be concerned." 
What should Avandia users do? "The easy answer is talk to 
your doctor, but that doesn't help much because the doctors are just as much in the dark as the patient," said Dr. Thomas Pickering, a cardiovascular dis­ease expert at Columbia University Medical Center and an FDA adviser. While he isn't convinced of the heart attack risk, he advises trying other drugs first, and adding Avandia if they're not enough. 
It is not the first warning about Avandia's heart effects. In August, the FDA ordered a black-box warning for both Avandia and a competitor, Actos, that they may cause or worsen heart failure, a differ­ent cardiac problem. 
About 1 million Americans with Type 2 diabetes use Avandia. It helps control blood sugar by increasing the body's sensitivity to insulin. 
Diabetics already are at increased risk of heart disease. Type 2 diabetes, the most com­mon form, is linked to obesity, which in turn harms the heart. Plus, high blood sugar over time damages blood vessels. Lowering glucose prevents many diabetes complications, such as blindness and kidney failure. 
The hope is that intensive treatment also will lower the risk of a heart attack. 
But on Wednesday, the FDA also said Avandia's competitors must change their own labels -to say none has been proven to reduce diabetics' risk of heart disease. That includes the treatment mainstay metformin, a family of medicines called sulfonylureas, and Actos. 
The Avandia question, how­ever, is whether it might actual­ly increase heart attacks. 


nned 
cy? 
love needs help call. 

Con/identialsupport and assistance available at Notre Dame: 
• Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF, Student Affairs, 1-7407 OP, StuJent Affairs, 1-7819 Campus Ministry, 1-7163 
departments/pregnant.sl1hnl 

WWII fighter plane found on Wales beach 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Sixty-five years after an American P-38 fighter plane ran out of gas and crash­landed on a beach in Wales, the long-forgotten World War II relic has emerged from the surf and sand where it lay buried. 
Beach strollers, sunbathers and swimmers often frolicked within a few yards of the air­craft, unaware of its existence until last summer, when unusu­al weather caused the sand to shift and erode. 
The revelation of the Lockheed "Lightning" fighter, with its distinctive twin-boom design, has stirred interest in British aviation circles and among officials of the country's aircraft museums, ready to reclaim another artifact from history's greatest armed con­flict. 
Based on its serial number and other records, "the fighter is arguably the oldest P-38 in existence, and the oldest surviv­ing 8th Air Force combat air­craft of any type," said Ric Gillespie, who heads a U.S.­based nonprofit group dedicat­ed to preserving historic air­craft. "In that respect it's a major find, of exceptional inter­est to British and American avi­ation historians." 
Gillespie finds romance as well as historic significance in the discovery of the aircraft, long forgotten by the U.S. gov­ernment. 
"It's sort of like 'Brigadoon,' the mythical Scottish village that appears and disappears," he said. "Although the Welsh aren't too happy about that analogy -they have some famous legends of their own." 
Gillespie's organization, the International Group for Historic Aircraft Recovery, learned of the plane's existence in September from a British air history enthusiast and sent a team to survey the site last month. The group plans to col­laborate with British museum experts in recovering the fragile out nearly intact aircraft next spring. 
The Imperial War Museum Duxford and the Royal Air Foree Museum are among the institutions expressing interest. 
"The difficult part is to keep such a dramatic discovery secret. Looting of historic wrecks, aircraft or ships, is a major problem, in Britain as it is worldwide," Gillespie said. 
British aviation publications have been circumspect about disclosing the exact location, and local Welsh authorities have agreed to keep the plane under surveillance whenever it is exposed by the tides of the Irish Sea, he said. For now, the aircraft is again buried under sand. 
Officially, the U.S. Air Force considers any aircraft lost before Nov. 19, 1961 -when a fire destroyed many records ­as "formally abandoned," and has an interest in such cases only if human remains are involved. 
The twin-engine P-38, a radi­cal design conceived by Lockheed design genius Clarence "Kelly" Johnson in the late 1930s, became one of the war's most successful fighter planes, serving in Europe and the Pacific. About 10,000 of the planes were built, and about 32 complete or partial airframes are believed to still exist, per­haps 10 in flying condition. 
Another P-38, part of a "lost squadron" of warplanes marooned by bad weather in Greenland while being flown to Europe in 1942, was recovered and extensively restored with new parts. Dubbed "Glacier Girl," its attempt to complete the flight to Britain earlier this year was thwarted by mechani­cal problems. 
The Wales Lightning, built in 1941, reached Britain in early 1942 and flew combat missions along the Dutch-Belgian coast. 
Second Lt. Robert F. "Fred" Elliott, 24, of Rich Square, N.C., was on a gunnery practice mis­sion on Sept. 27, 1942, when a fuel supply error forced him to make an emergency landing on the nearest suitable place ­the Welsh beach. 
His belly landing in shallow water sheared off a wingtip, but Elliott escaped unhurt. Less than three months later, the veteran of more than 10 com­bat missions was shot down over Tunisia, in North Africa. His plane and body were never found. 
As the disabled P-38 could not be flown off the beach, "American officers had the guns removed, and the records say the aircraft was salvaged, but it wasn't," Gillespie said. "It was gradually covered with sand, and there it sat for 65 years. With censorship in force and British beaches closed to the public during the war, nobody knew it was there." 
It was first spotted by a family enjoying a day at the beach on .July 31. 
The discovery was stunning news for Robert Elliott, 64, of Blountville, Tenn., the pilot's nephew and only surviving rel­ative. He has spent nearly 30 years trying to learn more about his namesake's career and death. 

~ ·-·..· An ExceptionaL Eventfor Brides. 
~ 

: Evr<· <;hi 12 noon -5p.rn. Palais Royale Ballroom, 105 W. Colfax Ave., South Bend TI1e 3rd annual Bdla Bl' ida! Event and Style Show oJJer-< euerythi"g JO" needfor your 5f'?ci,J dgv inc/udings!Jie shm<.~ at 1•30 p.m. <>nd ::S•30 J•. m., 
faad dnd l~ew~ruge tastir~ and the latc~·t i1' wedding $j)•1e. 
Tickets $5 in adl'ance, $1 o a! lhR dMr 
Purchase !ickets at the MonisBox Oj]lce 574--2.'55-9190 oronlineat 
www.hellabridalevent.com 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, November 15, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

The Internet age and honesty 
1~0. Box 779. Notre D.1me. IN 46556 024 Suud1 Dining II all, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CimiF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BliSINF.SS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily Ass-1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Mary K:1re Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: K;m:n Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hinc ScENE EDITOR: "J;~e Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVEiri'ISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AI> DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7171 
fAX 
(574) 631-6')27 ADVERTISING (574} 631-6900 ohservad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ('574} 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574} (,j 1-4541 obsme@nd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-53 n NEWS DESK (574) 631-5:323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK ('>74) 631-4543 spons.I@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 
PoLICIES 

The Observer is the independcm, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Fdirorial content, including advertisements, is not govenwd by policies of the administration ofeither i.nsrirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advcrtisenwnts based on content. 
Tht· news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid: Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparrmenr editors. ( \unmt·maries, letters <md columns prescm the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Obscrvn. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free <'X pression ofall opinions through lcrters is mcouragcd. l.t·tters to the Editor must be signed and must include contac:t inf(>rmarion. 
Questiom regarding Observa policies should be directed to Fditor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

11w l )\t\l'rvt'r (US\IS "i'N l-4111l01t~ puhh•hcd Mnnclo~y tlunu~h l·nd.1y except durmg I'M.! Ill ~tul v;trUtUttt 1~riod' 1\ 'll.lh~·rtptitm tn .l.lu· {lh«<:rVl't i~ $100 litr oll\t' ;tl.tdl'tni~· yo:.lr:'f;'l'5fiJrmtc"'-'111CIItn 
The l lh"Krvcr i~ publhhnl ~~ POSTMASTER 014 '\omh Dmmg 11~11 Stml Jddrcss <mr«"tinm to: NMrr P.unc. IN .Jfl~"if.-0771) Thcl)b~rvcr l'ctto.. \ko~l puu.tw: p.ud o~t Norte-D.unc [~l). Ilox 779 .md .uldilinn,tlm,uling uUl1,:0. 02-1 Suurh Dining ~fJJI 
Nutrc D.tmc, IN 46S56-0n9 
Tlu.· (11)11Crvrr •~ ~ tncmhcr nl 1hc ,A,ao(:1o~tc\l l'tc~. All repruducdnn righu. ;arc rtl!Crvtd 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Seene Kait.lynn Hiely Cassie Belek Jenn Metz Viewpoint Maureen Mullen Jordan Gamble 
Gene Noone Graphies 
Matt Hudson 
Sports 
Dan Murphy Greg Arbogast 
J.J. Jedick 
I drank before I was 21. 
I have not inhaled-and neither has Bill Clinton. I have viewed Internet pornography. I have discussed all of the above online 
with friends. 
I have made jokes I now regret about nearly every inap­propriate topic. 
I once wrote a col­umn that started with, "I have never been solicited for gay sex in a men's room." 
I have never been solicited f(}f gay sex in a men's room. 
I have never done cocaine. 
But Barack Obama has. 
Obama's first book, "Dreams from My Father," includes the following passage: "Pot had helpnd, and booze; maybe a little blow when you could afl'ord it. Not smack, though." Of eoursn, when Obama wrote the book, he likely wasn't considering its implications on a future presidential cam­paign (this may not be entirely true­Obama's brother-in-law has said that Obama considered the possibility of the presidency as early as 1992). But Obama would have had to admit to his past at some point-the same way Bill Clinton admitted (-ish) to mar~juana use in 1992. The rise of the Internet, and the accompa­nying flood of used-to-be-personal infor­mation, requires it. 
Earlier this year, the New York Times published portions of letters Hillary Clinton had written as an undergraduate. Imagine what it will be like for our generations: newspapers (or, equally likely, Matt Drudge) will publish old e-mails, saved somewhere in the bowels of the Google empire, old AIM conversations, which you know at least one creepy friend is saving (note to my friends: I'm that creep), and old Facebook wall posts. 


Imagine the 2036 presidential elections. Both candidates, in all likelihood, will have had Facebook profiles. (lfyou're reading this in 2036 and the candidate didn't have a Facebook profile, you should not vote for her/him. lip/she lacknd a social life or was so concerned about being president in their college years that they'll likely make an awful president.) Of course, that means that each candidate will have pictures to look at, which will likely reveal all sorts of foolish college-y activities that they would­n't want their mother (or the rest of the voting public) knowing about. Who knows, they might even have written an offensive joke or two on a wall that they'll promptly disown as "a regrettable decision made when I was young and thought I knew everything." 
It won't just be political candidates, though. You'll be able to pull up a plethora of information on your co-workers. Googll~ the guy at the desk next to you and you'll learn something about his/her teenage years, which (despite his sell'-f'ashioned image) he probably spent as a high school debater who probably didn't talk to girls. 
This sort ofthing is already happening­our Career Center is telling us to check out our Facebook profiles and make sure they are "clean," so that potential employers think that all we do on weekends is play Scatagories or Catchphrase and make funny faces while we volunteer at centers for underprivileged youth. But the Career Center-and any employer who would actually make a hiring decision because of a picture of you doing a keg stand at a football party last Friday night-doesn't get it. They don't understand what the Internet means today and it will mean in the future. 
Starting with our generation, all sorts of information our parents understood as pri­vate will become public. There will be embarrassing pictures, stories, and e-mails about nearly everybody. And it will have an important effect: It will force us to be more honest about what we've done in our past. It will f(m:e us to present ourselves as real human beings, not earefully constructed images of human beings, in all aspect<; of our lives. The lntnrnet bohavns like a giant polygraph test. The thrnat (or. in the case ofth<~ Internet, the increasing certainty) that the truth will enmrge means that peo­ple are more likely to tell the truth on their own terms. 
Any mnploynr who doesn't hire someone because they have seen a picturn of a can­didate on that night when thny played Vodka pong after taking thrnn straight beer bongs will be at a competitive disad­vantage. They will lose some of th<~ b1~st eandidates-in faet, they'lllose most can­didates. Most people did f(Jolish things when they were young-it's just that before, we got to turn our heads tho other way. The Internet will form us to reeognizn pnople as people, not just the saint-like construct<; they ean try to be today. 
It means that we'll be able to talk morn frankly about our experiences and their social implications. Judgments-politieal and personal-will be informed by an acknowledgment of the reality of peoples' b<~haviors, not by denying their existence. 
Traditionally, maturing has meant inf(Jr­mation control. "Maturity" has bmm about carnfully shaping an image of yourself, sharing only certain inli1rmation and pro­tecting other information from the public eye. Maturity has mnant denying a part of yourself and your past. 
Now, though, growing up will bo dilfer­ent. The private will bncome the public­and we're better liJr it. 
Andrew Nesi is a junior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. 1/e is starting to regret this column already. but owes credit to junior Joe Stranix for his moderating effect on the language used herein. He can be reached at anesi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Enhance understanding of religions 
When traveling throughout Spain last summer, conducting interviews with Muslim sm:ular leaders for my Political Science thesis, none of' my survey ques­tions provoked quite as much thought as this one: Are Muslim and Western values compatible? It seemed that no one had a clear or easy answer. While I'll save my results for my thesis, I can say that Spanish Muslim elites C{~rtainly felt differently than the Spanish popula­tion overall. Many westerners felt that Muslim values were in great contrast to their own; Muslims themselves didn't quite feel that way. 

Ignorance of Muslim culture and val­ues, I'm sorry to say, is not merely a Spanish problem. Westerners, including Americans, lack a ba~c understanding of the difl'erences and, more important­ly, the common aspects between west­ern and Muslim cultures and values. Notre Dame provides a perfect example -we have one of the best theology dopartments in the country, if not in the world, but have only three elasses on world religions for spring 2008. Everyone has to take biblieal founda­tions, but there's no requirement and very little encouragement to take our theological and religious studies beyond that which is embedded in all aspects of Notre Dame, Catholicism. Imagine going to high school and only taking American history-it would certainly impact your understanding of the world. 
We at Notre Dame will have an oppor­tunity tonight to broaden our under­standing of the religion of more than a billion people worldwide. Archbishop Celestino Migliore will present the Terrence R. Keeley Visiting Vatican Lecture, "Catholicism and Islam: Points of Convergence and Divergence, Encounter and Cooperation," at 8 p.m. 
in tho Ilesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Archbishop Migliore has been the Vatican Permanent Observer to the United Nations since 2002, and his presentation promisns to be an enlight­ening one. Even after all my interviews, I still lind my understanding of Islam and what it has in common with Catholidsm sadly lacking. I look for­ward to hearing Archbishop Migliore speak on this very important topie, and I encourage everyone to attend as a way to broaden our view of the world. Ilopefully this will be tlw first of many more events focusing not just on Catholicism, but also on how Catholicism can interact with the rest of the world. 
John Grothaus 
semor 
off campus 
Nov. 14 
OBSERVER POLL 
What are you more excited about: Notre Dame Hockey or Notre Dame Basketball? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Success is relative. It is what 
we can make ofthe mess we have 
made ofthings." 
T.S. Eliot British dramatist and poet 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 15, 2007 page 13 
The 'lowest common denominator' in relationships 
Last Thursday in FaithPoint, Father Lou DeiFra wrote about the struggles many students have with pornography. Not sur­prising, he said. given the power of human sexuality, the easy accessibility the Internet offers. and the stresses and strains of 
Kate Barrett

life at a dmnanding university. I would like 
FaithPoint

to expand on his valu­able insighl'i and ofl'er the suggestion that part of the problem lies in our popular culture's acceptance of public sexual norms that are only a few stops away from what we dismiss, per­haps hypocritically, as pornography. 
Because our sexuality is so much a part of who we are as humans, we might not think of it immediately. but our societal obsession with physical perfection has likely provided much of the impetus for the misplaced attractions and desires that may lead people to pornography. 
When the mainstream media can't even figure out the difference between real news and what Britney Spears wears (or doesn't wear-hey, maybe she just for­got. ..) to go out to the bars, it's contribut­ing to the "outing" of what you might call "near-pornography." When breast implants are the latest go-to gift for girls graduating from high school-high school! -presumably given to them by their own parents, it's all too easy to see that we've become a society for which the visual too often substitutes for the truly relational. Pornography is one-perhaps extreme-example of that. A'i Father Lou noted last week, "As intimate as the act of viewing pornography may feel in the moment ... the fact remains that no truly human relationship is ever formed." Much of what is socially acceptable (even though your mother may say, "You're going out dressed like that?"), though it may stop short of pornography, nonetheless glorifies the "eye candy" part of our sexuality rather than the deeper, more challenging, but ultimately longer lasting and gratifying (in the best sense of the word) friendships and love relationships we long for. 
Everyone who has been accepted into Notre Dame really is, as Garrison Keillor claims about all the children of Lake Wobegon, "above average." Way above average, in fact. But guess what? You did­n't get in because you're hot. And that won't help you graduate, or make friends or get a job, either. So can we do better than what our popular culture holds up as admirable? As tough as it may be in the face of so much pulling us in the other direction, can we look to sources of depth and substance and courage for values worthy of our regard? Every single per­son reading this article has the opportuni­ty of a lifetime-your lifetimes-to help build up the Kingdom of God, whether in your tiny little corner of the world or on a global scale. And you won't do it just because you can dress or walk or act in a way that leaves the opposite sex staring open-mouthed in awe and wonder. 
There's no denying that we each have -or don't have-physical attractions to each other. That's as it should be. God gave each of us the gift of our sexuality as part of our created selves so that we would populate the world and know, through the love of another, a tiny piece of the amazing love God has waiting for us in heaven. We just can't let-too much of our relationships (or lack thereon be deter­mined by the merely visual, whether in the destructive trap of pornography or the quietly pervasive demands of pop culture for over-the-top, leave-nothing-to-the­imagination, "mainstream" sexuality. Get above and beyond-far beyond-our low­est common denominator society and appreciate wholeheartedly the integrity of your relationships with your dearest friends. Reach out to someone who's'lone­ly, or who might feel marginalized or rejected and get to know what's great about that person. 
Individually and collectively, we simply allow much too much of our own self­esteem and self-confidence to be deter­mined by whether we think we're physi­cally attractive enough, and whether or not we have curves or muscles in the right places. 
Now, I'm not telling anyone to abandon their showers, combs, toothbrushes or trips to the laundry; or to bypass the Rock or the RSRC and head out instead for boxes of Krispy Kremes or the Value Meal #3 at McDonald's. But be confident in who you are and put just a little less stock in how you look as you step out of your door. Then the power and compassion of the Christian community Father Lou wrote of last week can take hold and break down the cheap grip of the superficial sex­ual messages that surround us. 
Kate Barrett is the director ofResources and Special Projects in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Letter about hom_osexuality spurs response 
Check terminology 
With the r.ampus a little stirred up about gays and gay rights and gay sex, I think it's time we went back and took a second look at the old Catechism, lest we go the route of Mary K. Daly and start throwing around pnjorative terms like "disordered" and "tho homosexual lifestyle" ("Campus, Catholicism and homosexuality," Nov. 13). 
While much of what Daly says in regards to the church teaching is accu­rate. she unfortunately makes the same misstep that so many Catholics have taken. and misinterprets Church teaching. llere is what the Church says: "llomosexual ar.ts are gravely disor­dered." llere is what Daly says: "llomosexuality is intrinsically disor­dered." See the disconnect? 
The ehureh tnaches that sexuality is a gill from God. not something chosen. As Father David Burrnll notes on the Notre Dame Corn Council Web site (corecoun­eil.nd.edu), "The Catechism of the Catholic Church takes pains to distinguish between homosexuality as an orientation, and homosexual aets." This numns that there is nothing wrong with being a homosexu­al, according to tho Church, the problem eomes with homosexual acts. Merely hav­ing homosexual desires no more makes you a sinner than having a desire to play the cello makes you Yo-Yo Ma. 
Perhaps I may be harping too much on the comment "homosexuality is intrinsi­cally disordered," but it is necessary to do so in order to see where Church teaching is misconstrued: "Homosexual acts are gravely disordered" slowly becomes "homosexuality is gravely disordered" and eventually "homosexuals are gravely dis­ordered." This misreading is what leads people to don shirts that say "Gay? Go to Hell." If they had wanted to be closer to the teachings of the Church, they probably ought to have worn shirts that replaced "Gay?" with, "Having gay sex?" As for the "Go to hell" bit, that is also a little mis­leading -there is no mention of 'hell,' per se, only a mention of disordered. But disordered in this sense merely means objectively disordered; that is, not ordered in such a way that is open to procreation, one of the Church's requirements of sexu­al intercourse. Because two men cannot together produce a child, nor can two women, homosexual acts are said to be "objectively disordered." I hesitate to bring up other times when sex is not "open to new life," but I think anyone reading this letter can probably guess what I am talking about: contraception, oral sex and-you got it-masturbation. So perhaps people wanting to be true to their Catechism ought to wear shirts that say "Having Gay Sex? That's as objectively disordered as wearing a condom!" 
Otherwise their interpretations of Catholic teaching leave a lot to be desired. 
Michael Redding 
senior 
offcampus Nov.14 

Catholicism, homosexuality, and community 
In Mary K. Daly's Letter to the Editor ("Campus, Catholicism, and homosexuali­ty," Nov. 13) she expresses disappoint­ment that Notre Dame "does not {openly) accept, include and 'voice its solidarity with' the Church's teaching on the homo­sexual orientation and lifestyle." Her solu­tion is to "implement an approach to working with the homosexual minority on campus that is holistically Catholic." This approach would not only incorporate inclusion, but also include "instruction on how to live" a chaste life in the context of Catholic Christian morality. 
First, it is worth noting that the University does openly teach and discuss the Church's teaching on sexual acts between homosexual persons. In each CommUnity and Network session, the pre­senter first deconstructs the complicated formulations of Church teaching in the Catechism and presents them so that every student may fully understand the rich and intricate teaching offered by the Church. This gives students the power to speak from knowledge and not ignorance. Many resources (brochures, pamphlets, spiritual directors) are available in Campus Ministry. Every hall rector is fully versed in Church teaching. 
These resources are the public face of the University, of our community. In developing an approach that is 'holistical­ly Catholic,' however, we must balance the role of the community and that of the indi­
vidual. Dealing with an intimate aspect of 
an individual's personal and spiritual life 
requires utmost care and compassion. As 
a community, we are called to create a 
welcoming environment in which all 
members are free to develop their person­. ality and discover personal traits -one of which (and I stress, only one of which) is 
sexuality. As individuals created in the 
image and likeness of God, their inherent 
dignity demands our sensitivity. 
In encroaching on the personal sphere 
of one's being, the community must tread 
carefully. Who are we to judge a person's 
life circumstances or their personal faith 
experiences? This is best conducted and 
evaluated in a prayerful context of per­
sonal discernment with a spiritual guide. 
It is not the role of other students to 
scathingly declare, "Go to hell." It is not 
our place to decide whether someone is 
"Catholic enough." 

In short, a supportive community in sol­
idarity with its gay, lesbian, and bisexual 
members is not only the ideal communi­
ty-it is the 'holistically Catholic' commu­
nity. To minister to individual needs we 
must provide a safe space in which people 
feel they can explore their faith and rec­
oncile themselves before God in a loving 
environment. This does not mean that 
Church teaching, in its fullness, should not 
be laid out or provided as a model. 
Ultimately, however, after careful dis­
cernment, prayer, and consultation, it is 
for the individual to reconcile him or her­
self with the tradition, and the communi­
ty's role to share the love and good news 
of Christ -not to declare judgments 
reserved for God. 

Grant Van Eaton senior Sarin College Nov. 14 
Re-evaluating "teachings" on homosexuality 
I read Mary K. Daly's letter ("Campus, Catholicism, and homosexuality," Nov. 
13) on the Catholic approach to including homosexual students with great interest, but also with some puzzlement. She reit­erates a point made by many in regards to this issue, which is that the Catholic Church does not consider homosexual people to be exceptionally flawed as human beings because they, just as everyone, were made in the image of God. However, as her letter states, "The Church does teach that homosexuality is intrinsically disordered and thus, for a person of homosexual orientation to act on those homosexual tendencies, to embrace the homosexual lifestyle, is morally sinful." I find it somewhat hard to swallow the attempted divide between a theoretical concept that is homosexual­ity and a living being, in this case a per­son, who is homosexual. My understand­ing (and someone please correct me if I am perpetuating a misinterpretation} is that conceptual homosexuality is an evil something-or-other, but when applied to a person, it is somewhat less evil because people are made in God's image, and God just chose to make them gay as well. Pardon the cliche, but this seems to be a rhetorical attempt on the part of the increasingly politically correct Church to have one's cake and eat it, too. 
Can the idea of homosexuality even be coherent when divorced from the very context, i.e. life forms of two distinct sexes, from which it originates? If some­one can formulate a clear explanation of what homosexuality is without making reference to a member of God's creation, my mind will be set at ease. If not, then it must be admitted that to say the state of homosexuality is intrinsically disordered or evil is to say that God has created some beings who are intrinsically disor­dered or evil. And that's not good news for anyone. The gay Catholics suddenly become anathema, and the leftover Catholics now must deal with the idea of a God who pulls dirty tricks akin to say­ing that the state of left-handedness is inherently disordered, then turning around and creating a bunch of left­handed people who, because of their God-given debility, must never be allowed to act upon their wicked impulse to write lest they threaten the sanctity of literature. 
Nikki Huiras senior Badin Hall Nov. 13 



r--------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Thursday, November 15, 2007 

"A Bright Room Called Day, Decio Mainstage Theatre Tonight 7-"JO, Friday ?:JO, Sunday 2:30 and 7:30 Tickets $I2, $I o faculty/staff. $Io seniors and $8 students 


Q&A vvith 'Rootn' director 
By TAE ANDREWS Stene Editor 
Why do you believe Tony 
Kushrwr decided to give the 
Jllay Uw name he did'! 
"Tiw titln comns from a misun­
derstanding or a mis-hearing. 
Kushner was at an exhibit of 
some sort that had video of an 
Agnes de Mille ballot playing on 
a TV snl. From across the room, 
KushnPr thought hn heard the 
announcer say tlw name of the 
hallnt was 'A Bright Hoom Called 
Day.' In fact. tlw nanw of tlw bal­
let is 'A Bridngroom Called 
I> e a t h . ' A h a p p y <ll~ ei d e n t. In honor of Ms. de Mille, Kushner has namnd thP lead character ... 'Agnes.·" 
In what, if any, ways have you 
t.l'ied to put your own spin on 
t.he material? 
"I don't have any kind of 'spin' per Sl'. But if' you are asking what I think thP play is about. I can answer that. l'A Bright l!oom'l is about fighting histori­cal amnesia by n~surrecting his­torkal truths that have been eon­cealed or obscurml. To redeem history by preventing the reoc­currence of' similar disastrous m i s t a ke s i n t 111~ p r ~~ s e n t a n d future. "Also. I believe Kushner is telling us that in order for our political system to thrive and progress, it must make room for the voice of dissent." 
In the past the theater depart­ment has used some very unusual sets. Is there anything unique about the play of this set'! 
"Wn have at lnast one large, tlwatrical moment. To say more would spoil th1~ surprise." 
The play features scenes involving a woman named Zillah who moves from Long Island to Berlin in 1990 out of protest of the growing power of the Hepuhlkan party in the 1980s. Do you believe the play eontin­tres to have enduring relevance in terms of the current global political landsca(Je'! 
"Y1~s. yes, it is hard to think of an American play that goBs to the heart or so many contempo­rary political arguments. ['A Bright Hoom'l. like Tony Kushner himself'. is unabashedly political. "Tiw characters in the play arfl vigorously nngaged in a heated, political discourse not unlike th1~ ~~onvPrsation among Americans today. Tlw audinnen will reeog­nizP tlw znalots, tlw fnncn-sit­tnrs, tlw nwrcnnari1~s. tlw revolu­tionarins, the puppets, the party­linn-towers. and indnnd. tlw dev­ils that dot thn American and global landscape." 
llow has your experience been in terms of working with the east and crew'! 
"Fantastic. Tlw actors are tal­ented, smart and f1~arl1~ss. The dnsigrwrs arn extraordinary. The crew is thoughtful and fastidious. As Zillah would say, I'm in 'pig hnavnn."' 
Contact Tac Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 

By MARK WITTE Scene Writer 
"A Bright Hoom Called I>ay," written by Tony Kushner ("Angels in America"), open·s with its characters gathered around a table, drinking to celebrate the New Year. llowever, by the play's elose, only one of those characters remains. 
The setting is Berlin. It's New Year's Eve I 932, and the lives of a couple. Agnes Eggling (Jennifer Betancourt) and Vealtninc llusz (Brian I>eSplintcr), and their three friends Annabella Cotchling (Madison Liddy), Cregor Bazwald (Luke Cieslewicz), and Paulinka Erdnuss (Erin O'Shea) -are about to undergo massive change, as is the Hepublie. 
As the New Year begins, the Weimar Republic, holding an extremely shaky power over the coun­try, is meeting strong opposition from Hitler and his fascist Nazis, as well as opposition from the KPD, Germany's Communist Party. All three parties are rallying the mass­es and vying for power. Within six months, the Weimar Coalition is defeated. Within anothflr month, the Nazi party takfls the majority of seats in the GP.rman Parliament. Weimar Coalition and KPD members attempt to unify against the Nazis, but the plot ultimatflly fails, and llitler is elected Chancellor of Germany in January 1933. It is in this period of turmoil that the hopes and dreams of the characters rise and fall. 
United in their distaste for the Nazi party, the play's characters watch helplessly as fascism descends upon them. The play centers on their helplessness while rais­ing questions about what an individual can do against the surging tide of unwanted political change. Despite this overbearing, oppressive gloom. the eharaeters are a delightful bunch. 
llusz, a one-eyed revolu­tionary banned from Hungary and kicked out of Hussia, now making films fQr the Germans -who he claims arc all insane -is delightful in his anxious and npie take on lifo. 
Gotehling is a hardworking member of the KPD, and her occasional arguments with Bazwald, a homosexual sex fiend, make for sharp comical relief. 
Paulinka is a famous actress, evidently in love with the idea of selling one's soul to the Devil, yet holding a supreme distaste for "Faust." She does­n't seem to under­stand the times, but neverthe­less, she makes her opin­i o n 
known: "Psychoanalysis makes more sense than Communism." 
Agnes, the focus of the tale, is a character perched on the border of joining the KPD and just plain staying out of the whole mess. Her character evokes a great amount of sympathy as she tries so des­perately to hold onto a Germany shfl onee knew and believes will soon return. There is a scene in the play where she tries to think of revolutionary lines, shouting, "The world is perched on the brink of..." Yet, she cannot seem to finish the sentence. Whether she doesn't know how to end it or whether she 

I From left to right, Erin O'Shea, Luke Cieslewicz, Madison Uddy, Jennifer Betancourt and Brian DeSplinter make up the core cast. 
chooses to stay ignorant of the answer may be the underlying theme of the play. 
But this is not simply a tale of Germany and llitler. From the corner of the stage, behind a stack of books and a wooden desk, Zillah Katz (Juliana Halloran) sits throughout the duration of the play, reading what appears to be the story we are watching. Only she does­n't just read. Before the story is over in November of 1933, there will be eight interrup­tions from the radical, para­noid, Heagan-hating Katz, who actually lives about 50 years in the future in New York City. Her interruptions, which are more like tirades, earry an excessive amount of political zeal as she rips on the Heagan administration, even calling him the devil and comparing him to llitler. Fortunately, the tirades carry enough jolly humor to over­shadow their extreme poli­tics. 
The acting is entertaining and engrossing. Hobin Witt's direction is wonderful, and on the whole, a learning experi­ence. Slideshows detailing the history or the period f'Jash during seene transitions, keeping the audience occu­pied and informed. There is also a quite impressive show of theatrical spectacle about midway through the play when llusz literally calls up the Devil from beneath the ground. If the foreboding descent of Germany into evil has not been sufficiently fore­shadowl~d by this point, the Devil makes it clear when he informs his stunned onlook­ers, "I have taken up tempo­rary residence in this coun­try." 
At one point of the play, llusz says, "This age wanted heroes. It got us instead." 
"A Bright Hoom Called Day" examines what it's like to be that "instead." Though it seeks to push a heavy politi­cal message, it is touching in its portrayal of hope, over­shadowfld by Hitler's dark, rising sun. 
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 


LINDSAY POULIN/The Observer 

Zillah Katz (Juliana Halloran) from the 1980s interrupts the action in the play to rip apart Ronald Reagan's politics. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, November 15, 2007 
page 15 


ByTAEANDREWS 
Scene Editor 
Former Notre Dame track star and 2004 !,Tfaduate Napoleon Suarez has traded in his cleats and hit the track running as a burgeon­ing neo soul artist. Tonight his musical career takes a turn back to his alma 
mater as he plays the Legends 
Napoleon Suarez

stage at 10 as the centerpiece of his CD "Napoleon Dynamite" as its Neo Soul night. Legends a play on both the popular As a junior and senior, Suarez Tonight 1 o p.m. movie and the ND acronym. 
earned Track and Field All Big East awards, propelling the Irish to the Big East title both years. He also began an amateur musical career, one that he eventually decided to pursue. 
But not right away. 
After graduating in 2004, the former Keenan resident left his music behind for the world of business. "Just like everyone else, my main focus was to enter corporate America and work for a reputable company," he said. "I was pretty involved in the music scene while at school, but I was always pressured by family and friends to get a 'real' job after col­lege."· 
After about six months of what he calls "the nine-to-five cubicle thing," Suarez decided to quit his job and return to his tunes full-time. The former track star started at a sprint, recording track after track while rededicating himself to his music, but his bank account couldn't keep up with him. He was forced to go back to work. 
"My dream was dead," he said. "I went back to the cubicle but the itch never went away." 
So he picked it back up, but the second time around Suarez decided to expand his musical repertoire, rhyming as well as producing. 
"I made a song," he said. "Then another. And another. Before I knew it I had a whole album done." 
Suarez sent his album to family friends, and after receiving positive feedback, he decided to release it on Sept. 11, the same day Kanye West dropped his third album "Graduation." Suarez named 
As a neo soul artist, Suarez 
says his musical influences range everywhere from Tupac to Metallica and include artists like Kidz in the Hall, Skyz:oo, Jlttle Brother, Fall Out Boy, Coldplay, Lupe Fiasco, Jay Z, Nas and Gemini. He also pointed out the subtle dilference between soul and neo soul music. 
"Soul music taps into your soul and just makes you feel good inside," he said. "Neo soul music does that as well, but I feel it is more poetical. More sophisticated. It is less structured, giving you a little more freedom to say what you have to say without the restric­tions of a rhyming pattern. The beats are less edgy but more thought provoking." 
Suarez also credits superstar Kanye West with changing the nature of the hip-hop world and opening the door for artists such as him­self. 
"Although he was glamorizing his dropping out of college," he said, "he made it cool to be different." 
West made a name for himself in the hip­hop community as a mold-breaker, with unconventional arrangements and songs that appeal to the college community. 
Tfie 11f!PtYPtance of~eing"Xa~st 
o ens at Saint :Ma:' s ,, 
MATT HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

"Performing this show makes us highlight them," she said. "So we By TAE ANDREWS all nervous," he said. "Trying to tried to make sure those points are Scene Editor interpret the material onstage and really emphasized. Almost every line 
make people think we didn't kill it i'l in the play is a joke and very funny, 
"The Importance of Being our greatest challenge. so one of our approaches was to Earnest" opens tonight at Saint 'We're trying to elevate it in order make sure everything funny will be Mary's on the little Theatre Stage. to play up the humor. We have such perceived as funny." Originally penned by playwright a huge sourc,e. With all the wit that's Deeter also said the production Oscar Wilde, the comedy takes place in the show, that's where each actor drew from the original source mate­in England during the late Victorian can put his or her own spin on the rial in designing the stage aesthetic era. material." for the show. 
Notrn I>ame Haley said "One of the things we really were sophomore "The Importance ofBeing the direction of pulling for we got from the script," Will llaley the production she said. "In the play. there's a line
Earnest" 

stars as allows individ­by Lady Bracknell that says,
Saint Mary's College 
Algernon ual actors to 'Algernon has nothing but looks­MoncrieiT, a Tonight 7:30, Friday 7:30, exercise cre­everything.' So for his apartment we role that has ative freedom lavished it out to make it look like he 
Sunday 2:30, 7:30 
expanded his in trying to has everything and i'> everything. But 
Tickets $10, Seniors $8, Staff
esteem for emphasize the he's really just an eccentric person." Wildn's mas­$7, Students $5 humor of the "The Importance of Being tcrpim:tt show. Earnest" features a diverse, tri-col­
"1 had road "Our director lege cast, including all four female the play <.men." he said. "Perlbrming [Mark Abram-Copenhaverl has been actresses from Saint Mary's, three it rnally gavn me a new apprndation great about lPtting each actor make male Notre Dame students and one for !Wilde's! wit. Wilde supposedly hi<; or her own ehoices," he said. "He male Holy Cross studPnt. modPied my character IAlgp,rnonl likes to leave a lot of it up to us, let us "The cast has gotten really dose," all.nr himself'." take the reins first and then pu<>h us Haley said. "It's the kind of play that 
Whnn performing sueh a f~tmous in a direction. He's been phenome­allows that to happnn. The cast has and hilarious play, llaley said the nal." really bonded, and I think it shows in original tnxt presented the east with Stage manager Carole Deeter the chemistry oru;tage." iL'i most entPrpri<;ing task: trying to agreed. "Mark really looks for places live up to the billing of such a where he ean bring out things that Contact Tae Andrews at nmownnd work. are really funny in the script and tandrew1@nd.edu 
"I really like bands and artists who take a different approach on music and who aren't scared to push the envelope," Suarez said. "Music is really moving in a whole different direction. I say it's revenge of the nerds because skateboarding and college have become huge in the hip hop community. It's cool to be different and many people are embracing that." 
Uke Kanye West, Suarez believes he oilers an innovative approaeh as a performer. "A<> far as hip-hop is concerned, I consider myself the alpha entertainer," Suarez said. "I don't mean to come ofl'as conceited, but I think that I bring a lot ofuniqup, things to the table." 
Suarez writes all his own material in addi­tion to producing his own music, which involves creating heaL<> and eomposing songs. For this, Suarez ha<> a studio inside his apart­ment, which allows him to engineer idea<; into reality. 
Suarez said his Notm Dame degree differ­entiates him from many otl1er hip-hop artists today and "adds a unique flavor" to his music. 
"I can't think of one artist right now that can speak for the college audience genuinely," he said. "I think the fact that so many young professionals are relating to my music sepa­rates me from the rest of the hip-hop commu­nity." 
A New Jersey native, Suarez moved to Philadelphia after graduation, but said he is glad to be back on campus. 
"It's really crazy to think that the last time I wa<; there, they were taking money from me, but now that I'm going back they are paying me," he said. "It's funny how quickly things turn around in tl1e music business." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 
Keenan presents philosophy event 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
Keenan Hall will host a talk with philosophy professor Alasdair Macintyre entitled "Why Philosophy Matters" tonight at 7 p.m. The event will take 
losophy in social life, both here on campus and in the greater world. 
"Often in the dorm, I hear lamentations of 'Why do I have to read philosophy? What's the point of reading these books by dead people? I don't under­stand this,"' he said. "I wanted 
to address 

place in this view
"Why Philosophy Matters" 
the base­and show ment of Professor Alasdair Macintyre that phi­the dorm. losophy is
Keenan Hall 
The event funda­
Tonight 7 p.m. 
was origi­mental to 
n a 1 1 y planned as a section event, but has since been broadened to include both the entire hall and any other interested peo­ple. 
"Professor Macintyre is one of the most renown philoso­phers and professors here at Notre Dame," resident assis­tant Tae Kang said in an e­mail Tuesday. "He is truly a brilliant mind and has greatly impacted many students and aeadernics." 
Kang said he organized the talk to stress the importance and enduring relevance of phi-
how we function as a society and inter­act as humans. 
"Philosophy matters because it is the foundation of our beliefs and views about the world. It is a great intel­lectual tradition handed down from men like Plato and Aristotle to Aquinas and Descartes to Mill and Macintyre. We cannot have proper discourse without proper understanding of phi­losophy and truth." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 
r--------------­
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 15, 2007 
NBA 

LeBron's triple-double not enough against Magic 
Washington beats Indiana for second straight win; Atlanta beats Charlotte but loses Smith, Law to injury 
Associated l'ress 
CLEVELAND-LPBron Janws 
lward the whislfp and figured 
lw was headnd to tlw free throw 
linn. 
lin got llwrP . .lust not to shoot. 
I>riving down llw lane in the final srwonds of ovPrlinw, Janws was lind up by Orlando's IIndo Turkoglu for a game-ending jump ball as llw Magic. paced by Dwight Howard's 35 points an d I (J r n b o u n d s . n~ rn a i n n d unhnatnn on llw road with a I 17-116 win oV!'r the Cleveland Cavalir~rs on WP!hwsday night. 
lloward. almost unstoppable rwar the basknl. made two fn~e throws with 5.S seconds Inn in OT to put the Magk up by one. Following a timeout. Janws, who linishnd with :{9 points, 14 assists and 1:{ rebounds, took llw inbounds pass at the top of llw key and qukkly drove past Keith Bogans. 
But as lw approached the bas­ket, James was wrapped up from the side by a helping Turkoglu. who had been ealled for a critical thfiHl-shot foul against James with 2.4 seconds lnl'l in regulation. 
Orlando's forward got his hands on the ball but also appeared to makP contaet with James' forearms. Heferee Leon Wood. though. signaled for a jump ball, and as Cleveland fans booed loudly, James walked around with a puzzled look on Iris face. 

"I got there early enough to help Boges. I didn't foul him ­this limn," Turkoglu said, smil­ing. 
.James won the jump, but the ball was tipped out of bounds as the Magie improvml to an NBA­best 5-0 on lhP road. 
According to the Elias Sports Bureau. James is the first play­
. nr to record that many points, assists and rebounds in a game since Wilt Chamberlain in 1968. llowevnr. he would have gladly traded the rare triple-double for a win. 
"I went into the lane and I got grabbed," James said. "lie had some of the ball, but he had part of my arm as well. Once I feel a little bit contact. I am try­ing to go up and get the shot off and hopefully they will call a foul. It didn't go our way." 
Magie coach Stan Van Gundy was adamant that Turkoglu did­n't foul James. 
"That's a jump ball," he said. "I didn't see anything but Turk grab the ball. Turk got right there and got on the ball." 
Wizards 103, Pacers 90 
Coming off knee surgery, Gilbert Arenas is learning how to balance getting rest with avoiding rust. 
lie certainly had things fig­ured out Wednesday night. 
Arenas showed more spring in his step and more accuracy with his shot, finishing with 30 points, 11 assists and six rebounds to lead the 

AP Pacers forward Danny Granger is unable to shoot over WIZards guard Roger Mason du~ ~on's 103-90 win over lrdana on Wemesday. 

Washington Wizards to a victory over the Indiana Pacers. 
The All-Star guard has been taking it easy on days off and before games. But he decided he needed to get a feel for the basketball, so he went to the gym to shoot Tuesday night, then hoisted up 100 3-pointers before tip ofT Wednesday. 
"I was coming to games cold turkey, wasn't even getting the ball up, just banking otT my nat­ural ability, and I was strug­gling," Arenas said. "My handle wasn't as crisp." 
Wait a second. So you haven't been warming up before games this season? What have you been doing? 
"Chillin'. Resting. Hosting the knee," Arenas said. "They told me to stay off the knee, so I stayed off of it." 
Caron Butler scored 25 points, and Brendan Haywood had 16 points and 11 rebounds for the Wizards, while reserve Marquis Daninls led the Pacers with 19 points. The teams arc heading in opposite directions, with the Wizards going 2-0 after an 0-5 start, and the Pacers going 0-5 after a 3-0 start. 
"We've got to make some adjustments," said Indiana's Jcrmaine O'Neal, who had 17 points and nine rebounds. "We're a little coneerned right now,. but we don't feel like the year is over." 
Arenas entered Wednesday shooting only 35.6 percent. But he was at 50 percent against Indiana, going 9-for-18. 

·He also directed things well, getting his teammates involved in the flow of the offense. That, of course, is what thrilled coach Eddie Jordan. " "~.le's grow~:" Jordan said. 
He s matured. 
Hawks 117, Bobcats 109 
The Atlanta Hawks have to wait to learn if their victory over the Charlotte Bobcats was a costly one. 
Joe Johnson scored a season­high 34 points, Josh Childrnss added 23, also a season bflsl, and the I lawks never trailed in beating the Bobcats on Wednesday night. 
The I lawks, however, lost two starters with injuries. 
"We have to evaluate them overnight and see where we are. We have to mix and match right now until we see what our injuries arc. I won't kpow that until tomorrow," Atlanta coach Mike Woodson said. 
Josh Smith, who had 15 points and live blocks, strained his left quad early in the third quarter and did not return. The I lawks also lost rookie point guard Ado Law with a lel't ankle sprain with 6:47 left in the third peri­od. lie had two points and six assists. Both did not return. 
"We'll have an MHI tomorrow morning. I don't think it's really that bad," said Smith. "I don't take that long to heal." 
Law was still hurting after the game. 
"It's kind of sore right now, but I think it's only a bad sprain. I don't think it's broken. I'll come in for treatment tomorrow and we'll see." 
The Hawks (3-4) are at home to Seattle on Friday night, then play Saturday at Milwaukee and return home for a game against San Antonio on Tuesday night. 
Gerald Wallace and Jason Hichardson led the Bobcats with 27 points apiece. 
"We came out flat tonight," Richardson said. "They had the game won by the end of the first quarter. Jon Johnson is tough to deal with. There am a handful of guys in tho league that are tough to dnal with and Jon is definitely orw of them." 
The Hawks twice led by 1 X points in the first half and were up 63-48 at tho broak behind Johnson's 20 points. Atlanta shot 24-for-35 in the first 24 minutes ((JS.h percent). Wallace had 12 points for Charlotte and Hichardson added 10. 
Atlanta took the lead for good at 6-4. Charlow~ never got dos­er than six points in the second half. trailing 69-63 on a basket by Hichardson with 5:20 left in the third period. 
"I wanted to come out and attack the basket early and gnt myself in a rhythm. We all did that, attacked the basket and didn't look for jump shots. That was the key," Johnson said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classificds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED FOR SALE 
FSB0-6.2 miles to NO-Colonial ooking for a playful, kind and 2story home 4bdr 2·1 /2 baths close responsible person to watch my two to schools county tax many xtrs. children (6 &10 yrs.) in my home 574-291-2899 
occasionally. Please call Jill 3 bdrm/2 bath home for sale $95,000/for rent $900. 706 N. St. 574-288-7118. Louis. Contact Brad 574-220·8666. 
Seeking part time nanny for our 3 WALK TO NOTRE DAME · 2 BD children. 4 miles from campus. 2-6 with formal living and dining, large pm daily. Email schedule availability family room. 2 car garage. $89,900. &qualifications to twnanny· 1221 Rosemary Lane. Century 21 search@ gmail.com Jim Dunfee. Call574-235-3707. 
FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes now showing 08-09 &09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester sale. $200 P/S just off campus "alumni owned". Bluegoldrentals.com 
Large house available for 2008-09. 516 N. St. Joseph St. 4 bdrm, 1.5 bath. 1014 N. St. Louis Blvd. 4 bdrrn, 2 bath. Very clean homes. 
574-276-3176. 
TICKETS 

WANTED · ND FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 
574-251·1570 

FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 
574-232-0964. www. victorytickets.com 

ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 57 4·288-2726. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME· ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1· 800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
Adopt: a young loving couple long to share their hearts and home with a newborn. Will provide endless love. Expenses paid. Call Eileen and Ed 1-800-718-6577. 
Manilow, are they going to allow you to box with your sweater vest on? 
the kratfty beaver is looking for some quality wood 

r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, November 15, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 



NCAA Football 

AP Top 25  
team  record  prel'ious  
1  LSU  9-1  2  
2  Oregon  8-1  3  
3  Oklahoma  9-1  4  
4  Kansas  10-0  5  
5  West Virginia  8-1  6  
6  Missouri  9-1  7  
7  Ohio State  10-1  1  
8  Georgia  8-2  10  
9  Arizona State  9-1  9  
10  Virginia Tech  8-2  11  
11  usc  8-2  12  
12  Texas  9-2  15  
13  Hawaii  9-0  14  
14  Florida  7-3  17  
15  Clemson  8-2  20  
16  Virginia  9-2  23  
17  Boise State  9-1  19  
18  Boston College  8-2  8  
19  Tennessee  7-3  22  
20  Illinois  8·3  30  
21  Cincinnati  8-2  27  
22  Kentucky  7-3  24  
23  Michigan  8·3  13  
24  Wisconsin  8·3  32  
25  Connecticut  8-2  16  

NCAA Footbalr USA Today/Coaches' Poll 

team record previous 
1 LSU 9-1 2 2 Oregon 8-1 3 3 Oklahoma 9·1 4 4 Kansas 10·0 5 5 West Virginia 8-1 6 6 Missouri 9-1 7 7 Ohio State 10·1 1 8 Arizona State 9·1 9 9 Georgia 8·2 10 10 Virginia Tech 8·2 11 11 Texas 9·2 14 12 Hawaii 9·0 12 13 usc 8-2 15 14 Florida . 7·3 18 15 Boise State 9·1 19 16 Clemson 8·2 20 17 Virginia 9·2 21 18 Boston College 8·2 8 19 Tennessee 7-3 24 20 Kentucky 7-3 22 21 Illinois 8·3 29 22 Penn Stale 8·3 25 23 Michigan 8-3 13 24 Wisconsin 8-3 26 25 Cincinnati 8·2 28 
NCAA Football BCS Rankings 

team record BCS avg. 
1 LSU 9-1 .980 2 Oregon 8-1 .938 3 Kansas 10-0 .909 4 Oklahoma 9-1 .854 5 Missouri 9-1 .810 6 West Virginia 8-1 .786 7 Ohio State 10-1 .774 8 Arizona Slate 9-1 .750 9 Georgia 8-2 .672 10 Virginia Tech 8-2 .613 11 usc 8-2 .527 12 Florida 7-3 .505 13 Texas 9-2 .466 14 Virginia 9-2 .407 15 Clemson 8-2 .392 16 Hawaii 9-0 .386 17 Boston College 8-2 .363 18 Boise State 9-1 .262 19 Illinois 8-3 .245 20 Tennessee 7-3 .239 21 Michigan 8-3 .187 22 Cincinnati 8-2 .184 23 Kentucky 7-3 .174 24 Connecticut 8-2 .148 25 Wisconsin 8-3 .120 


around the dial 
NBA Spurs at Mavericks 8 p.m., TNT 
MLB 


Yankees owner George Steinbrenner puts his hands on the shoulders of third baseman Alex Rodriguez during batting practice on Feb. 26, 2005, in Tampa, R. Rodriguez spoke to Yankees officials on Wednesday about staying with the team. 
Alex Rodriguez tells Yankees he wants to stay 
Associated Press 
Stay-Rod? 
In startling turn of events, Alex Rodriguez spoke with the Steinbrenner family and New York Yankees officials Wednesday and told them he wants to stay in pin­stripes. 
His longtime agent, Scott Boras, wasn't involved in the talks. 
"The past is the past. I don't know what brought about him approaching us," Yankees senior vice presi­dent Hank Steinbrenner said in a telephone inter­view. "I guess you could say things didn't go the way before that he intended on and weren't handled prop­erly or whatever. 
"But the bottom line, the only thing that really mat­ters, is he wants to stay a Yankee. And it could be very well that he's always wanted to stay a Yankee and we just didn't know it." 
Rodriguez, likely to win his third AL MVP award next week, had not made any public statements since the Yankees lost to Cleveland in the first round of the playoffs. After con­sulting with his wife and family, Rodriguez reached out to Hank and his broth­er, Hal, through a third party. 
"It became clear to me that I needed to make an attempt to engage the Yankees regarding my 
IN BRIEF 
Wedge and Melvin win 
Manager of the Year honors 
CLEVELAND -Bob Melvin and Eric Wedge barely made a ripple as players. Backup catchers, they both batted a pedestrian .233 in the big leagues. 
All that time spent pondering on the bench paid oil'. Far morB successful in the dugout than on the field, they were honored Wednesday as managers of the year. 
Wedge became the first Cleveland manager to win the AL award, chosen by a wide margin after the Indians and Boston tied for the best record in base­ball. Melvin was the first Arizona man­ager to get the NL prize, picked after leading his young team to the top mark in the league. 
Wedge and Melvin are among nearly a dozen former catchers who manage in the majors. 
"There's been quite the trend," Wedge said on a conference call. "The catcher has to be aware and knowl­edgeable of every aspect." 

future with the organiza­tion," Rodriguez said in a statement. "Prior to enter­ing into serious negotia­tions with other clubs, I wanted the opportunity to share my thoughts directly with Yankees' ownership. We know there are other opportunities for us, but Cynthia and I have a foun­dation with the club that has brought us comfort, stability and happiness." 
When first contacted, the Yankees wondered whether the message was serious. Before Rodriguez terminat­ed his record $252 million, 10-year contract on Oct. 28 -forfeiting $72 million over the final three seasons -Boras told the Yankees they would have to make a 
Freeney's season over,
placed on injured reserve 
INDIANAPOLIS-Dwight Freeney's season is over, and now Simeon Rice has a chance to start anew in Indianapolis. 
Freeney, the three-time Pro Bowl defensive end and highest-paid defend­er in the league, was placed on injured reserve Wednesday by the Colts. He's scheduled to undergo surgery later this week or early next week on his injured left foot. 
The blow is potentially devastating to Indianapolis, which has already been depleted by injuries. Seven starters missed Sunday's game in San Diego, and Indianapolis lost four more starters, including Freeney, during the game. 
"Dwight is a player you cannot replace," former Pro Bowl safety Bob Sanders said. "But we'll continue to move on, continue to get better. We'll put new guys in and continue to roll. That's what Dwight would want us to d0." 
$350 million offer just to get a meeting with the third baseman. 
New York was notified of A-Rod's decision to opt out during Game 4 of the World Series, and the timing angered commissioner Bud Selig and his staiT. 
Hank Steinbrenner and general manager Brian Cashman said talks were over because the Yankees lost the $21.3 million sub­sidy the Texas Rangers agreed to at the time of the 2004 trade that sent A-Rod to New York. 
But after A-Hod hit the open market, the Los Angeles Angels were the only team that expressed a public desire to explore signing him. 
OJ two co-defendants 
ordered to stand trial 
LAS VEGAS -O.J. Simpson must face trial on kidnapping, armed rob­bery and other charges stemming from a suspected sports memorabilia heist, a justice of the peace ruled Wednesday . 
Justice of the Peace Joe M . Bonaventure ruled after a preliminary hearing on the charges and arguments against the case by attorneys for Simpson and co-defendants Clarence "C.J." Stewart and Charles "Charlie" Ehrlich. 
No charges in the 12-count com­plaint against the three men were droppnd. Kidnapping convictions could result in a life sentence with possibility of parole. Armed robbery convictions would require some time in prison. 
The case stemmed from a Sept. 13 confrontation in a casino hotel room where Simpson and a group of men are accused of stealing items from two sports memorabilia dealers. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 15, 2007 
MLB 

Red Sox, Athletics to open ·season in Japan 
Despite chance to pitch in homeland, Matsuzaka may miss trip due to timing of pregnant wife's due date 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The Boston Heel Sox will open the 2001{ snaHon in Tokyo, and the World Series champions could be leavjng 
.Iapan's biggest basnball star bnhind. 
Pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka might miss Boston's March 25-26 
series against the Oakland Athletics at tlw Tokyo Domn bncause his wife is expecting to deliver their second baby 

"We're hopeful that against Japanese at Oakland Aprill-2. their second child will teams. The Japan visit is one of two -Boston and­Asian trips Major League
be born at such a 
Oakland will Baseball hopes to make next time to allow him to open the 2008 year. Talks have been under way participate. " season with for months to have the Dodgers games on March and San Diego Padres play exhi­25-26; Oakland bition games in Beijing, most
Larry Lucchlno 
will be the home likely on March 14-15, at the Red Sox president team. The Red ballpark to be used for the 2008 
around that time. Hed Sox presi­
dnnt Larry Lucehino said the 
team and thn commissioner's 
.oflke were awan~ of the potential 
conflict. 
"We're hopeful that their sec­
ond child will be born at sueh a 
time to allow him to participate," 
Lucchino said Wednnsday in a 
eonlimmce call. "We arn hopeful, 
but wn do recognize that he has 
an important obligation with 
respect to the birth of that child." 
Matsuzaka's first child was 
born in .Iapan. It's not clear 
whetlwr the MaL'iuzakas plan to 
deliver in Japan or the United 
States this time. 
Thn Hed Sox paid a record 
$51.11 million for the rights to 
talk to Matsuzaka last oll'season 
and another $52 million to sign 
him for six years. lie wtmt 15-12 
with a 4.40 EHA as a rookie, and 
after stumbling in his first two 
playofl' starts he won his last two 
to help the Hnd Sox win their sec­
ond World Series in f(JUr seasons. 
Even if hn ean't pitch in his homeland. th1~ Hnd Sox won't be visiting empty-handed. Ldty llideki Okajima, who was a key part of the Boston bullpnn in the regular and postseason, could return to the stadium whern he spent most of his 12-year Japanese big league earner. 
Thn Japan trip had bnnn in the planning for months as baseball ol'lieials tried to make thn trip more eornf(,rtabll1 for tho players and gain their wnsent. Lucchino said thn tmun would fly on a "big­ger, better" plane, and stop in Calit'ornia on the way back for throe exhibition games against the Dodgers and their U.S. open­er at the A's on April 1. 
Piteher Curt Schilling said on a Boston radio stadium thn players met last wenk and discussed their concerns. 
"They're trying to build in safe­guards around it, and if they can do that, from a travel standpoint, it's a great idea," he said. ''I'm not going to pitch over tht~re. so I'm going to have fun. But this is definitely going to present a ehal­lengt~ and the one thing I know is this organization will do every­thing it can to make sun~ we'rn rested and ready to go when it kkks ofT for rna!." 
To oaso the discomfort, there will be days oil' after crossing the Pacific and before the games in Oakland. Also, the Hod Sox and A's will be allowed to leave three players, probably pitchers, behind and add three others to their roster f(,r the Japanese por­tion of tho trip. 
"A'i much as MLB wanted us to go, and thought it was important that we go, we were concerned with what impact it would have on our playnrs and the competi­tiverwss of the schedule next ynar," Lucehino said. "Only recently when thn details were Stadium and one planned for the made concrete could we eonsider Los Angeles Coliseum, whore the it." Dodgers played for four seasons 

llere's how the schedule works after moving West from Brooklyn out: 50 years ago. 
-The Hod Sox and A's will play -The Hed Sox and A's will 
• exhibition games resume their regular-season on March 22-23 schedule with a two-game series 
Sox will leave Olympics. 

after the second That would be Major League game and, because they cross the Baseball's first trip to China. international date line, arrive in Boston and Oakland will be the Los Angeles the same day. third set or teams to open the 
-Boston will take March 27 off regular season at the Tokyo and then play a three-game exhi­Dome, following the New York bition series against the Dodgers, Mets and Chicago Cubs (2000), with two games at Dodgers and the New York Yankees and Tampa Bay Devil Hays (2004). A scheduled 2003 series betwmm Oakland and Seattle at the Tokyo Dome was canceled because of the threat of war in Iraq. 
"Opening our regular season in standing room remain at $12 and $20, mspeetively. 
"We nned revenue to fuel thn vision that we have, and the vision is for a competitive, enter­taining, winning tnam, year-in 

Japan for the third time is another example of Major League Baseball's com­mitment to eontin­ue the global growth of the game," commis­sioner Bud Selig 
said in  a  state:  
ment.  
A  s  o  

Wednesday, the Hed Sox announced their 2008 schedule and ticket prices, 
"We need revenue to fuel the vision that we have, and the vision is for a competitive, entertaining, winning team, year-in and 
year-out. ,, 
Larry Lucchino Red Sox president 
and ynar-out," Luechino said. "Hevnnue is the gasoline that makes the ear go in thosn direc­tions." 
Luechino also raised the specter of thn New York Yanknns, who will move into a new stadium in 2009. 
"We're also aware that there will be some 

which rose about 9 percent. Field major changes in our division," box seats will cost $125, up from he said. "They will have a gigan­$105, while upper bleachers and tic increaso in revenue." 

DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS COURSE OFFERINGS SPRING 2008 
CLASSICAL ANTIQUITY 
CLAS I 0200 GREEK AND ROMAN MYTHOLOGY T. Mazurek (MWF 12:50-1 :40) A survey ofthe mythologies of ancient Greece and Rome, tracing their transmission and influence down to the present day. 
CLAS 30120 THE GREEKS AND TU:EIR GODS I. Torrance (MWF 3:00-3:50) An introduction to the varied and unique religious beliefs and practices of the ancient Greeks. 
CLAS 30210 ROMAN LAW AND GOVERNANCE T. Mazurek (MWF 9:35-10:25) An introduction to the nature and influence of Roman law, one of the most celebrated and distinctive elements of ancient Roman culture. 
CLAS 30323 SPORT AND SPF2CTACLE IN THE ANCIENT WORLD J. Banta (T R 3:30-4:45) An introduction to the centrality ofathletics and spectacle in ancient Greece and Rome. 
CLAS 30330 THE GREEK AND LATIN ORIGINS OF MEiliCAL TERMINOLOGY D. Ladouceur (T R 11:00-12:15) An introduction to the ancient Greek and Latin languages that enables students to appreciate the rich vocabulary of modem medicine. 
CLAS 40355 GREEK Ac''\'D ROMAN EPIC POETRY C. Schlegel (T R 9:30-10:45) A detailed study of the major epic poems of the classical literary tradition-the Iliad and Odyssey of Homer, the Aeneid of Virgil, and the Metamorphoses of Ovid. • 
LATIN LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE 
CLLA 10001 AND 10002 BEGINNING LATIN .I AND H (4 credit hours) Instructor and times vary with section. An introduction to the fundamentals of Latin grammar and vocabulary, preparing students to read original Latin texts. 
CLLA 20003 INTERMEDIATE LAT.IN Instructor and times vary with section. A review of grammar with careful reading of classical Latin authors such as Cicero, Catullus and Ovid. 
CLLA 20004 REAI>ING AND WRITING LATIN PROSE D. Ladouceur (TR 12:30-1:45) An introduction to stylistic analysis of classical Latin prose through close readings of Cicero and the younger Pliny and through Latin composition exercises. 
ARABIC AND MEDITERRANEAN MIDDLE EAST STUDIES 
MEAR 10002 FIRST YEAR ARABIC II Instructor and times vary with section. A basic introduction to all aspects of the Arabic language through a comprehensive and integrated method focusing on _language proficiency in all areas of the language including speaking, reading and \\Titing. 
MELC 20080 WOMEN IN ISLAMIC SOCIETIES A. Afsaruddin (T R 12:30-1 :45) A broad survey of women's and gender issues in various Islamic societies, with a focus on the Arab Middle East. 
.MELC 30040 CHRISTIANITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST J. Amar (T R 3:30-4:45) An introduction to the largely untold story of Christianity that expresses itself in the native Aramaic language and culture of the Semitic East. 

Thursday, November 15, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Recent wins resurrect Georgia's SEC title hopes 
Four straight victories have Bulldogs back in hunt for conference crown, but Georgia still needs Tennessee to lose again 

Associated Press 
1\TIIENS, Ga. -A little over a month ago. Georgia coach Mark Hieht stopped talking about the Southeastern Conference race. lie figured thnre wasn't any point after the Bulldogs were blown out by Tennessee. 
Thesn days, the Bulldogs can't help but think about their title hopes. 
No. R Georgia (R-2, 5-2 SEC) has won four straight, includ­ing huge victories over Florida and 1\uburn. and goes into its final conference game leading the SEC East. 
"Oh yeah, that's on all our minds," freshman linebacker Hennie Curran said. "I know for a fact that all the guys want that ring. We all have in the back of our minds the pos­sibility of going to the SEC championship game. That's why we're working extra hard." 
Georgia also needs some outside help. 
While Tennessee (7-3, 4-2) is a half-game behind the Bulldogs, the Volunteers will win the East with victories in their final two games against Vanderbilt and Kentucky. 
That's because the Vols hold the tiebreaker edge over Georgia with their 35-14 vic­tory on Oct. 6, the very game that seemed to deliver a knockout blow to the Bulldogs' hopes. 
"Right now, we're just wor­ried about winning out," safe­ty CJ Byrd said. "We can't con­trol what Tennessee does, how they play this game or that game. We've just got to try to win the rest of our games and hopefully it will all play out." 
The Bulldogs hardly have a gimme in their SEC finale Saturday. They host No. 22 Kentucky (7-3, 3-3), which beat Georgia a year ago, is the only team to knock off top­ranked LSU this season and hasn't given up on forcing its way into the East mix. 
Facing such a dangerous team, the Bulldogs know they can't get distracted time watching the scoreboard for updates from the Tennessee­Vanderbilt game. 
"We've got to take care of our business," safety Kelin Johnson said. "We all know the SEC is unpredictable right now. There's a lot of ball left. A lot of teams are still in it. We've just got to keep working 
hard. All  we  can  do is take  
care of ourselves."  
Indeed,  four  teams  

Georgia, Tennessee, Kentucky and Florida (7-3, 5-3) -are within one loss of each other in the SEC East. Only South Carolina and Vanderbilt have been eliminated. 
By contrast, the Western Division race is over. LSU will be in Atlanta on Dec. 1 to face whoever emerges from the down-to-the-wire race in the East. 
"We've got to beat Kentucky for anything to matter," Georgia quarterback Matthew Stafford said. "That is what's on our minds. I don't know even know when Tennessee plays. Who are they playing this week? I don't even know." 
Told it was Vanderbilt, Stafford didn't miss a beat. 
"We've just got to concen­trate on us more than any­thing else," he said. 
Still, the Bulldogs have rea­son to be proud of themselves for turning things around. They failed to score a touch­down in a home loss to South Carolina early in the season, and put up very little fight when Tennessee raced out to a big first-half lead in Knoxville. 
After that, Richt challenged his players to show more emo­tion. They took him up on it against Florida, the entire team storming the end zone after the first touchdown in a 42-30 victory. 
Last Saturday, the Bulldogs wore black jerseys for the first time in the modern era against Auburn, giving them an emotional lift that paid off with a 45-20 triumph. 


"After Tennessee, a lot of guys thought we were down and out of the picture," Stafford said. "But we fought back and had some big wins." 
GURLEY LEEP SUBARU 

$2.597.00 Down Payment • All-Wheel Drive standard $0 Security Deposit •Vehicle Dynamics Control (VDC) $0 Acquisition Fee with Traction Control $298 First Month's Lease Payment • 256-hp 3.6-liter Subaru 
$2,895 Total Due at Lease Signing Boxer engine 
•
IIHS Highest possible crash test ratings 

•
All.Wheel Drive standard 

•173-hp 
Subaru Boxer engine 

•
4-wheel disc brakes with ABS 


$199 PER MONTH LEASE/ 36MONTHS 
$1.501 Down Payment 
$0Security Deposit 
$0 Acqu:sition Fe~ 
$199 First Mot~th'<.> lec:Ue Paymenl 
$1,700 Total Due at le,,,. Signing 
FO'RESTER 
SPOPTS 2.5>:. 
• 
Most award-winning small SUV' 

•
All.Wheel Drive slandard 

•173-hp 
Subaru B<>xer engine • 4-wheel ABS 


$199 PER MONTH LEASE/ 24 MONTHS 
$2,101 Down Payment 
$0 Se¢urity Deposi~ 
$0 Acqt~isition Fee 
$199 First f'-1onth'!i lease Payment 
$2,300 Total Due at lease Signing 

ol)'TBACK 
• 5-Star highest government crash 
test rating2 
•
All-Wheel Drive standard • 6 standard airba9s 

•
4-wheel disc brakes with ABS 


$219 PER MONTH LEASE/ 36MONTHS 
$1,766 Down Payment $0Securily Dopo•it 
$0 Acquisition F~e 
$219 Fir-s:l Month's Lea:se Payment $1,985 Tot,,! Due at Lease Signing 
120w. McKinlev Ave. MISHAWAKA 

~SUBARU
514-256-5421 
GurtevleepSubaru.com 

If Georgia can win one more -and Tennessee loses one along the way -the Bulldogs will play for an SEC champi­onship they wouldn't even talk about a little over a month ago. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 15, 2007 
NHL 

Hull to return •
In 

star role for Dallas 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Eight years after Brntt llull won the Stanley Cup liw the Dallas Stars, his job is to lind the players who can bring them another onn. 
As the Stars' new interim co­general managm, count on the always-opinionated Hull being blunt about what the team needs. 
"You just ean't snap your fin­gers and go, 'Let's be the Hussians,"' llull said Wednesday. "We're going to get together and fiJ.,rurn out the best way to make that happen." 
Stars owner Tom Ilicks fired Doug Armstrong on Tuesday and replaced him with Hull, added to the Dallas front oflice last year, and Les Jackson. The change eame after the Stars' 7-7-3 start that followed three straight first­round playoff exil'>. 
The shake-up continued Wndrwsday with Stars president Jim Lites being replaced by Jetl' Cogen, who was plucked from the front otliee of Hicks' baseball franchise, the Texas Rangers. Cogen had the same role with the Hangnrs. 
Jackson was the Stars' assis­tant GM. 
With Dallas embarking on sueh an internal overhaul, one of' Ilull's first gestures as GM was to throw his support behind sixth­year Stars coach Dave Tippett, whose eontrad expires allnr the season. 
"We believe wholeheartedly that he can lnad this team to where we want to go," said !lull. who left the Stars l'or Detmit and won another Stanley Cup in 200 1-02 bd'orn Tippett took over the rwxt season. 
The rntirml NIIL great, whose 7 41 goals rank third on tlw earner list, is a sentimental dwiee for Stars fans who n•memlwr Ilull knocking in tlw Stanley Cup-winning goal in triple ovnrtinw against Bull"alo in Game 6 of tlw IIJIJIJ finals. 
But tlw Stars' recent playoff forturws have been lnss rosy. Dallas hasn't won multiple series in the same postsnason sinee 2000, when it lost to New Jersey in the finals. The Stars have reached the second round just twiee since then, the last time in 2003. 

Hicks, when asked how far he thought Dallas was from return­ing to its glory days, said "about three more rounds of the play­offs." 
!licks said although he couldn't hire a "world-class general man­ager in the middle of the sea­son," he believes Hull can make the moves necessary to help the Stars get younger and faster. 
"Hockey in the old days was easy," said Hicks, who signed Hull as a free agent the summer before the Stars won the Stanley Cup. "You just went out and spent money. Go get Brett. You can't do that anymore." 
Goalie Marty Turco, a team­mate during Hull's last two sea­sons in Dallas, is among the Stars players satisfied with the new boss. 
"lie was a guy you looked up to, a potential Hall of Farner," Tureo said. "His knowledge and intelligence speak for themselves in my mind. He led by example. lie played on a lot of good teams. lie's used to the pres­sure." 
Of course, Hull was known as much for shooting his mouth off as he was for scoring during his playing career. In St. Louis, his 11 years with the Blues were marknd by a long public rift with the front office. llis outspoken nature hnlped land him a studio analyst job with NBC last season. 
If llull doesn't agree with Tippntt's philosophy on the ice, there's no doubt he won't keep it private. 
"lle'll hear what I think," llull said. "But it's up to him whether he goes with it or not." 
The 43-year-old I lull also was candid about his rise to the top of the Stars organization, saying he didn't expect to be in this position so soon. 
"My credentials are good, but that doesn't mean you'rn just going to step in," he said. "I never thought it was going to be like this." 
l )nc ofthe most hilarious plays ever written 
Directed by Mark Abram-(openhaver Costume, de1igned by Melissa B. Bialko Scenery and Lighting designed by Michaela Duffy 
'-ittle Th~~tr.:~ 

Thursday, November 15 at 7:30P.M. Friday, November 16 at 7:30P.M. Sunday, November 18 at 2:30P.M. & 7:30P.M. 



NBA 

Marbury rejoins tean1 after fine 
son.
Associated Press 

They clashed early last year 
NEW YORK -Stephon after Thomas benched him in Marbury rejoined the New the second halves of two York Knicks in Los Angeles games, though they patched on Wednesday, one day after things up and Marbury skipping a game at Phoenix. played well the second half of 
It's unclear whether the the season. star guard will play against But any problems on the the Clippers. court were minor compared 
Earlier Tuesday, the team to Marbury's strange summer. fined Marbury more than He behaved erratically dur­$180,000 for missing the ing a televised interview, then Suns game, the latest clash testified in a sexual harass­between the disgruntled point ment trial against Thomas guard and and Madison coach Jsiah Square Garden Thomas. that he had a 
The Knicks sexual sent Marbury a "You always support eneounter in letter inform­his truck with
your teammates. " 
ing him of the a team intern. fine, according Marbury was to a person Jared Jeffries smiling and with knowl­Knicks forward singing on his 
edge of the penalty who spoke to The Associated Press on Wednesday. He requested anonymity because he wasn't authorized to dis­cuss it. The Knicks would not confirm the fine. 
According to the NBA's col­lective bargaining agreement, players are docked 1/11Oth of their salaries for a missed game without a reasonable excuse. With Marbury sched­uled to earn $20.1 million this season, that would be about $182,800. 
Thomas brought Marbury baek to his hometown in a trade with the Suns on Jan. 5, 2004, and the two enjoyed a close relationship while Thomas was solely the team president. But things changed when he took on the job of coach as well before last sea­way out of the 

courthouse. 
Marbury also 
was forced to apologize after defending Michael Vick's participation in dogfighting. 
The Knieks hoped their summer of woes would be forgotten once the season started, but instead they've blown up on their first road trip. 
Marbury played poorly down the stretch in New York's 75-72 home loss to Miami on Sunday, and the Daily News reported Tuesday the Knicks were trying to reduce Marbury's role or get rid of him entirely. 
That ereated tensions between Marbury and Thomas Westchester County neighbors who share the same agent. The two reportedly even fought on the 
plane to Phoenix, which the Knicks denied. 
"There is no truth to that whatsoever," said Knicks spokesman Jonathan Supranowitz, who was on the night. 
Marbury then left the team in Phoenix, telling the New York Post on Tuesday he had permission from Thomas. Thomas would not confirm that, but did say the team would welcome back Marbury. 
Thomas refused to discuss any potential penalties against Marbury before the game Tuesday, saying the matter would be kept "in­house." 
Several of Marbury's team­mates said his departure took them by surprise, but they expressed no hard feel­ings. 
"You always support your teammates," forward Jared Jeffries said Tuesday night. "A lot of people on the out­side don't understand what guys go through with their family, their friends, with this team, with anything. Whenever somebody goes through a tough time you support your teammate." 
Messages left for the agent, Jordan Bazant, were not immediately returned. 
Marbury is still one of the Knicks' best players, averag­ing 15.2 points and 6.8 assists. lie is under contract with the Knicks through next season, scheduled to earn about $42 million. That makes him diiTieult to trade, especially sinen he has creat­ed problems off the eourt and never won a playoff series on it. 


Thursday, November 15, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 


NFL 
WilliarrtS back in Miatni after 18 n1onths avvay 
Dolphins welcome back 2002 leading rusher 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. -Hicky Williams' suspension ended after more than 18 months when he was reinstated Wednesday by the NFL, and the winless Miami Dolphins might welcome him back. 
The 2002 league rushing champion was scheduled to fly to South Florida l'or a physical Thursday and meet with coach Cam Cameron, said Williams' agent. Leigh SteinbPrg. 
The first-year Miami coach, whose team is 0-9, said he talked with Williams by phone l'or "five or six minutes" Wednesday, but hadn't made a decision about activating him. 
"I want to see where he is, and also let him know where we're l111aded, and we'll go from them," Cameron said. 
Cameron has been mum for months regarding whether he would want Williams back. But Steinberg said lw was encour­aged by a phone conversation Wednesday with Matt Thomas, Dolphins gnnPral counsel-foot­ball administration. 
"!lis indication was they were intorosted in Bicky," Steinberg said. "The spirit ol' tlw discus­sion was wdcoming. It was a very similar discussion to what you would have rogarding a draft choice or any returning player. Tho only contingent was whotlwr they would have him practice Friday or Monday." 
The wturn ol' Williams would bn only part of' backfinld shake­up. Hookin quarterback John Beck was promoted to the first tnam Wednesday and will make his NFL debut Sunday at l'hiladolphia. 
The :~0-ynar-old Williams, who has play<'d in only 12 games sinr.e tlw start of the 2004 season, was susp!mded in April 200(J after violating the league drug policy f'or the fourth time. llis r!'turn was delayed when lw tnst<'d positive again f'or marijuana last spring. 
lin playPd in the Canadian Football I .Pagun last s1mson and applied for reinstatement Oct. 
I. 
Williams is nligibln to attend team meetings and practice immediately. but the earliest he would be allowed to play in a game would be · against Pittsburgh on Monday night, Nov. 26. The team will have a roster exemption for up to two weeks if and when he starts practicing. 
"Hicky worked extremely hard to meet the requirements for reinstatement," said his attorney, David Cornwell. "He is grateful for commissioner Goodell's decision. Ricky is committed to making the most of the opportunity to rejoin the NFL." 
Williams rushed for 3,225 yards in the 2002-03 seasons after being traded to the Dolphins from New Orleans. He retired in 2004, traveling in India and Australia before returning to the Dolphins in 2005, when he ran for 743 yards alternating with rookie Honnie Brown. 
Brown is on injured reserve, leaving the woeful Dolphins short on running backs. 
As part of the NFL drug pro­gram, Williams underwent therapy for the past 5? months in Boston and benefited from the treatment, Steinberg said. 
"This is the program working exactly as it should -treating a player for an underlying life problem in a positive and sophisticated way, and return­ing him to health," Steinberg said. 
Steinberg said Williams has been working out and weighs a fit 230 pounds. 
"The Dolphins, or whatever team, is getting a highly moti­vated player with a new lease on life," Steinberg said. 
Perhaps the Dolphins can be pnrsuad!~d. In May, when dis­cussing Williams' most recent relapse, Cameron said it's difli­cult to salvage the careers of troubled players. 
"The easiest predictor of future behavior is previous behavior," the coach said. 
That comment, however, was made nine losses ago. 
Coincidentally, Miami general manager Handy Mueller tradod Williams to Miami when both wero with the Saints. Since that dnal. the Dolphins have endured a playoO' drought now in its sixth season, the longest in franchise history. 
NFL 

Croyle keeps composure 
Kansas City's rookie QB looking forward to first career start 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -It's hard to believe Brodie Croyle is not nervous. 
Not only is Kansas City's second-year quarterback about to make his first NFL start, he's doing it on the road, in a roaring RCA Dome. And he's facing the defending champion Indianapolis Colts, who will be smarting from a second straight loss. 
Besides that, he will be competing against one of the game's great 

"Going in there and playing one of the best quarterbacks that's ever played, playing a great defense -defending Super Bowl champs. You just go in there and play. I'm anx­ious. I'm ready to get in there. It's something I've been working for since I was a young kid. It's finally here." 
Chiefs coaches and front office executives are also saying, "It's finally here." 
They drafted the strong­armed Croyle out of Alabama two years ago hoping to find someone for new coach Herm Edwards to build an offense around. 
After Trent Green got trad­ed to Miami, everyone fig­ured Croyle 
quarterbacks. Peyton Manning may  'Tm just going to go in there, try to play  would win the job in training camp. But,  
be angry after  well and win some  turnover­ 
throwing six interceptions Sunday night  games. When we do that, leadership kind  prone, he played himself right back  
at San Diego.  ofcomes."  onto the bench  
And if all that  and  veteran  
is not enough, the soft-spoken Alabama native  Brody Croyle Chiefs quarterback  Damon Huard was handed the job. But  
will be direct­ Huard  never  

ing an offense that has strug­found any rhythm behind an gled all season and is ranked aging and ineffective offen­30th in a 32-team league. sive line that seemed to high­"It's a tough position for light his own shortcomings. him to be in," tight end Tony Finally, Croyle was sent Gonzalez said with a slight into action in the third quar­grin. "But he raised his hand ter against Denver on Sunday to play quarterback." when Huard was knocked 
Daunting or not, Croyle is woozy after committing his keeping that hand high in the third turnover. air. Now it's time for the young 
"What better stage can you quarterback his teammates go into?" he said Wednesday call a "gunslinger" because after his first full practice as of his strong arm to take the starter. control. 
Surrounded by a veteran offensive line, a three-time Pro Bowler at running back and an eight-time Pro · Bowler at tight end, he's not likely to start barking out orders. 
"For a guy who's never started a game, for him to come in and try to give a rah-rah speech ... that would probably not go too far or go too well," Croyle said. ''I'm just going to go in there, try to play well and win some games. When we do that, leadership kind of comes." 
He does acknowledge hav­ing a few butterflies. "I'm anxious ..:· he said. "''m ready to get in there." 
Edwards agrees it's not the time or place he would have chosen to break in a young quarterback. 
"That's football," Edwards said. "lie's going to find out a lot about himself. You want to play quarterback? OK, play quarterback. Would you like a better scenario? Yeah, but it didn't work out that way. He'll get a home game, but right now he's got to go on the road. 
"He'll grow from it. Whatever happens to him, he will learn from it." 
The Chiefs (4-5) have been giving Croyle almost as many practice snaps with the first team as Huard. 
"That'll be a big help for everybody," Gonzalez said. "It's not like we're seeing something that we haven't seen before. Brodie is pre­pared. He's been prepared since the beginning of the season. I think he's going to respond well." 
CHECKING 
tHat'((maRefOtl rheerl 
Open a Notre Dame Federal CreditUnion CheckingAccount todayandwe'Jl treat you to an awesome Tailgate Party Package, including chair, umbrella, cooler, seat cushion, and football. 
Plus, we'll enteryour nan1e in a drawing for offour portable, football grills. 
And if that's not enough, you'll also receive: 
• FREE Checks 

• One FREE NSFFee 

Thursday, November 15, 2007 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 


LPGA 

Sorenstarn attempts to avoid vvinless season 
Associated Press 
WEST PALM BEACII, Fla. ­This might lw as true as any measurn or Annika Sornnstarn's year. At the season-ending ADT Championship. slw didn't even gnt an audience with the Donald. 
Donald Trump has been thn unollkial host or this event since it came to his Trump International course six years ago. lie usually plays the pro-am with the top player on the LPGA Tour, which usually is Somnstam. 
But not anymorn. 
It was not surprising f(Jr him to play Wedn1:sday with Lorona Ochoa, tlw No. I playor in wonwn 's golf' whose season has bnon so dominant that even with a roeord $1 million going to the winner. the Mexican star still has tlw money title locked up. 
Tlw roal sur­

prise is "It's not a year that is played this year, Sownstam. something you really and it's tough 
Who could enough to win on
put on a resume."
have 1wer imag­the LPGA Tour ined that a play­even at 100 per­er who has avor­Annika Sorenstam cent strength. aged nearly Pight LPGA golfer ''I'm going to 
vidories a yPar sinco 200 I would arrivo at tlw AI>T Championship trying to avoid lwr lirst winless season since slw was a soil-spoken rookin in 1994'? 
Or that she only qualifiod last week I(H· the :{2-player evont that she has won four timns'? 
"It's not a year that is some­thing you really put on a rnsunw," SorPnstam said. 
But thorn's a good reason for her becoming just another race on tho LP<;A Tour this year. Sorenstam was diagnosfld with back and nock injuries in April afler a 11u:kluster start to her sea­son, and sho wound up missing IWarly two months of compoti­tion. Even when slw rnturnml at her Cinn Tribute, 

and for the final "IfAnnika puts her tures, from opnn­throe majors, ing a teaching
mind to wanting to
slw was hardly academy to creat­
play good golf, she 
at full stnmhrth. ing a brand to 
And the land­will." launching a new scapo or tho Web site. LPGA Tour "If Annika puts
Karl Webb
changod beron1 her mind to want­
LPGA golfer
her eyns. ing to play good 
First ranw Ochoa, replacing lwr at No. I in tlw world ranking this spring and stretching hor lead to leavo no doubt who's the best. ThPn came Suzann Pettersen. who won her first major among live LP(;A titles this year. 
Sornnstarn is stuck on 69 victo­ries, still third on the ntrner list in LPCA history. For most ol' this dncad11, her only rival seemml to bo Kathy Whitworth and her record XX virtorios. and it most thought it was only a matter of' limn bnl'orn Sornnstam caught hnr. 
Host easy, Kathy. 
"It wasn't until thosn f'ew ymtrs when I was r11ally hot and I was winning nvnnts that I thought, 'Wnll. maybe that's even possi­hiP.' Now, it's just gntting back to thn garnn and PVIHl trying to win one nvl'nt." Sorenstam said. "Hight now, I don't really have that in my sights. It's not some­thing that motivates me. I'm lileusing on n11xt soason and giv­ing it my all." 
Shn still has one last shot. 
Tho AI>T Championship prns­enL-; pnrhaps tlw quirkiest format of' any tour. Tlw field will bn cut to 16 players after two rounds, and the slate will be wiped dean. Another eut will be made after the third round Saturday to eight players, and again their scores will be erased. Sunday brings an 1X-hole shootout, with $1 million going to the winner. 

Sorenstam was never crazy about the winner-take-almost­evnrything format when it was created. knowing that someone muld got hot for one round and beat hor out of the money title. No nned to worry about that now. 
She has played a career-low 12 times bncause of her injury, and a tie for third last week moved her up to No. 25 on the money list. It was the first time all year she has strung together three straight top 1Os, and Sonmstam is starting to get back into a groove. 
Sonmstam has said she has 
only felt competi­
tive in live tour­
naments she has 
play the best I 
can this week. 

but it's not do-or­din if I don't win," she said. "Like I said. I'm just happy to be here playing. The expeetations are a lot more dilfernnt than they were last year. I've always been one of the f'avorites coming into this week, but this year is very ditl'er­ont. And it's just something I have to acenpt." 
Hemember that rivalry she once had with Karrie Webb? In a way, it's been revived. Webb has­n't won this year, either. 
Webb. coming off a year in which she won her seventh major, isn't suro what the future holds for Sonmstam, noting that the Swede is starting to get involved with business ven­
golf, she will," Webb said. "I don't doubt that for a second." 
It has been a strange year. indeed. although Sorenstam won't call it a eompleto bust. 
Wearing a neck brace, she opnned her academy at the Ginn Heunion Hesort in Orlando in April. She is designing two golf' courSPS. And she got engaged. otr th11 course, it's been one of her best years. 
The question is whether she can find the drive to hit full speed inside the ropns again. She met with all her sponsors last month and told them that she would step away early next year and concentrate fully on golf, quite a concession from someone who is hands-on in just about everything she does. 
"I do feel like I have kind of come to the back nine of my career," Sorenstam said. I've done a lot. and I'm satislied in a Jot or things. I've achieved so much more than I ever thought I could. Yeah. there are times when I have to kick myself a little bit and go out there, but I think the injury has kind of helped me to spark the interest a little bit again." 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Juice is worth the squeeze 
Illinois quarterback leads resurgence under Zook's guidance 
Associated Press 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. -On a 
Saturday night in mid­
September. the 19-year-old face 
of Hon Zook's plan to rebuild 
Illinois football was pouting. 
The Illini had just beaten Western Illinois 20-0. The shutout was nice against an overmatched opponent, but the ofl'ense was sluggish and quar­terback Juice Williams was a ho-hum 12-for-24 f(Jr 123 yards and no TDs. 
"I was pretty down on myself, walking around by myself, alone, being quiet," Williams said this week. "It was kind of selfish on my part." 
Two months later, Williams' star has never shone brighter. 
Williams turned in the game of his life last Saturday in the Illini's 28-21 stunner over No. 1 Ohio State. He was 12-for-22 for 140 yards and four touch­downs passes and ran for 70 yards on 16 carries. When Illinois was trying to seal its first victory over a top-ranked team since 1956, Williams ran for three key first downs and tho Illini kept the ball for the linal8:09. 
"I always wanted to get this team turned around," Williams said, "but I didn't expect (it to be so fast)." 
He's not alone. 
Williams, whose given name is Isiah, came to Illinois in 2006 from Chicago Vocational, the same Southside high school that produced Illini Hall of Farner Dick Butkus. 

Williams was Zook's first big-~-"'-' name recruit with Illinois, the first sign the master recruiter might be able to convince tal­ented kids to spend four years at a school that hadn't had a winning season since 2001. 
Williams was a rarity: a top­notch Chicago prospect who chose Illinois over Notre Dame or any of several dozen other top football programs around the country. 
At 6-2 and 220 pounds, he was compared to Michael Vick -a big, fast, athletic quarter­back who could beat teams with his feet or his arm 
No pressure, kid. 
Williams played in every game as a freshman, starting most of them. 
But he struggled, completing less than 40 percent or his passes and throwing as many interceptions -nine -as touchdowns. 
The Illini finished 2-10. 
Zook has consistently defend­ed his young quarterback. Before this season started, he pointed out to anyone who would listen that Williams' passing stats were weighed down by a lot of dropped balls. 

The high-energy coach also regularly reminded reporters and boosters that Williams was still just a kid. 
"People might have forgotten, gosh, he's only a sophomore," Zook said. 
Williams is a run-first quar­terback. l-Ie's Illinois' second­leading rusher. behind tailback Rashard Mendenhall, with 638 yards on 127 carries. Most of the quarterback's yards are the product of the option Illinois frequently runs out of its no­huddle, spread ofl'nnse. 
Williams and Zook say the quarterback has matured and is more likely to wait for a receiver to come open, but Williams is still only 1Oth rated passer in the Big Ten. IIe has completed 56 percent of his passes for a modest 1,278 yards-116 a game-12 TDs and nine interceptions. 
Zook has pulled Williams sev­eral times this season, benching him when he struggled in favor of redshirt freshman Eddie MeGee. 
The strategy worked against Penn State and Wisconsin, with MeGee running the ball on key plays that either sealed or led to wins. 
The two quarterbacks have said they're good friends and insisted there's no quarterbaek controversy. Williams has called MeGee his relief pitcher. 
Williams, however. hasn't been benched the past three weeks, and in each game he's gotten a little better, looked a more comfortable in tho pocket, and thrown better passes. 
"That's the Juice that we see at practice every day," snnior ofl'ensive lineman Martin O'Donnell said. "We know that he has tho ability to make those plays." 
Williams says he's seeing the game in a way he's never seen it before, focusing on his receivers more than the seven or eight defenders coming at him.. 
"The game is really starting to slow down f'or me," he said. ''I'm extremely confident right now throwing the football around.'' 
Two weeks ago, in a 44-17 win over last-place Minnesota, Williams had what was to that point the best game of his 
' career. lie was 14-of-21 pass­ing for 207 yards and two touchdowns, and ran tho ball for another 1:n yards and another TD. 
Then came Saturday in Columbus. 
Tho four touchdown passes -to' four different receivers and none to favorite target Arrelious BPnn, who loft the game with a concussion ­were impn1ssive. 
But it was only a warm up f'or the last drive. 
With just under 7 minutes to play, tho lllini worn up 2X-21 and f<u~ed a f'ourth-and-inellPs at their own :t~. 
With Illinois linnd up to punt. Bucknye coach .lim Tressel called a timeout, giving Williams a chance to lobby Zook for a change of plans. Some teammates say that, under the circumstances, Williams is the only player who could have talked Zook into what was a hugo gamble. 
"I said, 'Coach, you don't think we can get a half an inch?"' Williams said after the game. "lin said, 'If you don't get it, I'll hurt you.'' 

Thursday, November 15, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
NHL 
Jagr keeps Brodeur fron1 500 vvins 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. -Jaromir Jagr and the three rookies. 
It's not a rock band or a chil­dren's book. It's the formula the New York Hangers used to deny Martin Brodeur his 500th NHL victory. 
Jagr scored a pownr-play goal in the second period, and the rest of the Hangers' offense against Brodeur in their 4-2 win ovnr the New Jersey Devils on Wednesday night was provided by the young trio of Nigel Dawns, Brandon Dubinsky and defenseman Marc Staal. 
"It's a great mix. It reminds me of teams we had here," said former Devils forward Scott Gomez, who had two assists. "They've answered the bell and the challenge and we expect it." 
Gomez withstood the boos he heard every time he touched the puck in his first game back in New Jersey since leaving the Devils for the Rangers as a free agent this past summer. 
SolidaritySunday 

-November 18,2007 CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &lESBIAN 

The Spirit of Inclusion ... 
STUDENTS 

~'Strangers and Sojourners no 1onger'1 (Ephesians 2:19) 
He has a seven-game point streak, which has coincided with the turnaround of New York's season. The Rangers are 2-0 halfway through their four­game road trip and have won seven of eight while allowing just 11 goals. 
Dawes got the Rangers even at 1 in the first period, Dubinsky gave them the lead in the second, and Staal pushed the advantage to 4-1 in the third. 
"They are the future of our team," Rangers coach Tom Renney said. "They have to con­tribute. That's why they're here." 
Ilenrik Lundqvist made 22 saves to earn his first road win of the season (1-5-1), and should be back in goal Thursday when the Rangers face first-place Philadelphia. He was sharp following his first day off Saturday after playing the first 16 games. 
He got the best of Brodeur. 
"It feels good," Lundqvist 
said. "It's great for him to reach that, but not tonight. It was our win. We played a really good road game." 
Now the Rangers (10-7-1) trail the Flyers by one point in the Atlantic Division. 
Brodeur was 9-0-1 with a 
1.18 goals-against average in the 10 previous home games against the Rangers, all at the Meadowlands. 
"He had so many good games against us," Jagr said. "He loves to play against the Rangers. It's nice to get him back a little bit. 
"I respect him so much. It's not easy to stay on top of your game for so many years." 
After the teams traded goals in the opening 2 minutes, Dubinsky snapped a 1-1 tie ­off an assist from Jagr -with his second goal. 
Jagr, who showed fine stick­work throughout, netted his fourth and first on the power play to give the Rangers a 3-1 lead with 33.4 seconds left in the middle period. 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Davidson nearly upsets No. 1 UNC 


Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Top­
early seven-point deficit to take a 38-31lead. 
But Hansbrough and the Tar Heels went cold to start the second half. Hansbrough also lost his cool to help Davidson's comeback. 
Hansbrough was called for a foul on Andrew Lovedale while fighting for position on the perimeter with 17:07 left. The two starting jawing and then Hansbrough gave him a slight shove. Referee Mike Wood immediately called a technical foul on Hansbrough, and Davidson turned it into four consecutive points to take a 39­38lead. 
Hansbrough went more than 7 minutes without scoring to start the second half and Davidson built a 50-46 lead on Will Archambault's 3-pointer with just under 10 minutes left. 
The Tar Heels, who missed 12 of their first 14 shots to start the second half. started going inside with Ellington get­ting key hoops with Hansbrough on the bench with four fouls. 
Danny Green added 11 points for North Carolina, which over­came 19 turnovers to avoid an embarrassing start to a season that began with national title hopes. 
Curry, the son of former NBA 3-point specialist Dell Curry, was only 8-for-22 from the field and 2-for-12 from 3-point range. Jason Hichards added 12 points and eight assists, but Davidson hit just 4-of-22 3­point attempts and was outre­bounded 40-33. 
It was the start of an ambi­tious schedule for Davidson, which also plays No. 2 UCLA, No. 13 Duke and No. 21 North Carolina State. 
ranked North Carolina avoided an early season upset. 
Just barely. 
Wayne Ellington scored 20 points and made key plays late to help the Tar Heels avoid a major scare and a subpar sec­ond half from Tyler Hansbrough to beat Davidson 72-68 on Wednesday night. 
Trailing for much of the sec­ond half, North Carolina (1-0) closed the game strong. Ellington's free throw with 3:44 left put the Tar Heels ahead to stay. His jumper with just over a minute left made it a three­point game. Ty Lawson then hit three of four free throws in the final 30 seconds to preserve the win. 
Hansbrough had 14 points and 14 rebounds, but he was ineffective in the second half and got into foul trouble. 
Stephen Curry scored 24 points for Davidson (1-1). which nearly became the latest small school to knock off a major school. 
With Mercer beating Southern California and Gardner-Webb stunning Kentucky so far, Davidson was bidding to join the early season surprises. The Wildcats returned all five starters from last season's team that won a school-record 29 games before losing to Maryland in the first round of the NCAA tournament. 
They had a tough time stop­ping Hansbrough early. 
Hansbrough, the leading vote getter on The Associated Press' preseason All-America team, dominated the first half with 12 points and 11 rebounds to help North Carolina rally from an 
··we value gay and lesbian members of this community as tve value aff members of this communityn, "We consciously create an environment of mutual respect, hospitality and warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourishn "We prize the uniqueness of all persons as Gofts creattJres, 11 "'adopted by the Officers of the University on Auoust li, 1997. 
Please join the Notre Dame family in aweekend-long spirit ofprayer and welcome. 
Copies ofthe entire statement ofthe Spirit ofInclusion will be available following all Masses on November 17-18,2007. 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 15, 2007 
NBA 

Sonics top Heat in Wade's first game this year 
Seattle picks up first win in nine-game-old season against Miami 
Associated p...,,, 
MIAMI -Kevin Durant said it felt like Seattle won a world championship. Pat Hiley sound­ml as if his championship feel­ing eouldn't have been farther away. 
And the Seattle SuperSonics wt~re more than happy to ruin 
Dwyane  Wade's  comeback  
game.  
Chris  Wilcox  scored  20  

points, Damien Wilkins added I 9 and tlw SuperSonies spoilml Wade's return to the lleat line­up by beating Miami I 04-95 Wednesday night -Seattle's first win in ninn ganws this sea­sorJ. 
Durant, thP highly louted rookie, finislwd with IX on 6­of-16 shooting for Snattle, whid1 stormed out to a 20­point halftimP lnad to rwgatn whatever Pmotional lift Miami got from WadP's eomnbaek from offseason surgnrins on his left krwe and Jpft shoulder. 
"It fpe)s good to w~t that mon­key ofT our back. but at tlw sanw tinw we an~ not a satis­lied team." said Dnlont.n Wnst. who scored I(, points and hit a dutch :{-pointPr late to snal the win. "We arP still hungry and at tlw Pnd of tlw day. WI' are still 1-X." 
On this night, 1-X felt suprenwly better t.o Seattln than 1-7 does to Miami. 
Wade scornd 15 points in 25 minull~s on 5-for-9 shooting for Miami. whieh is 0-4 at home for thP second time in franchise history. 
"I'm exeitt~d. I came out of the game twalthy and got some things I can look at to build on," Wade said. "But as a team, it hurls to lose anothnr ball­game, especially at home, in front of our fans." 
Hicky Davis scored I 9 points on just 5-for-18 shooting for Miami . .Jason Williams scornd 
14. Alonzo Mourning added 13 and Shaquille O'Neal finished with 10 for tlw ll!mt. 
Sinn~ winning the 2006 NBA titln in Dallas. Miami has gone 45-49 -and Hiley has seen enough. 
"UniPss you feel like you have something at stake or some­thing to lose as a player, then things won't change," Hil!~y said. "If you don't fen! like the Ileal mean something to you ... you have to have a real meeting with yoursPif about what you 1:are about. I don't see a team that n~ally ftwls like they have anything at stake twre. They come in. they play, they get heat. they go home, they go out into the night." 
The lleat wert~ down by 23 early in tlw fourth quarter. beforn an IX-3 run led by Wade made things intnresting. 
lin had assists on Miami's first four baskets of the spurt, tlwn banknd in a jumper and addnd a lil'lh assist on Williams' :{-pointer that got the Ileal within 94-IG. 
Davis' th nw-poin t play eut thn lnad to night, but West's 3­pointnr -Snattle's 1Oth of the gamn -restornd tho Sonics' doubh~-digit load and essential­ly snalnd the ouleonw. 
"Our guys eompntnd tonight," Sonies coach P.J. Carlesimo said. "They came out in the third quarter with energy and after Miami made their great run at the end of the third, we started the fourth with the same way." 

By the time Wade entered the game, Seattle had Miami in a hole. 
The Sonics led 22-12 with 
4:49 left in the opening quarter, when Wade entered amid loud roars from the home crowd. He missed his first jumper, a 20­foot try from the right baseline about 2 1/2 minutes later, but soon looked like the Wade of old. 
Wade's first basket was a long jumper and his second was an acrobatic layup, replete with a tumble to the court ­like he did so many times in his Even after all those eye­first four seasons. He dove for catching numbers, one stat loose balls, didn't seem to shy stood out: 14-0. from contact and showed flash­That was Seattle's first-half es of the explosiveness that was scoring advantage when O'Neal 
missing late last  was on the floor.  
season when the  He played 4 min­ 
knee pained him. It just wasn't enough.  "Even though they say he is not roo percent, he is  utes, 23 seconds of the half, going into the break with no points,  
The Sonics shot 49 percent  amazing.  no shots, no rebounds, three  
in the first half, were 7-for-11  Kevin Durant  fouls and turnovers.  two  
from  3-point  Seattle forward  Wade's return  
range  in  the  couldn't come at  
opening  two  a better time for  

quarters and outrebounded the Heat, who entered averag­Miami 30-15 over that stretch ing an NBA-worst 83.3 points. to take a commanding 61-41 But having Wade, who aver­lead into intermission. aged a career-high 27.4 points last season, is sure to help. 
"It isn't going to be one man that's going to turn this around," Riley said, echoing a line Wade has used in recent days. "He will change the game for us, as he progresses in live action." 
Wade had surgery on his left shoulder and left knee May 15, and was told by doctors that the rehabilitation process would last six months. Thursday is the six-month anniversary of those proce­dures, and Durant was almost wide-eyed after his first matchup with the 2006 finals MVP. 
"Even though they say he is not 100 percent, he is amaz­ing," Durant said. 


YOUR CATERING SOLUTIONUl 
BOX LUNCHES. PLATTERS. PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include a delivery charge per item. 
FREEBIES (SUBS & CLUBS ONLY) Onion. lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, tomato, mayo. sliced cucumber. Dijon mustard, oil & vinegar, and oregano. 

I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK~ 
54570 N.JRONWOOO OR.  1290 E. IREUNO  138 S. MICHIGAN  5343 N. MAIN ST.  
574.277.8500  574.291.1900  574.246.1020  574.968.4600  
SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  

''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOliN'S!'' © 


---------·--------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, November 15, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 





and her Achilles, Gray has remained injury-free, much to
Gray 
the credit of her head coach. continued from page 28 
"Jackie and I have worked closely to figure out how to keep So Gray, after undnrgoing me healthy," Gray said, noting physical tlwrapy to strengthen the more structured training her inner quad museles, had to regimens and the added expec­start from scratch -a trying tations of Bauters, who became experinnce, to say the lnast. head coach before Gray's sopho­
"My first run back, I just did more year. orw lap around the lake at Notre "I've gotten to know a lot Dame," Gray said. "It was prob­about what my body can and ably tlw worst thing I've nver cannot handle over the past four done bncause it was so hard and years. Without IBautersl. I I fnlt so out of shape. Now I wouldn't have been able to get totally undnrstand why people to this level." 1wver want to start running, For all Gray has taken from because it was terrible -but Bauters, she has given it all back once I was able to the program to break through and then that wall, I got some, Bauters
"The girls on the
back into shape." said. 
After running team see Megan,s "The girls on in just two races success and the team see as a sophomore, Megan's success
believe in it.,,

Gray came back and believe in it. "with no expec­They believe in tations other Jackie Bauters themselves and than to stay Belles coach their ability to do healthy," she things that once said. seemed out of 
"Runners are a reach," Bauters unique breed," Gray said. said. "Nothing can top giving the "We're kind of crazy as far as gift of confidence -to a group of mental strategies go. I just want young, talented women. Success to feel good when I'm running, is contagious, and they all want stay healthy and feel strong. to be a part of it, which is a real­Improving my time every week ly exciting thing." is definitely something I want to A change in attitude around do. but I just want to feel good the program was evident, when I'm running." Bauters said, even in her pre­
And, other than some brief season meetings with the team. bouts with tendonitis in her feet She noted freshman Mary McDonnell, who has made nationals a concrete goal for herself, despite injuries through­out her rookie season. 
"[McDonnell] is focused, she is driven, but mostly, she has a great role model," Bauters said. 
That role model, without a doubt, is Megan Gray. 
"Going into this season, I was hoping to run with !Gray], and I hoped she would push me to new goals and better times," said McDonnell, who has bene­fited from Gray despite her injuries. "Megan has really helped in the process of recover­ing from my injury by giving me advice ... and she has been a great friend and role model." 
Even though Gray's college cross-country career will end Saturday, her legacy ensures "there's more to come in the future" for Saint Mary's, Bauters said. Gray, meanwhile, has faith that her coach will take her younger teammates to new heights. 

Seed 
"Jackie is amazing, and there's no telling where this program 

continued from page 28 can go from here with herlead­
less of their performance thisership," Gray said. "I may have weekend, but the Irish's tourna­accomplished some firsts for the ment seed will depend on theSaint Mary's cross country pro­amount of games they win overgram, but I know I won't be the the next four days. 
last or only." 

Case No. 1 -the Irish loseThe Division III Cross Country 
Friday's semi-final match
Championships will start at 11 against DePaul. 

a.m Saturday at St. Olaf's in 

"If you lose Friday, you might Northfield, Minn. 
still squeeze into a top-16 seed, and you might not," Irish coach Contact Matt Gamber at Bobby Clark said. 
mgamber@nd.edu 

The top 16 teams in the 
No. 4 Virginia Tech to all lose before reaching their respective conference title games. 
Case No. 3 -Notre Dame wins the Big East Championship. 
"We'd be in a very strong position," Clark said. "It'd cer­tainly put you as a top-eight seed and possibly a top-four seed." 
Obtaining a top-four seed would guarantee that Notre Dame's path to the Final Four in Cary, N.C. runs through South Bend. It would also likely ensure that the Irish would not play teams like No. 1 Connecticut and No. 2 Wake Forest until they reach the Final Four. 
Whether winning the Big East championship nets the Irish a top-eight or top-four seed depends on other results, too. Still, capturing Big East Championship would likely include a win over No. 1 Connecticut, which plays Louisville in the other Big East semi-final on Friday. 
A Notre Dame victory over Connecticut is certainly not out of the question, as the Irish were only 15 minutes away from defeating the No. 1 Huskies in October before play­ing to a 3-3 draw. 
Securing home games all the way through the Elite Eight would be a big boost for Clark and his squad. The Irish have accumulated a stellar record of 6-1-3 at Alumni Field this sea­son while posting a mark of 5­2-2 outside of South Bend. 
"For a lot of reasons, a home game is really important," Clark said. "It's one of these things that teams win more home games than road games. It's familiarity. They know the field. 
"The other thing from our point of view is that, coming to the end of the term, it's impor­tant not to miss class time with the academic pressure we have." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------~--·---~­
page 26 Thursday, November 15, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Seniors 
continued from page 28 
bdorn that f'irst season. Soon af'tor arriving f'or preseason workouts as rn~shrnen. the team hnadt~d to Brazil f'or an exhibi­tion tour. 
"It was intPrnsting because we eanw in Ito Notre Darnel the night bdorn wo left l'or Brazil," senior goalktwpnr Lauren Karas said. "lt. was just kind of' scary becausn the lnam all knew each otlwr•and Ithe l'rnshrnen I didn't really know what was going 
011." 
But tht~ ('f('W or rookies. which includml eurrnnt seniors Karas, 

eaptai n Amanda "/ think they're one already had a Cinalli. rnidfkld­ofthe winningest huge impact for nr ;\shiny .Jorws the Notre Dame
programs in the
and forward soccer program. Susan l'innirk. "I think thoy'rn
nation over those got to know earh four years. " one of the win­otlwr very Wl'll ningest pro­in Brazil. grams in the
Randy Waldrum 
"TiwrP was no nation ovor those 
Irish coach
tirnn to bn shy four 
and lnt pnople como to you," Karas said. "You just had to gel along irnmndialldy or it was going to lw a long trip." 
Four voars latnr', tho seniors havn on.dun•d tlwir most turbu­lent soason sinro arriving at NotrP l>anw. Al'tnr starting :3-4­
1. tlw Irish won their last 10 n~gular season ganws bef'on~ winning two postseason games to reach tlw finals of' the Big East tournanwnt. On Sunday, the seniors f'ailnd to capture their third eonf'ernneo champi­onship as thoy fell to West Virginia in a shootout. 
But dospitn the diflkulties the · tmun has nndurnd. Karas said lwing a ml'miJPr of' this squad has bonn most rewarding. 
S01yth 
continued from page 28 
tlw nnd or tlw camp to dnddn who would make the varsity squad." said Smyth. a senior. "and I took sixth on tlw lt~am af'tpr only a wnnk of 'real' train­ing." 
lin didn't hnsitate to movfl 1wnn l'urtlwr up thosn ranks. 
"By tlw nnd ol' tho season I was our No. 2 guy and my 

"This is the best team we've had in that we all get along and I'm so excited to see fWerybody evnry day for practiee," Karas said. 
Tho Irish know they have a logitimate shot at another national championship to book­end their careers with tri­umphs. 
"I just want everybody to feel that sense of accomplishment that wn had las f'reshmnnl." Karas said. "IThe facti that wn worked our butts orr every day, we camn to sehool before the prnseason I paid ofll" 
Wlwtl'wr the seniors nnd their earners with a disappointing loss or another NCAA title, Waldrum said they have 
years, 
Waldrum said. 

"You've got to give thnm a lot of eredit for what wn are." 
The seniors havn postnd a eombinod record of' 87-9-3 in llwir four seasons. But Waldrum also praised the dass for its dedication orr the pitch. 
"This particular dass has not only b111~n groat on the field, but grnat ambassadors for thn pro­gram," Waldrum said. "Community serviee and I public relations! and just things we do ofT tlw field, they've bnen great with that. And that's just as important as what goes on on the field." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

intornst in tlw "/feel better "I feel bntter sport was of'l'i­prepared.for any pn~pared f'or any eially sparkPd," nerves. tactics or
nerves. tactics or
lw said. conditions that Tlw improvP­conditions that may may be thrown nwnt shown in he thrown at me." at me," he said. his first season Fortunately for as a runrwr has­Smyth, the team­
Patrick Smyth
n't warwd. From mates who have 
Irish senior
last year's been supporting 
after their achievements and records every time we too the line. The Luke Watsons, Hyan Shays. Kurt Benningnrs, Thomas Chamneys, and others arn thn prcccdHnt for eurnmt runners like myself and my tnammatns." 
Smyth will have the added bnnnf'it of' having raced at nationals eaeh of the past two ynar·s. That experience will hnlp Smyth overcome some of' the intangibles that can get in the 
way for inexpnri­
eneed runnnrs. 
n~gional nwnt wlwre lw f'in­islwd eighth oVPrall. to tho 2007 Croat l.akns Hngional. Smyth knocknd rwarly 45 seconds ofT of' his time and vaulted seven positions to win tho meet. Part of' that improvement can be attributnd to the fact that, for Smyth. thern is no ofT-season. 
"Consisteney has been the key," ho said. "I built oil' of the solid track season that I had last spring, put in somo sorious sumnwr training, and set some high nxpnetations f'or myself this fall." 
All ol' that work has now paid ofT, as Smyth be1~ame only thn second runner in Notre Dame's history to take first in tho NCAA rngional meet. Tho enormity of' that aceomplishmnnt is not lost on Smyth. 
"W1~ follow in tlw l'ootsteps of thosn who have eomn before us," hn said. "Wn arn chasing 
and running 

with him all sea­son will join him at the NCM Championships. The team received one of the at-large bids distributed by the NCAA follow­ing the regional meets. 
"My teammates mean every­thing to me," said Smyth. "When it starts to really hurt that last I two kilometers] of the race, you always press a little bit harder and pass a few morn people knowing that you have six other people behind you with ND on th~ir ~.hest doing the exact same tlung. 
The Irish runners will look to hnlp each other when the meet begins in Terre Haute, Ind., on Nov. 19. The team is hoping for a top 10 overall finish, while Smyth is hoping to do the same on an individual level. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
Recruits 
continued from page 28 
Erica Williamson and fresh­
man Devereaux Peters had 
won state championships in 
high sehool. 
"All-Star Girls Heport" ranked Novosel the No. 32 player in the nation. McGraw said Novosel can score both inside and out, a combination that the Irish are currently missing. 
"Novosel is kind ol' a cross between Ifreshman guard] Brittany Mallory and [sopho­more guard! Ashley Barlow," McGraw said. "They've helped us a lot and so if we got some­one else in that style I think that's going to be really good for us. She's going to help us right away." 
Solomon, a 6'2 forward from Detroit Country Day School in Oak Park, Mich., knows junior wide receiver David Grimes. They both attended Saint Martin de Porres High School before the sehool closed. Solomon talked to Grimes when she made her visit to campus, MeGraw said. 
"TlHlY did got to speak before the pep rally," McGraw said. "We always look on the rosters and sHe if there's a conneetion sornewhnre." 
Solomon tore her ACL in February 2006 and did not play for much of' last season. But she received all-state and all-county honors three times. McGraw liked the athleticism she will bring. 
"She attempted a dunk in a game last year. and it just rolled off the rim," MeGraw said. "She's athletic, she can rebound, she's got great hands, she's really quick in the post. She's somobody that we're really looking forward to be helping us inside." 
Despite her 6'2 frame, Watson played many different positions at Ionia High Sehool in Ionia, Mieh, where she aver­aged 24 points and eight rebounds per game last sea­son. 

"She's the biggest wing we've ever had. She's 6'2 and 
plays .. poin,t guar~ fo.~, he.r team, McGraw sard. Shn s the jump center, plays tho point, does the shooting, guards the othnr team's best player. She's a great passer." 
Watson broke the school record for career points by tlw end of hor junior season. ;\s a freshman, she led the stalt~ of Miehigan in throe-point per­centage, hitting 45.2 percent of her shots behind the are. Shn received all-state, all-city and all-conf'en~neo honors in eaeh of the past three seasons. 
The Irish recruited well in the Midwest. something McGraw said was one of the 
program's goals. 
"We want to be tho school that everybody in tho Midwest looks at as the bnst program," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame may not bn done recruiting, hownvnr. Losing snnior guard Tulyah <;ainns to graduation will lnavn a doftm­sivn gap that McGraw said she doesn't yet know how to fill. 
"Whnn I wat(~h Tulyah right now, I just wonder what wn'rn going to do without her dof'ense nnxt ynar," McGraw said. "It's a little bit of a hole, I think, in our game plan that we don't have that groat dofondnr. That's something I think we really are thinking about right now, do we want to bring somebody in late to fill that spot?" 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Thursday, November 15, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

CROSSWORD 
Across 36 Record producer Davis
Twinge 37 Connection for 

5 W.W. II blast an electric guitar 
makers 38 Newsmaker of 

11 Realm of October 4, 1957
Proteus, in Greek myth 
40 Result of a road emergency

14 _patriae 41 Be hot under the 
15 Pack again. as collarhay 43 New Mexico 16 Rose 
county or its 17 Leading Russian seat in the 32-Down 
44 Basted 19 One to one, e.g. 
45 Orders 20 Regard 
46 Korea's 21 Attitudes Syngman 23 Pilgrim in 48 ;<20 Hrs., 40 Chaucer's "The Min." author, Canterbury 1928 Tales" 52 Catch on the 24 Florida island 
range resort 56 Detroit suburb 25 Once, once named for the plants the area
27 Prayer word was once30 Paul McCartney overgrown with
played it for the Beatles 
58 Blocked, as a harbor, with "up"

33 NASA launch vehicle 59 Victorian 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
s c A L p I A M A s s T Drs 
60 Leading American in the 32-Down 
62 Twitch 63 Personally 
handle 64 Egg on 65 Bridge topper? 66 Finishes 67 Earl, for one 
Down One with checks 
and balances? 2 Beguile 3 Durango 
direction 4 Distresses 5 Composer 
Khachaturian 6 Have a hand out, say 7 Future senator who delivered the 2004 Democratic convention 
keynote address 8 California county 9 Shrovetide dish 
10 Remit 11 38.Across, e.g. 
12 "No . 
0 M N I A L A C T 0 H 0 rr 13 Stein fillers 
..:..:......::..r-:­

F 0 U R T E~ !.~J_ 18"TheWaltons" 
: : : :.TA~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~=·p~i~~. in a 
R 0 S I AI I IDI S way 
D 0 U B T H I N G 26 Bonehead 
R~~O 

L IEIN D A UIDI I IOI 28 Profess 
I L L E 0 N E Chopped
T~K ·M·O·T·O· 29

M E A N M E T A 
30 Odist, e.g. 
rersr.r 
~~~ T !.,.!!..~ • S C R A p E R 31 Parisian E S E R 0 L L T H E D I C E rote~ A D u E L I N I E c E possessive 5 E E M E A N 5 E L 32 Event started by c..::..c.::...<....:... 38-Across 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITffiS BORN ON THIS DAY: Travis Barker, 32; Yanni, 53; Condo­leezza Rice, 53; Prince Charles, 59 
Happy Birthday: Don't let personal and emotional issues cause you to make mistakes this year. Separate business and domestic situations. Lean toward what is working for you until an opportunity arises for resolution. Don't lose produc­tivity because you are emotionally distracted. Your numbers are 6, 11, 14, 27, 40, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Disregard what others say and do today. If you let your emotions get the better of you, nothing will be accomplished. Someone is likely to disagree with you regarding your work choice. 2 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The opportonity to Hnd out more about a different culture or tradition will enhance the way you view your own background. A short trip will lead to learning something new or signing up for something you can use in the future. 5 stars GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): You'll be thinking big and reacting quickly. Be sure you have your facts straight. Keep your money in a safe place and don't sign any legal documents. Don't let someone you are captivated by influence your deci­sions. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Emotional issues will be on the rise. You have to refuse to get worked up over nothing. Sometimes it's better to know where you stand so you can move on to better things. Right now change is a good thing for you. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): More effort put into what you do to earn a living and how well you get along with your peers will pay off in the gains you make. You will have insight into the people around you, so use this to your advantage and you will make headway. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept.. 22): Look for the best route and you will bead in a new and prosperous direction. Don't let someone else1s problems become your own. Separate yourself from the people who are dragging you down, costing you too much or taking advantage of you. 5 stars LIBRA (Sept.. 23-0ct.. 22): Don't let your emotions get the better of you. If you jump to conclusions or take it upon yourself to resolve issues before you have all the facts, you could make a costly emotional mistake. A trusted friend can help you see your situation clearly. 2 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a step forward without fearing that you will end up back where you started. You can interest the people you meet with the ideas you have. A change in your current situation will lead to a deal, publishing, more education or even a trip. 4 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't mix business with pleasure or you will get more than you bargained for. Take the safe route today. Production, not big talk, will be what counts. Do what you say and do it quickly. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can usually bold things together pretty well but, today, your emotions may play havoc with you, especially if someone you care about is giving you a bard time or going through difficulty. Money can be made if you take a little different approach. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Love is on the line. Say what you think and let your feelings be known. Lend a helping hand to someone in need or an organiza· tion that can use your expertise. Don't keep secrets. 3 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get serious about your beliefs, attitudes and goals. There is plenty of opportunity but don't wait for it to come to you. You don't have to start big ·• baby steps will be a good beginning. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a thinker, a solutions-Hnder, a steady and all-round person who can adjust to whatever situation you are in. You have great stamina and courage. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
WILLSHORTZ 

55 Comparatively unconventional 
56 Kind of cheese 
57 Newsman Sevareid 
58 Butcher's, baker's or candlestick maker's 
61 Disco guy on "The Simpsons" 
Puzzle by Sheldon Benardo 
34 __ Pi (dessert lover's fraternity?) 
35 Stallion's sound 
38 Enterprise log entry 
39 Suffix with sheep or goat 
42 1972 Wimbledon winner Smith 
44 Arctic newborn 
47 First name at the 1986 Nobel Prize ceremony 
49Van 50 "_ flowing with milk and honey" (Canaan, in the 
Bible) 51 Tears 53 Intimidate, in a 
way, with "down" 54 Suit material 
For answers, call 1 -900-285·5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1 -800-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, November 15, 2007 
page 28 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

In a class of their own 
After four incredible years, four seniors are down to their last shot 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writn 
Coaches often implore their tnmns to play every game like it's their last. Notre l>anw's snn­ior class nemls no such motiva­tion. 
As the Irish prepare for thn f'irst round of the NCAA Tournanwnt against Loyola (Ill.) Friday, the seniors realize they havn no more room for error. 
"After this, thnre are no more opportunities !for thnml," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "The next loss and the season's over and these girls know that." 
Thn group of fourth-year players, who were part of a national rharnpionship tnarn as freshmen, immediately bonded 
see SENIORS/page 26 


MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

Smythruns. 
for history atNCAAs 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 

Patrick Smyth was a born runner, but for the first 14 years of his life, he didn't know it. Smyth's sister, Kathleen, was the one who opened the door to Smyth's running success. 
Kathleen Smyth broke state track records in the 400-and 800-meter races, and earned a full scholarship to run at Boston College. 
Kathleen's former coach invit­ed Patrick Smyth to a camp the summer before he entered high school, calling it a conditioning opportunity. From there, Smyth's natural abilities set him on the path that has led him to the NCAA Championships. "There was a time trial race at 
see SMYTH/page 26 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Gray overcon1es injury to set pace for Belles' progran1 
Senior will run in the Div. Ill Championship 
By MATT GAMBER .'ipons Wril<'r 
Whnn MPgan (;ray !Tosses thn finish lirw at thP Division Ill National Championships this Saturday, it will mark tlu~ nnd of a four-year r.awPr in which Gray accomplished a series of firsts in a cross country program that she has helped to redeline. 

"Megan has been a turning point for Saint Mary's cross country," said third-year coaeh Jackie Bautnrs, calling Gray a "driving force" for the up-and­coming program. "If you would have asked five years ago if Saint Mary's would ever make it to the national meet, people would probably laugh. We'rn on the map now." 
Gray became the first Belles runner to be named to the aii­MIAA lirst team and the lirst to qualify for nationals -and she did both twieo. She linished first for Saint Mary's in every race over the past two seasons, and she captured the individual title in three meets. 
"I eouldn't be more proud or happy for her to have aehieved everything she has over her eareer," Bauters said. "She deserves everything she's worked for. I just wish she had another year with us." 

Gray's road to success, howev­m, was not always a smooth one . In the spring of her freshman year, Gray was slowed by knee trouble that was eventually diag­nosed as patella femoral pain syndrome, a result of a rumwr's natural tendency to overdevelop the outer quadriceps. 
''I'd never really done any leg lil'ting at all because my eoaehes had always told us that running was enough of a workout," said Gray, who suiTnred "a runnpr's nquivalnnt of' torture" by not being able to run the summPr before her sophomore y1~ar. "Coming baek for my sophomoro srmson, I was out of' shape and had no base at all." 
see GRAY/page 25 

--~-~---~--=-:=-=====-===================================== 
MEN'S SOCCER 

NCAA seeding on the line 
Conference tourney will detennine spot 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writl'r 
Thn Irish will have homo on tlwir minds wlwn they take tlw finld in tlw Big East semifinals against l>nl'aul on Friday night in Storrs, Conn. 
That's because this weeknnd's matdws will dnterminl) the amou'nt of' home NCAA Tournanwnt ganws the Irish will get to play. It will also dntnrmirw wlwtlwr thP Irish will got a first­round NCAA Tournament bye. 
Thn nwn's NCAA Tournanwnt sPinets 4S teams with nearly hall' t.lw availabiP slots going to con­fnn•nee tournanwnt winners and l.lw remaining slots going to at­largn bids. At I 1-3-!i, No. I I Notn~ l>anw is not in dangnr of 111 issing tlw tou rnanwnt regard-
sec SEED/page 25 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McGr·avv snags three top recruits early on 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Three highly-lauded high school players signed letters of intent to Notre Dame during the early signing period, Irish eoaeh 
Muffet  McGraw  said  
Wednesday.  
Natalie  Novosel,  Erica  

Solomon and Kellie Watson will make up part of the class of 2012. The players will eon­tribute early next season, McGraw said. 
"We have more players com­ing in that can really help us right away," she said. ''I'm excited about the depth of the class, with three players coming in, all corning from really good programs." 
Novosel, a 5-foot-11 guard from Lexington, Ky., will bn Kentucky's first representative on the Notre Dame women's basketball team. Novosel aver­aged 18.2 points per game and 
8.5 rebou·nds per game at Lexington Catholic High School last season and led her team to three straight Kentucky state championship games. 
All three players eome from successful programs, something McGraw said she looks for when reeruiting playnrs. 
"I think it's important to get winners," McGraw said. "I think that's what we've looked at., when you look at our el<t'sscs ­the last two -they eonw from some great programs, statn ehampionship-typn programs. You have to have that eompPti­tiveness and you have to know how to win." 
Mc(;raw noted that sopho­mores M()lissa L()ehlitner and 
see RECRUITS/page 26 









