
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 83 TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 13,2007 
Gas leak causes seven evacuations 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Students, faculty and staff were evacuated from seven buildings Monday afternoon as the smell of gas filtered through the air from a leak near the Hesburgh Library. 
The gas leak occurred at 
1:40 p.m. on St. Joseph's Drive near the Library when a crew on the road repairing a broken water line struck a 4­inch gas line with a backhoe. The gas moved in a south­western direction and at approximately 2 p.m., Stepan Chemistry Hall, O'Shaughnessy Hall, Nieuwland Science Hall, the Radiation Laboratory, Malloy 
Hall, the Riley Hall of Arts and 
Design and Decio Hall were all 
evacuated. 
The water line break was 
discovered Monday morning, ·said Director of Utilities Paul Kempf. After lunchtime, a crew arrived to fix the break and while they were attempt­
ing to fix it, hit a gas line. 
"The gas main was not 
where it was purported to 
be," Kempf said, according to 
the preparatory evaluation the 
crew made of the area. When 
the gas line was punctured, 
University officials immediate­
ly called the Northern Indiana 
Public Service Company (NIP­
see GAS LEAK/page 4 

Election results in run-off for two tickets 
With what she described as two strong platforms, Brown said she was not surprised by the results. 
"I think Maris and I were expecting a run-off," she 
said. "We had  some  pretty  
strong tickets."  
A total of 3,492  votes  

were cast Monday, which was not quite up to Kozlow's expectations. 
"I think we were hoping [voting turnout! would be a little bit higher," she said. 
Allowing students to vote online and at various vot­ing stations around cam­pus, however, was an effective way to encourage participation, she said. 
"We tried hard to encourage voting," Kozlow said. "We had some great results." 
see ELECTION/page 6 
N DSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Athletics topic for Malloy 
Former president appears on Web cast 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
Assistant News Editor 
University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy flew to the University of Virginia Friday to partici­pate in a forum on college athletics, drawing from his experiences at Notre Dame to discuss racial integration in recent decades. the academic integrity of student athletes and the roles of the news media and the federal gov­ernment in shaping the future of athletic programs. 
The "Intercollegiate Athletics: Their Role, their Status, their Future" discus­sion, hosted by the Miller Center of Public Affairs, was cybercast live and might be aired by the PBS affiliates that regularly televise the centers' trademark forums. 
Malloy said in an interview with The Observer Monday that the Miller Center studies American prPsidencies and . public policy issues -and that its interest in intercolle­giate athletics, though seem­ingly unrelated to the center's field. is actually warranted. 
"It was appropriate for a center focused on the American presidency and public policy to talk about intercollegiate athletics 
see MALLOY/page 4 


BySONIARAO News Writer 
The student body election results were revealed Monday night, but with no ticket obtaining a majority of the votes, frontrunners Brown-Braun and Smith­
Weiss will proceed to a  
run-off  election  on  
Thursday.  

Judicial Council presi­dent Liz Kozlow announced that Liz Brown and Maris Braun received 45.8 per­cent of student votes and Danny Smith and Ashley Weiss received 38.3 per­cent. Since candidates need to obtain a "50 per­cent plus one majority," the top two tickets will compete in a run-off for the position on Thursday, Kozlow said. 

Move not welcomed by Club 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame unveiled plans last week for a $69.4 million engineering building to be built on land occupied by the University Club, so for man­ager Debbie Colley -along with more than 40 employ­ees, members and a board of directors -the news means preparing to say goodbye. 
University officials notified the privately owned Club and its board of directors in a Jan. 9 letter they would need to vacate the building by Aug. 31 to make room for the new Stinson-Remick Engineering Hall. 
The demolition will be a loss to Notre Dame and the 
see CLUB/page 6 




Paige speaks on No Child Left Behind 
By KATE McCLELLAND News Writer 
When Lyndon Johnson signed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 into law, he declared it was the dawn of the "century of the educated person," but in 2007 the same pro­portion of children ­two-thirds ­

Paige 

are still not reading at grade level. Former Secretary of Education Dr. Rod Paige spoke at Notre Dame Monday and said he felt 
that it his responsibility to change that statistic. 
Paige, the keynote speaker for Black History Month, described the achievement gap between ethnicities in today's schools as "the most important civil rights issue of our time." 
Paige described his own experience growing up in Mississippi, where schools were segregated and minority students received inferior school supplies and facilities. Paige said he started actively working to change that situa­tion in college. He received a master's degree and a doctor­ate from Indiana University and was eventually named 
see PAIGE/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 13, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Keep it shnple, lovers 
This Valentine's Day, KISS. 
Hold it, horny same-side sitters at South 

Dining Hall. 
I didn't write that in all caps to encourage 

you locking lips over your spicy sea nuggets. 
KISS just happens to 
be an acronym for Eileen Duffy 
Keep It Simple, 
Stupid-an adage 
Assistant 

my high school 
News Editor 

English teacher 
pounded into us long-
winded essay writers. 
Hold it again, horny same-side sitters: 

don't worn right over to the Question of the 
Day. This isn't a column about writing. 
It's a column for lovebirds. 
URAQT. 
Yes, you. Aww. Did you smile a little bit? 
Now imagine that simple message 

stamped onto a tiny, chalky, heart-shaped 
candy. Even sweeter. 
Necco's candy conversation hearts are the 

archetype of simplicity, a sort ofKISS 
Shangri-La, ifyou will. (I should admit here 
that "ifyou will" is the ultimate un-KISS, 
however. What does that phrase mean, any­
way? And why do professors use it, and that 
other pretentious expression, "as it were," 
every three sentences? "As it were," you 
say? As what was? Where, and when? 
Please, professors, tomorrow is Valentine's 'Day. KISS.) 
Adorned with sweet nothings from BE 

MINE to TRUE WVE to the latest addition 
E-MAIL ME (say, those folks over at Necco 
sure are hip to the technology groove), the 
.28 square inch gems pack a romantic 
punch. 
For example, back in third grade, each 

student was required to give a valentine to 
every student in the class, ifhe was giving 
them at all. 
(Or wait ... was this just true of my overly 

sensitive, feelings-obsessed Catholic gram­
mar school? That may be the case, as this 
was the same institution that required us to 
wear index cards on yarn around our necks 
for three months proclaiming IAIAC: IAm 
LovingAnd Caring. Now, I'm all for 
acronyms, but Ms. Perez the art teacher 
shouldn't be growling at third graders, 
"Either go back to your room and get your 
IAIAC card, or I'm making you watch the 
Renaissance Art video again.") 
Anyway, when a fellow third-grader 

offered me a Power Rangers card with a 
lavender DREAM GIRL heart scotch-taped 
to the top, Ijust about IAIACked him right 
then and there. Imagine my horror when, as 
I was calculating our love potential through 
a game ofMAS.H., a classmate showed me 
the conversation heart he'd given her: 
MARRY ME. Suddenly, the lavender residue 
on the back of my tongue didn't taste a5 
sweet 
I'm telling you, these things pack a punch. 
Someone once criticized me for the one­

liners I graffiti on friends' Facebook walls. Of 
him I ask, how would the following look on a 
.28 square inch heart? 
Since the dawn of time, man has loved 

woman; so, too, does my heart burn for 
yours with the fiery passion of a hundred 
burning suns. Blue as the sea are your eyes; 
like spun gold is your hair; redder than the 
sweetest cherry are your lips. It would give 
me the greatest of pleasure ifyou would be 
so kind as to bestow upon me the honor of 
your valentine-ship, as itwere. 
Huh? 
Just KISS. 
And okay, horny same-side sitters-ifyou 

want, kiss. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at 
eduffy 1 @nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside 

Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT NEW MAJOR SHOULD NOTRE DAME CREATE? 




Annie Pugel  David Sonderman  Jimmy Bettcher  
senior off campus  junior Stanford  senior St. Edward's  
"Cooking and Baking. "  "How to Win a Bowl Game."  ''ATF: Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. "  


VANESSA GEMPIS!The Observer Seniors Kristin Schwarz, left, and Serena Leahy dress up as Honest Abe to commemorate Abraham Lincoln's birthday Monday. 
OFFBEAT 

Coatimundi taken away from owner 
RIVERSIDE, Calif. -An exotic animal with a long snout, bear-like claws and a tail like a raccoon scared the heck out of some narcotics investiga­tors searching a home for drugs. 
Riverside County sher­iff's investigators said the "strange looking," "sloth­like" animal emerged from its hiding place in the Lakeland Village home on Saturday. 
It was eventually identi­fied as a coatimundi, usu­ally found in the forests of Central and South America. 
Possessing a coatimundi is illegal in California without a license, and fish and game ofncial Kyle Chang said the animal's owner, 29-year-old Norman James Vollan, will have to give it up to a zoo or to someone with an exotic animal license. In the meantime, the animal was taken to an undis­closed animal sanctuary. 
Dog gets lost at airport 
MADRID, Spain Snowy the terrier knows all about the hassle of air­port security. The brown­and-white pooch spent 11 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
IJ.I 
:c 
!ci: 
IJ.I 
3: 
.... 
<C 
(.) 



15 
-2 

14 5 
0 

HIGH 17 HIGH 7
.... 

LOW 2 LOW 0 


Joel Thielen sophomore Keenan  Marc Campbell senior off campus  
"Procrastinating. "  "Chilling. "  

days in a sensitive out­door area of Madrid's international airport ­one of Europe's busiest air hubs -scurrying about with a dog's eye view of landing planes. 
He managed to dodge security personnel until he was finally captured Sunday, after authorities called in dogcatchers. 
The Jack Russell terrier became lost at the airport on Jan. 31 after arriving on an Iberia cargo plane from Britain. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

The Hungar.ian State Folk Ensemble will perform tonight at 7:30 in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $36 for the general public, $30 for facul­ty/staff/seniors and $15 for students. 
Dale Recinella, a Notre Dame graduate, will speak Wednesday at 7 p.m. in room c-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center 
about  his  career  as  a  lay  
chaplain  to  prisoners  on  
death row.  

The student body presiden­tial election run-off debate will take place at 7:30p.m. on Wednesday in the Main Lounge of LaFortune. 
The Ballroom Dance Club is hosting a Valentine's Day ball Wednesday from 8 p.m.-10:30 in the LaFortune ball room. The cost is $4 for the night. 
The student body president run-off election will take place Thursday. Students can vote online between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. at the Judicial Council Web site or by click­ing on a link in an e-mail from the Council. 
The men's basketball team will play Providence College Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Junior Parent's Weekend will commence Friday with the Opening Gala and will end Sunday with the Closing Brunch. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

22 9 


25 10 
Tuesday, February 13, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group considers new wage hikes 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's senior Chelsea Gulling visited the Board of Governance (BOG) to discuss the living wage campaign and how it pertains to Saint Mary's hourly wage workers Monday night. 
The issue of increasing the hourly wage at Saint Mary's will be discussed at the February Board of Trustees meeting. Gulling wanted to present her research to BOG so it could endorse the increase. 
"In 2006, Saint Joseph's County did a survey of wages and figured out where people fall in the continuum," Gulling said. "Hourly wage workers are in the lowest twenty per­cent." 
If the Board of Trustees were to vote to implement a plan to raise wages over a three-year period, it would put Saint Mary's workers in the 40th percentile and employees who have worked at Saint Mary's for 25 years would be in a higher percentile. 
Gulling did not know details of Saint Mary's wage plans or the specifics of the Board of Trustees vote. 
"Basically, just to summa­rize, we're looking for student support," student body presi­dent Susan Mcllduff said. 
The group voted to table the issue until further information is gathered on the subject. 
BOG also voted to award a $500 co-sponsorship to the Saint Mary's theater depart­ment to help finance its upcoming trip to New York City. 
In Other BOG News: 
+ 
Little Siblings weekend is Feb. 24-25. Registration has ended and over 350 siblings are attending -50 more than last year. 

+ 
The Diverse Student Leadership Conference will take place March 1-3. Registration forms are on the Student Diversity Board Website. 

+ 
Student Academic Council is requesting nominations for the Women Honoring Women banquet. Students are asked to nominate female faculty and staff members by typing one paragraph describing why they are good leaders. Nominations can be sent to SAC@saintmarys.edu 


Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Reporter talks about Iraq vvar, Katrina 
Sarah Childress advises students on findi_ng journalism internships 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
When Sarah Childress began her freshman year at Notre Dame, she had no plans to pur­sue journalism. But she started writing for Scholastic, and since graduating in 2003, Childress has covered both the war in Iraq and Hurricane Katrina for Newsweek magazine. 
Childress returned to campus Monday to speak to journalism students about her experiences and gave advice about breaking into the profession. 
As a national affairs reporter for Newsweek, Childress described her job as "exciting," because she can walk into work Monday morning and be assigned a story that may take her to another state the next day. 
Besides traveling across the country, Childress completed several reporting stints in Iraq -an opportunity she said she never thought she'd receive. 
· "I had always really wanted to go cover the war, but it just seemed like something that would be impossible for a reporter so young and with less experience," Childress said. 
But when Newsweek needed more correspondents, Childress volunteered for the assignment. 
A year passed before she actu­ally went to Iraq, Childress said, because she had to undergo preparations to enter the war­torn country, including a week-long training camp on surviving hostile environments. 
Newsweek is the only news organization that has a house in Iraq's green zone, Childress said, but "it is so dangerous right now that you don't leave the house." 
That confinement, she said, makes reporting "very frustrat­ing." 
Most of the interviewing has to be done by Newsweek's Iraqi staff members because many Iraqis are afraid to talk to Westerners. To get its reporting done, the Newsweek team gives its Iraqi staffers a list of ques­tions and sends them off -a difficult process, Childress said, since they aren't trained journal­ists. 
Staff members often fail to ask follow-up questions and are not persistent in contacting sources. To make up for this, Childress said she has to provide a very specific list of questions for the interviewers. 
Childress was most surprised by the real -and random ­dangers that she saw in Iraq. 
"I was really surprised by how bad it actually is," Childress said. "You know the risk. You know the danger when you go over there, but it's impossible to actually understand until you're over there. It's kind of the ran­domness of the violence. War isn't constant attacks. It's a little more intermittent." 
Childress also left· New York for New Orleans to report on Hurricane Katrina. 
"The assignment was just sort of go and cover it. They didn't give us instructions," she said. "My job was to cover the people. Who was left? What was hap­pening to them? How were they surviving?" 
Without strict guidelines, "you kind of make it up as you go along," Childress said. "You find somewhere to start, pick up that thread, and you just follow that thread wherever it takes you." 
During the question and answer portion of Childress' talk, students asked about jour­nalism internships and the jour­nalism profession. 
"The hardest thing about get­ting into the business is getting your foot in the door," Childress said. 
Childress called her local paper several times to pursue an internship when she was in col­lege. "You really do need to be persistent. Take advantage of any contact that you have," said Childress, explaining that many journalism jobs are not posted on job boards. 
'The best thing you can do is get exposure to other journalists and talk to them," she said. 
While some may fear job cuts in the news and media profes­sion, Childress said the news will always be necessary. 
"People are always going to need a reliable news source," she said. "They need good, tal­ented journalists who are ethi­cal." 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

Saint Mary's StudyAbroad Fair Thursday1 February 15th1 2.007 s:oo-6:oo p.m. Sa1nt Mary's Student Center AllSaintMary~/ Notre Dame/ and Holy Cross Students Are Welcome/ I Semester Programs I I Summer Programs • Rome1 lta[y • Environments of Ecuador • 01jon1 France • Honduras Service Learning • Maynooth1 lreland • internship .in the •Semester Around the European Union World European Study Program • SeviHe1 Spain Greece Study Tour • lnnsbruck1 Austria • Korean Culture Study • Fremande1 ,Australia • Women1s Studies in Europe • Pietermaritzburg1 South Africa Spring Break Programs . Poland to Prague I. Business in ,Mexico City  SAINT MARY'S STUDY ABROAD INFO SESSION THURSDAY FEBRUARY 22, 2007 5:00-G:OOpm, DEBARTOLO HALL NOTRE DAME CAMPUS SMC, ND, &HC STUDENTS ARE WELCOME!! Debartolo RoomSaint Mary's Semester Programs # Rome, Italy 204 Maynooth, Ireland 205 Semester Around the World 120 Seville, Spain 225 Pietermaritzburg, South Africa 223 Dijon, France 224 Women's Studies in Europe 240 Semester Programs: Deadline for Applications ­March 1st If you are unable to attend an information session please contact the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership at SMC cwil@saintmarys.edu  

r-----------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 13, 2007 
people out of spaces where the concentration of the gas
Gas leak 
may be higher, Kempf said. continued from page 1 
In circumstances like this, 
said Associate Director Phil 
SCO) to repair it. The gas Johnson, NDSP evaluates the distribution system on cam­particular circumstances and pus belongs to NIPSCO, he then chooses a course of said. action. 
For about two hours, gas "In an emergency response streamed up into the air in we take the measures that large amounts from a small we think are necessary to area between Stepan protect the public safety," Chemistry Hall, the Johnson said. Radiation Laboratory and While the buildings were the Hesburgh Library. being evacuated, NIPSCO 
People inside were-told to could not find the valves to leave the buildings and then turn the gas off, so instead shortly afterward told to they exposed undamaged leave the area. Students in sections of the line and class and professors in their squeezed the gas line togeth­offices streamed out of the er to shut it off. It takes time buildings to do either and then method, so 
walked away "In an emergency the amount of 
from the time it took 
response we take the 
area that NIPSCO to was soon measures that we think repair the 
blocked off are necessary to leak was not with caution unusual,
protect the public 

tape. Kempf said. 
The build­safety.'' At 3:25 ings were p.m. NIPSCO evacuated as was able to
Phil Johnson 

a precaution­put a clamp
Associate Director 

ary measure, on the pipe
NDSP

Kempf said. and the leak 
" J u s t bec:;ause you can smell the gas doesn't mean there is a great con­centration of it, he said. "If we can smell the gas, we typi~ally will evacuate people out. 
Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) blocked off entry to the space between O'Shaughnessy, Malloy and Decio Halls and between the Radiation building and Stepan Chemistry Hall. They blocked off this area to keep 
"diss..ipated 

substantially at that time," said Dennis Brown, assistant vice presi­dent for News and Information. 
There were no injuries as a result of the incident. Notre Dame Associate Vice President for News and Information Don Wycliff said the gas was "not harmful" to anyone, but people were being evacuated from nearby buildings as a precautionary measure. 
"This is natural gas, like you would use in your home. Outside, there are no harm­ful effects from breathing it, as long as we keep a safe distance away from the rup­ture. There have been no complaints of ill effects as of yet," he said. 
Fire alarms were turned on to evacuate people from the buildings, including Stepan Chemistry llall, where graduate student Brian Wilson was at the time of the leak. 
"People went outside, but when the alarms stopped, we went back in," Wilson said. "Then we smelled the gas. and left the building again." 
Faculty, staff and students who were in the buildings when they were evacuated were allowed to n~-enter later in the afternoon to obtain items they had left behind. As of approximately 5 p.m., the seven buildings were available for use. 
The buildings are expected to be fully re-open today. There should be no odor of gas remaining in the build­ings, Kempf said. When tho gas leak was occurring, the fans in the building were quickly turned off so outside air would not circulate in. 
NIPSCO went through each building after the leak was contained and tested the air for traces of gas, Kempf said. Only Stepan Chemistry hall had very low traces at the time. 
John-Paul Witt contributed ' to this report. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Malloy 
continued from page 1 

because periodically Congress, and in rare cases the White House, have intervened to insti­tute reforms when things aren't going in the right direction," he said. 
He offered the 1906 creation of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) at the urging of President Theodore Hoosevelt as an illus­tration of the role the federal government has played in intercollegiate athletics in the past. 
Roosevelt was concerned by the levels of violence, serious injuries and deaths related to football in a given year and threatened to ban the sport if regulations and supervision were not immediately estab­lished, Malloy said. 
"If things in intercollegiate athletics don't go well, presi­dents and people in Congress get interested." 
He also noted throughout his lifetjme the changing landscape of intercollegiate athletics in light of the gradual integration of women's programs and racial minorities over the last decades. 
A former Notre Dame basket­ball player, Malloy recalled there was only one African-University of Mississippi, Robert Khayat, was the other guest speaker. 
"I spoke at Robert [Khayat'sl ini;tuguration and we were on the NCAA foundation board for many years," Malloy said. "When we each heard the other one was the second speaker we both agreed to do it." 
He said their experiences as former student athletes and leaders of their respective uni­versities added weight to their arguments. 
"When you're an insider you don't buy into the totally romanticized view that some people have about athletics or the utterly cynical view that other people have," he said. "You understand the pluses and the minuses because you've been through it yourself." 
Some of those minuses include the scrutiny that young student athletes undergo under the lens of the rapidly prolifer­ating sports media, Malloy said. 
In recent years, specialty magazines and publications, 
T.V. stations and the Internet's chat rooms, blogs and Web sites have tracked student ath­letes and made them household names. 
"This is a huge change in the reality of intercollegiate athlet­ics because when student ath­letes come to Notre Dame, if you read all these materials, you know so much about them 
before they set a foot on the cam­
American player "The greatest changes pus," he said. 
in the team dur­"Or when an
in my lifetime in
ing his years as athlete gets into 
an undergqtdu­athletics have been trouble it's 
ate student, and racial integration and instantaneously no African­news around the
the opportunities for 
American coach­, country. That es in any school. women. just never exist­
"The greatest ed before." changes in my When asked
Father Edward Malloy
lifetime in athlet­for his opinion
University President 
ics have been regarding the
Emeritus
racial integration 



and the opportu­nities for women," Malloy said. "And they both still need work done to be fully implemented." 
He said he accepted the cen­ter's invitation to participate in the forum because he thought it was important to discuss these changes and the future of collegiate athletics, as they are an auxiliary unit of the univer­sity and affect the way people relate to the institution. 
However, he was also driven to Virginia after he found out his friend and Chancellor of the 
proper discipli­
nary treatment given to student athletes in the spotlight, Malloy only said that athletes should be subjected to the same rules and yardsticks as non-athletes. 
He declined to comment on the recent controversy sur­rounding former Irish point guard Kyle McAlarney, saying he spoke at the forum about intercollegiate athletics in gen­eral and didn't address specific Notre Dame issues. 
McAlarney's suspension fol­lowing his arrest in December for possession of marijuana was considered excessive by some critics -a result, they said, that was directly related ' to the basketball player's celebrity. 
However, disciplinary issues are not the only ones where student athletes are known to receive special considerations -to the advancement or detri­ment of the athlete's career. 
During the forum, Malloy also raised the question of academic integrity for student athletes ­a cause supported by NCAA President Myles Brand. 
He said Brand's steps to guarantee every member insti­tution in the NCAA protects the impartiality of its athletes' aca­demics have echoed Notre Dame's own decision to demand from every student ­athletes and non-athletes alike -the same academic perform­ance. 
Former NCAA .president and Notre Dame athletic coordina­tor Gene Corrigan attended the forum, among 150 Virginia stu­dent athletes, students, faculty members and outside specta­tors. 
Contact Marcella Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

Dt1ringJunior Parent Weekend Experknceelegantd1ningon the Notre Dame Campus 
The perfectsetting forJunior Parent 'Weekend is Sorin,s. Our d:~oughfuJJy preparedmeals, serf!--edbya professionally trained staff, ensure the ultiinate Notre Dan1e experience. 
ReserJratio.ns recon11ue.t1ded 574 631-2020 
emhraciny/he seasons TVWTv.so.rinsndcorn 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 13, 2007 CoMPrtr::o FROM THE ()nsERVER'S WIRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Olina fails to meet environmental goals 
BEIJING -China's environmental watchdog admitted Monday the country had failed to reach any of its pollution control goals for 2006 and had faJien further behind as the nconomy pieked up speed. 
The State Environmental Protection Agency said fastnr-than-nxpectPd economic growth meant that sulfur dioxide emissions increased by nnarly 1.8 percent, or 463,000 tons, over th(~ previous year, according to a report on its Wnb sitn. 
ChPmical oxygen demand, a water pollution index. rosn by 1.2 percent. the report said. 
China had set a goal of cutting the emission of major pollutants by 10 percent by 2010. with the two main pollutants to be reduced by 2 percent in 2006. the first year of the plan. 
Sulfur dioxide emissions are chiefly caused by coal burning. China is the world's largest producer and consumer of coal, depending !wavily on coal-fired plants for electricity. 
Explosions occur near U.S. base TOKYO -JapanesP police were investi­gating a suspected extremist attack on the 
U.S. Army after two small explosions occurred outside a military base south of Tokyo, police said Tuesday. 
There wern no reports of injury or damage at Camp Zama or from nearby residents, Kanagawa prefectural police spokesman lliroyoshi Ichikawa said. 
Investigators found a pair of metal tubes planted in the ground at a nearby park. They were believed to be used as rocket launchers and pointed toward the base, Ichikawa said. 
He said investigators suspect an attack by leftist extremists, but cannot rule out a pos­sibility of a terrorist attack. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Veterans' information missing 
BIHMINGHAM, Ala -The Department of Veterans Affairs began notifying 1.8 million vPterans and doctors Monday that their per­sonal and business information could be on a portable hard drive that has been missing from an Alabama hospital for nearly three weeks. 
The hard drive may have contained Social Security numbers and other personal infor­mation from about 535,000 individuals and billing information on 1.3 million doctors nationwide, the VA said. That's more than 37 times more peoplP than authorities initially believed were affected. 
An employee at the VA medical center in Birmingham reported the external hard drive missing on Jan. 22. The drive was used to back up information on the employee's oflice computer. It may have contained data from rnsearch projects, the department said. 

Bush honors Black History Month 
WASJllNGTON -To honor black history, President Bush on Monday focused on people contributing today -those who are seizing opportunities gained at great price, he said. 
"Our call and our need is to continue to remember the promise belongs to every­body," Bush said. "And our call for this coun­try is never to rest until equality is real, opportunity is universal and every citizen can realize his or her dreams." 
LOCAL NEWS 

State braces for heavy snow storm 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana readied more than 300 snow plows to hit the highways and can­celnd statn troopers' days off as a major winter storm bom down on much of the state. 
About a dozen ollicials from the Department of llomeland Security and other state agencies hunkered down in the basement of the state government center in Indianapolis on Monday night to direct emergency operations as the storm swept into the state from the southwest. 
"If the storm hits as predicted we know there will be problems but every resource state gov­ernmPnt ha<> is ready to go," Gov. Mitch Daniels said in a prepared statement. 

Layoffs at Chrysler imminent 
Employees fear company's restructuring effort to cut 10,000 workers 
Associated Press 

DETROIT -Chrysler workers have taken to can­ing it the "Valentine's Day massacre." 
They are referring to Wednesday's restructuring announcement from Chrysler, one that some analysts say could cost 10,000 production workers their jobs. 
As workers await the news, rumors fly: Two plants to be shut down; buy­out or early retirement offers similar to what Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Corp. did to reduce their hourly work forces; llat-out layoffs. 
"We hear they're going to call it the Valentine's Day massacre," said Steve Laube on Monday, as he and other laid-off workers reported to "jobs bank" duty, for which they'll get most of their pay to perform community service work or sometimes just hang around the union haiJ. 
At 49, Laube has eight years in as an electrician at DaimlerChrysler AG's Jefferson North Assembly Plant in Detroit, but he's so low on the seniority list that he was laid off Jan. 1 due to slumping demand for the plant's Jeep Cherokees and Commanders. 
"They don't clue us into anything," he said. "You just and bigger SUVs historically would be part of a joint ven­two other plants that make hear rumors, rumors, account for about 70 per­ture with Getrag Corporate the Ram. rumors." cent of the company's U.S. Group of Germany. Chrysler won't say which 
Analysts predict another sales, more than any other Atop almost everyone's plants are on the blocks. It 1,000 to 1,500 salaried manufacturer. list for closure is the 2,100-says details will be released workers also could lose Kevin Reale, an industry worker plant in Newark, Wednesday morning in tan­their jobs as Chrysler Group analyst for AMR Research Del., that assembles the dem with the company's joins its two domestic rivals Inc., said Chrysler probably slow-selling Dodge Durango 2006 earnings. in trying to downsize facto­has 15 percent too much and Chrysler Aspen mid­But most vulnerable are ry capacity to match lower manufacturing capacity. sized SUVs. Analysts say the plants that make the mid­demand for its products. "They'll have to trim out Mack Avenue Engine Plant sized SUVs, which have fall­
Much of the shrinkage, some assembly facilities to 1 in Detroit, with about 530 en out of favor with buyers, analysts believe, will come bring their capacity to pro­employees, also is a possi­said Catherine Madden. an at plants that make truck­duce vehicles in line with bility because it makes the auto industry analyst at the based products, victims of demand," he said. 4. 7 -liter V-8 engines that go consulting company Global the change in consumer DaimlerChrysler has two in slow-selling trucks. Insight Inc. tastes from sport utility large manufacturing com­Erich Merkle, an industry The Durango and Aspen vehicles and trucks to more plexes in Kokomo that analyst with the auto con­underpinnings are exclusive fuel eflicient car-based vehi­employ nearly 7,000 people, sulting company IRN Inc. in to those vehicles, contrary cles. including a plant that Grand Hapids, said a 2,330-to Chrysler's movement 
Chrysler lost $1.5 billion makes transmissions. The worker plant near St. Louis toward more flexible manu­in the third quarter of 2006, company also has said it is in Fenton. Mo., that makes facturing plants that can and its sales were down 7 considering Kokomo for a Ram pickups also is on his build multiple vehicles on percent last year. Trucks new transmission plant that Jist because Chrysler has one platform, she said. 

CHINA 

North Korea closer to disarmament 
program. In the last few days, the talks had
Associated Press 

The draft agreement contained com­appeared to be on the verge of founder­
BEIJING -Six countries reached a mitments on disarmament and energy ing and envoys made clear that thPir tentative agreement Tuesday on initial assistance along with "initial actions" to frustration was increasing and their steps toward North Korea's nuclear dis­be taken by certain deadlines, Hill said. patience growing thin. The current armament that could usher in the first Working groups will be set up, hopeful­round was to conclude on Monday but concrete progress after more than ly in a month, laying out a framework as they progressed toward a deal. nego­three years of talks marked by delays, for dealing with regional tensions, he tiators extended it late into the night deadlock and the communist country's added. and then into the early hours of first nuclear test explosion. He declined to give further details of Tuesday. 
The U.S. envoy to the talks, Assistant the draft. Hill said the draft agreement still Secretary of State Christopher· Hill, The agreement could herald the first must be reviewed by the home govern­emerged in the early morning hours of step toward disarmament since the ments of the six cmmtries at thP talks. Tuesday looking weary after a talks began in 2003. The process but he was upbeat about it. IIe said he marathon 16-hour negotiating session reached its lowest point in October was in "constant communication" with and announced that a tentative deal when North Korea conducted its first Secretary of State Condoleezza Hire. had been struck at the latest round of nuclear test explosion, alarming the "We feel it's an exceiJent draft, I don't six-party talks on the North's nuclear world and triggering U.N. sanctions. think we're the problem," he said. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 13, 2007 
Club 
continued from page 1 

surrounding community, said Paul Conway, a retired finance professor and the Club's cur­rent president. 
"We consider that building to be a part of Notre Dame," he said, calling the Club a perfect example of Notre Dame cul­ture. 
While Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves stressed the necessity of the building plans, he acknowl­edged the difficulty of asking the University Club to relocate. 
"It's not easy to change anything 
that people like," 

"We can't imagine
he told The 

Observer that the University 
Monday. ofNotre Dame Much consider­
wouldn't have a
ation went into 

University Club. ,,
the new build­ing's location, said Affleck­

Debbie Colley
Graves, who tied 


manager
the decision to 


University Club 
Notre Dame's 

mission. Fulfilling an aca­demic need is more important than preserving a social space, which can be relocated, he said. 
Affleck-Graves said officials worked extensively with facul­ty and the dean of the Engineering School to find alternative sites for the new building, but none were appro­priate. 
University officials have pro­posed the Club relocate to Greenfield's International Cafe inside the Hesburgh Center. Notre Dame leases the current building to the Club, which operates independently of the University. 
But Colley said the proposal to move to Greenfield's is not feasible, given the size of the cafe and the different purpos­es each establishment serves. 
"We were hoping for the Club to continue at another location, if that was a work­able deal with the University, but the one that they've offered us isn't very work­able," she said. "We feel that they want to get rid of us." 
Conway said the suggested proposal had too many finan­cial stumbling blocks for the Club to handle. 
"We would go out of business in a short time [if we accept­ed]." he said. 
Affleck-Graves said the University has discussed sev­eral options with the Club, in 
addition to the proposal to move to Greenfield's. He did not dis­close the other options, but said the Club must first make a deci­sion how to proceed. 
The board of directors is currently working on a 

counter proposal to present to University officials, "to see if there is any possibility in [the University] changing their terms," Colley said. 
"We can't imagine that the University of Notre Dame wouldn't have a University Club," she said. 
Club employees -as well as employees of Greenfield's ­did not find out about the relo­cation proposal until it was printed in the South Bend Tribune, Colley said. 
"They kind of got a slap in the face, as well as us," said Vicki Lodyga, office manager at the Club for 14 years and one of the Club's 33 full-time employees. 
Many of the Club employees -some who have worked 



Snow, ice result in 
there for more than two decades -are disappointed, she said. She said this wasn't an expected course for the 


falls at Saint Mary's
building's future. In 2004, University President Emeritus Father Edward 

every weekday -though sometimes an hour or two earlier -and continue to work around campus throughout the day. 
The entranceways are shoveled by hand and then the walkways are done using the College's three plows -two ride-on plows and one that's pushed, he said. 
Every entrance has its own container of de-icer, which is used as needed, but in sub-zero tempera­tures the de-icers don't work very well, Kubacki said. The crew also juggles between being environmen­tally conscious and being as safe as possible, he said. 
After spending the day working on campus, the crew comes back in the evening around 8 p.m. or later to work on the side­walks, especially for late night events, he said. They also always have at least one person working on Sunday. 
Judith Johns, the execu­tive director of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, said the sisters also hire a grounds crew to take care of the roadways and the parking lots. They arrive at various times, often around 2 and sometimes 4 a.m. to work on the main roadways and parking lots, she said. Johns also said that there is a priority list of what gets done first. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO1@saintmarys.edu 

Every Tuesday enjoy our specialty Sizzlelini with Chicken, .Sausage or both. 
Frosty Bellinis only $2 
Try raspberry. green apple or peach. 
AllAN KITCHEN Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
511 0 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 
Reservations Accepted 

Malloy appointed a committee to determine the future of the Club, according to documents on the Club's Web site. Af!leck­Graves was named chair of the committee. The Club's mem­bers were notified of the University's intent to move the Club at that time. 
In response, the Club formed the Committee for the Future of the University Club. The group produced a report stat­ing the Club should remain "as it is, where it is," Conway said. 
This committee gathered more than 400 signatures to petition against the relocation of the Club, including the sig­nature of University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
In 2006, the Club was informed that they would need to vacate by June 2008. The board and Club employees were surprised when they received the Jan.. 9 letter that moved the demolition date up to Aug. 2007, Colley said. 
Conway said he is optimistic the Club will continue, even while a decision on new loca­tion is "still up in the air." 
The Club was founded in 1958. The current building was donated by former Indiana governor Hobert Gore and designed by Robert Schultz, a former architect with the School of Architecture. It serves faculty, staff, alumni and community members who pay a member­ship fee to gain access to the Club. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at 
asteiner@nd.edu 
By MANDl STIRONE 
News Writer 

With sub-zero tempera­tures and heavy snow accu­mulation this winter, walk­ing or driving around Saint Mary's campus has been particularly dangerous. 
One College sophomore suffered a hairline fracture after she slipped on the ice. 
Lisa Anderson was walk­ing from the Student Center to LeMans last Thursday when she fell and hurt her arm. Anderson didn't go to Heath and Wellness until the next day, but went to a hospital over the weekend 
while  she  was  home  in  
Chicago.  
Sophomore  Beth  

Alexander said she also has had trouble walking down the sidewalks. 
"I have to leave 15 min­utes early so I don't fall in heels outside," she said. 
Senior Ayslinn McGovern said she has to travel at a slower pace to avoid slip­ping on the snow and ice. 
"It's dangerous to walk more than briskly," she said. "The steps are horri­ble because those are cov­ered with ice." 
College Grounds Supervisor Mark Kubacki is in charge of keeping all the sidewalks and entrances safe. There are five other people who help take care of the entrances and walk­ways, he said. Kubacki said he and his crew begin working at about 7 a.m. 
made huge advancements in holding schools accountable for making sure that children are at the appropriate grade level in their capabilities. 
Paige defended the stan­dardized testing by citing that learning deficits tend to accu­mulate, so they must be iden­tified early and continually measured so that they can be properly fixed. 

He also spoke about the importance of choice of school in regard to No Child Left Behind. If a given public school is not reaching the required standard.s after two years of testing or if the child is not receiving fair treatment and help at that school, par­ents have the option of moving their child to another public school, he said. 


Paige 
continued from page 1 

superintendent of the Houston Independent School District. 
Paige said his mission was to improve public schools because doing so would "strengthen the social and economic fabric of the city." In late 2000, Paige was asked by 
U.S. President George W. Bush to be the Secretary of Education in his administra­tion. Bush was sworn in on a Saturday, and by Tuesday, Paige said he was already addressing the issue of "No Child Left Behind." 
While Paige admitted that the No Child Left Behind Act is "not perfect," he said it has 
which could be helpful in determining where candi­

Election 

dates are lacking support, Brown said.
continued from page 1 

"Dorm breakdowns are 
The narrow majority of very usel'ul for us ... we will voters were be using that freshmen. One in the next thousand "We will be using fdorm 48 hours left 
eighty-nine in the cam-
breakdowns] in the next
freshmen, paign and 
1,066 sopho­48 hours left in the use those 
mores, 803 jun­campaign and use those numbers to iors, 533 sen­our advan­
numbers to our
iors, and one tage," she
advantage. ,,
fifth-year cast said. their ballots. The run­
Each of the off debate candidates will take 
Liz Brown 
candidate
received a com­place at 7:30 

student body president 
prehensive p m breakdown of Wednesday votes by class and by dorm, in the main lounge of 
Every child must have access to a good education because it is their civil right, Paige said. He said a society cannot consider itself just if it does not provide equal educa­tional opportunity for all of its citizens. 
Contact Kate McClelland at mmcclell@nd.edu 

LaFortune. The debate will have the same format as the one held last Wednesday, but the focus may shift to "more specific topics" in addition to a re-evaluation of each tick­et's platform, Kozlow said. The run-off election is Thursday, with the same technology access as Monday's elections. 
Like election protocol, the candidates seem to be stick­ing to the status quo when it comes to run-off strategy. 
"I think we're just going to keep doing what we're doing," Brown said. "I think we have a lot to offer the student body." 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, February 13, 2007 
page 7 
. ' 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow jones  12,552.55  -28.28  
up:  Same: Down:  Composite Volume  
I ,00 I  134 2,263  2,952,295,790  

NASDAQ 2 450.38 -9.44 
NYSf ~:·':-.~~:i:-~~;, _· 9Jillllll;J;1lllllllll 
S&PSOO 1 ,433.37 -4.69 
N-OIJo) ;:!I;;tli~lllllillililllml•i:,IJ.fi 
FTSE IOO(London) 6,382.80 +36.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  -0.32  -0,14  43.70  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -0.34  -0.49  143.45  
ONYXPHARMINC(ONXX)  +96.98  + 11.89  24.15  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.14  -0.04  28.94  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  +0.42  +0.020  4.804  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.1 0  +0.005  5.020  
30-YEAR'BOND  +0.43  +0.021  4.886  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.38  +0.0 18  4.796  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.18  59.89  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +9.50  672.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.23  104.80  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  121.4100  
EURO  0.7715  
POUND  0.5132  
CANADIAN$  1.1758  

IN BRIEF 
Bush advocates free-trade agreements 
WASHINGTON -Free-trade policies that make it easier for U.S. companies to sell their products are important to the economy's vitality, President Bush said Monday as he projected a year of goo<} -though somewhat slower-economic growth. 
Bush, in his annual economic report to Congress, made a, fresh pitch for breaking down trade barriers and energizing global trade talks. He also called on Congress to extend his authority to negotiate free-trade deals, a request likely to face an uphill battle in the Democratic-controlled Congress. 
"This authority is essential to completing good trade agreements," Bush wrote in the introduction to the report. "The Congress must renew it if we are to improve our com­petitiveness in the global economy." 
With the United States racking up record trade deficits and facing intense competition from rapidly growing China and India, global trade tensions have intensified. 
Democrats blame Bush's free-trade policies for contributing to the trade deficit, costing 
U.S. jobs and exposing U.S. workers to urifair competition from low-wage countries. 

House acts to install solar panels 
WASHINGTON -Thirty years ago, Rep. Jim Oberstar testified in favor of legislation to install solar panels at federal buildings. Now, as chairman of the House Transportation Committee, he's able to make it happen-at least on a small scale. 
On Monday, the House approved Oberstar's bill to create a solar energy sys­tem at the Energy Department building, with the hope that the project could serve as . a model for all federal buildings. 
"What better symbol than the Department of Energy .itself, to operate on renewable energy?" Oberstar, D-Minn., asked in an interview. "Let's showcase this project. Let's show definitively this works." 
Oberstar's new bill directs the General Service Administration to spend $30 million to install solar panels on the south wall of the Energy Department headquarters. 

Katrina insurance trial begins 
Allstate confronted with allegations ofdelaying payments to hurricane victims 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS -A 
homeowner who claims 
Allstate Indemnity Co. 
failed to properly or 
promptly pay his damage · 
claim after Hurricane 
Katrina took the witness 
stand in federal court 
Monday, kicking off testi­
mony in the first trial for 
one of the several thousand 
such Louisiana lawsuits. 
Lawrence Tomlinson and 
his wife Elizabeth, accuse 
the Northbrook, 111.-based 
company of bad faith and 
say the company under­
paid them for wind damage 
that tore holes in their roof 
and let water rain into 
their home in the New 
Orleans suburb of Marrero. 
The Tomlinsons also say Allstate didn't start adjust­ing their claim after the Aug. 29, 2005, storm until Nov. 28 -more than the 30 days allowed by law. 
"The whole house was a 
mess," Tomlinson said, 
describing how water had 
pooled inside the home. 
"There was a lot of damage 
to everything." 

Allstate disputes the 
extent of the wind damage 
to the Tomlinsons' home 
and accuses the couple of 
misrepresenting parts of 
their claim. 

Jury selection was com­
pleted quickly Monday 
morning, despite U.S. spread damage to the fied the company when which Allstate adjusted 
District Judge Martin Tomlinson home. She they moved into his office and paid their claim, but 
Feldman's early fears that denied Allstate allegations building and misrepresent­not how the company 
there were potential prob­that the couple tried to bill ed nothing. interpreted its policy 
lems in finding an unbiased Allstate for renovation Cross-examination of terms. In Mississippi, 
panel in southeast work not related to the Tomlinson was scheduled meanwhile, hundreds of 
Louisiana, where Katrina storm. to resume Tuesday morn­homeowners have filed 
caused widespread death Allstate attorney Judy ing and was expected to similar lawsuits challeng­
and destruction. Barrasso said Allstate last several days. ing insurance companies' 
The seven-member jury already has paid $151,133 Tulane Law School pro­refusal to pay for damage first heard arguments from to the couple. fessor Ed Sherman said a from Katrina's storm the Tomlinsons' lawyer, "You're going to see that victory for the Tomlinsons surge. Christy Howley, who said Allstate has paid them could embolden other The companies say their the Tomlinson's 'paid their more than enough, but homeowners to sue their policies cover damage from premiums in a timely man­they want more," Barrasso insurers, but he down­a hurricane's wind but not ner but didn't get paid for said. She said the played the possible legal rising water, including their Katrina claims until Tomlinsons misrepresented implications for the rough­wind-driven surge. This after they sued in January parts of their claim and ly 4,000 other Katrina law­wind versus water debate 2006. . that Allstate paid them suits awaiting trials here in -a central issue for many 
"And the one time they more than $30,000 for federal court. of the roughly 350 federal needed Allstate to step up additional living expenses "These are very person­lawsuits still pending in to the plate, it didn't hap­after th_ey moved to office al, individual issues," he Mississippi -isn't a factor pen," Howley said. property that they already said. in the Tomlinsons' case 
Howley said Allstate owned. The Tomlinsons are chal­because their home didn't ignored evidence of wide-Tomlinson said they noti-lenging the manner in flood. 

Stocks fall, Nasdaq-LSE merg~r fails 
Associated Press a dearth of acquisition announce­possibility that inflation could lead to 
ments to give the market a lift. higher interest-..rates. With fourth­
NEW YORK-Wall Street extended Instead, investors had to deal with quarter earnings reports nearly over, 
its losses Monday as investors await­news that the Nasdaq Stock Market investors have traded hesitantly as 
ed a stream of key economic data Inc. failed in its bid to buy the they wait for some kind of catalyst to 
this week and were left disappointed London Stock Exchange and that give them direction. 
by the collapse of several closely French drugmaker Sanofi-Aventis "With all the data coming out, and 
watched acquisition deals. called off talks for a possible deal Bernanke possibly taking a more 
The markets, which pulled back with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. hawkish tone, this causes the mar­
last week amid concern about infla­Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. and kets to be very cautious and tenta­
tion's impact on interest rates, trad­Bayer AG advanced after the compa­tive," said Alan Gayle, senior invest­
ed cautiously with Federal Reserve nies released data from a clinical ment strategist for Trusco Capital 
Chairman Ben Bernanke set to testify trial that shows an experimental Management. "There's just been a lot 
about the economy before Congress drug is effective in fighting liver can­of nervousness going into this week, 
on Wednesday. Government data due cer. Apple Inc. moved higher after and the weak start is a carryover 
Friday should shed light on whole­being upgraded in anticipation of big from last week." 
sale inflation and the state of the product launches set this year. The Dow Jones industrial average 
housing market. Wall Street fell last week on con­fell 28.28, or 0.22 percent, to 
Unlike recent Mondays, there was cerns about higher oil prices and the 12,552.55. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, February 13, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Saint Mary's-we need to talk 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quertiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) 1.<> published Mondar through Friday except during exam and -vacarion periods. A sumcriprion ro The Observer is $100 for one academic year; $55 fur one srmcsrer. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining H:Ul &nd :addn::s.s corr«~:iom ro: Nom: D.:unc,JN 46556..0779 l"h<Ob=vtt Periodic.al posto~gC paid a1 Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and addicion.t! m.Uiing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
None Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Obscrva is a member ofthe AssociaJcd Press. All reproduction rights .m: reserved. 
For anyone who has been in a rela­tionship, the words "we need to talk" bring with them the possibility of argu­ments, insults, honest conversations and sometimes a reconciliation that can sustain the relation­ship well into the future. Uttering those dreaded four words is unpleasant, but it has to be done in order to move forward. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have enjoyed a special 

and often close rela-Forward the tionship over the Revolution 
years. After all, Notre Dame was only 13 when Saint Mary's showed up across the street, and their young love strengthened as each school educated one half of a growing community. Many of us have parents from both schools, and we have all heard the legendary stories about students from both schools sneaking through the tunnels to get home after parietals. Notre Dame provided men with a Holy Cross educa­tion and Saint Mary's provided women with the same, and the relationship was one of mutual benefit, respect and affection. 
By the late 1960s, many of Notre Dame's all-male peer universities began to go co-ed or merge with associated all-female universities. Notre Dame began to see the benefits of combining with Saint Mary's, and in May 1971, University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh proposed a merger. A few departments began the merger process and a number of Saint Mary's students enrolled at Notre Dame and graduated with Notre Dame degrees. 
However, in a 2002 Observer article, Hesburgh said, "I said to the sisters, 'You know, sisters, we're using all the metaphors of marriage, and I get the. impression you're in favor of the mar­riage, but two things are missing. Number one, you don't want to take our 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
name, and numbPr two, you don't want to live with us. That's not marriage."' In 1971, frustrated with a lack of progress, Notre Dame broke off the merger. In 1972, Notre Dame went co­educational unilaterally and the historic first class of women enrolled at the University. 
It has been more than 30 years since Notre Dame and Saint Mary's broke off their ephemeral engagement. Though the phrase was not in usage at the time, the best term to describe the current relationship is "friends with benefits." Unfortunately for the Notre Dame com­munity, the vast majority of those bene­fits go to Saint Mary's. Saint Mary's stu­dents receive the ability to take classes at a top-20 undergraduate institution, access to job recruiters who come to Notre Dame, Notre Dame student sec­tion football tickets (which are often better than those of actual Notre Dame students) and participation in nearly all of NotrP Dame's larger and more organized student organizations, including the University of Notre Dame Marching Band, student managers and the chnerleading squad. In exchange, Notre Dame students get to take excel­lent education classes, occasionally use O'Laughlin Auditorium arid go on the Semester Around the World. 
In October 2005, Saint Mary's student body president Kellye Mitros wrote a letter to The Observer entitled "Separate and Proud," extolling the continued independence of Saint Mary's. The theme was continued with this year's campaign for Saint Mary's student body president, as the Davis­Kennedy ticket "recognize[d] the need to maintain the College's deeply rooted tradition in the sometimes-uncertain future of Saint Mary's identity," accord­ing to the Observer endorsement. 
I'm happy that Saint Mary's students are proud of their school, but in reality they aren't separate at all. Nothing exemplifies this fact to me more than a quote from Saint Mary's student Lauren Sheldon in an Observer article after the Army game last fall. "At my first Notre Dame game before I was a student, I would watch them in fascination. Then when I got to be a part of that, it was amazing. I'll always remember when the leprechaun threw a Rice Krispie treat at me and when we gave James Aldridge push-ups last year when he was in the recruiting section." This sen­timent is not a fluke: In a 2005 Letter to the Editor, Saint Mary's student Christine Herdman wrote, "That's what I love about those boys that make up our Notre Dame Football team." Students from a school whose leaders constantly assert their independence and separate identity also enthusiasti­cally take part in Notre Dame activities that define our identity, and even claim that identity as their own. If that is not hypocritical, it is at least problematic. 
If Saint Mary's wants to be part of Notre Dame, it should merge with the University, have equal standards for admission and tuition and contribute its fair share. I( Saint Mary's says it is independent and proud of it, it should­n't turn around and take advantage of Notre Dame's greater resources. Saint Mary's effective rejection of Notre Dame's otTer ruined its "engagement" with Notre Dame 30 years ago and the College continues to display its indeci­siveness through its students' words and deeds. Notre Dame now fulfills the mission of providing a Holy Cross edu­cation to both men and women, and Saint Mary's should choose whether it wants to be "separate and proud" or a part of Notre Dame. Unfortunately, it didn't do that in 1971 and it won't now. Why should they buy the cow when they can get the milk for free? 
Jonathan Klingler is a senior man­agement consulting major and presi­dent emeritus of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He currently resides in Keenan Hall and enjoys Tolstoy and Matlock. He can be contact­ed via e-mail atjklingle@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL

Kaitlynn Riely Eric Retter Liz Harter Greg Arbogast 
John-Paul Witt Michael Bryan What was the most important Rohan Anand Scene factor in your vote for student Viewpoint Chris McGrady 
body president? 
Bethany Whitfield Graphics Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Matt Hudson at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
·~ sb' .,..t t·· tt
·~ ui .IDI· a1 e·· er
·~ . ·. . •· ..., . .. . .. ··' . ' 
'To wear your heart on your sleeve isn't a very good plan; you should wear it inside, where it functions best. "
Ito the Editor at ,
@ •. •· ·'• .<·. •• •••• ' .,.,, ••••• • •••• ' <·••• •· 1: 
Margaret Thatcher former prime minister
iwww.ndsmcobserver.com 1
1 . f 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 13, 2007 page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Students urged to attend hockey playoffs 
To the Notre Dame community, on behalf of the Notre Dame hockey team, I would like to thank you for your help in energizing Irish hockey this season. Your support, combined with the hard work of our players, has helped us earn a first round bye in the CCHA playoffs, a goal we set at the beginning of the year. 
Our fans have a lot to do with our suc­cess this season. The atmosphere that you have created in the Joyce Center has carried us to a 9-0-2 league record at home. The Notre Dame hockey band has been phenomenal and the cheering of JACCO's WACCOs in section 6 has made our rink a feared place for opposing teams. As a result, the second round of the CCHA playoffs will be played at the Joyce Center March 9-11 and although we don't know our opponent, we know we will need our fans to be louder than ever. 
I realize that many of you have been looking forward to that weekend because of spring break and the oppor­tunity to leave campus for a few days. Your classmates on the hockey team and I are asking you to hold off on leaving so quickly! The team has appreciated and thrived on your efforts all season long and they need you now more than ever. The hockey band will be there so please join them, wear gold and be loud! We would love to see a sea of gold cheering us on during this important playoff weekend. As with all of the games this season, admission is free to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents with their ID as long as seats are available. As always, I'm sure there will be some great prizes and I can assure you there will be some great hockey. 
In closing, this weekend we head to Alaska in pursuit of Notre Dame's first­ever regular season conference champi­onship. Upon our return, we look for­ward to seeing you for our last home regular season series (including Senior Night on Feb. 24) versus Ferris State, and then again at our CCHA playoff games in March on our "Road to the Joe" and beyond. Go Irish! 
Jeff Jackson Notre Dame hockey head coach Feb. 12 

U-WIRE 
Alternative Valentine's plans worthwhile 
It is that time of year again, people. Valentine's Day, which I'm convinced was devised by a consortium of greedy choco­late and flower companies, is nearly upon us. 
Conventional wisdom Chris states that it is not a Mueller good feeling to be sin­
[Jaily

gle on Valentine's Day. 
Collegian
I disagree. 
For me, Wednesday of this week is simply "the day before my dad's birthday," and that is the way I like it. 
However, just because V-Day is a funda­mentally stupid holiday that probably yields as many hurt feelings as it does happy nights doesn't mean that it serves no purpose. 
This year, I suggest that all single guys and girls, instead of awkwardly calling last weekend's booty call in hopes of a date, try something novel for a change. Find that girl or guy who has always been there for you, because there certainly is one, and take them out. Maybe you've always wanted to date this person, and things just never worked out, or maybe you've only liked them "as a friend" or vice versa, but they probably deserve a nice night out. It's the least you can do after dragging your sorry rear end to them after making another bad life choice. 
I've always felt that V-Day would be better spent enjoying the company of someone you can have a coherent conver­sation with as opposed to someone you find about as interesting as a cement block. 
Yet, in spite of the fact that I suspect many people share my feelings, people still go to the ends of the earth to please their dates, only to fmd that they don't really like them so much when they aren't drunker than Mel Gibson at traffic school. 
Also, don't think that because I'm sug­gesting you take out a good friend for the night means you can skimp on them because your company is already gift enough. 
When you're sitting down tonight trying to flesh out some plans for Wednesday, remember the girl or guy who you can pass out next to, the one you like more sober than drunk, the one you would step in front of traffic for. Think of the person who makes you smile when you think about them, the person whose good looks are matched by their intelligence and sense of humor, the person who lights up your world when they come into your orbit, even ifyou never show it. 
If you want this day to mean something for once, and you aren't already taken, make sure the person you're out with is the one who gets you where it counts, romantically or not-the heart. 
This column originally appeared in the Feb. 12 edition ofthe Daily Collegian, the daily publication at Penn State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Ediror 

The European Theater tends to domi­nate cinema, but there are a handful of films that explore the Pacific Theater as well. Here are a few of the most memo­rable and most recent to grace the screen. 
lwoJima 

1. "Flags of Our Fathers/Letters From Iwo Jima" (2006): Like "Tara! Tara! Tara!," Eastwood's pair of films explore both sides of the conflict, with the American perspective in "Fathers" and the Japanese perspective in "Letters." "Letters" is considered the stronger pic­ture, despite its "art-film" sensibilities, and has been nominated for the Best Picture Academy Award. 

Burma 

2. "The Bridge on the River Kwai" (1957): David Lean's classic Best Picture winner follows a Japanese POW camp that forces British soldiers to build a bridge in Burma. Highlighted by a bravu­ra performance from Alec Guinness, it explores the descent into madness that accompanies war. 

Midway 

3. "Midway" (1976): A star-studded cast led by Henry Fonda and Charlton Heston highlights this film about the Battle of Midway. Produced in the vein of "Tora! Tara! Tara!" it heavily features both sides of the conflict, though the soap opera dra­matics tended to diffuse some of its impact. 

Guadalcanal 

4. "The Thin Red Line" (1998): Terrance Malick's ethereal meditation on war and nature is set against the backdrop of the Allied invasion of Guadalcanal. It received a mixed critical and commercial recep­tion, partially due to the overwhelming popularity of Steven Spielberg's "Saving Private Hyan," which was released around the same time. 

Saipan 

5. "Windtalkers" (2002): Directed by John Woo and starring Nicholas Cage, "Windtalkers" follows Najavo soldiers whose native language became a code used by the Allies. Less realistic than other modern war films, it was also con­sidered less effective. 

Hawaii 

6. "From Here to Eternity" (1954)t'Tora! Tara! Tara!" (1970)/"Pearl Harbor" (2001 ): All three of these films explore the attack on Pearl Harbor in different ways, 
· with varying emphasis on the battle itself. "From Here to Eternity" is a classic, with strong performances, especially from Montgomery Clift and Frank Sinatra. "Tara! Tara! Tara!" was a joint project between American and Japanese studios, which produced a complex, but inconsis­tent film. 
Japan 
7. "Grave of the Fireflies" {1988): A tragic look at the civilian side of the war, this moving anime, directed by Isao Takahata, follows two children struggling to survive alone in Japan during the wan­ing days of World War II. Despite being animated, it is considered a classic, with mature approaches to adult themes. 
Shanghai 
8. "Empire of the Sun" (1987): Steven Spielberg's coming-of-age story is about a spoiled British boy (Christian Bale) living in Shanghai, who eventually becomes sep­arated from his parents and winds up as a prisoner in a Japanese camp. Not a Spielberg classic, it is still a very good film, anchored by a surprisingly mature performance from a young Bale. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtadel@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Tuesday, February 13, 2007 
page 11 
Eastwood's latest effort is an Academy favorite 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
Editor's Note: This is the second in a five-part series on the 2007 Oscar nominees for Best Picture. 
In a rare filmmaking move, Clint Eastwood decided to make two movies centered around the battle at Iwo Jima during the second World War. "Flags of our Fathers" has an American point of view, while the companion film, "Letters from Iwo Jima" is from the perspective of Japanese soldiers. Although the two films are centered on the same battle, they each have a decidedly different focus and agenda. 
The first film, "Flags of our Fathers" portrays not only the American side of the battle of Iwo Jima, but the stories of the three sur­viving flag-raisers in the famous "pho­tograph. After the photograph was published, and subsequently revital­ized support for the war effort, Marines Franklin Sousley (Joseph Cross) and Rene Gagnon (Jesse Bradford) and Navy medic John "Doc" Bradley (Ryan Phillippe) are pulled from their units and sent back to the United States to help raise funds for the war effort. The film is told in a series of interviews and flashbacks to both their time in battle and during the subsequent fundraising. 
The film is based on the book by James Bradley (the son of "Doc" Bradley) and Hon Powers. Screenwriter Paul Haggis ("Crash") chose to structure the film around flashbacks, as opposed to the linear storyline that the book followed. He and Eastwood decided this structure would better allow for parallels to be drawn to the current war in Iraq as well as wartime hypocrisy and the manipulated propaganda. 
The second film, "Letters from Iwo Jima," is based on the book "Picture Letters from Commander in Chief" by General Tadamichi Kuribayashi. The film follows various soldiers, includ­ing infantry soldier Saigo (Kazunari Ninomiya) and General Tadamichi Kuribayashi (Ken Watanabe) as they prepare for and subsequently fight in the battle to protect Iwo Jima. As they realize that they are outmanned and ill-prepared to fight, they begin to question why they are fighting and what they believe their own priorities are. 
"Letters from Iwo Jima" is a nomi­nee for an Academy Award for Best Picture, and has garnered nomina­tions for director Eastwood and Original Screenplay. 
Although the films can be watched independently of each other without any loss of understanding, they do serve as complimentary works. 

Several scenes directly correlate with each other, and seeing one film deep­ens the level of understanding that comes from those scenes when the perspectives of both sides are taken into account. They also bring to light different aspects of war, and by focus­ing on the same battle these issues are brought to greater clarity. "Flags of our Fathers" questions the motives of propaganda and perception and the consequences of those actions, while "Letters from Iwo Jima" concentra­tions on decisions that are made in the situation of battle. 
Both films serve to question the greater motivations behind war, as well as individual belief systems. In both films the characters make diffi­cult decisions where they must choose to follow what they believe is impor­tant, regardless of what their govern­ment or others are saying. Even out­side of the context of war, these are increasingly valuable questions to ask and are not only timeless, but timely with the current state of affairs in our world. · 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 


Trashy tabloid would be a welcome addition 
Britain's The Sun is a daily newspa­per with the world's highest circula­tion and more than three million copies sold a day. 
This is for good reason, given its focus on sex, celebrities, sports, sex, politics and sensa­tional crime. People 
Bob Costa 
in Britain are unashamed about reading tabloid Scene Writer 
newspapers -in fact, most people read little else. All of the top papers in the country are what Americans would consider just a notch above the National Enquirer. 
Reading The Sun every morning over my healthy full English breakfast of eggs, beans, bacon, sausage, toast and Guinness, I've come to the con­clusion that we need a tabloid at Notre Dame. Please -Scholastic's "The Gipper" is anonymous, usually obscure and lacking photos. 
I know, I know. A tabloid would never fit in at Notre Dame. That's what Facebook is for, right? But since Domers seem to love trawling photo albums and wall posts every night for hours, I think they'd enjoy reading a scandalous newspaper at the dining hall next to their flank steak and stir­fry as much as any Brit. 
Contrary to our commercials, we're not all smiley geeks from some sub­urb of Chicago interested only in God and our studies. I've seen many stu­dents browse the latest on Britney and Kevin at Meijer, and dining hall conversations rarely focus on class ­much more on the previous Friday and Saturday (and Thursday). 
I love The Observer, but no one is 
really that interested in what hap­pened at the latest Student Senate meeting anyway. 
We want the juicy stuff: who is hooking up with who at TC, detailed coverage of quad snowball fights, tips for using Wikipedia on papers and the latest exploits of a certain football player. 
Forget AP stories as well -we'll have columns on Anna Nicole-Smith, JT and Scarlett, and whether University President Father John Jenkins is preparing to adopt a baby with Madonna and the Pitts after his recent trip to,Uganda. 
Forget seemg racy photos of the tramp troika starring Lindsey Lohan, Paris Hilton and Britney Spears jump­ing out of cars in LA in next to noth­ing. 
Under the Dome, we could feature our most noble triumvirate of Jenkins and former University Presidents Father Ted Hesburgh and Father Edward Malloy sneaking into Rocco's for a quiet dinner. Just imag­ine the banner headline -"Popped Collars: JJ, Ted and Monk spotted at spaghetti Yalta!"· It would almost be too much for the boys over in Corby. 
The Notre Dame Enquirer could cover Jimmy Clausen the way The Sun covers David Beckham. The big race would be to see what girl became his Posh. 
The initial time someone spotted Jim Caviezel (star of the Passion of the Christ} it would be "tres cool," as Notre Dame Angers program alums would say. But eventually, students would get tired of this D-list actor showing up all the time on campus wearing the Rudy jacket. The head­line? "Students: Why is Jesus still 

here?" 

Let's also please leave out paparazzi photos of Charlie Weis at the beach. I think we'd all agree some things are better left unpublished. 
For revenue, we could have the Bookstore advertise its fair and hon­est prices. Nothing prepared me bet­ter for the horrible British exchange rate than shopping at our Bookstore. 
In Britain, every day a nice girl who lost her clothes is featured on Page 3 of The Sun. With our tab, we could have a new girl every day modeling the staple of every girl's wardrobe on campus -her favorite North Face fleece. Nothing too sexy, of course. It is Notre Dame. 
As you can tell by now, Notre Dame really is need of a tabloid to truly encompass our sometimes crazy stu­dent life beyond placid Student Activities stories and banal coverage of "that diplomat guy who spoke to your class. Something that is funny, inane and trashy. 
Wait, we have the Irish Hover. Never mind. 
Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 13, 2007 
NBA 

Pistons top Clippers, claim seventh straight win 
want to do is sit in their hotel
Carmela Anthony 
rooms all day. That's just how we like it." 
hurts thigh as Denver 
The Clippers, who haven't 
bests Golden State played a home game yet in February, went 2-5 on the marathon trip, and one of the
Associated Press victories came against the strug­AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -The gling Boston Celtics. Los Angeles Detroit Pistons got the Los hosts Atlanta on Wednesday. Angeles Clippers at the right "This is the longest trip of the time, and they knew it. year, and we wanted it to turn Chris Webber had 19 points out better than it did," Clippers and nine rebounds and the coach Mike Dunleavy said. Pistons beat the short-handed "There were a couple games on Clippers 92-74 Monday night for the trip that we played against their seventh straight victory. teams that we felt we could beat, The Clippers staggered in for but we didn't get the job done." their last stop on a seven-game Detroit, which has beaten the trip and fell to 8-19 on the road. Clippers eight straight times, They were missing Elton Brand, improved to 11-2 since Webber who was a late scratch with joined the starting lineup. back spasms. "There was a period where "We reminded our guys of all Chris was just attacking the bas­that this morning, before the ket and making great plays," game, during the game and after Tayshaun Prince said. "We the game," Pistons coach Flip caught the Clippers on the back Saunders said. "We've been in end of a long road trip, where that situation too -it isn't easy we knew they couldn't sustain to be at the end of a trip like for 40 minutes and we took that, especially without Elton." advantage of it." Saunders even got the weather Richard Hamilton scored 15 he wanted -a chilly, snowy day points and Prince added 14 for with a winter storm about to roll Detroit, which had all of its in. starters score in double figures. "The teams from the East go "They played team ball, and out west early in the season, and when you do that, you can wear we literally get our heads beat a team down," Clippers guard points and nine rebounds before the opening quarter and was Jackson started the second in," Saunders said. "But it is Cuttino Mobley said. "Before we fouling out midway through the down by 12 before the end of the half and quickly picked up a even harder for the Western knew it, we were down 15 and fourth. first period. By the fourth, it was technical for arguing a call with teams, because they come they were keeping that lead." The Pistons led 45-38 at the just a battle of the reserves as official Jess Kersey. He finished through here around the All-Star Mobley led Los Angeles with half, holding the Clippers to :H.2 the Jazz beat the Hawks for the with nine points. break, and they go from 7 5 17 points, and Corey Maggette percent shooting, and took over ninth straight time. Nene had 24 points for Denver degrees to 10-below, and all they added 15. Chris Kaman had 13 in the third quarter. Utah outrebounded Atlanta and Marcus Camby had eight Webber had eight points and 52-32 and the Jazz went 32-for-points and seven rebounds in his Hamilton scored five as Detroit 36 from the foul line. return from a four-game opened the seeond half with a Marvin Williams led Atlanta absence with a pulled groin and 13-3 run. with 15 points. Williams also got the flu. He looked like he hadn't The Pistons led 71-56 after a bloody nose when he took a missed a minute, playing loose three. Sam Cassell started the forearm by Utah's Rafael Araujo and free and several times dish­fourth with a three-point play early in the fourth quarter, ing the ball behind his back for for the Clippers but Webber which resulted in Araujo getting big baskets before taking a seat scored the next four points to ejeeted and Atlanta's Josh Smith when the game got out of hand. put the game away. getting a technical as Williams AI Harrington, who started 24 "Webber gives them another remained down in the lane. hours after taking an elbow to dimension because he creates After Araujo left to a standing the head from Hawks center easy baskets," Dunleavy said. ovation from the Jazz fans, both Zaza Pachulia, led the Warriors "That was a good pick up for coaches pulled their starters with 24 points, and Kelenna them, and they are playing very before anybody else could get Azubuike added 23. well." hurt or in trouble before the All­Golden State was without its Star break. leading scorer, guard Baron Jazz 102, Hawks 76 Davis, who will undergo surgery Mehmet Okur had 19 points Nuggets 123, Warriors 111 on his left knee Tuesday, eoach and six rebounds before sitting Carmelo Anthony and J .R. Don Nelson said. out the fourth quarter and the Smith scored 28 points apiece "The surgery is to clean out Utah Jazz won their fifth in a and the Denver Nuggets beat the some debris in his left knee. We row, beating the Atlanta Hawks Golden State Warriors Monday won't know the length of time Monday night. night. he'll be out until they go in Deron Williams added nine Anthony sat out the much of there," Nelson said. "We won't assists and Andrei Kirilenko had the fourth quarter after his make a roster move. We won't ll·points and four blocks for the bruised right thigh, which he do anything until after the sur­Jazz, who are on their longest hurt in the first half, tightened gery." winning streak since eight in a up on him. The absences of Jackson and row in November while opening Warriors guard Stephen Davis didn't prevent the the season 12-1. Jackson was late for the game Warriors from running their The Hawks had won five after testifying in the trial in high-octane offense in the first straight on the road, beating the Indianapolis of a man who hit half, when they shot 59 percent Warriors 106-105 Sunday night him with a car during a fight only to trail 65-59 at the break in Oakland, but they had very lit­outside a strip club last fall. The when Smith and DerMarr tle left for the Jazz. man was convicted Monday in a Johnson hit back-to-hack 3s in Atlanta was just 4-for-17 in ruling by a judge. the closing seconds. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER  Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ 
WANTED  FoR RENT  AREAS,BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com  bdrm,3 bath homes,frpls,2-car garages. Call574-232-4527 or 269­ Do not go it alone.  ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our  
683-5038.  If you or someone you  24 hour confidential hotline at 1­ 
2001 MERCURY  House available for 2007-2008.  Newly renovated home for rent, 3  love needs confidential  800-No-ABORT or visit our website  
GRAND MARQUIS LS.  Very Large, Close to Campus, Just Renovated. Contact  bedrooms, 2 baths, close to ND/SMC. Available now and for  PERSONAL  support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at  at www.lifecall.org  
4-DOOR.  MacSwain@ gmail.com  07-08. Inquire @574-289-7791.  1-7819.  U +Me= Us  
EXCELLENT  COMMON SENSE COMPUTER  For more  
CONDITION.  andersonNDrentals.com  OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. BUM- repair,clean-up,reload, data back- information,  Pitchers and Catchers report on  
51,000 MILES.  BACAHOUSES offers you the stu­ up. Student discount. 1  visit our web site at  Thursday!!!!  
ONE  Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4  dent big savings for 1,2 or 3 yr.  .5mi.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg- 
OWNER,  bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09.  lease. Super clean. Visit our web  from ND  nant.shtml or see our  2007 MLB prediction you can take  
$6,500.  $600/Bed/mo.  site and compare us to the competi­ 728 E. Colfax  bi-weekly ad in  to the bank: the Cubs will not win  
CALL 243-5454.  574-360-2569.  tion. Call Cosimo 277-1875.  574-217-8851  The Observer.  the World Series  

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­



OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, February 13, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 


Men's Basketball....... Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Florida (72)  23·2  1800  
2  Ohio State  22·3  1668  
3  Wisconsin  24-2  1637  
4  North Carolina  22-3  1604  
5  UCLA  21-3  1465  
6  TexasA&M  21-3  1462  
7  Pittsburgh  22-3  1415  
8  Memphis  21-3  1272  
9  Kansas  21-4  1268  
10  Washington State .  21·4  1090  
11  Nevada  22·2  1084  
12  Marquette  21-5  916  
13  Butler  23-3  831  
14  Georgetown  18-5  782  
15  Oregon  20-5  689  
16  Southern Illinois  21-5  660  
17  Air Force  21-4  538  
18  Oklahoma State  19-5  503  
19  Arizona  17-7  438  
20  Kentucky  18.(1  387  
21  Boston College  18-6  325  
22  usc  18·7  290  
23  West Virginia  19-5  272  
24  Indiana  17-6  223  
25  Alabama  18·6  158  

Men's Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team  record  
1  Florida (31)  23·2  
2  Ohio State  22·3  
3  Wisconsin  24·2  
4  North Carolina  22·3  
5  Pillsburgh  22·3  
6  Texas A&M  21·3  
7  UCLA  21·3  
8  Kansas  21·4  
9  Memphis  21·3  
10  Nevada  22·2  
11  Washington State  21-4  
12  Butler  23·3  
13  Marquette  
14  Air Force  
15  Southern Illinois  
16  Georgetown  
17  Oregon  
18  Kentucky  
19  Indiana  
20  Oklahoma Stale  
21  Boston College  
22  West Virginia  
23  usc  
24  Arizona  
25  Virginia Tech  

Men's Basketball 
. 

Big East Standings 
Big East team record 
1 Pittsburgh 10-2 2 Georgetown 8-2 3 Marquette 8-3 4 Louisville 8-4 5 West Virginia 7-4 6 NOTRE DAME 6-5 7 Syracuse 6-5 8 Villanova 5·5 9 Providence 5-5 10 .DePaul 5-6 11 St. John's 5-7 12 Connecticut 4-6 13 Seton Hall .3-7 14 South Florida 3-8 15 Rutgers 3-9 16 Cincinnati 1-9 

points 
775 727 698 664 642 628 622 547 531 485 466 400 

overall record 
22-4 18-5 21-5 18-8 19-5 18-6 17-8 17-7 15-8 14-11 14-11 15·9 12-11 12-13 10-15 10·14 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Kentucky at Tennessee 7 p.m., ESPN 
Michigan at Michigan State 9 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -Chargers coach Marty Schotten­heimer was fired Monday night in a shocking move by team president Dean Spanos, who cited a "dys­functional situation" between the coach and general manager A.J. Smith. 
Less than a month after San Diego's NFL-best 14-2 season was wrecked in a home playoff loss to New England, Spanos cited the exodus of both coordina­tors and other assistants in firing Schottenheimer. The coach had a year left on his contract and will be owed more than $3 mil-
IN BRIEF 

Time Warner reaches deal to 
sell Braves to Uberty Media 
NEW YORK -Time Warner Inc. reached a deal to sell the Atlanta Braves to Liberty Media Corp. after more than a year of negotiations, The Wall Street Journal reported Monday. 
The agreement, which must still be approved by Major League Baseball owners, would involve Time Warner transferring the Braves, a group of craft magazines and $1 billion in cash to Liberty in exchange for about 60 million shares of Time Warner, the Journal reported, citing an unidentified person familiar with the deal. 
Based on the closing price of Time Warner's stock Monday, the market value of those shares would be about $1.27 billion. 
Liberty Media spokesman John Orr and Time Warner spokesman Ed Adler declined to comment on the report, which the Journal posted on its Web site Monday. 
lion. 

"When I decided to move ahead . with Marty Schottenheimer in mid­January, I did so with the expectation that the core of his fine coaching staff would remain intact," Spanos said in a statement. "Unfortunately, that did not prove to be the case, and the process of dealing with these coaching changes convinced me that we sim­ply could not move forward with such dysfunction between our head coach and general manager. 
"In short, this entire process over the last month convinced me beyond any doubt that I had to act to change this 
untenable situation and create an environment." The firing was first reported by ESPN. 
Schottenheimer didn't immediately return mes­sages left on his office and cell phones. 
Defensive coordinator Wade Phillips was hired as head coach of the Dallas Cowboys on Thursday, fol­lowing offensive coordina­tor Cam Cameron and two other assistants out of town for better jobs. 
Although Schottenheimer said last week that change was inevitable, Smith sounded concerned, say­ing, "Bo~h in the same year -Wow. 
Tight ends coach Rob 

Underdof.( Yates Racing takes 
top pole piaces at Daytona 
·DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -It seemed certain at times last season that Robert Yates Racing was going to close its doors. 
The once-proud NASCAR team had hit rock bottom, and owners Robert and Doug Yates couldn't stand coming to the race track any­more. 
But that seemed ages ago on Sunday after David Gilliland and Ricky Rudd put Yates cars on the front row for the Daytona 500. 
"Robert has got a little bit of a bounce in his step again because he has a program that is working, it is clicking," Rudd said. 
It was far from working last sea­son, when Yates lost his drivers, a sponsor and both of his crew chiefs in a tumultuous year that featured the team collapsing to the point that Yates was convinced he was dying. 
·Chudzinski became Cleveland's offensive coor­dinator, and linebackers coach Greg Manusky was hired as San Francisco's defensive coordinator. 
Running backs coach Clarence Shelman, who's never been a coordinator, was promoted to replace Cameron. Shelman accept­ed only a one-year contract due to what had been Schottenheimer's lame­duck status. . 
Three days after the 24­21 playoff loss to New England, Schottenheimer declined the team's offer of a $4.5 million, one-year extension through 2008, which came with a club­option $1 million buyout. 

Man convicted of hitting
Warriors' Jackson with car 
INDIANAPOLIS -A man who hit former Indiana Pacers guard Stephen Jackson with a car during a fight outside a strip club last fall was convicted Monday in a ruling by a judge. 
Dean Willford waived his right to a jury trial, allowing Marion Superior Court Judge Patricia Gifford to ren­der a verdict. She found the 23-year­old man guilty of felony battery and failure to stop at a scene of an acci­dent, a misdemeanor. 
He will be sentenced Feb. 28. He faces two to eight years in prison for the felony and up to a year for the misdemeanor.' 
Jackson, who now plays for Golden State, left the courtroom to catch a flight to Denver, where the Warriors play Monday night. 
"I leave everything in God's hands and continue to work on playing bas­ketball," he said. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 13, 2007 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Duke unranked after recent skid 
Associated Press 
Duke's Top 25 streak is over. 
Saddled by its first four-game losing skid in 11 years, Duke fell out of The Associated Press poll Monday for the first time since the end of the 1995-96 season. The Blue Devils had been in the media poll for 200 straight weeks -the second longest streak behind UCLA. 
The Bruins' run lasted 221 weeks, from the 1966-67 pre­season poll to Jan. 8, 1980. North Carolina is third all-time with 172 straight weeks from the 1990-91 preseason poll to Jan. 17, 2000. 
"If you do it for a long period of time, it means you've been good that long," Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said of his team's streak that began in the 1996-97 preseason poll. "We never bring it up. It's a nice stat thing." 
UCLA and Memphis are now tied for the longest active streak at 34 straight weeks in the Top 25. 
Duke was No. 8 two weeks ago before losing in the final seconds to Virginia and Florida State. The Blue Devils lost to then-No. 5 North Carolina 79~73 on Wednesday and fell 72-60 at Maryland on Sunday for their first four-game losing streak since Jan. 3-13, 1996. 
"We travel a narrow road between winning and losing," Krzyzewski said. "We were in a position to win, you have to make sure the kids know that. They are doing a lot of things to put themselves in a position to 
win." 
Duke received 150 points, falling just eight short of No. 25 Alabama. 
The Blue Devils will try to end their slide Wednesday against Atlantic Coast Conference leader Boston College. The Eagles (18-6, 9-2) are finally back in the poll at No. 21 after falling out in week 3. 
Florida remained a unani­mous No. 1 for the second straight week, garnering all 72 first place votes. 
Florida beat Georgia 71-61 on Wednesday and won at then­No. 20 Kentucky 64-61 on Saturday in front of a raucous 

record crowd of 24,465. It was 
the Gators' fifth straight victory 
over their rivals. 
It had been 20 years since the Wildcats, college basketball's winningest program, lost five straight games to an opponent. Tennessee was the last to do it from 1975-77. 
UCLA fell to fifth after splitting games this past week. The Bruins beat then-No. 19 Southern California 70-65 on Wednesday, but lost to West Virginia by the same score Saturday. 
The Bruins had to fly across the country and play an early afternoon game. UCLA found itself down by 19 early in the second half before clawing back. 
"I was really pleased with the way we fought back," UCLA coach Ben Howland said. "Obviously it's a long way to come to get beat." 
With UCLA's loss, Ohio State moved up to No. 2 -its highest ranking since 1991. 
Wisconsin and North Carolina also gained a spot, moving up to No. 3 and No.4, respectively. 
Texas A&M was No. 6, fol­lowed by Pittsburgh, Kansas, Memphis and Washington State. 
The Cougars (21-4, 10-3 Pac­'10) moved up four spots after beating then-No. 25 Stanford and California. Washington State is only a half-game behind first-place UCLA as the Cougars chase their first league title. 

Nevada was No. 11, followed by Marquette, Butler, Georgetown, Oregon, Southern Illinois, Air Force, Oklahoma State, Arizona and Kentucky. 
Georgetown made the biggest jump, moving up eight spots to No. 14 after convincing wins over Louisville and then-No. 11 Marquette. The Hoyas have won seven straight. 
~·we're getting better, and our guys definitely have a eomfort level with how we want to skin the cat, so to say," said Georgetown coach John Thompson III after Saturday's win over Marquette. "We're more poised. A lot of times early in the season teams would make a run, and we'd stand around looking starry eyed." 
Oregon fell two spots after splitting games with Arizona State and then-No. 24 Arizona. Southern Illinois moved up five spots to No. 16. 
Boston College was followed by Southern California, West VIrginia, Indiana and Alabama. 
Besides Duke, Vanderbilt and Stanford also dropped out of the rankings. 
NFL 

Andy Reid takes leave from Eagles 
Coach takes time to address sons' problems 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Andy Heid is facing a crisis far tougher than a quarterback controversy or a disruptive player. 
The Philadelphia Eagles coach will leave the team for a month to deal with develop­ments that have rocked his family the past two weeks _ one son tested positive for 
heroin,  another  was  
arraigned  on  drug  and  
weapons charges.  

The team said the leave will last until mid-March. 

"lle,s not going to
"He's not going Britt Reid, 21, to come into the come into the was arraigned on office. His prior­drug and
office. His priorities
ities will be his weapons charges.
will be his family 
family for that He is accused of period or time, for a period of pointing a hand­but he will be time.,, gun at another available to driver following a have a eouple of dispute and faces calls with us and Joe Banner a felony charge collaborate and Eagles president of carrying a 
if he needed to be here for a visit of a free agent," Eagles president Joe Banner said Monday. "He will retain final say over whatever we do." 
Reid, who is also the team's head of football operations, will miss the NFL scouting combine and the start of free agency. Teams may begin vol­untary offseason workouts March 19. Reid plans to attend the NFL owners' meet­ings in Arizona in late March, and will be back for the NFL draft April 28-29. 
The Eagles have 11 unre­stricted free agents, notably wide receiver Donte' Stallworth and backup quar­terback Jeff Garcia. 
"Before any of this had hap­pened, we had finalized our own plans as to what we're going to do and not do with our own guys," Banner said. "We'd also put together our preliminary plan for the non­Eagle players that we could be interested in." 
General manager Tom Heckert and the team's assis­tant coaches will handle the interviewing of playE)rs at the scouting combine in Indianapolis, though Reid might be able to meet with some players at another time. 
Garrett Heid, 23, tested positive for heroin after he caused a traff'ic accident Jan. 30, police said. No charges have been filed, but prosecu­tors are looking at the case. Police have said he could be charged with driving under the influence of a controlled 
substance, a mis­
demeanor. 
firearm without a 

license as well as misdemeanor charges of lying to authorities, simple assault, making terroristic threats and possession of a controlled substance. · 
Asked if this leave could lead to a longer one, Banner said: "No. I don't know if he's coming back on (March) 13th or the 17th or the 18th. That's why that's a little bit vague, but he will be return­ing in and around that time frame." 
Reid has led the Eagles to the playoffs six times, includ­ing four trips to the NFC championship game and one Super Bowl, in eight seasons as head coach. He's dealt with several challenges the past two seasons from the Terrell Owens' soap opera and a series of key injuries in 
2005 to losing five-time Pro Bowl quarterback Donovan McNabb in Week 11 this past season. 
Despite McNabb's injury, the Eagles won their final five games behind Garcia, fin­ished 10-6 to capture their fifth NFC East title in six years and reached the second round of the playoffs. Many considered it Reid's best coaching job in Philadelphia. Players credited his steady approach for helping them overcome a difficult midsea­son stretch and the season­ending injuries to McNabb and star defensive end Jevon Kearse. 
"People deal with circum­stances in life of all different kinds, some more serious, some less serious, some more preoccupied and less so, and are still able to carry on with their careers and their pro­fessions," Banner said. "I think that's the kind of guy that Andy is, that he'll both be able to have his priorities in the right place, do what he needs to do, do the right thing, and also be able to return as the head coach and do the same quality job he's always done." 
Turtle Creek Apartltlent Holtles 
THE Place to be at ND!! Join us at the Clubhouse on February 14th for a 
Valentine's Day Open House 
From 10 am to 6 pm! All Current & Future Residents are Invited to Dip into a BUFFET of 
CHOCOLATE GOODIES TREATS, OHMY! 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Ph 574-272-8124 
Tuesday, February 13, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
INTERNATIONAL ATHLETICS 
Pound denounces IOC's reprimand 
WADA head says he's not responsible to group for comments 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The head of the World Anti-Doping Agency said Monday the International Olympic Committee was wrong to reprimand him for criticizing Lance Armstrong last year. 
"This has nothing to do with either the IOC ethics commission or the IOC board," Dick Pound told The Associated Press by tele­phone from Montreal. "Anything I do or say in relation to doping is done in my capacity with 
report filed by Armstrong's lawyer. 
"The executive board approved a recommendation of the ethics committee to remind Dick Pound to take care regarding his public declarations. He should be a bit careful concerning his declara­tions," IOC spokeswoman Emannuelle Moreau said. 
Pound said he felt the IOC mis­understood his role. 
"I don't do anything in relation to doping for the IOC," he said. "All I've ever said is, 'Lance, if the analysis was right ... there may be a case to answer to."' 
Pound also said he will discuss the matter with the IOC. 
'Til tell them with the greatest 
of respect, 'I think 
you've got it 

WADA. wrong,"' Pound
"All I've ever said is,
''I'm responsi­said. "People are ble to WADA, not 'Lance, ifthe going to wonder if the IOC," he analysis was right ... the IOC is serious added. or not."
there may be a case
"Everything I've Armstrong said
to answer to.,,
done has been in he appreciated accordance with some of Pound's instructions or Dick Pound efforts to clean up approval from 
World Anti-Doping Agency sports, but he 
WADA." 
The IOC chas­tised Pound last week for com­ments about the seven-time Tour de France winner, suggesting he should be "a bit careful" with his words. 
A frequent critic of cycling's doping record, Pound criticized a Dutch report last year that cleared the seven-time Tour de France winner of doping allega­tions. Pound said the report was prepared by a lawyer with no expertise in doping control and that WADA was considering legal action against him. 
Armstrong then sent an eight­page letter to IOC president Jacques Rogge and the executive board last June 9 accusing Pound -a senior IOC member from Canada-of "reprehensi­ble and indefensible" conduct. Armstrong asked that Pound be forced to step down as chairman of the doping agency. 
The IOC said it reviewed the 

thought the IOC had also sent Pound an important message. 
"It's been a long process," Armstrong said. "Considering the IOC rarely does something like this, it's a significant gesture and I appreciate it. I hope he learns his lesson." 
The French sports newspaper L'Equipe rep·orted in August 2004 that six of Armstrong's urine samples from the 1999 Tour de France tested positive for EPO. There was no reliable test for EPO at that time, but urine samples were preserved and analyzed later when improved testing technology was developed. 
The International Cycling Union then appointed Emile Vrijman to investigate the han­dling of the samples by a French anti-doping lab. His report released on May 31 exonerated Armstrong "completely" of any doping infractions. 


Co-sponsored by the Saint Mary's College Office of Special Events, Center for Spirituality, and Justice Education Program. 
rl-,1··
. 1e 
.. lll 

NE\V 
A humorous and challenging window on the world of Trappist monk Thomas Merton: solitary, celebrity, and ordinary man. 
February 15 7:30P.M. Little Theatre 
Purchase tickets at the 

Saint Mary's College box office or by calling (574) 284-4626. 
MoreauCenter.com 
I 


T()l!K 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Cardinals crush No.7 Panthers 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -A young Louisville team has improved steadily all season and is in posi­tion for a first-round bye in the Big East tournament. Still, coach Rick Pitino couldn't believe what he was hearing about the Cardinals. 
Nothing. No buzz. No hype ­at least until now. 
David Padgett and Derrick Caracter neutralized Aaron Gray inside while Louisville's 2-3 zone defense was taking away No. 7 Pittsburgh's outside shooting, and the Cardinals dominated both halves to rout the Panthers 66-53 Monday night. 
The Panthers (22-4, 10-2 in Big East) sustained their worst loss since moving into the Petersen Events Center in 2002, where they had been 78-7. Their worst previous defeat there was 73-64 to Connecticut on Feb. 26, 2005. They hadn't lost by double figures at home since an 81-67 defeat to Georgetown on Feb. 5, 2001. 
This one was never close, a stunningly easy romp for Louisville (18-8, 8-4) that tight­ened the Big East race. The Cardinals raced to a 13-2 lead that they increased to 33-14 late in the first half, partly because conference-leading Pitt had more turnovers than points for most of the half. 
Pitt ended with 19 turnovers, 15 before halftime, as its Big East lead over Georgetown slipped to a half game. The No. 14 Hoyas beat No. 23 West VIrginia 71-53 on Monday. 
"I didn't recognize that team," coach Jamie Dixon said, refer­ring to how sluggishly his team played at the start. "Some of the turnovers we were committing, I didn't recognize." 
What Pitino didn't recognize was the lack of attention for his Cardinals, who need to win only twice more to get to 20 wins. 
"We had to play Pitt, or some­one like Pitt, because everybody is talking about signature wins and not paying attention to us," Pitino said. "We think that when we go to DePaul confident in this team and this coaching staff. I don't foresee this happening again." 
So much for comparative scores. Louisville lost to Dayton and Massachusetts, teams that Pitt easily beat. 
"How we played is not indica­

tive of this team," Gray said. "But we're going to get past it. Maybe it's something we 
and South Florida and win in the fashion we  "I didn ,t recognize that team.,,  needed to show us how good we aren't."  
win they're great  Or maybe how  
wins, but nobody  Jamie Dixon  good Louisville can  
else does. As I  Panthers coach  be.  

watched TV, I realized I should-n't coach or play anymore because we don't even get mentioned. The writers don't even mention us for the NCAAs." 
Pitino told his team there was only one way to get that recogni­tion. 
"I told the guys that if you want to dance (in the NCAAs), you've just had Christmas come early because you have to play Pitt _ and you have to beat them," Pitino said. "And that's the hard part because they are a great team." 
The 6-foot-11 Padgett and 6-8 Caracter, effective together in the same game for the first time since early in the season, were too much for the 7 -foot Gray to handle by himself inside. Gray drew his fourth foul with 14:06 remaining as Caracter scored inside to make it 42-27, and Gray wasn't a factor again. 
"It was just a bad day. It's going to happen sometime," Gray said. "Maybe it's better it happened now rather than down the road. The true test is how we respond to this _ not what hap­pened out there. I'm still very 
Padgett, who 
sprained a foot 

Saturday against South Florida and was question­able to start, had 16 points and four blocked shots. 
Caracter, a highly recruited freshman just off a six-game sus­pension for violating various team rules, played his second strong game in a row with eight points and four rebounds. He· had 16 points and 10 rebounds in substantial playing time Saturday after Padgett was hurt. 
Pitt was similarly sloppy for much of its 74-68 victory Saturday over Providence, its fifth consecutive win and 12th in 13 games, but Gray bailed them out with 22 points and seven rebounds. He couldn't do so this time, finishing with 12 points and 10 rebounds, and Pitt had no success shooting long 3-point­ers over Louisville's effective zone. 
Pitt came into the game shoot­ing a Big East-best 42.6 percent from 3-point range, but missed its first 13 shots from beyond the arc until Ronald Ramon hit one with about seven minutes remaining. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 13, 2007 
MLB 
Union asks for decision reversal 

Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO-The Major League Baseball Players Association asked a federal appeals court late Monday to revisit its December decision to allow investigators probing steroids in sports to use the names and urine samples of 
If the December decision sur­vives, the players who tested positive could be called before a grand jury and asked how they obtained their steroids. 
Federal investigators original­ly demanded to see the 2003 results for Barry Bonds, Gary Sheffield, who was recently traded by the New York Yankees 
more than 100 players who test­ed positive for performance enhancing drugs. 
The 2-1 deci­sion in December by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco over­turned three lower court deci­sions and could help authorities pinpoint the source of steroids in baseball. 
Investigators seized computer files containing the test results in 2004 during raids of labs 
"If the majority's decision is allowed to stand, it will create circuit law giving the government carte blanche to use a warrant for some piece ofdata on a computer as the pretext for seizing the entire computer." 
MLBPA 
to the Detroit Tigers, the Yankees' Jason Giambi and seven other playPrs. 
When they raided the testing labs for those 10 results; investigators also seized computer files containing the test results of near­ly 100 other players not named in the government's sub­poena and war­rants. 
"If the majority's decision is allowed to stand, it will cre­ate circuit law giv­ing the government carte blanche to use a warrant for 

involved in MLB's testing pro­gram. The samples were collect­ed at baseball's direction the previous year as part of a sur­vey to gauge the prevalence of steroid use. Players and owners agreed in their labor contract that the results would be confi­dential, and each player was assigned a code number to be matched with his name. 
Quest Diagnostics of Teterboro. N.J., one of the largest drug-testing firms in the nation, analyzed more than 1,400 urine samples from play­ers that season. Comprehensive Drug Testing of Long Beach, Calif., coordinated the collection of specimens and compiled the data. Comprehensive joined the players in their petition to the appeals court to rehear the case with 15 judges. 
some piece of data on a comput­er as the pretext for seizing the entire computer and perusing its contents," attorneys for thP union and lab wrote. 
The testing was part of base­ball's effort to determinP whether a stricter drug-testing policy was needed. Because 5 percent or more of the tests [or steroids came back positivP, it automatically triggered the start of testing with penalties in 2004. 
The lower courts had declarod the use of the data beyond thn original 10 names harassment and unreasonable. 
There is no timeline for the court to decide whether to rehear the case. 
The case is United States v. Comprehensive Drug Testing Inc., 05-10067. 
NFL 

Arrington released from Giants 
Associated Press 
EAST HUTIIERFOHD, N.J.­The New York Giants released linebacker LaVar Arrington and two other starters Monday in the first major shako-up under new general manager Jerry Heese. 
Nnw York also cut linebacker Carlos 1\mmons and of'fensivn tackle Lu kn Pntitgout. both of whom were slownd by injuries ovnr thn last two snasons. 
The rnlnase of Arrington endnd a brief and unsatisfying tnnure with the <;iants for the former Pro Bowler. who was signnd last ynar for $49 million over seven ynars hut suff<'n~d an Arhillns injury against Dallas on Oct. 23 and playnd in only six gamns. 
"LaVar's situation is unfortu­natn bncausn lw was just start­ing to really becomn a factor in our defense at the time of his injury," Hoose said. 
Heese, who last month rnplacod the retired Ernie Accorsi, snrv1~d notice that lw will not stand pat with a team that won tho NFC East in 2005 but was humiliated in a first­round playoff loss to Carolina, then squoaked into the playof'fs last season with an 8-8 n~eonl and again lost in the first round. 
"These are eli !Tie ult de ci­sions," Giants head r~oach Tom Coughlin said. "But as Jerry and I lookod at tlw roster, thny are decisions we felt we had to make as wo start to compose our tHam for tho upcoming soason." 
Combined with the retire­ment of running back Tiki Barber, the Giants now havn additional salary-cap space to pursuH free agnnts this of'fsea­son. Emmons had two years remaining on a five-year con­tract worth $16.5 million and was to make $2 million this year, and Petitgout had two years lof't on his contract and was due $5 million for 2007. 


Arrington, whose contract was fillPd with incPntivPs, was schedulPd to make $900,000 next season. 
Petitgout started 106 games at tackle and guard over eight seasons for thP Giants, but broke his leg against Chicago on Nov. 12 and missed thP Giants' finaJ seven games. lie became expendable when guard David Diehl switched to left tacklP and played well in his absence. 

Dumping Petitgout's contract could give the Giants a better shot at re-signing free-agent center Sh<tun O'Hara. 
Emmons, acquired from PhiladPlphia in 2004, played in 36 games in three seasons but missed a total of 11 games in the last two sPasons with a pectoral injury. 
Calls to the agents for all three players were not imme­diately returned Monday evening. 
3Ro ANNVAL Hot>~ CRoss MISSION LEGU\JRE AT NoTRE DAME 
TERESA 0KVRE, SHC) 


Tuesday, February 13, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
next few games. They're going to be tough games."
Carter Banquet
The Irish also have trips to continued from page 20 conference bottom-feeder 
continued from page 20 
Cincinnati (10-14, 1-9) on strong note. Sunday and Rutgers (10-15, 
year's team has worked very Notre Dame is currently 3-9) March 3, both of whom 
hard to adjust to the new sys­sixth in the Big East stand­would fall into the "bad loss" 
tem he has instituted. "There ings, tied with Syracuse and category if Notre Dame were 
are new coaches, new terms, half a game behind West to drop a game to either one. 
new plays," Shrage said. ''I'm Virginia. The Irish hold However, both games are on 
really proud of these players. head-to-head tiebreakers the road, where the Irish are 
They've worked very hard." with both the Mountaineers just 3-6 this year. · 
Shrage, who coached at and Louisville, which is in Carter said that hard work 
Northern Illinois and Northern fourth place at will help the 
Iowa before spending the last Irish win 
four seasons at Evansville,
8-4. "Getting there my away 
expressed enthusiasm for a ESPN.com senior year would Center, which 
Experts at from the Joyce 
season that is sure to include believe that the be big since we will be important 
new faces in the Irish lineup Big East would at neutral sites of 
card.
haven't been there 
"Isn't it great to talk aboutget six teams in the Big East and
before., 
baseball on a night when a Irish would be Tournament. 
and that the N C A A 
winter storm's coming in?" he slotted in the 7-"There's always 
joked.
Russell Carter 
On a more serious note, the
10 seed range if room for
Irish guard 
new coach outlined the major Tournament he said. "We 
the NCAA improvement," 
goals that he has for his play­began today. A Big Dance bid need to improve as a team 
ers. He stated that he wants would be the first for the and as individuals to achieve 
all of his players to graduate Irish seniors. our goals from the beginn~ng 
and win a championship ring. But Carter said that he and of the season." 
At the banquet, members of his teammates are focused As for the teams competing 
last year's team received Big on more pressing matters. with the Irish for the fourth 
East Championship rings. "Getting there my senior first-round bye, the Orange 
Shrage also said he wants his year would be big since we have four games left before 
players to leave with a "great haven't been there before," the conference tournament. 
feeling in their heart about he said. "But that isn't what They play at South Florida 
Notre Dame." we're focusing on right now." ·Wednesday, then host 
In their speeches, Leyland The Irish face Providence Connecticut Saturday. They 
and Counsell touched on their Thursday, DePaul Feb. 20 have a week off, then a trip 
experiences at many different and Marquette Feb. 24 in to Providence, and finish 
levels of baseball. Leyland, 62, games that will be tough but with second place 
spoke about his eleven years could also provide Notre Georgetown. 
as a coach in the minor Dame with more quality wins The Mountaineers have 
leagues, as well as his fifteen to impress the tournament only three games left. They 
seasons as a major league committee. also have a road game with 
manager. Leyland, who was Those games are also key the Friars, but they get to 
named the 2006 American in the race for a bye in the host Seton Hall, who is only 
Le&gue Manager of the Year, Big East tournament. 3-7 in conference. West 
led the Detroit Tigers to the Monday aftern~on before the Providence is just a half Virginia finishes its season 
World Series last season after banquet. game behind the Irish at 5-5 against first place 
they had finished 30 games "I was telling them that and DePaul is a full game Pittsburgh, who may have 
below .500 in 2005. "[The they're good players but I back at 5-6. Both teams clinched the Big East title or 
2005 Tigers] had good players want them to develop a confi­would suddenly be .con­at least a bye in the tourna­
but they didn't have a good dent swagger," he said. tenders for a bye again with ment by the time that game 
team," said Leyland. "It took Counsell, who captained the a win over Notre Dame. is played. 
a while to make them realize Irish to within a game of the "We're in contention for 
they were good." College World Series in 1992, the fourth spot," Carter said. Contact Chris Khorey at 
Leyland also said he spoke told the audience that he was "We have to worry about our ckhorey@nd.edu 
to Irish baseball players honored to be back at his alma 
*

() * 
2 M * 
A * 
R
2 
0
0 
I 
G

2 R ~~\~~~\'. ..your major~
0 

A . IR decidJRIT 
e
0 

s 
.ioin film, television, and theatre, music, iUld art, art history & design7 in •~xploring your potential at the M1\RDI fHl1\S (jEJ_.EBRJ\TION OF TilE VISUJ\1_~ i\ND PERFORMlNl~ lR,TS 
fRFE FOOl)" N1USiC., ART., r·ilN\., I~RiZFS., & MORE 6:!10 pm, UeHartolo t•er·forming ;\rts (Jenter 'rkkets at tim door· or call631-2800 
DEBARTOLO 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
COLLEGE Of ARTS AND LETTERS 

·mater. He applauded the state 
of the school's baseball pro­
gram, saying that it had defi­
nitely progressed in the past 
several years. 
"What I remember about 
being here is how hard we 
worked and how we wanted 
Notre Dame baseball to mat­
ter," Counsell said. "The pro­
gram is obviously in great 
shape." 
Shrage has adopted the 
motto "Tradition Never 
Graduates" for this year's 
team. He repeatedly stressed 
his high expectations for his 
players, including his first 
Irish recruiting class. 
"There's a sense of responsi­
bility that comes with putting 
on a baseball jersey at Notre 
Dame," he said. "These play­
ers have it." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, February 13, 2007 
Tournament. The most pressing issue for 
SurgeDePaul 

the Irish is to win their three continued from page 20 
continued from page 20 remaining road games against Villanova, Providence and and South Florida at 7-4. But in DePaul Feb. 26. Notre Dame is
conference. The Wildcats 

the top-heavy conference, the only 3-7 on the road, and nonedropped their last game against Irish sit only a game behind the of its road wins are against a
Seton Hall 56-51 in the final 

Cardinals, Marquette and ranked team. The Irish will seconds, and they are just 3-7 Hutgers, all of which are in a have to prove they can winon their home court. But they three-way tie for second. away from the Joyce Center to
lost those nine games by an 

"That's why every game is so impress the selection commit­average of just 7.6 points, and five games were decided by 10 
important to keep our stand­tee. ing," Irish coach Muffet Notre Dame will also have to
points or less. "Villanova's always a tough 

McGraw said. "And to be picked beat No. 23 Rutgers at home game for us to play," Irish coach 
to linish eleventh and still have Feb. 24 to round out its home a chance at linishing second schedule. The Irish have seenMuffet McGraw said Sunday this late in the year I think talks success in the Joyce Center, 
after Notre Dame's win over 

about the resilience of this including wins over Louisville, •DePaul. 
team." No. 18 Bowling Green and No.
The last six regular-season 

After its toughest stretch of 16 Purdue, and their only loss 
meetings between the' teams 

the season Jan. 23-31-when came to Indiana Dec. 3.
have been decided by an aver­it played three ranked teams But another big win over aage of 2. 8 points per game. Notre Dame leads the overall and got steamrolled by all of ranked opponent would do them -Notre Dame has a rela­.nothing but help the Irish

series 13-8, but Villanova has tively easy schedule to linish cause.
won five of the last seven 

out its regular season. "It's important to take care ofgames. 
The Irish begin this stretch your home court when the
McGraw was pleased with the Irish play against DePaul, but tonight against Big East-bottom NCAA selection committee feeder Villanova. The Wildcats starts looking at where they'refelt improvement was needed. 

are 1-10 in the conference and going to seed us," McGraw said. 
"I think we got to continue to have not won a game since "It's important to know thatwork on our defense," she said. 

beating the Mountaineers 70-64 we've been able to do the job at"We gave up 70 points tonight, and I don't know how many 
Jan. 6. Villanova has lost its last home." they scored in the last two min­
nine games by an average of With seven conference wins utes but it was way too many." 
7.8 points to stay cement their and a relatively easy remaining place in the Big East basement. schedule in the Big East, theRecently, the Irish have great­After the Wildcats, the Irish Irish are almost a lock to makely improved other facets of their will travel to Providence the NCAA Tournament. But, if it game. Notre Dame out­not," McGraw said. "They've previous year. 
Saturday for a game against the can round out its schedule withrebounded its opponents 41 to been pretty effective so far." Traditionally, the Irish play ninth-place Friars. Providence three road wins and a win over29.7 in the past three games, McGraw also acknowledged strong in February. The team is ended its own seven-game los­another ranked team, Notreand it held Louisville, the top the need for stronger inside 68-17 in the month since joining rebounding team in the Big play. the Big East in 1995. 
ing streak Saturday with a 93-Dame could be seeded as high East, to a season-low 29 boards. "I think we need the post," With an Irish win and losses 
77 win at St. John's for only its as seventh come March. third Big East win this season. Not bad for a team originally"We're doing a much better she said. "We need the post from both South Florida and Notre Dame will be playing projected to barely make thejob on the boards and we're scoring and we've got to be able Pittsburgh, Notre Dame could some of the worst teams in the Big East tournament.
doing a good job executing the to score on the block." move into a tie for third place. It conference, but McGraw is not But before the Irish can real­offense," McGraw said. Villanova's frontcourt players is currently tied for lifth in the looking past either opponent. ize any pipe dreams about theNotre Dame's offense under­all average in double figures Big East standings with five "Now we've got to win some Tournament, they have to staywent a slight shift against and are led by forward Jackie games to go before the tourna­games on the road and it's focused on the game at handDePaul, featuring a higher dose Adamshick, who scores 13.8 ment. 
going to be a tough stretch for and take care of businessof freshmen guard Ashley points per game. Forward "Now we've got to win some us," McGraw said. "Villanova is tonight in Philadelphia. 
Barlow in place of center Stacie Witman averaged 17.5 games on the road," McGraw 
always a tough game for us toMelissa D'Amico to offset the points in her last six games and said. "It's always a tough stretch play and is plqying everybody The views expressed in thisBlue Demons' smaller lineup. scored a career-high 26 points for us." 

close." column are those of the author
"This a group that we can against Seton Hall. Witman has Even with a strong season so and not necessarily those ofplay with at times during the averaged 12 points per game on Contact Bill Brink at far, the Irish still have some The Observer. 
game whether we start them or the season, up from four the wbrink@nd.edu 
work to do to ensure a good Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 

Con~.e and Listen Con~.e and Read Con~.e and Play 
Lectio@Eieven · 
A Late-Night Caba..et fo.. the Soul 
11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
February 13 featuring: Music by the Lazy Susans Readings by Henry W einfield (PLS) 
Lectio@,Eleven b1ings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! 
We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser at jcouser@nd.edu or call 631-3923. 
Sponsored by First Y car of Studies 
seeding in the NCAA jfitzpa5@nd. edu 
ICE DANCING 



Tuesday, February 13, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

LIAMMORAN
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Fascinated by 64 Upholstery protectors
Water carrier 33 The Beatles' the 66 Angler's hope
5 Maybelline rival Walrus" 67 Champion
10 Hearty's partner 35 Sporty wheels skater Brian 
14 Lex and Park, 68 Rustic stopovers
e.g., in N.Y.C. 40 Eighty-sixed wares of 1773 69 "Family Ties"
15 Head out 43 Break away son 
16 Banned orchard 70 Waist-ful?
17 Steinbeck classic 
45 "Como ?" 

19 It may be proper (with a hint to DOWN this puzzle's
20 "The Atom 1 Song of praise
theme)Show" (1960's 2 Ex of the Donald

TV cartoon) 46 Ambulance letters 3 Pasta topper
21 Stunt cyclist, 
e.g. 48 Spider web, e.g. 4 French direction 
22 Pagoda sights 50 Indonesian 5 Sporty Italian condiment auto, for short
23 A Judd 6 Eyed wolfishly
25 Follows a 55 Get through to healthy diet 7 mistake
59 "Halt!" to a salt 

(blew it)27 Like much 
60 Kind of colony

music, today a Heads off 62 Agile deer
29 "Sprechen _ 9 Craving Deutsch?" 63 Come together 
10 Ho Chi Minh's capital ANSWER TO PREVIOUS-=-Pr.U':'TZ..,...ZLr:E:T:"' 11 Go_ (agree) 
-=+::-:-t=:+.:-t=-1 12 Yu k it up -:+:;,+;,+::+-:::..j 13 Dadaist Max 
18 Valhalla chief 22 Van Susteren of 
TV news 24 Fraternal fellow 26 "Alas" utterer 28 Hollywood 
industry 
~~+=--~ 30 The "I" in F.W.I.W. 
-=+-=*-:+::~ 31 Alumna bio word 
WILLSHORTZ 


32 Tic _(mint) 42 International 54 Stop pacts
34 Conductance 56 Skybox locale unit 47 Four-star 
57 Woes for toes 36 Brunch offering 49 Singer Guthrie 
58 "Siddhartha" 37 Crunched 50 Rio dance writer muscles 
51 Be of use 61 It may be a iot 38 Raise a stink? 
52 "Try this!" 64 Jack of "Barney 39 Spanish Mrs. Miller"
53 Reo 41 That is: Lat. contemporary 65 Singer Damone 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~OO&bi! 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one Jetter to each square, I've got 
you, Bill
to form four ordinary words. 
PUROG 
rJ 
1 ©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
RYPEK 
j
I I r () 


QUI LID WHE=N THE: TIPSY 
SAIL.O!< WAS SAVE:O F!<OM FAL-L-ING
I (J I () 
OVE:!<BOA!<D,
www.jumble.com 

HE: WAS--­HEHRST 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as

I (J I () suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: l I xI JAND rI I J 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) 
..
ARRAY LIMIT COUPON BOUNCEYesterday's Jumbles: 
Answer: When the gardener spotted the dying shrub, he got to the -"ROOT' OF THE PROBLEM 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Christina Ricci, 27; Arsenio Hall, 52; Joanna Kerns, 54; Judy Blume, 69 
Happy Birthday: It's what you do to help others that will get you ahead this year. Your actions will impress even your most critical observer. This isn't a year to make drastic changes but it is one to stabilize your current position, to solidify important relationships and to form good connections with people who can assist you when you need help. Your numbers are 11, 15, 19, 21, 33,37 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You could use a vacation or a change of scenery. If you can't afford to take a trip, switch your routine a bit. Talking to people with experience could lead you to a new hobby, vocation or circle of friends. ***** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Someone may try to convince you to spend money or invest in something that will benefit him or her. Be strong and use your own will power to make more money or to improve your health. Now is not the time to be wishy-washy.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can please some but you can't please everyone. With that in mind, make choices that help you fulfill your own goals. A partnership may tum sour if either one of you is trying to take advantage. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't trust someone to do a job for you. If you put in extra effort and go it alone, you will be the one to advance. A romantic opportunity is present but don't get involved with this person if it will affect your financial future. 
*** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't be fooled by someone who wants you to invest in 
his or her future. You can do far better looking out for your own interests. Networking 
and socializing with people on the same path will give you some great ideas. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take things one step at a time. Someone may try to 
ruin your plans. If you want al) honest answer, ask precise questions. Your own 
relationship may be on shaky ground if you have neglected your responsibilities. ** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You should be able to make things happen if you aren't 
lazy, trying to get others to do things for you. Put in an all-out effort. A meeting with 
someone you consider to be knowledgeable will give you some new financial ideas. 
**** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll have the discipline to pull off a deal that you've been wanting to launch for some time now. Don't let anyone stand in your way. Emotional matters must not be allowed to interfere in your progress. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Reevaluate your motives and go about your business with integrity: Being underhanded will only come back to haunt you. A love connection is likely to cause you upset. Don't exaggerate. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Not everything will be out in the open. Don't get taken for a ride by someone painting a good sob story. Do your research and make your decision based on what's feasible. Anger will not solve any problems. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can affect people's decisions if you paint an honest picture of what you are trying to do. Someone you love may not be in total agreement with you. Listen to what this person has to say--it may be valid. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Stay calm and don't let emotional issues cloud what you know you must do. A problem with overindulgence will lead to arguments or, even worse, breakups. Look at things realistically: It can't always be the other person's fault.** . 
Birthday Baby: You are insightful and ready, willing and able to act fast. You are proud, worldly and a humanitarian. You are emotional, outgoing and totally unpredictable. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

,--­
•' 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
~ Tuesday, February 13, 2007 page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame looks to halt road troubles in Philadelphia tonight 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish recovered from a three-game losing streak on the road by winning their last three home games, including Sunday's victory over DePaul. They will try to put an end to their away­game troubles tonight at Villanova. 
Notre Dame's offense will be led by guard Charel Allen, who this week was named Big East Player of the Week for her play against Louisville and DePaul. Allen averaged 23 points and 10 rebounds per game in those two games while shooting 51.5 per­cent from field-goal range. Against DePaul, Allen dropped 25 points and grabbed 13 rebounds in the team's 78-70 win. 
Villanova (7-17, 1-10 Big East) has sputtered of late, losing a school-record nine straight games to fall to last place in the 
see VILLANOVA/page 18 
By FRAN TOLAN 
Sports Writer 
Despite the departure of the head coach who guided Notre Dame to Big East titles in each of the past five years, as well as 10 letterwinners from last sea­son's team. first-year Irish coach Dave Schrage expressed high hopes for his new squad at the sixth-annual "OpeningN i g h t Counsell 


Dinner" in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse Monday night. 
"It's always tough when there's a transition," said Schrage, referring to the change that saw him replace Paul Mainieri as Irish head coach in the fall. 
The squad will also have to adjust to the arrival of 15 new-

MEN'S BBAll 
Uol 

(.) Louisvile 66
1--z Pittsburgh 53 
Cardinals crush No. 7
:3 

Panthers in upset win. 
c:s 
a. =: ~ 

page 15 
Clawing back 

TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 

Irish guard Ashley Barlow drives around Louisville's Kala Faulkner during Notre Dame's 64-55 win over the Cardinals Feb. 7. Notre Dame will try to extend its winning streak to four tonight against last-place Villanova. 
Three game winning streak has Irish poisedfor postseason 
On Jan. 31, the Irish season was on the verge of collapse. The team had lost three straight games to ranked oppo­nents and was set to face a 


surging West Virginia team in the Joyce Center Feb. 4 in a game it had to win. 
Notre Dame rose 
Jay Fitzpatrick to the occa­sion. The Irish won that
Sports Writer 
game, and 
won again against No. 17/16 Louisville three days later. Those wins, coupled with another home win against DePaul Sunday night, have Notre Dame's season back on track. 
The Irish are tied for fifth in the Big East with Pittsburgh 
see SURGE/page 18 
BASEBALL 

Questions abound at season-opening banquet 
comers and three veterans who 
. did not play last year. At the banquet, where Detroit Tigers manager Jim Leyland and Milwaukee Brewers out­fielder Craig Counsell also spoke to the crowd of about 1,500, Schrage talked about his adjustment to life at Notre Dame. 
"I've only been here seven months but I'm honored to be your coach," he said. 
Schrage, who led Evansville of the Missouri Valley Conference to a 43-22 record last season. also declared that he has "got the Notre Dame spirit." 
Shrage, whose wife Jody passed away this January. introduced his two daughters to the crowd. 
"I want to thank you all pub­licly for the support you've given us," he said. "When they say Notre Dame's a real com­munity, they really mean it." 
Shrage also said that this 
see BANQUET/page 17 
WORlD ATHlETICS 
World-Anti Doping Angency head Dick Pound denounces IOC reprimand for comments about Lance Armstrong. 
page 15 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Carter focuses on one goal 
Irish senior has drive to play in NCAAs before leaving ND 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notrc Dame guard Bussell Carter has just one goal for thn last fivfl regu­lar season games of his senior year-"Five wins." 
Carter and the Irish are riding a two game losing streak, which dropped them to 6-5 in the Big East and 18-6 ovPrall. 
Carter, who is averaging 
17.3 points per game to lead the team, has had break out senior ynar. He has improved his scoring average by almost six points per game and is being looked at by NBA teams. 
But none of that will matter to him if the Irish do not finish this season 
see CARTER/page 17 


ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

Irish forward Rob Kurz slams the ball home during Notre Dame's 67-66 loss at DePaul Feb. 8. 
NBA NBA NBA

MEI\I'S BBAU. 

Duke in danger of missing the NCAA Tournament for the first time since 1996 after recent 4-game losing streak. 
page 14 

Carmela Anthony bruises thigh in 4th quarter of Denver's victory. 
page 12 
Jazz 102 Hawks 76 

Atlanta's 5-game road winning streak comes to a halt in Utah. 
page 12 
Pistons 92 Clippers 74 
Chris Webber scores 19 as Detroit tops Los Angeles. 
page 12 







