
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Six parked cars hit at Castle Point 
Early morning accident involves at least three Notre Dame, Saint Mary's students 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News "Editor 
A man driving a Lincoln truck hit at least six cars parked in a lot in the Enchanted Forest section of Castle Point Apartments early Sunday morning, residents said. 
St. Joseph County spokesperson Jaimee Thirion did not return Observer phone calls Sunday, so the exact count of damaged cars is unknown. At least three of the cars bt~longed to Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students. Another belonged to Rachel Davis, 26, a Castle Point resident who wit­nessed the accident. 
Davis said she woke up between 4:20 a.m. and 4:30 to the sound of the truck crashing into her car and five others. 
"He hit my car first, then he hit the back of the car next to me ­a Jeep -and then he hit the other girl's car and pushed it for­ward," Davis said. "Then he hit another car on the side and pushed that car into two other cars." 
Davis said she could not esti­mate the extent of the damage, but said "nobody was driving any ofthem today." 
The car came down the street through Enchanted Forest and did not turn at the curve in the road, but just kept going straight, she said. 
It only took about two minutes for police to arrive after Davis called them, she said. A security guard for Castle Point was also 
see CARS/page 6 


ND alumni etnbrace challenges in Africa 
Recent grads live and teach in Uganda, raise awareness ofcountry's social, economic problems 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
As a primary school teacher in Uganda, Matt Young had to quickly learn how to fight away the snakes and tailor his syl­labus to fit the needs of his stu­dents -even if it included teaching children how to empty pit latrines and avoid contract­ing malaria. 
"Many of the things I teach these kids would never be on a syllabus in the [United] States," said Young, who graduated from Notre Dame last spring. "In science class for instance, I teach how to tend to cattle, goats and chickens. 
"Other topics are how to avoid getting tapeworms ... and different methods to pre­vent malaria and AIDS." 
Young and fellow 2006 alum­nus Clay Allison recently met with University President Father John Jenkins and other Notre Dame representatives during the group's weeklong trip to Uganda. Both work at the African St. Jude Primary School and Lakeview Secondary School. 
The Observer was unable to contact Allison, however, as he was recovering from a bout of malaria. 
Before Young graduated, he thought his teaching career would involve lessons about multiplication and grammar, not battling mosquitoes and bats in the classroom. But while certain lessons "aren't very exciting," he said, "they are quite relevant for these 


SMC reflects on history, tradition 
Heritage Week allows community to experience the College's past 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
With over 150 years of his­tory and tradition, the Saint Mary's College community has a lot to celebrate during the second annual Heritage Week. 
Students, faculty and staff will commemorate the College's heritage through a week long series of movies, speeches and closing dinner on friday. 
Mcllduff decided to contin­ue the event, which was cre­ated by her predecessor Student Body President Kellye Mitros, due to its prior success and student response. 
"I included Heritage Week on my vice presidential plat­form last year," Mcllduff said. 
"Because of last year's 
see COLLEGE/page 4 


kids" -children who spend afternoons caring for siblings and their family's livestock and crops. 
When teaching children who cannot afford pencils, Young said every lesson becomes "a slow and tedious process." 
"There are many other obstacles to learning that are quite unique here also," Young said. "During the rainy sea­sons, it gets too muddy for many of the kids to walk to 
see UGANDA/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
lnlllate's execution 


stayed 
NDASK cancels trip to Indiana prison 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
Assistant News Editor 
Following the Indiana Supreme Court's decision Wednesday morning to put a stay on Norman Timberlake's Friday execution, Notre Dame Against State Killing (NDASKl cancelled the vigil it had planned to hold concurrently outside his prison in Michigan City. 
Timberlake, 59, shot and killed Indiana State Trooper Michael Greene in 1993. He was sentenced to death in 1995, and when the state parole board unanimously denied his final appeal for clemency Tuesday, his execution by lethal injection was slated for early Friday morning. 
While Timberlake suffers from paranoia and schizophrenia ­including continuous auditory hallucinations -he is still eligi­ble for capital punishment because, according to psychia­trists, he understands that he is going to be executed and why. 
The Indiana Supreme Court ordered the stay on Timberlake's execution, howev­er, because the U.S. Supreme Court is reviewing the Texas case of death row inmate Scott 
see PENALTY/page 4 

ND, SMC welcotne 36 transfer students 
By JOHN PAUL WITT News Writer 
By second semester most stu­dents have become familiar with life in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community, but for oth­ers life under the golden dome is a whole new experience. 
Notre Dame welcomed 25 transfer students and Saint Mary's enrolled 11 -numbers that were on par with the insti­tutions' transfer expectations, College and University officials said. 
Notre Dame Associate Director of Admissions Susan Joyce calls "in line with the University enrollment goal of about 125 fall and 25 spring transfers each year." 
Unlike the freshman admis­sions process, transfer students at both institutions must meet certain criteria to be admitted. 
Students must attain at least a 
3.00 GPA in college courses, and Notre Dame transfers must attend another institution for at least a full year. And unlike Saint Mary's, Notre Dame does not accept transfers into the First Year of Studies. 
Notre Dame students trans­ferred directly into the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science, or Engineering, Joyce said. Due to enrollment limitations, the University does not admit trans­fer students to the Mendoza College of Business, and th.e School of Architecture has not admitted transfer students in "several years" because of limi­tations imposed by the architec­ture program's required year in Rome, she said. 
Students were also challenged to fmd seats in classes at Notre Dame. 
"So many classes are closed 
see TRANSFERS/page 6 
page 2 INSIDE COLUMN 

Terrific 20 
Everyone knows the important birthdays: 13, 16, 18, 21 and 40. 
When you turn 13 you are finally a teenager. You don't get that same feeling of rebellion when you see a PG-13 movie 
because you are Liz Harter at the very age that the movies are rated for. Turning 16 is a News Writer big milestone. There is a lot of new freedom that comes with turning 16. You can finally drive! More freedoms come your way at 
18. When you turn 18 you are a legal adult. You can vote and gen­erally you will graduate from high school and head off to college at the age of 18. 
Turning 21 is the biggest mile­stone year in a college student's life for the most obvious reasons, and as soon as you hit 40 you are 'over the hill.' 
Every other age seems to get the shaft. 
There are no MTV shows cele­brating turning 14, 17. 20 or any other age except for the 'Super Sweet Sixteen.' 
Your 20th birthday is actually a pretty big deal even if you don't realize it. 
You are no longer a teenager and even though there are no new free­doms that come with turning 20. You're already able to drive and vote. Hopefully, since you are reading this in a college publica­tion, you are already in college, and you are that m"\Jch closer to being a full-f1edged adult. 
As I began my 20th year this past week, I started out with the belief that 20 is unimportant. l ean no longer use the excuse that I'm just a teenager to try to get out of responsibilities (even though that hardly ever worked anyway) and there isn't as much importance placed on this year as there will be 

, on my 21st birthday. By this morning, my views on turning 20 changed completely. I have found the most amazing friends over these past 20 years who left me so many messages on Facebook the day of my birthday that my inbox was full of notices. I also found my best friends, who threw a surprise party for me on Friday night so that we could cele­brate here at'sehool (my birthday was the last week of break, which by the way are the worst kind to have because you don't get to see your friends. Other days of birth like that happening this year occur on Mareh 10 and 11, and for any­one who is Irish enough to have been born on Saint Patrick's Day). So 20 should really get more credit as a birthday. 
Just surround yourself with friends and they will make sure your birthday is one to remember, even if it isn't one of the milestone birthdays. (To be completely sappy: Thanks guys!) 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, January 22, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO DO YOU THINK WILL WIN THE SUPER BOWL? 









Anthony Ashley sophomore Keough  Charlie Spear freshman Keough  Dorian Mirczhandani sophomore Keough  Sara Medek junior Welsh Family  Marcia McDonnell junior Holy Cross  Mike Williams freshman Keough  
'Tm gonna go with the Bears  "Both teams because we're  "Well not the Saints that's for  'The Bears, because Peyton  "The Bears, because ofSexy  "The Bears, because I hate  

because ofthe all winners." sure. Manning is hilarity which going to choke." would ensue if 
they won." 


KELLY HIGGINSffhe Observer 

Justin Spencer, the lead drummer in "Recycled Percussion" performs at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium Sunday. Spencer holds the world record for fastest single stick drumming at 21 beats per second. The concert kicked off the College's Heritage Week events. 
OFFBEAT 
Shot duck survives two days in fridge 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. ­Neither gunfire nor two days in a refrigerator could slay this duck. 
When the wife of the hunter who shot it opened the refrigerator door, the duck lifted its head, giving her a seare. 
The man's wife "was going to eheck on the refrigerator because it had­n't been working right and when she opened the door, it looked up at her," said Laina Whipple, a reception­ist at Killearn Animal Hospital. "She freaked out and told the daughter to take it to the hospital right then and there." 

The 1-pound female ring­neck ended up at Goose Creek Wildlife Sanctuary, where it has been treated since Tuesday for wounds to its wing and leg. English language tutors selling sex appeal 
HONG KONG-Angela Yiu and Stella Cheng spent weeks meeting with fashion stylists and photographers before deeiding on the mini skirts and high heels to wear in their promotion cam­paign.They're not models peddling perfume or sports ears. They're English tutors who earn good money help­ing secondary school stu­dents pass Hqng Kong's gru­eling exams to get into col­lege. 
"Their long legs are the· most beautiful ones in the tutorial industry," said Ken Ng, head of Modern Education, one of the city's biggest tutoring businesses. "This is our selling point." 
Attractive teachers are marketed like movie stars. Their schools show them off on billboards, full-page newspaper ads and TV screens in railway stations and on buses. 
Information compiled .from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
1.1.1 
:I: 
1.1.1

:= ~ 
...I 
<t 
(.) 0 


HIGH 27 HIGH 25 HIGH 25 HIGH 28
..... 

LOW 20 LOW 20 LOW 15 LOW 20 
Rexy." the Colts. " 
IN BRIEF 
The Mendoza College of Business is hosting the Heritage Leadership Institute program beginning today in Room 133 Mendoza, pre-registration is required. 
Architect Donald MacDonald will deliver a lecture titled "In Detail: From Bridge Design to High­Density Housing" as part of the Toeniskoet.ter Family Lecture Series at 4:30 p.m. today in 104 Bond Hall, all are weleome to attPnd. 
HecSports is sponsoring a blood drive Tuesday and Thursday from 9 a.m. to 
3:30 p.m·. and Wednesday from 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. at Rolfs. Registration is required. 
John French, associate professor of history at Duke University and Kellogg Institute Visiting Fellow, is speaking Tuesday at the Work in Progress Seminar: "Brazil's President as Working Class Haposa: Understanding Lula as Politician" from 12:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. in Hesburgh Center Room C-103. 
Wednesday is the last day to make changes to class schedules for the semester on InsideND. 
The Academic Council Meeting is taking place Wednesday in the McKenna Hall auditorium from 3 to 5 
p.m. Attendance is by invita­tion only. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH 15 HIGH 
13 

LOW 10 LOW 
8 


Atlanta 53 I 35 Boston 32 I 27 Chicago 31 I 22 Denver 33 I 22 Houston 52 I 42 Los Angeles 67 I 42 Minneapolis 26 I 17 New York 36 I 32 Philadelphia 39 I 31 Phoenix 57 I 38 Seattle 47 I 43 St. Louis 33 I 25 Tampa 81 I 65 Washington 42 I 33 
, . ' 
Monday, January 22, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Translated w-ork w-ins aw-ard 
Special to The Observer 
"Jacques and Raissa Maritain: Beggars for Heaven," a biography by Jean-Luc Barre, translated by Bernard E. Doering, pro­fessor emeritus of Romance languages and literatures at Notre Dame, and published by Notre Dame Press, has won two recent honors from the Catholic Press Association and the Association of American University Presses. 
Jacques Maritain, born in 1882 to a French Protestant family, met Raissa Oumansoun· when they were both university st_udents in Paris. Their subsequent love affair was sufficiently complex to include a mutual suicide pact revocable only on condition of their discov­ery of the meaning of human life and existence. Providentially, the revocation was delivered through their attendance at the lectures of the French philosopher Henri Bergson, and the influence of their friendship with Leon Bloy, the novelist who famously said, "there is only one sadness in life: Not to be a saint." They mar­ried in 1904 and were received into the Catholic Church in 1906. 
Maritain, who described his wife as "dimidium ani­mae meae" ("half my soul"), went on to become one of the most influential Catholic philosophers of modern times, exemplifying the interweaving of religious belief and contemporary intellectual and political cul­ture. During the 1940s and 1950s he was a frequent vis­itor and lecturer at Notre Dame. 
Doering, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1965, also is the author of another book about Maritain, "Jacques Maritain and the French Catholic Intellectuals," and editor of "The Philosopher and the Provocateur: The Correspondence of Jacques Maritain and Saul Alinski." In addition to translations of numerous articles and books by and about the Maritains, he has published articles in The Review of Politics, Commonweal, The New Oxford Review, Theological Studies and Communio, among other journals. 


ND prof honored for writings 
Special to The Observer 
The Alliance of Artists Communities recently named poet Francisco Aragon a recipient of the Midwestern Voices and Visions award. A faculty member in the Institute for Latino Studies at Notre Dame, he was one of seven award recipients from a pool of 115 nominated artists and writers. 
Funded by the Joyce 
Foundation, the Midwestern Voices and Visions award acts as a patron for highly talented minority artists in the Great Lakes region. Aragon will spend September 2007 focusing exclusively on his writing at the residential artist community of the Anderson Center for Interdisciplinary Studies in Red Wing, Minn. 
"My work at the Institute for Latino Studies consists, in large part, of being a champion and advocate of other Latino and Latina writers," Aragon said. "The demands of the job ... have made it very difficult to devote sustained, quality time to my own work. The timing of this award could not have been better. It's very gratifying to know that there are foundations and initiatives that support artists froln under-repre­sented communities." 

College initiates transfer to upgraded e-tnail service 
Students, staff pleased with change 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Saint Mary's will soon complete the transformation to the new Zimbra Collection Server -the College's pri­mary calendar and messaging system. 
Although Zmail was introduced during winter break, students are able to use the previous Aegis Webmail server until Jan. 30 -the posted deadline to swicth to the new system. 
"We are looking at keeping both systems up until everyone has gone through the conversion process, so, at this point, we are hoping for little downtime," Chief Information Officer Keith Fowlkes said. 
The migration process consists of 
· clicking a link on the @Home page and entering both the e-mail address and password of the account to be transferred. As long as there are not multiple accounts in line to be transferred, ,Fowlkes said, the entire process takes five minutes or less. As of Jan. 17, 801 members of the Saint Mary's community -including faculty, staff and clubs -had migrat­ed to Zmail. Notices to complete the process will be sent to users closer to the Jan. 30 deadline, Fowlkes said. "If students, faculty, or staff do not migrate by the deadline, no mail will be lost," Fowlkes said, ."but the accounts may be suspended until the user migrates." 
He said students, faculty and staff seem to be unaffected by the change in e-mail systems. 
"I don't think we could have-asked for a better transition so far," Fowlkes said. "The response from everyone has been great. The [new) interface is much better [than the Aegis system) and integrates shared calendars and address books." 
Sophomore Lauren Mangiaforte switched systems early this week and did not experience problems. 
"I enjoy the new e-mail," Mangiaforte said. "I worked with [a similar program) at work over the summer and it really helped me to stay organized." 
While the migration process has been stress free so far, Fowlkes advis­es students to migrate during the College's Resnet support office hours. in case they encounter a problem. 
Information Technology is also pro­viding online tutorials and live train­ing sessions focused on the use of the Zimbra server and its components. 
The new server is not yet complete because Information Technology is still in the process of moving every­thing from the Aegis system to the Zimbra server. 
"We still have some work to do on migration of old calendars from the old Aegis calendar system to the new Zmail system, but that is in the works now," Fowlkes said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
RU]~_Now! 
fVBGR-6021 0 B/\UG-:302'1 0 

This one credit-hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society during the next decade. A series of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence 
~iJ'v 2017: ~i/Uj 1'ou:J~ Cho~ 7o~ ~JJJr Scvv& o~AA 7~ 
David VValker, Comptroller Goneral, United States of AmericEl 
S~~ iJv g~ba£ 7~Poc,v~ 
Dr. David E ~J1artin, CEO, M·CAM 
~~&,_hvU~7~ 
Dr. Patrick Minnis, 1'-l!\SA. LanQiey Research Center 



R~ £voeufwl'v 

Joel Garreau, Author. Reporior & Editor, The VVashington Post 

:11V1JVU£jJttJlol'v RefJovn: 7~ .Nuv 7~ ob ~ 
1··1onorable Romano L. Mazzoli, forrner member, U.S. House of Representatives 
"Ten Years Hence" is listed as BAUG-3021 0 and MBGR-6021 0, and is open to all Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students, and Saint Mary's students. There are no prerequisites to enroll. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course. This course requires no textbook purchases, examinations or term papers. Use an add form to register; registration is not available online. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 22, 2007 


Penalty 
continued from page 1 
Pannetti, whose mental afflic­tions are similar to Timberlake's. The high court will likely issue a decision on that process within the next year of cases. 

"[A mentally ill death row inmate] might say yes, I know I'm being executed, and not know what he means," said Andrea Laidman, NDASK co­director. "I think Norman Timberlake knows that he's going to be executed, but at the same time, he lives with delu­sions that his brain's being tor­tured by a machine run by the prison." 
Timberlake still alleges he is innocent of murdering Greene, who was a 16-year veteran of the Indiana State Police. He con­tests that the numerous witness­es who pinned the crime on him were guilty of perjury at his 1995 trial. 
He also claims he does not suf­fer from mental illness. 
"The fact is that the lawyers of death row prisoners are going to use whatever line of argument is going to have the prisoner's sen­tence commuted to life imprison­ment," Laidman said. "It's a line of argument that is true, but not necessarily the one the prison­er's going to favor. 
"I would say that most people with mental illnesses aren't straightforward about saying it aloud and accepting it." 
Laidman and her co-director Will McAuliffe had already returned home for Christmas break when the decision to exe­cute Timberlake was made on Dec. 17, Laidman said, and it came as a shock when they found out online in early January. 
"When we started the I NDASKJ campaign, we went to a site and read the cases of all death row prisoners," Laidman said. " ... A lot of officials we talked to said they didn't think one would be scheduled this spring." 
In the few days they had back in South Bend before the sched­uled execution, the campaign spoke to its eight co-sponsors (including Notre Dame College Democrats and Amnesty International) to increase aware­ness on the case. Laidman and McAuliffe arranged buses to transport students and commu­nity members to the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City, where they would hold a vigil during Timberlake's execution inside. 
When Timberlake's execution was stayed, the campaign organ­ized an alternative vigil at the Grotto from 11:30 p.m. to mid­night Thursday night, in memory of Timberlake as well as Greene and his family. They began a campus collection for the Greenes (which, Laidman said, they hope to petition a public official to match) to be sent to the charity of the Greenes' choice in Master Sgt. Greene's name. 
"Pretty much anyone who becomes involved in death penalty in a serious, straightfor­ward way will learn quickly you can't advocate just for prisoners -you have to respect and act on behalf of families of victims," Laidman said. "It's a hugely hard balance to achieve, but it's very important to the work." 
NDASK is sending a letter to the Greene family expressing its condolences and its dual mission to commemorate Master Sgt. Greene's life of service through the collection as well as oppose using capital punishment as jus­tice for Timberlake. 
Throughout the spring, the NDASK campaign plans to fur­ther its goal of establishing a moratorium on the death penal­ty in Indiana by seeking signa­tuxes from South Bend organiza­tions for its moratorium resolu­tion. A forum has also been planned for later in the spring featuring a wide variety of view­points, in contrast to last fall's heavily anti-death penalty speaker series. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 

toes, rats and bats" around him interested in Africa while living whose personal contributions to but I can do something. -an experience that gives him in Sorin College, which spon­the medical corps in Southeast "What I can do, I ought to do,

Uganda 

"a little glimpse into these kids' sored St. Jude Primary School. Asia in the late 1950s inspired and what I ought to do, by the continued from page 1 lives." "It is easy to sit back and say Young to become involved in grace of God, I will do." 
"This is their daily reality: not 'the things that are going on Uganda. school, and during the dry sea­seeing their parents, struggling over there are so terrible.' He taped Dooley's words to sons, the classrooms become to overcome the obstacles and That, however, doesn't make his door: "I am only one, but I Contact Marcela Berrios at like saunas, which makes learn­hoping against all a dent in the prob­am one. I cannot do everything, aberrios@nd.edu ing pretty difficult. odds that they lem," he said. 
"If it rains during class, the can have a "Although I am "Living with and noise of the rain hitting the tin brighter future," for these people is
their teacher, I 

roof makes· it impossible to Young said. "As I how I decided to
have found myself

hear." walk around the make my impact." Many times the children also next day, deliri­being the student Young said he 
OPEN AUDITIONS 
go to school with empty stom­ous from my lack was unable to pin­
more often than 
achs, Young said, limiting their of sleep, these point an exact
not."
ability to concentrate. But he kids are as bright moment during his 




for ND Handbell
finds their determination and and cheery as time in school that optimism admirable. ever. Matt Young drew him to "They have a passion for "Although I am Uganda, but he
2006 graduate
learning that leaves me in their teacher, I was certain that 


Choir 
awe," he -said. have found myself "the person Notre 

A small number of the kids being the student more often Dame molded [him 1 into and the who live too far away to walk than not." values it helped instill in !him]" each day board at the school Young also aids Africa led him down that path. each night, and Young some­through Kilimanjaro for Kids­Ile will remain in Uganda for times joins them as they sleep a fundraising effort he began a year and a half, but hopes he 
NO Celebration Choir 
on the classroom floor. with fellow 2006 graduate Tony will get the chance to stay As he works to ensure the Steier to raise awareness and longer. 

seeks violinist, guitarist, and 
children study different things sponsor educational projects in Each morning Young finds from school and prepare for Uganda. inspiration from a fellow Notre 

male singers. 
bed, he listens "to the mosqui-Young said he initially became Dame missionary, Tom Dooley, 
Saint Mary's College." about the history of the On Wednesday, there will be school. If students know more


College 
"Cookies and Conversation" about their school, they will with Saint Mary's alumnae in have more school pride," she
continued from page 1 

the Welcome Center. said. On Thursday Sisters of the Heritage Week can also be success, we thought it was Holy Cross will speak in used as a good networking 
Contact: Karen Kirner
C-M

something we should contin­Stapleton Lounge as part of opportunity, Mcllduff said. 
631-9386 
ue." the lecture "Where is the "If students network early, 
Campus Ministry 

e-mail: karen.kirner@nd.edu
Heritage Week -sponsored Love? Finding Hope in the it will help them in the by the Board of Governance Service of Others." future," she said. "Making (BOG) -starts today and The week's festivities con­good relationships with alum­continues through Friday clude with the Heritage nae is key and there will be evening. Dinner on Friday alums at almost every event." 
"There is no night in Stapleton All of the activities planned outside sup­"We chose this Lounge. Sisters of are meant to educate stu­port," Mcllduff the Holy Cross, dents about the school's his­
theme because 'We 

s a i d former and cur­tory as well as giving them a
Didn't Start the

"Everything rent administra­chance to meet new people. that is happen­Fire,' but it is our tion and students "Everything we are doing is ing is through job to keep it are invited to a to help connect the communi­the students." reenactment din­ty," Mcllduff said.
burning."

Some of the ner of yesteryear. "It is a way to get to know events include "It is our signa-different people and connect movies in the Susan Mcllduff ture event," in a better way." Vander Vennett student body president Mcllduff said. BOG is promoting Heritage 
Theater, daily t­"Last year, there Week through signs, e-mail shirt sales and was a wait list for and reminders in the dining "Belles Out" -a game creat­the dinner." hall. ed to help students learn This year's theme for the Mcllduff hopes for another more about the rich history of week is "We Didn't Start the successful year, but sees the college. Fire," titled after the Billy room for improvement 
On Tuesday, humanistic Joel song. already. studies professor Gail "We chose this theme "Heritage Week has a lot of Mandell, author of the book because 'We Didn't Start the ways to grow," she said. "We "Madeleva: A Biography", will Fire,' but it is our job to keep will have to wait and see how speak in Reidinger House. it burning," Mcllduff said. it changes in the future." Mandell discuss the College's The events of this week are icon Sister Madeleva in the special to Mcllduff because of· lecture "Sister Madeleva: how new the program is. Contact Katie Kohler at Alumna and 3rd President of "Not that many people know kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 










ORLD & NATION 
Monday, January 22, 2007 CoMPILED FROlv\ THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Sudan accused of violating cease-fire 
KHARTOUM, Sudan -Government planes breached a cease-fire by bombing villages in northern Darfur, rebel commanders said Sunday as the U.S. called on Sudan to let insurgent factions meet to discuss holding joint peace talks with the regime. 
The reports on the bombings, which could not be independently confirmed, came days after Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir vowed to adhere to a truce brokered by New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson and others dur­ing a visit earlier this month. 
Sudan's military spokesman denied the gov­ernment conducted any bombings, which would violate the new cease-fire as well as a May peace accord between the government and one rebel group, and several U.N. Security Council resolutions. 
"We never bombard civilians anywhere," the spokesman said on condition of anonymi­ty in accordance with army policy. 
Al-Sadr loses protection of Iraqi P.M. 
BAGHDAD -Iraq's prime minister has dropped his protection of an anti-American cleric's Shiite militia after U.S. intelligence con­vinced him the group was infiltrated by death squads, two officials said Sunday. 
In a desperate bid to fend off an all-out American offensive, the radical cleric Muqtada al-Sadr last Friday ordered the 30 lawmakers and six Cabinet ministers under his control to end their nearly two-month boycott of the gov­ernment. They were back at their jobs Sunday. 
Al-Sadr had already ordered his militia fight­ers not to display their weapons. They have not, however, ceded control of the formerly mixed neighborhoods they have eaptured, killing Sunnis or forcing them to abandon their homes and businesses. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Police widen search for lo~al family 
ELKHART, Ind. -Police and federal agents extended their search to Chicago on Sunday for four children and their mother, whose ex­boyfriend authorities say shot a man and kid­napped them in Indiana the day before. 
Authorities have issued an Amber Alert and said the children and their mother, 31-year-old Kimberly N. Walker, were in extreme danger. Walker and Jerry D. White, 30, the father of the four children, once lived in Chicago, and White has family there, police said. 
Police said they recovered two cars, a Dodge Intrepid that White used to flee and Walker's two-door Saturn, which White is suspected of stealing Friday. The cars were found Saturday night in Elkhart, about 90 miles east of Chicago. 

Colorado reels from series of storms 
DENVER -The latest in a series of winter storms battered Colorado on Sunday, dumping several inches of snow and whipping up strong wind that created whiteout conditions on the state's eastern plains. 
Accidents caused by blowing snow and icy roads closed southbou-nd Interstate 25 near Fort Collins for two hours Sunday morning. State Patrol Master Trooper Ron Watkins said no injuries were reported. 
Wmd up to 60 mph piled the snow into drifts as high as 3 feet in parts of the state, the National Weather Service said. 
A blizzard warning remained in effect for much of eastern and northeastern Colorado. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Bill targets surrogate adoption policy 
INDIANAPOLIS-A Republican state sen­ator from Indianapolis said she fears Indiana has become a hub for adoptions arising from surrogate births involving out­of-state residents. 
No figures are available, because adop­tion filings are confidential by law. But Sen. Patricia L. Miller said she wants to halt the practice. 
She has submitted a bill that would limit who could be paid to arrange adoptions or child placements to licensed attorneys, child welfare workers and licensed child­placing agencies. 


L.A. vows crackdown on gangs 
Latest string of killings prompts strong response from police, feds, politicians 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -A 14­year-old girl was killed by Hispanic gang members who police say were target­ing blacks. A 9-year-old girl died after being hit by a stray bullet as gang mem­bers exchanged shots near her home. A cop was wounded in a gunbattle with a suspected gangster. 
The soaring violence is prompting police and politi­cians to promise one of the toughest crackdowns on gangs in city history. 
"This is the monster, this is what drives people's fears," said Deputy Chief Charles Beck, who oversees a South Los Angeles district where gang-related crime jumped 24 percent during the year ending in November. 
However, the effort has met skepticism in the city that has an estimated 700 gangs with 40,000 mem­bers -about four for every police officer -and that gave birth to some of the nation's most notorious· gangs, including the Crips, Bloods and Mara Salva­trucha, or MS-13. 
"It's too big, it's too entrenched, it's too inti­mately connected witb the urban setup here," Malcolm Klein, a gang expert at the University of Southern . California, said of the gang prosecutors to pursue rack­In some ways, the ney Connie Rice. problem. "You can reduce eteering and other charges approach mirrors a multi­And a 1980s anti-gang it. But the idea you can mostly used in the past agency Boston campaign in unit known as Community somehow eliminate it is against organized crime. the 1990s, known as the Resources Against Street ridiculous." FBI Director Robert Boston Miracle, that result­Hoodlums, or CRASH, was 
Gangs have thrived for Mueller has assigned agents ed in a dramatic decline in disbanded after allegations generations in Los Angeles, to an anti-gang task force in gun violence and murder of police corruption. Few of but the especially violent the San Fernando Valley to rates. the thousands of suspected past year caught police work alongside police depu­Past efforts in Los gang members in South Los brass off guard. Citywide tized as federal officers. Angeles, however, have pro­Angeles were ever charged. crime rates fell in 2006 but Authorities promise to duced mixed results. Residents are demanding gang-related offenses increase enforcement in "We've seen this movie renewed action while trying increased 14 percent -the afflicted neighborhoods. before," said Mario Corona, to stay out of the line of fire. first hike in four years. In The officers will be armed a former member of the Esteban Martinez, 41, the San Fernando Valley, with injunctions forbidding Pacoima Criminals gang in hears gunshots at night in gang murders, assaults, • gang members from assem­the San Ferqando Valley the San Fernando Valley, robberies and other crimes bling in certain areas, law­who now works to rehabili­where he lives with his wife jumped 42 percent. suits aimed at shutting tate gang members. and four small children. 
Mayor Antonio Villa­down gang hangouts as nui­The city has been ham­"Everybody is afraid, but raigosa has appealed to sances and probation pered in the past by a lack they don't speak (to police) 
U.S. Attorney General_ orders barring gang mem­of resources and changing because they are afraid to Alberto Gonzalez for mil­bers from returning to their department priorities, get into trouble with the lions of dollars in anti-gang neighborhoods after their according to a city-funded gang members," Martinez funds and for more federal release from prison. report by civil rights attar-said. 

VENEZUELA 

Chavez tells U.S. to 'go to hell' 
Chavez's plans under the law "have coup that he claimed the U.S. played a
Associated Press caused us some concern." role in. The Bush administration has CARACAS-President Hugo Chavez Chavez rejected Casey's statement in repeatedly denied being involved, told U.S. officials to "Go to hell!" on his his broadcast, saying: "Go to hell, grin­although it recognized an interim gov­weekly radio and TV show Sunday for gos! Go home!" ernment established by coup leaders. what he called unacceptable meddling Chavez, who was re-elected by a wide Since then, Chavez has consistently after Washington raised concerns about margin last month, has said he will accused the U.S. of conspiring to oust a measure to grant Venezuela's fiery enact sweeping reforms to remake him and often asserts the CIA is work­leftist leader broad lawmaking powers. Venezuela into a socialist state. Among ing to destabilize his government. U.S. The National Assembly, which is con­his plans are nationalizing the main officials have denied trying to overthrow trolled by the president's political allies, telecommunications company and the Chavez, but they have labeled him a is expected to give final approval this electricity and natural gas sectors. threat to democracy. week to what it calls the "enabling law," The president's opponents accuse him Criticizing excessive consumption and which would give Chavez the authority of using his political strength to expand self-indulgence, Chavez also announced to pass a series of laws by decree during his powers. plans in his broadcast to raise domestic an 18-month period. Relations between Caracas and gasoline prices and approve a new tax On Friday, U.S. State Department Washington have been tense since on luxury goods such as private deputy spokesman Tom Casey said Chavez was briefly ousted in a 2002 yachts and second homes. 
pus accommodations before and during fall semester.
Transfers 
"All fall transfer requests for 
continued from page 1 on-campus accommodations -------------were granted by spring," she now that they have a real said. problem with that," Joyce said. Notre Dame transfer stu­"They'll get something, but it's dents attended Transfer-0 the probably not the best schedule weekend before classes began around." -orientation events conduct­
"1 tell people, the first ed by 20 upper class students semester is going to be a little who had transferred in past bit of a scavenger hunt, but years. they will get good counseling Joyce stressed the important about what transfers," Joyce experience that the orientation said. leaders brought to the event. 
All Notre Dame transfer stu-"Who better than those who dents who requested housing have been through it to help were placed into a dorm -them make the social and aca­something Joyce said is unusu-demic transition?" Joyce said. al. Of the fall semester's 147 Notre Dame junior Anne admitted transfer students, Martell, formerly of the only 60 were granted on-cam-University of Buffalo, said her experience was "amazing, especially because there's only twenty-five students, so it's easy to make friends." 
Saint Mary's transfer stu­dents are not provided with a specialized orientation, but are invited to participate in the first-year student summer ori­entation program if they enter with first-year standing. Students had few regrets about transferring to Notre Dame. 
Junior Danielle Thompson, formerly of the University of Southern California, said she transferred because of Notre Dame's "religious aspect" and "tradition." 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 


School lunches revamped 
Associated Press 
001, N.J. -The cafeteria lunch line at Columbus Elementary School moves quickly as students grab por­tions of carrots celery, apples and oranges. French fries and hamburgers, once cafeteria staples, aren't even offered. 
"I eat carrots or apples every day," said 10-year-old Alan Espino. He said he didn't notice that the bun holding his all­beef hot dog was whole wheat. Even the pizza available in the cafeteria has whole wheat crust. 
The school cafeteria looks radically different from those of his parents' generation, and it appears many kids aren't turn­ing their noses up at the new offerings. In fact, according to a survey of food service directors, french fries are decreasing in popularity and interest in car­rots is skyrocketing. 
As choices on the. lunch line change, many children are accepting them, said Martha Conklin, an associate professor at Penn State University who conducts research about school nutrition programs and school food service. 
"If you present these healthy offerings to children, they may turn them down the first time, but you can't give up," she said. 
"Children will adapt. Choiee is important, but they can make those selections from healthy offerings." 
The School Nutrition Association's annual survey given to food service directors around the country shows just that. Among students in kindergarten through 12th grade, french fries dropped in popularity from 1998 to 2006, while carrots and fresh vegeta­bles rose in popularity. 
"We are dealing with much more sophisticated audiences now, and we working hard to meet their needs in a healthier way," said Janey Thornton, the association's president. 
Cars 
continued from page 1 
present at the crash site. 

Castle Point is loeated outside of South Bend, so South Bend Police publie information offieer Phil Trent said St. Joseph County Police would respond to incident<; at the eomplex. The Observer was unable to reach County police or a Castle Point manager Sunday. 
Davis said she saw three St. Joseph County Poliee ears and one pletely off-it's cracked in half." 
The back of Cusack's car col­lapsed on itself, Cusack said. The · gas tank and the wheels of her car were also damaged. 
Notre Dame senior Rena Zarah said she was not at her apartment early Sunday morning, but her roommate called her when she woke up to tell her that her new 2006 Honda CRV had been hit. 
"It was parked in the spot right across from my apartment," Zarah said. "It was my favorite spot. When it is open everyone always 
fights for it." 
She said her ear 

Roseland Police ear at the seene. She said she spoke to  "/ went out and where we live there  was "wedged in between two other cars."  
pollee, who told her  is a big hill ... and  "When they move  
the man driving the car was intoxieated. "He didn't even  my car was hanging over a  the two cars that are surrounding my ear, it's just going to  
get out of his truck  ditch like it was  scrape  my  car  
until the police got  about to fall.,  more," Zarah said.  
there," Davis said.  Cusack  and  
"I think they just  MacKinnon's insur­ 
took him."  Meghan MacKinnon  ance  eom panics  
Police also told  senior  gave them numbers  

her the man driving the truck lived in Enchanted Forest, Davis said, but she did not reeognize him. 
"A couple other people said they recognized the car," Davis said. 
Anne Cusack and Meghan MaeKinnon, both Saint Mary's sen­iors, said when they left their apartment in Enchanted Forest Sunday morning to go to church, they discovered their cars had been hit. MacKinnon's car was pushed forward and Cusack's car was two parking spaces over from where it had been. 
"I went out and where we live there is a big hill . . . and my car was hanging over the ditch like it was about to fall," MacKinnon said. "The rear bumper was com-of local auto repair 
shops, MacKinnon said. Their cars will be towed today, she said, and they will get rental cars to drive until they are fiXed. 
"It will probably take a week to two weeks, and Anne's car may even be totaled," MacKinnon said. 
The police told Davis to call the records department at the police station on Monday to get the acci­dent report, she said. Zarah said she heard the man driving the truck had car insurance. 
"I just hope .that his insurance covers it," she said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
.,.. 
.... 



The Observer is now accepting applications for its 2007-08 Editor-in-Chief. Applicants should turn in a resume and a 12-15 page application to The Observer's South Dining Hall offices by Wednesday, January 24 at 5 p.m. Please call Mike Gilloon 
....


at 631-4542 with any questions. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, January 22, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow 


12,565.53 -2.40

jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,273 130 1,002 2,780,647,230 

NASDA2., 2,451.31 

-lllll~rlll~1~~~1i1:~1111811liiiB!I!I 
S&P 500 1,430.50 +4.13 
.,,~@ljj:· .... i1'1llllltl~lllllllll!li11111 
FTSE IOO(London) 6,237.20 +26.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR(QQQQ)  +0.20  +0.09  44.17  
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI)  -2.22  -0.09  3.96  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.82  +0.17  20.82  
APPL INC (AAPL)  -0.64  -0.57  88.05  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.46  +0.022  4.773  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.42  +0.020  5.000  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.29  +0.0 14  4.860  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.57  +0.027  4.770  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +1.51  51.99  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +8.30  636.40  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.20  96.20  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  121.2400  
EURO  0.7718  
POUND  0.5068  
CANADIAN$  1.1727  

IN BRIEF 
Businesses blast insurance overhaul 
NEW YORK-Businesses are wary of a crop of new state health care proposals to reduce the number of uninsured, fearing the programs will drive up their expenses without solving the prob­lem. 
Dissension already has surfaced: Maine's health insurers and businesses have balked at how the state's program to expand coverage has been funded and have filed several lawsuits over the policy. 
Smaller companies are especially worried, because they are less likely to provide health insurance than bigger concerns, and some of the proposals call for companies that don't provide coverage to pay into state funds. But experts note that if the taxes paid by small businesses aren't sufficient to provide coverage for the uninsured, larger companies that do provide insurance could be tapped to contribute to state funds as well. 
The California proposal calls for businesses with 10 or more employees to offer insurance to workers or pay 4 percent of their payroll into a state fund. That's already a lot of money to a small business but there's also the concern that the amount could rise if the state needs more funds, said Michael Shaw, the National Federation of Independent Business' assistant state director for California. 

Sharper Image reaches settlement 
SAN FRANCISCO -Sharper Image Corp. has agreed to discount its high-tech gadgets by more than $60 million and make several other conces­sions to settle a class-action lawsuit alleging the specialty retailer misled customers about the effectiveness of its air purifiers. 
Under the proposed settlement disclosed Friday in a regulatory filing, Sharper Image will offer $19 merchandise credits to each of the roughly 
3.2 million consumers who have bought one of its "Ionic Breeze" purifiers since May 6, 1999. 
The credits can be applied toward the pur­chase of other Sharper Image-branded products for a year after they're issued. 
The same group of consumers also will be able to buy a grill attachment designed for the Ionic Breeze for $7. Although Sharper Image didn't quantify how much customers could save under this offer, several different types of them were listed Friday for $39.95 on the company's Web site. 



Motorola losses prompt job cuts 
Struggling cell phone giant to slash 3,500 positions after dismal fourth quarter 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Motorola Inc. CEO Ed Zander said Friday the cell-phone maker will cut 3,500 jobs, or 5 percent of its work force, as it moves to improve operating costs after a disappointing fourth quarter. 
Zander, speaking to ana­lysts at a meeting in New York, said the move will save the company about $400 million over two years. The cuts from Motorola's work force of about 70,000 are to be spread across the company globally and completed in the first half of 2007. 
The world's No. 2 hand­set manufacturer also said it will beat Wall Street esti­mates for 2007 sales by as much as $3 billion, fore­casting a full-year total of $46 billion to $49 billion. Analysts had predicted sales of $45.9 billion. 
The announcements sent Motorola's stock surging despite a fourth-quarter earnings report that showed profits down 48 percent from a year earlier on a stumble in operating results from its handset business. 
Shares rose 58 cents, or 

3.1 percent, to $19.29 in morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock began the ses­broadcast over the Results included a net line with analysts' forecast sion down 9 percent this Internet. "There may be gain of 5 cents per share of $10.5 billion. year after a 9 percent some changes in tactics." for various charges. Edward Jones analyst decline in 2006. He also dismissed sug­Excluding those items, Rick Franklin said that 
The Schaumburg, IlL­gestions that the trendset­Motorola said earnings while results remained based company had ting Razr phone, which from continuing operations strong in Motorola's net­warned two weeks earlier turned around the compa­were 21 cents a share, or works and enterprise and that results would come in ny's fortunes two years better than the 13 cents to connected home segments, well below expectations ago, is running out of 16 cents it forecast two the company has to reduce after a decline in operating momentum. weeks ago. costs in the handset busi­profitability. "It's funny, I keep reading Analysts surveyed by ness, where the operating 
Zander said a variety of about Razrs being tired," Thomson Financial had margin sank to 4.4 percent factors, including missed he told analysts on an ear­lowered their consensus from 11.6 percent in the forecasts, had resulted in a lier conference call. "We estimate to 25 cents per third quarter. worse-than-expected quar­sold more Razrs in quarter share following Motorola's "When you see this level ter despite strong sales. He four than in any quarter Jan. 5 warning. of margins, there's some­said Motorola is sticking we ever had. We now have Revenue was $11.8 bil­thing that needs fixing and with its strategy, which sold over 7 5 million Razrs lion, up 17 percent from it's not a three-month fix," many analysts had said worldwide." $10 billion a year ago and he said. was in need of overhaul fol­Net profit for the last slightly above Wall Street's The company, which lowing the company's Jan. three months of 2006 was $11.7 billion estimate. trails Finland's Nokia 5 profit warning. $624 million, or 25 cents The company said it Corp., said its world mar­
"There's no change in per share, down from $1.2 expects sales between ket share grew nearly 1 strategy," he told analysts billion, or 46 cents per $10.4 billion and $10.6 bil­percent in the quarter to at the meeting, which was share, a year earlier. lion in the first quarter, in 23.3 percent. 


Market cools on poor profit reports 
Associated Press but were still down for the week. that began in 2004. Last year, 
"I think we're at an extremely piv­investors propelled stocks sharply 

NEW YORK -Stocks closed nar­otal psychological level," said T.J. higher partly on the widely held view 
rowly mixed Friday after profit Marta, economic strategist at RBC that the Fed would cut rates perhaps 
reports and forecasts from blue chip Capital Markets. He said earnings as early as the first half of 2007. 
names like International Business and economic data support the The Dow Jones industrial average 
Machines Corp. and General Electric Federal Reserve's notion that the closed down 2.40, or 0.02 percent, at 
Co. failed to impress Wall Street and economy can pull off & soft landing. 12,565.53. 
sent investors searching for other Marta contends Wall Street is now Broader stock indicators were 
catalysts to drive the markets higher. mulling whether the economy will do higher. The Standard & Poor's 500 
Profit concerns have unnerved a "fly-by" and skip a soft" landing index rose 4.13, or 0.29 percent, to 
investors already made skittish by entirely with growth continuing 1,430.50, and the Nasdaq was up 
the recent tug-of-war over whether apace. 8.10, or 0.33 percent, at 2,451.31. · 
stocks will move higher in 2007 with The Fed is unlikely to lower short­Despite the modest movement in 
the same resolve as in 2006. Recent term interest rates if the economy the major indexes, advancing issues 
weakness in technology stocks had continues at a steady clip or if it outnumbered decliners by about 2 to 
upset Wall Street; tech stocks begins to accelerate again. The cen­1 on the New York Stock Exchange, 
regained some ground a day after tral bank has left interest rates where consolidated volume came to 
the Nasdaq composite index posted unchanged at its last four meetings 2.84 billion shares, compared with 
its biggest drop since late November after a string of 17 straight increases 2.89 billion traded Thursday. 
--------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, January 22, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Raben Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR! Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR! Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR! Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR! Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHicS EDITOR! Jeff Albert 
.ADVERTISING MANAGER! Sharon Brown 
.AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER! Kyle West WEB .ADMINISTRATOR! Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and depanment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicie> should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gi&on. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) ~~published Munday rhmugh Friday ~xccpt during exam and v:u:::nion prnods. A suh;scriprion ll) The Obscrv~ i.$ $100 tOr one ac:a:demic yetr. $55 fur one scm~ler. 
The Obstrver is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 S(1utb Dining Hall Send address -corrmions ro: 
Noue Dame,lN 46556-0779 ThcOI=va 
Periodical posugc paid at Nou-e Dame P:O. Box779 and additional mailing offices. 024 Sourh Dining Halt 
Norre Dame, 1N 46S56-on9 
The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Press. AH reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kelly Meehan Jay Fitzpatrick 
Laura ·Dan Murphy Baumgartner Michael Bryan Steve Kerins Scene 
Viewpoint Marty 
Lianna Schroeder 
Brauweiler Graphics Madeline Nies 

The Observer endorses Davis-Kennedy 
With three student body presidential tickets to choose from, Saint Mary's students have been bombarded by enough promises, goals and initiatives to make their heads spin. A vote for juniors Annie Davis and Courtney Kennedy, however, is a smart one. The realistic duo plan to embrace and enhance College tradition through increased campus commu­nication -a task that promises everything from renewed respect for the Sisters of the Holy Cross to improved resi­dence hall facilities. 
Similar promises were made by the Colleen Ferreira-Jenny Antonelli ticket, but in an almost overly ambi­
O 
Th

tious way. The impressive dream of campus­oserver has allowed her to recognize the realities of budgeting and, most importantly, has familiarized her with administrative policy. · 
While many students would love to see vast and immediate changes such as new laundry facilities and meal plan options, Davis and Kennedy seem open to considering all stu­dent needs in a reasonable manner. Their campaign incorpo­rates the development of Saint Mary's future -primarily the complex issue of the ongoing identity initiative, which Davis said she believes needs to receive more attention from the 
College community. 
The duo also recognizes the need to maintain 
wide wireless Internet access and microwaves the College's deeply rooted tradition in the some­in dorm hallways overstep the financial con­times-uncertain future of Saint Mary's identity . 
Editorial

siderations of Saint Mary's. Kimberly Hodges and Kelly Payne make a strong commitment to campus diversity and service learning opportunities for students. Their platform, however, tends to focus too heavily upon these issues, which might overlook other needs of the College community. 
While the other tickets' goals are both ambitious and notable, Davis and Kennedy's platform manages to merge the issues into a reasonable plan that will maintain and reform student government. Davis' outspoken urge to revamp week­ly Board of Governance meetings to incorporate increased discussion and student activism has the potential to eliminate elements of campus-wide apathy toward student govern­ment. The most notable contribution Davis would make to the position is her connection to college adminis.tration through her work as admissions commissioner. This position Kennedy plans to more closely link the Sisters of 
the Holy Cross and the student body, a passion she developed during a fall break pilgrimage to a Holy Cross community in Mexico. 
As Saint Mary's grows, it demands leaders who seek change and dedication to the mission -two attributes Davis and Kennedy bring to the campaign. 
While they mean business when it comes to increased com­munication and revamping BOG, the pair has not overlooked the lighthearted aspects of the College, such as continuing and improving campus events to attract a higher student turnout. 
The Observer believes Davis and Kennedy have a realistic attitude paired with a variety of student government experi­ences that will allow them to foster change and meet the growing needs of Saint Mary's. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 



Submit aLetter ~ 
If the Democratic primary were held today, who would you vote for? 


to the Editor at 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"You have no more right to consume happiness without producing it, than you do to consume wealth wlthout producing it." 
George Bernard Shaw playwright 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, January 22, 2007 page 9 
You Tuber? I don't even know her! 
Apparently nothing becomes a certified big deal in this country until Time maga­zine names it Person of the Year. Just look at 1994 winner Pope John Paul II-had anyone even heard of this so-called pontiff until his mug graced the front of America's most popular news weekly? And what about 197 5 winner American women ­talk about going from zero to hero thanks to a single magazine cover! Joey 


Well, this phenome­Falco non has happened once again with Time's Forty Ounces 
to Falco

recent announcement that the 2006 Person of the Year is a blurry mirror hastily slapped onto the magazine's front cover with a glue stick. (Apparently the average American was supposed to infer that this meant that they were personally chosen to be Person of the Year, but this slipped right past me.) In any case, you, me, and I sup­pose even that strange person covered in aluminum foil who lurks around the bar at Finnegan's have all been named Person of the Year for "changing the nature of the information age" through such tools as YouTube, MySpace, Facebook and blogs. 
At first glance, this certainly seems to be a justifiable selection on the part of Time magazine. After all, in 2006 alone, a YouTube video was responsible for ending the political career of VIrginia Senator George "Macaca-I'm Taking It Back" Allen, and blogs were the first news sources to publish the illicit emails of Florida Representative Mark "Hot For Little Boys" Foley. This election season also . marked the culmination of the ability of political blogs like The Daily Kos to rally support behind certain candidates and ideas that may have otherwise become political footnotes ... like that George Allen guy. 
On second glance, though, one has to wonder exactly what Time magazine was thinking. After all, previous Persons of the Year have included Nelson Mandela, Martin Luther King Jr., two Popes, Gandhi, Queen Elizabeth II, Hitler, Stalin, the computer, and every U.S. president since 1932 who did not play football at the University of Michigan. 
Despite that impressive pedigree, this year's Person of the Year includes the kid who taped himself frantically swinging a light saber in his garage and the hot Asian girl who sings and dances in a bikini for her 
1.5 million MySpace friends (dubbed "the Madonna of MySpace" by Tnne). The most popular video in the history ofYouTube is titled "The Evolution of Dance," and fea­tures a comedian dancing his way through the songs of Elvis Presley, Chubby Checker, the Bangles, Los Del Rio and Outkast, to name a few. While certainly clever, is a guy doing the Chicken_ Dance truly worthy of the same award given to the guy who helped end apartheid? 
Damn right, he is. 
Without even delving into the truly posi­
tive social aspects of this so-called "Web 
2.0" revolution, such as the Trent Lott and 
Dan Rather downfalls of a few years back, 
the increase in civic duty and rise of demo­
cratic citizen journalism, and the new com­
munitarian spirit of the Web world, I feel 
that Time magazine should be commended 
for finally giving recognition to the true 
genius -and idiocy -of the American 
people. 
What other nation could design a com­
munity where true friendship requires a 
formal technological request and can be 
ended with a mere click of the pointer fin­
ger? What other society would take the 
time to watch a video of two high school 
girls lip-syncing a Pixies song more than 12 
million times? And what other people in the 
history of the world possess enough self 
importance to believe that others care at all 
about the daily happenings of their often 
pathetic personal lives? 
Of course, I don't want to get too far 
ahead of myself. According to Time's overly 
optimistic managing editor Richard Stengel, 
"Thomas Paine was in effect the first blog­
ger, and Ben Franklin was essentially load­
ing his persona into the MySpace of the 
18th century, Poor Richard's Almanac." 
What Stengel forgets, though, is that every 
day, nearly 20,000 new blogs are created, 
more than 200,000 people join tl1e 
MySpace community, and more than 100 .million videos are served on YouTube. If this had been the case in the colonial 
era, Paine's "Common Sense" would have been lost amidst an online sea of other titles, ranging from "The Boston Wet Tea Shirt Party" to "The Battle of Kinky Sexington and Concord." And poor Franklin. In today's world, his harnessing of electricity would have been ridiculed by a headline in The Onion that read, "Man Catches Lightning with a Kite; Steps up Efforts to Catch Thunder in a Jar." 
But that is precisely why 2006 was the year of You (and me, and the alun1inum foil person from Finnegan's). 2006 will go down in history as the year America found its sense of humor-and was rewarded for it. We laugh at each other's personal inter­ests and photos on Facebook, we laugh at each other's bizarre talents on YouTube, and we laugh at the pathetic foibles of inept politicians who can't keep their bigotry under wraps on citizen journalism sites and blogs. Hell, we even laugh directly at our­selves when a fake Kazakhstani journalist exposes us for the utter idiots that we are in a popular film. 
Congratulations, People of the Year. Now go get hammered and post a YouTube video ofyourself doing something stupid so that we can start defending our title in 2007. 
Joey Falco is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics, and Democracy minor. He can be reached at jfalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Contraceptive society.111orally har111ful 
In Jennifer Burke's Letter to the Editor ("'But' can be the most important part," Jan. 18), life and for its protection and nurturance in a stable, loving family. she states that a politician may be required to put tbe good of our country above moral One need not agree that this social teaching was handed down from God to believe that it principle when the two come into conflict. This implies that there is no connection between is true; one need only acknowledge the sequelae of America's becoming a contraceptive what a person knows to be wrong and what is best for society-a truly preposterous sug­society: more abortions, fewer children, more divorce, more AIDS cases, and the list goes gestion ifone understands the basis ofCatholic social and moral teaching. That teaching as on and on. The state has long had an interest in protecting the lives of children and the a whole is the outgrowth of a belief in the existence of a natural law: that God is the creator institution of marriage; therefore, it ought to restrict practices that undermine that protec­of humanity, thus God has written the manual for it<> optimal functioning in the world. tion. A politician who recognizes the harm that contraception causes has no excuse for not 
When the Church condemns an act as wrong, therefore, it does so because that act is taking that knowledge into account in his or her political work. Whether it's God or history detrimental to the functioning of humanity. Th(.l Church condemns contraception because it teaching the moral lessons, they are meant to facilitate the betterment ofsociety, not to implicitly condones promiscuity, allows the removal of love from sex and permanence from impede it. marriage, and makes humans the arbiters of life's beginning. It makes children an enemy to be avoided, and inevitably requires the option of ending a child's life in the womb should Eleanore Strong the preventative action fail. (Some methods, such as fue pill, can also end the life of a new grad student human being at a very early stage of pregnancy.) It can also damage a woman's reproduc­offcampus tive organs and make her infertile. The practice of contraception erodes respect for human Jan. 21 
Fair trade coffee education underway 
Drew Clary's Letter to the Editor ("Resolution ineffective," Jan. 18) about fue recently passed Student Senate Fair Trade Coffee Resolution is both incorrect and misinformed. He writes that the educational drive to spread the fair trade message has ceased and is ineffective. He refer­ences fue lack ofdorm visits as a failure "to get the word out among students." As one of the students leading this education campaign, I find this accusation grossly unfounded and inappro­priate. 
The fair trade coffee campaign, a subgroup of Amnesty International, has undertaken a mas­sive movement to educate the student body on the moral decision fue University must make to endorse coffee that ensures sustainable wages for its producers. When it comes to visiting dor­mitories, specifically hall councils, to directly educate fue residen1s, it is not for lack of desire or effort that this has not.qecurred. After the Student Senate passed the resolution, I myself went to Hall President's Council to give a sinti­lar presentation wiili fellow group members and to request permission to travel to the dor­mitories. This request was denied due to long standing HPC procedures, but it began our resi­dence hall poster campaign. 
Now, our ability to directly discuss this issue with studen1s in individual dormitories is dependent upon Student Senate, of which Oary is a member. I encourage him to take notice of the increasing presence and strength of our education campaign around campus this semester. I personally invite him to a screening of Black Gold, a documentary fuat highligh1s the plight of small-scale coffee farmers under an exploitive trade system. This movie will be shown in the Browning Cinema at DPAC, March 23. lf Oary is still not convinced of our dedication to educate the student body, he is welcome to attend one of our meetings (Mondays, 8 p.m., CSC Coffee House) to witness for himself our plans for the semester. We will continue to write letters to The Observer and have established an open dialogue with Mendoza College of Business Dean Carolyn Woo and Michael Sheridan, director of Catholic Relief Services Fair Trade Coffee Campaign. As a Catholic university with a long-standing tradi­tion of moral and social consciousness, it is our obligation to ensure that the coffee served on campus reinforces a fair and positive relation­ship between growers, buyers and consumers. 
Catherine McKinney sophomore Lewis Hall Jan. 21 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


..' 
--~--~-~­
----------------------------------------------------.. 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 10 
Monday, January 22, 2007 
TELEVISION REVIEW 
'Studio 60' surmounts initial shortcomings 
Aaron Sorkin writes humor, politics into NBC comedy/drama 
By CHRIS HINE Scene Critic 
NBC's "Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip" debuted this season as one of the most anticipated new programs. With the pen of Aaron Sorkin and the artistic vision of director Thomas Schlamme -the cre­ative duo behind the classic shows "Sports Night" and "The West Wing" ­"Studio" was expected to be both an engaging and qualify program. It was also designed to bring in ad revenue for the struggling NBC. The end result is a show that has struggled in the ratings and is still trying to find its feet halfway through the seas_on. 
"Studio 60" follows the friendship of Matt Albie (Matthew Perry, "Friends") and Danny Tripp (Bradley Whitford, "The West Wing"). The pair is a famous writer/director team -not unlike Sorkin/Schlamme -that is forced by NBS president Jordan McDeere (Amanda Peet) to take control of the struggling sketch comedy show "Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip," which is something akin to "Saturday Night Live." McDeere is a woman in a man's world a Ia Mary Richards in the "Mary Tyler Moore Show." Interestingly, the legendary five­time Emmy winner Ed Asner, who played Mary's curmudgeon boss Lou Grant on "Moore," also plays McDeere's boss. 
McDeere reveals to Tripp that she has information conc_erning his positive cocaine test ,three months earlier ­information that can halt the pair's bur­geoning film career. Reluctantly, Matt and Danny take the job as executive pro­ducers of '.'Studio 60," much to the cha­grin of Jack Hudolph (Steven Weber, "Wings"), who fired Matt and Danny from their jobs as writers on the show years earlier. Complicating matters is Harriet Hayes (Sarah Paulson), the star of "Studio 60," a devout evangelical 

Creators: Aaron Sorkin, Thomas Schlamme Starring: Matthew Perry, Amanda Peet, Bradley Whitford, D.L. Hughley Christian who also happens to be Matt's ex-girlfriend. The two must learn to co­exist despite their rocky past. 


Rounding out the cast of "Studio 60" are Tom Jeter (Nate Corrdry, "The Daily Show"), whose father is disappointed he did not join the military like his younger brother, Simon Stiles (D.L. Ilughley), who feels the show could explore the plight of African-Americans a little more creatively and stage director/resident lunatic Cal Shanley (Timothy Busfield, "The West Wing"). 
"Studio 60" started on the right foot. The pilot featured a blistering tirade by the show's outgoing producer, Wes (Judd Hirsch), decrying the state of television today. The speech occurred live on the sketch show and led to Wes's firing and, subsequently, Matt and Danny's hiring. Contained in the pilot was the vintage fast-paced, wit-filled dialogue Sorkin trademarked with "Sports Night" and perfected on "The West Wing." More importantly, Perry and Whitford played off each other perfectly, and Peet man­aged to remain funny and endearing despite her character's exploitative means of coercing Matt and Danny into taking the job. The only weak aspect of the episode was the interaction between Paulson and Perry. They lacked the humor of Allison Janney and Busfield from "The West Wing," or the torturous psychological warfare Felicity Huffman and Peter Krause waged with each other on "Sports Night." 
Disappointingly, the main storyline has followed the relationship between Matt and Harriet, as opposed to Matt and Danny. The lack of compelling interac­tion from Perry and Paulson is mostly the fault of Sorkin, who feels the need to relentlessly attack the evangelical right in his writing -a habit he grew into on "The West Wing." So far, the only reason Sorkin has given as to why Harriet and Matt broke up is because she appeared on Pat Hobertson's "700 Club" to pro­mote her Christian CD. While the audi­ence could forgive Sorkin's political rants on "The West Wing" because of its White House setting, his fWangelical bashing and political views ring hollow and beeome annoying when they eome from backstage at a television show. Such dialogue distracts from the flow of the show and trivializes the relationship between Matt and Harriet. 
This is not the only problem with Studio 60. The sketches on the show are rarely funny and undermine the premise that Matt is a gifted writer, and the baek-stories Sorkin gives to Tom and Simon are trite and contrived. A show like "Friday Night Lights" does a much better job than "Studio 60" at portraying how conflict ean eause rift in a family. 
The show's viewership declined steadi­ly following its stunning premiere because Sorkin pushed Danny aside and sadly diminished Bradley Whitford's role from the pilot episode. He missed an opportunity to'provide us some touching drama by giving us the story behind Danny's drug addiction and insights into his friendship with Matt. There has been no mention of his drug habit since the pilot episode, and Whitford and Perry have been on screnn together only spar­ingly. Whitford has shown the ability to handle drama of this gravity on "The West Wing." His work in season two of that show (when his character, Joshua Lyman, coped with post-traumatic stress disorder) earned him an Emmy and was arguably the best storyline Sorkin devised for "The West Wing." It is a waste of talent to leave Whitford on the side like this. 
Thankfully, recent episodes have shown Sorkin is getting the message. 
He has taken sereen time away from the interplay between Perry and Paulson and from the rest of the show's cast, instead devoting it to the blossoming relationship between Jordan and Danny. That relationship is more humorous, more subtle, and grounded in the world of love and romance -not believer ver­sus atheist. Of late, Sorkin has backed off the Christian bashing, and when he does, "Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip" is one of the most entertaining shows on TV. In those moments, Perry and Paulson have their moments of bril­lianee. Their relationship is filled with the perfect amount uf nostalgic longing and uncertainty about the future. 
All hope is not lost for "Studio 60" to keep its plaee in NBC's primetime lineup. It is one of the highest rated shows among people who make more than $100,000 a year, a key demographic for advertisers. It picks up more than a mil­lion extra viewers each week via DVH recordings, and its episodes frequent the iTunes top 10. 
Hopefully, NBC will allow the show to continue, because "Studio 60" is finally on the right track. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday,January 22, 2007 
page 11 
AARON SORKIN fEATURE 
Sorkin ingrains himself in film, TV writing 
DVD REVIEW 
Wahlberg is true-life Rocky in poignant 'Invincible' 
Mark Wahlberg, right, stars in "Invincible" as Vincent Papale, who walked onto the 1976 Eagles after coach Dick Vermeil (Greg Kinnear, left) held open tryouts. 

By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
Everyone knows Rocky Balboa is the "Italian Stallion" from Philadelphia whose fame was secured after Sylvester Stallone's original "Rocky" debuted in 1976. That same year, an unknown walk-on named Vincent Papale made hi.s way onto the Philadelphia Eagles. "Invincible," recently released on DVD, tells the story of Papale's rise from a nobody in working-class Philly to a playmaker for the Eagles. 
Mark Wahlberg stars as the down­and-out Papale, who is barely making ends meet by working as a substitute teacher and moonlighting as a bar­tender. His wife Sharon (Lola Glaudini) leaves him as the Eagles hire Dick Vermeil (Greg Kinnear) as their new coach. In an effort to up the morale of the downtrodden city, Vermeil calls for open tryouts prior to the '76 football season. Papale is the only person to make the cut and joins the team at training camp. 
·Similar to Notre Dame's Rudy, Papale, although celebrated in his hometown, is not immediately accept-
Invincible 
Walt Disney Pictures 


ed by the Eagles players, who still view him as an outsider. Constantly working to prove himself, Papale revi­talizes the unflinching spirit of Philadelphia. 
The real Papale earned himself the nickname "Rocky" since the movie became popular at the same time that he did. Wahlberg does an excellent job portraying the determination, spirit and energy that the real Papale demonstrated. The football scenes are especially realistic since Wahlberg took the majority of the hits delivered. In the scene shown in all of the trail­ers, Wahlberg is hit hard driving down the sidelines -an accidental blow he was never even supposed to take. 
The film does an excellent job of portraying 1970s Philadelphia, which was going through plenty of labor problems and high levels of unem­ployment. The bars and the stadium are excellently recreated with acute attention to detail. 
The heart and the spirit of the film are strong throughout because of the capable guidance of director Ericson Core ("Daredevil") and the same pro­duction company responsible for 2004's "Miracle." 
While the film is very well made, the 
DVD leaves much 
to be desired. This 
is in part because of Disney's repu­tation for releas­ing quality DVDs. The quality of the film itself is sharp, but there is little in way of special features -unlike most other Disney DVD releases. But while there aren't 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
Aaron Sorkin is a mari of many words and one of the few to have an outlet for them. As an award-winning playwright and screenwriter, Sorkin has ingrained his lexicon in popular culture and creat­Pd an avenue to express his beliefs and philosophies through characters that audiences crave. The man who coined "You can't handle the truth!" in "A Few Good Men" also wrote the movie "The American President" and television shows "Sports Night," "The West Wing" and current "Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip." 
Sorkin began his career as a play­wright after graduating from Syracuse University with a bachelor of fine art~ in musical theatre. After discovering his creative passion, he began writing plays and sold the film rights to "A Few Good Men" even before it appeared on stage. His next feature film was "The American President," which served as both a mem­orable romance and a behind-the-scenes look at the White House. It was this proj­ect -featuring future fictional president Martin Sheen -that paved the way for his most famous work, "The West Wing." 
Sorkin maintains a consistent writing style throughout his projects. Common traits include rapid dialogue and obscure popular culture references. All three of the writer's television series have explored behind-the-scenes situa­tions, whether it is a sports news show, the West Wing of the White House, or a long-running sketch comedy series. Sorkin has also become famous for his characters' "walk and talks," in ·which they talk while walking to the next place they need to be. It may not sound impressive, but it breaks the style of sta­tionary blocking and allows the camera­men to become more creative with the filming. 
Sorkin's career has not come without controversy, however, and much of this controversy stems from his willingness to speak his mind through his writing with little concern for whom he offends. But while he holds liberal views, Sorkin usually explores both sides to arguments about politics and society, such as in "The West Wing" and "Studio 60." Half the fun of watching these programs is to observe how one man can fight himself and who it is that actually wins. 
Sorkin draws much of his material from his own ·life experiences, particu­larly in "Studio 60." He modeled the character Matt Albie (Matthew Perry) after himself, yet his history of drug abuse is exposed through the character of Danny Tripp ("West Wing" alum Bradley Whitford). Conservative sketch comedy player Harriet Hayes takes after conservative Sorkin love interest Kristin Chenoweth, and many of the struggles Matt and Danny confront each week mirror those that Sorkin has faced. Even more interesting is the amount of jabs that Sorkin is allowed to take at home 
courtesy 

Aaron Sorkin, whose writing credits include "A Few Good Men" and many episodes of "The West Wing," often infuses his writing with his political views. 
network NBC through the fictional net­the series' writer. "Studio 60" has work NBS. received lukewarm reviews and is par­Throughout his sometimes turbulent ticularly harsh with its attacks on the life, Sorkin's work has remained consis­Red States, but Sorkin's words still flow 
-
tently good. Both "A Few Good Men" and like poetry. He may be accused of elit­"The American President" have received ism, but his writing genius cannot be Golden Globe and Oscar nominations. denied. If audiences can't handle that, Despite its cancellation, "Sports Night" is he will certainly have something to write still a critical favorite. "The West Wing" ·about. won four Emmys for Outstanding Drama Series during each of his four years as Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 

many additional features, what is there is well worth watching, especial­ly for fans of the film. There is a 45­minute featurette entitled "Becoming Invincible: The Vince Papale Story," which is highly entertaining. The real­life Papale is a very charismatic and entertaining man who, it's apparent, very much enjoyed his experience with the Eagles and the making of this film. Besides giving information on the real Papale (including footage from his NFL career) it also delves into the movie's origins and some experiences during the filming. 
The DVD also includes two different commentary tracks. The first features the real Vince Papale, as well as pro­ducer Mark Ciadari and writer Brad Gann. It is very interesting to hear Papale talk about the various scenes in the movie and how they were similar/different to his own experi­ences as well as shared anecdotes about the production of the film. The second track features Core and editor Jerry Greenberg as they talk more about the technical aspects and diffi­culties they encountered during vari­ous shots. 
"Invincible" is exactly what the audi­ence expects from the sports underdog genre, which arguably began with "Rocky." While the DVD is a little lack­ing, the film itself is a heartwarming and endearing story of what it is possi­ble to achieve. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
NHL 


Gionta scores in shootout to top Philadelphia 
Recchi nets three power-play goals as Pittsburgh blows out Toronto 8-2 to move into eighth place in the conference 
Associated Press Simon Gagne, first for the Flyers in the shootout, fired 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -wide and Brodeur made saves Brian Gionta came up big once on Peter Forsberg and Mike again for the New Jersey Devils. Richards. 
Gionta scored the tying goal Scott Gomez and with 20.8 seconds remaining in Langenbrunner also scored for regulation and had the only goal the Devils in regulation. New in the shootout to lead Devils to Jersey has won 10 of the last 13 a 4-3 win over the Philadelphia and enters the All-Star break Flyers on Saturday. with a 13-point lead atop the 
With goalie Martin Brodeur on Atlantic Division. the bench for an extra attacker, the Devils threw everything at Pittsburgh 8, Toronto 2 Antero Niittymaki and the Flyers The Pittsburgh Penguins had in the closing seconds. made it a goal to hold one of the Niittymaki turned back Jamie Eastern Conference's eight play­Langenbrunner, Zach Parise and off spots by the All-Star break. Paul Martin but was helpless as With an emphatic win in their Martin took another shot and final game before the five-day Gionta knocked in the rebound league layoff, the Penguins for his team-leading 21st goal. achieved just that. 
"I was just hanging around the Mark Recchi scored three con­net, trying to be desperate," the secutive power-play goals and 5-foot-7 Gion ta said. Sidney Crosby had a goal and "Sometimes the puck just has to two assists to lead the Penguins come to you. It's as much posi­to an 8-2 win over the Toronto tion as luck. I was trying to box Maple Leafs on Saturday night. out and get position in front. It Evgeni Malkin had five assists, bounced off somebody and laid Sergei Gonchar had three assists right at my toe and I jammed it and Jarkko Ruutu scored on a in." penalty shot goal for the 
Niittymaki was under siege Penguins, who moved into a 16:5 7, starting late in the first in the second period alone. way between his pads. during that Devils flurry. three-way tie for the eighth and period. His most recent was "Oiie's a great goalie," Gelinas That was enough to give the 
"The puck was going every­final playoff position in the March 4 against Carolina, where said. "We talked about before Thrashers their third win in four where," Niittymaki said. "The Eastern Conference. he was traded five days later the game. We just got to keep games and send them into the shot hit a skate and a stick and ''I'm not going to lie to you; we before re-signing with shooting some rubber on him, All-Star break in fine position to hit me a little bit. The next thing wanted to get there before the Pittsburgh as a free agent in the and eventually we:re going to claim their first playoff berth in I know, Gionta is there for a tap break," Recchi said. "And we offseason. get some breaks. That did hap­seven NHL seasons. in. Those are the kind of things, got to that goal. Guys were talk­pen." you can't control." ing about it and paying attention Florida 4, Washington 1 Kolzig said the Capitals have Ottawa 3, Boston 0 
Gionta prevailed again in the to it. Now we can enjoy our Florida kept shooting again, gotten away from what they do The Ottawa Senators seem to shootout. First up for the Devils, break." and Washington couldn't stop best the "last few games have solved the Boston Bruins. Gionta whipped the puck past Recchi, who also added an the Panthers again. Dany Heatley scored his team­Niittymaki to cap New Jersey's assist, recorded the seventh hat Martin Gelinas scored twice, Atlanta 3, New York 1 leading 29th and 30th goals, comeback. trick of his career in a span of and Ville Peltonen added a goal If the Atlanta Thrashers' sec­and Ray Emery stopped 18 shots 
and an assist to give the ond half is anywhere near as for his fourth shutout to lead the Panthers a victory over the good as the first, a long-awaited Senators to 3-0 victory over the Capitals on Saturday. playoff appearance is sure to Bruins on Saturday night. 
Florida had 54 shots in a 7-3 follow. Chris Phillips also scored for victory over Washington last Nidas Havelid scored his sec­Ottawa, winners of five straight week. The Panthers dominated ond goal of the season 4:09 into road games and six of seven play after the first period in this the third period to snap a tie overall. The Senators have won game, outshooting the Capitals and lift the Thrashers to a 3-1 the last two meetings against 42-18 for a 96-35 advantage the victory over the New York Boston after losing the first last two meetings. Rangers on Saturday. three this season. 
"That was our game plan," Atlanta, which already had a The Senators didn't do any­Florida coach Jacques Martin healthy lead over the Stanley thing fancy. They grabbed a lead said. "They've got some excel­Cup champion Carolina and played well in front of lent players. If you give them the Hurricanes atop the Southeast Emery. puck or give them time or space Division, beat the Rangers for "It was nice. We've had strug­they're going to hurt you. the fourth time in five trips to gles with Boston this season, but They're a hard-working team Madison Square Garden. beat them the last two," Heatley and they can do things offen­"I have no interest in finding said. "We need these points. sively." out (why) as long as it keeps They're big division games, 
The Panthers snapped a two­going," coach Bob Hartley said. especially before the break." game losing streak overall and a "If you look at our road record, Emery felt his night was easi­five-game slide on the road in it's all about the commitment er against Boston because of a the teams' last game before the our players are putting in. We're defensive attitude this time. All-Star game. Washington, lim­not an easy team to play "Sometimes that happens ited by several recent injuries on against." against certain teams. defense, has lost four of its last llavelid, a defenseman who Sometimes you lose confidence five games. hadn't netted a goal in 10 against certain teams," Emery 
The Panthers pressured the games, took the puck at the said. "The start of the season Capitals' young defense right point -after Steve we'd get leads and try to win throughout, and Washington Rucchin won an offensive zone games 5-0 instead of 2-0." goalie Olie Kolzig stopped 38 faceoff -skated down to the It was just the second time 
AP shots to keep the Capitals dose. right post and flicked a short Boston has been shutout this Florida took command with two backhander that pinballed off season; the other came in a 5-0 goals and an 18-3 edge in shots Henrik Lundqvist and found its loss at Nashville on Dec. 30. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
House available for 2007-2008. Very Large, Close to Campus, Just Renovated. Contact MacSwain@gmail.com 
Studio Apt. Stove, Refrig, Heat, Water, Sewage and Trash service Incl. $350/mo. 20 Min. to ND. 269­684-2268. 
Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5 bdrm, 3 bath homes, frpls, 2-car garages. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038. 
Newly remodeled 3 and 4 bdrm houses available for sale/rent. Contact Meredith Allsop, Milligan Real Estate 220-9817. 
Houses for rent, 3 to 6 bedrooms, walking distance, mmmrentals@aol.com. Call Gary 574-993-2208. 
andersonNDrentals.com 
Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4 bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. $600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569. 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Happy Birthday Kevin O'Brien  Lost:  
Only one more year  White iPod nano  
Hang in there  Last seen in SDH  
From, the whole gang  952-239-2914  

LOST & FOUND  TICKETS  
Found: Black and Grey North Face Jacket fleece. Left at 127 Corby St. this weekend To claim please call 860-202-2463  WANTED­3 tix ND hockey Sat. Jan 27. Call 703-585-8663.  







OUND THE NATION 
Monday, January 22, 2007 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 

NFL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic [)ivislon · 
team  record  pet,  GB  
New Jersey  26-20  .500  
Toronto  19-22  .463  1.5  
New York  18-24  ,429  3  
Boston  12·27  .308  7.5  
Philadelphia  11-30  .268  9.5  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pet. GB 
Cleveland 24-16 .600 Detroit 23·16 .590 .5 Chicago 23-18 .561 1.5 Indiana 20·20 .500 4 Milwaukee 17·22 .436. 6.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team  record  pet.  GB  
Washington  24-16  .600  
Orlando  22-19  .537  2.5  
Miami  18-22  .450  6  
Charlotte  14-25  .359  9.5  
Atlanta  13·25  .342  10  

Western Conference, Northwest DMsion 
team record pet. GB 
Utah 27·14 Denver 20-17 Minnesota 20·18 Portland 16·25 Seattle 16·25 
Western Conference, Pal~(~ Dlivlsllol 
team record 
Pfloenix 31·8 
LA lakers 26-15 
LA Clippers 19·21 
Golden Slate 19·22 
Sacramento 15-23 
team 
Dallas 
San Antonio 
Houston 
NO!Oida. City 
Memphis 
Men's Basketball Big East Standings. 

Big East ·rn'a"berall team 
record record 
1 Pittsburgh 54 17·3 2 NOTRE DAME 4~2 16~3 3 Marquette 4·2 1H 4 Syracuse 4-2 15·5 5 Georgetown 3-2 13·5 
·::=:%::}:

6 Providence 3~2 13~5 7 louisville 3-2 13·6 8 West Virginia 4·3 14·4 9 Seton Hall 3-3 11-7 10 DePaul 3-3 12·8 11 Connecticut 2-3 13-5 12 Villanova 2-3 13·5 13 St. John's 2-4 11-8 14 Cincinnati 1•3 10-8 15 South Florida 1-5 10·10 16 Rutgers 1~5 8-11 
around the dial 
NBA 
Chicago at Indiana 7 p.m., Comcast 
TENNIS Austratlian Open 9 p.m., ESPN2 


Associated Press 

CHICAGO Relax, Chicago. Rex Grossman and Da Bears are indeed good enough for this Super Bowl, and they've already made it a historic one. 
Few teams with such an impressive record have been as questioned, even maligned as the Bears. Yet after romping past the New Orleans Saints 39-14 on Sunday, they are headed to their first NFL title game since the 1985 team over­whelmed the league and shuffled in under Mike Ditka and Jim McMahon. 
This time, Lovie Smith will lead them there, the first black head coach to make it to the title game in its 41 years. 
They did it in true Bears fashion --big plays on defense and a steady run­ning game in the sleet and snow, ending the Saints' uplifting saga. 
The Bears (15-3) will play either the Patriots or Colts, who met for the AFC title later Sunday, in Miami in two weeks. 
All the worries about how genuine the Bears' out­standing season was disap­peared thanks to nlnning back Thomas Jones, All­Pro kicker Robbie Gould and a defense that, while not dominant, made enough decisive plays. 
For a moment, though, in 
IN BRIEF 

Manning leads Colts over 
Pabiots in AFC championship 
INDIANAPOLIS --A comeback, a drive, a legacy. And yes --finally -­Peyton Manning gets his Super Bowl trip, too. 
Football's most prolific quarterback put on a show for the ages Sunday, rallying the Indianapolis Colts from 18 points down and driving them 80 yards for the winning score in a wild­ly entertaining 38-34 victory over the New England Patriots. 
In his nine years in the league, Manning has never played in a game like this AFC championship contest. He threw for 349 yards and one touchdown and brought his team back from a 21-3 deficit. 
Joseph Addai capped Manning's late drive with the winning score, a 3-yard run with 1 minute left to help the Colts (15-4) complete the rally and send coach Tony Dungy to his first Super Bowl --and a very special one. 
the third quarter they seemed to be in trouble. 
Reggie Bush's electrifying 88-yard touchdown catch and dash to the end zone pulled the Saints within two points, 16-14. But from then on, Brian Urlacher and the Bears' defense took over. 
Chicago, which has won nine NFL titles but has been an also-ran for much of the last two decades, later went 85 yards in five plays in the worst of the weather. Often-criticized Grossman had four comple­tions, including a 33-yarder to a diving Bernard Berrian that clinched it, sending the bundled-up fans in Soldier Field into foot-stomping hysteria and chants of "Super Bowl, Super Bowl." 

Jones had all 69 yards on an eight-play ground drive in the second quarter, scored twice and rushed for 123 yards. Gould nailed three field goals. 
The Bears, who led the league with 44 takeaways, forced four turnovers, and when NFC passing leader Drew Brees fumbled less than a minute after Berrian's TD, whatever karma the Saints (11-7) carried this season disap­peared 
Cedric Benson scored on a 12-yard run, and from there it was a matter of searching for the sun­scr!'len. 
Throwing punch results in 
suspension for Garnett 
NEW YORK --Kevin Garnett was suspended one game by the NBA on Sunday for throwing a punch at Detroit's Antonio McDyess. 
Garnett won't play Sunday night when Minnesota visits the Phoenix Suns. He leads the Timberwolves with 
22.2 points and 12.8 rebounds per game. 
With 5:18 left in the fourth quarter of the Pistons' double-overtime victory over the Timberwolves on Friday night, McDyess knocked Minnesota's Mark Madsen to the floor with a fore­arm shove. 
Garnett then chucked the ball at McDyess, who charged at Garnett with his fist cocked. Garnett was poised to punch, too, and took a swipe at McDyess as he partially retreated. 
Whether or not Garnett will appeal the suspension is unknown, but it seems unlikely the star would protest given the light penalty. 

Hoffman takes Bob Hope
for first Tour victory 
THOUSAND PALMS, Calif. -­Charley Hoffman rammed in a 4-foot birdie putt to beat John Rollins on the first hole of a playoff in the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic on Sunday, wrapping up a wind-swept round that took its toll on most of the play­ers. Hope Final Results 
Winning his first PGA Tour title, the 30-year-old Hoffman birdied No. 17, eagled the 18th in regulation, then birdied the 18th in the playoff. 
He closed with a 1-under 71 on The Classic Club course to match Rollins {73) at 17-under 343 in the five-day tournament. 
Rollins' shot into a fairway bunker on the extra hole cost him. 
Hoffman, in the next-to-last group, put the pressure on the final three­some when he hit his second shot within 11 feet of the pin on the par­S, 564-yard 18th, then rolled in the putt for an eagle. 
FENCING 
Prot leads Irish women to perfect ND Duals 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor  the winner. Pryor got off to a fast start, scoring consecutive points to  equal teams, and I think our kids did a very good job," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said.  "I had no idea" how close the teams were, Prot said. "I think if I did, I would have lost."  was pleasantly unexpected. "For me, this was a little bit surpnsmg positively,"  
open the bout before earning a  "After so many touches during  Kvaratskhelia said that bout  Bednarski said. "It was a nice  
Notre Dame didn't have a per­fect weekend, but it came close.  double-touch to put him up 3-1. Notre Dame assistant coach Gia  the day, one touch decides it." Behind the steady, solid per- was the crucial one for the Irish against the Buckeyes.  surprise how well we did." Notre Dame started the men's  
The Irish went 16-1 and had  Kvaratskhelia  formances of vet­ "If Prot loses, we lose," he  competition with big wins, easi­ 
just two close contests in the Notre Dame Duals -and both were to 2006 No. 3 Ohio State. The Irish women swept the field Saturday, including an exciting 14-13 victory over the Buckeyes. The men from Columbus returned the favor Sunday, with an even more dra­matic finish.  called timeout with 1:35 left in the bout to regroup Kostka. He delivered immediately,scoring a tough point to bring the deficit to 3-2 but then surren­ "If Prot loses, we lose. That was an amazing moment . ... It was a thriller." Gia Kvaratskhelia Irish assistant coach  eran and young fencers, Notre Dame overcame the absence of two of its best members -jun­ior sabre Marie! Zagunis and sen­ior sabre Patrick Ghattas -to  said. "That was an amazing moment. ... It was a thriller." Moments after Prot's victory, Irish senior epee Amy Orlando won her bout to give the Irish a 13-lllead. "I knew what I had to do against the people I was fenc­ing," Orlando said. "I just put the whole score and everything  ly beating Cal State-Fullerton, Wayne State, Lawrence and Northwestern. After the Ohio State bout, the Irish toppled UC San Diego, Detroit Mercy, Cleveland State and Stanford. Notre Dame was down 10-6 to Ohio State before mounting a furious comeback fueled by jun­ior epee Greg Howard and sen­ 
Notre Dame and Ohio State  dering another  prove it belongs  out of my mind and focused on  ior epee Aaron Adjemian. Both  
were deadlocked at 13 bouts  point to Pryor to  among  the  top  what I needed to do."  Howard and Adjemain captured  
apiece with Irish sophomore epee Karol Kostka dueling Buckeyes sophomore Jason Pryor for the team title-clinch­ing 14th victory. Notre Dame and Ohio State cruised past every other opponent in the 10­team Notre Dame Duals, but  fall behind 4-2. Kostka responded once again, making the score 4-3 with 36 seconds left. But Pryor tied up Kostka and managed a double touch to give him a 5-4 victory and the Ohio State men a sea­son-opening win over their  teams in the country once again. For the Irish women, the top moment was their close victory over the Buckeyes. With the team score at 11-11, Irish soph­omore foil Emilie Prot tied her bout with less than live seconds  Prot won her final bout, and the Irish took the 14-13 victory ovet the Buckeyes. The Irish women beat every other team by at least seven bouts. Although the men lost, Bednarski, who was worried about how his squad would  their final two bouts, and the Irish climbed to a 13-12 lead seconds before Buckeyes junior foil William Jeter beat Irish sen­ior Frank Bontempo to set up the climatic final bout.  
when the two squads met each other, centimeters determined  newfound rivals. "This was a clash of two very  left before winning in sudden death.  fence before the competition, said Notre Dame's performance  Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu  

MEN'S SWIMMING 

Notre Dame falls to Northwestern 
Second-place finishes Jail to help No. 16 ND 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
No. 16 Notre Dame was 

reminded why Northwestern is 
No. 8 as the Wildcats cruised 
to a 167-131 victory Saturday 
afternoon at Rolfs Aquatic 
Center. 
Northwestern, led by senior Matt Grevers and sophomore Eric Nilsson who each picked up three victories on the after­noon, won 13 of the 16 events in the meet. Irish coach Tim Welsh -who predicted that the Wildcats might be the fastest team to swim in the Rolf's Aquatic Center pool since the late 90s -was proven correct as Grever's time of 1:45.12 in the 200 IM was a Rolfs Aquatic Center record. 
"[Grevers] is one of the most 

outstanding swimmers in the 
country," Welsh said. "He 
holds five pool rec11rds at our 
pool, and he's only been here 
twice. It's a good thing he's 
only been here twice." 
Sophomore diver Michael 

Bulfin led the Irish with wins 
in both the one and three-
meter diving. Bulfin spring­boarded his way to 317.77 points off the one-meter board and 346.80 in the three-meter competition. Freshman Andrew Deters, who swam a team and Big East season-best time of 15:39.88 in the 1,650­yard freestyle, garnered Notre Dame's only other first-place finish. 
While Notre Dame rarely lin­ished first, the squad's second place finishes kept the score tight. Senior Ted Brown took home two second place finish­es for the Irish -one in the 200 yard freestyle finishing in 
1:39.65 and the other in the 500 yard freestyle touching the wall in 4:33.96. 
By picking up the second place points in 12 of the 16 events and third place points in 11 events, the Irish dis­played their team depth. But their inability to touch the wall first was Notre Dame's undo-. ing. 
"We knew going into the meet that [Northwestern's] front line would be very fast and that the key to the meet would be our depth," Welsh said. "We" saw signs of progress all over the place, but the challenge is clear -our fastest swimmers have to be faster. 

"Northwestern is exactly the opposite model of what we are. Their model is a 4-5-6 super­stars model where as we focus more on depth. You can get it done either way as they're showing, but we think that we're headed in the direction." 
The Irish return to the pool next Friday for the Shamrock Invitational. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd.edu 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, January 23 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal lunch at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone ts welcome and conftdentiality is assured. 
CORE COUNCR 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 

STUDENTS 

Monday, January 22, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
e * 
Learn more about Marjon Walrod and tell us more about you. Visit pwc.com/bringit. 
Your life. You can bring it with you. 
_.., 
-'-"' 
*connectedthinking 

© 2006 Pric&.'VaterhouseCoopers LLP. All nghts reserved. "PricewatemouseCoopers" refers to PricewatemouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware iimited liability par..nership) or, as the context requires. the Pricewate~houseC.oopers global network oi-other member fnms of the network, each of which •s a separate af'.d independent !e-ga! entity. 'connootoothinking is a trademark of PricewatemouseCoopers LLP (US). Y'/e are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
SMC SWIMMING 




Belles optimistic deSpite two weekend losses 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
The Belles had a rough week­end in the pool, losing Friday to Kalamazoo, 125-85, and again Saturday against Hillsdale, 126­96. 
The Belles (2-6) have only one meet left at home against Calvin before the MIAA championships in Grand Rapids begin Feb. 8. 
But coach Ryan Dombkowski already sees the season as a suc­cess. The direction of the pro­gram coupled with the individual performances, he said, has ele­vated the program far above last year's lows. 
"We've won a couple meets­last year we didn't win any," Dombkowski said after the Hillsdale meet. "It's a turn in the right direction." 

Dombkowski also believes the progress made will not only impress recruits but also show them opportunities. 
"[Recruits will] see we're fast in some events, but that we also have holes to fill," he said. "It'll show them an opportunity to con­tribute right away." 
Another measure of success lies in the performance of the swimmers. No one personifies this better than sophomore Melissa Gerbeth, who accounted for the only two wins against Hillsdale. Gerbeth won the 1,650 freestyle with a time of 18:23.58 and the 500 freestyle with a time of5:24.56. 
SMC BASKETBALL 

21-4 run sparks collle­frolll-behind victory 
By DAN COOPER Sports Writer . 
In their most important confer­ence game to date Saint Mary's pulled out an impressive victory, defeating the Adrian 84-72 Saturday at the Angela Athletic Center. 
The win improves the Belles record to 6-10 on the season while Adrian falls to 7-9 (2-7 in the MIAA). More importantly the Belles move to 5-4 in the MIAA, good enough for third in confer­ence play. Should the Belles stay in the top four of the conference standings, they would be guar­anteed home-court advantage in the MIAA tournament first round. 
Adrian started the game on fire from beyond the arc, hitting their first six 3-pointers en route to a 31-18 lead. 
"We started out sluggish, sit­ting in the zone and not expect­ing them to knock down the three's," Saint Mary's coach Jennifer Henley said. "When they hit those three pointers we quit playing zone." 
The game was characterized by rallies with the Belles ended the first half on a 21-4 run that sent them into the locker room with a 39-34 advantage. 
Five minutes into the second half the Bulldogs had pulled within four but Saint Mary's responded with another surge ­this time an 11-4 run -that helped the Belles pull away and maintain a comfortable lead throughout the rest of the game. 
One key to Saint Mary's victory was its ability to beat Adrian on the boards -something the Bulldogs had excelled at this sea­son, pulling down an average of 44 rebounds a game, seven more than their opponents. On Saturday the Belles were superi­or off the glass, out-rebounding the Bulldogs 41-30. 
"We've been working all week on our rebounding," Henley said. "Adrian played their small guard and that allowed our posts to box out and secure rebounds." 
Saint Mary's accuracy from the charity stripe was another criti­cal element of Saturday's win. In total, the Belles shot 83 percent from the line-hitting 28-of-35 free throw attempts. The Belles were even better when it mat­tered most, sinking 15-of-17 free throws in the final two minutes. 

The Belles received quality contributions from their starters, four of whom scored in double figures. Sophomore guard Erin Newsome scored 17 points and made all seven of her free throw attempts. Senior guard Bridget Lipke notched 13 points and a game-high seven assists. 
Henley was impressed by the play of freshman center Anna Kammrath who posted her third double-double of the season, scoring 25 points and pulling down 14 rebounds. 
"Anna's been doing well all season long. She's been improv­ing every time she steps on the floor," Henley said. 
Guard Allison Kessler rounded out the impressive Belles' start­ing five with 25 points on 6-of-12 shooting. 
Contact Dan Cooper at dcooper1@nd.edu 
Two meets in two days didn't faze her. 
"I rested all day today, and I tried to swim an even-paced race," she said. "I tried not to go all out at the beginning." 
Gerbeth can withhold some energy in her races depending on the competition she faces. 
"On Friday I swam the 1,000 easy because I knew I could win it without going all out," she said. "Then the next event I swam really hard." 
Senior Sarah Budd dropped her 
Peggy Dibble Aesthetician 
500 freestyle time by seven sec­onds, finishing in 6:09.51, and was right at her lifetime bests for the 100 and 200 freestyle. Sara Niemann posted a liretime best in the 200 backstroke, a time of 
2:20.83. Maggie McNicholas low­ered her lifetime best in the 200 lly by 10 seconds. 
"We had a hard week of prac­tice, and we just got back from the training trip to Florida a week ago," Dombkowski said. "We broke the bodies down and tried to increase the endurance as much as possible, so it's encour­aging that we're near or at life­time best<>. We're probably going to back off next week to prepare for the conference meet." 

Saint Mary's again suffered from lacking a diving team. Hillsdale recorded nine points in the diving competition. 
The Belles swim against Calvin next Friday at 6 p.m. at Washington High School. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

For all of your skin care & hair removal 
needs come to our South Bend location just a couple miles from campus on North Michigan street Peggy is a Licensed Aesthetician and specializes in Bikini, Brazilian, and full leg wax. From lip to leg, Peggy will have your skin feeling smooth and soft so you are ready to hit the BEACH! 
Peggy is available 
" Monday -Friday 9am-Spm 
• Saturday 8:30am -12;30pm 

Call Peggy TODAY! MICHIANA EYE CENTER 
574.282.2020 
...and don*t forget to mention this ad!! 


& FACIAL PLASTIC SURGERY 
401 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 574.282.2020 


Turtle creek Ap_artments 
T~E place to be at ND!! 

Your favorite off-campus community is welcoming GREAT students for tt1e 2007-2008 school year! Turtle creek is proud to offer the 
following amenities:  
*Renovated apartments  *Carports available  
*24-hour laundry facilities-BRAND NEW!  *Closest to campus  
*Sparkling pool with sun deck  *Patios/!Jalconies  
*Fun-filled volleyball court  *Walk#in closets  

Turtle creek was voted sportslllustrated.conl's BE ST PLACE TO TAILGATE! Come join the fun and LIVE AMONG THE LEGENDS! 
. 

Call our professional and friendly staff to schedule your tour today! Leasing Hours: M·f 10·6, sat_ 10-5 Phcme: 574<272-8124 
~-----------------------------, 
Monday, Janurary 22, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
we wan student 

writing 
submissions 
for 



student lit. night 
submit original prose or poetry by jan. 26. 
if selected, you will read your work on jan. 31, 2007 at Spm in the Iafortune ballroom. email your submissions to megan baker at sub@nd.edu or drop off a copy in the SUB office, 201 Iafortune. 
mark your 

calendars. 

Notre Dame Literary Festival is February 5-8, 2007. 
~ 
II<O<oljlx:o1Q<Ib.~>l..-·-bootd. 
~W&JIJ 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 




Allen notches double-double in win 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
For the second game in a row, Notre Dame rode a strong per­formance by junior guard Charel Allen to topple a Big East oppo­nent at the Joyce Center, this time beating Syracuse 83-55 Saturday. 
''I'm just feeling really confident and my shot's falling," Allen said. "My teammates are looking for me so I'm taking my shots." 
Allen tallied 25 points to lead the Irish (13-5, 4-1 Big East) over the Orange (8-2, 2-5) in addition to grabbing 10 boards for the sec­ond double-double of her career. She was similarly impressive last Tuesday against St. John's in an 83-65 Notre Dame win. 
"Charel Allen is just playing great basketball right now," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "They came out in the box-and-one to start the second half and she did­n't flinch. She looked to take her 

esident Advisors 
NT 


shots and ended up with a double­double." 
The Orange hung close in the opening four minutes of the game, but the Irish went on a quick 7-0 run -with five points from Allen -to push the game out of reach. 
One of the main highlights for the Irish from start to fmish was their defense -something McGraw noted as a weakness ear­lier in the week. But against the Orange, McGraw saw everyone on the court forcing steals and fight­ing for loose balls. 
"[Freshman guard Melissa Lechlitner] did a nice job with the double teams, and overall I thought everybody played pretty well defensively," McGraw said in a post-game interview. "We didn't rebound as well as we could have, that was probably the one thing that hurt us." 
McGraw was especially pleased with Allen's play on the defensive end of the court. The junior fm­ished with three steals and a 
The Northwestern University College Preparation Program is looking for resident advisors to help guide high school students through a summer of learning and fun at Northwestern. 
Earn salary, including room and 
board; work with bright, motivated 
high school students from around 1t1e country and abroad; plan excit­
ing events and gain valuable experi­ence while enjoying Northwestern campus life and exploring Chicago this summer! 
Apply by February 16, 2007! 
For information and to request an applica­tion, contact Breanne Heath at 847-491· 3443 or b-heath@northwestern.edu. 
QUALIFICATIONS, 
• 
completion of sophomore year of college by June. 2007 

• 
a cons1stent record of academiC achievement 

• 
previous experience as an RA, tutor; or camp counselor 

• excellent communication, leadership. motivation. and problem-solving skills 

• 
a wide range of extracurricular interests and activities 


• enthusiasm and a genuine 
interest in working with high 
school students 
• a strong sense of responsibility and a h1gh level of maturity 
NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 

CENTER. 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! DRESS TO ROW. 
block to go along with her double­double, 
Lechlitner was the other stand­out performer for the Irish, with career-highs in points (18) and rebounds (6) off the bench. Lechlitner also helped run the offense effectively in her 32 min­utes, notching six assists and not once giving up the ball -the sec­ond consecutive game she has fin­ished without a turnover. 
''I'm trying to run the team," Lechlitner said. ''I'm looking for my shot -today they were finally going in. I'm 'just looking for my teammates and trying to keep the turnovers low. I think it's finally starting to come together for me." 
Lechlitner made her biggest play with 12:24 remaining in the game after the Orange used a nine-point run to shrink the Irish lead to 11 points, the smallest it had been since 7:18 remaining in the frrst.half at 27-17. Lechlitner took the inbounds pass down the court and drove the lane, sinking • a tough layup while being fouled. The conventional three-point play gave Notre Dame back momen­tum, as the Irish would continue to push the game farther and far­ther out of the Orange's reach. 

The Irish used tight ball control to control the tempo throughout the game, notching 11 steals while turning the ball over just 11 times. The Irish defense also caused problems for the Orange, who turned the ball over 20 times. 
"We're really doing a nice job taking care of the ball and we have veteran guards out there with [Br.eona Gray], Tulyah [Gaines] and Charel [Allen] in the starting lineup, and [Lechlitner] is not somebody who turns the ball over much," McGraw said. "I think we're playing within our­selves and I think that's why we're not turning the ball over." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Da111e's hustle crucial to its success 
Mike Brey calls it energy. 
Colin Falls calls it playing hard. 
But South Florida coach Robert McCullum summed it up best. 
"They made a lot of hustle plays," he said. "They got every loose ball and long rebound." 
That's how it's been all season for this young Irish team. This was sup­posed to be a rebuilding campaign, but now, in mid-January, Notre Dame finds itself 16-3 overall (4­2 in the Big East) and ranked No. 20 in the country. 
So how did a lightly regarded and inexperienced squad find itself in contention for the confer­ence title? 
Hard work. 
It started this summer with conditioning, and it has carried. over into games. The Irish dive for every loose ball, crash the boards on every missed shot and help out in the paint on defense. 
That hustle was key in Sunday's win over the Bulls. Trailing 24-21 early, the Irish went on a 21-2 run to end the frrst half, keyed by several offen­sive rebounds and the fact that they hit the floor every time the ball came loose. 
"The loose balls, we had bodies on the floor," Brey said. "The end of the half was symbolic of our season. We were fighting, claw­ing and working in the paint. That gave us the lead." 
And much of the reason Notre Dame collects so many loose balls and key mbounds is its depth -a weakness in the team's last few seasons when Brey rarely strayed from his core group. 
This season, the Irish are always fresh because Brey's bench goes nine deep. And with a quick, hard working rotation 

Chris Khorey 
Associate .., Sports Editor 

including forward Zach Hillesland and guards Jonathan Peoples and Tory Jackson, there's never a loss of energy. 
"It's helped us," Brey said. "When you can keep fresh guys out there and they can all catch, pass and make shots, that really helps." 
Of course, the season hasn't been perfect. Notre Dame still hasn't won a game on another school's campus. The last time the Irish tried, last Wednesday at The Pavilion at Villanova, they lost 102-87. Falls said it was one of the few times this season that Notre Dame got outworked. 
"I think we got out-hustled on Wednesday and we took that personally so we "made a point of getting the loose balls [against South Florida]," Falls said. 
Falls hit on a key point. 
This Irish team may be good. They may be deep and they may be quick. But they cannot expect to be outworked and win, espe­cially on the road. They're over­achieving right now because they put in more work than their opponents. 
And if it lets up, Notre Dame will not achieve its goals this sea­son. 
The Irish saw a hint of that les­son last week against Villanova. And instead of looking compla­cent against a less talented South Florida Sunday, they blew them out of the gym. 
Now let's see if they remember it the rest of the way. Games against St. John's in the Garden on Tuesday and the rematch with the Wildcats Saturday won't go well for the Irish unless they bring the effort they've shown most of this season. 
But call it energy, playing hard, or just outright hustle, ifthe Irish play like they did on Sunday ­there isn't anyone left on their schedule they can't beat. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd. edu 

.-----------------~-~---­

[on every hustle play]," Bulls l3 shooting. Brey pulled his coach Robert McCullum said in senior tri-captain with a little
Kurz 
his post-game presS~Confer­over eight minutes remaining continued from page 20 ence. "He was a big spark plug in the contest, worried he 
during that stretch." would get injured against Irish coach Mike Brey said in South Florida opened the South Florida's physical his post-game press confer­second half on a quick 12-2 defense. ence. ''I'm glad he hunted his run to pull within 10 with "Russell is a marked man in jump shot. I still think he can 15:53 remaining. the league now hunt it more, but we need him It was the closest and they realTy
"Russell [Carter] is 
to shoot his shot. the Bulls would took him away "If it's a good shot early in get the rest of a marked man in physically and the possession he can shoot the way. The overplayed him,"
the league now and
it." Irish responded Brey said. "But I
they really took him 
With 8:32 left in the first with their own thought it opened half, Irish guard Tory Jackson 17-2 run to take away physically up stuff for our found Kurz for an open layup a commanding other guys.
and overplayed
to cut South Florida's lead to 65-40 lead and Fails scored 14
him.··
24-23. From there, the Irish pull away for points on 5-of-12 dominated both sides of the good. shooting. The ball, developing an offensive Notre Dame Mike Brey senior tri-captain rhythm and holding the Bulls addressed its has not attempt­
Irish coach 
to zero field goals for the rebounding prob­remainder of the half. lems following 
"I thought the bench came in the team's 102-87 loss to and did a really good job," Villanova where the Wildcats Irish guard Colin Falls said. out-rebounded the Irish 40-to­"Guys like Zach [Hillesland] 26. and Jon [Peoples] and Luke But Sunday, Notre Dame [Zeller) and Tory [Jackson] grabbed 45 boards to South came in and they were all over Florida's 30. the floor -and we got a nice "The emphasis for the past 
run  because  couple  days  
of it."  was  pretty  
Kurz scored  "Tory Jackson seemingly  much. all  on  
eight points, grabbed four  was involved directly or  the defensive end of the  
rebounds and  indirectly [on every hustle  floor,"  Kurz  
blocked two  play].,,  s  a  i  d  
shots in that  "Rebounding,  
stretch. Jackson,  Robert McCullum  getting loose balls  
who finished  Bulls coach  everybody  

with 11 points on 5­of-8 shooting and five assists, kept numerous possessions alive with productive offensive rebounding and aggressive play on both ends of the floor. 
"Tory Jackson seemingly was involved directly or indirectly 

Broncos 
continued from page 20 
from the top. 
Irish goalie Dave Brown made 25 saves to earn his third shutout of the year, and defensemen Tom Sawatske and Brett Blatchford each scored, along with a late tally from Condra to prevent an unprecedented two-game skid. 
"I can't do without [the defense] battling for me every night," Brown said. "They're in the trenches in front of the net, clear­ing pucks in front, battling with guys to let me see. I can't do with­out them." 
Sawatske broke nearly a period and a half of futile scoring chances on both sides with his third goal of the year at 7:21 into the second period for the 1-0 Irish lead. The senior ripped a shot from the top of the right circle past Broncos goalie Daniel Bellissimo (23 saves) on the low glove side. 
Irish left wing Justin White sparked the successful scoring chance with a leading pass to center T.J. Jindra in the left cor­ner while on a quick break into the Broncos zone, although White was not credited with an assist. Jindra then set up in the corner and zipped a pass across the slot to Sawatske on the far side. 
"I thought we had [the offense] going for most of the game," White said. "It was kind of hard to get chances there, [the Broncos) were playing pretty well defen­sively, but once we started getting a little offense going, we started getting some chances. So we just made the most of what we had." 
Western Michigan pressured early in the third period, generat­ing several scoring chances, but the Irish defense held and allowed the offense to grind down the Broncos and silence their 
who had an 

opportunity to get a loose ball was on the floor, and was diving all over the place." 
The Bulls did a solid job lim­iting the offensive production of Irish guard Russell Carter, who scored nine points of 4-of­ed 12 field goals 
since a Jan. 3 
win over Louisville. 
"Falls hadn't got that many 
looks clean in a while," Brey 
said. "It's almost like they 
switched the emphasis [from 
Falls to Carter)." 
Irish forward Zach 
Hillesland had nine points on 
3-of-4 shooting, but con­
tributed more with his aggres­
sive drives to the basket and 
ball distribution. He l'inished 
with four assists in 22 min­
utes. 
South Florida center Kentrell 
Gransberry was the sole bright 
spot for the Bulls, scoring 23 
points on 10-of-1 7 shooting 
and grabbing 11 rebounds. 
But his 3-of-12 free throw 
•shooting highlighted South Florida's struggles from the stripe -the Bulls shot just 52 percent for the game. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu and Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

LAURIE HUNT!The Observer 
Irish goalie Dave Brown makes a save against Alaska right wing .Brandon Knelsen during Notre Dame's 3-1 win Dec. 2. 
boisterous student section. 
The successful Irish kill of a hooking penalty whistled on Sawatske at 9:25 into the third period crushed the last offensive surge of the Broncos and set up the Blatchford goal only a minute later. The Irish penalty kill shut down all seven Western Michigan man-advantage chances on the night. 
At 12:42 into the third, Blatchford took a low, hard shot from the right point that snuck through a tangle of players and Bellissimo for the 2-0 lead with an assist credited to White. 
Condra then sent the Broncos student section, clad all in black, on a funeral march up the aisles with his slap shot from the low left point that redirected off Bellissimo's pads into the net at 
14:29 for the 3-0 final. 
"The bounces have gone our way," Brown said. "Tonight just kind of came together for us. That was a big plus, we were all on the same page tonight. There's good communication, we were just able to pull it together for a real good team effort." 
On Friday night, .the Irish dropped a 3-2 decision to Western Michigan, snapping an eight­game unbeaten streak in CCHA play. 
Broncos right wing Jeff Pierce squashed a two-goal third-period comeback by the Irish when he scored with 2:46 remaining in the game for the win. Western Michigan scored once in the first and second period before Notre Dame tied the score in the third with goals from defenseman Kyle Lawson and left wing Garrett Regan. 
It was the fourth time this sea­son that Western Michigan has defeated a top 10 tPam at home. 
"We have incredible, incredible -and this is heartfelt -support from our fellow students, I mean it's ~mazing," Broncos coach Jim Culhane said. ''I'm very proud of that, and when you have the elec­tricity and the energy in the build­ing that we do when we play those ranked teams, it's conta­gious." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Now leasingquality houses 
close to campus for the 2007/8 and 2008/9 school years. 
Call Bill at Anlan Properties 
574-532-1896 
Want to work in TEXAS this summer? 





CAMP SWEENEY 
aresidential sports camp for children who have diabetes 
INTERVIEWS: 
Debartolo Hall -Wed., Jan 31st, 5:45-6:45 pm Joyce Center -Thurs., Feb 1st, 4-8 pm Flanner Hall-Fri., Feb 2nd, 9 am-5 pm 
INTERVIEWER: Skip Rigsby 940-768-8250 To pre-schedule interviews, email skipr@campsweeney.org by ·Friday, Jan 26th. 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
al football for three years, and spent time working in business before return­ing to Notre Dame to work with Weis. 
Powlus has also been involved in the recruiting process, help­ing the Irish sign last year's 

Brown 
continued from page 20 
think that having the support of all those guys and those guys as mentors, I would like to think that I've learned something along the way." 
Statistically, Notre Dame's defense has not been a team receives. 
"It's a competitive world," Powlus said. "And if you're proud of what you're doing, if you're proud of yourself and you're proud of your school, it's a lot of fun to walk out there wearing a gold helmet and being the guy in the center." 
Powlus started at quarter­back for Notre Dame from 1994-97. He played profession-
strength the past two y.ears, finish­ing 75th in the NCAA in total defense in 2005 and 65th in 2006. 
One of the team's strengths, however, was its oiTense, led by quarter­back Brady Quinn. 2006 

"And I think that having the support ofall those guys and those guys as mentors, I would like to think that rve learned something along the way. 
Corwin Brown Irish defensive coordinator 
backup Evan Sharply is expect­ed to compete with top recruit Jimmy Clausen, who enrolled this January, and last year's recruits Zach Frazer and Demetrius Jones. 
Powlus hopes to usc his expe­rience as a Notre Dame quar­terback and his job as director of player personnel to help quarterbacks adjust to what he calls the "attention" the position highly acclaimed recruiting class and what will likely be a top-10 class this year. 
Both he and Brown were enthusiastic about joining the Notre Dame coaching staff. 
"Being here at Notre Dame is a tremendous opportunity," Brown said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

; • l ~ L . ~ ,. 

Monday, January 22, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~-=+~,;,.+,,:.+,;..{ ...r=+:=+=+=~ 
_-'-'-'-.::..L=-.L::.J_:.J 


'., 
ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 

I S\""\<::>UU>'\IE.. ~r-.10\11..1 N AU.. 11-\A.-r SC..I-\01-AAS\-\\P 
NAME. 'So~ AHA.­1-\A.I-\ A I-lA. I-\A 1-lA \ 
BLAcK DoG 

LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
1"\.oNE.'-j i"f':.OI'-\ NO 'WAS. SuS.P\ t.\OU.S.. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


63 Part of the head that may be congested 
64 Campbell of the "Scream" movies 
65 Snoozes 66 Exams 67 Jiffy 
DOWN 1 Spanish houses 2 Cluster 3 Ohio's buckeye, 
California's redwood, etc. 4 Big shots, for short 5 Burden 6 Freezer trayful 7 Server at a drive-in 8 Aristocrat's home 9 flakes 10 Forget to mention 11 Protective spray 12 Motivate 14 TV host with a book club 19 Get rid of 21 Straight up 
24 Phantom 26 Scratch 27 Reuters 
competitor 28 Engine additive brand 29 Map borders, usually 30 Prefix with potent 31 and Means 
Committee 32 Tabby's cry 33 French "she" 
WILLSHORTZ 
37 Foldaway bed 47 Little loved one 55 Stair part 38 Comedian Bill, 48 _togo 56 Mama of informally (eager) the Mamas and 39 Giant slugger 51 Ward (off) 
the Papas Mel 
52 Pre-Columbus 57 Carpenter's 40 Antlered animal Mexican metal piece 45 Tailor's line 53 Scientologist 58 "Bonanza" Hubbard brother
46 "This is not making sense to 54 Opera set in the 60 Lt.'s inferior, in me" age of pharaohs the Navy 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year) . Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD



JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCHAMBLEO WORD GAME 
by Hrmtl Amald "'"d Uilte Arglrio!l
~ 

\,ln$(:ri\m!.lie tJ",eee lour ~m!:lies. c1m l$ltor to uach squi!lru. Oh, no~ M)' ~Ill iilre 
due any mirn)le[trytu lnrm four uniinary I words.t 
I 
IJ 
<.·21}(!7 Td~u-r~~ MN~ Sm:'c!~. Inc, A~t P~~-,~~ P.~~~'t~\..~ 
NULCE 
() ( j I I 
I I 

Nllw arrange lha circled ietlers to fOrm !rte S<\~rl)nse an$Wer, as
I I 

wggosi9CI b~· !Mallow cartoon. 
Ans: A ''[IIIIIJU[IIJ 
Saturday's  I JumbiM.  GROOM  ANISE  (AnS'.vers tomoacw) FIZZLE PAALOR  
Anli!W~f;  A ~od way 10 better your lot  - 
SELL IT FOR MORE  

EUGENIA LAST



HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Izabella Miko, 26; Emma Bunton, 31; Geena Davis, 51; Mac Davis, 65 
Happy Birthday: You have been held back, faced limitations and put up with what everyone else wants for too long. It's your tum to move through life in your own unique way. This year is about progress and putting the past behind you. Take responsibility for your future and you won't be disappointed. Your numbers are 3, 10, 22,31,35,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Gel out today and you will find yourself traveling down an interesting road. A little ingenuity along with some new ideas will lead to a new concept. Love and romance will engulf you. 4 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Ease off and look inward at what you have and why. begins at home and today that is exactly where you have to put your focus. Anyone who is looking for a handout has to he turned down. Don't give in to demands. 2 stars 
GEMINI(May 21-June 20): Someone you don't know well will he out to get what he or she can ti·om you. Consider what you can do from home to make your life better or more comfortable. Today is about you and the ones you love. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A little effort and affection will go a long way today. Take a trip to visit someone if it will make a difference. You can make a move that will influence the rest of your life. Now is the time to set the record straight. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's time to try your hand at something new. A challenge will be invigorating and will enable you to impress everyone. Don't live a lie: Be sure to be with the person of your dreams not the person you feel indebted to. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): This is a great day to take care of your health needs. Check out the latest natural remedies. Today is about your own peace of mind and comfort. A new help aid will make your life easier. 3 stars 
LlliRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Have a party or attend one. You need to surround yourself with friends. Love is on the rise so whether you have a partner already or not, this is a great day to be &ffectionate and flirty. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Stick around home but don't disagree with the people you live with. You'll have to take care of house problems. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 2 I): Take a short trip to visit friends or even just as far as a neighbor's. You will enjoy the experiences you have today if you challenge yourself by doing things that are foreign to you. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): This is a great day to plan what you want to do with the rest of your life. A little ingenuity on your part will lead to a revelation. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your dynamic personality will win hearts. Your ability to tell stories will captivate hut make sure that you arc honest or you may hurt someone 
..
you care deeply about. Avoid indulgences. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Gossip will lead to trouble. Don't let your emotions get the better of you. Someone from your past will cause trouble. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are original, capable and eager to get things done. You have a passion for life, love and everything that comes with it. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS Network to keep 
an "eye" on 4 Singer's sound 9 Provide for free, informally 
13 Sedan or wagon 
15 Ancient Peruvians 16 W.W. II general Bradley 17 "_,crackle, pop" 18 Birthplace of 
59-Across 20 59-Across, e.g. 22 Having a ghost 23 Cut, as sheep's 
wool 24 Drunkards 25 TV program for 
which 59-Across won an Emmy, 1977 
32 Debussy's "La 
. " 
34 Bullfighter's cloth 35 Melodic subject, in music 
36 Album for which 59-Across won a Grammy, 1972, with "The" 
41 It's a butter 
alternative 42 "The Wizard of Oz" pooch 
43 French word before and after 
"8." 
44 Movie for which 59-Across won an Oscar, 1961 
49 The "E" in E.R.: Abbr. 50 Spicy sauce ... or dance 53 Milan opera house 
57 Play for which 59-Across won a Tony, 1975 
59 Star born on 12/11/1931 61 the kill 62 Lyric poems 

THE OBSERVER 





PORTS
Monday, January 22, 2007 
page 20 
MLB 

Samardzija picks baseball, inks 5-year deal with Cubs 
By CHRIS KHOREY Assistant Sports Editor 

Notre Dame senior Jeff Samardzija has chosen to pur­sue a career in professional baseball rather than enter the NFL draft, according to a state­ment released Friday. 
"I will devote my full time and attention to professional base­ball," Samardzija said in the statement. "I cannot lie. Leaving football will not be easy. But playing baseball is my first love. It is what I want to do for a liv­ing." 
The former Irish pitcher and wide receiver signed a five-year contract with .the Chicago Cubs reportedly worth $10 million and will report to spring training in Mesa, Ariz. with the rest of the Cubs pitchers and catchers Feb. 14. The deal includes a $2.5 million signing bonus and club options for 2012 and 2013 that would make the deal's total value equal to $16.5 million. 
"This is a dream come true for a kid who grew up in Northern Indiana looking up the road at this great city and its loyal fans," Samardzija said in the state­ment. "I feel very comfortable that this is exactly where I belong." 
Samardzija was draf'ted by Chicago last summer and played for Cubs minor league alliliates in Boise, Idaho, and Peoria, Ill., during the 2006 season. 
lie is expected to begin the 2007 season with the Single-A Daytona Cubs. 
Samardzija played three sea­sons for the Notre Dame base­ball team, compiling a 21-6 record with a 3.82 EHA in 50 appearances. 
On the football field, where he was initially reeruited to play, Samardzija led the Irish in catehes and set single season sehool reeords with 1,249 receiving yards and 15 toueh­downs in 2005. He was also named a consensus All­Ameriean. 
In his senior year in 2006, Samardzija again led the team in catches with 78, this time for 1,017 yards and 12 touehdowns. 
"! will always love football," Samardzija said in the state­ment. "My four years at Notre Dame -playing for the Fighting Irish -were amazing. I could not have asked for more from my teammates, our fans, and our eoaches." 
In his statement, Samardzija thanked Irish football coach Charlie Weis and former Irish baseball coach Paul Mainieri for their "understanding and coop­eration." 
"The two of them ligured out a way for me to live out my dream of playing two sports in college," he said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

~unning past the bulls 
By CHRIS HINE and BOB GRIFFIN 
Sports Writers 

After trading baskets for the majority of the lirst half, Irish forward Rob Kurz ignit­ed a 21-2 run to elose out the opening peri­od and lead No. 20 Notre Dame to a con­vincing 82-58 victory over 
South Florida Sunday at See Also the Joyce Center. 
Kurz struggled in the "Notre Dame's team's previous game at hustfe crucial to Villanova Wednesday, scoring 11 points on 3-of-its success" 
9 shooting, but bounced page 17 back with a team-high 21 points and 10 rebou.nds. 
He was also 9-of-1 0 from the line -con­tributing to Notre Dame's 81-percent free throw shooting. 
"Rob [Kurz] just continues to do dirty work and get loose balls and guard other people's guys, rotate over and block shots," 
see KURZ/page 18 
FOOTBALL 

Weis adds Brown, Powlus to staff 

Former Jets defensive backs coach r~;ew DC 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame has named Corwin Brown its defensive coordinator and Ron Powlus its quarterbacks coach, coach Charlie Weis said Friday. 
The contracts of former defen­sive coordinator Rick Minter and quarterbacks coach Peter Vaas were not renewed. 
Brown was formerly the defensive backs coach for the New York Jets, and Powlus has served as Notre Dame's director of personnel development for the last two years. 
"When I got ready to make a couple of tweaks in our staff, when it came to the offen­sive side and my hiring of Ron, it didn't take me very long to ligure out what direction I wanted to go to find a guy to work with the quarterbacks," Weis said. "Ron's been with me now for the last two years. He's done an out-standing job for me ofl' the field, and he's earned my trust." 


Brown came on the recom­mendation of some of Weis' for­mer NFL co-workers, including Dallas Cowboys coach Bill Parcells and New England Patriots coach Bill Belichiek. 
"They said, 'You should hire Corwin Brown,"' Weis said. "And all I know is if I can get recom­mendations -ringing recom­mendations -with one name from Parcells and Belichick and !Romeo] Crennnl and [All Groh, and they all give you the same person, then I must be on the right traek." 
Corwin is originally from the Chicago area and played safety 
for Michigan. lle played for the 
Patriots from 1993-96 and the 
Jets from 1997-98, coinciding 
with Weis' stints as an assistant 
with those programs. "I've been around some good coach­es," Brown said. "And I used to always say to myself, 'if I could be half as good as all of those guys, if I could be half as good, I'll be okay.' And I 

see BROWN/page 18 
HOCKEY 

Change in line sparks NDvictory 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
KALAMAZOO, Mich. -One night after the scoring line of cen­ter Kevin Deeth and wingers Erik Condra and Hyan Thang was neutralized by Western Michigan en route to a Notre Dame loss, Irish eoach Jeff Ja<·kson heeded the words of a legendary NHL eoaeh. 
Jackson broke up his strike line of three of Notre Dame's top four scorers and inserted left wing Evan Hankin for Thang for a por­tion of the first period. The sub­stitution was rescinded halfway into the period, but the change was enough to throw the Broncos' defensive pair off Jackson's top line and generate enough offense for a 3-0 Irish win Saturday night at Lawson Ice Arena. 
"That was meant more for-try­ing to create a little bit more offensive depth," Jackson said. "It's a matter of matchups, and I learned a little lesson from Scotty Bowman a number of years ago that when a team matches so intensely on the road, and you can't get away from the matchup -you have to do some things that force them to change, so that was kind of the philosophy." 
The shutout win guaranteed that No. 3 Notre Dame (20-5-1, 14-3-1 CCHA) would remain in first place in the CCI-lA going into next weekend's series against second-place Miami, after a 3-2 loss Friday night to Western Michigan (9-13-1, 8-10-1 CCI-lA) threatened to topple the Irish 
see BRONCOS/page 18 


SMC SWIMMING
SMC BASKETBAll 

MEtfS SWiMMING 
NFL

ND WOMEN1SHOOPS 
FENCING 
w 

The Belles fell in two 
The Irish women 

Notre Dame was able 
Colts 38
Saint Mary's 84
~ Notre Dame 83 

meets this weekend to 
went undefeated to win 

to take three events 
Patriots 34
z Syracuse 55 
Adrian 72


c::c 

Kalamazoo and 
the Notre Dame Duals 

against No. 8 
Indianapolis erased a

Irish guard Charel 
A 21-4 Belles run at
..... 

Northwestern, but
Hillsdale, but remain 
while the men came 
21-6 halftime deficit to

Allen's 25 points and 10 
the end of the first half


c::s 
within one point of 

ultimately fell167-131. 
optimistic about their 
advance to the team's

rebounds helped the 
leads Saint Mary's to


c::c 

season. 
upending No. 3 Ohio 
first Super Bowl appear-

Irish easily defeat the 
the win. 
State. 
ance since 1972.
!; Orange Saturday. 
page 16 

page 16 
page 13

page 17 
page 14
page 14 






