.--~~~--­

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 2 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29,2007 
Party ordinance vote stalls again 
With weeks. until public hearing, off-campus partying could face Common Council's scrutiny 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 
With the public hearing of the South Bend Common Council's proposed party per­mit ordinance postponed once more, student body president Liz Brown said students should be aware their behav­ior this weekend could affect discussions between student and city leaders. 
"The continuing progress is contingent on students' behavior during next week," Brown said. "If there are a lot of huge parties, a lot of my bargaining power will be lost." 
The Common Council has 

set Sept. 17 as the tentative date for the public hearing of the ordinance, which would require residents of boarding houses to notify the city before hosting an event at which more than 25 people would have access to alcohol. 
A boarding house is defined as a building in a residential­ly zoned area in which more than two non-related people live. Brown wasn't sure if the proposed legislation applies 
. to apartments. Brown and student body vice president Maris Braun have been in discussion with council members since the bill was proposed, pushing 
see ORDINANCE/page 8 


Saint Mary's breaks into rankings 
U.S. News & World Report places College among nation's top 100 liberal arts schools 
compete on a national level and it is gratifying to see our quality recognized," College President Carol Ann Mooney said in an Aug. 17 statement. "While many of my peers in higher education would like to see ranking systems change, there is no doubt that students and their par­ents rely heavily on these rankings when making their decisions about college." 
While Mooney was pleased with breaking into the top 100, she has already set a loftier goal for the College. 
see RANKINGS/page 6 


By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's recently broke into the U.S. News & World Report's rankings of the top 100 liberal arts colleges, securing the 91st spot. 
While the College was pre­viously ranked the top liber­al arts college in the region, it hadn't made the national rankings until this year. 
The Princeton Review also recognized Saint Mary's as a "Best Midwestern College for 2008." 
"We've long known we can 

ND debuts nevv design for Web site 
New layout requires most users to download latest version ofFlash player 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
After more than eight years of simple graphics and text against a white background, visitors to Notre Dame's Web site were greeted Tuesday morning with a fresh new layout. 
The old Web site -which was launched in the late 1990s -received only slight modifications over the years, Notre Dame WebGroup director Matt Klawitter said. 
The Web site was "due for a change," University chief technology officer Dewitt Latimer said. 
see ND.EDU/page 3 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Shooting victitns in recovery 
Club 23 incident still under investigation 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 

Matt Collins, one of two Notre Dame seniors shot and wounded outside Club 23 Aug. 21, was released from St. Joseph Regional Medical Center Monday. 
Collins has been moved to the University Health Services building, and doc­tors expect him to make a full recovery, though a bullet remains in his abdomen. Any procedure to remove it would be considered too risky, Collins said. 
The other shooting victim, Mitchell Depree, was treated and released from the hospi­tal Aug. 21. 
Collins does not know how long he will remain at Health Services, but he hopes to. attend this weekend's open­ing football game against Georgia Tech, his mother, Karen Collins, said Tuesday. 
Police are still searching for the shooter. Investigators are conducting ballistics tests on the bullets found at the scene but results will not be available for a few weeks, said Captain Phil Trent of the South Bend Police Department. 
Collins and Depree were 
see SHOOTING/page 6 




Ticket distribution undergoes change 
By KATIE KOHLER and 
ROHAN ANAND 
News Writers 
In response to student scalpers hawking their unused tickets for exorbitant prices· on eBay and similar resale Web sites, the Notre Dame Ticket Office has discontinued the practice of exchanging unused student tickets for general admission tickets -with one exception. 
Notre Dame students will now only be able to exchange their student tickets for general admission tickets for the USC game on the first weekend of fall break, but Saint Mary's season ticket holders don't have that option. Before, stu­dents from both schools could trade their student tickets for regular tickets before any home game. 
Josh Berlo, director of ticket operations at Notre Dame, said the change resulted from abuse of the program. 
"Over the last few years, we [the ticket office] have noticed increasing abuse in the ticket exchange," he said. "Resale violations and counterfeiting of ticket booklets are scamming the fans." · 
Some students, Berlo said, would resell their tickets to 
see TICKETS/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, August 29, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A blast fron1 the past 
Bdim~ I get starll~d here I want to wish everyone a h'Til<tt sthool year, seeing as how it's the first (second, if you count Frosh-0) mlition of The Observer this year, and if'l don't do this now, I'll L" H t 
linw~t later. •z ar er For the first eol­
News ProduGtion 
umn, I could write a 
Editor
good human inten~st 
piece, or an unintnr­
nsting pieee about what the first day of 

school can be like (even though it's the sec­
ond lor Notrn Dmne studenL'i, the third for 
Saint Mary's). 

Instead I want to ask a question: I low 
many of you remember the late 1990s boy­
band 9H0 '! 

No, they weren't as big as *NSYNC or the Backstreet Boys, but they wem the boy band who gave Dustin Diamond-a.k.a. Scrnech from "Saved By The Bell"-a mmeo in their 1999 musk video for "I Do (Cherish You)." 
They wern the boy band who sang with Stevin Wonder the single "True to Your lleart" (also limturPd on Disney's Mulan soundtrack). 
They were also the band that introduced us to Nick Ladwy, tlw man who married Jessica Simpson and whose patience semned endl1~ss as she wondernd aloud what "Chicken oftlw Sea" is really made of. 
There wen\ however, throe mmnbers of the band-Jell' Timmons, Drew Ladwy, and .Justin .JI'Il'm -who have fallen by the wayside since tlwir brnakup in 2002. Two have rneently mad1~ a nmppearance in the public eye. 
The first of these, Timmons, is curnmtly on VIII's "Mission: Man Bam!." Thn tnlevi­sion series ehronides the livns of Timmons and three other li1nner boy banders as they produce, rnmrd and forni a new album as the band Surnshot. 
Thn sm:ond is h~ss well known -unless you're from Cincinnati. 
In 2005, Justin .Jnll're, the bhmch-blond bass voice from tlw h'Toup, ran li>r mayor of Cincinnati. In order to do so, he needed to get 500 rnJ.,ristemd voters to sit-,'11 a petition for his name to be on the ballot. 
During the non-partisan primary, he rnenived 70H votes, giving him a grand total of 1.8 percent of the total vote. But don't be alarmed. I le did beat the 83-year-old retired shoemaker Sylvan Grisco as well as the security guard and three-time inde­pendent presidential candidate, Sandra Queen Noble. 
With hL'i paltry perlormance the ftrst time around, it was surprL'iing when I ran into him in Mt. Adams, a neighborhood with a multitude of bars and restaurants, shortly bnli>re returning to school. 
My liiends and I were there to see an outdoor music fi)stiva.l. Iittln did we know that as we walked to dinner we would run into Jell're. 
I don't think he realized my !fiends and I mmnmbernd when 98° was popular. We were meeting one of our teen idols as we sigrwd his petition to get on the ballot. 
This time he's running li1r City Council. 
So if you're !'rom Cineinnati, and a fllJ.,ris­ten~d voter, cheek him out on the ballot. I'm not endorsing him because I honestly don't know what his platli>rm is, I just thought it'd be nkn lhr him to havll a shot at win­ning an elnetion again. 
Oh, and if you see him and he's wnaring his .lell'n~ liw Mayor 2005 shirt, tell him it would bn a good idea to make some newT­shirl'i. 
My frinnds and I li>rgot to do that. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Uz 1/arter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE CITY'S PROPOSED PARTY ORDINANCE? 

Steve Ridenour  Katie Mancino  Michael Redding  Elisa Suarez  Andrea Mayus  Casie Sweeney  
sophomore  senior  senior  senior  senior  senior  
St. Ed's  offcampus  offcampus  offcampus  Welsh fltmily  off campus  
"It's pretty  ':4s long as  ':4s long as I  "'t's fine. I've  "Every time  'Tm not  
ridiculous. "  Michael can  can have  legally adopted  South Bend  worried about  
stay over, I'm  sleepovers at  my roommates."  passes an  it, but I still  
fine."  Katie's house,  ordinance, two  think there are  
what difference  more Notre  bigger fish to  
does it make?"  Dame students  fry, like  






JENNIFER KANG!The Observer 

A group of students sits outside DeBartolo Hall Tuesday at a picnic after the Opening Mass at the Joyce Center. 
OFFBEAT 

Pollee: NY robber refuses $10, takes only $4 
GREENBURGH, N.Y. -A knife-wielding robber need­ed only $4, so he refused to take a $10 bill from his vic­tim and waited while the man made change at a pizza parlor, police said Tuesday. 
He then took the $4 and ran off, only to be captured a few blocks away, police said. 
The suspect, James Mitchell, 48, was arraigned Tuesday on robbery and weapon charges. His lawyer, Arlene Popkin, refused to comment. 
Police Capt. Joseph DeCarlo said it "really is an odd case, but it is a rob­bery." 
The confrontation began over an artificial rose that the 18-year-old victim had just bought, police said. 
Missing German kangaroo captured 
BERLIN -Skippi, a wily kangaroo on the run since early August was returned to his home at a petting zoo Monday in southern Germany, but not after a chase through the German Alps that left the animal with a strained leg. 
The injured marsupial was captured in a cornfield near Leutkirch im Allgaeu, almost 10 miles from where his journey began, police in the nearby town of Ravensburg said. 

Though residents in the area had reported multiple sightings of the kangaroo over the past few weeks, Skippi managed to elude authorities every time. 
But earlier Monday, police received a call from some­one claiming to have seen the animal in a cornfield not far from the last place he was spotted following a run-in with a car Friday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


get shot." whale-sharks." 
IN BRIEF 
The Summer Shakespeare company will perform "Love's Labor Lost" tonight at 7::lO in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Ticknts are $20-35 for facul­ty/staff/seniors and $12-15 
for  all  students.  
Performances  will  run  
through Sept. 2.  

The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be serenning the film "Only Human" ("Snres Qunridos") Thursday at 10 p.m. Tickl)ts are $3 for students and $6 for the gen­eral public. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be screening Michael Moore's do.cumen­tary "Sicko" Friday at 7 and 10 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students and $6 for the gen­eral public. 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will take on Michigan Friday at 7:30 p.m. on Alumni Field. 
The Notre Dame marching hand will present its Drummer's Circle outside the Main Building Saturday at midnight. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart will offer a Vigil Mass 30 minutes after the Georgia Tech game Saturday. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be screening the film "The Night of the Hunter" Sunday at 4 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students and $6 for the general public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The ObserVl~r, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

79 58 

HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 88 I 70 Boston 81 I 66 Chicago 81 I 65 Denver 77 I 60 Houston 87 I 75 Los Angeles 91 I 69 Minneapolis 75 156 New York 83 I 68 Philadelphia 86 I 65 Phoenix 110 I 90 Seattle 82 I 59 St. Louis 97 I 71 Tampa 93 I 76 Washington 88 169 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

ll: UJ :::z:: 
~ 

3: UJ 
..... 
cr: 
CJ 


HIGH LOW 

77 
57 

77 56 
0 
HIGH 87
..... 
LOW 62 

.-----------------------------------------­
Wednesday, August 29, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Opening Mass b~gins nevv acaden1ic year 
Jenkins focuses on upcoming beatification of Holy Cross founder Father Basil Moreau 
Flash player is already a to all users," he said. prerequisite for common Sophomore Nick LaSpina
ND.edu 
Web sites, including said he liked the Web site's continued from page 1 YouTube. improvements. Klawitter's group also sig­"It seems well designed for nificantly upgraded the both aesthetic and practical 
The University debuted the search feature on nd.edu purposes," he said . .anticipated revamped home­through a partnership with Klawitter's next task will page at mid-Go ogle, be to improve the calendar, night, designed which will mapping and virtual tour
"We want to be as
to appeal to help both features to update the three different excellent in our Web unfamiliar "starting point" for the groups of and fre­users' online Notre Dame
site as we are in
potential users quent site experience.
academics and
-those who visitors "find "We want to be as excel­are being athletics. " specific lent in our Web site as we exposed to the information are in academics and athlet­University for quickly," ics," he said. 
Matt Klawitter
the first time, Klawitter The Web site was designed

Notre Dame WebGroup 
those who are said. exclusively by Klawitter's looking for director He said he WebGroup, which is a serv­simple infor­expects the ice of the Office of News and mation and improved Information, not of the those who use the site on a search engine to be one of Office of Information regular basis, such as facul­the added features that will Technology. ty, staff, and students, directly impact prospective . OIT divested itself from Klawitter said. and current the WebGroup 
For the three target students by approximately groups, he said he hopes the simplifying three years
"We've gotten a lot of 
new nd.edu will reflect the their online ago because University's multifaceted experience. kudos and Klawitter's character better than its w e well-wishes. People are office,
u-
predecessor. wanted to designed to
excited that we've 
One of the Web site's most give a handle the prominent features is the straight­provided fresh content content and interactive Flash carousel, forward, to all users." presentation which presents a variety of positive of nd.edu, video clips that showcase a impression does not fall

Matt Klawitter
"taste of life" at Notre Dame, of the under OIT's Klawitter said. University Notre Dame WebGroup role of over­
The carousel i'equires the and provide director seeing the latest version of the Adobe a solid user campus' com-Flash Player, an upgrade experi-puter systems most users will have to ence," Klawitter said. and networks. download to view the'page, Feedback to Klawitter's OIT "worries about infra­he said. office has been generally structure. [WebGroup] wor­
But Web designer John positive so far, he said. ries about message," Nunemaker said the "We've gotten a lot of Latimer said. WebGroup felt the upgrade kudos and well-wishes. constraint is reasonable People are excited that Contact John Tierney at because the widely used we've provided fresh content jtierney@nd.edu 
By DAN JACOBS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students, faculty, staff and priests gathered at the Joyce Center Tuesday to cele­brate Mass and the new aca­demic year. 
University President Father John Jenkins presided over the Mass. and the Notre Dame Brass Ensemble, Chorale, Folk Choir, Glee Club and Liturgical Choir provided the musical arrangements. 
In light of the upcoming beati­fication of Holy Cross Order founder Father Basil Moreau, Jenkins spoke during his homily about Moreau's contributions to the order. to community service and to education. 
"What Notre Dame stands for, its foundation, finds its heart in the man who gave his life to snrvice," Jenkins said. referring to Mornau. 
Jenkins dedicated the 2007-08 aeademie year to the memory of Moreau, and asked for Moreau's intercession at Notre Dame so that "each and every one of us may imitate his spirit, his gen­erosity, and his service." 
University Provost Thomas Burish showed a video presen­tation titled "One Heart, One Soul" near the end of the cere­mony, reiterating Moreau's life and influence on Notre Dame. 
Burish also emphasized how universities are places of con­versation. He spoke of the need to follow Moreau and seek truth through faith. 
Moreau was born in 1799 and sent missionaries, including Father Edward Sorin, around the world. Sorin founded Notre Dame in 1842. 
Moreau will be beatified in Le Mans, France Sept. 12-16. 
Beatification is a step in the Catholic Church's road to saint­hood. 
Contact Dan Jacobs at djacobs 1 @nd.edu 





Subrnissions will be accepted 8/1/07-10/31/07. 
Go to www.tcunet.com for a complete Iist of rules and regulations. 
*Must be 18 yems old or older by 8/01/07to pmHdpole in the 
-' 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 29, 2007 


Tickets 
continued from page 1 
make a profit by selling at 
higher than face value. 
To curb thn problem, Berlo 
said, thn ticketing office, stu­
dent government and the Ollice 
of Student AITairs gathered this 
summer to look at the issues 
and "hopefully improve them 
for the future," Berlo said. 
After consulting with the stu­
dent organizations, the Ticket 
OITicn deeidnd to suspend the 
exchange program with the 
excnption of the USC game, 
which takes place after fall 
break begins. 
At the end of the season, the 
groups will meet again to 
determine if the changes were 
successful in curbing abuse. 
Berlo said that he hopes to 
reinstate thn practice next sea­
son if thn number of counter­
feiting and scalping cases are 
reduced. The new policy has 
not affected the numbnr of stu­
dent tickets sold. 
llowever, while Notre Dame 
students are restricted to 
nxchanges for one game, Saint 
Mary's students will not rnceive 
that option. 
Karen Johnson, vice presi­
dent for student an·airs at Saint 
Mary's, said Saint Mary's had 
no input in the decision, which 
is entirnly governed by Notre 
Dame. 
"We are invited to participate 
in the purchase of the tickets, 
but do not have any say in their 
policins," she said in an e-mail 
to The Observer. 
Because the Ticket Ofl'ice is able to trace the counterfeit tiekets to the individual stu­dent, Saint Mary's students, who Berlo said are more fre­quent offenders, were exclud­ed. According to the Ticket Office, oll'enders face up to five years of losing ticketing privi­leges. 
"Since there are so few tick­ets available to be exchanged now, with only two games, we decided to give the Notro Damn kids the first shot," Berlo said. "But the other reason is bocauso we found violations of the exchange wem proportion­ally worse from Saint Mary's. We wanted to isolate oxactly where the problem was most prevalent." 
Then~ are no financial or other advantages to the ehanges made by the Tieket Olliee, Berlo said. 
"It is disappointing because we don't enjoy taking privileges from the students," he said. 
The new policy has left some Saint Mary's students upset with their limited ticketing options, inducting senior Brigid Fitzpatrick, who had planned to buy an unused ticket from a friend and exchange it for a general admission tieket for her sister, who goes to sehool in Chicago. 
"I wanted to bring lmy sister! in for a game this year. but now because of the exchangn lpoli­cyl. it looks like I won't be able to do that," she said. 
Somn students are angry because they were not notified of the policy until Aug. 13. 
"It's unfair because we bought the tickets first, and then they told us about the pol­icy," senior Courtney Kennedy said. 
Other students said they thought the USC exception con­11icts with the Ticket Office's desire to minimize the online resale of tickets, as seats for the anticipatod USC game are likely to sell for large sums on auction Web sites. 
"So basically, students are 

limited to exchanging their 
tickots only for the most expen­
sive game," Siegfried senator 
Jim Lockwood said. "This, logi­
cally speaking, makes no sense 
at all. Tickets for that game are 
going for $2,000 each." 
Another major change in the 
regulation of this season's foot­
ball tickets can be seen in the 
absence of long lines snaking 
along the side of Notre Dame 
Stadium for extended periods 
of time this week. 
Beginning last spring, upper­classmen were able to choose their seating groups and pay for their tickets online for the first time. They must show· thnir student 10 cards to retrieve them from the Stadium Box Office this year, speeding up a process that used to require early-morning wake ups to stand in line for tho best seats. 
Sophomore Fraser Desmond said the online procedure was a lot faster than his experience last fall. 
"It was better than having to wait in the rain on an early Tuosday morning, like last year," he said. 
Desmond and his fellow upperclassmen might have been spared the long lines and the early morning trek to the stadium --but that was not the case for every student. 
Freshmen were not able to participate in the online regis­tration procedures last semes­ter, and had to purchase their tickets the old way, before sun­rise, and in groups of 10. 
Freshman Eras Noel woke up at 5:30 a.m. and waited until tho gates opened at 7 a.m. to receive his season tickets. 
"I attended a summer pro­gram here so it was easy to find a group of people to sit with," he said. "Waiting an hour and a halfwasn'tsobad." · 
The last football ticketing change this season limited the number Qf tickets that parents of students were allowed the chance to receive through the lottery. Previously, parents were given the opportunity to buy four tickets to two games, this year they can purchase two tickets to one game. 
This measure was taken pri­marily to benefit the alumni, Berlo said. 
"After the record-setting lot­tery last year, we took a look at the lottery and scaled back a lot of the participatory groups," Berlo said. "It was really a way 
to help insure that our future graduates would have greater ticket access." · 
Lockwood said he feels the reduction of parent tickets and suspension of ticket exchanges are a double-edged sword that should have been reanalyzed because it disadvantages stu­dents at two fronts: by making it harder for their non-Notre Dame friends to attend games and by limiting their parents to only one game. 
"Rather than punish every­body, the school should punish those who violate the policy more vigilantly," he said. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO I @saintmarys.edu and Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students  
Atria Salon, will be giving away 100 complimentary Haircuts & styles to the students pf Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. This is our way to say thank you for your support for the last 10 years, along with welcoming new students to our salon. Atria Salon Specializing in Color 574-271-8804 South Bend, IN 2039 South Bend Ave. www.AtriaSalon2.com Located off Ironwood and State Rd. 23 in the Martins Shopping Plaza-within walking distance from campus  
To qualify for this promotion, please call the salon coordinator@ 271 8804 and let them know your interested. *Certain restrictions apply. Atria salon 2 has the right to refuse promotion without any advance notice. This promotion has no cash value. Expires September 20th, 2007. Please ask about our student discount cards.  






Welcome Back! 
Quick. What's for dirmer? 
90Seconds! 
Work. Eat. Study. Repeat. Get a full meal in between exams. 
Creole Something Groot.· C 2007 Hormel Foods Sales. LLC 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, August 29, 2007 COMPILED FROA,t TIH OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Turkey elects new president 
ISTANBUL, Turkey-A devout Muslim won Turkey's presidency Tuesday after months of confrontation with the secular establishment. promising to be impartial and praising the idea that Islam and the state should be separate. 
Still, in a sign that tension could lie ahead, top generals did not attend the swearing-in ceremo­ny in parliament of Abdullah Gul, their new president and commander in chief. Local media interpreted their absence as a protest against the 56-year-old Gul, the former foreign minister in Turkey's Islamic-oriented government. 
Gul. who has tried to engineer Turkey's entry into the European Union with sweeping reforms, received a majority of 339 votes in a parliamentary ballot in the capital, Ankara. The secular opposition had thwarted Gul's earlier bid for the presidency, but his triumph this time was assured by a ruling party that won a sec­ond term in general elections last month. 
Shiite militants end festival 
BAGHDAD -Fighting erupted Tuesday between rival Shiite militias in Karbala dur­ing a religious festival. claiming 51 lives and forcing officials to abort the celebrations and order up to 1 million Shiite pilgrims to leave the southern city. 
Security oflicials said Mahdi Army gunmen loyal to radical cleric Muqtada al-Sadr fired on guards around two shrines protected by the Badr Brigade, the armed wing of the Supreme Islamic Iraqi Council. 
Hesidents of Karbala contacted by tele­phone said snipers were firing on Iraqi secu­rity forces from rooftops. Explosions and the rattle of automatic weapons fire could be heard during telephone calls to reporters in the eity 50 miles south ofBaghdad. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
American poverty rate falls 
WASHINGTON -Five years into a national economic recovery, the share of Americans liv­ing in poverty finally dropped. 
The nation's poverty rate was 12.3 percent in 2006, down from 12.6 percent a year before, the Census Bureau reported Tuesday. Median household income increased slightly, to $48,200. 
The numbers provided some good economic news at a time when financial markets have been rattled by a slumping housing market. But they were tempered by an increase in the num­ber of Americans without health insurance, from 44.8 million in 2005 to 47 million last year. 
Some advocates said the numbers were evi­dence of an uneven economy that is leaving many Americans behind. 
Senator denies alleged lewd act 
BOISE -Under fire from leaders of his own party, Idaho Sen. Larry Craig on Tuesday the only thing he had done wrong was to plead guilty after a police complaint of lewd conduct in a men's room. He declared, "I am not gay. I never have been gay." 
"I did nothing wrong at the Minneapolis air­port," he said at a news conference with his wife. Suzanne, at his side. 
Craig's defiant stance came as Senate Republican leaders in Washington called for an ethics committee review into his involvement in a poliee sting operation this summer in the air­port men's room. 


LOCAL NEWS 
INDOT defends design of 1-80 
!lAMMOND -Residents and officials are questioning why Interstate 80/94 flooded last week. causing parts of the route into Chicago that is one of the nation's busiest stretches of highway to be closed for three days. 
Indiana Department of Transportation officials defended the design, saying unusually heavy rains were to blame for the closure of the highway section that has been rebuilt over the past three years. 
"It was an act of nature," INDOT spokesman Joshua Bingham said. 
IRAN 

Ahmadinejad: U.S. lacking support 
President says Iranians are ready to replace waning American influence in Iraq 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad boldly declared Tuesday that U.S. political influence in Iraq is "collaps­ing rapidly" and said his gov­ernment is ready to help fill any power vacuum. 
The hard-line leader also defended Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, a fellow Shiite Muslim who has been harshly criticized by American politicians for his unsuccessful efforts to recon­cile Iraq's Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds. 
"The political power of the occupiers is collapsing rapid­ly," Ahmadinejad said at a news conference, referring to 
U.S. troops in Iraq. "Soon, we will see a huge power vacu­um in the region. Of course, we are prepared to fill the gap, with the help of neigh­bors and regional friends like Saudi Arabia, and with the help of the Iraqi nation." 

Ahmadinejad did not elab­orate on his remarks, an unusual declaration of Iran's interest in influencing its neighbor's future. The men­tion of a Saudi role appeared aimed at allaying the fears of Saudi Arabia and other Sunni Muslim nations that Iran wants to dominate in Iraq. Even though Saudi Arabia and Iran have not accused Iran of violating blunt assessments of political critics. "Who are you? Who cooperated in the past, it human rights and trying to stagnation in Baghdad, and has given you the right" to "doesn't mean it can't hap­destabilize Iraq, Afghanistan Bush has said it is up to the ask for such a change, he pen," Ahmadinejad said. and the wider region. Iraqi people to decide if their added. 
Iran fought a brutal eight­"Iran is sending arms to government deserved to be Ousting al"Maliki, a long­year war with Saddam the Taliban in Afghanistan to replaced. time Shiite political activist, Hussein's regime and wel­be used to attack American But key Democratic politi­would require a majority comed the elimination of a and NATO troops," Bush cians, including Sen. Hillary vote in the 275-member Iraqi deeply hated enemy. But Iran said. "Iran has arrested visit­Rodham Clinton, have called parliament. As long as the also strongly objects to the ing American scholars who for al-Maliki to be replaced Kurdish parties and the main presence of America, another have committed no crimes because his Shiite-dominated Shiite bloc back ai-Maliki, his rival, over its eastern and and impose no threat to their government has been unable opponents lack the votes for western borders in regime. And Iran's active to forge national unity. that. Afghanistan and Iraq. pursuit of technology that AI-Maliki has shrugged off In a move that could fur­
"Occupation is the root of could lead to nuclear the gloomy assessments of ther strain U.S.-Iranian rela­all problems in Iraq," weapons threatens to put a Iraq's future, saying he tions, U.S. troops raided a Ahmadinejad said. "It has region already known for would "pay no attention" to Baghdad hotel Tuesday night become clear that occupiers instability and violence under American critics and if nec­and detained about 10 peo­are not able to resolve the shadow of a nuclear essary "find friends else­ple, including six whom a regional issues." holocaust. Iran's actions where." U.S.-funded radio station 
President Bush defended threaten the security of "They rudely say (the Iraqi) descl'ibed as members of an the Iraq war in a speech at nations everywhere." prime minister and the con­Iranian delegation visiting to the American Legion's Bush and the U.S. ambas­stitution must change," negotiate contracts with the national convention and sador in Iraq have given Ahmadinejad said of U.S. Iraqis. 



Rescuers maintain search for miners 
sites on steep terrain above the said Sonny Olsen, a spokesman for

Associated Press Crandall Canyon mine, about 120 some miners' families. "I don't think SALT LAKE CITY -Crews tried to miles south of Salt Lake City. anything significant is happening lower a robotic camera into a Utah Crews were working to snake the yet." mountain Tuesday and drilled yet robotic camera into an undamaged Federal officials have said the another hole into the coal mine section at the rear of the mine instability of the mountain makes it where six miners have been trapped through hole No. 3, drilled weeks too risky to resume underground for more than three weeks. earlier. digging or to drill a hole wide Officials hoped the seventh hole Officials planned to brief families enough to send a manned rescue would break into the coal mine's so­on the camera's progress Tuesday capsule into the mine. called kitchen, a designated safety evening, said Rich Kulczewski, a The robotic camera can travel area 1,800 feet underground where spokesman for the U.S. Labor 1,000 feet and has a 200-watt light the miners could have sought pro­Department. He said the govern­so it can take images of objects up tection after the Aug. 6 cave-in. ment would not announce any to about 50 feet away. It is similar to Rescuers have detected no sign of developments until after that meet­one used to search the wreckage of life from the men ing. the World Trade Center after the The work was interrupted Monday "I don't expect there will be any 2001 terrorist attacks in New York by heavy rain that washed out work shocking news coming out of that," City. 
Wednesday, August 29, 2007
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
another Notre Dame senior "Thanks for the ride, you Matthew Collins and Depree put themselves at risk, such in front of Club 23 while they [expletive] Notre Dame stu-at the hospital later that as walking alone at night.
Shooting 
were waiting dents," before morning, Brown said. Students are far more likely continued from page 1 for a ride, firing five Both Matthew Collins and to be victims of property according to "I would hope the shots, Karen Depree said they intend to crime than violence, Trent shot around 1 a.m. Aug. 21 K a r e n Collins said. enroll for the fall semester, said. Theft can often be
student population 
following a "harsh" conver­Collins. Two of the he said. averted by concealing elec­sation with the shooter, who When the wouldn't let this scare bullets hit Karen Collins said the tronics and other valuables returned several minutes man asked them into not enjoying Collins, and University "has been great" inside a trunk or locked in a later in an SUV and fired five the three stu­one hit throughout the ordeal. console, he said.
themselves or the
shots at the students, Trent dents for a Depree. "(The shooting) is quite an "[Leaving out] a backpack said. ride, they community here. " The car's uncommon occurrence," is as good as leaving an iPod The students were taken to said no, driver then Trent said last week. "We do or cell phone out," he said. St. Joseph Regional Medical Karen Collins drove north­not believe in any way, shape "A briefcase -you might as
Captain Phil Trent 
Center, where Depree was said. The bound on or form that this was ran­well leave the laptop out."

South Bend Police
treated for a leg wound and man -who Notre Dame dom." Police have asked anyone

Department

then released, Trent said. p o I i c e Avenue, Trent Police do not know whether with information about the The gunshot wounds Collins described as said. the suspected shooter was shooting to contact the South received to his abdomen and a short-University inside Club 23 before the Bend Police Department leg, however, were initially haired black male of average officials were notified of the shooting, Trent said. Investigative Division at considered so life-threaten­build wearing a dean, white shooting before 2 a.m. Aug. "I would hope the student (574) 235-9263. ing that he requested and T-shirt -then walked out of 21 and became immediately population wouldn't let this reeeivcd last rites. sight. lie returned moments involved, University scare them into not enjoying Chris Hine contributed to 
Collins said the shooter -later in the passenger seat of spokesperson Dennis Brown themselves or enjoying the this report. who neither he nor his a black SUV as it drove up to said. Associate Vice community here," he said. friends had ever met -the curb where the three President for Residence Life Ile advised students to Contact Karen Langley at approaehed him, l>nprne and seniors stood. He then said, and Housing Bill Kirk visited avoid actions which could lldanglel@nd.edu 
to thn national category, "Any time there is academic Administrators and faculty from different backgrounds Director of Media Relations recognition and student satis­members said they are look­and areas of the country, not


Rankings 
Melanie McDonald said. faction, it is a positive thing," ing forward to the implica­just the Midwest," freshman "We didn't do anything dif­McDonald said. tions of the recent awards and Megan Miller said. 
continued from page 1 
ferent. There was no seismic U.S. News, which relies their potential effect on Saint Mary's is on its way to She hopos Saint Mary's breaks shift ... just a reclassifica­heavily on evaluations from enrollment. the national circuit, which into the top 50 national liber­tion," she said. "But to enter peer institutions, differs from Dan Meyer, vice president of McDonald attributes to strong al arts colleges in the near into the realm of the top third the Princeton Heview, which enrollment management, and leadership. Mooney has made futuro. is a big deal considers student input. Mona Bowe, director of aggressive attempts to 
To do this, for us. It "It is a nice balance to know admissions, are "leading the increase enrollment to 1,700, Mooney believes "It is a nice balance shows that we that we received kudos from charge" in Mooney's plan to while making Saint Mary's a the College can play in. the students who lived the educa­increase enrollment, more diverse institution.
to know that we
needs to improve big leagues tion and our academic peers McDonald said. "Each year we are getting
received kudos from 
retention and and that we as well," McDonald said. "[The rankings] will no better because of the support graduation rates. students who lived belong." The Princeton Review rank­doubt look attractive to of those in leadership posi­Small class sizes While the ings are based on standards prospective students and par­tions," McDonald said. "Just
the education and our 
and "talented, Princeton for excellence and student ents," McDonald said. "But it look at enrollment this year." 
academic peers as
accessible facul­Review rank­opmton data, collected is not cause and effect. All the The honors, McDonald said, ty" could .also well." ings are not as through a survey on its Web good things we want for the "just boost the fact that we boost the well known as site. College will not come about are already doing important College's rank­the U.S. News The information was com­right now, but it is a good things right. And that is a
Melanie McDonald 
ing, Mooney and World piled in the publication's place to begin." good flag to fly."

director of media 
said. Report rank­"Best Colleges: Region by Students also said they 
But the relations ings, the Region" section of the Web thought the recognition was Mandi Stirone contributed College's current impact on the site dedicated to colleges that important. to this report. performance was College is still "stand out as academically "I think these honors will enough to prompt U.S. News significant, College officials excellent institutions of higher help Saint Mary's on a nation­Contact Katie Kohler at to move it from the regional said. learning." al level and attract students lkkohleO1@saintmarys.edu 

You can do it. We am help: 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, August 29, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,041.85 -280.28
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
'444 67 2,832 3,078,093,429 
AMEX NASDAQ 2,500.64 -60.61 NYSE 9,289.49 ~239.44 S&P 500 1,432.36 -34.43 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,.2s7:a~ · $3~Pr FTSE 100 (London) 6,102.20 -117.90 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -2.38  -1.14  46.74  
SUN MICROSYS (JAVA)  -1.56  -0.08  5.06  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -2.00  -0.49  23.96  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -2.22  -0.69  .30.41  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.44 -0.066 4.530 13-WEEK BILL -2.51 -0.110 4.270 30-YEAR BOND -0.02 -0.001 4.862 5-YEAR NOTE -3.10 -0.136 4.248 
Commodities 

-0.24 71.73 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) 
-2.70 673.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
-1.05 91.00 
Exchan e Rates 

YEN 114.1300 EURO 0.7350 POUND 0.4995 
CANADIAN$ 1.0656 


IN BRIEF 
Wall Street raises investor concerns 
NEW YORK -Volatility returned to Wall Street Tuesday, sending stocks plunging as investors grew more uneasy about the econo­my and whether the Federal Reserve will take the steps needed to prevent credit market problems from spreading further. The Dow Jones industrials fell 280 points. 
The stock market found little to assuage concerns in minutes from the Fed's last meet­ing. released during afternoon trading. The major indexes' losses steepened after investors parsed the minutes for signs of a possible cut in interest rates. · 
There had been some hope on the Street that Fed policymakers might have sent a stronger signal they were more willing to cut interest rates to help calm turbulent market conditions.But in the minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee's Aug. 7 meeting, while the central bank noted the turmoil in the markets and said, "to the extent such a development could have an adverse effect on growth prospects, might require a policy response," it didn't discuss a cut in the benchmark federal funds rate that Wall Street has wanted. 
U.S. home prices continue to drop 
NEW YORK-U.S. home prices fell 3.2 per­cent in the second quarter, the steepest rate of decline since Standard & Poor's began its nationwide housing index in 1987, the research group said Tuesday. 
The decline in home prices around the nation shows no evidence of a market recov­ery anytime soon, one of the architects of the index said. 
MacroMarkets LLC Chief Economist Robert Shiller said the declining residential real estate market "shows no signs of slowing down." 
The report came a day after the National Association of Realtors said sales of existing homes dropped for a fifth straight month in July while the number of unsold homes shot up to a record level. 
The S&P/Case-Schiller quarterly index tracks price trends among existing single-fam­ily homes across the nation compared with a year earlier. 

CHINA 

U.S. representatives target toy safety 
Larsen: Tainted Chinese exports create a personal problem for Americans 
Associated Press 

BEIJING -China needs 
to effectively address its 
product safety problems, an 
American lawmaker said 
Tuesday as the country 
launched a campaign to 
weed out unqualified man­
ufacturers amid a global 
recall of Chinese-made toys. 
Toys are among a length­
ening list of Chinese exports 
that have been found to 
contain high levels of chem­
icals and toxins, triggering 
worldwide concerns and 
numerous recalls of goods 
ranging from toothpaste to 
pet food ingredients. 
"This is a very real prob­
lem," said Hep. Hick 
Larsen, who was on a 
weeklong visit to China. 
"It's visceral." 

"It's about your child, and 
it's about your pet, and it's 
about food on the table," 
said Larsen. D-Wash. "You 
can't get more personal 
than that for Americans, 
and so it does need to be 
addressed." 

Larsen and Hep. Mark 
Kirk, R-Ill., are co-chairs of 
the U.S.-China Working 
Group, which is focusing on 
the expansion of export 
opportunities to China for 
small-and medium-sized 
American businesses. 
Larsen and Kirk met 
Tuesday with officials from 
the General Administration 
of Quality Supervision, Larsen urged · U.S. China's crackdown on toy "Export toy quality certifi­
Inspection and Quarantine. importers to get more makers comes two weeks cates will be revoked for 
According to Larsen, the involved. He said their busi­after Mattei Inc., the those companies who are 
Chinese officials said they nesses could suffer, espe­world's largest toy maker, found to have serious prob­
recognized there was a cially around Christmas "if recalled almost 19 million lems in quality manage­
problem and that it was the American public does dolls, cars and action fig­ment and product safety 
being fixed. get to the point where they ures because they con­control," the administration 
Before Congress' August are ... specifically looking tained lead paint or tiny said. 
recess, Kirk introduced the for products that are not magnets that could damage Chen Xitong, an adminis­
bipartisan Import Safety made in China." organs if swallowed by chil­tration official, said the pro­
Act of 2007, which would The legislation also pro­dren. gram would begin Tuesday. 
increase penalties against vides funding to the "An examination will be It is part of a four-month 
importers of contaminated Consumer Product Safety conducted across the coun­program aimed at improv­
goods by 100 times. Food Commission and the U.S. try on licensed Chinese toy ing overall quality -from 
and toy violations resulting Food and Drug producers and exporters to food to drugs to consumer 
in death would now mean Administration for overseas clear out those unqualified products -as China fights 
fines of $50 million instead inspections of processed ones," the quality adminis­to shore up its battered rep­
of $500,000. foods and toothpaste. tration said on its Web site. utation as a safe exporter. 

Fed considers credit intervention 
Associated Press  increased risks to the economy.  charges banks for loans to 5.75 per­ 
Bernanke and his central bank col­ cent. That narrowly tailored move  
WASHINGTON -Federal Heserve  leagues "expected a return to more  was aimed at propping up sagging  
policymakers meeting in early August  normal market conditions," but they  financial markets. The Fed also has  
acknowledged that they might have  recognized that might not be the  pumped billions of dollars into the  
to take action to ease a growing cred­ case, according to minutes of the  U.S. financial system to help banks  
it crunch, even as they held out hope  closed-door meeting released on  and other institutions get over any  
for "a return to more normal market  . Tuesday.  cash-flow problems and more  
conditions" without any intervention.  "A further deterioration in financial  smoothly carry out their businesses.  
A cut in one interest rate came 10  conditions could not be ruled out, and  Economists and investors believe  
days later, and analysts are expecting  to the extent such a development  the odds are rising that the Fed will  
a broader rate cut when Chairman  could have an adverse effect on  move to lower its key interest rate  
Ben Bernanke and his Fed colleagues  growth prospects, might require a  now at 5.25 percent by at least one­ 
meet in September.  policy response," the minutes stated.  quarter percentage point on or before  
The Fed, however, didn't feel an  The minutes didn't say what that  Sept. 18, its next regularly scheduled  
immediate need to step in at its Aug.  response might entail.  meeting. This rate, called the federal  
7 meeting. Instead, the Fed left a key  "Policymakers would need to watch  funds rate, is the interest banks  
interest rate at 5.25 percent, where it  the situation carefully," the minutes  charge each other on overnight loans  
has stood for more than a year.  stated.  and is the Fed main tool for influenc­ 
Policymakers left rates alone even as  They did. Ten days later ­on Aug.  ing overall economic activity. A  
they acknowledged that the worsen­ 17 -the Federal Reserve took the  reduction to the funds rate would  
ing housing slump, credit problems  unusual step of slicing by a half per­ mean lower interest rates for millions  
and turbulence on Wall Street had  centage point the interest rate it  of consumers and businesses.  

~~-----­

------. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, August 29, 2007 
"The goal the entire time is bill's co-sponsors, sees the Kirsits said at the Aug. 20 tinued dialogue between the to have a permit process com­ordinance as necessary to Common Council Community University's student body and
Ordinance 
pletely removed and pursue address the recurring issue of Relations Committee meeting. the city." other avenues to address dis­raucous student parties. "I don't see this as that big of She cited the Community
continued from page 1 
orderly parties," Brown said. "[We need to] tell people of a deal. It might be to some Relations Coalition that was them to reconsider the ordi­But Council member AI the behavior we expect of people who have that 'any-formed in East Lansing to nance. "Buddy" Kirsits, one of the them in our community," thing goes' facilitate dia­



Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, September 4 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 

The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian. and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family. their friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality 1s assured 




CORE CIJ!.!NC!l 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 

Create a Donn Wishlist before heading off to campus 
It's an easy way to equip the perfect dorm room 
• 20% completion program thru 9/30/07! Receive 

20% off everything remaining on your Wishlist. (May not be combined wijh any other offer.) 
Dorm Pre-Req's Student Body NeedsYour Dorm Checklist _Clock radio (1) _Towel sets (6)
_Night light 

_Towel bar (1) Hit the Sack _Cookware set (1) _Fan (1) _bath towel tower (1)_Sheet sets. Twin or Twin XL (2) _Set kitchen utensils (1) _Storage boxes (2) 
_Tubmat(1)
_Comforter or quilt (1) _Bottle/can opener (1) _Extension cords (2) 
_Bath rug (1)
_Down comforter (1) _Water filtration pitcher (1) _Squid multi outlets (2) _Shower curtain (1)_Duvet cover (1) _Replacement filters _Surge protector _Shower liner (1)_Blanket (1) _Chip clips/magnetic clips (5) Batteries _Shower ring set (1)_Bed pillows (2) _Dorm-size microwave (1) =Door mirror (1) _Shower caddy (1)_Pillow protectors (2) _Dorm-size refrigerator (1) Wall hooks _Soap holder (1)_Mattress pad (1) _Blender (1) Frames _Bath brush and pout _Fiberbedlfeatherbed (1) _Toaster oven (1) =Storage ottoman _Electric toothbrush (1)
_Inflatable Aerobed (1) _Coffeemaker (1) Trash can _Window/door panels _George Foreman grill (1) 
_Replacement heads Chaos Control
_Area rug (1) _Snack table (1) _Over the door hook (1)
_Storage trunk or tote (1)
_Decorative pillows _Dish rack _Magnifying mirror (1)
_Under the bed containers (3)
_Floor cushions _Travel mugs _Blow dryer (1)
_CD or DVD storage (1) 
_Body wash &lotion
-Throw (1) Neat n Tidy _Set of 4 bed risers (1) _Cosmetic organizer {1)Pullan All Nighter _Hand or stick vacuum (1) _Over the door storage (1) 
Tweezers
_Desk lamp (1) _Dish cloths & towels (6) _Shoe rack (1) _Curling iron (1)_Floor lamp (1) _Cylinder hamper (1) _24 hangers (1 Pkg. ) _Hair straightener (1)_Bed rest (1) _Compact iron (1) Mesh cubes _Electric razor (1)
_Lap desk (1) _Drying rack (1) _Bubble crates _Laundry bags (2) _Modular storage shelves 
_Robe &slippers (1) Munchie Makers _Drawer organizers (4) _Hair towel & shower wrap
_Lint roller 
_Bowls, plates, mugs (4) _Storage set (1) _Shower radio (1) _Forks, knives, spoons (4) _Duffel bag (1) _scale _Glassware set (1) _Space bags _Electric fragrance diffuser 
Valid thru Sept 30, 2007 
JIHI~~~JIII~~~~~IIt Ll N E NS·N·TH INGS 
'One CXlUflOO per customer. Valid in-store only. No reprOOuctlons. Cou!Dl must be SlJ1TBf1dlred at time of purchase. Sooy, ooupm nct valid towards the purchase of ~. The Sharper Image, iJcy, Wi.isttd, Nautlca, All-Clad, J.A Henckas, UtUe Gant Ladders, Tempur·Pedic, Godiva Chocolates, f:oerr:J3rrm. custom windows, Riedel or Unens 'n Things Gift Gards. Cannot be combined vJth aJY other CQUPOO or offer. Coupon rct valid towards previous purchases and cannot be used with Unens 'n Things credit card filS! purchase 
alter. Other restrtctioos may appy. Please see store cr LNTCOM tcr ootails. 

mentality."  logue between  
The proposed ordinance cur­reo tly exists in two forms. each  "[We need to/ tell people ofthe behavior we expect ofthem in  the students of Michigan State University and the surround­ 
of which would require a differ­ our community. "  ing community. If passed, the  
ent length of advance notice  AI Kirsits  ordinance. will be enforced by  
to  the  city  Council member  levying fines  on  
about  any  any violators. If  
event. The bill  residents  do  

designed by sponsoring mem­not register a gathering and bers Timothy Rouse and they are caught, they will be Kirsits would require the host subjected to an initial $500 to notify the city at least 10 fine and then $1,000 on each days before any event, while subsequent violation. the working draft of a propos­Sponsors who file applica­al by the city administration tions will still be subjected to would require only 24 hours public nuisance f'ines for any notice. other violations. These fines 
The ordinance has inflamed would be $50 on a l'irst viola­discussion among Notre Dame tion, $100 on a second viola­students since Brown notified tion and $200 on any subse­the student body in an e-mail quent violation. Aug. 4. The applica­
The proposed tion fee for an ordinance was ''I'm hoping some­nvont permit subject to a would be $15.
thing bigger comes

public hearing Questions Aug. 2. Week out ofthis, with a havn been after week. pub­larger, more stable raised during lic hearings Community
continued avenue for 

have been post­He lations poned. continued dialogue Committee Brown has between the moetings about talked to city the enforce­
University's student 

officials about a ability and set of initiatives body and the city." legality of the through which ordinance. student govern­In all ver­
Liz Brown 

ment would take sions of the
student ~ody president

additional proposed ordi­responsibility nance, rules for off-campus rHiating to violations by students. She boarding house events are will meet with Council mem­accompanied by regulations bers and the mayor this to allow currently banned week, she said. lawn parking during Notre 
''I'm hoping something big­Dame home football games. ger comes out of this," she said, "with a larger, Jl)ore sta­Contact Karen Langley at ble continued avenue for con-klanglel @nd.edu 
Ex-congressn1anbelieves POWs re111ain in Hanoi 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C.-In 1981, rookie congressman Bill Hendon left a Capitol Hill intelligence briefing convinced that there were American prisoners of war from Vietnam still alive and in captivity in Southeast A'iia. 
Nearly three decades later, he says, they're still there -and still alive. 
"Absolutely," llendon said. "No question about it." 
It's a position ridiculed by both government ollicials and former POWs who spent years in captivi­ty during the Vietnam War. Aftnr meeting with Hendon in 19H6, President Heagan wrote in his diary that the two-term congress­man from western North Carolina was "ofT' his rocker." 
But the 62-year-old Hendon remains resolute. He has pub­lished "An Enormous Crime," a 587 -page book filled witJ1 dedas­sified government documents he and co-author Elizabeth Stewart believe prove that living Americans were left behind in Southeast Asia after the fall of Saigon in 1975. 
"The intelligence indicates that about 700 were kno\\oingly lel't at the end of the war," I tendon said in an interview from his home in Washington, D.C. "There have been some losses. They are keep­ing these men alive ... in under­ground prisons northwest of Hanoi." 
Since that first intelligence briefing. Hendon has made dozens of trips to Southeast A'iia to search f(Jr living POWs. During a trip to Hanoi in 1995, Hendon chained himself to the gate of a compound used by American investigators -a protest against what he callnd the government's mfusal to aet on reports of living prisoners. 
A few days later, U.S. and Vietnamese ollicials went to a site where Hendon thought living POWs were being held. None were found. 
"In spite of the years of investi­gations and the overt and covert means we, tim govnrnment, have used to look at such things to date, there is no credible evidnnce that any living American is b1~ing held against his will in Southeast Asia," said Larry Greer, a spokesman for the Department of Def1msn's POW-Missing Personn1~l Ollice. 
The oflicp, posts regular updates on the status of the 1,783 Amerieans officially listed as unaccounted for in Southeast Asia. Since 1975, t1111 government has received 22.943 reports on missing Americans, including 1,9H9 "firsthand live sightings." or those, only 4 7 arn unexplained. 

Wednesday, August 29, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

White House eyes possible Gonzales replacements 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Moving quickly to replace Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, White House officials are con­sidering live names that "have kind of emerged" as possible candidates to take over the b1deaguered Justice Department, according to a Sl) nior Bush administration official. 
The official who spoke on eond ition of anonymity in order to speak more openly about the process declined to ide.ntify the five contenders who were being looked at "pretty seriously." 
White House officials have consulted more than 20 mem­bers of Congress -Democrats and Hl)publicans alike-about possible successors to Gonzales, who announced Monday that is leaving office on Sept. 17. 
Interviews with current and former Justice Department ofl'icials, congressional aides, attorneys and other legal experts yielded as many as 24 names of possible, if highly speculative candidates for the attorney general's job. 
When contacted Tuesday, several contenders asked to remain anonymous and flatly said they did not want the job. Others deelined to comment. 
"I love the Department of Justice -it's the most won­dnrful professional experience I've had in my life," said Ted Olson, a former solicitor gen­eral for the Bush administra­tion who deelined to say whether he has discussed the attorney general's job with the Whitn House or whether he would accept the post if ofTnred. 
Similarly, George Terwilliger, a deputy attorney general under former President Gnorge IJ.W. Bush who has emerged as an often-men­tioned contender, declined to comment. 
Sen. Orrin Hatch, H-Utah, who formerly chaired the Senate Judiciary Committee, once said he would take the job if offered. 
When askod if he would take tho job of running the Justice Department, former Deputy Attorney Gnneral Larry Thompson sent word through a spoknswoman that "he's very happy in this role" as general counsnl at PepsiCo. 
Solicitor General Paul Clnment could remain acting attornny general for an indefi­nitn limo after Gonzales loaves. 
White House officials said Tunsday it was unlikely that a successor would be named before Bush returns Sept. 9 from a state visit to Australia and mnetings with world lead­ers at the annual Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. lie leaves Washington next Monday. 
Son. John Cornyn, R-Texas, prPdicted it will be tough for tho Whit1~ House to find Gonzales' successor. 
"1 think it's going to be very challenging to find somebody who would be willing to accept' that nomination," Cornyn said. "It's going to bn a very tough partisan environment. Anybody in their right mind would have to be extremely thoughtful about whether thPy want to subject" themselves to the kind of environment Gonzales endured. 
Gonzales announced his res­ignation Monday after seven months of criticism that began with a congressional investiga­tion into the firings of nine 
U.S. attorneys. The inquiry led to Hepublicans and Democrats alike questioning Gonzales' honesty on a range of topics ­including the administration's domestic terrorism spying pro­gram. 
Sen. Charles E. Schumer, D­N.Y., said conservative candi­dates wouldn't necessarily be rejected -as long as they pledged to check their politics at the Justice Department's door. 

"They'd be ideologically con­servative, but at the same time, who we would find acceptable, people who we believe would put the rule of law first and politics last," Schumer told CNN. "Sort of the inverse of what Attorney General Gonzales did." 
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, also men­tioned as a candidate, said lit­tle Tuesday during a to Mobile, Ala., about whether he may succeed Gonzales, instead praising the attorney general as "a dedicated public servant and a good friend." 
Accompanying Chertoff was Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-AJa., who said "I know the president would like to have him as attorney general and I know he would like to have him as head of DHS." 
Also mentioned as a possible candidate is Laurence H. Silberman, a senior judge on the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Several Democrats and legal experts said Silberman would have dif­ficulty winning confirmation because of his political resume -including overturning Oliver 
North's conviction and dis­crediting Anita Hill during Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas' confirma­tion hearings. 
Hatch's prospects were a big unknown. There is general affection for him from his Senate colleagues but also questions about his loyalty to the administration because of his gentle treatment of Gonzales. The Utah Hepublican was the lone mem­ber of his party on the Senate Judiciary Committee not to openly deride the embattled attorney general. 
HP 21 Black Inkjet Print Cartridge 
#566768 

$14~~ryDay 
HP 22 Tri-Color Inkjet Print Cartridge 
#566775 
$17~~ryDay 
HPAdvanced Photo Paper Glossy, 25 sheet, 8.5 x 11 
#588454 

$9~~ery Day 

page 10 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 29, 2007 



Google Search 
Replaces the old search engine. If you can't find something, look here. 

The 11Carousel" 
Features video, announcements, and a variety of informative content. It spins too. Click one of the smaller images on either side of the large graphic to view other stories. 

Popular Sites 
Located in the upper right corner of the new homepage. Click and you'll see a menu of options. 


learn more andprovide feedback: nd.edu!about-this-site 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 

Wednesday, August 29, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 


Bush hails New Orleans' spirit 2years after Katrina 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -President Bush said Tuesday he wanted to celebrate the spirit of New Orleans. He chose to do so with Leah Chase, considered this proud, still-struggling city's Queen of Creole, known as much for her famous cook­ing as her warm personality. 
The president and his wife, Laura. dined with about two dozen others at her restau­rant. Dooky Chase, a land­mark eatery that was once a gathering place for civil rights leaders and has become famous for traditional Creole cooking. Around the large square table with Bush, federal, state and local offi­cials mixed with athletes, artists, developers and oth­ers. 
New Orleans Saints quar­terback Drew Brees was at the table, as was musician Irvin Mayfield, for a long list of dishes such as crab soup, grilled redfish, shrimp Clemenceau, chicken with oyster dressing and jamba­laya. 
Bush called them all "quiet heroes who have helped bring optimism and hope to New Orleans" after the devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina two years ago Wednesday. He saluted Chase Bush's image as a take­charge leader. 
So, as on other visits, Bush and his team came here armed with a raft of facts and figures about how much his administration has done to fulfill his Jackson Square promise to "do what it takes" to rebuild New Orleans. 
"The president continues to follow through on his commit­ment to help local citizens rebuild their lives," said Bush spokesman Scott Stanzel. 
The storm killed more than 1,600 people along the Gulf Coast, decimating the Mississippi shoreline and flooding nearly 80 percent of New Orleans. 
Two years later, huge swaths of the city remain in shambles, with businesses shuttered and houses aban­doned and bureaucracy chok­ing federal and state assis­tance. 
The city's population contin­ues to grow. Sales tax rev­enues are approaching nor­mal. But unemployment is stubbornly high. Schools and hospitals have not reopened to keep pace and neither has crime prevention. New Orleans levees still are not ready for the next big storm. 
Bush's Gulf Coast rebuilding chief, Don Powell, noted the 
federal govern­
ment has com­

and her hus­mitted a total of
"The president 
band. Dooky $114 billion in
continues to follow
Chase II. who aid to the have renovated through on his region, $96 bil­the restaurant lion of which is
commitment to help
with its elegant already dis­
local citizens rebuild 
dining rooms, bursed or avail­imprPssive art their lives. " able to local collection and governments. brilliantly col­The implied
Scott Stanzel 
on~d walls and criticism is that
spokesman for 
plan to finally it is local offi­reopen from President Bush cials' fault if 
the storm's damage in a couple of weeks. 
"I know you would want me to say that the food here is about as good as anyplace hPre in New Orleans," Bush said. "I will say it." 
The president and his wife are to spend Wednesday's anniversary at a New Orleans charter school and a commu­nity center down the Gulf Coast in Bay St. Louis, Miss. It is Bush's 15th visit to the region since the storm but only his second since last year's anniversary, as the issue has moved further off the president's radar. 
The federal government's dismal performance in the immediate aftermath of the storm -and some residents' lingering sense of abandon­ment since -severely dented 
that money has not reached citi­zens. 
Powell also said the presi­dent intends to ask for $7.5 billion more -for a total of $15 billion -to strengthen New Orleans' levee system to withstand a 100-year storm and improve the area's drainage system. Levees, he said, a're undeniably and sole­ly a federal responsibility. 
But he said that other areas -such as infrastructure repair and home rebuilding -are shared responsibilities with local ofl'icials or entirely the purview of state and local governments. 
The federally funded, state administered Road Home pro­gram, created to help people rebuild their homes, is a par­ticularly sore subject. 
Fewer than 40,000 Louisiana have received federal, state and local gov­shortfalls means they won't grants, out of more than ernment officials discovered have enough money to go 180,000 applications. And only recently that insurance around. 


Abit ofIreland in your own backyard. 

Just seconds from campus. With it'> many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterford D.tates Lodge has hotel roomsatreasonable ratesfor upcoming NDfuotball weekends.) 

S""Jor 
my c~k;n~ tA.CCOtt."t wi II look Q.f 'o.d t.l 
my htA.ir. 


Talk with a Wells Fargo Banker and get your PhD in Money-omics. 
With College Combo®, designed especially for college students, you get: 
• 
Free Wells Fargo College Checking® account* 

• 
No annual fee Wells Fargo® Check Card -now with Visa® payWave 

• 
Free access to Wells Fargo Online® Banking and Free Bill Pay 

• 
Free Direct Deposit of paychecks and/or financial aid 

• 
Free access to over 6,800 Wells Fargo ATMs Stop by your local Wells Fargo and talk with a banker today. 


*Eligibility subject to approval. Students must provide proof of enrollment at an accredited college/university or trade school when the account is opened. $100 minimum opening deposit required for new checking account. Additional restrictions apply. 
© 2007 Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. All rights reserved. Member FDIC. 


page 12 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, August 29, 2007 
Insiders discuss Wilson's future 
Associated Press 
LOS AN<;ELES -Owen Wilson's 111m future remains bright despite his apparent per­sonal problems. 
llollywood insiders say that th11 38-year-old actor, who was hospitalized Sunday after police responded to a report of an attempted suicide at his Santa Monica home, should continue to enjoy big-screen success. 
I lis box-oflice track reeord ­"Wedding Crashers" topped $200 million, "Cars" brought in almost $250 million -plus his on-screen image as an affable everyman who can charm the ladies while boozing with the boys has made him a favorite with both filmmakers and film­gonrs. 
"lie's loved," Bernie Brillstein, a veteran llollywood manager who worked with John Belushi and Chris Farley, said Tuesday. "It's serious, but it's a singular <~ase. Anyone can have a bad day, a very bad day." 
Could Wilson face tlw same potPnt.ial producPr alinnation that threatPns other troubled stars stu:h as Lindsay Lohan and Britney Spnars'? 
"I don't think tlw studios will n•;u·t t.hat. way," BrillstPin said. 
Wilson's public p11rception is "ypry positive," industry analyst Paul I>nrgarabedian of Media By Numbers said Tuesday. "Owen Wilson has a really good reputation and people in gener­al really feel bad for him right now." 
That feeling seems to extend to studio exeeutives, too. 
Fox Searehlight had no com­ment Tuesday about "The Darjeeling Limited," which stars Wilson, Adrien Brody and Jason Sehwartzman. The film is sehHduled for release Sept. 29. 
Wilson's next starring vehicle, Paramount's "Drillbit Taylor," is set for a March release, a stu­dio spokeswoman said, declin­ing further comment. 
Filming began in Hawaii last month on Dreamworks' "Tropie Thunder," which is to feature Wilson, Jack Blaek, Robert Downey, Jr., and Ben Stiller, who is also directing. 
Wilson's hospitalization "does not have any impact on the pro­duction," studio spokesman Marvin Levy said Tuesday. 
"It's an inappropriate ques­tion to ask," he said. "All our thoughL'i and eoneerns arn with his health and well-being. Owen askPCI his privacy be respneted and we intnnd to honor that." 
Wilson released a statement Monday through his publicist, Ina Treeiokas: "I respectfully ask that tim mndia allow mo to receive earn and heal in private during this diflkult time." 

"Why is Goethe's Faust the Greatest Work of German Literature?" 
Vittorio Hosie Paul G. Kimball Professor ofArts and Letters 
12:00 Noon Saturday, September 1, 2007 
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt 

Nowleasin~ For2008-2009 Condominiums For Sale orlease 
• 2-bedroom, 2-bath with 1,160 square feet 
• 
Large balcony and cathedral ceilings 

• 
Washer/dryer, dishwasher, central air conditioning 

• 
Walking distance to campus 


For Leasing Information Call: Susan Miller, Stadium Club Condominiums 574-243-7530 • stadiumclubcondos@sbcglobal.net For Sales Information Call: Lisa LeBlanc, Cressy and Everett 574-535-4663 •lisaleblanc@cressyandeverett.com 

Fall 2007 Schedule 

Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues of our times. 
~  9/01-Georgia Tech "Why is Goethe's Faust the Greatest Work of German Literature?" Vittorio Hosie, Paul G. Kimball Professor ofArts and Letters  
~  9/22-Michigan State "Health Care Reforms: An Economist's Assessment" William Evans, Keough-Hesburgh Professor of Economics  
~  10/13-Boston College "Global Ireland: From Celtic Twilight ro Celtic Tiger" Luke Gibbons, Professor of English  
~  10/20-USC "Combating Extremism: Democratic Virtues and Pluralism in Islam" Asma Afsaruddin, Associate Professor of Arabic and Islamic Studies  
~  11103-Navy "Cops, Protest, and Rioting" Daniel Myers, Professor of Sociology  
~  11/10-Air Force ""Iheological Bur Not Religious: 'Ihe Case ofJohn Milron" Stephen Fallon, Professor, Program of Liberal Studies  
~  11/17-Du.ke "Words and Music, Music and Words: 'The Songs of Franz Schubert" Susan Youens, J.W. Van Gorkom Professor of Music  
3-1/2 hours before kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherw·ise noted). For more information, visit http:/ Isaturday:.cholar.nd.edu  


UNIVERSITY OF 


NOTRE DAME 

Wednesday, August 29, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 



*connectedthinking 

© 2007 Pr:cewaterhouseCoopers LLR AU :-lgnts reserved. "Pncawaterhous&Coopers" rsfers to PlicewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware :tmited liability partnership} or, as the context requires, the PricewaterhousaCoopers global netwof11: or other member firms of the network, each ot which :sa separate ar:d independent !egal entity. "connectedthmidng is a trademark cf P!iCe•NatarhcussCcopers U.P {US}. VVe are pmud to be an Affi!matlVe Action and Equal Oppo1tunity Employer. 
Wednesday, August 29, 2007

page 14 The Observer + ADVERTISEMENT 








E'VE BEEN 
PUTTING 0 UT* EVERY NIGHT FOR 

ORE THAN 40 YEARS. 
*WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NEWSPAJPERS. HAVEN'T YOU HEARD OF PARIETALS YET? 
Meet editors from News, Sports, Viewpoint, Scene, Photo, Graphics & Ads to find out what you could c1o for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's daily newspaper. 
PleaseJoin Us For 
The Observer Open House 
Sunday, September 2, 2007 
3-5 p.m. 

Basement of South Dining Hall 
There will be food (you'll learn to take advantage of this). 

---~~---­
Wednesday, August 29, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 15 
Senator recovers from hetnorrhage 
Associated Press 
SIOUX FALLS, S.D. -On 
Tuesday, Tim Johnson was not 
the ailing thread on which 
Democrats' majority in the 
Senate hangs. He was a man 
surrounded by friends from both 
parties who wanted to see and 
hear him -and to find out how 
he's doing. 
In his first public appearance 
since suffering a Dec. 13 brain 
hemorrhage, and after months 
of recuperation and therapy, the 
senator was pushed to the stage 
in a wheelchair at the Sioux 
Falls Convention Center. He 
stood up to the lectern and, slur­
ring some words in a slow voice, 
thanked South Dakotans "from 
the bottom of my heart." 
"Hard work is something in 
which I take great pride. So, let 
me say this tonight going for­
ward: I am baek," Johnson said 
to loud applause in his 15­
minute speech. 
He didn't move his right arm, 
and the right side of his face 
seemed weak. The 60-year-old's 
sense of humor, however, was in 
top form. 
"Of course, I believe I have an 
unfair edge over most of my col­
leagues right now," he said. "My 
mind works faster than my 
mouth does. Washington would 
probably be a better place if 
more people took a moment to 
think before they spoke.'' 
Dr. Wilson Asfora, a Sioux 
Falls neurosurgeon who attend­. ed the event, said he thinks Johnson has progressed more in his speech than in his motor 
skills, though he noticed the South Dakota senator has some problem pronouncing and remembering words. 
"Those are both very mild and by listening to his speech,. I can predict speech will continue to improve and I expect full recov­ery," Asfora said. 
Dr. Bryan Wellman, a neuro­surgeon at Sanford Neurosurgery in Sioux Falls who. watched Johnson on television, agreed. He said it seems as ifthe weakness on the right side of his face is causing Johnson's speech to be slurred and that as he gets stronger it should go away. 
"For what he has dealt with, he has done marvelous," Wellman said. 
The senator, who has not offi­cially said whether he is running for re-election in 2008, hinted he would. "My will to keep fighting for you has never been stronger," he said. 
Johnson was stricken a month after November elections that gave the Democrats a one-seat majority in the Senate, and the attack raised the possibility that, if he died or resigned, GOP Gov. Mike Rounds would appoint a Republican successor and return the Senate to that party's con­trol. 
Tuesday's celebration was a carefully choreographed gather­ing that took on the appearance of a campaign event. It featured choirs, religious leaders and a string of politicians who praised Johnson . 
The event had a campaign feel to it but a bipartisan tone 
halSummer

S (espeare 
a ROMANTIC COMEDY byWilliam Shakespeare directed by Jay Paul Skelton 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Decio Mainstage Theatre 
Only SIX Performances Left! 
Wednesday, August 29 at 7:30 pm Thursday, August 30 at 7:30 pm Friday, August 3 I at 2:00 &8:30 pm Sunday, September 2 at 2:00 & 7:00 pm 
574-631-2800 
http:/ /shakespeare.nd.edu 
because of the Republicans who wished Johnson well. 
Although national political observers focused on how Johnson's illness could affect the party balance, at home the focus was·on Johnson himself, Rounds said. 
"They talked about 'what if's.' But not in South Dakota," he said. "We talked about Tim and his family. We talked about the challenges ahead, and we prayed." 
During his recovery, Johnson remained in the Washington area but made no public appear­ances. He has been undergoing speech and physical therapy and is expected to use a scooter to travel longer distances in the Capitol. 
Democrats hope Johnson's lin­gering physical ailments won't dissuade voters from supporting him. 
"I think it's less how you look and more about how you care and how much you can connect with voters," said Democratic consultant Jenny Backus, who does not work for Johnson. 
Two Republicans have said they will seek Johnson's seat: state Rep. Joel Dykstra and Sam Kephart, a self-employed busi­nessman. 
Kephart wished Johnson and his family well Tuesday but he didn't shy from taking shots, crit­icizing the senator's usually soft­spoken demeanor. 
"It's not a time for quiet poli­tics," Kephart said. "It's a time for building bridges and leading with your chin and taking risks." 
NationalCity., 
Production Underwriter 
BRAZIL 
Din:eufaces charges for corrupt dealings 
Associated Press 
RIO DE JANEIRO-Brazil's Supreme Court charged one of the president's closest confi­dants Tuesday with conspiracy in a corruption scandal that toppled members of his inner circle and severely damaged the reputation of his Workers' Party. 
Former chief of staff Jose Dirceu faces up to 15 years in prison if convicted of charges of corruption and conspiracy for allegedly orchestrating a scheme to buy support in Congress for President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva's legisla­tive agenda. 
Dirceu, a former revolution­ary once seen as a potential Brazilian presidential candi­date, denied the charges and said he welcomed a high-pro­file trial before the top court of Latin America's largest nation as an opportunity to prove his innocence. 
Political analysts, however, said they don't expect Dirceu to use his day in court to attack Silva in a bid to escape jail time, and Dirceu himself said on his Web site Tuesday that the charges were unfair but not surprising. 
"I reiterate what I have 

The Professional Theatre in Residence at the University of Notre Dame 
LOVE'S 

BOR'S 






LOST 
always affirmed: I was expelled from Congress with­out evidence and now I'm a defendant without evidence," he said. "I want to go to trial as soon as possible so I can prove my innocence." 
Dirceu, an influential lobby­ist since his downfall as Brazil's biggest political powerbroker, was the second most-powerful man in Brazil before the scandal broke in 2005. He and Silva founded the leftist Workers Party, or PT, together and he was named ehief of staff when Silva became Brazil's first working-class leader. 
Then his fortune unraveled: In 2005 he was accused of orchestrating the scheme to buy votes with monthly bribes of as much as $13,000 per leg­islator. He denied the charges, but was stripped of his right to hold political office for eight years. 
Even if Dirceu gets jail time, analysts predict he won't seek reprisal against Silva. 
"Some things are just untouchable, and Dirceu won't go down shooting in every direction," said Alexandre Barros, an analyst with the Brasilia-based Early Warning political risk consultancy. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
. page 16 Wednesday, August 29, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Addressing the tuition increase 
1!0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining H;d(, Notre Dam,·, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAl;ING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER K,·n Fowler Kyle Wcsr 
Ass·!~ MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A~sT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
Nr.ws EnrroRs: Karen Langley 
VII!Wl'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Khorey Chris Hine ScENE EorruR: 'Etc Andrews · 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
I'II<HO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GltAI'IIICS EDITOR: Madt•line Nics 
AnvmtTISING MANAGEI!: Jessica Conez 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROI.l.Eil: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAI'OR: Alejandro Cerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(57-i) 631-4541 obsmc@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS 0ESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 sccnc.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of the University of Notre Daml· du L~c and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not gowrncd by policies of rhc administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adwnisements hased on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as pos.~ible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A'iSis1ant Managing Editors and department editors. Commmtaries, letters and columns present the views of tht• authors and not necessarily t~.ose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expres.~ion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.c:rrcrs to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QuestiorJS rq,arding Obst!TVer policies should be dirmed to Editor in ChiifMaddie Harma. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'111c Oh'>t'rvt·r (US I'$ 'J?, 2--4000) 11 p11bludlcd Mnmlay d1m11l)h Friday t'll:l.'C:pt durin~ t'Xilltt ;md va~ouinn pcriud1. A Mll-criprionlu '11vt Observer i~ $100 fur 01\f ~c:11.dcmir.: ye;~r.$55 ft,row:tematcr. 
The Observer i~ published u: I'OSTM~STER 024 South Dining H-.11 Send JddJ:t:SS co.rrcaions to: Nmrc tl.uuc, IN iM56-0n9 ThcOb!ICn'Ct Pcriodkal post.tgc paid at Notre: D.,~mt P.o. ao.ng 11.nd 11.ddirionJI m.liling ufficn. 021 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dllme, IN 46556·0779 
The Observer i~ 11. member of the As.kxa.ncd P~. All r~roJucrion tigh.Es are rt:M:rve-d. 
Do you wonder how you are going to pay those student loans? Two University announcements last spring might give you heartburn. Or encouragement. 
First. undergrad tuition, room and board (THB) will Charles 
incrnasn 5.4 percent Rice 
for 2007-08, up nearly $2,500 from 2006-07. Right or 
The THB for 2007-08 wrong? is $44,477, including $35,187 I(Jr tuition and $9,290 for aver­age room-and-board. In 1978 when Notre Dame first described itself as "A National Catholic Hesearch University," THB was $5,180.1fthe rise in that 1978 THB had kept pace with the rise in the Consumer Price Index (CPO. the 2007-08 TRB would be $16,368. The rise beyond the CPI is partly due to factors beyond University control. The main reason, however, is Notre Dame's drive for acceptance as a Great Hesearch University. The tradition­al focus of Notre Dame had been on undergrad education, with research and grad studifls playing an important but balancfld rolfl. Thfl drivfl for Hesearch Greatness involvfls reducfld teaching loads for faculty, more grad students as teachers and other elfects including the paving-and-building mania that has con­verted the formerly pastoral Notre Dame into an imitation urban campus. 
Like other universities, Notre Dame has financed its research ambition.by raising tuition. Its budget, as a f(mner Provost observed, is "tuition driven." Notre Dame's excellent OITice of Financial Aid does an admirable job of distributing aid to students who could not attend Notre Dame without it. Unfortunately, loans are an integral part of the typical aid package. Heavy loan burdens can dis­tort the career and family choices of Notre Dame grads. 
Which brings us to the second announcement. In May, the University announced the largest lund-raising pro­gram in the history of Catholic higher education. The Spirit of Notre Dame cam­paign seeks $1.5 billion, of which $887 million had been raised at the time of the announcement. 
The campaign allots $250 million lilr undergrad scholarships and $40 million for graduate fellowships. "We would like," said Vice President John Allleck­Graves, "to move every student who is on one loan to no loan, and every student who's on two loans to one loan. The worst case for a student in need at Notre Dame at the moment is a two-loan pack­age." 
About two dozen major universities have moved to replace loans with univer­sity grants for low-income students. Princeton University, however, in 2001 expanded its "no loan" policy' beyond low­income students to all students entitled to aid. Princeton's tuition of $33,000 did not increase for 2007-08 although room-and­board did increase. Princeton THB is $43,980 -less than Notre Dame's. 
Princeton's total "no loan" program belongs at Notre Dame .. No Princeton stu­dent is required to take a loan as part of his or her aid package. The amount a stu­dent normally would borrow is replaced with an increase in the Princeton grant. The full need of every undergrad is met. through Princeton grants, scholarships from external sources and a campus job. In 2006-07, 52% of all undergrads received financial aid, with an average aid package or $30,750, including $2,200 in campus jobs. The total scholarship budget is $71.9 million. About $52 million comes from endowed scholarship funds and the rest through annual giving and other current-use support. Students can borrow for personal needs. The median family income of students receiving finan­cial aid is $90,400. 
Compared to the national average of $20,000 of debt for graduating soniors, Princeton grads have an avnrago total debt of' $2,360. Two-thirds of tho dass of 2005, the first to onroll undor tho no-loan policy, reported that graduating with little or no debt "had a significant impact" on their ability to pursuo lurthnr studies and seek teaching or othnr snrvice-orientnd jobs. "Since I have no debt," said one grad teaching in a high school, "I havn time to make wise dndsions about my f'utun1 after Princeton and to pursw1 my true intnrosL<>. I probably would not havn chosen to become an edueator if I was burdened with loans." 
A Catholic university is uniquely obliged to frne its grads from onerous debt. The only middln-dass studnnts now at Notrn Dame tend to bn IHJTC students, scholar­ship athlntns, faculty and stall' children, recipients of acadmnic or special scholar­ships and those who are willing to come to Notre Damn at the price of crippling debt. Princeton has about 5,000 under­grads with an endowment of $13 billion eompan1d to about $:~ billion f(Jr Notre Dame. To emulatn the Princeton plan here would be a daunting task. But it is dillieult to imagine that Notre Dame alumni V\<ould not rnspond abundantly to a commitmnnt, as part of the Spirit of Notre Dame campaign, to adopt the Princeton no-loan program. Notre Dame grads should bn a lnavon in sodety. Notre Dame should not eonsign them to life as loan serfs to the government or to Sallie Mae or other privatn lenders whose intor­est rates can approach the confiscatory. This is one case where we ought to imi­tate the Ivy League. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. lle can be reached at rice.J@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, August 29, 2007 page 17 
U-WIRE 
Once again, there is an unpopular Texan in the White House who is losing support from both parties as he struggles to fight an incrodibly unpopular war. Once again, America is intimately engaged in an ideo­logieal struggle with Andrew foes who are fed the Vickers desire to wipe Western civilization ofT of the University of map. And once again, Texas the race for the Daily Texan Dmnocratic party nomi­nation pits a candidate of youth, hope and enthusiasm against an experienced, but controversial political insider. 
Hillary Clinton, for aU her incredible political gifts, has become Public Enemy No. 2 for a disturbingly large number of !\rnericans. Perhaps her contradictory nature is to blame: She is a multi-million­aire through incredible publishing advances but fashions herself as a "cham­pion of the middle class." She presents herself as a loyal, supportive wife while 
Hillary hailstorm ahead 
being a conniving, power-hungry populist. 
She was for the Iraq war before she was against it. Somewhere out there (IIollywood, apparently) Clinton has amassed a large base of political support that has buoyed her into being the "candi­date to beat" for the Democratic party. However, one is hard-pressed to find any­one who will admit to actually liking the poor woman, who has spent the last 15 years of her life in varying degrees of political and personal disgrace. 
The list of Clinton's political opponents and popular naysayers are daunting. Women cannot believe she stayed by her knave of a husband after hi..'> long history of marital indiscretions and infidelity, at least not without resorting to some sort of Lorena Bobbitt-esque activity. Fellow politicians cannot stand her arrogance and self-righteousness. Republicans see red at the mention of her name and its inherent ability to conjure up images of her failed National Hea1th Care agenda, or even more distressing images of her hus­band retreading the halls of the oval office. And the rest of us, well, perhaps we are just jealous of the French because their leading liberal figure is such a straightforward, righteous babe. 
Whatever the reason for all of the per­sonal enmity, Hillary Clinton spells trouble for America. We have spent the last eight years under the helm of divisive presi­dents, not to mention the last 27 years under administrations that contained either a Bush or a Clinton. Our politics arc polarized like never before -more than half of America screamingly despises their own leader. True consensus in this country can never be reached, simply because of the personalities involved. Clinton, for all of her good intentions, will never be able to bring together a divided nation. 
The desire for change in this country is real. Nothing is better evidence of this than the thousands who stood in the rain to watch Barack Obama speak in Austin last spring. Hillary Clinton, it should be noted, made an appearance that week as well-at a closed-door fundraiser thrown by some of Austin's elite (if that's not an oxymoron). 
For all of their bold and tough talk, party-machine-made candidates like Bill Clinton and George W. Bush never came close to achieving any sort of mandate or unification among American citizens. The one thing America can't stomach is anoth­er president who will divide the house against itself into four -or, God forbid, eight -more years of bitter partisanship and distracted governance. Thus, it's not yet time for "her turn." 
This column originally appeared in the August 28 edition ofThe Daily Texan, the daily publication at the University of Texas. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Confessions of a Facebook addict 
Facebook has opened up a new ver­sion of correspondence, but I have to wonder. has it completely changed the way our generation communicates? Is Face book just a phase, or is it just the 
beginning of our Chelsea o_ver-cxpos~d adapta-Lankes twn of emarl? 
Now that Facebook University of has become more like 
TexasA&M 
MySpace with all its The Batallion new applications, it has only encouraged further addiction to time not well-spent viewing and tweaking profiles. Before you know it, your entire being is wrapped up on an 18-inch computer screen, nothing ren­dered for mystery. We are left victim to tagged pictures (good or bad), wall posts that are nothing less than uncouth and unexpected friend requests from people you don't know. No matter how addic­tive or even frivolous Facebook can be, it boils down to the fact that we simply are reaching out to the world, looking for friendship or some sort of connec­tion just like everyone else. Yet I think we are digging ourselves a hole. Facebook is not a substantial way to endorse relationships. It's a weak excuse to avoid making an effort for face-to-face interaction. 
Facebook is like the tabloids, except we write our own stories. We constantly hear of Lindsay Lohan and her repeat rehab visits, Paris Hilton's jail time, or Britney Spear's lack of clothing; trivial and unnecessary details about these people's personal lives that we feel we need to know. Instead of E! News or People magazine's articles about make­ups and break-ups, we have Facebook's mini-feed. I know my friends' "status," what they write on other people's walls, where they go, who they were with, cur­rent relationship status, all their favorite -I could go on, but none of that is my business. I know thiqgs about people I am merely acquainted with, and in some cases, never talked to in my entire life. With a simple click on "add as a friend" you could know just about everything about someone with­out ever taking the time to talk to them. It seems as though we have become full­fledged stalkers without even knowing it. 
Facebook is an addiction, and I am addicted. The first step is admitting it, right? But I'm taking the next step --not putting out so much personal informa­tion. There is always too much of a good thing, and I think Facebook could cer­tainly be categorized as rampant knowl­edge. Facebook is a useful tool for net­working and communicating. However, there is a certain sloth element in it all. 
Instead of wasting time creeping on profiles, let's get out in the world and make an effort to meet people -in per­son. Technology is a blessing, but we can get carried away. These days, we have 7 -year-olds with cell phones because parents think it is a safety necessity, but we did just fine without. 
them when I was that age. We also have the iPhone, an amazing piece of tech­nology fully equipped with television, Internet, music and everything else that you ciw take from your home or office into public. 
Products such as the iPhone, Blackberry, etc., provide an easy and faster way of doing anything and every­thing imaginable. We have the choice to go old school, not always taking the easy route. There is something adven­turous about putting yourself out there in a way that challenges you and pro­vides life experience. There is no true reward in living your life through the computer screen. 
This column originally appeared in the August 28 edition of The Battalion, the daily publication ofthe University of TexasA&M. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 18 
Wednesday, August 29, 2007 
HARRY POTTER AND THE DEATHLY HALLOWS: A REVIEW 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
In "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows," we enter J.K. Howling's magical world for one last grand adventure filled with triumphs, heartbreaks and. most importantly, love. In the 10 years since "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone" was published in the U.K., Howling's writing has grown more sophisticated and dark, making "Deathly Hallows" her finest work that, as always, can be devoured by all. 
"Deathly Hallows" begins shortly after our favorite headmaster's tragic murder at the hands of Professor Severus Snape. Harry prepares to fulfill Dumbledore's last wish -to lind and destroy the remaining llorcruxes and to rid the world of the evil Lord Voldemort. As Voldemort's power and influ­ence grows in the wizarding world, Harry's mission becomes ever more urgent. With the help of best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, he starts the journey he was destined to take since that fateful Halloween 16 years earlier. With Harry's parents and mentors now deceased, "Deathly Hallows" is the story of how the Boy Who Lived becomes a man. 
Harry must overcome trials and obstacles as he and his friends hide in the countryside and search for clues that will lead them to the remaining Horcruxes. They must find ways to break into the Ministry of Magic and Gringotts, avoid saying Voldemort's name due to a hex put on it and fight ofT Death Eaters at every turn. 
The seventh book is certainly the darkest. Faithful friends fall almost too frequently, but the Order of the Phoenix is at war and casualties are an unfortu­nate consequence. Death is a powerful theme in the Potter series, one that reaches its fruition in this lat­est installment as Harry learns of the Deathly Hallows -three objects that, if united, allow the beholder to conquer death. Harry already possesses one and faces the difficult decision of whether to seek out the others or destroy the Horcruxes as Dumbledore commanded. 
However, just as death is a dominating theme, so is love. Love is what distinguishes Harry from Voldemort because love is the powerful magic that Voldemort d1ws not understand. In a wizarding world without God, Howling has made love thn most powerful force by which all wizards must livP thnir lives. There is love for frinnds, love for family and even love for subjugated magical creatures. Harry fights for a world in which love triumphs over death. 
Howling's writing drags only momentarily. ShP spends too much lime on Harry, Hon and llnrmionn camping from site to site, but "Deathly Hallows" is still filled with more action and suspense than the,. previous six books combined. Harry even faces Voldemort within the first moments of the book, and frequent escapes from Death Eaters become the norm. 
The action culminates in the Battle of Jlogwarts, in which Hogwarts students and the Order fight side by side against the Death Eaters as Harry sean~hes for the last horcruxes before facing Voldemort ­and perhaps his nwn death. Unfortunately, the cli­mactic battle is the only taste of Jlogwarts we get, but Rowling still manages to write a captivating Potter novel without the everyday exploits and zani­ness of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. 
In 759 pages, Howling creates a beautiful ending to a magical series. From I larry's final goodbye with the Dursleys to the emotionally charged Chapter 34. l'ans see Harry embrace the magic of love and become a man. The fitting epilogue answers some, but not all, of our questions. Because what would a Harry Potter book be without leaving us wanting more? The series ends with our imaginations run­ning wild. 
It's what Howling does best. 
And fortunately. "Deathly Hallows" is not goodbye because we can visit Harry and his friends whenev­er we want. Howling's wizarding world awaits us in seven magical novels that will seldom eolleet dust on our bookshelves. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, August 29, 2007 
page 19 

By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
July 21. 2007 has become the most melancholy day in the history of my life. Yes, the release date of "Harry Potter and the Deathly llallows" marked the culmination of seven books and a bajillion pages worth of magic and mystery, but it also marked the end of an era for a generation of Potter-philes raised on the works of J.K. Howling. 
While watching fresh faces find their way around campus for the first time this past weekend, I thought of my own first days and nights on campus here at the University with a certain sense of nostalgia. That, combined with my depression at the end of the Harry Potter series, led me to recall my first impression of Notre Dame as I arrived as a skinnier and bright­eyed freshman: If there is any place in the world like Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, this is it. Well, besides the upcoming Harry Potter theme park. anyway. 
Whoa, you say. Maybe I've had a pint too many of Butterbeer at Ilogsmeade. But before you con­demn me to Azkaban for dementia (and leave me to the dark clutches of the Dementors), give it a thought. 
Notre Dame's beautiful roaming lawns and quads practically beg for pickup games and footballs flying through the air, if not broomsticks and Quidditeh matches. Our dining halls (okay; just South) replete with great wooden tables and mounds of I(Hid, are reminiscent of llogwarts' Great Hall. 
easy equivalent of Flourish and Blotts, and books cost an arm and a leg at either institution. (Plus, if you order by credit card, you can have them magically boxed and ready for easy pickup.). 
Like the wizard bank Gringotts, we have our very own Notre Dame Federal Credit Union (although it is not run by greedy goblins such as Griphook, but by humans) and mys­teriously vanishing funds will make students wish they had more Galleons, Sickles and Knuts. 
Another thing we Domers pride ourselves on is dorm spirit, much like the students of Hogwarts. While we have many more houses than just Gryffmdor, Slytherin, Hufllepuff and Ravenclaw, there are a few parallels out there. 
For my own part, I count myself lucky to be a Stanford Griffin, in the tradition of Father Griffin, our own NO equivalent to Hogwarts' found­ing father Godric Gryffindor. 
The lovely ladies of Breen Phillips bring to mind Hufflepuff, and Farley's Finest are a good parallel to Cho Chang and Ravenclaw. 
Of course, I suppose Zahm House would have to be considered a rough equivalent to Slytherin, though it's hard to imagine Professor Severus Snape and Co. dropping their robes for Bun Runs and things of that nature. 
Regardless of what dorm you get placed into, you'll land on your feet. And like the students of Hogwarts, you will come to think of Notre Dame as home. You'll find wise, eclectic and enthusiastic professors ready to impart wisdom and know]­benevolent upperclassmen, much like Fred and George Weasley, who tend to provide underclassmen with all manner of magical potions and elixirs, to comedic effect. 
We have our own diligent and faithful NDSP officers, who patrol the campus with a constant vigi­lance reminiscent of 1-logwarts caretaker Argus Filch and his cat Mrs. Norris, always keeping a ready ear out for mischief in the interest of student safety. 
You'll find a long line of wise and kindly University presidents (most recently, Father Jenkins and Monk Malloy before him, and Father 1-lesburgh before him) to rival the likes of Albus Dumbledore and the many wizened wizards who once held the post of headmaster. 
In Notre Dame Stadium, like the Hogwarts Quidditch stadium, we have a distinguished list of fabled football forefathers including Knute Rockne, Ara Parseghian, Frank Leahy and now our own resident gridiron guru, Charlie Weis, to lead the Blue and Gold into battle. 
So as you traverse the nighttime campus landscape and take in the lights glowing through the ephemeral mist wreathing the grounds (bringing to mind Number 12 Privet Drive, where the l-IP magic all began in the first place), one thing is certain about Notre Dame: Ordinary Muggles just can't understand the magic of this place. So welcome to Notre Dame, First Years, and welcome home. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 

r------------------------------------------~----~ ~------­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 20 
Wednesday, August 29, 2007 


Expelllarmusl Actress Evanna Lynch disarms viewers with an excellent perform­ance as the loopy Luna Lovegood, an unsettling and creepy but cute character. 
By TAE ANDREWS 
Scene Editor 
At the time of its release in hardcover form, "I larry Potter and thn Order of the Phoenix" marked thn darkest installment of' the blockbuster book series to date, and its big scrnen counterpart is no dif­
/i~rent. 
"Order or the Phoenix" features an angrier and darker Boy Who Lived, well into his teenage years and with brooding mood spells (in addition to his many other ones) and lots of seowls to match. 
Betwnnn getting tmnporarily expelled from school. rustling up a student army to combat the forces of evil and practicing his Patronus charm (not to mention appearing in the bun· in a London play), Ilarry also finds time to snog the beautiful C:ho Chang. Yes, it's true: The Boy Who Livml is growing up. 
Unfortunately. thn film has a rushed fed to it, which is probably due more to thn sprawling nature of J.K. Howling's massivn tome than to any fault on the part of' first-time Potter director David Yatns, who manages to handle the chal­lenging material quite well. 
Unlike Howling, who has enjoyed carte blanche and unlimited pulp in which to flourish her magic wand and script out the spell of the Ilarry Potter story, Yates has considerably less room to play with, and hn does well with limited film reel. 
Ironically enough for a rushed film, "Order or tho Phoenix" also cloeks in at over two hours of running time, proof of the massive amount of ground Yates nendml to cover with his movie. 
Thn strength of "The Order of the l'hoonix" is its cast, which once again puts in excP.llent work. In addition to the staple performers we've come to know and love, such as Daniel Radcliffe as Harry, Rupert Grint as Ron and Emma Watson as the increasingly attractive Hermione, "Order of the Phoenix" also features a talented trio of first-time female characters to the film series. 
Imelda Staunton is perfect for the part of Dolores Umbridge, the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher who takes over control of Jloh'Warts with her syrupy sweet manners, love for all things pink and creepy cohort of pet cats. With every simpering smile, she redefines the image of pure evil. 
Evanna Lynch introduces herself as the vaguely creepy, vaguely unnerving and extremely unsettling Luna Lovegood, who becomes one of I larry's new friends and is quite possibly the most bizarre charac­ter in the entire series-even one featur­ing goblins, broomstieks and magic wands. 
llelena Bonham Carter shines in a dark light as the unstable and unkempt Bellatrix Lestrange, as evil a witch as ever there was, cackling and unleashing foul magic with maniacal glee after her Death Eater pals spring her from the wiz­ard prison of Azkaban. 
Alan Rickman continues to excel as Severus Snape, one of the series' most complex and intriguing characters. He handles the role with perfect sneer and disdain, and continues to tightrope walk the ambiguous line with great balance. Although he sees limited action this time around, rumor has it he'll have a feature focus in the next film. 
Gary Oldman rocks on again as Sirius Black, Harry's godfather, back in black to fight Voldemort and his forces of evil. 
On the other side of the magical aisle, Ralph Fiennes puts in another solid per-

Photo courtesy ,.,i~vv~u.cu"" Avada kedavra! Helena Bonham Carter has bloody good fun with the role of Bellatrix Lestrange, a homicidal Death Eater with a penchant for cruelty. 
formance as the serpentine He-Who­Must-Not-Be-Named, Lord Voldemort, who slithers around with his typieal evil antics, waving wands around and gener­ally inflicting dark deeds upon the wiz­arding world. 
Thanks to the wide world of special effects and computer-generated imagery, the movie magic onscreen manages to capture the imagination of the books quite well. In particular, the battle between the Death Eaters (featuring very KKK-esque pointy hoods) and the Order of the Phoenix, the wizard equivalent of a showdown at high noon, comes across as an awesome clash between the forces of good and the minions of He-Who-Must­Not-Be-Named. 
From start to finish, "Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix" serves as another good installment in the dew~lop­ing film series. Five down, two to go. 
Contact lae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com courtesy movi1ewe•o.com Ralph Flennes deserves name recognition for his dark and dastardly perform­ance as He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, the evil and powerful Lord Voldemort. 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, August 29, 2007 CoMPILED rRoM Tnr: OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 21 

American League East 
team record perc. last 10 GB Boston 80-51 .611 7-3 NY Yankees 72-59 .550 5-5 8 Toronto 66-65 .504 4·6 14 Baltimore 58-71 .450 2·8 21 Tampa Bay 51-80 .389 5-5 29 
American League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Cleveland 73-67 .562 7-3 Detroit 71-60 .542 4-6 2.5 
Minnesota 67-64 .511 6-4 6.5 Kansas City 5.7-72 .442 5·5 15;5 Chicago Sox 57-74 .435 3~7 16..5 
American League West 
team record perc. lastlO GJ'f LA Angels 77-54 .588 6-.4 Sea«<e 73-56 .566 6-4 3 Oakland 65·68 .489 5-5 13 Texas 58·72 .446 5·5 18.5 
National League East 
team record perc. last 10 GB NY Mets 73·57 .562 6-4 Philadelphia 68-62 .523 4-6 5 Atlanta 68·64 .515 4-6 6 Washington 5a.74 .439 3'-7 16 Florida 57-75 .432 1•9 17 
National League Central 
team record perc. last 1(1 Chicago Cubs 66-63 .512 6·4 Milwaukee 65-65 .500 3"7 1..5 St.louis 63-64 .496 6-4 2 Cincinalli 60-70 .462 8·2 6.5 Houston 58-73 .443 4·6 9 Pittsburgh 57-72 .442 7-3 g 
National League West 
team record perc. last 10 GB Arizona 74-58 .561 5-5 San Diego 7H9 .546 6-4 
.2 LA Dodgers 68-63 .519 6-4 5.5 Colorado 67·64 .511 5-5 ·o,s ··· San Francisco 6D-72 .455 8~2 14 
around the dial 
MLB 
Red Sox at Yankees 
7:05 p.m., ESPN 2 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON Cecil Cooper has never had a problem communicating with players individually. It's the group settings Cooper is going to have to get used to as the new manager of the Houston Astros. 
Cooper took over as manager after Phil Garner was fired Monday, getting a little more than a month to show that he should hav~ the job next year. The Astros began Tuesday 58­73, nine games behind first-place Chicago in the NL Central. 
Cooper, Houston's bench coach the last three sea­sons, met with his team for about 30 minutes before batting practice. 
"''m pretty comfortable with the players when it's just moving around with them and talking one-on­one," Cooper said. "What I have difficulty with is when it's a big group. I struggle with that a little bit, but those are things I have to get through and work through. The more I do it, the better I'll get." 
Team owner Drayton McLane also fired general manager Tim Purpura on Monday and appointed team president Tal Smith the interim replacement. McLane said he'd like to have a permanent GM in 
IN BRIEF 
Simon pre_paring for fresh 
start with Titans . 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Corey Simon stood sweating in the sun Tuesday after his first workout with the Tennessee Titans, insisting he loves football and that his motivation never dipped. 
Saying it is one thing. Now the defensive tackle must prove he can jump start his career after not play­ing in 2006. 
"Oh gosh, it feels great," Simon said. "A little rusty, but I felt good just getting out and running around and being with the guys. That's what you miss most when you're away from the game. You miss the cama­raderie in the locker room, and so it's great to get back out here." 
The Titans are gambling a one­year contract the 6-foot-2 Simon can be the run-stopping tackle they saw during his first six seasons in the NFL. Financial terms were not avail­able. 
place by the end of this season. 
McLane suggested at Monday's announcement that the Astros' final 31 games this season amount­ed to an audition for Cooper, the first black manager in franchise his­tory . 
"I don't feel any pres­sure, really. This is some­thing I've done my whole life," Cooper said. 
The Astros were sur­prised by the moves, which came less than two years after the franchise made its first trip to the World Series. Until Monday, first baseman Lance Berkman had no inkling that Garner was in danger of losing his 
Pollution in Beijing a new 
problem for Olympics 
OSAKA, Japan -Athletes will have a tricky choice next year if Beijing's polluted air doesn't improve in time for the Olympics: stay away as long as possible, or come in early and get used to it. 
"We know how to train for heat and humidity, but not a lot of research has been done on running in the polluted atmosphere we think we'll find in Beijing," Kyle O'Brien, an American marathoner who ran at the track and field world champi­onship in Osaka, said Tuesday. 
Therein, lies the problem. 
Air pollution levels in China's cap­ital are nearly five times higher than the World Health Organization's recommended safety level. A mix of major pollutants such as ozone, nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter are common. Sulfate and carbon also float regu­larly in the air. 
job. 
"Not that the manager has zero impact," Berkman said, "but I think many times, the manager gets too much credit for success and too much blame for as poor a season as we're having." 
Cardinals manager Tony La Russa said Cooper has built a reputation around baseball as a skilled, com­petent coach. But La Russa wasn't happy to see Garner go. 
"Phil was outstanding," La Russa said. "They know their organization and they made their move. What I know is Phil Garner did a hell of a job against us every game." 

Another Johnson looking to 
step up for Georgia Tech 
ATLANTA -As James Johnson sits on a couch in the players' lounge at Bobby Dodd Stadium, a familiar face looms over his left shoulder. 
It's another Johnson-Calvin, to be specific. And though he's now earning millions to play in the NFL, he still casts a large shadow at Georgia Tech, which opens the season Saturday at Notre Dame. 
"He's always checking on me," said James Johnson, looking back at Calvin's image painted on the wall, clad in a tuxedo while pos­ing with one of the myriad of awards he won last season for being the top receiver in college football. 
The two Johnsons still talk fre­quently on the phone, Calvin call­ing in to make sure James is rea(ly to take over the role of go­to receiver for the Yellow Jackets. 
page 22 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, August 29, 2007 
MLB 

Howard's walk-off powers Phillies over Mets 
Cubs rally to edge Brewers, extend their division lead to 2 1/2 
Associated Press 
I'JIILAI>ELPIIIA Hyan Howard's two-run home run oll' Guillermo Mota in the 1Oth inning capped a late rally and led the Philadelphia Phillies to a 4-2 win ow1r the New York Mets on Tuesday night. 
Shane Victorino. who scored 
the tying run in the eighth on a 
pair or bizarre plays, opened the 
1Oth with a bloop single oll' Mota 
(1-1). 
Then lloward hit a 1-2 pitch deep the opposite way into the lel'l-fiflld seats for his 35th homer, giving the Phillies wins in tho lirst two games or this pivotal four-game serifls. 
Brnll Myers (3-5) pitched two scoreless innings to earn the win. The Phillies now trail the NL East-IEmding Mets by four games. 
The Mnts took a 2-0 lead into tho eighth behind seven shutout innings from Tom Glavine. 
But the Phillies rallied for two runs against New York's bullpen, including Jimmy Hollins' solo homer ofT Pe.dro Feliciano. 
Carlos Delgado gave the Mets a 2-0 lead with his two-run shot ofT Adam Eaton in the second. It was Delgado's 19th homer this season and No. 426 of his career, tying him with Billy Williams for 38th place un the career list. 
Cubs 5, Brewers 3 
.Jacque Jones hit a game-tying two-run double in the seventh and scored the go-ahead run on an error by reliever Scott Linebrink as Chicago rallied to increase their lead on Milwaukee in the NL Central to 2 112 games. 
The slumping Brewers lost for tlw 11th time in 14 games. 
The Cubs, down 3-1, scored liltlr in tho seventh. Allor startnr JolT Suppan hit leadoff batter Cliff Floyd, l.innbrink (4-61 relinved and promptly gave up an inlinld single to Mark DnHosa and thn double to Jones. 
After an intentional walk to l>aryle Ward and Alfonso Soriano's lly out, Hyan Theriot hit a high bouncer back to the mound. 
Lirwbrink jumped for the ball but it went in and out of his glove 
for an error as Jones raced home 
with the go-ahead run. 
Chicago starter Rich Hill (8-7), who struck out the lirst four bat­ters and five of the first six he faeed, allowed seven hits and three runs in seven innings, fin­ishing with nine strikeouts. 

Cardinals 7, Astros 0 
Chris Duncan shook off an August slump with a three-run homer and an RBI single to help St. Louis Cardinals ruin Cecil Cooper's first game as Phil Garner's successor. 
Ounean, meanwhile, snapped a 28-game home run drought with a three-run drive into the upper deck in the first inning off' Houston starter Woody Williams (8-13). Dunean was hitting just .167 with only three RBis this month before Tuesday's outburst. 
Hick Ankiel and Aaron Miles added HBI doubles for the Cardinals, who've won six of their last eight and got back to .500 li1r the first time since they were 6-6 on April16. 
St. Louis starter Braden Looper (11-1 0) pitched seven scoreless innings, allowing only four hits with four strikeouts. Looper has won five of his last nine starts. 

Marlins 4, Braves 3 (11) 
Alejandro De Aza's 11th-inning sacrilice fly gave Florida a win in a game in which Atlanta struck out 19 times. 
Braves starter John Smaltz fell behind early, but the Braves ral­lied on Chipper Jones' two-run homer in the eighth, tying the. game at 3 . 
In the 11th, Oscar Villarreal (2­
2) walked Alfredo Amezaga with one out and Jeremy Hermida moved Amezaga to third with a double off the left-center field scoreboard. Villarreal intention­ally walked Matt Treanor, load­ing the bases for De Aza, who flied to right to score Amezega. 
Atlanta remained six games baek of' the NL East-leading Mets. 
Byung-!Iyun Kim (6-3) pitched a one-hit 11th for the win. 

Indians 6, Twins 5 
Jake Westbrook got his fourth win of' August, rookie Asdrubal Cabrera drove in the go-ahead run and the Cleveland Indians kept a tight grip on the AL Central lead with a win over the Minnesota Twins on Tuesday night. 

Travis Hafner hit a two-run homer off Boof Bonser ( 6-11) and Grady Sizemore added a solo shot for the Indians, who have won four straight and are since Aug. 15 -the day Cabrera replaced Josh Barfield in the starting lineup. 
Jason Tyner had four hits for the Twins, who fell 7 1/2 games behind division-leading Cleveland. 
The loss overshadowed three spectacular defensive plays by Minnesota's Torii Hunter, Nick Punto and Jason Tyner. Hunter's catch on the dead run before crashing into the center-field wall in the seventh was the best of the bunch. 
Westbrook (5-7) allowed three runs -all in the fifth -and 10 hits in 6 2-3 innings. The right­hander, who spent six weeks on the disabled list and began the season 1-6, went 4-1 this month with 1.90 ERA. 

Royals 6, Tigers 3 
Needing a win to keep pace in the AL Central, the Detroit Tigers ran into a familiar nemesis: the Kansas City Hoyals. 
Brian Bannister won for the sixth time in seven decisions, Alex Gordon hit a three-run dou­ble and the Hoyals beat the Tigers Tuesday night. 
Detroit dropped 3 1/2 games behind division-leading Cleveland, the Tigers' biggest 
deficit in their division since before play on June 6. The lowly Hoyals are 5-8 against Detroit this season after taking three in a row from the Tigers on the final weekend of last season -costing Detroit lirst place and forcing the Tigers into the wild-card berth. 
Most of' Detroit's difficulties against Kansas City have been at Comerica Park: The Tigers had been 14-1 at Kaufl'man Stadium since the start of the 2006 season but have lost seven of their last 10 against Kansas City at home. 
Nate Robertson (7-11) gave up six runs, six hits and four walks in 4 1-3 innings, his shortest out­ing since June 5. Hobertson is 1­5 in his past eight starts. 
Magglio Ordonez went 4-for-5 and is hitting .404 in August. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business tl.ay from 8 a.m. to 3jl.m. at the Notre Dame ofllce,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classitleds for content without issuing refunds.  
Charming historic home overlooking  LODGING FOR FOOTBALL  Furn. apt.,  Furnished, 1 bdrrn apt.,  
WANTED  river 5-7 min. from campus. 3 bdrm,2 bath, hardwood floors.  GAMES  sleeps 4 maybe 6. ND home games.  2mi. to NO,  TICKETS  
$130,000.  Visit www.amishcountrybb.org for  AC,  
Buffalo Wild Wings is now hiring  24 Quality Bed and Breakfast  Right next to ND.  WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX.  
servers at both downtown & Grape  For private showing call Mike Keen,  Accommodations.  non-smoker,  PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570  
Rd. locations.  574-514-2096,  574-273-3030  
Market Place Realty.  Non-smoking,  no pets.  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  
574-232-2293 or 574-272-9464.  Private Baths,  ask for Pat.  ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232­ 
FOR SALE­ $450/mo + utilities,  0964. www.victorytickets.com  
Ask for manager or apply in person.  4BR, 2.5 Bath,  Full Breakfasts.  AVAILABLE­ 
2800 SF Fin bsmt. 3 mi to ND.  free laundry,  Want USC tix & will trade other  
FoR SALE  $217,500 243-1953  House for rent. 1 blk to ND.  ND HOME GAME WEEKENDS.  fenced yard.  games for USC. Call 574-276-8507  
1205 N.St. Louis.  (Thurs-Sat).  ND tickets for sale. Best Prices.  
Condo For Sale 2 br twnhse w sun- Prudential One Realty Lois  574-289-9365.  574-288-2726.  
room  McKinley  232-0875.  Adorable 2 BDRM, 1.5 BA home in  
great SB neighborhood $93,000  574-235-3278 (3BR, 5min to air­port-20min. to ND $79,800)  House for rent.  Excellent area,  Bed & Breakfast lodging w/a  TICKETS  
3BR att garage-4min to ND  lum family for ND home games.  
call 269-445-2765.  $48,000.  Walk to Campus.  only 5 min. to ND.  Great rates & nice accommoda- LASER CREATIONS  
tions.  
Spacious Bass Lake home just 15 min. from campus.  FoR RENT  3bdr.  LVGRM + FAMRM &  574-243-2628.  Unique Products Thru Laser Technology.  
2550 sq. ft .. 4 bdrm,3.5 bath,2 firepl,  Washer/dryer,  Screened-in Porch.  Laser etched logo gifts, signs,  
large deck, 40 ft. pier.  Bed & Breakfast  Furnished house for rent.  award plaques, name tags, rubber  
$189,500.  Landlord does yardwork.  No Smokers!  15 min. to ND. 2BR, 6 acres 1/4  stamps, glass etching, etc.  
3mile ND  mile to lake.  
For private showing call Mike Keen,  Best Area.  $750/mo.  Security Deposit.  Game wkends or whole year.  Call Jack  
574-514-2096  574-273-8662 or email:  
Market Place Realty.  South Bend, IN 46614 287-4545  574-250-1266.  574-360-8240.  Students welcome. 574-288-2726.  lasercr@comcast.net  

Wednesday, August 29, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Longhorns reward Brown 
NBA 
Friends and fan1ily attend Griffin's funeral 
than flashed on a plain white 
Associated Press 
wall at a memorial service. The photos were indicative of 
SHAHON HILL, Pa. -One the way mourners at Griffin's final, sorrowful time, an Eddie funeral Tuesday wanted to Griffin highlight reel played for remember him: a family-loving family and friends. kid with a tender heart and 
Snapshots of Griffin as a congenial nature. child, as a Philadelphia· prep "His heart was bigger than star, smiling with his family and his wingspan," said friend and shaking hands on draft night former Seton Hall teammate with NBA commissioner David Marcus Toney-El. Stern seemed more appropriate Sadly, for those who knew the for a big screen All-Star tribute 25-year-old former NBA player, 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN -Texas coach Mack Brown on Tuesday got a two­year contract extension, a raise and a pair of hefty bonus­es to come later. He also got a promise of a good job if he ever decides to quit coaching the Longhorns. 
University of Texas Hegents unanimously agreed to extend Brown's contract by two years through the 2016 season, boosting his salary from $2.66 million to $2.91 million, including a special payment of $100,000 to be paid Saturday, the day No. 4 Texas opens the season at home against Arkansas State. 
Like his original contract, he gets $100,000 annual raises that will push him past $3 mil­lion next year. 
Brown, who turned 56 on Monday, also gets a $1 million bonus if he stays through next season and cashes in again with a $2 million bonus if he's still here Jan. 1, 2010. 
"I appreciate the university and the Board of Regents' con­fidence in me and our staff," Brown said in a statement. 
Another major change in Brown's contract calls for him to be reassigned to another "significant position" at Texas if he steps down from coach­ing. Brown was -Tulane's ath­letic director in two of his three seasons coaching the Green Wave from 1985-87. 
Texas won the 2005 national championship and Brown is 93-22 heading into his lOth season in Austin. 
When finding 
natura I resources 
draws on all 
your natural 



reserves. 
Today BP explores in 26 countries. We have expanded from our established base of Alaska, the North Sea and America and created major positions in such regions as Angola, Azerbaijan, Trinidad and Tobago, Russia and the Gulf of Mexico. We operate onshore and offshore, from polar regions to desert terrain, in temperatures that descend to -72°F and rise to 104°F and beyond. 
So what part will you play? You will go straight into a real job, working on projects and with people that are changing the face of the energy industry. From small innovations to giant advances, there is a relentless desire to find new reserves, cleaner fuels, greater efficiencies and alternative energies. Look beyond the limits. 
BP is an equal opportunity employer. 
bp 

beyond petroleum· 
bp.com/uscollegecareers 
they were powerless to stop the self-destructive demons that plagued him from high school all the way to his mysterious death two weeks ago. 
Griffin died when his sport utility vehicle collided with a -­moving freight train near his Houston home. Griffin's body was badly burned and there was no initial identification. Dental records later revealed the man was Griffin. 
"I guess heaven needed a power forward," Toney-El said. 
Kevin Garnett, his former Timberwolves teammate, for­mer Seton Hall coach Tommy Amaker and former NBA coach John Lucas were among the 200 friends, players and family members who attended the service at First African Baptist Church. 
"He's a special guy to me," said Amaker, who coached Griffin in his one season at Seton Hall. 
Some mourners dressed in T­shirts with Griffin's picture on the front. One wore a Houston Rockets No. 33 jersey. 
Griffin's battles with alcohol, drugs and the law derailed a promising career for the former star at Philadelphia's Roman Catholic High School. He was drafted seventh overall by the New Jersey Nets in June 2001, and then traded to Houston. 
Griffin's emotional issues, addictions and a short fuse that betrayed his youthful appear­ance, soft-spoken nature and philanthropic achievements eventually forced him out of the league. 
The 6-foot-10 Griffin aver­aged 7.2 points, 5.8 rebounds and 1.71 blocks in five NBA seasons with the Hockets and Minnesota. 
The pastor, Hichard R. Dent, told mourners he prayed that Griffin could find with God the peace "he could not find on this side." 
"He's been given a home where no dark clouds would ever follow him again," Dent said. 
Griffin's sister, Marian Middleton, told the crowd to ignore stories that portrayed Griffin as troubled or spoiled, and that indicated there was anything suspicious about his death. Middleton said Grif"fin was excited about spending upcoming birthdays with his nieces and nephews and would never waste those opportunities because he loved his family. 
"Everything you read, throw it in the trash, like he was so unhappy and it was all planned," she said. 
Toney-El remembered how Griffin told North Carolina he wouldn't commit to the school unless they were both recruit­ed. 
Toney-El said that when the program had little interest in him, they became Pirates instead. 
-~----------­
Wednesday, August 29, 2007

page 24 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
/""'"•""'"~··-·' 
The Career Center 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


Mandatory meeting for all Seniors 
*Student ID Required 


SENIOR KICK OFF 
Wednesday, August 29th 
6:00 to 6:30 pm, Stepan Center 
FoDowedbyPulled Pork BBQ Picnic and DJ Get together with your classmates 
Learn more about what The Career Center can do for you! 
Get updates on upcoming Career Fairs and Events 
Learn about Mock Interviews with company recruiters Meet career counselors who specialize in your major or area of interest Network with employer sponsors 

Sponsored by: 
PROIIRET.f/YE. Grant Thornton 8 
INSURANCE A passion for the business of accounting• 

Chevron 
" 

>
.. . ..' . . . . . .' . . ... . ..... 

accenture
GENERAL MILLS 
High performance. Delivered. 
Phorre 574-631-5200 Website http://careercenter.nd.edu Email ndcps@nd.edu 
Wednesday, August 29, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
MLB 
Pettitte again stops losing streak for Yanks 
Damon's dinger propels Bombers over rival Red Sox 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Andy Pettitte proved reliable again for the New York Yankees, right after they lost faith in Mike Mussina. 
Pettitte halted another Yankees slide by winning his sixth straight start, and Johnny Damon hit a tiebreaking homer against his former team in New York's 5-3 victory over the Boston Red Sox on Tuesday night. 
Derek Jeter also homered and Jorge Posada hit an RBI double for the Yankees, who took the opener of a three-game series in the first meeting between the rivals since June 3. 
Pettitte's strong effort came on the same night manager Joe Torre told the struggling Mussina that he'll be passed over for his next scheduled start Saturday against Tampa Bay. The Yankees will call up touted prospect Ian Kennedy from Triple-A to pitch against the Devil Rays in the middle of a pennant race. 
"We've had a rough stretch. We need to get our rotation in order," Pettitte said. "Thankfully, I was able to give us a good outing." 
Boston came to town with an eight-game lead over New York in the AL East and a chance to open a nearly insurmountable cushion. But the Yankees beat Daisuke Matsuzaka for the flrst time and rebounded from a 2-5 trip that ended Monday night with a 16-0 loss at Detroit. 
Roger Clemens faces 16-game winner Josh Beckett and the Red Sox, his original team, on Wednesday night. 
"It's a situation now like we're in the playoffs," Jeter said. "We need to get some wins." 
Pettitte (12-7) played stopper once again. He allowed three runs and six hits in seven innings, improving to 8-1 in 10 starts since the All-Star break. His last three wins have fol­lowed New York defeats, mak­ing him 69-33 in such situations with the Yankees. 
"He always seems to step up big," Jeter said. 
Manny Ramirez and Jason Varitek homered for the Red Sox, who had won four straight -all blowouts at the Chicago White Sox. 
After making an error in the sixth, Ramirez was lifted in the bottom of the seventh because of muscle spasms in his lower back. Boston manager Terry Francona said the team would see how Ramirez feels Wednesday. The Red Sox would be happy if the slugger missed only one game. 
"Hopefully, but I don't think so," teammate David Ortiz said. 
Ramirez was replaced by Bobby Kielty, who was removed in the eighth due to a sore lower back that has been both­ering him for a while. He plans to have X-rays Wednesday. 

Pettitte improved to 6-0 this month, making him 45-16 in August during his career. He upped his record against Boston to 15-6 and threw 119 pitches, his most since tossing 120 on May 20 last year with Houston. 
"I felt real good and I was on an extra days' rest," Pettitte said. "I felt really strong tonight." 
Joba Chamberlain worked a scoreless eighth with two strikeouts and hit 100 mph on the radar gun. With two on, the rookie sensation struck out J.D. Drew on a nasty slider to end the inning and let out a flred-up scream as he pumped his flst. 
Mariano Rivera fanned two in the ninth for his 21st save -his first 1-2-3 outing in eight appearances since Aug. 10. 
Matsuzaka (13-11) lost his third consecutive start, allowing flve runs and six hits in 6 1-3 innings. The famous rookie from Japan won both his previ­ous starts against New York this year despite a 6.92 ERA. 
"I think that each hitter in their lineup is very skilled." Matsuzaka said through a translator. 
With the score tied at 3, Andy Phillips singled leading off the seventh and moved up on Melky Cabrera's sacrifice. Damon loft­ed Matsuzaka's next pitch into the right-field corner, just beyond the short porch and barely fair. 
"It counts, so I guess that's all that matters," Damon said. 
Damon popped out of the dugout for a curtain call to the delight of a sellout crowd of 55,037 that included Tiger Woods. Damon is batting .350 since July 21. 
"Health-wise, I'm feeling great," he said. "I can bring a lot of energy to the team." 
Varitek's leadoff shot in the top of the seventh tied it at 3. He hit a high fly into the left­field stands, just beyond a leap­ing Damon. 
Matsuzaka retired 12 of 13 batters before Jeter's solo home run in the fifth gave New York a 3-2 lead. Jeter had gone 87 at­bats without a homer since con­necting Aug. 1 against the White Sox. 
Ramirez hit a leadoff shot in the second, making him the 12th player in major league his­tory to hit at least 20 homers in 13 straight seasons. 


WELCOME BACK!!! 
Salon Rouge would like to welcome you back to the Notre Dame Campus. We've missed you! As a student, you receive a 15% discount on hair services Monday through Wednesday with your student i.d. Call to schedule your appointment today. 
258.so8o 
620 W. Edison 





SALON ROUGE 
*Close to campus *Eye brow shaping *Specializing in Color & cuts *Manicures & Pedicures 
Visit our website @ www.salonrougeinc.com 
LSAT GMAT GRE MCAT OAT OAT PCAT" 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS! 
SaveSlOO! 
Kaplan welcomes you back to campus with exclusive back-to-school savings: Enroll in any of our Classroom Course or Premium Online Course options and save $1001-in addition to any current promotions! 
Offer expires: 
8/31/07 
Enroll today! 

Want to learn more? Visit Kaplan on campus at O'Shaughnessy Hall on Wednesday, August 29! 
.~:~O~O~~oo~~:~~~B~~~~.~~~::r_.~r ~ 
:~~o::;~~:h=~:=s~~~a:.:::r:~:::nr;.~~~=;~:==a=For TEST PREP AND 
compleieguaranleeeligibllity requii<HOOnts, 'IIUkaplestcomlllsg The HJQhef Scaru GuaraJltee applies only to Kaplan ADMISSION 5 course5 taken and ~leted w:th1r. the Uniled States Puertc RICO Canada Mel'ICO. VIE! UM&d IC)ngdom and f!lll'l(;e 
Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back:· 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 29, 2007 
NBA 
Alston accused of stabbing 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Houston Hochts guard Hafer Alston was n~lnased without bail Tuesday after being chargnd with stabbing a man at a Manhallan nightspot -his snc~ond brush with tlw law this month. 
Alston was arraigned on fnlony assault charges before bning ndeasnd without bail. A judge ordered him to return 
I ~--~.::.:di 
to court Jan. 3. llis lawyer said Alston was "absolutely innocent. 
The man who said he was injun~d told police the inei­dent occurred at about 3 a.m. Monday after he and Alston aceidentally bumped caeh other inside Club Stereo. lhtring an ensuing argument, the man said, Alston slashed his neck. 
The 41-year-old went to a hospital to be treated for a minor neck injury, then filed 
a complaint at a police precinct. 
Defense attorney Alberto Ebanks said bouncers and other witnesses told him the man didn't appear to be injured when he left the club and never bothered alerting police officers who were in the area. 
The arrest came three weeks after 31-year-old Alston was charged with mis­demeanor assault and public intoxication in Houston. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Boeck111an tabbed as Buckeyes' starting QB 
-.. > 
!tltr•• > 
Get a FREE iPod® nano*
S.C.tll-.q. 
' 
SIIIII'MSor\t• 
when you sign up for KeyBank's ,j FREE Student Checking Package. 
~ 
' 
i ,, ,.
I 
i 
We'll send you an iPod nano when you: 
~ 
-, 
• Open a Free Student Checking1 Account with Debit Card2 
....
~ ) • Open a No Annual Fee Credit Card' with 1% cash back4 ' 
• Enroll in Free Online Banking and Online Statements 
With your Student Checking Package, you'll enjoy free use of any ATM, 
plus receive reimbursement, up to $6 per month, of ATM fees charged 
by other banks6 
For more information, stop by our office next to University Park Mall, call 247-2861 or visit Key.com. 

KeyBank
... ~ 
KeyBank is Member FDIC 1!:>2007 KeyCorp 
1Pod~ nano is a registered trademark of Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple is not a participant of this promotion. 
·You must lle at least 18 years old to meet all package requirements needed to receive tile 1Pod nano. Get a fret: iPod nano when you open afree Student Checking Account between July 22, 2007 ancl September 7, 2007 and fulfill all other package requirements by October 5, 2007. Offer available to Individuals without an existing checking account at KeyBank. Limit one free iPod nano per Student Checking Package. Offer valid until September 7. 2007 or while supplies last. The iPod nano shipped may differ from the iPod nano shown. You must have aU.S. mailing address on October 5. 2007to be eligible. The value of the iPod nano will be reported on Form 1099-INT. 'Client must be at least 16 years of age (must be at least 18 years of age for this Student Banking Package offer) and either ahigh school junior or senior or enrolled in post-high school education (college or trade) to open this account. Minimum opening cleposrr of $50. Clients under the age of 18 are required to have aparent!guardian as joint owner on the account, and both account ovvners must sign aStudent Supplemental Aureement. If you close your account within 180 days of account opening, you will be charged a$25 account early closing fee. Other m1scellaneous charges may apply. 'Key Student Checking clients under u·1e.age of 18 can be issued an ATM card. However, adebit card will on!y be issued to clients 18 years and older. 
JCredit cards are issued by Citibank (South Dakota). N.A. Subject to credit approval. Additional terms and conditions apply. To apply. you must be 18 years of age or older. _ 
·'The rebate is calculated as 1% of your net monthly purchases. You may accumulate a maximum of $100 per billing cycle and $300 in any calendar year. payable in $100 checks. Please see tile Rebate Terms ancl Conclitions when you apply. 
'·Refund of the first 2 ATM surcharges, up to $6 per month. of other bank's ATM cash withdrawal surcharges when the withclrawals are made with aKeyBank debit card. 


Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio -Todd Boeckman will start at quarter­back when No. 11 Ohio State hosts Youngstown State on Saturday in its 118th season­opener. 
Boeckman takes over for Troy Smith. who won the lleisman Trophy last season while the Buckeyes rolled to a 12-0 start before losing 41-14 in the national championship game. 
"Todd Boeckman is the guy that's going to have the first ehance to go out there and be nervous and have some fun," coach Jim Tressel said on Tuesday. "He's been waiting so long for this opportunity. lie's been studying hard, paying close attention. He knows who we are and what we want to do." 
The 6-foot-5, 235-pound Boeckman was listed No. 1 on the depth chart coming into spring practice, then solidified his position this fall over con­tenders Rob Schoenhoft, Antonio Henton and Joe Bauserman. 
"What gives Todd the nod over Robbie and Antonio and Joe, I think, is his understand­ing of the whole system and all that goes into it," Tressel said. "He's just got so much experi­ence." 
Boeckman may have morc-1 experience than the others in practice, but certainly not in games. lie has thrown only 10 passes in six mop-up appear­ances since coming to campus in 2004. A fourth-year junior, he's 23. 
"It's an honor to be named the starting quarterback at Ohio State," he said after Tuesday's practice. "It's pretty mueh a dream come true for me. But I have to go out there and stay focused and do what I need to do and lead this team." 
Boeckman said it took him a while to feel comfortable enough to take over Smith's spot. 
"At first I was a little too tense, a little overly excited -I 
WiliJ Fuh and Sbri1np7 1tolfarln l"'ai.:~ed Wide Va1·iety ofVegeta.rian DiJheJ Allnatural,91·ainfeiJ Beefan.d Chicken. StealcJ7 Lan·th ChopJ e3 Savo1--y Hu-rnnttu e3 Baba GanOUJ~ G1"'eek Salad an.d Tabbou-leh. 

Ruervation 
thing at all times," he said. "As I started to get out there, I started to relax, stay focused and just prepare myself, take it easy, take it one step at a time, and try not to be too over­wht'lmed." 
Tressel said that Bonckman got off to a slow start when presnason praeticn got under way, but has put together a series of strong workouts. 
"lin definitely progressed. He had a couple of good scrim­mages and some good prac­ticf:s," said offensive taekle Kirk Barton. "The biggest thing is no mistakes, no turnovers. That's the big thing with all of our skill guys. As long as we don't turn the ball over, we always have a good shot at winning." 
Tressel said Schoenhoft ­also a jumbo-sized junior at 6­6, ;~40 -will play against the Penguins. Henton is listed as third team, while Bauserman, a touted high school quarterback prospect before playing three years of minor league baseball, is regaining his footing after being away from the game. 
Fullback Dionte Johnson said Boeckman was tentative in the spring but has settled in this summer and taken over the spot as if he were an old pro. 
"His eonfidenee really shot up. lie was leaps and bounds more comfortable," Johnson said. 

GREAT TICKETS AVAII.fiBLEI Satorday Octobvr ll • 8:00 pm 
Morris Performing Arts Center 
Sooth Bend. Indiana 
lldtwtl on sole ot Hotlls Bo1t Offt«r, Saptrr Sounds In Gom4tn. Charge by phoM S74fJlf.-9190 or onllml WWW.IftOffiK.nter.org 

Wednesday, August 29, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 27 

"Act justly, love tenderly and walk humbly with your God." 
Micah 6:8 

The University of Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns wishes to honor the following students for their contributions to communities near and far this summer, as part of the ACCION Program, the Hispanic Leadership Intern Program (HLIP), the Interfaith Worker Justice (IWJ) Program, the International Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP), and the Summer Service Learning Program (SSLP). For more infonnation visit: s.:a::iatconcems.nd.edu 
ACCION Erin Ramsey Molly Dawes Doris Kawira Tiffany Nelson Katherine Shakour Ana Marcela Berrios Timothy Reidy Susan Dee Heather Keane Teresa Nesbitt Eric Shappell Katie Hopkins Nicholas Simonson Laura de Give Damian Kearney Meghan Newcomb Eric Shaw Rosa Lopez Zachary Taylor Colleen Desmond Roosevelt Kelley Quyen Nguyen Jacquelin Sibears Michelle Mas Kelsie Thompson Sarah DiStefano Sarah Kettler Sarah Nokes Brian Simpson Matthew Montgomery Mazie Tsang Meghann Ditsworth Thomas Kingsbury Mary O'Connor Adam Sims Brian Ronan Thomas Weiler Rebecca Dorner Leeah Kahley Elizabeth O'Hare Robert Singer Arturo Avila Salazar Eileen Wilkie Lindsay Dougherty Lauren Kopsky Kaitlyn O'Leary Aimee Sirois Melissa Ward Whitney Young John Daughton Monica Korson Tiffany Olier Jaclyn Sitjar 
Katie Zedler Hannah Duffey Nicholas Krafft Miriam Olsen Molly Slavin HLIP Genevieve Dupuis Molly Kring Caitlin O'Neill Claire Sloss Linette Aguirre SSLP Christopher Esber Joe Langenfeld Brian O'Rourke Andrew Smith Edianys Deynes Allison Ackerman Maria Yacintha Fanardy Elizabeth Lefebvre Katherine O'Rourke Claire Sobczak Danielle Espinoza Nicholas Albares Erin Fitzpatrick Jennifer Leong Theophilus Ossei-Anto Gregory Speidel Edward Gutierrez Valerie Allen Lauren Floccare Kate Leszkowicz. Meghan Paladino Elizabeth Staten Jaime Luna Madelaine Ambrus Daniela Fragoso Erin Locke Katherine Palmitier Karen Stockley Lauren Lyman Karuna Anantharaman Joe Gagnon Bailey Louderback Camilo Pascual Joseph Stranix lise Terrazas Ortega Kevin Ball Michelle Garber Matthew Lucci Brandon Payne Crystalia Sulaiman Pamela Ruiz Sofia Barbato Stephanie Gargala Christina Luchetta Francesca Pennino William Sullivan 
Elizabeth Barron Stephanie Gharakhanian Kevin Ludwig Catherine Peters Seth Sutton IWJ Matthew Bartindale Fiona Gilleran Sean Mallin Maria Pham Kristin Szczepaniec Sarah Lyons Alan Bauer Eric Gomez Sheila Mamandur Joseph Pirilla Juliana Thimons Shanna Pereira Colleen Beeler Christopher Gonzales Laura Marrs Meagan Pitluck Andrea Thompson 
Elizabeth Bierman Daniel Graciaa Christine Martinek John Plonka John Thornton ISSLP Katherine Bilek Danielle Gulis Andrew Masak Jessica Pollum Meghan Thornton Karla Albite Bridget Blum Kristin Haas Ashley Mason Sarah Ponto Lyndsey Timpone Michael Angulo Laura Bodien Patrick Hagan Katherine Mattoon Alicia Quiros Alan Turner Kevin Bailey Brittney Bolden Christine Hall Ashley Mayworm Dennis Rankin AngelaVara Cassidy Blair Robert Bowen Adam Hansmann Katherine McCann Natalie Rauch Lindsay Viglione Brennan Bollman Laura Bradley Ashley Hardy Tara McCarron Lisa Rauh Peter Vignali Tess Bone Rachel Brzezinski Courtney Henderson Maureen McCarthy James Redden DavidWartko Allyson Brantley Caitlin Buchanan Erin Hendricks Kathleen McDonnell Nakya Reeves Alexandra Weber Aimee-Rika Brewster Jacquelyn Bunick Peter Hochstedler James McFarlane Emily Rhatican Christopher Weinacht Ryane Burke Alexis Calabrese Danielle Hoehn Mary Clare McGregor Natalie Rodden Michael Wessel 
> 

Gabriela Cobos Katherine Campbell Juliana Hoffelder John McNeill Daniel Rodgers Rebecca Wetzel Andrea Dreyfuss Michelle Carlisle Christina Holmstrom Marc Mejaki Aurora Rodriguez Gregory Wittmann Sean Duffy Ryan Caulfield Charles Horn Priscilla Mendoza Vanessa Rosa Laura Wolbeck Katie Dunn Megan Cefferillo Kelly Horner Katie Meyer Joseph Runde Kathryn Zellweger Matthew Flynn Tesia Chen Anne Horst Laura Meyer Lisa Russ Jenny Zhang Sean Gaffney Emily Chrnelich Sean Hoskins Rachel Michels Michele Sagala Margaret Zielinski Kathleen Hedrick Nare Chun Patricia Hughes Rachel Miller Anthony Salpino Lindsey Zimmerman Judith Kaczmarek Jason Coleman Jung Min Hur Briana Miller Emily Saluke Kathleen Zink Nicholas Kluesner Corey Collins Margaret Hyde Emily Moren Malisha Samarasekera Janet Zito Timothy Luebbert Margaret Condit Elizabeth Israel Marcin Marys Marie Sanchez Dianna Zosche Andrew Makielski Alicia Conley Kendra Jackson Michael Moses Rachel Santay Lindsay Martin Noelle Crooks Christopher Jacquier Tejaswi Mudigonda Megan Savage Michael McDonald Mariana Cuervo Tracy Jennings Dan Mueller Katherine Schilling Marcela Monsalve Anna Curtis Francesca Jimenez Brianna Muller Rebecca Schlagehhauf Patrick O'Brien Zhibin Dai Audrey Johnson Caitlin Myers Caity Schneeman Megan O'Hara Elizabeth Daley Rebecca Kant Rachel Nathan Andrew Schroeder Erin O'Neill John Darnell Amy Karwoski Ezinne Ndukwe Josephine Schulte 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME Center for Social Concerns 
r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 28 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 



Freeman to start for Miami 
Signal-caller beats out former 'Canes starter Kyle Wright 
Associated Press  
COH/\1. (;/\BLES, Fla. - 
K i r h y F r e nnut n b n e a rn e  
Miami's quarterbaek last sea­ 
son by default. taking over  
only because Kyle Wright sul'­ 
f'erml a snason-Pnding injury.  
This limn, lw Parned thn job.  
Freeman was named the  
llurricanes' starter Tuesday,  
IH~ating Wright in the most­ 
scrutinized competition of  
training camp. Miami coach  
Handy Shannon wouldn't say  
how Frennwn separated him­ 
self' in tlw race, only insisting  
"Kirby gives us the best  
opportunity to win games."  
"lin's given me an opportu­ 
nity and I'm going to run with  
it." Fremnan said. ''I'm going  
to do (Worything I can. I'm not  
going to just try to keep my  
position. w,~·re going to go  
win ballgarnns. It's time to  
play now. It's so f'ar beyond  
trying to win a job. /\II this is  
APover with now and we're  
Miami quarterback Kirby Freeman throws a pass againstgoing to movn forward."  
Maryland in College Park, Md. on Nov. 11, 2006.Miami was unrankod in the  
preseason poll for the f'irst  those scoring passes were  ''I'm overwhelmed. I'm real­ 
time sinc:n 1<J<JX. It opnns  against Florida International  ly excited," Freeman said.  
Saturday at home against  and Duke, the only winless  "This is everything I've  
Marshall.  teams in Division 1-/\ during  worked for ... everything I  
Froernan went 2-2 al'ter  2006.  hoped it would be. Now it's  
Wright got hurt last season,  /\nd in 2005, Wright threw  time to play ball."  
throwing f'or 272 yards and  f'or 1 X touchdowns, with 12  Miami's first depth chart had  
two touchdowns to take MVP  against Duke, Temple and  plenty of interesting moves,  
honors in Miami's 21-20 win  Wake Forest -teams going a  not only in the quarterback  
over Nevada in the MPC  eombined 5-28 that year.  column.  
Computers Bowl. lie spent 21  Meanwhile, Freeman waited  Marr1ott Hotel.Shannon has eo-starters list­ 
games as Wright's backup  for his chance, albeit impa­ ed at seven positions, includ­119 North M1ch1gan Street,  
over tho previous 1'? seasons.  tiently at times. lin considered  Downtown South Bend.ing tailback, where Javarris  
"We're excited by both of tho  transferring artnr the 2005  James and Graig Cooper will  
quartorb1u:ks." Shan non said.  season before announcing that  likely end up splitting the  
"We still consider Kyle as a  lw'd finish his college career  workload. There's no such  
starter because we're fortu­ at Miami. even getting the  designation at quarterback,  
nate enough to have two quar­ llurricanes' distinctive "U"  but Shannon made it clear  
terbacks with the ability to go  logo tattooed on his back to  that Wright has pushed  
in and load us in tho right  prove his devotion to the. pro­ Freeman so far and will con­ 
direction. but as f'ar as this  gram.  tinue doing so.  
wonk right lwrn, Kirby's going  In his starts last season,  "There is always competi­ 
to be the starter."  Freeman completed only 54.4  tion," Shannon said.  
Froeman and Wright opennd  pnreent or his throws for 7 45  "No matter what we do, we Reservations recommenced.  
r.amp tied atop tho depth  yards, with five touchdowns  will get the best guys on that  
chart. and Shannon said  and six interceptions. But he·  Go to www.clubNOMfield. The more that we can  
months ago that he wouldn't  threw at least one TD pass in  A.com or www.opentable.com.push and get other guys to Or coli: 233.4959. 
a.nnouneP tlw starter at quar­ all four games, matching the  push the more successful we  
tl~rback -or any other posi­ 
tion -until the final wm~k of'  
tlw ofTsPason. Thorn was spec­ 
ulation during camp that  
l;reernan was winning the  
race. especially after it  
became known that Wright  
had a sore knPe f'or much of'  
the summer.  
But Shannon never t-ipped  
his hand until Tuesday, when  
ho madP tlw most-awaited  
dwiee of his first eight months  
leading the llurricanns.  
"I had no idea who it was  
going to be until today," lel't  


Wednesday, August 29, 2007 


NQMA 
Atruly unique dining and drinking experience, 
fealurmg a creatiVi! blend ot ftrston style c:uhnary delights with a delicate touch of A-stan flavors in an exctting yet mhmate settmg. 
Plus, a stylish and comempormy fuston martm1 bar. 
Convemently located in the center ol Downtown SOuth Bend between Mo:rts Perfomung Arts Center, College F"ootbalf Hafi o1 Fame. and 
Looking for a baf1ender, GOCktall server, and hostess. 
tackle Jason Fox said. 
Phone# 574-277-4671 
"They're two groat quarter­backs and they both bring a Fax# 574-277-7234 lot of things to the table." 
Wright did not spnak with reporters Tuesday, although 
110 Dixieway S. ....................... __. ....... ________ _
Frnmnan said lw sought him out and ol'fnred !'.ongratula­
South Bend, IN 46687
tions and otlwr kind words. "I know what he's going 
(Inside Phillips 66) $2.00 OffAny Kir1g Sub 
through herausn I've been 
rM
t.lwrn lwf'on~ ... Freeman said. I ­"Twien." Wright was tlw nation's top 
I •I $t.oo OffAny Regular Sub 
riHTuit when hn signed with Miami. yd simply hasn't lived ·f up to the expectation that he'd 
• offer expires 9-30-07 
be the Iwxt great one at "()uarterbaek U." llo threw f'or 
' 
night touehdowns in nine ganws last yPar and l'ive of' 
.------------------------------­
Wednesday, August 29, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
U.S. OPEN TENNIS 
Former champions roll through first round 
Sharapova takes down Vinci; Hingis, Kuznetsova, Hewitt all cruise past opponents in Flushing Meadows 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Maria Sharapova shanked a backhand wide, prompting her opponent to leap in the air and pump her fist and smile as though she'd won the match -or, indeed, the U.S. Open championship itself. 
Uh, not quite. That little cele­bration by 51st-ranked Roberta Vinci of Italy was for winning one game Tuesday night, allow­ing her to narrow Sharapova's lead to 6-0, 5-1. 
"I win one game, I'm happy," Vinei said. "6-love, 6-love? No. 6-love, 6-1? OK." 
A few minutes and one hold of serve later. Sharapova's 50­minute day was done, and she was into the second round at the tournament where she pro­duced her second Grand Slam title a year ago. 
"Tiwre's no way to get rid of the memories when I walk on the court and feel the vibe," the second-seeded Russian said, 600 crystals on her red dress sparkling in the Arthur Ashe Stadium lights. "Every corner I turn here, I get goose bumps." 
She compiled 15 winners before Vinci hit her first and finished with a 30-3 edge in that category during the 6-0, 6­1 victory -part of a mini­parade of past champions in first-round action. 
That included victories for Martina llingis, Svetlana Kuznctsova and Lleyton Hewitt, with Andy Hoddick still to play later. 
Sharapova's been on the wrong end of some routs at Grand Slam tournaments this 
year, including against Serena Williams in the Australian Open final and against Venus Williams in Wimbledon's fourth round. And Sharapova, whose breakthrough came with the 2004 Wimbledon title at age 17, has been dealing with shoulder problems much of 2007. 
No signs of that Tuesday, although she did double-fault twice on match point in the final game. Otherwise, about the biggest problem Sharapova had was when she missed a sip of water during a changeover and spilled a spot on her cus­tom-made outfit. 
Even Vinci took note of the getup, saying: "It's difficult to play against her. Strong player. Nice girl. She has a nice dress." 
"It's red this year, like the Big Apple, in honor of the city," Sharapova told the crowd, before gathering her patent leather racket bag and black jeweled handbag and heading to the locker room. 
Sharapova's good feelings from her U.S. Open title are still fresh, but it's been a decade since Hingis won the tourna­ment. This year. 1-Iingis took a stroll around the new workout room and simply had to smile while scanning the enlarged photos decorating the walls. 
There among the posters of previous champions is one of 1-Iingis, clutching her 1997 sil­ver trophy, a different player and a different person. 
"I'm like, 'OK, I look really young.' Short haircut, all that. It's been 10 years," she said. "Sometimes it feels like yester­day, sometimes like a lifetime." 
1-Iingis was willing to remi­nisce a bit after beating Mathilde Johansson of France 6-0, 6-3. Others winning Tuesday included a man many consider a likely future Grand Slam champion, No. 3-seeded Novak Djokovic, and No. 6 James Blake. The day's biggest early surprise came when No. 9 Daniela 1-Iantuchova, a past 
U.S. Open quarterfinalist, was eliminated by 50th-ranked Julia Vakulenko of Ukraine 6-4, 3-6, 6-1. 
Hingis might face Kuznetsova in the fourth round, but that's a little far to look ahead these days for the 26-year-old who used to be called "The Swiss Miss" -in the long-ago days when she was atop the rank­ings and won five Slams. The days before she missed three years' worth of majors because of foot and leg injuries. The days when Tuesday's opponent would see Hingis on TV. 
"Everybody was watching her," the 22-year-old Johansson said. 
Hingis returned to the circuit full-time in 2006, reaching two major quarterfinals. But her hip came out of alignment a few months ago, and that and back problems limited 1-Iingis to a 4-4 record from the start of April until arriving in New York. 
"I used to recover faster when I was younger," she said, then compared her old self to the Energizer Bunny, before adding: "It's not like that any­more." 
It's been only about half as long since Hewitt won his title at Flushing Meadows in 2001, a triumph that helped him become, at 20, the youngest man to end a year ranked No. 

1. 
And yet for Hewitt, who like 1-Iingis is seeded 16th at this Open, it probably feels at least as far away. Nonetheless, the 2002 Wimbledon champion fig­ures there will be another title somewhere down the road as a reward for his always-churning legs and his zipping ground­strokes. 
"I believe that, yeah, it's in me, that's for sure. I think I'm good enough," Hewitt said after easing past Amer Delic of the United States 6-2, 6-4, 6-2. "That's what my goal is. That's what you keep striving toward, 
working for. Hopefully it will be around the corner." Said Delic: "I mean, the guy's good." 
Blake agreed, saying: "Lleyton is playing some of the best tennis in the world right now. lie's got to be in the top five contenders for this title." 
While Hewitt is still chasing Slam No. 3, Blake and Djokovic are yearning for No. 1. 
Blake is on quite a run right now, having reached the final of the Cincinnati Masters before losing to Federer, then winning the hard-court title at New Haven last week. 
Follow the signs to agreat career at Ernst &Young. 




Welcome Back 
If you're looking for direction in your career, just read the signs. They'll tell you we've created an environment that supports your professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young, we'll get you moving in the right direction. 
Visit us at eyJ;omjusjcareers and our Facebook.com group. 
FORTUNE* 
100 BEST 
COMPANIESb 
TO WORK FOR~ #25 on the list. 
page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 29, 2007 
NFL 
Briggs leaves car at scene of accident 

AP Chicago Bears linebacker Lance Briggs, pictured at practice, admitted to abandoning his totaled car early Monday morning. 
Bears linebacker says he panicked after crashing Lamborghini 
Associated l'ress 
LAKE FOHEST, Ill -Chicago Bears linebacker Lance Briggs said he panicked aft1~r crashing his nnw Lamborghini along a highway early Monday morning and initially reported his car stolen af"ter abandoning the mangled vehicle. 
Speaking to reporters after practiee on Tuesday. Briggs said he called a tow truck after leaving the scene and then reported his 2007 Murcielago was stolen. 
"When it happened, thfl first thing I did was, obviously, I panicked," Briggs said. "I didn't want there to be a big scene there. And so I left the scene. When I left, I called the tow truck. I also was startled, and I called to report that my car was stolen. Within probably 10 minutes, I called back and accepted responsibility for what I did because it was ridiculous in the first place." 
Illinois State Police said they have no record o!' Briggs reporting a stolen vehicle. 
They did say that Briggs placed a 9-l-1 call at around 4 
a.m. Monday, after initially say­ing he did not call police until sometime between 8 a.m. and 9. 
But Master Sgt. Luis Gutierrez said Briggs gave "no indieation of his ear being stolen" during either eall. 
Illinois police found the aban­doned vehide, which had hit a light pole and a conernte bridge support, alongside the Edens Expressway on the city's North Side around 3:15a.m. 
Briggs was charged with leaving the scene of an acci­dent, a misdemeanor. and was given traflic citations for failure to give immediate notice of' an accident and improper lane usage, when he met with police on Monday a!'ternoon. He was released after posting $100 bond and is scheduled to appear Oct. 4 in a Cook County court. 
Leaving the scene carries a maximum 364 days in jail and a $1,000 finn, according to Gutierrez. 
No other cars were involved 
in the incident and no one was 
with Briggs. he said. 
Briggs said he was relieved no one was hurt after he lost control of' the car and apolo­gized to the organization and the fans during his brief address to the media. 
lie answered one question about whether the incident changed him, saying, "It did change me, absolutely. I'm very lucky to have made it out the way that I did, very lucky. I appreciate every day. The first thing I did when I got back here was hug every one of my team­mates and tell them that I love them because you never know what's going to happen." 
Then, he walked away as reporters yelled questions. 
Briggs did not address a TV station's report that he had vis­ited two Chicago clubs before the crash, although the owner of one -Level -said he was not there. 
"lie comes here frequently, but he was not here the night of the car accident," Mike Bloem said. 
Gutierrez reiterated Tuesday that "it's undetermined" if alco­hol was involved and said, "We're not pursuing that at this point." 
Briggs' attorney Frank Himel said he wasn't sure how his client would plead. lie also said he was not sure where Briggs had been or if he had been drinking. 
"I never asked him any of these questions," Himel said. "If I did. I don't know how he could answer those questions." 
Although coach Lovie Smith has said the team will not disci­pline Briggs, the league is look­ing into the incident. 
The crash came after a tur­bulent offseason in which the Pro Bowl linebacker threatened to hold out -at first for the season, then 10 games ­because the Bears placed the franchise player tag on him. He also asked the team to remove the label or trade him. 
ALSO••• 
Try Our BrandNew 
You asked for it, you got it! 
Available aher 9pm daily. 
!J~t£ 
5~ 
•Football Friday & Saturday
Home Games Exduded. 

Start the school year off right with your skin looking & feeling GREAT~ ..come see me! 

Aesthetician ... and don't forget to mention this ad// 
Peggy is 


available: Monday -Friday: 9am -Spm Saturday: 8:30am-12:00pm 
For all your cosmetic, skin care and hair removal needs come to our South Bend location just minutes from campus on North Michigan Street. 
Peggy is a licensed aesthetician and specializes in Jane lredale mineral-based makeup, LaRoche-Posay skin care products, facials and waxing services. 
From your face to your legs, Peggy will have your skin feeling smooth, soft & beautiful! 
Call Pe,ggy Today! 
574.282.2020 
& FACIAL PLASTIC SURGERY 

401 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 574.282.2020 

Wednesday, August 29, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 31 
.. 

NFL 


Vick apologizes, calls dogfighting 'terrible' 
Falcons QB admits to wrongdoing, takes responsibility 
Associated Press 
Michael Vick stood behind a 
podium, all alone. His amazing 
speed and quickness was of no 
use in this predicament. He 
couldn't scramble away from 
trouble with one of those nifty 
moves. 
All he could do was apologize. 
And ask for forgiveness.· And 
start "bettering Michael Vick 
the person, not the football 
player." 
Looking somber and speaking 
without notes, Vick said Monday 
he was taking full responsibility 
for his actions after pleading 
guilty to a federal dogfighting 
charge in Richmond, Va. 
He eould go to prison for one 
to five years. 
"I offer my deepest apologies 
to everybody out there in the 
world who was affected by this 
whole situation. and if I'm more 
disappointed with myself than 
anything it's because of all the 
young people, young kids that I 
let down, who look at Michael 
Vick as a role model," he said. 
Vick canceled a Tuesday 
morning radio appearance on 
"The Tom Joyner Morning 
Show". Host Tom Joyner said 
Vick's advisors suggested that 
the football player shouldn't 
talk at this time because some­one "might take any part of our interview out of context." 
Vick called dogfighting "a ter­rible thing," said he initially lied to the NFL and his team about it because he was ashamed, and apologized specifically to all those he deceived about a grue­some dogfighting ring: commis­sioner Roger Goodell, Atlanta Falcons owner Arthur Blank, coach Bobby Petrino and his teammates. 
"I need to grow up," Vick con­ceded. 
Acceptance of responsibility is one of the factors U.S. District Judge Henry E. Hudson will consider in handing down Vick's sentence Dec. 10. The federal sentencing guideline range is projected at a year to 18 months, but Hudson can impose up to the five-year maximum. 
Vick has already been sus­pended indefinitely by the NFL. 
"So I've got a lot of down time, a lot of time to think about my actions and what I've done," he said. 
"I will redeem myself. I have to." 
In Atlanta, the Falcons said they would not cut Vick imme­diately because of salary-cap issues. The team intends to pur­sue the $22 million in bonus money he already received in a $130 million contract signed in 2004, looking to reduce the financial burden of his massive deal. 
"Cutting him today may feel better emotionally for us and many of our fans," Blank said. "But it's not in the long-term best interests of our franchise." 
Before the wrenching day was done, the Falcons defeated Cincinnati 24-19 in their first home preseason game, a chance for Atlanta's fans to get a sampling of life without their most dynamic player. 
Hundreds, if not thousands, of people showed up for the game wearing Vick's No. 7 jersey. His replacement, Joey Harrington, made a good first impression by throwing two touchdown pass­es. 
"It's not something we can sweep under the rug," Harrington said. "Mike is defi­nitely in a bit of trouble, but he's still a member of this team, still a member of this family." 
Vick took no questions after his first public statement about the dogfighting ring, and he said little in court. 
With family members, includ­ing his brother and mother, watching from the front row of the packed courtroom, Vick stood flanked by two of his five lawyers and softly answered "Yes, sir" and "No, sir" to Hudson's questions. 
The judge, known for his tough sentences, emphasized his broad latitude in handing down Vick's penalty. 
"You'll have to live with what­ever decision I make," Hudson said. 
U.S. Attorney Chuck Rosenberg said a first-time 

offender ordinarily might receive no jail time for the dog­fighting conspiracy. 
"We thought, however, that the conduct in this conspiracy was heinous, cruel and inhu­mane," he said. 
Blank and Falcons general 
manager Rich McKay refused to say whether Vick would ever play for the Falcons again, though their reluctance to cut ties with the quarterback is related more to complicated legal issues than any willing­ness to take him back. 






SENIOR PORT 
ITS! 
Sign up on the internet NOW @ 
www.LaurenStudios.com 
to ensure your place in the 2008 DOME Yearbook 
(The 2008 DOME Yearbook will be printed entirely in color, INCLUDING your Senior Portrait!) 
Who: Class of 2008 Students 
When: Pictures taken Sept. 3-Sept. 21 

Where: La Fortune 108 
Why: To be in your 2008 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook 



Remember to Sign Up Today! www.LaurenStudios.com 



~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-----------­
page 32 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 29, 2007 
MLB 



Moose dropped from Yankees' starting rotation 
Triple A prospect to take over Mussina's spot against Tampa 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -After winning 247 games in the major leagues, Mike Mussina lost his spot in the New York Yankees' rotation Tuesday. 
Following three terrible starts in a row, the 3H-year-old right­lmnder was told by manager Joe Torre that he'II be passed over for his next scheduled start Saturday against Tampa Bay. 
"lie was disappointed, natural­ly. This was very dillicult for me," said he spoke to Mussina and said: "'Keep doing what you're doing. Keep doing your work. Keep doing your throwing so you don't lose that, the arm strength part of it."' 
Not long ago, Mussina was the team's top starter, but he has faded fast. After going 15-7 with a 3.51 EHA last season, he is 8­10 with a 5.53 EHA this year. He has a 17.69 EHA in his past three starts, struggling with velocity and control. 
Kennedy, who pitched for Scranton last Saturday, is 1-1 with a 2.08 EHA in six starts at Triple-A. The 22-year-old right­hander played college ball at Southern California. 
"lie's got great mound pres­
Torre said. "We have relied on ence," said Yankees rookie Joba 
him every year  Chamberlain,  
since he's been  who  called  
here." The  Yankees  "1/e was  Kennedy his best friend. "lie  
will 1:all up touted prospect Ian Kennedy, a first­round draft pick  disappointed, natu­rally. This was very difficult for me. "  understands how to pitch and how to get outs. He's going to come up  
last year,  from  and do  a  great  
Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes­Barre to pitch  Joe Torre Yankees manager  job. It's going to be exciting to see."  

against tlw last-place Devil Hays in the middle of a pennant racn. 
I low long Kennedy stays in the rotation will dnpend on how well he pitdws. 
"It's basically what we're get­ling from that spot. That's what you look at first." Torre said. 
Mussina refused comment as he walked out of the clubhouse li11lowing New York's 5-3 victory over Boston on Tw~sday night. 
Torre didn't say whether he would consider using Mussina out of the bullpen. The manager 
Before the 
game, Torre said he wanted to speak with Mussina about his recent struggles be!bre making a dn~ision. lie said the pitcher "earned that conversa­tion" because of "who he is and what he's done." 
"I just want to hear how he feels, and from there we'll talk about what we're going to do," Torn~ said before the game. 
"Some conversations are diffi­cult to have," he added. "I hope he makes it easy on me." 
Mussina's last three starts have been particularly alarming. He has allowed 19 earned runs in 9 2-3 innings spanning two outings against the hard-hitting Detroit Tigers and one against the Los Angeles Angels. 
Before this slump, Mussina won four straight starts -giving up eight runs in all -and improved to 8-7. 
Has he run out of gas'? Does he need a breather? 
Or, is he completely finished? That's certainly what Yankees fans are afraid of. especially since Mussina has a year remain­ing on his $23 million, two-year contract. 
Mussina and Torre have both said they think the right-hander has more productivity left, but 
the Yankees decided they could­n't afl'ord to wait for him to find his form. 
New York heads into the final month of the season fighting for a playoff spot, so every game is crucial. The Yankees began the day two games behind Seattle, the AL wild-card leader. With their victory over Boston, they pulled within seven games of the first-place Hed Sox in the AL East. 
"You like to be loyal to all your players. But loyalty to all 25 comes before loyalty to any indi­vidual," Torre said. 
The manager added that he spoke to Mussina recently about the possibility of skipping a turn if he thought that might benefit him. 
"I know he's probably looked at some video to see if there's any­thing with his mechanics," Torre said. "lie's obviously at times try­ing to make more perfect pitches than he's probably capable of making." 
Mussina didn't speak with reporters before the game, either. He talked on his cell phone at his locker after batting practice, then dashed off to a team meeting. 
His latest flop, three ineffective innings Monday night in a 16-0 loss at Detroit, dropped Mussina to 0-7 following Yankees losses this year. It also left him visibly dejected. Mussina said he would . "understand" if Torre went with another pitcher next time through the rotation. 
"Two weeks ago I felt really good about the way I was throw­ing the ball," Mussina said Monday night. "Two weeks later it's completely at the other end of the spectrum and I really don't feel like I can do much of any­thing right, and I haven't helped us at all in the last three games that I pitched. It's disappointing. 
"I don't even know how to describe it because I've never had to deal with it before," he added. 
Mussina was hurt by some bad luck and poor defense Monday night, which Torre noted. 
"There were some balls that with any kind of luck he would have had a better result. I know he wasn't happy with it," Torre said. "lie threw more strikes, gave himself more of a chance. I thought it was better. I thought he was a little freer throwing the ball. I thought he got frustrated quicker." 




R F s T A u R A N T 
From th~F~~;:E_:~:~, comes a tas~(~_{i;~--t/;·~--~ remarkable, bringing the true taste ~~f'71zailand ! 

across the waters and conrinems, justfor you. This is a trip into the exotic and the delicious, with authemic Thai cooking that can't hefound anywhere else in ]t,ffchiana. Come e1!joy an elegant evening ofsampling some ofthe world's , jlnest cuisine that H'ill excite yourjive senses: 1 
L-·----·---~--~-:eet, sour. sal'tl_::.:S.!)!.~:.~·. and nmural. .. ...J 
211 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 
232---4445 
www. SiamThaiSouthBend .com 


Wednesday, August 29, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 33 
Practice 
continued from page 36 
That policy is understandable from the football team's stand­point. 
It was June 6 when Charlie Weis announced that he was moving fall camp from West Quad to Cartier Field and that he would open one practice for local fans, one for professors and one for students. 
Most students didn't get back to campus until Saturday or Sunday, so their open practice was Sunday night -within a week of the team's first game and, we were told, too close to kickofl' to run a meaningless, bland training session. 
But when Weis said he would open a practice for students, he hadn't yet indicated his plan to not announce a starting quar­terback before the Georgia Tech game. 
So Weis had his predicament. 
Thinking ahead to the open practice, Weis probably figured that students would be able to determine the starter by watch­ing two hours of time on the field. Last week, he told WNDU that he had already decided on a starter and the chosen quar­terback would be dumb not to know he is starting. Still, Weis doesn't want Georgia Tech to know, and that means he needs to control the flow of informa­tion. 
Sunday's practice was closed to the media, but The Observer's four football beat writers are in a unique situa­tion of being students and media members. So Brian Hardin, the team's director of media relations, let us know that we could go to practice. But, in not so many words, he said we could lose our media access if we reported on what happened at practice. 
I understood that position. Any objective observer would admit that Weis' stJ;"ategy of not announcing the starting quar­terback is a significant advan­tage for the Irish against Georgia Tech (and possibly Penn State on Sept. 8). Any opponent who must waste time studying one or two extra quar­terbacks is far less efficient than one who knows the starter. Claiming the secrecy doesn't help Notre Dame in any way, as several national columnists have, is flat-out wrong. 
But I asked Hardin the obvi­ous question: What about the message boards? I figured stu­dents would be posting about what they saw immediately afterward -and most gtudents are not media representatives in their spare time and cannot be threatened with limited access. 
Hardin said Weis probably would ask the students not to blog or post about the practice. But Weis didn't, and the mes­sage boards filled up. 
Therein lies The Observer's predicament. 
The Observer could look like a shill if we pretended as if Sunday night's practice was closed and the muzzle was on. Truth is, there were nearly 2,000 people who saw the two­hour practice, and at least a dozen who gave accounts of varying insight that weren't quite snap-by-snap but nonetheless detailed. That's not quite a small, off-the-record audience. 
If Weis wanted to keep the happenings of the practice out of public consumption, he need­ed to keep it closed to all stu­dents. The post-practice Internet updates were pre­dictable. And they demonstrate why having an "open" session while threatening a media out­let not to report on it is, well, absurd. 
But media credentials are a privilege, and we accepted the team's terms. If we had not, we might lose the chance to serve our readers in more important ways in the future. But it is also important to inform our readers -on campus and off-why we are not reporting something that should be covered. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1 @nd. edu 

.:,... 


Martin 
continued from page 36 
played well in these two games." 
Leading the way in both con­tests was senior forward Kurt Martin. Martin looked capable of taking over as a regular starter for the first time in his career. He scored six minutes into the New Mexico game and netted two more against the Wildcats. 
"lie's a very good player," Clark said. "He is very capable of scoring goals and hopefully he can maintain that form." 
Martin needed only three minutes to bury his first goal against Northwestern. He picked up a loose ball inside the box, wheeled and put it in the top left corner to give the Irish a quick lead. 
Ten minutes later, lightning struck again. 
This time Martin took over just across midfield and fired a rocket from 40 yards out. The ball found its way through two defenders and past Northwestern goalkeeper Misha Rosenthal for a 2-0 lead. 
Notre Dame continued to dominate play for the remain­der of the first half, and Martin picked up his fifth point of the game when senior forward Joseph Lapira finished a pass from his fellow attacker in the 17th minute. 
Lapira, who won the M.A.C. Hermann Trophy last season as college soccer's most exciting player, seemed to be recovering well from a strained calf earlier in the summer. 
Clark was also impressed with strength his team showed throughout the middle of the field. Freshman Matt Armstrong stepped up for Notre Dame to replace 2007 graduate and two­time captain Greg Dalby. 
"I thought Armstrong and Thomas really bolted down the middle very well," Clark said. "Right through that middle was superb through the first twenty minutes." 
Dalby made the All-America team in his senior year and was a staple on the stingy Irish defense for four years. 
The freshman has played well so far in the two exhibition matches and has won the start­ing job for the season opener. 
Armstrong and the rest of his teammates will be tested right out of the gates as they face a flurry of powerhouse schools in their first few games. The sea­son-opener pits Notre Dame against preseason No. 2 UCLA. The two will meet Friday night at the Adidas/IU Credit Union Classic in Bloomington, Ind. 
The Irish follow their game against the Bruins with three more perennial contenders in Maryland, Rhode Island and Northern Illinois. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

'by 


l'$fcom 
Tocici accidentaily took History for the first time in college. Aprankster slipped it into his bowling class. 

This dill not reflect well on the school and Todd was forced to ieave and join the circus. 

Todd eventually began hinging on History, taking it whenever possible. 

L[ARN moM TODD. 
Just because half.corn is cheaper doesn't rnean you need to buy twice as much History. Use your savings tor good on halt.com and try a video game console and games instead. 


'"S:~ ;it ;~r!}mOtv.;il open !t; Mgal ti5. :'t:=~::dent~ H) yean: r;f i1Uf: :;:r nlr;~r Wlif; art: tir~:t-tim~ t:Hy'?Jf. Ot: rx1~ 1.-dm $:~ t'ift pn;motlf.:ll f}OOt"'i fry ~rf:t-tim~ P,Uff.hrJSf:: Of $50 ill l:lf;:e. t:.x:c:uctlng ~~I:!Pf;Hit1 Wid t"x~::cmnq, on !ta~J..(l!TI i)H!y UmiJ (lM l)ft~f per USt:=: lD. :liid olifr :nay ff.lt t."# r.ombiMIJ wm: anyt.nt;a~ of!t?r. f'A}!JPD:t or prm:k~t!nn Vo:d vme:tJ prvf:jbiWi.t tzxt.h~ n1 :~stlit.lef.. C:ff~r eiifY.res Sro;,t,mt.i:.lr 30. 20(!7 .at '1: .f,g 5gpm PT. 
_, 

page 34 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, August 29, 2007 
Kickers 
continued from page 36 
both playing a role on both kickoffs and finld goals," Weis said. "The first time we go to kiek a field goal, it might make a difference where the ball is to see who's the kick­er." 
Walker, Whitaker and Burkhart were competing to replace Carl Gioia, who made eight of 13 field goal 
"Inside 40 yards, I want to be 100 percent," he said. "Outside 40 yards, well, I want to be 100 percent." 
Walker said Notre Dame's fifth-year senior punter, Geoff Price, has helped all the young kickers with their mechanics. 
"Geoff Price is pretty much an All-American candidate," Walker said. ''I'm trying to soak up as much that he says as possible. He always jokes that he's as good of a coach as 
he is a player." 
And while 
Price -who 
along with jun­
attempts in ior quarterback
"Inside 40 yards, I 
2006. Evan Sharpley is 
want to be perfect. 
Whitaker, a listed as the walk-on, Outside of40 yards, holder for field appeared in the goals -will be
well. I want to be roo
Stanford game on the field to
percent."
last s£lason, help the young­kicking off sters when they once. The kiek Brandon Walker attempt kicks, traveled 50 Walker says he
Irish placekicker 
yards. 
Weis said he wasn't sur­prised that the non-scholar­ship player pnrformed so wnll against Walker and Burkhart, both of whom are on scholar­ship. 
"Nate Whitaker, even last ynar, was one of the guys with one of tho strongest legs on the team," Weis said. ''I'm not worrying about whether a guy is a scholarship player or a walk-on. Whoever the best guy is, they play. 
"Nate will be kieking in the game on Saturday." 
Walker, a true freshman, was mainly a punter in high school, attempting just 20 field goals in his junior and senior seasons and making 13 of thmn. 
But the Findlay, Ohio native says he feels confident he can do whatevor thn Irish coach­ing staff asks. 
"To be honest, as lung as the team wins, that's my forte," Walker said. "Punting, kick­offs, field goals, whatever gives us the best chance to win I'll do." 
· What<wer he does, however, Walker is a perfectionist. 
isn't nervous to 
play in front of 
80,000 people 
on Saturday. 
"To be honest, kicking in front of coaches is much harder than kicking in front of fans," he said. "Adrenaline is something you build off. Most kickers would tell you they kick it five yards furthP.r in games than they do in practicP.." 
Notes: 
+Associate Athletic Director John IIP.isler said NRC play­by-play broadcaster Tom llammond will return to the broadcast booth for Notre Dame's second home game, on Sept. 22 against Michigan State. Hammond will be in Japan this week covering the World Track and Field Championships. 
+NBC, which owns the rights to all Notre Dame home games, will replace Hammond for Saturday's game against Georgia Tech with Bob Papa, who is the radio voice of the New York Giants. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

GOLDEN DOME 
ALLISON AMBROSEfrhe Observer The Notre Dame offensive line stretches during Tuesday after­noon's practice at Moose Krause Field. · 

Keepers 
continued from page 36 
near the goal with one of her signature flip-throws from the sidelines. Fowlkes was able to head the ball in to give Notre Dame a 2-1 lead. 
The game was quiet until the end of the second half, when Cinalli put back the rebound of a Weissenhofer shot, making the score 3-1. 
In both games, all three Irish keepers split playing time. Senior Lauren Karas, sophomore Kelsey Lysander and fresh.man Nikki Weiss each saw about 30 minutes in goal. 
"It's probably the deepest we've been with goalkeepers since I've been here," Waldrum said. "Even if we had a clear-cut favorite, we would have played all three in both games, just because you need to see them in those kinds of games. Rarely are you going to get to play a good team like Carolina and Virginia and have it not count, so you can take some chances." 
we have a clear-cut num­ber one." 

Junior defender Carrie Drew, who missed the 2006 postseason after suffering an ACL injury in the last regu­lar-season game, saw her first live action against Virginia. Drew played for about 45 minutes over the course of the game. 
"She had gotten released from the doctors about a week before preseason," Waldrum said. "We felt like giving her that extra week to the Virginia game, that is 
Waldrum said a decision has not yet been made as to who will be the starting keep­er against Michigan on Friday. 
"The good side is they haven't really separated themselves," he said. "We've got to try to make some why we played her in Virginia but not in Carolina. She's healthy, but it was more just the timing of getting her released." 
Waldrum said that the play of the Irish during the pre­season answered some ques­tions, particu­larly after los­

decisions this "It's probably the ing midfielders week and see J e n
deepest we've been 
which ones we Buczkowski think are going with goalkeepers and Jill 
to be starting since I've been here. " Krivacek and 
for us. It may defenders be a few more Christie
Randy Waldrum 
weeks into the Shaner and season before Irish coach Kim Lorenzen 
to graduation. 
He was pleased with the play of the freshmen in the relatively high-pressure preseason games. 
In those games, the Irish outscored their opponents 5­3, outshot them 30-14 and put 13 shots on goal while allowing nine. Their win over the Cavaliers marks the third time in a row that Notre Dame has defeated Virginia in the preseason. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, August 29, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 35 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA
BLAcK DoG 

DEUCES MANOR 


CROSSWORD 
Across 41 Theme of this puzzle
Example of 41­Across 45 Example of 41­Across
7 Example of 41­Across 46 goo pipe joint 15 Like "Survivor" 47 Result of getting groups worked up 
16 ''That's fine" 
48 Call the whole thing off
17 _ Quimby of 50 On the wagon
children's books 54 Eton students,
18 Most finicky e.g.
19 Not fighting 56 Symbol of 
21 Squeezed (out) 
sturdiness 22 Ballerina's digit 
58 City map abbr. 23 Suffix with racket 
59 Tacks on or rocket 
63 Works of Swift 25 Weakens, as 
and Wilde support 
66 They're over the 29 Line up 
hill 32 Push (for) 70 Dancing locale 36 Needle part 71 "Be delighted" 37 Mauna 72 Low tie 39 Example of 41-73 Example of 41­
Across Across 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

74 Example of 41­Across Down Rock bands? 2 Keynote speaker, e.g. 3 Less firm 4 Instrument with a conical bore 5 Sha follower 6 French ice cream 7 Bush league?: Abbr. 8 Merle Haggard, self-descriptively 9 Sail a zigzag course 1 0 Little one 
11 Put up with 12 Bread for a Reuben 
13 Speakers' no­nos 
14 Amount left after all is said and done 
20 Unagi, at a sushi restaurant 24 Actress Dawson of "Renf' 26 Polar denizen 27 Polar explorer 28 Salty septet 30 Therapeutic plant 31 "_got mail" 33 Humanities degs. 34 Memory unit 35 Cries from the woods 38 "I love him like 
40 Defendant's plea, informally 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Tibor Derencsenyi 
41 Not work out 51 Black Russians 61 Like Radio City may go on it Music Hall,
42 Kirlian informally
64 Pint-size
43 Four-footed TV star 55 Buffalo hockey 65"Mm-hmm" player 
66 Chart topper
44 Jar part 57 Barbecue 67"Do do"
49 Thank-yous offering 68 It may be tidy
along the Thames 60 Bug juice? 69 -Cat
-
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888· 7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 

HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion


JJWJMJ13ILJE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
THIGE 
± 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 



r1-~f~J 

tMESHEC± 
WHAT THE:: C.OPS 
DID WHE::N THE::Y
J r J
1 
QU£::5TION£::0 THE:: 
www.jumble.com 
C.ROONE::R, 
CANFIG ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: rI I I JrI I J"r I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: REARM PAGAN ORATOR FIERCE Answer: When the bumper corn crop left the farmer grinning, it was -FROM EAR TO EAR 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: LcAnn Rimes, 25; Jason Priestley. 38; 
Shania Twain, 42: Daniel Sle)'n. 50 

Happy Birthday: Don't let your emotions hold you back when you have so much 
going for you this year. Don't sit idle when there is so much to do. Select what's 
important and move full steam ahead. Your numbers arc 5, 10. 13. 17. 3H. 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You need to gel away from it all. A place you can 
relax and ponder over what you want to do next is in order. Don't be fooled hy changes going on around you at work. It is as you see it. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Someone rimy he falsifying information. Don't give to a charity or group you know little about. Stick to what you know and refrain from overreacting. A surprise is in the works. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Be patient, especially when dealing with colleagues 
and family. Emotions will be running high and saying something you'll regret is 
evident. Focus more on kindness, generosity and getting along with olhcrs. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You've got so much going for you, so don't waste it 
procrastinating or thinking you can't. You should be discovering new things that 
you can tum into a profitable venture. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You should be concentrating on financial mailers, closing deals and finalizing settlements, investments or even contracts that are pending. Place your calls and corner the people who need to do their part. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Things may be up in the air today, especially where 
partnerships and personal matters come into play. Stand your ground but don't do 
so with force. 3 stars 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take off and do something different or exciting that 
will stimulate your imagination and captivate your mind. You are due for a change 
so surround yourself with new people, places and pastimes. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a bold stance, stick to your plans and present 
what you have to offer. You may not grab everyone's attention but the people who 
do get what you are doing will be fascinated. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't even think about spouting off or caus­
ing a ruckus. You are better off taking a wait-and-see approach and keeping your 
thoughts to yourself. 2 stars 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Things are turning around for you. The deals 
that appeared to be taking so long to play out are now likely to go forward, allow­
ing you the freedom to move on. 4 stars 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be very careful how you word things. Someone 
may try to misquote or misinterpret you. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emotions will he hard to control. Don'tlel them .overrule what you have to do professionally or educationally. A partner or someone 
you like may surprise you with his or her decision to make alterations that will 
influence you. 3 stars 

Birthday Baby: You are strong, passionate and have an active mind and imagina­
tion. You are adventuresome and tend to live on the edge. You have spunk and for­
titude and will stand up to anyone who opposes you. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenia/ast.com for confidential 
consultations 

-I I I I I 
j 
j 
~ 
1 
j I I 
~ 
l 
1 
j I I 
l 
-

THE OBSERVER 




PORTS
Wednesday, August 29, 2007 
page 36 
FOOTBALL 
Kickstart 
Weis to use multiple Our lips are sealed placekickers during following Sunday's Georgia Tech game open practice session 
You might be looking for a By CHRIS KHOREY 

practice report from Sunday's Sports Editor 
"Student Appreciation Night" in this space. 

The race to bn Notre Dame's Sorry to disappoint. starting placekieknr has nar­Sure, I rownu to two. could tell 
Irish eoach Charlie We is you how releasnd a depth chart many plays Monday that showed sopho­Jimmy more Nate Whitaker and Clausen f'rnshman Brandon Walker as ran, out of co-starters -which left soph­what forma­omon~ Hyan Burkhart out of' tions with the pieture 1mtirPiy. what 
"In eertain situations, offnnsn and Ken ·Fowler thny'rn both thn lead guy," against Weis said. "They're the two which guys. It was three, now it's defense, but Sports Writer two, and they'rn the two." that would-
Wnis said that Whitaker and n't be wise. Walker will b11 used situation­The ally, but did not say what Observer was told not to pub­those situations might be. lish any account of the prac­
"I can see both Brandon tice or else it would face Walker and Nate Whitaker "serious" repercussions. 
see PRACTICE/page 33 

Weis suspends Hand for three gatnes folloV\ring arrest 
"lie's back in school; there­face suspension from the against Georgia Tech, Penn training camp mentalityBy CHRIS KHOREY 
fore he's back on the team," University. State and Michigan. because you can't just throw 
SportS Editor 
Weis said. "But he won't be "[The three-game suspen­In the meantime, junior Pat pads on him and put him out playing for multiple weeks." sion] is not the school's," Weis Kuntz and freshman Ian there," Weis said. "Like 
Notre Dame coach Charlie Hand was suspended from said. "It's football's. For the Williams will man the nose !Monday], he went out in Weis said Tuesday that sus­the team indefinitely Aug. 3 school, he was reinstated guard position for the new shorts. [Tuesday} he'll go out pended junior nose guard after he allegedly solicited a [Monday]." Irish 3-4 defense. in shorts again. Then he'll go Darrell Hand has been rein­prostitute on the south side of While Weis wouldn't say for Weis said Hand, who missed shoulder pads, shoulder pads, stated to both the University South Bend. sure how long Hand will be all of fall training camp, will full pads." and the team, but will miss "at Weis said that the junior held out of games, he did say have to readjust to practice least" the first three games of' attended both classes and that the junior will miss the before he can contribute fully. Contact Chris Khorey at the season. practice Tuesday and will not season's first three contests "lie started almost like the ckhorey@nd.edu 



MEN's SoccER 

Martin leads team to win 
Senior forward nets two goals in 3-0 win over Northwestern 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame wrapped up a succnssf'ul preseason in front of' a full housn with a 3-0 win Monday over No. 14 Northwestnrn, a week after a 3­0 exhibition win over No. <J New Mnxico. 
Dnspite the early success, Irish coach Bobby Clark knows that his tnam still has a long way to go to reach thnir goals. When asked what he thought of the team's potential Clark responded, "You'll have to ask me in Decembnr." "(The winsl don't indicate 
much more  except that  we  
TIM  Observer  
Senior forward Kurt Martin fights for a free ball during a 2-0  
see MARTIN/page 33  win over DePaul In last year's Big East tournament Oct. 25.  


ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Irish look sharp in hvo preseason exhibitions 
Team optimistic after beating Virginia 3-1, tying Tar Heels 2-2 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame has only played two exhibition games this year, but the Irish already look ready for regular-season play. 
After tying preseason No. 1 North Carolina 2-2 in a rematch of last year's NCAA Championship game and a matchup of the preseason No. 1 and No. 2 teams in the nation, Notre Dame defeated No. 11 Virginia 3-1 on Aug. 23 in Fort Wayne. Forward and senior captain Amanda Cinalli scored two goals and fresh­man midfielder Lauren Fowlkes added a third tally. 
"[ think it's going to give us a lot of optimism about the season, and I think now seeing the freshmen over a little bit of time helps us feel better about that," head coach Handy Waldrum said. 
Just as in the North Carolina game, Notre Dame started quickly against the Cavaliers. Two minutes in, Cinalli head­ed the ball past Virginia keep­er Celeste Miles, redirecting a free kick from junior forward Kerri Hanks. Virginia answered five minutes before halftime when Jess Hostedt maneuvered through the Irish defense by herself for an unassisted goal. 
Two minutes later, sopho­more forward Michele Weissenhofer reached Fowlkes 
see KEEPERS/page 34 

I  I  .,.  
•  'I' 1 \I I 1  •  I  i  'I  I  I\ I  I  
'I.  ' 'I  


CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
iff 
CommunitAUGUST 28, 2007 



Taking education beyond the walls of the classroom 
The Center for Social Concerns invites you to push the boundaries of your classroom into the neighborhoods of South Bend and beyond. Come and enter the lives of those who live and study dent has made an impor­tant difference. 
Often this service in­volvement, and the learn­ing that comes through it, transforms you. In turn, this transformation allows each of you to be impres­as ourselves (Mark 12: 28-31 ). It is not easy but it remains no less our challenge and call. It is the foundation on which we will build the justice we seek and the peace we long for. 

and work there. Indeed, consider the ways that you might begin to be a part of the world's transl(xmation. Through the years, thou­sands of students have taken part in the numer­ous opportunities oflered through the Center for Social Concerns and our many partners. Each stu­sive agents of transforma­
tion in others' lives. This is seen dming and long after your time at Notre Dame, Saint .Mary's, and Holy Cross College. 
Jesus called love the greatest or all command­ments·· to love the Lord God with all our hearts and to love our neighbor 
Be a part of the trans­formation to which we are called. Give yourself away. One or more of the opportunities on these pages could quite possibly change you forever. 
~.~ 
Fr. Bill Lies, C.S.C. Executive Director 



Service Guide 
A SPECIAL OBSERVER INSERT 
Index 
community agencies I student social action and service groups 
ADDICTIONS Life Treatment Centers 
ADULT LITERACY Literacy Council of St. Joseph County South Bend Community School 
Corporation Adult Education 
ADULT-OLDER Alzheimer's Services of Northern Indiana & Milton Adult Day Services Real Services/Area 2 Agency on Aging 
CHILDREN & YOUTH Ark Angels, Inc. Big Brothers &Big Si~'ters of St. Joseph County Boy Scouts of America, LaSalle Council Boys & Girls Club of St. Joseph County Campus Girl Scouts Children's Defense Fund Circle K College Mentors for Kids Demers Mentoring Kids El Campito, Inc. First Book Freedom 22 Foundation Lead ND Ms Wizard Day Neighborhood Study Help Program Operation Smile Robinson Community Learning Center Slice of Life ND South Bend Community School Corporation Partner Up/Read to a Child South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility Take Ten Teamwork for Tomorrow Youth Services Bureau of St. Joseph County 
CRIMINAL JUSTICE Dismas of Michiana (Dismas House) Human Rights ND (HRND) Indiana Legal Services, Inc. (ILS) United Religious Community 
of St. Joseph County 
CULTURAL ISSUES Broadway Christian Parish UMC Community Alliance Serving Hispanics (CASH) La Casa de Amistad St. Adalbert/St. Casimir Parish 
Adult Education Program 
DISABILITY SERVICES Best Buddies Chiara Horne, Inc. Corvilla, Inc. LOGAN Community 
Resources, Inc. Reins of Life, Inc. SuperSibs ENVIRONMENT ND for Animals Students for Environmental Action (SEA) 
HOUSING/HOMELESSNESS Catholic Worker House Center for the Homeless Habitat for Humanity Hope Rescue Mission The Salvation Army St. Margaret's House St. Vincent de Paul Society 
of St. Joseph County, Inc. YWCA of St. Joseph County 
HUNGER CONCERNS Foodshare World Hunger Coalition 
MEDICAL AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist American Red Cross The Center for Hospice and 
Palliative Care, Inc. FAST (First Aid Services Team) Healthwin Specialized Care Helpful Undergraduate Students (HUGS) Harbor Light Hospice Irish Fighting for Saint Jude's Kids Memorial Hospital Volunteer Services Social Justice in American Medicine (SJAM) St. Joseph Regional Medical Center SJRMC Outreach (Chapin Street Clinic) Sunshine Clubhouse 
MULTI-SERVICE GROUPS Alliance to Lead and Serve (ATLAS) Arnold Air Society Near Northwest Neighborhood, Inc. Silver Wings Sustained Dialogue Trident Naval Society 
PEACE AND JUSTICE ISSUES Africa Faith and Justice Network (AFJN) ND-8: Millennium Development 
Student Group Notre Dame Peace Fellowship Progressive Student Alliance 
WOMEN'S CONCERNS Family Justice Center of St. Joseph County Feminist Voice Hannah's House S-0-S of Madison Center Women's Care Center YWCA St. Joseph County 
• I I I' I'  'I'  1  \I I J 1 I l I t I I I  'I I I I /fIt  If I I I I • I j It I •  I', I I>  
I I'  . I 0  I I 0  
The Universi  Of Notre Dame Center For Social Concerns Local Communi  Service Guide  AUGUST 2007  

Boy Scouts of America, LaSalle Council Chiara Home, Inc. Hannah's House Focus: To prepare young people to make ethical Focus: To provide temporary out-of-home care for Focus: Maternity home for unwed mothers 

CommunityGuide A-Z 
KEY , _1;-:!i!!tlt___ 
~dill!.. 
~ Community-based learning partner
rn Federal Work Study participant 

!B AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist 
Focus: Care coordination for persons living with HIV and community-based HIV testing. Service Activities: Volunteers provide a range 
of supportive services to both clients and staff. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon Requirements: Car Placements: Few Contact: Debra M. Stanley 
(574) 288 2887 wuzuwuzu@aol.com www.aidsministries.org 
Alzheimer's Services of Northern Indiana 
-Milton Adult Day Services Focus: Day services program and support ser­vice for families.affected by Alzheimer's Disease. Service activities: Work with participants at Day Center in activities such as board games, crafts, pool, woodworking (with volunteer supervision); assist with serving meals and snacks; and general support in keeping participants actively involved. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime Requirements: 18+, TB test (free) Placements: Many Contact: Norma Napoli 
(574) 232 2666 Norma_Napoli@sbcglobal.net www.alz-nic.org 
American Red Cross 
(St. Joseph County Chapter) Focus: To help prevent, prepare, and respond to emergencies. Service activities: Volunteer through campus­based FAST Program or at Chapter, train children, work with refugee families, provide office support. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Late afternoon, Evening Requirements: Background check, Training Placements: Many Contact: John Pinter 
(574) 234 0191 info@stjoe-redcross.org 
Ark Angels, Inc. Focus: Youth intervention and leadership development. Service activities: Share in developmental en­richments including athletics, create relation­ships within interest or talent areas. Days: Weekdays, Weekends Time(s): Late afternoon, Evening Requirements: Background check Placements: Many Contact: Ron King 
(574) 904 1707 kingronnie@sbcglobal.net 
!~ Big Brothers Big Sisters 
I) of St. Joseph County Focus: One-to-one child mentoring for school­age children in St. Joseph County. Service activities: Spend time with a child 
weekly to bi-monthly off-campus. Days: Weekdays, Weekends Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon, Evening Requirements: Car, 18+, Background check, 1 academic year commitment Placements: Many Contact: Any staff member 
(574) 232 9958 bbbsstjoe@sbcglobal.net www.bbbs-sjc.org 
and moral choices over their lifetimes by instill­ing in thern the values of the Scout Oath and Law. Service activities: Help run programs for at-risk youth in the South Bend community that develop character, citizenship, and personal fitness skills. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Late Afternoon, Evening 
Requirements: Car, Background check Placements: Few Contact: Arne Landsverk 
(574) 289 0337 ext. 315 alandsverk@lasallecouncilbsa.org www.lasallecouncilbsa.org 
Boys & Girls Clubs 
of St. Joseph County Focus: Provide youth development programs for school-aged youth in an afterschool environment. Service activities: Serve as mentors, group 
leaders, and coaches to the kids. Specialized 
service projects available in development office. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Late afternoon, Evening Requirements: Car, 18+, Background check 
Placements: Many 
Contact: Jim Cramer (574) 232 2048 ext. 2103 jcramer@bgcsjc.org www.bgcsjc.org 
Broadway Christian Parish UMC Focus: United Methodist Congregation with a focus on worship and service to the poor. Service activities: Food pantry, distribute toi­letries, computer lab, hospitality drop-in center, Sunday community dinner. Days: Weekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime Requirements: Spanish speaking Placements: Many Contact: Rev. Nancy Nichols 
(574) 289 0333 broadwayum@sbcglobal.net www.broadwayumcsb.org 
Catholic Worker House Focus: To offer hospitality to people in need. Service activities: Help prepare evening meal, talk with guests, collect food from farmer's market, manual labor at drop-in center down­town, pick up furniture donations. Days:VVeekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon, Evening Requirements: None Placements: Many Contact: Margaret Pfeil 
(574) 287 7734 mpfeill@nd.edu 
The Center for Hospice and Palliative Care, Inc. Focus: To improve the quality of living for patients facing terminal illness. Service activities: Provide respite and com­panionship to patients and families on a weekly basis. Days:VVeekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon, Evening Requirements: 18 +, Background Check, Car, US Citizen, Drug Screen, Health Sceen Placements available: Many Contact: Jackie Boynton 
(574) 243 3100 ext. 3127 boyntonj@centerforhospice.org www.centerforhospice.org 
Center for the Homeless Focus: To provide education, training, rehabili­
tation, housing placement, and job placement programs and services to in-residence guests. Service activities: Tutor adults seeking GED, 
tutor children, assist in job retention programs, help at front desk and exercise room, read to, play with, and mentor children. 
Days:VVeekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon, Evening Requirements: Car (On bus line) Placements: Many Contact: Dr. Peter Lombardo, Ph.D 
(574) 282 8700 ext. 344 plombardo@cfh.net www.cfh.net 
families caring for loved ones with disabilities. Service activities: Help with meals, play games, and go for walks with residents. Redesign and update web page. Days:VVeekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime, Late afternoon Requirements: Car Placements: Many Contact: Brenda Emmerth 
(574) 287 5435 chiarahome@att.net www.chiarahome.org (corning soon) 
Corvilla, Inc. Focus: To provide homes and care for people with developmental disabilities. Service activities: Help with social outings, bingo parties, bowling outings, zoo trips, Thanksgiving dinner and Christmas parties. Merge database with accounting system. Days:VVeekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon, Evening Requirements: None Placements: Many Contact: Diane M. Dolde 
(574) 289 9779 ddolde@corvilla.org www.corvilla.org 
!~ 
Dismas of Michiana (Dismas House) Focus: Faith-based re-entry program that 
provides housing and services to men and women returning from incarceration so they can successfully adjust to society. Service activities: Prepare evening meal and 
dine with the residents, mentoring and tutoring, help with house repairs, assist with special events. Update website and donor database. Teach residents computer and internet skills. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon, Evening Requirements: 18+ Placements: Many Contact: Maria Kaczmarek 
(574) 233 8522 michianadismas@sbcglobal.net www.michianadismas.org 
El Campito, Inc. Focus: To promote the educational, social, and 
economic success of culturally diverse children and their families. Service activities: Interact with children through planned activities, tutoring, bi-lingual (Spanish) 
translation, evening child-care assistance, website 
design, database development, and IT support. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Evening 
Requirements: 18+, Background check Placements: Many Contact: Rosa Rickman 
(574) 232 0220 elcampito@sbcglobal.net 
Family Justice Center of St. Joseph County Focus: To provide victims of domestic violence and their families multiple options to restore balance to their lives. Service activities: Offer resources for victims of domestic violence, play with children, an­swer phones, and/or welcome guests. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Late afternoon Requirements: 18 +, Background check, 1 academic year commitment Placements: Many Contact: Pam Claeys 
(574) 234 6900 pclaeys@fjcsjc.org www.fjcsjc.org (coming soon) 
Freedom 22 Foundation Focus: To support families, connect volunteers, and build community in Michiana. Service activities: "Coach" middle school students in language arts competition. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime Requirements: None Placements: Many Contact: Barbara Asher 
(574) 235 0022 or (574) 532 6657 barb@freedom22.org 
Service activities: Light administrative work, cleaning, yard work, light cooking, childcare. Days: VVeekdays, Weekends 
, Time(s): Daytime Requirements: None Placements: Many 
Contact: Laura Guy (574) 254 5309 laura.guy@comcast.net www.hannahshouse.org 
Harbor light Hospice Focus: To provide hospice services. Service activities: Visit with patients, office assistance. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime Requirements: 18+, US citizen, Background check Placements: Many Contact: Judy Comeno 
1 (800) 237 4242 judy@hlhin.com www.harborlighthospice.com 

Healthwin Specialized Care Focus: Healthcare for the geriatric, head injured, dementia, and Alzheimer populations. Service activities: Play cards, board games, and computer games with residents; work in dining program, transport residents to therapy, decorate for activities; update bulletin boards; sing, and play instruments for residents; web­page design; database development. Days:VVeekdays, Weekends Time(s): Daytime, Late afternoon Requirements: Background check Placements: Many Contact: Karen Martindale 
(574) 272 0100 ext. 28 kmartindale@healthwin.org 

Hope Rescue Mission Focus: A faith-based homeless shelter for men, women, and families. Service activities: Adult tutoring, resident services mtern, childcare, front desk reception, fund-raising, donations management, assistance with annual Street Count of sheltered and un­sheltered homeless men, women and children. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon, Evening Requirements: 18+, Background check Placements available: Few Contact: Linda Clevenger 
(574) 235 4150 ext. 222 lclevenger@hoperescuemission.org www.hoperescuemission.org 

Indiana Legal Services, Inc. (ILS) 
Focus: ILS is a poverty law clinic funded to help low-income people in certain civil cases. Service activities: Conduct initial interviews 
with potential clients and summarize the case into written narratives for attorney review. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime Requirements: Excellent written skills Placements available: Many Contact: Heather Mezosi 
(574) 234 8121 Heather.Mezosi@ilsi.net www.indianajustice.org 
La Casa 

De Amistad Focus: La Casa is a youth and community center serving the Latino population. Service activities: After-school program, food pantry, tutoring ESL students, preparing news­letter, websjte updates, data entry. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon Requirements: Car, Fluent in Spanish Placeme11ts: Many Contact: Rebecca Ruvalcaba 

For more information visit: SOCialconcerns.nd.edU 
r-.-­
!b life Treatment Centers Focus: Addiction treatment Service activities: Monitor clients, assist with 
screenings for clients, and help treatment aides 
with client activities. Days: VVeekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime 
Requirements: 18+, Background check, US Citizen Placements available: Many 
Contact: Julia Shapiro (574} 233 5433 ext. 235 julias@lifetreatmentcenters.org 
Literacy Council of St. Joseph County Focus: To promote and improve functional literacy. Service activities: Assist adults to improve English reading, writing, and speaking. Days: VVeekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon, Evening Requirements: 18 +, Car, Background Check Placements available: Many Contact: Sandy Chambers 
(574) 235 6113 sandy@stjoereads.org www.stjoereads.org 
LOGAN Community 
Resources, Inc. Focus: To provide advocacy, resources, and ser­vices to people with developmental disabilities and their families. Service activities: Assist with social skills classes, tutoring, and a teen social group at the Autism center; offer classes in art, nature, music, drama, or fitness with Adult Day services; data­
base design, graphic design, and photography. Days:VVeekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime Requirements: Car (On bus line) Placements available: Many Contact: Nichole Maguire 
(574) 289 4831 ext. 1043 Nmaguire@logancenter.org www.logancenter.org 
Memorial Hospital Volunteer Services Focus: Full service hospital Service activities: Pushing patients in wheelchairs, staffing information desks, aM assisting on floors. Days: VVeekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime Requirements: 18+, Background check Placements available: Few Contact: Jeanne Blad 
(574) 647 6496 jblad@memorialsb.org 
Near Northwest Neighborhood, Inc. 
Focus: Non-profit community development corporation dedicated to the preservation and re­vitalization of the Near Northwest neighborhood. Service activities: Database entry, website updat­
ing, statistical analysis, inventory of neighborhood housing, gardening, administration, and marketing. Days: VVeekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime Placements available: Many Contact: Karen Ainsley 
(574} 232 9182 nnndirector@kconline.com www.nearnorthwest.org 
REAL Services/Area 2 Agency on Aging Focus: VVorking with the elderly and disabled. Service activities: Assist clients with lawn care, 
grocery shopping, light housekeeping and friendly visiting, deliver meals at noon to homebound. Days: VVeekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime 
Requirements: Car, Background check Placements available: Many Contact: Deb Leach 
(574) 284 2644 ext. 269 dleach@realservicesinc.com www.realservices.org 
, I 
'' 
'' •I I I I I I . ' I', o I I I!<' . ' I I I I • 
''I 
', 
The U Of Notre Dame Center For Social Concerns Local Commu 
Reins of life, Inc. Focus: Therapeutic horseback riding for children and adults with disabilities. Service activities: Assist riders with grooming, tacking and executing skills during tl1erapeutic riding lessons; perform as horse leaders or side-walkers in arena; safety monitors, instruc­tors' aides and cheerleaders; fundraising. Days: VVeekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime Requirements: Car Placements available: Many Contact: Christine Flowers 
(574} 261 0345 (cell) rolskb@netzero.net www.reinsoflife.org 
Robinson Community Learning Center (RCLC) 
Focus: Hub for relationship-building and educa­tional opportunties in the Northeast Neighbor­hood of South Bend. Service activities: Tutor, assist youth entrepre­
neurs in annual business plan competition, web 
page maintenance, and marketing research. Days: VVeekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon 
Requirements: Background check Placements available: Many Contact: Volunteer Coordinator 
(574) 6318759 rclc@nd.edu www.nd.edu/-rclc 
Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center Focus: Full line acute care hospital Service activities: Volunteer advocate in Emer­gency department (pre-med only). Read to small 
children in waiting room of Family Clinic as part of Reach Out and Read program for 1-3 hours. Days:VVeekdays, VVeekends 
Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon Requirements: 18+, Background check Placements available: Few Contact: Denise Kapsa 
(574) 237 7242 kapsad@sjrmc.com 
liJ SJRMC Outreach (Chapin Street Clinic) Focus: To provide health care to the under­served population. Service activities: Supplement staff by assess­ing patients, assisting physicians, filing, prepar­ing charts, etc. Assist with front desk duties and clerical needs. Fluency in Spanish helpful. Days: VVeekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon Requirements: Car, Background Check Placements available: Few Contact: Michelle Peters 
(574) 239 5299 petermic@sjrmc.com www.sjmed.com 
The Salvation Army Focus: To meet human need in Jesus Christ's name without discrimination. Service activities: Take applications, prepare food boxes, clerical work, distribute toys. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime Placements available: Few Contact: Liz Fallon 
(574) 233 9471 liz_fallon@usc.salvationarmy.org www.usc.salvationarmy.org/sjc 
Sunshine Clubhouse Focus: To provide psychosocial rehabilitation for people with a history of mental illness. Service activities: Tutoring, driving vehicles Days:\Veekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon, Evening Requirements: 18+, Background Check, Car Placements available: Few Contact: Paul Curry 
(574} 283 2325 paulc@sunshineclubhouse.com www.sunshineclubhouse.com 
For more information visit: SOC alconcerns.nd.edu 
S-0-S of Madison Center Focus: Rape crisis intervention and counseling 
for survivors of sexual assault and domestic violence, as well as their significant others. Service activities: Provide support and crisis 
intervention to victims at hospitals and on the phone crisis line. Days:VVeekdays, VVeekends 
Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon, Evening Requirements: Car, Background Check, US Citizen Placements available: Many Contact: Jessica Fulton 
(574} 283 1308 (574) 283 1325 sosl@madison.org 
South Bend Community School 
Corporation Adult Education Focus: Help students 16 years of age and older strengthen academic, job, and life skills. Service activities: Tutor adults who need to improve basic skills; prepare adults for the GED Exam, and/or learn English as a second language; help teach basic computer skills. Days: VVeekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon, Evening Requirements: 18 +, Car (Or Bus Line) Placements available: Many Contact: Gayle Silver 
(574) 283 7563 gsilver@sbcsc.k12.in.us 
South Bend Community School Corporation Partner Up/Read to a Child Focus: Reading program Service activities: Read for 30 minutes once a week to South Bend Community School Corpora­
tion Title One students. Days: VVeekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime Requirements: 18 +, Car, Background Check Placements available: Many Contact: Connie Moore 
(574) 283 8182 cmoore4@sbcsc.k12.in.us 
b South Bend Juvenile 
~ Correctiona.l Facility Focus: State juvenile correctional facility for males between the ages of 13 and 18. Service activities: Tutor the boys in basic core subject materials. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Evening Requirements: 18+, Car, Background Check Placements available: Many Contact: Beverly Williams 
(574) 232 8808 ext. 350 bewilliams@doc.in.gov www.in.gov/indcorrection/ 
St. Adalbert/St. Casimir Parish Adult Education Program Focus: Distance learning program that allows participants to earn their elementary school 
or junior high school degree from the Mexican 
Secretary of Education. Service activities: Teach adult ESL classes, Pla­zas comunitarias,·help provide childcare during classes, set up computer network. 
Days:VVeekdays, Weekends Time(s): Evening Placements available: Many Contact: Astrid Carmona 
(574} 288 5708 ext. 210 astridcarmona@mac.com 
St. Margaret's House Focus: Day center for women and children in poverty Service activities: Help with kitchen prepara­tion, front desk duties, resume preparation, job searches, and website updates. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime Requirements: 18+, Female Only Placements available: Many Contact: Patricia A. Marvel 
(574) 234 7795 patsmh@sbcglobal.net www.stmargaretshouse.org 
.... 
I I 

Service Guide AUGUST 2007 
St. Vincent de Paul Society of St. Joseph County, Inc. Focus: To provide emergency food, clothing, house­hold items, and financial aid to needy families. Service activities: Help in food pantry, work with clients receiving clothing, data entry, project assistance, website management and trouble-shooting. Days: VVeekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon Requirements: Car Placements available: Few Contact: Matt Vigneault 
(574) 2514908 stvincent@kconline.com www.stvinnies.org 
Take Ten Focus: Askills-based violence prevention program that works with K-12 youth at 15 local 
schools and community centers. Service activities: Team teach pre-established curriculum to a classroom of children at a Take Ten school or community center. Days: VVeekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon Requirements: Background Check Placements available: Many Contact: Ellen Paul 
(574) 6319424 taketen@nd.edu www.taketen.org 
United Religious Community of St. Joseph County Focus: To encourage religious cooperation and 
understanding, effect constructive changes in society, and advocate for those seeking help to meet life's basic needs. Service activities: Work to help those with basic needs issues, provide administrative assistance. Days: VVeekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime Requirements: 18 + Placements available: Few Contact: Carol Than 
(574} 282 2397 cthon@urcsjc.org www.urcsjc.org 
Women's Care Center Focus: Crisis pregnancy help center Service activities: Include but are not limited to: 
babyshowers, counseling, greeting, babysitting, babystore attendent, marketing, fundraising, statistics, mentoring, and many special projects. Days: Weekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime Requirements: Application with 3 references Placements available: Many Contact: Deborah Allen 
(574} 234 0363 deborahwccl@hotmail.com www.womenscarecenter.org 
Youth Service Bureau of St. Joseph County Focus: To provide a strong safety net for mar­ginalized kids, teens, young adults, and parents. Service activities: Provide supervision, rec­reation, and tutoring; database development, program evaluation, grants research. Days:VVeekdays, VVeekends Time(s): Daytime Requirements: 18 +, Background check Placements available: Many Contact: Bonnie Strycker 
(574) 235 9231 bstryker@sbcglobal.net www.ysbsjc.com 
YWCA of St. Joseph County Focus: To care for women and their families through programs for domestic violence, substance abuse, and transitional and permanent housing. Service activities: Kitchen help, fund raising, spe­cial events, floor manager, clerical work, tutoring, 
childcare, web design, and web research. Days: Weekdays (M-F) Time(s): Daytime, Late Afternoon, Evenings Requirements: 18+, Background check, Car Placements available: Many Contact: Gary Robinson 
(574} 233 9491 ext. 303 grobinson@ywcasjc.org 
I I I 
• \ \ • I 
I' f I I I 

Student Service and Social Action Groups 
Africa Faith & Justice Network (AFJN) 
AFJN is a student group based off of the Washington based AFJN. It looks to bet­ter US Foreign Policy toward Afnca. The group works to raise awareness about these issues on campus that reflect re­sponsibility to and solidarity with Africa through Faith and Justice. Contact: Sara Snider 
ssnider@nd.edu 
Alliance to Lead and Serve (ATLAS) 
Aservice club affiliated with Army ROTC to serve the local community with spe­cial emphasis on the military community, both local and global. Contact: Meagan Walerko 
Waler01@saintmarys.edu 
Arnold Air Society 
Arnold Air Society works towards a national project each year. This year we will focus on combating poverty and homelessness. Membership is affiliated w1th Air Force ROTC. However, others may be involved with our civilian coun­terpart, Silver Wings. Contact: Margaret Lindley 
mlindle1@nd.edu 
Best Buddies 
Best Buddies is an organization dedi­cated to enhancing the lives of people with developmental disabilities in the community by providing opportunities for one-to-one friendships with students. Contact: Patrick Noble 
pnollle@nd.edu· 
Campus Girl Scouts 
Campus Girl Scouts is a service club which works with younger girl scouts in the area. We run badge workshops and do service projects for community charities. 
Contact: Monica Tarnawski mtarnaws@nd.edu 
Community Alliance Serving Hispanics (CASH) 
CASH is a club that provides service and outreach to the Hispanic community in South Bend. Opportunities include teach­ing ESL classes, tutoring, translating in health centers, teaching and many more. Contact: Flo Segura 
msegura1@nd.edu 
Children's Defense Fund 
The local chapter of Children's Defense Fund International which is primarily concerned with legislation dealing with children's issues. Contact: Cici Zhang 
xzhang5@nd.edu 
Circle K 
Circle Kis a Kiwanis-affiliated service club that provides free transportation to weekly service projects in and around the South Bend community. Every week, we send members to about 20 different service projects. In addition, we offer larger­scale weekend projects. We also provide approximately 50 different leadership posi­tions and offer a forum in which to meet many other service-minded individuals. Contact: Katie Teitgen 
kteitgen@nd.edu 
College Mentors for Kids 
College Mentors for Kids is a program that brings elementary school children from South Bend to campus once a week to spend t1me with their mentors doing activities. These activities focus on culture and divers1ty, community service, and higher education. Contact: Stephanie Gargala 
sgargala@nd.edu 
Domers Mentoring Kids 
Student club that groups the volunteers of three distinct programs: "Our Lady's Helpers" and "SAINTS" place students as tutors in underserved Catholic grade schools. "BANDLINK" places band mem­bers in local schools to teach music. Contact: Lauren Barton 
lbarton@nd.edu 
FAST 
FAST provides first aid coverage for var­sity athletics, student-led sports events, and special events (concerts). Members are trained in CPR, oxygen delivery and AED USG, as well as standard first aid by certified student instructors. Contact: Derek Lipp 
dlipp@nd.edu 
Feminist Voice 
Feminist Voices is a club made up of both men and women that are dedi­cated to strengthening the community of women on campus and in South Bend. Activities include fund-raising to stop violence against women, working with other groups on campus with the eating disorders conference, as well as other activities that support women in general. Contact: Stacy Williams 
swilli11@nd.edu 
First Book 
First Book is a national organization whose goal is to provide children from low-income families with books. The Notre Dame Cam­pus Advisory Board obtains books through fundraising and grants, and distributes them monthly to existing community groups and tutoring programs. Contact: Kelly Bresler 
kbresler@nd.edu 
Foodshare 
Foodshare delivers food to the Hope Res­cue Mission that is left over from North Dining Hall. They also serve meals at the Center for the Homeless and Broadway Christian Parish. Contact: Mimi Longo 
mlongo@nd.edu 
Habitat for Humanity 
Volunteers are needed to work on con­struction projects, fundraisers, interact with partner families. Help us build a home for a local family. Contact: Will Flanagan 
Flanagan.36@nd.edu 
www.nd.edu/-habitat/ 
Helpful Undergraduate Students (HUGS) 
Members of HUGS volunteer 3 hours per week in the pediatric ward of Memorial Hospital. Tasks include hold­ing and feeding babies, reading to and playing with children, straightening the play room, cleaning toys, and doing administrative work/paperwork. Contact: Blair Glasgo 
blasgo@nd.edu 
Human Rights ND (HRND) 
HRND is a human rights organization that seeks to give a voice to the people who have no voice. Through advocacy, petitioning, letter writing, and educa­tion, HRND seeks to promote justice and peace throughout the world. Contact: Gary Nijak, Jr. 
gnijak1@nd.edu 
Irish Fighting for Saint Jude's Kids 
The club raises money for the children of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. Contact: Sara Hawley 
shawley@nd.edu 
I I' 'I I 
Lead ND 
Lead ND and its volunteers coordinate and run Lead ND programs in four inter­mediate centers in South Bend. Students interact with youth termed "non-tradition­al leaders" teaching them social action, civic engagement, and leadership through methods of service learning. Contact: Saderia Nicole Hooks 
shooks@nd.edu 
Ms. Wizard Day 
Ms. Wizard Day is an event that takes place twice a year and brings 4-6th grade girls from the South Bend commu­nity to campus to expose them to what science has to offer them. The girls are given tours of labs by professors and participate in fun science experiments with students from many disciplines. Contact: Elizabeth Nye 
enye@nd.edu 
ND for Animals 
ND for Animals bel1eves in recognizing the dignity of all living beings and the role humans have as stewards of the earth. The group works to expose and end animal abuse by promoting compas­sionate and informed individual choices. Contact: Elizabeth Lee 
Elee5@nd.edu 
ND-8: Millennium Development Student Group 
ND-8 aims to raise awareness of the eight UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). We mobilize students by encour­aging them to realize the active, individual role everyone can play in contributing to the large global effort to end extreme poverty. Our activities include petitioning governments and organizing real, practi­cable action in tandem with the Catholic ideals which are upheld by the University. Contact: Ashley Mayworm 
amayworm@nd.edu 
<~ Neighborhood Study-Help 
,1) Program Tutor 3rd and 4th graders at Lincoln Elementary. Focus is on math, reading, writing skills, as well as good study habits. Federal Work-Study available. Transportation provided. Contact: Crystal Truong 
ctruong@nd.edu 

I I' 
I' 
I
'I I 

Notre Dame Peace Fellowship 
Agroup of Notre Dame students commit­ted to peace and justice through prayer, community, and action. NDPF hopes to encourage dialogue on the issues of war and peace through educational events, student activism, discussion with ROTC, and public prayer. Contact: Michael Angulo 
mangulo@nd.edu 

Operation Smile 
The goal of this club is to fundraise to fund operations of children with cleft lips living in poverty. Contact: James Petrocelli 
jpetroce@nd.edu 

Progressive Student Alliance 
PSA works for social justice by organiz­ing around issues to create change and working with individuals and groups on both local and global level. Recent foci have been economic justice, student power, and rights for all. Contact: Mike McCann 
nwccann1@nd.edu 

Silver Wings 
Aservice club with two main foci. The first is issues of local community development and social action. The second focus is on military personnel and their families. Contact: Paul Spadafora 
psparclalo@nd.edu 

Slice of Life ND 
Slice of Life NO is a reading focused tutoring program based out of River Park Methodist Church. Students range from kindergarten to 8th grade. Transportation is provided and attendance is flexible. Contact: Mike Dowdall 
mclowall@nd.eclu 

Social Justice in American Medicine (SJAM) 
The mission of SJAM is to inspire student awareness of injustices in American healthcare and to stimulate an atmosphere for devising and advocat­ing potential remedies through the organization of a regular series of guest speakers and student discussions which propose a new direction for the future of American healthcare. Contact: Lindsay Martin 
lmartin8@nd.edu 

Community-Based Learning 
The Community-Based Learning Coordinators (CBLCs) who work with the Center for Social Concerns are a valuable resource to students and faculty. The CBLCs are avail­able to help students find placements in their agencies that meet both the needs of the community-based organization and the student. They are aware of the importance of finding ways to connect the students' lived experiences with their academic work. In addition, they are committed to making reflection and analysis a part of the students' 
experience in their organizations. 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist 
Debra Stanley P.O. Box 11582 South Bend, IN 46634 (574) 234 2870 ext. 1151 WuZuWuZu@aol.com www.aidsministries.org 
Boys & Girls Club of St. Joseph County 
Jim Cramer 502 East Sample Street South Bend, IN 46601 (574) 232 2048 ext. 2103 jcramer@bgcsjc.org www.bgcsjc.org 
Center for the Homeless 
Adam Kronk 813 South Michigan South Bend, IN 46601 (574) 282 8700 ext. 346 akronk@cfh.net www.cfh.net 
La Casa de Amistad 
Rebecca Ruvalcaba 746 South Meade Street South Bend, IN 46619 (574) 233 2120 beckyruval@yahoo.com www.lacasadeamistad.org 
LOGAN Center 
Nichole Maguire Volunteer Coordinator 2502 East Jefferson South Bend, IN 46615 (574) 289 4831 ext. 1043 nmaguire@logancenter.org www.logancenter.org 
Mendoza College of Business 
Jessica McManus Warnell 254 College of Business Notre Dame, IN 46556 (574) 631 9182 Jessica.McManus.l3@nd.edu mcobservice.nd.edu 
I I' 
'I\\ 
I' 
1, 

I 'I 
Students for Environmental Action 
Promote environmental ideals through edu­cation and community service in the area. Contact: Thomas Furlong 
tfurlong@nd.edu 

SuperSibs 
This is aclub for students who have siblings with disabilities who are interested in befriending, mentoring, and participating in activities with children in the South Bend community who also have disabled brothers and sisters. We have bimonthly, 2-hour activities during the week. Contact: Claire Maulit 
cmaulit@nd.edu 

Sustained Dialogue 
In Sustained Dialogue we gather in small groups to discuss various social issues within the Notre Dame community and to think about how they can be addressed. Contact: Riley Saunders 
saunde2@nd.edu 

Teamwork for Tomorrow 
Teamwork is a mentoring organization that pa1rs at-risk youth from South Bend with a mentor/tutor from ND/SMC. The benefit of Teamwork is that it allows kids and tutors to form bonds that can become rather strong. Teamwork meets twice a week at two off-campus sites from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m., either M/W or T/TH. Contact: Andrew Zeiser 
azeiser@nd.edu 

Trident Naval Society 
Community service and naval education organization. Contact: Patrick Martin 
pmartin3@nd.edu 

World Hunger Coalition 
World Hunger Coalition is dedicated to relieving hunger of those who are starving both here in South Bend and through­out the world. WHC recruits students for the weekly dining hall Wednesday Lunch Fast to raise funds and organizes hunger relief activities. Contact: Jessica Pillarella 
Jpillere@nd.edu 

Robinson Community learning Center 
Marguerite Taylor 921 North Eddy Street South Bend, IN 46617 (574) 6319425 mtaylor43@juno.com www.nd.edu./:--rclc 
SJRMC Outreach 
Michelle Peters 234 South Chapin Street South Bend, IN 46601 (574) 239 5299 petermic@sjrmc.com www.sjmed.com 
'I 

NEED MORE INFO? Find it at socialconcerns.nd.edu 








