
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 43 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER2, 2007 

2 freshmen attempt to write novels 
Typing quickly, aspiring writers hope to produce 50,000 words before Nov. 30 deadline 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
It's a process that takes some people years. but Kaitlyn Conway and Emily Craven intend to do it in one month. 
Beginning Thursday, the Notre Dame freshmen each began writing a novel, with the goal of finishing 50,000 words by 11:59 p.m. on Nov. 30. 
That means writing, on average, 1,667 words a day­in addition to doing home­work and going to classes and other activities. Conway and Craven said most of their friends won't be cranking out a novel anytime soon. 
"They think we're crazy," Conway said. 
But they have company. Conway and Craven are part of National Novel Writing Month, a self-described "liter­ary crusade." The competition encourages people from around the world to pound out a 175-page work of fiction in 30 days. A press release from the organization, nick­named "NaNoWriMo," says it is 'the largest writing contest in the world. 
see NOVEL/page 4 




Navy win streak faces test Saturday 
Students optimistic ND football team will get 44th consecutive win against Midshipmen 
"Heck yes, we'll win," she said. 
Sean Gibbons, also a fresh­man, expects Notre Dame to keep its winning streak against Navy. 
"It'll be a good game, but we'll come out on top," he said. 
Sophomore Ben Spitler said the competition Notre Dame has played this season has been tough and that the schedule is a reason for opti­mism. 
"I would hate to be here when we break the Navy streak," Spitler said. 
But Spitler doesn't think a 
see NAVY/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Belles to co-host Duke rally 
Board hopes for more student participation 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
Saint Mary's students will be able to "shake down the thun­der" along with three Notre Dame dorms as they co-host the football pep rally Friday before the final Irish home game, against Duke on Nov. 17. 
Although the event is quickly approaching, planning has been in the works for months, said Emma Moore, a member of the Pep Rally Committee. 
Last year, Saint Mary's had between 80 and 100 students at the event. This year, the com­mittee is aiming for 200 to 260. 
The committee consists of six members of the Board of Governance. Cassie Calion, Annie Davis and Cassie Quaglia -in addition to committee chair Courtney Kennedy -are the Executive Board members on the Committee, Kennedy said. 
Members have all been work­ing hard to make sure the stu­dent body is aware of the pep rally and to persuade a large number of students to attend, Kennedy said. 
Between e-mails and commit­tee members selling Saint Mary's version of The Shirt, she said, the campaign is going well. 
"I don't think anyone on this campus is unaware that we're 
see RALLY/page 8 


Snite celebrates Day of the Dead 
Mexican festival, El Dia de los Muertos, marked with displays, dancing 
By LINDSAY SENA 
News Writer 
With displays, a dance per­formanee and a Frida look­alike contest, the Snite Museum celebrated El Dia de los Muertos, the "Day of the Dead." on Thursday evening. 
The Mexican celebration, which takes place the day after Halloween, honors the dead and celebrates the lives of one's ancestors. 
Notre Dame students and faculty, as well as many area residents and high school students, attended the event. The program began with a description of the signifi­cance of the Day of the Dead, 
see SNITE/page 6 




Business can fight global warming 
Oxford professor cites new EU legislation 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 

AI Gore may have received the Nobel Peace Prize for his environ­mentalist activism, but movies aren't the most practical way to address climate concerns, based on what an Oxford professor said Tuesday at Notre Dame's Hesburgh Center. 
Europe has made strides in its fight against global warming and carbon emission through revised accounting practices for global corporations and the maximiza­tion of the European political structure, said Gordon Clark. head of Oxford's School of Geography and director of the Oxford University Centre for the Environment. 
"Around the year 2050," he said, "we're going to be faced with millions of people displaced" as a result of climatic changes caused by modern industrial and manufacturing systems. 
But the European Union (EU) has sought to mitigate these effects, he said, throngh legisla­tion for corporations, taking full advantage of the EU as a stan­dard-setting body that supersedes the individual countries' politics and therefore reduces the pres­sure of corporations on local 
see OXFORD/page 8 By THERESA CIVANTOS 

News Writer 
With seven losses and only one win this season, Notre Dame's 43-game winning streak against Navy may be at risk. But many students, like senior Liz Byrum, are holding out hope that Notre Dame will add one more game to the streak and avoid racking up a historic loss. 
"It'll be closer than the NO­Navy game usually is, but we will win," Byrum said. 
Freshman Kasey Puis said she is confident she will see her first home win as a Notre Dame student this Saturday. 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, November 2, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Is 'or she' necessary? 
Procrastination is a human tendency 
-one that college students arc familiar 
with. Its consequences, however, can be 
more far-reaching than the occasional 
all-nighter or a 2.7 -inch spaced essay. 
Sodnties and 
eulturns procras-Joey King 
tinate too, and 
this is where the Viewpoint Editor 
real damage is 
donn. 
If one finds a satisfactory way of per­
forming a task, it can be easy to post­
pone or suspend entirely the search for 
a better way of performing the same 
task. Examples are everywhere. 
Consider how long monarchy was 
thought to be the best form of govern­
ment, or mankind's multi-millennia! 
marriage to the geocentric model of the 
universe. Even in the 20th century, 
leaded gasoline was a great fuel, 
aerosol a nifty propellant, DDT an 
effective pnsticidn, and asbestos an 
ideal insulator. 
When something seemingly does what 
it's supposed to do, there's no apparent 
nnnd to change it. The problem is 
determining when finding a better way 
is justilied. I don't havo a general solu­
tion. There is, however, one glaring and 
rneent human development that must 
be stopped -the current necflssity of 
the phrase "hn or she." 
Someone realiznd that English was 
being snxist whnn it used the word "he" 
to rnfnr to an individual of unknown 
gender in the third person. Instead of 
using "he" in such situations, it became 
more proper to usn "he or she." Lately, 
!.tis ~~~1~;~~mi~~ acc11pta?le to simply use 
she. She IS not sex1st. 
Neithnr of tlwse two developments 
arn good solutions. The problem was 
rnalizml, and a working solution was 
presented. "lie or she" solves the prob­
lnm. "Shn" solves tho problem. But both 
solutions have thnir flaws. 
"lie or she" is taxing to write and say. 
It might not seem like much, but it adds 
up. Even if only one newspaper with a 
circulation of 100,000 used "he or she" 
whern it once used "he" just one time a 
day for 365 days a year, it would consti­
tutn I X2.500.000 extra characters after 
onn ynar (excluding spaces). That's 
enough to usn more than 45,000 letter 
sized pieces of papnr and hundreds of 
dollars worth of toner. And one news­
paper with a circulation of 100,000 a 
day is a gross underestimate of the 
daily "or she" output in the Unitnd 
States alone. 
Languages have inefficiencies. I'm not saying that English should be designed for efficiency, or that efficiency is at all a valid measure of the quality of a lan­guagtJ. But it's just plain unnecessary to introduce absurdities with negligible contribution to actual meaning, and supnrlluous letters arn a tangible way to measure such a linguistic shift. Part or me truly believes that people under­stood an implied "or she" when eon­fronted with the ambiguous "he." 
As for the "she" substitution-it's 
trivial. llow does this solve the original 
nend for unabridged articulation? 
Let's just use the EspHranto word for "it." Thn third person ambiguous singu­lar pronoun is now "?i." This has the English pronunciation of "jec," and can be roughly anglicized as "he." Pass it on. 
1he 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of1he Obsert•er. 
Contact Joey King at )king70-)nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Dut· ro a reporting error in the Nov. I edition ofThe Observer, the Viewpoim column "The Widening Racial Divide" incorrectly reponed that 76 pcrce111 of all black men will not graduate high school. The actual statistic is that 76 pcrcem of black males in Maryland will not gradu­ate from high school. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW MANY PEP RALLIES DO YOU USUALLY GO TO A YEAR, AND WHY? 






Jason Gott  Geoff Sullivan  Joseph Moore  Sarah Funnan  Tyler Orem  
junior Dillon  freshman Sarin  freshman Sarin  freshman Welsh Fam  junior Stanford  
"Four,  "I don 't go to all  "Most, but not  "One and a half,  "Four, so I can  
because  ofthem because  all, because  so far. I left  sport  
that's usually  sometimes I  sometimes I fall  early."  pretentious  
about as  lose my J.D."  asleep."  hats."  
many good  
games as we  
have."  

• VUE/The Observer Notre Dame Mariachi Band members Cassandra Montoya left Josh Dlaz mid­dle, and Lukas Mendoza, right, play traditional Mexican'music after the Day of the Dead Celebration at the Snite Museum of Art Thursday. 
OFFBEAT 

Woman takes out ad to Milk Bank, but the I 00 porcelain geese, deer and sell breast milk ounces of milk she wants to frogs are gnomes, such as a 
CEDAR IW>IDS, Iowa -A sell was pumped before weather gnome outfitted with woman who doesn't want going through the screening a rain gauge. her breast milk to go to process for the bank and Police want to find the waste has taknn out a ncws­cannot be donated. rightful owners. papnr ad in hopes of selling "We need to get them out it. Martha Heller, 22, of Tiffin, Prank leaves 75 gnomes of here," Capt. Hichard took out the ad in The without homes Harrison said. "Every time I Gazette, offering I 00 ounces SPHINGFIELD, Ore. -A leave my office they're sitting of her breast milk for $200 or number of gnomes have in my chair, working on my the best offer. taken sanctuary at the eomputer. I can't seem to get 
lleller said her freezer is Springfield police station. rid ofthe dam things." overllowing with breast milk Somebody apparently collect­"If they come here and that she has pumped since ed 75 lawn ornaments from they can identify it," llarri.<>on August. Her 4-month-old around town and then, on said, "we're more than daughter won't drink from a the night of Oct. 17, placed happy to let the gnome go bottle and the supply is piling them meticulously on and horne." up. around the lawn of one 
I leller now donates to the house. Information compiled University of Iowa's Mother's Among the plastic and by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY 

IN BRIEF 

A r,ollection or Douglas Kinsey paintings is on display in the Gwat Hall of O'ShaughnffiSy IIall through Nov. 29. 
The Notre Dame Symphonil" Wind<> and Symphonic Bands will hold a eoncerl tonight at X:30 in Leighton Concert Hall in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tir.ket<> arn $12 for facul­ty/st.aJT and the general publie. and $7 fbr seniors 1md students. 
'Ibe hockey kmm will play Lakt• Superior State tonight at 7:35 at the Joyre Center ke Rink. 
As part or the Boardroom Insights lecture series, Brenda Barnes, CEO or the Sara Lee Corporation will spt~ak today at 
10:40 a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College ofBusinffiS. 
The Black Cultural Arts Council is holding it<> annual talent show, "Black Images: Through the S<>,asons," Saturday at 8 p.m in Washington Hall. Student tiek­et<> are $5. 
As part of tlm Military Hi.<>tory SJX'.aker series, author David Bell will otler a presentation on his 1111w book, 'The First Total War." which focuses on tl1e NaJXlleonic Wars, Monday at 4:30 p.m. in room 116, DeBartolo Hall. 
Gillian Sorensen, senior advi'illf to the United Nations Foundation, will deliver the lec­ture titled "The State of Women Internationally: Where Are We and Where Are We Going?" Tuesday at 6 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnew::;@ndedu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 





....... 
cS: 
(,) 
0 

HIGH 58 48 HIGH 52 58 HIGH 40
..... 

LOW 38 28 LOW 35 43 LOW 28 
Atlanta 68 I 50 Bos~on 54 I~ 1 Chicago 58 I ~4 Denver 58 I 32 Houston 77 I 57 Los Angeles 81 159 Minneapolis 53 138 New York 56 I 43 Philadelphia 58 I 43 Phoemx 88 I 62 Seattle 52 I 41 St. Louis 62 I 36 Tampa 82 168 Washington 57 144 

Friday, November 2, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Forn1er Chilean official describes neopopulisn1 
Walker compares stylesofHispanic governments 
By MARK MANLEY 
News Writer 
Populism in South America has given birth to neopopulism, said Ignacio Walker, the presi­dent of Corporacion de Estudios para America Latina. 
Walker, who is Chile's former minister of foreign affairs, spoke Thursday at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies about current political move­ments in South America. The talk, titled "Democracy and Populism (Old and New) in Latin America," was sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
Walker described many of the current ruling governments in South America as "neopopulist." The use of the word "populism" has been nebulous in recent years, he said, with no clear def­inition and with regional idio­syncrasies. 
When talking about South America,. though, he said pop­ulism is typified by an elasticity of economy. It originated as an alternative to liberal democracy. 
Populism, in turn, gives birth to neopopulism, Walker said. It quickly decomposes from reform to economic collapse, he said. This leads the populace to a sharp reaction to the political right. 
Failure of the extreme right to enact effective change then shifts opinion to the left and the government follows to a plebiscite democracy. Neopopulist regimes like that of Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez and Bolivian president Evo Morales are outcomes of this decomposition, Walker said. 
Leaders of populist regimes tend to hold power through ille­gitimate means, Walker said, while neopopulist leaders are elected by legitimate means. Walker found fault with the neopopulist system because it relies too much on the leader and sets him up to be the redeemer of the people. 
Chavez, he said, takes his legitimate election to mean that he is the absolute voice of the people, the direct representative of the people and their savior. As such, he believes he is above the institutions in place and wields supreme authority, Walker said. 
The situation in South and Central America, however, is more complex than just neopop­ulist or neoliberal, Walker said. There is a nonpopulist govern­ment in Mexico, for example. 
The South American govern­ments all tend to lean left, he said, but within that sphere there are three different types of governments: Marxist, populist and social democratic or non­populist governments. 
Contact Mark Manley at mmanley@nd.edu 

Director of Research and Faculty Development, Asma Atmuddin, Associate Professor of Arabic and Islamic Studies 
~ 11/03-Navy -w
Joan B. Kroc Institute for International 
"Cops, Protest, and Rioting" Daniel Myers, Director ofResearch and Faculty Development, Joan B. Kroc ~
Peace Studies; Professor ofSociology 
Institute tor International Peace Studies; Protessor ofSociology "( 
tJ 11/10-Air Force 
"1l1eological But Not Religious: The Case ofJohn Milton" 
Stephen Fallon, Professor, Program of Liberal Smdies 
~~~ 11/17-Duke 
11:00 a.tn. ~-''Words and Music, Music and Words: The Songs oHram Schubert" Susan Youens, J.W Van Gorkom Professor ofl'v1usic
Saturday, November 3, 2007 
.3-1/2 hours before kicko.Win the AnnenbergAuditorium,
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted). 
For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu
Snite Museum ofArt 
UNIVERSITY OF 

NOTRE DAME 
"Cops, Protest, and Rioting" 
Daniel Myers 




ND profs named to AAAS 
Merz, Mobashery honored by world's largest scientific society 
Special to The Observer 

Two Notre Dame faculty members have been named fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) in honor of their efforts to advance science or its applications. 
AAAS, founded in 1848 as a nonprofit association, is the world's largest scientific socie­ty and publisher of the presti­gious journal Science. The new Notre Dame AAAS fellows are James L. Merz, Frank Freimann Professor of Electrical Engineering, inter­im dean of the College of Engineering and former vice president for graduate studies and research at Notre Dame, and Shahriar Mobashery, Navari Family Professor of Life Sciences. 
Merz, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1994, was cited for "distinguished contri­butions to the field of photonic devices and particularly to optical spectroscopy of semi­conductor nanostructures." 
Mobashery, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 2003, was cited for "creative work on antibiotics and the mechanism of antibiotic resistance in bacteria, espe­cially for contributions on methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, a clin­ical scourge." 
A 1959 graduate of Notr.e Dame, Merz returned to his alma mater in 1994 to direct a team of researchers investi­gating Quantum Cellular Automata, a revolutionary new circuit technology that could power computers thou­sands of times faster and more capable than anything now available. The project was funded by a $3.45 million federal grant from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. 
An internationally recog­nized scholar in the field of optoelectronic materials and devices, Merz formerly was professor of electrical engi­neering, professor of materi­als and director of the Center for Quantized Electronic Structures (QUEST) at the University of California at Santa Barbara. In addition to directing QUEST, a National Science Foundation (NSF) sci­ence and technology center, he also chaired the national council of directors of the NSF science and technology cen­ters. He has published 470 papers and holds five patents. 
Also while at UC-Santa Barbara, Merz at various times chaired the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and served as associate dean for research of the College of Engineering and associate vice chancellor of the university. 
Merz was graduated from 
Notre Dame with a bachelor's degree in physics and attend­ed the University of Gottingen in Germany as a Fulbright Fellow in 1959-60. He attend­ed Harvard University as both a Woodrow Wilson and Danforth Fellow, earning his master's degree in 1961 and his doctorate in 1967. He joined the technical staff of Bell Laboratories in 1966 and conducted investigations there into the optical properties of compound semiconductors. After a semester as Gordon McKay Visiting Lecturer on Applied Physics at Harvard in 1972, he returned to Bell Laboratories, where he worked on optoelectronic devices and integrated optical circuits until joining the UC­Santa Barbara faculty in 1978. 
A world-renowned expert in antibiotic resistance and enzyme inhibitors, Mobashery joined the Notre Dame faculty after previously serving as a professor of chemistry and the Charles H. Gershenson Distinguished Faculty Fellow at Wayne State University. His research interests encompass studies of mechanisms of resistance to antibiotics and the means to circumvent them, development of novel antibiotics, studies of the mechanism of action of these antibiotics, and investigations of complex microbial systems such as the outer membrane and the cell wall. 

Fall 2007 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging ftculty speakers on some ofthe most pressing issues ofour times. 
~ 9/01-GeorgiaTech ''Why is Goethe's Ftlust the Greatest Work ofGerman Literature?" Vittorio Hosie, Paul G. Kimball Professor ofAm and Letters 
~ 9/22-Michigan State "Healrh Care Reforms: An Economist's Assessment'' William Evans, Keough-Hesburgh Professor ofEconomics 
~ ·10/13-Boston College "Global Ireland: From Celtic T\vilight to Celtic Tiger" Luke Gibbons, Donald R. Keough Family Professor ofirish Studies 
~ 10/20-USC "Combating Extremism: Democratic Virtues and Pluralism in Islam" 
Friday, November 2, 2007 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Novel 
continued from page 1 

In 2006, morP than 79,000 people signed up for the chal­lenge. About 18 pnrcnnt of the NaNoWriMo partieipants com­plnte their novPls befon~ the dnadlitw nach ymtr. 
Conway and Craven both entered thn competition last year, and Conway also atl!nnpted the contest in eighth grade. Neither of them finished in thn 30 days allot­ted. Conway's "epic fantasy" numlwred 17,000 words by the timn of the deadlinP last fall. 
"Everything kind of train­wrnekPd because I had a huge paper to write the last week­nnd of the month," she said. 
Craven's "goofy fantasy · 19S4"' novel reached only 
(J. 000 words. Craven and Conway agrned that senior ynar of high school, with col­lege applications to complete, was not tlw best time to 
write a novel "/think it's a great thing I'm going to 
with a tight to do for yourself You are do this,' and deadline. you write
motivating yourself, and
"This year. lots and lots 
wo're making no matter how much you and lots. 
it to 50,000," do with your novel, Then week Conway insist­two eomes
whether you get to 6,ooo
ed. and you're 
But by words or you get to like, 'I don't 
Thursday 6o,ooo, you feel so good know where afternoon. I'm going
about yourself" 
Conway had with life."' written about AI though 100 words. Kaltlyn Conway t h e She didn't freshman NaNoWriMo 
"I rmnnmber last year, I just missed a r,ouple of days, and I was like, 'Oh, I'll catch up,"' Cr a v t) n said . " A nd I kept rer,alculating· how many more words I had to do pnr day, and after that, you just fall in a hole and it's hard." 
The NaNoWriMo Web site, www.nanowrimo.org, provides some help to the harried nov­elists. Contest participants sign up on tlw W1~b site and then can submit their novels for word count validation at dil'f"ernnt times during the month. The site generates a graph to show the budding· novelist how far shn has pro­grossed to her 50,000 word goal. Through message forums, the writers can talk about problems they are hav­ing with plot development or characters. The site also sends supportive e-mails, and it pro­duces podcasts to give listen­ers pep talks about their nov­els. 
"Week two is always the hardest," Conway said. "Week 
one, you are 
like, 'Yeah, 
writn for long 
and was taking 

a break to finish homework 
bdoro she resumed writing 
later in the evening. 

Conway said she isn't quite surn about tlw direetion of her story. For now, she's just working on an introduction. 
"I think it's going to end up being a futuristic mob story," she said. 
Thursday was just day one. The writers have 29 more days of churning out almost 2,000 words a day. Conway said shn thinks they will finish tlwir novels this time, even if it means bringing their lap­tops with them everywhere they go. 
"It s1wms like you're really, really busy and you'ro not going to have timn to work on it, but the timn just kind of finds you, because you'll start working on it and you won't be able to stop for a while," Conway said. 
She thinks finding the time to write will bo easier than last year. Craven agreed. 
"This year we spend so much time doing nothing that I think we'll actually be able to do it," Craven said. 
The duo put up flyers around campus to get other peopln to enter the contest, and about seven or eight peo­ple e-mailed them to express intnrnst. 
"Wn thought it would be crazy fun to got other people involved," Craven said. "It's a lot morn fun when you have a group of support instead of just you struggling along." 
The key to winning the con­test -that is, rnaching the 50,000 word count-is to stay on course and not fall lwhind on thP I ,667 daily word ~~ount goal, tlwy said. 
Wf1b site 
promotes quantity over quality, 16 NaNoWriMo novolists have had their novels published since the contest started in 1999. Sara Gruon, the author of "Water for Elephants," whieh hit No. 1 on New York Times Best Seller list, wrote one of those novels. 
Conway and Craven said they'd both like to edit their novels after Nov. 30 to sec if they can get them published. 
"I think you always have to start out with that mindset," Conway said. "I think that's what everybody who's doing it kind of wants." 
But during November, there's no time for editing, Craven said. Both said they'd like to write a novel later in life -albeit at a slower pace. For now, this contest is a way to force them to get it done. 
"I think it's a great thing to do for yourself," Conway said. "You are motfvating yourself. and no matter how mueh you do with your novel, whether you get to 6,000 words or you get to 60,000, you feel so good about yourself." 
But even the completed sto­ries arB not read, and the win­ners receive no prizes. So why do it? 
"It is insanely fun," Craven said. " ... People think, 'There's no way I can write a novel. It's too huge of a task -there's no way I can do that in my lifetime.' And then after the month, you look at what you've written, and it's like, 'Look what I can do."' 
Aspiring novelists ean sign up any time this month at NaNoWriMo's Web silo. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 



CHECKING 
tHai((maRef!Ott cHeer/ 
Open a Notre Da1nc l~cdcral Credit Union CheckingAccount today and we'II treat you to an aweson1c 'lhilgatc Party Package, including chair, mnbrclla, cooler, seat cushion, and football. 
Plus, we'll enteryour nmne in a dra\ving for offour portable, football grills. 
And if that's not enough, you'll also receive: 
• FREE Check~ 
• One FREE NSF I-~cc 
• FREE Online Bill Payment 
r4.NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
~ fntJinb&~s-In~ 
574/631-8222. 800/522-6611 ww\v.nd~cu.org 
IN HONOR OF BLESSED BASIL MOREAU 
Founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross 

The story of Ba.•.;il Moreau, the recently beatilied foundt'r of the Congregation of Holy Cross, comes to life in this updated edition of his biography. 
ISil:'l: 971ilW'17l U.\6/ JS6 pages with X·pa~l' photo in~11 I $!5.95 
i'rlaclioin :~gentle rmd respectful s~J'le hrings Fr. Moreuu to life in a way feu• albers ofhis biographers have, and I bope this nett edition receiti(!S tl'ide reading 
FATHER JOHN JENKINS, C.S.C. 
President, the University of J\otre Damr 
Maclioin:\· biography qfBasil Moreau is a reminder (!fholi' tbe cross was tl'ot•en into tbe U'bole cloth tl'IJicb 1ms tbeJinmdet<~ life. lhis story as told ~V MacEoin is more !ban history; it is sustenancefor our contimd ngjourney fromj{lith to bojJe, u•ell wot·tb reading again. 
BROTHER RICHARD B. GILMAN, C.S.C. 
Jlresidt•nt, Holy Cross College 
A progressiw educator who aimed to retitaUze religion tbrough 
wider diffusion q/kiWU!/erJ.xe. Moreau was committed to the 
e.h:el/ent profe.\~\·ional preparation f!/llo(r cro.~~\j(u:ul(r 1hat 
Prayer is tbe key ofhearen. With it. the 
commilment has hom excellent fi'tdt. Hveryone in Flo()'. Cross just j>erson opens up all the treasures of minisll:r should read this book. heaven where the soul tntl)' draw its ease. 
CAROL ANN MOONEY, J.D. -BASIL MOREAU {1799-18731 President. Saint Mary's Collegt• 
---------------··---·-····-·-··--····---·-·-·-·----···-··----·--·--·----·--·--··---------·· 
To read more about Basil Moreau visit our website at wv.w.avemariapress.com 

lwywde: AD2l-"107051'l 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, November 2, 2007 Cn>vtriLED FROM THr OBSERVER'S wmr SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. Navy fighting feisty pirates 
NAIHOBI. Kenya -The U.S. Navy said Thursday that it intended to remove pirates from a hijacked Japanese tanker monitored by American warships ofT the coast of Somalia. A crew member's sister said negotiations were under way for the release of the ship. 
Thn Navy came to the aid of the chemical tanker this week. at one point opening fire to destroy pirate skiffs tind to it. 
It also helped a North Korean ship whose crew overpowered pirates in a clash that left several crPw members wounded and one hijacknr dead. The hijackers were being held aboard the ship until they can be handed over for prosecution at a port. After the clash, Navy personnel boardnd the North Korean boat to treat the wounded. 
Students protest Chavez's reforms 
CAHACAS, Venezuela -Soldiers used tear gas, plastic bullets and water cannons to scatter tens of thousands who massed Thursday to protest constitutional reforms that would permit Venezuelan President II ugo Chavez to run for re-election indefinite­ly. 
Lnd by university students, protesters chanted "Prnedom! Freedom!" and warned that 69 amendments drafted by the Chavista­dominated National Assembly would violate civil liberties and derail democracy. 
It was the biggest turnout against Chavez in months. and appeared to revive Venezuela's languid opposition at a time when the presi­dent snems as strong as ever. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Tiny town struggles with lack of water 
OHME, Tnnn. -As twilight falls over this Tennessee town, Mayor Tony Reames drives up a dusty dirt road to the community's tower­ing water tank and begins his nightly ritual in front of a rusty metal valve. 
With a twist of the wrist, he releases the tank's meager water supply, and suddenly this sleepy town is alive with activity. Washing machines whir, kitchen sinks fill and showers run. 
About thrne hours later. Reames will return and rnversn the process, cutting ofT water to the town's 145 resident<>. 
The severe drought tightening like a vise across the Southeast has threatened the water supply of cities large and small, sending politicians scram­bling for solutions. But Orme, about 40 miles west of Chattanooga and 150 miles northwest of Atlanta, L<> a town where the worst-case scenario has already come to pass: The water has run out. 

General Mills recalls 5 million pizzas 
MINNEAPOLIS -General Mills on Thursday recalled about 5 million frozen pizzas sold nationwide under the Totino's and Jeno's labels because of possible E. coli contamination. 
The problem may have come from pepperoni on pizzas produced at a General Mills plant in Ohio. the suburban Minneapolis-based company said. It said the pepperoni itself came from a separate supplier, not produced at the plant itself. but it declined to release the name of the pepperoni distributor. 
The voluntary recall covers pizzas containing pepperoni that have been produced since July, when the first of 21 E. coli illnesses under inves­tigation by state and federal authorities 
LOCAL NEWS 

Hoosier convicted of murder, rape 
COLUMBUS, Ind. -.Jurors who convicted a Columbus man of raping and stabbing to death a 14-y•~ar-old girl reeommendnd against sentenc­ing him to lifn in prison without the possibility or paroln Thursday. 
Dnrnntrick ShephPrd. 20. eould faee 45 to 105 yPars in prison wlwn he is sentenced by BartholomPw SupPrior Court .ludgP Chris Monroo. 
Jurors convirtnd Slwpherd of burglary. rape and murdPr WPdnesday in tlw slaying of Chelsea Portnr. 
Portl~r. who attendnd Central Middle School, was f(lllnd dnad shortly after 3 a.m . .June 29 in an apartmnnt of a family friend on tlw east side of tho eity about 40 miles south of Indianapolis. 
BAHAMAS 

Storm devastates island nations 
More than 100 dead in Caribbean; record rain in archipelago as tropical system Noel rages 
Associated Press 

NA.')SAU -Tropical Storm Noel drenched the Bahamas and Cuba on Thursday while rescue workers in the Dominican Hepublic headed out in boats and helicopters to reach dozens of communi­ties isolated by floods and mudslides. The death toll in the Caribbean rose to 107. 
Noel on Thursday became the deadliest storm of the Atlantic region this year. Hurricane Felix, a devastat­ing Category 5 storm, killed 101 people when it lashed the Caribbean and slammed into the Nicaraguan and Honduran coasts in early September. 
Muddy rain-swollen waters overflowed a dam in Cuba, washing into hun­dreds or homes, over high­ways and knocking out elec­tricity and telephone service. Dozens of small communities were cut ofl'. 
Cuban soldiers went door­to-door in low-lying areas and evaeuated about 24,000 people, according to state radio and television reports. At least 2,000 homes were damaged by flood waters, but there was no official word of deaths. 
In Ciego de Avila province in central Cuba, flooding wiped out nearly 2,000 tons of corn, potato, banana, cucumber and tomato har­who was waiting Thursday where there have been peo­death and damage: at least vests, said Jose Ramon for the power to come back ple affected who require the 66 dead in the Dominican Machado Ventura, a vice on. government's help ... so that Republic and 40 in Haiti, president. Electricity also was turned we can return to a normal where the majority of bodies 
The storm brought a off in Long Island, in the situation in the shortest were found in and around record 15 inches of rain to southeastern part of the amount of time possible," the capital of Port-au-Prince. the Bahamas, Prime Minister Atlantic archipelago. said Dominican President One person was killed in Hubert Ingraham said. Nassau International Leonel Fernandez. Jamaica. Flooding forced the evacua­Airport closed but was More than three days of Fernandez declared a tion of almost 400 people as expected to reopen Friday. heavy rain caused an esti­state of emergency and Noel swirled toward the cap­Only one of 10 cruise ships mated $30 million in dam­asked for international help, ital, Nassau. The majority of arrived on schedule. ages to the Dominican especially rescue teams and those forced to move were Hescuers in Dominican Republic's rice, plantain and helicopters. residents of the northeast Republic took off in helicop­cacao plantations, said At least 62,500 Bahamian island of Abaco, ters and boats to reach iso­Minister of Economy Juan Dominicans fled their homes, Ingraham said. lated residents for the first Temistocles Mantas. said Luis Antonio Luna, head 
Residents of Andros Island, time in three days. Hundreds Government officials will of the Emergencies one of the least-developed in of volunteers joined request loans from the Inter­Commission. the Bahamas, hunkered Dominican civil defense American Development In Haiti, civil protection down as Noel's winds howled forces to help stranded resi­Bank to help with the recov­crews confirmed 16 more and rain pelted window­dents, as rescue teams left at ery. deaths, boosting the national panes. dawn Thursday -many in Rescuers in Hispaniola, the toll to 40, said Marie Alta 
"The walls were rattling, boats loaned by private own­island shared by the Jean-Baptiste, director of but we rode it out pretty ers. Dominican Hepublic and Haiti's civil protection well," said Angela Newton, "We will go to each point Haiti, found a rising toll of agency. 


Astronauts to atten1pt dangerous repair 
would probably be bumped to Sunday, to the damage, NASA does not know

Associated Press said flight director Derek I lassmann. what he'll need to do to fix it. "We'll be ready to go in a couple The partially unfurled solar wing is CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. days from now," Parazynski said producing power, and there is no way Astronauts in orbit and engineers on Thursday. to turn it off, Hassmann said. Flight Earth tried to figure out Thursday Saving the ripped wing has become controllers havP already warned how best to pull off what will be one the top priority for what remains of Parazynski not to touch the electrici­of the most difficult and dangerous shuttle Discovery's visit to the space ty-generating solar cells that cover spacewalking repairs twer attempted station. Everything was going well virtually the entire wing. If the metal in orbit. until the astronauts discovered steel of a tool he was holding melted. it Spacewalker Scott Parazynski runs shavings inside a rotary joint for could burn a ho!P into his glove. the risk of being shocked while he's another set of solar wings. Then one "Just a kind of small slip and you trying to fix a ripped solar wing at the of the wings on a beam that had just could be touching it," said Dina international space station. He'll been relocated on the space station Contella. the lead spacewalk ollicer in attempt the job as early as Saturday. tore in two places. --Mission Control. NASA had hoped to send Parazynski Engineers believe the 115-foot wing The metal parts of Parazynski's out Friday, but needed more time to snagged on a guidewire or guidewire spacesuit will be covered with insulat­come up with a safe plan. If too many support as it was being unreeled ing tape, as will his wire cutters. pli­loose ends remain, the spacewalk Tuesday. Until Parazynski gets close ers and other tools. 
r----------------------------------------------------------------­page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 2, 2007 

Snite 
continued from page 1 
given by artist Hamiro Hodriguez. 
!lis installation, "Cuantos y Memoria." captures his feel­ings about his experienee as a first-gennration Mexiean­American, as well as what it mnans to celebrate the Day of the Dead. Speaking before the attnndens, he emphasized that the Day of the Dead is not a ghoulish celebration, contrary to some stereotypes. but "a enlebration of life. of the sweetnnss of life and the con­tinuing of lil"e." 
!lis two-part installation, which is on display until l>oc. 26, includes an olectronically 1~nhanced "ofronda," or altar, with photos of his diseased anenstors, some of thnir favorite foods and the tradi­tiona! sugar skulls. The skulls. he said, represont a duality­"the sweetness of life and the necessity of death." 

The SP.cond part of the installation includes a wooden skeleton sitting in a coffin, which contains homemade flowers and several books. 
"Life is like a story in a book.... When people die, their story is forgotten," Rodriguez said. 
The books represent the sto­ries of one's ancestors that "were never heard or, in essence, were buried," he said. 
The program also included the performance of a tradi­tional Mexican dance by Notre Dame's Ballet Folklorico Azul y Oro. The women worn all­white dresses and balanced candles on their heads. The Notre Dame Mariachi Band also performed: The women wore colorful Mexican dress-
Alto, Calif. Puis thinks thn last few games of the season will
Navy 

rmd with bPtter results for the Irish than the first night did. 
continued from page I 

"~e can'.t go anywhere but win for NotrP I>anw will come up, she satd. 
easily. 
"lt"ll be a dose game, probably prntty sloppy, but going into tho fourth quarter I want to feel likP we have a dwnce," he said. 
Some students proposed drastic 

Byrum thinks starling junior Evan Sharpley
'To see us lose this 
at quarterback,
game would be 

rather than 
heartbreaking. " freshman Jimmy Clausen, will be good for the
Liz Byrum 

team.
senior 

"It'll be good to see what 
measures if Notrn Dame suf­fers yet another loss. 
"If we end the streak, I'll streak," freshman Hieh Schroeder said. 
Byrum. the sP.nior. said a loss to Navy after 43 years of winning would be tough to take. 
"To see us lose this game would be heartbreaking," she said. 
Arter Navy. Notre Dame will play Air Force and Duke at home, thnn Stanford in Palo Evan Sharpley ean do -if they keep him starting ­whi1:h would be a wise choice," Byrum said. 

At the very least, Spitler said he hopes Notre Dame will end up a better team than it start­ed. 
"I don't think we're going to win every game [remaining! but I hope to see an upturn," he said. 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
es, the men, black suits and sombreros. 
The evening ended with a "Frida look-alike" contest. Five participants dressed to resemble and honor the 1OOth anniversary of the birth of the Mexican artist, Frida Kahlo. 
Prizes were awarded for the "Best Frida-look-a-like" and the "Spirit of Frida," cos­tumes. 
The Snite Museum co-spon­sored the event with the Institute for Latino Studies, Campus Ministry, the Kellogg 
Institute for International Studies, and Multicultural Student Programs and Services. 
Contact Lindsay Sena at lsena@nd.edu 






GO IRISH 

Fabrication & Design Carved and lnlayed Bordered Tapestry llooked:Prodding 

Carpet Binding Area Rug Repair Flooreloths Wearable & Other Fiber Arts 
indianarugco.com 

574.233.7312
1217 N. Merrifield Mishawaka IN 46545 


THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Friday, November 2, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  13,567.87  -362.14  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
452  61  2,870  31.,999,989  
AMEX  2,485.23  -45.15  
NASDAQ 2.794.83 -04.29 NYSE lOJ>22.08 -28953 S&P 500 1.508.44 -40.94 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,870.40 o.oo FTSE 100 (London) 6.586.10 -135.50 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -2.34 -3.62 151.03 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.68 +0.25 37.06 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -1.87 -1.03 54.00 !SHARE RUS 2000 INDX (IWM) -3.86 -3.18 79.14 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -2.55 -0.114 4.361 13-WEEK BILL -3.01 -0.115 3.705 30-YEAR BOND -2.21 -0.105 4.646 5-YEAR NOTE -3.24 -0.135 4.032 
Commodities LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.04 93.49 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.60 793.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.35 81.70 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 114.47 EURO 0.6934 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9507 BRITISH POUND 0.4813 
IN BRIEF The Fed acts to protect the economy WASIliNGTON -The Federal Reserve pumped $41 billion into the U.S. financial system Thursday, the largest cash infusion since September 2001, to help companies get through a credit crunch. 
The action came one day after Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and all but one of his central bank colleagues voted to slice a key interest rate. It was the second time in six weeks that policymakers acted to protect the economy from the effects of the housing downturn and credit troubles. 
Wall Street took a nosedive with the Dow Jones industrials losing 362.14 points to close at 13,567.87. 
The Fed on Wednesday ordered its key rate, called the federal funds rate, to be lowered by one-quarter of a percentage point to 4.5 per­cent. That followed up on a half-percentage point cut in September. Those two rate reduc­tions might be sufficient to help the economy make its way safely through trouble spots, Fed policymakers indicated. 

Comcast asked to allow file sharing 
NEW YORK-A coalition of consumer groups and legal scholars on Thursday formally asked tho Federal Communications Commission to stop Comcast Corp. from interfering with its subscribers' file sharing. 
Two of the groups are also asking the FCC to fine Comcast $195,000 for every affected sub­scriber. 
The petitions will bn the first real test of the FCC's stanco on "Net Neutrality," the long-stand­ing principle that Internet traffic be treated equally by carriers. The agency has a policy supporting the concept but its position hasn't b!len testnd in a real-world case. 
Last month, The Associated Press reported that Comcast hinderPd file sharing by sub­scribers who used BitTorrent, a popular file­sharing program. The AP's tests confirmed claims by users who also noticed interference with somn file-sharing applications. 
Comcast is the country's largest cable compa­ny and has 12.9 million Internet subscribers, making it the second-largest Internet service provider. 
Airfares spike with higheroil prices 

American Airlines first to raise costs after light, sweet crude hits high 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK-American  
Airlines sparked a new  
round of airfare increases  
Thursday by raising  
domestic round-trip prices  
$20, the biggest in a  
series of hikes U.S. carri­ 
ers have tried since sum­ 
mer.  
The nation's largest air­ 
line said it was trying  
recover some of the costs  
associated with the rising  
price of crude oil and jet  
fuel. The new fares took  
effect as the price for a  
barrel of crude hit yet  
another record trading  
high -this time above  
$96 a barrel.  
The latest round of fare  
hikes is the industry's sev­ 
enth since Labor Day, and  
the largest in dollar  
terms. said Rick Seaney,  
chief executive of airline  
price tracking Web site  
FareCompare.com.  
"This last two months  
have been unprecedented,  
and a lot of it has to do  
with the unprecedented  
price of fuel," he said.  
"Supply and demand is in  
favor of the airlines."  
Even with seven  
increases, though, the  
rate of inflation on air­American Airlines was the first to raise airfares Thursday, sparking a frenzy of airfare 
fares has not kept pace increases by other companies because of higher fuel prices. 
with energy costs. Crude  
oil is up 25 percent since  way Wednesday. Delta  the increases, and indus­ said ATA Chief Economist  
Labor Day, but jet fuel is  also matched that  trywide efforts to trim  John Heimlich.  
up about 13.5 percent and  increase.  capacity have helped  American estimated the  
the cheapest type of fares  Major carriers typically  some of those fare hikes  increase in the spot price  
is only up about 5 percent.  follow competitors in rais­ stick. Fuel is one of the  of oil since the summer  
Delta Air Lines followed  ing prices within a matter  industry's biggest costs.  translates into more than  
American's lead with its  of days, if not hours,  The Air Transport  $1 billion in annual costs.  
own increases Thursday.  although stiff competition  Association, the industry's  And though the increas­ 
Most routes in the con­ on popular routes mean  main trade group, said  es in ticket prices have not  
tiguous 48 states were  airlines often repeal some  Thursday that higher fuel  kept pace with the  
affected, spokeswoman  the increases almost as  prices drove second-quar­ increases in fuel costs,  
Betsy Talton said.  fast as they implement  ter costs 5.6 percent high­ travelers in some cities  
Other carriers, such as  them.  er -more than twice the  are still getting hit hard.  
No. 2 United Airlines, said  "Some of those fares will  rate of the Consumer  Harrell said low-cost  
they were studying the  be rolled back by Sunday,"  Price Index, which tracks  leisure fares to and from  
move but had not yet  said Bob Harrell of travel  inflation.  Boston, for example, were  
decided whether to raise  and aviation consulting  "Soaring fuel prices,  24 percent higher last  
their own prices.  firm Harrell Associates.  among other pressures,  week than a year ago,  
In a separate move,  Airlines have consistent­ leave little room for error  while those in and out of  
AirTran Airways raised its  ly cited increasing fuel  in maintaining today's  Denver were 36 percent  
fares by $5 to $10 one- prices as justification for  modest profit margins,"  higher.  


Union preparing to strike Kroger Co. 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI -The union repre­senting nearly 11,000 workers in Kroger Co.'s home region revoked 
a  contract extension on  Monday,  
and both sides say they  are  get­ 
ting ready for a strike.  

The action by the United Food and Commercial Workers union means workers could go on strike as early as Friday morning. An earlier extension had been set to expire Saturday night. Workers voted overwhelmingly this month to authorize union leaders to call a strike. 
The workers are in 77 stores in southwest Ohio, northern Kentucky and southeastern Indiana. 
The union set a rally for Tuesday evening in downtown 
Cincinnati and said union repre­sentatives will be meeting with store workers to discuss strike preparations. 
A spokeswoman for the nation's largest traditional grocery chain said Kroger is making plans to keep stores operating. 
"We are making preparations to hire replacement workers," spokeswoman Meghan Glynn said. "We certainly hope it doesn't come to that." 
No new talks were scheduled, although both sides said they would like to meet again. 
The union says Kroger isn't fully funding pension and health care plans and is offering subpar wages. The company says it is increasing wages and benefits while facing increasing competi­tion from retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and other chains. 
Union leaders say Kroger has reported financial success in its competition, and should share more with the workers who have helped improve customer service and other store attributes. 
'The company lives in a secure world, but wants to leave your future hanging in the balance," the UFCW Local 1099 said in a statement on its Web site. 
Kroger has negotiated new con­tracts in a half-dozen other regions this year including Texas, Michigan and southern California. 
The company, which had $66.1 billion in 2006 revenues, operates 2,491 supermarkets and multi­department stores in 31 states under two dozen local banners, including Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's, Fry's, Dillons, QFC and City Market. 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 2, 2007 
investing dneisions. In Europe, however, that per­
Oxford 

eentage may be higher due to the proximity of the membnr
continued from page l 

nations -and thnir subsequent politicians -a barrier the U.S. sharing of natural rnsourees ­still racns. as well as past environm_nntal 
"The eountries ean blame the disasters that have directed the EU lilr nnw n~gulation regarding public's attention to these issues. thn [(~porting or carbon foot-· "Perhaps it's Chernobyl. prinL-;, so tlwy don't have to doal Perhaps it's the Hhine Hivcr with local turning dif­politics and ferent colors business," in different Clark said. countries,"
"The countries can blame 
Carbon Clark said. 
the EU for new regulation
footprints lle praised refer to the regarding the reporting of Gore's ability total amount to mobilize
carbon footprints. so they 
or carbon young people
don't have to deal with 
dioxide a and get them eorporation local politics and interested in emits environmen­
business." 
through its tal issues. operations. Still, he 
Thorn is no Gordon Clark favored tan­set process director gible solu­to quantify a Oxford University Centre for tions, like company's legislation, to
the Environment 
carbon root­
print, but 
across thn 
EU, firms and eorporations ­
rather than politicians -are 
the orws h~ading the debate on 
how to arrive at a method to 
cakulatn a company's impact on 
tlw nnvironnwnt, Clark said. 
And l.lw n~ason why some companies an• pushing to make carbon footprint disdosums a requil'l~nwnt by law in every corporation's annual report is entirPiy drivPn by business iL-;nlf. 
It's good lilr a company's rep­
utation to bn at tlw fornfront or 
the fight against carbon emis­
sions and global warming, he 
said, so busirwsses that don't 
usually have to dna] with these 
problems too much -like 
financial firms -have part­
nered with NGOs, the United 
Nations Environment 
Programme (UNEP) and the 
European Commission to devel­
op principles for responsible 
investing. 
"It's important for investors to valun and appraise a company's worth, taking into account its impact on the environment, both short-and long-term," Clark said. 
In 2003, the European Commission passed legislation that forces companies in the EU to disclose in their annual reports their carbon footprints and other environmental risks and liabilitins. 
This requirement, which "forces companies to broaden the scope of their reporting to society," doesn't simply apply to a corporation's operations in Europe, but rather to iL'i opera­tions worldwide, Clark said. 
"So the corporation that's present in 60 eountries has to wport what it has benn doing around the world. in Africa, in Singaporn, nverywhern." 
Clark said this type of legi-;la­tion irnnwdiatl'ly distinguishes green corporations from the rest. creating a list of "good and had companies that investors and customers nm pick from." 
And if a company wants to be on thf~ good list, it will have to erase -or at least blur -its c~arbon f(lotprinL 
"Of' c:oursn strong public con­sdousness is vital to nncourage companies to want to make those changes to their op«~ra­tions," Clark said. 

Customers' and investors' mark«~d preference for compa­nies that report small carbon footprints. he said, puts pres­sure on the corporations that have more environmental liabil­ities. lie said he's generally found only 20 percent of any given audience he speaks to is environmentally conscious when it makes purehasing or 
reduce the 
rate at which 

global warm­ing is spreading. 
In 2006, tho British Parliament passed the Companies Act, which requires thf~ board of directors of corpo­rations to take on additional msponsibilitins regarding thn company's operations, including their impact on the environ­ment. 
"Tiw Act places signilieant responsibility on the board of diredors," Clark said. "Before, they usually didn't know too much about what went on with tho company and its operations around the glob£\ but under the act, they've had to become infi.>rmed and really understand the long-term ell'ects of carbon emissions and the roles they can ~lay ..in reducing these prac­tices. 
The Companies Act, he said, is modeled after the European Commission's 2003 legislation and furthers the EU's efforts to promote corporate social responsibility. 
"There is growing momentum about this right now," Clark said. "And that's promising because the cost of not doing anything to reduce carbon emis­sions and slow down global warming right now may be a.•;tronomical for the children of our children." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 


Rally 
continued from page 1 
hosting," Kennedy said. 

Kennedy, Moore and their committee arn hoping that the shirt. which is slated to be unveiled the week of the pep rally, will create a larger draw for attendance this year. 
"We just wanted it !The Shirt] to create a buzz and get the stu­dents excited !about the pep rally]," Kennedy said. 
Although the only way to get the $5 shirt was to pre-order it without knowing what it looked like, Kennedy said she does not expect this to deter students from buying it. 
"We didn't not tell people what it looks like because it's an ugly shirt," she said. 
Kennedy was willing to pro­vide a few hints: The committee had to get copyright permission from Notre Dame to make it, it is the samn color green as the ofli­cial Notre Dame shirt, and thnm will be an unveiling on Nov. 15 in the Student Center with spe­cial guests. 
Students will receive a gift along with their shirts, she added. This gift is also a sur­prise. 
The committee is asking stu­dents to meet somewhere on campus to walk to the Joyce Center as a group, Kennedy said. Also, she is asking students not to employ Saint Mary's cheers at the Joyce Center because students arn thPre to support Notre Dame, Kennedy said. 
"This doesn't mean them will be a complete laek of SMC cheering," she said. "We'll do Saint Mary's ehners on the walk over." 
Saint Mary's eheerleading eo­captain Jessica Brinker said eheerleaders will lead the cheers as the students walk. 
''I'm excited," she said. "I think it's really niee to be indud­ed since we support Notre Dame football throughout the season." 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Continenta( Cuisine witli an Ita[ian 1\vist Check out the Hottest New Restaurant in Town 
Lunch Hours: Monday-Friday 11:00 a.m.-2:30p.m. Dinner Hours: Sunday-Thursday 5:00-10:00 p.m. and Friday & Saturday 5:00-11:00 p.m. Lounge Hours Daily: 4pm-always open late . 
, , 211 W. Washington Street • South Bend, Indiana 46601 • 574-323·2120 
52 2600 

Live, learn, and workin the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester with the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


WASHINGT N R / GRAM 
INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE Tuesday, November 6, 2007 163 Hurley, 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Stop by for Krispy I<reme donuts! 
Deadline to apply for Fall2008 or Spring 2009 is November 15,2007. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; www.nd.edu/-wp 
r-----------------~----------­
Friday, November 2, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ltnus to return to airvvaves after sexist, racist retnarks 
Controversial radio host will broadcast again Dec. 3after 8-month hiatus 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Shock jock Don lmus will return to the airwaves Dec. 3 after eight months of a well-paid hiatus brought about by a racist and sexist remark that once seemed certain to per­manently silence his broadcast­ing career. 
Citadel Broadcasting Corp. made the announcement Thursday, confirming long­rumored reports that lmus was 

A concert of Indian Classical Music 
featuring 

Pandit llrij Narayan--Sorod 
accompanied by Ahhijit Bancrjcc-Tab!a 
Sunday, the 4"' of November, 2007 
7:30p.m. 

.91uaitorium, 9fes6urgfi Center for Internatiorta[ Sturfies 
'llniversit!f of 'l{otre '])ame 
Sponsored by: South Asian Studies Program Otlice of lntcmalional Student Services and Activities The Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana 
lickcts availa Ilk lit gal<'. General :\dmi,siou: SHJ ND/SMC Facultv: $5 Students: Free Contact: Amitava Dutt (631-7594) or 'umesh Garg (272-2957) 
coming back to morning drive time on New York-based WABC­AM. 
The cantankerous Imus was fired April 12 by CBS Radio amid a firestorm of controversy over his "nappy-headed hos" remark about the Rutgers University women's basketball team. 
"We are ecstatic to bring Don lmus back to morning radio," said WABC radio President and General Manager Steve Borneman. "Don's unique brand of humor, knowledge of the issues and ability to attract big­name guests is unparalleled. He is rested, fired up and ready to do great radio." 
Imus will return with his long­time newsman, Charles McCord, and other members of his morn­ing team, Citadel said in announcing the move. It did not specifically mention Bernard McGuirk, the producer who instigated lmus on the Hutgers comment and was fired as well. 
No financial details were made public in the four-para­graph announcement of Imus' return. Imus' attorney, Martin Garbus, confirmed the deal, but did not elaborate on the details. 
There was also no word on syndication or any TV deal for the lmus show. His "Imus In the Morning" program aired on more than 70 stations and the MSNBC cable network. 
Imus will replace the morning team of Curtis Sliwa and Ron Kuby on the Citadel Broadcasting-owned station. The pair had hosted the WABC drive-time show for nearly eight years, and Kuby said he was told Thursday afternoon not to show up for work on Friday. 

"I've had a fantastic, great run," Kuby said. "Our show has enjoyed the best audience ­intelligent, compassionate, decent and kind. The new own­ers don't want that kind of show." 
Las Vegas-based Citadel bought WABC and other ABC radio stations from Walt Disney Co. last year. 
lmus' resurrection is hardly unprecedented in his four­decade career. The veteran 
radio personality has emerged intact in the past after assorted firings, bad publicity, a high­profile drug and alcohol addic­tion and a disastrous appear­ance at a Washington dinner before President Clinton. 
Then the acid-tongued broad­casting icon was fired after his remark about the Hutgers team sparked a national furor and calls by civil rights leaders and broadcast journalists for him to resign. 
But just three months later, Sharpton, one of the strongest voices calling for the shock jock's firing, said Imus had a right to make a living and could return to radio. 


CLEARANCE SALE 
Located at the South End of the Football Stadium Between Gates B& C Look for the Big White Clearance Tent 
The Clearance Sale will be Open on Sunday November 4th, 11th, & 18th from 1Oam until 3pm 
/A\ 

Parking is Available and Free of Charge in the Stadium Parking Lot NoTRitDAME'~ 
BOOKSTORE 
!N THE ECK CENTER 
phone: {574)631·6316 • www.ndmtolog.com 
page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 2, 2007 
FBI agent cleared of all charges 
Lindley DeVecchio spent 13 years under suspicion of corruption 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -It was like a classic episode of "Perry Mason." with an FBI agent ehargnd with murder, a mouthy mob moll and a twist at the end: The FBI guy walked after a reporter with a secret tape exposed the gangster's girlfriend as a liar who couldn't keep her story straight. 
In a stunning finish to one of the worst law enforcement cor­ruption cases in U.S. histo­
mobsters ­either rivals or potnntial rats. 
l>eVeeehio was cheernd by his ex-colleagues before tri­umphantly leaving a Brooklyn rourtroom. lin ally dnan~d aftnr spPmling I:~ years undnr suspi­cion for his long and bizarre relationship with mob killer/mob infornwr (;rpgory Scarpa Sr. 
"After almost two ynars, this nightman~ is over." said l>nVeeehio, rnferring to the time since his indictment. "I'll never forgivo the Brooklyn I>A's ollice for irresponsibly pursuing this case. My question is: 'Where do I go to get back my reputa­tion?'" 
Prosecutors bent on bagging DnVecchio gambled by building their case on the shaky testimo­ny of Linda Schiro, a mob mis­tress since she met Scarpa at age 16. Their hopes imploded when two reporters surfaced with decade-old interviews ­captured on tape -that left her credibility full of more holes 
ry, former FBI 
''I'll never forgive the
agent Lindley 
DeVecchio Brooklyn DA's office for was cleared irresponsibly pursuing 
Thursday of 
this case. My question is: 
giving up con­
fidential infor­'Where do I get back mation that a my reputation?'"Colombo fam­ily hit man 
Lindley DeVecchio 
used to kill four fnllow former FBI agent 
than any mur­dered Mafioso. 
"We all knew he was inno­cent," said Jim Kassler, one of several former FBI agents who remained firmly in De Vecchio's corner. "This never should have hap­pened. Never." 
Allegations 

about leaks from DeVecchio to the ruthless mobster known as "Tho Grim Heaper" began after Searpa 's 1994 death in a Minnnsota prison. A Dnpartment of Justice internal invostigation found no reason to prosoeute l>eVncehio, who rntired to Florida in l 996. 
But in March 2006, Brooklyn prosecutors announced DeVecchio's indictmnnt on four murder counts, alleging tho FBI agent had cooperated with the Colombo capo between 1987 and 1992. 
Prosecutors had charged that Scarpa showered DeVecchio with cash, stolen jewelry, liquor -even prostitutes -in exchange for the confidential information. The case became a courthouse sensation, with its volatile mix of corruption, sex and mob violence. 
It wasn't until Schiro began testifying this week that the case reached its unexpected conclu­sion. The key prosecution wit­ness was the lone direct link between DeVecchio and the murders. 
Once she finished her first day of testimony, veteran reporter Tom Robbins came forward with tapes made in 1997, when he and fBllow journalist Jerry Capeci had interviewed Schiro for a never-published book. The tapes contradicted her sworn testimony against DeVecchio. 
Her account "was so dis­turbingly different, we couldn't sit on it," Hobbins said outside court aftHr Thursday's dismissal. 
Despite its abrupt ending, thB trial was rife with headline­making stories. A eurront FBI agnnt reeounted an episode that was later mimicked in an episode of "The Sopranos": DnVec1~hio allngedly enlnbrating a mob war murder. 
"Wo're going to win this thing," DeVecchio reportedly blurted upon word that Scarpa's faction was successful with the hit. 



Fonnernnayorsays he falsified history 
Associated Press 

CAMDEN, N.J. -The for­mer mayor of Atlantic City pleaded guilty Thursday to lying to enhance his veterans benefits, a crime that playnd a role in his bizarre three-week disappearance earlier this fall. 
Making his first public appearance since leaving office Oct. 10, Hobert Levy admitted to falsely claiming to have been awarded two mili­tary medals and embellishing his military record in order to receive more money in dis­ability benefits from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. 
Levy admitted fabricating stories that as a soldier in Vietnam, he had been left in the jungle for weeks along with South Vietnamese troops he was working with to fend for himself. He also claimed to have made a number of para­chute jumps when he did not. 
Though those claims were untrue, Levy was a decoratnd Army veteran who was given eight medals including two bronze stars, said his lawyer, Edwin Jacobs. 
As a federal judge read thn accusations, Levy said, "Yes, your honor," but little else. 
The increased benefits over four years camB to a total of $24,683. It was unclear 
whBther lw would have to 
repay that. 
Levy is scheduled to be sen­tenced in February. As part of his plea deal, he agreed not to appeal his sentence as long as it's not more than six months. 
The Democrat was elected in 2005 to preside over a city in which the political corrup­tion is almost as famous as the casinos. Four of the last nine mayors have been charged with taking bribes; three men who were on the city council last year are now in prison in another bribery case. 
Levy disappeared from city life in late September before resurfacing to resign. He cited ill health and the federal investigation into his war record as his reasons for leav­ing. 
The Press of Atlantic City reported last fall that the Vietnam veteran's claims that he was a member of the Green Berets wem untrue. lie apologized, but federal authorities have b1wn looking into whnther Levy made that claim to increasn his vetnran benefit paymonts. 
During his absence from city hall, Levy spent time in a substance abuse and mental health treatment center in northern New Jersey. Jacobs described the mayor's time there as "a detox situation." 



Friday, November 2, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 



Lafayette Square Townhomes 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(57 4) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 6 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council1nvites gay, lesb1an, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their fnends. and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co--Mo. 
Everyone IS welcome aod confidentiality is assured 
Recycle The 

CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 

NHL 
Drury scores first goal since season opener 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The first peri­od was one the New York Rangers would like to forget, everyone except for Henrik Lundqvist. 
Lundqvist bailed out his teammates and made 10 of his 31 saves in the scoreless frame, then stayed strong as they caught up to him in a 2-0 victo­ry over the Washington Capitals on Thursday night. 
Chris Drury scored his first goal since opening night, Michal Rozsival added one in the third, and Lundqvist posted his third shutout of the season by hold­ing off the struggling Caps. 
"Another night at the office," Lundqvist said. "It was an intense game. It felt like they were all over us a little bit." 
Lundqvist has played all 12 
games this sea­
"We didn't capitalize 
son and has no ings with the interest in taking in the first period Rangers in a a night off any­when we had lots of three-week time soon. He is span.
chances.,
showing the "We didn't form he finished capitalize in the with last season Glen Hanlon first period 
when he went Capitals coach when we had 
16-4-6 down the stretch and post­ed a 1.89 goals-against average in his final 44 games. 
"You have to give all the cred­it to Hank," forward Brendan Shanahan said. "He kept us in the game the first period. He was great throughout, but in the first period it was really just him." 
It's that kind of play that makes the team's defense-first system work that much better. Lundqvist has been a big rea­son why the punchless Rangers have had early success. He has allowed 20 goals this season and raised his shutout total to 10 in three NHL years. 
New York (5-6-1) has won two straight for the first time this season and is 3-1 on its six­game homestand despite scor­ing a league-low 21 times over­all. 
"He's definitely on his game," said Capitals goalie Olie Kolzig, who made 26 saves. "He's the reason the Rangers have won five games. They'll be scary if they ever get their offense together." 
Lundqvist made back-to-back rapid fire saves late in the sec­ond period, and robbed Viktor Kozlov in the first with a big pad stop that had the Russian center shaking his head. The crowd chanted his name as the final seconds ticked off. 
Drury gave the Rangers a 1-0 lead in the second period, and Rozsival doubled it during New York's two-man advantage at 
9:34 of the third, 33 seconds into the power play. 
Washington had a chance to get back into it with under 8 minutes left when defenseman Fedor Tyutin was given a dou­ble minor for hooking and slashing. The Rangers were 4­for-4 on the penalty kill and have allowed only one goal in their past 27 short-handed situ­ations. 
The Capitals lost for the sev­enth time in nine games follow­ing a 3-0 start that had them thinking of getting back to the playoffs for the first time since 
2003. They have already dropped both road meet­
lots of chances," 
Caps coach Glen 

Hanlon said. "I was asked before the game who the top goalies in the league were and I said there are lots of them and you were going to watch two of them." 
Washington hasn't won at Madison Square Garden since Jan. 28, 2004 (0-6-1). 
Kolzig shook off being run into several times, including a collision with Drury in the first period that flattened Koizig on his back and then his stomach. 
Drury, signed along with Scott Gomez to a big free-agent con­tract in the summer, got the shaft of his stick on a drive by rookie defenseman Marc Staal in the second period to give the Rangers a 1-0 lead at 6:45. 
It was the first NHL point for the 20-year-old Staal, whose brothers Eric (Carolina) and Jordan (Pittsburgh) are already star forwards in the NHL. 
Drury had the winning goal and two assists against Florida in his Rangers debut on Oct. 4 but then fell into the scoring slump that has plagued the entire New York team. 
"I've been getting a lot of good chances," Drury said. "I knew if I kept playing hard and kept working at it, I had a feel­ing that things would happen." 
-
-
-



... 
Friday, November 2, 2007 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
ND SWIMMING 
Irish travel to West Lafayette 
Team can rebound against Purdue after losing two straight meets 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
l·:ven though the Notre Damn wonwn dropp1~d tlwir last two mnnts to USC and Minnesota. <·oaeh Carrie Nixon said hnr squad pnrfornu•d w1dl and is rPady to take on Purdue this weekend in West I.afayPttl~. Ind. 
"We really ral'l~d well the last two weeks ... I think wn're 1"11ady for a win," Nixon said. "Tiw girls arn VPry hungry for that." 
Despite strong (ll'rformances from junior Christa Higgins and freshnwn KatiP Casey and Amywrnn Miller. the Irish arP looking for a win for the 11rst limn in thme weeks. 
This will be the I I th time tlw Irish and Boilermaker women havll mnt. Last yPar, the Irish dominated Purdun at the Holfs Aquatic Center, corning away with a I S5-115 victory. Twelve letlfw-winrwrs from that Irish team are gone, but in that meet, junior Claire llutehinson sot a Notre Dame record in the 1,()(10-yard frenstyll) with a time of 9:52.!JS. Higgins, senior Caroline Johnson and junior Casey Wagner are tho other three members on the eurrent roster that won events last year. 
.Junior Laura Hings will look to lead the divers after earning two of Notre Damn's four evnnt victories last wonk against Minnesota. 
Purdue will look mueh differ­Pill from the team humbled by the Irish in last year's meeting. Thn squad boasts 12 neweom­nrs. including 11 freshmen, but tlwy will still provide stilT eom­potition for tho young Irish squad. 
"It's always a ehallonge against Purdue," Nixon said. "Thny're always tough, espe­cially whPn we go down there. Thoy will delinitely bring their 'A' game, but we should be roady for it." 
The men's team is corning oil' a loss to Southern California two weeks ago in a compntitive dual meet and will faee both Texas A&M and Purdue this weekmul. 
Tho Irish faced Texas A&M and Purdue in separate dual meets last year. edging out the Aggios and Boilormakers in consecutive weeks. This yoar, all three teams will meet in West Lafayette. 
Sophomores Andrew Deter. John Lytle, Hoss Moon~ and Andrew HotTman will look to build on their wins against USC two weeks ago in what was an impressive showing by some of the younger Irish swimmers. 
The Aggies are coming off a loss in dual meet competition to Missouri on Oct. 1 S and a see­ond-plac:n finish at the Big XII HPlays the next day, even though they had to leave tho HPiays with two races romain­ing in order to catch a !light. 
For the Boilermaker men, swimmers may have some added pressure to earn points sinco Purdue may have just one diver. Frnshman David Colturi, who broke the freshman one­meter dive record at the Indiana lntercollegiates. may not be able to compete beeause of a lower back strain. 
The action is set to begin at 5 
p.m. in the Boilermaker Aquatic Center. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 

NHL 
Koivu, Canadiens downFlyers 
Associated Press 
MONTHEAL -Saku Koivu and the Montreal Canadiens served notice that Philadelphia wasn't the only team to improvo in the oll'season. 
Koivu had a goal and an assist and Cristobal lluet stopped 17 shots to lead Montreal to a 5-2 win over the Flyors on Thursday night. 
Alex Kovalev and Tom Kostopoulos scored special­teams goals in the seeond peri­od, and (;uillaume Latendresse s1:ored in tho third on a fine
-
pass by Koivu. who opened the scoring S:53 in. 
-
Canadiens coach Guy Carbonneau was pleased with the job Koivu and fellow top line wingers Chris I Iiggins and Michael Hyder did in matching up against Philadelphia's top line, centered by Daniel Briere. 
"Knowing Saku, Chris and Michael, they wanted that chal­lenge and they did really well against him," Carbonneau said. 
I Iiggins scored on a 5-on-3 at 
16:42 of the third as the Canadiens remained undefeat­ed through regulation in six games (5-0-1 ). 
"They are a good team," Koivu said. "They have some skill, they havn somo size and they play hard. I thought tonight we had the jump and we played our style. We kept the tempo, we didn't turn the puck over at all and it seemed that we were able to create some offense, get the puck deep in their zone and get the cycle going. It was a good game." 
Mike Hichards and Scottie Upshall scored for Philadelphia, which lost for the third time in four games follow­ing a five-game winning streak. 
Briere assisted on Hichard's goal and was booed thoroughly by the sellout crowd of 21.273 throughout the game. 
N D VOLLEYBALL 

Hoyas give ND chance to end losing streak 
By PAT O'BRIEN and ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writers 

There is no better time than right now for Notre Dame to play Georgetown. Notro Dame will try to halt a threP-game skid it suiTered over fall brmtk. when it lost contests at LSU, Conneetieut and No. 22 St. John's. 
The Irish (9-12, 5-5 Big East) dropped the Iloyas (5-2 I. 1-!J) last season by a 3-0 margin, and this season, Georgetown has lost 12 of its last 13 eon-
tests. 
"We have had a really good week or practice and all we ean do is look ahead," sophomore set­ter Jamel Nicholas said. 
Notre Dame is headed by senior captain Adrianna Stasiuk, who has recorded a 

"Against Georgetown. we hope to show resilience and play great even though our record would suggest otherwise. " 
Adrianna Stasiuk Irish captain 
team-best 291 digs this season and remains second with 265 kills. Stasiuk said the Irish still have a lot to work on before they play Georgetown. 
"We need to learn how to play consistently throughout an entire match, and our defense needs to improve," Stasiuk said. 
Sophomore outside hitter Serinity Phillips leads the Irish with 283 kills. Sophomore out­side hitter Megan Fesl, junior middle blocker Justine Stremick and freshman middle blocker Kellie Sciacca all have reached the 200-kill plateau this year. 
Senior setter Ashley Tarutis has also been crueial to this Irish squad this year. She leads the team with 822 assists and places second in digs with 197. 
Even though the season has­n't gone as well as they hoped, Stasiuk said, the Irish are still deterrninod to work hard. 
"Against Georgetown, we hope to show resilience and play gn~at oven though our record would suggest other­wise," Stasiuk said. "We are definitely not rnady to quit." 
Georgetown is l11d by the triplo-headed attack of sopho­more right sidn hitter Dana Dumas, sophomore outsidn hitter Jesska I lardy, and soph­omore outsidn hitter KortJwy Hobinson. Tlw thrcn sopho­mores have eombinnd for 6(14 kills and (,2S digs. 
Notre Dame continues its home wnek1md schedule with 
a match on Sunday against South Florida. The Irish dropped the Bulls by a seore of 3-0 last year. This season, South Florida has won three of its last four matches. 
South Florida (15-7, 6-4) is led on the attack by soph­
omore outside hitter Marcela Gurgel and senior middle blocker Kristina Fabris. Gurgel has notched 357 kills while Fabris has 305. Gurgel also has recorded 57 service aces. 
Nicholas said that staying perfect the rest of the season has kept the team motivated. 
"I think winning out [the last four Big East games] is a big goal that we have," Nicholas said. "It would give our team more confidence -just to know that we ended on a good note playing the best that we can." 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu and Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

-
Friday, November 2, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Gulf recovery effort opens Miss. bridge 
Plug in to the PrayerCast! 
Two years later, highway to casinos reopens 

Free iTimes subscription for ref!ectiz,e listening on your iPod. '(vpe "ndprayercast" on llu: i1in1es search engine, or log onto www.ndprayercast.org 

Hear it here this week: Rev. Joseph Carey, c.s.c. 
C-M

psalms • homilies • prayers • meditativE' music 
Campus Ministry 


Associated Press 
BILOXI, Miss. -Two years ago, cities on the opposite sides of Biloxi Bay clashed over blueprints for a wider, taller bridge to replace a high­way span demolished by Hurricane Katrina's storm surge. 
Those divisions were an afterthought Thursday for the thousands of Gulf Coast resi­dents celebrating the opening of the six-lane bridge between Biloxi and Ocean Springs. The new 1.6-mile bridge restores the last broken link in coastal 
U.S. 90., a landmark in the region's recovery from the Aug. 29, 2005, hurricane. 
"Water under the bridge," Biloxi Mayor A.J. Holloway said of his disagreement with his Ocean Springs counterpart, Connie Moran. 
Two of the bridge's six lanes are to open to traffic Thursday night following a daylong cele­bration at both ends of the $338 million structure. The span reconnects the casino resorts of Biloxi with the quaint shops and tree-lined streets of Ocean Springs, on the eastern side of the bay. 
In Katrina's early aftermath, the size of the new bridge was a sore spot for some in Ocean Springs. Moran had pressed the state to limit the bridge to four lanes -the same number as on the drawbridge that Katrina reduced to mounds of concrete and pilings. 
Moran, an advocate of the "New Urbanism" architectural movement's emphasis on cre­ating compact, walkable cities, said she feared that a bigger, wider bridge would turn her city's center into an express­way. 
Today, however, Moran said she is pleased by some of the features of the new bridge, including its bike path, "see­through" railings and decora­tive lights. 
"We need to put politics and personality behind us, come together and celebrate recon­necting the coast," she said. "This is the most significant milestone in the post-Katrina recovery period." 

In Biloxi, many city leaders and business owners welcome a larger bridge to accommo­date more tourists, especially for a casino industry that already is raking in record revenues after Katrina. 
The Isle of Capri, at the foot of the washed-out bridge, was the second Gulf Coast casino back in operation when it reopened in December 2005. Today, 11 casinos are operat­ing on Mississippi's coast ­only one fewer than before Katrina hit. 
Isle of Capri spokesman Rich Westfall said the casino, which "went from the best location to the hardest location to get to" after Katrina, hopes the bridge traffic will increase its busi­ness. The bridge is the main access to the strip of coastal casinos from the east. 
All six lanes of the new bridge -and a path for pedestrians and bicyclists ­are to be open by April. Ninety-live feet above water at its highest point, the span is designed to weather the ele­
ments  better than the  old  
drawbridge.  
Around 35,000 cars a  day  

crossed the four-lane bridge before Katrina. 
"It's going to restore our sense of community," said Vincent Creel, a spokesman for the city of Biloxi. "The beauty of this bridge is that it's built for the future. It's built for increased traffic. It's built for the generations to come." 
Farther west on U.S. 90, Katrina also destroyed a two­mile bridge over the Bay of St. Louis. A new bridge between the cities of Bay St. Louis and Pass Christian partially opened in May. 
Mississippi Gov. Haley Barbour and Donald Powell, federal coordinator for Gulf Coast rebuilding, joined other officials at a ceremony to mark the bridge's opening. 
"We all work together," Barbour said. "This wasn't about party; it was about progress. It wasn't about poli­tics, it was about perform­ance." 
At the center of the bridge, Moran and Holloway joined in dropping a wreath into the water in memory of Katrina's victims and three workers who died in construction accidents while rebuilding the bridge over the Bay of St. Louis. 
Several hours before the ceremony, Biloxi residents Gary Ware, 59, and his wife, Ginger, 50, sat in folding chairs set up on the Biloxi side of the bridge and listened to a children's choir perform the national anthem. 
"It's nice to have us all con­nected again. It's progress," said Ginger Ware, a Biloxi res­ident. 
"We still have a long way to go, though," her husband added. ''I'm happy that the casinos are back and most of the businesses are back, but I think it will be 20 years before the coast fully recovers." 
page 12 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 2, 2007 
Bush vows to veto child health bill 
Associated Press 
WASIIIN<;TON -A defiant I>emoerati(~-con trollPd Congress voted Thursday to provide health insurance to an addition­al 4 million lownr-ineonw chil­dren. and l'residPnt Bush vowed swiftly to cast his second straight wto on tlw issue. 
Tlw legislation rleared tlw Senate on a volt~ of (>4-:~o. It passed the llousP last week. but supporters were shy of the two­thirds majority 1wnded to over­ride Bush's threatenPd voto. 
"Wn're convinced that the president has undermined an el'f'ort to protect children," Senate Majority Leader llarry Hnid, D-Nev., said shortly before the vote. 
"Congress has known for weeks that the President would veto this bill," White !louse press secretary Dana Perino countered in a statement shortly after the vote. "Now Congress should get back to work on l1-1g­islation that covers poor chil­drnn and stop using valuable floor time to make partisan statements." 
In a situation of unusual politi­cal eomplnxity, Hepubli!:ans dic­tated the decision to pass the legislation speedily. It appeared their goal was to short-circuit attempts by supporters of the bill to mach a eompromisn that could attract enough votes in the llouse to !Wen·ide Bush's veto. 
Attempts by Heid to delay final passage of the bill until next week or longer drew objections from the GOP. 
"I believe a deal is within reach," said Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, a participant in meetings with two senior Senate Republicans, Sens. Charles Grassley of Iowa and Orrin Hatch of Utah, and several members of the House GOP. 
Own a Piece of ND History Commemorating the 35th Anniversary of ND Coeducation 
At www.thankingfatherted.com www.amazon.com and on campus at The Notre Dame Bookstore 

Thanking Father Ted 
THEN 
NOW 

rt!cruilm!{ po.rttr .zoo7 ·NJ) Wiumw C!JSJ and Stmhnt (;Q·i.>ernmmt Offken 
Sr6.9)
S16.tJ5 

$1o_(ram tbe Ja{e tifeach poJter will be dorwted toN[) Gendttr RdatiotlS Cmter 
In Bookstores Nationwide September 4th From Andrews McMeel Publishing 
Thanking
Father Ted 

I hriq:-l't\'t· Ye.trs C)t r\mrt I)arne-<:oeducation 
I I• ,, "~ "'1' I ,, : h, I• ol t 11 odll 1 
·~ '"" 11,.,, ~·. llHo!l P.drot·r I •Lt .. 
N I) u!umnuc and N/J celebrities tbunk Futber Tedfor the gift r!F coedumtion und discuss the impact I!Ftheir NIJ educations. 
l'rofit.r ben~lit 'I be '/b(lnking Futber Ted Scholt~n-bip Fund 
The Thanking Father Ted Foundation 
For more informtJtJim, go to wwu•. 1'battkingf'atherTed. com 
Notre Dame WfJmen ~ Connect 
Officer shot during robbery 
Associated Press 
PlliLADELPHIA -A police officer shot during a robbery shop died Thursday morning, and his killer remained at large. lie was the third city officer shot in the span of four days. 
Chuck Cassidy, 54, was shot in the forehead Wednesday at a Dunkin' Donuts when a hooded robber spun from the countnr and fired at him as he walked in the door, according to an employee. 
The 25-year police veteran died at Albert Einstein Medical Center, Commissioner Sylvester Johnson said. 
"This is a sad day for the city of Philadelphia," Johnson said. 
The gunman went into the shop and demanded money just before Cassidy opened the door, according to witnesses. 
Police released portions of a chilling videotape that shows the hooded robber pushing aside two customers and wav­ing a gun as he approaches the counter. It also shows him grabbing Cassidy's pistol as he fled. 

Investigators said they were not getting good leads; a $115,000 reward was announced Thursday for information leading to an arrest. The department also established a trust fund for Cassidy's family. 
Johnson said video showed the gunman running through the shop's parking lot with a distinctive gait, almost as if he had a limp. 
"We still have an armed and dangerous man out there in the streets of Philadelphia," Johnson said. 
In a statement Thursday, Cassidy's family said they were "deeply appreciative of all the support and prayers from the police, the elergy, the community and many folks we don't even know." 
The officer came in twice a day for a large coffee with cream and sugar, shop employee Sandra Kim said. "He's always nice to all the employees," she said. "The officer was just coming in for a eu p of coffee like normal." 
Johnson said the officer was doing a routinn cheek on the shop, which had been robbPd Sept. 18 -possibly by the man who killed Cassidy. II(~ said he didn't think tlw rob­ber got away with any money. 
Policn on Thursday dis­played a photo of a distinc.tivn jacket worn by the robber in the Septembnr case. The hooded jacket has a stylized cartoon drawing of a bask(~t­ball playnr. 
The shooting carne about 12 hours after a masked gunman shot trafl'i e ()['fi eo r Mario Santiago in the shoulder dur­ing a chase downtown. 
Santiago was responding to a report of a gunman in a sport utility vehiele shooting at another car, injuring two 
men  and  a  woman,  police  
said.  
He  was  chasing the SUV  

when the gunman eventually got out of his vehicle and approached the squad car, fir­ing twice through the window. Santiago was hit once in the right shoulder, Johnson said. 
----------------------------------------------, 
Friday, November 2, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Nuclear waste landfill closes; 36 states must find new storage 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Starting next summer. many power plants, hospitals, universities and companies in 36 states will be forced to store low-level radioactive waste on their own property because a South Carolina landfill is closing its doors to them. 
The states have known for years that this day would come. But because of political opposi­tion, environmental fears and cost concerns, most of them have done almost nothing to construct new landfills in the meantime. 
At issue is the Barnwell County dump site, a 235-acre expanse that opened in 1971 elose to the Georgia line. The equivalent of more than 40 tractor-trailers full of radioac­tive trash from 39 states was buried there each year before South Carolina lawmakers in 2000 ord•~red the place to scale back because they no longer wanted the state to be the nation's dumping ground. 
As of July 1, the landfill will take waste only from South Carolina and the two states with which it formed a partner­ship, New Jersey and Connecticut. 
State and industry officials say the not-in-my-backyard resistance will ironically lead to "temporary" storage sites in backyards across the nation. 
''I'm concerned about it, that my hospitals in my neighbor­hood will have to store this stuff on site," said Rita Houskie, administrator for disposal of the waste in Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana and Oklahoma. Other states affected by the shutdown include California, New York, Illinois, Florida and Texas. 
The danger, some ollicials say, is that storing the waste in potentially hundreds of loca­tions across the country could allow radiation to escape. · 
While none of the trash could be used to make a nuclear bomb, some experts fear it could be stolen to make "dirty bombs," which use conventional explosives to scatter radioactive debris. 
"As a matter of national secu­rity, health and safety, it makes good sense to ultimately dispose of this stuff and not just store it all over the country," said Rick Jacobi, a nuclear engineer and former general manager of the Texas Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Authority. 
"There will be hundreds, maybe thousands of them. People won't want to pay others to store the material. They'll find a closet or warehouse or a shed out back and stick it in there and see what happens." 
The trash sent to Barnwell includes protective clothing and gloves, tools, cleaning rags, lab equipment, industrial measur­ing devices and equipment used to treat cancer patients. It does not include spent fuel from nuclear power plants. The waste is stored in steel contain­ers that are put in concrete vaults and then buried in long trenches. 
Most waste from hospitals, universities and power plants falls into the lowest-hazard class, which means it decays to nonradioactive levels within 100 years. 
The closing of Barnwell will mean roughly 20,000 cubic feet of trash per year, or enough to fill six tractor-trailers, will be turned away. 
Only two other landfills now exist nationwide for low-level nuclear waste. 
One, in Clive, Utah, takes only the least hazardous trash, such as slightly contaminated cloth­ing. It accepts waste from all states. The other landfill, in Richland, Wash., receives such material along with hotter waste that decays to non-haz­ardous levels within 500 years. 
But it accepts shipments from only 11 states, including Idaho, Nevada and Colorado. 
Companies have had to store radioactive waste on their prop­erty before: The Barnwell site closed in the mid-1990s before reopening. And some compa­nies store material on site now, sometimes waiting to amass enough to make it worthwhile financially to ship the stuff to a landfill. 
"We're confident it can be stored safely based on the track record," said Jim Kennedy, sen­ior project manager of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's low-level waste branch. 
If hospitals and power plants are forced to hold on to their waste, it will go into specially designed warehouses. For power plants, that is generally an aboveground bunker with thick concrete walls. The waste must be secured, specially shielded and weathertight. 

Wine tested for headache cheiTiicals 
Scientists study amines, which occur naturally in variety offoods 
variety of aged, pickled and fer­high blood pressure. heart palpi­
Associated Press 
mented foods prized by gourmet tations and elevated adrenaline 
BERKELEY, Calif. -The palates, including wine, choco­levels. effects are all too familiar: a late, cheese, olives, nuts and The detector could prove use­fancy dinner, some fine wine and cured meats. ful to those with amine sensitivi­then, a few hours later, a racing "The food you eat is so unbe­ty, said Beverly McCabe, a clini­heart and a lievably coupled cal dietitian and co-author of pounding with your body's "Handbook of Food-Drug headache. chemistry," said Interactions," a book cited by the 
But a device 'The food you eat is Richard Mathies, article for its descriptions of the developed by who described etrects of amines on the brain. 
so unbelievably
University of his new technol­The prototype -the size of a
coupled with your 
California, ogy in an article small briefcase -uses a drop of Berkeley, body's chemistry." published wine to determine amine levels researchers could Thursday in the in five minutes, Mathies said. A help avoid the journal startup company he co-founded
Richard Mathies
dreaded "red Analytical is working to create a smaller
scientist
wine headache." Chemistry. device the size of a personal digi­
Chemists work­Scientists have tal assistant that people could ing with NASA-nominated sev­take to restaurants and test their funded technology designed to eral culprits for "red wine favorite wines. fmd life on Mars have created a headache," including amines like The researchers found the device they say can easily detect tyramine and histamine, though highest amine levels in red \\-ine chemicals that many scientists no conclusions have been and sake and the lowest in beer. believe can turn wine and other reached. For now, the device only works beloved indulgences into ingredi­Still, many specialists warn with liquids. ents for agony. headache sufferers away from Mathies suggests the device 
The chemicals, called biogenic foods rich in amines, which can could be used to put amine levels amines, occur naturally in a wide also trigger sudden episodes of on wine labels. 
NEW STUDY ABROAD OPPORTUNITY at chinese Universit_y of 
Hong Kong 
Arts 
Medicine Business Science Engineering Social Science 
Learn about the possibilities on Monda_y, NOVEM5ER 5 at 5:70 PM 117 DEE>ARTOLO 
No Chinese language re9uired 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 14 Friday, November 2, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining IIall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddit· Hann;J 

MANAGINc:.; EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken l'owler Kyle West 
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily Ass1: MANAc:.;ING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EnrroR: Karen l.an~ley 
VII!WI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hinc SCENE EDITOR: 'Ete Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Correz 

All DP.SIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROlLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING ('i74) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK 
(574) 
631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 
631-5303 vit'Wpoint.l @nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l @nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK smc. I @nd.edu PHOTO DESK ('i74) 631-8767 obsphoro@)nd.cdu 


SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
IHE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

Remembering our angels on All Souls' Day 
Today in our nation's capital at my home parish, the Cathedral of' St. Matthew the Apostle, Archbishop Donald 
W. Wuerl celebrates a Mass commemo­rating his late prndeenssors. It is that time of year when a Communion of the Saints means cele­brating on back-to­hack days within our liturgical cal­endar. Tho Church first honors its saints. then f(JIIows with a day f(lf us to remember the angels of our lives on All Souls' Day. Yet, we noed not an archbishop nor a canonized saint to honor our cherished loved ones -both living and deceased. 
The Feast of All Souls owes its begin­ning to soventh century monks who decided to oll'er a Mass for their deceased community members on the day atler Pentecost. All Souls' Day evolved from the ancient Pagan Festival of the Dead, which celebrated the Pagan belief that the souls of the dead would return for a meal with their families. It was customary to burn candles in the window to f:,>Uide the souls back home, and to place another setting at the table for them. 
In the late 10th century, the Benedictine monastery in Cluny chose to move their mass f(lf the dead to Nov. 2, and purpose­ly followed All Saint's Day in order to shill the l'oeus from those in heaven to those in purgatory. While the Feast of All Saints is a day to remember the glories of Heaven and those thorn, the Feast of All Souls reminds us of our obligations to live holy lives to obtain a purification of our souls if we are destined for lleaven. By the 13th century, this All Souls' Day custom had spread to Home, where the feast was per­

manently placed on the calendar for the 
entire Church to observe. 
For me, early November marks 
reminders on my calendar to preparo for 
year-end income tax deductions and obli­
gations. In my mind, death and taxes are 
truly the only two certainties in life. After 
all, this is also the time of year when 
Notre Dame students feverishly call alum­
ni who have yet to contribute to the annu­
al fund. Their personal charms and 
youthful energy remind us alumni of our 
time on campus, and consequently, soft­
ens us to open our checkbooks with tax­
deductible contributions -Marketing 
101 in real time action. 
November further reminds me of what I 
call the Angels of Notre Dame ... not to be 
confused with a mentoring program on 
campus with a similar name. My angels 
are the religious and laymen who have 
inspired and comforted us throughout 
generations on campus. Recently, former 
Notre Dame Security Police Director Rex 
Rakow joined their ranks after bravely 
lighting an inoperable brain tumor. But 
regardless of who they are, we should 
honor them either collectively or individu­
ally when we turn the calendar to 
November. Furthermore, each angel . deserves an enduring memorial. 
My Archangel of honor is the late Rev. 
Hobert F. Griffin, C.S.C., who comforted 
youthful, tortured souls-including mine 
-at Notre Dame. Grifiin served as a 
Chaplain for the Glee Club and in the 
Campus Ministry. He founded Darby's 
Place in the basement of LaFortune Hall, 
where he served as a counselor antl 
friend to countless students aftor mid­
night. "Father Griff," as he was aflection­
ately called, could soothe suffering, con­
sole heartache, share joy and instill peace 
even in absolute silence during the early 
morning hours that nudged sunrise, his alarm dock to seek sleep. And in memory of his seltless, kind acts, many have con­tributed to a Notre Dame scholarship in his name. 
Last year I publicly sought 200 of Grillin's friends throughout the Notrn Dame community in hopes that each would eontribute $500 to fully fund his scholarship. Yet while Grillin's most devoted friends worked with a cheerful Development Oflice to earmark funds, to date the scholarship is only about one­tenth towards our goal-nneding a mere 180 additional supporters. I lopofully, this year we can double the number of con­tributors, thus snowballing our eflorts to award a desorving Notre Dame student with a scholarship bel'orn the target date of 2014. 
All Souls' Day is the ideal time to remind the Notrn Dame family to remem­ber the angels of our past with a prayer or a contribution or a candle in the win­dow. One of Griflin 's 1<J94 Viewpoint columns, "Letters to a Lonely God," pre­dated his death by live years but conclud­ed with a forebodi1ig of his lile's end. lie asked for four angels -one to watch, one to pray and two to bnar his soul away. lie concluded with this: "May flights of angels sing me to my rest. though not soon." 
I would add a pnrsonal wish as well for the living within the Notre Dame family. May one of the many futuro angels cur­rently among us on our beloved campus cross your path -and quite soon. 
Gary Caruso. Notre Dame '73, is a 
com"!u~i~:ations strat:,gist u;~~ served_ a.~ a legzslatwe and pubhc a.ffazrs director trl President Clinton:<; administration. /lis column appears every other Friday. lie can be contacted at hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Tht· Obserwr is the indt·pt·ndcnt, daily newspaper published in print and online by the smdcnts of the University of Notre Dame du Ltc and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not gowrned by policies of the administration ofeither imtirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advcrtiscm<·nts based Ofl content. 
Th<· news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid~ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commmtaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Vit'Wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lcrrers to rhc Editor must be signed and must include contact infomtation. 
Qumiom TYgardir~g Observer polici~s should be diTYcted to Editor i11 ChiefMtrddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'J'Itt ~)h-.crvrr (l1Sl'!'! ~t)l) l-4U00) i1 puhlt.~lt~d Muntluy through Prid.ay t:'K\:t:pt clunuf.: '"Urn ~ml v;u::uiuniJCtiUd~. A w~nptic•n tn Thr O~rver i~ $100 fur unc Jc:lllemk yc;tr! $5~ t;lt llUC IICfTIC~IC'I 
rhr Ob..etV('t i.!o puhll~lu:d U! POSTMASTER 
02-1 South Dinins Hall Stnd .-ddrt'ss correctiom to: 
NtJtrc Dame!, (N 4ti"'fii6.0779 ·ntcOh..crver 
l'w.KI.i~;al ptl't~c: p41d ;u Not~ D.amc P.O.lloxn9 
•ml.uiditt\JIIJI m.ailinp; ufli.:c:.. 024 South Dining H.tll Notrr Dame, IN 46S56-U779 
The Ob.c:rvl':t' i& a mcmhcor nf thc A»oct.Utill'rCll.'>. All rcprudut:rinu riglu~ ;tr: ll::loervai. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF News Sports QUOTES OF THE DAY 
Kaitlynn Hiely  Chris Iline  
Katie Kohler  Bill Brink  
Liz Harter Amanda Johnson Gra1Jhies  Michael Bryan Jared Jedick Scene  "There are some that only emplo.l[ words for the purpose ofdisguising their thoughts. "  
Julie Grisanti  Michelle Fordice  Voltaire  
Viewpoint  French author  
Kara King  




"Youth cannot know how age thinks and feels. But old men are guilty ifthey forget what it was to be young. " 
J.K. Rowling British author 
caglecartoons.com 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, November 2, 2007 page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Respect academies 
Dear members of the student body, 
As you know, before and during every game we have the "Go Irish" drum song. You know, Go Irish (Go Irish)! Beat ... Well, in the beginning of it, there is a part where the student body yells "Go Irish! Beat opponent! Suck it, opponent! Go Irish go!" I believe that we should not say, "Suck it," while the service academies are here. We must remember that the players on the field and the fans of the two academies will be pro­tecting our freedom in their near future and deserve our respect. 
Tim Staub freshman Dillon Hall Nov. 1 

Football, not fans, 
a disgrace 
I am writing this letter in response to the 2007 football season, a season that can be described as nothing less than embarrassing. And, no, I am not talking about the Pete Carroll chant that has received so much attention. Our fans have been repre­hensible in the last two games, chanting "backup college" to Boston College as the Eagles went into the locker room up 13-0 at halftime, and then hailing Weis after the third quarter as we were getting killed by our arch rival for the fifth time in six years. (By the way, great job, coaching staff, for not figuring out USC after 20 quar­ters of game tape showing the same disgraceful effort on the part of the Irish.) 
Despite this, however, our fans have shown up to games. While Corey Sinclair would have you believe that our fans have not shown the same enthusiasm this year as in years past ("Fans must 'uplift' team for Navy game," Oct. 31,) I question whether or not he has attended Notre Dame home games this year. The fans have shown up, at least for the first three quarters. It is the team that has failed the fans, not the other way around. And Tim Dougherty, who, like everyone else, wants to blame this year's woes on Ty Willingham, must not have caught the UW-USC game. Ty's team lost by 3..Ours, under the magnificent leadership of King Weis, lost by 38. 
Forget the Pete Carroll chant. What I have been most embarrassed by this season is the product we have put on the field. We are, or were, the top college football school of the country. Instead, our team is now a laughing stock that has humiliated itself and its tradition for 10 consecutive games (and that includes UCLA, which was won by our only offensive stud thus far-Bruins walk-on, third string quarterback McLeod Bethel-Thompson.) 
I'm still hoping for a victory against Navy this weekend. Of course, to win, most of our team probably needs to play with passion and act like they actually care about winning. Based on this year, I'd say our chances against Navy, and against the rest of our opponents, are slime to nil. 
Chris Malherek 
JUll!Or 
Dillon Hall 
Oct. 31 

Behavior insulting 
fiellow members of the Notre Dame Community: 
I hope I speak for all the women of the Notre Dame community when I express my deep disappointment regarding the events that oecurred during the last home football game at Notre Dame. During halftime of the USC game, I was appalled by the behavior of the boys of Notre Dame and Holy Cross; the cheers, ovation, and poignant remarks that were directed toward the women cheerleaders of USC as they left the field were extremely offensive and degrading, not only to the women to whom these aetions were directed, but to all women. I find it disgusting and degrading that these individuals, who call themselves the men of Notre Dame, would act in such a way when representing the Notre Dame community. 
A<> a Los Angeles native, I am disappointed in their promotion of sueh a negative stereotype and the demeaning way in which they focused attention on those women, and all women, as mere sexual objects. 
As a woman, I am appalled by their complete disregard for human dignity and equality. As a student and member of the Holy Cross community, I am deeply saddened by the actions of my peers. We are ND; together, we represent more than 150 years of Catholic faith and tradition. As members of this community, it is our obligation to provide an example to all young adults and be witnesses to our faith. The events I mentioned in no way served to spread our Catholicism to the world. If anything, they showed that the men of Notre Dame do not value the Catholic reputation of this community and are not brave enough to challenge stereotypical views of women, do the right thing, respect those around them, and embrace and spread their Catholic faith. 
Respectfully in Christ, 
Marilynn Anater sophomore Regina Hall Oct. 30 

Environmental activists wanted 
This is an invitation, a call to action, a request for help. Here's the deal: A little over a month ago I agreed to do something I'd never done before­organize a rally. It was to be one of hundreds across the country as part of the national Step It Up movement launched by author and environmental advocate Bill McKibben. The idea was to demonstrate a grassroots commit­ment to slow the engines of global warming, to reduce carbon emissions, stop new coal-fired power plants and to develop green jobs and initiatives. I had written about our relationship with nature plenty. I had talked about it a lot. But I had never done anything about it, and now here I was asked to be an activist. 
After I talked myself into saying "yes," I wondered if it'd be a Notre Dame event or a South Bend action. I'm a Notre Dame graduate and I work at the University. But I've also lived in South Bend a long time. So I finally decided to make it both-to bring the campus and the community into a joint endeavor, to find the common ground of environmental activism, to acknowl­edge that we share these concerns with people locally and that we are citi­zens of the world. 
The Green Up! Step It Up! rally will take place this Sunday. We'll have par­ticipation from local environmental groups, Green Party political candidates and faculty and students from IUSB, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. A group from IUSB will march from that campus to the Jon Hunt Plaza in downtown South Bend, right in front of the Morris Performing Arts Center. And there'll be others coming from other places. 
One important leg of the march will be from the Notre Dame campus to the Jon Hunt Plaza downtown. The walk begins at 3 p.m. at Main Circle. It'll pro­ceed down Notre Dame Avenue to South Bend Avenue where it'll turn right at Club 23, head down hill, then cross the St. Joe River bridge on Colfax. I've been encouraged by the enthusiasm for green efforts on campus this fall. I'm hoping the momentum keeps rolling. 
I like the symbolism of marchers coming together downtown. I want every­one to remember that it's one community, one sky, one planet. We'll have some speakers-representatives from different groups and interests, as well as an expected visit from Rep. Joe Donnelly. I'm hoping that, in addition to our presence making a statement about the importance of this community's response to global warming, we all come away with new ideas, new motiva­tions and new connections with like-minded people. 
It'd be great to have a strong Notre Dame/Saint Mary's contingent. In fact, despite trying to dissuade the South Bend police from the inconvenience of having officers present, there will be a few police escorts ... so I sure hope the group is big enough to warrant their trouble. So please come out, carry a sign and join the movement. 
The thing is, this environmental challenge is real, it's upon us and it'll mean finding many solutions to some complex issues. The issues are practical, real­life and fundamental; they're also matters of theology, spirituality and social justice. And as we have watched the response of big business and our govern­ment, it has become clear that this environmental challenge will also require the commitment of individuals coming together in solidarity to make a change. 
Kerry Temple Notre Dame Magazine Oct. 31 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ~--~--­

THE OBSERVER 

CENE 
Friday, November 2, 2007 

page 16 

By CASSIE BELEK 
A~sisranr Scene Ediror 

Fall Break minus football plus an unhealthy obsession for "The Of'liee" equaled an absolutely neeessary attendane•~ at "The Olliee" Convention in Seranton, Pa., from Oct. 26-2R. 
Dunderheads from aeross the nation (and even a fnw from Ireland) dnseended upon the Electric City to pay tribute to "The Ollice" and meet their favoritn cast mmnbers and writers. I was one of' those devot­ed fans who flocked to the convention for a ehanee to nwet favorites Knvin Malone or Bob Vance, Vance Hef'rigeration. In onn wenkend I wont from nerd to super-nerd. I can livn with that. After all, thorn will always be Trekkies. The following are the highlights from my two days at my first fan convention ever. 
Friday, Oct. 26 

4 p.m.: I arrived at the Hadisson alone (my friend was arriving later) to register for "The OfTien" Convention. I know that Michael Seott prefers to do business at Chili's, but this hotel and eonverted train station was pretty spnctaeular. The east and erew from "Tiw Orlien" was staying there, and pnople would wait around by the elevators for thmn to emnrge. I didn't want to bn too creepy, so I only did this onee or twice. 
5 p.m.: After n1gistering and getting my awesomn "Assistant to the Hegional Manager" pass, I ordered somn chieken fingers at the bar and made friends with two middle-aged sisters from the area who took mn under their wing and bought me ber~r. After they imprnssed me with their love for 'The Office" and "30 Hock," we headed to the eonvention kick-off happening in the nr~xt room. Leave it to me to make friends with two moms instead of people my own age. 
5:45 p.m.: Somehow my new friends and I were singled out to be interviewed live by a loeal television station's wnatherman. They eonvineml me to join in a chorus of' "Ain't no party like a Seranton party" on air, and I was only embarrassed until I realized that I krww rme person in Scranton and he was at a movin. 
6 p.m.: In an unexpeet•~d surprisn, some of the east rnnmbers started to arrive at the party. Fortunately, thorn wernn 't many pnople then~; I was able to gnt autographs and pieturns from evnryone who eame­Brian Baumgartner (Kevin), Angela Kinsey (Angola), Osear Nunez (Osear), Creed Bratton (Creed), Kate Flannery (Merndith) and Craig Hobinson (Darryl). I was rnally looking forward to meeting Angela, but ended up having the most fun talking to Kate after I told her she was my favorite television alcoholie and I asked her whether she really had to liek Purell in an npisode. (It was a replacement substanee. Still gross.) 
7:30 p.m.: After the party dil~d down and the east l•~ft, I headed to the NBC Store and bought enough rnerehandise to get a free Dunder Mitllin snowglobe. I was slightly ashamed of myself, but why should I be when my Dwight bobblehead and "Support the Habid" wristband bring so much joy to my life? 
Midnight.: I couldn't go to Scranton and not hit up Poor Hichard's Pub. I had heard that it wasn't the hippest hang-out, but it's not that way on "The Olliee," either. After getting confused by its location inside a bowling alley and realizing no one from the show was there (in fact no one else in town was real­ly there either), my recently-arrived friend and I realiznd the Scranton party was elsewhere and left. 
Saturday, Oct. 27 
12 p.m.: While waiting for the Olliee Olympics to ~~~·~~~ start, I was interviewed by "Best Week Ever," whieh was pretty much a dream come true sinee I some­day aspire to be a talking head on VHl. I didn't do so well at "Office" trivia, so I only won a bumper stieker and some tape stolen from the Viacom ofliees (which I thought was actually pretty cool). 
1:30 p.m.: The seeond bracket of Office Olympies finally started 90 minutes late. My friend dominated in the Coffee Mug ltaee, and I almost won my heat of Flonkerton. The closing ceremonies featured Kate Flannery, Brian Baumgartner and Leslie David Baker (Stanley) presenting yogurt lid medals with a string of paper doves in the baekground. 
4 p.m.: While milling about the registration tent I spotted Andy Buckley (CFO David Wallace) signing autographs and taking pietures. He wore glasses and a suit so that people would recognize him ­and it seemed to be working. Earlier my friend met --~.L.~~,... Bobl:!y Hay Shafer (Bob Vance, Vanee Refrigeration), but sadly, I never did. 
5:30 p.m.: The east finally arrived on stage for the Cast Q&A, whieh turned out to be the best event I attended all weekend. Ed Helms (Andy) sang a eap­pella, and the east busted eaeh other with "that's what she said" at least five times. 
7:45 p.m.: We went to the Mall at Steamtown (set­ting of Miehael's Women's Appreciation exeursion) to eheek out the "Seranton Weleomes You" sign that appears in the opening credits. The city moved it to the mall so that more people could see it. We even : saw real live Scrantonians who weren't obsessed · with "The Office." 
8:30 p.m.: We had to leave town soon, but we , 
wanted to eheek out "The Office" costume party and '-"'''""''r::a1 The Serantones concert. When we arrived, however, all we found was a lame comedy group that no one was paying attention to or laughing at. After a few "Offiee"-esque awkward moments, we decided to depart on our five-hour journey to my friend's house before the concert started. We said goodbye to the Jims, Pams and Dwights we had befriended over the weekend and goodbye to the marvelous Electric City. And even though attending "The OITiee" Convention probably cemented our positions in ner­dom, I still think Dunderheads are cooler than Trekkies. 
The views expressed in Scene and /Ieard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
ing in constn eame home fl at night wiH played it on t 
I thought S was a dreary "where the st 
There's r Scranton. Y Wyoming V friends. You with friends, to hang out for a lot of live. 
On top of plaee. Our onts grew ents' par knows e whieh is n lifestyle 
When I st Dame, I didn't miss 
But then 

session is episode of N cast of "The Krasinski, J gathered on Seranton on 
·Convention's 
-Executive cast of eome ing questi the country. David Bake crossword, 

~~;,;t,;~ri'h,;;;;;t;;;;;;;;;;.;;;i~~~ the show. 
Eaeh ar.tor her char question on to the outcon Angela and Angela Kinse the eouple's I 
"I think Dv mercy-killnd later added, 
-weird soul rn While Kin 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, November 2, 2007 
page 17 

uated from high school, I played elp get me through each day until  alive, Steve Carell). I was able to get some of my friends hooked on the season one DVD and so we all started watching season two together  By MARK WITTE Scene Writer  fore Brian will become depressed and, as always, Peter's big mouth will inevitably get him in more trouble  
near Scranton, Pa., to come to the fall of 2005 -"We Gotta  at Notre Dame. Whenever a character would mention the Steamtown Mall, or a restaurant  This Sunday, Family Guy airs its  than he deserves. But let me tell you something you  - 
Place," by 1960s British rock  I've been to in Scranton, I always found myself  lOOth episode. For a show that has  dido 't see coming: Peter goes on a  
imals.  excitedly blurting out, "Hey, I've been there ­ been canceled twice and yet resur­ date with a stick figure, and in the  
of reasons that song, which is  before." I discovered I had a pride for the  rected, thanks to incredible DVD  awkward discussion that ensues they  
a hellish hometown forever,  Scranton area that I never knew existed. And  sales, it has been quite a ride. To cele­ try to figure out just how they might  
ersonal anthem that summer.  when Observer Assistant Scene Editor Cassie  brate hitting triple-digits, Family Guy  go about having ... well, you know  
d away at my summer job work­ Belek came to town for "The Office  promises closure to one of the show's  what. In other words, there's really no  
on. I sang it to myself. When I  Convention" last week and asked me to show'  longest running plot lines: an end to a  big secret. You know how it ends.  
work I listened to it, and late  her the "sights of Scranton," I felt that pride  vow that Stewie Griffin has had for six  The overall experience of episode  
n I couldn't blast my stereo. I  even more.  seasons, the death of his mother.  will be hit-or-miss, but probably more  
piano.  I make fun of Scranton a lot for being a bor­ Since Family Guy first aired in 1999,  of a miss. Diehard fans will enjoy  
and its surrounding area  ing place to live, and so do the people that live  the literal extremity of Stewie's love­ many of the jokes, especially the ones  
place to live, kind of like the city refused to shine."  there, but underneath the bravado lies that welcoming feeling of home.  hate relationship with his mother has been a motif of the show. Stewie has  surrounding Meg and her birth, and there is a bit about Rosie O'Donnell  - 
ally not that much to do in  Like the character Jim Halpert, who finally  spent whole episodes trying to kill  sure to be sidesplitting. Unfortunately.  
u can go to the Steamtown or  is dating his long-time love interest, Pam  Lois, and it is hard to find an episode  after viewing an advance copy, the  
lley Mall and hang out with  Beesely, I discovered Scranton, much like ?  where he forgets to curse at her very  episode as whole does not seem to  
n go to the movies to hang out or you can go to another house ­ every other place, isn't such a bad place to live~-; · if you have people you love there with you.:>.·  existence. His efforts, of course, have nev.er been successful. Such recurring  flow as well as it should. Where Family Guy has gotten by in  
'th friends. That's about it. So, enagers, it's a boring place to  Scranton is where we grew up. It's where our . · friends and family are. Going to the movies, l  failure, however, makes it a bit naive to believe Stewie should ever be victo­ the past using "cutaway gags" (paro­died in South Park as jokes created at  
the mall or a minor league hockey game isn't:--·  rious in his endeavor. So then, what  random by manatees) often as transi­ 
. Scranton tends to be a static  so boring anymore if you truly appreciate the  will happen on Sunday night?  tions to keep the show from dragging,  
rents grew up there, their par­,tlwro, and so did our grandpar­ friends and family that are there with you. _ So when I'm foL:cing my friends to listen to (:; _  The title for the 100th episode is "Stewie Kills Lois." The show's cre­ Sunday's episode misses that fluid feel. Until the episode's tagline, about  
. Not much changes. Everybody  the oldies station 'the next time I'm home on ~ ··;;. ·  ator, Seth MacFarlane, told media on  halfway through, everything runs  
. People stay where they are,  break, and "We Gotta Get Out of This Place"~..  Oct. 7: "If you watch the 100th  smoothly. Soon after that. however.  
for some people, but I knew that  comes on the radio, I think I'll change the sta-;  Episode, someone will die."  the episode gets stuck on a sort of  
't for me.  Television advertisements for the  lukewarm cruise control, moping  
my first semester at Notre  The views expressed in Scene and Heard are  episode stand as more confirmation of  along disjointedly toward an end you  
sed my family very much, but I  those ofthe author and not necessarily those of  Lois' death, even showing w-hat  would have to be brain-dead, or  
place I lived.  The Observer.  appears to be the murder and  Stewie Griffin, not to expect.  
he Office," came back on televi- Contact Chris lline at chine@nd.edu  Stewie's ensuing celebration. But  If you have nothing else to do at 9  
what actually happens in this "his­ p.m. on Sunday you might as well fmd  
toric" episode?  a television and let yourself be so  
Well, to be quite frank, not much.  innocent as to believe Lois has it com­ 
Some things we already know will  ing, but you will probably regret it by  
happen. We know Stewie will pull the  9:30 p.m. In fact, if you are going to  
trigger. We know Lois will be shot and  watch anything at all on Sunday night.  
~LEK itor ost the entire cast of "The Office" room for a question-and-answer  involving an ex-husband who turned out to be a serial killer. She also spoke of her trepidation when doing her own stunt when Michael hit Meredith with his car in this season's premiere. "I was sort of flinching when I hit the glass like any normal human being would," she joked.  we know Stewie will scamper off cheering, "I did it!" before tripping, falling flat on his face and ironically crying, "Mommy!" Other things will likely happen. Lois can be expected to go missing, there- you would do better to catch the Family Guy retrospective that airs at 8:30 p.m.; it is sure to be less mislead­ing. Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu  - 
und to be just as funny as an  Daniels, naturally, was asked about the future  
's hit comedy series. When the  of the series. He specifically addressed the fact  
Office" (minus Steve Carell, John  that the fictional characters of "The Office" are  
na Fischer and Rainn Wilson)  being followed by a documentary camera crew,  
the campus of the University of  and someday, like in the BBC version, that docu­ 
. 27, it was one of "The Office"  mentary has to air. Daniels said it was an issue  
events.  the writers were already thinking about since  
oducer Greg Daniels joined his  the event would cause a significant change in  
pros as they took turns answer- the fictional world of the series, but that transi­ 
submitted by fans from all across  tion isn't happening any time soon.  
he questions ranged from Leslie  "Sometimes it takes a long time to get all the  
's (Stanley) favorite puzzle (the  footage you need," he said. "Sometimes it takes  
course) to the long-term future of  10 years."  
The rest of the session was filled with more  
a chance to talk about his or  discussions about characters and a series of  
and ponder their futures. A hot  running jokes. Craig Robinson (Darryl) began to  
minds of everyone was related  answer every question by kissing Mindy Kaling  
of television's weirdest couple ­ (Kelly) ­his new on-screen romantic partner ­ 
ight. One half of Dwangela - and the origins of Andy's "Ra-da-do-do-do" were  
-was there to offer hints about  explored as each cast member took stabs at  
duplicating the expression.  
is in the doghouse because he  "That's kind of how I sing songs to myself  
y cat." she said. However, she  when I'm hanging out. By myself," Helms said.  
sort of think Dwight is Angela's  The question-and-answer portion lasted about  
"  90 minutes, and each actor shed some light on  
suggested that an eventual  his character and showed the audience how  
e since she would love to see  much fun the cast has when working together.  
and Mose (Dwight's cousin) go  "I definitely think no matter what we do with  
someday, Angela's unforgiving  our careers from here on out, you know, nothing  
cent suitor, Andy (Ed Helms),  will compare to this," Kinsey said. "Really, I  
immediate reconciliation.  mean, an 'Office' Convention? In Scranton?"  
said that she believes her char­ 
th has a very dark back story  

page 18 The Obsen,er + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 2, 2007 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Siegfried faces upset possibility against Zahm 
Morrissey and Keenan meet in rematch; Stanford looks to keep perfect season alive; St. Ed's makes rare return to playoffs 
little bit earlier in the game "They passed for a lot of Duffy described as a "fluke." isn't taking anything for grant­By PETER REISENAUR, this week and continue to rely yards against us that game," "We probably outgained ed. GRIFFIN DASSATTI, on the defense that stifled the Burns said. "So we'll try to them by at least a hundred "Dillon is a good team and MEGHAN MCMAHON and high powered Ramblers earlier stop that, but we're confident yards," Duffy said. "But some has improved since we played LAURA MYERS this season. that our defense will do better plays didn't go our way, and them," Huth said. "This week, Spons Writers Zahm and Siegfried play in the passing game without we couldn't put the ball in the we're just focusing on Dillon 
Sunday at 2 p.m. on Riehle having to change much." end zone." and making sure we show up 
In a matehup of two teams Field. Burns said the Knights' suc­Despite their 2-1-1 record, from play one." with a great amount of cess this year was based most­Duffy says the Big Red could Dillon and Stanford square momentum going into the Morrissey vs. Keenan ly on the defensive side of the have easily been 4-0. Along off at 1 p.m. Sunday on Riehle playoffs, Zahm hopes to upset With revenge in mind, ball -something with the nar­Field. previously unbeaten Siegfried Morrissey looks to move one the team will look row defeat by on Sunday. step closer to repeating as to exploit Sunday. Stanford, Fisher vs. St. Edward's 
The Habid Bats scored in the champions when the Manor "Teams really Dillon tied Sunday was a long time com­
"Teams really had a 
last minute takes on had a hard time Morrissey ing for St. Ed's. The Stedsmen
hard time moving the 
against Sorin to K e e n a n moving the ball after the failed to win a game, let alone reach the play-Sunday. against us [this ball against us. , M a n o r make the playoffs in three sea­niTs, while The quarter­season]." Burns blocked an sons. Siegfried rolled "Everyone starts back final matchup said. "Our offense extra point to But Sunday, St. Ed's will bat­
Pat Burns 
-over Fisher in its at square one. , between the felt like they didn't end the tle the Green Wave in the first
Keenan captain
tune-up for the third-seeded need to do a whole game. round of the playoffs. post-season. But Knights and lot. Don't get me Stanford Both teams had a 3-1 regu­
Tom Martin
Harnblers senior sixth-seeded wrong, they did a captain Rob lar season record, and both eaptain Tom Siegfried captain Morrissey will lot for us, but it Huth said the teams' only loss came to Martin knows the be a rematch just felt easier." team's last meeting with Dillon Siegfried. regular season is of a game Despite Keenan's tough did not go as smoothly as the Their offenses, however, are irrelevant now. played the sec­defense, Bencomo said the Griffins had hoped. radically different. St. Ed's 
"Everyone ond week of extra motivation from winning "We had a couple players starts freshman quarterback starts back at square one, the season, which Keenan last year's championship will missing, and Dillon came out Matt Abeling, who throws pass Martin said. "We are not bank­won, 9-6. be enough to propel the Manor real hard in the beginning," after pass behind a skilled ing on how well we did during At the end of the first meet­to victory. Huth said. "This offensive line. the season and we know that ing, Morrissey came within "We put the pressure on our-week we won't Fisher starts we have to come out and play field goal range, selves," he said. have any roster "We are not banking senior quarter­at the top of our game." but on fourth "Knowing that problems, so on how well we did back Kevin 
The two teams met during down decided to "This week, we're just we have been hopefully we can Rabil, and the
during the season
the season and played to a tie. play for the win. there and we come out and Green Wave
focusing on Dillon
Martin said his team is going Though the have done it, it match their and we know that we offense is 
to have to come out strong. Manor did not and making sure we just makes us intensity." have to come out and based mainly "It was a hard fought game convert and show upfrom think that if we With a defense on the run.
play at the top ofour
during the year and both eventually lost, do what we did of "eleven nasty Both teams
play one." " 
ttHtms are real excited to get senior and last year we can players," Duffy game. are known for another shot at each other," Morrissey cap­[get to the said his Dillon tough defenses Martin said "We felt that we tain Nick Rob Huth championship) team can beat Tom Martin that force missed on a lot of our plays Bencomo was Stanford captain again, and more any team in the turnovers.
Siegfried captain 
and have really focused on the happy with the so than last year league. The soph­After missing fundamentals this week." effort and we feel like we omore trio of last year's 
Siegfried relics on a power­thinks it bodes well for this can win." quarterback Joe Garigliano, playoffs because of an injury, ful defense that has not weekend's game. Morrissey and Keenan play running back Josh Stull, and Rabil has the chance to guide allowed more than 13 points "Overall both sides of the Sunday at 2 p.m. on Riehle receiver Chris Cugliari has his team farther then its first­on the entire year. Zahm ball played pretty well [in the Field. also sparked the Big Red round exit last season. depends on a power running first game]." Bencomo said. offense. With great players on The teams' similarities game that was stilled until the "It's just that in critical times Stanford vs. Dillon both side of the ball, Duffy said promise to make the first game final sequenee by the Otters. we just didn't execute. We had Stanford (4-0) plans to the Big Red have a legitimate in the run for the stadium an 
Junior running back Theo a couple of lapses especially on remain undefeated as it takes shot at the championship. exciting one. The game begins Ossei-Anto leads a running [speeial teams]. We just didn't on No. 8 seed Dillon in the first Huth likes top-seeded at 1 p.m. at Riehle Field. game that gained 80 yards in do the little things, and we round of the playoffs Sunday. Stanford's chances of going all the f'inal two minutes against were in the game the whole Meanwhile, Dillon will look the way this year as well. Sorin. Ossei-Anto led a drive time until that last drive." to avenge its .loss to the Junior quarterback Brian Contact Peter Reisenaur at down the field that culminated Keenan sophomore captain Griffins in week two of the reg­Salvi, and freshman receiver preisena@nd.edu, Griffin in a Zahm win and a trip to the Pat Burns said the Knights will ular season. Stanford slipped Kevin Ritt continue to step up Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu, playoffs. also look to make a few adjust­past the Big Red, defeating the team's offense each week. Meghan McMahon at mmcma­
-
The Habid Bats hope they ments based on their narrow them 6-0 on a touchdown pass Despite its success in the regu­ho2@nd.edu and Laura Myers at can start the power running a victory. Big Red junior captain Alex lar season, though, the team lmyers2@nd.edu 

Write 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day fi-om 8 a.m. w 2 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents percharacter per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right !0 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
Your path to paradise. 144 feet Charming home now available for ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. If you or someone you care about riverfront surrounded by nature. Navy,AF & Duke. Reserve now for 574·288·2726. has been sexually assaulted, visit WANTED Spotless ranch. 574-217-1557 JPW and Commencement! Great http:/ /osa. nd. edu/depa rtments/ 
Tatiana. reviews, wonderful place & reason· rape.shtml Granger family seeking babysitter 2BR/2bath condo for rent at able rates! 574·286·9995. PERSONAL for two boys. Once per week, either 3 bdrrn tri-level home, move-in con-Jamison Residential( Ivy Court). PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-Tues or Thurs afternoons. Call 247· dition, close to ND, $124,900. 1740 Available for jan-may or june-aug or Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester Spring Break 2008. Sell Trips, Earn ONE WHO IS? You do not have to 1194. Crestwood Blvd. Edison to both. Perfect for young couple or sale. $200 P/S just off campus Cash and Go Free. Call for group be alone. We want to help. Call our 
Crestwood north. ReMax visiting prof. contact Mike: "alumni owned". discounts. Best Deals Guaranteed! 24 hour confidential hotline at Connection. 507·326·7044 or Bluegoldrentals.corn Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, 1-800-No Abort or visit our FoR SALE Call Jay 574·235·3848 mikec@cbatty.com Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. 800· web site at 
Dorne Home for sale or rent, quiet 648-4849 or www.lifecall.org 
FSB0-6.2 miles to NO-Colonial Gorgeous 3 bdrm,2 bath totally Large house available for 2009-wooded area. www.ststravel.com 
2story home 4bdr 2·1/2 baths close updated Victorian home on historic 2010. Full renovations completed http://j.zock.home.corncast.net Adopt: a young loving couple long 
to schools county tax many xtrs. W. Washington St. downtown South this year. Great location on E Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it to share their hearts and home with 
574·291-2899 Bend. Architect owner. 1 block from Marion. Large common areas, 5 alone. If you or someone you love a newborn. Will provide endless Tippecanoe Place. Must sell. Only bathrooms. TICKETS needs confidential support or assis-love. Expenses paid. Brick ranch w/walkout LL, gourmet $125,000. Call Bob Also available: 5bdrm 2 bath and lance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, Call Eileen and Ed kitchen. vaulted ceilings. Park-like 574·315-6902. 3bdrm 2 bath for Wanted NO Football Tix at 1·7819. For more information, visit 1-800-718·6577. street. Close to ND. 2008-2009. Contact Please Help! our website at: 574-217·1557 Tatiana. Awesome riverfront new construe· MacSwain@ gmail.com 574-251-1570 http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-Do you need childcare? Lena s 
lion 12 min. to NO. 4bdr,4bath, mar-nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in Little Angels has 1 opening. I spe· Call rne for a list of properties near ble,ceramics,h/w floors, Blue & Gold Homes now showing For Sale: ND football tix all home The Observer cialize in infants; 2 blocks south of NO. 574·217-1557 Jacuzzi,deck, walkout LL. 08·09 & 09·10. garnes. 57 4-232-0964. campus. $110/week. 261-5435 Tatiana. 574·217·1557 Tatiana Bluegoldrentals.com www. victorytickets.com superproofer.com Angelena 
OUND THE NATION ­
Friday, November 2, 2007 Co.tv\PILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 19 

USCHO.comjCSTV Div. I Men's Hockey Poll 
WTA 
team 

1 Miami 2 North Da kola 3 Michigan 4 New Hampshire 5 Boston College 6 Michigan Stale 7 Denver 8 Minnesota 9 Colorado College 10 Wisconsin 11 Clarkson 12 Maine 13 Michigan Tech 14 NOTRE DAME 15 Minnesota-Duluth 16 Sf. Lawrence 11 Rensselaer 18 Nfagra 19 St. Cloud State 20 Massachusetts 
record points 
6·0·0 910 3-1-1 833 5·1·0 810 3·0·0 806 3·1·2 722 4·1·0 682 4·2·0 591 4·2·0 589 2·2·0 522 3·1·0 501 4·2·0 436 4·2·0 419 4·2·0 356 4·3·0 344 4-1-1 308 3·3·0 169 5·2·0 134 4·1·0 83 3·2·1 82 2·2·2 73 
NSCAA/adidas Women's Soccer National Rankings 
team points previous 
1 UCLA 774 1 2 TexasA&M 745 2 3 Portland 688 6 4 North Carolina 664 7 5 Stanford 645 5 6 Virginia 612 3 7 Penn Stale 565 13 8 Purdue 556 4 9 Tennessee 523 12 10 Boston College 483 14 11 Southern California 468 9 12 Texas 455 8 13 NOTRE DAME 420 15 14 Wes\ \Lit.§inla 325, 19 15 Florida Slate 306 10 16 Santa Clara 275 11 17 Georgia 271 20 18 Wake Forest 247 22 19 California 205 21 20 San Diego 196 17 21 Missouri 156 16 22 Florida 154 23 23 Connecticut 128 18 24 Brigham Young 102 23 25 Oklahoma State 49 RV 
NSCAA/adidas Men's Soccer National Rankings 
team paints previous 
1 UConn 559 2 2 Wake Forest 553 1 3 Santa Clara 530 3 4 SMU 505 5 5 Virginia Tech 474 4 6 Brown 466 6 7 Boston College 425 12 8 Creighton 412 8 9 NOTRE DAME 397 7 10 Indiana 367 11 11 Tulsa 311 14 12 Northwestern 304 9 13 Saini louis 285 15 14 Virginia 273 10 15 UCSB 227 19 16 Furman 220 18 
around the dial 
NBA 

Washington Wizards at Boston Celtics 9 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FoOTBALL Nevada at New Mexico State 9 p.m., ESPN2 

Associated Press 

ZURICH -In a11 out-of­nowhere end to Martina Hingis' comeback, the five­time Grand Slam champi­on revealed Thursday she tested positive for cocaine at Wimbledon and will retire for a second time rather than fight what she called a "horrendous" accusation. 
"I am frustrated and angry," the 27 -year-old Hingis said at a news con­ference in Zurich, Switzerland, her voice breaking as she fought back tears. "I believe that I am absolutely, 100 percent innocent." 
She read a prepared statement ending with the vow, "I have never taken drugs," then left without taking questions. 
WTA Tour chief execu­tive Larry Scott said he recently found out about Hingis' doping test from the player's representa­tives -word had not reached him through offi­cial channels because it's an ongoing case in which a hearing has yet to be held. 
Although the formerly No. 1-ranked Hingis said she's retiring in part because she doesn't want to spend years dealing with the legal process, Scott said he expects the case to continue. 
"Like a lot of Martina's fans and friends and col­leagues, [I am] saddened," Scott said in a telephone interview. "She's a great legend, one of the most well-liked players on the tour. But at the same time, I'm ... also mindful that the player has to be given the presumption of innocence until the process plays out until the end." 
Hingis tested positive June 29, the day she lost in straight sets to Laura Granville of the United States in the third round at Wimbledon. That was her first tournament after missing 1 1/2 months with hip and back injuries. 
"I just didn't want to miss Wimbledon," Hingis said at the time. "Probably at the end of the day, it wasn't, like, the smartest 

IN BRIEF Tigers RHP Joel Zumaya
has major shoulder surgery 
DETROIT -With the California wild­fires closing in on his parents' house, Joel Zwnaya went up to the attic and tried to salvage a few things for his father. 
Moments later, his 2008 season was in jeopardy. 
A heavy box fell on top of the Detroit Tigers reliever, injuring his pitching shoul­der and forcing him to have major sur­gery Wednesday in San Diego. He is expected to be sidelined until midseason. 
"You think he'll be back, but I can't 100 percent count on that," Tigers president and general manager Dave Dombrowski said Thursday. "We can't count on that contribution this year. We have to plan our staff without him being there." 
The Tigers hoped to re-sign closer Todd Jones, with the understanding that he might lose his job later in the season to Zumaya. Ifthey weren't able to bring back the free agent, Zumaya had a shot to be Detroit's closer. 
Suspended Pacman to meet 
witfi NFL commissioner 
NASHVILLE -Suspended corner­back Adam "Pacman" Jones will meet with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell in New York on Friday about a possible early reinstatement. 
Goodell suspended the Tennessee cornerback in April for the 2007 season and promised Jones' case could be reviewed after the Titans' 10th game, which is Nov. 19 in Denver. But Friday's meeting will come two days before the Titans' eighth game. 
The NFL declined to comment. Neither of Jones' two attorneys, Manny Arora of Atlanta, nor Warrick Robinson of Nashville, immediately answered messages left by The Associated Press. 
The meeting first was reported by The Tennessean. 
The Titans will not have a represen­tative at the meeting, and Jones will be accompanied by someone from the NFL Players Association. 
thing." 
Although doping charges usually are announced by a sports league or event, athletes are told if a sam­ple tests positive. A sec­ond, backup sample then is tested. Mario Widmer, Hingis' manager, said she learned of the first positive test result in mid­September and the second two or three weeks later. 
"I find this accusation so horrendous, so monstrous, that I have decided to con­front it head-on by talking ­to the press," Hingis' state­ment said. 
She said she hired an attorney who found "vari­ous inconsistencies" with the urine sample from Wimbledon. 
-

Tocchet's NHL ban extended 
until at least next February 
NEW YORK -Rick Tocchet still has time to serve before he will be allowed back behind an NHL bench. 
Tocchet, already on two years' proba­tion after he pleaded guilty to promoting 
-

gambling and conspiracy to promote gambling, won't be able to resume his position as an assistant coach with the Phoenix Coyotes until next Feb. 7, NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said Thursday. 
Since the betting ring, in which Tocchet partnered with a New Jersey state trooper and another man, became public in February 2006, the former star forward has been on an indefinite leave of absence that was granted by Bet1man. 
Tocchet needed clearance from the commissioner to get back into the league and hoped for instant reinstatement upon meeting with Bet1man on Tuesday along with lawyers and Coyotes general manager Don Maloney. 
-page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 2, 2007 
NFL 

Harrison W"ants a crack at Indy 
Associated Press 
FOXBOHOUGII, Mass. Hodnny !Iarrison broke his right shoulder blade the last time the Patriots faced the Indianapolis Colts in the regular season. A knee injury kept him out of their next meeting, the AFC champi­onship game. 
No wonder he doesn't want to look back. 
Sunday's game between two unbeaten teams has nothing to do with the past as far as New England's safety is concerned. 

lin won't evtm compare this season's squads to those who playnd barely nine months ago in Indianapolis' 38-34 win that sent the Colts on to the Super Bowl, whern tlwy boat Chieago. 
"What relevance does that have? It doesn't even matter," llarrison said Thursday. "Last year's game. it has nothing to do with what's going lo happon on Sunday." One dill'nrencn is that !Iarrison 
ing." 
Se<w's season ended when he broke his arm in the 11th game last year. He also missed the AFC title game. 
Now the Patriots have two of their solid, savvy veterans back to help stop Peyton Manning. 
Seau has his single-season high three interceptions, two of them in a 34-17 win over Cleveland, New England's closest gamP. !Iarrison has two sacks in just four games. 
"I feel a lot more comfortable," Harrison said. "Obviously, the speed of the game, I'm catehing up with. The ability to see things and recof.,rnize them, I just feel a lot better out there." 
lie came off the bench in his first game this year, against Cleveland, then started at strong safety thn past three, including last Sunday's 52-7 rout of Washington. 
Free safety Eugene Wilson did­n't practiee Wednesday and Thursday and could miss his sec­ond straight game with an ankle injury. James Sanders started during Harrison's suspension and has kept that first-string spot. Harrison feels comfortable with both. 
''I've worked extremely hard" since his suspension ended, he said. "I just feel good, happy to be out there." 
Another Harrison may not be out there on Sunday. 
Colts wide receiver Marvin Harrison missed his second day of practiee Thursday with a bruised knee that has sidelined him for two of the last three games. Before the practice, coach Tony Dungy said it was doubtful Harrison would play if he didn't practice Thursday. 
Rodney Harrison's shoulder injury occurred when he tackled Marvin Harrison on the Colts third offensive play of last year's 27-20 loss in the Patriots eighth game. Ilo missed six games, then hurt his knee in the regular sea­son finale. 
The Patriots still must stop Reggie Wayne ( 44 catches. five touchdowns) and Dallas Clark (32 catches, six touchdowns). 


Want them off your payroll? 
We can put them on ours. 
As the World's Most Admired Company~. GE is looking for talent that can help us continue to be most admired. If you think your son or daughter fits the bill, have them look for us on campus by checking with their career services office or visit us at gecareers.com. 
GE is an equal opportunity employer, offering competitive salary and an outstanding benefits package. including 40lk, pension, medical benefits, tuition reimbursement and more. 
*FORTUNE Magazine 2007 

• imagination at work 

Friday, November 2, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
MLB 
After lackluster season, Dodgers get their man 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Joe Torre grow up in Brooklyn rooting against thn Dodgers. Now, a half-century after they moved wnst, he's thnir manager. 
Torre was hired by Los Angeles to succeed Grady Little on Thursday, taking the job two wonks aftnr walking away from tho New York Yankees. 
The winningest manager in postseason history, Torre moved from one storied franchise to another, agrcning to a three­year, $13 million contract. He becomes the Dodgers' eighth manager since they left his hometown, where he rooted for the rival New York Giants. 
"As a kid growing up, you did­n't like them," Torre said on WFAN radio in New York less than an hour before the hiring was announced. "As a player, to me the Dodgers were the Yankees of the National League because ... you either loved them or you hated them." 
The 6 7 -year-old Torre will be introduced at a news conference Monday at Dodger Stadium. Little resigned Tuesday after completing two seasons of a three-year deal. 
Torre joins the Dodgers for their 50th anniversary season in Los Angeles, hoping to spur October success. 
Favored to win the NL West this year, the Dodgers finished fourth. They have only one play­off victory since winning the 1988 World Series under Tom Lasorda. 
''I'm so happy for him. I think his record speaks for itself," said Lasorda, a special adviser to Dodgers owner Frank McCourt. "I think what he accomplished with the Yankees, he should have been able to control his destiny. 
"We're happy that he's here­very happy." 
Torre guided the Yankees to four World Series championships from 1996-2000, and they made the playoffs in all 12 years he managed them. New York lost to Cleveland last month, eliminated in the first round for the third straight year. 
Following that defeat, the Yankees offered Torre a one­year contract with a pay cut. He earned $7.5 million last season -more than any other big­league manager by far. 
Calling the performance incen­tives in the proposal "an insult," Torre turned it down. He was hired by the Dodgers on the same day the Yankees intro­duced Joe Girardi as their man­ager. 
The Dodgers had the NL's best record in mid-July. During their late-season slide, problems sur­faced between older and younger players on the team, prompting criticism of Little. 
"I think he's going to do a good job in the clubhouse because he's got great leadership abili­ties," Lasorda said of Torre. "He knows how to handle a ball­club." 
Since Lasorda left during the 1996 season after suffering a heart attack, the Dodgers are 1­9 in three playoff appearances. One of those was in 2006 ­Little's first year as manager ­when the Dodgers won the NL wild-card with an 88-74 record but were swept by the New York Mets in the first round of the playoffs. 

Torre ranks eighth on base­ball's career list with 2,067 vic­tories. He also managed the New York Mets, St. Louis and Atlanta but won only one division title in the NL, in 1982 with the Braves. 
He passed former Dodgers managers Leo Durocher (2,009) and Walter Alston (2,040) last season on the career wins list. His teams have won 76 postsea­son games. 
"Few managers in the history of the game have accomplished what Joe has delivered," Dodgers general manager Ned Colletti said. "Throughout his career he has demonstrated the ability to turn a vision for suc­cess into results on the field and we welcome his passion and leadership. We have tremendous fans and they deserve no less." 
Teams are generally directed to interview at least one minority candidate for open managerial jobs. The Dodgers were granted an exemption by commissioner Bud Selig, however, because of a strong track record on minority hirings. 
Earlier this week, the Dodgers acknowledged they talked to Girardi about potentially replac­ing Little. Colletti said he did so because he was aware Little was leaning toward stepping down. 
Don Mattingly, Torre's bench coach this year, is set to join his mentor in Los Angeles as hitting coach. Mattingly lost out to Girardi for the Yankees' mana­gerial job. 
Mattingly's son, Preston, is a minor leaguer in the Dodgers' organization. 

MAKE EVERY PLAY 
.COUNT 
-
-


10:30 a.m. -12 noon 
The Morris Bistro 2n N. M i<'.higan St.. S<mth B•nd 

Bella Bridal Brtmthjeoturcs a delici"w; dwrnJmgru: lwt~m:h ond o Jrrt?l1if:'it.l (if'wtdditt!; musl-have looks and iresu]:; ji1r the season. Tidret.,·JOr tiu:~ <!"vent al:~o include thi: Bridal Euwi S: S!vle Slww. 
Tickets $30 in <Jdwnceon]v ~v1"•i0vemba 13. 
12 noon -5 p.m. 

Pa.lais Royale Rallroom. 105 W. Colfax Ave., South Bend The Bella Bridd fu,•r.l and Stvle Sl"'"" ~!fer; el'erythi,~.foryouo· .<f,ecial d~v mcluding ,_tyle .~lwws of 1:30 J;. m. ol)(l]:30 f).m.. j{,od ami beverage tasful!: {md tiu~ laiE"~t 
in :t:;·dding::-_ryle. 'Ticl;els $.5 in aJuan<~. $10ui thedov•· 
Purchase ticket> at the A1orris Box Office 574-235-91.90 or online at 
www. bellalSridalevent.com 

"'Irish Blood, Brain, and Brawn': The Campaign to Highlight the Irish contribution to American History, 1880-1920." 
Edward 0'Donnell College of the Holy Cross 
Friday, November 2, 2007 4:00p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
-
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 2, 2007 
NBA 

Bryant trade talks on hold 
Wednesday, with nne report say­the front office a mess and ask­
Associated Pre.s 

ing the Bulls. Sacramento Kings ing to be traded during the ofT­
DEEHFIELD, Ill.. -Kobe and !.akers were diseussing a season. The jeers turned to Bryant won't bP. joining the thrne-way deal that would bring cheers as Bryant scored 18 of his Chicago Bulls anytime soon. tho superstar to Chicago. 45 points in the fourth quarter to 
Gennral managm .John Paxson That scenario had Paxson lead a comeback. basically squashed the notion sending Ben Gordon and a The trade deadline isn't until that the Los AngP-les !.akers' signed-and-traded P.J. Brown to February, so it's possible talks superstar will wind up in Sacramento, with Chicago's Ben betwPen the Lakers and Bulls Chicago, saying the tP.ams were Wallace and the Kings' Hon could resume. never on the verge of a deal and Artest heading to Los Angeles. "Who knows?" Paxson said. talks worn over for now. Paxson dismissed the rumor, say­'The reality is that right now, it's 
"There's not a deal done," he ing a deal involving Brown would done." said Thursday. "There's not send the Bulls over the luxury Paxson was concerned the going to be a deal done. All the tax threshold -something issue would become a distrac­things that were out there were they're reluctant to do. tion, so he decided to put it to really unfair to all of us who Bryant, speaking before news rest. were trying to do our jobs. The of Paxson's comments reached "J think today sends a message misinformation ... I think gel<> in the !.akers' El Segundo, Calif., that our guys don't have to worry the way of the process. It's just praetice facility, said he is moni­about anything right now," such a complicated thing and we toring the rumors "just to keep Paxson said. kind of put it to rest now." tabs on how my teammates are Then again, coach Seott Skiles 
Paxson said they discussed reacting to it." wondered: "What's resolving "parameters," but the sides "We've been doing a pretty anything in all sports until the "never got down to the nuts and good job of staying focused," he trading deadline?" bolts of it because there was said. ''I've talked to them. From "Just because this rumor at never a deal to be done." that standpoint, I don't think it's some point dies down. does that 
"That's the reality of it," he that difficult. If you didn't speak mean another one's not going to said. "People can make what to them or kind of fill them in, it crop up in two weeks?" he they want of it. but what I know would get a little confusing." asked. "It's ongoing, it's all the is that part of it is over with." Bryant drew some boos during time. Now, this is one that 
Paxson's comment.<> came a day introductions before the Lakers' involves a very, very high profile after a flurry of rumors. season-opening 95-93 loss to player, so I understand the extra 


Spnculation picked up llouston on Tuesday. after calling attention on it." 
11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Dorothy Corson George Porter-Young 
UA Cave of Candles" "A Boy Amidst The


11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 1p.m. to 3 p.m.
Rubble"

Mel Tardy Connie UA Ught Will Rise In McNamara Darkness" "Go Irish" 
(Signing for his molfler JoAnne Tardy) 
1p.m.to3p.m. 

8
Fr. Malloy •··
4
"Terrorism, Counterterrorism CD S£1 .. and the Ethics ofwarfare" 

1p.m. to 3 p.m. Kerry Temple &Matt Cashore 
uCelebrating Notre Dame" 





9:30 a.m. •11:30 a.m. 9:30 a.m. •11:30 a.m. 
John Heisler Scott Sweeney 
"Then Ara Said To Joe" 'The Tears Of Mary" 
9:30 a.m. •1:30 p.m. Kenny Wayne Fields "The Rescue of Streetcar 304" 

11:30 a.m. •1:30 p.m. 
Diane Zuber 


"Broken Doll" 
11:30 a.m. •1:30 p.m.
11:30 a.m. •1:30 p.m. 
Digger Phelps
Jane Pitz '72 
"Undertakets Son"

Susan Oglesbee Payne '73 Tricia Romano Barry '84 
"Thanking Father Ted" 


Friday, November 2, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 

Now Open ~ ~J4(~~.
I '7 #:~ /t> /..,__.,.._,. /d~ 




This.·.•·•··..is bow life w(ts meant to be, Suddenly, there is more 
........ .. 

go as you tho.ose opens endless p!lssibilfties. Vacation. shoppingt golf. or being at the big game become your regular appointrh!tnts. Best of aH.. the comfort you w!H 

Two~ and lhn:w'" bedroom si~l& -~~tory htttttri, with tttit•rior .r,twinlrnunrt< providuL thovgh.tftillv piarme& CarefuUy executed. ­

WOMEN'S CREW 
Ro-wers head to first­ever Cal-Sag Shootout 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will enter uncharted waters this weekend when it competes at the inaugu­ral Cal-Sag Shootout in Blue Island. Ill. 
The Irish have high hopes for thB four varsity and two novice boats that enter this new -and slightly unusual -event. 
The format for the Cal-Sag Shootout differs slightly from a traditional regatta. All boats will enter a five-kilometer race Sunday. The top two boats from each school, along with the next six boats with the top times, will then entBr a two-kilometer sprint in the afternoon. Each of the live heats will consist of four boats, with the seeds based sole­ly on the morning times. 
Irish coach Martin Stone is excited about the new setup. 
"It's a uniqun format," Stone said. "But I think it's going to be pretty neal." 
Thn Bltw Island venue itself is also unique. llostnd by the Chicago Bowing Center, the event will take place with the Chicago skylinn in the backdrop and stadium seating along the course. 
"It's a rBally neat venue," Stone said. "The head race course should be line, and the two-kilometer will be a sort of test race to see if we could have an event here in the spring." 
Stone was confident his coxswains would have no prob­lem navigating a new course. 
"They've seen an overview of the course," Stone said. "It's sort of a trial by fire, but we have very smart and savvy coxswains. I'm definitely not concerned." 
In addition to an unfamiliar course, Notre Dame will face stiff competition from the other boats, including a Michigan squad that fmished third at last year's Head of the Charles event. Michigan State, Wisconsin, Iowa and Indiana will also compete. 
"The fall season is really just preparation for the spring," Stone said. "We're just figuring things out now, and things defi­nitely change in a month." 
No matter what boats his team uses, Stone was optimistic about Notre Dame's chances this weekend. 
"I don't know exactly how we'll stack up, but we've done a good job [in practice]." Stone said. "We've been moving the boats well. and the intensity and effort have been fantastic. 
"It'd be great if we could get all four varsity eights into the two-kilometer. We're looking to come out and race really hard with great intensity to go into winter training." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Win ties VT for division lead 
Glennon throws two touchdowns, runs for one more in 27-3 win 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -Sean Glennon wore a Georgia Tech jersey. Thb. ~ was no doubt he was playing for Virginia Tech. 
Wearing a replacement jer­sey provided by the home team when his own disap­peared, Glennon threw two long touchdown passes and ran for another score to lead No. 11 Virginia Tech to a 27-3 win over Georgia Tech on Thursday night. 
"It was funny," Glennon said. "That was the jersey of a school I almost went to" com­ing out of high school. 
The Hokies (7-2, 4-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) bounced back just fine from their shocking collapse against Boston College, when they squandered a 10-point lead in the final minutes. 
Glennon made his second straight start in place of fresh­man Tyrod Taylor, who was sidelined again by a sprained ankle. The replacement starter, who lost the job to Taylor after the second game, made the most of it by throw­ing for 296 yards, including a 40-yard touchdown pass to Justin Harper and a 71-yarder to Josh Morgan. 
Virginia Tech moved into a first-place tie with rival Virginia in the Coastal Division. The teams will meet in the final game of the regu­lar season. 
"I think I've been playing well," Glennon said. "But the coaches will go with the option they think they will win with." 
Georgia Tech (5-4, 2-4) saw its slim hopes of making a sec­ond straight trip to the ACC championship game go down the drain. The Yellow Jackets were simply horrible after jumping ahead 3-0 on their second possession. 
Rubbing more salt in Georgia Tech's wounds: Glennon was among four 

Virginia Tech players whose jersey mysteriously disap­peared before the game, forc­ing them to suit up in the Yellow Jackets' white road jer­seys. 
Glennon's name was written in magic marker on the back, and the home team's nick­­name was blacked out across the front of the shirt, which was trimmed in black and gold instead of maroon and orange. 
"Branden (Ore) wrote it on there first in caps and lower case," Glennon said. "I then did it in all caps." 
.... For more information: 

-
~at,. 

S~' EBRlDG 625 
Dublin Drive VILLAS 

Mishawaka, IN 46545 
fd Fn1srJN LtKES 
www.epconcommunities.com 
-


page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 2, 2007 
NBA 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

McGrady lights up 
Belles face top-seed Calvin 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD

Jazz during victory 
Sports Wri!er Saint Mary's will need to be at
Forward drops 47 points; Rockets win 106-95 
its best tonight to keep its title 
Associated Press 
SAI.T I.AKI· CITY -Tracy Mr<;rady said lH• didn't hold a grudgP againsl lltah for last snason's OJH'ning-round loss in llw playof'l's. 
But what lw said and how lw playnd wPrl' quill' dii'I'PrPnl.. 
Mc<;rady sron•d 4 7 points and thn BorkPts lwat thl' .Jazz 1()(,-'J!i Thursday night, earn­ing a littln rnv1~ngP for last snason's playoffs. whnn llouston won thP l'irst two gamns but lost thP SPrins. 
"(f. d OPS n 't rnally mnan 
going to lw gntting I.IH• ball. Utah !'ollldrd stop Mr.Crady. 
lnsidP, outsidP or at tlw foul linn, Mc<;rady carrind thn Bo(~kPts. lin only missPd I 0 of his 2.7 fiPid goal attnm pts and wnnt I 1-l'or-14 from th!• line. liP also addPd four assists and four rnbounds. 
"This is tlw start of' a nnw season. I'm just l'nnling good nwntally, physically and hav­ing fun playing basknthall with my nnw t.nammatns and coach­ing staff'," McCrady said. "This is a fun system to play in." 
Thn Hoekots 
I'o r c !HI 2. 0 hopes alive against top-seeded Calvin in the semifinals of tho MIAA tournamPnt. 

Calvin, whir.h is ranked No. ·16 nationally, got tlw best of thn lki!Ps twin~ this sPason and has only lost onn conl'nroncn match all snason. 
Calvin sonior middln hitter Molly Krikke averages dose to five kills pnr game, while snnior Sflttnr Katin Zondervan is the drivn of this oll'ense, lmtding the team in assists with just under 14 per game. Zondervan and Krikkn have both been honored as MIAA athletes of the week and could pose a problem for the Bnlles. 
anything. It's turnov1~rs while 
Although Calvin will be a
"We tried to go one­
only IJH• SI'!'OIHI committing just 
tough competitor, Belles head 
on-one. Hveryone
gamn of thP 12, and thn Jazz 
roach Julie Sehroeder-Biek said 
snason," said tried to beat them by didn't help 
her team is mady. 

McCrady, who themselvns any
themselves." 
was 17-for-2.7 by going 20-for­from tlw floor. 2!) from tho foul Thn Ho(~knts Jerry Sloan lillfl. improvml to 2.-0 Jazz coach "We trind to go 
undtlr rww coach Hirk Adelman, who wasn't with llouston for Utah's first-round ronwbaek last spring. 
Me<;rady was, and seemed to takn it personally with his 42nd eareor 40-point game. lin also had more hnlp than he did in thn postseason, when the Hoekets basically counted on he and Yao Ming to beat the .Jazz. 
Mikn Jamns added 15 points -two more than the Jazz rnsnrvos eombinPd -and Chuck llayos had 13 rnbounds for tho Hoeknts. 
"Wo fool likn 
it's <iamn H for they needed to
"It doesn't really 
us," said Yao, all night. 
rof'orring to thn mean anything. It's "Tracy was 
sovon-gamn only the second game just unbeliev­snrins tlw .Jazz able," said
ofthe season. " 
rallied to win. Adelman, who "Wn wanted to inherited gnt this win and Tracy McGrady McGrady when start our nnw Rockets forward he replaced 
season." Carlos Booznr 
-
had 30 points and I 6 nlbou nds, and Mehmnt Okur finished with 16 points and 10 boards, but after dominating tho first quarter the Jazz tapered ofT in the second and novor recovered. 

Deron Williams had 18 points and 13 rebounds, and Honnie Brower scored 13 points for tho Jazz, who led by 
12. in the l'irst quarter bnfore McGrady took over thn game. 
Even with Yao on the bench with foul trouble and the Jazz knowing vnry will! who was 
-
-
"Wn are focusing on bnttnring Saint Mary's entered this SPa­our game. I n~ally prefer to prac­son's t.ournallwllt as tiH• fifth tke things that we can rontrol." send and swept. Tri-State on Schronder-Biek said. "Wn watch TuPsday. Tlw win avenged till' ganw film to anticipate and learn Belles two n~gular sPason lossl's our opporwnts to Tri-State and kndnndes." improvml tlwir 
Besides study­r«'!'.ord to 1:~-17.
"/ really pn~ler to 
ing tlwir oppo­Schrol'der­
practice things 
rwnt, tlw Belles Bink said tlw rwnd to work on that we lkllns will nPPd something they the same "c:om­
can control. " 
have strugglnd pet.itivn drivP" with all season against Calvin 
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
-their own that they had rn indset. Belles coach. against Tri­
"We need to Statn. feel confident in "Tiw single­our abilities to respond to what­elimination fador of t.hn tourna­ever our opponent throws our ment makes things a little mon~ way," Sehroeder-Biek said. "We exciting, and I think brings out arn snparating the tournament your fight," Schroednr-Bink said. from the regular season. We The winnPr of tlw match will start with a dean slate." take on llope or Adrian 
This will be the second year in Saturday. a row that Saint Mary's will play Calvin in the semil'inals. Last season, Calvin downed the Belles Contact Samantha Leonard at 3-0. sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
one-on-one. Everyone tried to beat them by thmnselves," 

Utah coach Jerry Sloan said.  
We're not good enough to play that way."  ~ Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good  
Every time the Jazz made  a  
run  in  the  second  half,  
McGrady stopped it. Okur hit a  
short jumper to get the Jazz  
within 89-82, but McGrady  
answered with a 3-pointer and  
did  teammate  Dikembe  
Mutombo's finger wag while  
baekpodaling on defense. The  
"no, no,  no" gesture seemed  
appropriate because the Jazz  
could  not stop  
McGrady when  

former coach 

Jeff Van Gundy over the summer. "What I liked about him was he had a really good mix. lie made 
jumpers, but he attacked the joy Italian classics and contemporary basket and went to the free 
throw line." creations in a comfortable, casual setting. 
The Jazz, who were playing their home opener, got within five twice late in the fourth 
511 0 Edison Lakes Parkway
quarter, but no closer. 
After Boozer cut the lead to CATERING Mishawaka 96-!J1, McGrady hit two free 
Calf:t·ing .for every occasion (574) 271-1692 
throws with 2:53 remaining, 
www. PapaVinosCatering. com
then Yao added a layup that www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com cooled off Utah's comeback and quieted the fans. 

Friday, November 2, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
ATP 
Nalbandian takes down Federer at Paris Masters 
Associated Press 
PAHIS -David Nalbandian beat Hoger Federer for the sec­ond time in less than two weeks on Thursday, earning a 6-4, 7-6 (3) victory in the third round of the Paris Masters. 
The result evened the series between the two 8-8 and ended Federer's streak of reaching the final in eight straight tour­naments -going back to May. 
"It's not easy being aggres­sive against him when you're 3 meters [1 0 feet] behind the baseline," said Federer, who lost to the Argentine in the final of the Madrid Masters on Oct. 
21. 
"He's got a phenomenal back­hand and can dictate play from both sides," said Federer, who lost for the eighth time this sea­David Ferrer of Spain, who son. Guillermo Canas and advanced after beating 12th­H.afael Nadal also have beaten . seeded Tomas Berdych 6-4, 6­Federer twice each while 2. Novak Djokovic After beating and Filippo Federer in Volandri also "He's got a Madrid, have beaten the Nalbandian was
phenomenal
Swiss star. eliminated in the 
"I wish condi­backhand and first round of last tions were a bit can dictate play week's event in faster because B a s e I ,
from both sides. ,,
indoors is sup­Switzerland. The posed to be week before fast," Federer Roger Federer Madrid, he was said. "Not here, tennis star eliminated in the I guess." second round in 
Nalbandian Vienna. didn't complain. "Federer's the No. 1 in the 
"Well, it's different," world," Nalbandian said. "You Nalbandian said. "Over there always have to be at 100 per­[in Madridl it's a little faster." cent. I was, just like in 
He next plays fifth-seeded Madrid." 
Nalbandian wasted five set Baghdatis. points by shanking balls long or The defending champion, into the net. who was jeered during the 
"I absolutely thought he was match, finished with 10 double getting nervous," Federer said. faults, 36 unforced errors and 
"He has a ten- had his serve bro­ 
dency to, you  ken five times.  
know,  some­ "Federer's the No. I  in  Chair  umpire  
times give a second chance when you think you're down and  the world. You always have to be at I oo percent"  Cedric Mourier spoke to Davydenko during a changeover, ask­ing him what was  
out." Meanwhile, Nikolay  David Nalbandian ATP player  wrong with his serve. Davydenko responded by ask­ 

Davydenko again was accused of not putting forth his best effort, with the chair umpire criticizing the Russian's serving during a 6-2, 6-2 third­round loss to Marcos 

YOUR CATERING $0LUTIONUl 
BOX LUNCHES. PLATTERS. PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include a delivery tharge per item. 
FREEBIES (SUBS & CLUBS ONL't'l Onion. lettuce. alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo. sliced cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar. and oregano. 



I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK !r 
54570 H. IRONWOOD OR.  1290 E. IRELAND  138 S. MICHIGAN  5343 N. MAIN ST.  
574.277.8500  574.291.1900  574.246.1020  574.968.4600  
SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  

''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JONN'S!'' © 
ing what else he 
could do. 

"Serve like me," Mourier was heard telling Davydenko on the television broadcast. "If you serve like me, you put it in the box. That's it." 
Davydenko had said Wednesday he was hampered by a sore elbow, but he didn't give a direct answer when Baghdatis asked him what was wrong as they shook hands at the end of the match. 
Last week at the St. Petersburg Open, Davydenko was fined $2,000 by the ATP for "lack of best effort" during a 1-6, 7-5, 6-1 loss to Marin Cilic. 
"I cannot serve," Davydenko said of Thursday's match. "That was happening in St. Petersburg. I don't have pain really. I have no pain in my elbow. I need to find what's the reason I cannot really serve." 
ATP spokesman Nicola Arzani said no action will be taken against the fourth-seeded Davydenko. 
Meanwhile, second-seeded Nadal, eighth-seeded Tommy Robredo, Ferrer and 1Oth­seeded Richard Gasquet of France all advanced in straight sets. 
Nadal beat Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland 6-4, 6-3, and next meets either ninth-seeded Tommy Haas or Mikhail Youzhny, who were scheduled to play later. 
"I played a very good match today," Nadal said. "Stan was playing very aggressive, (some) unbelievable tennis, but I feel very comfortable. I'm very happy with my level today." 
Robredo topped 11th-seeded Canas of Argentina 7-5, 7-5 to set up a match against Baghdatis. Both stayed in con­tention for the season-ending Masters Cup in Shanghai, fea­turing the top eight players in the ATP race. 
Gasquet remained in con­tention by beating sixth-seeded James Blake of the United States 6-4, 6-4, but Ferrer ended Berdych's hopes. 
Nalbandian already has been eliminated from reaching Shanghai, along with Blake and Canas. 
Federer, Nadal, Davydenko, 
-

Ferrer, Djokovic and Andy Hoddick are qualified. The last two spots will be decided in Paris. 
Gasquet next meets 15th­seeded Andy Murray, who beat Fabrice Santoro 6-4, 6-2 to 
..... 

retain his chances for Shanghai. 
Davydenko's warning is the latest in a series of incidents that have drawn attention to the fourth-ranked Russian. 
After a match in Poland in August, online betting exchange Betfair voided bets after Davydenko withdrew against 87th-ranked Martin Vassallo Arguello in the third set because of a foot injury. 
.. page 28 
Playoffs 

continued from page 32 
Besdwr has bnen a key play­er for Pangborn in all facets of tho ganw. In her team's last two ganws against I.owis and Brnnn-Phillips, Bnscher scored all 40 Pangborn points. 
To prepare for the play­ofTs, tlw Phoxes havn gonn from 
on its experi­~~nco to gPt into tho second round. 
l.od by junior quartnrback and Katio Dunn and senior rncnivor Tarah Brom, the Chaos also ontor the playoffs with monwntum. having won thron of tlwir past four games. 
"Wn'vo improved a lot from tlw beginning of the season," Dunn said. "We had momen­tum at t.lw Pnd of the season and we want to continue that in tlw playoffs." 
Dunn was confident hf~r team wouldn't b(~ harmed by thn long bn~ak since its last game. 
"lit might! alTnct us a little," Dunn said. "But we've be1m scrimmaging in practice and I consider our defense to be pretty strong, so I don't think it'll afTnct us too much." 
In addition to shaking ofT the rust, Dunn was adamant about doing thn little things right on Sunday. ospecially extra point plays. 
"All thn teams are good now, so th1~ ganws will come down to tho win~." Dunn said. "We struggled with extra points narly in tho season, but wn've lwnn working a lot on defpnd­ing and seoring them." 
The Chaos, though, haven't mad1~ any major changes for tlw playoff's. 
"We know Pangborn is a good team and a fast team," Dunn said. "Wo just have to knep doing what we've benn doing." 
The Phoxes take on Cavanaugh at 3 p.m. on Hiehle Field. 
Walsh vs. Farley 
Tlw Wild Women will look to knep thnir undefeated season going Sunday when tlwy face Farley in the opening round of the playoiTs. 
Snnior captain Marie Brenner expected to see her squad rnjuvenated after its week oft'. 
"We're going into the playoff gamns with a nnw enthusiasm and nxeitement in hopes of 
-
Friday, November 2, 2007
The Observer + SPORTS 

playing the championship are not overlooking the Purple 
NHL 

gamn in the stadium," Brenner Weasels. · said. "PW is definitely a strong However, don't expect to see opponent," senior captain Walsh looking too far ahead. Mary .Jenkins said. "I think 
Columbus falls to 
"Since we've played Farley they arc one of the toughest already once in tlw season, we teams we could potentially face know that they are tough com­in the playoffs. A win against pPtition," Brenner said. them would give us a great 
Ducks in shootout 
"Despite our high goals, we are boost heading into the next 
also playing one game at a  round."  
time."  The Ducks are led on offense  
Offensively, senior quarter­ by freshman quarterback Kayla Bishop and junior wide  Associated Press  
back  Mary  receiver Laura GiP.zeman.  ANAIIEIM, Calif. -Mathieu  

o1w practice a "We had momentum Sullivan will lead "I could tell at practice that 
Schneider played his first 
wonk to thrtH', tlw high-powered we definitely came back from 
game for the Anaheim Ducks
at the end of the
hoping to stay Walsh attack. She the break as l'ocused as ever," 
and took a shot in a shootout 
fn~sh di'Spite a season and we want will try to eon­J1mkins said. "We are going to 
for the first time in his career. 
two-wenk lay­to continue that in to fWd with sopho­try and mix up our offensive 
The 3S-year-old defense­
off bdw(~l'll more receiver game plan and lnt Kayla throw 
man made his Anaheim debut
the playoffs." 
ganws. Sierra Smith and it around a littl<~ more." 
a memorable one Thursday 
Cava11augh. sophomore Junior lineman Katn Sylvia 
night, scoring the only goal of 
meanwhile, Katie Dunn recnivnr Meghan leads a solid dnfensn that will 
the shootout in the Ducks' 2-1 
hopes to rely Cavanaugh quarterback lladl!~y. look to shut down the Weasels 
victory over the Columbus 
Blue Jackets. had a tough start "After reevaluating the 
While Farley on Sunday. 
Schneider, signed as a free to the season, defense, we got grnat results 
agent during the olrseason to junior captain and are excill~d with our group 
help fill in the vacancy left by .lonny Holt's said the Finest heading into this week's 
Scott Niedermayer, took the have thnir best days ahead of game," Jenkins said. 
Ducks' Sf~cond shot in the tlwm. Despite early season woes, 
tiebreaker and beat Frndrik "Wn lost a few gamos that we Pasquerilla West finished 
Norrena between the pads, definitely should have won," strong by shutting out Badin 
the puck trickling across the Boll's said. and clinching its 
goal line as the goalie franti­The Finest spot in the play­
cally reached back to try to havn benn oiTs. Senior cap­
stop it. 

"J could tell at 
"I never would have imag­working hard at tain Tina
practice that we 
ined that finish," Schneider some problems definitely came back to lead her team 
addressing Martinek hopes 
said, adding that he now has that cost them bark to the 
a record in shootouts. ''I'm
from the break as 
100 pnrcent now. I'm one for
earlier in the championship
focused 
season. In par­game in a repeat 
one." ticular, Farley as ever. performance of 
Being a defenseman, he has been work-last year. 
could hardly believe it when ing on finishing The key this 
coach Handy Carlyle told him
Mary Jenkins 
to get ready to shoot.

drives in the year for the
Howard captain 
"I thought he was kidding at first." Schneider said. Carlyle said, "It was just one 
red zone. 
Farlny will oncn again lean on its strong del'ense to keep them in thn gamo. Senior defensive captain Anna Pursley leads the secondary, and Brigid McGann will head the line­backing corps. 
"We're hoping that our defense can continue to shut down offenses as it has been doing," Holt's said. 
The teams will meet Sunday at 4 p.m. at Biehle Field. 
Howard vs. Pasquerilla West 
In a battle between two teams with two losses, Howard will take on defending champi­on Pasquerilla West in the first round of the playoffs Sunday. 
lloward has a record of 3-2-1 with a three game unbeaten streak. The Ducks, however, 
Twany Lake Villa For Sale: -3 Bed, 2 Bath, Detached Villa -New in '05, 1500 sq. feet -Huge Backyard, 3 Season Porch Prudential One Kim Vergon 
(574) 235-7024 
of those things that you do on the bench; you make a deci­sion and you go with it." 
Jean-Sebastien (;iguere stopped shots by Snrgei Fndorov, Hick Nash and David Vyborny during tlw shootout, clinching it with a glove save of Vyborny's shot. 
The win ended Anaheim's four-game losing streak and snapped a four-gamn winning stteak by Columbus. 
"I think wo played well from the b1~ginning to tlw end," said Giguere, who made 11) saves. "We didn't have any letdowns. We finished on a positive notn, so we should be happy with that." 
Shortly aftnr Anaheim's Hob Niedermaynr brokn a score­less tie 13 seconds into the third poriod, Nikolai Zherdev tied it on a power play with his third goal of the season. 
Columbus goalie Pascal Leclaire, who has a 6-2 record and 1.25 goals-against average, was given the night off. so Norrena got his first start in nine days. lie linislwd with 33 saves. 
"A tough way to lose," Norrena said. "We had some problems early in thn gamP, and they came out flying and were well-rested." 
our Martini Lounge and enjoy live music 

Weasels will be 
their talented 
defense. The Weasels punched their ticket into tho playoffs by shutting out Badin 16-0 in the last game of the regular season. As Pasquerilla West's 4-2 record is misleading, as each of its losses came in very dose games. 
With the experience of last season's championship playoff run under their belts, the Weasels could make a run at the title. 
Howard plays Pasquerilla West Sunday at 2 p.m. on Hiehle Field. 
Contact John Whitty at jwhit­ty@nd.edu, Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu, Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu, and Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 

~ Prud_ential
...... 
' 
One Realty 


Friday, November 2, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 

Tourney 
continued from page 32 
"I give credit to these [play­ers] because it would have been easy to fold up the ship early after starting out how we did," Irish coach Randy Waldrum. 
In Notre Dame's most recent game, it defeated Rutgers 3-1 in New Jersey. In that contest, the Scarlet Knights became the first team to hold a lead ov:er the Irish during their win streak. 
"Rutgers showed that they're capable of"putting us on the ropes," Waldrum said. "We had to battle back last week against them." 
In addition to trying to win the conference tournament, the Irish will set out to improve their standing for the NCAA Tournament. With wins over strong opponents, the Irish have a chance to become one of the top eight seeds, which would guarantee them home games against ]ower-ranked opponents for the first several rounds. 
"Some years when you haven't really lost too many games, you kind of want to cruise [through the Big East tournament]," Waldrum said. "This year, we would love to play the best teams there are because we're hoping to get a top-eight seed." 
The Irish offense, which topped the Big East in scoring at 2.7 goals per game, is led by junior forward Kerri Hanks. After scoring a goal and notch­ing four assists in wins over Seton Hall and Rutgers, Hanks was named the Big East offen­sive player of the week. Against the Scarlet Knights, Hanks became the third Division I player ever to reach 50 career goals and 50 assists prior to her senior season. 
Senior goalie Lauren Karas will mind the net behind a defense that has surrendered an average of just .50 goals per game. 
Hutgers defeated St. John's in New York in a shootout Thursday. The Scarlet Knights posted a record of 9-8-3 in the regular season and finished fifth in the Big East National Division. 
The Irish will host the Scarlet Knights at 1 p.m. Sunday at Alumni Field. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
MEN'5 SOCCER 
Irish can clinch Big East vvith vvin 


KING OF THE BLUES WORLDWIDE

B.B. KING
AND THE B.B. KING BLUES BAND 

.."'~THURSDAY JANUARY 31 at 7:30PM 
MORRIS PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
-
SOUTH BEND, IN 

TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE MORRIS BOX OFFICE & SUPER SOUNDS in GOSHEN BY PHONE (574) 235~9190 www.MORRISCENTER.org. 


By DAN MURPHY Associare Sporrs Ediror 
No. 9 Notre Dame closes out its regular season Saturday at North Kehoe Field in Washington, D.C., when it takes on conference foe Georgetown. 
The Irish can clinch first place in the Big East and a top seed in the conference tourna­ment with a win over the Hoyas. Notre Dame is looking to take home its second regu­lar season championship in as many years. 
"One of goals for the year is to win the league. Your record in the league is a true measure of success, and being champi­on is as good as you can get," Clark said Sunday, following Notre Dame's 2-2 draw with Providence. 
The Irish could have sealed the division with a win against the Friars, but the draw kept Connecticut in the hunt for first place. Connecticut still has an opportunity to capture the division if Notre Dame loses to Georgetown. The Huskies are only two points behind the Irish in the standings. 
Notre Dame (10-3-4, 7-0-3) is the only undefeated team left in the league and, with a win, will tie a program record for conference wins in a sea­son. 
Georgetown comes into the contest with a 5-5 conference record, but has won three straight in the Big East to close out the season. The Hoyas are 4-1 overall in their last five games with their only loss being a 2-1 battle with a tough Maryland squad. The Terrapins also defeated Notre Dame earlier in the season 3-0 at the Adidas/IU Classic. 

The Hoyas have struggled to produce on offense this season. The team's leading scorer, Chandler Diggs, has netted three goals and three assists. Sean Bellomy and Corey Zeller have also racked up three goals so far on the season. As a team, Georgetown is averaging less than a goal per game. 
Irish senior Chris Cahill has been one of the top goalkeep­ers in the conference this year, and will be looking to add a seventh shutout to his resume this season. Cahill boasts a 
0.87 goals against average and a record of 9-2-4. 
On offense, Notre Dame has been led once again by senior forward Joseph Lapira. Lapira, last year's M.A.C. Hermann Award winner, has caught fire in the last few weeks of his col­lege career with two assists in his past two games. He leads 
-

the team with 20 points and eight assists. He is also tied with fifth-year senior Ryan Miller for the lead in goals scored; both players netted six. 
Lapira scored two goals last season against the Hoyas to lead Notre Dame to an easy 4­1 victory at Alumni Field. Notre Dame has won nine of the 1 7 games between the two teams in their history, but is only 2-4 against the Hoyas on their own turf. 
As long as his team prepares well, Clark said, he's confident Notre Dame will be able to come away with a win and clinch the conference. 
"We know every team in the Big East can beat us, but if we do things properly we can beat every team in the Big East," he said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
-


page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 2, 2007 
Superior 
continued from page 32 
I lis first goal broke the game open with just over five minutes remaining in the second period. Condra jumped on a loose rebound and poked it into the net to give the Irish a 5-2 lead. 
The shot came three minutes into a major penalty on Lake Superior's Zac MacVoy, who was njected from the game afler tak­ing a run at senior Evan Hankin. That led defenseman Dan VeNard to scul11e with MacVoy. 
"I don't know what I was think­ing but I was going in there," VeNard said. "You just gotta stand up for a teammate. We've benn battling all summer, all fall, no one is going to take a run at one of our guys without at least having to discuss it for a little bit." 
Jackson said he spoke with l.akers coach Jim Hoque after the game, and Hoque said he will suspend MacVoy for the outburst. 
Less than two minutes later, Van Guilder drove the stake a lit­tle bit deeper into Lake Superior State when he snuck another puck past Lakers goalie Pat Inglis 
Big Mac 
continued from page 32 
Notre Dame that has, I think, every opportunity and ability to go as deep as they want to go," Screaming Eagles coach Hick Stein said. "That was a real deep and exciting team that we had a chance to play them." 
Irish mach Mulli~t McGraw was happy with her team's first game. 
"I thought we did a lot of things wnll," McGraw said. "I thought llrish senior guard Tulyah (~ainesl did a really good job of getting the team ready to play and we came out and it took a lit­tle while for us to get in gear, but I think we came along pretty quiekly." 
One oflhe highlighL'> of the Irish exhibition was the play of its thrne fn~shrnen -guard Brittany Mallory and fiJrwards Devereaux Peters and Beeea Bruszewski. 
"I think you're going to see some great depth and we arc going to be, I think, a really great team whnn we get firing on all cylinders," McGraw said. 
Peters was the main star of the Irish rookie class Thursday, scor­ing 16 points with sevnn nlbounds, two blocks, two steals and two assists in only 19 min­utes. 
"Devereaux did a nice job inside with the rebounding, with the blocked shol'i, lshel was able to get some rnbounds and scorn," McGraw said. 
Even though this was her lirst college game, Peters said, her tmunmatns lmlped get her rnady to play. 
"Obviously I was nxdted. I have a lot of great teammates. It's just on the same power play. 
Notre Dame, whieh had been one for il'i last 24 on the power play prior to tonight, had three goals with the man advantage against Lake Superior. 
"We're just more comfortable out there moving the puck around to the open man, not try­ing to force anything," Condra said. 
Junior right wing Hyan Thang buried the first when he found himself alone in the slot midway through the first period. Thang fired a laser to the top left corner of' the net that Inglis never had a chance to stop. Van Guilder and Condra both had assists on the play. 
The Lakers answered two min­utes later when sophomore Nathan Perkovich let a shot go from the middle of the blue line. The shot was immediately tipped but took a huge bounce in the slot and hopped over Irish netminder Jordan Pearce's shoulder. Pearce had 13 saves on 16 shots Thursday. 
VeNard broke the 1-1 tie in the dosing moments of the first stan­za with a blast from the point that beat Inglis to the glove side. The goal was the third of his career and the first since March of his 
exciting to get out there and play for the first time," Peters said. "I wasn't too nervous f()r whatever reason. I don't know why, just mostly excited to get out there." 
Peters has gelled well with her team on the court already. At the 
4:27 mark in the first half, Irish guard Ashley Barlow tossed up a pass to Peters, who laid it in. 
"We've been working on that a little bit. It's just great to have gmat teammates, it's easy to get along with them and work well with them," Peters said. "Everyone's always .looking out for each other, so it's easy to develop good team chemistry with them." 
Mallory, who was recruited to bn the team's three-point special­ist, finished with six points ofT 2­of-7 shooting, with both shots made from behind the three­point line. 
"That was really exciting, hit­ting my first three," Mallory said. "I know my dad was listening so he's probably pretty happy about that. But I'm glad I could hold up to Coach's words and do what I came here to do." 
Bruszewski racked up time late in the game, finishing with two points and two boards in 13 min­utes. 
Another good sign of things to come for the Irish was the return of guard Lindsay Schrader, who missed all of last season with a knee injury. 
"It's just great to see Lindsay back on the court after the year ofl'. I couldn't help but smile when I saw her out on the floor doing some things well," he said. "I was really pleased with hnr play." 
Schrader said it was a thrill to hear her name callnd over the Joyce Center PA system. 
sophomore season. 

"Everyone kind of kids around about how Danny's had a tough career here," Jackson said. "l-Ie's had a lot of injuries, he hasn't had a chance to play a lot, but he's such a class kid. He's so well liked by his teammates, that's why he's a captain." 
Notre Dame didn't look back from there. Freshman Robin Bergman, who was also on the line with Condra and Van Guilder, picked up his first collegiate goal 18 seconds into the second peri­od. Condra picked the puck up at center ice and beat a Laker defenseman to the net. His shot was saved, but Bergman was there to send home a long rebound on a virtually empty net. 
"The common eye wouldn't rec­ognize that [Condra] intentionally took a soft shot off the goalie's pad because he knew he had a man busting to the net, and that's a big time play," Jackson said. 
The Irish improved to 5-3 (3-1 in the CCHA) with the win, and Lake Superior dropped to 1-3-1 on the year. The two teams will lace them up again tonight at 
7:35 in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
"I guess I was just really, really excited. But then again, I don't know, I wasn't satisfied with the way I played," she said. "But I don't ever thinking I'm ever going to be satisfied with the way I played. But the win is all that matters." 
Schrader still played the entire game with a knee brace. She only needs to wear it for another nine days before she can fmally take it off, she said. She also said her knee did not bother her during Thursday's win. 
"It feels great. I did not have a problem with that at all. It wasn't sore, it was perfect," Schrader said. 
But even though Notre Dame played seemingly perfect, forcing 37 turnovers and allowing just 38 points, Peters feels the team still hasn't peaked. 
"This is only the beginning," she said. "We're only going to go up from here." 
Notes: 
Williamson started for the first time in her career. McGraw said she earned the spot over return­ing junior center Melissa D'Amico due to her play in the preseason. 
"Those two are both playing well. They're both giving us dif­ferent things. And I think Erica had a little bit of a lead on Mel these last couple of weeks," she said. 
McGraw said D'Amico will start in Monday's exhibition against Hillsdale. McGraw will decide whether Williamson or D'Amico will be the permanent starter based on Thursday and Monday's games. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Ainbrose 
continued from page 32 

it was a one-possession game." 
The Bees play an up-tempo style, which Brey said he is excited to face. 
"They really try to play fast, which is good. It'll test our forward Carleton Scott. 
Of the four, Brey said Nash has the best chance to make an impact this season. But Brey also said that, with eight returning veterans, the fresh­men will not be called upon to contribute right away. In fact, Brey said he is more interest­ed to see how sophomore guard Jonathan Peoples and junior forward Luke Zeller 
transition defense and it'll test our thinking," he said. 
Notre Dame will be without sophomore for­ward Luke llarangody, who injured his thumb in prac­tice on Oct. 15. Junior Zach llillesland will replace Harangody d in the starting lineup. 

"This has been so much better than playing AAU or travel teams because the guys are in shape and while they may not be as big as us, they play hard. " 
Mike Brey Irish coach 
play tonight than he is to see the fresh­men. 
"I'm more focused on the eight veterans than the four young guys," he said. 
Next week, Notre Dame will take on S a i n t Edward's in its second and final exhibi­tion game. 

Junior guard Kyle McAiarney will play for the first time since serving a semester-long suspension after an arrest last season on marijuana charges. McAlarney will join sopho­more Tory Jackson in the backcourt. Jackson replaced McAlarney as the starting point guard last season. 
Rounding out the starting lineup for the Irish will be senior forward Rob Kurz and junior guard Ryan Ayers, who is expected to be a full-time starter this season. 
The game also marks the first collegiate action for the four Irish freshmen: forward Tim Abromaitis, guard Tyrone Nash, guard Ty Proffitt and That game and tonight's are part of an effort by Brey to play small Catholic schools in exhibitions. 
"It's unbelievable for these institutions," he said. "They bring their entire administra­tions. It's a very special evening for them." 
Brey said the Division II schools present a step up in competition for the teams the Irish used to play to warm up for the season. 
"This has been so much better than playing AAU or travel teams because the guys are in shape and while they may not be as big as us, they play hard," Brey said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL HOURS Celefvtak udtl't ·¥ufj! 
FRIDAY Join us after the pep rally for food, Restaurant: 11:00 am -Midnight 
drinks, and live music. Return on 
Pub: 11:00 am -2:00 am 

Saturday to cheer on the Irish and
SATURDAY Restaurant: 8:00 am -Midnight celebrate with friends and fans! Pub: 8:00am -2:00 am 


Friday, November 2, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 


RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

CROSSWORD 
Across 41 Dance move Just the pits 44 Scratch 16 Classic 'line of 46 Winner of three 
debate? consecutive 17 Just a bit, if that Emmys for 18 Flag holder "Mission: 
Impossible"

191n shape 47 Batman creator
20 Means: Abbr. Bob
21 Songwriter Coleman and 
49 Woody Guthrie's others 
"Tom 

53 Left-of-center indication party member 22 Illumination 
23 Food whose 57 'Til take name means whatever help I "little sash" can get" 28 Many an e-mail 58 Pro team whose attachment mascot is a blue 30 Sewn up 
bird named Blitz 

37 "The Randi Rhodes Show" Down network 
Thrashers' home 38 Determine in the N.H.L.: 39 It'll change your Abbr. 
mind 2 One just filling 40 Drone up space 
•A•N•S•W•E•R•T•O-P•R•EV•I•O•U•S•P•U•Z•Z•L•E­
29 Embarrassing way to be caught 
novel 32 Insult, on the 
street 33 Volt-ampere =-F, 34 Peculiar: Prefix 
35 Relative of -ance 3 Second of 24 4 See 52-Down 5 Arm raiser, 

informally 6 Vote tor 7 In need of a 
sweep 8 Ragged edges, 
in metalworking 9 Lambs: Lat. 10 Destiny 11 String player? 12 Ottoman officers 13 Simple 14 Toot 15 Some specialize 
in elec. 21 They may give you a seat 22 Spring river phenomenon 23 Soundproofing material 24 Converse 
alternative · 25 Yo-yo 26 Requiem title 
word 27 Alternative to a 23-Across 
WILLSHORTZ 


4-:':-t-::+=-t 28 Somewhat, in music 

Puzzle by Paula Gamache  
36 Perfect  45New  50 Prefix with - 
41 He wrote that  Hampshire's _  hedron  
government "is.  State College  51 In ranks  
but a necessary evil" 42 Gulf of Sidra  46 Longfellow's "The Bells of San  52 With 4-Down, black magic  
setting  47 Rove in politics  54 Raise a stink?  
43 Like the  48 Old man, in  55 Billy's call  
Keystone Kops  Mannheim  56 Logos and the  
44 'The  near!"  49 Rib  like: Abbr.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 

All Rights Reserved. 
NEG IF 
I (JtINVOIS 
IJ I 
www.jumble.com 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: ELOPE 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

It has more twists 
than a mountain road 
A GOOD MYSTE<Y IS Ba..;NO TO HAVE rns. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. ) 
(Answers tomorrow) LAUGH GULLET SALOON 
Answer: What the Mayor used to win the picnic tug-of-war -LOTS OF PULL 
HOROSCOPE 
Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) Don't use worms. Use a lure. 

Libra (Sept. 23-0ct.22) Trust the Man in the Yellow Hat. 
Scorpio {Oct. 23-Nov. 21) 
Fridays with Fran 
.... 

Maintain personal hygiene by showering daily, shaving regularly, clipping your nails weekly, and always wiping well. 
Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) Keep your eye on Orion the Hunter. He's about to slay a wild boar. 
Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) 

Maintain substantial distance from loved ones. They don't really love you. 
Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) If your bike has been making you sore, you might want to consider investing in a banana seat. 
Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20) 

Aren't chihuahuas just so cute? 
Aries (March 21-Apr. 19) Handle your feet with care. More importantly, feetle your hands with care. 
Taurus (Apr. 20-May 20) 

For a sweaty mule of a man, call (563)349-8241. 
Gemini (May 21-June 20) 

Twist it and pull it but don't you dare bop it. 
Cancer (June 21-July 22) 
Keep that spunk! 
Leo (July 23-Aug.22) 

Be ashamed of your largeness. 
-


r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, November 2, 2007 
page 32 
HOCKEY 
Draining the lake 
Notre Dame crushes Lake Superior State 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 

Aller sufli1ring his first shutout loss in almost a year last Saturday to Ferris State, Notre I>amn coach Jeff Jackson decided to make a change. Jackson moved last year's point leader Erik Condra from his normal line to play with senior captain Mark Van c;uildnr-and it paid oil". 
Condra had five poinL'i 12 goals, 3 assisL'i) and Van Guilder added liHir morn (2 goals, 2 assists) in Notre Damn's 7-3 rout of Lake Superior State Thursday. 
"I was just trying to find that right chemistry, you know," Jackson said. "Erik is a very smart, intelligent, playmaking player." 
It was the second live-point game of Condra's career. The junior right wing tallied a goal and four assisL'i in a 6-2 win over Bobnrt Morris in January. 
see SUPERIOR/page 30 


ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Irish begin Big East title hunt 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
After defeating Hutgers last Sunday, Notre Dame will again face the Scarlet Knights in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament. 
The Irish earned a first­round bye, but will begin tour­nament play on Sunday at Alumni Field. 
The Scarlet Knights will have to maintain a high level of play to have any chance against the Irish, who finished the regular season unbeaten in eonference play. Notre Dame is looking to win its 1Oth Big East champi­onship during its 13 years in the conference. 
After beginning the season 3­4-1, the Irish put together a 10-game win streak during which they outscored oppo­nents 34-5. 
see TOURNEY/page 29 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Welsh Family enters playoffs as team to beat 
attack of overpowering offense shut out opponents in half of back Neva Lundy. In order to but that doesn't mean they play By JOHN WHITTY, and a stifling defense. its games, the Lions have an stop the potent Welsh Family like it. 
SAM WERNER, "Our success this season has uphill climb. offense, the Lions will need big Pangborn, led almost entirely ANDY ZICCARELLI and been due to our offense, Despite the daunting task, games from their defensive by freshman and sophomores,ALEX BARKER 
defense, coaching and team Lyons remains optimistic. core of seniors Judith enters tho playoffs riding a Sports Writers 
chemistry." Welsh Family cap­"We plan to come out strong Kaczmarek and Joanna Collins five-game unbnatnn streak it tain Kelly Bushelle said. "If' the and use what we have been and junior Shannon Brandy. hopes to continue Sunday Welsh Family vs. Lyons offense struggles, we know the working on in practice to beat The Lions defense has given up against Cavanaugh. 
Thn No. H Lions hope to play defense will step up and vice Welsh Family," Lyons captain an average of 12.5 points in six The No. 3 seed Phoxes look spoilor and upend the top­versa." Catherine Mackin said. "We games this season. to rely on a tough defense and seodnd, undefeated Welsh Offnnsive struggles, though, are not afraid, and we will be The Lions and Whirlwinds strong passing game led by Family when tho two teams have hardly been a problem for ready on Sunday to win." play Sunday at 1 p.m. on freshman quarterback Gabbie dash Sunday. the Whirlwinds, who average Lyons will look for big per­Hiehle Field. Tate and sophomore receiver 
All snason, thn 6-0 just over 22 points a game. formances· on offense from Meghan Bescher. Whirlwinds havn run down Coupled with a dominant sophomore quarterback Claire Pangborn vs. Cavanaugh opponnnts with a balaneed Whirlwind defense that has Connell and freshman running These Phoxes may be young, see PLAYOFFS/page 28 
.. MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hoopsters tip off against Div. II foe 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
After weeks of intrasquad serimmages, Notre Dame will finally get to take the floor against an opponent. 
The Irish face Saint Ambrose tonight at 9 at the Joyce Center in their first nxhibition game of the sea­son. 
Coach Mike Brey said one of his focuses for the exhibition against the Fighting Bees will be trying to simulate the rota­tion he wants to use once the regular season starts. 
"It's the first time you're on the same bench, so you try to get a feel for your substitution patterns," he said. 

Brey said that while he wants to get every player into the gamn, his substitutions will be "like a Big East game," nspecially in the first half. so he ean see how differ­ent combinations work on the f1oor. 
Although Saint Ambrose is a Div. II school, Brey said, it will provide good competition for the Irish. 
"They had DePaul in a close one [last year)," he said. "With about 10 minutes to go, 
see AMBROSE/page 30 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Team earns free Big Macs for fans 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Ediwr 
With 11 seconds to play, the crowd of 5,252 at the Joyce Center Thursday night finally got what it wanted: a Big Mae. 

The crowd erupted when Irish center Erica Williamson's layup gave Notre Dame its 89th point -one more than was needed for everyone at the game to receive a coupon for a free McDonald's sandwich. 
She would add a free throw for a traditional three-point play, giv­ing Notre Dame a 90-38 win over Southern Indiana Thursday. 

It was the most exciting part of a game the Irish dominated from the opening tip. 
"We're talking about a team in 
see BIG MAC/page 30 



Photo Illustration by JARED WAFER/The Observer 
page 2 Friday, November 2, 2007
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
=~~----=~---·~~================================~========================================================= 
COMMENTARY 
Weis gets it right after earlyfumbles 
Charlie Weis has faltered more than a f(lW times this season. 
But this week, at least. he's bnen a heck of a coach. 
On Tuesday, Weis broke the news to 
Hobnrt Hughes (and other players and report11rs, snparatelyl that Hughes' older brother, Earl. had dind. Weis 

Ken Fowler

told Hughes to take as 
Sports Writer 

much time away from football as he needed. 
"Something like that, how can you give him a time frame?" Weis said. 
On Wednesday, Hughes was back. Weis said the freshman running back returned because of classes and to have a distrac­tion from the grim reality for a while. Weis again insisted that 
Hughes could take things at his own pace, that he could try to play against Navy if he want­ed to, but there was no rush. 
On Thursday night. Weis was scheduled to drive llughes to his home in Chicago to be with his family. Weis didn't want the freshman driving 90 miles, tield arena. He gave the tirst 
indication that Notre Dame just 
might be able to tix its perform­ance fortunes spmetime soon. 
If the tirst step to overcoming a football problem is recognizing it exists, Weis moved onto Step 
2. A reporter with the Navy press corps asked Weis what the biggest problems with the Irish are this year. The question was marvelous. 
"For those of us who haven't followed Notre Dame football as dosely as those people who cover it on a regular basis or are fans, could you kind ofjust quickly summarize what you feel has happened this year?" the reporter asked. "Is it simply a case of being hit hard by grad­uation and the younger players who have been asked to till in just haven't performed or were not ready or the inexperience? In your overall big picture analysis, what's led to 1-7?" 
The answer was better. "Well, first of all, let's start 
There's a reason Notre Dame alumni cling so dearly to the traditionof athletes living in normal dorms just like everyone else ­because they are just like everyone else. 
alone and fadng his brother's funeral. He also wanted to sp1md "one-on-one time" with Hughes, something not so eom­mon on teams with more than XO scholarship players, and sit and talk with Hughes' family. 
What's more, Weis went 
through the ath­It's just a week, but a ings. letic depart­week in which Weis Weis didn't 
ment's compli­bite.
showed why he 
ance ollice and "It's a factor, the NCAA to still earns trust but that's what it arrange for one among fans. is," Weis said. 
or two buses to 
take coaches and players dose to Hughes to servic­es for Earl on Friday. 
That all might seem natural and nondescript, but that's pre­cisely the point. 
There's a reason Notre Dame alumni ding so dearly to the tra­dition of athletes living in nor­mal dorms just like everyone else -bncause they are just like everyone else. And when foot­ball coa1:hes react to human sit­uations in humane manners. that's a good thing. Too often, sports celebrities try to con­struct a false wall between the public and themselves; the line is simple, and it's repnated often -"you just don't get it." 
But here, there was no sign of that mm1tality. Weis made an analoJ.,ry about a fatlwr or a mother-what they would do. By driving to Chieago, the eoach is missing time he would other­wisn spnnd studying tape, for­mulating a gam11 plan or r<~cruiting. But it's the right thing to do. 
This wnek, Weis' good deci­sions a ron 't just in the oil'-the­wit? co~c~g," Wets sat d. ... I, probably, with the transition that we've had from last year to this year, have not done the best job of hav­ing the team ready to go on a week in and week out basis. And we proba­bly should leave it at that one because if you are looking for 
me to give you a whole dossier of problems that have happened this year, there would be too many things." 
There was a follow-up, with 
the reporter-hoping to get Weis to say the team's inexperience has been a "crucial factor" in its fail­
"It's a factor; it's 
not the factor .... 
I started with 

what I felt was the No. 1 reason, and I think that if you start with the head coach doing a better job, then you'd probably have a better record." 
He told the truth. The inexpe­rience has hurt, but he has also done a crummy job at times, which has set the team back. But simply by acknowledging that flaw, he's starting to turn things around. 
It's just a week, but a week in which Weis showed why he still earns trust among fans: He can make good decisions about f(JOt­ball and about life. That is the combination Notre Dame sought when it hirnd him, the combina­tion we saw in 2005 with "Pass Hight," and the combination that was lacking this season. 
Not anymore. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd. edu 
2007 Irish opponents 

Last week This week (5-3) Idle vsVa. Tech 
• 
(6-3) L, 17-37, Ohio St. vs Purdue 
(7-2) W, 30-13, Minn. at Michigan St. 
~·if¥ 

L, 27-34, Iowa vs Michigan (7-2) W, 35-17, N'Western at Penn State 
(6-2) 
(4-4) 

L, 7-27, Wash. St.  at Arizona  
W, 14-10,Va. Tech  vs Florida State  
L, 17-24, Oregon  vs Oregon State  
L, 52-59, Delaware  at Notre Dame  
L, 31-34, New Mex.  vsArmy  
L, 6-25, FSU  vs Clemson  
L, 6-23, Oreg. St.  vs Washington  


Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Ptus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by tlie fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open·seven night.. a week, too. 
(WaterfOrd Estates L.odge has hotel rooms atreasonable ratesfur upcomi~ NO football weekends.) 

.--------------­
Friday, November 2, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Going out in style 
Trevor Laws has shined in his careeer despite coaching changes and a switch in defensive scheme 

Irish defensive lineman Trevor Laws tackles Spartans quarterback Stephen Reaves in Notre Dame's 31-24 win aver Michigan State in 2004. 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
Last season, Trevor Laws was part of an all-senior defensive line for Notre Dame as a defen­sive tackle. But after tackle Derek Landri and ends Victor Abiamiri and Chris Frome grad­uated, Laws was the only expe­rienced defensive lineman on Notre Dame's roster who could return for a fifth year. 
Laws took that fifth year to try to improve his play on a solid team, but instead has been one of the top players on one of the worst teams in the nation. 
But he wouldn't trade it in for anything. 
"If could go back in time, I would make the exact same decision because I've had great moments with my good friends here," he said. 
Life before Weis 
Laws eame out of Apple Valley High School in Apple Valley, Minn., as one of the top recruits from Minnesota -even though his team was never one of' the best in the state. 
"Apple Valley lligh School was a great place. We were never really that good, but we played hard every game," he said. 
Laws played on both sides of thn ball in high school as a ver­satile lineman on of'fense and as a tackle on defense -although he made his name as a defen­sive standout. 
;\s a senior, Laws had 87 tackles, 11 saeks. Beforn that, hn had 85 tackles, 1 0 sacks and 25 tackles f'or loss as a junior­enough to make him a first t<~am all-state selection. 
But in high school, f'ootball may not have been Laws' best sport. liP l'inishnd his high school wrestling can~er as a thrne-timn ali-Ameriean with a 142-5 record, including an undefeated 49-0 campaign as the top-ranked super-heavy­weight in his junior season. 
In football, Laws made consis­
ior season and coach, it's been earned Gatorade "Coming to Notre great having player of the Dame you think him with me." 
year honors in Laws took
you're going to be
Minnesota. immediate When colleges with this guy you're advantage of came to recruit whole career and the new system, 
Laws, he knew earning a start­
then he gets fired." 
that he wanted ing job as a to go to a Big Ten defensive tackle school so that he Trevor Laws in his junior could be close to Irish lineman season. Laws home; Notre started all 12 Dame wasn't on games on the his initial list. defensive line but netted only 
"I wasn't always a Notre 33 tackles and 1 1/2 sacks. Dame fan, and when I first got Even though Laws had rela­the letter to come here I didn't tively modest numbers, his know if that was the right deci­coaches still saw the potential sion for me," he said. he had to be a top-tier defen­
But when he sat down and sive player. thought about it, Laws decided "Even when I first got here I that Notre Dame's combination have always thought that of athletics and academics -he Trevor was a great technician. was a member of the National I really have," Oliver said. Honor Society in high school -Oliver also said that Laws has made it a good place to go. been relentless -especially 
When Laws entered the this season -in trying to make University, he played his first a big play on every down. two seasons under coach "The one thing I've tried to Tyrone Willingham. He did not do is get him to trust his get on the field as a freshman instincts, because Trevor has and finished his sophomore great instincts," Oliver said. season with 17 tackles, two "And a lot of players do not pass break-ups and a forced trust them; they get a feel for fumble. it, but that's what it's all about. 
When Willingham was fired If you sense something, trust on Nov. 30, 2004, Laws said he your instincts and go play." was shocked. Weis said that Laws reminds 
"It was tough; I didn't see it him of a lot of the great defen­coming at all. Coming to Notre sive tackles he faced as an Dame you think you're going to offensive coordinator for the be with this guy you're whole New England Patriots. career and then he gets fired," "He's a very disruptive inside he said. "So it's tough, but player because he's not only lcoach Charlie] Weis came in short but he's powerful and and we had such a successful quick off the ball and the year and thought this was going schemes of the teams that we to be great so that made it easi­were coaching had a lot more er. But it's always tough losing of the two-gap type players," some of your coaches." Weis said. "He's definitely more 
a prototypical 4-3 inside defen­Becoming a star sive lineman. There's a whole When Weis took over, Laws bunch that he reminds me of­said, it took some adjusting to those pain in the butts that are 
always in the backfield." 
Laws played well in 2006 alongside fellow seniors Abiamiri, Landri and Frome. He had 62 tackles, 3 1/2 sacks, 9 1/2 tackles for loss and a forced fumble. 
But things all changed this season since his teammates on the line all left -and so did defensive coordinator Rick Minter. 
One of the most important decisions for Laws was whether he should even take the fifth year. But he said that he has a lot of friends in the fifth-year class, and they decid­ed to play one more year together. 
"In the end, we decided it would be the best for all of us to come back and play another year at Notre Dame, another year for each other and also at the same time elevate ourselves in the draft for next year," he said. 
Still, when Corwin Brown came in and brought his 3-4 personnel defense, everything changed for Laws. 
Elder statesman 
Laws has been one of the players most affected by the new defensive scheme. Laws said that he sees himself as more of a defensive tackle in a 4-3, but had to make the adjustment to playing end. 
To prepare for the change, Laws said, he lost some weight and did drills to increase his speed and mobility because he would have more room to work with on the end. 
Weis said that even though Laws is listed as an end, he has played every position on the line this season -some­thing that will help him at the next level. 
"He's played both inside and outside both left and right this year so what he's really done is he's elevated his status," Weis said. "He can play left defen­sive tackle, right defensive tackle, left end or right end. So he's really helped himself, rather than get pigeonholed at just one spot." 
But the biggest change was not from tackle to end, but in becoming one of the lead{lrs on the field. 
This year's Irish defensive line is filled with young, inex­perienced players -except for Laws and nose tackle Pat Kuntz -so Laws took it on himself to be the leader of that group. 
"During spring ball ... I looked down the line and saw all the new faces and knew that it was up to me 'to help teach these guys how to play football," Laws said. "At first it was tough with guys learning their positions and everything and learning how to play, but now it's a point in the season where guys are playing great football and I don't have to say anything anymore." 
Laws said that he expected the team to struggle because of the losses on the offensive side of the ball but never would have thought the team could have been this bad. Moreover, he said that his solid season ­67 tackles, two sacks, two fum­ble recoveries and four pass breakups -cannot overshad­ow the team's performance. 
"I will never feel good about this season, but maybe in the future it will be easier to look back ... on myself and see the positives," Laws said. "But I will never be OK with the way we played," he said. 
But one of the toughest parts of being the lone senior on such a young defensive line has been focusing on this sea­son's final four games -his last at Notre Dame. 
"Some people are saying 'I'm looking forward to next year, this is the beginning of next year,' or something like that and I don't want to think about it that way," Laws said. "The way I do think about it some­times is just helping younger guys because it is my team and they're going to be playing next year for my school, so just helping them along and play­ing hard these last four games." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
tent appearances on various football recruiting lists, and was named an ESPN.com and USA Today prep All-American. Laws was rated the No. 2 defensive tackle in the country his sen-
the new coach's personality. 
"It was definitely a little bit of culture shock but you get used to it fast," Laws said. "And !defensive line] coach [Jappy] Oliver has been a great position 
page 4 
Friday, November 2, 2007

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 1-7 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Charlie Weis Third season at Notre Dame. career record: 
20-13 

at Notre Dame: 
20-13 

Charlie Weis against Navy: head coach 2-0 
Roster 

Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR LJ.j. I lord WR 6-1 196 )R Darrin Walls DB 6-1 1HO so Gary l;ray Dll 5-11 1HO FR Arrn.1ndo Allt.•n RB 5-10 190 FR R.1y llt•rring DB 5-10 197 JR Jimmy Clatto;en UB 6-3 207 FR Rat.•shtm MfNt.•il DB 6-0 187 so Tom Zbikowski DR 6-0 207 SR David Criml's WR 5-10 177 )R Darrin Bragg UB 6-1 1HH SR Evcm Sharpley (.)II 6-2 216 JR Brandon Wi1lkt•r K 6-3 197 I'R l.t.>oh•rrlne DR 6-0 189 SR justin Cillctt UB 5-11 1HO SR Geoffn•y Prin· r 6-3 208 SR Duval Kamar.1 WR 6-5 222 FR George West WR 5-10 197 so Terrc1il L,lmbt.·rt DB 5-11 191 SR Barry Callup Jr. WR 5-11 185 so Ambrose Wooden CB 5-11 196 SR Goldt.•n l~1te WR 5-11 188 FR 
W. David Willi,lm> DB 5-9 173 SR Lt.•<mard Gordon DB 5-11 194 so Munir Prince DB 5-10 184 so Travis Thomas RB 6-0 216 SR David Bruton DB 6-2 207 )R Kyk• McCarthy DB 6-1 207 JR Jash.1ad Gaines DB 6-0 203 so jake Rich•rdville WR 6-1 180 SR Harrison Smith DB 6-2 205 FR Sergio Brown DB 6-2 196 so Luke Schmidt RB 6-3 248 so Robt•rt llughe' RB 5-11 238 FR James Aldridge RB 6-0 222 so Nat<• Whitakt•r K 5-9 165 FR Kevin Smith LB 5-8 200 JR DcxCun• RB 6-1 220 so junior f11bbit• RB 5-11 205 SR Wndt.•Iams DR 5-9 183 SR Ryan Burkhart K 5-11 196 so 
1.1.1 Kevin Bmob TE 6-2 241 )R 
:E

Maurin• Crum. Jr. 1.11 6-0 230 SR 
<(

Scott Smith 1.11 6-4 235 )R Kevin Washington Lll 6-1 241 JR 
Q 

Erir M.1ust r 5-10 177 so 
1.1.1

John Ll'onis DB 5-9 169 JR Asaph Schwapp Fll 6-0 261 )R 
a::: 
....

Mikt· Ant•llo DB 5-10 180 JR Kris P a th.•rson WR 5-11 185 )R 
0 

Aaron NaKel LB 6-1 229 FR 
z 

Stevt• Quinn Lll 6-2 2.11 JR Toryan Smith J.ll 6-1 245 so Stt.•ve P .tskorz LB 6-2 235 FR Dan WL•nger OL 6-4 287 so Joe Brtx::kinghm J.B 6-2 240 SR Morrice Richardson 1.11 6-2 244 so Anthony Vcmaglia 1.1! 6-3 2.14 SR Eric Olsen OL 6-4 303 so Kerry NPnl 1.1! 6-2 245 FR Dwight Stephenson DL 6-2 272 SR Brian Smith LB 6-3 233 FR Chris StewArt OL 6-5 339 so ).).)anst•n LS 6-3 242 SR )dfTisak OL 6-5 306 JR Tom lk•mcndl'ffer OL 6-5 285 JR Neil Kennedy Dl. 5-11 266 SR Matt Romint• OL 6-5 279 FR llartlt•y Webb OL 6-6 305 so Paul Duncan OL 6-7 308 JR M.1tt Carufel OL 6-5 295 so Sam Young OL 6-8 310 so Taylor l.kvcr OL 6-5 289 FR Andrt•w Nuss Dl. 6-5 292 FR Mkhat.'! Thrkovich OL 6-6 301 JR john Sullivan OL 6-4 303 SR Rich.ud jackson WR 6-3 204 so Robby Parris WR 6-4 209 so Mikt· R,tgont• TE 6-5 2.10 FR Will Yt.•atman TE 6-6 264 so Sam Vos WR 5-10 199 so John Carlson TE 6-6 255 SR )uhn Ryan Lll 6-5 253 so Emt•k,l Nwankwn Dl. 6-4 283 FR l"lem•lllland DJ. 6-3 287 JR l'addy Mull<•n DL 6-5 290 so Justin Brown DJ. 6-3 261 SR lcmWiJi,tms DJ. 6-2 3()() FR Pat Kuntz DL 6-3 285 JR Kallm Wade DL 6-5 257 so Trevor l.a ws [)I. 6-1 296 SR 




Irish experts 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Notre Dame 2007 Schedule 
Sept. 1 Sept. 8 Sept. 15 Sept. 22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 20 Nov. 3 Nov. 10 Nov. 17 Nov. 24 

HEADT~ 
GA.TECH-L at Penn State-L at Michigan-L MICH.ST.-L atPurdue-L atUCLA-W BC-L USC-L NAVY AIR FORCE DUKE at Stanford 

No. 1 2 4 5 6 7 
9 
II 
12 13 14 15 16 17 1H 19 20 21 22 23 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 29 30 31 32 33 
34 
35 35 I 36 37 38 r 
39 39 
40 41 42 43 43 44 45 45 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 
54 
55 56 
57 
58 59 61 63 67 69 70 71 
72 73 74 75 76 77 78 80 82 83 84 85 89 90 
g( 
92 93 94 95 96 97 98 
Notre Dame is in the midst of one of its worst seasons ever. Charlie We is must show progress in the last four games of this year to build for the  Evan Sharpley will start again this week at quarterback for the Irish after strugggling in his first career start against USC. Sharpley has completed 53 per­ The best thing that can be said for Notre Dame's rushing attack right now is that the Irish are averaging posi­tive yards per game -which wasn't the case  If Sharpley can throw like he did against Purdue or, at times, against Boston College, the Irish will have success. If he plays like he did against USC, however, Notre  
future and keep his players believing he can someday lead them to a championship.  cent of his passes this year with three touch­downs and three inter­ceptions.  early in the season. James Aldridge returns from a high ankle sprain this week.  Dame will struggle. Duval Kamara and Hobby Parris will start at receiver this week.  
In 2002, Paul Johnson took over a program that had won just one game in two years. Six years later, he is 39-19 overall and 5­0 against Army. The  Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku­Enhada got his first start last season against the Irish and played well. Now a veteran, he is averaging 80 yards  The Navy front is severely undersized and has been pushed around by several teams this season. The Midshipmen are allowing nearly 180  Navy has been torched through the air this year, allowing more than 280 yards per game. Last week, Delaware threw for 434 yards and  
Midshipmen are one of the few teams that still run the wishbone, and they run it very well.  rushing and 80 passing per game this season, leading the Midshipmen in both.  yards on the ground per game this season, including 237 to Air Force.  scored four touchdowns through the air. The Midshipmen are last in the nation in sacks.  
Johnson is one of the best coacl:)..es. in football  Kaheaku-Enhada runs the op,tio.l,),, tp per­ Notre Dame's running game has been non­ Like its rush defense, Navy's pass defense is  
and will.. probably ge(a shot at a J3CSI!corifc'r­enco~school soon·-"7 if he Wll.Jlts to \ilave~ Weis h"as thP ab.iJity ,to tprn the.. Irish arvund even­ fection agd;is alyvay~ a,, threat to br.pa~Jt big gain on the ground. He has ~l'sQ lio¢n soUd throwi:ng.;,'>t:Jie­,., halll. Shatpl·fY ha-s s"hown  existent, but Navy's small defensive front ff'i;may be just what do~or ered, ·..w~l;t~i if~~:  awful -but so is Notre Dame's passing game. Tbc Irish should look betier t~is '¥e~,k;;;;btJ,~ vv;lwther 'ey.~fll ~~o~ tlie co nsfs t err·cy 'tfh ey  
tuallf, but rhe 2007 squad has been histori­cally awful.  flashe~. but li.as not been very consistent this' season.  other hand, Notre Dame hasn't shown the ability to run on anyone yet.  have lacked most or this season is up in the air.  

CoACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
If only this were any other year in the Paul Johnson era, then Navy would be a shoe-in. But it's not. Still, Navy can score -and the Midshipmen will. The Irish will need to put up at least four touchdowns. Navy's defense may be porous, but Notre Dame has taken advantage of dcl(mses for a grand total of only two quarters this sea<;on. And the last time Navy beat Notre Dame? 1963, a year very similar to this one. 
FINAL SCORE: Navy 31 Notre Dame 20 
Chris Khorey 

Sports Editor 
Notre Dame will finally be able to move the ball this week against Navy's undersized and struggling defense, especially with James Aldridge baek. Defensively, the Irish will need to play assignment football against the option. Outside linebaekers John Hyan, Kerry Neal and Brian Smith will be especially key in this regard. In the end, Notre Dame will overpower the Midshipmen. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28 Navy 20 



Friday, November 2, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 
-


Midshipmen
HEAD Navy 
Record: 4-4 
Navy Midshipmen 

WR 
80W~"" 
~4 SU<ldortb 


DE 
!nK~Pkters 
59NC'cllal< 
I 
MIDSHIPMEN MIDSHIPMEN RUSHING PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 
The Irish have strug­ Notre Dame's pass  The Irish special  Notre Dame has had a  
gled defending the run  defense has been its  teams have suffered  bye week to lick its  
this year, allowing more  strength this season,  massive breakdowns at  wounds and prepare for  
than 190 yards per game.  although Matt Ryan and  times this season. Last  the option. The team  
The Notre Dame front  Mark Sanchez had good  game, a USC punt hit  and campus are chipper  
seven is undersized and  days against the Irish.  Munir Prince in the back  after fall break and  
has been bitten by the  Notre Dame's defensive  and was recovered by  have put the USC game  
injury bug. The bye week  backs will need to  the Trojans. The Irish  behind them -but the  
should have allo~ed  improve their tackling to  also had a field goal  Irish are still 1-7 with  
Maurice Crum to recover  help out against the  blocked and struggled  all the psychological  
from a foot injury.  option.  on kick returns.  issues that go with it.  
Navy leads the nation in  The Midshipmen  Reggie Campbell is  The Midshipmen smell  
rushing, with more than  rarely pass, saving it  tiny, but a very quick  blood in the water. This is  
340 yards per game from  for third and long sit­ returner who is a threat  their best chance to end  
their option-based attack.  uations. When they  to take a kickoff or punt  the losing streak since at  
Seven Midshipmen backs  do, they occasionally  back for a touchdown  least 2003, if not long  
average more than 10  bring in backup quar­ every time. The  before that. They are com­ 
yards rushing per game.  terback J a rod Bryant,  Midshipmen also have  ing off a disheartening loss  
Kaheaku-Enhada is the  who has completed 58  two solid placekickers,  to Delaware, but they will  
leader, with a little more  percent of his passes  Matt Harmon and Joey  be fired up to play the  
than 80 yards per game.  this year.  Bullen.  Irish.  

 
While Navy's option offense differs from the power running, games that have, given-Notre Dame.. tits. it is still very effective on the ground. The Irish will have'to stay disciplined and tackle well in order to slow the Midshipmen down.  Notre Dame's special teams 1;\~ve ~su"rr~reQ' nearzy eyery br4~kd6wti imagin,ahle. ;__ ~)kept a returJrifQda tfhichdown. In ordJ(\~o keep tl{at gotpg .;,this week, the Irish Will have to contain Campbell -or kick away from him.  Aside from Army, Notre Da.m~_...is the, biggest gti;tne o~ Nit~f~" seasonA an& t:h'{:} Midshipp1enchave be~n frustrlt~dllf'3; stra'ig)lt times afainst the IN~. Thit\{mt8ht beth~ worst ND 'tea'in since-the 2-7 1963 squad that was Nary's last victim.  

Navy 2007 Schedule  
Aug. 31 atTemple-W Sept. 7 at Rutgers -L Sept. 15 BALLSTATE -L Sept. 22 DUKE -W Seot, 29 AIR FORCE -W Oct. 10 at Pittsburgh -W Oct. 20 WAKE -L Oct. 27 DELAWARE-L Nov. 3 at Notre Dame Nov.10 at North Texas Nov. 17 N.ILLINOIS Dec.1 Anny (Baltimore)  

INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
-t 
:a 
m 
~ 
s: 
m 



AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Paul Johnson Sixth season at Navy. career record: 
101-29 
at Navy: 
39-19 
against Notre Dame: 0-5 


Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  WI.  YR  
1  Blake Carter  DB  5-11  188  so  
1  Jack Hatcher  FB  5-11  194  so  
2 2 3  Jarod Bryant Josh Ulnch David Bohner  QB DB K  5-10 5-10 6-1  185 185 175  m FR  
3 !  ~sselwu~ D,eid %~:~on  DB QB DB  6-1 6-1 5-9  179 190 172  so FR so  
~  ~ffkl~r;:~;  DB LB  6-2 5-11  192 215  SR SR  
7  James Howell  DB  5-8  175  FR  
7  Reggie Campbell  RB  5-6  168  SR  
8  Wyatt Middleton  DB  6-0  200  FR  
8  MattBova  WR  6-0  185  FR  
9  Matt Humiston  LB  5-11  207  SR  
10  K_ Kahoaku-Enhada  QB  5-11  194  JR  
11 13  Ketric Buffin Greg Harrell  CB WR  5-7 6-4  170 200  ~  
14  Troy Goss  QB  6-2  211  SR  
}~  ~:Vlin1,7~~ds  QB DB  6-0 -6-2  197 197  so FR  
16 i~  iared Smearman ci1Jc'ir~or  r DB DB  6-1 6-2 5-11  195 175 195  ~~ SR  
17  oe Buckley  p  5-9  170  FR  
18 l§20  Rashawn King ~~:.~~~ Julius Bratton  DB DB K RB  6-0 6-1 5-10 5-8  190 190 182 185  ~~ ~  
~1  ~a':.;; ~!r~~~  LB FB  6-0 6-1  192 236  JR SR  
23  Scott Oswald  RB  5-11  200  so  
23  Charles Summers  LB  6-0  180  FR  
~  ~:~1\"~~~~rth  WR RB  6-2 5-9  207 181  SR so  
25  Emmett Merchant  CB  5-9  185  FR  
26 26  Shun White James Ousley  RB LB  5-9 6-2  186 195  ~  
28 28  Zerbin Singleton Joe Davis  RB DB  5-8 6-0  164 185  SR FR  
29  Josh Stewart  LB  6-1  205  FR  
31  Greg Veteto  p  6-1  178  SR  
31  Armando Guerrero  LB  5-11  194  FR  
32  Kevin Snyder  DB  5-11  194  JR  
~  ~~~v.:?~yle  DB DB  5-11 5-9  194 196  so so  
34  Wes Holland  RB  5-11  197  FR  
35  Kyle Delahooke  K  6-1  185  FR  
36  Eric Kettani  FB  5-9  180  FR  
36  James Simien  LB  6-1  210  FR  
37  Darius Terry  CB  5-7  168  so  
37  John Charles White  K  6-2  190  FR  
38  Michael Walsh  DL  6-2  239  JR  
39  Michael Sweeney  LB  6-3  215  FR  
39  Joey Bullen  K  5-10  189  SR  
40  Glen Woods  FB  5-11  226  so  
40  Ian Meredith  LB  6-3  229  so  
41 42  Scott Reider Tyler Simmons  LS LB  6-0 6-3  213 208  ~~  
43  Vince Murray  FB  6-1  205  FR  
44  Clint Sovie  LB  5-11  201  JR  
44  Mke Schupp  WR  5-10  165  FR  
~  ~:.:is ~~d'J'!~  FB LB  5-11 6-2  193 215  so FR  
47  Devan Clark  FB  5-10  210  FR  
47  jordan Reagan  DB  5-9  177  SR  
48  erry Hauburger  LB  6-0  212  FR  
49  Cmg Schaefer  LB  6-2  215  so  
50  Tony Haberer  LB  6-1  229  so  
51  Ross Pospisil  LB  6-0  223  so  
52  Patrick Snow  OL  6-1  284  FR  
52  Jordan Eddington  LB  6-0  225  so  
53  JoshMeek  OL  6-1  274  SR  
54  Mat Wimsatt  LB  6-1  216  SR  
55  lrv Spencer  LB  6-0  238  SR  
56  Jordan Young  LB  6-0  213  SR  
57  Zach Wea!herington  DL  6-4  260  so  
58  Jonathan Alvarado  LB  6-2  227  SR  
59  Matt Nechak  DL  6-4  244  so  
60  Austin Milke  OL  6-3  260  so  
61  Ryan Burke  OL  6-3  268  FR  
62  Penetekoso Peau  DL  6-1  263  so  
63  Antron Harper  OL  5-11  272  SR  
64 65 ~~  Michael Von Bargen Sander Gossard t~~~~:rs  OL OL OL OL  6-5 6-4 6-3 6-1  272 273 268 275  m SR so  
68 69  Ricky Moore Jordan Stephens  OL OL  6-4 6-0  283 240  ~~  
70  bavid Brown  OL  6-3  273  so  
71  Reyn Kautko  OL  5-11  263  SR  
~~ 74  ~h~0rlte~~ins Ben Gabbard  OL OL OL  6-1 6-4 6-4  281 271 297  m SR  
75 ~  Andrew McGinn ~':¥~~~roberts  OL DL OL  6-1 6-2 6-6  255 233 268  JR so so  
~~  ~rrs~~:rsgakk  DL OL  6-6 6-1  228 270  so so  
~~  2{c~H~~,.~':n  WR WR  5-10 6-4  188 206  SR so  
~~  t\itli ~~~lt,somery  WR DL  6-1 6-4  185 242  so JR  
84 ~~  TJ_ Thiel ~jf.sJ~:h'fws  WR WR WR  6-0 6-4 6-1  191 239 191  ~~ so  
88  James 9ryden  WR  6-3  206  so  
88 89  Steve Dorman Tyree Barnes  DL WR  6-8 6-2  245 188  ~~  
90  AndyLark  DL  6-0  290  so  
§1  a~ ~~~~~Pitters  DL DL  6-2 6-2  257 258  JR SR  
§~ 95 96 97  [j:,'~kRt>~hu~~Ifd john Maddox Alex Home Kyle Bookhout  DL DL DL LB DL  6-3 6-3 6-4 6-0 6-2  243 251 257 223 240  so m JR so  
98  Artie Pauls  DL  6-1  244  JR  
99  Nate Frzaier  DL  6-3  285  so  


Navy brings in its No. 1 rushing offense 
Notre Dame has had a rough going of it against Notre Dame's below average rush this year, but because of its backward defense. But the Irish, for as bad as they've scheduling it now starts the cupcake part of been this season, should put up points against the season. Navy has been able to. score a lot 
Irish

the Midshipmen. Navy gave up 59 points to of points this season, but it has given up even Delaware, a championship subdivision more. The Irish rush defense should be able team, last week. If the Irish can't score on the to contain the option decently and the Midshipmen, I quit. Even though Notre Dame offense will score enough to keep the expertswill score a few touchdowns, Navy still wins. Jay winning streak alive. FINAL SCORE: Navy 35 Associate FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 
Notre Dame 24 Sports Editor Navy 14 
Chris Hine 
Sports Editor 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 2, 2007 
-
Crunching the numbers 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
Navy points scored 
ND points scored 
Navy points allowed 
ND points allowed 
Navy rush yards ND rush yards 
Navy rushing allowed ND rushing allowed 
Navy pass yards ND pass yards 
Navy passing allowed ND passing allowed 


,

-
38.1 
29.6 

342.9 


280.6 
1H1.11 


Saturday Pick 'ein 
Khorel: Hine Fowler Fitz~atrick 
(110-37) 
osu 
BC 
Barna Oregon Okla. Kansas Colo Georgia Mich. UConn Texas Auburn Cincy 
usc 
UF Boise Wake Clem. 

Season Record: No. 21 Wisconsin at No. 1 Ohio State Florida State at No. 2 Boston College No. 3 LSU at No. 17 Alabama No. 4 Arizona State at No. 5 Oregon Texas A&M at No. 6 Oklahoma Nebraska at No. 8 Kansas No. 9 Missouri at Colorado Troy at No. 10 Georgia No. 12 Michigan at Michigan State Rutgers at No. 13 Connecticut No. 15 Texas at Oklahoma State Tennessee Tech at No. 16 Auburn Cincinnati at No. 18 South Florida Oregon State at No. 19 USC Vanderbilt at No. 20 Florida San Jose State at No. 22 Boise State No. 24 Wake Forest at No. 23 Virginia No. 25 Clemson at Duke 
(101-46) 
osu 
BC 
LSU 
ASU 
Okla. 
Kansas 
Mizzou 
Georgia 
MSU 
UConn 
Ok. St. 
Auburn 
Cincy 
usc 
UF 
Boise 
UVA 
Clem. (112-35) 

osu 
FSU 
LSU 
Oregon 
Okla. 
Kansas 
Mizzou 
Georgia 
MSU 
Rut. 
Texas 
Auburn 
USF 
usc 
UP 

Boise 
Wake 
Clem. 
(114-33) 
osu 
BC 
LSU 
ASU 
Okla. 
Kansas Mizzou Georgia 
Mich. Rut. Texas 
Auburn 
USF 
usc 
UF Boise Wake Clem. 



Friday, November 2, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Irish defense to face potent option attack 

Offensive guru Johnson finds success at Navy 
four seasons, made an appear­than that, we haven't even 80/20." because of the type of playersBy CHRIS HINE ance in four straight bowl talked about it." Johnson said his teams at he could recruit. Weight stan­Sports Editor games and defeated traditional Johnson spent eight seasons Navy have executed his offense dards in the Naval Academy do 
rival Army each year under as offensive coordinator at well. But he dismissed the not allow large defensive-end 
Paul Johnson has accom­Johnson. Even though his Hawaii before becoming Navy's notion that his players are eas­type players. The 3-4 scheme plished a lot in his six seasons squad will be facing a 1-7 offensive coordinator in 1995. ier to coach than at other allows Johnson to recruit as Navy's coach, and Saturday, Notre Dame, Johnson said, the Johnson left Navy in 1997 to schools simply because they lighter athletes while not Johnson and the Midshipmen Midshipmen aren't obsessing take over at Division I-AA are in a military academy and changing his defense all that have a good chance to do what about snapping Notre Dame's Georgia Southern. After cap­are subject to strict regulations much from a traditional 4-3 no Navy team has done since 43-game win streak. turing two national titles in five during their time in school. scheme. John Kennedy was president -"I think the media makes a seasons, Johnson returned to "I think that's a bit of a mis-"It's not a big change," beat Notre Dame. lot bigger deal out of that than Navy as coach. nomer," Johnson said. 
In 2002, Johnson took over a we do," Johnson said by tele­His success at Navy has Johnson said. "Every defense Navy program that was 1-20 in phone Wednesday. "Everybody caused his name to come up in "I think it's just is gap-oriented, its previous two seasons. After knows about it because it's the connection with Nebraska's job like any other "[Recruiting] is hard. and it's not a going 2-10 in Johnson's first first question you're asked -should current Nebraska offense. You big deal. [The
The [pool is] very small 
year, Navy went 35-15 the next about everything, but other coach Bill Callahan not return have to exe­3~4 scheme] next season -but Johnson cute with because not only do enables you to said the Nebraska rumors have whatever you you have the get more line­not distracted him or his team. run. I don't backers on the
military requirements, 
"It hasn't been mentioned [by know that field and more players]," Johnson said. "I these kids are but you have the linebacker-type think the last three or four any different academic standards bodies. For us, years, our guys are kind of than any other we have a hard
and that kind ofthing." • 
numb to that. It happens a lot. 18,19or20-time finding That's a credit to them that it year-old kids. defensive line­hasn't been mentioned." They're Paul Johnson men. We can't 
No matter where he coaches, smarter in Midshipmen coach get big guys. Johnson's offenses have always math and sci­So, we felt like preformed well. Using an ence and we could get option attack, Navy has led the they're willing more of the nation in rushing three of the to serve their country, but I 220-pound guys that can run. past five seasons and is No. 1 don't know if we're any more And that's why we went to the this season with just over 340 disciplined than any of the 3-4." yards per game. But, Johnson other teams I've had when I Even though his defense has said, his play calling was not coached at different places." struggled this season -the always run-oriented. But Johnson did say coaching Midshipmen are 105th in total 
"We threw the ball a lot more at Navy impacts the way he defense -Johnson said his at Hawaii. I think the offense recruits. team has a chance to win if it can be tailored to the person­"!Recruiting] is hard," plays one if its best games nel a little bit and when we Johnson said. "The lpool isl against Notre Dame, which has were in Hawaii we threw the very small because not only do the lowest-rated offense in the ball more because we had you have the military require­country. some different personnel." ments, but you have the aca­"One of the two is going to Johnson said. "We line up the demic standards and that kind have better numbers than 
· same way, ran the same plays, of thing." they've been having, that's for but we just probably majored The recruiting restraints are sure," Johnson said. 
AP in throwing a little more. Here, not limited to offense. Johnson we major in running. There it implemented a 3-4 personnel Contact Chris Hine at was more 60/40. Here it's scheme on defense due in part chine@nd.edu 
Midshipmen coach Paul Johnson watches his team during Navy's 34-0 loss to Rutgers on Oct. 14, 2006. 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Notre Dame has played Navy since 1927 and, for much of that time, the Midshipmen have run the triple option. 
But few Navy teams have moved the ball as well as the 2007 edition. 
The Midshipmen are No. 1 in the nation in rushing, averag-­ing more than 340 yards per game. They have scored an average of 35 points per game and put 52 points on Delaware last week in a loss. 
The good news for the Irish is that they had last week off and have been preparing to stop the option for nearly two weeks. But as defensive line coach Jappy Oliver said, stop­ping the scout team is much different than stopping the Midshipmen. 
"It's entirely different," Oliver said. "Within your own team, you don't have people that run that type of offense. You don't have the quarter­back or that kind of running backs or linemen that block like that." 
The Navy offense operates out of a double-wing forma­tion, with a fullback behind the quarterback and two wing­backs behind and just outside of the tackles. From this for­mation, the Midshipmen run a dizzying array of options, counters and misdirections. 
"They're scoring points in bunches," Oliver said. "If 
you're not used to seeing it, it's very difficult [to stop]." 
Up front, the undersized Navy linemen often use a cut­block technique, diving at the defensive line's ankles to knock them over to open up running lanes. The blocks are not only effective -they're also dangerous. 
"You have to watch out for those cut blocks or you could roll and ankle or something," Irish defensive end Trevor Laws said. 
On a given option play, the Irish defense will have to defend against a fullback dive up the middle, a quarterback keeper off tackle and a pitch to a wing back on the edge. 
To make matters worse for the defense, the Midshipmen substitute frequently, bringing in fresh wingbacks, fullbacks and backup quarterback Jarod Bryant off the bench. 
"They have a lot of inter­changeable guys," Laws said. 
Oliver spent eight years at Air Force, a program that runs the option and also plays Navy every season, so head coach Charlie Weis pronounced him Notre Dame's "option expert" and let him have a major hand in drawing up the defensive game plan for this week. 
The Irish defense will count­er the option with multiple looks, using both three-and four-man defensive lines to make it harder for Navy quar­terback Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku­Enhada to read the defense. 
Once the ball is snapped, 
however, sweeping defensive theories are thrown to thtl wind. 
"It's assignment defense," Oliver said. "Everybody has to take their responsibility. If you don't take your responsibility, you're going to give up some big plays." 
One player who has a big responsibility is nose guard Pat Kuntz. Kuntz will be assigned to stop the fullback dive up the middle, while mak­ing sure he doesn't get his legs taken out by a cut block. To help out the junior, Oliver gave him a DVD of the 1998 Air Force squad, which beat Navy 49-7. 
"It's the same technique that I'll be playing, just keeping my head up, bouncing off cut blocks, and running around making plays," Kuntz said. 
If Kuntz and middle line­backers Maurice Crum and Joe Brockington take away the fullback, Kaheaku-Enhada will be forced to move down the line of scrimmage, where Notre Dame's outside line­backers and defensive ends will be waiting. 
Oliver said there are two kinds of technique that teams use to slow down the option once it starts moving side­ways. One is to try to string it out and make the quarterback pitch the ball as close to the sideline as possible; the other is to be aggressive and try to force a bad pitch or a fumble. 
The aggressive approach can sometimes give up big plays, but Oliver said it is necessary to try to keep Navy from grind­ing up the clock with long drives. 
"If you play from sideline to sideline and don't be aggres­sive, you can be robotic," he said. "We're going to have to come after them sometimes." 
If the ball gets wide to the pitch man or the quarterback runs upfield, Irish defensive backs will have to make the tackle. Last season against Air Force, safety Chinedum Ndukwe made 22 such stops. 
Weis said he hopes this sea­son's defensive backs don't have similar numbers, because it will mean they are over­committing to the option and might give up big plays on play-action passes. 
"You have to make sure you don't fall into a trap," he said. "You come up, you come up, you come up and then the guy runs a wheel route and he runs it right by you." 
Laws said that, because of the option, Navy is one of the most physically demanding games he plays in each sea­son. 
"Every year I've played Navy since I've been here it's always one of the toughest games on the schedule," Laws said. "My body gets beat up." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
......---------~-------~-~-------~· 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 2,2007 
1­
-

• 
By C(e(and Homes
Move In Now 
-






