
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 112 TUESDAY, APRIL3. 2007 
Accepted students shatter records 
Applications soar to· 14,501; diversity rises 
By ROHAN ANAND 
News Writer 
The selectivity rate for Notre Dame's Class of 2011 broke school records this year with a surge of 1,700 more applicants vying for spots in the freshman class. 
A total of 14,501 high school seniors -including those who had applied for Early Action -submitted applications for considera­tion, said Dan Saracino, director of undergraduate admissions. 
With such a boost in the size of the applicant pool, the selectivity rate dropped to 23 percent -four percent lower than last year's 27 per­cent acceptance rate. While Saracino said he was "proud of the applicant pool," he said it was difficult to deny more students this year, since Notre Dame does not plan to increase the undergraduate population. The projected class size of 1,985 students will stay the same for next year. 
"We made a lot of students happy these past few days," he said. "But when we have 1,700 more students to [eval­uate I this year, and not any more are being admitted, then we have 1,700 more stu­dents to deny." 
see FRESHMAN/page 6 










Admitted Class Comparison 
Class of 2011 
Class of 2010 
Total Applicants 
14,501 
12,800 

Selectivity Rate 
23% 
27% 
1414
Average SAT 
1398 
(Excludes writing score) 
Average ACT 
32.5 
32 
Percent Legacies 
23% 
17% 
Projected Percent 
25% 
23%
of Ethnic Minorities 
Source: Office of Admissions 
MATT HUDSONfThe Observer 

WWII vet speaks about time at Iwo Jima 
Seabee author Ivan Thunder discusses victory in Pacific under Admiral Chester Nimitz 
Battalion, spoke Monday at Notre Dame ROTC classes. His talk focused on issues he addressed in his second book, "Iwo Jima and the Pacific War: Recollections and Essays," specifically the cult of adoration surround­ing MacArthur, even though Nimitz was more influential in U.S. victory, Thunder said. 
"We could have bypassed everything MacArthur did and it wouldn't have changed the outcome of the war," he said. 
Thunder stressed that MacArthur's conquests only accounted for a small por­
see THUNDER/page 3 


ByJOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Anyone who has ever taken a high school American History class should at least be vaguely familiar with General Douglas MacArthur, but it was the work of Admiral Chester Nimitz that won World War II in the Pacific. That was the message Monday of Ivan Thunder, a Navy Seabee veteran who served at Iwo Jima. 
Thunder, who has written two books about his experi­ences in the Pacific theater in the Naval Construction 

Assault investigation continues as 'rape' case 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 

Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) continued to investi­gate a sexual assault reported by a female student, and offi­cials said they could not pro­vide a timeline for any poten­ti<tl charges to be filed. 
A fpmale student was sexu­ally assaulted on the weekend of March 24. according to an NDSP e-mail sent to the stu­dent body on March 26. 
According to information released on the NDSP crime blotter, the assault occurred at 11 p.m. on March 25 near the Eck Tennis Center. The email states the assault occurred on March 24. 
The blotter names the offense as "rape" and Notre 
Dame Security Police Director Phil Johnson said that the case is currently "assigned to an investigator." 
"The case remains under investigation," Johnson said. "The decision to file charges is up to the prosecutor." 
Johnson said the amount of time it will take to be investi­gated is unknown, as it varies from ease to ease. 
"It's hard to say," Johnson said. "The length of the inves­tigation is determined by the complexity of a crime, inter­views, and the evidence gath­ered." 
Because the investigation is ongoing, Johnson declined to comment on the specifics of the case. 
University spokesperson 
see ASSAULT/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Honorary degrees to beavvarded 
Lithuanian president among recipients 
By KEN FOWLER News Writer 
Notre Dame will award 10 honorary degrees at the University's commencement exercises May 19 and 20, including one to a foreign leader. 
In addition to General Electric CEO Jeffrey Immelt, who will give the undergradu­ate com­mencement 

Adamkus

address, nine others will receive hon­orary degrees, the University announced Monday. 
Lithuanian President Valdas Adamkus, known as a force for democratization in his home country, will receive an honorary doctorate of laws. From 1970 until 1997, Adamkus served in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. He was elected Lithuanian president in 1998 and served until 2003. His opponent in 2003, Rolandas Paksas, won the election but was impeached 14 months later. Adamkus ran for a sec­ond term and won with 52 percent of the vote in a run­off election. 
Mary Sue Coleman, the 
see DEGREE/page 4 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 




Leaders grant co-sponsorships 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG} members awarded a total of $1,950 to three co-sponsorships at the annual transition meeting for the board Monday night. 
The old board that worked under current student body president and vice president Susan Mcllduff and Maggie Siefert, respectively, met with their successors who took over under new student body president Kim Hodges and vice president Kelly Payne. 
The transition meeting took place with all members of the old BOG board present so the new board could get a 
see BOG/page 4 


Former student body president Susan Mcllduff and former vice president Maggie Siefert attended Monday's BOG meeting. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, April3, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD HAVE A SUPER POWER, WHAT WOULD IT BE AND WHY? 
Read the Classifieds 
How many of you pick up The Observer to read one section? I'm not talking about the horoscopes, the question of the day, the comics, or even the inside column. 
I'm talking about the very 
Liz Harter 
best part of The Observer 
Production
(except of 
Editor 
course for the salacious arti­cles that we publish daily) .. ."the Classifieds. 
"The motion's good indeed, be it so, Petruchio -Hortensia." 
Anyone who reads the Classifieds should know what I'm talking about. 
To give a bit of background on the section, the person working for the sports section of the paper puts the Classifieds together each night. The Observer sells classified ads for 5 cents a character per day. The exciting thing about this section though is if the classified section is not filled with rooms and condos to rent, job openings, random Shakespeare quotes and/or ads for unplanned preg­nancy help, the staff can promote something they want or have a lit­tle fun at the expense of their friends and their mishaps. 
"Joe's giving front hugs now ... everyone get in line." 
Oftentimes people give shout­outs to their friends, effectively getting their name in the paper for the next day. 
"Look! Kristi, Jessie and Jared are in the paper today!" 
Other times there are cryptic messages or inside jokes that only certain people will understand. 
"Dear March, I hate you -Love, KP." 
Either way, the message is gen­erally funny in a sort of "should I really laugh at that?" kind of way. 
"Florida just won... yay! Too bad my bracket was screwed up when Winthrop beat ND. I just lost $55." 
The Classified section can nor­mally cheer you up better than if you were to find out that you are having a five star day according the horoscopes. Whether you see an inside joke that you have with your friends, a joke at the expense of someone you know, or a quota­tion from one of our favorite movies, the classifieds can make you smile. 
"You killed my father prepare to die. -Inigo Montoya" 
What are you still doing reading this? If you've gotten this far in my column I suggest you immedi­ately flip to the Classified page and read the hilarity that is sure to be there, if only because my column has come to an end. I know I'm headed to read the Classifieds right now. 
... God I hope there's something good in there today, or else I'll look like a complete dork. 
Oh yeah, I almost forgot. Since I'm not at work to put this in the Classifieds .... Happy Birthday Kathy! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 







Karen Carnevale Paul Robbins Aldrich Anderson 
Maria Bufalino Jonathan Spadea 
freshman freshman junior freshman fifth year Howard PW O'Neill Stanford off-campus 
"Teleport, "Time travel. "I wish I had "Earth, water, "The power to ESPN so I could heart. To
because I would That way when graduate ... Sunday comes, I tell when it was improve Notre 
never be late to finally." 
,

class. couldjust go raining. Dame's back to Friday environmental night." ratings and end the global warming hoax." 

center, where his friends had a party planned for him. Then he planned to drive home -by himself again. 
The state's decision to give his father a driver's test took a lot of pressure off his 64­year-old son, Bill Couch, of Clinton. The son said he sometimes follows his father in his car to make sure his dad is driving safely. 
"I feel a lot better about that," Bill Couch said. 
Alden Couch's new license that he received in the mail a little more than a week ago expires in 2012. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
Man arrives at DUI hearing drunk 
YORK, Pa. -A man who arrived at court drunk for a drunken-driving hearing was again charged with driving under the influence, police said. 
Paul H. Zeigler, 45, of Glen Rock, appeared at a prelimi­nary hearing at the Shrewsbury district court on March 26 for a DUI charge from December. 
Police said Zeigler appeared to be intoxieated at the hearing, according to police records. 
After his court appearance, Zeigler failed a portable breath test for alcohol and was taken into custody for a blood test, police said. 
The second test revealed that Zeigler's blood-alcohol level was twice the legal driv­ing limit and he was charged with DUI, police said. 
Man, 101, passes driver's test 
LANGLEY, Wash. -Alden Couch just celebrated his 101st birthday. And he passed his Washington state driver's test with flying col­ors, ifyou listen to him. 
A resident of the Whidbey Island town of Langley, Couch planned to take a birthday drive -by himself -down to the local senior 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0:: 
LLI :::z::: 
~ 
LLI 

J)
== 
...I 
c( (,) 

...I 0 HIGH 70 HIGH 60 HIGH 43 HIGH 38 LOW 40 LOW 30 LOW 27 LOW 25 IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame men's base­ball will play Oakland today at 5:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Campus-wide Stations of the Cross will be held tonight at 7 The procession will depart from the Grotto. 
Notre Dame women's soft­ball will play Valparaiso Wednesday at 5 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
The Ballroom Dance Club will be teaching the Hustle and Mambo in 205 Rockne Memorial from S p.m. to 
10:30 on Wednesday. All Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students are invited with a valid !D. The cost if $4 a night. 
The Lord's Supper Mass will be held for Holy Thursday at 5 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Notre Dame classes will be cancelled from Friday through Monday in obser­vance of the Easter holiday. Classes will resume Tuesday. 
Good Friday Mass to cele­brate the Lord's passion will be held at 3 p.m. Friday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Ben Hur will be shown as a silent film with piano accom­paniment by Dave Drazin on Friday at 7 p.m. in DPAC's Browning Cinema. The cost is $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 35 HIGH 36 LOW 20 LOW 28 
Atlanta 78 I 61 Boston 45 I 37 Chicago 67 I 49 Denver 55 I 32 Houston 83 I 68 Los Angeles 74 I 54 Minneapolis 431 39 New York 60 I 49 Philadelphia 71 I 50 Phoenix 90 I 61 Seattle 52 I 33 St. Louis 75 I 61 Tampa 83 I 65 Washington 77 I 54 
. . 
' 


Tuesday, April3, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

·What are you doing next summer? 

r 
May 14-Jutte 15, 2008 

v" ~~II returning ND & St. 1\'lary's undergraduates eligible 
v' Four and one-half week study in London 
../Mid session study/travel to Paris, Nornaandy, Belfast, or Ainsterdain
"' . . 

../Earn 6 credit hours v' Still have 2 months of sun1mer left when you retut:n! 
Information Sessions for 2008 & 2009 Programn1es: rIil·· 
' 

'



11:45 to 12:30 P.M. DeBartolo 101 or 5:00 to 6:00 PJ\1. DeBartolo 126 
Applications are available at 223 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.edu/~sumlon 




SMC creates emergency plan 
By JENNIFER METZ News Writer 
To prepare for the possible outbreak of avian flu on cam­pus, Saint Mary's has released executive summaries of its Pandemic Flu Report describing the College's readiness and emergency plan. 
Two reports are posted on the school's Web site, one for students and parents and another for faculty and staff. The College plans to create a more comprehensive report accounting for all possible emergencies. 
"Avian flu was very much in the news, so we wanted to plan ahead," said Executive Assistant to the President Susan Dampeer, who chaired the Pandemic Task Force that Saint Mary's President Carol Ann Mooney created last summer. 
In case of an outbreak, the task force said in its report, "It is better to be over-pre­pared, and ready for all con­tingencies, than to be taken by surprise." 
The report said that if avian nu becomes "easily transmit­ted" from human to human, it will be contagious like the seasonal f1u. 
If cases of avian flu arise at Saint Mary's, quarantines are advised, and in the case of severe respiratory difficulties, sick people may need to be transferred to hospitals. Many of the College's daily 
operations will continue, according to the report, but business will be conducted via the Internet as much as possible. 
The report for faculty and staff said that "essential per­sonnel" have been identified of their involvement in con­tributing to the "ongoing function of the College in a crisis situation." 
In a College Forum address last August, Mooney said Saint Mary's had prepared for the "heightened concern about the possibility of an avian flu pandemic" through the creation of the Pandemic Task Force. 
The American College Health Association set the guidelines for the task force, which worked for about a semester to put together its reports. 
Other colleges have created similar plans, which Saint Mary's used as models. Loyola University of Chicago's plan was especially compre­hensive, said Dampeer, who chaired the task force. Loyola's Web site provides detailed information and instructions that relate to the possibility of an avian flu pandemic, as well as an emergency response plan. This plan pertains to natural disasters, bomb threats, civil disorders, hostage situations, utility failure and other hypo­thetical emergencies. 
After seeing this plan, Dampeer said the College's plan needed to be expanded, 
making the pandemic plan one part of an broader emer­gency plan. 
"The [avian] flu is the start­ing point. We're working on a more complete awareness plan for all kinds of emergen­cies, she said. 
The next phase in the College's preparedness is starting now, and the commit­tee will work through the summer, planning to finish a final report by the end of next year. 
"We hope that a parent can go on [the Web site] and be comforted that [the College] has planned for all possible emergencies. It's reassuring to know that people are in charge," Dampeer said. 
In the course of planning, Dampeer found that even members of the committee were not aware of the emer­gency plan already estab­lished by the College. 
"I hope people will read the manual arid be aware of what we've done and are pre­pared," she said. "Mostly, I hope that nothing ever hap­pens." 
The College recommends referring to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) Web site for more information pertain­ing to the spread of avian flu and the possibility of a pan­demic as well as checking the Saint Mary's Web sites for emergency updates. 
Contact Jennifer Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Thunder 
continued from page 1 
tion of the overall gains in the Pacific Ocean -those in the Philippines and New Guinea ­while Nimitz controlled the entire ocean from Hawaii in the east to Okinawa in the west. 
Additionally, Thunder said that Nimitz's victories are far more famous than those of MacArthur. He asked. "Have you heard of Guadalcanal, Saipan, Tinian, Guam, Iwo Jima, and Okinawa?" He then informed the audience that Nimitz led the American forces to the victories at each island. 
"But, have you heard about Buna, Lae, Finschhafen, Hollandia, Sansapor, Biak, Numfor, Morotari, or Leyte? Probably not," he said Of terri­tory taken by MacArthur. 
Thunder recalled a time shortly before he left for Hawaii -after he had already been in the Navy for some time serving in Panama -when he stopped in Chicago. During the visit, Thunder got his hair cut at a barber shop that was decorated with two posters -one fea­tured President Franklin Roosevelt and another por­trayed General MacArthur. 
Thunder was perplexed by MacArthur's presence on the barbershop wall for 60 years, he said, until he uncovered a memo written by an aide to someone on the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The memo claimed that it was a group of newspapermen who promoted MacArthur, led by William Hearst and Robert McCormick. then head of the Chicago Tribune. 
It is society's responsibility to remember Nimitz as the real victor in the Pacific theater, Thunder said. 
"I don't know how many times I've heard history profes­sors say MacArthur won at Iwo Jima, but he didn't. That was Nimitz," Thunder said. 
While Thunder's second book puts a great emphasis on the Nimitz-MacArthur controversv and other historical debates ~f the war -such as the decision to drop the atomic bomb -his first book, "Her Last Letter," is an autobiographical narrative detailing the Seabee lieu­tenant's personal Iwo Jima story. 
Thunder published the narra­tive, written in the third person under the pen name Michael Dalton, in 2004, nearly 60 years after the battle. 
"I wrote the book because I felt it's a story worth telling. It includes romance and my life in Panama," in addition to the actual Iwo Jima battles, he said. 
Thunder, 94, is a 1937 gradu­·ate of Illinois Institute of Technology with a degree in civil engineering. He entered the navy reserve shortly after graduation and received an active-duty commission as an ensign in April 1943. He was promoted to lieutenant shortly before leaving Honolulu for Iwo Jima. Unlike 24 percent of his non-combat construction Seabee battalion, Thunder sur­vived the invasion and went on to receive more letters from his wife. Thunder currently lives in suburban Chicago with his daughter and her family. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu 

.
., 
----~------------------------------------------------~ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April3, 2007 
receive an honorary doctorate than 20 years ago, Chacour who has served as the of science. founded the Mar Elias Vatican's preacher for the 
Archbishop Elias Chacour, a Educational Institutions, papal house since 1980, also Melkite priest in the Holy which schools 4,500 students will receive a doctor of laws Lands, will receive a doctor of of all three major monotheist degree. laws degree for his work on faiths. peace efforts in the Israeli­Father P. Raniero Contact Ken Fowler at Palestinian conflict. More Cantalamessa, O.F.M. Cap., kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Co111e and Listen 
Co111e and Read 
Co111e and Play 
Lectio@Eieven A Late-Night Caba..et fo.. the Soul 
11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
April 3 featuring: Music by Nick and Josh Gunty 
Readings: Katherine Johnson 

C.S. Lewis, The Screwtape Letters 
Lewis Carroll, "The Hunting ofthe Snark" And more... 
Lectiorq~Eleven brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! 
We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser at jcouser@nd.edu or call 631-3923. 
Sponsored by First Y car of Studies 



Degree 
continued from page 1 
president of the University of Michigan and commencement speaker for doctoral and mas­ter's degree graduates, will receive a doctor of science degree for work in "student residential life, interdiscipli­nary studies, ethics in society and health care," a University news release said. 
Notre Dame graduate Robert Kiely will receive a doctor of laws degree for his 50 years of public service. Kiely was chair and CEO of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in New York City from 1983-90 before serving as commission­er of transport in London from 2001-06. 
Immaculee Ilibagiza, author of "Left to Tell: Discovering God Amidst the Rwandan Holocaust" and member of the United Nations 

BOG 
continued from page 1 
better understanding of how the meetings operate. 
The first co-sponsorship presented to the boards was for a Saint Mary's Affiliates of the American Chemical Society (SMAACS). The group attended a conference in Chicago and asked for money to help defer the cost of the trip. 
Three students presented research conducted at Saint Mary's in the chemistry and physics departments, senior Katie White said. 
"We presented a poster on what [events] SMAACS has held this year and we received an outstanding chapter award," White said. "We were the only women's college to receive any award." 
BOG awarded $1,500 to help finance the trip, which took place last weekend. 
The second co-sponsorship was awarded to three stu­dents who attended the 2007 Idealist Campus conference sponsored by idealist.org. 
Sophomore Becky Faunce presented the co-sponsor­ship and said idealist.org helps students network to see what others are doing with advocacy and social change on their college cam­puses. 
"We spent three days dis­cussing what we're doing on our own campus, participat­ing in workshops and getting our name out there as to what we're doing at Saint Mary's," Faunce said. 
Faunce, senior Kirsten Kensinger and sophomore Alison Fleece want to imple­ment what they learned in the three-day conference, which took place March 23­
25. BOG awarded the stu-
Development Program, will receive a doctor of humanities degree. 
The president of Catholic Relief Services, Kenneth Hackett, will receive a doctor­ate of humanities. Hackett has led Catholic Relief Services since 2003, during which time the organization aided recov­ery efforts in the Gulf Coast states hit by Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and the Asian nations ravaged by the Indian Ocean tsunami of 2004. 
Chicago sculptor Robert Hunt, whose works include "Jacob's Ladder" at the Carter 
G. Woodson Library in Chicago and "I Have Been to the Mountaintop" at the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial in Memphis, will receive a degree as doctor of fine arts. 
Notre Dame Forum partici­pant Dr. Paul Farmer, an attending physician at two hospitals and professor of medical anthropology at Harvard Medical School, will 
dents $150 with the stipula­tion that they create a con­crete plan of how they are going to publicize the con­ference next year and what they will do to implement the ideas that they learned at this year's conference. 
The final co-sponsorship was to provide funding for a group of women's studies students to travel to the national Women's Studies Association Annual Conf­erence in St. Charles, Ill., in June. 
The group of seven stu­dents will listen to speakers as they address the topic of this year's conference, "Past Debates, Present Possibil­ities, and Future Feminisms." 
"It's looking at how far the discipline of women's studies has come since the first con­ference was held," said Faunce, who also presented this co-sponsorship. 
BOG voted to award the group $300 with the stipula­tion that those attending will host a luncheon to present what they gained from the conference. 
In other BOG news: 
+ The Saint Mary's TOSTAL -the College's largest social event of the year -will take place April 
26. The event will feature massages and caricatures in the student center, a show­ing of the movie "Dreamgirls" on the library green, canoe races on Lake Marion and a fireworks dis­play. 
+ The second annual Saint Mary's Dance Marathon will take place on April 20 from 6 p.m. until 6 a.m. Dancer packets should be turned in to any hall director by Wednesday. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharterO 1 @saintmarys.edu 




' . 
' 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April3, 2007 CoMPILED FROlvt THE OBSERVER'S Wl RE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Nigerian foreign workers kidnapped 
LAGOS, Nigeria -Gunmen seized two for­eign workers Monday in Nigeria's southern oil-producing region, officials said, the latest kidnappings in an area where nearly 70 for­eigners have been taken since the beginning of the year. 
The attackers snatched the men from their work compound in southern Bayelsa state, said Godknows Igali, a government negotia­tor in the region. 
A colleague of the two construction work­ers said they were Lebanese. The pair were taken after a prolonged gunbattle, but there were no casualties reported, said the col­league, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of company restrictions on dealings with the media. 
Ukrainian parliament dissolved 
KIEV. Ukraine -President VIktor Yushchenko dissolved Ukraine's parliament and called early elections Monday, but parliament refused to acknowledge the order and vowed to continue meeting as the country slipped further into polit­ical turmoil. 
The deadlock follows months of maneuvering by Yushchenko and his rival, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, and signals the possible return of competing protests, tent camps and political rallies to the streets of Kiev -two years after mass protests helped propel Yushchenko to power. 
After holding more than seven hours of talks with lop lawmakers, Yushchenko accused Yanukovych's parliamentary majority of seeking to expand its power base in violation of the Constitution by recruiting members from pro­presidential factions of the Shatt al-Arab, a waterway that has long been a disputed dividing line between Iraq and Iran. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Two Sept. 11 victims identified 
NEW YORK -The city said Monday it has positively identified two more Sept. 11 victims from thousands of unidentified human remains that have been retested in recent months. 
The new identifications were made in the past week, said Ellen Borakove, spokeswoman for Dr. Charles Hirsch, the chief medical examiner. The identified remains are from the "initial recovery effort" of victims' remains in the first year after the 2001 terrorist attacks, not from a renewed search at ground zero, she said. 
Borakove would not say how many pieces of remains were identified or exactly when and where they were recovered. The names of the newly identified victims also were not released. 
The city has been storing more than 10,000 unidentified bone fragments and other human remains, including more than 1,200 found since 2005. 
Rommey campaign raises $23 million 
BOSTON -Mitt Romney blew away the top-ranked Republican presidential candi­dates in fundraising during the first three months of the year, reporting he had raised an astonishing $23 million. Rudy Giuliani and John McCain, favored in the polls, trailed far behind. 
The former Massachusetts governor's first­quarter tally put him on a financial par with Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, the leading Democratic candidate. On Sunday, she reported raising $26 million. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Three UAW labor unions merge 
ANDERSON, Ind. -Three labor unions, including two that represent workers at closed or closing auto parts factories, have decided to join. 
United Auto Workers locals 662, 663 and 1963 will merge to form a new amalgamated Local 1963 to improve "efficiency in providing services to our members," according to Christine Moraski, assistant director of public relations for UAW International. 
She did not know a time frame for the merger. 
Union membership in Anderson has plummet­ed with the departure of 20,000 or more auto­motive jobs. 

IBM donates translation technology 
Defense Department, lawyers investigate acceptance of unusual offer 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON, D.C. -To honor an employee's son who was badly wounded in Iraq, IBM Corp. plans to give the U.S. military $45 million worth of Arabic-English translation technology that the Pentagon had been test­ing for possible purchase. 
The offer -made from the highest reaches of the company directly to President Bush -is so unusual that Defense Department and IBM lawyers have been scouring federal laws to make sure the government can accept the donation. 
The story begins one night in late February, when Army Sgt. Mark Ecker Jr., 21, on his second tour in Iraq, was on patrol in Ramadi. 
Preparing to raid a house, Ecker's unit lined up along a side of the building. But an explosive device had been hidden in the wall, and when it went off, it wounded sever­al soldiers. Ecker eventually lost both legs below the knee. 
Ecker's father, an IBM mainframe sales specialist in East Longmeadow, Mass., shared the story of his son's ordeal with co-workers, and word spread through the company. Eventually it reached Chairman and CEO copies of the MASTOR soft­Defense. through the machine's Samuel Palmisano. ware and 1,000 devices "Part of the evaluation is to speakers. 
IBM would not make equipped with it, plus train­determine a proper legal Joint Forces Command Palmisano available for com­ing and technical support. way for acceptance,"he told The Associated Press ment. But according to other "Hopefully this will be wrote in an e-mail. last October that tests on IBM executives, Palmisano helpful to our efforts," he Indeed, it is very rare for a IraqComm and MASTOR so had heard from several rBM wrote. large defense contractor like far had been in quiet offices employees who have Separately, Anne Altman, IBM, which does roughly $3 rather than noisy war-zone returned from active duty in who oversees IBM's federal billion worth of federal busi­settings, and that it might be Iraq that a shortage of sales in Washington, reached ness every year, to give the 2009 before the technology Arabic translators has out to Adm. Edmund government a freebie. It is is widely used on patrols or severely hampered U.S. Giambastiani, vice chairman also worth noting that MAS­other tense situations. forces' efforts to communi­of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to TOR has been undergoing IBM's Altman said she cate. reiterate the offer and get testing by the Pentagon's hoped IBM's gift would 
With that and Ecker's guidance on how to make it Joint Forces Command, in accelerate the timeframe, experience in mind, happen. addition to a rival two-way and said other vendors Palmisano called and wrote Giambastiani told IBM he translation technology should consider "similar Bush, offering to make IBM's appreciated the donation, known as IraqComm from donations." An SRI spokes­Multilingual Automatic although according to his nonprofit SRI International. woman declined to com­Speech Translator software, spokesman, Lt. Col. Gary Both systems take English or ment. known as MASTOR, "imme­Tallman, "the offer is under Arabic that is spoken into a But Altman added that she diately available for use by evaluation right now" and computer microphone, did not expect IBM's offer to our forces in Iraq." "does not constitute accept­translate it into the other end up cutting out SRI or any Palmisano offered 10,000 ance" by the Department of language and utter it other potential providers. 

CANADA 


Annual national seal hunt begins 
ice is going to be fairly high." be open to hunters beginning
Associated Press The ice is broken and deteriorated Wednesday. TORONTO -Canada's controversial and Jenkins said it is part of a trend About 70 percent of the seals sought annual seal hunt opened Monday in the seen over the past four or five years. in Canadian waters will be taken in the southern Gulf of St. Lawrence, where Newborn seals cannot swim in the first third stage of the hunt -off northern the worst ice conditions in more than weeks of life and need solid ice to sur­Newfoundland. An opening date has yet two decades have nearly wiped out the vive. to be announced. herd there. The total quota for this year's seal Animal welfare groups condemned Fisheries officials said the scarcity of hunt is 270,000 animals. That is 65,000 the government's decision to allow a seals in the area led to only two of 40 fewer than last year, a change made hunt in the southern region. eligible boats participating in the start of mainly because of the toll from the ice "''ve witnessed the hunt for nine the traditional spring hunt that is conditions. The seal population in years, and I've never seen ice conditions important to the livelihood of Canadian Canada now stands at about 5.5 million. this bad," said Rebecca Aldworth of the seal hunters and aboriginal peoples. Simon said the largest concentration Humane Society of the United States. "The bad ice contributed to a high of seals was in the more northerly Strait The United States has banned rate of drowning" of baby seals, of Belle Isle, between Quebec and Canadian seal products since 1972 and Fisheries Department spokesman Phil Newfoundland and Labrador. Ice condi­the European Union banned the white Jenkins said. "The mortality from bad tions there are better and the area will pelts of baby seals in 1983. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April3, 2007 
Assault 
continued from page 1 
Don Wycliff said that the Notre Dame community is not immune from assaults and that the situation is "especially dif­ficult in the case of an acquain­tance committing the assault." 
"We don't take the safety of any student, male or female, lightly," Wycliff said. "Notre Dame is not a sanctuary. Bad things occasionally happen." 
University Victim's Resource Person Ava Preacher offered advice to students who are vic­tims of assault. 

"Immediately after being assaulted, go to the hospital and get an exam. Be careful not to shower or go to the bathroom, as that could destroy evidence," Preacher said. 
In addition, Preacher said all people who are sexually assaulted should talk about their experiences to a profes­sional counselor, as well as with someone who can inform them of their options depend­ing on when a person chooses to report the assault. 
Hall staffs are also concerned about sexual assaults on cam­pus. Sister Denise Lyon, LH.M., the rector of Badin Hall, said that rapes at Notre Dame are "inevitable." 
"There have been rapes, and there will be rapes," Lyon said. "After someone has been raped, it's Iour jobI to put the girl in touch with the people who can help her. Rectors, AHs, and RAs all receive train­ing on how to help people with this." 
While students are aware of this, Lyon said, it's important not to think that "]rapes] are going to happen, but not to me." 
Contact john-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 

Fuchs to give Niewland lecture 
Special to the Observer 
Elaine Fuchs, Rebecca C. Lancefield Professor at Rockefeller University in New York City and an investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, will be the featured speaker for today's second day of the annual Nieuwland Lectures in Biological Sciences at the University of Notre Dame. 
Fuchs is interested in understanding the molecular 

mechanisms underlying the ability of multipotent skin cells to produce the skin's epidermis and its appendages. 
She utilizes mammalian epithelial stem cell culture and mouse genetics as model systems. Her studies bridge an understanding of the nor­mal biology of skin stem cells with an understanding of how these processes go awry in human diseases of the skin, including genetic diseases, skin cancers and proinflam­matory disorders. 
Fuchs' opening lecture, "Stem Cells of the Skin and Their Lineages," was present­ed at 4 p.m. Monday in Room 283 of the Galvin Life Sciences Building. 
Her second lecture, "Stem Cells: Biology and Clinical Promise," is scheduled for 
12:30 p.m. today in Room 101 of the Jordan Hall of Science. 
Today's lecture is free and open to the public. 

Fresh01an 
continued from page 1 
On Monday, the Undergraduate Admissions Office was flooded with phone calls and e-mails from discouraged applicants who had not received admission, Saracino said. While he said the majority of them were probably qual­ified to study at Notre Dame, an intensely competi­tive applicant pool made that impossible. 
"The situation is not whether or not [the candi­date] could do the work at Notre Dame, but rather that it's a very self-selecting group, and we only have limited spaces to fill," he said. 
To demonstrate the degree or truth to this statement, Saracino said approximately 868 applicants ranked first in their high school class and could have comprised more than 40 percent of the admitted freshman class. Still, only 427 of them were offered spots. 
The average SAT score ­with the combined Math and Critical Heading sections ­was 1414, and the average ACT score was a 32.5. The average high school class 
THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy. political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about 16 highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see ifit is for you. Many ofour students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 
(I) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements ofa second major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual commw1ity offaculty and students who share your interests, then PPE wants you! 


FOR MORE INFORMATJON Professor John Roos, Political Science Department, 424 Decio, 1-7556, Roos.l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAil, APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor Roos. The application deadline is noon on Tuesday, April 10. Late applications will be accepted only if openings are still available. 

PPE INFORMATION MEETING 

for Gay. l..esbmn, BisexuaL and Queshontng Students at Notre Oame 
Tuesday, April 3 7:30p.m.-9:30p.m.. 316 Coleman-Morse 

U~t Ci:t'i:>t'i::E.tGH:.t! ~"*·~~~ ~·f, ~~~~¥'< =W·:t N~t~.: m~·mr~!< al t!'l:t:i·1\#Hi·; Ujj*lli: .<:a~n~*­1t.~r 1~8;:n:h:. ~;;:~~! ~S::~?<:d~s~ ~ ;31:~ <.Hictl:!~H~J ~-dhMH~ £, r-1-; C6.......1h.· 
rank was in the top 4.2 per­cent of the applicant's class. Fifty-two admitted students also had perfect test scores, and 484 scored above a 1500 on the SAT, 23 percent of them being children of alumni. 
"But we're not just looking at numbers," Saracino said, "and we're also not trying to brag. We looked at the whole picture of each candi­date: academic rigor, pas­sion and traits that they could bring here. We do this because we want to create a diverse, talented and excit­ing student body." 
Additionally, the University hopes to enroll a class that consists of 25 per­cent ethnic minorities and three to four percent inter­national students from 29 other countries, making it the most ethnically diverse in the history of the University. 
Saracino mentioned the difficulty of enrolling more international students because it's harder to pro­vide them with enough financial aid to attend the University. 
"However, we're still meeting every need of all domestic students by 100 percent, and there aren't too many universities that can do that," he said. "It permits greater socioeco­nomic diversity." 
The most highly repre­sented states in the class include Illinois, Pennsylvania, New York, Texas, Florida and New Jersey. 
While the University saw a swell in applications, other highly select top-20 schools generally hail a greater number of applicants each year -often surpassing 20,000 -even if their freshman class size is rela­tively similar to Notre Dame's. 
Saracino speculated that the University receives 6,000 fewer applications not because it is less renowned than other institutions, but because most applicants apply to Notre Dame as their first choice and not a safety school. 
"We're only one of 10 schools in the United States that admit less than 50 per­cent of the applicants and yield more than 50 percent of them," he said. "When students apply to Notre Dame, they're not fishing for schools -Notre Dame is actually one of their top choices, instead of third or fourth like the other schools with bigger pools. The majority of those who decline our admissions offers do so because of find­ing better financial aid else­where." 
And as far as yield is con­cerned, the Undergraduate Admissions committee is using the wait list more heavily this year than last by admitting 114 fewer stu­dents than it did initially with the Class of 2010. This way, the University hopes to avoid the overfill problem that happened last year and give some attention to stu­dents on the wait list. 
"There are some really outstanding students on the waiting list who want to be a part of this place," Saracino said. "So we're hoping that we can open up some spots for them." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 


. ' ' 

Tuesday, April3, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 


12,354.35 +5.60

}ones 
Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: 1,803 139 1,440 2,892,524,933 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ)  -0.09  -0.04  43.53  
S&P RECEIPTS (SPY)  +0.02  +0.03  142.00  
CMGIINC (CMGI)  -6.19  -0.14  2.12  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.84  +0.05  6.0 I  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.35  +0.0 16  4.648  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.20  -0.0 I 0  4.895  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.39  -0.0 19  4.848  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.38  +0.017  4.537  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.16  65.87  
GOLD {$/Troy oz.)  +1.40  669.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.63  I 00.40  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.7300  
EURO  0.7486  
POUND  0.5081  
CANADIAN$  1.1526  

IN BRIEF 
New Century files for bankruptcy 
LOS ANGELES -New Century Financial Corp., once the nation's second-largest provider of home loans to high-risk bor­rowers, filed for bankruptcy protection Monday, the victim of its own financial mis­steps as well as pressures felt by its rival lenders. 
New Century immediately fired 3,200 workers -more than half its work force ­and said it intends to sell off its major assets. 
The company made the move after exploring a variety of possible ways to stay in business, he said. 
New Century was the latest so-called sub­prime lender to fall on hard times amid a spike in mortgage defaults caused by bor­rowers unable to make payments. More than two dozen subprime lenders have shut down in recent months and others are scrambling to stay in business. 
Subprime loans target borrowers with low credit scores. The mortgages carry rel­atively high interest rates but can also offer low initial payments. 

Global warming inaction criticized 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court rebuked the Bush administration Monday for its inaction on global warming in a decision that could lead to more fuel-effi­cient cars as early as next year. ­
The court, in a 5-4 ruling in its first case on climate change, declared that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases are air pollutants under the Clean Air Act. 
The Environmental Protection Agency has the authority to regulate those emis­sions from new cars and trucks under the landmark environment law, and the "laun­dry list" of reasons it has given for declin­ing to do so are insufficient, the court said. 
The politics of global warming have changed dramatically since the court agreed last year to hear its first case on the subject, with many Republicans as well as Democrats now pressing for action. However, the administration bas argued for a voluntary approach rather than new reg­ulation. 


r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 


Tribune Co. sells for $8.2 billion 
Chicago real estate mogul Sam Zell purchases second-largest newspaper company 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO-Tribune Co. 
spent six months searching 
for the best way to boost its 
lagging stock price. 
In the end, the solution was barely a mile from the media company's Gothic headquarters on the Chicago River. 
After a board meeting that lasted until almost midnight, Tribune announced Monday morning that it would go pri­vate, selling itself for $8.2 bil­lion, excluding debt, to Chicago real estate mogul Sam Zell. 
Zell, who earned a reputa­tion for reviving undervalued properties, is now charged with turning around the for­tunes of the nation's second­largest newspaper company, which like much of the industry is losing readers and advertisers to the Internet. 
Among his first acts? Sell the storied Chicago Cubs baseball team and use the proceeds to pay down debt. 
What's next for Zell, who stands to become chairman of the media conglomerate if the buyout offer is complet­ed, remains unclear. 
"I am delighted to be asso­ciated with Tribune Company, which I believe is a world-class publishing and broadcasting enterprise," Zell said in a statement. "As a long-term investor, I look view with The Associated unlikely given the lengthy The buyout will be con­forward to partnering with Press. and very public nature of the ducted as a two-part deal, the management and The company's complex review process," Citigroup the company said. The first employees as we build on the deal with Zell has a relatively analyst William G. Bird wrote stage, expected to be com­great heritage of Tribune small breakup fee -$25 in a research note. pleted in the second quarter, Company." million -leaving open the Representatives for the will involve a cash tender 
Dennis FitzSimons, possibility of another counter pair declined to comment offer of $34 per share for Tribune's chairman, presi­bid from Los Angeles billion­Monday. 126 million shares, more dent and chief executive, said aires Eli Broad and Ron Zell plans to invest $315 than half of the outstanding there are no plans to cut the Burkle, who also submitted million in the media compa­Tribune shares. The remain­company's work force or sell $34-per-share offers for ny and will eventually ing shares will be purchased its newspapers or TV sta­Tribune. become chairman of later at the same $34 per tions. "A low break up fee could Tribune's board when the share price. 
"This is a good outcome for encourage a trumping bid buyout is complete sometime Tribune has about 240 mil­our shareholders and a good from the Ron Burkle/Eli in the fourth quarter. The lion shares outstanding, outcome for our employees," Broad partnership or anoth­offer needs shareholder according to a regulatory fil­FitzSimons said in an inter-er bidder, but this seems approval. ing. 

Seattle settles WTO protest claims 
Associated Press will seal the arrest records and ask any established by the mayor, but officers law enforcement agencies that made no effort to determine whether 
SEATTLE -The city's insurance received copies to expunge them, the protesters had other legitimate company has agreed to pay $1 million Withey said. Each protester will be eli­reasons to be there before making the to settle claims from about 17 5 people gible to receive $3,000 to $10,000, and arrests, the jury decided. who were wrongly arrested during a some of the settlement will be used to In a pretrial ruling, U.S. District peaceful World Trade Organization pay legal fees. Judge Marsha Pechman ruled the city protest in 1999. City Attorney Tom Carr said the city had made the arrests without probable 
The case went to trial in January, believes it would have won an appeal. cause. Arrest reports were not filled and a federal jury found Seattle liable "However, the city's insurance com­out properly, she noted. for violating the protesters' constitu­pany decided to settle the case rather The city agreed in the settlement to tional rights by arresting them without than to continue to fund the appellate issue copies of Pechman's rulings in probable cause. The settlement, litigation," Carr said in a news release. the case to police cadets and officers to announced Monday, avoids a damages The insurance company is National help prevent unlawful mass arrests, phase to determine how much the city Union, said Carr's assistant, Ruth Withey said. owed, and it resolves the last outstand­Bowman. The company did not imme­Lead plaintiff Ken Hankin, a Boeing ing claims against the city from the diately respond to an e-mail seeking worker, said he was pleased the settle­protests. comment. ment had been reached but added that 
'The police can respect the constitu­The trial stemmed from the mass getting a few thousand dollars seemed tional rights of protesters and at the arrest of protesters at a downtown paltry compared to the violation of his same time protect the public safety," park, where they were sitting and rights. He spent three days in police said Mike Withey of Washington, D.C.­singing patriotic anthems. That week, custody and wasn't released until the based Trial Lawyers for Public Justice, 50,000 demonstrators had swarmed WTO meetings had ended. which brought the lawsuit. Seattle, overwhelming police and clos­"I lost my right to protest the WTO," 
As part of the settlement, which a ing down parts of the WTO meeting. he said. "That's something I feel very federal judge must approve, the city The park was in a "no-protest" zone upset about." 
--------~-~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 8 

Assistant implicates her former employer in trial 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -A former employ­ee of the Hollinger International newspaper empire testified Monday that she mailed a $2.6 million check to former media baron Conrad Black for signing a contract promising not to com­pete with a company Black him­self controlled. 
Angela Way, who worked in the Hollinger general counsel's office, testified she also sent checks of $137,500 each to Hollinger executives John Boultbee and Peter Atkinson for signing similar non-compete contracts. 
Way was executive assistant to Black co-defendant Mark Kipnis at Hollinger and left the compa­ny last year. She took the stand as a government witness as Black's racketeering and fraud trial went into its third week. 
She testified that on Feb. 8, 2000, she sent the checks ­and contracts promising not to compete with American Publishing Co. -to Atkinson at Hollinger's Toronto office. 
"The consideration is also enclosed," said a covering memo, referring to the checks. Way said she received a memo back from Atkinson saying the signed non-competition agree­ments were enclosed. 
American Publishing Co., based in Marion, Ill., was a Hollinger subsidiary and as such was under the control of Black, who at the time was the compa­ny's CEO. 
Prosecutors argue that such operations represented a grab for cash belonging to the Hollinger shareholders. But when Way returns to the stand Wednesday, defense attorneys are expected to portray that money as management fees wrongly characterized as non­competition fees. 
Black, 62, is charged with racketeering, mail fraud and other offenses. Prosecutors say the Canadian-born British lord siphoned millions of dollars out of Hollinger International that belonged to shareholders. 
Black is accused of illegally billing the shareholders for a lavish birthday party for his wife, a vacation on the Pacific island of Bora Bora and a luxury apartment on Park Avenue in New York. 
But the heart of the charges against the former newspaper tycoon are that he sold hun­dreds of Hollinger-owned com­munity newspapers in the United States and Canada and pocketed payments from the purchasers. 
The payments were in return for agreements not to re-enter the markets where the newly purchased newspapers circulat­ed and compete with them. 

Non-competition payments are common in the newspaper industry. And while most of the money went to Hollinger International, Black and other executives received millions of dollars in non-competition pay­ments. 
Prosecutors say that money belonged to the shareholders. 
Black insists he did nothing wrong. His attorneys say that if anyone is to blame it is F. David Radler, the longtime No. 2 man in the Hollinger empire who is expected to be the government's star witness. 
Besides going to Hollinger International, based in Chicago, millions of dollars in non-com­petition fees went to Hollinger Inc., a separate holding compa­ny based in Toronto and con­trolled by Black. 
Executives of media holding companies that bought Hollinger papers testified that they did want non-competition agree­ments with Hollinger International but had no interest in such agreements with Hollinger Inc. 
Earlier Monday, however, David Paxton, president and CEO of Paxton Media Group of Paducah, Ky., said under cross examination by defense attor­neys that he may have received some legal benefit from the non­competition agreement he received from Hollinger Inc. 
The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, April 3, 2007 
LEBANON 



Pelosi's Syria visit criticized 
Associated Press 

BEIRUT -House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Monday shrugged off White House criti­cism of her impending visit to Damascus, saying she had "great hope" for reviving U.S. relations with Syria and changing its behavior. 
Speaking hours after arriving in Lebanon, Pelosi indicated the Bush administration was singling out her trip to Syria while ignor­ing recent visits by Republican members of Congress. 
"It's interesting because three of our colleagues, who are all Republicans, were in Syria yes­terday and I didn't hear the White House speaking out about that," Pelosi said, referring to the Sunday meeting of Reps. Frank Wolf, Joe Pitts and Robert Aderholt with Syrian President Bashar Assad in Damascus. 
"I think that it was an excellent idea for them to go," said Pelosi, who is to meet with Syrian lead­ers Wednesday. "And I think it's an excellent idea for us to go, as well." 
In Washington, White House spokeswoman Dana Perino stressed Monday that the Bush administration objected to all vis­its to Syria. 
"We ask that people not go on these trips," she said. "We dis­courage it. Full stop." 
The State Department later said Pelosi was briefed by the Bush administration for her trip, but spokesman Sean McCormack 
Ca§~l~. Rqint Apartment§ 1ap11 Clil.V@.Jand. Rq~g. s.o.uttl. a.fi..pd,.. lndijana. 
o.,:.,:ea_fn 
lndoor/Outdoor·'fiaa... Free Tanning 111: Heated Pool Relaxing Jacuzzi Gated Commbnity 



Northwestern 


said that did not represent an endorsement of the visit. 
The United States has poor relations with Syria, accusing it of interfering in Iraq and Lebanon and sponsoring terror­ists -charges that Damascus denies. Perino last week described Pelosi's visit to Syria as a "really bad idea." 
Last year, a bipartisan commis­sion known as the Iraq Study Group recommended the U.S. launch a new diplomatic initia­tive with Syria and Iran. The Bush administration rejected the idea, but the U.S. did participate in a regional security conference in Baghdad last month that also included representatives from Iran and Syria. 
Perino said it "sends the wrong message to have high-level U.S. officials going there (to Syria) to have photo opportunities that Assad then exploits." 
But Pelosi said she thinks it is a good idea to "establish facts, to hopefully build the confidence" between the U.S. and Syria. 
574....272-8110 574,..272-8114 FAX 
www~cp.gj.com 

Specials! 
Basketball 
• 
Courses in 57 subjects 


• 
Pre-Law Summer Institute 

• 
Summer Writers' Conference 

• 
Summer Study Abroad 


• 
Summer Institute in Negotiation 

• 
Summer Field Studies 


• 
Green City: A Field Study in Chicago 


Registration opens April 9 · Classes start june 18 
Request a catalog or visit us online today! 847-491-5250 • www.northwestern.edu/summer 
Tuesday, April3, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Police official steps down 
Superintendent does not discuss role in videotaped beatings 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -The city's police superintendent said Monday he was stepping down as head of the beleaguered department, but he would not say what role two videotaped beatings involving off­duty officers had in his decision. 
Last month, prosecutors filed felony charges against an officer accused of beating a female bar­tender. Six other officers were removed from street duty after being accused of assaulting four businessmen in a bar. 
Superintendent Philip J. Cline took over in November 2003 and had been expected to retire later this year. On Monday, he referred to the highly publicized incidents only as "these times of chal­lenge." 
To the city's police officers, the 57-year-old Cline said: "I encour­age all of them to rise above any controversy and stay focused on the mission." 
Cline did not take any ques­tions from reporters at a news conference. 
Cline said he will stay on until a replacement was found, and thanked Mayor Richard M. Daley for giving him "a once-in-a-life­time opportunity to lead the best police department in the coun­

try.'' 
Daley would not say whether he asked Cline to leave; he said Cline had wanted to retire a year ago but stayed at Daley's request. 
"The vast majority of Chicago police officers are dedicated, hard working professional men and women who perform their jobs diligently every day," Daley said. "Unfortunately, the actions ofjust a few officers" can tarnish the department's image. 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson, head of the Chicago-based Rainbow/PUSH Coalition, said Cline was retiring under "a cloud of scandal." Future allegations of police misconduct should be sub­ject to review by a civilian board, Jackson said. 
"These videos have created an embarrassment for the mayor and for the city," Jackson said. 
The department was interna­tionally vilified after the bar sur­veillance footage of an off-duty officer pummeling a female bar­tender half his size was broad­cast worldwide through 24-hour news channels and on YouTube. 
Officials have been criticized for waiting a month to arrest Abbate and for initially charging him with a misdemeanor. 
In his brief statement on Monday, Cline also alluded to the apparent effort by police officers to help Abbate enter and leave a court building without having to face the media outside. That caused an outcry in the media about the way police officers pro­teet fellow officers accused of breaking the law. 

Videotape of the other con­frontation, on Dec. 15, has not been seen by the public. Police had been called to the bar that night, but a sergeant who was among the officers involved in the fight waved them off, Cline said. He announced last week that the six officers had been taken off street duty. 
Cline said Abbate "tarnished our image worse than anybody else in the history of the depart­ment," and that he was "disgust­ed to witness this type of con­duct" by officers. 
After the beatings came to light, Cline said he would change the way the department responds to allegations of mis­conduct, including moving faster to get officers accused of miscon­duct off the street. 
He stressed improvements Monday in the department of 13,500 officers and 3,000 civil­ians made under his leadership. 
"Three and a half years ago, Chicago was the homicide capital of the country," he said. "Mayor Daley gave me a mandate as the new police superintendent to reduce homicides and shootings and to make Chicago the safest big city in America. Since that time the men and women of the police department have answered that call." 
Cline was born in Chicago and began his police career in 1968. His first beat was the tough Cabrini-Green housing projects. He was named chief of detectives in 2001 and first deputy superin­tendent two years later. 
Washington w-oinan 
killed by ex -boyfriend 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -A University of Washington researcher was shot to death in her office Monday morning by a former boyfriend who then turned the gun on himself, police said. 
Officers responding to reports of gunfire found the two dead in an office on the fourth floor of Gould Hall, the university's architecture building, Assistant University Police Chief Ray Wittmier said. 
The 26-year-old woman was granted a restraining order last month against Jonathan Rowan, according to court documents. University police said he was not affiliated with the school. 
"I cannot find him but he can find me (knows my place of work)," the victim, identi­fied by colleaguEls as Rebecca Griego, wrote in a restrain­ing order petition filed against Rowan on March 6 in King County Superior Court. 
About six shots were fired, and a handgun was found in the room. There were no eyewitnesses, and no one else was harmed, Wittmier said. 
Lance Nguyen, who worked with Griego at the Runstad Center for Real Estate Research, said the victim had become increasingly worried about her former boyfriend in recent weeks. 
"She said it's a psycho from her past," Nguyen said. 
In the restraining order petition, Griego wrote that Rowan had threatened her and her sister, and said he had threatened suicide 
"because  he  couldn't  see  
me."  
Campus police  were  not  

aware of the restraining order, Wittmier said. He also said he did not think the man had permission to carry a handgun on campus, where firearms are banned. 
Student Meghan Pinch, 27, was in a first-floor classroom when she heard several loud bangs. She said that she did not think they were gunshots at first but that police then told everyone to evacuate. 
"No one wanted to really think it was real," Pinch said as she waited outside to learn whether the victims were people she knew. 
"We all are pretty close in this building," she said. 
Gould Hall, built in 1972, houses three architecture department offices, a dean's office, a library, shop, lab, computer facilities and class­rooms, according to the uni­versity's Web site. 
The building, in an urban neighborhood on the edge of the campus, was closed for the day, with classes rescheduled elsewhere on campus. 
Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring!· 
As part of the lJndergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an i1nportant contribution to the recruihnent and selection of the first-year class by managing relations \vith the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alu1nni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and co1nmunication "vithin the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions. 
There are currently three counselor positions available on our staff for 2007-2008. 
Among our candidates, we -vvill seek a Latino Recruitment Coordinator. (Fluency in Spanish \Vill be strongly preferred.) We \vill also seek an Asian Recruitment Coordinator. Additional responsibilities ·will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity with all aspects of student life at 
Notre Dame. Essential qualities include strong com1nunication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the \Villingness to w-ork long hours, including many evenings and Saturday momings. 
Please Note: Interviews will be scheduled after Easter. Preferred start date is July 1, 2007. 
Please complete the on-line application at http://jobs.nd.edu to be considered. Requisition # 020070065 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, April 3, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTIIOLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: i\Jejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63!-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/Nf www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University.ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chiif Maddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
1bt-Observa-{USPS 599-2..4000) is puh\hheJ Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. A subscription to Tht: Observer is $100 for one academic yctr;$55foronescmesrer. 
The Obser'ltr is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining HaU Send addreu comc{ions ro: Notre Dame,. IN 465564)779 The Observctt Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. s.,, 779 and additional mailing offkes. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norrc: Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
The O~m:.r is a memhet ofth~ Assoc\atcd Ptess. All ttproduaicn rights ..ut. ,<=vo<~. 

Batman vs. Superman 
Those of you who may have read my column in the past know that I have occasionally written about some con­troversial issues, from the fall election to the war in Iraq. Though these sub­
jects can provoke  
arguments and long­ 
lasting discussions, in  
my experience they  
pale in comparison to  
the debate over  
whether Batman or  
Superman is superior.  
I've seen good friends  
stop talking for days Jonathan  
after stumbling into Klingler 
this hornet's nest, and  
when I have listened  Forward the  
to these conversa- Revolution  
tions, opinions have  

been surprisingly immovable and reac­tions quite hostile. 
I bring this topic up because I flew out of town for a graduate school visi­tation event last weekend, and while breaking the ice with somn fellow prospects at a local pub, one of thmn posed the aforementioned question. As I braced in anticipation for the light to come, another student proposed that Batman was a libertarian and Superman was a socialist. After all, hn said, Stalin means "man of steel" in Russian, which also serves as Superman's title. 
According to his theory, Batman is a libertarian because he is a brilliant entrepreneur who trained himself to master the martial arts, and uses skills obtained through merit to defend Gotham against criminals and its hope­lessly corrupt government. On the other hand, Superman is a socialist because he wears a red cape and has a big "S" on his chest, embodies the belief that only those born well can prosper and spends his time fighting his archenemy, a rich businessman. In addition, while Batman is never truly able to eradicate the evil underworld of Gotham City, under Superman's benign control, Metropolis becomes open, modernist and democratic. 
Though one could easily argue the opposite is true, this theory provides an internsting perspective not only for din­ing hall comic book debates but also for govP-rnment as a whole. Though crime fighting is clearly a core responsibility of local government, organizations like Habitat for Humanity, America's Sncond I larvest and Goodwill are able to grant a great deal of support to our neighbors in need when cities and counties fail to provide for those in need. We all have the opportunity to take mattllrs into our own hands when we participate in service organizations like thesP and become a little more like the Dark Knight. 
Like Batman, voluntary associations are often more eflicient than local gov­ernments in addressing problems. In cities across the country, elected offi­cials have worked to create partner­ships with citizen groups so the people can enjoy better services with a smaller tax burden. For example, in lndianap()!is, former mayor Stephen Goldsmith work1~d to create voluntary neighborhood councils that were empowered to help maintain parks, advisn the city on the proper use of funds and report crime. 
When citizen groups and individuals are empowered to help contribute per­sonally to our counties and cities, there is gn~ater accountability and more opportunity f'or democratic participa­tion on a local level. A charity that is eaught misusing funds will adapt quick­ly or f'ace elimination, while corrupt or grossly inefficient local government programs (like the overabundance of snowplows in Chicago) are allowed to go on indefinitely. In Democracy in America, Alexis de Tocqueville observed a vibrant and effective demo­cratic system in the town halls of New England, and as we all become increas­ingly detached from our government, it makes sense to bring policymaking back to the people. Cities and counties are able to do this because of their small size while state government can­not. Sensible local officeholders would be wise to expand the use of effective open decision making -not just "lis­tening sessions" that look good on the news. 
Batman would not be nearly as effec­tive in his mission if it were not for his working relationship with Commissioner Gordon. Similarly, local governments would benefit greatly by actively fostering and working with vol­unteer organizations. Sometimes, the problems of collective action can pre­vent an association from forming. Local government support should provide the seed needed for nnw Habitat chapters, for example, to start in areas where they do not exist. Increased use of faith-based initiatives and public-pri­vate partnerships as well as increased civic education initiated by local gov­ernments all serve to support individ­ual volunteer action and allow such a system of free associations to flourish. 
You can decide for vourself whether or not Batman and Superman repre­sent a libertarian or socialist world­view, respectively. Either way, there is a lot that can be learned from the situ­ation and applied to local governments outside Gotham and Metropolis. By relocating non-coercive responsibilities of' government closer to thf\ people (whether it's from the state level to cities or the local level to citizen groups) the same services can be pro­vided at lower cost and with greater accountability and oversight. This allows cities and counties to take on more responsibilities from state gov­ernments and foster the sort of one-to­one democracy this country was built to enjoy. Though none of us can be a lone Superman flying around South Bend, we can all be Bruce Wayne-style superheroes. As you go about your day, I challenge you to ask, "What Would Batman Do?" 
Jonathan Klingler is a senior man­agement consulting major and presi­dent emeritus of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He currently resides in Keenan Hall and enjoys Tolstoy and Matlock. He can be con­tacted via e-mail at jklingle@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Submit a Letter to the Editor or Guest Column to viewpoint.l@nd.edu or online at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
Letters to the Editor should be no more than 350 words in length. Guest Columns should be rio· 800 words and 
must include name, year, and major. All bmtissror:ts must include the author's name and contact phone number. 
Submissions must be in by 3:00 p.m. to be considered for publication the next day. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Kohler Dan Murphy Jenn Metz Michael Bryan Viewpoint Becky Slinger 
Bethany Scene Whitfield Erin McGinn Graphics 
Matt Hudson 

OBSERVER POLL 
Do you feel the Notre Dame Law School is well respected? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
.Submit aLetter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Eternity's a terrible thought. I mean. where's it all going to end?" 
Tom Stoppard from Rosencrantz and Gulldenstern are Dead 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April3, 2007 page 11 
The economics of Fair Trade: Responding to a complex problelll 
I've never seen such hope. Arias, a Ugandan coffee farmer and father of six, proclaimed assuredly, "Someday my chil­dren will go to secondary school!" Arias' hope is due in large part to his member­ship in Peace Kawomera, a fair Matt Palkert trade certified coffee 
Guest

cooperative in eastern 
Columnist

Uganda. Since enter­ing the Fair Trade market, members of Peace Kawomera are making unprecedented choices: where to purchase mosquito nets, how to invest in a community coffee mill, where to install a much-needed water pump and, perhaps most importantly, where to send their children to school. To spend time with Arias and his family was a privilege I will never forget, and a privi­lege that has consequences. When I pur­chase a cup of coffee, for example, I can't help but picture Arias' children making the daily trek to school. Convinced that my purchase can play a role, albeit small, in realizing this image, the choice to purchase fair trade coffee 
becomes obvious. 
The same choice has also become obvi­ous for an increasing number of con­sumers. The quality of Fair Trade coffee is exceptional; in many places it does not cost more than the conventional premi­um coffee; and its purchase empowers small family farmers. Who would object to this? Economists, it seems. Their cri­tique goes something like this: The high­er price guaranteed by Fair Trade not only encourages production, leading to further oversupply and therefore lower prices for non-Fair Trade farmers, but also discourages necessary "adjust­ments" or "diversification." For the ben­efit of a few, many will suffer. This eco­nomic critique has its value, but fails to reflect the complexity of the coffee mar­ket as weJI as the larger story of Fair Trade. And so it stands in desperate need of clarification. 
First, the truth of the argument along with some context. Coffee has experi­enced tremendous price fluctuations since 1989 when production quotas dis­appeared with the collapse of the International Coffee Agreement. Currently, prices have recovered from the latest plummet, but still signal a sur­plus, delivering an incredibly meager profit to farmers. Also, only 30 percent of coffee grown on certified farms is sold as Fair Trade. The remainder is sold on the conventional premium market. Together these realities certainly support the eco­nomic critique of Fair Trade, but several important factors are missing. 
To begin, the coffee trade is riddled with injustice. It was common colonial practice to coerce farmers into growing cash crops or encourage plantations that relied on unjust labor practices. This began a poverty-stricken coffee depend­ency for most of the world's coffee farm­ers. Today, such dependence is perpetu­ated by both unjust trade policy and short-sighted development programs. Farmers in developing countries cannot compete with subsidized crops imported from the developed world, and so often flee for factory jobs or switch to coffee, if possible. Coffee farmers also suffer from actions of the World Bank, which is largely responsible for a devastating cof­fee glut in the early 1990s as it pushed mass coffee production on Vietnam. Dependency is clearly a problem that must be addressed. To expect farmers to "adjust" or "diversifY" is an unrealistic solution offered by the free market. Such an expectation certainly ignores the unjust context within which farmers operate. What can be done, then, to overcome dependency? Righting and preventing the above injustices is one important step. Two complementary solutions are offered by Fair Trade. Remember Arias? Not only will his chil­dren achieve unprecedented levels of schooling, but thanks to the shared resources offered by a cooperative struc­ture and a partnership with a visionary roaster, soon he will be growing vanilla beans as a way of decreasing his dependency on coffee. 
Another source of injustice within the conventional market system is found in the power imbalance between small farmers, making up two thirds of all cof­fee farmers, and buyers seeking the highest profit margin. Small farmers are taken advantage of in numerous ways, and it's getting worse. The most telling signal is the fact that while worldwide sales of coffee have doubled in the last 20 years, the percentage received by the farmer has been halved. 
Lastly and most importantly, Fair Trade is more than a higher price. Its values, such as farmer empowerment, democratic decision making, business transparency, environmental health and long-term relationships allow Fair Trade to be a vehicle for much needed social change. These values ensure that Fair Trade remains committed to human beings first and foremost. Does such a commitment mean that the Fair Trade movement ignores free market econom­ics? Of course not. It attempts to trans­form it. 
So again, I am presented with what I once thought was a simple choice about a cup of coffee, but those darn econo­mists have complicated things. They have forced me to rely on more than a sentimental image to convince me of the right decision. Back to the original ques­tion: if I purchase Fair Trade coffee will I hurt non-Fair Trade farmers? 
Theoretically it's possible, but it seems far more important to focus rather on the proven factors that affect the price farmers receive. The market system has failed coffee farmers, not because of any impact from Fair Trade, but because it is riddled with injustice. It is the system that must be transformed, because all coffee farmers have the right to a fair chance at a better life. A systemic and complex problem must be met with a systemic and comprehensive response, and while this includes buying Fair Trade coffee, it also means working for trade that is fair. 
Matt Palkert is a graduate student pursuing a Master ofDivinity. He can be contacted at mpalkert@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Lovv attendance at fil111 series shovvs 111issed opportunity, poor priorities 
This past weekend, Notre Dame was host to a truly the Browning Family Cinema was the site of such a of lost revenue, but by the fact that a remarkable wonderful cinematic event. The Decalogue, a series unique and rewarding movie-going experience. The cinematic and religious experience played to an of 10 one-hour films by Krzysztof Kieslowski explor­cinema manager, Jon Vickers, has a knack for put­audience of empty seats. I am not of the mistaken ing each of the Ten Commandments, was shown at ting together opportunities to experience important belief that there is an obligation to attend campus the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Sadly, the the­cinematic works in this intimate setting. If you are a events merely because they exist. But this weekend's ater was nearly empty for every showing; only a fan of cinema, you should be grateful for the work starkly empty theater was a missed opportunity and handful of students bothered to show up. that Vickers does to provide our community with a a sad commentary on the priorities of this communi­
The films, shown in groups of two over four days, schedule that would rival the film offerings of most ty. are masterpieces. The contents of the Ten major U.S. cities. Commandments -adultery, murder, bearing false Before one of this weekend's screenings, Vickers Chris McLemore witness, taking the Lord's name in vain-were expressed sorrow that Kieslowski's masterpiece graduare srudenr explored and questioned brilliantly. It should come drew a meager crowd of around 20 audience mem­off campus as no surprise to the Notre Dame community that bers. I expect that he wasn't saddened by thoughts April2 
Teach for Anterica fights to end educational inequality 
As a 2005 graduate of Notre Dame, I will complete my two-year commitment to Teach for America in June. Upon reflection of my two years of service teaching middle school social studies in New York City, I am overwhelmed by the growth I have witnessed in myself, and more importantly, in my students. 
Like most corps members, I came to Teach for America with a healthy dose of idealism but little experience in the rig­ors of the classroom. Teach for America met my desire to be an agent of change in low-income schools with intense yet rewarding support and professional development. As a corps member I com­pleted a five-week institute where I was mentored by a veteran teacher. Such mentorship ranged from direct instruc­tion in pedagogical theory and praxis to feedback from the summer school les­sons I taught. I left my five-week teacher training confident not only in my com­mitment to significant academic gains with my students but also in my abilities to achieve such results. 
Teach for America's support did not end with my summer preparations. Over the course of my two years of service, I received a Master's degree in education and benefited from ongoing support via my Teach for America program director, regional staff, other corps members in my school and community, teaching toolkits and corps member learning teams as well as my school's principal 
''• 
0 

and veteran teachers. 
From this support I found myself chal­lenged to move beyond the complacent. Rather than simply survive in the class­room, I was guided to push my students to meaningful, data-driven gains. For me, Teach for America's emphasis on the students is at the heart of its sup­port. As I consider my years with Teach for America, there are many highlights: Mayor Bloomberg invited my class to a private audience in his office; a renowned New York City chef brought my class to his five-star restaurant for lunch; and CNBC commentator Donnie Deutsch is scheduled to visit my class­room. 
Yet my biggest takeaway from my par­ticipation in Teach for America is that what matters most is the opportunity to ensure that my students attain an excel­lent education. My ability to measure and document my students' success, guided by Teach for America, is my proudest accomplishment of the past two years. Now more than ever, I believe that all children, when given the opportunity, can excel. I encourage all future gradu­ates of Notre Dame to consider how they might serve in the movement to end edu­cational inequality. 
Stephanie Aberger alumna Class of2005 March 28 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, April3, 2007 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Sandler, Cheadle 'Reign' supreme in new film 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Senior Staff Writer 
"I hate putting fake teeth on fake peo­ple," admits Alan Johnson to his way­ward pal Charlie Fineman in one of the most earnest moments of "Reign Over Me." Like so many professionals his age, Alan (Don Cheadle) lives a routine, not a life: Drop off the kids, apply veneers at his dental practice for eight hours, hurry home, hit the sack by 10:30. Then rinse and repeat. 
Charlie (Adam because this character is far from fine. He prefers to turn the volume on his iPod to ear-splitting highs when confronted with the truth, or even the mere mention of it. Post-traumatic stress disorder is Charlie's psychological diagnosis, but that never deters Alan in his quest to restore Charlie to himself. 

Over the course of this quietly moving and self-effacing film, we come to appre­ciate the two-way street of the narrative. Charlie may be more damaged, but Alan needs Charlie just as much. It's a subtle difference because Alan's life doesn't 

Sandler). on the Reign Over Me scream out for a sav­other hand, lives 
ior. Binder smartly lets the life any mar­us sit with Alan in his ried 40-year-old seemingly untroubled would envy, or at -and rather boring least wistfully Director: Mike Binder -life to show the true miss. He splits Writer: Mike Binder impact of Charlie's 
his time between Starring: Adam Sandler, Don reappearance. eating Chinese Cheadle, }ada Pinkett Smith, LivTyler, Character-driven food, watching and Donald Sutherland films like "Reign Over 
Mel Brooks marathons, scouring for vintage LPs and motoring around town on his scooter. It's a care­free existence, but it's one tinged with sadness. 
We learn early on that Alan and Charlie were roommates at dental school, but Charlie doesn't remember Alan upon their first encounter. Why Alan pursues Charlie so doggedly is never explicitly stated, although sur­vivor's guilt may be the most obvious rea­son. 
Charlie lost his entire family to the 9/11 attacks. He's been a shell ever since, iso­lating himself further with each passing year. Writer-director Mike Binder chose quite an ironic surname for Charlie, 

Me" succeed on the 
strength of their per­formances, and Binder brings together an unlikely but formidable duo in Cheadle and Sandler. Both actors are brilliant here. Beginning with the reserved comfort that accompanies the rekindling of a lost friendship, their rela­tionship builds and evolves to one of deep trust. 
The best scenes in the film are often the ones where Charlie and Alan are by themselves, zipping around New York City by night as they might have done decades ago. Their surface smiles and easy laughter are charming signs of a flourishing friendship. 
When Cheadle's career draws to a close many years from now, we might not remember "Reign Over Me" as his finest performance, but rather one more exam­ple of how brilliantly consistent he was at his craft. He is one of our finest perform­ers, able to exude the sincerest of emo­tions with ease. 
While Cheadle's performance is to be expected, Sandler's turn as Charlie is a revelation. He brings a nuanced, child­like wonder to the role that is miles away from the childish tantrums that made his fame. His previous effort in "Punch­Drunk Love" hinted at this range, but "Reign Over Me" offers only our second glimpse at his potential for affecting drama. Like Jim Carrey before him, Sandler is on the cusp of shedding his comedic typecasting for roles that are far meatier, and hopefully far more reward­ing. 
After another late night out with Charlie, Alan tries to explain himself to his vexed wife. "I was stuck in Charlie World. I couldn't leave," Alan pleads. 
Looking past his sheepish spousal favade, it's easy to see why Alan didn't want to leave Charlie World, and the feeling is mutual. Their swelling friend­ship anchors this warm-hearted film, one that's genuine, sweet and sentimental without ever becoming sappy. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 

'Patton' released on a four-star special edition 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
With one of the most famous opening monologues in the history of the cinema, "Patton" begins as its namesake lived: fierce and calm, pious and callous, genius and insane. When Patton says, "When you stick your hand into a pile of goo that a moment ago was your friend's face ... you'll know what to do," a primitive fierce­ness easily convinces the audience that nothing more brilliant could ever be said. 
And so opens 20th Century Fox's newest DVD release of the Oscar-winning, critical­ly acclaimed "Patton" as part of its Cinema Classics Collection. Starring the surly George C. Scott in one of the fmest roles of his career, this film is less about the war it portrays than how one man deals with that war. A controversial figure in American military history, George S. Patton was one of the most brilliant, crazy, loved and hated figures to emerge from World War II. 


Scott lives this role and emerges victori­ous not only on the battlefields of Ardennes and North Africa but also in the Academy Awards where he won (and infa­mously declined) the award for Best Actor in a Leading Role. With panache and gusto, Scott's Patton is one of the most memorable American war film roles. While Tom Hanks was marvelous in "Saving Private Ryan," few actors deftly live a character like Scott does. With aplomb and his own rough-and-tumble grace, Scott becomes Patton. 
"Patton" also stars Karl Malden as the professional, look-before-you-leap General Omar Bradley. Similar to the situ­ations of the characters portrayed, Malden's placid Bradley lives in the shad­ow of Scott's churlish Patton. However, this does not stop Malden from reveling in the role. He is the perfect counter to Scott­their arguing and pleading characters form one of the best duos in any film. 
The film is shot in a beautiful 2.20 to 1 widescreen that allows director Franklin Schaffner to visit the ominous deserts of North Africa and the imposing forests of France in all their natural glory. It also provides for the best opening scene in the latter half of the 20th century. 
Schaffner's direction, Fred Koenekamp's photography, Francis Ford Coppola and Edmund North's screenplay and Scott and Malden's acting make this film a must­have for aficionados of history and the cin­ema. 

The DVD release marks the first time a special edition of this film has been released -and 20th Century Fox has spared no expense for a film that truly deserves it. The fihn transfer is top-notch, the 5.1 sound is truly surrounding and the extras are insightful and plentiful. "The Making of 'Patton"' documentary is a true gem that explores what Schaffner and crew went through to make this film. There are also hilstorical documentaries that compliment the film nicely along with an audio commentary by famed filmmaker and "Patton" screenwriter Francis Ford Coppola, which gives a new and interest­ing perspective on this film. 
Released in 1970 at the height of the Vietnam War protests, this movie is still relevant in more contemporary situations. When Patton famously declares that America will never lose a war, the phan­toms of Vietnam and the quickly develop­ing skeletons of Iraq materialize. This glo­rious and vainglorious man only knew happiness in battle, and this film deserves all of the laurels it has ever received. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE -. 
Tuesday, April 3, 2007 
page 13 


Summarizing trailers ruin magic of the movies 
As a film fan, I naturally fmd myself a fan of movie trailers. Sometimes going into a film, I'm more excited to see the trailers than the film itself. The spring is always a big time for movie trailers because studios want to drum up hype for their upcoming sum­mer blockbusters. 
This spring is no exception with trail­ers for "Spiderman 3," "Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End," "Shrek 3" and "Transformers"-to name a few-playing in theaters. For a trailer addict like myself, these are the ultimate gratification -especially since I can watch them over and over in high-definition at apple.com. 
However, while watching the trailers in front of "Blades of Glory" this past week­end, I became distinctly aware of how frequently previews these days are con­densing entire films into three-minute montages. 
I feel like I could relate to someone the entire plot of "Spiderman 3" in chrono­logical order just from having seen the latest trailer. The same goes for "Pirates 3" and "Shrek 3." Trailers like these take away any suspense or surprise movies can contain. 
Often, trailers for comedies give away 

Sean Sweany 
Assistant Scene Editor 

all the funny moments of the film, leaving nothing left for audiences to laugh at dur­ing the movie. All four funny jokes in "Nacho Libre" were in the trailer, making the film largely an unfunny waste of time. "Blades of Glory," thankfully, did not do this. In fact, most of the jokes for that film's trailer weren't even in the movie. 
More trailers should be like this -giv­ing enough to generate enthusiasm for a film without giving away the whole thing months before it arrives in theaters. The original trailer for "Knocked Up" was done in this style, and it was both refreshing and delightful. 
The film, from the creators of "The 40­Year-Old Virgin," follows what happens after a drunken slacker unexpectedly (Seth Rogen, "The 40-Year-Old Virgin") impregnates an up-and-coming journalist (Katherine Heigl, "Grey's Anatomy") in a one-night stand. The original trailer was short and only showed clips from one scene in the movie, establishing a basic plot and a continuity that allowed viewers to connect with the stars. 
Unfortunately, producers have since come out with a longer trailer along the lines of "Spiderman 3" that shows scenes from nearly the whole movie and seem­ingly gives away the entire plot. 
So much for the hope that things were changing for the better. 
If there's a solution to this problem, it's not on Hollywood's end. Movie studios need to market their films, and they have determined that enough people will see them no matter how detailed and reveal-ing the trailers are. 

One could stop watching the trailers and just wait for a film to arrive in the­aters, but this also seems unrealistic, at least for me. I mean, when you were young, if you could have gotten a peak at your Christmas presents early, wouldn't you have done it? 
Hollywood will likely continue to make movie trailers that give away the premise of a film in order to sell as many tickets as possible. Accordingly, people like me will continue to watch these trailers no matter how redundant it might seem to basically see a movie in its entirety and then go see it again later. 
Speaking of trailers, there's a new trail­er for "War, Inc.," the latest John Cusack film, on the Internet now, so you'll have to excuse me. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd. edu 

With just a few clicks of a mouse, you can quickly learn the extent of Paris Hilton's self-absorption, decide that Lindsay Lohan is only a few steps behind Britney's level of crazy and see that every celebrity looks "fugly" sometimes. 
It used to be that the average celeb­voyeur had to wait for print issues of celebrity rags to hit the local supermar­ket stand. Now you only have to a wait a few seconds for the most up-to-date news about the antics of the rich and famous. 
Web sites like the­superficial.com, perezhilton.com and gofugyourself.com have rapidly grown in popularity for their caustic wit and easy ability to bring every celebrity down a peg or two. Although every site is known for ragging on celebrities, each fills its own special niche and, for the more serious celeb-voyeur, pres­ents unique material to the public. 
If witty, sarcastic one-liners are your cup of tea, then look no farther than thesuperficial.com. Frequently updat­ed, thesuperficial is known for its suc­cinct descriptions of recent celebrity antics, which are always accompanied by truly laugh-worthy images. Recent articles have featured such stars as Tara ("Tara Reid's bikini almost fits"), Bam ("Bam Margera loves Lance 


Bass") and Hilary ("Hilary Duff thinks she has boobs"). The author has also brought the term "clown-whore" back into common vocabulary, a term of derision that he frequently applies to the Olsen twins and the Simpson sis­ters. Always timely-and always hilarious -thesuperficial.com is a great stop to add during daily procras­tination attempts. 
Perezhilton.com takes the same basic approach as thesuperficial, and while it contains a little less wit in its written entries, it uses random picture-editing to provide much of its humor. And if laughing specifically at Paris Hilton, Lindsay Lohan or Hilary Duff is what you need, perezhilton helpfully tags all of its entries so you can search for a specific celebrity. Although it is similar in content to thesuperficial, they tend to not overlap material, making both very valuable sources. 
If it's witnessing a particularly heinous celebrity fashion faux pas that makes you feel like a better person while warming your heart, then gofu­gyourself.com is the site for you. Co­written by two fiery and caustic young women, Jessica Morgan and Heather Cocks (a Notre Dame alum), gofugyour­self focuses solely on celebrity fashion gone-wrong, to the point that the ensemble is declared "fugly." They sum up their project by explaining that "fugly" is "a self-inflicted state, and no one seems to excel at dwelling in the depths of fug quite like pretty people with money to spare and little sense of how to spend it." Each writes their own 

Images of celebrities, like Gisele, grace the pages of celeb blogs with comments such as "[The shoes look like] kindergartners decorate them during arts and crafts." 
entries, and they each have their own particular fashion pet-peeves that they tend to focus on. They each also have a slightly different sense of humor and frequently write creative entries from the point-of-view of the celeb in dire fashion straits (for example, Britney's posts are almost always written as let­ters from Britney). 
Although it is a little like watching a car wreck, it is undeniably fun to learn that Paris Hilton has a droopy eyelid and has to custom order all of her designer shoes since her feet are so large or to see the most recent ghoulish image of the Olsen twins -and these Web sites are the just the places to go for that personal ego boost. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd. edu 
.-page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 3, 2007 
MLB 
New Royal Meche leads K.C. past Red Sox 
Indians hot hitting in opener leads to easy win over White Sox; Renteria's blast in extra innings gives Braves win 
"It was great, something I'll Boston manager Terry
Associated Press never forget, being a part of Francona said there was no More than 41,000 fans got on this," Meche said. "The stand­chance of bringing Schilling their feet and gave Gil Meche a ing ovation was an unbelievable back for a fifth inning. standing ovation. feeling for me." "Four innings, 89 pitches. Very few of them would prob­Mark Grudzielanek went 3-Those were four hard innings," ably ever admit to being among for-5 and drove in three runs Francona said. the many critics who accused and Tony Pena Jr. hit two Three of Meche's strikeouts Kansas City of paying too much triples in his Hoyals debut as came against Julio Lugo, the for the 28-year-old right-han­Schilling lasted just four free-agent shortstop the Hed der. The big deal paid off. for innings. The six-time All-Star Sox signed during the winter to one outing at least. gave up live runs on eight hits, add speed and pop in the lead­In his first start since the with two walks and live strike­ofT spot. Hoyals gave him a club-record outs in his shortest outing in Grudzielanek, the second live-year, $55 million contract, almost a decade. baseman who won his first Gold Meche went 7 1-3 solid innings "Physically, I felt fine. I just Glove last season, had an RBI and led his new team to a 7-1 didn't execute and didn't single in the second inning and victory over the Boston Red Sox adjust," Schilling said. "One then put the Hoyals on top 5-1 and an ineffective Curt thing I've always preached to in the fourth with a two-run Schilling. young pitchers is about the abil­double. lie also scored twice, on Settling down after a shaky ity to make a mistake on a pitch Schilling's bases-loaded walk in 
first inning, Meche gave up six and come back and make an the first and Mark Teahen's RBI hits and one run. He struck out adjustment on the very next single in the sixth. six and walked only one in the pitch. I didn't do that today." 
longest outing by a Kansas City Now 1-3 in five career starts Cleveland 12, Chicago (AL) 5 starter on opening day since at Kauffman Stadium, Schilling Grady Sizemore set the tone 1988. had gone 281 starts since being for the Cleveland Indians with 
"''ve never admitted to being lifted after 2 2-3 innings on May his first swing. nervous before a game ... but 22, 1997 against the New York Sizemore homered ofT Jose this one was a little nerve-rack­Mets. Contreras on the game's second left forearm in his !ina! spring Last July, Henteria hit a ing," he said. "I felt line until I He was in trouble from the pitch. and the Indians added start. He allowed three runs tiebreaking HBI double ofl' Myers actually got across the white beginning, forcing in a run in four more runs in the first and eight hits, struck out two after he failed to bunt in the lines and thought to myself, the opening inning with his first inning on their way to a 12-5 and walked one in six innings. ninth inning of a 5-1 win in 'This is opening day. This is a bases-loaded walk since Aug. 7, victory over the Chicago White Newcomer Darin Erstad hit a Philly. big deal.' 2005. Sox in the season opener two-run homer in the first ''I'm a bunting guy," said 
''I've always been nervous Schilling had also gone only Monday. inning for the White Sox. Paul Henteria, who has 82 career sac­opening day, and I've never two innings on July 18, 20(}1, at "You're definitely excited," Konerko added a solo shot in rifices. 'Til try and move the guy pitched opening day." San Diego before a light bank Sizemore said. "I was a little the third, but the game was out to second every time. That's my 
When he was relieved by Joel blew and forced the game to be jacked up up there. The crowd of reach by then. game. Sometimes you hit the Peralta with one on and one out suspended. Randy Johnson took was getting into it." "They're a great offensive ball good and the ball goes out." in the eighth, the crowd of the mound when the game Then, he unloaded. And his club," Konerko said. "They've John Smoltz went six innings, 41,257 stood and applauded. resumed the next day. teammates followed his lead. been like that for the last few Bob Wickman (1-01 pitched out 
Tho 12 runs were the most years. The good news is it was of a jam in the ninth and Chad f(>r the Indians on opening day only one loss. It felt likfl it Paronto tossed a scoreless 10th since 1925, when they scored should have counted for more." for the save. 21 against St. Louis. A year ago, the White Sox Kelly Johnson walked to start 
After winning just 78 games raised the 2005 championship the 1Oth against Ryan Madson last season, Cleveland knocked banner before beating (0-1 ). Renteria fouled off two out Contreras in the second Cleveland in the opener in a bunt attempts before hitting a inning and pounded out 13 hits game that was delayed nearly liner into the right-center field overall. three hours by rain and seats. 
Sizemore's homer was the stretched into the next day. This "It's very disappointing to let Indians' first leading off an time, they fell flat. my teammates down," said opener in 19 years. lie went 2-Madson, a key part of an oft-crit­for-4 with an HBI and three Atlanta 5, Philadelphia 3 icized bullpen. runs scored. Next time Edgar Henteria Jimmy Rollins homered and 
"That gave everybody else squares to bunt against the Myers pitched 7 2-3 strong confidnnce," said Travis Hafner, Philadelphia Phillies, the pitcher innings for the Phillies. who had two hits and scored might try to hit his bat. Brian McCann hit a two-run three times. After twice failing to execute a homer for the Braves. 
"lluge," starter C.C. Sabathia sacrifice, Henteria ripped his Myers retired seven straight said. "Sm:ond pitch of the year second homer -a two-run shot before Henteria ripped an 0-2 and he goes deep. llopefully, -in the 1Oth inning to lead the pitch ofT the brick wall beyond that'll be a tone-setter for our Atlanta Braves over Philadelphia the center-field fence to tie it at season." 5-3 in the season opener 3. 
Trot Nixon had three hits and Monday. "I thought I had him looking scored thme runs in his Indians Renteria's solo shot oil' starter for an ofl'-speed pitch and tried debut, while Vietor Martinez Brett Myers with two outs in the to throw it by him," Myers said. and Jhonny Peralta each had eighth inning tied it at 3. "I didn't make the pitch and he two hits and three HB!s. "lie couldn't get a bunt down, did what he was supposed to do 
That was plenty for Sabathia but he could hit a homer," with a bad pitch." Cleveland second baseman Josh Barfield hits a two-run triple in (1-0), who pitched well enough Phillies manager Charlie Manuel "The bullpen's performance a 12-5 win on opening day over the White Sox. after taking a line drive to the said of Renteria. was terrific," said Bobby Cox. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. $15.50 base-appt. flexible schedules, no exp.needed, customer sales/serv­ice, conditions apply, all ages 17+, positions in all of Indiana & Michigan, 273-3835. www.workforstudents.com 
FoR SALE 
•No CONDos• NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos Minutes from campus Starting in $130,000s 574-252·2427 ndcondos.com Reserve Yours Today! 
Cute House $59K-near ND,3BR,wd flrs,2BA,garage,zen Garden by architect,deck,alarmsys, fireplace, rented@$650. 614-353-5889 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER AREAS,BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 
3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for 07/08 school year. On line see rent­nd.com or mmmrentals.com. Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb­spot.net or phone 574-277-4759. 

RENTLIKEACHAMPION 3·5 bdrms avail for 07-08. $250/bdrm. Call312-545·5123 or email mitchell.58@nd.edu 
1 bdrm apts available summer & fall 
07. 1 mi to ND in quiet historic neighborhood. $575/mo. Laundry/Security. Call 574-532-8718. 
Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli. AIC,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 + util. 630·417-8763/ MCL214@aol.com 
Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9. Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896. 
Very large home for rent for next school year. 1 block east of cam­pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 
4 huge bedrms/3 full baths/large kitchen-lam rm & laundry rm. 3 decks overlook huge fenced yard. 
Very private & safe! Must see! 239-707-2025. 
5 rooms for rent, summer 2007. 741 Eddy. Very close, available NOW if necessary. $300/mo per person. 
(913)481-1918. acrutchf@nd.edu 
3BR House-near ND/food/bus,2BA,garage,zen garden,deck,alarmsys 614-353-5889 $675 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­800-No-ABORT or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
Peaseblossom,Cobweb,Moth,Must ardseed: B kind/courteous 2 this gentleman. Ty. 
Adopt: A young loving couple long to share their Hearts and home with a newborn & will provide Endless love. Expenses paid call Eileen & Ed at 1-800·718-6577 
Summer Jobs • Receive contact information now for summer employment at US National Parks, Western Dude Ranches and Theme Parks. You must apply early. www.summerjobs-research.org 
Dad always thought laughter was the best medicine, which I guess is why several of us died of tuberculosis. 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, April3, 2007 CoMPILED FROM TH.r ()ssERVER's \VIRE SERVICES page 15 
NHL Standings Eastern Conference 

team  record  pts.  
x-Buffalo  50·21-7 '  107  
x-New Jersey·  47-24-8  102  
x·AIIanta  41·27-11  93  
x·Ottawa  47-24-8  102  
x·Pittsburgh  45·23-11  101  
NY Rangers  41·29·9  91  
• Tampa Bay  43·32·4  90  
Montreal  41·32·6  88  
Toronto  38·30·11  87  
Carolina  39-32·8  86  
NY Islanders  36-30·12  84  
Florida  34·30·15  83  
Boston  35·38·6  76  
Washington  26-39·14  66  
Philadelphia  21-46·11  53  

Western Conference 
team  record  pts.  
x·Detroit  48-19·12  108  
x-Anaheim  47-20-12  106  
x-Vancouver  47-24-7  101  
x-Nashville  49-23-7  105  
x-Dallas  48-24-6  102  
x-San Jose  49-26·4  102  
x·Minnesota  45·26·4  98  
Calgary  43·25-10  96  
Colorado  41-30·7  89  
St. louis  32·33·13  77  
Columbus  32-40·7  71  
Edmonton  31·41·7  69  
Chicago  29-40·9  67  
los Angeles  26-39·14  66  
Phoenix  29-44-5  63  

x-clinched playoff spot 
last 10 · 
6·2·2 5·5·0 5·4·1 8-1-1 7-2·1 7-2·1 5·5·0 .8-2·0 5-3·2 5-4-1 2·6-2 5·3-2 2·7-1 2-6-2 2-8-0 
last 10 
5-2-3 6·3·1 6-2-2 H-1 8-1-1 8·1-1 7-2·1 7-3-0 7-1-2 3·4·3 5-5·0 1-8·1 3-7·0 4-5-1 2·6·2 
NCAA Women's Div. I Tennis FlLA Collegiate Rankings 
team  avg.  
1  Stanford  91.92  
2  NOTRE DAME  89.42  
3  Florida  86.86  
4  usc  84.42  
5  Georgia  82.07  
6  California  81.64  
6  Georgia Tech  81.48  
8  Clemson  79.63  
9  Miami {Fl)  78.55  
10  Northwestern  75.61  
11  UCLA  64.83  
12  William and Mary  64.81  
13  North Carolina  60.48  
14  TexasA&M  58.93  
15  Fresno  54.92  
16  Baylor  53.49  
11  Wake Forest  52.00  
18  Florida State  51.55  
19  Arizona  48.81  
20  Duke  47.96  
21  Vanderbilt  47.32  
22  Pepperdine  46.36  
23  Kentucky  45.61  
24  Oregon  40.81  
25  Florida International  39.32  


around the dial 
NHL Buffalo at Pittsburgh 7 p.m., VERSUS 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Rutgers vs. Tennessee 8:30 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

ATLANTA Some 3­
pointers are worth more 
than others. 

Florida specializes in 
those 3s, the ones that not 
only put three points on the 
scoreboard but steal 
momentum from an oppo­
nent. 

The Gators hit 10 3-point­
ers Monday night in the 84­
75 victory over Ohio State 
that sealed their place in 
college basketball history as 
the first repeat champion in 
15 years. 

Not all were the back­
breakers from beyond the 
arc, but enough were. 
The Buckeyes had two 
problems: They couldn't 
stop Florida from making 3s and they couldn't make any themselves. They kept miss· ing and missing and miss­ing. 
Lee Humphrey, Corey Brewer and Taurean Green -Florida's trio of 3-makers -started hitting early against Ohio State and did­n't stop, finishing 10-for-18. They combined for 43 points with Green getting 16, Humphrey 14 and Brewer 13. 
"I think it was just taking what the defense was giving us," Green said. "Coach always tells us, once you have a crack, let it go, shoot the ball with confidence. When they made runs, I think we did a good job of 
IN BRIEF 

Purdue wide receiver to be 
released from hospital 
WEST lAFAYETTE, Ind. -A Purdue wide receiver who was stabbed in the chest during a fight at a nightclub is expected to be released from the hospital later this week, the university said Monday. 
Receiver Selwyn Lymon remained hospi· talized in satisfactory condition Monday afternoon, Purdue said in a news release. 
"While there are still a number of unan­swered questions that surround this mat· ter, we are relieved that Selwyn is on his way to making a complete recovery," head football coach Joe Tiller said in the release. 
"His well-being always has been our pri· mary concern. I will meet with him as soon as he is released from the hospital." 
Tiller said he was considering possible disciplinary measures against Lymon, who started 12 games as a sophomore last season, after he was stabbed March 30 during a fight at Nick's Nightclub. The stabbing is being investigated by police. 
just coming back and knocking down 3s." 
They'd done this before in this NCAA tournament, starting with the regional final win over Oregon after many had questioned Florida's ability to put away opponents early in the first three rounds. 
On Monday night, Brewer, just a 33 percent 3-point shooter, hit the first of the big ones. 
Greg Oden, Ohio State's 7­foot freshman, pinned a shot by Brewer against the backboard and the crowd at the Georgia Dome reacted heartily for the first time. Ohio State's Jamar Butler missed a 3 at the other end and Brewer came right back down and hit a 3, giv· ing a little skip as he passed the Buckeyes' bench and extended the Gators' lead to 20-13 halfway through the first half. 
Then it was all three of the Gators' shooters hitting big shots. 
Ivan Harris hit Ohio State's second and last 3 of the first half with 5:37 to go to bring the Buckeyes with· in 24-22 and again bring the fans to life. 
Humphrey, the most pro­lific 3-point shooter in NCAA tournament history, hit one 16 seconds later. Brewer nailed another with 
4:28 left after AI Horford had grabbed an offensive rebound. 

Hawkeyes names Lickliter 
new head basketball coach 
IOWA CITY, Iowa -Iowa hired Todd Lickliter as its new coach Monday night, replacing Steve Alford with the coach who turned mid-major Butler into a NCAA tournament regu­lar. 
Lickliter will be introduced by the university at a news conference Tuesday. 
He was 131-61 in six years at Butler, taking the Bulldogs to the tour­nament four times. 
This season was his best yet at Butler. The Bulldogs finished 29·7, losing to Florida in the NCAA tourna­ment's round of 16. 
The Bulldogs won the NIT Season Tip-off championship and were ranked in The Associated Press Top 25 for 16 consecutive weeks. 
Lickliter takes over a program that won just one NCAA tournament game in eight seasons under Alford, who left for New Mexico on March 23. 
Heath agrees to 5-year 
contract With South Florida TAMPA, Fla. -Stan Heath's stint without a job lasted one week. 
The fired Arkansas basketball coach agreed Monday to a five-year contract to take over South Florida's struggling program and try to transform the Bulls into a contender in the Big East. Including incentives, the deal is worth up to $4.275 million. 
Heath, 42, will be introduced Tuesday at a news conference on the USF campus, said assistant athletic director John Gerdes. He replaces Robert McCullum, who was fired last month after losing 28 of 32 confer· · ence games in the school's first two seasons in one of the nation's toughest leagues. 
USF athletic director Doug Woolard, who met with Heath during the Final Four in Atlanta, is counting on the new coach's experience rebuilding Arkansas in the Southeastern Conference to benefit the Bulls. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 3, 2007 
NHL 
Alone in first, New Jersey fires Julien 

Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­Having the New Jersey Devils in first place in the Atlantic Division with a week to go in the regular season got coach Claude Julien fired on Monday. 
Sound strange? 
When you work for general manager Lou Lamoriello, it's all about winning Stanley Cups. 
Feeling that Julien didn't have the team ready to make a Cup run with the playoffs scheduled to start next week, Lamoriello fired him on Monday and took over behind the bench for the second straight year. 
"I don't think we're at a point of being ready both mentally and [physically] to play the way that is necessary going into the playoffs," Lamoriello said outside an empty Devils locker room at the Continental Airlines Arena. "I am not saying that is going to change. But I think there has to be better focus going forward." 
The stunning move came less than a day after the Devils beat Boston for their fourth win in five games. New Jersey's 102 points is tied for the second most in the Eastern Conference. 
Julien, who was informed of his dismissal on Monday morning by Lamoriello, was not immediately available for comment. He posted a 47-24­8 mark in his first season in New Jersey. 
Lamoriello refused to say how long that he has been considering the move, noting that Julien did nothing off the ice to get fired. 
"He certainly understands," Lamoriello said. 
Lamoriello, who replaced Larry Robinson as coach on Dec. 19, 2005, would not say whether Julien will remain with the organization. 
A practice scheduled for Monday was called off after Lamoriello discussed the move with the team. 
"Our job is to listen to what has been said and why the decision was made," Devils captain Patrik Elias said. "Management said it gives us the best chance to accomplish what we want to accomplish and that is to win the [Stanley] Cup." 
Lamoriello would not say specifically what was wrong with the team. The Devils, who have struggled scoring all season, have slumped recently, winning seven of 15 games with forwards Brian Gionta, John Madden and Elias sidelined by groin injuries. 
However, the three have returned to the lineup in the past week, helping to turn things around. 
"You don't always judge by wins and losses as far as where you are at," said Lamoriello, who built three Stanley Cup winning teams in New Jersey the previous 11 seasons. "The way we put ourselves in this organization, you have to look at the big picture. To say that 102 points today isn't an excellent accomplishment, it's extreme­ly positive. But I have to look at a lot of factors." 
Julien was handicapped by roster problems because the Devils have been up against the NHL salary cap all season. Injuries have forced him to play several minor league players. 
"I think everybody takes responsibility, including me," Lamoriello said. 
Monday's firing isn't the only time Lamoriello made a late-season coaching move. He fired Robbie Ftorek with eight games left in the 1999­2000 season and Robinson led the team to its second Stanley Cup title. 
Lamoriello didn't consider the change in 2000 in decid­ing to replace Julien, the Devils seventh coach since 2000, which includes two stints by Robinson. 
"You don't think of those things," Lamoriello said. "Nothing makes it any easier.. believe me. The day anything like this becomes easy, or when it's trading a player or when you have make these decisions and it becomes easy, that's the day you look for a different position." 
Julien previously coached the Montreal Canadiens from 2003 until January 2006. 
CLUB SPORTS 

Wolllen's vvater polo takes third 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame finished third with a 4-1 record at the Miami Ohio University Tournament this weekend. 
The Irish opened with a 15-5 victory over Illinois Friday night. M.C. Cimino led the scoring with four goals, while Bridget O'Neill and Kelly Horner each added three. Cristina Romano had another two, while Kat Kennifer, Meghan Pearl, and Kristin Schmitt' completed the scoring. Betsy O'Neill and Maggie Hyde split the relatively uneventful goal, having four and two saves, respectively. 
The Irish faced a tough Michigan squad Saturday morning, but came away with a strong 7-4 win. Schmitt had two goals, and Romano, Cimino, Horner, O'Neill and Kristen Harchut each added another. O'Neill kept the cage with nine saves. 
The second contest of the day was against Purdue, with the Irish coming out on top 15-4. Horner led with three goals, while O'Neill, Schmitt and Cimino each had a pair. Romano, Kennifer, Harchut and Paige Change added another. Goaltenders O'Neill and Hyde combined for nine saves. 
The third match of the day pitted the Irish against No. 3 Cal Poly. Cal Poly pulled away in the second half, and although O'Neill made 17 saves, the game resulted in a 9-4 loss. Bridget O'Neill led the scoring with two goals, and Schmitt and Horner each had one. 
Sunday morning the Irish played for third place against Michigan State. The game was close through three quarters, but four fourth-quarter goals gave the Irish an 8-5 victory. Romano, Harchut, Schmitt and Horner each had a pair of goals, and O'Neill had five saves. 
Gymnastics 
This past weekend, the gymnastics club hosted the 25th Annual Clover Classic. Eighteen women's teams and 1:~ men's teams participated, providing great competition for the event. It was also senior night for the Irish. 
President Wendy Jo Svetanoff led the way, plac­ing fifth on beam and tying for third on floor. Paul Kane, Maura Steed, Cecilia Torres, and Alya Holowatyj also turned in exceptional senior performances. Anne Krishnan placed fifth on vault and second on floor, and Kelleen O'Leary placed fifth on bars. 
Kelsey Ingram, Sophia Troy, Katie Wanserski, and Jacquelyn Carney con­tributed to the Irish women's third place finish. Penn State won the women's division, beating Miami of Ohio by .025. 
On the men's side, Zach Gagnon placed second on high bar and Danny Nolan also contributed to the team total. Penn State won the men's team title as well, with Illinois placing second and Northern Illinois third. The final meet for the Irish will be the NAIGC National Championships in Columbus, Ohio. 

Equestrian Club 
Brittany Gragg qualified for Nationals in novice fences this weekend at the Zones, held at Lake in the_ Hills, Ill, to continue the outstanding post-season performances for the NDSMC equestrians. 
Eight riders qualified for Regionals this year, includ­ing Gragg, Claire Freeman, Kelsey Ostberg, Katie Baron, Krista Jones, Catherine Germer, Alisha Wilkinson, and Nicole Gonsalves. 
From this group, two advanced to Zones. Gragg finished first in novice fences at Zones as well as Regionals, while Ostberg fin­ished a very strong fourth in open fences. 
Men's Volleyball 
Notre Dame again posted six victories in eight matches over the weekend. The Irish opened play with a 25-19 win over Grand Valley State on Saturday. The squad dropped the next match to Illinois, 29-27, 25-19, and then rebounded with wins over Western Michigan, 25­16, 27-25, and Wisconsin, 25-18, 25-17 to close the Saturday competition. 
On Sunday, the Irish again started strong with wins over Northwestern, 25-13, 25-18, and Illinois State, 25­27, 25-27, 15-12. After tak­ing a third victory for the day against Marquette, 25­22, 25-12, the Irish closed the tournament with a sec­ond loss to the Illlini. 

Intent to present p ers must be communicated by Aprill6, 2 07. Please email godislove@nd.edu with confirmation of the topic of your paper. Students can then present their papers at the Deus Caritas Est conference (April 27-28), make any final revisions based on discussions during the conference, and then submit final documents by May 4, 2007. 
Prizes will be awarded in the following categories: 
Freshman/sophomore:  $1,000 winner and $500 runner-up  
Junior/senior:  $1,000 winner and $500 runner-up  
Graduate students:  $1,000 winner and $500 runner-up  

For additional information regarding the conference and call for papers please visit: www.nd.edu/encyclical. For questions email: godislove@nd.edu or call631-6526. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 

Tuesday, April3, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Heat star Wade practices for first time since injury 
off round -on Tuesday. 
Should Miami beat the Raptors, it'd hold the tiebreaker by win­ning the season series 2-1. Should Miami lose, the Heat would essen­tially fall four games (three in the standings, one more with the tiebreaker) behind Toronto with eight games left, meaning chances of earning home-court for Round 1 would be slim. 
"It's a big game, there's no doubt," Riley said. "Our guys understand it. We know what it's about. . . . It's all about positioning and seeding and home-court advantage. They know it's huge." 
Wade won't play on Tuesday, but the defending NBA champions may get Jason Kapono back in the lineup. 
Kapono, the NBA's leading 3­point shooter, hasn't played since spraining his left ankle against Atlanta on March 5. The team will decide his status after Tuesday morning's shootaround. 
"I assume that I'm playing. I want to be out there," Kapono said. "Unless something happens from now until Tuesday night, which I don't see, I expect to be out there." 
Wade is hoping to say the same soon. He'll travel with the Heat to Cleveland and Boston later this week so he can continue practic­ing and "learning the plays again," as he put it, and will con­tinue rehabbing the shoulder daily to keep building strength. 
"I haven't had a day off," Wade said. 
Wade's biggest challenge right now, he said, is denying his risky instinct of reaching for every ball that he comes near defensively and instead using his feet to get into better position. But his explo­siveness was still there on the offensive end, proven by the way he ended a 4-on-4 scrimmage with a strong dunk. 
"He looked real good to me," Wright said. "He's got all the moves. Nothing's changed. He's. probably just a little winded, I bet,; sitting out that long. But he's been· working hard every day, trying to · get back." 
Drumron please. 
Ernst &Young is proud to announce our newest additions. 
At Ernst & Young we've created an environment that contributes to your growth and success as much as you contribute to ours. Welcome to our in-coming class from The University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 

Associated Press 
MIAMI -Seeing Dwyane Wade drive toward him during a scrim­mage Monday, Dorell Wright backed away, taking every pre­caution not to hit his superstar teammate's still-healing left shoulder. 
Wade was not happy about that. 

"Dorell is a great shot blocker. I saw him look at me and just jump out of the way," Wade said. "I told him, 'Ain't nothing wrong with my body."' 
Wade began trying to prove that Monday, when he returned to practice with the Miami Heat nearly six weeks after suffering the dislocation that threatened to end his season. He worked out on-court for 90 minutes, absorb­ing some contact for the first time, and followed that with weights and physical therapy. 

Most importantly, he was pain­free, another sign he'll be able to start playing games before the playoffs. 
"The fact that he's back practic­ing is huge," Heat coach Pat Riley said. "You go back to Feb. 23, it didn't look like there was going to be any of that stuff. So this is great." 
Wade thought so, too. 
The reigning NBA finals MVP was smiling and relaxed after his on-court work, even acknowledg­ing that he may play in more reg­ular-season contests than the "a game or two" plan he offered Sunday when announcing he'd return to practice. 
For now, there is no timetable. Wade eventually will set one in consultation with the Heat med­ical staff and his physical thera­

pist. "Trust me," Wade said. "When I take the court, I'll be all right." 
Miami (39-34) has nine games remaining in the regular season, one that'll be undoubtedly remembered for a plethora of injury woes. Heat players have missed 171 games this year with injuries, 66 of those by their best two weapons, Wade and Shaquille O'Neal, who've been together for only 13 starts all year. 
Soon, that total will almost surely begin rising again, now that Wade's return is getting clos­er. 
"Just happy to see him out there running and smiling," Heat guard Eddie Jones said. "I think it's a great thing to have guys together again." 
Wade was averaging 28.8 points when he was hurt in a col­lision with Houston's Shane Battier on Feb. 21. The Heat are 13-7 since, are a half-game behind Washington in the Southeast Division and play a huge game against Toronto -a team Miami is chasing for home­court advantage in the first play­
lan Anderson Anne Bouse Brett Brennfleck, intern Brian Burkavage Sandra Castro, intern Sam Chen, intern Thomas Costigan Douglas Durkalski loren Eggleton David Finn, intern Colin Flood John Gaylord Brian Gerspach, intern Stephanie Gibson 
FORTUNE' 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 

ey.com/usjcareers 
David Grabosky, intern Robert Hallman, intern Suzanne Hayes Julie Higginson PJ Hoffman, intern Richard King, intern Greg Kucaj, intern David Kuck Benjamin larson, intern Caitlin Leiva Amy leonard Edward Lerum, intern Maggie Malone 
Kristen Palombo Jaclyn Paunicka Catherine Peer Burke Rainey Katlyn Regan, intern Steven Rudnik Andy Sawyer Jeffrey Schaffer Jasmine Small Brad Springman Nicholas Tessalone, intern Allison Wright Timothy Wyne, intern James Yesnik 

Quality In Everything We Do 
©2006 ERNST & YOUNG LLP 
I 
I 
' 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 3, 2007 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
No. 2 Irish to take on visiting Boilermakers 
hitters. They have a lot of fire 

By DAN MALOOF 
power and on the right day Sports Writer 
they're a tough team to play." The Irish struggled against 

No. 2 Notre Dame will look to Purdue in last year's matchup, improve to 19-1 as it takes on No. barely escaping with a win over 50 Purdue at 2 this afternoon at the underdog Boilermakers. the Courtney Tennis Center. "We beat them last year at their
' 
' The Irish are coming off of place 4-3 and the clinching match 
' 
' another successful weekend in was Brook Buck, and she was
' 
' 
which they defeated No. 28 down 5-2 in both sets,"
' 
' 
' Wichita State and No. 38 Tulsa Louderback said. 
'
I each by a score of 5-2. The Irish, meanwhile, have 
I
' 
I After playing shorthanded in the been on a tear with 13 consecu­
' 
' two contests, the tive victories, but
' 
' Irish will look to get they will be com­
' 
some of their players ing off a weekend
'They're a team 

back this week, road trip that
that's not ranked 

coach Jay forced them to Louderback said. real high, but return to campus "Colleen Rielley is they're very early Monday 
going to be able to morning.
dangerous."

play tomorrow," "We got in at 3 Louderback said. o'clock fMonday l "Brook Buck is still Jay Louderback morning from struggling a little bit our trip, so it was
Irish coach 

so we're going to wait a few more days and see how she 's doing. A couple of others we're going to decide on tomor­row, but we should be at almost full strength, we're hoping." 
Purdue, currently 10-3 overall, has won eight of its last nine matches. The team's one loss was a 7-0 shutout against No. 10 Northwestern Sunday. While the Boilermakers are ranked only 50th, Louderback said they will challenge the Irish. 
"They're a tough team and they're a team that's better indoors," Louderback said. "It's a team we definitely were hoping to play outside, but it looks like we're not going to get to because of rain tomorrow. They're a bunch of big 
late. We didn't 
work on anything 
really -we just let them hit a few balls, and plus we got to get them outdoors, because it was such a nice day." 
While Louderback said Purdue's low ranking is some­what misleading, he is confident that his players know what they have to do to be successful today. 
"They're a team that's not ranked real high but they're very dangerous, especially indoors," Louderback said. "Our kids know that though because they went through it last year, so they know these guys can play." 
Contact Dan Maloof at dmaloof@nd.edu 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles look to rebound against winless Adrian 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will travel to Adrian this afternoon as it tries to rebound from two tough week­end losses at the Wheaton Invitational. 
The Belles currently boast a conference record of 2-0 after crushing Olivet 8-1 in their home opener and narrowly beating Calvin 5-4. The Belles' overall record is 6-6 so far this season. Belles coach Dee Stevenson is 
' optimistic about her team's
' 
' chances in the match against
! 
Adrian.
' 
"I go into every match expect­ing to win," Stevenson said. "And usually Adrian is one of the weaker teams in the league, so I have high expectations for this match." 
This year the Bulldogs have yet to win a match and have an over­all record of 0-11. 
In last year's conference matchup between the two teams, the Belles dominated game play, crushing Adrian 9-0. 
As a junior, Kelly McDavitt won her match in the No. 2 singles spot in two straight sets. This year, as the senior captain of the Belles squad, McDavitt will return to play in the number one singles spot. 
Other notable performances from last year's match include current sophomore Mary E. Campbell's two-set win in the No. 4 singles spot, senior Tara O'Brien's two-set win in the No. 5 singles spot and senior Grace Gordon's two-set win in the No. 6 singles spot. 
The Belles also dominated in doubles play during last year's contest, taking all three matches in two straightsets. 
The team will look to learn from this weekend's losses to host Wheaton and Olivet Nazarene. Gordon was the only Belles player to win a match in the two contests, competing as the No. 6 singles player. Gordon defeated Olivet's Anna Engelbrecht Saturday afternoon after the team was shut out by Wheaton the day before. 
"We just got back from the Wheaton Invitational and we played against a lot of good play­ers," McDavitt said Monday. "Tomorrow we are going to use what we learned over the week­end and hope to be able to have good match play." 
The Belles put their skills to the test starting at 3 this afternoon. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

Price and participation rnay vary. 
<::; 2007 McDorwkl''l 



i'm Iovin' it® 


Tuesday, April 3, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
CLUB SPORTS 
Irish rowers reach Grand Final for first time 
Ultimate squad loses in semifinal matchup against Loyola-Chicago after winning first 5 games of tournament 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame sent two eight­man crews to San Diego to compete in one of the premier rowing events on the West Coast. 
On Saturday at the San Diego Crew Classic, the varsity eight crew of Gigi Gutierrez, Ray Schleck, Tedd Hawks, Karol Grzesiak, Jake Teitgen, Michael Lucci, Steve Maher, 
P.J. McAward and Kane Pithey finished third in their prelimi­nary heat, qualifying for the Petite FinaL. The Irish 
(6:11.07) finished behind UCLA (6:04.40) and UC Davis (6:08.43), while upsetting the higher-seeded crews from Texas (6:15.22) and University of San Diego (6:11.77), along with Sonoma State (6:23.84) and San Diego State (6:33.69). 
Later on in the morning, the second varsity eight (6:46.67) of Julie Lambe, Michael Lutkus, T.R. Mazzacavallo, Matthew Degnan, Andrew Baker, Andrew Matasic, Matt Napierski, Nick Kluesner and Michael Giordano finished sec­ond in their preliminary heat, losing only to Cal (6:17.60) while beating UC Irvine (6:55.39), Santa Clara (7:14.77). and USC (7:10.70). The second place finish sent the Irish crew to Grand Final, marking the first time that any NDRC boat has done so. 
Sunday's racing kicked off with the varsity Petite Final in which the Irish (6:27.71) fin­ished third, just four seconds behind winner USC. Although the race was not as well rowed as the heats, the finish repre­sents the highest for an NDRC varsity eight at the Crew Classic. In the second varsity Grand Final, the Irish crew was lined up between Oregon State and UC Davis, two varsi­ty programs. 
Over the first 500 meters, Cal got out to a comfortable lead that it would maintain all race, while the Oregon State Beavers opened up a five seat advantage over the Irish, who were neck and neck with the UC Davis Crew. 
The Irish crossed the 1,500­meter mark still trailing Oregon State by over half a boat and UC Davis by two seats. With 400 meters remaining, Notre Dame shifted into its sprint, bringing up the stroke rate two beats to a 35. The Irish sprinted up on Oregon State and finished only 
1.6 seconds behind. The strong UC Davis crew failed to match the Notre Dame sprint, and the Irish edged Davis, securing a third-place finish by 0.6 seconds. 
Coach Kurt Butler was pleased with his team's per­formance, citing the fact that both crews finished several places ahead of their seeded positions. He was especially pleased by the second varsity boat's performance, which made the first medal-position finish by an Irish crew in San Diego. 
While NDRC's top two crews were racing in San Diego, the remainder of the team raced in Grand Rapids at the Lubbers Cup Regatta. Notre Dame's novice eight finished fifth behind the highly talented crews from Grand Valley, Michigan, Western Ontario and Michigan State. The novice eight broke down into fours to compete later in the morning. 
The first novice four finished fourth behind Grand Valley, Michigan, and Western Ontario, while finishing ahead of Michigan State and Northern Michigan. The sec­ond novice four finished third behind Grand Valley and Michigan's second N4+s, but ahead of the third N4+s from those same schools. 
Notre Dame's lightweight 4+ achieved the best finish of the day, taking second in the light­weight event. They beat Grand Valley's second LW4+, Northern Michigan and Michigan while losing only to Grand Valley's first LW4+. 
Women's Ultimate 

Notre Dame traveled to Champaign, Ill. this Sunday to play in a one-day scrimmage hosted by the University of Illinois. This event provided an opportunity to play regional rivals before the College Championship Series April 14­15 in Naperville, Ill. The 30-35 mph winds proved to be the greatest foe of the day, howev­er, making play extremely dif­ficult for all teams involved. 
The women's first game of the day was against University of Illinois in Chicago. This first game turned out to be a frus­trating one, composed of very long arduous points caused by the wind's constant control of the disc. Junior handlers Libby Whiting and Shannon Morrison had their work cut out for them working against the wind. Despite the defen­sive play of the Irish, Chicago was able to score an upwind point in a game of otherwise down-winders to take the vic­tory S-2. 
Notre Dame's next opponent was Northwestern, a regional rival and frequent opponent. This game was more of the same, however, Gung-ho was able to score an upwind point, the difference in the game with a final score of 8-5. 
The third game of the day was against host Illinois, a team that boasts a tall line with skilled handlers. The winds increased to the highest level of the day, making throws difficult for all involved. The offensive cuts of juniors Loretta Brown and Shields Duss kept the offense moving, but Illinois took the victory 9-2 in a very disap­pointing game for the Irish. 
The final game was against the University of Chicago, whom Notre Dame has seen multiple times already this season. This game was all trading downwind points, with both teams unable to advance much farther than their own end zone throughout the game. Chicago took the 6-5 victory since it won the open­ing toss and had the extra downwind point. 
The game was Notre Dame's final tune-up before the College Championship Series in two weeks. 
Men's Ultimate 
Notre Dame traveled to Mount Pleasant, Mich., for a tournament at Central Michigan University. The team sent both the A and B squads to compete against many regional opponents and had a fairly successful weekend in preparation for the sectionals in two weeks. 
The A team started off with three solid wins Saturday. The Irish started by taking down Wheaton (IL) 12-9 and fol­lowed with wins over Toronto (11-4) and Western Ontario (13-7). 
Junior Mike Florack provid­ed stability at the handler position throughout the games, while junior Jesse McGannon led the way on defense. Freshman Andrew Schroeder scored multiple times in the third game of the day to secure the win over Western Ontario. 
Notre Dame was able to keep control throughout Sunday's game with Western Michigan and come away with a com­manding 13-2 win behind great play from sophomore Eric Shappell and junior Tim Peterson. 
After a first round bye in 

bracket play, the Irish beat Wheaton for the second time to advance to the semi-final game against Loyola-Chicago. Notre Dame faltered early on to let Loyola take the halftime lead at 8-4. The Irish were not ready to quit though and depended on intense defense from junior Nick Chambers and freshman Bill Carson to fight back into the game. Unfortunately, time ran out on the comeback, and the team fell short 12-9. This ended the tournament for the A team and gave it a lot to work on to prepare for the sectional tour­nament of the College Series. 
The B team got a great amount of experience this weekend. Playing against some of the top teams in the region, such as Michigan State, the B team was able to hold its own in some close games. The team finished 2-5 on the weekend, led by co-cap­tains junior Dave Tighe and senior David Farley. Fellow senior Andy Crutchfield also provided some much-needed experience to the team com­prised mostly of freshmen and sophomores. Patient handling by freshman Shea Bettwy and smart cutting by freshman Chris Barron were also key to the team's success. 
Cycling 
Notre Dame had another outstanding weekend of racing at Western Michigan and remains on track to qualify for the Nationals. 
The first of two races was a long, flat road race on Saturday with 12 Irish riders competing. Bryce Hummer placed 6th in his Notre Dame debut in the Men's D field. Barry Kessler also made his debut in an Irish uniform, placing with the pack in Men's C in difficult conditions. 
The Men's B field included Andy Steves, Ty Baker, Mike Ryan and Matt Byrnes. Steves instigated a three-man break late in the 57 -mile race, taking the sprint for his fourth win of the season. Ryan, Baker and Byrnes all finished with the front of the pack for top-25 finishes. The 35-mile Women's B race included Jenn Perricone and Meghan Johnson for the Irish. Building on last week's results, Johnson and Perricone finished third and fifth, respectively. 
The final race was the elite 70-mile Men's A race. Matt Prygoski, Mike Lavery, Neil Griggs and Tim Campbell all lined up in the sub-par condi­tions for the Irish. Prygoski made an early break away with five other strong riders. The break had only a 90-sec­ond lead on the pack, but thanks to the efforts of Lavery, Griggs and Campbell to slow the pack and prevent any attacks, the break stayed secure. Prygoski was reward­ed with a sixth place finish while Griggs and Lavery placed 13th and 17th. Campbell flatted at mile 60 and was unable to finish the race. 

Sunday's circuit race was a 2.75-mile loop with two steep climbs, one of which led to the finish. Hummer was up first again for Notre Dame in the Men's D field and placed third, completing an outstanding debut weekend. Perricone was the only Women's B racer on the day, and once again put up solid results with a fourth place finish. 
The 36-mile Men's A race proved to be tough for all rid­ers involved. Lining up were Campbell, Prygoski, Lavery, Griggs and Steves, who upgraded categories. All Irish riders missed an early break and paid for it by setting tempo for the pack. Griggs was unable to finish after dropping off the pace, while Campbell suffered mechanical problems after pushing the tempo for his teammates and finished out­side of placing. Prygoski fin­ished 13th while taking the field sprint with Steves right behind in 15th, an exceptional debut in the A field. 
The club will take Easter weekend off and will be in action again at Marian College and Purdue University on April 14 and 15. 
Sailing 
Notre Dame raced split squads at three venues this weekend. The top Irish sailors finished third among 11 schools at the Iowa Regatta. Tricia Hughes, Joe Peris, John McNeil, Karen Wiborg and Nasha Baughman raced for the Irish. 
In the Big Ten Team Race at Michigan, John Dailey, Ali Donahue, Chris May, Kerry Kilbourn, Jaci Chase and Tim Roy sailed for Notre Dame. At the April Fool's Regatta at Miami Ohio, Paul Cordes, Amy Becker, Tiim O'Brien and Anne Peterson represented Notre Dame. Final results have not yet been posted from the regatta committees, but the Irish were doing very well at both venues. 

vs. OAKLAND 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April3, 2007 
as return men in order to avoid tiring the starters. "When it's otherwise even, you use a back up," he said. 
But the coaching staff has not ruled out Allen appearing in the offensive backfield as well, Weis said. 
"He hasn't looked like a freshman," the coach said. 
Weis said Jabbie, a former cornerback without a career carry for Notre Dame, is work­ing hard to see the tield next fall. 
''I've been very encouraged by Junior Jabbie," he said. ''I'm not just giving the party line. I've been very encouraged by what we've seen." 
Hising sophomore Munir Prince, a former running back that rushed for 21 yards on 14 carries last year, began the spring at running back but has since moved to cornerback. 
At fullback, rising junior Asaph Schwapp returns after missing most of last season with an injury. Weis said Schwapp, a 6-foot, 255-pound bruiser, is completely hmtlthy and has regainnd his tough­ness as a lead blocknr. But he has a way to go as a runner. 
"lie's not hobbling around any more," Weis said. "But hn has room for improvnmnnt." 
Hising sophomore Luke Schmidt will also compete for playing timn at fullback, Wnis said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Streak 
continued from page 24 
ing all-time between the Irish and the Wildcats. Notre Dame holds a 6-4 advantage over Villanova, earning victories in each of the previous six matchups, including a 10-7 win at Villanova last year. In that victory, Irish senior attacker Brian Hubschmann scored four goals and added an assist, while Irish junior goaltender Joey Kemp earned the win with seven saves. 
This time around, Notre Dame will follow the lead of freshman attacker Will Yeatman. He tops the Irish with 26 points and 11 assists so far in his rookie cam­paign. 
Sophomore attacker Hyan Hoff leads the team with 17 goals. Ilubschmann is a close second with 16 tallies of his own, and Yeatman comes in with 15. 
Kemp anchors the team on the defensive end once again this season as he has all eight decisions as goaltender along with a 7.05 goals-against aver­age and a .604 save percentage. 
Villanova, a member of the Colonial Athletic Association (CAA). is led by senior midlield­er Eric lleidnnberger, who has 12 goals. Junior attacker Chris MacDonald has a team-high 16 points on six goals and 10 assists. 
On the defensive side of the field for the Wildcats, sopho­more goaltender Andrew DiLoreto owns a 4-2 record. He has a 7.43 goals-against aver­age to go along with a .566 save percentage. 
"I am very impressed by how hard Villanova plays," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "They have a lot of different guys to look out for. That's what makes them so dangerous. They are really good on defense." 
The contest will be Notre Dame's third game this year at home. 
"We are very glad to be home again," Corrigan said. "It is tough to open with five out of six games away from home. Hopefully we've learned from the tirst half of the season, and we've saved our best lacrosse for the second half." 
Today's matchup begins a four-game home stretch for the Irish, during which they will face Air Force, Denver and Lehigh. Notre Dame will not travel again until the end of the month when it takes on Ohio State in Columbus April 28. 
Notes: 
+ Junior midfielder Taylor Clagett has been the face-off specialist for the Irish this year. He has won 88-of-155 (.568 percent) of the face-offs this season. His career winning per­centage is .601 (345-of-5741. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 
Backs 
continued from page 24 
Weis said he has seen dramat­ic improvement as well. 
"He's night and day from where he was last year," Weis said. "Last year, he was never really healthy. I didn't see his second gear much last year." 
Joining power backs Thomas and Aldridge are the quicker -but much less experienced -Allen and Jabbie. 
Allen, who enrolled at Notre Dame in January, has impressed the Irish special teams staff with his quickness on kick returns. Weis said that even though wide receivers David Grimes and George West will be back next fall, he prefers to use a younger player 


Grizzlies 
continued from page 24 
struggled to come up big in conference play, Lilley noted that there is still a lot of base­ball to be played. 
"As a team we really have to bounce back," he said. "It's very early on in the season still." 
The game 
against Oakland "As a team we have to 
will afford Notre bounce back. It's very Dame the oppor­
early on in the

tunity to smooth 
season still. " 

out some mis­takes before heading to 
Brett Lilley

Cincinnati for 
Irish shortstop 

another Big East series. 
The Irish and Oakland last faced off in April 2006. Notre Dame had little trouble with the Golden Grizzlies, cruising past them in a 15-1 decision at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Oakland heads into South Bend after sweeping Rochester in a two-game series this weekend. 
Senior Drew Jenison led the Golden Grizzlies' offensive drive in Saturday's 16-3 victo­ry over Hochester. The out­fielder drove in a career high five HBis while going 3-for-4 from the plate with three runs scored and two walks. Sophomore Justin Wilson fol­lowed in Jenison's footsteps, leading the team to an 18-5 win Sunday. The outfielder 
posted home runs in two straight at bats and finished 3-for-4 at the plate with a career-high five HBis. 
The Irish will look to cut down on Oakland's offense as they attempt to put their mistake­filled weekend against Pittsburgh behind them. Lilley said the team is ready 
for the challenge. 

"We definitely have the abili­ty to win these games," he said. "It's just right now things aren't really working out in our favor.... We really just have to start performing more consistently." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 


Senior shortstop Brett Lilley picks up a hit in Notre Dame's 14-4 victory over Chicago State at Frank Eck Stadium March 28. Lilley is currently hitting .385 for the Irish with 31 runs scored. 

Tuesday, April 3, 2007 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 2007 STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET SEVEN GAME SEASON TICKET 


PLEASE READ INSTRUCTIONS ON FRONT AND BACK
> 0
'"' 

_, q COVERS. 
XX< 

z ...... 
~ 

..-ACCEPTED UNDER THE FOllOWING CONDffiONS:0 N I AGREE THAT I Will NOT TRANSfER USE OF THIS 
0 

BOOKLET EITHER BY SALE OR GIFT. IF I VIOLATE THIS W 1-AGREEMENT I FORFEIT IMMEDIATELY THE RIGHT TO USE xx ~ 
w <( THE BOOKLET AND Will BE SUBJECT TO DISCfPUNARV 
~ 

!<, ~ ACTION BY THE UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME. ~~c
,LIJ 
~~> 
XX (.)WID! 
Purchase Your Football Stude:nt Sea!SOn Booklet online now! 
~ 

t-1~
ZLLI 
W,Q! NAME OF STUDENT 
M~ I, C .
ft t s om1ng... 
~ 
TheN otre Dame Ticket.Office and Student Activities are pleased to announce that the process for purchasing your football tickets will be easier than ever. 
For the past three years, the Athletic Department and Ticket Office have been developing and enhancing our software to provide anew medium. 
M You've asked for it. .. No more paper applications or lottery stickers! 
In prior years, the purchase offootball student season booklets has been spread outacross the span ofafew days during the.firstweek ofFall classes. On Registration Day, typically the first Monday ofthe fall semester, lottery numbers were issued. On Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, you returned to Notre Dame stadium to purchase your student booklet. 
M1 
1ft It's here ... No more standing in lines! Avoid multiple trips toNotre Dame Stadium! 
Purchase from the comfortofyour dorm or off-campus residence. 
el Purchase your 2007 Football Student Season Booklet Online NOW! 
Purchase your booklet during the month of April! Site goes live on April 9th at 9am! All eligible continuing Notre Dame students (undergraduate and graduate) may order online. 
A limited number ofstudents will need to purchase in person at the Gate I Joyce Center Ticket Office; These students will be notified individually andvia specific student demographic. 
tl ... and BONUS... ! 
The ability to sit with your friends will still be available! Pay with Check or Credit Card! 
Notre Dame Student Booklet is half price or $217; Saint Marys Student Booklet is $291 
An individualized email will be sent out (from the Notre Dame Ticket Office) over the upcoming Easter weekend with login specifics to all eligible students. Questions you might have about this new process should be answered in the email. Detailed instructions will be provided. It will be important that you carefully read all instructions and policy information so you know how to order your 2007 student football booklet. Your booklet may be picked up when you return to campus in August-valid Student I.D. will be required. 
Any questions or concerns, please contact the Notre Dame Ticket Offzce at 574/631-7356. Thank you. 
. ' 
.. 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April3, 2007 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
hung around late in the game, 386 went on a four-point run to finish the game. 
Gleason acknowledged that the difl'erence in otl'ensive speed was due to fatigue. 
"They were in much better shape," he said. "We put on weight over the holidays." 
Los Tigres Del Notre 21, Team 64415 
Los Tigres Del Notre held on and defeated Team 644, but given 644's resurgence in the second half, Los Tigres were lucky to come out on top. 
Los Tigres started quickly, scoring the first four points and six of the first seven. While their shots weren't falling at first, they were in good position for put­back baskets. 
"We wanted to come out strong," Tigre David Saucedo said. • 
Saucedo led Los Tigres on offense, his size and speed allow­ing him to get to the hoop. Neal Kumar played well on the perimeter, driving when he need­ed to, but sinking key jumpers at times. 
Team 644 scored three consec­utive points before the half, but it was 644's second-half play that almost brought them back. Team 644 traded baskets with Los Tigres, at one point bringing the score to 15-12. 
"If we played like we did in the second half like we did in the first half, we would have lost," Saucedo said. "I give the girls a lot of credit. They weren't self­ish." 
Team 644's passing always found the open man, usually in the lane or on the baseline for a high-percentage shot. 
Saucedo, Kumar, Fede Vielledent, Javy Macias and Brian Wierson pulled together to score three of the last four points for Los Tigres. The team still feels it needs improvement. how­ever. 
"We're undersized, so we want to work on our defense," Saucedo said. 
Sbarro Bandits 21 Team 646 7 
According to Pat Pirozzi, the Sbarro Bandits' goal for their opening round contest was to get Jason Coleman, who Pirozzi described as 5-foot-4, to dunk. While that goal was not reached, the Bandits managed to defeat their opponents, Team 646, rather easily. 
Before the start of the game, however, Team 646 exuded con­fidence. 
aPriL iS UltWBU. IIUJIItl 
Look for a variety of wellness activities! 
lftiiiMUL aatiRB 
Wed, April4, 7pm, Oak Room -South Dining Hall Eating is conditional, it provides comfort or combats 
redom; Feeding is purposeful, conscious con sum 
Learn to feed vs. eat in this workshop. 
.>"! 
I • & aatiRB ati&Drdlrs ;t . I! \ ues, April 10, 7pm Room -South Dining Hall ng & body image issues affect men 
how these issues impact males our culture. 

"We're gonna come at them like bulls," 646 member Danielle Fedele said. 
Teammate Kirsten Shoshone fed off of Fedele's intensity. "Those Zahm girls have noth­ing on McGlinn," she said. 
Unfortunately for Shoshone, Fedele, and their teammates. Team 646 experienced an off night shooting the ball. A reason­ably efficient offense yielded few results, as few shots fell for them, especially in the first half. 
They began to get in a groove as the second half wore on, but it was too little, too late, as the physically dominant Sbarro Bandits had already used their superior inside game to pull away. The Bandits also converted several fast-break opportunities as Team 646 began to show some signs of fatigue toward the end of the contest. Fedele, how­ever, was not at all disappointed in her team's performance. 
"We played miraculously," she said, beaming with pride. 
Absolut Curlies 21 P-Dub Football 5 

In a hotly contested and very physical game, the Absolut Curlies managed to come out on top against the overmatched P­Dub Football. 
The girls of Pasquerilla West were looking to extend their interhall football prowess onto the basketball court. They believed that championships are in their blood, and so they expected nothing but success. The Curlies, however, had other plans. 
When asked what the strategy was for claiming victory in the contest, Absolut Curlies' Austin Dwyer laid out the team's main objective and then went on to describe how they planned to achieve it. 
"Win. win, win, win, win," he said. "We have a special play. We're going to use the hook and ladder. No one knows what it is yet. Not even anyone on our team." 
Bryan Hayes of the Cur lies con­tributed a slightly difl'erent form of pre-game analysis that eame in the form of an inspirational quote written on his right shoul­der that read, "My need for self­worth does seem to outweigh my abilities.·· 
Hayes controlled the tempo from the start, running the point efficiently for the Curlies, while Dwyer was an unstoppable force inside. Turnovers by P-Dub Football proved to be its undoing, as Sean Bradley converted sever­al steals into uncontested lay-ups for the Curlies. 
Hayes made it clear where his team's focus was after the game ended. 
With a look of unbridled inten­
. "· The Program of Liberal Studies 

TA7hy a Great Books Education? 

sity, he exclaimed, "Hound 2: Fight!" 
Sodium Free Saltines 21 Hormonal Rage 7 
At bookstore court No. 4, Sodium Free Saltines received a favorable draw and advanced easily into the next round over Hormonal Rage. 
Hormonal Rage, a team of five girls, suffered from an unfortu­nate break when sophomore Lauren Cummings sprained her ankle. At first it appeared as though she would be able to con­tinue. but the swelling and pain forced her out of the contest. 
Sodium Free Saltines got out to an early lead using their height and athleticism over the girls to gain the advantage. One of the contests highlights came when Morrissey sophomore Paul Aleman drove through the lane and finished with a pretty reverse lay-up. 
Hormonal Rage was on the verge of getting shut out until sophomore Caroline Green scored the team's first points with an open look. Hormonal Rage put together a string of bas­kets and closed the wide gap between the teams, thanks in part to baskets from Green and sophomore captain Jennifer Kang. 
Captain Corey Arvin from Morrissey helped rebound and move the ball in transition on the way to gain some effortless points, as Sodium Free Saltines cruised on their way to a rout. 
SOH exit ladies 21 Gumbel 2 Gumbel12 
In a matchup that was closer than the score indicated, the SOH exit ladies pulled off a victory, gaining points when they needed them most. 
Point guard play was the key in this contest as SDH exit ladies' sophomore Marcus Young elevat­ed his play, giving his team the edge. Throughout the contest, Young penetrated and then either linished strong or dished it to one of his teammates. 


The contest started out with some good looks and quality baskets, but the tempo quickly slowed down. as both teams missed open shots. Gumbel 2 Gumbel's combo of seniors Josh Hugo and Joe Ptasinski rebounded well, converting SDH exit ladies' missed opportunities into fast break chances. 
Once the game had been drawn to a lull, Young stepped up his defense taking several steals coast-to-coast, creating a rally that would help his squad down the stretch. On one occa­sion, Young found sophomore Matt Barra on a nice fast break assist during the run. . 
Gumbel 2 Gumbel tried to go to the post with Ilugo's tech­nique with his back to the bas­ket, but Barra's height helped defend against the majority of the shots in the pai11t. In the end, Young's ability to drive to the basket and poor defense from Gumbel 2 Gumbel gave the SOH exit ladies a victory leading them into the next round. 
Steve Scheffler's Chest Hair 21 Team Censored 4 
Even though Steve Schemer's Chest Hair was missing one player, it completely obliterated Team Censored. From the moment the game began, it was obvious that Team Censored was no match for the amazing prowess that is Chest Hair. 
"If [the Censored players] score once, it will be a moral victory," spectator Adam Sims said shortly before halftime. 
Chest !lair's awe-inspiring defense was relentless for the entire game, holding Team Censored to only !'our points. The only time the paee slowed was when an unknowing elderly man wandered onto the court. Team Censored giggled, but the Chest Hairs never lost their focus. In the end, the Chest Hairs matted down the competi­tion for the 21-4 win. 

Huge in Asia 21 Paralelepipido 12 
The ali-female · team Paralelepipido put up an amaz­ing etl'ort. but sufl'ered a heart­breaking loss to the all-male Huge in Asia. 
Paralelepipido is a Portuguese word for some type of rock that may or may not be found in Brazil. 
From their lime green shirts to their electric blue knee-high socks, it was obvious that Team Paralelepipido came t.o domi­nate. But when Patrick Burns of Huge in Asia sunk a unexpected shot from long range within the first three seconds, Paralelepipido's hopes were slightly diminished. Despite their smaller stature, Paralelepipido played tough woman-to-man defense. 
Huge in Asia point guard and Bengal Bouts finalist Patrick Burns noted that playing against Paralelepipido was "worse than boxing." 
"These girls play better defense than any guys I know," Huge in Asia's Josh Shumway said. 
Even though Paralelepipido's defense was stellar, their offense was hesitant to shoot, allowing Huge in Asia to lead for most of the game. Inspired by the half­time water break and a pep talk form coach, Shea Doyle, team Paralelepipido staged a late comeback attempt. But it was too little to late. 
Despite their loss, Paralelepipido made a lasting impression on Huge in Asia. 
"We didn't get embarrassed. and we're happy," Burns said. Huge in Asia teammate John Peterson responded quickly: "Actually, I'm a little embar­rassed," he said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu, Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu, and Danielle Keller at dkeller2@nd.edu 
PLS Alums Speak Out: Tuesday, April 3 
7:30-9:00 PM 
Co-Mo Lounge 
Feat:uring: 
Louis Nanni, Founder o:f SB Center :for Homeless and Vice President: :for University Relations, ND 
Sean O'Brien, Asst: Director, Center :for Civil and Human Rights, ND La-w School 
Jeffrey Speaks, Asst. Prof'. Philosophy, ND 
Fr. Daniel Groody, Theology, and Director, Center :for Latino Spirituality and Culture Susan St. Ville, Therapist:, Madison Center and Theologian and Catechist 
Refreshments and Conversation 
All Students Interested in Learning About PLS Invited 
0 ~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------~ 
Tuesday, April 3, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROISSANTWORLD 
"'EAI-I, TI-lE'! S.IWI ME 1~-t\C:, L.ETTEIZ.. AS~I,...,l:C ME. To 'DONI'IE. " "C:al FT'' OF 1'-\0NE'f To \HE Sc.\.-100\.. A<o. I 01<-A.r::.u,&.,l£. 

BLAcK DoG 
~ 'o6 11l.. 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
I IV\ E,._N A.f'TE.~ PA.'{INL-, IN -n-\E. 
I!.AI.LPA.~"'-0~ $ I 0010()0 -ro 1it50,CXD 
-ro C:.0 HER£ , TH E'J f<.e:.A'U..'f l:lo"T ME. B'( AS~IN(X FoR .$ 5o MoftE. IJ6 I LEAvE. ! 
HH. SAYS 1-1~ Yov'flE 
PALESTINIAN. 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
ALL. J<tc;.J.n: Dvi' oF THE u~. MbHAMMC-t:>. I've (roT' A F~'W "QufST/oN.S" Fota You. 

LIAMMORAN 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Computer 1 _Island, acronym about 
Bahamas, faulty data boyhood home 36 Bygone U.S. of 47A gas brand 
4 Jack's partner 39 Broadway play (and later film)
8 Brook sound starring 47A14 Egg cells 44 Bamako's land 

15 Cookie since 45 Ripped1912 46 "All bets off' 16 Discomfort 47 Actor born 
17 With 64A, film Feb.20, 1927 for which 47A 52 Michael Stipe'swon an Oscar bandfor Best Actor 53 Bronte heroine 
19 President with 54 Debut film for an airport 47A, 1950named after him 59 Relative of an 20 Shangri-la 
ostrich 21 Autobiography 
63 Kind of acid 
of47A 

used in 23 Noisy to-dos bleaches 27 VCR button 64 See 17A 
28 Film starring 68 Fine wool 47A with a 69 River to the chart-topping Seine title song 70 -mo 
34 Squeeze (out) 71 Naval banner 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
....,...,.,:":'T'=~T:"' 
'lriT+IIi+-mri 26 Affix one's John Hancock 28 Nets or Jets 29 Gumbo ingredient 30 Closes tightly 31 Hoity-_ 32 Neckline shape 33 Bit of French · writing 37 "Certainly!" 38 Lollapalooza 40 Afternoon hour on a sundial 



72 Tampa/St. _ 
73 Grp. that gave 47A a Life Achievement Award in 1999 
DOWN 
slaw 2 Eager 3 Legend 4 Cup of_ 5 Apr. 15 check 
recipient 6 Preceder of 
Virgo 7 Gallery 8 Classic cigar 
brand 9 Inti. grp. for which 47A was named an 
ambassador 
10 Sincere 
11 Gift givers 
12 Jet set?: Abbr. 
13 Artist Magritte 
18 Letters on a cross 
22 Regal inits. 
24 Grps. 
25 1940's conflict, for short 

WILLSHORTZ 
41 "Uh-uh"  50 Relative of an  60 Gas company  
42 King Priam's home  ostrich 51 Actress Hatcher  with collectible toy trucks  
43 Prince, e.g.  54 lditarod's finish  61 Jazzy Fitzgerald  
48 Evaporating, with "up" 49 Reader of The Weekly Standard, perhaps  55 Plow pullers 56 Punic 57 Et _(and others) 58 Sporty car feature  62 Work like 65 Make haste 66 Round fig. 67 Price of admission  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com!learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Cody Block, 22; Emmylou Harris, 59; Linda Hunt, 61; Leon Russell, 64 
Happy Birthday: Take everything you've learned in the past and apply it to what you want to do this year. You have to take action while you have the stamina to follow through and finish what you start. Money matters can be resolved and investments made that will ensure that you will have a stable future as you age. Your numbers are 12, 23, 26, 39, 41,46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Being a participant will be what counts today. You will have the competitive edge so don't be afraid to join in the games. You will be able to get to the bottom of any troubles you have been facing. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Focus on what you want to accomplish in the upcoming week. A professional move can be made if you are quick to pick up on an opportunity. Be honest about what you can and can't do. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let your emotions get involved ifyou are trying to help someone with his or her personal problems. Be objective and offer common sense alternatives. A level head will ensure you have someone to cover your back when you need it. *** CANCER (.June 21-July 22): Sudden events will take you on an adventure. Don't be a stick in the mud and refuse to participate. Try something a little di!Terent. The knowledge you gain from the experience will help you out when you least expect it.*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Getting involved in group outings will lead to romance and exciting new friendships. Get involved in neighborhood or community activities. Take any opportunity you get to travel or revisit your past. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Think for yourself. You don't have to do what others are asking ofyou. Stand up for your rights and beliefs. Your hard work and labor on a project will pay off. Ignore complaints and innuendoes. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Everything is turning in your favor so don't give in when you are about to get your way. A chance to travel or get involved in something entertaining and creative is apparent. You will shine today. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Focus on developing one of your talents further. Speak out and let others know what you want to do and how you are going about it. A chance to get involved with someone who gets what you are into is apparent. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will find yourself in a very unstable position if you have been exaggerating lately. You will have to do some fancy talking to clear your name. Be careful not to offend someone along the way. •• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Spend time taking care of personal matters. A little time spent with someone you love will go a long way. You can make amends for some of your neglect of the people who count in your life. Social activities will secure your personal objectives. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Group efforts or getting out and doing something nice for yourself will turn out well. If you change your image, you will a new perspective on life and your future. Physical activity will stimulate a moneymaking idea. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be on edge so make sure you use your time and energy wisely. An argument can be avoided if you focus on keeping busy and refusing to disagree. Let the ones you love have an opinion --you'll spare yourself a lot of grief. ** 
Birthday Baby: You love to be in control and to give orders. You are a leader, unafraid to put yourself on the line to get things done. You have spunk and integrity. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun. eugenialast.comfor conjidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, April3, 2007 
page 24 
fOOTBALL 
Thomas, Aldridge lead backfield's top battle 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Sports Editor 
Although Notre Dame must replace Darius Walker and his 1,267 rushing yards next fall, Irish coach Charlie Weis said Monday that he is "very encour­aged" by the progress of his running backs this spring. 
Four tailbacks -senior cap­tain Travis Thomas, rising sophomore James Aldridge, ris-
MEN's lACROSSE 
Notre Dame goes for double-digit winning streak on home field 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Wri rer 
Notre Dame will look for its 1Oth straight home win, a streak dating back to 2005, against Villanova today at 4 
p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 
No. 13 Notre Dame (5-3) enters the contest fresh off an impressive 11-3 victory over then-No. 20 Brown Saturday. It was the second win in a row for the Irish and the second time that they have held an oppo­nent to only three goals this 
season. Notre  Dame  also  
defeated  Bellarmine  11-3  
March 20.  

Villanova (4-3) enters the match coming off a 9-8 win over Hofstra.. 
Today marks the 11th meet-
see STREAK/page 20 

BASEBALL 
ing senior Junior Jabbie and early entry freshman Armando Allen -are in contention to replace Walker, who accounted for 77 percent of Notre Dame's carries by running backs last season. 
"The competition is every day and in everything we do," Aldridge said. 

Thomas is the most experi­enced player of the four and, as team captain, is the leader of the group. But he played out­side linebacker last year, mak­ing 35 tackles in 11 games. He saw spot duty at running back, gaining 78 yards on 13 carries and scoring two touchdowns. 
In 2005, Thomas was the sec­ond leading rusher for the Irish. He ran for 248 yards on 63 car­ries with five touchdowns in his sophomore season. 
Back full time at running back, Thomas started the spring as the top backfield option for Notre Dame, but Weis 
said Aldridge is pushing to at least split carries next fall. "He's definitely challenging," Weis said of Aldridge. 
Aldridge was the team's sec­ond-leading rusher last season, gaining 142 yards on 37 car­ries, mainly in mop-up duty. He played in seven games despite suffering a knee injury before the season started. 
But now, Aldridge says he's healthy and ready to show an explosiveness that he lacked 
Perfect 10 

LAURIE HUNT!fhe Observer 

Junior midfielder Michael Podgajny looks to set up a play during Notre Dame's 11-3 win over Bellarmine March 20 at Moose Krause Field. The Irish are 2·0 this season at home. 
Irish return home for non-conference game 
Notre Dame will look to eliminate freebies' against Golden Grizzlies at home this afternoon 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Wri rer 
Notre Dame is hoping its luck will return at home today as the Irish take on Oakland at 
5:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. The Irish enter the non-conference matchup on the heels of a two-game road sweep at the hands of Pittsburgh this weekend. 
The set against Pittsburgh proved to Notre Dame that there are many holes in the defensive lineup that need to be worked out. The Irish have struggled recently, allowing opponents the advantages of what Notre Dame coach Dave Schrage calls "freebies." On Saturday, the Irish aided Pittsburgh in its 5-0 shutout with 11 of these freebies ­two walks, three hit batters, three errors and three stolen bases allowed. 
In the second game of its home series against. South Florida on March 24, Notre Dame allowed eight walks, two hit batsmen, four passed balls and three errors. 
Junior shortstop Brett Lilley noted that the finger can't be pointed at one person for the combined easy bases for ­and losses to -Pittsburg and South Florida. 
"It's a group effort, its not one person's fault when we lose," Lilley said. "When we give up a lot of freebies it's the whole team giving them up." 
Even though the team has 
see GRIZZLIES/page 20 last season. 


''I'm getting used to bending my legs like I want to and exploding up," he said. ''I'm just trying to get better." 
Aldridge said the simple act of removing the knee brace has improved his explosiveness. 
"I'll be a lot quicker [than last year]," he said. "My lateral movement will be back to what it used to be." 
see BACKS/page 20 

BOOKSTORE 
BASKETBALL 
Blovvouts highlight first round 
Annual tournament underway with 1nany lopsided matchups 
By BILL BRINK, 
CHRIS DOYEN, 
LORENZO REYES and 
DANIELLE KELLER 
Sports Writers 
In a game that featured two vastly different playing styles, Team 3S6 defeated Ballin' to the Backer 21-10 in the first round of Bookstore Basketball. Led by Mike Mattingly, Team 386's slow, measured approach outlasted Ballin's fast-paced, pass-happy game. 
Team 386 started fast. scoring the first four points of the game, but Ballin came back with two quick scores. The first, on a dish to a cutter in the lane, demon­strated their ball movement. The second, from what would have been three-point range, dis­played their shooting ability. 
"They should have gotten a bye," 386's Kevin Gleason said. 
Up 10-4 at the break, 386 faced a two-three zone in the beginning of the second half. 
"They played zone pretty solid," Gleason said. "We wanted to penetrate, but we resorted to shooting over it. We couldn't dribble." 
Alongside Mattingly and Gleason, teammates Cutter Brenton, Dave Riege and Gene Noone contributed to thn victory. Team 386 out-rebounded Ballin' to the Backer and forced turnovers ofl' of bad passes, their main source of fast-break oppor­tunities. 
Mattingly lived in the lane, often driving from the perimeter either with the ball or while looking for a pass. 
Ballin's offense revolved around screens, and they would drive to draw a double-t1~am and dish the ball out rather than take it to the basket. While they 
see HOOPS/page 22 





