---------------------------~­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Major issues mark first Senate meeting 
Brown warns against off­campus student rowdiness 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Student body president Liz Brown warned student senators Wednesday that unruly off-campus behavior by students this weekend could jeopardize ongoing discussions between student and eity leaders about the proposed ordinance addressing large parties in South Bend. 
"Many of us have the mentality that by moving oil' campus we are automatically free from the rules and regulations that govern residence life on campus," she said. "However. we must realize that although we no longer have to check in with our rector and RAs. we do have a responsibility to behave as responsible residents of the South Bend community." 
Brown sent an e-mail to the student body on Aug. 4 to notify them of an ordi­nance drafted by members of the South Bend Common Couneil. The ordinance requires residents of boarding houses ­
see ORDINANCE/page 4 
Eddy Street Commons 
coming in 2009 · 
25 acres 85,000 sq. ft. of shops and restaurants 2 hotels 250 apartments 75,000 sq. ft. of office space 120 condominiums 80 town homes 
**Information compiled from the Office ot.AsSIR.nagcdfi.,nt 
MATI HUDSON/The Observer 


Project awaits tax changes 
Eddy Street complex will include retail, restaurants, office, residences 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
During a time of town-gown tension, the construction of the $200 million, 25-acre Eddy Street Commons may help connect the campus to its surroundings with blocks of shops, restaurants, resi­dences and offices. 
"We hope Eddy Commons will be a place where students and South Bend residents alike can go to spend an afternoon shopping or enjoy a good dinner," said David Compton, vice president of Kite Realty Group, the project's developer. 
The South Bend Common Council approved the developer's proposal for the planned unit development on July 16, authoriz­ing the rezoning of the property near the intersection of Edison Road and Eddy Street, said Gregory Hakanen, Notre Dame's director of asset management and real estate development, said Tuesday. 
The first phase of the project, which will include retail, office and restaurant space, hotels and residential space, will be complet­ed during 2009. But ground can­not be broken until the city works out tax issues, Hakanen said. 
Developments such as the Eddy Street Commons, which allow for multi-purpose units, require spe­cial permissions from the city, he said. 
The Council unanimously approved the proposal Notre Dame and its Indianapolis-based developer, Kite Realty Group, sub­mitted in early May. 
Before the Council approved Kite's plans, the developer had to make concessions to receive the votes of council members who were skeptical about the project's 
see EDDY/page 4 


Hilton near SMC not set to open this weekend 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
The Hilton Garden Inn next to Saint Mary's will not open by this weekend's opening football game against Georgia Teeh. despite advertisements that it would. 
The hotel, located on Douglas Hoad. will aeccpt reservations beginning Nov. 1. But it's possible, said General Manager Nicole Smeltzer, that the hotel could open earlier. 
"We may be able to open for lthe Sept. 22] Michigan State !home game[." Smeltzer said. 
With that game only a month away, construction is continu­ing on the Gillespie Conference and Special Events Center, located on the northeast side of the hotel site. 
The center, which will open by Feb. 1, will be available for formal dinners, conferences, weddings and special events, Smeltzer said. It will seat 750 formal dinner guests and up to 8,400 J!leople when it is used as a banquet center. 
The Hilton was built after the Sisters of the Holy Cross were approached by the Holladay Corporation in late 2005 about constructing a 100-unit Hilton Garden Inn Hotel and a 350-seat confer­ence center. 
College President Carol Ann Mooney announced the con­struction plans to faculty, staff and administrators on Aug. 16, 2006. 
In order to provide parking without detracting from the College's main entrance, the College and the Sisters bro­kered a land exchange to pre­serve the green space in front of the College. 
The College has opted to deed one acre of land west of Angela Drive to the Congregation and will receive in exchange the land east of Madeleva Drive in front of the Welcome Center and Madeleva Hall. 
The Congregation's newly­. acquired land will allow addi­tional parking to the north and 
see HILTON/page 4 


Joyce Center and ND Stadium will now accept Domer Dollars 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Concession stands at Notre Dame Stadium and the Joyce Center will now accept Domer Dollars, student body president Liz Brown and vice president Maris Braun announced Wednesday during the first Student Senate meeting of the academic year. 
Brown told members of the Student Senate that, after collaboration with Food Services and Vending Services, Domer Dollars could now be used in the two loca­tions. 
"This is obviously a great new program that we have," Brown said. 
The announcement was a political coup for Brown and Braun, whose campaign platform last year included the addition of Domer Dollars at the two largest venues for Notre Dame athletics. 
Mike Davy, the manager of continuous improvement for Food Services, said the 
see DINING/page 4 

t 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The first -weekend 
Tlw WIH~kend is fast approaching, and ((>r freshnwn it's their lirst without dedaring their love for other dorms via 1:hants or late-night runs around earn­pus. I've overheard some of them mak­ing plans to have parties this weekend, and I was reminded of the good old days when I attendnd my first dorm party. 
In retrospect. like many of the bever­ages consumed during them, dorm partins are an acquired tastl). 
It was the night before our first Bill Brink honw ((JOtball ganw. I soon real­
Sports
ized that even 
Production
though I was mak­
Editor
ing a short trip across the hall. mnsh shorts were not the reeommend­ml attire. I walked-no, shoved-my way in to a darkenml room full of sop­ping wnt bodies indistinguishablo from mu:h othnr, all moving to the boat of an unrecognizable song. The guys all fmd some sort of collar on, another memo I missnd, and the girls all had domwd somn sort of dub attiro. 
What fun is this? I had known every­OJJP tlwn~ for exactly one week and was in no hurry to entertain myself by dandng l(>r tlw nnxt two hours. Unfortunately. I had no ehoice, eonsid­nring I was envdoped in tho broiling­hot mob of pPople and lim:ed to move at tlwir disiTPtion. 
/\ftPr bning violtmtly expdlnd from thn mosh pit half an hour latnr, I nscapnd into tlw hall. Our HA was thmatlming to shut the party down. I went to the bathroom to lind someone had thrown up, completdy missing the toilnt hut covnring pretty much every­thing else. What a successful night. 
Hventually all femalns wero evacuat­ed and my friends and I. along with everyone else still awake and on cam­pus, dnseendnd on Hm:kers. We ate and attmnptnd to diseuss thn night, every­one screaming because they had lost their voice and bncause our ears were still ringing from the nonstop bass they had bnen bombarded with. 011'-campus was starting to look good. 
Eventually, the party scene got better. We croated traditions for our parties. 
Ono night wo did some crowd-surf­ing; anothor night we set up a 'volley­ball net' made of Christmas lighl"i and playnd volleyball. During one party we left brielly and returned with two signs to adorn the walls of the room. Even the Hnckers trips became more fun: karaoke nighl"i b1~came quite a speeta­de to wateh. 
So froshmen, before departing for your lirst evening experience in one of our illustrious residence halls, prepare to leave the premises soaked. Be ready to be thrnatcned by HAs you've never soen. Don't be surprised when the song changns every eight seconds. But most of all, make it your own. Find some friends to enjoy it with. 011'-campus has its meril"i; make sure to experience that too. But don't discount dorm par­tins too quickly. Mimic the upperclass­men. Create themes for your parties. Invite hundreds more people than can lit in the room. 
/\nd most importantly, to avoid car­
rying your phone and keys around for 
two hours likn I did, wear shorts with 
pockets. 
The oiews expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Bill/Jrink at wbrink@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Ohserver regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highesr standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correc[ our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, August 30, 2007 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT CLASS ARE YOU MOST LOOKING FORWARD TO? 



Charlie Vogelheim  Pamela Wyrowski  Christina Lee  Steph Bendinelli  Nick Ward  Sue Kippels  
junior abroad  senior offcampus  senior offcampus  junior Welsh Family  junior Sorin  senior offcampus  
"German, because German is sexy.  ''I'm looking forward to all of my classes, except for linear algebra. "  "Health Economics, because I like Corby's ... and I like Sue."  ''I'm looking forward to Medical Physics this year, because we get to stick people in big machines  "/ don't have class with Dr. Michelle Whaley; there­fore, I have nothing to look forward to this  "My Health Economics class, because I'm recruiting at Corby's."  





for fun." 

LAURIE HUNT!rhe Observer 
Workers continued on Aug. 29 to landscape the former Juniper Road between Notre Dame Stadium and the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. The old road was removed during the spring and summer. 
OFFBEAT 
Burglar can't escape after Houdini heist 
SCRANTON, Pa. -A man accused of breaking into the Houdini Museum was unable to escape from police. 
Oflicers said they appre­hended the man about 2:30 
a.m. Tuesday, based on descriptions by three wit­nesses of two men seen flee­ing from the museum. One witness told police he chased the men for several blocks. One man remained at large. 
Charles Watkins. 25, of Scranton, was charged with a felony count of attempted burglary and misdemeanor charges of criminal trespass and loitering. 
Watkins was arraigned before District Judge Thomas J. Golden and lodged in the Lackawanna County Prison in lieu of $5,000 bail. It was not immediately known if he had an attorney. 

"He's going to need more than Houdini to escape from this problem," said Dorothy Dietrich, museum co­founder and director. 
Dietrich said nothing was taken or badly damaged in the break-in, and the muse­um devoted to early 20th century escape artist Harry Houdini was open on Tuesday. 
Red Rover, Red Rover, tag's all over 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -An elementary school has banned tag on its playground after some chil­dren complained they were harassed or chased against their will. 
"It causes a lot of conflict on the playground," said Cindy Fesgen, assistant prin­cipal of the Discovery Canyon Campus school. 
Hunning games are still allowed as long as students don't chase each other, she said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
!ci: 
LLI 

~ 
_, 
<C 


65 38 



78 60 
(.) 
0 
HIGH 75

...I 
LOW 55 

year. 
IN BRIEF 

The Summer Shakespeare company will perform "Love's Labor Lost" tonight at 7::H) in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tkkets are $20-35 for facul­ty/stal'f/seniors and $12-15 
for  all  students.  
Performances  will  run  
through Sept. 2.  

The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be screening thn film "Only Human" ("Seres Queridos") tonight at 10 p.m. Tieknts are $3 for students and $(, for the gen­eral public. 
Thn DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be screening Michael Moore's documen­tary "Sicko" Friday at 7 and 10 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students and $6 for the gen­eral public. 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will take on Michigan Friday at 7:30 p.m. on Alumni Field. 
The Notre Dame marching band will present its Drummer's Circle outside the Main Building Friday night at 11:59 p.m. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart will offer a Vigil Mass 30 minutes after the Georgia Tech game Saturday. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be screening the film "The Night of the Hunter" Sunday at 4 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students and $6 for the general public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
Thursday, August 30, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Political science professor edits collection of essays 
McAdams reflects on beginning phase ofjournal 
Special to The Observer 
"The Crisis of Modern Times: Perspectives from The Review of Politics, 1939-1962," edited by Notre Dame political scientist A. James McAdams, was recently published by Notre Dame Press. 
The Review of Politics was founded at Notre Dame in 1939, during the presi­dency of Rov. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., who had welcomed 
Maritain, Desmond Fitzgerald, C. J. Friedrich, Denis de Rougemont, John U. Nef, Aron Gurwitc;ch, Josef Pieper, Leo Strauss, Eric Voegelin, Hannah Arendt, Russell Kirk, Robert Strausz-Hupe, Louis de Raeymaeker, Frank O'Malley, Glenn Tinder, and Yves R. Simon. 
According to Timothy Fuller, Worner Distinguished Service Professor at Colorado College, "the Review of Politics has been essential reading for .students 
of political philosophy 

into the faculty sever­and politics for more
"The Review ofPolitics
al prominent than two generations, European intellectu­has been essential including among its con­als who had fled to reading for students of tributors internationally America from the renowned scholars
political philosophy 
spiritual and intellec­whose works are both tual stultification of and politics for more enormously influential European fascism. than two generations." and increasingly look to Under the editorship be contemporary of one of these emi!,rn\ expressions of perennial 
Professor Timothy Fuller
scholars, the political wisdom. To make semi­philosoplwr and his­Colorado College nal essays of this 
torian Waldemar Gurian, the new pub­lication became central to a community of thinkers understandably convinced that the West had lost its moral bearings and could not regain them without rediscovering what the French philoso­pher Jacques Maritain called "integral humanism." 
McAdams' book presents 22 articles which appean1d in the Review during its early and most influential years when it emerged as a leading journal of political and social theory. In addition to an introductory essay by McAdams on the journal's history and prominent contrib­utors. it includes work by Gurian, remarkable journal eas­
ily accessible, with more to come in future volumes, is a great service to students of political science at every level." 
McAdams, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1992, is the William M. Scholl Professor of International Affairs and director of the Nanovic Institute for European Studies. He teaches and writes extensively on comparative and international politics, political history, and law and technology. He also is the author of several books, including "Judging the Past in Unified Germany," "Germany Divided" and "East Germany and Detente." 
Series to examine how policy affects Latinos 
Special to The Observer 
John Trasvifia, president and general counsel of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund (MALDEF), will open the Institute for Latino Studies' (ILS) Public Policy Lecture Series with a talk titled "Latino 
Immigrants in America: Our Past and Our Future" at 
4:30 p.m. Sept. 5 in 200 McKenna Hall. 
The series, titled "A Public Policy Agenda and a New Vision for the 

Future," will fe a-Trasvina ture world-renowned scholars and policy makers who will discuss the impact of public policy issues on the Latino population and the consequences for American society in general. The lectures are intended to stimulate thought and dia­logue on issues of immigration, educa­tion, philanthropy, political access, business and economic power. 
Trasvifia, who will explore the nation's immigration history and pres­ent policy recommendations for the 

future, is a graduate of Harvard University and Stanford Law School. He began his career at MALDEF as a legislative attorney in 1985 and was appointed to his current position last year. In 1997, President Clinton appointed him special counsel for immigration-related unfair employ­ment practices. In that role, he led the only federal government office devoted solely to immigrant workplace rights and was the highest ranking Latino attorney at the U.S. Department of Justice. He later taught immigration law at Stanford Law School and has testified before Congress in support of extending the Voting Rights Act and against "English only" legislation. 
. The other speakers in the series are Janet Murguia, president and chief executive officer of the National Council of La Raza; Michael Olivas, director of the Institute of Higher Education Law and Governance at the University of Houston; Kevin R. Johnson, associate dean for academic affairs at the University of California at Davis; and Antonia Hernandez, presi­dent and chief executive officer of the California Community Foundation. Details on these lectures will be announced at a later date. 


page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, August 30, 2007 
85,000 square feet of retail and restau­
meals, which have been debate Oct. 13, said chair 
rant businesses, 75,000 square feet of
pre-loaded into their meal Callie Pogge. The debaters 


Dining 

Eddy 

office space, two hotels, 250 deluxe
plan and which are now will address immigration 
apartments, 120 condominiums and 80
continued from page 1 available for use, with Flex issues. 
continued from page 1 

town homes.
Points, Domer Dollars or Residence Life commit­
impact on traffic, downtown businesses Although a University news release
guest meal exchange pro­cash. Students can pay tee chair Mariana Montes 
and the environment. said the hotels would be a 248-room
gram will continue on a the monitor at the front of said she and her commit­
Some of the commitments included Marriott and a 123-room Springhill
trial basis for the next the dining halls for the tee plan to discuss lower­
Kite's promises to use environmentally Suites, 1-Iakanen said he could not talk
year or so as Food meals on an as-needed ing laundry prices in the 
friendly building materials and designs, about potential tenants of the retail and
Services studies how it basis. residence halls and adding 
include bike lanes and relocate the ani­oflice spaces yet. 
afreets its budget. "We had a lot of great printers to more dorms. 
mals that lived in the wooded property Compton similarly said he would not
The program, Davy said, collaboration, a lot of help 
before clearing it for construction, a discuss possible retail or restaurant
allows student who live on from Food Services to find In other Senate news: 
University news release said. tenants until the tax increment financ­
campus the opportunity to out what is the most feasi­
Compton told WNDU earlier this ing was finalized and the developer
purchase up to five guest ble plan for Notre Dame," +Chief executive assis­
month more than 100 small animals could move forward with its plan, which 
meals, for five dollars Brown said. tant Sheena Plamoottil 
have been relocated since mid-June, includes negotiations with interested
flach, per semester. The If students use up the said the student govern­
and that 60 percent of the evacuated renters.
live meals, which remain five meals, they can pur­ment Web site should 
wildlife is made up of raccoons. "We're in preliminary discussions
separate from a student's chase more dining hall launch next week. 
regular meal plan, are meals at regular guest +Academic Affairs chair 
Once the animal eviction is complete, with different types of interested ten­
Kite will be allowed to clear the woods. ants, but we will only move on to the
prieed at a significant dis­meal prices, Davy said. Carol Hendrickson said 
But before construction can begin on next stage in the development of the
count for any guests who After the guest meal that because of the 
visit students and want to program was explained, increase in the cost of USA 
the site, the developer will also have to Commons once the TIF is completely 
obtain a second permit, Hakanen said. finalized," Compton said. 
eat at a dining hall, Davy Senate committee chairs Today over the summer, 
"The tax increment financing [TIF] is He said the University and Kite have
said. briefed senators on plans the College Readership 
still working its way through the city," agreed on certain types of businesses
Adult guest meal tickets for the upcoming semes­Program, which supplies 
he said. they would like to see along Eddy
for dining hall meals range ter. copies of USA Today, the 
Tax increment fmancing refers to the Street.
from $5.50 for the conti­Oversight committee Chicago Tribune and the 
additional tax revenues the city expects "We are looking for an lrish-themed
nental breakfast to $12.25 chair Ian Secviar New York Times to cam­
to receive from the finalized project -restaurant, a bookstore and a cafe," he
for dinnor. Spocial dinners announced his commit­pus locations five times a 
money that can be used to cover South said. "And we want these shops to keep
cost $15.75. The guest teo's intention to make a week, will have to make 
Bend's costs throughout the develop­the street lined with old-style painted
meal exchange program comprehensive appraisal budget adjustments. The 
dons not inelude special of the Student Body newspapers will no longer 
ment, which may include road improve­signs." 
ments, additional power lines and I le said there would be no bars in the
dinnors, such as any meals Constitution, which was be provided free of charge 
sewer modifications, Hakanen said. Commons, or any other type of business 
on tho Friday, Saturday amended several times on campus during study 
and Sunday of football last year for clarity. days or on Fridays before 
"You take the additional taxes that -such as funeral homes -that could 
would come from the new construc­detract from the project's mission to
woekends and meals for Secviar said grammatical breaks. 
tions, and you use them to pay for the strengthen the University's ties to South
Junior Parents Woekend, and spelling mistakes +Thomas Noble, the 
bonds that built the roads, the parking Bend in an amenable spaco. 
Eastor and Thanksgiving, remain in the current director of the Medieval 
Davy said. The exdusion Constitution. He said he Institute and a history pro­
garage, and the improvements to the "llopefully the University and the city 
water and sewer systems," he said. will have a college town kind of setting 
of these days from the pro­intends to introduce a fessor, is the new Faculty 
Once the city works out the project's that will benefit everyone," Compton
gram is not necessarily series of amendments to Senate liaison to the 
tax increment financing this fall, said.
pnrmanent, Davy said, but remedy these errors. Student Senate. 
1-Iakanen said, Kite Healty will be able
will be assessed at the end The University Affairs 
to begin constructing the first phase of Contact Marcela Berrios at
of tho trial program. committee will hold its Contact Kaitlynn Riely at 
the Commons, which is slated to include aberrios@nd.edu
Studonts can pay for the first student-faculty issue kriely@nd.edu 


Hilton 
continued from page 1 
oast of the hotel. The sharp bend in Madolnva Drive has been soft­ened in preparation for the ehango. 
Whnn the construction of the Hilton broke ground near Saint Mary's eampus last fall, students voicod concerns that adding anothnr hotel would detract from thn natural beauty of the campus. 
Now, questions focus on whnther the hotel will provide somo of the same services as The Inn at Saint Mary's, which is unaffiliated with the new hotel. 
"I want to know whether or not llwy will offer packages for grad­uation !like the Inn at Saint Mary's!," junior Emily Croft said. 
Smeltzer said she didn't know of any dnlinitive package deals. 
"We haven't decided yet," she said. "It's been discussed, but a decision has not been made." 
The llilton will also contain a bar, a restaurant and a name­sake garden. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Ordinance 
continued from page 1 
defined as residences occupied by more than two unrelated people -to submit an applica­tion to the city 10 business days before holding any gath­erings in which more than 25 people would have access to aleohol. 
Brown urged the senators to tell their friends and class­mates that student govern­ment alone cannot change the ordinance. She said the stu­dent body must contribute to their efforts, because student behavior during the next few weeks could affect the out­come of the eventual hearing. 
Brown called the ordinance a "huge wake-up call for Notre Dame students." She told sen­ators she is not recommending an end to off campus student parties, but rather encourag­ing students to be respectful or their neighbors and other South Bend residents. 
"We need to see some improvements in student behavior -it's just a fact," 
Brown said. 
Community relations chair Colin Feehan reiterated Brown's stance during his committee report, saying that that student behavior during the first full weekend of the fall semester and for the next few weeks could have a decid­ing effect on the outcome of the ordinance. 
"Our ability to negotiate is dependent on student behav­ior," Feehan said. "So this weekend, especially, encour­age your friends and class­mates to be respectful to their neighbors." 
Brown said South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke's oflice told her the South Bend Police Department will actively enforce the disorderly house ordinance, the existing ordi­nance that addresses noise violations. 
Brown and student body vice president Maris Braun began discussing the ordinance with city officials before most stu­dents returned to schools. They have met with members of the Common Council, the mayor and other city officials to discuss alternatives to the ordinance, which would apply to many students living off campus and would levy stiff fines against residents who did not submit applications. 
The Common Council decid­ed Monday to delay the public hearing for the ordinance, for the third time, until Sept. 17. The mayor's oflice also drafted a revised version of the ordi­nance with what Brown called "major changes." 
The mayor's proposal would require individuals living in boarding houses to notify the police department 24 hours in advance of a gathering of 25 or more non-residents. 
"This change is major," Brown said, "because it is a. notification, rather than a reg­istration process." 
Under the mayor's proposal.. there is no application to a city administrative office, only notification to the police department. Fines will, howev­er, still be charged to individu­als who do not observe the stipulations of the ordinance, Brown said. 
"This new version is at least. a step in the right direction, and I am encouraged that we have another week now to dis­cuss further developments that would bring us closer to our goal of moving away from this restrictive ordinance," Brown said. 
Brown said she plans to con­tinue to meet with city and University officials during the next few weeks. She said she has a meeting planned for Friday with city council mem­bers, the mayor and Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman. 
Brown's address was deliv­ered from the podium -a set­ting she said should emphasize the importance of her message about good behavior by stu­dents. 
"I don't like to take the podi­um except for the three times a year that I address you in regard to the state of the stu­dent union," Brown said, "but I wanted to come up here today to draw some attention to an issue that has obviously been on the forefront of stu­dent minds for the past month." 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 





CBS sending Couric on reporting trip to Iraq 
age Iraqis, spending most of her September. theirs back to add extra protec­network anchor to travel to Iraq
Associated Press 
time outside of Baghdad. CBS "You can't help but get a very tion to the sides. since ABC News' Bob Woodruff 
NEW YOHK-Katie Couric News would not reveal many detached perspective when To break the tension as was nearly killed by a roadside plans to leave Wednesday for an specifics of you're not there and you're not Couric's armor was pulled tight­bomb. NBC's Brian Williams ambitious reporting trip to Iraq her plans in 
witnessing things firsthand," ly around her, Kaplan smacked went to Iraq in March; and Syria -the CBS anchor's advance Couric told The Associated Press her on the shoulder. Woodruff's successor Charles first time in the war zone -in because or on Tuesday. ''I'm curious about Safety is a sobering concern Gibson has not been there. anticipation of a crucial military competitive very basic questions regarding for all reporters in Iraq. The CBS News cameraman Paul report on progress of the and safety living conditions, about how Committee to Protect Journalists Douglas and sound-man James Ameriean efl"ort. concerns. much fear there is in the street, said 112 journalists have been Brolan were both killed by a 
Courie will anchor the "CBS The trip, in about how the soldiers really killed in Iraq since March 2003. bomb while on assignment in Evoning News" from Baghdad the works are doing." An additional 41 media workers Iraq in May 2006. rwxt Tuesday and Wednesday, for six Couric and her traveling part­have been killed, the latest Correspondent Kimberly Dozier, then from Damascus on w e e k s . Couric ner, evening news executive being CBS News Iraqi translator who was with them, survived Thursday and Friday. anticipates producer Rick Kaplan, were fit­Anwar Abbas Lafta, whose body but has endured 25 operations
Couric will travel throughout the surge progress report by ted with 30-pound body armor was found over the weekend in in her recovery; Couric Iraq to talk to military and civil­Gen. David Petraeus that is vests in Kaplan's office on Sadr City. anchored a special this spring ian leaders, soldiers and aver-expected the second week of Tuesday. Both needed to send Couric is the second major on the bombing's aftermath. 


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, August 30, 2007 CoMPILED FROA,, THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Taliban releases 12 South Koreans 
QALA-E-KAZI -Taliban militants released 12 captives in a series of handovers Wednesday, part of a deal with Seoul to free all 1<) South Korean hostages that one Afghan minister warned would embolden the insur­gents. 
The South Koreans, Christian aid workers who were kidnapped nearly six weeks ago, were turned over to the International Committne of the Rnd Cross at three locations in central Afghanistan. None of the 12 spoke to roportors. 
The remaining South Koreans will be freed over the next 48 hours, Taliban commanders have said. 
Thn first three women freed came to Qala-E­Kazi in a single car. their heads covered with rnd and gronn shawls. Heel Cross officials quickly took them to their vehicles and set out for the ollice of the N'ghan Hed Crescent in the town of Ghazni, witnesses said. 
Pakistan president quits army post 
LONDON-Pakistan's President Gen. Pervez Musharraf has agreed to step down as army chief, exiled Prime Minister Benazhir Bhutto said Wednesday, a move that would be a key stop toward a power-sharing deal aimed at res­ruing thn U.S. ally's bid for another presidential tnrm. 
Bhutto. who is expectnd to return to her homeland and contest parliamentary elections dun by January, also said corruption charges would bn dropped against her and dozens of othnr politicians as part of ongoing negotiations to restorn civilian rule. 
Musharraf and Bhutto have been in talks for months about a pact that would protect the general's rn-election bid from legal challenges and public disenchantment with military rule. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Republicans call for Craig to resign 
WASliiNGTON -Idaho Sen. Larry Craig's political support eroded by the hour on Wednesday as fellow Hepublicans in Congress called for him to resign and party leaders pushed him unceremoniously from senior committee posts. 
The White House expressed disappoint­ment. too -and nary a .word of support for the 62-year-old lawmaker, who pleaded guilty earlier this month to a charge stem­ming from an undercover police operation in an airport men's room. 
Craig "represents the Hepublican Party," said Rep. Pete Hoekstra of Michigan, the first in a steadily lengthening list of GOP mem­bers of Congress to urge a resignation. 
The senator's spokesman declined com­ment. "They have a right to express them­selves," said Sidney Smith. He said he had heard no discussion of a possible resignation. 

Airport screening targets Sikhs 
WASIIINGTON -A new airport screening policy for turbans and other headwear has the country's Sikhs concerned they are being unfairly targeted. 
The federal policy change went into effect Aug. 4. subjecting travelers to secondary scrnening at security ehnekpoints if they are wearing head coverings, such as cowboy hats. berets or turbans. The screenings could ineludn a pat-down snarch of the head cover" ing if the screener finds it necessary. 
LOCAL NEWS 

School bus drives off 1-164; 8 injured 
ELBERFELD -A school bus carrying a middle school girl's volleyball team drove off Interstate 164 and into a cornfield Tuesday afternoon, injuring several of the girls, police said. 
About ·ts seventh-and eighth-graders from Owensville Community School were on the bus, with eight to 10 being taken to a hospital for injuries that ranged from bruises to a broken leg, said David Wedding, chief deputy of the Vanderburgh County Sheriff's Department. 

Frustration lingers for New Orleans 
Bush visits battered city on two-year anniversary ofKatrina as residents protest 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS Prayers, protests and a lin­gering disgust with the gov­ernment's response to Hurricane Katrina marked the disaster's second anniversary Wednesday, with a presidential visit doing little to mollify those still displaced by the storm. 
Clarence Russ, 64, took a dim view of politicians' promises as he tried to put the finishing touches on his repaired home in the city's devastated Lower 9th Ward. 
"There was supposed to be all this money, but where'd it go? None of us got any," said Russ, whose house was the only restored home on an otherwise deso­late block. 
Not far away, President Bush visited a school. "We're still paying attention. We understand," he said before heading to the Mississippi Gulf Coast, also devastated by Katrina. 
But Gina Martin, who is still living in Houston after Katrina destroyed her New Orleans home, was uncon­vincecl. "Bush was clown here again making more promises he isn't going to keep. The government has failed all of us. It's got to stop," she said. 
Martin was among an esti­mated 1,000 people taking nation saw miles of wrecked doubled since the storm, and than two dozen unclaimed part in a protest march that homes, mud and debris from many of those squat in an bodies. started in the Lower 9th one of the worst natural dis­estimated 80,000 vacant "The saddest thing I've Ward. It was a uniquely New asters in its history. dwellings. Violent crime is seen here is that there are Orleans-style protest: There In New Orleans, recovery also on the rise, and the 30 human beings who will were signs accusing the has been spotty at best. The National Guard and state be buried here one day that Bush administration of mur­historic French Quarter and troopers still supplement a nobody ever called about," der and angry chants about neighborhoods close to the diminished local police force. David Kopra, a volunteer the failure of government. Mississippi River did not Bells pealed amid prayers, from Olympia, Wash., said, But marchers also danced in flood and have bounced song and tears at the holding back tears. "It says the street accompanied by back fairly well. The city's groundbreaking for a something to my heart. This two brass bands. population has reached an planned Katrina memorial city needs so much care, and 
Katrina was a powerful estimated 277,000, about 60 at a New Orleans cemetery. that's why I'm here." Category 3. hurricane when percent its pre-storm level of "We ring the bells for a Churches throughout the it hit the Gulf Coast the 455,000. Sales tax revenues city that is in recovery, that region, including historic St. morning of Aug. 29, 2005, are approaching normal, is struggling, that is per­Louis Cathedral in the broke through levees in New and tourism and the port forming miracles on a daily French Quarter, held servic­Orleans and flooded 80 per­industry are recovering. basis," said Mayor Hay es. At the Claiborne Avenue cent of the city. But vast stretches of the Nagin, who famously cursed bridge over the Industrial 
By the time the water city show little or no recov­the federal response in a Canal, mourners tossed a dried up weeks later, more ery. A housing shortage and radio interview days after wreath into the water near than 1,600 people across high rents have hampered the storm. the spot where a levee Louisiana and Mississippi business growth. The home­The memorial will be the breach led to the inundation were dead, and a shocked less population has almost final resting place for more of the Lower 9th Ward. 

IRAQ 


Al-Sadr to overhaul Shiite militia 
powerfW roadside bombs that remain the Army members and security forces
Associated Press 
chief killer of U.S. troops. American offi­linked a rival Shiite militia, the Badr 

BAGHDAD -Anti-American cleric cials, meanwhile, reacted with skepticism Brigade. Muqtacla al-Sadr took his Mahdi Army and urged al-Sadr to show tangible steps The battles are part of wider power out of action for up to six months to rein in his fighters. struggles by armed Shiite groups f(:>r con­Wednesday to overhaul the feared Shiite The announcement by al-Sadr -who trol of the Shiite heartland of southern militia -a stunning move that under­formed the militia after the fall of Iraq, which includes major religious scores the growing struggles against Saddam Hussein in 2003 -appeared shrines and most of the country's vast oil breakaway factions with suspected ties to aimed at distancing himself from suspect­riches. The splintering of the Mahdi Army Iran. ed Iranian-backed Mahcli factions he ean has opened new fronts across the south. 
A spokesman tor al-Sadr said the order no longer control. It also sought to dellect In a statement, al-Sadr said he would also means the Mahdi Army would sus­critici'>m lor his followers' perceived role "freeze" the Mahdi Army "for a period pend attacks against U.S. and other coali­in this week's fighting in Karbala that not exceeding six months." The goal, the tion forces. aborted a Shiite religious festival and statement said, is to reorganize the force 
But it's unclear how much influence al­claimed more than 50 lives. "in such a manner that would maintain Sadr still wields over Shiite groups Thousands of pilgrims fled in terror as and preserve the prestige of this symbol blamed for waves of attacks, including fighting erupted Tuesday between Mahdi of the faith." 
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, August 30, 2007 
FBI investigates string of store bon1b threats 
Harding's market in Buchanan, Mich. affected 


Associated l'ress 
NEWI'OHT, ttl. -Large gro­cery and diseount storns aeross the eountry have bmm targeted by a 1·.aller who threatlms to blow up shoppers and workers with a bomb if mnploynns fail to wirfl money to an aceount overseas, authorities said. 
Frightnnml worknrs hav11 wired thousands of dollars -and in om1 ease took off their clothes -to 
-all in tlw p<L<;t week. 
"At this point, there's enough similarities that we think it's pot1~ntially one pnrson or one grDup." FBI spokesman Hich Kolko said !hun W<L<;hin).,rton. 
No orw has been arrnstPd, no hombs have bonn found, and no one has been hurt, though the calls haw triggerml store evaeua­tions and prompted lengthy sweeps by police and bomb squads. 
Law nnl'orcem1·mt officials say the caller claims to have a bomb and orders the store to send monny to an aecount through an in-store money transfer service sw:h as Western Union. lle often claims to bn able to see inside the store, but ollicials bdieve he was making it up. 
In Newport, employees at a Wai-Mart got thrnn ealls Tuesday morning and wirnd thrnfl pay­nwnts totaling $10,000 to an a1:1:ount out of the country, Sgt. Jamns {)uinn said. A spokeswoman ollicer to make his threat more believable. 
The railer has not gotten every store he's called to give up money, but the FBI on Wednesday did not provide the total amount taken. 
On Tuesday, at a Dillons grocery store in Hutchinson, Kan., thn callnr ordered customers and employees to disrobe. Employee Marilyn Case told The Hutchinson News that store manager Mike 
"The maximum that
placate a caller who said he was Western Union can watching them 
send through its 
but may havn 
service is $3 ,ooo . ...
bnm1 thousands of miles away. This individual was 
The FBI and obviously aware 
police said 
ofthat."
Wndrwsday tlwy are investigating similar bomb Kim Kapin thrPats at mon~ 
Prescott, Ariz. 
than I!i storos in 
police and city spokesman
at least I I states butcher knife on his orders, Case said. Jim Petnrson, a customer, told the newspaper that people bncame distraught. 
"People came undone and start­ed saying, 'No, no,"' he said. 
Piros was not harmed. Police there initially said they were investigating whether the caller had hacked into the surveillance system, but latnr backed away from that possibility. 
The calls continued Wednesday, with a threat at a Hannaford supermarket in Millinocket, Maine. An employee arrived to lind the doors locked and employ­ees and customers sitting inside in a circle, said Stephen McCausland, spokesman for the Maine Department of Public Safety. 
Store maintenance associate Ivan Garay told the Bangor Daily News that store manager Michanl Bennett told everyone to sit on thn floor. Later, they were told there 
for W<ti-Mart ''After a while, it Ston~s Inc. said 
sounded like he was 
the company was 
just taking a shot in 
assisting in the investigation, but the dark at what they olli1rod no further 
might be doing or what 
comment. 
looked like how they 
The lirst of the threal<; that lildPr­were reacting al investigators 
to his call." 
are aware of 

came last Thursday at a Lt. Ken Morley Saleway in Sandy, Prescott Ariz. Police Dept. 
Ore. The caller initially said he had a gun and was watching the store, but aflnr meeting rnsistance to his demands he claimed to have a bomb, Sandy police Chief llarold Skelton said. 
In Buchanan. Mieh., on Monday, the caller directed employees of a !larding's market to lock thn front doors, move to the front and told them not to call police, said Berrien County Sherifl' Paul Bailey. Thn man claimed he could see some workers standing up, and ordered them to sit down. 
"He's just ad-libbing," Bailey said. "lie can't see anything." 
Nonnthelcss, Bailey said, the em ployecs werfl so afraid they wired tho mllPr $:1,000. The man­agor evnr1 hung up the phone when authorities callml, saying a bomb would go olr if he talked to them. 
Bailey said that in a phone eall with poliee, the man IWim ofli1rod to trade a "hostage" li>r a police Piros argued with the caller, but they relented when he contin­ued to make threats and instructed them to "do it now." 
He then demanded that one of Piros' lin­gers be cut off for every hour his demands were not met, and another mnployee got a 
had been a bomb threat. 
At a Safeway supermarket in Prescott, Ariz., a caller with an accent demand­ed $2,850 on Tuesday, according to police and city spokesman Kim Kapin. 
"The maxi­mum that Western Union can send through its 
service is $3,000," Kapin said. Wiring money also includes a $150 service charge, Kapin added. "This individual was obvi­ously aware of that." 
Initially, the caller led employees to beliPWl he was observing them. 
"After a while, it sounded like he was just taking a shot in the dark at what they might be doing, or what they looked like or how they were reacting to his call," Prescott police Lt. Ken Morley said. 
Sherry Johnson, a spokes­woman for Englewood, Colo.­based Western Union, said the eompany was working with the FBI and U.S. Secret Service to trace the monny snnt through tlw service. It was also telling its agml<; to bP on the lookout for the extortion plot. She dPelinod to be morn spneilic, saying "this is an ongoing law enforn~ment investi­gation." 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, August 30, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  13,289.29  +247.44  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
444  67  2,832  3,078,093,429  

NASDAQ 2,563.16 +62.52 S&P 500 1,463.76 +31.40 FTSE 100 (London) 6,132.20 +30.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE ~GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEPIPTS (SPY) +1.96 +2.82 146.54 
POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +2.87 +1.34 48.08 
NTEL CP (INTC) +4.72 +1.13 25.09 
SUN MICROSYS (JAVA) +2.17 +0.11 5.17 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.51 +0.023 4.553 
13-WEEK BILL -9.84 -0.420 3.850 
30-YEAR BOND +0.35 +0.017 4.879 
5-YEAR NOTE +0.82 +0.035 4.283 

Commodities 

+1.78 73.51
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) 
+ 1.90 675.40
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) 
+0.58 91.58
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 

Exchan e Rates 

YEN 115.5850 
EURO 0.7325 
POUND 0.4965 
CANADIAN$ 1.0611 
IN BRIEF 

DaimlerChrysler profits down 14% 
FHANKFUHT -DaimlerChrysler AG said Wednesday that its second-quarter profit fell 14 percent and disclosed plans to spend about $10.2 billion buying back nearly 10 percent of its shares as it moves forward without its Chrysler division. 
DaimlerChrysler's profit decline excluding results from Chrysler and its finance arm ­which did better in the latest quarter than a year ago -was a steeper 20 percent. 
The automaker said it earned 1.44 billion euros ($1. 91 billion) excluding the opera­lions it sold, compared to 1.8 billion euros a year earlier. 
It now expects a charge of 2.5 billion euros for the year from the sale of Chrysler group and its financing arm, less than it had previously thought. 
DaimlerChrysler also said it expects vehi­cle sales to be in line with the 2.1 million it sold in 2006, with revenue on par with the 99 billion euros it reported last year. 
The company sold the Chrysler group and North American financial services units to Cerberus Capital Management LLC earlier this month in a $7.4 billion deal that saw the private equity group take an 80.1 per­cent stake in Chrysler. 

Hackers unlock iPhone from AT& T 
NEW YOHK -Hackers have figured out how to unleash Apple's iPhone from AT&T's cellular network, but people hoping to make money from the procedure could face legal problems. 
At least one of the companies hoping to make money by unlocking iPhones said it is hesitating after calls from lawyers repre­senting the phone company. 
Unlocking the phone for one's own use, for instanee to place calls with a different carri­er, appears to be legal. But if it's done for financial gain, the legality is less certain. 
"Whnther people can make profits from software that hacks the iPhone is going to depend very much on exactly what was done to develop that software and what does that software do," said Bart Showalter, head of the Intellectual Property practice group at law firm Baker Botts in Dallas. 

Bernanke calls for mortgage choices 
Federal Reserve chief believes Federal Housing Administration could help 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Federal Reserve Chairman 
Ben Bernanke is suggest­
ing that policymakers look 
for ways to encourage a 
wider range of mortgages 
geared for low income and 
other borrowers who have 
been hard hit by the hous­
ing slump and credit 
crunch. 

Bernanke, in a letter to 
Sen. Charles Schumer, D­
N.Y., that was released 
Wednesday, said the Fed is 
keeping close tabs on 
financial markets and is 
"prepared to act as need­
ed" to ensure spreading 
credit problems that have 
rocked Wall Street in 
recent weeks don't hurt 
the economy. It's a mes­
sage the central bank has 
been sending as the mar­
kets have grown more tur­
bulent. 

Foreclosure and late 
payments have spiked 
especially for "subprime" 
borrowers with blemished 
credit histories or low 
incomes. Higher interest 
rates and weak home val­
ues have made it impossi­
ble for some to pay or to 
keep up with their monthly 
mortgage payments. Some 
overstretched homeowners 
can't afford to refinance or 
even se"il their home. 
Bernanke said the devel­
opment of "a broader expected to worsen in the to help. owners with low incomes 
range of mortgage prod­next year and a half as low "The Congress might or tarnished credit histo­
ucts which are appropriate "teaser" rates that lured in wish to consider FHA ries. 
for low-and moderate­borrowers reset to higher reforms that allow the Sen. Chris Dodd, a 
income borrowers, includ­rates, socking homeown­agency more flexibility to Connecticut Democrat who 
ing those seeking to refi­ers. Some 2 million design new products and is seeking his party's presi­
nance" might help the sit­adjustable rate mortgages to collaborate· with the pri­dential nomination, has 
uation. "Such products are expected to reset to vate sector in facilitating urged the administration 
could be designed to avoid higher rates this year and the refinancing of credit­to enable the FHA to "pro­
or mitigate the risk of pre­next. Steep penalties for worthy subprime borrow­vide more affordable loans 
payment shock and to be prepaying mortgages have ers facing large resets," to American homeowners 
more transparent with added to some homeown­Bernanke said. in danger of foreclosure 
respect to their terms," ers' headaches. The Bush administration due to bad lending prac­
Bernanke wrote in the let­Bernanke said the is looking into ways that tices." Dodd, chairman of 
ter, which was dated Federal Housing the FHA, part of the U.S. the Senate Banking 
Monday. Administration, a govern­Department of Housing Committee, also is inter­
Mortgage foreclosures mimt agency that insures and Urban Development, ested in legislation to 
and late payments are home loans, might be able may help troubled home-reform the FHA. 

Stocksup amid possible interestrate cuts 
Associated Press bulence hurts the economy helped Though the safest assets, Treasurys, 
pad the market's gain. are not seeing the same frantic buy­
NEW YORK -Stocks rebounded The Fed, although it has not yet ing they saw a couple weeks ago, 
sharply Wednesday as investors, indicated that it will indeed lower assets with a bit more risk, like com­
growing more optimistic about the benchmark fed funds rate, has mercial paper, are having some 
chances for an interest rate cut, been adding cash to the banking sys­trouble attracting buyers. 
sought bargains after the previous tem in an attempt to keep the credit "Everyone's waiting for the dust to 
session's huge tumble. The Dow markets liquid. The Federal Reserve settle there," said Steven Goldman, 
Jones industrials gained almost 250 Bank of New York said Wednesday it chief market strategist at Weeden & 
points. would inject $5.25 billion through a Co. "We're on a little bit better foot­
Many investors believe the Federal one-day repurchase agreement, ing, but we're in a healing process 
Reserve will cut interest rates at its where it buys that amount in collat­that takes time." He added that he 
next meeting on Sept. 18 or even eral from dealers who then deposit regards a Fed rate cut as "mandato­
sooner and were preparing for Fed the money into commercial banks. ry." 
Chairman Ben Bernanke to hint at Wall Street was also enthusiastic The Dow rose 247.44. or 1.90 per­
such a move on Friday at a speech in about signs of corporate muscle. A cent, to 13,289.29, near its highs of 
Jackson Hole, Wyo. The possibility of jump in oil prices fed a rally in ener­the sAssion. The blue chip index 
a rate cut has given Wall Street gy company stocks, and positive tumbled 280 points on Tuesday amid 
some hope that the stock market will news from technology companies pessimism about the Fed's inten­
recover from its summer volatility, including Seagate Technology gave tions. 
and that right now, it's a good strat­that sector a boost. Meanwhile, Broader stock indicators also 
egy to buy while the buying is cheap. Altria Group Inc. spun off its Philip jumped. The Standard & Poor's 500 
News that Bernanke said in a let­Morris International cigarette busi­index added 31.40, or 2.19 percent, 
ter to Sen. Charles Schumer, 0-N.Y., ness. to 1,463.76, while the Nasdaq com­
that Fed policymakers are "prepared Stock investors kept an eye on the posite index gained 62.52, or 2.50 
to act as needed" if the market's tur-credit markets for signs of loosening. percent, to 2,563.16. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, August 30, 2007 


Statue erected in honor of Mandela in ·London 
Monument stands near other historical heroes in Parliament Square; British prime minister among attendees 
Associate<! Press 

LONDON -It was 11H12 and 
Nelson MandPia was on tlw run. 
lluntnd by South i\frint.n authori­
ties and gParing up for armed 
struggle against his country's 
apart.lwid govnrnnwnl., MandPia 
visited London snPking morwy, 
training and support. 

It was tl11•n that lw and Oliver 
Tambo, his partr11•r in tlw anti­
apartheid struggle, walkPd 
through l'arlianwnl Squarn sur­
wying tlw statuary tributns to thn 
British Hmpim's gn•at and good. 
Tlw ligurP of South African statPs­
man .Jan Smuts raughl tlwir nyn. 

"Wiwn WP saw tlw statui' of CPn. Smuts rwar WPstminstnr Abbey, OlivPr and I joked that pnr­haps sonwday llwrt> would lw a stallu• of us in its stl'ad." MaiHIPla wrol!~ in his autobiography, "Long Walk to l."rnPdom." 
l."orly yt>ars lalPr, MandPia rt>tunwd to t.lrn squarP Wndrwsday to watch tlw tmveiling of his own statui' across from Smuts' -and join t.lw ranks of Britain's most nwPrnd lwroPs. 
"Nnlson MaJHIPia is one of llw most 1:ouragl'ous and bnst-loved men of all limn," Prime Minister (lordon Brown said of the H9­year-old Nobel l'nan~ l'rizn win­rwr. who has romP to pnrsonify his country's struggln to nnd apartlwid. 
Brown said it was fitting that Mand1~la. whom he called "tlw gn~al libnrator," joined statuns of /\braham Lincoln and Winston Chun:hill in t.lw squaro. 
But Mand1.Ja was not always considen~d a lwro. Britain main­tairwd dosP tins with South Africa through thP apartlwid nra, helping to insulatP tlw former colony's govnrnmnnt from international isolation at tlw UnitPd Nations. British l'rinw Minister Margaret Thatdwr rderrt>d to Mandela's African National Congress as a terrorist organization. 
"l\v1m whnn my fri1md (~ordon, the primP ministl'r, was paying vPry warm tributn to him, it was not always thus," British lawmak­nr Nigt>l (lrifliths said, Pxplaining that many British politicians eriti­dznd MandPia's dndsion to take 
Clashes, arrests 111ark Chilean day of protest 
up arms against the white minori­ty regime. 
"It's amazing how pPopln have forgotten how they opposed him," Grifliths said. · 
But Mandc.Ja's cause caught thn popular imagination, and Britons wern among the most rommittnd fops of aparthnid internationally. Boy1:otts wnrn organized of com­pan ins doing business in South Africa, and a constant vigil was held in Trafalgar Square as Mandnla languished in jail. 
Mandt>la's ean~er as South Africa's first post-apartlwid presi­dent, which saw tlw painful-but largnly pnaeeful -transition from a white supremacist state to a multiracial demo1Tacy, won most of his opponents over. Conservative loader David Cameron said last year that Thatdwr had bmm wrong to label the i\NC a terrorist organization, calling Mandela "one of the great­est nwn alivn." 
Nnvnrtlwless, tho nfl'ort to erect a statue to Mandela in London was not without eontrovorsy. 
London Mayor Ken 


Livingstone campaignnd for the Mandela sculpturn to be plaend in Trafalgar Square -home to thwn statues of British military herons and King George IV. But Wnstminstnr Council's planning eommittne, which had the final say, doeided on Parliament Square, saying it was a more suitable location. 
In the end, though, the tower­ing bronze statue of Mandnla, its polished brown hands stretching toward London's !louses of Parliament, was mom than his British support­nrs had hoped for. 
"I never even thought we would live to see Mandela frond from prison -much less this," said Eddie Fennings, a 43-year­old eneq.,ry broknr, as the crowd around him broke into South i\frkan anthnms. 
Ola Onanuga, 44, said she had protested and marehed as Mandela languished in jail. Now shn said she was bringing her daughtnr to the square to give the 1:hild a glimpsP at what she eallnd a "one of a kind" politi-
Associated Press 
S/\NTJ/\(10 -l'oliee used tear gas, watPr cannons and clubs against dPmonstrators staging nationwide protnsts Wmlnesday ovPr governnwnt soda! and Peo­nomir policies. 
Authorities said X? pPoph~ had bPen d.-tairwd, but <L'i the protosL'i passPd tlw six-hour mark by mid­al'tt>rnoon, stall' tPIPvision and ot.hPr local nPws nwdia quoted policP sourcPs as saying that arTPSL'i had passPd :{00. 
.Journalisl'i saw SPVPral dmnon­strators biPmling or oven:onw by tear gas allPr dashes with police. Among tlw injun•d was Snn. i\IPjandro Navarro, of l'rosidtmt MidwiiP Baelwii'L's Socialist Party, who bbl from tho back of his lwad af'tPr lwing dubbed by a policP ofl'icl'l'. J)pputy Interior Minister Fl'lipP llarboP said tho inridPnl would lw investigatt•d. 
Navarro, who went to a nearby hospital for nwdical attnntion, supported tho protPst rallnd by country's largest union fi~doration to oppose free-market eeonomics and thn government's social poli­des. 
Badwlet's government "is doing things very badly," said union leader Arturo Martinez, another Socialist Party membt-w backing thn protesL'i. 
Tho eenter-loll government has maintained a largnly fron-marknt economic modtd, which includes frPn-trade agnwments with the Unitml Statns and other countrins. 
Protnst organiznrs called for higlwr pensions and better edu­eation, health and housing servie­
~~s. 
Police rnpeatndly blocked pro­testers from marehing toward the 1:nnter of Santiago but demon­strators blocked traffic at key intersm'tions. 
Tlw prnsident appean~d espe­cially upset that some members of lwr own coalition were backing tlw protests. 
"I am not going to accept that my dndk.ation to social justiee is not nwo).,rniznd," she said Monday night. 

dan. 
"He's someone that our genera­tion and the younger generation will never again sne," Onanuga said. 
Mandela appearnd frail as he made his way Wednesday to the platform, loaning on tlw arm of his wife, Graca Machel. But he spoke dearly as hn invited the crowd to enlebrate his 90th birth­day next year at a concert in London's llyde Park in support of his ell'orts to combat AIDS. 
Thn concert will support his foundation, which is called "46664"-the number he wore in prison. 
The Nobel laureate recalled the time he and Tambo toured the square, looking ambivalently at the symbols of British power. 
"The history of the struggle in South i\friea is rich with the sto­ries of heroes and heroines, some of them leaders, some of them fol­lowers. /\II of them deserve to bn remembered," Mandela said. 
"Oliver would havn bonn proud today if he were here." 

Thursday, August 30, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
NASA: no evidence of pre-launch drinking 
accompanying astronauts as they The safety chief toured crew
Associated Press 
suit up for launch. O'Connor also quarters at space centers in both 
WASIIINGTON -After finding recommended that excessive Houston and Cape Canaveral, no evidence of astronauts drink­drinking be added to NAS~s list of Fla., as the astronauts were in ing before launching into space, risky activities forbidden for astro­quarantine days before launch of NASA said Wednesday it is con­nauts in the year before launch, the shuttle Endeavour earlier this sidering limited alcohol testing of along with motorcycle racing, month. its employees, including astro­parachuting and frrefighting. "I saw one half-empty bottle of nauts. A 1991 law directs NASA to tequila in one of the cupboards," 
An internal investigation recom­come up with a policy for alcohol O'Connor wrote. He also said beer mended alcohol testing while at testing of employees as recom­and wine are available from non­the same time clearing astronauts mended by O'Connor, but it never flying astronauts making booze of much-publicized drinking alle­has done so before, Griffin said at runs. gations. In response, NASA a news conference. He said the Still, beer and wine consump­Administrator Michael Griffin said agency will now start the long tion now seems less than what he would come up with a policy process of coming up with a test­was reported in the 1980s and for testing after a mishap or when ing policy. early 1990s, O'Connor reported. there are suspicions of substance 'The issue is just how far we It's usually moderate amounts of abuse. It would, he said, be fur­go," he said after the conference. wine or beer at dinner, during off­ther validation of a sober space The chairman of the independ­duty times, and a far higher per­agency. ent panel, Air Force Col. Richard centage of current astronauts are 
The review released Wednesday E. Bachman Jr., commander and teetotalers these days, he wrote. could not verify two drinking alle­dean of the U.S. Air Force School He also noted that "the lack of gations described by an independ­of Aerospace Medicine, declined privacy on launch day makes it ent panel last month, and Griffin comment on the internal review nearly impossible to hide alcohol said they just didn't happen. The through a military spokesman. use or alcohol-induced impair­report did acknowledge the avail­O'Connor's review looked back ment." claimed had had too much to ny" before cosmonauts go to the ability of alcohol in crew quarters, 20 years and involved interviews "There are reasonable safe­drink; the colleague alerted others launch pad in Kazakhstan, noting that non-flying astronauts with 90 NASA officials, astronauts guards in place to prevent an only after the launch was delayed O'Connor wrote. He reported that made booze-buying runs for their and flight surgeons. Twenty flight impaired crew member from ever because of mechanical problems. one non-drinking American wor­quarantined colleagues. surgeons signed an e-mail to boarding a spacecraft," O'Connor O'Connor, using the clues in that ried about not imbibing, but was 
The 45-page report by NASA O'Connor saying they have never said at the news conference. report, focused on three missions told by Russian flight surgeons it safety chief Bryan O'Connor, a for­seen any drunken astronauts The careful look at astronaut between 1990 and 1995. He was OK not to drink. mer astronaut and shuttle acci­before a launch or training jet health issues grew out of the spoke to at least two astronauts In both cases -in which no dent investigator, was initiated flight. scandal earlier this year involving on each of those missions and the names were given -the July after the July report on astronaut O'Connor looked through astronaut Lisa Nowak, accused of astronaut chiefs at the time and report said that flight surgeons health by eight medical experts. 40,134 government and contrac­the assault and attempted kidnap­no one verified the claims. and/or fellow astronauts raised 
"I was unable to verify any case tor reports of mishaps and prob­ping of a romantic rival. The other alleged incident safety worries with nearby ofTI­in which an astronaut spaceflight lems dating back through 1984 -The first report, by the inde­involved an astronaut drinking cials in charge, yet "the individu­erewmnmber was impaired on many of them anonymous -and pendent panel in July, said: alcohol before flying on a Russian als were still permitted to fly." launch day" or any ease where a none of them involved alcohol or "Interviews with both flight sur­Soyuz capsule to the international Griffin and O'Connor said they manager disregarded warnings drug abuse by astronauts. geons and astronauts identified space station. Griffin said he had were convinced no such thing from another NASA employee Both O'Connor and Griffin said some episodes of heavy use of the opportunity to look at the pri­happened. O'Connor said the that an astronaut not fly, said in their decades of work in the alcohol by astronauts in the vate medical records involved in independent panel was conveying O'Connor's report. space program they have never immediate preflight period, which the Soyuz incident and said there information given to them under 
However, O'Connor said NASA seen a NASA employee report for has led to safety concerns." was no drunken astronaut. the protection of anonymity. The doctors should play a stronger duty under the influence of alco­One instance involved a shuttle Drinking small champagne panel would not reveal its "oversight" role on launch day, hol. astronaut that a colleague toasts is part of a "special ceremo-sources, he said. 


Sikhs oppose changes in turban screenings 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A new air­port screening policy for turbans and other headwear has the country's Sikhs concerned they are being unfairly targeted. 
The federal policy change went into effect Aug. 4, subjecting trav­elers to secondary screening at security checkpoints if they are wearing head coverings, such as cowboy hats, berets or turbans. The screenings could include a pat-down search of the head cov­ering if the screener finds it nec­essary. 
The New York-based Sikh Coalition believes the new policy singles out Sikh~ and others who wear religious head coverings. More than 25 ethnic and religious organizations, such as the American-Arab Anti­Discrimination Committee and the Asian American Justice Center, have signed the coalition's petition against the policy change. 
In the Sikh religion, the turban is considered private, and remov­ing a turban would be like removing a woman's blouse, Neha Singh, the coalition's advo­cacy director, said Wednesday. Since 2001, federal policy has required screeners to search tur­bans only if they do not clear a metal detector. 
The Transportation Security Administration denies any use of racial or religious profiling in its security screening practices. The recent policy change applies to all head coverings that could be used to conceal something, said TSA spokeswoman Amy Kudwo. The change was not a result of any specific threat information about hiding explosives or weapons in head coverings, she said. And all travelers have the right to request a private screening. 
"Head coverings do not 'require' a search under the new policy," Kudwo said in an e-mail. "Individuals MAY be referred for additional screening if the securi­ty officer cannot reasonably determine that the head area is free of a detectable threat item." 
The Sikh Coalition has docu­mented 40 incidents when Sikhs were subjected to these searches since Aug. 4. And some of these travelers were not offered a pri-­vate area for screening, Singh said, adding, "This is going to lead to profiling." 
TSA will not disclose the details of new policy for security rea­sons. It broadly explains the screening procedures on its Web site with a picture of a white cow­boy hat and another picture of three young women laughing and wearing winter hats. 
The Sikh community was not notified of the screening changes as it has been in the past, the advocacy group said. The organi­zation met with TSA ofTicials on Aug. 22 and has another conf'er­ence call scheduled next week to discuss the issue, Singh said. TSA told the coalition the airport screeners decide to perform sec­ondary screening on turbans at their own discretion. 
If the policy remains broad and unregulated, it could lead to pro­filing, said David Harris, a racial profiling expert at the University of Toledo College of Law. 


Gov. previews Tech report 
Kaine troubled that violent essays weren't shared with law enforcement 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. -Seung-Hui Cho's violent essays-including one similar to the Vrrginia Tech massacre he carried out ­weren't widely shared with law enf'orcement, the governor said Wednesday in a preview of a key report on the shootings. 
Gov. Timothy M. Kaine said officers' lack of access to the student gunman's class compo­sitions before the attack is "a significant fea­ture" in the his life, that that information was unknown to anybody on the Tech campus," Kaine said. 
Kaine said he read about the writings in an earlier draft of the report. He is to publicly dis­cuss details in the final report for the first time Thursday. 
Virginia Tech turned over a compilation of Cho's writings to the review panel, including plays and other student writ­ings so bloody that they horri­fied teachers and classmates. One 2006 fictional 
report, due for 'Tm troubled that a account of release a planned
student who had talked
Thursday by campus 
the panel about Columbine at an shooting 
Kaine appoint­earlier point in his life, previewed ed to review Cho's dead­
that that information was
Cho's killings ly attack, 
of himself and unknown to anybody on T h e 32 others. the Tech campus." Washington "There's a p 0 s t lot of instances reported
Timothy M. Kaine
where infor­Wednesday.

Virginia governor 
mation was T h a t 
out there or different people had informa­tion where it needed to be put together," Kaine said. 
The governor said it was hard to understand why more was not done about a student who had shown a fascination with the 1999 Columbine High School shooting spree and, in his video manifesto mailed in the middle of the Blacksburg slayings, said he considered the two students who committed it martyrs. 
''I'm troubled that a student who had talked about Columbine at an earlier point in 
piece was not given to the review panel until recently because of an oversight by school officials, Tech spokesman Larry Hincker said. 
Some of the families of those killed and injured have demanded frank answers about how Cho was able to commit the worst mass shooting on an American college campus despite behavior that had alarmed fellow students, faculty and police. 
Among those questions: Why wasn't Cho monitored more closely after a judge deemed him a threat to himself more than a year before the shoot­ings? And why didn't Virginia Tech alert the campus more quickly and cancel classes after the frrst two shootings in a dor­mitory, two hours before the main massacre in a classroom building? 
"I know that some parents of the deceased are focusing on the mental health aspect of how Cho through all his life slipped through the cracks, and I understand that," said Suzanne Grimes, whose son Kevin Sterne was shot in the leg and sur­vived. "My focus is why they didn't cancel the classes that day." 
Grimes' 22-year-old son was shot in Norris Hall, where 30 people were slain and Cho com­mitted suicide. Sterne has returned to Virginia Tech to earn a master's degree in elec­trical engineering, but a bullet remains in his body and he still receives physical therapy. 
"If the panel report does con­tain some accountability in it, it will offer some closure to the families," Grimes said. 
Cathy and Peter Read, whose daughter Mary Karen Read was killed in Norris Hall, said they want the panel to hold responsi­ble parties accountable for the shootings. They also want the report to include recommenda­tions on privacy and mental health laws, gun availability and the safety of students at universities. And they want the panel to reconvene at periodic intervals to review and ensure progress. 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 
Thursday, August 30, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

The flaw in Rudy's abortion stance 

1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notro Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BliSINt:SS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle Wesr 
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
Vlt:WPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SI•ORTS EDI'IORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: 'lae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
I'IIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GI!AI'IIIC.~ EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROL.l.ER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6<JOO obscrvadriilnd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-'4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
('i74) 631-5323 obsncws.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoim.1 @nd.edu 
, SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporls.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe srudents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Coll<'ge. F.dirorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither insritmion. The Observer reserves rhe right w refuse advertisements h:L~ed on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 1he majority of rhe Editor in Chid~ Managing Editor, A.sisranr Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present rhe views of the :uuhcm and nor nece..sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vit·wpoinr space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to 1he F.diror must be signed and mus1 include conracr inlormarion. 
Qzmtioll$ rtgardi11g Observer policies should be rlirtctrd to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanntl. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
·1 hr O!lllet'Yer (lJSI•S 'i•J•J 2--104.1<1) i~ puhhJhctl Munday throuKI. Jlrid.&y cncptlluun~ \''f.UIIIIntl v.&~.uiun l~ll!odi. A mh.o;nplinn m 11tt> ObliCrvet hi $lOll for our ttculrnuc ycnr: $~1-lor nllr &~:lll~lrr. 
ThcOit<~tl'lrii'IJlU!.i!\hctl.u: l't)STMA.C..'TF.R U24 Sutuill}tl\l"fC,ilAII ~~~~~ .uMrcv. ~,•rrn.:tkun ru: Nut~ !J.unc. IN <((,'\'16-077'.1 'fl,r<ll'llfiCrvc:r l 1cu1-lll~ljMI\I.&•r l).'ltd ac Nnu~ l>.unc P.n Uu:~~: 779 ~llfl ilflilittun.d m.ulmR ufnt..o. 014 Smuh Dmin~ H.tll 
Nom· D.nuc, IN 46~'5f>-lln9 
'f11e Ohscrvcr 1.11 a mc:ml-ler of 1ht' A.uoci:u~l PrN All r~:pmJuc1ion righ1' are 
''"""'"· 

If nothing else, Budy Giuliani has courage. Say the name "Budy" to any non­Notre Dame fan and the first image that comes to mind is Giuliani, in a dust mask, walking the streets of lower Manhattan on Sept. 11. While Prnsident Bush and Vicf~ President Cheney jetted around the country to undisclosed, secure locations, Hudy walked into the heart of the problem. 
Hecently, though, Hudy's couragA has bmm manifested in a very different, but very dangerous. way. After obscuring his view on abortion in the first Hepublkan primary debate, (;iuliani decided to be honest about his position that abortion ought to be legal. Hudy told Americans, "In my casA, I hate abortion. But ultimate­ly, because it is an issue of conseience, I would respect a woman's right to make a difl'erent choice." Giuliani would later definitively insist that he finds abortion "morally wrong." In an age when, as author Kevin Phillips reporl'i, "Evangelicals, fundamentalist<;, and Pentecostals" make up "some 40 percent of the I Hepublican] electorate," that sort of honesty takes courage indeed. 
Of course, Hudy is not alone in this illog­ical "personally opposed but should be legal" position. Former New York Governor Mario Cuomo, a Catholic Democrat, famously detailed the same argument in a speech at Notre Dame in 1984. Cuomo argued that Catholics need to "weigh Catholic moral teaching against the fact of a pluralistic country where our view is in the minority." In 2004, John Kerry said, "I oppose abortion, personally. I don't like abortion. l believe life does begin at conception." Still, Kerry main­tained, "I can't take what is an article of 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
faith for me and legislate it for someone 
who doesn't share that article of faith." 
Surely, the list does not stop there; 
Democrats (and, in Giuliani's case, the 
occasional courageous Republican) fre­
quently take the "personally opposed, 
but. .." position. 

But thio;; position on abortion has a sig­nificant flaw. No matter where on the ide­ological spectrum you fall, you eannot honestly and logieally maintain that abor­tion is both a moral wrong and ought to be legal. Simply put. a person ean't have a right to do a definitive moral wrong, and that seems to be precisely what Cuomo, Kerry and Giuliani lind abortion to be. 
Presumably, Hudy believes abortion destroys a human life. His Catholic bark­ground, together with his lack of any ~~quivocation or eonfusion about tlw morality of abortion, suggeslo;; that this destruction is the reason he finds it moral­ly wrong. 
If abortion is "morally wrong" because it amounl'i to the destruction of innoeent children, though, nobody-no matter his "courage"-can daim it ought to be legal. In this view, abortion is tantamount to murder. And it is safe to say that nobody, religious or otherwise, would entertain the idea that you can be "per­sonally opposed" to murder but "respect a [person's] right to make a different choice." As speakers at the Miehigan Catholic Conference once asked, "If it is morally permissible for us to say every woman has a right to make her own deci­sion regarding abortion ... why can't everyone have an equal right to decide whether or not to shoot his neighbor?" If you believe abortion is the moral equiva­lent of murder, there is no room for nego­tiation on its legality. 
Maybe Giuliani's "courage" will carry him farther than Cuomo or Kerry, all the way to the White House in 2008. When Rudy says that he fmds abortion "morally wrong," he tries to maintain some credi­bility with the much discussed Christian base of the Republican Party. That is, even 
though he is pro-choice, he tries to speak 
the same moral language as docs the bao;;e 
to which he is trying to appeal. I can only 
hope, though, that America stops lauding 
politicians for their "courageous" igno­
rance a11d rndaims some critieal intelli­
gence as a nation of voters. 

The very fact that he is being seriously 
eonsiden~d suggeslo;; an even scarier reali­
ty for the so-ealled Heligious Hight: 

Perhaps, for most people, abortion is not 
as black and white as they want-and 
prodaim-it to be. It isn'tjust that soeie­
ty on the whole is confused about the 
morality of abortion. Many people arc 
eonflicted about whether abortion is 

"morally wrong." Most pflople don't "hate" 
abortion in the absolute sensn that "hate" 
implies. 

They weigh tl1n circumstances of the abortion to determine il'i morality and our fnnlings toward it. They want to know when, why and how the abortion is per­limned be lim~ they pass judgment. They're illy about the morality and legali­ty of abortion. And the moment they admit that. tlw position against th1~ impo­sition of a morality beeomns infinitely more logieal and appealing. 
No politieian, though, can admit this internal confusion publidy -lip serviee to soeiety-wide "complexity" notwithstand­ing. For most, abortion is not an absolute, but we always speak about it as if it must be. To admit personal eonflict about abor­tion, though, would be a demonstration of the sort of politieal -and personal ­honesty that we rarely sen in politics. 
It would be the most eourageous posi­tion of aU. 
Andrew Nesi is a junior American Studies majorfrom Fairfield, Conn. Last fall. his lung collapsed, possibly as the result ofa bad case ofmono and an ill­timed breakup. lie can be reached at anesi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, August 30, 2007 page 11 
Catnpus Ministry lVelcotnes students 
In the name of the staff of Campus Ministry -and myself, I would like to welcome all Notre Dame students back to campus for a new academic year. All of us hope that this will be a great year for all of you and we look forward to being Richard with you in some of Warner, C.S.C our many Campus Ministry activities. FaithPoint 
Once again this yPar, we will offer an Ignatian Weekend Retreat early in October and we are also planning a five-day silent Ignatian Retreat at the time of Spring Break. A number of people are helping us to develop our team, including Father Frank Murphy. 
Father Lou DelFra has joined our staff and will share writing opportuni­ties for this column with Kate Barrett. He will also assist us in developing a new series of Bible studies. 
Finally, a long-term member of the Campus Ministry staff, Chandra Johnson, who served as associate director of campus ministry and direc­tor of African American student min­istry, has accepted a wonderful new opportunity in McLean, Va., working for a foundation that nationally sup­ports African American students. Since this development only took place in July, we did not have an opportunity to invite Judy Madden to join our staff to replace Johnson until recently. I look forward to working with Madden as she serves our African American stu­dents. 
We all look forward to a great new year in ministry as we work together with our student leaders and with all of you to build up the vibrant commu­nity of faith that is one of our wonder­ful mission values at Notre Dame. 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Richard V. Warner, director of the Office of Campus Ministry. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Better seats, a better football experience 
Sure, I appreciated the practice Coach ic department, if it may be possible to So let's do that. Let's get some better zone opposite the Notre Dame student Weis put on for us on Sunday, and I want have the Notre Dame student body student seats. We don't have to earn body. to thank him. I like how he wants to get spread out goal line to goal line in order those seats -they were earned by our I again want to thank you, Coach Weis. the student body more involved. to better support our team? admission into the University. I believe, no matter where I'm sitting, 
At Texas A&M, they have a power­We could have our sea of green. We I know that's a lot to ask. I'm not sure that you are a fantastic coach with a house of a student section. In part, it is could be a part of the team rather than where previous years have sat at the wonderful holistic approach that makes due to being spread from goal line to apart from it by half of the stadium. We games, but I think having better seats me feel, win or lose, that I've had a great goal line so that no matter where the could be behind our players, literally, will give the student body, as well as the time. players are, they are always close to the cheering them on. As Coach Weis said football team, that much more encour­student body, that sea of maroon. during the Sunday practice, he considers agement by being able to see our support Robert McKeon 
J know where the students sit probably the student body a part of the football for our team. This would especially be graduate student isn't decided by our coach, but I thought team in the same way he considers the true when the away team has a large Fischer Graduate Residence I'd ask not only our coach, but our athlet-football team a part of the student body. contingency, which is usually at the end Aug. 28 
U-WIRE 
Stick it to the tnan, avoid high-priced books 
At the start of each semester I head down to the basement of the Nebraska Union, and the sight I'm faced with is enough to make Chuck Norris cry. Dozens of students. no more deserving than me of 
the punishment we're  
all about to receive,  Dan Halverson  
apprehensively stand in  
line and await the  Daily  
opportunity to spend a  Nebraskan  
eouple hundred well­ 

earned American dollars on their text­books for the upeoming semester. 
On the surface, it seems like a fair trade; dead trees with ink on them for some dif­ferent dead trees with more ink on them. But I'm not eon tent with surfaee appear­ances here, because I'm getting ripped off. I presumably could do some kind of real investigative journalism into just how much money the University Bookstore aetually makes off us, but those findings would likely just further depress me. For my purposes here, I'll just assume the answer "a lot" is sufficient, and eontinue on. 
The point that needs to be made, howev­er, is that the bookstore sells thousands of dollars of books to students at the start of the semester, and four months later, at the end of it, those books are worth little more than a Snickers or a six paek -if that much. Do books really lose their value that quickly? Have the laws of physics, the ones that took centuries to figure out, all of a sudden ehanged in the past four months while you were sitting in class? 
Of course they haven't. But there is money to be made, and students are high­ly susceptible to the exploitation. Quite frankly, I think it is a seam. And pardon me if this sounds like hyperbole, but it is arguably one of the greatest ones this eountry has ever seen. The Mob eould never pull off something this good. 
It is not uncommon for a student to spend upward of 500 dollars on textbooks at the start of the semester. For many of us, this seems exeessive. By the time the semester is over and half the books haven't even been craeked (or is that just me?), it seems even more so. 
I walk down the stairs, ealrnly wait in line, show the cashier my NCard, and lo and behold, they will be using the 23 edi­tion next semester in place of the 22 edi­tion that I now feel like practieing my shot­putting skills with. I begin to wonder why I didn't just provide the bookstore a blank eheek and free reign over my credit cards four months ago. After all, they couldn't possibly screw me over fmancially all that mueh more, could they? 
I paid hundreds of dollars for some books, and now that I want to sell them baek in just as good of shape, I'm informed that begging for change on the eorner of 14th and 0 is a superior money­making seheme. 
So, how do they get away with it? Well, for starters, there are in faet some classes in whieh you do need the books assigned if you hope to suceeed. These classes are far fewer in number than the professors here on eampus would have you believe when they hand out syllabi on the first day of class, but they are out there nonetheless. 
For most of us, all the classes we sign up for are classes we will be taking for the first time, and therefore we are unable to know whieh ones we will need books for and which we won't; we usually just play it safe and buy them all. Combine this with the relative ease and availability of books at the bookstore, and you see a system that profits tremendously from a revolving door of naive college students convineed that they not only need every single text­book assigned to them, but that the book­store is the best plaee for them to pur­ehase these books. 
The truth is, there are other places you ean go to get your books, and I recom­mend you give one or more of them a try. 
For starters, there is the library. Books, at the library? I'm a source of immeasura­ble amounts of knowledge, insight and wisdom, I know. But seriously, so long as it isn't a textbook that you'll need every day of the semester, it is worth a try (middle of campus, just west of the union, if you come to CBA, you've gone too far). 
There is also the Internet. Two sourees that I've heard particularly good things about are Arnazon.com and Half.com. The availability of the books you will be looking for is quite good, and more often than not, the price will be significantly lower than what you could hope to find down in the bookstore. 
So long as you aren't a spoiled only child and can wait a couple days for the U.S. mail system to do its job and get you your purchases, I'd recommend this route. 
IdentifYing the "necessary" books from the "probably ought to have" books is no easy task. But one thing I have learned that you should keep in mind -the far­ther down the list a book is, the less important to the class it probably is. Much like a fantasy football drafter has his own style in selecting players, you too will have to develop your own style of selecting books. 
So there you have it. Three suggestions for beating the system. Or, at least, for giv­ing it a kidney shot as it drags you into a pit of financial despair. 
Good luck and happy reading. 
This column originally appeared in the Aug. 28 edition ofthe Daily Nebraskan, a publication ofthe University ofNebraska. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 





CENE

page 12 Thursday, August 30, 2007 


prevents him from following his brilliance is breathtaking. The rats By CHRIS McGRADY dreams. That is until a series of events themsnlves arn very well animatod, and Assistant Scene Editor leads to Horny finding himself in Paris, the animators do a knock-up job of 
France, and he ends up in the kitchen making the ral<>' personalities tit with 
This summer was a silver tray cov-of one of the most famous rostauranl<> their form. ered with delectable films and flicks, in the world. The story follows Berny's Ratatouilln is ratod G and is a perf(~ct and one of the main courses was the secret ascent into chef-stardom, and film for the whole family. However, it culinary-based "Hatatouille." The Pixar the perils it entails. features sovnral dimmmt subplol'i that film, relea<;ed in June, was a box olfico Overall the lim is one of Pixar's best, are wovon togother and the youngest sma'ih hit. and rightfully so. and can easily be mentioned in the audionces might have a dillicult time 
"Batatouille," named alter a ,---------,R=-a--,t=-a-t=-o-U-.I·""'"'II=-e---------, following all tho details. Tho French dish, is a coming-of-film. while probably not age film that fully nxemplilies Pixar's best, is certainly a very the qualities that make Pixar good film indeed. Written by creations so highly regarded. Directed by: Brad Bird and Jan Pinkava Brad Bird, the plot is beyond 
With a perfect blend of slap-Starring: Patton Oswalt, Lou Romano, Peter the usual fluff that can be stick comedy, subtle adult O' d G found in so many summer humor, and a hefty dash of Toole and Bra arrett movins. Hather, the dialO!-,'lJe is the "life-lessons" we have sharp and dover and keeps come to expect from so many tlw film moving at fast pace. animated movies, Dt~spite some unrnalistic holes "Hatatouille" is a cinematic in the plot (it is a cartoon alter success story from the start. all) the films main story is 
The film follows the tale (or most in the rnalm of reality-if is it tail'?) of Remy (Patton you can overlook the talking Oswalt), a rat with a passion for food same breath as other Pixar classics. rat issue. that is unappreciated and unwanted by Pixar has in fact become so good at The film, while made for children, his peers. While his family feasts on what they do. they are leaving the com-will please twnn the most discerning of garbage and other leftovers, Hemy petitors in the dust. It seems these movie-goers. kids and adults alike. finds pleasure in stealing a bit of cheese days, every Pixar film is good, and Overall, Hatatouille is one of the best of from the cottage near his rat nest. Ratatouille docs not disappoint. the summer and a film that will be a Hemy is not satisfied to have garbage The animation L'i beyond great. Every must-buy when it hil'> IND. as his main course, but seeks greater detail of the French kitchen is accurate fare. Hemy's life goal is to become a down to the la<>t grain of salt. A'i Hemy Contact Chris McGrady at chef, but his heritage (i.e. being a rat) sprints through the scenes, the passing cmcgrad I @nd.edu 
DPAC fall theatre season kicks off with tales fro111 the Bard 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
A~sistant Scene Editor 

A'i the summer theatre season wraps up. the fall sea­son is rnady to begin. Summer Shakespeare's production of "Lovn's Labor's Lost" is in its final days, but Actors From tl11• London Stage will soon conw to campus with its takP on "Macbeth" to uslwr in the fall. 
In addition to tlwse Shakespearean comedies and tragedins, thn I>PBartolo Performing Arts Center and the ()(~partnwnt of Film. Television and Tlwatre arn bringing .John Patrick Shanlny's "Savage in Limbo: A Concert Play" and Tony Kushnnr's "A Bright Hoorn Called Day." 
"Lovn's Labor's Lost" concludes Summer Shaknsppar·n's film and play stmson theme of "smart nwn and smarter wonwn." This commly by William ShaknspnarP tells tlw story of four young nobles who, af'tnr swearing to spnnd thrne years living aesthetically and studiously without evnn the company of wonwn, are ternptml away from t.lwir task by the love they develop for three ladies-in-waiting and the French princess they serve. 
Sumnwr Shakespnare, the professional theatre in resi­dence at Notre Damt\ produces excellent plays every year, and shouldn't be missed in the rush to move on to campus. "Lovt~'s Labor's Lost" began running on the l>neio Mainstagn Theatre Aug. 21 and will continue through Sunday. 
The Actors From the London Stage will respond to Summer ShakPspearn's comedy with a Shakespearian tragedy, the infamous "Macbeth." The Actors From the London Stage, a group housed in the DPAC that travels throughout the U.S., is known for perfimning with limit­ml actors, sets and props. This creates a very dean pro­dwtion centen•d on the acting and the words with few embellishments. "Macbeth" depicts the slow descent into madness of a general and his wife after they kill the king of Scotland for his throne. "Macbeth" will run in Washington llall Sept. 12-14. 

The FTT Department's "Savage in Limbo: A Concert Play," written by John Patrick Shanley, is the story of live elementary school classmates that meet by chance in a bar sometime after their 32m! birthday. All are experienc­ing serious disappointment in their lives, and the encounter and their circumstances force them to face their shortcomings and fail­urns. "Savage in Limbo: A Concert Play" will run in the Philbin Studio Theatre Oct. 8-12. 
The core of "A Bright Hoom 
photo courtesy of nd.edu!-aftls 

Called Day," written by Tony 
Actors From the London Stage will perform "Macbeth" in Washington Hall Kushner. is set during Germany's Sept. 12-14. The theatre company has been touring the world for 32 years. 
today. "A Bright Hoom Called Day" will run in the Dedo Mainstage Theatrn Nov. 13-1 S. 
The fall theatm season on campus should be an excel­lent one consisting of a strong set of works that ranges from the lesser known to the vnry famous. The compa­nies have plnnty of room to explore the evnr-relnvant and demanding themes of these four plays, and eaeh <me stands distinct from the other. 
To purchase tiekets for all of these evnnts contact the IWAC Ticket Ollice at 57 4-631-2SOO. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
Weimar Hepublie. Five artists wateh. declaring various stances and ideologies, but do little as Adolf Hitler rises to pow(~r. In the original, an American woman named Zillah interrupts the primary action and criticizes the rise of the Hepublican Party in America during the 1980s, to the point of eomparing President Ronald Heagan with Hitler. In subsequent plays, the directors have chosen to perform both parts, only the section of the play set in the 1930s, or write their own version of Zillah that better applies to the times. 
With this play, the FTT Departm(mt has the chance to approach many of the issues coloring American politics 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, August 30, 2007 
page 13 




By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
First there was Superman. Then there was Spider-Man. 
And now there is Optimus Prime ­the latest red, white and blue-clad hero to dedicate costume and cause to the defense of this great nation during a big screen summer blockbuster. Prime, in case you happen to have never played with toy action figures as a child, is undoubtedly the George Washington of robots -a founding father and freedom fighter who arrives on earth to defend all of humankind from vicious attacks from the evil Decepticons. 
Optimus Prime doubles as a tricked­out semi with more knick-knacks and doodads than the friendly folks at "Pimp My Ride" could ever hope to customize. Like Prime, the rest of the Autobots (the shape shifting robots dedicated to saving us all) arrive with a flurry of whirring clicks and grind­ing gears as a series of mechanized metal minions pop, lock and drop in and out of their covert and battle modes. 
.-------------~----~----------------------.reels are chock
Transformers 
Directed by: Michael Bay Starring: Shia LaBoeuf, Megan Fox, Josh Duhamel and Jon Voight 
'---------------------------------------------' more like the spe-
Like the Transformers themselves, the film has a lot of moving parts. Shepherding us in the midst of all this wild mechanical mayhem is director Michael Bay, the previous driver behind the wheel of such massively successful (if not critically-acclaimed) films as "The Rock," "Armageddon," "Pearl Harbor" and "Bad Boys II." 
Bay's cinematic flair for the explo­sive, the high-octane and the destruc­tive is matched only by his ever quick­
ening pacing and disdain for character development. He scores again with "Transformers," delivering the sum­mer blockbuster red­blooded Americans waited for, without much success, after a relatively disap­

pointing May with the releases of "Spider-Man 3" and "Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End." 
Bay's massive, loud and fun (if stu­pid) film could not succeed without its humans, despite all of the flashy gear­porn on display. He paints them in the typical Michael Bay aesthetic. The 
fun of dirt­streaked, grimy faces and lots of sweat and squint­ing. 
Shia LaBoeuf of the Disney Channel's "Even Stevens" and, more recently, "Disturbia" fame ­an actor whose name sounds 
Bay's cinematic flair for the the baby-faced 
LaBoeuf ends up

explosive, the high-octane 
getting with Miss 

and the destructive is Fox in the end, but matched only by his ever with a movie such 
as "Transformers,"

quickening pacing and 
a person has to

disdain for character suspend his disbe­development. lief for a few hours 
cial at a French restaurant than the leading man of a multi-million dollar film -adapts to the role of movie star well, delivering his lines with good timing and coming across as a gen­uinely likable guy. 
Alongside LaBoeuf is the foxy Meghan Fox, a stunning beauty and a stunningly bad actress. The only thing more unlikely than alien robots descending upon our planet to wage war with one another over us is prob­
ably the fact that 
to enjoy himself. 
Opening on July 4, a day in which American founding forefathers such as Samuel Adams, Thomas Jefferson and John Hancock declared American independence from tyranny, director Michael Bay puts his own signature on the pages of Americana with his sig­nature tendency of blowing things up. In the end, the titanic, shape-shifting and fascist titanium-clad forces of evil fmd themselves defeated by truth, jus­tice and the American Way. What could possibly be a more perfect Hollywood ending? 
As he sees the Transformers for the first time, Shia LaBoeuf exclaims that they are "probably Japanese." So in the words of that great and technolog­ically proficient people, domo arigato, Mr. Bay. That was one fun ride. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 

..-------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CIASSIFIEDS Thursday, August 30, 2007 
MLB-AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Angels sweep Mariners, increase lead in West 
Clemens gives up only two hits in win over Boston; Han nahan hits walk-off single in 12th for Athletics 
more series, Sept. 20-23 at
Associated Press 

Anaheim. 
SJo:A'I'TLJo: -If this wasn't how The Mariners, who entered tlw West was won, it certainly one game ahead of the New York seenwd like it. Yankees in the wild-eard stand­
Jen~d Weaver won for the ings, weren't conceding the divi­fourth time in five decisions, sion raee. (;arret Andnrson had four hits "It's too early for wild-card and Los Angeles beat the Sfmttle stull'," Adrian Bnltre said. Marinnrs H-2 Wednesday to eom­Tho Mariners have lost Jive in plntn a three-ganw sweep and a row after winning 13 of 17 to op1~n a live-game lead in the AL dose to within a game of the West. Angels last week. 
Vladimir GuerrPro homered "It's serious," said Seattle and went H-for-14 in the series starter Jarrod Washburn, who as the Anglds moved a season­won the World Series with the high 25 games over .500. Los Angels in 2002 and will start Angeles outscored Seattle 24-8, Friday at Toronto. "There's no outhil the Mariners 43-23 and room for error." had 17 extra-base hits to Jell' Mathis hit his third career Seattle's live. home run, a fourth-inning drive 
No wonder th1~ Angels opened oil' Felix Hernandez (1 0-7), who their biggest lead since before lost from the first time in seven play on June 30. starts since July 22. Hernandez 
"I think this series probably allowed six runs and a season­put in their head that they have high 13 hits in seven innings, to worry about the wild card, not dropping to 0-3 with a 7.30 ERA the division," the Angels' Orlando against the Angels this season. Cabrera said after he went 2-for-Eight of the Angels' first 16 5 and scornd twice. "(We're) just batters got hits ofT him. leaving no doubt we're a better "I don't know what happened. Sox more than a decade ago. On four meetings. The teams play Hannahan hit a game-ending team at this moment." Everything I threw, they hit Wednesday night, he left them four more times this year, single with two outs in the 11th 
Los Angeles, seeking its third hard," the 21-year-old ace said. scratching their heads. including Thursday afternoon. inning off Downs to help the division title in four years, Clemens shut down his origi­New York will go for a series Oakland Athletics snap a five­improved to 11-4 against Seattle New York 4, Boston 3 nal team, allowing only two hits sweep when 15-game winner game losing streak with a victo­this season. The teams have one Hoger Clemens left the Hed and outpitching a much younger Chien-Ming Wang faces Boston's ry over the Toronto Blue Jays on 
ace in leading the New York Curt Schilling. Wednesday. Yankees to a victory over Kevin Youkilis also homered Hannahan grounded out with Boston. for the Hed Sox, who played runners on second and third 
Alex Hodriguez hit his major without injured star Manny and two outs in the eighth league-leading 44th home run, Hamirez. The slugger sat out inning of a tie game against and the Yankees got another big with a strained muscle on his Downs in Oakland's 6-2, 12­hit from Johnny Damon to earn left side and probably will be inning loss Monday night. lie their seeond consecutive win in sidelined for several days. was waiting for a fastball this the series. New York trimmed "I don't know. Maybe a time and delivered when he got Boston's cushion to six games in week?" Hamirez said. it in his 62nd major league at­the AL East and moved within a Youkilis' two-run shot ofT Kyle bat. percentage point of Seattle for Farnsworth in the eighth cut it "I had an opportunity to do it the wild-eard lead. to 4-3. Hivera entered with a the other night against the same 
Josh Beckett was tagged for a runner on first and retired Coco pitcher and didn't get the job career-high 13 hits by the Crisp on a sort comebaeker to done. You're always looking to Yankees, who turned to end the inning. be in that spot to win the game Mariano Hivera in the eighth Hivera worked a perfect ninth for your tflam. I got it done this inning for a four-out save. for his 22nd save in 25 chances time," llannahan said. "I just 
Clemens (6-5) held the Hed this season and second in two waited for a fastball and I was Sox hitless until David Ortiz nights against Boston, often a lucky enough to get one out connected for an upper-deck personal nemesis. over the platn and put a bat on homer with one out in the sixth. it." The Hoeket worked around a Oakland 5, Toronto 4 {12 inn.) Hannahan's big hit eame al'tnr season-high five walks and Jack Hannahan has so little Huston Strnet blflw a 4-2 lead in improved to 9-5 in his career experience in the major leagues the ninth by allowing solo against Boston, a team he last that most of the pitehers he homers to Lyle Overbay and faced in Game 7 of the 2003 AL faces are new to him. Given a pinch-hitter Matt Stairs -the championship series. second chance against Scott first time the closer has allowed 
The Yankees tied the season Downs this week, Hannahan two homers in an outing in his series 7 -all after losing the first showed he's a quick learner. career. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. . 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR SALE -4BR. 2.5 Bath, 2800 For Rent Furnished, 1 bdrm apt., 2 mi. to ND, FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 
SF Fin bsmt. 3 mi to ND. $217,500 Bed & Breakfast 3 mile ND Best AC, non-smoker, no pets. $450/mo ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. WANTED FoR SALE 243-1953 Area. South Bend, IN 46614 287-+ utilities, free laundry, fenced yard. www. victorytickets.com 
Buffalo Wild Wings is now hiring Condo For Sale 2 br twnhse w sun-servers at both downtown & Grape room great SB neighborhood Rd. locations. $93,000 call 269·445-2765. 
574-232-2293 or 574-272-9464. Spacious Bass Lake home just 15 min. from campus. 2550 sq. ft., 4 Ask for manager or apply in person. bdrm,3.5 bath,2 firepl, large deck, 
40ft. pier. $189,500. For private Notre Dame items. Rockne. Leahy, showing call Mike Keen. 574-514­Ara, Holtz. Helmets. Uniforms. 2096 Market Place Realty. 
Footballs. Old Programs & Tickets. 

Charming historic home overlooking Call574-257-0039 or 574-277-river 5-7 min. from campus. 3 NDND bdrm,2 bath, hardwood floors. 
$130,000. For private showing call SOCCER REFEREES -needed for Mike Keen, 574-514-2096, Market southside elementary school. Place Realty. Located near Erskine Golf Course 
on Miami St. Prudential One Realty Lois $35/per game. McKinley 574-235-3278 (3BR. 5min 
to airport-20min. to ND $79,800) Call athletic director at 574-291-3BR att garage-4min to ND 4200. $48,000. 
4545 574-289·9365. 
Apt. complex. Ten 1-bdrrn furnished Want USC tix & will trade other units. Ready to rent. 4 mi to ND. LODGING FOR FOOTBALL Bed & Breakfast lodging w/alum games for USC. Call574-276-8507. Great investment. great tax write off GAMES Visit www.amishcoun-family for ND home games. Great or convert to condos. Call Larry trybb.org for 24·Quality Bed and rates & nice accommodations. 574-ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 574-257-0039 or 574-255-9363. Breakfast Accommodations. Non-243-2628. 574-288-2726. 
ND Collectibles Largest one of a kind selection for sale i.e. Rockne photos. Heisman autographs, old tickets. pins, helmets, jerseys, 1973/1977 team-signed footballs. Visit College Football Hall of Fame on Friday or Augies Locker Room on Sat & Sun, South Bend Ave.(SR 23). north of Linebacker across from Martins. Caii574-277-NDND or 257-0039. 
FoR RENT 
smoking, Private Baths, Full 

Breakfasts. Furnished house for rent. 15 min. to ND. 2BR, 6 acres 1/4 mile to lake. Game wkends or whole year. 
PERSONAL

House fer rent. Walk to Campus. Students welcome. 574·288-2726. 
3bdr. Washer/dryer, Landlord does yardwork. $750/mo. 574-250-1266. 4BR ranch. Walk to ND. Fenced LASER CREATIONS Unique 
back yard. Appliances incl. 1219 N. Products Thru Laser Technology. Furn. apt., sleeps 4 maybe 6. ND Twyckenham. $936/mo. 574-231-Laser etched logo gifts, signs, home games. Right next to ND. 0967. award plaques, name tags, rubber 574-273-3030 ask for Pat. stamps, glass etching, etc. Call 
Jack 574-273-8662 or email: laser-AVAILABLE-ND HOME GAME cr@comcast.net WEEKENDS. (Thurs-Sat). Adorable 
TICKETS
2 BDRM, 1.5 BA home in Excellent claiquvis is a predator ... 
area, only 5 min. to ND. LVGRM + 

FAMRM & Screened-in Porch. No WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. karl, my theory on why the fresh· 
House for rent. 1 blk to ND. 1205 Smokers! Security Deposit. 574-PLEASE HELP! men are hotter this year -they N.St. Louis. 232-0875. 360-8240. 574-251-1570 knew joe peris would be in Spain 
Thursday, August 30, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Dodgers rally from five down to complete sweep 
Phillies top Mets on controversial call at second base; Rockies stay in wild-card hunt with win over Giants 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Los Angeles has resuscitated Shea Hillenbrand's big league career, and the seven-year veteran is doing his best to recharge the Dodgers' season. 
Hillenbrand hit a two-run homer in the sixth inning and a sacrifice fly in the 12th as the Dodgers rallied from a live-run deficit to beat the Washington Nationals 10-9 on Wednesday and complete a three-game sweep. 
"''ve been through a bit of adversity this season that I never even thought would hap­pen in my career -especially with the success I've had," said I !illenbrand, who was reunited with former Boston manager Grady Little on Aug. 13 in L.A. after getting released by the Angels and Padres. "The game is very humbling, so you've got to takn advantage of every opportunity you can and every situation you gnt put in." 
James Loney drove in four runs for the Dodgers, who also got homers from Hussell Martin and Matt Kemp. Jeff Kent had four hits, including a leadoff single that started the winning rally. 
Los Angeles, which won its fourth straight, began the day 4 1/2 games back of NL West­leading Arizona, the closest the Dodgers had been to first place in three weeks. 
"We're excited about being able to come home and win three games, because we know we've got to play some catch­up and make up some ground here," Kent said. "We're all pulling on the same side of the rope, so we'll see how good we are." 
Washington wasted an 8-3 lead and lost its sixth straight game. Nook Logan drove in three runs for the Nationals and Ryan Church had four hits. Hobert Fick homered and drove in two runs, but also grounded into a pair inning-ending dou­ble plays with runners in scor­ing position. 
"We just ran into a team that's real hungry, and they showed it -especially today," Fick said. 
Phillies 3, Mets 2 
Marlon Anderson went a little too wide with his slide. 
Anderson's hard takeout attempt might have been enough to bust up a double play in the ninth inning and allow the tying run to score for the New York Mets. Instead, Anderson went far outside sec­ond base, knocked down Philadelphia's Tadahito Iguchi and was ruled out on a game­ending interference call in the Phillies' victory Wednesday night. 
Jimmy Rollins and Pat Burrell homered, and Brett Myers survived a wild ninth to help the Phillies win their third straight game against New York and close within three games of the NL East leaders. 
''I'm just glad the umpire made the call and took care of it," Iguchi said through an interpreter. "I think we were fortunate he was right on the play." 
The Mets had runners on the corners with one out against Myers when pinch-hitter Shawn Green hit a slow roller to Rollins, who shoveled the ball to Iguchi at second. 
Anderson made a rough slide 
. at Iguchi outside the line and knocked the second baseman down as he threw to first. Second base umpire CB Bucknor ruled interference and a double play, sending Anderson into a fit. 
He ripped off his helmet and jumped up in protest, and man-


Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, September 4 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone 1s welcome and conhdenl1alrty IS assured 


CURE C!JUMC!l 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN

STUDENTS 


ager Willie Randolph also rushed out to argue. 
"I know it shouldn't have been a double play, but at the same time we have to abide by the rule of the umpire," Anderson said. 
Rockies 8, Giants 0 
Jeff Francis provided exactly the kind of performance the Colorado Rockies so desperate­ly needed as they head into a key weekend series at first­place Arizona. 
Francis pitched a six-hitter for his second career shutout, Garrett Atkins homered twice and the Rockies beat the San Francisco Giants on Wednesday to avoid a three-game sweep. 
Despite their yearslong repu­tation for losing, the Rockies believe that this year they are clearly in the chase for the NL West going into the final month. Colorado came into Wednesday 5 games behind 
San Diego for the wild-card spot. 
"We still think we're in it," reliever Matt Herges said. "It's feasible." 
Francis' big outing sure helped matters. 
The left-bander (14-6) struck out three and walked one in his second career complete game. The other was a two-hit shutout against St. Louis on July 24 last year. 
He matched his career high with his 14th win -also accomplished in 2005 -and had two hits while making his 100th career start. Francis, who became just the sixth pitcher in franchise history with 100 starts, allowed only two batters to reach second base on the way to ending a three-start winless stretch. He is 12-2 since May 7 -and has won at least 13 games in each of his three full major league seasons. 
ND Freshman Ladies: 
CheerleadingTryouts 
September 2, 2007 @ 9 a.m. in the Joyce Center-Gym 2 
(above Gate 10) 
Questions: email Gold Squad Captain Nicole Villano at: nvillaot@saintmarys.edu or Blue Squad Captain Sami Mainieri at: smainier@nd.edu 
.,. 

----------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------~-----------------------­


OUND THE NATION 

Thursday, August 30, 2007 

NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA/adidas Poll 
team  record  prec•ious  
1  North Carolina  27-1-0  1  
2  NOTRE DAME  25-1-1  2  
3  UCLA  21-4·0  3  
4  Portland •  17-4·3  6  
5  Texas A&M  17-6·1  5  
6  Florida State  18-4·4  4  
7  Penn State  18-5·3  7  
8  Santa Clara  15-5·1  9  
9  Texas  18-4·3  8  
10  Stanford  15-6·2  16  
11  BC  12-7·3  11  
12  Rutgers  16-3·4  20  
13  Florida  14-6-5  10  
14  Colorado  14-6-4  23  
15  Purdue  14-6-3  NR  
16  UConn  11-7·4  21  
17  Virginia  12-8·2  18  
18  Cal  12-5·5  NR  
19  Clemson  11-8·5  25  
20  Illinois  16-8-0  17  
21  West Virginia  14-4-3  8  
22  Wake Forest  16-6-1  18  
23  Oklahoma State  17-3-3  7  
24  usc  11-5·5  25  
25  Tennessee  12-7·4  25  
NCAA Volleyball  

CSTVI AVCA Coaches Poll 
team record pts. pre!Jiou.s 
1  Nebraska  2·0  
2  Stanford  1-0  
3  Penn State  2-0  
4  usc  3-0  
5  UCLA  1-1  
6  Texas  0-2  
7  Florida  2-0  
8  Washington  3-0  
9  Minnesota  1-0  
10  Wisconsin  3-0  
11  California  3·0  
12  San Diego  1-0  
13  Ohio State  3-0  
14  Duke  3-0  
15  BYU  2-0  
16  Hawal'i  1-2  
17  Purdue  2-1  
18  Cal Poly  2-1  
19  Santa Clara  3-0  
20  Michigan  3-0  
21  Oklahoma  3-0  
22  LSU  3-0  
23  Ohio  2-0  
24  Long Beach State  0-2  
25  Kansas State  3-0  
..,.  

1495 1 1438 2 1382 3 1247 6 1230 5 1208 4 1158 7 1086 8 1054 9 978 11 883 12 798 15 693 16 657 18 546 17 475 10 455 13 409 14 350 24 343 NR 271 22 258 23 229 25 156 19 148 NR1 
around the dial 
NCAA FooTBALL LSU at Mississippi State 8 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FOOTBALL Tulsa at Lousiana 7 p.m., ESPN2 
TENNIS Day 4 U.S. Open 11 :00 a.m., USA 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Mets at Phillies 
1:05 p.m., Comcast 

CoMPILED FROM THE ()nsr:RVER'S WJRF srRVJCES page 16 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

AP A trainer helps University of Southern California quarterback John David Booty stretch during football practice in Los Angeles on Aug. 10. Summer workouts helped Booty beat recurring back problems. 
Back injury resolved for USC's Booty 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -The back problems that bugged John David Booty for years are finally behind him. 
That being the case, the Southern California quar­terback was able to partici­pate in a rigorous training program administered by strength and conditioning coach Chris Carlisle this summer. 
The results are obvious. 
"I think the offseason program made a big difl'er­ence," Booty said. "The SC program, you see guys year after year looking like NFL players." 
Booty, a fifth-year senior, finally got his shot at play­ing last season after sitting and watching Matt Leinart star at quarterback for three years. He made the most of it, passing for 3,347 yards and 29 touch­downs with nine intercep­tions. 
For a while, it appeared Booty might not get his shot. lie underwent back surgery in March 2006 after experiencing prob­lems since his junior year in high school because of a herniated disc, and had to beat out freshman Mark Sanchez for the starting job last summer although he still wasn't in tiptop condition. 
He is now. 
"For the first time since his sophomore or junior year in high school, John David felt comfortable, and it opened up his ability to train the way we've trained quarterbacks here before," Carlisle said. "We did a lot of core work -abdominal, lower-back work. 

"He has more zip on the ball as a result because he has more power coming from the core and his legs. His body weight went up to 220 (pounds). He stands in the pocket now and knows he can take a shot without worrying about it. lie's pain-free and confident in what he can do." 
Trojans coach Pete Carroll has noticed a big difference. 
"The fact that he ean just work out regularly with coach Carlisle in the pro­gram where he couldn't do that a year ago makes all the difference in the world in his confidence and ath­leticism," Carroll said. "John David has had an incredible run since the springtime." 
Offensive coordinator Steve Sarkisian said Booty reminds him of four-time Cy Young Award winner Greg Maddux because of his accuracy. 
"I think the thing that jumps out at you is his ability to lit the ball in tight quarters," Sarkisian said. "You ever watch Greg Maddux? He doesn't miss." 
IN BRIEF 

DeForf.(e now lead scorer in 
the WNBA 

INDIANAPOLIS -Anna DeForge, not Tamika Catchings, was the Indiana rever's top scorer in their playoff series win over the Connecticut Sun. In fact, DeForge leads the entire WNBA in playoff' scoring. The shooting guard averaged 25 points against the Sun, a surprise from someone who averaged 8.7 points in the regular sea­son. She hopes to continue her success against Detroit in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals Friday. 
DeForge was content with a second­ary ofl'ensive role this season before Catchings, an early favorite for the MVP award, suffered a left foot injury that kept her out for a month. While Catchings healed. DeForge started looking to shoot. Even with Catchings back for the playoffs, DeForge put up a scoring spree that brought back memories of her college days at Nebraska. 
Montoyjl dominates several 
NASCAR races 

NASCAR's Juan Pablo Montoya is $25,000 rieher, thanks to some good finishes at the right races. Raybestos, which normally pays $1,500 to the top rookie at each Nextel Cup race, increases that amount to $5,000 at seven designated events throughout the 2007 season. Montoya wound up taking top rookie honors at five of them, including Las Vegas, Darlington, lnfineon, Chicagoland and last Saturday night at Bristol. 
Overall, his 17th-place finish at the Tennessee track was the 11th time this season the former open-wheel star from Colombia has been the top rookie in a Cup race. Montoya leads David Ragan by 25 points. 216-191, in the rookie standings heading into Sunday's race at California Speedway. Montoya is 18th in the season stand­ings, also the best of any first-year driver. 
Jagodzinski to begin as BC's 
head coach 
Boston College's Jeff Jagodzinski ean't wait for the first kickoiT of his head coaching career. Miami's Handy Shannon is trying to keep cool -if only for a short while longer. 
It's finally game week for the two rookie coaches in the Atlantic Coast Conference, and the neweomers are approaehing their debuts differently. 
"It's not so much bein·g nervous, it's being anxious," Jagodzinski said Wednesday. "Everything I've done up to this point in my career has led me to this ball game, so I'm really excited about it, and I'm excited about getting out there and playing a football game." 
Jagodzinski, 43, spent 22 years as an assistant with live college teams and Atlanta and Green Bay of the NFL, leaving the Packers to take over at BC when Tom O'Brien left for North Carolina State. 
Thursday, August 30, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
PGA 
Boston ready for playoffs 
FedEx Cup will resume with Woods to make his debut 
Associated Press 
NOHTON, Mass. -The PGA Tour Playoffs figured to be somewhat of a homefield advantage for someone like Vijay Singh, a three-time win­ner at Westchester and a past eham pion at Tl'C Boston and J•:ast Lake. 
Then he shot 40 on his open­ing nine holes and missed the eut in the first event of the play­niTs. 
Steve Stricker had not played at Westchester since 1995, when he tied for 60th and promptly told his wife, "Take a picture because we're not com­ing baek." He had little choice but to return under the FedEx Cup format, and Stricker warmed to the place rather quickly when he won The Bardays for his first victory in more than six years. 
"I think for the most part, most players feel like if they're playing well, they ean compete at any eourse," Stricker said Wednesday. 
The next stop in the playoffs is the TPC Boston for the Deutsche Bank Championship, whieh starts Friday to aeeom­modate its annual Labor Day finish. 
The defending champion .is Tiger Woods, who will be mak­ing his playoff debut after sit­ting out the first round, which eaused him to fall from No. 1 to No. 4 in the standings. 
Thme of the top 1 0 players ­Adam Seott is the other -have won at the TPC Boston. That doesn't mean much if the first week was any indication. Plus, the course has gone through another round of changes, this time by architect Gil Hanse and Brad Faxon. 
Among the most signif'icant changes:
+ 
No. 4 now plays at 298 yards, which will tempt players to drive the green. 

+ 
The par-S seventh now has a massive cross bunker some 135 yards short of the green, with the face 


winning the PGA Championship at Southern Hills, he spent about two hours on the practice range and putting green before going to a Presidents Cup meet­ing with Jack Nicklaus. 
David Toms was among the first and most vocal about the courses used for the PGA Tour playoffs. lie grew up in the South, and won his only major in the PGA Championship at Atlanta Athletic Club. That doesn't mean he is incapable of winning anywhere, but he ques­tioned the equity of going to the 
same courses. 

built up so "If you're going steeply that "! think for the most to make guys players won't part, players feel like play, are their be able to see guys from the
ifthey're playing

the green. West Coast who 
+ On the well, they can would normally par-3 16th, the compete at any go to Chicago or green has been , New York?
course.

moved forward Maybe, maybe and to the not," Toms said right, closer to Steve Stricker Wednesday. "You the pond play­PGA golfer might have vari­ers must carry. ety throughout
+ 
A new the year, but green on the 412-yard 17th, you're talking about four along with a 70-yard bunker in straight weeks. For anyone, you front of the green. do the best you can." 

+ 
Two pot bunkers in the And Toms realizes his middle of the 18th fairway, and chances aren't necessarily hurt another one in the lay-up area by going to the same four on the 528-yard closing hole. courses. He recalls hating 


Ilanse and Faxon also Kingsmill the first time he reshaped the bunkers to give played the old Michelob them a New England feel, Championship, and it wasn't rugged and unkempt. long before he won there in 
The routing is the same, but consecutive years. it's not quite the same eourse "It's OK, as long as the golf where Woods closed with a 63 courses are suitable for every­last year to turn a three-shot body," he said. "I guess if you deficit into a two-shot victory look at past experience, there over Singh. might be guys that definitely 
Woods won't see these have an advantage. But that's changes until his pro-am round. usually some of the best play­Playing for the first time since ers, anyway." 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 

Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Baustista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) 

Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

FIBA 

Unsung Canadians one vvin fron1 finals 

AP Canada forward Olu Famutimi, left, pump fakes two Mexican defenders during Canada's 97-80 win over Mexico Wednesday. 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS -Canada, the team without a star, needs one more win to reach the semifi­nals of the FIBA Americas tour­nament. 
Levon Kendall and Denham Brown, two former Big East players, both had double-dou­bles Wednesday in Canada's 97­80 victory over Mexico. 
A victory over Puerto Rico on Thursday in the final game of the second round would mean a semifinal spot for Canada and a chance to play for one of this tournament's two berths in the Beijing Olympics. 
The third-, fourth-and fifth­place finishers receive bids to an Olympic qualifying tourna­ment next July. 
"This was huge because we gave ourselves a chance to get there," said Kendall, who had 14 points and 11 rebounds. "We knew we dinched at least fifth today with the win and now it's the same tomorrow, another must win to get to the semifi­nals." 
Kendall, who played in the NCAA tournament all four of his years at Pittsburgh, got Canada (3-3) going in the second quar­ter-again. 
The 6-foot-10 forward had six points, six rebounds and two assists in the 22-5 run that gave Canada a 47-29 lead with 31 seconds left before halftime. It was the third straight game Kendall came into the game and gave his teammates a lift. 
"That's what my role has become the last few games, come in and be active if we start a little slow," he said. 
Canada's rough first quarter against Mexico {1-5) was because of poor shooting. Canada made seven of 25 shots in the opening 10 minutes and trailed 22-21. Kendall came in, tied it right away with a shot in the lane and after an exchange of baskets, the deciding run started and it was all Canada the rest of the way as it led by as many as 27 points. 
"You have to have different players in different games step up and Levon has been a dou­ble-double guy the last throe games," Canada coach Leo Rautins said. "This format, this marathon format of so many games means you need those other players. 
"We've been very conscious of depth and the players have been responding to that and that's what you're asking for." 
The loss was the sixth straight for Mexico since a win over Puerto Rico on the opening day of the tournament. Coach Nolan Richardson's uptempo, pressure style seemed to have caught up with his team. 
"We got here and played our 20th game in a month and with the style I play it's very difficult. We're a trapping team, a run­ning team and we're not blessed with big people so I was just hoping we would survive," said Richardson, who led Arkansas to the NCAA champi­onship in 1994 and is in his first year with the Mexico national program. "To play the first game against Puerto Rico the way we did, we still had it when we got here. But between the wear and tear and travel it backfired in that we didn't have legs." 
Brown, who played on Connecticut's national champi­onship team in 2004, had 11 points and 11 rebounds. Canada had six players score in double figures and it finished with a 61-30 rebound advantage. 
"We take pride in rebound­ing," Rautins said. "Our wings can really get on the glass. We did a great job today and 26 offensive rebounds puts a lot of pressure on people, especially on a team like Mexico who wants to run and get into tran­sition." 
Mexico's Rome! Beck, who played at UNLV, entered the game tied with Brazil's Leandro Barbosa as the tournament's leading scorer with a 23.3 aver­age. He was 1-f'or-6 from the field against Canada and fin­ished with two points. 
"It was fatigue, fatigue. I 
· couldn't even feel my legs in warmups," Beck said. "I was trying to run the pick-and-roll to get shots like I had been all tournament but today it wasn't there." 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, August 30, 2007 
NFL 

Jets will aim high with 'Mangenius' 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y.-Eric Mangini had quite a rookie season. 
lie went from being known as Bill Beliehiek's ingenious assistant to becoming the "Mangenius," a suceessful and popular coach who could count Tony Soprano among his fans. 
Clever nicknames and televi­sion eameos aside, the ever­focused Nnw York Jets coach faces a big challenge following a I0-6 snason and a surprising playoff appear­anee. 
"Each ynar is 

"What we've done in
its own entity," with so many Mangini said the past has no changes in the early in training league: new
bearing on the 
eamp. "You haw~ , coaches, new
fiuture.
to do the same players, free things every agency and camp, every step Chad Pennington drafts. You can't or the way, to bank on what
Jets quarterback 
achieve the samn level that you did. Prior results don't prediet future results, kind or like the stock market." 
While Mangini's waistline has been steadily shrinking since last year-he's lost at least 40 pounds -tlw hopes for this season are signilkantly higher. 
"Every season, there are teams that were disappointing that suddenly had very good seasons and teams that expnc­tations wnn~ high for that did­n't," a guarded Mangini said. "Yo~ sen it ynar in and ynar out. 
Thomas Jones, acquired from Chicago in Mareh, should play offensive coordinator Brian Schottenheimer said. "The No. 1 thing was bringing in Thomas and just trying to get a l'nel for the second year in the sys~nm and the things we can do. 
Pennington bounced back from career-threatening injurins last year to being voted the league's Comeback Player of the Year after throwing for a career-high 3,352 yards. 
"What we've done in the past has no bearing on the future," said Pennington, nchoing Mangini's thoughts. "It's a new season 
you did last sea­
son happening 
again. You have to start all over from scratch. New year, new team, new goals." 

And at some positions, new faces. Aftnr trading veteran left guard Pete Kendall to Washington last wenk after a bittnr eontraet disputn, New York is giving rookie Jacob Bnndnr, Adrien Clarke and Adrian Jones -and anyonn nlsn who can play the position -a shot at winning the job. 
"We all know the NFL is about change," Pennington said, downplaying Kendall's dnparturn. "There's constant ehange and anytime you look 
Giant concerns raised in New York 
Coughlin on hot-seat despite two straight playoff appearances 
Associated Press 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD, N.J. ­

Despite making the playoffs the 
past two seasons, expectations 
for the New York Giants aren't 
that high. 
Tiki Barber, the Giants' all-time leading rusher and ollimsive cat­alyst, retired for a television career. Thn wait lbr Eli Manning to live up to expectations contin­ues. And who knows what to expect from seven-time Pro Bowl defensive end Miehad Strahan, if anything. . Then there's the Tom Coughlin factor. The no-nonsense coach is on the hot seat after failing to get past the first round of the play­offs two straight years amid all kinds of turmoil. 
If the path gets bumpy again, things could get ugly fast. 
That's the Gianl<>, though. They were the defending NFC East champs and considered a legiti­mate Super Bowl contender a year ago. They got big heads, suffered a couple of injuries, pointed lingers and went 8-8 to barely squeeze into the playoffs. 
"One of the things we are striv­ing for this year is playing together as a team," center Shaun O'Hara said. "I think last year we had a lot of individual talent, but l don't know if we played well as a team every Sunday. That's our overall goal as a. team, to complement each other in every phase and make it a collective eflort." 
Whether the Giants can get back to being a title contender depends on three key issues: 
-Can Manning have a consis­tent season and avoid the big mistakes? 
-Can big, bruising Brandon Jacobs do as well as Barber, and stay healthy? 
-Will Strahan end a holdout 
and play a 15th season, and can 
the defense survive without him? 
The Strahan question was tho most unexpected. I lours before training camp opened, the NFI;s active sacks leader announced he was holding out while he mulled retirement. Five weoks later, and just a little mom than a week before the opener at Dallas, he was still mulling his options. 
On the field, the offensn has shown the potential to carry tho Giants, especially if Manning ean avoid a third straight second-half slump. Having former quarter­backs coach Kevin Gilbridl·l as the oflfmsive coordinator should hnlp Manning, who is also being tutored by Chris Palmer, another longtime quarterbacks guru. 
One thing that has changnd is Manning has emerged as one of the leaders of the Giants, thanks in part to Barber. 
Barber criticized the quartnr­back's leadership a few weeks ago during halftime on Sunday night football and Manning fired right back at his former team­matn. 
Not only did the retort prop him up in the eyes of his team­mates, but Manning followed that with good stints against Baltimore and the Jets. 
Manning should have plenty of help this season. 
David Diehl's ability to move from left guard to left tackle has strengthened the oflimsive line. It also should help Jacobs use his 6-foot-4, 260-pound frame to run over defenses. 
The receiving corps is dnep with Plaxico Burress, Amani T"oomer, rookie Steve Smith and Sinorice Moss on the field along with Pro Bowl tight end Jemmy Shockey. The eoncflrn is Burress, who missed much or training camp with ankle and back prob­
h~ms. 
"This tnam camn a long way," said Toomer, who has returned from major knee surgnry. "There wnre times early in camp where it was touch and go, but thn young guys stepped up and our dnfense playnd mal wnll." 
Aftnr a dismal pnrlilrmanen in the preseason opnnnr, the defense improved undnr new coordinator Stevn Spagnuolo, allowing one touchdown in the next two games. 
Justin Tuck, who likn Strahan missnd a good part of last season with a serious foot injury, has betm oul<;tanding filling in at left end. Osi Umenyiora has been a force on the other side. 
Mathias Kiwanuka has been adnquate making the transition from def(msive end to strongside linebacker, and fren agent Kawika Mitchell has looknd good as weakside linebackor. With Pro Bowler Antonio Pierce in the middh~. the linebackors are solid. 
The weakness is the seeond­ary, especially with veteran Sam Madison battling a hamstring injury. Hookie eornerback Aaron Boss should provide help at some point. 
"This is going to bo a tnam you can be proud of." Piercn said. "I know one thing you love in Nnw York is defense. When I came lwre from that other team (Washington) I saw the (tradi­tion) at linebacker: Carl Banks, Lawrence Taylor and Harry Carson. But this ~:,rroup is going to work hard and play some ball." 
a major role in determining or read or hear something, New York's fate. lie helped thnre's change_ going on." · make the Bears a Super Bowl The Jets' defense was trans­contender, and the Jets are formed last season as Mangini hoping for the same sort of and eoordinator Bob Sutton impact from the installed a 3-4 veteran running system. It got back. mixed reviews 
"Thomas has 

"You don't get to start
been a really 

positive influ­where you finished, ence and it goes good or bad. " back to what our res1~arch 
Bob Sutton 
showed on him," Mangini Jets coordinator said. "Every team that he was on had great things to say about him and that has been our experi­ence." 
Jones givos the Jets a true No. 1 running back after they struggled with a four-man rotation that contributed to their offense being ranked in the bottom portion of the league. . 
"This is a totally different team, totally different situa­tion," Jones said. ''I'm the type of person to just play football. I don't get too mueh into peo­ple's personalities and how people coach. I just do what I'm asked to do." 
Jonns has benn sidelined sincn Aug. 12 with a strained calf, but should be ready by the opnner against New England. lle'll giv1~ quarterback Chad Pennington anotlwr wnapon to f"urt.hnr opnn thn passing game, which thrivnd with Laveranues Coins and .lerrieho Cotchnry having earner years despite the strugglns with thn run. 
"Th1~ running game is some­thing we wanted to address," 

Auditions 
ND Liturgical Choir ND Women's Liturgical Choir 
as Bryan 
Thomas and 
Victor Hobson 
thrived, while 
perennial play­
makers 
Jonathan Vilma 
and Eric Barton 
struggled. The 
key will be get­

ting those four linebaekers, along with rookie David Harris and veteran David Bowens, on the same page to bolster the run defense and help a struggling pass rush. 
"You don't get to start where you finished, good or bad," Sutton said. "You can never count on things being exactly as you ended them." 
The secondary should be improved with the addition of speedy cornerback Darrelle Hevis, drafted 14th overall. Following a long training camp holdout, Hevis has already showed signs of being a poten­tial game-changing playmaker. Combined with standout safety Kerry Hhodes, the Jets could have two of the league's most exciting defensive backs. 
"It's the challenge that will faen us every year, and that's !wing able to have foeus," Mangini said. "To focus on the task at hand, communication, havn good finish in everything we do and build that trust between all the players." 


Thursday, August 30, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Lowly Lions hope 2007 is turnaround season 
Detroit franchise has bumbled, bickered its way to the worst record in the league over the past six years 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students  
Atria Salon, will be giving away 100 complimentary Haircuts & styles to the students ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's. This is our way to say thank you for your support for the last 10 years, along with welcoming new students to our salon. Atria Salon Specializing in Color 574-271-8804 South Bend, IN 2039 South Bend Ave. ·.vww.AtriaSalon2.com Located off Ironwood and State Rd. 23 in the Martins Shopping Plaza-within walking distance from campus  
To qualify for this promotion, please call the salon coordinator@ 271 8804 and let them know your interested. *Certain restrictions apply. Atria salon 2has the right to refuse promotion without any advance notice. This promotion has no cash value. Expires September 20th, 2007. Please ask about our student discount cards.  

Associated Press 
The Detroit Lions have been the target of relentless verbal and written shots while compiling the NFL's worst record the last six years. 
It turns out, their own play­ers were delivering some of the worst blows. 
"There were knockdown, drag-out fights all the time last year," defensive tackle Cory Redding said. "There were cheap shots with guys getting leg-whipped and hit in the helmet." 
Jeff Backus, who has endured each of the 72 losses since 2001. said last season's team-crumbling behavior wasn't new. 
"It's happened as long as I've been here," the offensive tackle said. "My first couple of years, there were lazy vet­erans that didn't want to be touched in practice. If you blocked them, they would try to get you back in a dirty way for the rest of that practice." 
In his second year, coach Rod Marinelli seems to have gotten rid of the destructive culture that infested a fran­chise with one playoff victory since winning the 1957 NFL title. 
Marinelli's players believe that finally pulling in the same direction will produce positive results for a change. 
"We had no fights in train­ing camp because Rod changed the whole attitude around here," Redding said. "We know we have to fight, scratch, claw and kick our opponents -not teammates 
A bit ofIreland in your own backyard. 
' s 
Just seconds from campus. With it<; many choice beverages, heartyfood and lively conversation, Brigid's is the placeto be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven night<; a week, too. 
(WaterfurdD.tatesl..odgehashotelroomsatreasonablerntesfurupc:omingNDfuotballweekends.) 
-and I think that's going to make a difference. 
"We have so many winners on this team that are tired of losing." 
Detroit has won just 24 times -an average of four a year -against those 7 2 defeats since team president Matt Millen was given con­trol. 
Tampa Bay's 12 straight seasons of double-digit losses from 1983-94 is the only other stretch of futility in league history that compares. 
Detroit was 3-13 last year, Marinelli's first as a head coach, and only Oakland had fewer wins. 
Quarterback Jon Kitna pre­dicts this year will be differ­ent, claiming the Lions will win at least 10 games. 
If he's right, they likely will be in the playoffs for the first time since 1999. 
"[ was talking like that because of what I saw in the offseason," Kitna said. "We have great team cama­raderie. We don't have a whole bunch of individuals out here, and that's what Rod preaches. 
"That's what wins in this league, not the greatest tal­ent. New England has proven that." 
The Lions seem to have enough ability on offense to live up to Kitna's projection, but their defense will have to exceed expectations to vali­date it. 
Kitna led the NFL with 372 completions last season in Mike Martz's pass-happy offense and was the first quarterback in franchise his­
tory to take every snap in a season. 
Opponents probably will have a tough time slowing down Detroit if a reshaped line, with at least two new starters, can protect Kitna after he was sacked a league­high 63 times last season. 
Roy Williams had an NFC­best 1,310 yards receiving, earning a spot in the Pro Bowl, and Mike Furrey led the conference with 98 receptions. 
Not content with that pro­
duction nor worried about jokes, Detroit used the No. 2 overall pick to draft Calvin Johnson, marking the fourth time in five years the Lions used their top selection on a wide receiver. The 6-foot-5, 239-pound Johnson has a unique blend of size, speed, leaping ability and soft hands. And unlike his experi­ence at Georgia Tech, he shouldn't face double-team coverage. 
"There's a lot of talent here," Johnson said. 
Detroit also added depth at running back in the offsea­son, bringing in Tatum Bell and T.J. Duckett, because it was unclear when Kevin Jones would return from a serious foot injury that side­lined him for the final four games of 2006. 
Two new faces with starting experience will be counted on to open up holes for the running game and give Kitna time to find his talented wideouts. Guard Edwin Mulitalo and tackle George Foster will try to bolster a unit that has been consistent­ly shaky in recent years. 
"I don't think we can score 40 points a game, but aver­aging 28 is realistic," Williams said. "But the key is going to be our defense, which I think is going to sur­prise people." 
If the Lions are effective on defense, it will startle some 
because there are questions from the front to the back of the unit. 
Detroit gave free agent defensive end Dewayne White about $13 million guaran­teed, despite a resume with just 13 starts in 60 games in Tampa Bay and no more than six sacks in a season. 
The Lions made Redding the highest-paid defensive tackle in football, with reportedly up to $20 million in guarantees, after he had a breakout season that includ­ed eight sacks. Shaun Rogers, a two-time Pro Bowl tackle who struggled last season with injuries and was suspended for using a banned supplement. has to prove he's an elite player again. 
The linebacking corps has potential with Ernie Sims and Boss Bailey, but production from the group has been spotty. 
Standout cornerback Ore' Bly was dealt to Denver for Bell and Foster, and the Lions are confident their scheme will negate the loss. 
After defensive coordinator Donnie Henderson tried to teach the "Tampa Two" for the first time, Marinelli fired him and hired his own son­in-law, Joe Barry, away from the Buccaneers to implement the two-deep zone that has been emulated throughout the league. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, August 30, 2007 

Irish outside hitter Megan Fesl taps the ball over the net in Notre Dame's 3-2 loss to Missouri on Sept. 2, 2006. 
Losses 
continued from page 24 
Florida 3, Notre Dame 1 
While tlw Irish fnlt thny playPd better Aug. 26 against thP Gators, the rnsult was the sanw. Notre Danw endured a frustrating home loss to a top tn am. this 
limn by a 

"We need to stabilize our
3-1 (30-25, 

fundamental skills and
30-24. 30­:l2. 30-2 3) play with a strong desire. lodger. 
We will be able to bounce
"Wn canw 

back easily. " 
out morn preparnd against Megan Fesl Flor·ida," 
Irish outside hitter 
frnshman middle b I o (~ k e r K n I I i e 
Sciacca said. "I felt more comfortable getting the first matdr Iagainst Min n n sota I out of the way." 
Notre Damn (0-2) had four players score double-digit kills in tim loss. 
Fest had II digs and 11 kills. whiln both Stasiuk and sophomore Snrinity Phillips tiod for a team-high 14 kills. Stasiuk also added 12 digs. 

Freshman Kellie Seiacea got into thP fold as well with 12 kills. improving on her six from the Minnesota match. 
Thn Gators (2-0) were lnd by sPnior Angie McGinnis' 59 assists and snnior Marcie llarnpton's 20 kills. Sophomore Elyse Cusack led the match with 25 digs while senior Amber MeCray helped with H> kills. 
The Irish are set to play two games this weekend at 
the Tiger 
upcoming 
Invitational in Columbia, Mo. Notre Dame takes on No. 20 Missouri Aug. 31 and Florida International Sept. 1. "We need to stabilize our fundamental skills and play with a strong desire," Fesl said of the 
match against 

Missouri. "We will be able to bounce baek easily. [The first two games[ were a good test of character." 
Seiaeca agreed. 

"We talked about keeping our energy high !against Missouri[," she said. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien6@nd.edu 


Write sports. Call Chris at 
631--4543. 

Success 
continued from page 24 
while no season outcome is determined in August, this weekend's games should show whether Notre Dame can play with the top teams in the country. 
Judging by their 3-0 victo­
ry over No. 14 Northwestern on Monday night, the Irish certainly possess the attacking tal­ent to com­pete with the very best. Seniors Joseph Lapira and Kurt Martin put on 
dangerous is that their "/think there's a lot of styles mesh perfectly.
talent on this team. 

Martin is
This could be a fun 

best at team, but it's too early receiving the ball with his
to say anything." 

back to the goal so that Bobby Clark he can use 
Irish coach his deft first touches to beat defend­
received a pass from Martin with his back to tho goal. took one touch and baek­heel!1d the ball to an onrushing Martin, who !"ired a first-time shot over the top of the goal. While the play will show up as nothing more than a statisti(~. it indicates a developing part­rwrship that will lik11ly give Notre Dame a healthy scor­ing average this season. 
Though Clark is being cautious with his words regarding tim potential of this year's team, the per­formances of Lapira, Martin and the entire Irish squad Monday night have tho coach guardedly optimistic. 
"I think there's a Jot of tal­unt on this team," Clark said. "This eould boa fun team. but it's too early to say anything." 
With two top-1 0 opponE~nts on deck for this weekend. we'll be talking soon nnough. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd. edu. 
potential to make the Irish attack something special. Despite his solid contribu­tions the past two seasons, Martin has been stuck behind upperclassmen. This year, with seven points in two preseason games, Martin is ready to make his mark. 
What makes the partner­ship of Martin and Lapira so 
a show, combining for all three Notre Dame goals and setting up many other prom­ising chances. 
Lapira's impressive play is no surprise. After all, he won last year's Hermann Trophy-the equivalent of a lleismann Trophy in foot­ball. 
Martin, however, has the ers and slot through balls. Lapira's top-end speed is sure to allow him to run onto a few of Martin's pass­es. 
Lapira and Martin aln~ady appear to be developing a rapport. Take Monday night's game against Northwestern, for example. In the second half', Lapira 

TONS OF FREE FOOD INC~LUDING ··· 
PHILLY CHEESESTEAK BUFFALO WINGS NEW ORLEANS JAMBALAYA CHIC,AGO PIZZA GEORGIA PEACH COBBLER TEX MEX FAJITAS CINCINNATI SKYLINE CHILl SEATTLE COFFEE 
.•• AND MUCH MORE 

~-----------------­
Thursday, August 30, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
tion. conference. Big Ten schools. ly would love to add the Big Any geographic expansion The Big Ten Network, But Ruggiero said the Ten Network to our channel
Coincast 
of the channel outside the which launches today under $1.10 charge was tanta­lineup.... But we want to do continued from page 24 three initial states would the leadership of former mount to a "13 dollar-a-year it in the way that's best for 
have to come by mutual ABC Cable Networks General tax that people are going to all of our customers. When vide video broadcasts of all agreement. Manager Mark Silverman, pay to Fox and the Big Ten." you look at the entirety of Notre Dame home sports "This is a great example of wants all Comcast sub-Ruggiero said he had a the year, and you look what games, with the exception of what hap-scribers to simple message for Notre the Big Ten's going to offer those teams -like football pens when receive Dame fans in Indiana and [on the network]. especially
'This is a great example of
and men's and women's bas­entities -in the net­Michigan: "You're already compared to what's avail­ketball -that have third­this case what happens when entities work and paying to support public able on other channels, we party television agreements Comcast and -in this case Comcast and pay $1.10 universities like Indiana think the best way to do that limiting what Notre Dame t h e e a c h University, Michigan State is to make it part of ... the
the University ofNotre
and Comcast can provide. As University of month for University. Do you really sports entertainment pack­a general rule, Notre Dame Notre Dame Dame -enter a situation the net­want to further subsidize age.... cannot broadcast video of -enter a with mutual interest and work. the athletic programs at uni­"That way any customer away contests in sports situation In a versities that are competing who wants it, can absolutely
work together. .. ,,
because the home team's with mutual release with Notre Dame?'" get it. But the vast majority conference controls the interest and posted on Comcast wants to put the of customers, who are prob­broadcast rights to those work togeth­Rich Ruggiero the net­channel on its sports enter­ably not going to want the games. er to come Comcast regional vice president work's tainment package, which Big Ten programming, Corrigan said much of the up with Web site, customers can add for an aren't going to be paying for
for communications and public
content will be what is something it argues additional cost, because it it."
affairs

available on the "all-access" that's a that its believes the network's lack Comcast's sports enter­portion of the official Notre great solu-inclusion of marquee football games tainment package includes Dame athletics Web site, tion for both fans of the of nearly 400 live events and and dominance of non-rev­the NFL Network and NBA und.com. He said the athlet­University, or alumni, cur­600 hours a year of original enue sports will minimize its TV. ic department is trying to rent students, et cetera -programming should earn it appeal. provide 40 hours a week of and for us in terms of our a spot on basic cable in the "With Big Ten, we've been Contact Ken Fowler at original programming dur­customers," Ruggiero said. eight states that are home to very clear that we absolute-kfowlerl@nd.edu ing the academic year, an The deal between Notre increase of more than 50 Dame and Comcast provides percent from last year. something of a counter-bal­
The major drawback of the ance to the most important television programming is sports issue facing Comcast. that Notre Dame is still The company, which pro­working on its Web-to-TV vides cable service to 3 5 technology. Corrigan said percent of the Big Ten the athletic department Conference's regional foot­hopes for a turnaround time print, is currently in the bdween 24 and 48 hours for midst of a public battle with all content, though it will the Big Ten Network, the continue to work on increas­television arm of the ing the speed of the transi-Midwest's premier athletic 

Todd accirJentaily took Histort tor the first time in college. 
Todd eventually began binging on History, taking it 

History was cheaper on halfcom. Which ied to Todd Aprankster slipped it into his bowling cla'lS. 
whenever possible. 

getting so into History that he would run around naked, yeliing "The British are coming ... " 
·::.:.'.l 



..,. -----------_,
This d;d not reflect well on the school anti Todcl was 
I I
L[ARN moM TODD.

torced to !eave and join the circus. 
I I 
..lust because llalf.com is cheaper doesn't mean you need to buy twice as much History. Use your 

I I I I I I 
by 
I Type in "overstudy" on half.com and get started I 
I on your subject of choice today.* 1 
IJ 'We de'"" ;;;;:;~~~~.~':;~~~i,,~ ~~~;;;,:~.;::;r,,',~~;" !OiMI'!!IW 1
~fcom 

-------------' 


··sf:i O'i1 pmn~ntivn ope:~ to k~!)fJI U.S. fe:.;.dents i& y~~f:rs t~f a~;w m ~!ldur who arB fir5l·time bt!)'$-;r~~ or: haif.corn. :t:) off pn;motk.m g(.:oo for Hn,t·Hrnc pu~.~hHS{: uf $50 or rnvr~. e;.;dmilnfJ Hh:p~i11g m1t~ t:anct:ing, on half.co:n v:1!v. Urrut on~; offer pt:: :!;.t;:' !D. ar~:.i <1H:Jr mt!J not be I)Xnhin~d w:lt: any ()U·:::Jf ofilJr. o:.1upon mpt·tJfn:.rt!(JfL V1)id wil,=.-ru f,rohihitod. tuxo:.l ~JI tGJ.i\ri(:tott Of{i.l!' ~;xpirf;S Set;l:J!YlbUr 30,2001 ilt 1i ;59:59prn PT. 
Thursday, August 30, 2007

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
safety blanket because he's such a good player, he's
Laws 

going to make plays no mat­ter what you're doing."
continued from page 24 

Kuntz will enter the coordinator Corwin Brown's Georgia Tech game as the :3-4 defense. Laws has by starting nose tackle, one of far the most experience of the most important posi­tho linemen remaining on tions in the 3-4 defense. the Irish roster. having Oliver said that Kuntz spent started the last two seasons the summer bulking up in at dnfensive tac:kle. order to play the position 
But this season, Laws has effectively. had to start "I just ate from square a lot more, one along and I ate a with tho rest "Basically [Laws has] lot better 
of the dnfonse been the leader ofour stuff." Kuntz 
-a challenge said of his
group and when things
defensive line summer 
coach .Jappy might be down he gets us workout. OlivPr says hack up and ready to "Definitely 
l,aws con­hitting the
go.

quered easily. weight room "More than harder than 
anything else Pat Kuntz I've ever hit it's attitude. Irish nose guard before and Trevor did a trying to be nien job over in the best tho summer shape condi­coming back in shape." tioning-wise I can possibly Olivnr said. "IIis attitude be." 
was second to none in tp,rrns Because Kuntz was able to of willingness to learn this bulk up effectively, Oliver new package. lin just did a said, the job was his to lose great job in terms of the corning into camp. other guys too in terms of "You just have to know knoping them motivated and Pat," Oliver said. "He's a telling thorn what to do in warrior and you have to be certain eir-a warrior 1" u Ill to play stances." nose tackle 
L a w s "Trevor did a great job in a 3-4 teammate system, and
over the summer coming 
on the linn, he's just
hack in shape. His attitude 
nose tackle that." Pat Kuntz. was second to none in Another agreed that strength of
terms ofwillingness to 
Laws has this year's
learn the new package."
been crucial defensive for tho line is dept, defensive Jappy Oliver Brown said. linnmen's Behind
Irish defensive line coach 
transition. Laws at left 
"Basically, end is !Laws hasl sophomore bonn thP leader of our Paddy Mullen, while fresh­group and when things man Jan Williams is the Illig h t h~~ d 0 w 11 he gets ll s backup nose guard. At the ha c k u p a n d n~ a dy to go . " other defensive end spot, Kuntz said. "Always having fifth-year senior Dwight him thnrP is almost likn a Stephenson and senior 

They're just a good group to work with," he said. 
After spending the entire camp playing against them­selves, Oliver said, the team is as ready as they ever will be for Georgia Tech. 
"You're nnver there but there's not much else. We've dono just about all wn ean do right now its time to let the kids go out and play and havn fun." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Justin Brown will both see playing time. 
One reason the Irish defensive linemen have been able to adapt so quick­ly to the 3-4 defensive front 
is because of Oliver,  Kuntz  
said.  
"He's such  a  good  coach  

when it comes to knowing exactly what to do," Kuntz said. "I mean, he's had this defense before and having an experienced coach like him in a situation like this has been nothing but help­
ful." 

Although Oliver was brought to Notre Dame to coach in the 4-3 defense, he said, he has coached the 3-4 in the past -although Brown has brought some new changes to the forma­tion. 
Oliver also credited the willingness or the players themselves in the transition. 
"I think they've made the transition pretty good. I like this buneh, they're hungry, they're eager to learn. 
2007 Season Predictions 



This season is going to be ugly. Damn ugly. The finesse offense that produced prolific numbers is gone, as is the bend-but-don't­break mentality on defense that too often led to breaking. While the passing game is Charlie Weis' forte, something about hard­nosed football being run by a protege of Bill Parcells seems right. Notre Dame will start tho season 2-0, and the series with Michigan is underdog-friendly. But UCLA will trip up an undPI"fmted Irish squad in early October, reminiscent of the 2005 team's loss to Sparta. This year, however, Notre Dame will overcome Troy and enter the BCS full steam ahead. 
FINAL RECORD: 12-1, BCS bowl win 
The Irish bogin the year with a gutsy home win against Georgia Tech. but then head into Happy Vallny and drop their first of the year. Learning from that loss, the Irish go on to upset Michigan and their wnakennd defense. 
Notre Dame uses a combination of good defense and a solid running attack to handle their next two opponent<; boloro losing in a defensive struggle to UClA 
Atkr pounding Boston College, USC comes in and reminds everyone why they am"the presea­son favorites to win it all. The next !bur wins are easy wins and the kish gain a berth in the Gator Bowl where they finally break their bowl losing streak. 
FINAL RECORD: 10-3, Bowl win 



The season breaks dowu into thrne cate­gories: Michigan and USC, six middling opponents, and four easy wins at the end. Tho Irish probably don't have the experienc11 to beat the first two yet, and they will proba­bly be picked otT by one of the "second six," likely Georgia Tech. Penn State or UCLA. There is no way Notre Dame will lose to Navy, Air Foree, Duke or Stanford. 
Along with a win in the Gator or Cotton Bowl, that loaves the Irish with the oxact same record as last year. However, instead of finishing on our sour note, Notre Dame will finish on a five-game winning streak and with confidence for noxt year. 
FINAL RECORD: 10-3, Bowl win 
Notre Dame has one of its toughest tests in a few years this season. With away games at Penn State and Michigan back-to-baek along with home games against Boston College and Southern Cal. the Irish will have to work hard to repeat the success of the Brady Quinn era. 
The most important part of this soason is whether the Irish will reload or rPbuild. A now quarterback and a new dnfense could mean trouble for Notre Dame, but there's enough athletic ability and coaching talent to keep tho Irish a strong team, if not BCS-bound. 
Corwin Brown's defense and the five run­ning back stable will help the Irish more than anyone could think. 
FINAL RECORD: 9-4, Bowl Win 

Thursday, August 30, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MIKE MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 


CROSSWORD 
Across 26 Largest geological
Restraint 

division 5 Project Blue 
27 ''Don't wanna"
Book subject 

28 See 20-Across 9 Ex­
32 Like frittatas 13 Not berthed 33 Sun. discourse 14 Big name in skin 34 Year in the reign 
care of Justinian the Great

16 Talk radio's 35 Answers the call,
&Anthony maybe17 Hospital count 

37 Affluent duo? 18 Turns around, as 
39 Fortuneteller a mast 

43 Satisfied 19 Abbe de I'_, reactions pioneer in sign 45 Suffix with profit language 
47 Movie featuring 20 With 28-, 48-Peter O'Toole as and 56-Across, Priam riddle whose 48 See 20-Across answer appears 
51 Kentucky'sin the circled 
Athlete of the squares 

Century 23 "Who ?" 53 Goose egg (common riddle 
54 Plugs ending) 

55 "Bells 25 Camp seat Ringing" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
56 See 20-Across 60 Like worms 61 Computer 
unveiled in 1946 62 Cold feet 65 Store drawer 66 See 58-Down 67 Concerning 68 Suit to 69 Spin 70 Frequent gift for 
a PBS donation 
Down 

Trucker's place 2 Resort to 3 N.H.L. team at 
Joe Louis Arena 4 Big party 5 Pulls the plug on 6 Fine metal 
openwork 7 Reproductive 
seed 8 Trickled 9 "Odyssey," for 
one 10 Attach (to) 11 Tuscany city 12 Canines that bite 15 Comparatively 
noisy 21 Bass 22 Bottom-of-letter 
abbr. 23 One with a sterling service 24 Ancient gift givers 29 How some music is played 30 Monteverdi opera 31 Takes off 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by David J. Kahn 

36 Stood out 46 Avant-garde 57 Maclachlan of "Desperate
38 Plan for nuptials 

48 Changeable on 
Housewives"

40 Musician who a whim created the 58 With 66-Across,
49 Power tool in 
EgyptianWindows 95 woodworking 

agricultural area 50 Ukr., once start-up sound 
41 Watch-step 59 "What ?" connection (snippy reply)
51 California's 42 disease Santa Park 63 Knack 
44 Beamed 52 Kosher 64 "Riddle-me-
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JNJlW~Jl:. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
Too much food, too to form four ordinary words. little exercise 
tHESTEE 
~ I I 

D~f::L-OPING A POT
J r I I
1 Bf::L-L-Y OV£::R TH£::
www.jumble.com 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: EIGHT DOGMA SCHEME FACING Answer: What the cops did when they questioned the crooner -MADE HIM "SING" 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Lauren Collins. 21: Jeff Licon. 22: Dante Basco, 32; Carla Gugino, 36 
Happy Birthday: You will tend to Lake on partners who are not compatible. IL's best to go it alone where financial or professional matters are concerned. However. when il comes to love, understanding, nurturing and a passionate approach will help you weather any storms. Your numbers are 5. 18. 26, 28. 44. 49 
ARIES-(March 21-April19): Travel and communications are off-limits today. Get involved in something that will diversify the way you think or do things. A romantic evening may lead you in a new direction but question your motives. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can go the distance and push for what you want A chance to do something different will lead to knowledge and wisdom. Learning, traveling and networking will move you in a positive, profitable and pleasing direction. 4 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Be careful how you handle the people around you. Ir you aren't fair or you twist things around, you can expect to get the same in return. Overreacting or aggressive action will backfire. Pace yourself and use your imagi­nation to keep everyone around you guessing. 2 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): There is plenty going on but you have to be willing to try something new or at least get involved with new people or activities. An event that brings you in contact with more people in your community or neighhor­hood will pay off. 5 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): As much as you want to get out and have fun, take care of unfinished linancial, legal or contractual business first You'll be surprised what you can accomplish if you are adamant about what you want. Don't give up too much or be overly generous. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll be pulled in lots of different directions today but, as long as you know what you want, you will surpass your expectations. Don't let someone who thinks he or she can outsmart you get away with using emotional blackmail. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Finish what's important Take care of matters concern­ing pets, health or dealing with peers. This isn't the time to let things slip but also not the time to argue over something that doesn't really matter in the big scheme of things. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get on with your goals. You can think and ponder over things forever but that won't get you ahead. Prepare to learn by trial and error_ You have to make your move, ready or noL 5 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Love, romance and intrigue will all tempt you but be careful whose toes you step on. Opposition will be following you around, keeping an eye on what you are up to_ Play by the rules or prepare to deal with trouble. 2 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A closer look at what you have to offer will result in some great ideas that will end up being profitable. A chance to see first hand how you can make things work will develop if you take a short lrip to visil someone with experience. 4 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can offer a service that will bring in a bit of cash. Be original and you will attract interest in whatever you do_ You don't have to go overboard. however. Keep things simple and you will succeed. 3 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll not be yourself today, so don't think that everyone around you is wrong_ It's probably you who is causing all the fuss. Keep things simple, avoid controversial subjects and don't let anyone bait you into a hat­tie. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are eager to please, a bit of a chameleon and very strong­willed. You arc well liked, an excellent worker and have a tendency to go over­board to make an impression. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential 
consultations 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, August 30, 2007 
page 24 
ND ATHLETICS 
Notre Dan1e, Con1cast launch free on-demand channel 
Meanwhile, Big Ten Network goes live, but not on cable giant 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 

It just got a little bit nasier to follow Notre Damn athlet­ics. 
Cabin company Comeast and the University last week announced the start of a 
new "on-demand" channel that will f'naturn video of games, practiees and inter­views of all 26 Notre Dame varsity teams. The program­ming, which digital cable customers can view without charge through the "Get Local" portion of the on­demand feature, began last week for customers in 
Indiana,  Illinois  and  
Michigan.  
More than  half  of  

Comcast's customers in the region have digital cable 
and thus free access to the content, said Hich Huggiero, the Comcast vicH president for communications and public affairs in the Chicago and South Bend markets. 
Notre Dame did not charge Comcast a rights fee for the content. Boo Corrigan, the associate athletic dirHctor in charge of corporate rela­tions and marketing, said the athletic department views the agreement as a way of expanding the visibil­ity of Notre Dame's sports 
teams. 

"It literally will cover, ovHr the course of the year, all 26 varsity sports at Notre Dame," Huggiero said. "Naturally, given the very strong interest in Fighting Irish football, there's a lot of football content." 
Huggiero said post-game and mid-week news confer­ences with Irish coach Charlie Weis will be a staple of the programming. Comcast already has added practice reports from the 
FOOTBALL 
Indispensable 
Fifth-year senior Laws anchors inexperienced defensive line corps 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Assod;ltc Sports Editor 
In 2007, Trnvor Laws will play in his third dif'l'erent 
•. 
dnf'nnsn in his Notre Dame earner. 
And now he feels that he can finally show everything hn can do. 
"I'm excited to get out there and'show pnople what I've lnarrwd and what this sehnmn ~~an h PIp See Also me do out 
"2007 Season

therP," Laws said. Predictions" " It's d nl'i­
page 22

nit 111 y a now way to play, and I'm dnfinitnly <~njoying it." 
l.aws will hn the anchor of' tlw dnl'Pnsiv11 linn this sea­son as orw of two dnfensive nnds in l'irst-ynar dnf'ensive 
see LAWS/page 22 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish drop first opener in 17 seasons 
that the Irish fell in a sea­son opener. It is also the first defeat in a home opener for head coach Debbie Brown. 
Sophomore Megan Fesl led the Irish with 11 kills. Senior Ashley Tarutis tal­lied a team-high 16 assists, while sophomore Jamel Nicholas added 13 helpers. Senior Adrianna Stasiuk had 10 digs along with nine kills. 
Three players aidnd Minnesota (1-01 with dou­ble-digit kills. In her fresh­man debut, Brook Dieter had 18 kills and 14 digs. Junior Kyla Hoehrig was also impressive at the net, 
see LOSSES/page 20 

Irish fifth-year senior Trevor Laws chases North Carolina quarterback Joe Dailey in Notre Dame's 45-26 win on Nov. 4, 2006. Laws is the only returning starter on the Irish defensive line. 

ND loses season kickoff for first time in Brown era 
By PAT O'BRIEN Spotts Writer 
Notre Dame's year began on a sour note for thn first time in a deeade. 
The Irish lost a 3-0 (30­16, 30-28, 30-281 decision to No. 9 Minnesota in their season opener Aug. 24 in the Joycfl Cflnter, then dropped a 3-1 match to No. 7 Florida two days later. 
The loss against the Golden Gophers marked the first time since 1990 
l a S t f e W W e e k S a n d V i d !HI from freshman media day, which was on Aug. 24. 
Viewers can search the Notre Dame feature within the on-demand chanrwls and then pick individual clips ­whether it be a practice report from a certain day, a news conference after a par­ticular game or player pro­file-to watch at any time. 
Corrigan said the University is trying to pro-
see COMCASTI page 2 I 

MEN's SOCCER 
J>reseason bodes vvell for squad 
Upcoming schedule will shed light on true potential of team 
Before his team had played any games this season, Irish coach Bobby Clark said Notre Damn's goal was to improve upon last year's 
Elite Eight finish in the NCAA Tournament. 
Apparently, Clark sets realistic goals. 
In its.two preseason 


games, No. Greg Arbogast 10 Notre Dame scon~d six goals, Sports Writer 
conceded zero and, in general, looked more than capable of becoming the first Irish team in program histo­ry to reach the Final Four. 
Clark. howevP.r, isn't con­vinced. 
When asked how indicative his team's preseason per­formances were of what's to come in the regular season, Clark said that preseason games mean nothing and that he'd tell us in December. 
Luckily for impatient Notre Dame fans, they won't have to wait until DecP.mber to gnt a better idea of whether the 2007 Irish are capable of reaching thP. Final Four. 
On Friday, Notre Danw's first regular season garnn will pit the Irish against No. 2 UCLA, which fell to UC Santa Barbara in last sna­son's NCAA f'inal. Latnr in the weekend, the Irish take on No. 9 Maryland -the 2005 NCAA champion. 
The Bruins and Terrapins are the type of teams the Irish will likely nnnd to beat in order to rmu:h this yp,ar's Final Four in Cary, N.C., and 
see SUCCESS/page 20 





