THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 86 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2007 
General Becbic CEO to address grads 
al integrity that make him a tory. Immelt previously lmmelt has committed to 
By KATE ANTONACCI business executive worthy of served as President and more-than-doubling the 
News Editor emulating," University Chairman-elect beginning in company's budget for devel­
President Father John Nov. 2000 before he suc­oping environmentally­
Jenkins said. "We are ceeded legendary CEO Jack friendly technology. He has 
Chairman and Chief delighted that he will join us Welch. also pledged GE to reduce Executive Officer of General in May to 
Born in Cincinnati, Immelt greenhouse gas emissions by Electric Co. Jeffrey R. speak to our has been widely regarded one percent and to increase lmmelt will be the principal graduates recently for his energy efficiency 30 percent graduation speaker and an and accept "Ecomagination" initiative, by 2012. honorary degree recipient at .an honorary GE's plan to make more Immelt studied applied Notre Dame's May 20 com­degree." earth-friendly products. mathematics at Dartmouth mencement ceremony, Immelt, 50, General Electric -a com­College and later earned a University officials said took over at pany which employs over masters of business adminis­Thursday. GE, a 300,000 people and whose tration from Harvard 
"During his five-plus years Connecticut-revenue reached $163.4 bil­University. as head of the world's sec­based com-lmmelt lion in 2006 -makes and He began his career at GE ond largest company, Jeff pany, on sells products ranging from after graduating from busi­lmmelt has demonstrated Sept. 7, 2001 when he home appliances to jet ness school in 1982. Over his the innovative philosophy, became the company's ninth engines. leadership traits and person-chairman in its 128-year his-Since taking over as CEO, see ADDRESS/page 4 
No winner decided by run-off election 
Student Senate to choose new president, vice president at Sunday meeting 
cent abstained from vot­ing. 
In the event that no ticket receives 50 percent plus one of the votes, the 
decision falls  into the  
hands  of  the  Student  
Senate.  Each  member  

will vote according to their dorm's majority vote. The Student Senate will hold a closed meet­ing Sunday at 6 p.m. to determine their votes. 
For the candidates, the indecision is almost too suspenseful. 
Weiss described the last 48 hours as "crazy." "It makes it hard because both Ashley and 
see ELECTION/page 4 
Parents, Holtz arrive on calllpus for JPW 
parents at Notre Dame. 
By EVA BINDA 
"We're particularly excited 
News Writer 
for Lou Holtz," Associate Director of Student Activities 
Former head football 

Brian Fremeau said. 
coach Lou Holtz will be in Fremeau said the organiz­
town this weekend to speak ing committee was fortunate to the parents of more than to get a speaker who is "so 
1,200 jun-
loved" by the Notre Dame 
iors arriv­

community to speak at JPW,
ing in 
an event intended to give
South Bend 
parents the chance to learn 
for the 55th more about the "people and 
annual 
places that comprise [their]
Junior 
son or daughters home away
Parents 
from home," JPW 2007 
Weekend 
chairperson Kerry Carroll 
(JPWl. 
said in a letter to junior par­Holtz will 
ents.

Holtz

be speak­Focused on the Notre 
ing at Sunday's closing 
Dame family, JPW enables 
brunch, the culminating 
parents to "become part of 
activity of the three-day event designed for junior see JPW/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


University tuition hits $44,477 
Increase marks the sixth in 6 years 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
The price of a Notre Dame education just got a little steeper -$2,340 steeper to be exact. 
The University announced Thursday that tuition for undergraduates will increase 
5.4 percent for the 2007-08 school year -up nearly $2,500 from the current aca­demic year's bill. 
Decided at the winter Board of Trustees meetings, the total cost for a year of undergradu­ate education will be $44,477, including $35,187 for tuition and $9,290 for average room­and-board rates. 
Tuition increases for the other schools connected with Notre Dame are 5.4 percent as well, bringing costs for the Graduate School to $35,580 and both the Law School and Master's of Business Administration Program to $35,490. 
This year's increase signals a small percentage decrease in comparison to year's past. While the 2006-07 academic year saw a 5.8 percent increase, the 2005-06 aca­demic year saw a 7 percent rise, slightly higher than 2004-05's 6.9 percent and 2003-04's 6.5 percent increases. The 2001-02 and 2002-03 rises, however, were 
see TUITION/page 8 


BySONIARAO News Writer 
Notre Dame will have to wait a little longer to find out who will be the next student body president after results from the run-off election proved indecisive Tuesday night. 
As the two tickets -Liz Brown and Maris Braun, and Danny Smith and Ashley Weiss -listened, members of the Judicial Council announced that Brown/Braun received 48 percent of the 3,352 votes and Smith/Weiss received 46 percent, nei­ther a 50 percent majori­ty. The remaining six per-

Monologues return to College 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
For the third consecutive year, the Saint Mary's commu­nity will gather to share stories of hope, sexuality and feminini­ty during two weekend per­formances of the SMC Monologues. 
Modeled after Eve Ensler's "The Vagina Monologues," the SMC Monologues will tell per­sonal stories submitted by members of the College's com­munity -addressing issues that affect women on a daily basis, Monologues producer and director Renee Woodward said. 
"Our monologues don't just scratch the surface of issues facing Saint Mary's women," she said. "They dive head-first 
see SHOW/page 8 page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Mom, Dad, 
w-elcon1e to 


college 

Today, yesterday and tomorrow, parents are streaming onto Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses, dorms, classrooms, dining halls and anywhere else they can go. Every hotel room within a 
Mandi Stirone 10-mile radius is most likely 
News Wire
booked solid for 
Editor

this weekend. There are prob­ably no more reservations avail­able in any restaurant in town, and the waits will be ridiculously long. It's pretty sweet to think about, though. Mom and Dad are coming here to see what their baby girl/boy is doing all the way out here in (very) snowy South 
Bend. 

My own parents came in from central New Jersey around 11 last night complete with bulky lug­gage, various items l left at home when I came back from Christmas Break and hopefully some quar­ters so I can do more laundry. Between the rushing to clean and vacuum my double-turned-single room, trying to get all my home­work done for Thursday and Friday before they got here, and actually going to my classes, I'm about ready to collapse. Too bad the festivities start tonight. There is a pretty easy solution to that. I'll gulp down an energy drink (or two, or three), throw on my best stiletto heels (hope I don't fall), and prepare myself to spend the entire weekend with my mom and dad. 
I'm not going to lie I'm excited, despite the always-imminent snowfall. Being from Jersey, my parents don't really get to come visit me often. It really is a pretty rare thing to have them out here for a whole weekend, especially one that isn't during football sea­son. I don't even really know what activities there are planned, other than the dinner that I still don't know what I'm supposed to wear to. That's okay though, we'll improvise. The point is getting to spend time together, whatever we're doing. It should really be a fun weekend. 
So, Mom and Dad, strap on some snow boots, grab some gloves and a warm hat and bundle up. It's cold out there (not that it isn't probably cold inside too). This weekend is going to be interesting for the three of us. Get ready for horrible dining hall food, some messy dorm rooms, strange but somewhat intriguing activities and a tiny glimpse into what being out here is like for us. Mom, Dad, wel­come to Saint Mary's! 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CoRRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publi­cation and strives for the highest standards ofjour­nalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, February 16, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD GIVE A GIFT TO THE UNIVERSITY, WHERE WOULD THE MONEY GO? 








Christina Marzo Paul Kwak JohnPaul Lichon 
junior senior campus ministry Walsh offcampus offcampus 
"To the Office of "Funding a "The tunnel "/ would give it "My future "The Brett Residence Life campus fund in order to to the energy medical school Perkins Bacon and Housing, so aesthetics avoid this board to make application and Icon Fund." somebody program. crappy the campus a expenses. 
would buy curtains that actually cover the shower stalls." weather. " greener place." 

Man grabs shark with hands, blames alcohol 
SYDNEY, Australia -A man who caught a 4-foot shark with his bare hands off an Australian beach said on Friday he only tried the feat because he was drunk on vodka. 
Phillip Kerkhof was fishing off a jetty at Louth Bay, a town on South Australia state's Eyre Peninsula 870 miles west of Sydney, when he spotted the bronze whaler shark swimming in the shal­lows, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. reported. 
"I just snuck up behind him, and eventually I went for the big grab and I fiuked 
it and got him," Kerkhof said. · 
"lie was just thrashing around in the water ... start­ing to turn around and try to bite me and I thought 'well, it's amazing what vodka does'," Kerkhof said. 
Turtle eaten by retriever survives 
BRANDON, Fla. -A palm-sized p11t turtle and the golden retriever that gobbled it up survived the misadven­ture thanks to the quick actions of a 12-year-old girl, a veterinarian said. 
The saga of Pepper the red-eared slider turtle and Bella the golden retriever started last week. Shelby Terihay, 12, moved her pet pond turtles indoors to pro­tect them from a cold snap -a plan that worked well until Bella found some of the turtles in a bathtub, The Tampa Tribune reported. 

A quick headcount con­firmed Bella had swallowed one of the turtles. Shelby insisted on a rescue mission and, on the advice of a vet, her parents made Bella vomit. Out came Pepper, still alive despite a shattered shell and an estimated 10 minutes inside Bella's belly. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::J: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
<C 
(.) 


0 

HIGH 18 HIGH 10 HIGH 25 HIGH 18
...I LOW 13 LOW 0 LOW 13 LOW 2 
IN BRIEF 
The Second City Comedy Tour will perform at Washington Hall at 6:30 
p.m. and 9:30 p.m. today. 
Student tickets  are  $5 and  
are  available  at  the  
LaFortune Box Office.  

Junior Parents Weekend begins today with the Opening Gala and will end Sunday with the Closing Brunch. 
The SMC Monologues will take place today and Saturday at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. A donation of $3 is suggested. 
The men's lacrosse team will play Loyola Saturday at 1 p.m. in the Loftus Sports Center. Admission is free. 
lndie rockers Spitalfield of Chicago will perform live at Legends Saturday at 10 p.m. The event is free of charge and open to all ND, SMC and I-ICC students. 
Sister Teresa Okure, a professor at the Catholic Institute of West Africa in Nigeria, will be giving the lecture "Salvific Option for the Rich: A Gospel Challenge for Mission in the Twenty-First Century" Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Moreau Seminary auditori­um. 
The women's tennis team will take on Wake Forest Sunday at noon at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


HIGH 20 HIGH 27 LOW 13 LOW 25 
Atlanta 40 I 21 Boston 28 I 12 Chicago 18 I -1 Denver 50 I 24 Houston 57 I 29 Los Angeles 83 I 55 Minneapolis 21 I 4 New York 28 I 16 Philadelphia 29 I 14 Phoenix 72 I 46 Seattle 52 I 43 St. Louis 31 I 8 Tampa 57 I 44 Washington 29 I 12 
---------------~----------------------------------------. 
Friday, February 16, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
JPW brings business for local hotels, inns 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 
Despite the feet of snow cover­ing the South Bend community, parents still have their eyes on the Golden Dome as they arrive for Junior Parents Weekend (JPW) today -and those travel­ing from a distance made sure they reserved a warm hotel room far in advance. 
Although the amount of people arriving for the event is not quite as large as the masses that arrive for a typical football week­end or for graduation, there was still a need to make arrange­ments in advance. 
"We started receiving calls from parents the Monday after last year's [Junior Parents Weekend]," said Pat Walsh, vice president of business services at Anthony Travel. "A lot of parents, especially those who have had older children attend Notre Dame know the drill and call early." 
Walsh said his office deals with a "couple hundred" parents each year for JPW arrangements, many of whom are "repeat cus­tomers." 
"They know calling [Anthony Travel] is a one-stop phone call -hotel reservations, rental cars and airline tickets," he said. 
Walsh said he expects parents looking to reserve rooms for next year's JPW to begin Monday. 
This year's most popular hotel destinations include the Inn at Saint Mary's, the Varsity Club located near Grape Road and downtown the Marriott Hotel. 

Although rates can triple dur­ing football weekends, Walsh said he isn't aware of any raises in rates this year for JPW. 
The Morris Inn, located on Notre Dame's campus, is a popu­lar option that does not allot rooms through Anthony Travel, but rather gives a certain num­ber of rooms to the JPW Committee who then holds a lot­tery drawing in late November. 
Though the number of people arriving this weekend is relative­ly low, Bill Beirne, the director of the Morris Inn, said he "feels probably the same pressure." 
Beirne said that the Morris Inn does not raise rates for JPW despite the high demand for hotel rooms. Rooms not allocated to the junior class for JPW are available for the University to use for guests and speakers visiting the University for other events. 
While hotels around campus fill up with junior parents, many non-junior students plan to leave campus for the weekend. 
"I don't think there's going to be much happening on campus this weekend," said freshman Casey O'Halloran, who plans to spend the weekend in Chicago with friends from her dorm. 
Contact Eva Binda at ebinda@nd.edu 


Parents arrive at College 
By KATIE KOHLER Assistant News Editor 
During the spring semester, students often use their only substantial vacation -spring break -for a week of sitting on the beach with friends instead of going home to see their families. Fortunately for sophomores at Saint Mary's, they'll have the opportunity to do both this weekend. 
The winter months will bring familiar faces as parents 

from across the "I am really Saturday morn­country arrive excited to see my ing. The Hall of 
on campus for Fame is the
parents because 
Sophomore only activity 
Parents last semester I was which requires Weekend. an ocean away in a fee, but a dis­The weekend counted group
Rome."
events -which rate will be are coordinated available for by the sopho­Mary Beth Harris Saint Mary's more class and sophomore sophomores 
Student Activities -will revolve around the theme "We are so Classic" to empha­size the deep-rotted traditions at Saint Mary's, said student coordinator Sarah Dalton. Over 200 people are expected to attend the weekend events. 
"We have all been working hard since the beginning of this year for the big week­end," she said. 
The planning of the event went smoothly, Dalton said, and she promises a "lot of special touches throughout the weekend" dedicated to past Saint Mary's women. 
Events start Friday with an academic open house in the Student Center at 5 p.m. 
"This is a great chance for parents to get to meet our teachers now that we are more familiar with them than we were at freshman orienta­tion," Dalton said. 
Tours of the South Bend Chocolate Factory, the Snite Museum and the College Football Hall of Fame are all offered for sophomores and their families beginning 
and their par­
ents. 
The signature event is the dinner and dance at the Century Center beginning at 7 
p.m. Saturday. 
"Sophomore Parents Weekend is such a tradition at Saint Mary's and it's going to be a memorable time to spend with each other and our parents," Dalton said. "We tried to focus a lot of effort into the dinner." 
Prior to dinner, there will be raffles, appetizers and music, Dalton said. The Sophomore Board is raffling off approximately 25 gift bas­kets and all of the proceeds will go toward future class events. 
"Our love for this school has really developed over the past year and a half and it will be really exciting for our parents to experience that with us," she said. 
A sophomore Mass will pre­cede dinner at 4 p.m. in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. 
Students and their families are also encouraged to attend the final home basketball game on Saturday at 3 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. 
Many sophomores are look­ing forward to seeing their parents, especially those who live far away. Mary Beth Harris, who lives in Iowa, is using this weekend as an opportunity to spend some quality time with her parents. 
"I am really excited to see my parents because last semester I was an ocean away in Rome," she said. "It will be great to show my par­ents the campus." 
Megan Ryan is anxiously anticipating the weekend for another reason. 
"I am the first one in my family to ever attend Saint Mary's, so this is the first par­ent-event my parents have the chance to come to," she said. "I think it's going to be a great time." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

What is the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative & what is the Millennium Villages Project? 
Are you wondering what the Millennium Development Initiative is all about? Are you wondering how Notre Dame intends to make a difference through its participation in the Millennium Villages Project? 
Are you willing to think about and discuss how Notre Dame might most effectively promote human development? 
Come to an information session and discussion about the Millennium Development Initiative conducted by Fr. Bob Dowd, CSC and Tim Lyden. 
Friday, February 16, 4pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Refreshments to follow in the Great Hall of the Hesburgh Center. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 16, 2007 
JPW 
continued from page 1 
the academic, spiritual, social and residential life of the University," Carroll said. 
Many students are looking forward to the opportunity to spend time with their parents on campus for a weekend and show them around Notre Dame. 
"JPW is an opportunity for Notre Dame parents to come to the school and really get a feel for the accomplishments of their child. It's also an opportunity for them to feel proud of their children," said junior Ryan Daniels. 
Daniels said he and his par­ents planned "on touring the campus and going to the Bookstore," in addition to attending several of the planned activities such as the cocktail party Friday night and the Sunday morning brunch. 
Though there isn't a named theme this year as there was in years past, Fremeau sug­gested that "Love Thee Notre Dame" is a theme surround­ing the events of the weekend. 
Fremeau said there will be plenty of Notre Dame imagery in decorations and events intended to evoke the Spirit of Notre Dame. JPW 2006 held the theme of "Traditional Notre Dame," while 2005 organizers used a "Passport Abroad" theme. 
Parents and juniors have a busy few days ahead of them, as events kick off tonight with an Opening Gala at 9 in the Joyce Center. According to the JPW Web site, the event ­which requires tickets ­includes music, dancing, hors 
Address 
continued from page 1 
24-year career at the compa­ny, Immelt has "held a series of global leadership roles in GE's Plastics, Appliance, and Medical businesses," accord­ing to the GE Web site. 
Immelt has been named one of the world's best CEOs by Barron's magazine and has been praised for the way he has led GE, named the "World's Most Admired d'oeuvres and a cash bar. 
Saturday morning parents and students are invited to participate in workshops host­ed by each of the colleges ­the College Arts & Letters, College of Science, College of Engineering and the Mendoza College of Business -with presentations by various speakers from within the respective college. 
Following these workshops, residence hall luncheons will be held. Visitors then have the option of attending a JPW mass at the Joyce Center with University President Father John Jenkins presiding. Saturday night is centered around the President's Dinner, which also requires tickets. 
Fremeau said planning for the event began in April 2006 when the core executives, such as the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson, were cho­sen. 
Planning has been "steady since the middle of the fall semester through this week­end," said Fremeau, who also plays a role in advising the JPW Committee. 
University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh began the tradition of Junior Parents Weekend back in 1952 in order for par­ents to spend time with their children on campus before the hectic activities of commence­ment. 
Parents were required to submit ticket applications by Dec. 4, 2006 and students could pick up tickets on Feb. 13 and 14. 
Parietals will be at midnight both Friday and Saturday this weekend. 
Contact Eva Binda at ebinda@nd.edu 
Company" in a poll conducted by Fortune magazine. 
Immelt serves as chairman of The Business Council and sits on the boards of the New York Federal Heserve Bank; Robin Hood, an organization which addresses New York City poverty; and Catalyst, an organization focused on advancing women in busi­ness. 
Immelt currently resides in Connecticut. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
can be stressful. atively stable from Monday's "Whenever the vote goes to election, which had 3,492

Election 

the Senate it gets a lot more ballots, she said. continued from page 1 personal because everyone "I hope that we raised knows the candidates a lot awareness Iabout elections] 
I feel that we rnally just better," Braun said. "But and the debate had a very want what's bnst for thn stu­!votes according to dorm good turnout," Kozlow said. dent body and no clear majority! will determine Whatever happens on majority makes it difficult to who's fit to be the next Sunday, both tickets feel that dntermine what students leadnr." the process has been excel­really want," Smith addnd. Of the student body, 1,067 lent experience. "Either candidate would do a freshmen, 1 ,046 sophomores, "It's nice to see hard work great job." 761 juniors, 474 seniors and pay off," said Smith. "We 
Braun acknowledged that three l"irth-year students cast pushed really hard." the vote is out of the candi­their ballots. Braun said that looking dates' hands. Despite the seemingly back, it is nice to know that 
"At this point, whatever's unclear outcome, Judicial "you couldn't have done any­supposed to happen now will Couneil president Liz Kozlow thing more." be," Braun said. said Thursday represented "a 
Even in the hands of successful run-off election." Contact Sonia Rao at Student Senatn, the process Voter turnout remained rei-sraol@nd.edu 
Co~ne and Listen Co~ne and Read Co~ne and Play 
Lectio@Eieven 
A Late-Night Cabal'et fol' the Soul 
11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
February 20 featuring: 
Music by d'Oscar Readings by Prof. Henry Weinfield (PLS) 
(Program postponed from February 13) 
Lectio@Eleven brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser at 
jcouser@nd.edu or call611-3923. Sponsored by First Year of Studies 







ORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 16, 2007 CoMPILED FRO.'v\ THE ()BSERVER'S WlRE SFRVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
AI-Qaida leader wounded in Iraq 
BAGHDAD -The leader of al-Qaida in Iraq was wounded and an aide was killed in a clash Thursday with Iraqi forces north of Baghdad, the Interior Ministry spokesman said. 
The clash occurred near Balad, a major U.S. base about 50 miles north of the capital, Brig. Gen. Abdul-Karim Khalaf said. 
Khalaf said al-Qaida in Iraq leader Abu Ayyub al-Masri was wounded and his aide, identified as Abu Abdullah al-Majemaai, was killed. 
Khalaf declined to say how Iraqi forces knew al-Masri had been injured, and there was no report on the incident from U.S. authorities. 
Al-Masri took over the leadership of al-Qaida in Iraq after its charismatic leader, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, was killed in a U.S. airstrike last June in Diyala province northeast of Baghdad. 
Putin elevates defense minister 
MOSCOW -President Vladimir Putin pro­moted his hawkish defense minister to a top government post on Thursday, a move that puts rutin's two heirs apparent on equal footing before next year's election to replace the popular leader. 
Both Sergei Ivanov and the more liberal Dmitry Medvedev have received lavish cov­erage in the Russian media, which is strong­ly influenced by the Kremlin, and are seen as the chief rivals for anointment by Putin as his favored successor in the March 2008 election. 
Each man now holds the title of first vice­premier, formalizing a rivalry that is never mentioned officially but is played out daily on state-run television. News broadcasts prominently feature them struggling to look presidential in government meetings, speeches and closely choreographed visits to farms and factories. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Advocates push tobacco regulation 
WASHINGTON -Seven years after being rebuffed by the Supreme Court, anti-smoking advocates rejoiced Thursday as lawmakers renewed a push for federal regulation of tobacco, a step they say is needed to deter children from lighting up and to get smokers to quit. 
"Congress has the opportunity to take a monumental step and grant the Food and Drug Administration the meaningful and long-overdue authority to regulate tobacco, which kills 440,000 people and costs our nation $96.7 billion in health care bills every year," said John Seffrin, chief executive offi­cer of the American Cancer Society. 
A bipartisan group of lawmakers reintro­duced legislation Thursday that would give the FDA the same authority over cigarettes and other tobacco products that it already has over countless other consumer products. 

CDC studies salmonella outbreak 
ATLANTA -Government scientists strug­gled Thursday to pinpoint the source of the first U.S. salmonella outbreak linked to peanut butter, the kid favorite packed into millions of lunchboxes every day. 
Nearly 300 people in 39 states have fallen ill since August, and federal health investiga­tors said they strongly suspect Peter Pan peanut butter and certain batches of Wal­Mart's Great Value house brand-both man­ufactured by ConAgra Foods Inc. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Adult, 2 children killed in house fire 
GOSHEN -A northern Indiana house fire killed an adult and two children on Thursday, authorities said. 
A passer-by spotted smoke coming from the house and reported the fire about 2:30 p.m. The blaze was extinguished quickly, but the bodies were found inside, Fire Chief Dan Sink said. 
The fire did not appear suspicious, but investi­gators were on the scene in the city about 25 miles southeast of South Bend, Sink said. 
Authorities did not immediately identify the victims. Sink declined to immediately provide additional information. 
IRAQ 

Security forces face insurgents 
U.S., Iraqi troops push into Sunni neighborhoods, struggle to stabalize Baghdad 
Associated Press BAGHDAD-U.S. and Iraqi forces pushed deeper Thursday into Sunni mili­tant strongholds in Baghdad -where cars rigged with explosives greeted their advance ­while British-led teams in southern Iraq used ship­ping containers to block suspected weapon smug­gling routes from Iran. The series of car bomb blasts, which killed at least seven civilians, touched all corners of Baghdad. But it did little to disrupt a secu­rity sweep seeking to weaken militia groups' ability to fight U.S.-allied forces -and each other ­as Iraq slips further into factional bloodshed. The attacks. however, pointed to the critical struggle to gain the upper hand on Baghdad's streets. The Pentagon hopes its current campaign of arrests and arms seizures will convince average Iraqis that militiamen are losing ground. Yet each explosion is another reminder of the militants' resources and resolve. Most of the latest resist­ance has come from Sunni factions, which perceive their Saddam Hussein-era influence slipping away as the majority Shiites extend their political muscle and also faced Sunni ambush­Baghdad -which is key to put up with delays so long bolster ties to powerful es. In Buhriz, about 30 begin stabilizing the rest of as the security sweep Iran. miles northeast of the capi­the country. shows some results after In Baghdad's Dora neigh­tal, Sunni gunmen and sol­A leader of the main bombings that have killed borhood -a longtime diers from the 1st Sunni bloc in parliament, hundreds of civilians this Sunni militant hotbed -Squadron, 12th Cavalry Adnan al-Dulaimi, claimed year. two parked cars wired Regiment engaged in a 20-the U.S.-led sweeps have "We are fed up with with explosives were trig­minute firefight. "started to attack" mostly these stalling words," al­gered as a joint U.S.-Iraqi U.S. Bradley fighting Sunni areas. "It should Jubouri said. "We want patrol rolled past. The con­vehicles fired 25mm concentrate on those who only the security and stabi­voy was unharmed, but the rounds into homes shield­are perpetrating the vio­lization." blast killed at least four ing the gunmen, said an lence and terrorist acts in Mohammed Ali Jassim, a civilians and wounded 15. Associated Press reporter all districts," he said -an 40-year-old Sunni owner of Control of the Dora dis­traveling with the unit. apparent reference to the a spare parts store, was trict, a once upscale neigh­No U.S. casualties were Shiite militia stronghold of hopeful the security plan borhood favored by reported, and the militant Sadr City. will work. Jassim said he Saddam's regime, is impor­toll was not known. Around the capital, U.S. was forced to abandon his tant as a gateway between Separately, however, a U.S. and Iraqi soldiers set up business in one of Baghdad and the Shiite­Marine was killed in com­dozens of roadway check­Baghdad's commercial dominated south. Two bat in Iraq's western points and conducted top­areas, Sinak, where more other car bomb blasts Anbar province, a Sunni to-bottom searches of vehi­than 50 people were kid­came as security forces militant stronghold. cles and motorbikes. napped by gunmen dis­moved through the capital, Even the first steps of the Waiting in a snarl of traffic guised in military uniforms killing at least three civil­security operation display at one blockade, late last year. Jassim 's ians. the sectarian divides com­Mohammed al-Jubouri brother was among the Outside Baghdad, troops plicating any plan to calm said people are willing to victims. 

Pelosi warns against Iran invasion 
Associated Press itself, though, and make it very clear Senate vote on the troop increase, 
that there is no previous authority with Republicans insisting on equal 

WASHINGTON -House Speaker for the president, any president, to treatment for an alternative rules Nancy Pelosi said Thursday that go into Iran." out the "elimination or reduction of President Bush lacks the authority Pelosi spoke in an interview in the funds for troops in the field." to invade Iran without specific Capitol as the House moved through Pelosi and other Democrats have approval from Congress, a fresh a third marathon day of debate on a said approval on the nonbinding challenge to the commander in chief nonbinding measure that disap­measure would mark the first step on the eve of a symbolic vote critical proves of the military buildup in in an effort by the new Democratic­of his troop buildup in Iraq. Iraq while expressing support for controlled Congress to force Bush to 
Pelosi, D-Calif., noted that Bush the troops. change course in a war that has consistently said he supports a Passage of the measure was killed more than 3,100 U.S. troops. diplomatic resolution to differences expected Friday, and across the Bush administration officials and with Iran "and I take him at his Capitol, Senate Majority Leader their allies are resigned to House word." Harry Reid unexpectedly announced passage of the resolution and have 
At the same time, she said, "I do plans to hold a test vote Saturday. worked in recent days to hold down believe that Congress should assert Partisan bickering has prevented a defections by GOP lawmakers. 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 16, 2007 

NO COVER I All AGES WELCOME I NO, SMC, HCC ID REQ'D ILEGENDS.ND.EDU 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Friday, February 16, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 



12,765.01 +23.15
jones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume 1,911 139 1,342 2,497,497,968 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +2.28  +1.00  44.86  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  +0.13  +0.19  145.80  
ONYX PHARM INC (ONXX)  -0.40  -0.10  24.70  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -1.41  -0.09  29.46  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.5 I  -0.024  4.706  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.20  +0.01  5.02  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.46  -0.022  4.804  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.61  -0.029  4.687  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.01  57.9~  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -0.60  671.4C  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -2.35  104.7C  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  119.3951  
EURO  0.761:  
POUND  0.512:  
CANADIAN$  I .164~  

IN BRIEF 
Chrysler restructures, cuts jobs 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -For 13,000 Chrysler workers, Feb. 14 will now be known as the Valentine's Day massacre. 
On Wednesday, Chrysler announced its long-awaited restructuring, which included a 16 percent reduction in its work force, shift reductions, a plant closing and a sur­prise hint that the plan could lead to a DaimlerChrysler divorce. 
The Chrysler plan calls for closing the company's Newark, Del., assembly plant, and reducing shifts at plants in Warren, Mich., and St. Louis. A parts distribution center near Cleveland also will be closed, and reductions could occur at other plants that make components for those facilities. 
Chrysler blamed the wrenching restruc­turing on poor sales after a shift in con­sumer taste from SUVs and trucks to more fuel-efficient vehicles. Workers blamed management. 
Aside from the job cuts, Chrysler's German parent, DaimlerChrysler AG, said it is looking at all options to revive its for­tunes, including partners for the troubled Chrysler. Its chairman wouldn't rule out a possible sale of the U.S. operation. 

Companies accommodate investors 
NEW YORK -Shareholder activists are used to making noise, but not necessarily to being heard by corporate America. This year companies may begin to listen. 
A surprising trend at the start of the proxy season is that companies like Applebee's, Aflac and Home Depot are doing what they can to avoid public fights with investor groups targeting them on issues such as executive pay and board elections. 
That doesn't mean all corporate chief­tains are going to buckle to investors' demands, but many certainly seem more willing to engage in dialogue and quash potential controversy as quickly they can. 
Historically, this hasn't been the time of year where shareholders and corporate executives come together. The springtime proxy season -when both sides advance their agendas ahead of companies' annual meetings -often is when their differences are most clear. 



Domestic companies restructure 
Auto manufacturers announce job cuts to concentrate on competitive models 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Shrink to grow. That's the message from Detroit, where all three of the traditional domestic auto companies have announced thou­sands of job cuts in the hopes of turning red ink to black. 
But they all know they can't cut their way to prof­itability. In the end, they have to build more cars and trucks that people want to buy. These days, that means smaller and more fuel efficient vehi­cles. 
"There's no doubt that the easier part of the two prongs of restructuring is cost-cutting," said Efraim Levy, senior industry ana­lyst with Standard & Poor's. "The hard part is getting the vehicles that consumers want." 
With Chrysler's announcement Wednesday that it will cut 13,000 jobs and shut down one plant and some assembly lines, all the traditional domes­tic manufacturers have downsized considerably in the last two years. Ford Motor Co. will cut up to 38,000 blue-collar jobs and another 14,000 salaried positions. General Motors Corp. has trimmed its salaried ranks and about 35,000 production With many of their new of this sexy appeal of a car U.S. and overseas that jobs. products already in the with this low price," Libby dealers are complaining 
GM alone says it has cut market, several industry said. "You have to have about shortages. about $2,000 from the analysts say the jury is both, and that proves itself Early sales of GM's new cost of building each car. still out on whether the with the Solstice." pickup trucks, the 
All three lost billions last automakers can recover. GM and the others have Chevrolet Silverado and year and were forced to "There are some new to duplicate that success GMC Sierra, also have shrink as expensive gaso­products that have taken with higher-volume vehi­been good, Libby said, line shifted demand from hold and there are others cles like Ford's Fusion, the although the full model trucks and sport utility that are questionable," Saturn Aura and Dodge line is just now reaching vehicles to smaller, more said Tom Libby, J.D. Caliber, Libby said. the showrooms. fuel efficient models, send­Power and Associates' Ford sold 142,502 All of those are bright ing the Big Three on a senior director of industry Fusions last year, gradual­spots, Libby says, but they scramble to come out with analysis. ly growing its share of the fall far short of Toyota's new models to try to Among the successes he midsize market to around Camry, the largest-selling recapture buyers who fled points to is the Pontiac 7 percent. The midsize car in the U.S. with to Asian competitors. Solstice, a niche car that Aura, on the market for 417,104 sold. 
The domestic brands' sits only a short time on only six months, is selling Chrysler's new Sebring market share dropped dealer lots and has sold between 4,000 and 5,000 midsize car, introduced in from more than 70 per­roughly 1,000 to 2,000 per per month, while the October, got a bit of a slow cent in the 1980s to 53.7 month since its introduc­Caliber small SUV, intro­start and will have a tough percent last year, and tion in October 2005. The duced in February 2006, go because Chrysler has Toyota likely will unseat sleek two-seat roadster is sold just over 92,000 last had few successful entries Ford as the No. 2 auto priced around $20,000. year. Demand for it has in the midsize market, seller in the U.S. this year. "You have a combination been so high both in the Libby said. 

Stocks rise after Bemanke' s forecast 
Associated Press Thursday by a report that the jump in unemployment claims last 
world's two largest beermakers, week, a huge drop in industrial out­

NEW YORK -Wall Street extend­InBev SA and Anheuser-Busch, are put in January due to large cutbacks ed its February rally Thursday, considering joining forces. and layoffs in the auto industry, and growing confident that interest rates The bustle of takeover talk cou­weaker-than-expected manufactur­will hold steady even as Federal pled with Bernanke's testimony to ing in the Philadelphia region. Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke Congress have helped send stocks "The Fed is still data-driven, so we tempered his forecast of slowly cool­soaring. Bernanke's comments will be looking at the data in the ing growth and inflation with a Thursday were similar to a day ear­ensuing months," said Jim Herrick, reminder that price pressures lier, but he added that inflation manager of equity trading at Baird remain a concern. could once again pick up, which & Co. "There's a strong possibility 
The Dow Jones industrial average reminded investors that a rate we'll continue this uptrend." stretched its three-day advance to increase isn't out of the question. Also boosting the market were a more than 200 points, the first such That note of caution limited the stock buyback by Caterpillar Inc., an jump since August 15-17 last year, market's climb. analyst upgrade of chip maker and had its second straight record The prospect of a rate hike looked Qualcomm Inc., and Boeing Co. close. The rally, triggered Tuesday pretty dim, however, after most of finalizing an order from United by signs of an uptick in mergers and the economic reports released Parcel Service Inc. for 27 cargo acquisitions, was given new life Thursday. The reports showed a big planes. 


page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 16, 2007 



national attention, she said, women's leadership and 
and has been presented at academic freedom," she
Show 
academic conferences in said -the exact issue that continued from page 1 New York, California and has drawn the Viee -------------Wisconsin. President of Student Affairs into them and make a big "We have been directly Karen Johnson to attend splash." contacted by colleges inter­the weekend performanee. 
While the event has the ested in following our "College campuses are beginnings of a campus tra­model," she said. "In fact, the most appropriate places dition in its third year, one college even requested to share ideas and Woodward acknowledges that we allow them to per­exchange points of view," that not all members of the form some of our mono­she said. "It's all about campus community logues." learning." embrace the annual per­As the monologues high­The learning process formance -something she light the diverse experi­began when College faculty, said she hopes to change. ences of Saint Mary's stu­staff, students and alumnae 
"I would like those who dents, both Pittman and· anonymously submitted may not embrace this type Woodward said the per­their personal storins dur­of performance and dia­formance also works to ing Novnmber, Dncember logue to come with an open demolish stereotypes. and January. mind and heart and truly "The production has a A panel comprised of fac­see this production for potential to open one's eyes ulty, staff and students what it is," she said. to what a Saint Mary's evaluated the 15 submis­
SMC Monologues faculty woman is really all about sions and chose eight new advisor Catherine Pittman and debunk the stereo­monologues for this year's mirrored Woodward's mis­types," Woodward said. performanee, Pittman said. sion of promoting the The SMC Monologues While the audience antiei­necessity of the Monologues were the perfect way for pates eight new mono­within the community -a Woodward to channel her logues, Pittman said somn production she deemed interest in women's issues, of the "classics" from past more powerful than "The she said, and those years will be included in Vagina Monologues." involved with the produc­the performance. 
"On this campus there is tion are "doing nothing "We couldn't do without no better way to learn wrong or immoral. We're the famous 'Valerie about the diversity of Saint telling the stories written Vagina,"' she said. Mary's women's experi­by the community." The performance -spon­ences with their own sexu­Although Pittman sored by l'eminists United ality," she said. acknowledged "the vast and the Women's Hesource 
While Pittman stressed majority of individuals on Center -will takn place "The Vagina Monologues" campus are supportive or Friday and Saturday at 7 are not banned on the neutral about the p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. College campus, she said Monologues," it is the skill­There is a suggested $3 the SMC Monologues' ful writing of the student admission donation for the unique approach has submissions that has S.O.S rape crisis center at received praise from both gained the SMC Monologues Madison Center in South Saint Mary's administration respect amongst the facul­Bend. and Ensler. ty, she said. 
This powerful perform­"Faculty have seen it as a Contact Kelly Meehan at ance has received a lot of production reflecting kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
2007 FORESTER 2.5 X 
AS LOWAS 







$199 





2007 IMPREZA 2.5i Sign & llrlve 


$239 
42 month lease $0 cash down. 
120 W. McKinlev Ave. •MISHAWAKA 
514-256-5421 
experience so widely admired by our poers and so keenly
Tuition 
continued from page 1 
the lowest the University had seen in 40 years at 4.5 percent. 
University President Father John Jenkins announced the tuition hikn to parents and guardians of students returning next year in a letter mailed last week. In the lntter, he nxplainod that Notre Dame nnnded to deal with the "fiscal challenges" facod by all univer­sities. 
lin explained that Notre Dame needed the rnvnnue from higher educational costs to add ross tho "wagns of more than 4,000 University employ­ees" and the "acceleration of tnchnological change." 
Jenkins also attributed the increase to the University's commitment to maintaining oxisting facilities and opening nnw ones, such as the now Jordan II all of Science. 
In the Iotter, Jenkins also affirmod that the University "strives to negotiate those obstacles while continuing to provide the unique educational 


·:.. 
i..:·.'e····
I
Tb. 

cherished by our graduates." 
While addressing the continu­ing concerns parents, University officers and trustees have about finances, Jenkins said that the success of Notre Dame graduates and the high 
retention rate points to  the  
high  performance  of  the  
University.  

The University has a reten­tion rate or 98 percent from freshman to sophomore year. Ninety-six percent of students graduate on time and 99 per­cent of graduates pursuing "jobs, graduate school or vol­unteer service are able to find career opportunities within one ynar or less of graduation," according to a University press release. 
"Beyond graduation, our suc­cess is further demonstrated by the fact that 92 percent of our alumni indicate that they are pleased with their time at Notre Damn and found great value in the experience," Jenkins said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
SUBARU 
GurlevleepSubaru.com 
lmpreza Sign & Drive payments based on $0 cash down. 42 months. 10,000 miles per year plus tax. Forester lease payments based on $1,999 due at signing, 24 months, 10,000 miles per year plus tax. $0 security deposit With approved credit 
----------------. 
Friday, February 16, 2007 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
African nations 


agree with France 
Associated Press 
CANNES, France -Looking to end the crisis in Darfur, France won agreement on Thursday from three involved African nations that they would not sup­port armed rebel movements on each other's territories. 
Sudan, Chad and Central African Republic made the com­mitment in a declaration signed Thursday night, on the sidelines of an African summit that France hosted in the Riviera city of Cannes. 
There were still no signs that Sudan was any closer to agree­ing to a key international demand: that it accept the deployment of U.N. peacekeep­ers in Darfur, its western region where fighting has killed more than 200,000 people since 2003. 
However, French President Jacques Chirac's spokesman hailed the African nations' pledge and their call for contin­ued United Nations and African Union involvement as an indica­tion that they don't want the cri­sis to worsen. 
"We hope that all those who took part in this meeting did so because they don't want the sta­tus quo to establish itself," said the spokesman, Jerome Bonnafont. 
France and other powers fear the Darfur violence is spilling over and could engulf the entire region. Tensions have mounted as Sudan, Chad and Central African Republic accused one another of supporting each other's rebels. 
The mere fact that presidents Omar al-Bashir of Sudan, Idriss Deby of Chad and Francois Bozize of Central African Republic met was in itself seen as noteworthy. 
"There is clear suspicion between the three countries and a clear willingness from African countries, in particular the African Union, and the interna­tiona! community to dispel it," said Bonnafont. 
Whether their pledge would have real significance was open to question. Deby and al-Bashir signed a similar agreement a year ago to normalize diplomatic relations and deny refuge to each other's rebel groups. 
Chad has accused Sudan of backing rebels in the country. Central African Republic also has alleged that Sudan support­ed a rebellion there. Sudan denied both charges and has accused Chad of backing rebels in Darfur. 
More than 200,000 people have been killed and 2.5 million have fled their homes since 2003, when Darfur tribes took up arms against the Sudanese government, accusing it of long neglect and discrimination. The Arab-dominated government responded with a military offen­sive in which the janjaweed mili­tia have committed widespread atrocities. The U.S. government has described the violence as genocide. 
A 7,000-strong African Union peacekeeping force has been trying to quell the ongoing vio­lence, but the force is under­funded and ill-equipped. Al­Bashir rejected a U.N. Security Council resolution calling for 22,000 U.N. peacekeepers to replace the AU force in Darfur. But he also has sent mixed sig­nals about a joint U.N.-AU force. 
The United Nation and African Union envoys to Darfur said on Thursday that they were "encouraged" about prospects for peace in the country's trou­bled region after two days of talks with factions in Sudan. 
The two -U.N.'s special envoy tasked with re-energizing the Darfur peace process, Jan Eliasson, and AU's Salim Ahmed Salim -have been in Sudan this week for meetings with Khartoum officials, rebel leaders and stops in Darfur. 
Do you know about OIS's Summer Programsl Earn ND credits and grades while abroad this summer! 
Summer 2007 only: 
• 
Vienna, Austria 

• 
Paris, France 

• 
Milan, Italy 

• 
Rome, Italy 

• 
Auckland, New Zealand Offered every year: 

• 
Dublin, Ireland 

• 
Puebla, Mexico 

• 
Toledo, Spain 

• 
Kampala, Uganda 

• 
London, United Kingdom 



For more information aHend an Information Session on Tuesday, February 20, at 5:30pm in 131 DeBartolo or visit http://www.nd.edu/-ois/Locations/Locations.html 
The application deadline for most summer programs is March 1, 2007 
Attention 

JUNIORS and SENIORS 
interested in teaching English, researching, or studying abroad for one year after graduation: 
Come to an information meeting on 
FULBRIGHTS 
Monday, February 19 at 7pm or Tuesday, February 20 at 5:30pm 
. 
1n 


If you cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships Office 1OS O'Shag fellows@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, February 16, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 

SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content, 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers, The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed ro Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599-2-4000} is published Monday rhrough Friday exc~pt during exam an4 vaC<~ti~;Jn periods. A suhscripr.Wn ro Tlu: Ob~c:rver i$ $1 0() for one acadcm~c.: year; $55 for one scm~tcr, 
The Obscrvtr is published at: I'OSTMASTEJ>. -024 South Dining Hall Send addres5 correQiom to: 
Notre Dilnle.IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Nom: D.une P.O.Box779 

and addi;1.ional mailing offices. 024 S01.uh Dining Hall 
Nom Dame, IN 46S-:56-0n9 
The Obscrn:r l:s .a mcm~r ofthe: .Mrociated Pr(';S$.. All repmduaion rights are 
<==1. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kate Antonacci Kate Gales 
Becky Hogan Dan Murphy Viewpoint Becky Slinger Kara King Scene 
Graphics Analise Lipari Tom Hanculak 
After debate, inaction can't continue 
When questions arose last spring about sponsorship and against using the words "gay" and "lesbian" in its title. endorsement of potentially controversial studnnt produc­At this point, it's unclear why departments seem hesitant tions, debate erupted. Outraged faculty mnmbers spoutl~d to sponsor. It's possible student organizers just got a slow off against the Univnrsity administration, vnhenwntly start in asking for support. It's possible other priorities are defending academic freedom and the right of acadnmic taking precod1~nt. It's also possible department chairs arc departments to sponsor nvnnts like thn "Thn Vagina engaging in a form of self-censorship, tired of arguing with Monologues." the University about tho place of Eve Ensler's sexually 
Ten weeks later, University Prnsident Fathnr John .Jnnkins explicit play on a Catholic 1~ampus. released a statemnnt intended to close the charged and WhatnvPr the ease, it comes orr as strange that depart­often polarized discussion that he began. That statnnwnt ments wouldn't fully exercise the right they fought so hard said the "Monologues" would not be bannnd on campus, as to protoet. And if that's the future for these productions ­long as they were performed in an aeademie ofT campus, or just unnoticed-it will hurt the
Th

setting with departmental sponsorship. Faculty Ooserver entire University community. members -at least those willing to commnnt As he issued his closing statement last publicly -widely regarded Jonkins' decision spring, Jenkins commended students and fac­
Editorial

as moderate, expressing satisfaction that aca­ulty members for engaging in thoughtful, con­demic freedom was preserved. cerned debate. Unfortunately, that debate now 
So one year later, why are acadnmic departmnnts so slow sooms to bn lost. Maybe the campus is tired. But if Notre to jump on board with the upcoming "Monologues" and Damn lets these soun~es of contention slip under the radar "Qlassies," last weekend's follow-up to both "Gay and -if dopartments aren't willing to sponsor events that gen­Lesbian Film: Filmmakers, Spectatorship and Narratives" erate discussion -everyone loses. and, before that, the Queer Film Festival? Without dialogun and dissent, Notre Dame laeks vibrancy. 
This year's installment of "Tho Vagina Monologues" will It doosn't matter what people think of the "Monologues," or be performed off campus bocause organizors say they can't "Qlassies," or any other student-run event that presents. get sponsorship. And "Qlassies," while supportod linandally ideas in opposition to Church teaching. It just matters that" by the Film, Television and Theatre department and the Cay they think about them. and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Damn and Saint Mary's, undnr­That starts with dopartments, however. And if they don't went a name change because l'aeulty warned organizers remmnbnr why acadnmie freedom is important, no one will. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'Relationship' controversy 
Relationship based on tradition, history 

In response to the Feb. 13 column "Saint Mary's -we noed to talk", Jonathan Klingler does make a valid point. But I have come to wonder what his intentions were. Yes, I would agree that the relationship between No\re Dame and Saint Mary's can be consid­ered "friends with benefits." With that being said, this relationship has lasted many years and has operated in a seem­ingly peaceful co-existence. I believe that this relationship has even become part of the tradition of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Since both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's emphasize the impor­tance of tradition, my one question is, why attack this historical aspect of our schools? 
Laura Mullen freshman Le Mans Hall Feb. 13 
Don't discuss independence, prove it 
In response to the responses to Klingler's thought-provoking article, I would like to applaud the women of Saint Mary's for taking a stand for the integrity of a prestigious women's insti­tution. I believe that Saint Mary's is an upstanding college that produces amaz­ing women. I can vouch for this stato­ment because I have a Saint Mary's roommate of my own. who is absolutely one of my best friends and a fabulous woman. 
In the spirit of these letters, however, I am moved to support Klingler's article, in that it addresses some serious ques­tions that plague most Notre Dame womnn. Thern have been many "unfounded" accusations against Saint Mary's students, daiming that they are able to take advantage of Notrn Dame resources that they may not havn been able to otherwise, while we as Notre Dame students do not reap the same bnnelits, i.e.: Notre Dame classns, foot­ball ticket access, men, dining halls, conecrts, clubs, ete. So, in order to resolve this conflict of opinions, I pro­pose an amiable solution. 
I agree with Anno Mahoney that Saint Mary's should focus on its own unique strengths and build a strong foundation on them. In that spirit, I believe that to be something that most Saint Mary's students would want to uphold. Why not attempt a change'! 
I challenge the fall dass of 2007 to try something new. Show your pride. Take advantage of all that Saint Mary's has to ollcr: refuse Notre Dame football tickets, limit access to your study abroad pro­grams and ()'Laughlin Auditorium, and show the strength of your own sports and clubs. 
Don't get me wrong, I respect Saint Mary's. But if you really advocate for "separate and proud," prove us Domers wrong. I know you can. 
Cristina Munoz semor off campus Feb. 15 

Football tickets worth extra fee 
In reading yesterday's responses, I was most irritated at the football ticket debate. I I ere is a team that, regardless of national ranking or record, sells out every game. For every person sitting in that stadium there are countless who would gladly pay double or more for the opportunity. We are extremely lucky to be given the privilege to buy season tick­ets, a luxury that many other universi­tios don't oll'er students. Of course, Notre Dame students do pay a (constant­ly inereasing) price for the privilege of a Notre Dame edueation. Perhaps this is why I find it a bit aggravating that there are Saint Mary's students with much better seats than my own. 
What really gets me is that Saint Mary's students aet as if they are not being done a generous favor, and if a $60 additional fee is the price they pay for the chance to see Notre Dame foot­ball, they should be willing to pay it and not try and use this policy against Notre Dame. It really bothers me that they would bring up this issue, of all things, in an argument over their contributions to this "partnership." If they don't want to pay the fee, I am sure there are thou­sands of alumni who can fill these seats. 
On a personal note, as a resident of Keenan Hall, I am grateful that Saint Mary's allows us use of O'Laughlin Auditorium for one week each year. We arc charged a fee (which I believe is in excess of $60) and the College maintains the right to censor material it deems unreasonable. Fair enough-we don't complain. But all hard feelings aside, we cannot allow us to lose sight of the fact that they are "separate but proud". I guess they are just less "separate" dur­ing football season. 
Matt Lind sophomore Keenan Hall Feb. 14 

QUOTE OF THE DAYOBSERVER POLL 
What was the most important factor in your vote for student body president? 
%of votes #of votes a. Student Life 37 96 
"Egotism is the anesthetic that dulls the 
pain of stupidity. " 

b. Community relations 5 12 
c. Student government experience 8 20 
d 
Frank Leahy 

d. Other 15 40 
former Notre Dame football coach
e. I didn't vote. 35 92 This poll is based on the result of 260 
votes at http://www.ndsmcobserver.corn! 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, February 16, 2007 page 11 
A winning strategy for both Hillary, Rudy 
Americans have become as outra­geously fickle with political specifics as they are forgetful of generalities. This primary presidential election cycle is rampant with negativity. More often voters cling onto insignificant impressions of can­didates while ignor­ing the overall breadth of a candi­date's character and background. Pollsters call this the beer choice ­which candidate would you prefer to be with to drink a beer. 
Ironically, the primary system is as fickle. Retired General Wesley Clark lost the Democratic nomination in 2004, simply by entering the campaign late and missing the Iowa caucuses. Conflicted Iowa Democrats sought a nominee with strong military creden­tials to combat terrorists, but also wanted someone who opposed the inva­sion of Iraq. Before Iowa, Senator John Kerry's campaign floundered on virtual life support while former Governor Howard Dean had yet to implode. As the nation's first contest, Iowa voted for the only military choice on the ballot which gave great momentum to Kerry's lifeless campaign. The rest is history. 
As the U.S. House of Representatives concludes its debate today with a vote to disagree with President Bush's new military "surge" tactic, Senator Hillary 

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 
Clinton finds herself on the defensive against hard-core antiwar Democrats. Similarly, former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani fends off Republican con­servatives who oppose his co-called "liberal" stands regarding abortion and gay rights. Coincidentally, both Clinton and Giuliani have an identical yet per­fectly legitimate answer -they are New Yorkers. 
New Hampshire Democrats recently peppered Clinton in search of an apolo­gy. They wanted her to admit that her vote in favor of authorizing the presi­dent to go to war with Iraq was a mis­take. Clinton replies that she "regrets" her vote and "takes responsibility for her vote," but that the president "mis­led and mismanaged" the war effort. She further proclaims that if she was president at the time, she "would not have gone to war." 
Clinton's firsthand experience in the White House gives her a view of presi­dential reality from the other side of the looking glass. In her mind, a presi­dent needs and deserves the authority to light aggression. She is correct to assert that as president she would not have marched to war because she would have no neo-conservatives mas­saging intelligence to invade Iraq. However, to the dismay of staunchly antiwar Democrats who fixate on noth­ing less than an apology, she will not admit that her vote was a mistake. 
Clinton need not apologize. Other senators whose votes reek of cowardly personal political expediency fell prey to the patriotic orgy whipped up by the White House. Clinton, on the other hand, had no choice but to rally New York with her vote. None could criticize her when she represented the land which cradled the World Trade Center's human remains and smoldering wreck­age. 

Giuliani faces a similar Hepublican onslaught of criticism and cynicism, but over his domestic stands on gay rights and a woman's right to choose an abor­tion. His critics come primarily from the Jerry Falwell self-proclaimed social conservative wing of the party who high jacked the party a quarter century ago by defining "conservatism" with a Baptist-twisted political bent. Yet Giuliani is not the only Republican in their cross hairs. They also distrust Senator John McCain's motives and harbor negative feelings that stem from his 2000 campaign. 
Interestingly, the godfather of modern conservatism, the late Arizona Senator Barry Goldwater whose seat ironically McCain currently holds, never ascribed to Falwell's type of conservatism. Rather, Goldwater's sensible beliefs lie in limited government-so limited that it recognizes everyone's personal equality and freedom, including gay rights and a woman's right to an abor­tion. 
Giuliani, however, can use Clinton's exact response. Giuliani is a New Yorker who presided over an inclusive and tolerant city. He became America's mayor when his city and our nation survived a tragedy. Republican voters should not ignore Giuliani's evenhand-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Kaleidoscope McDaniels proves its poor taste 
I am happy to be living in a country where one's freedom of speech is closely guarded. Yet there comes a point when a publication must decide which speech must be permitted and which speech simply does not advance any good but rather is harmful. In the case of one comic strip featured in The Observer, I feel this time has come. 
I am referring to Kaleidoscope McDaniels, the comic strip by Liam Moran which debuted this spring semes­ter. The strip often toes the line of acceptability, and it is in fact this very pushing of the envelope that provokes shock and therefore laughter. Readers cannot help but recall Jockular, the comic by Erik Powers and Alex White which often pushed this same envelope. Many readers took offense at this strip, and its very offensiveness became its comic drive. 
Yet readers deserve something more. The comic strip is a kind of incidental, bonus feature of the paper, but it does serve an important role. It can poke fun at the goings on of student life on cam­pus in a way few other genres can. Some may remember Fourth and Inches, a strip from a few years ago, which often struck a chord with students because of its careful observation of life on campus. The truly talented artist's work is capa­ble of being humorous in such a way that draws upon the reader's experience and "tells it like it is." 
I and many others feel that Kaleidoscope McDaniels simply does not do this. Its use of concepts and refer­ences bordering on the obscene or -at the very least -illegal or immoral seeks to draw a laugh through its shock value. For example, on Jan. 25, I saw a girl in the South Dining Hall lobby point to the comic and say, "I can't believe they'd print that." Picking up a newspaper, I noticed Kaleidoscope McDaniels which was depicting a character obviously rep­resenting Fr. Jenkins smoking a joint of marijuana in Uganda, referring to the recent McAlarney incident. Is this humor, or simply the theatre of the ridiculous? What is the difference between shock and libel? 
The recent comic about the Eating Disorder Conference is another example, which Eleanor Bradley responds to in her Feb. 9 letter, "Conference appreciat­ed, jokes aren't." I assume the author did not intend to attack people who have eating disorders, or even to make fun of them, but when playing with fire, one often gets burned. A publication must ask itself if this kind of humor is really helpful to the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community, or if it rather does more harm than good. It is really a matter of what kind of publication the Observer aspires to be and what standards it wishes to set. Tabloids, of course, pub­lish things far worse than this comic strip. Is that where our student newspa­per is headed? 
VuNguyen freshman Alumni Hall Feb. 14 
ed administration, nor the immense breadth of his skills by foolishly follow­ing Falwell's narrow rhetorical red her­rings. 
No candidate, nor anyone in this nation who advocates equality, will force Falwell to marry same sex cou­ples. Luckily, today's generation of col­lege students will within 20 years ulti­mately squash the narrow-minded tac­tics of the Falwells in this country. Students today accept domestic rights for gays as well as interracial dating and marriage. Moreover, they flock to Senator Barack Obama's presidential campaign because they hold little of the prejudices of older generations. 
New Yorkers Clinton and Giuliani need never apologize for representing a progressive constituency who cherish freedom, tolerance and acceptance. Democrats should focus on Clinton's experience and ability to sidestep on­the-job training. Republicans should weigh their candidates' experiences without patronizing the fringes of their party. It is true that if you make it in New York, you can make it anywhere. Clinton and Giuliani both have the right stuff. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame 73, is a political strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Klingler, let's talk 
As committed members of the Saint Mary's College community, we feel it is necessary to respond to Jonathan Klingler's article. ("Saint Mary's-we need to talk," Feb. 13) Aside from the article's factual inaccuracies, we are confused by the author's spiteful attitude toward Saint Mary's autonomy. While we recognize the resources Notre Dame offers to the South Bend community, the endeavors and accomplish­ments of Saint Mary's should not be slighted nor depreciated. 
The Princeton Review recently ranked Saint Mary's a top Midwestern college. U.S. News and World Report has ranked Saint Mary's the No. 1 Comprehensive College in the Midwest for 12 of the past 13 years. There are currently three Saint Mary's alumnae serving in the United States House of Representatives. Last year, Saint Mary's offered nearly $27 million in scholarships to ninety percent of the stu­dent body. 
The average class size of 15 fosters intellectual collaboration between students and professors, including SISTAR grants for shared summer research. Our nursing, education and social work programs are nationally recognized and accredited. Saint Mary's offers unique academic courses such as medicinal chemistry, humanistic studies and women's studies. 
In addition to our enriching academic environment, Saint Mary's is dedicated to social awareness and community involvement. Student leaders organize and host the annual Dance Marathon fundraiser for Riley Children's Hospital. The Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership offers funding for study abroad programs, self-designed student projects and Bridging Grants with the South Bend community. The Office of Civic and Social Engagement facilitates volunteer work with S.O.S., The Women's Care Center, YWCA and St. Margaret's House, giving Saint Mary's women a heightened social consciousness of the needs and talents of all women. 
A healthy relationship includes both individual expression and mutual respect. To avoid perpetuating the cycle of fruitless articles that fail to wholly represent either institution, we would like to pro­pose a forum where we could dialogue in greater depth. We have only one question: your place or ours? 
Grace Guebert Kirsten Kensinger Rachael Stowe seniors Saint Mary's Feb. 13 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 

Friday, February 16, 2007 

By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 

Editor's Note: This is the fifth in a five­part series on the 2007 Oscar nominees for Best Picture. 
"The Queen" is much like the British Royal Family itself-elegant and old-fash­ioned, but with an air of importance and respectability that makes it impossible to ignore. It has been an overwhelming criti­cal success (it rests among the best reviewed films of the year), and is a legiti­mate contender for the Best Picture Oscar. 
While Princess Diana never appears as a character (except through archive footage), the pall of her shadow hangs heavily over "The Queen." The film explores the days after the death of Princess Di, deeply exam­ining how the royal family dealt with the tragedy. Though the royal family believes that private mourning is appropriate, the public demands an outward display of emotion. Protocol and tradition clash with the need for progressive modernity, and it is up to Elizabeth II (Helen Mirren) to com­promise with Prime Minister Tony Blair (Michael Sheen) in order to maintain the family's respectability and relevance. 
The Queen 
Director: Stephen Frears Writer: Peter Morgan Starring: Helen Mirren, James Cromwell and Michael Sheen 

"The Queen" is not, primarily, a film about politics. Instead, it is a simple (though not simplistic) story about the tear of change. In abandoning the political for the personal, director Stephen Frears pro­vides great insight into a woman whose entire life revolves around tradition, and the anguished struggle she faces in poten­tially breaking that tradition. It is this focus that elevates "The Queen" and allows it to transcend its origins -many films like this feel like award fodder, but "The Queen" has more on its mind, and its breadth in expressing itself is remarkable. 
Helen Mirren has essentially already locked up the Best Actress Oscar race with this film, as she gives a pitch-perfect per­formance as Elizabeth II. Balancing her loyalty to tradition with an understanding for the need to change and modernize, Mirren manages to humanize Elizabeth and give dimension to the Queen's seem­ingly impenetrable exterior. Michael Sheen is quite good as Tony Blair, and James "That'll Do, Pig" Cromwell is memorable as the curmudgeonly Prince Philip. 
Frears' directing is excellent, and he intercuts real-life footage with the film quite well. There is very little flash to his directorial style, but his restraint and con­trol are remarkable. There are several occasions in which he seems to instinctively know that the writing and acting will carry a scene, letting the material guide itself . 
"The Queen" is a bit heavy on symbol­ism, but its understated style fits the mate­rial quite well and prevents it from feeling too overwrought. It is to the filmmakers' credit that they never let the film drag, which may account for its relative brevity. At 97 minutes, "The Queen" is a lean and 
fiLM, HISTORY MAKE COMPLICATED BEDFELLOWS 

effective picture that doesn't overstay its welcome. It would be easy for a film like this to become ostentatiously bloated, but Frears is smart enough not to let it get bogged down -it remains focused throughout, and the director is smart enough to allow Mirren to dominate almost every scene. Thus, thankfully, the film feels much less pretentious than might be expected. The characters are fully fleshed out, and none of them feel like caricatures. Screenwriter Peter Morgan has an ear for dialogue, making even the most formal of language sound natural and comprehensi­ble, and the acting is top-notch throughout. 
A film like "The Queen" is difficult to make, if only because the event is still so recent. Yet Frears' film hits all the right notes -it's a human story about a person struggling to accept a changing world, and the filmmakers and Mirren clearly under­stand this. That "The Queen" is a good film is itself a feat, but that it is a great film is nothing less than an extraordinary accom­plishment. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of mov1ewer1.com 
Director Oliver Stone's "World Trade Center" is one of several films to chronicle recent events. The contemporary subject matter complicates the film's perspective. 
Thus, it becomes much more difficult difficult film to assess on its cinematic to judge such films based on their cine­merits alone. Like "Schindler's List" or matic merits alone, and it becomes "Saving Private Ryan," to criticize the even more difficult to discern how movie seems to be criticizing the con­audience reactions are affected by time tent, which is especially difficult con­and context. sidering the sensitive (and rightfully so) 
For example, would "Titanic" have nature of the stories and history associ­been as successful, or perhaps even ated with those films. It is important to more successful, had the film been detach from the context and judge the made only a few years after the boat film itself, because different movies can actually sunk? Or did the passage of approach the same topic from a variety 
time  radically  of angles.  
change our  percep­ For  example,  both  
tion  of the  event,  Wzthout the context ofan  "United 93" and "World  
allowing the love story between Leo and Kate -rather than the sinking  event so close to our time, [the films] simply become historical movies, without  Trade Center" deal with 9/11, but each does so in its own way. The former takes a stark, almost doc­ 
itself ­to dominate the film? Fifty years from now, audiences will look at films like  contemporary perspectives weighing them down  umentary-style approach to the subject matter, while the latter is more characteristic of tradition­al Hollywood -style story­ 
"The  Queen"  and  telling.  While  the  

"Black Hawk Down" much differently. strengths and weaknesses of each film Without the context of an event so may be categorized within the context close to our time, they simply become of the tragedy, this is not, ultimately, historical movies, without contempo­how we should assess a picture. rary perspectives weighing them down. History grants clarity, and distance 
This detachment allows for much from an event will allow us to see it greater critical clarity -today's audi­much more clearly. As Elizabeth II ences can easily see that both makes clear to Tony Blair in director "Triumph of the Will" (a 1933 Nazi Stephen Frears' film, time will tell how propaganda film) and "Birth of a history views Her Majesty -so too will Nation" (a 1915 film that celebrates the time tell how history views "The Ku Klux Klan) are technical marvels, Queen." but morally reprehensible. 
"The Queen" is no doubt a great movie, but its contemporary subject Contact Brian Doxtader at matter and modern content make it a bdoxtade@nd.edu 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 

Princess Diana's passing was less than a decade ago, yet already "The Queen" is in theaters. All of the princi­ple characters in the film (Elizabeth II, Prince Philip, Prince Charles and Tony Blair) are all still alive, which gives the film a much different historical feel than it might otherwise maintain. Because the event is so recent, it's almost impossible to give "The Queen" a fully historical perspective, especially since we equate "history" with events that occurred long ago. 
Though numerous films are made 
about real-life events, they often feel much different when made so soon after the event has taken place -this is perhaps why they often strike a chord with audiences. A film like "United 93," made only five years after 9/11, resonates much differently to a contemporary audience than it would had it been made years from now. 
Similarly, a movie like "All the President's Men," which follows the Watergate investigation, was made in 1976, only a few short years after the scandal itself -for American audi­ences in 1976, the event itself was still very fresh. This contextualizes the film in a much different way than it would with a more detached audience. 

,--------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, February 16, 2007 
page 13 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
1 Rash0mon' showcases complex storytelling 
CD REVIEW 
Mitchell's latest appeals to fans of modern folk 

By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Some music rocks, some displays bril­liant composition and some is perfect for spending a rainy day sitting and looking out a window. Ana"is Mitchell's latest album, "The Brightness," is definitely of the third variety. 
With her girlish, innocent voice, com­plemented by piano and folk melodies, her songs calm listeners and remind them that electric guitars are not always the best option. Appropriately released on Ani DiFranco's Righteous Babe Records, Mitchell presents an authentici­ty and quiet passion absent in so many modern records. 
The two opening tracks on "The Brightness" tweak the listening process by slowly delving into emotional catastro­phe and then ending abruptly. Any form of catharsis is denied, a tactic that keeps ears perked and leaves the listener won­dering what comes next when the final emotional release is expected. The sound may create an auditory experience simi­lar to listening to any random folk recording out today. However, Mitchell does delve into cliche at times, as she calls herself a "beautiful fly on the wall" in the album's third track, "Namesake." Contradictions like this abound through­out the album, making it a prime exam­ple of first-class song writing that is both familiar and alien at the same time. 
Songs such as "Shenandoah" lilt through their melodies as guitars are gently plucked and notes are sung. Bringing to mind an association with nature that melds perfectly with folk melody chains on the album. This may sound like some form of hippie-minded technique from New England (Mitchell is a Vermont native), but the sincerity inherent in Mitchell's vocal style quickly discounts any political haranguing except to the most cynical. 
One track in particular, however, chal­lenges modern political situations. "Song of the Magi" makes references to the birth of Jesus in what is now the West Bank. Pulling imagery from both the Bible and the modern reality of the West Bank today, she weaves a story about 
shepherds pray­ing and passing by checkpoints. Mitchell does crawl meander­ingly on top of her soapbox with a political mes­sage decrying vio­lence in the region, but she alludes to a gen­eral belief in non­violence that mostly refrains from taking sides. 

By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
A twisting narrative that retells the same story from several different perspec­tives, 1951's "Rashomon" ("'n the Woods") was notable for its innovative storytelling style. The first of legendary director Akira Kurosawa's major works, "Rashomon" was a huge international success and, essentially, put the filmmaker on the glob­al map. 
The film follows three men in 12th cen­tury Japan -a woodcutter (Takashi Shimura), a bandit (Toshiro Mifune) and a priest (Minoru Chiaki) -who take refuge during a rainstorm. As the men begin talking, they retell of a bizarre trial that involves a murdered 
man and a rape victim Rashomon contrasted with -and, as it turns out, 
some of the direc­the bandit is the tor's later works, accused. All three which tend to be involved in the trial much lengthier.Director: Akira Kurosawa retell their version of Kurosawa's famed
•

Writers: Ryunosuke Akutagawa 
the story (the murdered "The Seven 
(short story) and Akira Kurosawa 
man through a psychic Samurai," for exam­
Starring: Toshiro Mifune, Takashi 
medium), each of which ple, runs 204 min­
Shimura and Minoru Chiaki
is equally plausible, utes. Kurosawa co-
though the truth seems to lie somewhere in between. The woodcutter, however, has secrets of his own, which are slowly revealed over the course of the film. 
An intriguing rumination on human nature, "Rashomon" is a deeply philo­sophical piece, matched only by Kurosawa's "Ikiru" in terms of elegant hum~nism. Kurosawa has a lot to say regarding the complexities of the human condition, especially in the wake of World War II, but he cloaks his ideas in the film's plotting, which is fascinating and engag­ing throughout the work. 
"Rashomon" is anchored by the per­formance of Kurosawa muse Toshiro Mifune, who remains the ultimate inter­preter of the director's narratives. Kurosawa's energetic directorial style meshes synergistically with Mifune's strong performance, lending to some truly powerful scenes. 
The director's style and sense of com­position are both on full display here, and the story is among the most intriguing and humanistic in Kurosawa's oeuvre. At a mere 83 minutes, "Rashomon" moves at a remarkably quick and energetic pace, 
especially when 
wrote, directed and 
edited the film him­self, adapting it from a short story by Ryunosuke Akutagawa. 
The influence of "Rashomon" is incal­culable, with its long-lasting impact being felt in a wide gamut of films, froin "The Usual Suspects" to "Hero." Those two films in particular, for example, elect to use a similar . twisting narrative style to 

courtesy Famed Japanese director Akira Kurosawa's 1950 film "Rashomon" profiles the murder of a samurai from four different points of view in 12th century feudal Japan. 
that featured in "Rashomon." As a direc­tor, Kurosawa's influence is felt by almost every major figure in modern filmmaking, to the extent that Sergio Leone's "For a Fistful of Dollars" is based on "Yojimbo" and George Lucas' "Star Wars" is loosely based on "The Hidden Fortress." His par­ticular brand of swashbuckling swordplay and elegant philosophy, however, remain nearly unparalleled. 
Kurosawa would go on to do bigger and arguably better things -among them the masterpieces "Ikiru" (1952), "The Seven Samurai" (1954), "Yojimbo" (1961) and "Ran" (1985)-but "RashOmon" was the director's critical breakthrough. It won the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival in 1951, bringing a new global awareness to Japanese cinema. Along with Yasujiro Ozu, Kurosawa remains one -­of the great Japanese directors. His skills are in rare form throughout "RashOmon," which is inarguably his first masterpiece. 
"Rashomon" will be screened on Saturday at 3pm in the Browning Cinema of the DPAC as part of the PAC Classic 100. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at hdoxtade@nd.edu 
courtesyof Singer-songwriter Anais Mitchell further develops her folk stylings with her latest release, "The Brightness." The album exemplifies folk's characteristic simplicity. 
Rather, Mitchell calls for a return to the concept of nonviolence that many say Jesus delivered. 
"Hobo's Song" is the most energetic track on the album -if any of the tracks can be labeled "energetic"-that adds a bluegrass mix to the pervasive folk aes­thetic. The lyrics are well wrought, but Mitchell's vocal stylizations don't mix as well with the song's bluegrass elements. Her voice is far more conducive to the album's overall neo-folk feel. Rather than trying to sound punchy, Mitchell would do well to keep to her folk-minded war­bling and leave the bluegrass to those with the graver voices. 
Mitchell thrives with a style of acoustic strumming and singing that trickles across the notes like a stream over peb­bles. Those of more rock-minded musical persuasions, however, might want to look elsewhere. For listeners seeking to expand their horizons and explore music that may never see a radio dial (because it's too good), "The Brightness" is an excellent choice. The first half of the album is for the melancholy in us all, and the latter half piques intellectual interest as the songwriting delves into more com­plex and complicated themes and images. "The Brightness" is a well-made album from this rising folk star. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 16, 2007 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Langhorne leads No.6 Maryland over FSU 
points -the freshman's first
Top-ranked Duke has 
double-figure game since no trouble with BC; December and just her fourth all season -on 7 -for-8 shooting UGA wins in overtime in 10 minutes. At one point, Mitchell scored 10 straight Associated Press points for Duke, helping the Blue Devils take a 36-19 lead on 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Crystal a putback with 5:55 left in the Langhorne scored 14 points and half. grabbed a dozen rebounds and sixth-ranked Maryland defeated Middle Tennessee State 66 Florida State 7 4-60 on Thursday Florida International 59 night. Chrissy Givens scored 17 
Marissa Coleman and Kristi points and had nine rebounds to Toliver also had 14 points to lead No. 17 Middle Tennessee to pace Maryland's balanced scor­a victory over Florida ing attack. Shay Doron adding International. 12 and Laura Harper had 11 The Blue Raiders (24-3, 16-0 points and 12 rebounds. Sun Belt Conference) won their 
With the win, the Terrapins 21st straight game, the second­took sole possession of third longest active streak in the place in the Atlantic Coast nation behind No. 1 Duke, Conference. which is 27-0. 
Maryland (25-3, 9-3 ACC) took MTSU was able to hold off the lead for good at 38-35 on several Golden Panthers' runs Toliver's 3-point basket 2:35 in the second half after building into the second half and built it a 21-point lead with 17:47 to double digits with 10:02 left remaining. on a mid-range jumper by Marquita Adley scored a Toliver, who leads the country in game-high 23 points to lead 3-point shooting percentage. Florida International (15-9, 9­
Florida State, which lost to 6). Adley hit 10 of 11 from the No. 2 North Carolina 80-59 on field and grabbed seven Monday night, led 30-29 at the rebounds. She scored eight half. Maryland made just 2 of 8 points as part of a 26-11 run, tries from 3-point range and cutting the Blue Raiders' lead to missed 6 of 7 free throws before 55-49 with 6:37 left. the break. Middle Tennessee used a 9-3 
The Seminoles (18-8, 7-4) had run over the next three minutes their last lead at 35-33 on a to push its lead back to 12. jump shot by Alicia Gladden, Givens led three Blue Raiders who led Florida State with 13 in double digits. Amber Holt points. Britany Miller added 12 scored 15 and Krystle Horton Kentucky's Sam Mahoney (7-20, 1-13) with 18 points, and pushed Purdue's lead back to despite being in foul trouble all added 12, including 10 in the missed a jumper and Hardrick Kristin Cartwright, Beth five. Wisdom-Hylton blocked night. second half, and nine rebounds. was fouled grabbing the Marshall and Julie Bielawski Benson's 3-point attempt before 
Maryland's losses are all to Middle Tennessee never rebound, sending her to the line added 10 apiece. Gearlds capped the win with ACC opponents -unbeaten, trailed in the game. The Blue for two free throws with 10.4 Lucas-Perry had scored three two free throws. top-ranked Duke, once-beaten Raiders hit their first five 3-seconds left. more points than the Michigan, which led by one at No. 2 North Carolina and point attempts, building a 24-11 Hardrick made both giving Northwestern team late in the halftime, led 47-45 with 4:03 Georgia Tech. lead with 11:32 remaining in Georgia a 66-64 lead before first half. But the Wildcats remaining after Ta'Shia Walker 
the first half. Kentucky's Carly Ormerod made scored the last eight points of broke a tie with two free Duke 73, Boston College 52 a driving layup with 5.1 seconds the period to get to 36-24 and throws. But Gearlds and 
Freshman Bridgette Mitchell Georgia 82, Kentucky 72 (OT) left to tie it at 66-66. dominated the last 20 minutes Wisdom-Hylton scored the next scored a season-high 20 points Tasha Humphrey had a game­On the Bulldogs' last posses­by shooting 64 percent from the four points, giving Purdue a to lead top-ranked Duke past high 28 points and 10 rebounds sion in regulation, Hardrick field. two-point lead. Boston College. as No. 11 Georgia survived with missed a turnaround jumper Northwestern cut the 
Wanisha Smith added 13 an victory against. forcing overtime. Spartans' lead to 60-58 and 62-Ohio State 83, Wisconsin 57 points for the Blue Devils (27-0, Humphrey had 12 points in Mahoney finished with a 60, only to have Lucas-Perry hit Jessica Davenport hit her 12-0 Atlantic Coast Conference), the first half and scored 10 of team-high 23 points and Elliott a pair of free throws each time average with 19 points and who have won at least 12 con­Georgia's first 13 points. had 17 for the Wildcats, who to help Michigan State win its Ashlee Trebilcock broke out of a ference games for 10 straight Five different Bulldogs scored had four players score in double fifth straight game and remain slump with 15 to lead No. 4 seasons, an ACC record. in double figures and in over­figures. unbeaten in February. Ohio State past Wisconsin. 
The Blue Devils now turn time as Georgia outscored Marscilla Packer added 15 their attention toward a chal­Kentucky 16-6 in the extra peri­Michigan State 68 Purdue 59, Michigan 54 points and Star Allen had 14 for lenging final week of the regular od. Northwestern 63 Katie Gearlds scored 21 points the Buckeyes (24-1, 13-0), who season. Duke travels to sixth­Georgia's Janese Hardrick fin­Victoria Lucas-Perry had 19 of and Lindsay Wisdom-Hylton lead the Big Ten raee by two ranked Maryland on Sunday, ished with 12 points, six of them her 25 points in the first half added 19, leading No. 16 games with three games then returns home to face sec­in overtime. and Michigan State held on to Purdue to a victory over remaining. ond-ranked North Carolina on The Bulldogs (22-5, 9-3 beat Northwestern. Michigan. Davenport, a two-time All­Feb. 25. All three teams made Southeastern Conference), who Lucas-Perry hit seven of her Gearlds' 3-pointer with a American and two-time Big Ten the Final Four last season. led by as many as 11 points in first eight shots, inducting four minute remaining gave Purdue player of the year, and Packer 
Kathrin Ress scored 16 points the second half, have won three 3-pointers, but the 24th-ranked (22-5, 11-2 Big Ten) a 55-50 did most of their damage in the for the Eagles (12-13, 2-9). straight games. Spartans (20-6, 11-2 Big Ten) load after Wisdom-IIylton had first half as the Buckeyes over­
The Eagles had ended a four­The Wildcats (16-11, 5-7) took let a 20-point lead dwindle to broken a 50-50 tie. came a sluggish start to build a game losing streak with a win their only lead in overtime, 70-two twice in the final minutes. Carly Benson, who led double-digit lead at the break. against Miami last weekend, but 69, when Sarah Elliott made a Allyssa DeHaan added 12 Michigan {10-16, 3-10) with 15 Wisconsin's Jolene Anderson trailed the entire way in this one jumper, but the Bulldogs points and three blocks for the points, drew the Wolverines to came in as the reigning Big Ten and never threatened Duke's answered with seven straight Spartans, and Aisha Jefferson within three with a late basket, player of the week and the sec­perfect record. points. had 1 0 points. but FahKara Malone's free ond-leading scorer in the con­
By halftime, Mitchell had 14 Tied 64-64 in regulation, A.J. Glasauer led tho Wildcats throws with 21.7 seconds ference. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classilleds for contelll without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
Condo For Sale in SB 2 bdrm twnhse great condition & neighbor· hood new sunroom call 269·445· 2765. $93,000 
2001 MERCURY GRAND MARQUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCEL­LENT CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE OWNER,$6,500. 
CALL 243·5454. 

Quality Beef raised by ND grad std & lam on small farm. Low price per lb on 1/4,1/2 or whole cow. 419· 894·6718 after 5pm 

FoR RENT 
House available for 2007·2008. Very Large, Close to Campus, Just 
Renovated. 
Contact MacSwain@gmail.com 
andersonNDrentals.com 
Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4 bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. $600/Bed/mo. 574·360·2569. 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. BUM· BACAHOUSES offers you the stu­dent big savings for 1 ,2 or 3 yr. lease. Super clean. Visit our web site and compare us to the competi­lion. Call Cosima 277-1875. 
Leases available for 2007·08: 3.4,5 bdrm,3 bath homes,frpls,2·car 
garages. Call574-232·4527 or 269·683· 5038. 

BETTER HOMES,BETTER AREAS,BETTER DEALS. 
BlueGoldRentals.com 
Room for rent in huge home 1 block east of campus. Very clean, safe & private. 
Great student price. 239·707-2025. 

PERSONAL 
Happy National Almond Day! 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 

If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1· 7819. 
For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart· ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi· weekly ad in The Observer. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME· ONE WHO IS? 

You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confi­dential hotline at 
1-800-No-ABORT or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 

COMMON SENSE COMPUTER repair,clean-up,reload, data back· up. Student discount. 1.5 mi. from ND 728 E. Colfax 574·217·8851 
.--------------------­





OUND THE NATION 
Friday, February 16, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE ()HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 15 

NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pts. last 10 
New Jersey 35-16-6 76 7-2-1 Pittsburgh 30·17-9 69 9-0-1 NY Islanders 27-22-8 62 5·1-4 NY Rangers 27-24-5 59 4-5·1 Philadelphia 15-33-8 38 4·2·4 
Eastern Conference, Northest Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Buffalo 38-15·4 80 6·4·0 Ottawa 33·22-3 69 6·3·1 Montreal 29-24·6 64 2-7-1 Toronto 27·22-8 62 6·2:-2 Boston 26·25·4 56 4-6·0 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Atlanta 30·21·9 69 3-6-1 Tampa Bay 32-24-2 66 8·2·0 Carolina 29·23-7 65 4-4-2 Florida 22·26·11 55 5-4-1 Washington 23·26·8 54 3-6-1 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Nashville 39-16·3 81 6-4-0 Detroit 37-16-6 80 7·2·1 St. louis 23·26-9 55 4-5-1 Chicago 22-27-8 52 5·4·1 Columbus 22-30-5 49 5-5-0 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Vancouver 32-21-4 68 5-2-3 Calgary 30-19-8 68 4·2·4 Minnesota 3H2-5 67 6·2·2 Edmonton 28-25-4 60 5·5·0 Colorado 27-25-4 58 4-5-1 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Anaheim 33-16·8 74 3-7-0 San Jose 36·20·1 73 4-5·1 Dallas 34-21-2 70 6·3·1 Phoneix 25-30-2 52 4-6·0 Los Angeles 19-31-9 47 3-4-3 
NCAA Tennis Div. I Women's Standings 
team points prev. 
1 Stanford 748 2 
2 NOTRE DAME 736 3 
3 Georgia Tech 724 1 
4 Florida 722 4 
5 usc 720 5 
6 Northwestern 699 6 
7 North Carolina 684 7 
8 Miami 672 9 
9 California 667 10 
10 Baylor 653 11 
11 Duke 647 12 
12 William &Mary 640 25 
13 Clemson 631 15 
14 vcu 628 13 
15 UCLA 622 16 
around the dial 
PGA TOUR 
2007 Nissan Open 3 p.m., GOLF 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Cornell at Princeton 7 p.m., ESPNU 
MLB 


Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. ­Barry Bonds finally signed his $15.8 million, one-year deal Thursday, ending more than two months of wrangling between the slugger and the San Francisco Giants over con­tract language. 
With both sides satisfied, Bonds is scheduled to report Monday to spring training. IIe is likely to par­ticipate in the Giants' first full-squad workout Tuesday. 
"I expect he will be ready to go," general manager Brian Sabean said. 
The 42-year-old Bonds is 22 homers shy of breaking Hank Aaron's career record of 755. 

Bonds' deal was approved by the commis­sioner's office. His agent, Jeff Borris, and the Giants reached a preliminary agreement on Dec. 7. 
The team announced the deal Jan. 29 and Bonds did an interview via conference call. But he never signed the contract, and problems developed. 
At issue were specifics about what would happen if Bonds were to be indicted or face further legal trou­ble, along with details about a personal-appear­ance provision that was rejected by the commis­sioner's office. 
IN BRIEF 

Yankees's J!eneral partner
arrested for DUI 

lARGO, Fla. -George Steinbrenner's son-in-law and designated successor to run the New York Yankees was arrested early Thursday for suspicion of driving under the influence. 
Yankees general partner Steve Swindal was arrested by the St. Petersburg Police at 4:26 a.m., according to a copy of the charge report posted on the Pinellas County Sherriff's Office's Web site. He was booked for a misdemeanor and released at 9:53 a.m. on $250 bond. 
"Mr. Swindal apologizes profusely for this distraction during the Yankees' spring training and no further comment will be made until this is resolved," said Steinbrenner's spokesman, Howard Rubenstein. 
The 52-year-old Swindal, who lives in Tampa, is married to Steinbrenner's daughter, Jennifer, and has taken an increasingly active role in running the Yankees. In June 2005, Steinbrenner said Swindal would eventually succeed him. 
The Giants sent revised documents to Borris, which Bonds signed Thursday. Only the personal-appear­ance provision was deleted from the deal, two baseball officials said. They spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation. 
A federal grand jury is investigating whether Bonds perjured himself when he testified in 2003 in the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative steroid distri­bution case that he hadn't knowingly taken any per­formance-enhancing drugs. 
Bonds long has denied knowingly using steroids. Bonds will fill the final spot on the team's 40-man 
roster, which had stood at 39 after catcher Mike Matheny went on the vol­untary retirement list with a concussion. 
The seven-time NL MVP has been working out all offseason at UCLA and appears as healthy as ever, according to the Giants, Bonds' trainer and his agent. He had arthroscopic surgery on his troublesome left elbow after the 2006 season. 
After missing all but 14 games in 2005 following three operations on his right knee, Bonds batted .270 with 26 homers and 77 RBis and drew 115 walks in 130 games last year. 

Gasqnt:t Baghdatis advance 
to quarmnalS at Open 13 
MAHSEILLE, France -Sixth-seeded Richard Gasquet and No. 7 Marcos Baghdatis won second-round matches in straight sets Thursday at the Open 13 and reached the quarterfinals of the indoor tournament. 
Gasquet of France -the highest remaining seeded player -had four breaks of serve in his 7-6 (2), 6-2 win over countryman Marc Gicquel, while Baghdatis of Cyprus beat Cyril Saulnier of France 6-4, 6-3. 
The 20-year-old Gasquet, a semifi­nalist at Sydney and a quarterfinalist at Adelaide in Australia last month, is wary of his quarterfmal opponent ­Robin Soder ling of Sweden. 
"Soderling plays super well indoors," Gasquet said. "His game is made for quick surfaces. If the match was being played on clay, I would be more serene. He is a player who is very hard to maneuver ... I will need to vary the game as much as possible to win." 
Holyfield's out of retirement, 
will fight Vmny Madd 
CORPUS CHRISTI, Texas -Evander Holyfield will look to stay perfect since coming out of retire­ment when he fights Vinny Maddalone on March 17. 
The 44-year-old former heavy­weight champion has won both fights since returning from a two­year layoff, improving to 40-8-2. His first comeback fight was a sec­ond-round knockout of Jeremy Bates in Dallas in August. In November, Holyfield won a deci­sion over Frez Oquindo in San Antonio. 
The 33-year-old Maddalone (27­3, 19 KOs) is from New York City. 
The fight will mark Holyfield's third professional fight in Corpus Christi. In his previous fight in Corpus Christi, he knocked out Jesse Shelby in 1986, and cap­tured his first world title two fights later. 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT Friday, February 16, 2007 

.  
'  
'  
'  
'  
'  
'  
•  
'  
'  
'  .  
'  
'  
'  

REWARD OF FOR THE SAFE RETURN OF MILO, OUR DOG, AS SOON AS POSSIBLE 

By now~ tear Ins would have formed near MlloJs eyes Into his fur, which would appear dark brown, He could be wearing ared sweater and would have ateal colored collar~ with matching I · ~ Ibelieve his rabies shot was given by Kryder Clinic so he should have that tag on his collar~ Milo was apprehensive of people he didn't know~ He was a "puppy mill'' d 1 We bel ehe would run from som,eone If he was proa.ched, 
If found, please contact Animal Hospital of South Bend (MILO'S VET) 282-2303 
~----­

Friday, February 16, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles bid farewell to leaders Lipke, Broderick 
conference with 8-7 records. "Our seniors have been the
Team looks to avenge 
Hope defeated Saint Mary's rock of this team all season early season loss to 67-42 on Nov. 28. But despite long," Henley said. "They're the 25-point loss, Belles head both very intelligent playersHope on senior night coach Jennifer Henley said and great leaders we're going 
her team has progressed in to miss a lot." 
By MICHAEL BRYAN the last few months. In Saint Mary's win over 
Sports Writer "We're both different teams Albion Thursday, a jumper by 
now," Henley Albion guard 
A Saint Mary's win over said. "There's Jessica Babcock
"We're both different

Hope Saturday would do two definitely some forced overtime things -avenge a loss to the motivation to teams now. There's and Saint Mary's Flying Dutchmen earlier this prove that we scored on six of
definitely some 

season and give the team's can play with its last 10 pos­
motivation to prove

two seniors, Bridget Lipke and and beat them." sessions to put Stefanie Broderick, a final Lipke and that we can play the game away. memorable moment at home. Broderick will with and beat them." The Belles 
However, it won't change be honored were led by MIAA tournament seeding for before the con­guard Alison 
Jennifer Henley 

either team. test -the last Kessler, who 
Saint Mary's (11-11, 10-5 regular season Belles coach scored a game­MIAA) locked up a No. 3 seed game of their high 23 points to in the league tournament after careers. Lipke, a go along with its 71-63 overtime victory guard from Hinsdale, Ill., her eight assists. Sophomore Wednesday against Albion. averages 12.4 points and 4.5 Erin Newson crashed the Hope (20-3, 12-3 MIAA) assists per game, good for first boards for her fifth double­clinched a No. 2 seed in the and second on the team, double of the year with 13 MIAA tournament after respectively. Broderick, a for­points and 15 rebounds. Lipke defeating Alma Wednesday. ward from St. Clair, Mich., has also put up 18 points in the 
The only two teams still fit into a role coming off the winning effort. competing for postseason bench and has provided the seeding are Albion and Olivet team with invaluable leader­Contact Michael Bryan at -tied for fourth place in the ship and communication. mbryan@nd.edu 

TRACK AND fiELD 
Big East tournament culminates season for ND squad 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has focused the entire season for this weekend's Big East tournament in Akron, Ohio, and now that it has fmally arrived, Irish coach Joe Piane has one goal in mind. 
"We're going there to try to win in both the women's side and men's side," he said. 
The Irish will send 31 men and 22 women to compete in the con­ference championship. 
The middle distance runners, led by senior all-American Thomas Chamney-the No. 1 seed in the 800-meter and 1,000­meter races -anchor Notre Dame's male contingent. On Feb. 3 at the Meyo Invitational, Chanmey cemented his place atop the Big 
HIGHER COSTS FOB HIGHER EDUCATION? 
.[\;otre DarrH'~ .Fed.e.ra1 Credh Uni011 offers rn;an:y opdoniS to assist yo·u w~th the fin ancintg of your t~duca1i.;Jtl al goals. 
VVe offer t'edersJ Stafford loans. Pedend :J?LUS loans. and Federal Cf)nsnlidation Lonas, Plus. "~l!l>E~ offer discotmt:s for automati.c p;;ryment, as \Melt as for good payJtlent history on an (tf ttLH student h1an products! 

r4__N__OTR_··.E...o.AM_
.• _·_ .•..... ·._.·.. E
"i:;;f-11 FEDERAL CREDIT UNiON 
574/6:3-t --t:t:t2~ •ttOO/Sllw-66-~ 1 v.rlNlN.ndft:: u.t)f@; "' ~tu rh~r:Htoan~' rttU:cu.ow~:t 

East by running the 800 in 1:47.82, the second fastest time in school history. 
Notre Dame's sprinters and dis­tance runners are also strong. Four Irish runners rank in the top eight in the conference in the 400 -seniors Ryan Postel and Jordan Powell, junior Austin Wechter and freshman Balazs Molnar. Postel ranks first in the Big East in the 400 and also qualified for the 200. 
Leading the distance team is junior Jake Watson, who won the mile at the Meyo Invitational in 
4:00.71 to provisionally qualify him for the NCAA Tournament in addition to the Big East. Sophomore Patrick Smyth will run the 5,000 after running the Big East's third-best time at 13:58.10. 
"We have a pretty broad based track team on [the men's and women's] sides," Piane said. "We're going to have good people everywhere. And it's the same on the men's side. We're not a one­dimensional team." 
Piane also feels that he is send­ing a very well-balanced team on the women's side of the Big East championship. 
Heading the Irish effort will be the sprint team, including senior Maryann Erigha, who double qualified in the 60 and 200 meters. 
The Irish distance squad is paced by senior Amy Kohlmeier and freshman Lindsey Ferguson, both of whom could run in the mile or 3,000. Kohlmeier will also run in the 5,000-meter event. 

In the field events, the Irish will be best represented in the jumps. Senior Cassie Gullickson will lead the jumpers as the No. 2 high jumper and No. 4 triple jumper. Notre Dame is also sending sopho­more pole vaulters Mary Saxer and Kate Mattoon, who have matching season-highs of 12-feet­5.5-inches. Sophomore Anna Weber will man the throws, com­peting in both the shot put and weight throw. 
Even though Piane is confident in his team's ability, he recognizes the challenges facing his team in the difficult Big East. On the men's side, Piane expects the most trou­ble out of Louisville. The Cardinals' strength is one area where the Irish are not as deep -jumps. 
"Louisville has some of the best long jumpers and triple jumpers in the country and they are going to score major points in those two events," he said. "Their squad probably isn't as deep as ours in some areas, but in others -i.e. the long, triple -they're as good as anybody in the country." 
On the women's side, Piane sees Connecticut as the biggest threat to his team's success. 
"They've got some pretty good sprinters and they are developing the distance program, but they have a lot of very good field event kids," he said of the Huskies. "It'll be interesting to say the least." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
FACULTY/STUDENTS 
Brand NeW" Dublin Village ToW"nhoines for Rent Across from St_ Mary's -behind Perkins 3 or 4 BR units available, 3 1/2 baths, 2-car attatched garage 
call Linda @ 708-460-5500 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 16, 2007 
ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish take onJMU 
• 
mopener 
No. 5 Notre Dame travels to Virginia 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
No. 5 Notre Dame begins its quest for a national champi­onship Sunday as the Irish face No. 12 James Madison on the road. 
The Irish enter the season with high expectations after a 15-4 campaign in 2006, high­lighted by a trip to the NCAA semifinals. The team wrapped up its preseason with practice and scrimmaging this week, highlighted by an exhibition match with No. 6 Dartmouth. 
Notre Dame fell 14-13 to the Big Green in the exhibition last Sunday afternoon, after a morning of controlled offensive and defensive scrimmages between the two teams. Despite the close loss, Irish coach Tracy Coyne was impressed by her team's per­formance. 
"For the first game of the year, it was a very high-caliber and fast-paced scrimmage ­what you would expect from two fmal four teams," Coyne said. 
The team will try to use the experience gained by that exhibition match to defeat the Dukes in Harrisonburg, Va. 
"I feel like the Dartmouth exhibition definitely has helped us focus in practice on things to attack and cover, as well as exposed areas that needed improvement," Coyne said. 
The team will be led by a tal­ented group of returning starters, including three mem­bers of the preseason All-Big East team. Junior midfield/attack Caitlin McKinney and sophomore midfield/attack Jillian Byers were unanimous selections to the team, joined by senior defender Meaghan Fitzpatrick. 
In addition to their No. 5 preseason ranking, the Irish were also picked to finish sec­ond in the conference. The inaugural Big East champi­onship will be held this May, and stands near the top of the long list of goals for the Irish this season. 
Notre Dame has a tough task, however, with No. 12 James Madison, who the Irish beat 12-11 at home last sea­son. 
'They're a very competitive team that plays a very physi­cal, hard-nosed game," Coyne said. 
Senior Meghan Murphy said the team felt very prepared and confident for Sunday's game. 
"Our goal is to improve with every competitive opportunity, whether it be a scrimmage, game, or practice," Murphy said. "We want to come out strong from the opening whis­tle very strong and show what 2007 Notre Dame lacrosse is capable of." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

MEN'S LACROSSE 
Team faces off against Greyhounds 
Loyola (Md.) is 5-0 all-time against ND 
By PAT R. O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame starts the 2007 regular season by hosting Loyola (Md.) at 1 p.m. Saturday. This is the first of six home games for the No. 11 Irish as the team faces off against the No. 13 Greyhounds. 
The Irish finished last season 10-5 (3-2 GWLL) and earned an NCAA Tournament bid. Six returning starters, including preseason honorable mention Inside Lacrosse All-America picks -goalie Joey Kemp and attack Brian 1-Iubschmann ­lead the team entering the sea­son. 
The Irish open with two new assistant coaches -defensive specialist and Notre Dame MBA graduate Gerry Byrne and face­faceoffs, and Coach Byrne adds ofT specialist Brian Fisher. a different dynamic on defense 
"I love the experience that for our team," Kemp said. both coaches bring," Irish head The match against highly­coach Kevin Corrigan said . touted Loyola will be a good "Brian [Fisher] is a graduate indicator of how far this team from Rutgers and he has talent. has worked during the off-sea-Gerry [Byrne) is son. Although professionally the Greyhounds developed and finished 6-6 last
"We're ready to

highly motivated." season, they are
play. We've had

The players also 5-0 all-time had good reviews five weeks of against the Irish. of the additions to "We're ready
preparation. " 

the coaching staff. to play," "Coach Byrne Corrigan said. has come in and "We've had five
Kevin Corrigan done a great job," Irish coach weeks of prepa­Irish defender Hoss ration. [Loyola] Zimmerman said. has a lot of jun­"It is the first time that I've had iors and seniors. It's a building a defensive specialist as a process, where they have most coach." of their guys back." Kemp thought the combina­Loyola returns nine starters tion of offensive and defensive and 29 letter winners from last expertise had benefited the season's squad. Midfielder team as well. Andrew Spack, attack Dan "Coach Fisher is an expert on Bauers, midfielder Steven Hess 
and faceoff specialist Dan Kallaugher were 2007 presea­son All-America pieks by Inside Lacrosse. 
"[Saturday's game] should set the tone for the beginning of the season," Kemp added. "The first four games are tough, and they will tell us a lot about our team. I play each game as a 
must win."  
Zimmerman  also  felt  the  
excitement  of the  opening  
match.  

"''m pumped," he said. 

Corrigan also said that he looks to his senior and junior classes for leadership this year. 
"The entire senior class has done a tremendous job. I look for them along with the junior class to set the tone and be in important roles this season," Corrigan said. "We also have many great underclassmen." 
Contact Pat R. O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 

ND SOFTBALL 
Softball looks to defend Big East title in 2007 
Irish to compete in Tiger Invitational 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame begins its quest to defend last year's Big East title this weekend at the Tiger Invitational. The Irish return 13 letter winners to their 16-player roster from the 2006 squad that finished 42-21 overall and 17-5 in conference play. 
This year's team was selected to finish third in the Big East in a coaches poll taken Jan. 10. 
Senior captain Stephanie Brown will lead the way oiTensively for Notre Dame this year after being named a second team All­American in her junior season. Brown hit .343 with 42 stolen bases in the leadoff spot last year. 
The Irish pitching staff will need to fill the gap left by sec­ond team all-conference pitcher Heather Booth (27-12, 1.71 ERA) in order to live up to its billing. 
Sophomore Brittany Bargar will take over as the team's ace after winning 15 games in her rookie season. Bargar will be joined by senior Kenya 

~~ 
-~·~­
Gourmet Sandwiches, Salads &Soups Plus Fantastic FAIR TRADE Coffees 
Just aWalk from Campus 
Open Every Day! 
Edison Plaza, 1631 Edison Rd, 273-6216 

CREDIT & DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED! 
Corry Ouf Available 

$ $ 

i1ucr 
$ OnePerVisit $1
Expires May 2007 : 
------------------------,
$ s: 
~: 
I 
BUCKl 
I 

One Per Visit $ : 
$Expires May 2007 1 
-·-·--.. --· -··-··-··-··-··-J 
Anlan ProQertiesz. LLC Off-Campus Student Housing 
CURRENTLY RENTING FOR THE 2007/08 & 2oo8jog ACADEMIC YEARS 
WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS! 
FOR INFO & APPOINTMENTS 
574·532.1896 anlanproperties@comcast.net 
Fuemmeler and sophomore Christine Farrell, who missed all of last season due to injury. 
Bargar will likely take the mound this afternoon for the first game of the season against host Auburn. The Tigers (1-5) got off to a slow start by drop­ping four one-run games at the Hawaii Paradise Classic last weekend. 
Fuemmeler will make her sea­son debut in the second game of the day against the UAB Blazers. This will be the second meeting in two teams' histories, the Irish won the first battle 9-1 in Chatanooga, Tenn six years ago. 
Notre Dame will play another double dip Saturday afternoon against the Golden Eagles of Tennessee Tech and the Golden Hurricanes of Tulsa. Both teams will be playing in their second tournaments of the year. 
Tulsa freshman Ashlee Lubiewski is already making headlines with a 6-for-12 start and a home run against Pacific. 
The busy weekend wraps up Sunday afternoon as the Irish look to continue their domina­tion over Virginia Tech. Notre Dame has taken 10 of 11 games against the one-time Big East foes. The 1-Iokies should be able to compete this year, as they started out the season by win­ning the _Georgia State First Pitch Classic last weekend. Junior pitcher Angela Tincher started her year 2-0, striking out 35 batters in 14 innings on the hill. 
The Tiger Invitational is the first of five early season tourna­ments Notre Dame will play in the next month. The team, led by head coach Deanna Gumpf, will travel to California three times and Florida once before playing its first home game against IUPUI March 22. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


Studebaker Cottage -for Rent Junior Parent Weekend, (.;.raduation~ Reunions, HoUle Football Games 1 X94 Queen Anne Architecture~ 3 floors~ 3 bedrootns~ 1 ~baths,. kitchen, 3rd lev~l entertainment area sleeps 3+~ off street parking; basketball court & hot tub, located 1 block from Studebaker Museum & 3 blocks from downtown restaurants/Transpo Stadium Shuttle. 574-233-9157 
Friday, February 16, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish look to lllake-a statelllent in tourney 

ND takes on Pepperdine in the first round of the National Team Indoor Championships 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Ryan Kackley celebrates a doubles win en route to a 5-2 upset over Florida State Feb. 2 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
It may have been five years since the Irish have seen the courts at the National Team Indoor Championships, but Notre Dame is ready. 
"You are playing every match as a dual match and we have already seen a lot of the teams that are here," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "We have seen these guys, we now what is out there." 
The trip back to the tourna­ment will be a familiar event for Bayliss. The Irish last played in the tournament in 2002, and were ranked No. 10 nationally when they upset No. 7 Pepperdine 4-3. 
No. 9 Notre Dame will take on No. 10 Pepperdine again in the first round of the indoor matchup. 
The team will compete along­side many opponents it has already seen in regular season play. Notre Dame practiced alongside Pepperdine and Duke on Thursday in the 18-court Midtown Tennis Club in Chicago. 
"We had a look at Pepperdine and I think we had a good work­out, we have prepared for this pretty well," Bayliss said. "They looked aggressive, they hit the ball clearly and decisively." 
Pepperdine, the 2006 NCAA Champion, enter the tourna­ment after a 5-2 win over the University of Nevada-Las Vegas. Pepperdine dropped the doubles point but responded with wins in five out of six singles match­es. 
Bayliss is confident that the team will perform well come match time, and the Irish will continue to focus on improving their doubles game. Notre Dame dropped the doubles point in their last match to Wisconsin but rallied to take the 6-1 win. No. 33 Andre Begemann defeat­ed Elliot Wronski 6-2, 6-0 at No. 1 singles. 

Irish senior Stephen Bass will take on Begemann at No. 1 sin­gles today. Begemann, a strong server and vollyer will present Bass with a challenge, but Bayliss feels that the senior is ready. 
Bayliss knows that the Irish will be facing many top oppo­nents and players, but he feels them team is prepared to make a strong showing. 
"We want to show some poise under pressure," Bayliss said. "We are at a point where we can make a dent in this field." 
If the Irish knock off Pepperdine they will take on the winner of the Georgia and University of Pennsylvania. No. 1 Georgia is the defending ITA National Team Indoor Championships and was the top seed in last season's NCAA Tournament, eliminating the 18th-seeded Irish in the Sweet 16. 
Even with their sights on the possibility of playing Georgia, the Irish are focused on their matches today. 
"Sunday's opponent is a way off and is not worth speculating about right now," Bayliss said. 
No matter what the outcome of the weekend, Bayliss said that the team is grateful to get an opportunity to play against top opponents -every team is guaranteed three matches in the tournament. 
Notre Dame will look to fur­ther their six-game winning streak starting with Pepperdine. 
"I think we are ready to go," Bayliss said. "We are prepared and we have done everything we need to do and we are anx­ious to be in play." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 16, 2007 
Irish, but Schrage said that he wants to get several pitchers
Texas 

action with each on a pitch 
count.
continued from page 24 
"Right now, our pitchers are 

going to be limited to about 7 5 shine, but said that the Loftus pitches," Schrage said. Center provides a solid location "Hopefully that gets them five for winter infield drills. innings." 
"Our hitting will probably Sophomore closer Kyle struggle," Schrage said. "We'd Weiland will not pitch this better pitch it well and we'd weekend. He is still recovering better play [defense]. That's from a broken collarbone suf­what will keep fered when he us in games at slipped on ice in
"We'd better pitch 
the start of the December. season. Also, we it well and we'd "He's fine," haven't seen the Schrage said. "He
better play
ball in the air, so actually threw a
[defense]."
pop ups could be little bit today, but an adventure." he's not full speed 
Outfielder yet."
Dave Schrage 
Danny Dressman Fifth-year senior
Irish coach 
said that the lack Matt Weglarz, a of outdoor prac-transfer from tice probably will not affect his Missouri State, won the start­play. ing catching job in the opener 
"You've got to roll with the after returning starter senior punches," he said. "Hopefully it Sean Gaston was lost for the won't be too big of an issue." year with an injury. Weglarz is 
Junior Wade Korpi, sopho­enrolled in Notre Dame's MBA more David Phelps and sopho­program. more Sam Elam are expected Schrage said he remembered to start this weekend for the Weglarz from when his old team, Evansville, played Missouri State. 
"I remembered his name from playing against him," Schrage said. "lie has some power and he puts the bat on the ball pretty consistently." 
In the infield, sophomore Jeremy Barnes will start at first base, junior Ross Brezovsky at second, junior Brett Lilley at shortstop and freshman A.J. Pollock at third base. 
Dressman will start at center field, with freshmen Billy Boockford, Michael Wright and Brayden Ashdown rotating into the other two spots. 
"We'll be playing a lot of guys [in the corner outfield I this sea­son," Schrage said. 
Schrage said he isn't as con­cerned with wins and losses from his young team this wel~k­end as he is with getting into the swing of the season. 
'Til never tell my team, 'we have to win today,"' he said. "I just tell them to execute the things that we work on and, if we do that, we'll win." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
NO MEN'S GOLF 


Irish start with high hopes 
ND looks to improve on promising fall at John Hayt Invitational 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

After a fall season in which the Irish recorded the second­best team scoring average in school history, coach Jim Kubinski hopes the team will continue its strong performance in the John Hayt Collegiate Invitational in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. Sunday. 
In the offseason, the team practiced daily in its brand-new indoor practice complex, the $2.1 million Robert and Marilyn Rolfs Family All-Season Varsity Golf Facility. 
The added winter practice has led to marked improvement. 
"''d imagine each guy will have dropped a few strokes from his average," said Kubinski. "[The new facility] has been such a help to us." 
But despite the productive winter practice sessions, Kubinski said that his team must continue to improve with each tournament. Last weekend, the Irish Alumni Matches gave the squad an opportunity to get on the course with former Notre Dame golfers at the Saddlebrook Resort in suburban Tampa. 
"It was a very good weekend for us," Kubinski said. 
The team again heads to the Sunshine State this weekend. The John Hayt, which is hosted by the University of North Florida, will be the first intercol­legiate tournament of the spring season for the Irish. The field for the event includes 10 of the nation's top 50 teams, according to Golfweek. 
"This weekend will be a great starting point for us," said Kubinski. "Hopefully we can get the ball rolling against the strong field." 
The Irish are currently ranked 51st by Golfweek, which would be good enough for a berth in the NCAA Tournament. However, Kubinski said he wants his team to improve on a 
weekly basis. before the conference tourna­
"I think that to finish in the top ment in April. half of the field Ithis weekend I At the John Ilayt, the Irish would be a good start for us," he lineup will include senior co­said. "Obviously we want to con­captains Cole Isban and Adam tinue to get better up until the Gifford, junior Eddie Pockels, Big East tournament and the sophomore Josh Sandman and NCAAs." freshman Doug Fortner. 
The Irish, who have won the Big East the past three years, Contact Fran Tolan at have six tournaments to play ftolan@nd.edu 
Tar Heels 
continued from page 24 

with three really good dou­bles teams." North Carolina enters Friday with a 9-2 record in 
dual match play, suffer­ing losses to No. 4 Florida and No. 3 Georgia Tech. The Yellow Jackets also handed the Irish their lone loss this season. 
"!North Carolina! is like a mirror 

"They're just all good. They all scare me. " 
Jay Louderback Irish coach 
image of us," Louderback said. "They're solid at the top of the lineup and very deep. Their Nos. 4, 5, and 6 are very good and they have good doubles teams. It'll be like playing ourselves on Friday." 
Four Tar Ileel singles play­ers are ranked in the top-7 5 of the eountry, led by No. 7 
"[North Carolina] is 
senior Jenna Alex Hirsch. 
Long. Long like a mirror image of "Last year carries a 22-4 us. we played overall and 9-them, we beat 1 dual match them 4-3 and record into the Jay Louderback we lost to Eck Tennis Irish coach them at Nos. 1, 
Pavilion Friday. 

"She's hav­ing a really good year, and we've struggled against her in doubles, too," Louderback said. 
North Carolina is also a young team. Two Tar Heel singles players, No. 19 Katrina Tsang and No. 73 
,,,:', ,"j~to -~)SINYA;L Rot.t'Y ~ISOSS MtSSIC))Sl 1.2ECTVRE AT 't'JoTRE J.)AME 
'' ' 

TERESA 0KVRE, SHCJ 
CATHOLIC lNITlT\JTE OF WEST AFRiCA 
Sanaz Marand, are freshman while No. 33 Austin Smith is a sophomore. 
"They're just all good," Louderback said. "They all scare me." 
No. 41 Senior Catrina Thompson and freshman Cosmina Ciobanu lead the Irish on the singles side. 
Thompson has played No. 1 singles for the Irish most of the year and has won three straight matches. Ciobanu will try to keep her perfect 8­0 dual match record intact this weekend. 
After North Carolina, Wake Forest will travel to the Eck Pavilion Sunday. 
"They're better at the top of the lineup," Louderback said. "At the bottom, they're not as deep as some of the teams." 
The Demon Deacons fea­ture three ranked singles players led by No. 29 junior 
2, and 3. And those kids are all back this 
year. They're a better team this year," Louderback said. "They're good, they just haven't played any tough matches yet." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
o 
Used Books bought and sold 

o 
25 Categories of Books 

o 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 


o 
Out-of-Print search service 

o 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 
SPONSORWllY­
HOLY CROSS MiSSION CENTER 

------------------------~ 
Friday, February 16, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
East) has had success in its home gym this season, despite losing eight of their last nine games. Irish coach Muffet McGraw believes that the game will be tough, but that her team will be ready. 
"This game is really important to us because they beat Louisville at home, and took Marquette to a two-or three­point game," she said. "It's going to be important for us to be focused on them." 
McGraw also stressed the diffi­culty of playing Providence, who is 8-5 at home, on its own floor. 
"They've played a lot of teams close-at Providence," she said. "They have a big home-court advantage, so we're gonna be ready for them." 
Providence guard Chelsea Marandola averages 16.2 points per game on 43.8 percent three­point shooting. Marandola will be one of the toughest tests Notre Dame will face this sea­son. 
"They have really good guards," McGraw said. "They're very good at penetrating to the basket, and they have good shooters." 
The Irish are in good position to challenge Providence's guard play behind the imposing play of guard Charel Allen, who has scored 25 points in her last two games and averaged 22.4 points in her last five. Allen leads the team with 17 points per game on the season and is sixth in the Big East in scoring. 
"Offensively, she's been play­ing really well," McGraw said of Allen. "She's been looking for her shot a little bit, and going with the flow of the offense. We're really starting to peak right now. We're playing well together, everyone's doing what they can do." 
Right there with Allen is fresh­men guard Ashley Barlow, who at 11 points per game is second on the team in scoring. Receiving a lot of playing time but not starting until recently, Barlow brings a good deal of skills to Notre Dame's offense. 
"What I'm looking for from her is to continue to rebound," McGraw said. "She's a really good offensive rebounder, that's probably her strength. She does a lot of little things well." 
Role-player guard Breona Gray, who hit two of Notre Dame's three 3-pointers against Villanova, rounds out the Irish backcourt. 
"I think Breona Gray has made some big shots for us," McGraw said. "We have a lot of weapons." 
Finishing the games may be a problem for Notre Dame. Against Villanova, the Wildcats brought the game to within three points in the second half. Providence is capable of similar production -against St. John's Feb. 10, the Friars erased an 18-halftime deficit and won 93­

77. Forward Catherine Bove, who is second on the team in scoring, averaging 14.1 points per game, scored 14 of her 17 points in the second half. 
The team has been in those situations before, however, and McGraw cited execution as the difference-maker. 
"It's a game of runs. We're gonna make runs, and then the other team's gonna make a run, and we have to kind of with­stand that," McGraw said. "We have to be solid defensively and we have to work on our rebounding. Offensively, we have to continue to execute. We've had a lot of games where we've had leads, and a lot of games that have been close, and we've had a lot of poise and a lot of confidence." 
Although intensely focused on the game at hand, McGraw acknowledged the importance of the outcome in the future. 
"It's a great time for us," she said. "And it's a great time for our resume for the NCAA Tournament, because resumes are so important." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

DuringJunior Parent Weekend Experience elegant dining on tl1e Notre Dan1e Can1pus The perfect settinglorJunior Parent 'Weekend is Sorii:rs_ Our d1oughfull)rpreparedmeals, servedbya professionally trained staff, ensure the ultirnate Notre Darne experience. Reservations recornrnended 574 631-2020 TVTVw.sorinsndcorn  

,~--------------------------------------------~,
, ' 
Receive a 2 liter Coke product for 99¢ 
with the purchase of a $5 To Go Pizza. 


Coupon required for 99¢ 2 liter. No coupon required for $5 To Go Pizza. Not to be used with any other coupon or discount. Coupon has no cash value. Please present this coupon before ordering. Limit one per customer. Only valid at LaFortune Sbarro. Offer expires February 28, 2007. 
' , I 
'--------------------------------------------~' 

Clinch 
continued from page 24 

to accomplish," senior goal­tender Dave Brown said. 
Brown stopped 38-of-41 shots against Alaska (9-15­6, 7-12-5 in CCHA) earlier in the season, earning two vic­tories at the Joyce Center. The Nanooks came into that weekend ranked No. 14 in the country, but have won only three of their last 16 games since coming to South Bend. They currently sit in ninth place in the CCHA standing and will be battling for a home playoff series this weekend. 
"It's hard to say what has happened since [we played], but they still scare me from a coach's perspective," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
Alaska coach Tavis McMillan has a great deal of respect for Jackson and the rest of the Irish. 
"Top offense, top defense, top goalie, top coach in the country -what else do you want to bring at us?" McMillan said. "To compete against [the best] is what makes sports not only excit­ing, but valuable to society. I want to play Notre Dames every weekend. Otherwise you would be playing intra­mural volleyball." 
In the 2006 playoffs, Alaska was forced to make the trip to Notre Dame for its first round matchup. The Nanooks swept the Irish in a series that developed bad blood between the two teams. 
"Those guys play a really chippy style of hockey, not necessarily a clean style of hockey -which is sort of like me -so it will definite­ly be a good series up there," junior defenseman Brock Sheahan said. 
Sheahan, who lives in Lethbridge, Alberta, is the team's only native of Western Canada -an area the Nanooks recruit heavily. He has played with all but one of the members of the Alaska club, Brandon Knelsen, since he was in peewees. 
"Most of them are good guys, but they can be a little different on the ice," he said. "They won't be my buddies on the ice, that's for sure." 
The ice surface at the Carlson Center, Alaska's home rink, is slightly larger than what Notre Dame has played on all year long. They play on an Olympic­sized sheet, which is 200 feet by 100 feet, as com­pared to the standard NHL­sized rinks used in most col­lege hockey arenas (200 by 85). 
Notre Dame will step up the intensity on its forecheck throughout the game in order to take advantage of the different size ice, as well as the passive style of play that Alaska has adopted this season. 
"We are going to be a little more aggressive, because they can kind of lull you to sleep," Sheahan said. "We just want to make sure we play our game." 
The games will be held at 
7:05 AKT both nights, but Friday night's game will be broadcast on tape delay on WHME 46 in South Bend at 
9:30 a.m. Saturday. 
Contact Dan Murphy at . , • dmurphy6@nd.ed"ll 1 ;.;lrJE; -, 



Big men step up on defense 
Notre Dame's improved post play could lead to NCAA tourney bid 
1:~--­
, 
' 
' 
---~~---~--­

The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 16, 2007 
MEN'S BASKETBALL COMMENTARY
' 
I I Win 
continued from page 24

I 
' 
r 
' Poll. 
r 
"There has been no bigger
' 
' 
r win this year than this one after the two losses," Irish ! coach Mike Brey said after the game. Providence dominated the first 10 minutes, leading 24-12 with 10:52 left in the half. Sensing the game -and a possible NCAA Tournament bid -slipping away, the Irish quickened the tempo and fought back. Keyed by eight points from forward Zach Hillesland and nine from Falls, Notre Dame trailed 42-38 at the half. Hillesland, who tied a career high with 14 points, positioned himself near the 
"It was nice to be able to catch and turn and have a little space," Hillesland said of the offensive scheme. 
The sophomore finished the game with eight rebounds, three assists and two steals to go with his points. 
"Once I got going, the juices started flowing," he said. 
Notre Dame opened the sec­ond half with a 7-2 run and took the lead, 53-52, on a 3­pointer by Carter with 18 min­utes left. 
Carter did not start the game due to a hip flexor injury and scored just two points in the first half, but he lit up the Friars' defense for 13 points on 4-of-5 shooting after the break. 
"I was a little cold in the first half, but I felt better in the second half," he said. 
Brey said the decision not to start Carter helped the senior see the flow of the game bet­ter before he entered the con­test with just under 16 min­utes left in the first half. 
"I think sometimes when you let a guy step back and come off the bench, he gets to see the game a little bit and that helps," Brey said. 
The lead changed hands six times in the first 1 0 minutes after the half, but the Irish pulled away with a 15-4 run to go up 70-59 with 3:30 remain­ing. 
During the run, Providence went more than five minutes without a point. 
"I think the key was the five­minute stretch of getting stops," Brey said. "We made sure they were one and done. We dido 't allow them any offensive rebounds." 
Falls said Brey stressed 
defense in the 
locker room. 
"We were so 
halftime -were 
we going to stop 
them?" 

The Friars made a late run, closing to within 78-75 with seven seconds left. but a Carter free throw and a Hillesland steal sealed the win. 
Falls hit two free throws and Friars guard Brian McKenzie hit a three to provide the final margin. 
Notre Dame has to turn around and play Cincinnati on the road Sunday. The Bearcats are struggling at 10-15 overall and just 1-10 in the Big East. The Irish, however, have fal­tered on the road this year ­they are just 3-6 away from the Joyce Center this season. Sunday's game tips off at 2 p.m. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Something had to chango in the second half of Notre Dame's game against Providence if thn Irish want­ed to avoid slipping down the 
Big East  
standings. Something  Chris Hine  
had to  
change if the Irish wanted  Sports Writer  
to ineroase  

thoir ehance of roeeiving their first NCAA Tournament bid in live years. 
That something was post defense. 
Throughout Big East play this year, Notre Dame has had trouble keeping oppo­nents' big men from scoring inside and grabbing rebounds. In their losses against Villanova, St. John's, DePaul and South Florida, the Irish lost the battle on the boards and gave up high per­centage shots to opposing post players. 
The story was tho sam1~ for the first half Thursday night. 
Providence big men Ilerbnrt Hill and Jonathan Kale com­bined for 25 points and the Friars entered the locker room with a four-point lead. 
Then something changed. The Irish tightened their inside defense in the seeond half. 
IIill and Kale netted only 10 points in the second stanza and Notre Dame was able to win the rebound battle. What was the difference? ;\couple of feet. 
"I think we did a better job of pushing IIill and Kale ofT the post so the post move was coming about four feet deep­er," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "The jump hook was outside the paint instead of inside like the first half. That was the key." 
;\ couple of feet means the difforence between a lay-up and a tricky seven-foot jump shot. By keeping llill and Kale away from the basket, the Irish were able to affect their rhythm and force some missed shots. 
Thanks to Notre Dame's post defense, nobody from Providence was in the paint to collect the rebounds ofT these missed shots. The 

free throw line "Once I got going, much better on for most Irish the juices started defense Iin the 
offensive posses­second half'!." the
flowing."
sions and helped senior guard break down said. "That's Providence's 2-3 Zach Hillesland something we zone. Irish forward talked about at 
Irish were "Once we tightened Russell Carter's 
able to cut the defense, we were shooting touch. down on Falls scored 26
able to get out and
Providence's in the loss at 
run a little bit more. " 
second South Florida chance while Carter opportunities Zach Hillesland scored 32 -something against St.
Irish forward
they had trouble doing earlier this season-and get their tran­sition game going off the defensive glass. 
"Once we tightened the defense, we were able to get out and run a little bit more, pass and cut, and make plays," Irish forward Zach llillesland said. 

This allowed Notre Dame to build a lead and earn the vic­tory. 
The Irish play DePaul again Tuesday night and if they hope to advance deep into March, post defense is going to be the difference. Odds are they will run into one of these teams again at the Big East tournament, not to mention a possible Big Dance matchup against Ohio State, Texas or North Carolina. 
It's no coincidence that the Irish scored under 70 points in their last three losses. Notre Dame's offense works best when it can push the ball up the floor and seore before the opponent is set (see: Syracuse, Alabama). If oppos­ing offenses can work the ball inside and earn layups or trips to the free throw line, they ean slow the pace of the game down and force the Irish to faee set defenses. 
Notre Dame's 
season does not 
rest on Colin 
Falls' and 

John's. Falls 
and Carter are 
the type of players that will get their points, so long as they are healthy. The season does not rest on Tory Jackson's shoul­ders. The freshman point guard has done an outstand­ing job defensively all year, while his offensive game matures with each outing. 
The post defense of Luke Harangody, Zach Hillesland and Rob Kurz can make or break the Irish in the coming weeks. 
All it takes is a couple of feet. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Y, FEBRUARY 16 @ 5:00PM  SuNDAY, FEBRUARY 18 @ NooN  
EcK TENNIS PAVILION  ECK TENNIS PAVILION  
#7 NoRTH CAROLINA  vs. #20 WAKE FoREST  

FREE T-SHIRTS TO THE 
FIRST 100 FANSI 
..~~ 
adiaas 

YOU COULD WIN BOOKS FOR A SEMESTER I 

·-· 

Friday, February 16, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
1HI'if SCRAMI3L!20 'I;'(."::AO (>AJI$'
llj'()/i,(\lr1 ~"ll ,..~ 
by H"""'' o\il>()fa' "'"-<! M<;,>l .tu·l;liri::.n
~lJJJ ~~uaJ..A 
Uruxr.ttit+.tw !h~ bur Jurrb®~. 
o:1ne k:mor w frll<.'ii li>:JWm·, 
1l} ~J!m t;:~x ()n't~ o;.-ct"lj<;. 
YONNAC 



Now ;wran@l:-' m orct:<d lmwrn; to form m surwi9:! ~..ar. ;w


tJoTlb I 
S~;ggm;loo 11)' ~ iibo.1'llll< c.wtoqn 
Prinhnswer here: 

.. (1 riJil (ITJ 
~;f,~ffi (<)ff(.~I<OW) 

'A«Wf<.:la!i'e ,. .Ji.iifb!>i!«. HAVEN SOOUS EFFACE FORCER . Ar1~r. Wha! U'le &!!%Ieos f>iocaJ whet\ lheot were llrres%>:1 'vr bllttl..vy ~ 'CHAMES 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Brandon Boyd, 30; Matt Groening, 52; Melissa Manchester. 55; Jane Seymour, 55 -­
Happy Birthday: Any opportunity to use your creative imagination this year will set you apart from the competition. You will change your mind a lot, hut only because you are thinking quickly and responding to your thoughts. The more you follow your gut feelings. the better off you'll he. Your numbers are 9. II, 14, 26, 32,45 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Stick to basics and focus on business. You will have some very unusual ideas and, if you can develop them to a point others will get what you are trying to do, you will be able to enlist help. *** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Don't let the little things bother you so much and refuse to overreact. You have far he!ler things to do with your time --like lending a helping hand to a cause or friend. The more immersed you become in doing what's right. the more personal gain you will make. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't leave anything to chance. Although you may think everything is falling into place, someone will probably interfere with your plans. Personal problems will surface with someone you can usually count on.** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will miss out on a good thing if you are reluctant to take a chance. Romance is in the stars. so make your move, Travel, socializing and hooking up with old friends will tum out superbly.**** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Money-minded interests will tum out well. Let your true feelings be known and share what it is you want to do. You will find yourself in a very strong position regarding a deal you've been trying to bring to the table.*** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Accomplishment will come easy as long as you are honest about what you can and can't do. Bringing in the help of someone who can take care of the things you can't will show how efficient, complimentary and in control you can be. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't labor over the personal changes you should probably be making. Let things go for now and see what you can do about your financial situation. Don't expect the people closest to you to understand what you are trying to do. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Restrictions may be in place hut, if you follow your own path. you will discover a whole new way of expressing yourself. Don't get angry --get busy following your heart's desires. Problems with contractors can be expected. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be too quick to make changes. You will make a mistake if you Jet your personal life interfere with what you must get done today. Look at the big picture. Your emotions will be difticul! to control.** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll be ahead of the crowd no matter what you decide to do. Your timing will be impeccable and your ability to pick and choose who and what you should spend time with and on will bring fortunate results. 
***** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do what you can to enhance your surroundings. Renovation or redecorating will tum out to your liking. Making changes to your personal situation can be expected but don't he disappointed if things don't move as quickly as you would like*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Relationships will be a little convoluted. Don't assume other people are thinking along the same lines as you. You will face some strong opposition if you don't respect what others want. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are a strong contender in the game of life. You are a dreamer, an inventor and an adventurer. You have strong opinions and the ability to take over and get things done. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
WI-\E.t-1 11-\\S R.o\..\S OVE.~. P..\.L 
""rHAI WILL BE LEfT WI\..L e.E.. SE.~~L F!,QP..I"\INC, ALOUUE. C.otv\fo.-\\"t"rEE."5," AL¥;.\Ntr '5\UOEN\S WI"Tio\ MIND-NUr-\SIN tr REPo~IS IN 1111-\E. OS~~VE(2..:' 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
CROISSANTWORLD 
BLAcK DoG 
-rtl'v\E. -ro 'E>fl..E.II.\'.. ou-r "SJ-\CjND DE.~IE. 11.'5"-s :· 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS Modern, efficient matchmaking process 12 Alimentary particle? 15 One who got held up, maybe 16 Old Testament 
book: Abbr. 17 Sensor 18 TV schedule 
letters 19 Director Craven 20 Pleads 21 Drawer 
freshener 23 Record 
collection? 24 Soothing art 25 "Nope" 28 Something you 
might part with overseas 29 Kmart acquisition 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-::::-r":"T:::-r=-r:::"' 
~::+;;;+.::+::~ 
30 Popular wedding gift 
31 N.F.L. Hall-of-Farner Barney 
32 Sans warranty 33 Slate evaluator 34 Biblical peak 35 Acre's setting: 
Abbr. 36 Stable parents 37 Like tigers 
vis-a-vis lions 38 Good as new 40 Washer setting 41 Arrives like a 
social butterfly? 42 Pinup's pride 43 Unspecified, but 
invariably unpleasant, alternative 
44 Harry Belafonte cry 45 Regrettable 

48 Fabled elephant abductor 
49 "Impossible!" 
52 The third to the fifth? 
53 "Miss You Like Crazy" singer, 1989 
54 Some tech. inst. grads 
55 Worker around a furnace 
DOWN 1 Raft 2 Like 24-Across 3 Are, in Alen9on 4 Port joined it in 
1986 5 Old Japanese cars 6 "The Art of Arousal" writer 7 Northern 
constellation 8 Little jerks 9 "_no idea" 
1oSkeptical sort 11 Player of Joe 
the Bartender 12 Open-eyed 13 1974 David 
Bowie song 14 1953 hit that mentions "old Napoli" 
22 Shipping unit: Abbr. 23 Mean types 
24 You can see right through them 
Puzzle by Paula Gamache 
25 Falcon's home 26 Dessert with candied fruit, 
nuts and liqueur 27 Top secrets? 28 Placed 30 Oscar winner for 
"Two Women" 33 Like some wines 

34 Bert Bobbsey's twin and others 
36 Lost 
37 Modernize 

39 NL scoreboard abbr. 
40 1960's-70's antidiscrimina­tion movement 
LIAMMORAN 
WILLSHORTZ 
42 Residents of ancient Alesia 
44 told 
45 Throw below 
46 Au fait 
47 Rural road sign image 
50 Windy City rail inits. 
51 PX shopper 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
.. 

--------~~---~ --~­
,----­
~-----~--~-­
THE OBSERVER




! 
PORTS
Friday, February 16, 2007 page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Five players end with double figures in win 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate SportS Editor 

Colin Falls scored 16 points and Rob Kurz and Russell Carter each added 15 as Notre Dame erased an early 12­point deficit and kept its hopes for a first round bye in the Big East tournament alive by beating Providence 81-78 Thursday at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish (19-6, 7-5 Big East) were coming See Also off a two­

"Big men step
game losing 

up on defense"
streak that dropped 

page 22 
them back to sixth in the 

--conference and out of the top 25 in both the AP and Coaches 
see WIN/page 22 
Deep fried 

HOCKEY 

No.1 Irish can lockup conference 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 

Notre Dame makes the long trip to Fairbanks, Alaska this weekend with the opportunity to lock up the program's first ever CCI lA regular season title in a two-game series with the Nanooks. 
With two wins the No. 1 Irish !24-5-3, 18-3-3 in CCIIAI wi II inerease their point total to 43 on the season, putting them out of' the reach of sec­ond place Miami. The Hedllawks have 34 points with !'our conference games (eight possible points) remaining on their schedule. 
"Our main focus is going up there and getting four points and that's what we're looking 
see CLINCH/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Two more ranked teams coming up 

By CHRIS HINE SportS Writer 

Notre Dame's schedule will not let it rest. After defeating No. 23 Michigan 6-1 Wednesday, the No. 2 Irish square off against two more top-25 opponents in No. 7 North Carolina Friday and No. 20 Wake Forest Sunday. 
Notre Dame coach Jay 
Louderback has emphasized to his team to not look too far ahead and to take this week one match at a time. Right now, the focus is on defeating the Tar Heels, he said. 
"They're one of the fifteen teams that could win the whole thing this year, Louderback said. "They're very good -well-coached, 
see TAR HEELS/page 20 

BASEBALL 

Schrage era starts in San Antonio 
Antonio, Texas against Prairie Saturday's game against the
By CHRIS KHOREY 
View A&M Saturday and Panthers will be the first time 
Assocaite Sports Editor 
Texas State Saturday and the Irish have played outdoors Sunday in coach Dave this season. Schrage As winter weather continues Schrage's first games with expressed concern about in South Bend, Notre Dame Notre Dame. Notre Dame's hitting and heads to a warmer climate. "We're focusing on this catching fly balls in the sun-The Irish will open their weekend and hoping to play 
season this weekend in San well," he said. see TEXAS/page 20 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
4-game streak on the line 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Although Tuesday's perform­ance at Villanova would indi­cate otherwise, Notre Dame has struggled on the road this season. But the Irish can reverse that trend Saturday when they travel to Providence. 
The Irish (17 -8, 8-4 Big East) are 4-7 on the road this sea­son, including a three-game road losing streak between Jan. 23 and Jan. 31. They broke the streak against the Wildcats with a 75-58 victory Tuesday. 
Providence (13-12, 3-9 Big 
see IRISH/page 21 

ME~'S GOLF MEN'S TENNIS MEN'S lACROSSE WOMEN'S LACROSSE SMC BASKETBALL ND TRACK & FIELD 
LLI 

Co) John Hayt Invite National Team Loyola at Notre Dame at Hope at Big East 
z Feb. 17-18 Indoor Notre Dame James Madison Samt Mary's Championship Championship
Notre Dame kicks off 
::5

-
ND makes its first trip to Notre Dame looks for The Irish open their Two seniors play final The indoor season clos­
the spring season with a
= 
the NTIC in five years. first program win over 2007 season in Virginia. home game at SMC. es in Akron, Ohio. Cl: tournament in Florida. 
the No. 5 Greyhounds.
=: page 20 page 19 page 18 page 18 page 17 page 17 






