
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Jenkins: Undergrad research essential to goals 
University president delivers annual address to faculty members, stresses importance ofencouraging post-graduate degrees 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Offering unmatched under­graduate education and becoming a premier research university are intertwined objectives, University President Father John Jenkins said Tuesday in his annual address to the faculty. 
As Notre Dame strives to improve its research capabili­ties and accomplishments ­with $30 mill ion of a $1 billion campaign -undergraduates can reap the benefits of learn­ing and studying at a universi­ty where "high-quality research" is conducted, Jenkins said. 
"When distinguished mem­bers of the faculty are avail­able to teach and advise stu­dents, the thrill of research becomes part of the under­gr.aduate experience in a way impossible at a four-year col­lege," he said. "We can, if we do it right, offer a better undergraduate education by not focusing solely on under­graduate education." 
Before faculty members gathered in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Jenkins reiterated and refined the three-part strategic vision for the University he has developed since becoming president of Notre Dame in 2005 -to remain dedicated to undergraduate education, to become a highly ranked and highly regarded research uni­versity and to uphold the University's Catholic charac­ter. 
Notre Dame, Jenkins said, wants to graduate intellectual leaders. Jenkins cited Ph.Ds ­among other graduate degrees or even no advanced degree ­as an avenue toward intellec­tual leadership. According to numbers Jenkins presented in a Powerpoint presentation, the number of Notre Dame gradu­ates who earn Ph.Ds is low· compared to peer institutions such as Princeton, Yale and Rice and very low compared to 
see JENKINS/page 6 

University President Father John Jenkins, shown here in his office Monday, delivered his annual faculty address Tuesday in the DPAC. 
ND, SMC mark 9/11 anniversary with ceremonies 
Coach Brey speaks about Kuwait experience, Iraq 'War attitudes 
ByJOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
On the sixth anniversary of Sept. 11, the Tri­Military Command's Patriot's Day ceremony solemnly honored the victims of the 2001 terrorist attacks Tuesday before the sun rose over the Hesburgh Library reflecting pool. 
Mnn's basketball coach Mike Brey was chosen as the ceremony's ~-,ruest speaker as a result of his work this summer with the USO's Operation Hardwood, a group of college basketball coaches who voluntarily travel to Kuwait to coach the troops training to deploy to Iraq. 
MP-mbers of Notre Dame's HOTC branches and approximatdy 100 civilians, including both stu­dents and faculty members, listened as he recounted his experie_nces in the Middle East. 
see SERVICE/page 3 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Lack of J>SU lottery 
addressed at meeting 
SUB manager explains policy to students 
College prayer service calls for forgiveness and understanding 
By KRISTEN EDELEN 
News Writer 
In remembrance of the victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Saint Mary's students, faculty members and administrators gathered at the Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall for a memorial prayer service Tuesday. 
Each attendee at the service, hosted by Saint Mary's Campus Ministry, received a small white candle at the entrance as a solemn commemora­tion of the people who died in the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and the hijacked airplanes. 
"''m glad to be here to remember this day," jun­ior Kate Petrovic said. 
Petrovic said she was particularly moved by one of the speaker's addresses. Political science pro­fessor Sister Amy Cavender took the podium to 
see MEMORIAL/page 3 

By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Whiln many students were dis­appointnd last week by the lack of a student ticket lottery for Saturday's Penn State game, Student Union Board (SUB) Manager Phil Ross told the Council of Representatives (COH) Tuesday outside factors made the lottery impossible, and the council expressed concern over future away game ticket access. 
Ross said the University has a policy in place that determines which away game tickets will be made available to the student body and which will not. 
The University receives an allotment of a few thousand tick­ets to away games through the athletic department, Ross said. But thal amount always depends on the school Notre Dame is playing. 
From the initial allotment, "bit by bit, the tickets get taken away," Ross said. "A lot of people have a hand in where the tickets go," he said, including players, 
see CORlpage 4 
AlumnireapUKcollegeexperience 
Selective Marshall program funds Americans' advanced studies in Britain 
By ROHAN ANAND 
News Writer 
Each year. forty students from American schools are selected to participate in the Marshall Scholarship program -a presti­gious award given to outstand­ing students -which finances two years of graduate or under­graduate study in a United Kingdom institution. 
And two Notre Dame students are currently reaping the bene­fits of their British education. 
The nomination and selection process is extremely competitive. Students may only apply if nomi­nated by their school early in the 
see MARSHALL/page 4 


Wednesday, September 12, 2007 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Redetnption vvithin reach 
For us nwmhPrs of the sonior dw;s, NotrP llanu• lilotball hw; hnPn a bumpy, pothoiP-IiiiPd rido f(w the pw;t li1ur years. 
First t.lwn~ ww; tlw upset of Michigan during our first horne ganw, an Tae Andrews exorbitant high 
."icene Editor

matdwd only by tllP 
inept.itude of the Ty 
era, in which tim spirit WlL'i Willingham, 
hut tlw lilotball wa'i wnll, weak. 
Gluttons li1r gridiron punishment and Irish liLithl'ul that wn are, we have suf­lim~d through hirings, firings and hours of !waring Mark May's blithering, ba'ihing Notm J>anw and pmdkting terrible st.arl'i lilr thn Irish. 
Thon canw Charlie Wnis, ;md we had herons again. Wn had Darius walking over nnmny linobacknrs and Brady ()uinn rain­ing spirals on opposing secondaries and .Jnll"Samardzija snagging six-pointers. 
Now, with tlw Brady Buneh gonn and having bo(m stung by the Yellow Jaekel'i and hittPn by the Nittany Uons, we nc~arly had to changP "lhuchdown .Jnsus' moniker to Finld Coal JPsus -and would have ­allnr <;amo 2 worn it not li1r tho lirst­quarl.t~r horoit~'i of mrnorbaek Darrin Walls, who intorcnptnd piek-pronn Pnnn Stal.t~ quartnrback Antlwny Morelli before slipping, sliding and ultimatdy taking said pkk to tlw housP li1r our first touchdown of tho ynar. 
Wnll, now it's timn to take it to the house insido tlw disquieting and disc:omliting confines of thc~ Big llousn. 
As a younger, skinnier and bright-nyod lrPshman, lrnsh on· tim airplane lrorn Albany, N.Y., I quic:kly lcmrnnd a li1w t.hinhrs about how thinhrs work 'round hom. 
Avoid I JtFortunl' on Bun Hun nighl'i. Don't sit. down during li10thall games. llatn Michigan. 
I nven bought a wry dnvnr shirt which oxprossnd tlw campus-wido distastn lilr U of M by switching around a lilw ehoieo let­tnrs. And within orw wPok of my arrival hnrP, Stanli1rd llalluppnrda.'ismon taught me a deddmlly dilli•rPnt version of Michigan's "II ail to the Vidors" light song. 
A'i a litirly pnacnli1l pPrson, thorn am lilw thinhrs in this world that I dnspiso, but that which I hatc>, I hatP lilr-vently. Death 1\aters. Tlw Irish Ht>Vtlr. Cal'i. Major uni­vorsitios from tlw state of Michigan. Canker sorns. Boston-an~a salilty schools. 
Noarly hall' tho things on that list arn opposing liKlthall schools wo still havo the opportunity to kick in tlw shins, starting with tlw suddnnly-tcKlthless vnrsion of this ynar's Wolvc~rirws. 
For pridP. hw honor. hw redemption. 
A vidory Saturday will make tlw whole season a sw-ross. n•gardhlsS of tho nmmining wins and lossos, and sond us snniors out into "tlw rPal world" lilnling sat.islit•d. 
I laving had thP privilngn (or would it he thn misliwtww'!) of making t.hn trip out to Ann Arbor two ynars ago, snning lwr rathPr unladylikP hnlmvior and watching thn Irish delimt that par.k of mangy rodonl'>, I can attc~st that bnating Miehigan is t.hn gn~al.t~st ofall collngiatn emotions. 
Let's 11xposP tlw Big I louse <L'i the cnsspool of drunks and downs it is. Let's turn Ann Arbor into Pick City, Michigan. 
I .et's provo which school hlL'i thl' best light song in thn nation and rnakn laml'nt­ing losers out of the so-callod "Victors Valiant.." 
Love thn11 Not.rn I>m1w. llatn time Michigan. 
The t'iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not rwcessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew I @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The ( )bscrvcr regards irsclf as a professional publica­rion and strive> for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make misrakes. If we have made a misrake, please comacr us at 631-4 54 I so we can correcr our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST CLUB ON CAMPUS AND WHY? 






Charlie Horn  Emily Rhatican  Mark Weber  Barry Martin  Amy Vereecke  Yong Xiang Zheng  
senior Dillon  senior offcampus  junior Keenan  freshman Siegfried  senior Welsh Family  freshman ."iiegfried  
"Right to Life  "Baraka Bouts  "Bengal Bouts.  "The Filipino  "Social Justice  "The ND Squash  
because I like  because you get  300 pushups,  American  in American  club because  
life."  to wear a  500 situps,  Student  Medicine  Julian l~agoy is  
sweatshirt that  1 ,ooo jacks per  Organization  (SJAM) because  in it and he is  
says 'Notre  day, 5 days a  because ofall  it's actually  really cool. "  
Dame women's  week. Enough  the diversity it  seeking to make  
boxing'."  said."  encourages and  a difference in  
the free food. "  our country. "  


IN BRIEF 
There will be a staged per­m iern performance of "Ballade Nocturne" by play­wright Gao Xingjian today at :1:45 p.m. in McKenna flail. The event is free and open to the public. 
ThP. English Dnpartment and Career l'laeement will present English Career Night for all Arts & Lntters majors tonight at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Notre Dame alumni and represen­tatives from several careers will be available to answclr questions. 
Actors from the London Stage will present "Macbeth" at 7::10 p.m. tonight, Thursday and Friday at Washington Hall. Tickets can be purehasnd by calling (5741 631-2800. 
Acappella sensation Toxic Audio will perform at the Debartolo Performings Arts Center Thursday at 7::Hl 
p.m. Tickets are $15 for stu­dents, $30 fac:ulty members and seniors and $:~5 for the

OFFBEAT 
gem~ral public. Woman allegedly shoots Eddie Martin told his wife department store at the cheating husband he was having an afl'air and South Shore Mall on 
Tlw DeBartolo Performing VANCOUVEH, Wash.-A wanted a divorce. Saturday and got into his 
Arts Center will show the woman is aeeused of shoot­They argued and Eddie car, poliee said. But then a 
movie "Sunshine" Friday at ing her husband four times went to sleep in a eamper. man pounded on Ferraro's 
7 and 10 p.m. Tieknts are $:~ with a H>-gauge double-bar­Sheryl found a shotgun, window and demanded 
for students and $6 for tlw rnlnd shotgun aftnr learning loaded it and allegmlly shot cash. 
grmnral public. of an afl"air. him while he WcL'i in bod. "Ferraro says, 'What, are Eddie Martin, 51, survived you kidding me'?' and he 
Thn Snite Museum of Art tlw attack, but may have to 74-year-old fights off actually gets out of the ear," 
will host a reception for its have a limb amputated. mugger at mall Sullillk County Detoetive Sgt. 
fall exhibitions on Sunday Sheryl Martin, also 51. had BAY SIIOHE, N.Y. -A Thomas Groneman said. 
from 2-4 p.m. Various talks to rc1load after the first two tire iron-wielding man who The mugger demanded 
about each exhibition will shots. police said was looking to Ferraro hand over his wal­
begin at 3pm. This event is Martin made her first mug a senior eitiznn proba­let, calling the Bay Shorn 
free and open to the publie. appearance on Monday in bly thought he had fmmd an resident an "old man" and Clark County Superior Court. easy target -that is, until threatening to hit him with 
To submit information to be 
included in this section of

Martin was mleasnd on bail the 74-year-old fought back. the tire iron, Groneman said. 
The Observer, e-mail detaill'd ents. She will be formally someone was following him Information compiled 
and will live with her par­Bruce Ferraro had no idea 
information about an event eharged September 21st. as he walked out of a .from the Associated Press. 
to obsnews@nd.edu 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 

....I 
<( (,) 0 


HIGH 67
...I 

LOW 49 

62 
45 

80 52 


73 
45 

63 40 


Atlanta 83 I 70 Boston 74 I 62 Chicago 68 I 46 Denver 87 I 51 Houston 88 I 71 Los Angeles 87 I 64 Minneapolis 68 I 40 New York 77 I 61 Philadelphia 78 I 64 Phoenix 107 I 84 Seattle 74 I 55 St. Louis 74 I 52 Tampa 90 I 75 Washington 81 I 66 
Wednesday, September 12, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




FLP program cancelled 
Involvement in program kept freshmen from leadership roles 
By ALLEN MURPHY 
News Writer 
The Freshman Peer Leaders (FPL) program, an effort to acclimate freshmen with leadership experience in their local parishes to Notre Dame's Campus Ministry, has been cancelled this year. 
The effectiveness of the decision will be evaluated at the end of the year, and depending on the findings, the program could be reinsti­tuted, said Brett Perkins, director of Protestant Student Resources and Catholic Peer Ministry. 
Perkins, the former FPL director, said the program wasn't yielding the results Campus Ministry expected. 
"The goals are really trying to get freshmen involved in Campus Ministry programs in a leadership capacity as soon as possible, as well as faith formation and fellow­ship," he said. 
Instead, due to the time constraints placed on stu­dents by their busy sched­ules, freshmen involved in FPL found it difficult to take part in other Campus Ministry offerings. 
"We found that oftentimes FPL was the only Campus Ministry activity freshmen could commit to," Perkins said. "Once FPLs became sophomores, they began to get involved in other Campus Ministry programming on campus, at the same time their non-FPL classmates were already assuming lead­ership roles in [their respec­tive] programs." 
He said these dynamics were contrary to FPL's core mission of readying students for leadership roles in Campus Ministry early in their Notre Dame career. 
"We were discovering that FPLs were often a whole year behind in assuming such leadership roles," Perkins said. 

At the end of the year, Campus Ministry should have an idea of how many fresh­men get involved in its pro­gramming without FPL. At that point, the program will be reevaluated, he said. 
However, Parish Confirmation Retreats -an important component of the FPL program -have not been cancelled. 
"We'll still continue [them] in the second semester," Perkins said. "[They] will be open to students of any class year, with a preference still towards freshmen who are looking to get involved in leadership." 
Many other activities enjoyed by Freshman Peer Leaders, such as tours of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and trips to local Eastern Rite Catholic celebrations, will continue to be offered as well. 
Contact Allen Murphy at amurphy6@nd.edu 
Service 
continued from page 1 

While Brey visited the soldiers in Kuwait to teach them, he said he was the one who learned the most. 
"I never saw better teamwork than I did in the military," he said. "As a team­builder, it was inspiring." 
Brey said he noticed a contrast between the way people in the U.S. view the war in Iraq and the way the soldiers approach it. 
Here, Brey said, much of the focus rests on the political battle to continue or end American involvement in the conflict, while in Kuwait he "did not once hear sol­diers say that we shouldn't be over there or question why they were there." 
After a week of living with the troops in the barracks and eating in the mess hall, he said he believes America's handling of the war should shift from a political debate to the soldiers and their safety. 
Most importantly, Brey said, Americans must never forget Sept. 11 was an attack, not a tragedy. He said he has heard a lot of people call 9/11 a tragedy, but that his Kuwait trip reminded him "it was really" an attack. 
"We must remember it was an attack," he said. 
Like most Americans, Brey said he also remembers exactly where he was the day the airplanes hit the Twin Towers and the Pentagon. 
"I was on a recruiting trip," he said. "We rented the last car at the airport and drove the 14 hours back." 
The ceremony began at 7 a.m. with Warner praying for all the victims of the attacks -which included firefighters, policemen and civilians -and for those who have since died in the war in Iraq. 
Brey then addressed the audience and amid his reflections on the current opin­ions about the war, he also included a light anecdote of his visit to Kuwait. 
During his trip, Brey flew inside a Blackhawk helicopter and noticed the pilot was wearing a Notre Dame hat. During the flight, the pilot turned around to ask Brey about the Wmthrop loss in the NCAA tournament. 
"It's great to experience the Notre Dame family [outside the University]," Breysaid. 
Following Brey's speech, a rendition of Taps was played in honor of those who perished six years ago and who have since died in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The ROTC cadets were dis­missed and the ceremony concluded with a benediction by Warner. 
While the memorial was somber-and some tears did flow -it was clear the country has changed in the last six years. Unlike the University-wide Mass held on Sept. 11, 2001, few students attended the ceremony. Coincidentally, two planes flew over the library during the service, some­thing that couldn't have occurred six years ago when all civilian aircraft were grounded. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne1 @nd.edu 

MeiDorial 
continued from page 1 
discuss the ways in which America remembers the 9/11 attacks. 
Cavender urged her listeners to let go of their anger, resentment and desire for revenge for the attacks and called for forgiveness, an attitude she said would allow them to be at peace inside. 
"It really made me think about my own life ... and think how small my problems are in compar­ison," Petrovic said about Cavender's speech. 
Students also participated in the service, reading selected passages from Buddhist, Jewish and Christian traditions. Each piece of religious text dealt with the simi­lar themes of love, forgiveness and healing. 
"Forgiveness, healing and peace go together," Cavender said. "If our memories serve only to fuel anger ... peace isn't something we'll be well acquainted with." 
Cavender said she and Judy Fean, director of Campus Ministry, decided to bring other faiths' tra­ditions to this year's 9/11 memori­al service because that would pro­mote the spirit of dialogue and understanding across different religions. 
Sophomore Kristle Hodges read from the Letter of Saint Paul to the Colossians, a passage that stressed the importance of "heartfelt com­passion, kindness, humility, gen­tleness and patience ... bearing with one another and forgiving one another." 
After the service, Hodges said she was happy with the turnout and the flow of the event. 
Toward the end of the service, flames were passed around the room until everyone who had a candle had lit it in memory of the victims six years ago. Intercessions were then given, peace was offered and a song con­cluded the memorial -but stu­dents in attendance said Cavender's words would resonate long after they left the lounge. 
"Let us not forget the terrible events of six years ago," Cavender said. "It is important that we remember -but let us choose carefully how and why we remember." 
Contact Kristen Edelen at kedeleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 





GENEROUSLY GOURMET. 
8C~inotle.
r

MEXICAN GRILL 
MAIN & DOUGLAS 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------~~---------.  
page 4  The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS  Wednesday, September l2, 2007  
COR  said tlwy want to improve the dis­tribution of student away game tieknL-;.  ing tickets unsold. If students ean't lind transportation to the games, SUB would have to absorb the cost  tions. "The Tieket Office has been great and do want an exchange liw  ni, she said. Senior class president Bridget Keating said she's unhappy with  
continued from page 1  "Is there something we can make changes to now so we can  of the leftover student tiekets, Ross said.  next year," Brown said. COR members voiced unani­ the decrea-;e in the amount of tick­et-; ollerod to studenL-;' parnnL-;.  
alumni, the administration and  get Boston College tickets next  "As the SUB manager, I don't  mous approval of the need for an  "It's a big di~.rnspect ~o f~mil!es  
other parties.  year'?" junior class president Bob  want to piek up the Boston College  exchange and agreed the system  who are here~.  she smd.  We ve  
For sPinet games, the Student  Heish asked. "It's our job to say to  game because we lose money if  should be as hostile to potential  been completely sold out so the  
Activitins Oflke (SAO) may receive  the Ticket Ollice, 'Let's get some­ people can't get flights," he said.  scalpers as possible. The eouneil  University ean follow the revenue."  
200 to 300 of those tickets and  thing done together here."'  suggested the ereation of an  Braun, however, defended the  
transfiw thmn to SUB fi1r distribu­ Heish's arguments for away  Student ticket exchange  exchange system that involves  ticket distribution proeess, saying  
tion, he said. Student tickets are  game ticket lotteries were met  COR also di<;eussed the eaneella­ picking up the ticket at the Will­ that access to tickeL-; seems to have  
only distributed for games that  with rebuttals that supported the  tion of the student ticket exehange  Call window on game day as well  been eut across the board and is  
"student-; can safely drive to and  University's concern that distribut­ program for students to sell their  as one that involves requiring a  not am~cting student-; only.  
b;u:k in one day" and occasional  ing tickets for games as far away  home tickets to a friend who wants  student to escort his guest into the  "Every single entity got s)a<;hed. I  
games over l~tll break, Hoss said.  as Boston College or Penn State  to attend the game. The program  stadium.  don't know who's getting those six  
Tho Univnrsity limits the stu­ would lead to more student-; skip­ was terminated because of what  "We need to let the Ticket Office  tickets now," she said.  
dnnl-;' accnss to these tieket-; partly  ping dass to leave campus early  the Ticket Office termed "gross vio­ be more hands on," said senior  Braun also noted that Notre  
to ensure they don't skip class  for the weekend.  lations," such as scalping, student  Danny Smith, vice president of  Dame students have access to a  
trave~ling to away games, he said.  "The University isn't going to  body president liz Brown said.  elections.  full package of season tickets,  
Hoss  said  Assistant  Vice  c:ondone skipping classes," Hoss  This year, the exchange option  which is unheard of' at many other  
l'residnnt in the Office of' Student  said.  will only be allowed for the USC  Parent tickets  universities with major college  
Affairs Brian Coughlin told him the  Student body vice president  game, which will take place during  Brown said the number of par­ football programs, such as Penn  
student ticket distribution policy  Maris Braun agreed and said from  fall break.  ent tickets available to students  State, Miehigan and USC.  
for away games has not been  the University's perspective, 200  Brown said she and Braun have  was also reduced this year from  "The Ticket Oflice is there for  
n~visitnd in at lea<;t a decade.  kids missing class the Friday  met with the Tieket Office, the Law  eight per season to two because of  student<; 100 percent. They're try­ 
Dnspitn his explanation of the  beliwe the game is inexcusable.  School  Association  and  the  higher ticket demand across the  ing a-; hard a-; they can," she said.  
University's policy and its n~stric­ Another concern, Ross said, is  Graduate Student Union to work  board, combined with the sale of  
tions, many COH members were  that students may be unable to  on ways to develop an exchange  increased season tickets.  Contact John Tierney at  
unsatisfied with Hoss' answer and  travel to distant away games, leav­ program that allows fewer viola- The cutbacks also affected alum­ jtiernel@nd.edu  
Marshall  2007. Towle graduated with a degree  Bolivia and southern N'rica. She feels confident her ground­ persons. That's what's nice about the Marshall program -you do  Jordan, assistant director of the Fellowship OITice at Notre~ Dame.  
in  honors anthropology and  ing in anthropology and peaee  more fieldwork  as opposed to  "In  its  mission  statement,  
continued from page 1  international peace studies. She said she appreciated the wide  studies will prepare her well to take on even more challenges  being stuck in a lecture hall. That's why I encourage every­ IMarshall! states that they are looking for students on a dear  
!'all senwster. They must be a  degree of programs that students  abroad. After completing time in  body to apply."  trajectory !'or post-graduate  
U.S. eitizen, be ol' senior standing  can  pursue  in  the  Marshall  Liverpool, she hopes to spend six  Students who are interested in  study and who are well-round­ 
or within two years after gradua­ Prohrram.  months doing fieldwork with  the program usually receive  ed."  
tion and have a  minimum 3.7  "It was really the only graduate  IllY/AIDS either in southern  guidanee from their respective  The first Notre Dame student  
GP!\, aecording to the program's  opportunity that I was looking  Africa or southeast Asia.  university in preparing their  to receive the scholarship, in the  
Web sitn.  for, and it worked out great  "LThe university] has a wide  applications. Each file is then  1960s, was Bruce Babbitt, for­ 
Thn deadline l'or applications  because I wanted to go interna­ range of programs that are really  sent to one of eight regionalloea­ mer Secretary of the Interior  
this year was on Sept. 3.  tional," she said.  science-geared, and I've decided  tions  - in Atlanta, Boston,  from 1993-2001 and governor of  
Notre  Dame  boasts  seven  Towle seleeted the University  to work in epidemiology up to  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles,  Arizona from 1978-1987. lle  
scholars that have been selected  of Liverpool to pursue her stud­ reproductive health," she said.  New York, San Francisco and  studied at Newcastle University  
to recnive the scholarship since  ies, and will be studying at the  "My  main  foeus  will  be  on  Washington, D.C.  -where they  at  Newcastle  upon  Tyne,  in  
1960. Two of the most recent  School of Tropical Mndicine. Her  humanitarian studies and the  are reviewed for consideration.  northeast England.  
graduates to receive thn award  interest in international health  global health intervention crisis.  "In terms of selectivity, it's up  
were  Peter Quarento, Class of  has already taken her to conduct  I'd  really like  to  work with  there  with  the  Rhodes  Contact Rohan Anand at  
2006, and Meg Towle, Class of'  HIV/AIDS research in Mexico,  women, children and displaced  Scholarship,"  said  Roberta  ranand@nd.edu  

•  What are you doing next summer? from May 14 to June 15,2008 ;s. ../All returning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible ../Four and one-half week study in London ../Mid session study/travel to Paris, Normandy, Belfast, or Amsterdam ../ Earn 6 credit hours ../Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! Information Sessions for 2008 & 2009 Programmes: ::: . ' .s' t' 1 7 11:45 to 12:30 P.M. DeBartolo 101 or 5:00 to 6:00P.M. DeBartolo 131 Applications are available at 305 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.edu/,...,sumlon  




-ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 12, 2007 CoMPILED FROA,, TI-·lE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Turkish officials prevent attack 
ANKARA, Turkey -Police found and defused more than 1,300 pounds of explosives packed into a minibus parked near a market­place on Tuesday, thwarting what o~e official described as "a possible disaster." 
Bomb experts said the materials were simi­lar to those seized in the past from Kurdish separatists. Turkey accuses Kurdish rebels of smuggling hundreds of pounds of explosives into the country from neighboring Iraq, where thn guerrillas have been based for decades. Turkey is pressuring Iraq and the United States to crack down on the group in Iraq, threatening to do the job itself if others do not. 
Archbishop resigns amid scandal 
HARAHE, Zimbabwe --A Zimbabwean archbishop who was an outspoken critic of President Hobert Mugabe before becoming embroiled in a sex scandal said Tuesday he has resigned, but vowed to continue champi­cming his countrymen facing political and eco­nomic crises. Pius Ncubc, who once said he was ready to lead a popular uprising against Mugabe, said he had offered his resignation to the pope "within days" of being accused of having an affair with a parishioner in July. 
"I have not been silenced by the crude maehinations of a wieked regime," he said in a statement issued Tuesday from his office in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe's second-largest city. "I am eommitted to promoting the social teach­ings of the Church, and to working among the poorest and most needy in Zimbabwe." 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Health insurance p1remiums rise 
The increasing cost of health insurance is putting coverage out of reach for many small to midsize companies and their workers, even though the rise in premiums this year was the lowest increase in eight years. 
Since 2001, the cost of premiums has gone up 78 percent, far outpacing a 19 percent inerease in wages and 17 percent jump in inflation, according to a survey released Tuesday by the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health care research group that annually tracks the cost of health insurance. 
This year, the cost of premiums paid by workers and their employers was up 6.1 per­cent, while wages rose an average of 3. 7 per­eent and inflation went up 2.6 percent, the survey said. Kaiser estimates that between 1 million and 2 million people join the ranks of the uninsured every year. 
Mars rover commences mission 
LOS ANGELES -Two months after surviv­ing a giant dust storm, one of NASA's robotic rovers on Mars began a risky drive Tuesday into a crater blasted open by a meteor eons ago. 
Scientists want the rover Opportunity to travel 40 feet down toward a bright band of rocks in the Victoria Crater. They believe that the rocks represent an ancient surface of Mars and that studying them could shed light on the planet's early climate. 
Opportunity's initial task was to "toe dip" into the crater, a move that involves rolling its six wheels below the rim and immediately back out to gauge its footing before making the actual descent later this week. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Taxpayers file lawsuit against state 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana taxpayers chal­lenged the constitutionality of the state prop­erty tax system in a lawsuit J1led Thursday. 
The petition in Indiana Tax Court questions statewide assessment methods, the use of tax abatements and several other aspects of the state system. 
It also argues that Indiana's tax structure does not comply with the state constitutional requirement of a "uniform a.nd equal rate of property assessment and taxation." Multiple taxing districts ean lead to vastly nonuniform bills for people living in the same county if they are in different school districts or town­ships. 

Thousands remember 9-11 victims 
Family, friends gather on sixth anniversary of terrorist attacks to memorialize those killed 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Victims' families huddled under umbrellas Tuesday in a park to mark the sixth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks in the first remem­brance ceremony not held at ground zero, an event that failed to evoke the same emotions as the hal­lowed ground of the World Trade Center site. 
"I guess they mean well, but I really wasn't happy," said Sal Romagnolo, whose son, Joseph Homagnolo, worked in the trade cen­ter's north tower. "I never got my son back. That's the only place we have." 
"I get nothing out of this park." 
Around the country, Americans went through familiar mourning rituals as they looked back on the day when terrorists hijacked four jetliners and killed nearly 3,000 people. 
President Bush attended ceremonies at the White House and the Pentagon, and the 40 passengers and crew members who died when a flight erashed into a Pennsylvania field were honored as "citizen sol­diers." 

The Manhattan cere­monies were held largely in a public park because of rebuilding at ground zero. to clean up ground zero. have been kept away by New Jersey -which owns First responders, volunteers Victims' spouses, chil­rain, a sharp contrast from the trade center site ­and firefighters who helped dren, siblings and parents the picture-perfect weather allowed relatives to rescue New Yorkers from had read names before, six years ago. descend a ramp to lay flow­the collapsing twin towers often breaking down with Ground zero "was more ers inside a reflecting pool read the names of the city's heartrending messages to sacred and sad," said with two 6-foot outlines of 2,750 victims -a list that their loved ones and blow­Clarence White, whose the towers inside, and grew by one with the addi­ing kisses to the sky. At brother was killed at the touch the ground where the tion of a woman who died Zuccotti Park, where the trade center. At the park, trade center once stood. of lung disease in 2002. sounds of trucks and buses he said, "the meaning was­Howard Gabler, who 
Several first responders sometimes drown out n't as close." worked on the 47th floor of referred to the illnesses and speakers, fewer tears were The city moved the cere­the trade center's north deaths of their colleagues shed and most readers did mony this year beeause of tower and escaped on the that they blame on expo­not speak at length -even progressing construction at day of the attack, came to sure to toxic dust. when mentioning siblings the site, where several idle mourn his son, Fredric, 
"I want to acknowledge or children who were cranes overlooked a par­who worked on the 104th those lost post-9/11 as a killed. tially built transit hub, floor of the same tower. He result of answering the call, Hundreds streamed out of 1,776-foot office tower and has no remains of his son. including police officer the ceremony after about Sept. 11 memorial. "This is where he died NYPD James Zadroga," said an hour and fewer than 60 But family members had and we have nothing else," volunteer ambulance work­remained at the end. The threatened to boycott the Gabler said. "It's very er Reggie Cervantes-Miller. city estimated 3,500 family ceremony and hold their painful, it's very painful all Zadroga, 34, died more members and mourners own remembrance if they the time, but today was, I than a year ago of respira­turned out, down from were not granted access. guess, worse knowing tory illness after spending 4,700 attendees at the fifth The city and the Port we're not going to be back hundreds of hours working anniversary. Some might Authority of New York ~nd down there." 

MEXICO 

Attack on pipeline halts production 
would cost businesses close to $90 plan, coordinate and execute these
Associated Press 

million. explosions shows that the perpetra­
MEXICO CITY -More than 60 Mexico's steel industry chamber tors have the technical capability of percent of Mexico's steel production Canacero said Tuesday that more turning these episodes into either was halted and two major auto than 60 percent of the country's terrorist attacks or industrial sabo­plants, including Volkswagen's only steel production has been halted, tage," George Baker, a Houston­manufacturing facility in North and that it could take up to seven based energy analyst who follows America, shut down Tuesday after days to resume. In a statement, Petroleos Mexicanos, or Pemex, explosions claimed by a leftist group Canacero said losses would "signifi­wrote in a report. cut natural gas supplies. cantly" exceed the $36 million the The Revolutionary People's Army, 
Petroleos Mexicanos said the industry suffered from similar or EPR, a secretive Marxist group attacks on its oil and natural gas attacks on pipelines in July. that killed dozens of poliee and sol­pipelines would cause hundreds of The six explosions Monday caused diers during attacks in the late millions of dollars in production no direct injuries, but both industry 1990s, claimed responsibility for the losses for the state-owned oil com­and national-security experts say explosions in a statement e-mailed pany and affect 10 states. Private­the small leftist group claiming to various news organizatiqns on sector groups told Mexican news responsibility has proved it is a Tuesday, the Reforma and El media that the attacks and subse­force to be reckoned with. Universal newspapers reported on quent precautionary shutdowns "The sophistication required to their Web sites. 
Wednesday, September 12, 2007 

page 6 The Observer+ NEWS 
lions and lind answers. said, is to be a member of the exceeded the $1 billion mark have been spiritually formed "As we seek to enhance Association of American in its Spirit of Notre Dame in that tradition and who
Jenkins 
continued from page I 
some liberal arts collngns like llarvny Mudd, Swarthmore and Hnnd. 
Betwenn 1995 and 2004, Jenkins said, five pnrcnnt of Not.r·n Dame graduates narned a Ph.D. 
Olhnr paths toward intellec­tual leadnrship do exist, Jenkins made clear. 
"But earning a Ph.D is a road to sueh leadership, and we must do a better job of sending our students to Ph.D programs," he said. "That live percent number must rise." 
Jenkins said he, along with Univnrsity Provost Tom Burish. has asknd Vice President and Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs to lead a group charged with tlw goal of deciphering ways to increase the percentage of graduates who go on to earn a Ph.D. 
Orw way to get students intnnlstod in research, Jenkins told the professors, is to teach coursns in ways that will inspire students to ask ques­research at Notre Dame," he said, "let us individually and collectively strive to encourage our students to become fellow inquirers and colleagues in the pursuit of discovery, under­standing and expression." 
Jenkins named a number of initiatives already underway to expand research efforts to the undergraduate population. The creation of the position of assistant director for under­graduate research, filled by Cecilia Lucero, the expansion of the honors programs in the Colleges of Arts and Letters and Seience, the creation of an honors program in the College of Engineering and the addi­tion of honors tracks for the majority of majors, are all ways to attract students to research opportunities as undergraduates, Jenkins said. 
Jenkins' objective to gradu­ate more intellectual leaders is part of his overall strategic vision of Notre Dame as a pre­mier research university. A benchmark goal for the University in terms of its repu­tation and capabilities as a research university, Jenkins 
Universities, a group com­posed of the most distin­guished research universities in the country. 
Notre Dame will not seek to join the club for prestige or pride, Jenkins said, but rather to enjoy the benefits of sharing information and advice with other members and the repu­tation membership will bring. 
Being a strong candidate for the association, Jenkins said, is an "achievable goal in com­ing years" for Notre Dame. 
Of course, research requires money, Jenkins said. But that money is increasingly avail­able for Notre Dame. 
During the third year of a university president's tenure, Burish said in his introduction of Jenkins, it typically becomes apparent whether the school's financial supporters support the new president's vision. In Jenkins' case, they support his vision, Burish said. 
"They've come to support the president like never before in this University's history," Burish said. 
Jenkins announced in his speech that the University 

CHINA 

Terrorism may threaten Oly111pics 
Public Security Minister will seek international cooperation in 2008 
Associated Press 
BJ.:LIIN<; -China's top cop said torrorism is llw biggest throat at its Olympic (;ames, and a leading tnrror expert warnod Tuesday that Beijing facos a long-tnrm threat from an lslamil: snparatist group in its far wnst. 
In remarks appnaring on thn sixth anniv<~rsary of the SPpt. I I terrorist attacks on tiH• lJnitPd Statns, Publi<~ SPrurity Minister Zhou Yongkang said China would snnk closer eoopPration with ollwr nations in dnaling with tho throat. 
"Although tlw general secu­rity situation for tho Beijing Olympics remains stabiP, we still faro tlw rhallnngns of' tPr­rorism, snparatism and <~xtrnmism," Zhou was quoted by llw state-run China Daily nnwspapPr as saying. 
"T<~rrorism in particular p o s n s t h <' b i g g ~~ s t t h r n a t. " Zhou told a security conf'nr­Pnrp in Beijing on Monday, the papor said. 
Saf'nguarding tlw Olympics has lwnn onn of' tlw biggest costs and concerns f'or cities · hosting the games in recent years. (;reek of'l'ieials spent a record $1.4 billion on sneurity f'or thn 2004 Athens Olympics. 
l•:xpnrts say thn terrorist throat to the Aug. X-24, 2008, Olympies is ndativnly low, but Uwy warn tlmt Beijing faces a growing throat from Islamic separatists among tho Uighur population in tho western rngion of Xinjiang. 
llownv1H, only one or two terrorist groups are capable of attacks in northeast Asia, and their ability to operate within China's tightly eon­trollml society is very limited, said Hohan Gunaratna, author of "Inside ai-Qaida -Global NPtwork of' Terror." 
"Thn threat (to the Beijing Olympics) is medium to low. Thn threat from the outside is very low," said Gunaratna, who is hasnd in Singapore. 
lie warned. however, that China's counterterrorism capabilities remain relatively weak, nspecially in its under­standing of groups based out­side its borders. "I expect they'll improve a lot before the Olympics," he said. 
China has not joined mili­tary operations in Iraq or Afghanistan, and has not so 
far been  a  target of al-Qaida  
or  other  Islamic  terror  
groups.  

It recently appointed a spe­cial envoy to focus on Middle Eastnrn conflicts, but Beijing's involvnnwnt in the n~gion has mainly benn limited to eco­nomic eontacts and ealls for a negotiated settlement to the Palestinian question. 
Although Uighur separatists have launched oeeasional bombings and assassinations, the last serious incidents worn a decade ago. 
In a rare publicized action earlinr this year, China said it raidnd a terror camp in Xinjiang run by thn East Turkestan Islamic Movement, or ETIM, killing 1 X militants it says had Jinks to al-Qaida and the Taliban. 
The Sept. 11 attacks helped dilute U.S. and other foreign critieisms of China's heavy­handPd taetics toward ethnic separatists it aecuses of ter­rorism. 
However, Gunaratna said the ETIM remained dangerous and was developing stronger links with ai-Qaida, changing it from an essentially Uighur nationalist group to one espousing a pan-Islamie ide­ology. ETIM trains in Pakistan's remote tribal areas and has been spreading its message on the Internet. 
Gunaratna estimated the group represents the views of less than 1 percent of China's approximately 50 million Muslims. But he warned that China needed to avoid alien­ating mainstream Uighurs by improving education and job options and showing more 
sensitivity to their ethnic con­
cerns. 
Interpol said Monday it 
would help China with securi­
ty by sending a "major events 
support team" to the Olympics 
that will have quick access to 
Interpol files on fingerprints, 
images and "wantnd persons 
notices." 
Interpol will also provide "threat assessments" on issues relating to Olympic seeurity and international crime, the organization said. 
Liu .ling, a vice minister for public security, told the meet­ing in Beijing that China hopes all 135 eities on the Olympic torch relay route will also help safeguard that event, the China Daily said. Liu was quoted as saying that some organizations and indi­viduals were trying to politi­cize the games and planned to disrupt the relay. 
In one indication of discord, Taiwanese media reported that China has insisted Taiwan's national flag and official emblem do not show up along a proposed 15-mile torch route in Taipei. China claims Taiwan as its territory, and objects to all symbols of sovereignty by the democrat­ic, self-ruling island. 
Mia Farrow, a U.N. goodwill ambassador, has labeled the Beijing Games the "genocide Olympics," and has launched her own torch relay through countries with histories of mass atrocities. The actress says China has impeded a solution to deadly ethnic con­flicts in Sudan's Darfur region because of its oil interests in that country. 
China has legitimate con­cerns over terrorism at the Olympics, but those are only one facet of its desire to avoid any embarrassment to a regime that has staked enor­mous prestige on staging suc­cessful games, said Nicholas Bequelin, a Hong Kong-based researcher with Human Rights Watch. 

campaign two weeks ago. The eampaign was launehed in May. Records were broken in caeh of the key fundraising areas, Jenkins said. 
With the approval of the Board of Trustees, Jenkins said, the University plans to invest $25 million in new one­time funding and $5 million in new annual recurring funding in research initiatives. 
As the University invests more money in research and beeomes comparable with top­tier researeh universities, Jenkins said he was confident the University would increase faculty salaries to make them more eomparable to those at the private universities in the Assoeiation of Ameriean Universities. 
A Catholic university 
Jenkins'· address to the fac­ulty last year listed recruiting Catholie faculty members as a major goal of the University, and this year, he again men­tioned his belief that Notre Dame, as a Catholic university, must have "a preponderance of Catholic faculty, those who embrace it." 
Hecruiting Catholic faculty is still a goal, Jnnkins said. but he stressed the importance and the contribution of faculty members of other faiths and of no faith. 
"Notre Dame must be a place for respeetf'ul, informed dialogue about matters of' faith and spirituality, and we cannot bn such a place without those who embrace other great reli­gious traditions," he said. 
Jenkins said he and Burish, along with a committee, will draft a statement to give the reasons for hiring faculty to enrich the Catholic mission of' the University. 
"It will state why we seck !'acuity who are Catholic and faculty of other faith traditions and of none, and how each can contribute to a Catholic university," Jonkins said. "This document will, I hope, be a guide for seeking great schol­ars who will contribute to the distinctive mission of Notre Dame." 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

IRAQ 


Catnp Victory fired upon in fatal attack 
Insurgents kill'third country national', wound 11 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Insurgents fired rockets or mortars Tuesday at the sprawling garri­son that houses the headquar­ters of American forces in Iraq, killing one person and wound­ing 11 coalition soldiers, the 
U.S. command said. 
The eommand said the per­son killed was a "third country national," meaning someone who is not an American or Iraqi. Most troops stationnd at Camp Victory are American but other coalition soldiers an~ based at the complex near Baghdad lntnrnational Airport. No further details on the attack were immediately releas<~d. 
The attack occurred as U.S. Ambassador Hyan Crocker and the top commander Gen. David Petraeus testified before Congress for a second day on the situation in Iraq sinee President Bush's decision to send 30,000 reinforcements to stem seetarian violence. 
Petraeus recommended keeping tho bulk of U.S. forces in Iraq through next summer. The Associated Press has learned that Bush will tell the American people this week he plans to reduce the U.S. troop presence by next summer to pre-buildup levels. 
The Iraqi government wel­comed Petraeus' n~eommenda­tion to keep additional forces in Iraq into this coming year, giv­ing assurances that the need for U.S. military support here would decrease over time. 
National Security Adviser MouwafTak al-Hubaie, reading from a government statement, said the Iraqis believed that "in the near future" the need for 
U.S. and other coalition forces "will decrease." 
"The aim of' the Iraqi govern­ment is to achieve self-reliance in security as soon as possibln, but we still need the support of' coalition forces to reach this point," cautioned al-Hubaie, 
who in the past has often given 
rosy pieturns of' Iraq's capabili­
ties. 
AI-Rubaie said the Iraqis 
"understand ... the impatienee 
and disappointment of our 
coalition supporters who 
expected more (progress) soon­
er." 
Some Iraqis said the tnstimo­
ny in Washington meant little 
for thnir daily struggles in 
Baghdad. 
"I was lis1Pning to the report 
last night, and I think it's a fiw­
gery lacking credibility. They 
(the Amnrkans) care for their 
intnrests only," said a Baghdad 
resident who gave only his 
nickname, Abu Ali, out of fear 
of reprisals. "It might be prop­
aganda ahnad of' U.S. elne­
tions." 
Much of the Anwrican criti­
cism has centernd on the fail­
ure of Iraq's Shiitn-dominated 
government t.o enact power­
sharing agreements among 
Sunni, Shiitn and Kurdish fac­
tions, which the U.S. sees as 
essfmtial to lasting p<mcn. 
However, tlwro were some signs of progrnss on the politi­cal front. 
The Iraqi Cabinet sent to par­liament a draft bill that would allow many former Saddam llussein supporters to get back their government jobs -a major Sunni demand. The bill would also bring the screening commission under tighter lng­islative control, according to a copy obtained Tuesday by The A<>sociated Press. 
Sunni discontent over gov­ermnent polieies prompted the six Cabinet members from the main Sunni bloc to walk oil' the job last month, triggering a major political crisis. 
On Tuesday, however, Planning Minister Ali Bahan announced he was returning to work "temporarily." His Iraqi Accordance Front demanded he reverse the decision, and one faction leader branded the move "treason." 
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Wednesday, September 12, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 13,308.39 +180.54
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,346 85 897 3,015,327,669 
AMEX 2,268,99. +~9~7J··· NASDAQ 2,597.47 +38.36 NYSE 9,597.61 +139.97 S&P 500 1471.49 +19.79 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,877.67 0.00 FTSE 100 (London) 6,2W.70 +146.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) + 1.11' +1.70 147.49 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.51 +0.73 49.93 SUN MIROSYS INC (JAVA) +5.94 +0.32 5.71 HOME DEPOT INC (HD) +3.14 +1.06 34.87 
Treasuri 10-YEAR NOTE +0.93 +0.040 4.364 13-WEEK BILL +3.10 +0.120 3.990 30-YEAR BOND +O.Ei +0.007 4.648 5-YEAR NOTE +1.81 +0.072 4.055 

Commodities! 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.74 78.23 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +8.90 721.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.28 86.83 
Exchange Rat~s 

YEN 114.2800 EURO 0.7226 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0427 BRITISH POUND 0.4918 
IN BRIEF 
U.S. trade deficit sees slight decline 
WASHINGTON -The U.S. trade deficit declined slightly in July, helped by record exports that offset the biggest foreign oi.l bill in nearly a year. But even a spate of recalls did not stop the deficit with China from climbing to the second­highest level on record. 
The trade deficit edged down 0.3 percent in July to $59.2 billion. compared with $59.4 billion the month before. the Commerce Department reported Tuesday. It was the lowest monthly imbalance since April. 
So far this year, the deficit-which hit $758.5 billion last year -is running at an annual rate of $711 billion. Many private economists believe stronger economic growth overseas, a weaker dollar that makes American exports more com­petitive and slower growth at home will help lower the deficit after five consecutive years of record imbalances. 
McDonald's reports increased sales 
OAK BROOK, Ill. -McDonald's Corp. reported impressive August sales Tuesday, attributing a better-than-expected 8.1 pereent increase in same-store results to strong demand for its breakfast items, drinks and new chicken wrap as well as a continuing turnaround in Europe. 
The monthly sales report sent shares in the world's largest restaurant company up more than 4 percent in morning trading and helped propel the Dow Jones industrial average higher. 
The Oak Brook-based chain said its U.S. same­store sales grew 7.4 percent, which exceeded analysts' estimates. Besides the product popular­ity, some areas' later start to the school year also helped. 
FCC pushes digital TV broadcasts 
WASIIINGTON -Subscribers will still be able to tune in their favorite shows when broadcasters shift to digital-only transmission in 2009. 
Seeking more than a promise, Federal Communications Commission Chairman Kevin Martin wants commissioners to require cable companies to provide that service. 
The greatest impact of the digital conversion will be on viewers of non-digital televisions who receive th~ir signals over the air. Beginning Feb. 18, 2009, they will be forced to buy a special con­verter box, subsidized by the government, to receive their channels. 

AUSTRIA 



OPEC production boosts fuels market 
Oil futures benefit, but domestic barrel prices expected to remain high 
Associated Press 
VIENNA -OPEC sought to reassure jittery oil mar­kets Tuesday by agreeing to boost crude production by 500,000 barrels a day -a move the cartel con­ceded was prompted part­ly by "clouds on the hori­zon" from the U.S. housing slump. 
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said the higher output would begin Nov. 1. It pledged to "vigilantly monitor" the other factors buffeting crude markets, including worries that supplies might not keep pace with higher demand later this year as it becomes winter in the Northern Hemisphere. 
Significantly -and sur­prisingly -the 12-nation cartel said the increase would be based on current production, meaning it will add real oil to the market. 
In the recent past, OPEC has raised only its official output quota -and because it tends to pump over those targets, the increases were purely cos­metic. 
"Our message to the consumer is that we care," said Abdalla Salem El­Badri, OPEC's secretary general. 

"We are concerned, and that is why we increased production," he said. on the ICE Futures But Simon Wardell, a mortgage market, where 
After OPEC's announce­exchange. senior energy consultant defaults have prompted ment, light, sweet crude "The fact that they're with Global Insight, said lenders to tighten loan for October delivery imme­actually adding oil is very, high crude costs may be requirements. diately advanced above very positive," said John here to stay. That has sent ripples $78 a barrel on the New Hall, an analyst with John "While OPEC's move will across all sectors of the York Mercantile Exchange. Hall Associates in London. have a short-term price economy, including the By the end of an up and Hall noted that prices effect, the medium-term energy market, by raising down session, it rose 7 4 have more than doubled in picture appears to be set fears of a U.S. recession cents to settle at $78.23 a just 2 1/2 years. Crude hit for continued high prices," and reduced demand for barrel, besting the previ­an intraday record of he said. oil and gasoline. ous record, set July 31, by $78.77 a barrel in early El-Badri told reporters "We have seen the finan­2 cents. August on the Nymex, and the decision to loosen cial markets and the sub­
In London, October prices since have been OPEC's taps was based in prime mortgage (crisis) Brent crude gained 23 holding fairly steadily part on the effects of the putting some clouds on the cents to $75.71 a barrel above $76. crisis in the U.S. subprime horizon," he said. 



Investors speculate about interest cuts 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Street rose sharply Tuesday as investors grew more confident that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates next week, even after its chairman gave no clues about the central bank's intentions. The Dow Jones industrials rose 180 points. 
Traders had been hoping Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke would give some indication during a speech to Germany's Bundesbank about the Fed's next move. Wall Street is looking for a rate cut to help bolster the U.S. economy and ease problems caused by tighten­ing credit availability. 
Instead, Bernanke talked about the need for countries around the globe to cooperate toward econom­ic stability. He said "global imbal­ances" occur when countries run up trade deficits or produce big trade surpluses. 

"Bernanke didn't really say any­thing about interest rates, but at this point the feeling on Wall Street is that it's mandatory," said Steven Goldman, chief market strategist, Weeden & Co., speaking about a rate cut. "At this point, the market is pricing in not just one rate cut, but a couple, and that's helping to stabilize stocks." 
The stock market has been volatile since midsummer, with jit­ters high about the sluggish hous­ing market and debt aversion caus­ing a standstill in the credit mar­kets and damaging the economy. Last Friday's jobs report, which showed the first monthly payrolls decline in four years, aggravated those concerns. Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, predicted the risk of a recession in the next six to 12 months has increased to nearly 40 percent from less than 15 percent before subprime concerns began 
riling the markets. 
Investors nervous about the U.S. economy slipping into recession got a bit of relief from the Commerce Department's report on the U.S. trade deficit. The trade gap narrowed modestly in July to $59.2 billion from $59.4 billion in June, thanks to record exports of farm goods, autos and other prod­ucts. Many economists had antici­pated a widening of the deficit. 
The Dow rose 180.54, or 1.38 percent, to 13,308.39. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 19.79, or 1.36 percent, to 1,471.49, while the Nasdaq com­posite index rose 38.36, or 1.50 percent, to 2,597.47. 
Bonds fell as investors withdrew money to buy stocks, pushing the 10-year Treasury note's yield up to 
4.37 percent from 4.27 percent late Monday. The dollar weakened against the euro and British pound, while gold moved higher. 
THE OBSERVER 

page 8 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, September 12, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Every life a gift from God 
!~0. Box 779, Notr< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Pining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EmTOR IN CHIEF Maddie I [;~nna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken l'owk·r Kyle West 
A~s·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity Ass·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT Enrron: Joey King 
SronTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hinc SCENE EmTOII: lite Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EnllUR: Katie Kohler 
I'HOTO EDITOR: Dustin MennelJJ 
GHAI'IIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANA<;ER: Jessica Cortez 
All DF$IGN MANAGF.H: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS A.DMINISTHATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(S74) 631-7471 FAX ('\74) 631-6')27 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6'JOO obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('i74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6J 1-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(S74) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
('i74) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5.303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports. 1 @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper publislll'd in prim and online by the students of the University of Norrr D;~me du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comenr, including advenisemenrs, is not govnncd by policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. J'hc ( lhserver reserves the right to refuse ,Jdverrist•mt·nts based on content. 
'I 'Ill' new., is reported as accurately and objectively as possiblt·. Unsigned editorials rcpr(.'St'nt rhe opinion of the m;~joriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant M;~naging Editors and departmenr editors. Commt•ntaries, letters and columns present the views of tilt' .mthors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conta('[ information. 
Questions "Karding Obsm1er policies shotdd be directed to l:ditor in Chief Maddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th~·l lh"-·rvcr (l/Sf'"i "i')') !-4UIJU) ts pnhll5hcd Mnuday thmugh Ptid:ty c::xu:pt tluring ~-•o~m .uul v.t~'Oitiun ~ocri•><.h, .'1. •uill>l.·riptinllln Thr t)h'tl:rvrr ilc $1()/J fur <Hir .Jt.adc:mk yc;,u; $'i'i (urmtt'"'Will<-<~fo:r 
·nu: Ol1~crvcr iii 1-mhli,hcJ .u POSTMASTER 021 ~unh llming 11.-11 !kml.uldrcs~ wtrtctinm. m; 
Num ll.unr, IN 4M~6-07!'J Th~·Oh>ot"rvtr 
Pc::rw.lt~.tl ~'U\IJ.j.!C p.ud ,u ~utrc D.um P.O 1\mtm 1111d ,uldiunno~luu1liut< olliu·~ 024 .SCluch Duung ll.tll 
Nutrc Dilmc. IN 4M56·0779 
Tl11· l Jh••HV('t t~ .t mcml)tt uf the A.\.ou~t:JJtc:d l're~o,. All rcprudtt\.(ltlll tighr.~ lire 
l'eiiCtV('d. 
Can we tell when a civilization is in 
decline'? Consider two recent events. 
Leona llelmsley, the New York real estate developer known in the tabloids as "the Queen of Mean," left a 12 mil­lion dollar trust fund for the care 
Charles Rice 
and feeding of 
Trouble, her 
Right or
Maltese terrier. She 
Wrong?
gave nothing to two of her grandchil­dren, but she did leave her chauffeur 100,000 dollars. As John Gapper com­mented in the Financial Times, Trouble is in the same league as "lncitatus, Caligula's horse, which slept in a mar­ble stable and was fed oats mixed with gold flakes." Caligula wanted to make lncitatus a consul of Home. "Perhaps," said Gapper, noting a parallel between ancient Home and today's America, "the rich and powerful treating animals as if they were humans is a symptom of the decadent last days of empire." 
Compared with Trouble, the unborn child is really in trouble. Last April, in Gonzales v. Carhart, the Supreme Court upheld the federal Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003. Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote the majority opinion, joined by Chief Justice John Hoberts and Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito. Partial-birth abortion is used in the sec­ond trimester or later. As described in the Act, the partial-birth abortionist "delivers a living fetus until, in the case of a head-first presentation, the entire fetal head is outside the body of the mother, or, in the case of breech pres­entation, any part of the fetal trunk past the navel is outside the body of the mother, for the purpose of performing an overt act that the person knows will kill the partially delivered living fetus; and ... performs the overt act, other than completion of delivery, that kills 

the partially delivered fetus." 
The Gonzales ruling upholds a prohi­bition of only one method of executing an unborn child. It will not stop a single abortion. Abortionists easily avoid the Act by killing the child first inside the womb by a lethal injection. 
The Kennedy opinion portrayed the homicidal reality of partial-birth abor­tion in such graphic terms that none of the Justices could possibly have had any doubt about the humanity of the victim. Yet they all agree that the unborn child is a nonperson and there­fore has no right to life. 
The J:<ourteenth Amendment protects the right of a "person" to life and to the equal protection of the laws. In Hoe v. Wade, the Court stated that if the per­sonhood of the unborn child were established, the pro-abortion case "col­lapses." The Hoe Court held, however, that "the word 'person,' as used in the Fourteenth Amendment, does not include the unborn," whether or not the unborn child is a human being. Hoe is therefore the same as a ruling that an acknowledged human being is a non­person. The principle that an innocent human being oan be defined as a non­person and deprived of the right to life is the principle that underlay the Nazi extermination of the Jews and the 1857 Dred Scott case in which the Court said that slaves were property rather than persons. 
Every Justice now on the Court accepts the Hoe holding that the unborn child is a nonperson. Even the "pro-life" Justices, Thomas and Scalia, agree that, in Scalia's words, "The states may, if they wish, permit abortion-on-demand, but the Constitution does not require them to do so." That position confirms that, as far as the U.S. Constitution is concerned, the unborn child is a non­person. If an innocent human being can be subjected to death at the discretion or another whenever a state legislature so decides, hn is a nonpnrson in tho eyes of both state law and that Constitution. 
If the unborn child can be treated as a nonperson so can anyone else. The law is an educator. The highest Court pro­claims tho constitutional legitimacy of' the intentional infliction of' death on tho innocent as an optional problem-solving technique. It does so with respect to the youngest. Why arn we surprised when it is applied to others, as in Columbine, Virginia Tech, Terri Schiavo's ease, etc.'? 
In 197 4, Cardinals John Krol, Timothy Manning, John Cody and llumberto Medeiros insisted before a Senate com­mittee that a constitutional amendment "should clearly establish that, from con­ecption onward, the unborn child is a human person in tho terms of' the Constitution.... Protection of human life should not depend upon geographical boundaries." The Cardinals had it right. A pro-life position should insist not only on effective prohibitions of abortion but also on the trnatmnnt of' all innocent human beings as persons entitled to the right to life. 
The object is to rnstorn among the American people the conviction that lifo is inviolable becauso it is a gil't. from God. A civilization might survive the pampering of a horse or a dog by peo­ple with more money than brains, but it cannot survive the systematic deperson­alization of its own innocent human beings. 
Charles E. Rice is professor emeritus at Notre Dame Law School. lie can be reached at 633-4415 or rice.l@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF News Scene OBSERVER POLL Marcela Berrios James Costa Mandi Stirone Viewpoint Graphics Bethany When will Notre Dame win its Madeline Nies Whitfield 
first football game this season? 
Sports Jay Fitzpatrick Ellyn Michalak Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Chris Khorey 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Stan, don 'tJjou know the first law ofphysics. Anything that's fun costs at least eight dollars. " 
Eric Cartman South Park 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is by the goodness ofGod that in our countr]J we have those three unspeaka6ly p_recious things:freedom ofspeech, freedom of con­science and the wudence never to practice either ofthem." 
Mark Twain American author 
~----~-------~ ~ 

------------------------------------------...., 



THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 12, 2007 page 9 
U-WIRE 
Travis Virgadamo was only 13 years old when the World Trade Center towers fell. Six years later he was Specialist Travis Virgadamo, celebrating his 19th birthday in what is commonly known among the troops as "the sandbox." Mitchell Parker 
It's hard to explain 
why or how we Spartan Dailyended up in Iraq, but in the aftermath of Sept. 11, American troops were deployed to the Middle East to inject democracy into a region of people nobody ever took the time to understand. 
On Aug. 30, just 13 days after his birthday, Virgadamo died from a report­ed self-inflicted gunshot wound. 
Six days ago, Corporal William Warford lll, known as Billy, from Temple, Texas, was one of two soldiers killed from a homemade explosive in Balad, Iraq. He was 24. This is about all the military will tell the public about Virgadamo and Warford. 
As General David Petraeus sat in front of a congressional committee yesterday, trying to justify the killings in this war, he did his cajoling with charts, graphs and statistics. 
No-w retnetnber the soldiers 
If Petraeus and President Bush would visit Warford's MySpace page they would see that he was more than just a statis­tic. 
Graphs won't show Warford's beautiful widow, Shea, or a picture of his adorable son dressed as Batman. Charts won't show the life Warford had-the friends, the family, the funny picture comments he got every week on his site. 
Statistics won't show the comments he received before his death, or the ones after. 
"Hey brother we will miss you. You will always be in our hearts. See you on the other side. Hook 'em Horns." 
A pie graph won't highlight what Virgadamo's page tells: His perfect pizza consists of banana peppers; that his goal for this year was to·travel; that his fears were "snakes, especially on a plane;" and that prior to his death, friends were wishing him the best. 
There has never been a war memorial like this in the history of warfare. At the Vietnam War memorial in Washington, D.C., you don't know what song a soldier or civilian was listening to before their death; what YouTube video they thought was funny; or that on the topic of chil­dren, "someday" was the answer, as it was for Virgadamo. 

These are the faces of war. These are the repercussions. This is the destruction of current and future families. 
It's not in charts or statistics. It's not in a graph claiming the "troop surge" in this real-life game of "Risk" is "work­ing." 
War is in the face of the widow; in the face of the once-happy "proud parent" from Temple, Texas; in the comment left to Vrrgadamo: "Blue skies, bro, rest in peace." 
As a 30-year-old Iraqi told me in an e­mail: "Life here is unacceptable and not suitable even for animals. I can get killed because of my work or for nothing. There are no infrastructure services, i.e. no electricity, no water, very bad sewage systems. It's hard sometimes to imagine and you have to see or live the situa­tion." 
The Iraqi, who is an engineering grad­uate student at the University of Baghdad, went on to say: "My wife and I tried to have a baby but we couldn't. Lots of doctors said it is because of the current situation and also because of the radiate weapons that (are) used during the war." 
Toni Campbell, chair of child and ado­lescent development at SJSU, said that for families and children involved in Iraq, the outcome is dismal. 
"War disrupts lots of people," she said. "And when the people who are supposed to care for children are stressed, when the stress is passed on to the children, sad and terrible things happen." 
I urge you to check the names of our fallen soldiers, look at their MySpace pages and send their families a quick comment or e-mail today. Believe me, even though I never met Warford or his wife, Shea, she was so thankful to receive kind words from a stranger. 
I then urge you to think about your vote in 2008 and make sure you don't vote for anyone who allows democracy to be exploited, families to be torn apart and innocent people to die, for no good reason at all. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 11 edition ofthe Spartan Daily, the publication ofSan Jose State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 
Health care lacks for Sept. 11 vvorkers 
The terrorist attack on Sept. 11 could be the most shocking tragedy in my gen­eration's lifetime. 
And although thousands of innocent lives were lost and a memorable pair of skyscrapers was destroyed, a great Lauren American spirit rose Englehardt from the rubble. Countless heroes The Daily stepped up to the 
Aztec 

challenge and risked their lives to assist in the rescue efforts. 
As a nation mourned, Americans threw their support behind a president who endorsed a war built on false pretenses. Anyone remember those WMDs? 
Now as people reflect six years later, it seems strange to report that some of the very same people most affected by this tragedy have not been treated fairly by the government and are now suffering debilitating health problems as a result of their heroism. 
The U.S. government does not have a sufficient array of health treatment pro­grams for Ground Zero workers, whose illnesses range from chronic bronchitis to cancer, or even a reliable estimate on how much treating their illnesses will cost, according to a federal report by the Government Accountability Office released July 24. 
Six years and counting, and our own government can't even treat the very people who risked their lives to save oth­ers, yet it can somehow afford to finance two increasingly unpopular wars? 
Perhaps the U.S. needs to listen to one of my dad's "Get your priorities straight" lectures. 
The institutions in charge of lobbying for increased funds for rescue workers have not done a sufficient job in raising enough money to cover these heroes' ris­ing health costs. 

Of the approximately 6,000 workers with illnesses resulting from the Sept. 11 clean-up effort, none have recovered completely. 
The most the government can do is give these selfless workers some money for a screening, but none for treatment. 
Great, so workers can find out they are sick from the toxic mix of asbestos, ground glass, concrete and other assort­ed chemicals, but they can't be treated for any illnesses that are discovered? 
Earlier this year, federal money became available for only three cate­gories of illnesses resulting from the cleanup efforts: Aerodigestive (asthma and reflux disorders), psychological and musculoskeletal. These treatment options don't cover cancer or any other serious illnesses that may show up down the line. 
So the government will pay for some inhalers, visits to the chiropractor and the therapist, but if you contract any­thing as serious as cancer, then you're out of luck, because it's not the easiest and least expensive sickness to treat. 
It's time the government stepped up to the plate, got an accurate count of the cost needed to treat these workers and delivered the money. And lack of health insurance shouldn't be a factor in this mess. These workers truly deserve to get whatever medical treatment they need. 
If Sept. 11 was important enough to drive the U.S. to war, one would think our country would feel indebted to those so directly affected by its aftermath. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 11 edition of The Daily Aztec, the publication ofSan Diego State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, September 12, 2007 
CROll 4ND I4LB S4DDLB UP 

W4NTBD 


By ELLEN COSTA J,iStafl'Writer 
Yes, Hussell has returned. Fully reeovered from his series of set­backs in rneent ynars, Hussell Crowe revisits the big screen in Lions Gate Films' ''3: 10 to Yuma." ·. 
Let's go baek about five years. Crowe stood among Hollywood's / greatest; he was 1:oming off three consecutive Best Actor nomina-' lions, induding his Oscar win for "Gladiator" in 2000. In "Gladiator," Crown played Maximus, who climbs up the ranks of the gladiatorial': ll.l'ena to retaliate against those who murdered his family and his 
: mnpnror. ·· . Hussell Crowe found another great role in "Master and : fcommander: The Far Side of the World," where his coarse charm ·.t:ould shinn. Here, Crowe played Lucky Jack, who mans the HMS 
•' Surprise on its mission to destroy a French privateer. In 2001, Crowe took on a very different in role in "A Beautiful Mind." In the film, he played profflssor .John Nash, a brilliant mathematician with schizo~ phrenia, in an almost frighteningly convincing manner. Russell Crown's career seemed unstoppable. Great role after great role was falling into his hands, and in each role he succeeded tremendously. Then the tides began to turn. 
In 2005, Hussell Crowe starred as boxer Jim Braddock in "Cindemlla Man." The film received excellent reviews but completely bombed in theaters. Last year, Crowe starred in the romantic comedy "A Good Year." It was anything but good. 
. Crowe is not known for a lovable personality -quite the opposite. , · Two incidents tainted the aetor's reputation. First, there was the ' . quarrel with a producer after the BAFTA Awards in London. BBC had 
eut out a portion of his acceptance speech, and Crowe was not pleased. "In the moment," he told media outlets, ''I'm a very passion­ate man." 
But that was not the end of the violent allegations against Crowe. In 

.June 2005, Crowe was arrested for chucking a cell phone at a hotel , mnployen's face. The hotel employee needed facial surgery. Though .Crowe publicly apologized and paid his dues, this widely covered 
story still follows his name. 
Somewlwre between great films, lousy films and violent disputes, he found timn to join a rock band. He is the lead singer and guitarist for the Australian band 30 Odd Foot of Grunts. Though the band has n primarily Australian fan base, its music is available online, and it plans lo continue rHlcasing albums. 
Crow11's can1er is looking up. Coming off a great job in "3:10 To ' Yuma," Crown has f'our movies set to be released over the next two [ ynars, aeeording to IMDb. Perhaps most antieipated is Ridley Scott's 
"Ameriean Gangster," a film about a drug lord who uses the coffins of dnceased Amnriean soldiers in the Vietnam War to smuggle heroin into Ilarlem. Crowe, who plays Deteetive Hichie Roberts, stars along., wilh Denzel Washington and Cuba Gooding Jr. ·E, 
Despite the obvious ups and downs of Hussell Crowe's career, his..f:' inexhaustibly gruff handsomeness and charm will always allow him~ to remain a key player in Hollywood. And with better films falling~ inlo his hands -like the now-playing "3:10 to Yuma" -we will!! 
~urnly be ablll to go baek to enjoying the acting we loved inf 
C"(;ladiator" and "A Beautiful Mind" once more. ,f. 
i Contact!:lien Costa at ecostal @nd.edu .'::;: .. ,, . , ~ 
STARS FACE OFF IN A WILD WESTERN WRANGLE 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 

Hussell Crowe and Christian Bale cow­boy up for "3:10 to Yuma," a throwback Western with a modern feel to it. Like most Westerns, the plot in "3:10 to Yuma" remains fairly simple and straightforward: A local posse saddles up to send the notorious outlaw Ben Wade packing. Along the way they encounter danger from all sides in the free-for-all rough-and-tumble world of the wild west: the lethal Wade himsolf, Apache Indians, Wade's hard-riding band of harriers, which remains hot on its heels to rescue its leader and a ran­dom Luke Wilson appearance. 
Hussell Crowe saunters through scene after scene with a sinister swagger as the legendary outlaw Ben Wade. The Bible-quoting, rough-riding rogue has a train to catch after local authorities apprehend him and plan to send him packing on the titular railroad ride to await trial. After tough-as-nails turns in 2000's "Gladiator" and 2005's "Cinderella Man," Crowe shines again in a slightly different light as a charismat­ic, quick-on-the-draw gunslinger with a 
conscience, despite his elaims to the shines as contrary. Which isn't to say he's any less runs aw 
tough: The "man's man" actor maintains a lethal gleam in his eye through­out the film, even when llashing his lazy Cheshire Cat grin. 
Opposite Crowe in tlw frame and on the other side of the law, Christian Bale plays Dan Evans, a rancher missing a foot and running out of time to pay ofT his mounting debts. The career ne'er do well takes the job of accompanying the Wade 
posse for a paltry sum in order to save his farm and regain the respect of his wife and sons. Bale's gaunt cheekbones have desperation written all over them, and he plays the part well. 
":~:10 to Yuma" uses Crowe and Bale well as character foils. Evans is the des­perate family man seeking to save home and hearth while trying to send Wade, a self-interested man concerned only with escaping so he can continue his maraud­ing ways, to Yuma. 
In a movie featuring the actor who 
played Batman versus 


the man who portrayed Maxim us, what could. have devolved into a testosterone fest ends up working well due to Bale's performance. lie doesn't try to match Crowe's tough-guy panache but instead sets himself up as a man with a world of things to prove. In other words, moviegoers will want to be Ben Wade, but they'll feel for Dan Evans. 
Logan Lerman also 

Peter Fonda plays Byron McEir erneck with a score to settle w, 
"3: 1 o to Yuma "lacks nothing in the action department. as there are quick draws, highway robberies and "this town ain't big enough for the two ofus" shoot ·em up shoot-outs galore. 
Prince, w misdeeds a mand belie "3: 1 0 to action dep draws, hi town ain't shoot 'emu 
Direetor 
in a race tral thllme the swirlin only two are Ben dom, and tion to put check. The talents, tion and fuls of b 
-
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, September 12, 2007 
page 11 
DR THB 
lliam Evans, Dan's son who from home against his father's orders and finds himself a member of the posse dNlicated to putting away Wadn. !lis obvious infatuation with Ben Wade's rock star outlaw persona contrasts well with his fathPr's plain admoni­tions on hard work, integri­ty and how to b1~ a man. 
llowevnr. despite all the star power flashing back and forth onscreen between Bale and Crowe, actor Ben Foster steals the show as the vicious Charlie se ruthless and psychotic Ben Wade's second-in-com­is baby blue eyes. 
rna" lacks nothing in the ment, as there are quick way robberies and "this 
g enough for the two of us" shoot-outs galore. ames Mangold spurs the 
kicking it into an ever-faster ng up the pace and the he bodies pile up and the to the inevitable battle of Dan Evans and Ben Wade nst time. The movie's cen­morality shifts as often as sands of the desert, and the left standing in the end and his thirst for free­Evans' dogged determina­away and collect his pay­ring of Crowe and Bale's with Mangold's direc­ess to expend bucket­Is in the film's action "3:10 to Yuma" one of and entertaining movies of 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 
Ru!>sell Crowe plays legendary outlaw Ben Wade, a charis­matic rogue with a quick smile and a quicker draw. 


\VINTBD 

CHRISTIAN BALE 
}By STEPHANIE DEPREZ 1:· SraffWriter 
i 

ff Christian Bale is finally crossing the threshold. After nearly 20 1' years of a hard but steady journey up the Hollywood totem poll, ~Bale is at last nearing the inner ring of actors. He is becoming the . ~.kind of guy that Hollywood _trusts to deliver. T~e top. box office.· ~opening for "3:10 to Yuma" 1s testament to Bales ab1hty to work 
;,magic in a good movie. .· f Cinematic victory did not come easily for Bale, who has worked lsteadily in the industry since 1986. After a few roles in TV movies, t'Bale starred in Disney's Newsies, a musical that was somewhat of ~a flop. He continued to work in the Disney circle and was the voice .:.. f•of Thomas, John Smith's friend, in the animated film Pocahontas.j ~He played opposite Wynona Rider as Laurie in Little Women. Bale : lbegan to gain prominence when he starred as Demetrius in "A \Midsummer Night's Dream" with Kevin Kline and Michelle Preiffer.; 'i, Following that role was a steady flow of large Holl~wood releas­,es, but it wasn't until the summer of 2005 that a mov1e thrust Bale \into the spotlight. "Batman Begins" opened to a whirlwind of 
excitement, and it helped Hollywood get through what was turning Jinto years of solid box office decline. For Bale, it was "Batman !Begins" that put him in a position to land the movies he wanted. k Since then, Bale has had a trail of successes. He's taken a few e·risks, including "American Psycho" prior to "Batman Begins," but 


tfhe has allowed nothing to stand in the way of his rise to cinematic!' power. He lost a third of his body weight to do "The Machinist," ~the story of a man suffering from extreme insomnia. Mainstream ~lluccess accompanied "The Prestige" with Hugh Jackman and the 
~Vietnam War film "Rescue Dawn." At last, Bale has reached a ,~position of authority among his Hollywood peers. ' Movies like "3:10 to Yuma" do not come along often; the last ~truly successful Western was "Unforgiven" with Clint Eastwood in \:the early '90s. What used to be the single greatest Hollywood for­fmula has since faded into obscurity, a somewhat forgotten art frorm that no longer equals immediate box office gold. Still, shoot­Jing a Western is a sign of accomplishment for any actor, and with-. : out a doubt the success of "Batman Begins" has led to bigger and ibetter roles for Bale. Ever since "Batman Begin~," he's been able ho stretch his capabilities as an actor. . ~ Though never formally trained, Bale's intensity and subtle emo­. tion have carried him through his career. Now, he doesn't always ' have to wait for another movie to come along. He is receiving 
~~scripts, as opposed to seeking them out. Though perhaps not an rOscar contender (yet), Bale is a key element of what is curre?tly ~ the hottest movie in America. He manages to hold his own agamst \:heavy-hitter Russell Crowe (Best Actor Oscar winner in 2001). His ~ood-guy performance helps make "3:10 to Yuma" a truly great , ~American Western. ,i, Christian Bale has proven that the basic Hollyw~od system J porks: Start out young, get bit r,oles, wor~ hard, get b1gger role!>,• 1' 
tgrow as an actor and work until somethmg happens. And some~A !where along the line, that something did happen. All eyes are on fi {Bale as he takes his next steps as a true Hollywood staple. · 
-;: 


-
~--------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, September 12, 2007 
SHAKESPEARE 

Actors From the London Stage to present Macbeth at annual on campus perfonnance 
Perfornzers will play multiple roles in the great tragedy that will be shown at Washington Hall this weekend 
Traditionally, the Actors from the 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
London Stage keep the stage nearly
Assisranr Scent· Fditor 

bare; one of the only set pieces for their production of "Romeo and Every yoar. the Actors from the Juliet" was a standard ladder to London Stagn grace the Notre Dame serve as the famous balcony. The campus with a pnrformance. This actors remain on stage for the entire-year, Shaknspoare's "Macbeth" will performance, sitting at the back if como to lifo in Washington llall. they arc not performing. Props are After more than 30 years, the also kept to a minimum; the swords Actors from tho London Stage are in last year's production of "Hamlet" onn of tlw oldest touring were symbolized by a glove on the Shakespeare companies in the actor's hand. The actors wear basic, world. Thny arn associated with the functional, modern clothing and sim-I>nBartolo Performing Arts ply add a small piece or Center, which serves as prop to indicate the their hooking agent and Not only do the character they are por­home in thn United States, traying. With so few
actors create their
but arn actually huusod embellishments, the and work in London. In production is clean and
environment on the addition to their perform­stage in front of the remains centered on ancos, thoy visit and teach the acting and the
audience, they try 
!:lasses at univnrsities. Tho words instead of the 
to involve their 
actors hail from companies decoration. like the Hoyal Shakespeare audience as much Not only do the actors Company, tho Hoyal create their environ­
as possible.
National Theatre of Great ment on the stage in Britain and Shakespeare's front of the audience, Globe Theatre. And since AFTLS they also try to involve their audi­pnrformances do not use a director, ence as much as possible. In many of the aetors' skill is on full display. the productions, the house lights are 
Tho Actors from the London Stage left high, the actors walk through are rocogniznd for their minimalist, the audience to get to the stage and, but n!Tnctive, production style. While on occasion, the characters directly "Macbeth" has more than 27 charac­address the crowd. ters, tho company will consist of only The Shakespearian tragedy 

both men are initially skeptical, Shakespeare's words and the ability
l'ivo actors (this year features Will "Macbeth" depicts the story of the 

Macbeth begins to waver in his loy­of the actors. Tho usual theatricalAshcroft, Brigid Zengeni, Chris eponymous Macbeth, a Scottish gen­
alty to King Duncan as excellence of' the compa­
Donnelly. Daniel Winter and eral who descends into madness the prophecy begins to ny, paired with the das­

Charlotto Allam l. after killing his king 

appear true. sical greatness of
in order to ascend to 

AFTLS performances 
Encouraged by his wife, Shakespeare's
the throne. After 

Macbeth murders become more than a "Macbeth," is a sure sign
returning from a vic­

Duncan. Still, there is no of a good show this
Macbeth 

torious battle, show; they are a 
triumph for Macbeth week.
Macbeth and his fel­

conversation with
and his lady, only over­"Macbeth" will run in
When: Wednesday, Sept. 12 -Friday 
low general, Banquo, 

whelming guilt and the audience. Washington llall tonight
come upon three
Sept. 14 at 7:30 pm 

doubt. through Friday night. To
witches. The three AFTLS performances purchase tickets for all

Where: Washington Hall 
witches prophesize 

become more than a shows, contaet the DPAC
that Macbeth will
Price: Students-$12 

show; they are a conversation with ticket office at 574-631-800. Tickets
become king of the audience. A refreshing change are $12 for students.

Faculty/Staff/Senior Citizens -$16 
Scotland, while 

from Shakespeare performances that
Banquo is told his
General Public-$18 

focus on ornamentation, these pro­Contact Michelle Fordice at
descendants will be 

ductions feature nothing except for mfordice@nd.edu
a line of kings. While 




Wednesday, September 12, 2007 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS page 13 
MLB 
Rookie pitcher leads Tigers to 4-1 win over Rangers 
Detroit goes 1-1 in Tuesday's doubleheader 
Associated Press 
DETHOJT -Jair Jurrjens saved the Detroit Tigers from what could have been a terrible day. 
The rookie right-hander allowed one run over five innings to lead the Tigers to a victory over the Texas Rangers and a split of Tuesday's day­night doubleheader. 
Marlon Byrd hit two of the Hangers' seven homers in their 13-6 win in the opener. 
The outing by Jurrjens (2-1), who was activated from the dis­abled list on Tuesday after hav­ing shoulder problems, was big for the Tigers. Detroit is four games behind the New York Yankees. who beat Toronto 9-2. in the AL wild-card race. The Tigers entered Tuesday six games behind first-place Cleveland in the AL Central. 
The Hangers, who took an 11­0 lead in the first game, went up 1-0 on Byrd's sacrifice fly in the first inning of the nightcap, but Brandon McCarthy t 5-9) eouldn 't survive the bottom of the inning. 
Curtis Granderson started the inning with a walk, stole second and third and scored on Gary Sheffield's one-out RBI single. Sheffield's hit ended an 0-for-25 slump, his longest since an 0­for-29 skid in 2002. 
After Sheffield stole second, Magglio Ordonez hit an RBI sin­gle and Ivan Rodriguez made it 3-0 with a two-out double, end­ing McCarthy's day. 
The Tigers added a run in the second on an RBI single by Placido Polanco. Todd Jones pitched a perfect ninth for his 34th save in 39 chances. 
Sheffield, Rodriguez and Polanco all sat out the first game, when Detroit couldn't build on Monday's dramatic four-run rally in the ninth to beat Toronto. 
"Momentum doesn't matter if you don't pitch," Leyland said. "When the air is out of the bal­loon after three innings, it isn't good." 
Rockies 8, Phillies 2 
Fighting to stay in the playoff race, the Colorado Rockies got another major lift from a rook­ie. 
Franklin Morales threw five scoreless innings to earn his first major-league win and Matt Holliday hit two homers to lead Colorado to a victory over the Philadelphia Phillies on Tuesday night. 
Troy Tulowitzki and Todd· Helton hit solo home runs for the Rockies, who entered the day 3 1/2 games behind San Diego in the NL wild-card standings. 
The Phillies came in trailing the Padres, who played at Los Angeles on Tuesday night, by 1 1/2 games. The Dodgers were 2 1/2 out in a jumbled playoff pic­ture. 
Morales (1-2) gave up three hits, walked one and struck out four in his fifth major league start. The hard-throwing left­bander had a 6.23 ERA before shutting down the league's highest-scoring offense. 
"He's got a big arm and a pas­sion to pitch," manager Clint Hurdle said of the 21-year-old. "He's a fierce competitor and loves to play the game." 
Yankees 9, Blue Jays 2 
At 20 games above .500 for the first time this season. New York Yankees manager Joe Torre is starting to feel comfort­able talking about a playoff berth. 
Jason Giambi hit a grand slam, Jorge Posada added a solo homer and the Yankees beat the Toronto Blue Jays 9-2 on Tuesday night for their sixth straight victory. 
New York (82-62) has won 10 of its last 13 to move a season­high 20 games over .500. The Yankees are four games ahead of Detroit in the AL wild-card standings after the Tigers split a doubleheader with Texas on Tuesday. 
"When you make 20, you have to be seriously considering play­ing in October," Torre said. "Right now we have our fate in our hands. If we go out there and keep winning ball games, we'll be fine." 
Giambi, who was 2-for-27 over his past 10 games, went 1­for-3, walking and scoring in the second inning. The grand slam was his first of the season and 12th of his career. Doug Mientkiewicz replaced Giambi at first base in the seventh. 
"That was a big one to get off my back," Giambi said. "It was exciting. It came in a big situa­tion and I got a big hit. With the bases loaded you know he does­n't want to walk in a run. He just left the fastball up and out over the plate enough where I could put the bat head to it." 


New York has gone 61-33 since May 29, when a 3-2 loss to Toronto dropped the Yankees a season-worst eight games below .500 at 21-29. 
"The way we started, I think it's a big accomplishment," Posada said. "We've been very good after the All-Star break. We've done a lot of things well. Our pitching staff really deserves a lot of credit for the things they've been doing late­!y." 
Marlins 13, Nationals 8 
The Florida Marlins swung the bats as if they were releas­ing their season-long frustra­tions. 
Hanley Ramirez homered twice and Mike Jacobs drove in five runs, powering the Marlins to a victory over the Washington Nationals on Tuesday night. 

Jacobs and Cody Ross hit con­secutive homers for the Marlins, who scored in seven innings and snapped a three-game skid. Jacobs has connected in three straight games. 
Pinch-hitter Justin Maxwell 
had a  grand slam  - his first  
major  league  hit  - for  
Washington.  

Ramirez finished with four hits, while Jacobs, Dan Uggla, Josh Willingham and Miguel Cabrera each had three as the Marlins piled up a season-high 21. 
"We joke how we can play some American League-style games and slug it out with peo­ple," Jacobs said. 
Maxwell, who had been 0-for­2 in his big league career, high­lighted a five-run fourth with his slam as the Nationals took a 7-5 lead. Maxwell was so enthused, he almost overran a teammate. 
"When I hit first base, I was just trying to make sure I didn't pass Brian Schneider because he didn't know if it was going to get out," Maxwell said. "He was like, 'Get off me!'" 
Both starters pitched poorly. Mike Bacsik gave up a leadoff homer to Ramirez and allowed five runs and eight hits in 2 2-3 innings. 
Florida's Chris Seddon, mak­ing his first major league start, gave up seven runs and eight hits in three-plus innings. 
"Our hitting really gave us a chance to win the game," Bacsik said. "Unfortunately I set the tone, and I couldn't really get anybody out consistently." 
Uggla and Jeremy Hermida singled off Chris Schroder (2-2) to open the seventh, putting runners on first and third. Cabrera then greeted reliever Jonathan Albaladejo with a soft RBI single for a 9-8 lead. 
After Willingham grounded into a forceout, Jacobs lined a two-run double. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIE'DS 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES ­needed for southside elementary school. Located near Erskine Golf Course on Miami St. $35/per game. Call athletic director at 574-291·4200. 
Friendly smiling servers needed. Full or part time openings. 
BABYSITTER NEEDED. Local family is seeking babysitter for 2·year-old boy. Flexible hours, Tues!Thurs. pre· !erred. Must have references. 574·271-0747. 
STUDENT WORK $12.75 base­appt. Flexible schedules, no experi· ence needed, customer sales/serv­ice, conditions apply, all ages 18+, 574-273-3835, www. workforstudents.com 
FoR RENT 
LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcoun· trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
Homes for 08·09. 4-6 bedrooms. Walk to ND. 574-876-7341.For Football weekends, call 57 4·532·1408. 

FOOTBALL HOUSE 3 bedroom home,5 blocks from campus for rent on football weekends, JPW, Graduation.Operated as a weekend rental. Great alternative to stupid hotel prices on those week· ends.www.notredameliving.comor call Alex 212·418-6937. 
TICKETS 

WANTED -NO FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 574·251-1570 
PERSONAL 
LASER CREATIONS Unique Products Thru Laser Technology. Laser etched logo gifts, signs, award plaques, name tags, rubber stamps, 
glass etching, etc. Call Jack 574-273-8662 or email: 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
Mark from ABC Cab is Back!!! NOW Driving for American Cab Co On Wed,Thurs,Fri,Sat,Nights. Cell 57 4-360-6480. 

If you are friendly and smiling, we will train you.  FoR SALE  Fum. apt.,sleeps 4 maybe 6  FOR SALE:  lasercr@comcast.net  Marcela is trapped in the closet. She can't get out!  
Some cook positions available too.  ND home games.  ND FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
Apply in person  BUY/SELL used CDs,DVDs, Video  Right next to ND.  GAMES.  Do not go it alone.  How many Tae Andrews  
52285 US 31 N South Bend.  games, video game systems and  574-273-3030  57 4·232-0964.  If you or someone you love needs  can you find in today's paper?  
Damons Grill eoe  vinyl. Buyco, 3602 Grape Rd.,  ask for Pat.  www.victorytickets.com  confidential support or assistance,  Winner gets a free hug.  
Mishawaka. 252-9222.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1·  Contact Christopher Paul Hine,  
Web Designer needed to create  Bed & Breakfast  ND tickets for sale Best Prices.  7819.  esq., at 570-362-1905  
new website.  98 Saturn Sport Coupe,  lodging w/alum family  57 4·288·2726.  For more information,  
Experience with shopping carts,  auto,power,AC,stereo,clean,66K.  for ND home games.  visit our website at:  Have your photos spayed or  
autoresponders,  $4500 Blue Book.  Great rates  Buying  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­ neutered to prevent canoodling.  
video/audio files desired.  574-289-6432  & nice accommodations.  BC/USC tix.  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  Even you can prevent the photo  
$1 0/hr. Call 574-320-2522 after 5.  lv.message.  57 4-243-2628.  574-277-1659.  in THE OBSERVER.  population.  

.-----------~--------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 12, 2007 
Major League Baseball American League East 
toam n~cord pore . last 10  GB  
Boston 87-58 .600 7·3  
New York 81-62 .566 7-3  5  
Toronto 72·71 .503 5·5  14  
Baltimore 61·81 .430 3·7  24.5  
Tampa Bay 61·83 .424 7·3  25.5  
American League Central  
tNUTl n~1·ord pore . last 10  GB  
Cleveland 84-60 .583 7-3  
Detroit 79-67 .541 6·4  6  
Minnesota 71-73 .493 4·6  13  
Kansas City 62·81 .434 2·8  21.5  
Chicago 61·83 .424 4·6  23  
American League West  
team rN·ord pore . last 10  GB  
los Angeles 84-59 .587 5·5  
Seattle 75·67 .528 2-8  8.5  
Oakland 70-75 .483 4·6  15.0  
Texas 69-75 .479 8·2  15.5  
National League East  
team l't-t:ord perc. last 10  GB  
New York 82·61 .573 9·1  
Philadelphia 76-67 .531 5-5  6  
Atlanta 73-71 .507 4-6  9.5  
Washington 65-79 .451 7·3  17.5  
Florida 61-83 .424 3·7  21.5  
National League Central  
I P!llll rPcord pPre. last 10  (;B  
Milwaukee 74-70 .514 7-3  
Chicago 73-70 .510 5-5  .5  
St. louis 69-73 .486 J.7  4  
Cincinnati 65-79 .451 3-7  9  
Pittsburgh 64·81 .441 5-5  10.5  
Houston 62-81 .434 3-7  11.5  
National League West  
team reeord pere. last 10  GB  
Arizona 82-63 .566 7-3  
San Diego 77-65 .542 4-6  3.5  
los Angeles 75-68 .524 5-5  6  
Colorado 74-69 .517 6-4  7  
San Francisco 65-79 .451 4-6  16.5  
M IAA Volleyball  

1 Adrian 3-0 (6·1 overall) 
2 Hope 3·0 (6·1) 
3 Calvin 1·0 (4·1) 
4 Tri-State 1-0 (3·6) 
5 Alma 0·1 (4-5) 
6 Olivet 0·1 (1-8) 
7 Saint Mary's 0·2 (3·6) 
8 Kalamazoo 0·2 (1-5) 
9 Albion 0·2 (0·5) 

around the dial 
INTERNATIONAL SOCCER Mexico vs Brazil 8:30 p.m., Telemundo 
CLASSIC NCAA FOOTBALL Applachian State at Michigan 8 p.m., ESPN Classic 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Braves at Mets 8 p.m., ESPN 
Cubs at Astros 8 p.m., WGN 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRE SERVICES 
NFL 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -Kevin Everett voluntarily moved his arms and legs on Tuesday when partially awakened, prompting a neurosurgeon to say the Buffalo Bills' tight end would walk again -con­trary to the grim prognosis given a day before. 
"Based on our experi­ence, the fact that he's moving so well, so early after such a catastrophic injury means he will walk again," said Dr. Barth Green. chairman of the department of neurological surgery at the University of Miami school of medi­cine. 


"It's totally spectacular, totally unexpected," Green told The Associated Press by telephone from Miami. 
Green said he's been consulting with doctors in Buffalo since Everett sus­tained a life-threatening spinal cord injury Sunday after ducking his head while tackling the Denver Broncos' Domenik Hixon during the second-half kickoff of the Bills' season opener. 
Everett dropped face­first to the ground after his helmet hit Hixon high on the left shoulder and side of the helmet. 
Asked whether Everett will have a chance to fully recover, Green said: "It's 
IN BRIEF 
Yankees, Mets commemo­rate 9I 11 at games 
NEW YORK -The New York Mete;; and Atlanta Braves paused before their game Tuesday night to mark the sixth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
The Blue Jays and Yankees also paid tribute to police officers, firefighters and emergency workers from both cities in Toronto. 
The Shea Stadium scoreboard was turned off as the Mets and Braves lined up along the baselines for a moment of silence. The sparse crowd also stood under an overcast, gray sky. 
"9/11 is something that we'll never forget," Mets manager Willie Randolph said before the ceremony. "It seems very fresh in all our minds, I guess." 
In Toronto, U.S. Ambassador David Wilkins joined Capt. William Liley of the New York Fire Department and Chief Bill Stewart of the Toronto Fire Department on the mound as they threw out ceremonial first pitches. 

feasible, but it's not 100 percent predictable at this time.... But it's feasible he could lead a normal life." 
On Monday, Bills ortho­pedic surgeon, Dr. Andrew Cappuccino, said Everett likely wouldn't walk again. 
"A best-case scenario is full recovery, but not like­ly," said Cappuccino, who operated on the reserve tight end. "I believe there will be some permanent neurologic deficit." 
Cappuccino and officials at Millard Fillmore Gates Hospital did not immedi­ately return several mes­sages left with them by The AP. 
In a report Tuesday evening, Buffalo's WIVB-
page 14 
TV quoted Cappuccino as saying: "We may bn wit­nessing a minor miracle." 
Bills owner Ralph Wilson said the team has been in contact from the beginning with Green and thn Miami Project, the university's neurological center that specializes in spinal cord injuries and paralysis. 
Everett's agent, Brian Overstreet, also said Everett's mother told him the player moved his arms and legs when awakened from a deeply sedated sleep. 
"I don't know if I would call it a miracle. I would call it a spectacular exam­ple of what peopln can do," Green said. 

Texas fan nearly castrated 
in fight with Sooner 
OKLAHOMA CITY -To some Oklahoma football fans, there arc things that just aren't done in the heart of Sooner Nation, and one of them is to walk into a bar wearing a Texa'i Longhorn<.; T­shirt. 
That's exactly what touched offa bloody skirmish that left a Texa'i-shirt-wearing fan nearly castrated and an Oklahoma fan facing aggravated assault charges that could put him in prison lor up to five years. 
The shocking case has set off' a raging debate in this football-craze'd region about the extreme passions behind a bit­ter rivalry. Some legal observers have even questioned whether this case mulct ever truly have an impartial jury. 
''I've actually heard callers on talk radio say that this guy deserved what he got for wearing a Texas T-shirt into a bar in the middle of Sooner muntry,'' said Irven Box, an attorney in this city 20 miles from Oklahoma's campus in Norman. 
Oden will have knee surgery
before season begins 
PORTLAND, Ore. -Trail Blazers center Greg Oden, the No. 1 piek in the NBA draft, will undergo exploratory arthroscopic surgery this week because of pain in his right knee. 
An MRI taken last week showed the former Indiana Mr. Basketball may have some cartilage problems, general manager Kevin Pritchard said Monday. 
A timetable for Oden's return will be set following the surgery, which will take place Thursday in Vancouver, Wash. The Trail Blazers open training camp in three weeks, and the regular season starts Oct. 30. 
This is Oden's second health prob­lem since the Trail Blazers drafted him in June. 
He had a tonsillectomy in July after struggling in two Las Vegas summer league games. 
Wednesday, September 12, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
!j]l)J~ 
_s-tdrtJn g_sdJdry 
We're Jool-:ing for .sm~1rt, confident dynwnic Je~ders to grow 'J.IJHh .LJ:J ~1.s District J'il~Jil~Jger:;. You'JJ m ··. You'll empower. You'll· 
m~JtEJgernent f_!IJtentl~J e;~peri en c_8\~Y(lll """'-_;.!.;c;~ 1-\LDJ's 350.+ U.b-,...·.,"""'~~~~ itall whilfl' 
:~ . . . ·::~· ' 
-~1-\LDJ.com 
--:,.-­

-· ' I 
I I 
I 
'I 
I 
~,..,...----------------------~-------­
page 16 Wednesday, September 12, 2007
The Observer + SPORTS 
STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
Ifyou have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 9th and September 16th, at 7:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 30 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
If you have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Pool you may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 
The Society.for Hzunan Resource Managen1ent & The Managen1ent Club invites evefyone to attend the . 

Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
Thomas W. Malone 
"The Future ofWork" 
Friday, September 14 12:00-1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Recycle 


NFL 
Cleveland trades 
QB Frye to Seattle 

Browns name Quinn backup quarterback 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Charlie Frye went from starter to starting over, and Brady Quinn moved up a notch. 
In two days, the Cleveland Browns' complicated, confusing and crowded quarterback carousel took a dizzying spin. 
Frye, benched before halftime 
in Sunday's season opener, was 
traded to Seattle for a sixth-round 
draft pick Tuesday, a stunningly 
swift move that raises Quinn, the 
Browns' high-profile rookie QB, to 
No. 2 on the depth chart. 
With Frye no longer in the pic­ture, the Browns will start Derek Anderson, who lost the quarter­back competition to Frye during the preseason, at home on Sunday against the Cincinnati Bengals. 
Quinn, the heir apparent, will 
be Anderson's backup. 
"This move obviously clarifies our quarterback situation," gen­eral manager Phil Savage said with a straight face. " ... Some people think we're doing some kind of experiment, but we're not. We're trying to win and unfortu­nately things got derailed Sunday before it even got started." 
Cleveland's trade of Frye is unprecedented. According to the Elias Sports Bureau, he's the first quarterback since the NFUAFL merger in 1970 to start his team's season opener and be traded before Week 2. 
The Browns, embarrassed 34-7 by the Pittsburgh Steelers in their home opener, will go into Week 2 with three quarterbacks on their roster and only one of them, third-stringer Ken Dorsey, has won an NFL game. 
The club signed Dorsey to a one-year contract Tuesday, 10 days after the Browns cut him. Dorsey will serve as a mentor to Quinn, who might have been the Browns' opening-week starter if' he hadn't missed 11 days of train­ing camp in a contract holdout. 
Savage said starting Quinn has 
been diseusscd, and that the for­
mer Notre Dame star could soon 
be under center. 
"I think there is a feeling that 
he's certainly closer to being 
ready to play," Savage said. "We 
want to be able to give him a full 
gamut of plays and give him a 
chance to have some success. I 
don't know if that happens in two 
weeks, four weeks, six weeks. 
"The important thing in the big 
picture is that we develop Brady 
Quinn in the right way. That is the 
most important thing that we 
have to do this year and that's 
what we're trying to do this year. 
And, win." 
Frye was dealt less than 48 hours after playing horribly and being pulled in the second quarter by coach Romeo Crennel. A for­mer third-round pick who grew up rooting for the Browns in Willard, Ohio, Frye beat out Anderson during a drawn-out competition that began during the offseason and carried through the preseason. 
Less than two weeks ago, 
Savage said, "Let's see what 
Charlie can do with a full deck" 
this season. 
It took less than 20 minutes on Sunday for the club to decide Frye was no longer in their future plans. 
He went 4-of-10 for 34 yards with an interception -a QB rat­ing of 10.0-and was sacked five times before Crennel yanked him. Savage was most troubled by Frye's inability to get rid of the ball. 
"Sunday, we needed to see more production," Savage said, "and probably the most revealing thing of everything that happened Sunday was that in his 10 attempts (actually 15), he took five sacks and in Derek's 28 attempts (actually 29) he took one sack." 
Savage praised Frye for the way he handled two-plus turbulent seasons with the Browns, who are just 40-89 since 1999. 
"lie came into a very tough situation," Savage said. 

Wednesday, September 12, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
WoMEN's WoRLD CuP 
With VVambach injured, USA ties North Korea 
The top-ranked Americans, the penalty area and beat Jon twisting, long strike that slipped
Associated Press 
trying to regain the title they Myong-hui with a 13-yard shot through the Solo's hands, tying 
CIIENGDU, China-Blood won in 1991 in China and 1999 that the goalkeeper got her the score. Kim Yong-ae then streaming from a gash on the at home, extended their unbeat­gloves on but failed to stop. pounced on a rebound in the top of her head, Abby Wambach en streak to 4 7 games. But Five minutes later, Wambach 62nd and shot it past Solo, who came off the field. For 10 min­playing in the toughest of four was defending a cross when she didn't have a chance. utes, the United States played groups, they put pressure on collided with North Korea's Rik When the crowd screamed short-handed while she got themselves heading into games Kum Suk. Wambach fell to the again, Wambach knew North stitches. against third-ranked Sweden on ground, blood pouring from the Korea had taken a 2-1 lead. 
North Korea didn't waste its Friday and Nigeria next back of her head onto her face "I really had to hurry up the chance. Tuesday. and jersey. process," she said. "I was 
The United States allowed a "I think the U.S. is the best in U.S. coach Greg Ryan decided yelling at the doctors to get it pair of goals while Wambach the world, but today they didn't not to replace Wambach, who done quicker. I cursed some bad was off the field -one on a perform to their maximum," has 78 goals in 97 games with words and hurried up and got blunder by goalkeeper Hope said Kim Kwang-min, coach of the national team. my jersey on and ran as fast as Solo -then rallied for a 2-2 tie the fifth-ranked North Koreans. "It was a very tough call," he I could." Tuesday in its opener at the Wambach, playing on a sore said. "The doctors said they Wambach re-entered the Women's World Cup. right toe she injured against could get her back within just a game two minutes later, and the 
"When they scored righ l away Finland on Aug. 26, put the few minutes. Abby is such an United States tied it in the 69th as I went off I started to get United States ahead in the 50th important player to this team. I when Heather O'Reilly scored worried," Wambach said "So I minute on a rainy night. She though we could withstand her 12th goal-her first in the started to run to the locker took a pass from captain playing 11 against 10." World Cup -taking a ball in room to get stitches put in." Kristine Lilly on the right side of In the 58th, Kil Son-hui hit a the penalty area that couldn't 

one o our omema e rene uns 

#16 CLUB LULU "'
FREEBIES I$U8S & CLUBS ONLY) then smothered with onions. mayo, 

Fresh sliced turkey breast, bacon, lettuce, tomato,
Onion. lettuce. alfalfa sprouts, tomato, mayo, sliced lettuce, tomato, & our homemade 

& mayo. (JJ's original turkey & bacon club)
cucumber. Dijon mustard, oil & vinegar, and oregano. Italian dressing. 

~WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK 1r 
I
• 

54570 N.IRONWOOO OR. 1290 E. IRELAND 138 S. MICHIGAN 5343 N. MAIN ST. 
574.277.81500 574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.968.4600 
SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 
I 

''YOUR! MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOHN'S!" © 
®1985. 2002. 2003. 2004, 2007 JIMMY JOHN'S fRANCHISE. LLC ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. We Resene The Right To Make Any Menu Changes. 
be cleared and putting it into the roof of the goal. 
"I was just moving around in the box and the ball just seri­ously wound up on my feet," O'Reilly said. "I just tried to get something on it -to get it on frame. It didn't feel like it came off my foot very cleanly. I was surprised it was as nice a goal as it was." 
Solo made two saves in injury time to protect the lead, first sprawling to her right to parry away a shot, then grabbing a drive without allowing a rebound. 
"For the fans and soccer it was great," Lilly said. "People saw attacking soccer, they saw goals, the teams were combat­ting to the very end." 
In other games, Sweden tied Nigeria 1-1 in Group B and Japan tied England 2-2 in Group A. 
Despite its usual poise, the 

U.S. looked unnerved at times before a crowd of 35,100 at Chengdu Sports Center Stadium in southwestern China. 
North Korea, with many of the players that won last year's Under-20 Women's World Cup, pressed the Americans. The North Koreans ganged up at midfield to attack and mixed long balls with quick triangular passes. 
"I would say I have never defended as much," U.S. defender Cat Whitehill said. "They came at us flying, they came at us with a ton of num­bers. I'm just glad we were able to stop them enough to get a tie." 
Ryan tried to encourage Solo, who rebounded from the bad first goal with some excellent late play. 
"A hundred times Hope is going to save that one shot, but this is the one time it goes through her hand. It's unlucky," Ryan said. 
Said Solo: "It's a day in the life of a goalkeeper. The conditions are slick and it is wet out there, but it happens." 

-
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 12, 2007 
Weis 
continued from page 20 
and wide receiver positions. 
'"Hegular' is two backs, one tigh~ en~! an_d t~o .. wide recmvtlrs, Wers s<ud. But I might call 'regular' and give a ljersnyl number. So I might want a specific halfback or speeific fullback or speeific tight nnd or speeific wide 
receiv!~r." 
As the offense gets more complex, Clausen will be able to rely on firth-year senior center John Sullivan to help him make reads, Weis said. One thing Sullivan already does is identify the defense's middle linebacker so that the offensive linemen can figure out who to block. 
Last season, senior quarter­back Brady Quinn made the linebacker calls, but with such a young quarterback, Weis trusts center John Sullivan instead. 
"All the quarterbacks would like for me to just have that in their hands and not have it in Sully's hands," Weis said. "But right now, I'll definitely go with tho nxpnrinncnd guy with handling that assignment." 
But Clausen is learning. lie mimi1:s Sullivan's calls-both for his own education and for the lwne11t of widn receivnrs and running backs that can't sen the centm·. 
"I think what happens is when Sully says who it is, then the wide reePivers and nvery­one Plse rweds to know who he's idnn tifying," We is said. "Because a lot of times, those guys outside can't sen what he says." 
Even if Clausen learns the oll"enso pnrfnetly, however, the Irish won't he able to move the ball until the oll"nnsive line improvns. Notre Dame has given up 15 sacks and rushed 
Did You Know? 
for -8 yards in two games. 
Weis said competition for starting offensive line posi­tions is still open, but that no back-up has shown enough in practice to unseat the starters. 
"I spoke to a couple of the guys who were back ups last week and I said if' they had done more in practice last week, they would have been in the game," Weis said. "And they were told the same thing going into this week." 
Pass protection problems have especially hurt the pro­duction of fifth-year senior tight end John Carlson. Last season, Carlson caught 47 passes for 634 yards. This year, he has just four catches for 34 yards in the first two games because he's had to stay in to help the offensive line so often. 
Weis said Tuesday that he might take away the safety blanket from the offensive line and try to get the ball to Carlson more this week. 
"When you don't get any offensive production for two weeks in a row, there comes a time where you have to take off the gloves and we're get­ting close to that time," the coach said." 
And while Weis makes Xs and Os changes trying to get production out of his offense, tho players are chomping at the bit to show they aren't as bad as they've looked so far this snason. 
"If thny aren't mad and embarrassed, then they're not competitors," he said. "I know I certainly am. I think any time you put as much time and elTort, and you feel you're credible and things don't go too well, and you don't feel angry or embarrassed, then you're not very competitive." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


* 
China surpassed Mexico in 2003 as the United States' second most important supplier, behind Canada?

* 
China achieved 12 percent of the world economy on purchasing power parity basis in 2004 (second to the United States)? 


*Between 2000 and 2005 China represented nearly 40% of the global growth in world demand for oil? 
The Mendoza College of Business 
presents 

the end, all of that hard work paid dividends, as the
NDRFC 

University reinstated the Notre continued from page 20 Dame Rugby football Club in May of last year. 
"Four years ago Don Greiwe, "It was a lot of hard work Brian Fallon and Mike Schmitt that finally paid off," formed the Outside Irish Rugby Harrington said. Football Club," Harrington Over the summer the team said. "Outside" became a fit­has gotten new jerseys, a new ting moniker in describing the pitch and has become a mem­team's detached status from ber of the Chicago Area Rugby the University. Football Union. 
"Last season we were com­Even more important than pletely self-coached and self­University recognition is the funded," Harrington said. "We right to wear the Notre Dame had to pay for all of our travel. symbol on their sleeves. We were not allowed to "Last year we all had to play recruit, advertise, or play as the 'Outside Irish' as we matches on campus. Although were not recognized and so not we could practice on campus, allowed to represent the we were not allowed to reserve University," sophomore flanker fields to practice on so it was Jaime Urquijo said. "From now difficult to gain access to facili­on all Notre Dame ruggers will 
ties."  have  the  very  
Outside of the  special privilege  
University's favor and recog­nition, the team nonetheless  "The bonds you make playing this game are never broken, and I  of bearing the ND monogram on our jerseys," Senior prop  
continued to build and work toward its even­tual goal  encourage anyone who can to come out and watch us this  Patrick Noble agreed. "I started playing and  
earning  club  season.  learning rugby  
status.  last  spring  
"Year by year we gathered more players  Jaime Urquijo Irish flanker  semester," he said. "Coming from Texas, I  
and improved as  grew up playing  
a  team,"  football and did­ 

Harrington said. "Two years n't have any exposure to rugby ago when I was a sophomore, whatsoever. Then, this young John Gallagher, the current Spanish chap with an English vi.ce president, and I put accent IUrquijol convinced me together a club constitution to check it out. and with the help of Don "While some aspects of' the Greiwe, Brian Fallon and game are similar to football, David Seibel, put together an playing rugby is a completely application to the administra­unique sport. The techniques, tion to start up a rugby club at rules, and plays are different Notre Dame. This was an from any other sport that I extremely long and difficult know or watch on TV. I like process." learning such a new thing ­
However, Harrington and his it's almost a cultural experi­fellow roughnecks have ence, learning a sport that the become more than used to get­whole world plays. I also love ting back up after taking their to hit people." fair share of hits in the rough Harrington, Noble and and tumble world of rugby. In Urquijo all cited a common love of "hitting people" as one of their primary reasons for playing the sport, despite a rash of' injuries which have seen them land in the doctor's office nearly as often as on the turf. for his part, Harrington has broken his nose twice and dislocated his knee once, although he said "the injuries are not as bad as you might think." 
Noble has split an eyebrow and sprained the AC joint of his shoulder. Urquijo has suf­fered a couple of career con­cussions on top of' a broken arm and finger. lie also has a bent rib at the moment, which he describes as a "most pecu­liar injury as it does not bother me, and the doctor has assured me that in that case we should not touch it." 
Yet all of the bumps, bruises and broken bones have not deterred them from the pitch. 

"Rugby, in my opinion, is every bloke's favorite game," Urquijo said. "They just don't know it yet. Its a rough con­tact sport, but at the same time requires a great deal of fitness and awareness of the game." 
Having earned University recognition, the same thing continues to bind the team together as it has in years past: a common love of the game. 
"On top of playing such an exhilarating and fast paced game, the friends and bonds which are formed over the game are priceless," Urquijo said. "Some of my best friends on this campus and back home were made on the rugby pitch. While you are on that pitch putting your body on the line to win, at the risk of sounding very cliche, the 14 other play­ers on your team are like your brothers. The bonds you make playing this game arn never broken, and I encourage any­one who can to come out and watch us this season." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 
Calvin 
continued from page 20 
the No. 1 team in the nation. Calvin is also still ranked No. 6 in the Great Lakes Region of the NSCAApoll. 
But four-time all-MIAA first team forwards Jill Capel and Sarah Weesies graduated from last year's undefeated squad, as did two-time 

With the change of guard taking place at Calvin and the roll the Belles have been on since the start of the 2007 season, Saint Mary's hopes this match will be much closer than either of' last year's contests. 
Kickoff is set for 4 p.m. Wednesday afternoon at the Saint Mary's soccer field. 
Contact Chris doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
Olivet 
continued from page 20 
"The passers did a nice job of getting Amanda the ball, so that she had multiple choices in set­ting up the offense," Schroeder­Biek said. "Amanda did an out­standing job in those first two games." 
Sophomore setter Liana Rohr 
Maunu 
continued from page 20 
want to go." 
Freshman So-Hyun Park per­formed well in her first collegiate tournament, taking second with her three-under par 213 (70-69­74). 
Sophomore Annie Brophy fin­ished in a tie for 27th and third on the squad with her six-over par 222 (75-74-73). Sophomore first team defender Tricia DeVries. 

The two teams squared off twice in 2006, with Calvin emerging vic­torious both times. The first was a 6-1 blowout, but the Belles kept it close in the second game, falling 1­0. 
In the second game the Belles did not manage to record a shot, while Calvin had 20. But in a year in which Calvin dominated most games it played, the Belles' effort was one of the more impressive. 
replaced David for the closing game. 
"I really wanted to give Liana a chance to run the offense," Schroeder-Biek said. "Even though Liana sets all the time in practice, there is no better teacher than playing in a match. I really felt that Liana did a nice job tonight." 
The Belles dominated the first two games, playing together and talking to each other on and off 
Kristin Wetzel finished three strokes behind Brophy with a 225 (76-75-74), good enough for a 42nd-place tie. 
Freshman Katie Conway rounded out the Irish lineup with her 231 (78-75-78), leaving her in a tie for 64th 
Notre Dame will return to the links Monday for a two-day tour­nament at the Napa River Grill Cardinal Cup in Louisville, Ky., taking place at the Cardinal Club. 
If the victory at the Cougar Classic is an indicator for how the the court. 
The Comets hung closn in the third game, but Saint Mary's scored four unanswered points to win the match, capped on· by a game-point spike by freshman middle blocker Andrea Sasgen. 
The Belles play another con­ference match versus Alma at 7 
p.m. tomorrow evening. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
season will go for the Irish, then the squad has a opnn horizon in front of it this year. 
"I knew we were better than last year, but I couldn't be sure of' how good we were until we com­peted," llolt told und.eom. "We wanted to use this tournament as a mea<>uring stick, and I sure like how we look right now. We had a good first day and we backed it up the rest of' the way." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 12, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 
L..OOK, WHATS 
THE~~~ t>EAL. H~7 ... AL..l-R 
!IRE. Yov AFAAtt> 
THI:. NVM.gf;.J!.S You'l-L AWt>eNTAl..l..Y 
DON'T MATll-1 'TKE. rll'. Tf-\~ WF/.ON~ 
ONES LISTEI> <>N PE.It.SoN'S WT9.NET7 
IKE. AUOUNT. 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 

DEUCES MANOR 

RICH PROTIVA AND ANDY SPANGLER 

TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TROIB 
j
rJ r I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved . 
YESTT 
rJ 
1
t

SORIAL IJ I 
www.jumble.com
tKRANET j
I J r I I 
A:[ I I I JA "[I I I J"ITJ IT 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: ITCHY AUGUR METRIC ANEMIA Yesterday's Answer: 
When pantyhose went on sale, there was a-"RUN" ON THEM 

WHAT THE: RE:C.RUIT 010 WHE:N BAYONE:T TRAINING BE:GAN. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ariana Richards, 28; Ludacris, 30; Harry Connick Jr., 40; Moby, 42 
Happy Birthday: Take extra care in the way you do things this year. Too much of any­thing will work against you. You can't change the past, so put it behind you. Focus on getting ahead, expanding your interests and putting your creative ideas into play. Now is not the time to waffle or to have regrets. Your numbers are 9,11,21,39,44,47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Travel, gathering information and enjoying what you do will go hand-in-hand. You may question your current personal and professional position but, in the end, will realize you are in the right place at the right time for you. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): No one is ever sure about anything. However, you are right on the mark about who you like and who you don't. Act on your feelings and rid yourself of what isn't working. A few minor changes are all it will take. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Get involved in something that makes you think and uti­lizes your artistic talents but don't go overboard by spending, too. Children and older relatives are likely to cause emotional ~tress. Hands-on help will be required. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Clear up the clutter. Someone you live with or that you are close to will probably not be happy with your domestic choices. Please yourself first and do what needs to be done. Sizing down or a new budget will help. 4 stars 
CROSSWORD 
Across 35 Retort to "Not Latin 101 word 
so!" 36 --10

~ Flip Conference9 Early third­39 See 29-Downcentury year 42 Quick to pick up14 "Norma Rae" thingsdirector 43 Balkan nati•te15 Sport with jabs 45 Numbered dubs16 They make 47 Mexican accord? 
lawns green 48 1970 Covent 17 1966 Lincoln Garden title roleCenter role for for 21-/28­21-/28-Across Across19 Grind down 50 Increase 20 Pong maker 54 The Dixie Chicks 21 With 28-Across, and others a late, great 56 Common entertainer cleanser 
231nsignificant 58 Childhood 
26 Silas Marner's nickname cf 21­
adopted /28-Acrossdaughter 60 "Dynasty" 27 "As I Lay Dying" actress 
father 61 Stretches out? 
28 See 21-Across 621955 "Die 
30 Mark Fledermaun" 
permanently 
debut role for 33 Scatterbrained 21-/28-Across 
.......................,
.... 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZILE 

65 Really big 
66 Giant-screen movie format 67 Tony-winning 
Carter 68 Ruhr Valley city 69 Strike out 70 Coli. seniors' 
tests 
Down 1 Mysteries 2 "Paradise Lost" 
author 3 Starting lineups 4 Celebrated in 
the past 5 Earl Grey, e.g. 6 Elect, with "for" 7 Balkan native 8 Conger, e.g. 9 Unlikely 
candidate for Mr. Right 1 0 Running back's stat 
11 "La Traviata" role for 21-/28­Across 
12 May race, familiarly 
13 Expert finish? 
18_money 
22 They may report to C.E.O.'s 24 In connection with 25 Slip of the tongue, maybe 29 With 39-Across, 21-/28-Across, 
for one 31 Flatfoot 32 Much sought 
after 34 Believer: Suffix 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by David J. Kahn 
35 It's charged 46 Nudging, and 57 Radio executive 
36 Mac alternatives then some Karmazin 
37 D-backs, on a 48 Internet chuckle 58 Short dos scoreboard 
49 Requirement to 
59 A few 
38 Stage wear for buy on eBay 21-/28-Across 61 Cedar Rapids 
51 More ludicrous 
college e.g. 
40 "Sempre Iibera," 
52 Cause to burn 
63 _ soda (textile41 Linguist 53 Canvas sites bleacher)
Chomsky 55 "The Wild Duck" 44 Flying home? playwright 64 Chopper 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take a practical approach to a job you are working on. Don't let anyone cost you financially or take advantage of your generosity. Romance is on the rise. Your charming personality should be enough, so don't spend to impress. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Ang. 23-Sept. 22): You've got things happening so don't stop now. Stick to your original plans. Emotions may be on the rise but that doesn't mean you have to be impulsive or do something foolish. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll have a chance to learn something new or to find out something about someone you know will influence a decision you have to make. Be cre­ative in the way you handle others--as a responsible, free thinker. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Everything is in place whether you think it is or not. Don't waste time over details that won't make a difference in the end. A domestic change will be good for you, so stop fighting making a move and go ahead with the renovations. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be a target of blame for what's going on or is said. Avoid gossip or meddling of any kind. Arguments will result if you aren't to­tally honest and stick to the facts today. Love is in the picture. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make money. sign contracts, complete settlements and invest wisely today. A chance to help someone out or to work with someone unusual will give you an interesting take on how to spin an idea you have into a moneymaking venture. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Stick to practical decisions and don't overdo it with spending, making promises or trying to get someone else to see things your way. Coast along and let others lead the way. It will give you time to put things back into perspec­tive and make better choices. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your presence will be felt but make sure you are being fair. Chances are someone will oppose what you want to do. Ulterior motives on your part or the part of the people you deal with today will not be favorable. 
Birthday Baby: You are emotional. outspoken, friendly, charming and popular. You are aggressive and demonstrative--always ready (but not eager) take the first step. 
Eugenia 1s Web sites: ast.roadvice.com for fun; eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, September 12, 2007 
page 20 
RUGBY 

Tackling the odds 
Tearn regained club status after 12 years 
By TAE ANDREWS Spons Writer 
Chris Harrington loves hit­ting p1wple. 
Arter growing up in London and lnarning how to play rugby, tlw senior Notn~ Dame Hughy Club captain and serum hair has been running roughshod over and through opporwnts for the past night years. But tackling his biggest dutllnnge has taken plaee off or tiW pite!J -Parning ClUb status ror his tPlliTI. 
The history or the Notre Damn Hugby Football Club is a long and colorful one, filled with nnarly as many shenani­gans as hard hits. 
"Sonw of the old tnams rrom back in the 'SOs and '90s had gotton into a lot or trouble with the University," Harrington said in an e-mail Sunday. "That led to an even­tual ban of the team 12 years ago." 
Knocked down but not out, the team began rebuilding in 2003. 
see NDRFC/Page 18 


FooTBALL 
Weisopens playbook forU ofM 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Against Penn State, with a freshman quarterback in a hos­tile environment, Notre Dame eoaeh Charlie Weis simplified his offense, cutting down on the number of plays available to be called. 
But after the Irish ofTense mustered only 144 total yards and a paltry three points, Weis isn't going to take any more "baby steps" with quarterback Jimmy Clausen. 
"lie's getting more !offense installed!," Weis said. "And he's getting more within ... what I think he can tolerate. Obviously, we've gone through two games without much production on offense, so you can't sit back. You have to make some signifi­cant strides to try to get some production on ommse." 
One element of complexity that Weis wants to employ more against Michigan on Saturday is using multiple personnel groups, especially the deep running back 
see WEIS/Page 18 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Maunu shoots Notre Dame record 6-under par 
to overcome a three-stroke deficit sive. previous record by 29 strokes. "Usa played roally, really well," 
By LORENZO REYES 

after the second round to beat Two separate program records The victory was the 21st in pro­Holt told und.com. "She was 
Spons Writer 

the Volunteers. were broken at the Cougar gram history, and the first time steady and hit tho ball really well. Notre Dame finished with a Classic. second-year eoach Susan llolt I thought the entim tnam hit the Notro I>amn dnfeated No. 14 eombined score of 870 (2S7 -292-In the first round of the invita­has led her squad to a tourna­ball well. It's exeiting becaus1~ the Tonnosson by one strokn and boat 291 ), while Tennessee shot a tional, junior Lisa Maunu shot the ment title. team set some high goals for this out thnHl othPr top-20 squads three-round total of 871 (288-lowest round of golf ever in the Maunu, due to her record­season, and it's a tostament to Tuosday to win the Cougar 2SS-295J. The field at the program at six-under par. As a breaking first round, finished them that they arn playing up to Classic, while shattnring several Yeamans Hall Golf Club in team, Notre Dame fired the low­atop the field of 103 golfers, them. The goals are attainable, tnam and individual reeords. I Ianahan, S.C., was comprised of est score over a three-round becoming the 11th golfer in the and they can go as far as they In what figurPd to be a record­four top-20 squads -making event with its six-over par (870) history of the program to win an 
sntting week, the Irish were able this victory even more impres-mark. The Irish shattered the individual tournament. see MAUNU/Page 18 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles host MIAA champs Calvin 
By CHRIS DOYEN Spurts Writer 

Coming ofT a hard-fought 3-1 loss at Hopl! Saturday, Saint Mary's returns homo Wmlnnsday to host Calvin. 
Calvin had a rwar-pnrli1d snason last ynar, compiling a 22-0-1 fll!-,>11­lar snsaon record. rnaehing the NCAA Division Ill quart11rfinals, and finishing No. 5 in the linal Division Ill coaches' poll. While thny havn lost three of their first five games, all three losses came against teams that are currently ranked in the top 25 nationally ­Kenyon College, University of Chieago and Wheaton College ­
see CALVIN/Page 18 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary's tops Comets in three 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's dominated its home opener against Olivet Tuesday night, winning 3-0 (30­17, 30-19, 30-27) to earn its lirst conference victory of the season. 
The Belles (4-6, 1-2 MJAA) worked on teamwork all week, and coach Julie Schroeder-Biek feels they finally have come together. 
"I felt that the team played very well together tonight. Our block was fantastic," Schroeder­Biek said. "We were very aggressive along the net in both our blocking and our attacking." 
The Belles attacked suceess­fully and had eight out of their 10 players get at least one kill. totaling 51 kills for the BelloH over the Comet's 34. Sophomore outside hittnr Lorna Slupczynski led the attack with 15 kills, while junior middle blocker Cathy Kurczak con­tributed 11. 
Those kills can also be con­tributed to senior setter Amanda David, who posted 26 assists in only two out of the three games. 
see OLIVET/Page 18 









