
THE 

The Independent f!ewspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Pension act expires with new year 
Provision that makes cotributions from IRAs tax-free helped University collect $2.5 million 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame may have to lind a new way to encourage senior alumni to donate a part of their retirement savings to the University starting next year, because the piece of legislation that currently makes these con­tributions tax-free will expire at the end of 2007. 
A provision of the 2006 Pension Protection Act allows people 70.5 years or older to direct up to $100,000 of their Individual Retirement Account (IRA) to qualifying charities and 

Alumnae offer their career tips 
College graduates host Expo, Insights Day 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Saint Mary's alumnae from 21 majors returned to campus Tuesday to offer students advice on post-graduate employment and nducational opportunities in the first annual Alumnae Career Exposition and Career Insights Day, sponsored by the Board of Governance (BOG), the Division of Academic Affairs and the Center for Career Opportunities. 
The alumnaP. participated in major-based seminars through­out the day, discussing their careers and how current stu­dents r:an crack into and excel in thosn finlds. 
Tlw main event of the day was the Carner Exposition in the Student Center Lounge. 
About 75 students participated in the networking event, where the visiting alumnae spoke about their own career experiences. 
"The alumnae have bnnn so supportive," BOG alumnae com­missionnr Christine Darche said. "Even tlH>Se who couldn't attend Ithe career expo I wrote back saying this is a great program." 
Many of the alumnae said they wish there had been a similar program in placn during their time at thn College. 
"Wiwn I came to school here thern was only one bank that interviewed lfor post-graduate employmentl," said Katherine Waltner Harig, a 1977 graduate. "We had to do everything after college on our own." 
Waltner Harig is the executive director of the Illinois region of 
see ALUMNAE/page 4 tax-exempt organizations, like Notre Dame -and with a tax benefit. 
Since President Bush signed the Act into effect in August 2006, Notre Dame has received more than $2.5 million in IRA contributions, said John Butkovich, assistant director of planned giving at the University's development office. 
"These are dollars we might've not received otherwise," Butkovich said. 
But the provision will expire on Dec. 31 as different groups in Congress have expressed con-
see IRA/page 3 



Male feminist tackles gender issues 
By BRIAN MCKENZIE News Writer 
Anti-sexism activist Jackson Katz has told members of the New England Patriots and the U.S. Marine Corps that men need to stand up to a culture that allows the physi­cal and psychological subjection of women. On Tuesday, Katz delivered the same mes­sage to a Notre Dame audience. 
Part of the trouble with society's treat­ment of gender issues is that these matters are widely considered to be "women's issues," he said. 
So long as issues of rape, sexual harass­ment and sexism are considered women's issues, Katz said, it is easy for men to opt out of the discussion. 
"Opinion polls show that both women and men think [violence against women] is an important issue, but that it's an important women's issue," he said. 
And with 99 percent of rapes committed by males, a widespread refusal among men to engage in problem-solving debates will 
see GENDER/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Hypnotist helps vvith confidence 
Student taps minds of individuals, athletes 
By LINDSAY SENA 
News Writer 
So you want to quit smoking, conquer stage fright, improve your athletic performance and gain self-confidence? Notre Dame MBA student Dale "Doc" Dougherty might be able to help with a few sessions of hypnosis. 
A certified hypnotist, Dougherty said he became interested in the practice after seeing a stage show in 1990 and has practiced it for seven years. He has hosted numerous hypnosis workshops at Notre Dame, working with both individuals and sports teams. 
He held one such workshop. the last beginner's session of the semester, Tuesday in the Mendoza College of Business to help stu­dents improve their study habits and test-taking and memorization skills. 
Dougherty kicked off the session with a few brief meditations, ask­ing participants to visualize relax­ing settings. Contrary to stereo­types created by hypnosis stage shows, Dougherty said that your mind still has a moral code under a hypnotic trance. 
"You totally have control over yourself," he said. "You can't be made to rob a bank unless you rob banks in your everyday life." 
Hypnosis produces a temporary condition of attuned responsive­ness at the subconscious level, giving Dougherty an opportunity to present positive thought.<; and values to the hypnotized mind. 
"Ideally, the positive sugges­
see HYPNOTIST/page 6 


Diplomat wants female peacemakers 
Sorensen: Women have 'untapped potential' 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
A former United Nations diplomat told a Notre Dame audience Tuesday that 80 per­cent of the world's refugees are women and children -and she wants women, including female refugees.,to become "architects of peace. 
Gillian Sorensen, a senior adviser to the United Nations Foundation who is known as "the diplomat's diplomat," delivered the lecture "The State of Women Internationally" in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
"Women are often marginal­ized, pushed to the edge," Sorensen said in an interview before the lecture. "The United Nations is at the center of so many things. We could have focused on any number of top­ics. But women's rights, women's issues, are very important." 
She said women have-been throughout history victims of war, but they possess the traits that make strong peace builders. The opportunities to act in this capacity, however, have been denied to them for centuries. 
"Although women are half 
see DIPLOMAT/page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 7, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Protest this 
A'> it is with many studnnL'i, the 21-ynar-old 
drinking age, our one-year losing stwak to 
Navy, people who 1:ut in linn at the Dining 
llall and slow walknrs can annoy me. 
But nothing so far this year has managed to irk me morn than tho unbdievable Kara King numbm· or pnople who havn ynt to Viewpoint Copy learn how to Editor sodalizo. 
You know -that !-.'11Y at the f{JOtball game who dairns he eould singlo-handPdly defend against our offense. 
Tho snniors who still enjoy dorm parties and frnqunnt thnm despite tiH~ir ability to procure their own akohol. 
Anyone who, on more than one oceasion, has ({Jund humor in commenting on the appearance or Stepan Center. 
Pleasn don't misunderstand me-everyone can havo a lapse in judgment. 
But to do so on a regular basis leads to soda! awkwardness. One could argue that this type or behavior is contagious. drawing our soda! interaetions further and further from normaky. 
This faet is only hampered by the Exdse Police's insistence on striet enforcement or the drinking age. Them's the impression that no one under the ago or 21 can set root at TC for fear of being issuml an MIC. The nnw crackdown on oll"-eampus partying is just one of many problems. 
Monotonous discussion is now common­place. Wn as a studPnt body have little insight into new topies or l:onversation. 
Bocnntly, howovnr, a now debate arose: that of Uw lack of studl'nt activism on campus. I sno wlwrn the argunwnt comes from, but thnn~ arc so many morn portirwnt issuos to Not.n~ Damn that havn to be sortnd out bd"orn we nm fully devotP oursnlvPs to other causes. 
Pnopln are out protnsting for a living wag1\ yet no one 1:an fully apprndatl' theso ell"orL'> wlwn their voiees an~ drownod out by the freshman claiming lw can coach bl'ttnr than Charlie Wnis or somn guys rnhashing tim Kaloidoscopn Md>aniels all-girls-at-NI>-are­grmnlins thnory. 
/\nd tho worst part of our continuing domisn into completn soda! ineptness: No one is doing anything about it. 

We havn ClAP whorn wo noed C/\HP­1:ampus awkwardnnss rndw:tion projeet. 
Though I only have one ynar past experi­nnce from which to draw, the downward spi­ral that we appear to be on is foreboding. We may not he an aetivn campus, but when it comes to tlmse p1~rtinent issues, the laek of activism ultimatnly hampnrs any potential soda! progrnss. 
Until studenl'> begin to notiee and takn aetion. then~ appears to bn no end in sight. 
But rnaybn thero is a simpiP solution -an intorvinw rnquirnmont lbr admission. Then we can at least make a prenmptive strike. 
/\t any ratl\ it probably would have kept my exeossivoly awkward nnginnnring brothnr out. 

The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are thmw of the author and not necessarily those ojThe Obsertwr. 
Contact Kara King at kking5fs!)nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

l)u~ to an editing error, a portion of the Nov. 6 article on Senator Jim Lockwood's proposed amendment to the Student Body Constirution ("Senator calls f(>r 'puppet' rule") conHated the purpose of his dralied amendment with the goals ofa separate amendment he said he would propose. The amendment on the agenda for consideration at today's meeting ofSenate doc-s not give senators more control over the student body president's actions or words at meetings of the ( :ommunity/Campus Advisory Coalition. The goal ofthe initial amendment is to mandate the president reports details of tht· commincc's meetings to the Senate. The pl:m to give senators more control over the president's words at the coalition's meetings is part ofa second amendment that Lockwood plans to propose, he said in an e-mail sent to Siegfried residents Monday. 
l )ue to a reporting error, the Nov. 6 article "Opinion page stance on execmions detailed" incorrectly stated that Bruce Dold ,,aid the Chicago lrihune has a long history of liberalism in its editorial pages. In f.1Ct, Dold said the 'lrihune has a long history ofconservatism. The Observer regrets the errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE HORROR MOVIE AND WHY? 







Brianna Muller Minsoo Kang Ed Yap Puja Parikh Danny Wheelan 
sophomore sophomore sophomore freshman sophomore l~yons Carroll Keenan Farley Keenan 
"The GDDfor ''The Exorcism "Amityville "The Descent. It "Shark Attack Notre Dame ofEmily Rose. Horror. It didn't need the Ill. It's so 
Football 2007. It's self explanatory. " It's scary as strikes close to gore to be realistic. " hell." home." scary. 
Police station no place to smoke weed 
UHY, Conn. -A man is facing drug charges after he allegedly walked into the Danbury police station puff­ing on a marijuana-filled eigar. 
Capt. Hobert Myles says Seott Snow walked into the station early Saturday and blew smoke from his eigar into a small opening in the bullet-resistant glass sepa­rating desk offieers from the public. 
Myles says the 24-year­old man was told thBre's no smoking inside the building and he allegedly stubbed out the cigar on 
TODAY 



offieers arrived the boy said his father had crashed and left the seene to lind a tow truek. After eontinued questioning the boy con­fessed. 
Police aren't sure how long the boy had the car or where he had been. They're investigating the aceident. 
The boy's name is being withheld beeause of his age. Police are referring the ease to juvenile court. where the boy eould faee eharges for joyriding and driving without a license. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
the counter. 

Offieers eame out and smelled the distinctive odor of marijuana and arrested Snow. 
Boy, 13 blames dad after joy ride wreck 
PHOVO, Utah -A 13­year-old boy who went for a weekend joy ride in his par­ent's car lost control of the vehicle and crashed into a tree -and then blamed the wreek on his father. 
Springville police say the boy took the ear Saturday and picked up a friend. !\bout 7 p.m. he hit a street sign and a tree. 
Lt. Dave Caron says when 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
....I c( 
(.) 0 

HIGH 43 HIGH 37
...I LOW 30 LOW 21 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

IN BRIEF 
Ohio State University pro­fessor James Bartholomew will deliver the lecture "Is There Anything Unique /\bout Modern .Japanese Sci1mce'?" Thursday at 4:15 
p.m. in 215 DeBartolo Ball. 
Heather Stoll, a professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara, will deliver the leeture "l'rnsidents, Powers and Parties: Tlw Sources or Lngislativn Electoral Coordination in PresidPntial HPginrns" Thursday at 4:15 
p.m. in Hoorn C-1 o:~ of the Hesburgh Center. 
lntornationally known advocate against the death penalty Bud Welch will speak Thursday at H p.m. in tho Heshurgh Center for International Studies. His spnech, "Vengeance Solves No Problems," will draw upon his experience of los­ing a daughter in the Oklahoma City bombing. 
As part ol' the Boardroom Insights leeture series, Paul Orfalea, former Kinko's chief exeeutive offi­cer will speak in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business Friday at 10:40 a.m. 
The Glee Club will per­form its fall coneert Friday at H:30 p.m. in the Leighton Coneert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing /\rts Center. Tiekets are $3 for students. 
To submit information to 
be included in this section of 
The Observer, e-mail 
detailed information 
about an event to 
obsnews@nd.edu 
GAME DAY SUNDAY 


HIGH LOW 

Wednesday, November 7, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

SMC students learn self-defense 
After friend's murder, founder started workshops for young ·women 
By MEG MIRSHAK NewsWrirer 
Erin Weed, founder and execu­tive direr-tor of Girls Fight Back, an organization that provides person­al safety and sell'-defense informa­tion for young women, presented her program to about 50 students in Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium Tuesday night. 
Weed founded Girls Fight Back in 2001 after her best friend, Shannon McNamara, was mur­dered in her college apartment near Eastern Illinois University. Inspired by the way her friend fought back against her aggressor, Weed said she realized young women must learn practical meth­ods to protect themselves if neces­sary. 
"Nothing changes your sense of security more than seeing what violence does to a woman," said Weed, who witnessed the trial of McNamara's murderer. 
After working with violence-pre­vention experts and self-defense trainers, Weed began traveling the country presenting her self­defense initiatives at middle schools, high schools, major cor­porations, colleges and neighbor· hoods. 
Weed said the most shocking part of her friend's murder case was that many people in the apartment complex heard McNamara's screams as she was being attacked, but no one did anything to help her. 
"Specifically in college campus­es, we ignore sounds," Weed said. 
Girls Fight Back is Weed's most popular program, but she also teaches courses on spring break safety, campus crime and work­place safety for interns new to the lifestyle of an urban professional woman. 
Through Girls Fight Back, Weed said, she hopes to teach young women that "fighting like a girl is a very good thing." 
Weed said she tells women the best way to learn about personal safety is through empowerment, not fear or intimidation because they may be known as the "weak­er" sex. 
A Girlo; Fight Back program cov­ers reducing risk factors, paying attention to one's intuition, home security measures and tips for Internet safety. Weed put that and more information for campus safety in her book, "Girls Fight Back: The College Girl's Guide to Protecting Herself." 
And it really is a guide for a safer lifestyle, said Cassie Quaglia, president of the Residence Hall Association, which sponsored Weed's presentation. 
"Girls Fight Back gives our stu­dents practical knowledge to apply to everyday living," Quaglia said. "It is not just about the self­defense aspect." 
Quaglia said small changes help make everyday life safer, and Girls Fight Back reminds that to stu­dents to avoid tragedies like McNamara's death. 
The second half of Weed's pres­entation includes a program Weed calls "three steps to a safe and empowered life." 
The first step, "learning to trust your intuition," could have pre­vented McNamara's death, Weed said. 
She also warned women against being a sitting duck for attacks. "All of us know what it looks like to be an easy target," she said. 
The presentation ended with a short demonstration of self­defense moves that a woman could put to use if she is ever attacked. When found in a violent situation, women who have never been taught proper ways to defend themselves pause because they do not know how to react, Weed said. 
She also showed the audience how to use everyday objects, like a cell phone and a high-heeled shoe, as an "improvised weapon," if cir­cumstances allow. 
"It is my hope that you will see something in today's program that will make you want to go and take a self-defense class," she said. 
The Girls Fight Back Web site, she said, has a directory women can use to find listings of self­defense classes near them. 
Some in the audience said they would consider Weed's suggestion. 
"Weed was encouraging because you never think you will be in a situation like [McNamara's] and it was nice to know women can defend themselves," freshman Stacy Biedron said. 
Contact Meg Mirshak at mmirsO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
IRA 
continued from page 1 
cern about the tax revenue lost through the Act. There are, however, in Washington who are trying to extend the IRA 
provision, Butkovich said. 
The Act's tax benefits, he said, acted as an incen­tive that encouraged older alumni to use their IRA funds to make contri­butions to Notre Dame during 2006 and 2007 ­and usually at the $100,000 level. 
"We've had a significant amount of gifts at the $100,000 level, which is the maximum contribution the Act allows," Butkovich said. 
He said most benefactors 

on the amount of tax reduc­tions a person can receive each year for charitable distri­butions. 
"These alumni are happy with the provision, because it allows them to make donations to the University without tax implications, but at the same 
"We've had a significant amount of gifts at the $roo,ooo level, which is the maximum contribution the Act allows. These alumni are happy with the provision, because it allows them to make doantions to the University without tax implications, but at the same time this gift doesn't count against the benefactor's 
allowable tax deductions that year. 
John Butkovich assistant director planned giving 
time this gift doesn't count against the benefactor's allowable tax deductions that year," he said. 
Withdrawals from IRAs are normally report­ed as taxable income. But with the Pension Protection Act, individuals can directly transfer those funds ­free of taxes ­to a charity without having to itemize the gift to receive a tax reduction. 
Butkovich said as soon as the legislation was passed, his office sent alumni whose graduation years put them in the 70-year­old range infor­mation about 
taking advantage of the Act's IRA provision made gifts to the University before 2006, when the Act went into effect. But he said he thinks many of them were discouraged from making further contributions because the IRS tax code puts a ceiling the Pension Protection Act. 

And the University has made full use of it during the two years the provision was in effect. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Who says Deloitte is the #1 place to start a career? 

BusinessWeek, our employees and recent grads, to name a few. 1n tact, oeloitte ranked 
ahead of 49 companies you probably know by name. Of course, we had something to aim for; we were ranked number three in 2006..And, year after year, we've ranked on other leading !ists, including Fortune magazine's "Best Companies to Work For" and Working Mother rnagaz1ne's ''100 Best Companies." If you're wondering why, it's not just because we offer a strong benefits package, a coilaborative work environment, and the opportunity to work wrth some of the finest clients in the world. What really rnakes us stand out is our culture of innovation. Take Mass Career Custornization'". It redefines how careers are built. After all, the one-size--fits-all approach to the corporate ladder is no way to build the workplace of the future. 
~~i]~ BttsinessWeek ranks Deloitte #1 in "50 Best Places to Launch a Career," September 2007 . 
... :CAREER See more. To discover your opportunities with Deloitte and find out why BusinessWeek ranked us the best place to start 1:$~\'1 a career, text "NOTREDAME" to 78573 or vfsit deloitte.com/us/notredame. 

Deloitte 
Audir.Ta.x.Consulting.Financial Advisory 
As us~d in this document. ''Oeloitte" means Deloitte & Tou<:he USA. U.P and its subsidiar!es. P!eas~ see www.delo!tte.com/us!about ~or a detaHed desaiption of the !ega~ :stn.J<:ture ot Deloitte & Tou<:he USA 
~...krobH oi ~kbittE: Touch~? T<!hro.:l'l::<u Copyrfght Q 2007 Deloi'tte Development LLC. Ali r~ghts re:;:Jrved. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 7, 2007 
some tangible guidance her future; and while she didn't
Alu01nae 

walk away with a job ofl"er, she 
did think the event was a good
continued from page 1 

idea for people seeking more the Friends of the Orphans abstract eounsel. nonprofit organization. She "I think it's only helpful for said she wanted to eome back people with no sense of direc­
to the College and attend Tuesday's events to get exposure for her organiza­tion and hopefully meet students who might be inter­ested in the organization. 
"It sou !HI Nl like a gn~at way to rnaeh out to peopln," said Waltrwr llarig, who has also been involwd in the Collngn's post-graduate Voluntlwr Fair li>r thn past two years. 
''I've talked to quite a li1w stu­dents already today," slw said. 

"I think it's only helpfulfor people with no sense of direction or who knew that what they were looking for would be present. I had an idea ofwhat I wanted and who I was looking for !but they weren't able to attend/. 5;o I personally did not find it helpful, but that's not the same for everyone." 
Jill Swan junior 

tion or who knew that what they were looking for would be pres­ent," Swan said. "I had an idea of what I wanted and who I was looking for I but they weren't able to attend!. So I personally did not find it helpful, but that's not the samn for everyone." 
Darche, the BOG alumnae commissioner, was pleased with the way the day turned out, even though there weren't as 
"It's amazing the experiences that some students have alnlady." 
Lori Harrington, a 1992 graduate, also fllturned to her alma mater li>r the event, evnn though she hadn't been aetivn in many College events in recent years. But now she's involved in a rww organization that lwlps childrnn going through their parents' divorce -and slw wanted to gnt Collnge studnnLo.; involved. 
''I've bnnn talking to I psychol­ogy professor Catherine! Pittman about maybn linding sonw studnnl intPrns for tlw program for next smnester," llarrinj.,rton said. 
.Junior .Jill Swan attended the exposition in hopes of linding many people at the career exposition as she had hoped. 

"llopefully next year it will be more established and we can gel things started earlier," Darche said. "I think that if more people know what this was, they would have come." 
Centnr for Career Opportunitins direetor Jeff Hoberts was also happy with thn event. 
"It being the lirst time, you learn some things," Hoberts said. "But still, these things are happening [for students!. ... IThn earn<~r nxpol nmlly provid­nd insight into careers, whieh is what it was supposed to do." 
Contact Liz Harter at ehacteOI @saintmarys.edu 
That realization made him ily. When a husband beats his angry. As he became more wife, children are the second­

Gender 

involved with gender issues, ary victims, he said. 
Jackson found out that many "As far as I'm concerned, ifcontinued from page 1 
women close to him had been he's abusing their mother, he's prevent any true progress victims of abuse. abusing them by definition," toward prevention. His experience is hardly he said. 
It is essential to involve men abnormal, he said. Language plays an impor­in the discussion, both in the Jackson insisted that every tant role in shifting the academic and activist settings, male in the audience knew at emphasis from men to Jackson said. He was least one female that had women, he said. The media impressed that men com­been sexually assaulted. He often use certain phrases prised about half the audience cited a Department of Justice "Mary was beaten" or "Mary Monday. statistic that is a battered woman" that 
Given today's one of four conceal the role of men and expectations of women will be deline women by their victim­masculinity, "We need more men the victim of hood. men must often rape or "The usc of the passive
with the guts to break 
be confident in attempted rape voice shifts attention from
out [of/ complicit 
their identity during college. men a~.d boy_s to girls and before they can silence." "True preven-women, he sard. speak frankly tion is going to lie also objected to the use about the sexist the root of the of the word "accuser" to
Jackson Katz 
attitudes that problom: men deseribe the allognd victims of
Anti-sexism activist
pervade current and boys," he rape. "[The accused! is now paradigms of said. the vie tim of her accusation," gender, he said. "IButl what he said. 
"We need more men with has been called 'prevention,' Jackson extended his argu­the guts to break out [of') eom­as far as I'm concerned, is ment about the importance or plicit sihmce," Katz said. risk reduction for women, like semantics by asking the audi­
Too of'ten, Katz said. men 'watch your drink' and 'don't ence to provide derogatory allow themselves to disregard go out alone at night.· labels used to criticize female the issue because they are "Silence in the face of sex­anti-sexism activists. "good guys" who don't beat ism is a form of consent and Two of" the terms -"bitch" their girlfriends or assault complicity," he and "witch" women. said. spurred 
In a culture rife with sexism Men are rele­further analy­
"Silence in the face of
and gender-based violence, vant to prevent­sis. refraining from hitting or rap­ing violence sexism is a form of In medieval ing a woman may not be against women Europe, thou­
consent and 
enough to make a man a not only because sands of
complicity. " 
"good guy," he said. "We need attackers are women who to raise the bar a little." almost always resisted patri­Males involved in anti-sex­men, but also Jackson Katz archal power ism activism are often asked because such vio­were burned
Anti-sexism activist 
about their personal motiva­lence affects at the stake tion, Jackson said. them indirectly, as witches, he 
His own personal awakening he said. lie said. to the cause came during col­offered an example of a hus­Today, women who refuse to lege when he realized the band whose "wife would wako defer to male authority arn lives of his femalo friends up screaming, having trau­routinely labelod "bitches,'' he 
were dramatically affected by matic flashbacks or a rape said. the need to protect their per­that happened 20 years ago." "We 'vo come 500 years, but sonal safety, he said. Though the husband wasn't a we've changnd one letter'?" hn 
"The women I care about victim of rape, he was very said. can't even walk out to the cor­much harmed by it, he said. ner store at IJ p.m. to get a He also considered the effect Contact Brian Mackenzie at soda," he said. of domestic abuse on thn fam-bmckenzi@nd.edu 

KELLY HIGGINS/The Observer Alumnae Autum Gill, right, Dana Dreher Schrader, center, and Jessica Matthews Langager talk to a student at the Alumnae Career Expo Tuesday. 

Please recycle The Observer. 
Funding Undergraduate Research Opportunities 
6:00 p.m. Thursday November 8, 2007 
Hospitality Room South Dining Hall 
Speakers 

Stuart Greene, Associate Professor and Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies 
Ruth Abbey, Associate Professor and Director of the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts 
Contact information: 

Office of Undergraduate Studies, 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, November 7, 2007 CoMPILED FROJ'v1 Tt-JE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERV1CES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Attack targets Afghan politicians 
BAGHLAN, Afghanistan-A bomb attack struck a group of lawmakers Tuesday as they were being greeted by children on a visit to a sugar factory in Afghanistan's normally peaceful north. At least 28 people were killed, including five parliament members as well as children. 
U.S.-backed President Hamid Karzai blamed the "the enemies of peace and security," a euphemism often used for the militant Taliban. But such a spectacular attack could also have been the work of al-Qaida. The Taliban denied involvement. 
Video obtained by AP Television News of the scene just before the blast shows schoolchildren, tribal elders and government officials lining the streets to greet 18 Iawmakers as they were about to enter the sugar factory in Baghlan, a town about 95 miles north of the capital, Kabul. 
Instability casts shadow on elections 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan-Pakistan's deposed chief justice called on ·lawyers Tuesday to revolt against President Gen. Pervez Musharrafs impo­sition of emergency rule and a crackdown on the opposition that has left thousands under arrest. 
The government considered a delay in parlia­mentary elections despite Western demands they bn held on schedule in January to bring democ­racy to a nuclear-armed country dogged by polit­ical uncertainty and rising Islamic militancy. 
Fragile security in the northwest -cited by ortieials as a reason for the suspension of the constitution -deteriorated further as pro­Taliban militants seized a town from outnum­berod security forces. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Shuttle commander voices concerns 
CAPE CANAVEHAL, Fla. -With the mission finally coming to a close, Discovery's command­er acknowledged Tuesday she had been "extremely concerned" about the safety of the spacewalker who went out to fix the space sta­tion's ripped solar wing. 
And the spacewalker, Scott Parazynski, said he barely managed to reach the tangled wires that had snagged the wing. If the damage had been just another foot away, "it would have been a Plan B or C or D," he told The Associated Press. "I don't know what it would have been." 
As they prepared for an early Wednesday afternoon landing, the seven astronauts recalled for the AP the dramatic highlight of their 15-day space station construction mission. 
Saturday's emergency repair of the torn wing at the international space station was an unprecedented and daring feat whipped up by flight controllers in just a few days. 

Bush proposes product safety rules 
WASIIINGTON -The federal government would toughen its policing of products from abroad under steps proposed by President Bush on Tuesday after a rash of recalls of dan­gerous toothpaste, dog food and toys. 
Bush said the United States benefits from having an open market and a huge variety of products from across the globe. 
However, he said, "We need to do more to ensure that American families have confidence in what they find on our store shelves. They have the right to expect the food they eat, the medicines they take or the toys they buy for their children to be safe." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Train jumps off nearby tracks 
ELKJIAHT, Ind. -As many as 19 railcars from a 112-car freight train derailed in Elkhart, disrupting rail traffic. 
Norfolk Southern spokesman Rudy Husband says railroad workers would place some cars back on the tracks and move others to the side in order to clear the line. Rail traffic is being detoured from the single track on Elkhart's east side. 
Husband says one of the derailed cars on the train headed to Jackson. Michigan, con­tained gasoline, but no leaks were evident from it. 
An investigation into the derailment has start­ed, but Husband says it could take weeks to determine a cause. No injuries were reported. 
IRAQ 


2007 deadliest year in ongoing war 
Despite high casualties this year, steady decline in attacks eases some pressure on U.S. troops 
Associated Press  
BAGHDAD-The U.S.  
military announced six new  
deaths Tuesday, making  
2007 the bloodiest year for  
American troops in Iraq  
despite a recent decline in  
casualties and a sharp drop  
in roadside bombings that  
Washington links to Iran.  
With nearly two months  
left in the year, the annual  
toll is now 853 -three  
more than the previous  
worst of 850 in 2004.  
But the grim milestone  
comes as the Pentagon  
points toward other encour­ 
aging signs as well ­grow­ 
ing security in Baghdad and  
other former militant  
strongholds that could help  
consolidate the gains  
against extremists. ·  
A senior Navy officer,  
meanwhile, announced the  
planned release of nine  
Iranian prisoners and was  
at pains to say that a major  
cache of Iranian-made  
weapons and bombs dis­ 
played for reporters  
Tuesday appeared to have  
been shipped into Iraq  
before Tehran made a vow  
to stop the flow of arma­ 
ments.  
Defense Secretary Robert  
Gates said last week that  
Iran had made such assur­A boy looks at a U.S. soldier at a security checkpoint in Baghdad, Tuesday. Despite 
ances to the Iraqi govern­falling soldier and civilian casualties, 2007 is now the deadliest year in the Iraq war. 
ment. He did not reveal  
when the pledge was  penetrating even the most  ment facility in Irbil, the  shut by American forces  
issued.  heavi)y armored military  capital of Iraq's autonomous  after the raid, and a second  
A decline in Iranian  vehicles, and thus are more  Kurdish region in the north  in Sulaimaniyah, the largest  
weapons deliveries could be  deadly than other roadside  of the country.  city in the Kurdish zone.  
one of several factors for  bombs.  The Americans said the  Kurdish Prime Minister  
the decrease in both Iraqi  The No. 2 U.S. command­ five were members of Iran's  Nechirvan Barzani and  
and American deaths over  er in Iraq, Lt. Gen. Ray  elite Quds Force, an arm of  Iranian Ambassador Hassan  
the past two months.  Odierno, said last week that  the Revolutionary Guards.  Kazemi Qomi inaugurated  
"It's our best judgment  there had been a sharp  Iran said the five were  the building in Irbil and said  
that these particular EFPs  decline in the number of  diplomats working in a  both would have full diplo­ 
... in recent large cache  EFPs found in Iraq over the  facility that was undergoing  matic status.  
finds do not appear to have  last three months. At the  preparations to be a con­ "This is a very important  
arrived here in Iraq after  time, he and Gates both said  sular office.  step to enhance relations  
those pledges were made,"  it was too early to tell  Smith told reporters the  and facilitate the commerce  
Rear Adm. Gregory Smith,  whether the trend would  identities of the nine  between the two sides,"  
director of the Multi­ hold, and whether it could  Iranians would be released  Barzani told reporters.  
National Force-Iraq's com­ be attributed to action by  later. He said the decision to  The Iranian ambassador  
munications division, told  Iranian authorities. Iran  release the nine was made  charged the United States  
reporters Tuesday.  publicly denies that it has  after they were determined  ran roughshod over Iraqi  
Among the weapons  sent weapons to Shiite mili­ not to be a threat to U.S.  sovereignty in conducting  
Washington has accused  tias in Iraq.  forces.  the raid in January.  
Iran of supplying to Iraqi  Two of the Iranians who  The positive moves  "The American forces  
Shiite militia fighters are  will be freed "in the coming  toward Iran on Tuesday  breached Iraqi sovereignty  
EFPs, or explosively formed  days" were among five cap­ coincided with the opening  by detaining the five Iranian  
projectiles. They fire a slug  tured in January in a U.S.  of two Iranian consulates,  diplomats at this same office  
of molten metal capable of  raid on an Iranian govern- the facility in lrbil that was  in Irbil," Qomi said.  

Nevv Orleans population sees rebound 
before Katrina hit and flooded 80 tion has reached 70 percent of its
Associated Press percent of the city, the population pre-Katrina level. was estimated at 455,000. The rebound appears to be "a NEW ORLEANS -Nearly two­Between Oct. 1, 2006, and Oct. 1, bunch of decisions made independ­thirds of the city's pre-Hurricane 2007, New Orleans' population ently by people," Rigamer said, and Katrina population has returned, a grew 19 percent. But that growth not driven by a single event drawing new report estimates. rate may not continue, Rigamer people back. But Gre.g Rigamer, the demogra­said. The rate of repopulation appeared pher who compiled the report, said "Given the state of the schools and to increase during the past few Tuesday that he expects the growth the criminal justice system, it's hard months, possibly due to families seen since July 2006 to plateau to understand why the trend has returning for the school year or within the next year as the sense of been occurring so long, this long people finishing their rebuilt homes, urgency to return lessens. after" Katrina, he said. GCR senior planner Rafe Rabalais Rigamer, whose company, GCR & Rigamer's report, released late said. Associates, has been tracking demo­Monday, was based on utility "There's a tangible difference, if graphies in post-Katrina New hookups. Last month, the Greater you compare now to a year ago, in Orleans, said an estimated 288,000 New Orleans Community Data terms of commercial activity, traffic people were living in New Orleans Center used Postal Service data to on the streets, people walking in October. In July 2005, the month estimate that New Orleans' popula-around, cultural events," he said. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 7, 2007 




GENEROUSLY GOURMET. 

Hypnotist 
continued from page 1 
tions will replace the negative suggestions that are keeping you from rnaehing goals of self­improvement," Dougherty said. 
The best way to view hypnosis, he said, is as a state of "intense relaxation 

and eoncontration, "You change your encouraging in whi«:h the mind them to try hyp­
mind, you change 
becomes remote nosis, but he
your perception, 
and detached from said he has only everyday cares and you change your received a concerns." response from
entire life." 

"You aren't the women's golf asleep or uncon­team. 
Dale Dougherty

sdous," he said. "Sports are 90 "You are in an hypnotist percent mental. 
altornative state of consciousness in which you let things happen through your sub­consdous mind, rather than trying to mak11 them happen with your c:onsdous and critkal mind." 
Sophomore Malia Makowski said she was hesitant to try Dougherty's methods. 
"1 was skeptical at first about trying hypnosis after everything I've heard about it," she said at Tuesday's s11ssions. 
But she was pleasantly sur­prisod by the level of relaxation and harmony she reached with Dougherty's exercises. 

"Even if it doesn't hf~lp my stud­ies, it rca.lly helped me relax. I'm definitely going to try and make another one of [Dougherty's] ses­sions," she said. 
And stressed students aren't the only ones taking advantage of Dougherty's services. 
Dougherty sent letters to all Notre Dame sports teams 
You spend four 
hours a day 
working physi­eally but do nothing to help the mental game," he said. "Tiger Woods has a hypnosis eoach." 
Sports hypnosis can assist with pain management, the ability to eliminate out'iide distractions and anxiety control, Dougherty's Web site says. 
"You change your mind, you change your perception, you ehange your entire lifo," he said. 
Contact Lindsay Sena at lsena@nd.edu 


Diplo01at 
continued from page 1 
the human race, men around the world seem to seize authori­ty and power and decision­making, and they sometimes use it to hurt women," she said. "It wasn't really until this centu­ry that the rights of women have been seen as equal to the rights of men." 
And though their rights may be the same, women's inherent traits differentiate them from their male counterparts in the way they both deal with con­flict, Sorensen said. 
"Women make a real differ­ence in building peace," she said. "That's not to say they ean't be as tough as men. They can, if they choose. But many women have a perspective and experience that gives them a spncial ability as peace makers and peace builders." 
She said that, although many of the world's war refugees are female, men have dominated peace-making diplomacy in the past. 
"Look at pictures in The New York Times of peace confer­ences. Why is it all men?" she said. 
"Men have been doing this for centuries. Women could do it as well, if not better. Give it to the women and see what they can do," she said with a laugh. 
But Sorensen was serious when she said women have "untapped potential as peace­makers." 
Tapping that potential, how­ever, will require drastic changes in almost all institu­tions worldwide, Sorensen said. 
"My dream is that women receive respect and education, health care -so they can safely give birth -and opportunities. That's not so different from men, I guess," she said. ''I'm wishing they had the same opportunities as men." 
Globalization, she said, posed a threat to that dream as it "has increased social and economic inequity" between poor and wealthy countries. Religious fundamentalism, as well, is detrimental to the advancement of women as diplomats as it "lit­erally tries to veil and hide women." 
Sorensen emphasized the need for strong role models for young women to combat these challenges, noting she came from "a family of strong women," which includes her mother, a journalist and activist. 
But in many countries, she said, young girls are unable to find inspiration in other women, because females are devalued from birth -sometimes to the point where baby girls may be killed because they are not con­sidered as economically or socially valuable as boys. 
"I do believe that women's brains, their intelligence, their capacity to do good work is equal to men's if they have the same education and opportuni­ties," she said. "We need to con­vey a sense that girl babies are just as precious as boy babies." 
And students could become the tools with which that change can be made, she said. 
Sorensen ehallenged her col­legiate audience, urging individ­uals to ask themselves how they can "make a contribution to the larger world." 
"llow can we look across boundaries and bring their tal­ents to where the need is very great? Bow can we make a dif­ference in the world?" she said. 
A former U.N. assistant secre­tary-general for external rela­tions, Sorensen has also tried to make a difference as a U.N. special adviser for public policy. 
She is now traveling the coun­try talking about her experi­ences with the United Nations and describing herself as "the U.N.'s national advocate." 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

MAIN & DOUGLAS 

Write for News·. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, November 7, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 13,660.94 +117.54
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,141 93 1,188 3,879,160,392 
AMEX 2,538:91 +44;62 NASDAQ 2,825.18 +3.48 NYSE m.1o2:41 ·+:t43:s~r S&P 500 1,520.27 +18.10 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,249.63 FTSE 100 (London) 6.474.90 +13.50 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) -2.28 -0.82 35.08 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) + 1.35 +2.02 152.07 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.133 +0.61 54.68 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +1.69 +0.53 36.41 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.90 +0.039 4.357 13-WEEK BILL +1.40 +0.050 3.630 30-YEAR BOND +0.78 +0.036 4.652 5-YEAR NOTE +0.71 +0.028 3.973 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.72 96.70 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +13.00 823.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.95 85.20 

Exchange Rates 
YEN 114.6600 EURO 0.6869 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9183 BRITISH POUND 0.4790 





IN BRIEF 
Coors Brewing sees 3Q drop in profit 
DENVER -Beer giant Molson Coors Brewing Co. on Tuesday reported a dip in third-quarter net income because of one-time charges that offset a 7 percent increase in sales. 
The company's Canadian and U.S. opera­tions both turned in stronger results in sales to retail outlets, while the European business was affected by rainy weather and newly enacted smoking bans. 
The Denver-based brewer showed overall improvements in brand strength, pricing and foreign currency rates, Chief Executive Officer Leo Kiely said. 
The results were released as Molson Coors is working on a joint venture of its U.S. opera­tions with Miller Brewing Co., owned by SABMiller PLC. 
Writer's strike ends fibning of1V shows 
LOS ANGELES-Production of the hit show "Desperate Housewives" and at least six sit­coms filmed before live audiences will be halt­ed as a result of the writers strike -develop­ments that raised the stakes Tuesday in the walkout targeting movie studios and TV net­works. 
Producer Alexandra Cunningham said "Desperate Housewives" will stop production on Wednesday after running out of scripts. Shows that have already been completed won't last until Christmas, she said. 
"It's unfortunate. We want to get back to work," Cunningham said. 
Sitcoms that will stop the cameras include "Back to You," starring Kelsey Grammer and Patricia I Ieaton, which will not return from a planned hiatus, said Chris Alexander, a spokesman for 20th Century Fox Television. 
Star Julia Louis-Dreyfus said production also stopped on her CBS show, "The New Adventures of Old Christine." 
In addition, "Til Death," which airs on Fox, and "Rules of Engagement," "Two and a Half Men" and "The Big Bang Theory," all on CBS, will also end filming, according to people familiar with production of the shows who were not authorized to be quoted and request­ed anonymity. 


Facebook announces targeted ads 
User profile information to be used to generate commercials with personal interests 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Facebook has begun transforming itself from an online hangout into an online business dis­trict. 
Companies can now create their own pages on Facebook for the first time, under a new program announced Tuesda~ Advertisers also will be able to show users their pitches in the guise of friends' endorsements, based on what the friends buy and do online. 
For example, if a friend has booked a vacation on Travelocity, the online travel agency will be able to display the friend's photo as part of an ad to entice the user to buy flights and hotel stays. 
The friend will have some control over whether to share that information, but the user will have fewer choices over whether to receive it. 

As Web companies look to boost advertising revenue by offering to target ads based on users' hobbies, interests and behavior, Facebook's move could change the tone of the site and revive privacy complaints it faced last year. Facebook will rely on infor­mation in users' profiles and on friends' online activity to determine what ads might gradually lowered. A feature officials said users can com­their users to make this hap­appeal to users. allowing users to track plain again if they find the pen, and that's going to be 
Key will be how Facebook changes their friends make new targeting program tricky," Winfield said. tells users about the pro­to profiles backfired when offensive. Facebook Chief Executive gram, something it plans to many users denounced it as "If users are displeased Mark Zuckerberg, who do shortly. stalking and threatened with this, we will hear from founded the company three 
"Some people may find it protests. Facebook quickly them," said Chris Kelly, the years ago, said marketers creepy," said Deborah apologized and agreed to let company's chief privacy offi­must respond to the chang­Pierce, executive director of users turn off the feature. cer. ing nature of communica­the San Francisco-based Advertisers also can fme­Privacy concerns aside, tion, driven in part by social­Privacy Activism. "They are tune their audiences -hav­many Facebook members networking sites like his. trying to find some ways to ing their pitches appear only may be reluctant to endorse "Pushing your message out monetize this and keep the to women under 30 who an advertiser for fear of to people is no longer good lights on. lf the disclosure is attended New York alienating friends who had enough," Zuckerberg told up front, yeah, I think this is University and work at bad experiences with the about 200 advertising-indus­a reasonable thing for them Goldman Sachs, for instance. same company, said Chris try executives, many already to do." Facebook promises no Winfield, who runs 10e20, in New York for the ad:tech 
Facebook has long prided information that could iden­an online marketing special­conference. "You have to get . itself on guarding its users' tify individual will be dis­ist. your message out to the con­privacy, but the walls have closed to advertisers. And its "They are relying a lot on versations." 


Crude oil barrels rise to record high 
national average of $3.303 a gallon, tributed to the latest move upward.
Associated Press 
a new record. While Afghanistan does not pro­
If oil prices continue to rise, it duce much oil, traders watch for the 

NEW YORK -Oil futures jumped might be some time until consumers possibility that any escalation in the to a new record above $97 a barrel see relief at the pump. Some ana­conflict there between U.S. armed Tuesday after bombings in lysts predict prices could rise as high forces and Islamist militants could Afghanistan and an attack on a as $3.50 to $4 a gallon next summer. spill over into other countries, dis­Yemeni oil pipeline compounded the The Energy Information rupting oil supplies out of the Middle supply concerns that have driven Administration is predicting gas East. crude prices higher in recent weeks. prices will remain above $2.90 a gal­John Kilduff, vice president of risk 
Those concerns were also fed by a lon for the rest of the year, and will management at MF Global UK Ltd., 
U.S. government prediction on set a new record national average of noted that the attack in Yemen "has Tuesday that domestic oil inventories $3.235 a gallon by May. In May disrupted a pipeline that carries will fall further this year while con­2007, prices peaked at $3.227 a gal­155,000 barrels a day of crude." sumption rises. lon as refiners, faced with a series of Meanwhile, investors believe crude 
At the pump, meanwhile, gas unexpected outages, struggled to supplies are declining in the U.S. prices continued to rise, following produce enough gas to meet Analysts surveyed by Dow Jones oil's 39 percent price rally since demand. Newswires predict, on average, that August. The national average price On Tuesday, oil was already up crude oil inventories fell by 1.6 mil­of a gallon of gas jumped 2 cents before news of the attack in Yemen lion barrels last week. The Energy overnight to $3.024 a gallon, accord­and the blasts in northern Department's Energy Information ing to AAA and the Oil Price Afghanistan that killed at least 28 Administration will issue its weekly Information Service. people. Severe weather forecasts for inventory report on Wednesday. Oil 
Separately, the federal Energy the North Sea, expectations that futures' rise above $90 a barrel has Information Administration reported domestic crude supplies fell last been fueled in part by two weeks of that diesel fuel prices reached a week and the weak dollar all con-unexpected declines in inventories. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, November 7, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Nmre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining H<ll, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie IIanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken l'owlcr Kyle West 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR! Kyle Cassily ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: ( :hris Khorcy Chris Hinc Sct:NE EmTOR: Tae Andrew~ 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin MennelL! 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 

AI> Df$1GN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROU.ER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS AI>MINIS'rnATOR! Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 sc~ne.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the indepl'ndent, daily newspapl'r published in print and online by the smdents of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chict: Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Obscm·r. Vk-wpoim space is available to all readers. The free t'Xprcssion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include romact information. 
Quntiom rrgarding Obsm;"polici~ should b~ dirtct~d to Editor in ChiifMaddi~ HanTlll. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11k" Ohwrvrr (lJSPS 199 2-400fl) ltpubh.hcd Mumby through FriJay cu:cpt during cum anJ vM,·auun itcrk...U. A•ul111:npt'iuu co 'l"h< O~rvn i1 $1 01'1 for une aaJcmk yar. $55 fur unc:~~emcucr. 
The ~rver i' puhlilhcd .ar. PU~TMASTER 1124 SoUih Dinull l !.II ~nd addrG~ corm:rioru; w: Nut~ Damc,IN 46556-0179 ThcOhKrwr Pctiodkal pom~ pcu~l Af Nor~ O.uTK P.O.Ilrn< 779 
•nd 11.dd11m11J.I 01.1ilinK utlic:a. 1124 South Dining Hall Nouc Dame. IN 46'j56.0779 
11K Oh.:rver "a mcmhc:t of the A..ocuted I'I'CU. All rt'pn)~.tuuton r.glus uc n:~~erwd. 
Ron Paul: An exception to the rule 
There are some things in life that you diJ,te in order to win the anti-war vote recently as 2002, Homney claimed that can always count on: Lindsay Lohan as if she is a legitimate anti-war candi­he was "personally pro-lif'e" but "would going to jail every few months, hearing date. protect a woman's right to choose." "Don't Stop Believing" at the Backer on Barack Obama and Dennis Kucinich Homnfly has since retreated from his Saturday night, the Cubs choking in the seem to be the only two Democratic earlier pro-choiee stance and daimed in playoiTs, Notre candidates that actually seem to mean late 2006 that he is actually pro-life. Dame beating Navy what they are saying. This is why they Luckily for him, he was already in the (too soon?), just to scare me. raee for the Hepublican nomination, a name a l'nw. Such The Hcpublican side is probably even faet I'm surA had nothing to do with his occurrences make worse. Hudy Guiliani, the (God-forbid) "changfl of heart." Homney has also life worth living; it's Hepublican front-runner, set1ms to have tried to position himself' as somnthing of good to know that had as many "changes of heart" as he's a fiscal conservative, despite the fact no matter how had wives. Guiliani recently declared that state spending when he took ofTice much the world that he no longer supports making it all was $22.7 billion and was $25.7 billion changes, some but impossible to own a gun as he did in plus $2 billion off budget when he left things never will. In New York, but now is "a strong support­four years later. And he raised taxes. much the same way, er of the second amendment" and It's sickly amusing to watch eandi­I used to consider "understands that every law-abiding dates try to change their positions in dishonesty, nip-flop­American has an individual right to order to attract more votes. That's why ping and sliminess keep and bear arms that is guaranteed Hon Paul is like a breath of fresh air. As as necessary quali­by the Constitution," according to his anyone who has ever seen him speak or ties for politicians. website. read any of his works can attest, he is That was bef'ore I discovered Hon Paul. This is coming from the man who actually a man of character and princi­
One neod not look further than the argued that the Brady Bill didn't go far ple who will never change his viflws for 2008 presidential field to see that Hon enough, supported national gun regis­political expedieney. Paul is the exception to the rule. Hillary tration and tried to mandate that all lie is a champion of limited constitu­Clinton, the media appointed "front­gun-owners have trigger locks in New tional government, low taxes, free mar­runner" who will very likely win her York, rendering guns all but useless in kets, and the non-interventionist fornign party's nomination, certainly plays the an emergency. Please. policy of the founding fathers. Hon Paul part. As of late 2006, she refused to A few months ago, a 1989 video sur­has never voted for a tax increase. Hon admit that she made a mistake in voting faced on the internet in which Guiliani Paul has never votnd for a bill that the for the Iraq war in the Senate, instead expressed his support of federally-fund­Constitution does not expressly author­suggesting that she regretted "the way ed abortions. The Guiliani damage con­ize. Hon Paul has never vot<~d for an the president used the authority that trol unit went into overtime and shock­unbalanced budget. Hon Paul has been Congress gave him," as though she was ingly enough, he declared that he no the most outspoken opponent of the shocked that the president would actu­longer supports such a policy. Iraq war in the House since the very ally use the authority to attack Iraq that Even more shockingly, Guiliani has beginning. It is always clear where Hon she had just handed him. Almost a year "seen the light" on all these touchy Paul stands on an issue. What the pub­later as public opinion for the war Republican issues after he decided to lic sees is what they get, and judging by waned, she elaimed that, "if I knew run for president, and all of his the record $4 million he raised from then what I now know, I would not have "changes of heart" have made him a over 35,000 individuals online in one voted that way." more attractive candidate to the day, the public likes what it sees. 
It even sounds vaguely reminiscent of Hepublican base. Guiliani is the embodi­John Kerry's famous utterance that he ment of all that is wrong in American Mark Poyar is a junior finance major voted before the war before he voted politics: Self-serving, power-hungry, and vice president ofthe College against it. Not to mention her state­unprincipled and will say absolutely Libertarians. Their Web site is ments that she supported the war but anything (whether he believes it or not) http://ndlibertarians. blogspol. com. 1/e didn't like Bush's handling of it. It could to get votes. can be contacted at mpoyar@nd.edu not be more obvious that she is The actions of Mitt Homney, the for­The views expressed in this column attempting to "reposition" herself from mer Republican governor of are those ofthe author and not neces­a war supportflr to an "anti-war" candi-Massachusetts, are quite similar. As sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ga:tne cheers leave lasting impressions 
Chanting has broader consequences chant. He was embarrassed try­
Concerning "Suck it [mascot]" ing to explain to his son why they in the cadence cheer: In my day were singing that.. And I was as a student (mid-1960s), some­embarrassed. I could have told where in the third quarter of him that I didn't sing the song. every game, many of the student Maybe I even did, but the damage body would start singing "Howdja was done. I didn't get the job. like to bite my a**?" It got to be a So, while considering what to regular tradition, which -of chant or sing en masse at football course -not everyone liked. But and basketball games, it might be most of the guys thought it was wise to reflect on the fact that you fun. won't always be surrounded by 
Then I graduated. On one of my friendly, happy fellow students first job interviews I thought and that the impression on visi­things were going well until the tors to Notre Dame may some day interviewer concluded the inter­be important to you. view by saying how he had always admired Notre Dame. But, then Adrian J. Reimers he took his young son to a game, Class of 1967 where they sat close enough to adjunct assistant professor of philosophy the student body to hear the Nov. 6 

Respect for Navy appreciated 
I just want to say that I am very proud of the student body for leaving out the "suck it" portion of the game chant on Saturday. I had visitors with me at the game, and I explained to them the nor­mal line but told them since this was a service academy that Notre Dame stu­dents knew better than to insult our future servicemen. I was especially happy to actually hear cheers as Navy took the field, and to see people cheer for their alma mater after the game. Thanks to everyone for remembering who will be protecting our freedom in the next few years. 
Tony Perkinson graduate student off campus Nov. 5 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Scene Marcela Berrios Tae Andrews Mandi Stirone Viewpoint Dan Jacobs Bethany Charlie Weis' future? Graphics Whitfield 
"''m nol interested in moneY,. I just
Madeline Nies 
want to be wonderful. ' 

Sports Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. Fran Tolan at www.ndsmcobserver.com Marilyn Monroe 
American actress

Michael Bryan Genic Alfonzo 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 7, 2007 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
His time will come 
This is in response to Stephen Mann's Letter to the Editor ("Time for Charlie to go," Nov. 5). I realize that this season has­n't gone our way, and the coaching hasn't been perfect. It's time to fire Charlie Weis. Clearly there are candidates available for our coaching position who demonstrate far better class and coaching ability. Perhaps we can scoop up John L. Smith as a replacement? In fact, the sooner we get Charlie Weis out of town the quicker we can take Mary off the dome and replace her with a statue of Bob Davie. Firing Charlie Weis is the answer! 
No actually it's pretty simple. Find me a coach in America who could do a substan­tially better job with a team with a new offensive line, new wide receivers, new running backs, new quarterbacks and a new defensive scheme. Also graduate your players, assemble the top recruiting class in America of athletes who can actu­ally read and write and teach the students valuable life lessons. 
Something special is being built here that all Domers can be proud of. In the next three years, we'll have one national title at the least. Charlie's not going any­where, and before you criticize him again, 

Charlie Weis must stay 
remember how many blocks and tackles he's missed, how many errant passes he's thrown, how many balls he's dropped and how many penalties he's committed. 
Since I've stepped foot on this campus two years ago, it's never ceased to amaze me not only the lack of knowledge stu­dents have about sports at America's jock college, but also how quickly people turn on a team and its coaching staff. 
Above all, I clearly remember how many times our students complained about the guy who played here and wore No. 10. All I know is that he was pretty good. We'll be saying the same thing about our head coach very soon. 
The points you make demonstrate that you know absolutely nothing about col­lege football. And stop complaining about that field goal decision. I go for it on fourth down in NCAA 2008 just like every real man on this campus does. If you care not to join us on Saturday afternoon, nobody's going to miss you. Go read a book instead. 
Brendan McCarthy 
JUll!Or 
Saint Edward's Hall 
Nov. 5 

Coaches more informed than fans 
I will be the first to admit that I do not know everything about football and I am just as unhappy as the next guy about this year's football season. What I do know, though, is that I am not at practice every day. I am not privy to all the information that the coaches have. I do not know the players personally, nor do I have a good idea of what they are really capable of on the football field. It takes a lot of time and knowledge to have that kind of understanding of 80-however many guys are on a football team. Most of the time it's a paid position; they're usually called coaches. 
I am really tired of hearing people all over campus talking about the football team, how terrible we are and how Charlie Weis should be gone. Everyone is positive that he is out there making the wrong calls for our football team and not giving them a chance to win~ He is going against conventional football wis­dom. The Navy game was full of questionable decisions on Weis's part; ones that went against conven­
page 9 

tiona! football wisdom. 
Conventional wisdom is just that, though; conventional, it is for when things are ordinary. Things are far from normal with this year's football team. It is an unconventional year. Conventional wisdom might have to be left behind in order to give us a chance for victory. 
That being said, we are all entitled to our opinions. but don't be so adamant about how poorly Weis is coaching and how terrible of a deci­sion maker he is. You aren't at prac­tice. You don't know what the coach­es know, and you don't know what each player is capable of under every circumstance in the game. If you ever gain access to all that infor­mation, then say all you want and be sure of it. Until then, just remember that there are more informed people out there running the football team and they are sure doing a better job than me, and probably you, too. 
Tim Campbell junior Dillon Hall Nov. 5 


Raising avvareness tovvard hate 
On Oct. 9, 2007 .. on the campus of took the time and effort to tie a noose students at Jena High School placing can leave a psychological imprint that Columbia University, an act of hate and then deliberately place it on her nooses in a tree to communicate can alter a person's life. Some acts are touched the life of a friend. Dr. door. antipathy toward their African­blatant, overt, obscene and warrant an Madonna Constantine, a preeminent U_nfortunately, in recent mo,nths the American classmates made national immediate challenge. Others can go African -American psychologist/scholar, appearance of a noose has become an news. Closer to home, African­unnoticed receiving little acknowledge­awoke to learn that an anonymous per­all-too-frequent occurrence. For American students were singled out in ment (except for the people they harm). son had hung a noose on her office instance, in recent weeks in Chicago, a an anonymous note at the St. Joseph's But even the most blatant acts of hate door. noose was left for an African-American High School right across the street. can go unacknowledged in terms of the 
During the 1989-1990 academic year, woman at a construction work site, in We in the Counseling Center want to deep impact they can have on others. Constantine was an intern at the Queens a woman brandished a noose to send a message to the Notre Dame In the midst of discussions on all forms University Counseling Center who threaten a black neighbor and similar community. Keep your eyes, ears and of oppression sparked by these current counseled many Notre Dame students. events have happened at the University hearts sensitive to acts of hate and cru­events, let us all be aware of what the Since then she has written extensive of Maryland, Indiana State University, elty in any form. Whether or not such image of a noose means to members of articles and books on the topic of cele­at a police department on Long Island, acts occur on or off our campus, let us the African-American community. brating diversity and cultural sensitivi­on a Coast Guard Cutter and in a bus become aware of how and why these ty. It's hard for those of us who know maintenance garage in Pittsburgh. acts happen. Know that even the most Miguel A. Franco, Ph.D. her personally to learn that someone Earlier this fall, the story of white subtle statement, comment or remark University Counseling Center Staff 
Gam_e experience unparalled 
After years of observing whether or not my son's obsession with all things Notre Dame would pass, his commitment was finally rewarded as the two of us made our way to South Bend this last weekend to attend our first Notre Dame football game. I just want to express how grateful we both feel to have not only been able to attend the game, but also that the experience we had with fans and staff was unparalleled. 
Never have I come in contact with so many gracious, kind and considerate people all in one location. Because the people near us had taken the time to share things with us regarding the program that was important to them, it made the little things like knees in the back and arms on the shoulders as we stood and sat much less concerning. Thank you for allowing us to share that experience with you. 
In spite of the loss, I have seldom been privy to such a class act in the stands and on the field. That experience proves to me that there are indeed many more things more important than football. It was wonderful to be a part of something greater than myself. Thanks for letting us in on it. We can't wait to come again next year. Go Irish! 
Dan Scoresby Highland, Utah Nov. 5 



A note of respect from a Navy alum 
After watching as my alma mater, the Naval Academy, lose for the 43rd consecutive time to Notre Dame last year, after watching as Brady Quinn, coach Charlie Weis and all Notre Dame players, students and fans showed genuine respect for the Navy team and students with their post-game comments and quiet, side-by-side observation of the singing of the "Navy Blue and Gold," and after reading the fine editorial by a Notre Dame student in this very publication about how Notre Dame "gets it" when it comes to the "beyond football" significance of this storied, on field rivalry: I was so moved that I had to write and thank the student, and all of Notre Dame, for their admirable, classy behavior that went way beyond sportsmanship. 
After finally witnessing something I thought I might not see in my lifetime--Navy's victory last Saturday over Notre Dame --I naturally felt the joy and relief of finally, at long last, experiencing victory over the school that is the yardstick of college football great­ness. I popped a bottle of champagne and called sever­al of my fellow Academy alums to joke that "the streak lives ... every time my family has a three-year-old boy, Navy beats Notre Dame." I was three in 1963, and my son (who, by the way, loves "Rudy") is now three. 
But after a brief celebration of something I had wait­ed 44 years to see, I quickly returned to the realization that, what had seemed really important to me only three hours earlier (a victory over Notre Dame), was no longer as significant to me as the fact that the same post-game respect and genuine class emanated from all over Notre Dame Stadium as had after any of the 43 previous victories. I was not so much surprised by this, just more or less overwhelmed that, the feeling of victory I had .awaited for so long, was dwarfed by the realization that, once the game was over and won, what really stuck was my enduring admiration and respect for all that is embodied by both the Naval 
Academy and the University of Notre Dame. 
What word describes what I witnessed from the peo­ple of Notre Dame after a week during which they had buried the brother of a player, and after a day during which they lost not only a hard-fought football game, but a fine young alum and promising marathoner? I can't think of a single word that describes that type of character, integrity and class. I guess it takes two, Notre Dame. I want to offer my condolences to the Notre Dame family, but also congratulate and thank each and every student at this great school once again. Though the team is having a down year, you will win many more football games and national championships in the very near future under your great coach, Charlie Weis, and with your trove of talented student-athletes. 
Right now, you may be hurting from your on-field and, more importantly, off-field losses, but you should all be very proud of who you are, where you are and how you are perceived by outsiders like me. You are at a truly great institution that is only that way because it reflects the values and character of the people -you, the students, coaches, faculty and alumni -who ARE the University of Notre Dame bring to it. Enjoy every moment you are there and know there are probably millions of us out here that are not your parents or family, but are also very proud of who and what you are. Thanks and best wishes. 
Joe Rainey Naval Academy alumnus Class of 1982 Nov. 6 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------~--------~--~-----------------­

Wednesday, November 7, 2007 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

Marianelli returns with Wright from "Pride and Prejudiee," which reeeived an Oscar nomination for its score. The selections released through the trailer and Web site have ereated a eaptivating and dramatic soundtrack. 
.. 

-
_Nit ___ 

ing with things way beyond !her] level." This lilm is also nxr.iting lor the talent it eontains. Ell1m Page, of the two X-Men movies and "liard Ca and Michael Cera, of "Supnrbad," are emerging as strong and appealing aetors. 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

Kruger as Abigail Chase, Jon Voight as Patrick Gates and Justin Bartha as Hiley Poole -is back and will be joined by the astounding Ed Harris and Helen Mirren. So maintain your disbe­lief, and have a grand old time. 
page 10 

As i t e en o summer weren't bad enough, it also marks the beginning of the tedious wait until Oscar season. In the months between August and November, studios release their least desirable movies, with a few exceptions, in anticipation of the bombardment of Oscar-worthy films come November and December. This year's winter movie season marks the return of Julia Roberts and Disney 2-D animation, as well as the continued dominance of Judd Apatow and the yearly Oscar-worthy performance from Will Smith. There're blockbusters and indies and musicals (oh my!) and a whole lot of awards buzz. The following are the films that will offer you the most entertainment for your increasingly costly movie ticket this winter. 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE 
"I \nduUtt.ed" 
Hele.tL'il.~ date: Nov. 21 Starring: Amy Adams, Patrick Dmnpsny, .hum~s Marsden, Suscm Sa.randon 
Combining liVP action, 2-D ;mimation and the magic of Disney. "Enchanted" is set to w;mn thl' hna.rt.o.; of <myonn who has ever loved a Dio.;nny prinmss movif'. 
ThP latt~st lh.irvta.le from tlm llou'it~ of Mouse lilllows thP joun1ey of Ci'it~lle (Amy Adamsl, a young maiden engaged to marry Prince l·:dward (James Marsdenl in the land of Andaho.;ia. But (;i'it~lln lams a frighttming situa­tion wlwn tl1n prince's l!vil stnp--motlmr, Qunnn Narissa (Sus;m Sarandon), 1:ao.;to.; her into the :~D. livn-aetion world of M;mhatt<m. Soon Cisnll1~ linds herselflit.lling lilr h1u1dsome lawyer Hob (Patrick Dmnpsnyl. whose own engage­mnnt to N;mcy (!dina M1mznH addo.; morn com­plimt.ions ttl <;i'it•lln's world. 
Tho movie is lillnd with mlimmees ttl pao.;t animatml Disrwy li~atums, and thP. rnusieal numl11~rs pay homage ttl tlu~ muo.;ic of past films. Alan Mnnknn, tlw Amdnmy Award-winning mlllJ)IISI~r of •ville JjttJP Mnnna.id" and "Beauty cuul tlu~ Bn<Lo.;t," mtunmd to tl1n ;mimatnd world lhnn Bmadway ttl mlllJliiSI! tl1n muo.;ir. lbr the movie. "Enehantnd" marks a slight return to Disney's traditional 2-D animation. "The Princess and tho Frog," til1~ studio's first lim­turn-length 2-D animated movie since "Honm on tlm Bange," is set ttJ be released in 2009. 
music of Johnny Cash was vital to the Line," the music of Dewey Cox plays a significant role in the ~v·"~''·' Listen closely to the lyrics of songs for some extra laughs as rises, falls and rises again. 
"Atonement" 
Released: Sept. 7 
Starring: Keira Knightley, Jams McAvoy, 
Homoloa Gari 
Based on tile book by Ian McEwan and set 
in England against tile drama World War II, 
"Atonement" tells tile story of two lovers and 
tile girl who betrays tllP.m. 
Briony Tallis (Saoirse Honan), a young girl 
witil a vivid imagination and dreams of being 
a writer, tllrough a series of misunderst1Uld­
ings and accidents aeeuses Hobbie Turner 
(James McAvoy), tile new lover of her sister, 
Cecillia (Keira Knightly) of a erirne he did not 
commit. Sent to jail, he takes the ehoice of 
joining the army instead. 
A<> Briony (Romoloa Garil ages she begirLo.; 
to realize her mistake and dedines attending 
Cambridge to serve as a nurse instead. 
Meanwhile, Robbie and Ceeillia try to be 
reunited. As romantie as tile plot first sounds, 
"Atonement" promises to be more, with char­
acters tilat evolve and aren't always likeable. 
Directed by Joe Wright of "Pride and 
Prejudice," his latest film is certain to be as 
visually stunning. Anotiler thing to look for­
ward to should be the film's score. Dario 
Release date: Dec. 5 
Starring: Ellen Page, Michael Cera, 
nnifer Garner, JK Simmons, Allison 
anney 

"Juno," directed by Jason Heitman of 
"Thank You for Smoking," looks to be both 
and meaningful as it presents a 
, and less melancholy, view of 
.""""''" pregnancy. , an oflbeat and smart high sehool decides to lind her own solution unplanned pregnancy by loeating par­for her unborn chiJd. She discovers an 1au•u"'''" suburban couple desperate for a played by Jennifer Garner and Jason 
the pregnancy, Juno, along 
her mother (Allison Janney) and 
(JK Smmons), deals witll her reeep­
back at school, the newly awkward 
not ruined relationship with the boy 
is the fatller of her child, and the diffi­
of understanding who you are sup­
to be when you are forced to grow 
so fast. 

In her own words, Juno is "just out deal­
"National Treasure: Book of Secrets" 
Release date: Dec. 21 
Starring: Nicholas Cage, Diane Kruger, Jon Voight, Ed Harris, Helen Mirren, Justin Bartha 
"National Treasure" wasn't historieal accurate. It wasn't deep. It wasn't even plausible. 
But it was terribly fun. 
And the sequel, "National Treasure: Book of Seerets," looks set to do it again. To clear his family name after his great grandfather is accused of being a eonspirator in the assassina­tion of Abraham Lineoln, Thomas Gates (Nicholas Cage) is back not only to steal more stuff, but to add kidnapping (of the president, no less) to his list of mis­demeanors in the search of truth and, yes, treasure. 
This time around, there's even a "book of secrets" that contains every­thing from information about Area 51 to the missing Watergate minutes. 
Much of the original cast -including Nicholas Cage as Thomas Gates, Diane 

--------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, November 7, 2007 
page 11 


Release date: Nov. 9 Starring: Derek Luke, Michael Pena, 
Hobert Redford, Tom Cruise, Meryl 
Streep New Hollywood talent combines with 
in "Lions for Lambs," a new politi­thriller. 
Aftp,r meeting with West Coast pro­
Dr. Stephen Malley {Hobert edford), Arian (Derek Luke) and rnest (Michael Pena) leave to serve in 
. armed forces in Afghanistan. 
On the other side of the country, nator Jasper Irving (Tom Cruise) mains on the verge of disclosing a 
undbreaking story to television urnalist Janine Roth (Meryl Streep). he information Irving reveals may 
II determine the fate of Arian and 
the West Coast, Dr. Malley with a student (Andrew rfieldl over ideologies and national 
"Lions for Lambs" chronicles events ing on both coasts and abroad. 
"The·Golden Compass" 
Release date: Dec. 7 
Starring: Daniel Craig, Nicole Kidman, Dakota Blue Richards, Eva Green 
Young Lyra Belacqua (Dakota Blue Hichards) embarks on an adventure of epic proportions in "The Golden Compass." Based on Philip Pullman's novel by the same name. the movie fol­lows Lyra's adventures as she leaves .Jordan College in Oxford and steps out into a world of intrigue. 
Beforfl leaving, Lyra is given a myste­rious instrument known as an Alethiometer (described as the titular "Golden Compass") that is said to be capable of telling the truth. The beauti­ful but cold Ms. Coulter (Nicole Kidman) takes young Lyra to come live with her. 
Following his newfound movie star status as .James Bond, a bearded Daniel Craig plays Lord Asriel, Lyra's mysteri­ous and powerful uncle who is obsflssed with discovering the secret of a strange substance known as Dust. Eva Green, Craig's costar in "Casino Royale," com-

Release date: Dec. 25 Starring: Tom Hanks, Julia Roberts, Philip Seymour Hoffman "Charlie Wilson's War" features a tai­nt overload that will certainly lead to a heap of Academy Award nominations. 
Oscar winner Mike Nichols directs the film adapted (from a book of the same name) by Emmy winner and "West 
" genius Aaron Sorkin. Meanwhile, 
e film stars three acting powerhouses and Oscar winners -Tom Hanks, Julia Hoberts and Philip Seymour Hoffman. Add in appearances by two of the most talnntnd young actresses in Hollywood ­
my Adams, an Oscar nominee, and mily Blunt, a Golden Globe winner ­nd you have a recipe for not only a suc­
ssful film, but also a good film. "Charlie Wilson's War" follows Texas 
Charlie Wilson (Hanks) as e conspires with a rogue CIA agent Hoffman) and a Texas socialite (Roberts) to assist the Afghan Mujahideen after the Soviet invasion of "Charlie Wilson's War" is 
Photo courtesy of mov1eweiD.C<J>m 
Much like last year's film "Babel, "Lambs" loosely combines three ingly disparate storylines into a composition, relating the impact events on different people across globe. 
hines with him again on "Compass" as the enigmatic witch Serafina Pekkala. The "Golden Compass" involves all manner of magic and mystery and traipses across alternate universes as Lyra begins her quest. 
the first time Hanks and Roberts ­of American's favorite actors -h appeared in a film together, and it's first time Roberts has physica appeared in a film (she has done work) since 2004's "Ocean's Twelve." 
"Beowulf' 

Release date: Nov. 16 
Starring: Angelina J olie, Ray Winstone 
Old English epics aren't exactly the stuff of movie magic, right? Anglo­Saxon taglines tend not to narrate the previews we see on television. However, "Back to the Future" director Robert Zemeckis seems set on bringing the 8th century into the 21st with this month's "Beowulf." 
Animated much like Zemeckis's f1lm version of "The Polar Express," Beowulf features the voices of Angelina Julie as Grendel's mother -a far cry from the dark, watery beast in the original tale -and British actor Ray Winstone (TV's "Henry VIII") as the eponymous epic hero. 
The prognosis on "Beowulf" seems iffy at best, as an animated, near­Disneyfied version of the story is unlikely to be dark enough to capture the proper flavor, and an overly violent version will probably omit the real sub­stance of the original. Still, it will be 
Release Dec. 14 Starring: Will Smith Ever feel like you're the only person 
und? In this winter's sci-fi thriller "I Legend," Will Smith gets the oppor­ty to experience just that, and to extreme. Some time in the near , a deadly virus sweeps through York City and takes out seemingly ryone but brilliant scientist Robert (Smith). In time, Neville discov­that he is not, in fact, alone in the ld -rather, he's slowly joined by infected, zombie-like mutants who exposed to the virus that nearly oyed the city. As the lone uninfect­survivor, Neville carries the only munization from the virus in his eins, leaving him vulnerable and 
"Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street" 
Release date: Jan. 17 
Starring: Johnny Depp, Helena Bonham Carter, Alan Hickman 
"The Demon Barber of Fleet Street" may not seem like a hefty epithet to levy at a criminal, but this murderous moniker is more than fitting for Sweeney Todd, the main character in Tim Burton's new film version of the Stephen Sondheim musical. Starring Johnny Depp as Sweeney Todd (aka Benjamin Barker) the film tells the story of Barker, a barber wrongly impris­oned by the evil Judge Turpin (Alan Rickman). Upon his release, Barker learns that Turpin has schemed to seduce his now-dead wife and take his daughter, and he decides to exact revenge. Joining forces with meat pie-maker Mrs. Lovett (Helena Bonham Carter), Barker slowly evolves into Sweeney Todd, with deadly results. Sundheim's "Sweeney Todd" is a much­beloved play, and seeing the talented use their rarely heard singing voices should be interesting at the very least. Burton, with his distinctive, slightly creepy directing 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

interesting to see how Zemeckis' vision pans out, even if it means watching Grendel's mom flirt with Beowulf like in an Old English version of Fountains of Wayne's "Stacey's Mom." 
Photo courtesy of mov1ewelo.cam 

primetime Fresh Prince as sw3cesstu as Smith can -bodes well for this ve sion to be the strongest one yet. Plus nothing says "Merry Christmas" lik virally infected zombies roaming the streets of New York. · 

,_ 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

style, also seems to be a perfect fit for this macabre musical. Time will tell as to how successful of an adaptation "Sweeney Todd" turns out to be, but making an appointment with the Demon Barber seems like a very good idea. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 7, 2007 
NBA 

Clippers edge Bulls behind Mobley's big effort 
Balanced Suns attack hands Bobcats first loss ofseason; Nets hold offHawks behind healthy Jefferson, Kidd's 12 assists 
tending on a shot by Mobley and 52. 
Associated Press 

Chris Kaman blocked Ben The frustration continues for 
CHICAGO -Cuttino Mobley Gordon's layup attf~mpt that led the Bulls, who came into the showed Kirk llinrich and the to Maggette's dunk to tie the season with high expectations. Chieago Bulls that lw's ready to gamn. Then Maggetle followed Ben Wallace missed an open play physical again. with a 3-pointer to break the tie layup in transition in the second 
Moblf)Y scored :n points and and gave the Clippers a 92-89 quarter that led to Sam Cassell's Corey Maggette added 18 lnad with 2:12 left. jumper. points, 10 rebounds and five Tim Thomas. waived by the Bulls general manager John assists to lead tlw Los Angeles Bulls two seasons ago, saved the Paxson put to rest the Kobe Clippers to a ')7-9 I win over the ball after a Clippers miss which Bryant trade rumors less than a Chicago Bulls on Tuesday night. led to Mobley's jumper that gave week ago, but some fans contin­
"I told the n~ferees the first the Clippers 94-89 lead with ue to chant "Kobe! Kobe! Kobe!" game, I've told y'all, I'll tell I :20 left. Thomas finished with in the final minutes. everyone I'm going back to my nine points and nine rebounds. first five years," said Mobley. Kaman had 16 points and 11 Suns 115, Bobcats 83 ''I'm just going back to my old rnbounds for the Clippers. The Phoenix Suns' offense aggressive self. I'm only 32." Joe Smith scored 17 for the returned to form the same night 
Mobley was 10-for-1 0 from Bulls, who fought back from a the Charlotte Bobcats' playmak­the noor in the first half. lie 13-point deficit and tied it late er lay crumpled in pain. used his size advantage against in the third quarter on Gordon's Leandro Barbosa, Raja Bell Kirk llinrich to create room for frne throw after Mobley was and Shawn Marion led eight hisjumpHr. issued a technical for arguing a players in double figures with 
"It's tough.," said llinrich. no-call. 16 points apiece Tuesday night "When I got ofl' a good jump to The Bulls held the Clippers to in the Suns' win over the ehallengfl a shot I felt like I 27.3 percent shooting in the Bobcats, who lost point guard would make him miss, but a lot period after Los Angeles shot 60 Raymond Felton to a left knee of times, down the stretch he percent in the second quarter. injury. would bang me and knock me They also denied Mobley the The Suns, who had been con­baek and I couldn't get the lift to ball and held him to two points cerned with their high-octane challenge his shot the way I on 0-for-3 shooting from the offense in a 2-1 start that 
... wanted to." floor. included a blowout home loss to 
The Clippers improved to 3-0 The Clippers broke a 31-all tie the Los Angeles Lakers, shot 50 point guard. He finished the not putting in the Princeton despite missing Elton Brand and in the second quarter with a 13-percent, committed only 10 game, while getting some help offense. Were just changing our Shaun Livingston with injuries. 0 run. Mobley scored eight turnovers and led by as many as from Derek Anderson. style offensively. Were not scor­The Bulls are 0-4 to start the points during the span. He hit a 34 points in their highest-scor­It capped off an awful night ing a ton of points, but were just season for the first time since 3 to break the tie and hit anoth­ing game of the season. for Vincent, who lost his first executing at the right times." 2004-05. er 3 over Kirk Hinrieh to make it "It was pretty good," Suns game as an NBA coach as the Kidd had nine points, 12 
"We need to stick with it as a 42-31. Ruben Patterson's put­coach Mike D'Antoni said. Bobcats dropped to 0-7 all-time assists and nine rebounds in team," said Luol Deng, who back gave the Clippers a 44-31 "We're still not clicking all the against the Suns. Rookie Jared nearly collecting his second scored 22 points for Chicago. advantage with 7:33 left in the way, but we definitely did some Dudley scored 16 points, most straight triple-double and help­"We're not finishing game and I second quarter. good things tonight." coming after the game was long ing New Jersey win for the third know the fans are disappointed, "We couldn't stop him The Bobcats, who had been 2-decided. time in fo4Jr games., ,~ .,.
1 

but we'll keep battling and get (Mobley) tonight. He had one of 0 for the first time in their four­Carter had 12 points with better. Coach (Seotl) Skiles' rues­those nights where he made year history, were worried Nets 87, Hawks 82 another miserable shooting sago is to kenp battling and get everything," said Dnng. about the status of Felton, who After a couple of lllJury­effort from the field ( 6-of-16), bettor." The Clippers shot 59.5 percent was to undergo an MRI late plagued seasons, a healthy but he made two clutch baskets 
Trailing 89-85 with 4:08 left, in the half and converted 7 -of-Tuesday night after being Richard Jefferson is now carry­late to hold ofl' the Hawks. Bnn Wallacn was called for goal-11 3-point attempts and led 57-helped off the court late in the ing the New Jersey Nets. "We were right there at the third quarter. Jefl'erson scored 25 points and end of the game," coach Mike 
"lie's the main guy that runs Antoine Wright added 15 to lead Woodson said after a Hawks' the offense. He's the guy that the New Jersey Nets to a victory rally fell just short for the sec­gets all of us going," forward over the Atlanta Hawks on ond straight road game. "We Gerald Wallace said. "l-Ie's the Tuesday night. had our chances, but we can't one guy, of any guy on this It marked the fourth time in keep putting ourselves in this team, that we can't afford to as many games that Jefferson position." lose.... We can't even afl'ord to has led the Nets in scoring and Josh Smith and backup for­have him banged up. That's how stolen the spotlight from Jason ward Josh Childress had 18 important he is to this team." Kidd and Vince Carter. points apiece to lead the llawks, 
Felton was still in the game "He is playing at an All-Star who were limited to 38 percent with Charlotte trailing by 33 level," Carter said of Jefferson. shooting from the field. All-Star points late in the third quarter "He is definitely All-Star calibnr guard Joe Johnson added 15 when he drove the lane and and this year is no diflimmt. lie points and Marvin Williams had made a spin move on Steve is playing some of his best bas­13, all in the first half. Nash, who fell down. Felton ketball. We're going to keep The Nets broke a 53-all tie then came down awkwardly on pushing him to keep playing and took control with a 16-4 his left leg next to Nash, who that style and ride it out." spurt in the final 5:07 of the was called for a foul. Jefferson, who missed a big third quarter. Seven different 
.... Felton got up to take the free chunk of last season because-of players scored during the run as throws. But after missing the right ankle surgery, is averaging New Jersny limited the llawks to second shot, Felton fell to the 25.8 points while shooting 51.6 one basket. floor and clutched his knee. percent from the field. "We've had two solid defen­
-
"lie felt some sort of, I don't Jefferson credited much of his sive performances in a row," know if he said a pop or a success to a new offensive Nets coach Lawrence Frank twinge," coach Sam Vincent approach that stresses more said. "As we know last year, our said. ball movement in the half court biggest disappointment was Initial X-rays were negative, and a fewer fastbreaks. being a selective defensive team. but Felton was taken to the hos­"Our offense isn't anything dif­But now, we've had three of four pital for further tests. It left Jeff ferent," Jefferson said. "Were games where we were good 
Mcinnis as Charlotte's only true not reinventing the wheel. Were defensively. 


_, 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes now showing 08-09 & 09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com 

Dome Home for sale or rent, quiet wooded area. http:/{j.zock.home.comcast.net 
Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester sale. $200 P/S just off campus "alumni owned". Bluegoldrentals.com 

TICKETS 
WANTED -NO FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELPI 574-251-1570 FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232­0964. www.victorytickets.com 
NO tickets for sale. Best Prices. 
5ZH88-2Z26 

PERSONAL 
superproofer.com 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. 
For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
j willys bar and grille www.jwillys.com Monday: 35 cent wings Tuesday: $1 tacos Thursday: happy hour buffet 5-7pm. Now hiring servers 
Why is the dove the symbol for peace? Why not the pillow? It has more feathers and it doesn't have that dangerous beak. 





OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, November 7, 2007 
College Football Polls 
BCS 

AP 
team team 

0hio State (60) 1 2 LSU 
1 Ohio State 
LSU (5} 2 3 Oregon 
Oregon 3 4 Kansas 
Oklahoma 4 5 Oklahoma 
Kansas 5 6 Missouri 
West Virginia 6 7 West Virginia 
Missouri 7 8 Boston College 
Boston College 8 9 Arizona Slate 
Arizona State 9 10 Georgia 
Georgia 10 11 Virginia Tech 
Virginia Tech 11 12 Michigan 
usc 12 
Michigan 13 14 Texas 
13 Connecticut 
Hawaii 14 15 Florida 
Texas 15 16 Hawaii 
Connecticut 16 17 usc 
Florida 17 18 Auburn 
Auburn 18 19 Virginia 
Boise State 19 20 Boise State 
Clemson 20 21 Clemson 
Alabama 21 22 Alabama 
Tennessee 22 23 Penn Stale 
Virginia 23 24 Tennessee 
California 241 25 Kentucky 
Kentucky 241 
NCAA Men's Soccer Adidas National Rankings 
team record previous 
1 UConn (12) 15-2-1 1 2 Wake Forest (8) 13+2 2 3 Santa Clara {1) 11-1-4 3 4 Virginia Tech 1D-1*5 5 5 Brown (1) 13-1-1 6 6 SMU 11-H 4 7 Creighton 8~1•5' 8 8 Boston College 11-~1 7 9 Indiana 12-H 10 10 Tulsa 1H-Z 11 11 NOTRE DAME 10-3-5 9 12 Saint louis 11-2-3 13 13 UCSB 10·3-3 15 14 Northwestern 11-3•3 12 15 Harvard 10·3·2 17 
NCAA Women's Soccer Adidas National Rankings 
team record previous 
1 UCLA (33) 14-1·2 1 
2 TexasA&M 16·2•1 2 
3 Portland 13-3-0 3 
4 North Carolina 15·3-0 4 
5 Stanford 13-2-3 5 
6 Penn State 15·2·4 7 
7 Virginia 11-3-4 6 
8 Purdue 16-2·2 8 
9 usc 13-2-2 11 
10 Texas 13-3-3 12 
11 NOTRE DAME 14-4-1 13 
12 West Virginia 14-4-1 14 
13 Georgia 15-2-2 17 
14 Florida State 11-4-3 15 
15 Tennessee 13·3-2 9 
16 Santa Clara 11-5·3 16 
17 Boston College 11-4-3 10 
18 Wake Forest 11-5-3 18 
191 California 12-5·0 19 
191 San Diego 14-2-3 20 
around the dial 
NBA 
Miami vs. San Antonio 8 p.m., ESPN Cleveland vs. Utah 10:30 p.m., ESPN 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
NBA 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The Knicks found a better way to fight back against the Denver Nuggets. 
Zach Randolph had 22 points and 17 rebounds, three other players scored more than 20 points, and New York erased a series of double-digit deficits to win 119-112 Tuesday night in Denver's first trip to Madison Square Garden since last year's brawl. 
Seemingly on the verge of being run off the floor in the same way they were before losing their cool 11 months ago, the Knicks instead blew by the Nuggets with a fourth-quarter rally, then held on behind huge plays from Randolph and Eddy Curry in their best outing since being paired together. 

Jamal Crawford led the Knicks with 25 points and Curry added 24, nine in the fourth quarter. Stephon Marbury had 21 and nine assists, and Renaldo Balkman led a spirited bench effort with 11 points. 
"Our whole team, I like the tenacity that we played with. I like the intensity that we played with," Knicks coach Isiah Thomas said. 
Allen Iverson scored 32 points and Carmelo Anthony had 24 for the Nuggets, who led by as many as 15 and were still ahead by 10 going 
IN BRIEF 

Titans' 'Pacman' Jones plea
for playtime rejected 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -NFL com­missioner Roger Goodell told Titans cornerback Adam "Pacman" Jones in April to sit out the 2007 season. On Tuesday, the commissioner informed Jones he still hasn't changed his mind. 
Jones had met with the commis­sioner last week in New York, plead­ing for some leniency and an early return. But the cornerback whose biggest community service was buy­ing wrestling tickets for Atlanta stu­dents to watch him at a pay-per-view event last month didn't convince Goodell. 
The commissioner told Jones his suspension will last through this sea­son, which would include the playoffs if the Titans {6-2) qualify. 
"He will be eligible to begin work­ing out at the Titans' facility follow­ing the conclusion of the team's sea­son," the league said in a statement. 
to the fourth quarter before dropping their second straight. 
Iverson briefly had to leave the floor after bloodying his lip defending Marbury with under 2 minutes left, but everything else about the game was clean -unlike Denver's last trip here. 
In that one, the Nuggets were 1:15 away from finish­ing up a 123-100 victory last Dec. 16 when Knicks reserve Mardy Collins took down J.R. Smith by the neck to stop a breakaway. Nate Robinson soon jumped in, and he and Smith tumbled into the front row while fighting. Anthony, leading the NBA in scoring at the time, dropped Collins with a punch and was sus-
Maddux wins prestigious
Gold Glove for 17th time 
Padres pitcher Greg Maddux won his record 17th Gold Glove while Boston first baseman Kevin Youkilis earned his first award Tuesday for fielding excellence. 
Detroit catcher Ivan Rodriguez won for the 13th time and outfield­ers Andruw Jones, Ichiro Suzuki and Torii Hunter added to their totals. 
The Colorado Rockies, who set a major league record for fielding per­centage, did not have a winner. 
Maddux broke a tie with Baltimore third baseman Brooks Robinson and pitcher Jim Kaat for the most Gold Gloves. 
Known for his quick reflexes on the mound even at 41, Maddux won his first Gold Glove in 1990 with the Chicago Cubs. The 347-game winner has taken home the honor every year since except for 2003, when Mike Hampton broke his streak. 
page 13 
pended 15 games. 
Seven players were sus­pended, each organization was fined $500,000, and the Nuggets sorely needed to find more scoring. So they stepped up their efforts to get Iverson, acquiring him from Philadelphia just after the suspensions were announced. 
There were no incidents this time, even when Smith had another breakaway late in the third quarter and Robinson was forced to foul to stop him. And though players from both teams insist everything about the brawl is in the past, the icy relationship between George Karl and Thomas hasn't gone anywhere. 

World Series of Poker 
involved in gambling ring 
KINGSPORT, Tenn. -A divisional winner of the World Series of Poker was arrested with 15 other men during a gambling raid that yielded almost $20,000, police said. 
Paul McKinney and the others were sitting around a table playing poker Friday night when the raid occurred, police said. Authorities said they seized cash, playing cards and poker chips, as well as betting slips for the weekend's sporting 
-
events. 
McKinney, 82, of Weber City, Va., won the 2005 Seniors Division of the World Series of Poker tournament in Las Vegas, taking home $202,725, series spokesman Dave Curley said. At the time he was the oldest winner in World Series of Poker history. 
Police in Kingsport, in eastern Tennessee, conducted the raid after getting a tip. All those arrested were charged with gambling. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, November 7, 2007 
MLB 

ChronicleIef>Orls Guillen, Willia111s had steroids 
' 

Associated Press 

Power-hitting outlieldm Jose Guillen bought nnarly $20.000 worth of' steroids and human growth hormone from 2003-05. thn San Frandseo Chroniele rnportnd Tuesday. 
Forrnnr major leaguers Matt Williams and Ismael Valdez also purdmsnd pnrforrnanen-enhane­ing drugs. in 2002, from a Florida anti-aging elinie that was raided in February as part of' an investigation by the Albany, N.Y., district attorney into alleged illegal drug sales, the newspaper said. 
Major League Baseball began testing for steroids in 2003. IIGII was banned in January 2005. 
The Chronicle received details of the players' orders in records from a source the newspaper didn't identify. Those records contained shipping and pur­chase ordnrs, paymnnt informa­tion, Social Security numbers and customers' birthdates, the paper said. 

A rnport by former Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell into thn use of performancn­enhaneing substances in base­ball is expected bPfore the nnd of the year. An unidentified active player has agreed to spnak with Mitchell in the next fnw weeks, Sl.com rnported Tunsday. Thn Yankees' Jason Giarnbi, who was pressured by cornmissionnr Bud Selig, is the only aetiv11 player known to have spoken with Mitehell, a diroetor of' the Boston Hed Sox. 
-
Guillen, 31. spent last season with the Seattle Mariners, bat­ting .290 with 23 homers and 99 HBis. lie split the 2003 season between Cincinnati and Oakland, and the Chronicle said business records indieate hn had some of the drugs shippnd to the Oakland Coliseum that year. lie played for the Anahnim Angels in 2004 and Washington Nationals in 2005. Attempts by The Assoeiatnd Press to reach him via cell phorw were unsuc­
cnssful Tunsday. 
Last week, the Mariners dedined their $<J million option on Guillen's contract for next season. lie has until Wednesday to deeidn if hfl wants to exereise his part of the mutual option at $5 million. If he does, the club 1:an void tho deal and pay him a $500.000 buyout. That would make (;uillen nligible to become a l'rnn agent. 
Mariners presidt~nt Chuck 

Armstrong told the AP the team 
remains interested in keeping 
Guillen. 
"We thought he was an out­
standing teammate. We were 
happy to have him. We know 
nothing about what happened in 
the past," Armstrong said. "I 
continue to admire and respect 
him greatly. 
"Before I feel anything nega­
tive about Jose, I need to see 
something tangible or real." 
Armstrong also said if Guillen 
exercises his option, the 
Mariners would need to investi­
gate the allegations. 
"I for sure would have to talk 
to Jose about this," Armstrong 
said. 
Guillen just completed his 11th season in the majors. Hecords show he ordered more than $19,000 worth of drugs-three kinds of human growth hor­mone, two types of testosterone and the steroids stanozolol and nandrolone -from the Palm Beach Hejuvenation Center between May 2002 and June 2005, the Chronicle said. 
Williams was a live-time All­
Star during his 17-year major 
league career with San 
Francisco, Cleveland and 
Arizona. IIe was playing for the 
Diamondbacks in 2002 when 
records indicate he purchased 
$11,600 worth of growth hor­
mone, steroids and other drugs, 
the Chronicle reported. 
Williams' final season in the 
majors was 2003. 
The Chronicle reported that Williams. in an interview Monday, said a doctor advised him to try growth hormone to heal a severe ankle injury he sustained during spring training in 2002. 
Williams is now a broadcaster for the Diamondbacks. 
"We obviously just learned of this," team president Derrick Hall said in a statement Tuesday. "Matt informed us that a doctor recommended its use to help heal his ankle injury. It was a substance that he was not famil­iar with at the time, and accord­ing to him, did not like its effects after sampling. lie discontinued the use of it and retired the next season. 
"Matt is a stand-up guy. who without hesitation, admitted using it and not liking it. There is no doubt in our minds that Matt would decline such a rec­ommendation today, knowing what we all know about enhanc­ing substances." 
Abit ofIreland in your own backyard. 

' s 


Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuff-ed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all the games. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterford Estates Lod3e has hotel rooms atreasonable rates fur upcoming NO fOotball weekends.) 
SAINT JOHN BOSCO 
PATRON SAINT OF THE YOUNG 
Jt'ith good reason the Church made Saint .John Bosco Patron ofthe young. He cared .ft)r the homeless youngsters who roamed the city street, andfounded a Socie~y, the Sale.sians, to continue his work. 
The Salesians are now the 
Allen continues, ''St. John second largest Religious Bosco became a tireless cat­Order in the Catholic Church echist among the young, and help the young and the hearing confessions, saying poor in 134 countries. Masses, and organizing 'ora­
"Ih quote John Allen, the tories' where his boys could Vatican Correspondent For the play, study and worship... National Catholic Reporter, Thus the Salesians pastoral "the great Orders have usual­model was forged: solid. ly been born in response to orthodox Catholic piety; an some crisis-the Franciscans, 'in-the-trenches' commitment for example, to urbanize and to the young, the poor, and to the need to evangelize the education; and a smiling cities, the Jesuits to the Reformation, and closeness to the people." the need for a Catholic counter-offensive. In describing St. John Bosco ·s order today For the Salesians it was the Industrial John Allen \VTites, "The Salesians are seen as Revolution, especially the zones of robustly reliable-not theological innovators, despair, turmoil and revolution on the but dovm-to-earth, pastors and educators, outskirts of the great industrial cities.'' and generally witb a good sense of humor:· 
To read John Allen's full article about the Salesians, visit: http://nationalcatholic reporter.org/word/pfw063006.htm 
If you are thinking about dedicating your life to the service of the young and poor, consider joining the Salesians of St. John Uosco. For more information visit us at: www.salesianvocation.com 
or write to: SALESIANS OF ST. JOHN BOSCO, 315 Self Place, South Ot·ange, NJ 07079 Email: salvoc@2aol.corn, Phone: (973) 761-0201 
"I believe that the Salesiam· played an irnportant role in theji:mnation ofmy l'ocation. ·· -Pope John Paul ll 
---------------------. 
Wednesday, November 7, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 

11J

/be LY!:}Ajor • 

English majors choose careers in any field that values the ability to read, write, and analyze with intelligence and subtlety. Some go on to graduate study in literature leading to careers in academia; others choose professions such as law, education. medicine. 
publishing, business, social work, professional writing. library science. journalism, and public relations. 
Drop-in orientation sessions available during the week of November 12-15! 
Monday, November 12 8:30-9:00, 9:30-12:00 and 1:00-2:00 
Thesday, Noven"Jber 13 9:00-10:30, 11 :00-11 :30, and 1:00-2:30 
Wednesday, November 14 8:30-9:00,9:30-10:00, 10:30-11:00, 11:30-12:00, and 1:00-3:00 
Thursday, November 15 10:00-11:00, 1:00-2:30, 3:30-4:30 
For more information, or other meeting times to declare the major, contact: The Department of English; 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall Kannen Duke. Administrative Assistant; kduke@nd.edu or 631-7226 
http://english.nd.edu/Undergraduate/ 

Recycle 
MLB 

GMs reconunend replay use on boundary calls 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Baseball could soon have a new position: replay judge. 
General managers recom­mended for the first time Tuesday that instant replay be used to help umpires on bound­ary calls -whether potential home runs are fair or foul, whether balls go over fences or hit the tops and bounce back, and whether fans interfere with possible homers. 
The proposal was approved by a 25-5 vote. There was no spe­cific time frame on when such a system might be put in place. 
"We've taken the first step. The question will be now, what do we do?" said Jimmie Lee Solomon, executive vice presi­dent for baseball operations in the commissioner's office. "We have glacier-like movement in baseball, so I'm hopeful that we can at least start meaningful discussions about it. I think that this will be something we'll have to go very deliberately on." 
Solomon said the next step will be to speak with commis­sioner Bud Selig, who opposes the use of replays but said last month he was willing to let GMs examine the issue. If Selig gives the go-ahead, Solomon and the staff in the commissioner's office would draft a detailed replay proposal that GMs could vote on when they gather next month at the winter meetings in Nashville, Tenn. 
"All anybody is interested in is getting it right," Chicago White Sox GM Ken Williams said. "It will be a lot easier and less time to get that right than some of these arguments that ensue when a call is disputed." 
Replay eventually would have to be approved by the unions for players and umpires, and possi­bly in a vote by owners. 
"It's very important that we do get Bud's agreement on this," Solomon said. "He seemed to be softer, at least, on the consider­ation of the subject lately. I would not consider him an advocate of instant replay. He will have to be convinced." 
Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operating officer, said it would be an "aggressive time frame" to have replay in place next year. 
"There's a lot that's going to have to be studied with regard to the technology, with regard to when you would use it, with regard to how it could get implemented," he said. "I don't think it's likely, frankly, that all of that could be accomplished over the course of the next sev­eral months." 
He suggested that it could be tested during spring training or next year's Arizona Fall League. He also didn't see a wider use of replay than what GMs recom­mended. 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Vols' Parker leads All-America team 
Associated Press 

Candace Parker helped Tennessee win a national title and the United States qualify for the Olympics. Now there's one more honor to add to this run the last few months: a unanimous choice for the preseason All-America team by The Associated Press. 
The Tennessee junior was joined on the squad Tuesday by Oklahoma's Courtney Paris, Stanford's Candice Wiggins, LSU's Sylvia Fowles and Maryland's Crystal Langhorne. 
Hall of Fame coach Pat Summitt of Tennessee already knew Parker could score. It's the other aspects of Parker's game that impress her. 
"If there is one thing to sepa­rate her out, it's her commitment to defending," Summitt said. "Her intensity on the defensive end is so much better. She's also much better attacking the basket." 
Parker sparked the Lady Vols to their seventh national title last April and the national team to a spot in the Beijing Games. She was the top scorer on the U.S. team that won the FIBA Americas tournament in September. 
Parker was on every ballot of the 50-member national media panel. The only other previous unanimous selections ·were Chamique Holdsclaw, Diana Taurasi, Alana Beard and Seimone Augustus. 
"That's a special group," Parker said. "I wouldn't be who I was without my teammates or coach­es support." 
Paris came close to a unani­mous selection, getting 48 votes. Wiggins drew 43, Fowles 41 and Langhorne 28. Paris and Parker were All-Americans last season. Langhorne, Wiggins and Fowles earned second-team honors. 
Summitt saw Parker, Paris, Wiggins and Fowles play with the 
U.S. national team this fall. 
"I thought just watching them play, they are impact players on their respective teams," she said. "They did some amazing things for the U.S. team." 
The four have known each other for years, playing on vari­ous U.S. teams. Their friendship was evident in a discussion with the AP at the national team train­ing camp. 
"We've been friends for a long time," Wiggins said. 'Tve know Courtney since freshman year in high school and I've know Candace forever and Syl, too." 

When they aren't facing each other on the court, the four always check out how the othr,rs ­are doing. 
'Tm a fan of our game," Paris said. "It's hard not to follow everyone's career. The media does such a good job. It's easy to pop on the TV, or open up the newspaper and follow them." 
The 6-foot-4 Paris was third in the nation in scoring at 23.5 points and second in rebounding with 15.9 last season en route to becoming AP Player of the Year. 
Wednesday, November 7, 2007 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 
Schilling agrees to one-year deal with Red Sox 
Associated l'rcss 
BOSTON -The Hed Sox might lighten the load on their starters, espeeially if Curt Schilling can keep his weight down. 
Team ollieials have discussed using a six-man rotation next s1mson rather than the live-man norm as Boston tries to defend its World Series championship. 
Schilling agreed to an $H mil­lion contraet Tuesday with $3 million in potential performance bonuses. lin also can make an additional $2 million by meeting weight dausns -$:B:{,333 for each time lw passes one of six random monthly weigh-ins. llis salary in 2007 was $13 million. but he sp1ml SIWPn weeks on tlw disabled list with tendinitis in his right shoulder. 
"Thn rnsponsibility falls on mn," Schilling said. "Then~ an• 2 million rnasons for me to reach thn woight goal." 
Tlw right-handPr turns 41 rwxt W1~dnnsday. 
"Curl rneogniws the impor­tanl:e of' nH:onditioning his body so hn can gPl in the best possi­bln shape and givn him tho best dwnee to stay healthy through­out the ypar," gPrJPral manag1~r Theo l~pstnin said on a confer­once call. "lie didn't have a great of'l'snason a ynar ago. I think that all'nctPd him in spring training and lnd to him going on the 1>1.." 
If' llw starters stay healthy, a six-man rotation would be liknly. 
"We've diseussl'd that eon­eept," l~pstPin said. "I think it's premature to eommit to any usagn pattern. But, certainly, we're in a little bit of' a unique situation whorl' a number of our starters might benefit from something like that." 
l>aisukn Matsuzaka pitehed in a six-man rotation tn Japan bdorn joining the Hod Sox last season. Tim Wakefield was knpl oil' the World Serins rost1~r with pain behind his right shoulder. Youngsters .Jon Lester and Clay Buchholz haven't spent a full season in a major league rota­tion . .Julian Tavarez spent last snason in thn rotation and the bullpen. and is signod for next season. 
But it would be tough to usll aen .Josh Bnekntt just once evnry six ganws. 
"There's so much attrition in baseball. I think the minute we start eounting on having a six­man rotation or giv1~ it any seri­ous consideration, that's when we lose a pitdwr or two in spring training," Epstein said. "I'm sure that topic will eonw up a lot in our internal discussions between now and spring train­ing." 
The Hnd Sox also would like to knnp third basPnHtn Mike Lowell, who rnadn $9 million this ynar and filed for free agnncy al'tnr his bnst snason. 1\pslnin has talknd with Lownll's agnnts. 
"Wn'rn working at it." hn said. "hopdully moving tlw ball for­ward a littln bit nad1 day." 
Beli1~1' pitdwr Mike Timlin also

-
lilml for frnn agcmcy. 
During spring training this year, Schilling said hn would have ac:cepted $1 :{ million for 200S. Tlw Hnd Sox pn~ferred to wait, and Epstein callnd tho postseason negotiations "a smooth process." 
Schilling wnnt IJ-H with a 3.H7 lmA during thn regular season, thnn added to his irnprnssivn postseason resunw by going 3-0 with a :too ElM. lin is 11-2 with a 2.2:{ EHA in his postseason career. 
Both sides seemed happy with the deal in a lean free-agent market for pitchers. Schilling also would get $1 million next year if he receives at least one vote in Cy Young Award ballot­ing. 
"I'm excited," Schilling said. ''I've played 21 years. We got everything we wanted to sign. I've made over $100 million playing baseball. We're happy." 
Ih1 said he had spoken with Houston and Philadelphia and could have gotten more money elsewhere. Free agents aren't allowed to talk rnon1~y with all teams until Nov. 1:{. 
"It's not too common in this day and age that som1mnc who ean get a lot morn guaranteed money was willing to take the risk associated with perform­ance bonuses and with other bonuses," Epstein said. "So he did a rare thing and we're proud of him." 
Schilling said he and Epstein talked on the first two days after the Red Sox won the World Series. 
"After initial discussions, the important thing was I was going to get the guarantee I wanted," Schilling said. "That got it going." 
In 2004, Schilling went 21-6 and helped lead the Red Sox to their l'irst World Series title since 1918. 
lie would get a $375,000 bonus for pitehing 130 innings, and an additional $375,000 for every lO-inning inerement up to 200. 
The rotation was a bargain even before Schilling took a cut in his guaranteed salary. 
Beckett, a postseason star and the only 20-game winner in the majors the last two years, is due $9.5 million next season. 
Matsuzaka will make $8 million, Wakefield $4 million and Tavarez $3.H5 million. Lester made $384,000 last season. 
The $8.5 million Boston paid Matt Clement, who missed the whole season after shoulder surgery, comes ofl' the books. 

"the CAMPUS SHOPP€5 l~fazn 
,, (u·iH• Stnde !>awls aHd :Bch•·cm fhr :Brm) 
Houl's:  1813 South Bend Avenue  
Monday--Satt.~t'day 10Cim-8pm  South Bend1 :JN 46637  
St.~nday 12pm-5pm  (574) 271-4990  

Limited time offers for st1.1dents: 10'1-h off with a F1.1ll Service. 

YOUR CATERING SOLtJTIONlU 
BOX LUNCHES. PLATTERS. PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include a delivery charge per item. 
FREEBIE$ (SUBS & CLUBS ONLYI Onion. lettuce, alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo, sliced cucumber, Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar, and oregano. 
I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK~ 
54570 N.IRONWOOD DR. 1290 E. IRELAND 138 S. MICHIGAN 5343 N. MAIN ST. 
574.277.8500 574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.968.4600 
SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 
''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOliN'S!'' © 

Wednesday, November 7, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

Grades 
continued from page 20 

points of the season. 
"It's nice to be recognized for being able to not only do well on the field, but a big part of being at Notre Dame is being able to graduate and do well in your studies," Rellas said. 
The junior, a double major in history and finance, holds a 3.634 GPA through two years of his college career. Rellas was also named the team's scholar-athlete of the year in 2006. 
"During the season when we're traveling we have long trips and it's easier to sit down and do work then than when we have more free time in the spring," he said. 
Both players said their work in the classroom and performance on the field build off one another: The time-consuming schedule during the fall keeps them well-organized. Miller, who is pursuing his master's degree in Accounting, said that playing soccer has also 
helped him create better relationships in things like group projects and other classroom settings. He grad­uated from the Mendoza College of Business last May with a GPA of 3.409. 
"I think that at a school like Notre Dame, if you can't keep your academics in line, your athletics will suffer," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. Clark, who has previously coached at Dartmouth and Stanford, is used to playing with high academic stan­dards. 
He also pointed to the strong support network at Notre Dame as a reason for the consistently high grades of athletes. Mary Ann Spence is the team's academic advi­sor and helps the players from the moment they arrive on campus as freshmen. 
"Mary Ann helps us out quite a bit especially coming in as a freshman," Bellas said, "She is kind of like a mom for the team. Anything you need she can do for you." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


Take your career to a i rlevel. 
At Ernst & Young, you'll elevate your skill set working with and learning from some of the best talent in the industry. And thanks to our award-winning training programs, you'll have all the resources you need to give your career a boost. Next stop: the top.· 
Grow. Succeed. Visit us at ey.comjusjcareers and on our Facebook.com group. 
FORTUNE' 

-
100 BEST 

r9~6~~~~~~ 
#25 on the list. 
.---------------------~~~-~----~­
Wednesday, November 7, 2007 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Starter 
continued from page 20 
Weis said he is taking into 
aecount tlw health of his quar­
tnrbaeks at this point and how 
it will afTnd their play. 
"Well, the kid is banged up. 
the other kid is not banged up, 
so you play the kid who's 
healthy," the coach said. 
"There's a difli~rence betwmm 
pulling people for how they 
play, lwalthy versus banged 
up." 
Weis said the quartnrbacks split snaps evenly in praetice Tuesday, and he will make a deeision about practice time for the rnst of the week today. 
''I'm not really sure how IWednesdayl will go," he said. "What I'll be able to do is after I get through !Tuesday! -I'll be abln to give a more defini­tive answer." 
Weis said by Wednesday night he will have decided on a starter and will give that play­er the majority of the praetice snaps the rnst of the week. 
"What we're not going to be doing is going 50/50 on the reps all week long," he said. "That's not the way it's going to work. It might bn a littlo bit dosnr to that today, but it's not going to end up that way." 
For the st~ason, Sharpley has complntP.d 55 percent of his passes for 736 yards and five touchdowns with threo inter­ceptions. Clausen, in one morn pass attempt, has competed 57 porcnnt of his passes for (> 18 yards with ono touchdown and five intnrcnptions. 
Weis said he wants to have just onn starting quarterback over the next thrne games in an attl1mpt to build momnn­tum for next season. 
"I don't think what you want to be doing here is each week say, well, 'Who's going to play the best for us against Air Force, who's going to play the best for us against Duke, who's going to play the best for us against Stanford'!"' he said. "I'm at the point right now whern I want to win this game, and simultaneously, I want to start building some upward rnomnntum." 
Voluntary time 
Weis said about "90 percent" of tho team stopped by 
WaldruDI 
continued from page 20 
was a turning point for the 
better." 
Waldrum said he debated with his coaches whether to give the talk, but in the end felt that he should be honest with the team about its prospects for the rest of the season. 
"From there on out, almost the whole month of October, every game we played has bnen almost a must-win game for us," Waldrum said. "Tho reason being is that we couldn't alford to lose any more games and have any shot at the NCAAs or have any o~.tside shot at hosting at

-
homn. 
Tho urgent attitude put irnmnnsn prnssurn on the playnrs. Confornncn tourna­mnnt play, hownvnr, should be nothing new for them ­even the freshmen. 
"I don't think this is going to be anything nnw to them as frnshnwn." Waldrum said. 

Guglielmino Center on Monday, which is usually a day ofT from practice. lie said play­ers ol'ten do various l'ootball­rrdatnd things on Monday, but that he saw more players around thn building than usual this wonk. 
"More than normal, thny're a lot more around the coach­ing stall'," he said. "They want to gnt tape to watch on their own !performancesl because we can't watch tape with them because it's a day ofT. so we leave them alone. So there wern a lot or guys that kind of wanted to just hang around yesterday, which I think that's a good thing." 
No audibles 
Weis said Sharpley didn't havn the ability to change the play at the line or scrimmage before running back Travis Thomas was stuffed trying to get the two-point conversion at the end of the Navy game. 
"On a goal-line play, there's never any latitude," he said. "You never have a checkoff from this play to that play." 
Weis said even though Navy jammed the line of scrimmage with defenders, he still expect­ed Thomas to be able to power a yard-and-a-hall' into the end zone. 
"On a goal line play, you're already assuming that all those bodies are going to be thern, and the bottom line is you need to push the pile more than they push the pile," Weis said. "We're talking on just that last play, on every goal­line play with the exception of that one, the pile was pushed pretty well. But on that play you'll notice as you watch it the line of scrimmage came !backward! instead of going !forward 1." 
Kuntz recovering 
Weis said junior nose tackle Pat Kuntz is recovering more quickly than was expected from the injury he suffered Saturday, and he may play against Air Force. 
"He's considerably better than we thought he was going to be," Weis said. "lie's going to practice some today, and then we'll just kind ol' see how it goes." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
win." 
The team focuses on itself rather than opponents, Waldrum said, and worries only about the next game. Both are characteristics he likes to see. 
"It's a funny group. You don't hear them too much talking about the opposition, you don't hear them too much talking about the pres­sures of big games," Waldrum said. "They're really a focused group of kids. They don't get too high, they don't get too low." 
The Irish have had offen­sive success, defensive stabil­ity and solid goalkeeping while steamrolling 11 oppo­nents since the Penn State game. But the opposition is hardly what they're thinking about. 
"Hight now, let's just get all of our 27 players focused on Notre Dame," Waldrum said of his team's mentality. "More importantly than any­thing, we've just kind of said, 'Hight now, it's all about us."' 
Hoops 

continued from page 20 
pie of dif'licult reverse layups, 
against the Fighting Bees. 
The Irish emptied their bench against St. Ambrose and allowed four freshmen on the team to see extended minutes -a theme that's likely to con­tinue through the soft, early portion of Notre Dame's sched­ule. Brey said he was happy with the freshmen's first effort against St. Ambrose. 
"I said to !the freshmen]. I thought as a whole, you guys came in and were very pre­pared, you concentrated," Brey said. "And I liked your mental frame of mind. Again, it's obvious when the eight vet­erans are healthy, they've established themselves at one level, and it's a matter of what's left for the young guys." 
Of the freshmen, forward Tyrone Nash could see signifi­cant minutes once Notre Dame enters the Big East portion of its schedule. The 6-foot-8 Nash had seven points in 13 minutes against St. Ambrose. Nash's size and athleticism allows him to play inside or outside on offense and said the coaching staff is helping him become a more complete play­er. 
"In practice they have me both with the guards and in the post position," Nash said. "So, I need to work on my shooting, post moves, defense and communication. Communication is probably the most important out of everything." 
Note: 

+The Irish gained a verbal commitment for the recruiting class of 2009 but missed out on a crucial recruit for this year's class. Joey Brooks, a 6­foot-5, 200-pound junior at 


Only 3 blocks from campus 
2 Bedroom Apartments Spacious 1,100 sq. ft. Units Off-Street Parking On-Site Laundry Free Internet Central Air 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

Strait Jesuit College Prep in down a scholarship offer from Houston, Tex., committed to Notre Dame and verbally Notre Dame after visiting committed to North Carolina campus this weekend. Monday. Meanwhile, Tyler Zeller, brother of Irish junior for­Contact Chris Hine at ward Luke Zeller, turned chine@nd.edu 
(_,) 'j NOVEMBER I8, 2007 
~--/ L -~n Exc~ptional EtJent for Brides. 
~; 
B1·iJbl Hr·• .\ f{~,.-~;;' f:.•r-·lt F, <:·yi< :Sh,. :~ 10:30 a.m. -12 noon I2 noon-5 p.m. The Morris Billitro Palais Royal< Ballroom ~11 N. Michigan St., Sout.h B•nd lOS W. Colfax Ave., South Bend 
Bello Bridal Brunrh foC!turrs 11 clelicioll.\ 'The Bella Bridul Evrnt and Stvle Show <>fjrrs 
champagne bnmch and a pret,ie:.t1 ofwedding fl•erything_{<>I)'OUI" sJ>ecial d<!V includmg styl" mu;t~~have looks anJ trtnd,for the season. sho<I'>Ot 1,3op.m. und3,30p.m .. j<•od Ttrket.<jiJr this ewnt also include the and beverage tasting and the latest 
Briclul Eumt & S!J•Ie Shmv. in wl"dding ·'!Yl". 
Purchase tickets a/ the Morri.l Box Office 574-235-9190 or online al 
www.bellabridalevent.com 
835 Notre Dame Avenue 
Wednesday, November 7, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY 


TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
JUST LOOK AT THIS-IT'S A ROAD FLARE, AN ELECTRIC TOOTHBRUSH, ANO A DRAIN CLEANER ... 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
THIS IS 000... IT'S A TREADMILL .. THAT GOES IN FRONT OF A FROYO MACHINE ... WHO WOULD WANT­
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Lee Glickstein and Craig Kasper 
36 Sully 51 Cancel 60 Old music halls 
38 Clean Air Act 52_ Viejo 61 Result of a (California city whipping
org. 
near Laguna

39 The Bears, on 62 End-of-wk. times
Beach) scoreboards 
55 Creed element 64 Big fight 40 Completely free 
56 Medics 651991 film 
45 Some "Law & 

directed by 1­Order" figs. Across 
57 Cole Porter's 
"Well, Did You 48 Ancient garland ?" 
66 "Either he goes 49 Kind of class 58 "Quo Vadis" role _go!" 
For answers. call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
page 19 HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

HoRoscoPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ethan Jlawke. 37: Lori Singer, 50: Glenn Frey, 59: Sally Field. 61 
Happy Birthday: Don't procrastinate or give in to emotional demands. Let others know what you want so you can feel good about your choices and your future. Focus on your needs and make the adjustments that will help you reach your destination. Your numbers are 6. 13. 20. 28,-H,-l6 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Avoid anyone who is trying to back you into an argu­ment. If you don't have the answer or you can't bring yourself to make the decision re­quired, t..."lke a moment to reevaluate. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It's time you got involved in something you enjoy 
-
doing or to ge£ together with people you find interesting and who have something to offer. A few cha11ges to your outlook will bring about some positive profession a] al­teultions. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your heart's in the right place. so keep your head screwed on straight and ntuch can be accomplished. Love is iffy so don•t play with someone's heart unless you mean business. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Choose your battles wisely. A passionate approach to something you care deeply ahout will pay off. It's time for a change whether you think so or not, so brush up on "your skills and try som~thing ne\\.'. ~ stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do something exciting that will enable you to learn, meet ne\\' people and expand your goals or circle of friend.,, Don't let anyone you live with fool you into believing you can't do what's imporlant to you. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't be afraid to do things a little differently. Make de­cisions based on facts and put your detailed style to good use. You can open up discus­sions regarding sih1ations that are bothering you and put an end to the existing prob­lems. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may feel a little vulnerable and sensitive to com­ments made but don't let that cause you to miss out on something yo~ want tto do. You have to consider who is saying what and not overreact. Put your imagination to work on positive projects. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You've got so much happening. Take a chance: Send out your resume. make a move. contact a publisher or make changes to your personal life or Ih·ing quarters.3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take a stab at doing something a little different. You need a change but not a costly one. A good idea or investment can he put into play but only ifyou don't ha\'e pie-in-the-sky intentions. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let your emotions cloud a financial or legal decision you have to make. Now is not the time to give in or back down ifyou truly believe you are right. Take action in your normal Capricorn manner. 2 stars. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You know what you want and you know how to get it. so proceed to the finish line. Yon are thinking straight and you have some amazingly good ideas that will beat any competition. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take care of partnen;hips that need nutturing. A change in appearance. attitude or even your circle of friends will help you move forward. Money will come from an unusual source. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You need peace and quiet. but attract hustle and hustle. You are cre­ative and full of id.,as. You adjust to change and look fnrward to new adventures. 
Eugenia's nieb sites: astroodvice.com for ftm, eu,qenia/nst.com for confidential consultations 
-
CROSSWORD 
Across *Stone in Hollywood 7 *Home for Will Rogers and Garth Brooks 15 1950s All-Star outfielder Minnie 16 'What some unscrupulous e­businesses do? 17 Arthurian paradise 18 Bejeweled 
pendant 19 *Torn 20 Regatta crew 
leaders 21 Govt. code­breaking group 22 Wish to take 
back 23 Song syllable 25 U.S. rnil. medal 27 Whence the line 
"A soft answer turneth away wrath" 
31 *Extremely narrow winning margin 
35 *Kind of club 
37 Mother of Queen Elizabeth I 38 Lingerie shade 41 *A Peron 42 Mercury model 43 TV Dr. of note 
44 *Student of Dr. Pangloss 
46 *Lover of Radames 47 Like some nursery care 50 Cape Town's 
country: Abbr. 53 Oz. and kg. 54 Washington 
ballplayer, briefly 
56 Study 59 Class 
62 *Renown 63 Nullity 65Air 67 *Site of much 
horsing around? 68 Architectural decoration 69 *Perform ostentatiously 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

70 *Destiny 
Down 
Astrologer 
Sydney 
2 Meet. as expectations, with "to" 
3 Goofier 4 Battery unit 5 That, in Tijuana 6 Friend of Harry 
and Hermione 7 Capital near the 60th parallel 
8 2001 film set in a mental institution 9 Washed 
10 Collect 
11 Anthropomorphic 
cinema computer 12 Lena of "Chocolat" 
13 Place to which Bart Simpson makes prank calls 
14 Gillette brand 20 Dodge on the road 23 New Deal program, for short 24 Renaissance instrument 26 Home in the 
Alps 28 Eyepiece 29 Curer of !eta cheese 
30 Lay 
32 Even one 
33 Wayfarer's stop 
34 King's title 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, November 7, 2007 
page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Uncertain once again 

ND WoMEN's SoccER ANALYSIS 
-Waldrun1's early-season tough love payed off for tean1 
After Notre Dame's Joss to the standard was necessary, so players at the time. "Here's echoed the players' inner feel­Friday's Big East semifinal Penn State on Sept. 23, the Irish coach Randy Waldrum your season in a nutshell if we ings. Maybe his tone resonated game against Georgetown, the Irish were 3-4-1 and had lost took a chance. lie sat the team don't get this turned around in a motivational way. Maybe Irish have won 11 straight four of their last six games. down for what he called a and get it turned around now." he struck a nerve by putting games. That. was a Bill Brink "come to Jesus" talk about the Waldrum said Tuesday that that much pressure on his "It was a little bit of a gam­cruc1al rest of the season -and told he held nothing back and let players. Whatever the reason, ble, I think, to do that," momnnt, a .'-)ports Writer his players that from that the players know exactly what the meeting worked -Notre Waldrum said. "It could have fulerum on point forward, losing could lay ahead of them. Dame hasn't lost a game since. gone the other way, and we which llw sink their hopes of postseason "It was a pretty blunt meet­The weekend following the still continued to play poorly. rnsult of llwir season bal­success. ing," he said. '"The season's talk, Notre Dame beat Or it was a turning point, and I ancnd. "We have now hit our last down the tubes if we don't Louisville on the road and think right now, obviously, it 
Tho toam simply couldn't weekend of being able to lose start winning now."' came home to clobber afford to losP.. A dnviation from a game," Waldrum told the Maybe Waldrum's thoughts Cincinnati 6-1. Heading into see WALDRUM/page 18 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Harangody ready to return 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
Sophomorn forward Lukn llarangody had the cast on his injured right hand removed Tunsday and will play limited minutns in NotrP Damn's exhi­bition gamt> against St. l·:dward"s tonight at 7:30 in tho .Joyee CentiH", Assistant Athldir l>irPctor Bernin Cafarnlli said. 
llarangody torn a ligament in his right thumb during practir1~ on Oct. 15. and didn't play in Notrn Damn's I09-!i:~ win ovPr St. Ambrose last l;riday. SineP injuring his thumb. llarangody practiePd with tlw east. but Tuesday was thP first day hn went without it. 
.I un ior forward Zaeh llillnsland, who started in llarangody's pltu:p against St. Ambrose, grabbed 14 rebounds and seored 12 points -including an acro­batic baselinn dunk and a cou­
see HOOPS/page 18 


MEN's SoccER 

Two Irish players honored by ESPN 
Rellas, Miller named to magazine's Academic All-Division squad 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Ediror 

ESPN The Magazine released its Academic AII­Divison teams earlier this wnek, and two Notrn Dame players made thn cut. Fifth­year snnior Hyan Miller and junior Cory Rellas were rec­ognized for their excellence this year on the f'i1~ld and in thn elassroom. 
Both players are now on the ballot to become Notre Dame's first Academic All­American in soccer since John Stephens was named to the second team two years ago. 
"It means a lot, it means that the hard work that I've 
put in academically and ath­letieally has beef} reeog­nized." Miller said. "Its just nice, I guess. to be seen as a good student as well as a good athlete." 
In his final season with the Irish, Miller started all 1H games of the regular season at either defender or mid­fielder. lie is tied with for­ward Joseph Lapira for the team lead with six goals. 
Hnllas also started nvery game as a mainstay on tlw defensive line. lie helped anchor a defense that has reeorded nine shutouts and an average of O.H4 goals against per game. Hellas also buried a goal during a 3-0 win over regional rival Michigan on Oct. 3. The game was Notre Dame's eighth straight without a loss and marked one of the high points of tho season. 
see GRADES/page 17 

Weis says QB who is better in practice will start Saturday 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 

Irish coach Charlie Weis refused Tuesday to name a starting quarterback for Saturday's game against Air Force. 
Weis said the team's practices this week will determine whether junior Evan Sharpley, who has started the last two games, or freshman Jimmy Clausen, who started the six games before that, will take the opening snap against the Faleons. 
"We haven't practiced yet !this weeki, but they're both in the running," Weis said before practice Tuesday. 
see STARTER/page 18 
KANG!The Observer 

Notre Dame freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen scrambles during Notre Dame's 31-10 loss to Penn State on Sept. 8. 





