-~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~-----------------------, 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Early action applications up 11.5 percent 
University recruits more minority, international students; Peer college policy changes affect ND 
records and extracurricular

By ROHAN ANAND 
activities than ever before,"

News Writer 
Saracino said. "However, even more notable will be the 

Early action applications to amount of diversity -ethni­the University rose to 4,247 cally, internationally, and this year, up 11.5 percent from socio-economically -that will last year, Assistant Provost for be reflected in next year'sUndergraduate Admissions freshman class." 
Dan Saracino said. Visitations to the admissions 
This year's applicant pool office have also been up 16 includes a 45 percent increase percent this year, Saracino 
in the number of ethnic said, and admissions officers 
Number ol applications submlt1ed 3,809 4,241 
Number ol appncantslrom ethnic minorities 551 199 
minorities seeking early are receiving more inquiriesadmittance to Notre Dame, as from students and high school 
well as a 106 percent increase counselors via e-mail, phonein international students. A calls and application requests.total of 799 minorities and 126 Saracino attributed the international students submit­
Number oltnternanonal apptu:ants fit t26 
increases in international stu­ted early action applications dent applications to his office's 
this fall, Saracino said. outreach efforts, which He called those figures include increased traveling toInlormanon from 
"healthy increases." other countries to market "My projection is that we Notre Dame, mobilizing thethe Admissions Olll~e will come out of early action alumni abroad to contact high
with an admitted group of stu­
OtiSHMVHR OttArtuc/Mudelinc Nics 

dents with higher academic see EARLY/page 6 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

JShirf president wants to go national 
early phases of production, Gott said, plans By JOSEPH McMAHON are already underway to sell The Shirt in 
NewsWrirer 
nationwide retail stores like J.C. Penney, Sears and Dick's Sporting Goods. 
The Council of Hepresentatives unani­
"J.C. Penney has actually already
mously approwd Tw~sday a new pn~sident approaehed us," Gott said. "We want to turn to hnad The Shirt eommittep, next year and it into a nationwide program while main­disrussed the possibility of selling The Shirt taining The Shirt's identity." 
nationwide. 
Gott stressed this last point. While heThe outgoing pn~sident of The Shirt com­hopes The Shirt will be sold nationally, Gott mittee, senior Brad LeNoir, presented junior said it will always remain a student-runJason Gott. vice president of the 2007 com­project and a symbol of unity for Notremittee, to the eoundl. 
Dame supporters. 
"Jason is the bnst candidate because of "I would take very great care to makethe cxpnrienec and ideas he brings to the sure it stays relevant to Notre Dame foot­table," LeNoir said. 
ball," he said. 
Gott said he has several new ideas for the From left to right, Sheena Plamoottil, Uz Brown 200H Shirt. Although thP. design is still in the see THE SHIRT/page 8 and Maris Braun sit at Tuesday's COR meeting. 


Role of religion in politics debated 
Panelists use JFK example to explore separation of Church, state 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Two student-professor teams faced off at LaFortune Student Center Tuesday night as they debated the role of religion in politics. 
Political science professor David Campbell and senior Kathleen Sullivan. a political science major, argued that religion doesn't have a place in the political speetrum. Their opponents, Law School professor Riehard Garnett and senior Corey Mehlos, co-presi­dent of College Democrats, said there are times when religion can be appropriate in political settings. 
see RELIGION/page 3 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
NBC exec: Bold pitches getbacking 
Network vice president encourages fearlessness 
ByJENNMETZ Assistant News Editor 
Fearlessness is necessary when entering the television industry, an NBC official said Thesday at Notre Dame. 
In a discussion titled "Developing Prime-Time 
Television," a part of the F i I m , Television and Theatre Talks series, K a t i e O'Connell, senior vice 

president of O'Connell d r am a development at NBC 
Entertainment, outlined careers in television and how a show grows from a pitch to pilot. 
In order to succeed, one must be able to articulate an opinion and "be fearless about that," said O'Connell, who spoke to an audi­ence of mainly FIT majors in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center's Browning Center. 
"It's really easy not to Like some­thing," O'Connell said. "Having a fearlessness, standing up for some­thing ... those are the strongest assets in thi<> bu<>iness." 
At her current position, O'Connell guided the pilot develop­ment and launch of freshmen series like "Chuek," "Life," "Bionie Woman" and "Journeyman." She also is working on a mid-season addition, "Upstiek Jungle," based 
see NBC/page 8 



University ren1en1bers 
soldiers, sends packages 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 

As Notre Dame students count the days to go home for Thanksgiving, one group wants to remember fellow Americans that don't have the privilege of spending the holi­day with their families. 
Bearing in mind men and women in the armed forces abroad, the Notre Dame Accounting Association (NDAA) organized its annual care-package drive, inviting students to send gifts to deployed soldiers, primarily those in the Middle East. 
The drive ends this weekend. Senior Elizabeth Byrum, NDAA co-director of communi­
ty service, said the care pack­ages are a way to show the troops support and let them know "there are students at Notre Dame and other places that have them in their thoughts and prayers." 
She said the packages will include items the soldiers might enjoy, but do not neces­sarily have access to while they're abroad, like candy and" beef jerky. But the care pack­ages will also have more prac­tical supplies, like sunscreen and chapstick. 
Byrum said the NOAA has also received donations from different stores in the commu­nity to help pay for the things in the packages. 
see SOLDIERS/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Whatahnost catnetobe 

On Saturday, Nov. 3, 2007, I traveled to 
Chkago sen one of Time Magazine's 100 
Most Inllunntial People in concert. 
This was an adventurn fi·aught with 
ntmr-disaster, crnnpy cabbies and what 
will bemrne one 

of my biggest Anthony Conklin 
rn~-,rrets. But it 
wa.'i still one of 
Sports Wire
thn most arna.z­
ing times of my Editor 
liliJ. 
llowevcr, 
since I cannot fit the entim story in this 
column, I will focus on one thing -the 
story of my huge regret. 

In tlw immortal words of this influen­
tial man. I am going to tell you the end of 
the story first and then we'll Tarantino it. 
The story ends with the lights suddenly 
rn-illuminating the 20,000 some faces in 
tlw crowd, while a thunderous alarm 
sounded. 
Let the adventurn begin. 

Thn show did not lm1-,rin at 7. The show 
did not begin at 7:30. Nay, the show 
began at 8 -one hour late. 
Ilowever. the audience's grumblings 
wern lost among gasps when the lighl'i 
went out and wn heard the announee­
nwnt. 
"This summer Dane Cook brings you 
'Hough Around the Edges."' 
Then a liuniliar voice, that of Dann 
Cook, interrupted with, "!ley, that's not 
this summer, tlmt's tonight!" 
The crowd went wild and Dane Cook 
took thn stage. A'i can be expected, the 
act was hilarious. lin had a lot of new 
material. and the old material he used 
WIL'> spiced up with new bits. 
I eouldn't sit up straight at times and 

WIL'i clinging to my chair for support. My 
diaphragm hurt from laughing so hard. 
In summary, I am glad I went to the 

hath room bt~li1re the show (yes, I thought 
alwad). 
Now I will tell you about a moment 

that will haunt me fi1r the rest of my life. 
It may wdl become the biggest regret in my liliJ. Alter Cook returned li>r his eneorn, he mentioned how much he loves Kool-Aid. Anyone who h<L'> heard his bit about the Kooi-Aid Man (Oh Yeah!) knows what wa'i to come next. 
However, he did not continue. 
lnsttmd he said, "I know many of you enjoy this bit and some ofyou can even say it better than I ean by now, so I'm giving you the chance." 

Wa'i he serious? I know that bit inside 
and out, and I am not onn to be shy in 
front of a crowd, but I still had reserva­
tions. 

There were thousands of people in the audience. Still, I wa'i about one second away from standing up, when a guy two rows in front of me did. 
I wa'i in the filth row. The guy was two rows in front of me in the same seat. He wa.'> drunk. and had less to think about. lie W<L'> ehosen, and he butchered the bit. 
I was one second away from having one of those only-in-Hollywood dream­come-true moments. I wa'i so dose... so dose. 
Anyway, after the drunk guy, Dan, fin­ished ruining Dane Cook's material, Dane told one more story and said, "I am going to lnave you with a song I love. I am sure most of you know the words." 
At that, the lighl'i !lashed on and a thunderous alarm sounded, with about 20,000 people singing along. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Anthony Conklin at aconklin@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives l(lf tbe highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 14, 2007 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO SHOULD NEW YORK PICK IF SHE WANTS TO FIND TRUE LOVE? 




Concerta Holley  Derek Ingle  James Toner  Kyle Peters  Jude Ann Jasso  
junior Howard  junior Keough  junior Keenan  junior O'Neill  senior offcampus  
"Buddha. He's sexy.  "The Entertainer because he believes in the  "Flavor Flav. Again."  "Midget Mac because he's just the right height."  "She should've kept Midget Mac. Great things come in  

spiritual realm." 


VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer 
Best-selling author and nuclear abolitionist Jonathan Schell delivers the lecture "Nuclear Abolition in 1986 -And Now" in the Hesburgh Center auditorium Tuesday night. 
OFFBEAT 
Parents, school resolve hugging dispute 
MASCOUTAH, Ill. Maybe they hugged it out: school officials resolved their dispute with the par­ents of a 13-year-old girl given detention for hugging her friends. 
Melissa and Dean Coulter met with officials of the Mascoutah School District 19 to discuss the two deten­tions given their daughter, Megan, for hugging friends goodbye for the weekend. School officials said the eighth grader violated a pol­icy banning public displays of affection. 
"Our whole purpose of the meeting was to get them to talk to us and discuss what changes needed to be made and if (the policy) co,uld be improved," Dean Coulter said. "We scheduled it because we figured it was the right thing to do." 
Man in India marries dog for atonement 
NEW DELHI -A man in southern India married a female dog in a traditional Hindu ceremony as an attempt to atone for stoning two other dogs to death ­an act he believes cursed him -a newspaper report­ed Tuesday. 
P. Selvakumar married 
the sari-draped former stray named Selvi, chosen by family members and then bathed and clothed for the ceremony Sunday at a Hindu temple in the south­ern state of Tamil Nadu, the Hindustan Times newspa­per said. 
Selvakumar, 33, told the paper he had been suffering since he stoned two dogs to death and hung their bodies from a tree 15 years ago. 
"After that my legs and hands got paralyzed and I lost hearing in one ear," he said in the report. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
D:: 
L&.l :::1: 
~. \ 1ll

<
c;§'VfY1·
c!:tJie 

-~~j.Y.J:dz.:
J~

~ 
L&.l 
~>r ~~ 
~' , ... 
~ 
~' ~
3: 
-~~t~'
6 •••

....I 
~~ 

c:( 
(.) 
0 HIGH 55 HIGH 50 HIGH 38 HIGH 45
..J LOW 33 LOW 27 LOW 27 LOW 30 
small packages." 
IN BRIEF 

The film "Working Women of the World" will be shown tonight at 7 in Cl 00 Hesburgh Center Auditorium as part of the film series, "International Labor/1st World -3rd World Global Economy." 
"Loyal Daughters and Sons: Sexuality and Sexual Assault As Told by Notre Dame Students" will be performnd at 8 p.m. tonight through Friday at Washington Hall. Tiekets are $5 and are available at the LaFortune Box Oflice. 
There will be a presentation on Careers in the State Department Thursday at 6:30 
p.m. in Montgomery Auditorium of LaFortune. 
Archbishop Celestino Migliore, the Vatican's perma­nent observer to the United Nations will deliver the lecture "Catholicism and Islam: Points of Convergenee and Divergence, Encounter and Cooperation" Thursday at 8 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. · 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will play against Loyola-Chicago Friday at 7:30 
p.m. on Alumni Field. 

The Black Cultural Arts Council is holding modeling tryouts for its annual fashion show Sunday from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30. for any women inter­ested. The men's tryouts will take place next Tuesday from 8 p.m. to 10. Both tryouts will be held in Washington Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
GAME DAY SUNDAY 


\~\}~J J .
,./"' ..-..\:;,..-''/ 
·,;,;;,..{ j_.­
~\ ~~ 
'0IT~~· 
HIGH 46 HIGH 45 LOW 31 LOW 33 
Atlanta 72 I 56 Boston 59 I 40 Chicago 57 I 44 Denver 49 I 32 Houston 88 I 69 Los Angeles 79 I 56 Minneapolis 47 I 34 New York 62 I 44 Philadelphia 64 I 42 Phoenix 86 I 60 Seattle 481 36 St. Louis 63 I 51 Tampa 82 I 62 Washington 67 I 48 
,------------------­
Wednesday, November 14, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Author exmnines nuclear abolition 
By LIZ MILLER 
News Writer 
Near the end of the Cold War, the heads of state of the U.S. and the Soviet Union came close to doing away with nuclear warfare, bestselling author and nuclear abolitionist Jonathan Schell told an audi­ence in the Ilesburgh Center for International Studies Tuesday. 
The author of "The Fate of the Earth" focused his lecture, titled "Nuclear Abolition in 1986-And Now," on a 1986 summit in Reykjavik, Iceland, where President Ronald Reagan met with Soviet Union leader Mikhail Gorbachev. 
During this summit, the lead­ers of the superpower nations came extremely close to abol­ishing nuclear weapons alto­gether, he said -a fact many people may find difficult to believe. 
Opting not to simply reem­phasize the potential danger of nuclear weapons, Schell aimed to explore this historical episode and use it to illuminate the presp,nt nuclear armament situation. 
Schell said he finds a surpris­ing ally in Reagan, whom he refermd to as "the most right­wing president of the Cold War pPriod." 
The content of the 1986 sum­mit reveals Reagan was vehe­mently opposed to nuclear weapons, Schell said. The negotiations centered on a potential significant reduction of nuclear arms, which both leaders desired. 
Reagan, to the surprise of his advisors, announced "it would be fine with me if we eliminat­ed all nuclear weapons," Schell said. 
Dissuaded by Richard Perle, his assistant secretary of defense, Reagan eventually declined any such agreement, Schell said. But despite this, he said the two leaders jointly stated "a nuclear war can never be won and must never be fought." 
And their ability to see eye­to-eye on this matter, he said, proves the issue of nuclear warfare poses serious threats to mankind, and these should outweigh political and military motivations. 
"We have a common humani­ty that extends beneath the partisan quarrels," Schell said. 
While many argued a heavy nuclear arsenal acts as a "deterrent" from nuclear war, Schell considers the weapons to be a "proliferant." By keeping a nuclear arsenal, world leaders have created a "two-tier world," dividing those nations who have nuclear power from those who do not, Schell said. 
And this only creates more incentive for countries to imple­ment nuclear weapon pro­grams in order to join the first tier. 
Moreover, recent events, Schell said, are forcing the question of nuclear weapons back into the public sphere. 
Schell pointed to the Pentagon's new offensive initia­tive, called the "Global Strike." Its mission includes developing the ability to launch a missile strike on any place on the globe in a timeframe of 30 minutes to one hour. 
He also said that in the past year alone, a dozen countries ranging from North Korea to Brazil have expressed interest in possessing nuclear weapons. 
But public opinion is decided­ly against nuclear weapons, he said. Schell cited a recent poll taken by the University of Maryland, which found that 73 percent of Americans are in favor of abolition of nuclear weapons. That led Schell to believe the public would back nuclear disarmament if politi­cians moved in that direction. 
"But," he asked, "where is the political will?" 
Schell ended his lecture with a story he said Reagan origi­nally imagined about a future meeting with Gorbachev. 
"[Reagan] and Gorbachev would come to Iceland, and each of them would bring the last nuclear missile from each country with them," Schell said. "Then they would give a tremendous party for the whole world.... The president would be very old by then and Gorbachev would not recognize him. 
"The president would say 'Hello, Mikhail.' And Gorbachev would say, 'Ron, is it you?' And then they would destroy the last missile." 
Contact Liz Miller at emillelO@nd.edu 
"The government ought not impose religious require­


Religion 

ments, but it does not do to continued from page 1 tell a candidate your view is no good because it is rooted in 
Sullivan kicked off the religion," Garnett said. debate -which was hosted He said religion is so by ND Votes '08 -by quoting entrenched in humanity that President John F. Kennedy, "any idea that you can push who would often reassure vot­religion out of politics is an ers during his anti-human campaign that idea." his Catholicism "Kennedy had it But rather didn't influence than an inher­
right. Religion really 
his political ent, universal 
identity. has no place in part of human '"I am not the politics., beings, Catholic candi­Campbell and date for presi­Sullivan said
Kathleen Sullivan 
dent. I am the religion can be Democratic senior divisive and can 
Party's candi­date for presi­dent who happens also to be a Catholic,"' Sullivan said. 
She said Kennedy made this statement in a speech to allay fears that the Pope would run the country if a Catholic presi­dent were elected. 
"Kennedy had it right," she said. "Religion really has no place in politics." 
In response to Sullivan, Garnett said Kennedy's speech is often taken out of context and used to support a new trend of "radically privatizing our religions." 
"Separation of church and state should be absolute, but it has nothing to do with how we, as citizens, respond to the common good," Garnett said. 
This brought up the ques­tion of morality in the context of federal laws and policies. One member of the audience asked the panelists to distin­guish between morality and religion. 
polarize a polit­
ical discussion rather than humanize it, 
"Of course you should take all your beliefs and values into account when voting," Campbell said. "However, reli­gion should only be used to the extent that it allows you to evaluate the policies, not to use it as a wedge for preju­dice." 
And though the panelists didn't reach a consensus, the Campbell-Sullivan team said that, at least at Notre Dame, the role and influence of reli­gion in life seems to be better outlined. 
"I think the advantage of an education from Notre Dame is that you can -through cours­es, readings and conversa­tions with friends -figure out how your faith will inform in your politics and public lives," Campbell said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Who says Deloitte is the #1 place to start a career? 

BusinessWeek, our employees and recent grads, to name a few. In fact, Deloitte ranked 
ahead of 49 companies you probably know by name. Of course, we had something to aim for; we were ranked number three in 2006..And, year after year, we've ranked on other leading !ists, including Fortune magazine's "Best Companies to Work For" and Working Mother rnagaz1ne's '' 100 Best Companies." If you're wondering why, it's not just because we offer a strong benefits packaqe, a coilaborative work environment, and the opportunity to work w1th some of the finest clients in the world. What really makes us stand out is our culture of innovation. Take ~v1ass Career Custornization'M. It redefines how careers are built After ail, the one-size-fits-all approach to the corporate ladder is no way to build the workplace of the future. 

BusinesslVeek ranks Deloitte #1 in "50 Best Places to Launch a Career," September 2007. See more. To discover your opportunities with Deloitte and find out why BusinessWeek ranked us the best place to start a career, text "NOTREDAME" to 78573 or visit deloitte.com/us/notredame. 
Deloitte~ 


M{ mtH:I <A Oi~loitt11.: Touche T<!hrn.;tt:;;.t Cr.J~!'l ~:r · '_, 2007 Dcloi~tE Devek~p:n~nt LLC. t-,1: r!ght:s :~iia-rved. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 14, 2007 
lecting a list of soldiers to n~ceivn packages, Byrum said.

Soldiers 

"Anyorw who knows some­continued from page I onn sPrving overseas should e­mail me din~r.tly with the sol­
With gift card contributions dinr's namP and address," l'rom Wal-1\lart. MnijPr, and Byrum said. Sam's Club. thP NI>AA was Tlw NI>AA will take nanws ahlP to purchasP food and sup­of military men and women pliPs for till' driw. through ThP llammPs Satur·day, try­BookstorP also "There are ing to collect donatPd NotrP as many
students at Notre
DamP T-shirts for names as in nach carP pack­/Jame and other previous agP, Byrum said. places that have years -a CoiiPc.tions and goal tho asso­
them /soldiers/ in 
donations bPgan ciation has art.nr l'all brPak. their thoughts and not ynt met, and will continue prayers. Byrum said. from I 0 a .Ill. to 2 Cnmted live 
p.m. this al't1•r­years ago by
Elizabeth Byrum 
noon. in tlw atri­thP NDAA's 
co-director of community
um of thP former facul­Mendoza CollPgP service ty advisor, of Busirwss. ThP NOAA accounting NI> AA also wi II professor have a r.oncnssion Margot stand on South Quad this O'BriPn, the drive began as a WI~PkPnd IH'forn the l>ukP small project and has grown ganw, with all procnPds con­each year, Byrum said. With tributing to thl' r.arP packagPs. tho onset of the war in the At tho concPssion stand. Middle l~ast, O'Brien was Byrum and otlll'r NI>AA nwrn­internstPd in sending some­hnrs will roliPI't itnms and thing to Anwriean soldiers to cash donations to lwlp pay for show support. shipping costs. 
Onn of tlw most important Contact Ann-Marie Woods at aspPct.s of' this projl'd is col-awoods4@nd.edu 



Write news. Call Karen at· 631-5323 
Ho-w about the Catnpus Ministry Internship? 
Join us Thursday, November 15th at 5:30 p.m. in 316 Coleman­Morse for pizza, information, and applications. 
Contact: ulscn.l@nd.cdu 
r--------------------­



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, November 14, 2007 Colv1PILED FROA,1 TrH OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bhutto demands Musharraf step down 
LAHORE. Pakistan -Pakistani opposition leader Benazir Bhutto demanded the resigna­tion of U.S.-backed President Gen. Pervez Musharraf on Tuesday, dashing Western hopes that the two moderate leaders would form an alliance to confront strengthening Islamic extremists. · 
Bhutto, just placed under house arrest for the second time since her return from exile, said she was working to forge a partnership with Nawaz Sharif. the man overthrown as prime minister in a 1999 coup by Musharraf. 
ller call. which could see Pakistan's two main opposition parties joining, raised a new threat for Musharraf, a key U.S. ally who faces growing pressure at home and abroad to end emergency rule and restore democra­cy. 
Iran takes step toward compliance 
VIENNA. Austria -Iran has met a key demand of the U.N. nuclear agency, handing over long-sought blueprints showing how to mold uranium metal into the shape of war­heads. diplomats said Tuesday. 
Iran's decision to release the documents, whieh were sefm by U.N. inspectors two years ago, was seen as a concession designed to head off the threat of new U.N. sanctions. 
But the diplomats said Tehran has failed to meet other requests made by the International Atomic Energy Agency in its attempts to end nearly two decades of nuelear secrecy on the part of Iran. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Boy admits_to setting California blaze 
LOS ANGELES -A 10-year-old boy who admitted starting a 38,000-acre fire last month that destroyed 21 homes in northern Los Angeles County will not be charged, prosecu­tors said Tuesday. 
There was no evidenee of intent by the boy who accidentally ignited brush outside his home by playing with matches, the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office said in a state­ment. 
Authorities are referring the case to the Department of Children and Family Services to determine if further steps are necessary. No other information about the investigation was released because the case involves a minor. 

Flaming backpack evacuates airport 
PHOENIX -A backpack caught fire Tuesday in the cargo area at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport, leading to an evacuation, but authorities said the flames were likely caused by heat from a eonveyor belt. The bag contained no explosives or other banned items, just leaking toiletries. 
The impact probably caused toiletries contain­ing alcohol to leak, and a combination of heat from the conveyor belt and its track rubbing against the backpack caused it to catch fire, Gehlbach said. 
Th1~ lire was extinguished quickly, Gehlbaeh said. 
About 10 a.m.. a baggage handler loading bags on the US Airways plane noticed that the back­pack was hot and set it aside. The fire depart­ment was called when the bag began to smoke, and they in turn called in a hazardous materials team as a preeaution. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Bush addresses taxes in Indiana visit 
NEW ALBANY. Ind. -Prnsident Bush f<mnd a friendly audience in southnrn Indiana Tuesday to lambast Congress for what he said was the Democratic majority's penchant to seek tax incn~asns. lie al<;o tied vot1~r unrest in the state to growing tax bills. 
Inside and outside a converted movie house whem the pmsidnnt spoke, people supported his anti-tax mnssage. But the public's divided opinion on his prnsidency was ovidnnt in the Ohio River city. 
Bush played to that sentiment. saying congres­sional Ikmocral<; had tried to rai<>e taxes on oil and natural gas, capital gains and stock and bond transaetions. Bush also mentioned the dgarotte tax hike indudnd in the childnm's health bill he recent­ly vetoed. 
FRANCE 

Strikes to cripple Paris mass transit 
Public transportation workers, students join to protest recent government decisions 
Associated Press 
PARIS -Strikers shut down much of France's national rail service after rush hour. Tuesday night, and millions of Paris com­muters prepared to go without subways when the city's train crews join the walkout. 
People planned to use the capital's new bicycle rental service, share cars or stay home during the Wednesday subway strike. Others said they would walk. 
Xavier Basset, an accountant, faced a nearly four-mile walk across Paris to his office. 'Til work on my calves," he said. 
Unlike recent limited transportation strikes, rail unions set no time limit for the shutdown called to protest the conservative government's move to eliminate special rules that allow train drivers and cer­tain other public workers to retire early. 
President Nicolas Sarkozy's government insists the pension rules are outdated, unfair and too costly. Several opinion surveys suggest Sarkozy has public support. He vowed Tuesday not to give in to trade unions, which have defeated previous government attempts to to run normally, as it is from hoarding bikes, but conservative UMP party, loosen work rules. automated. not on strike days. and they threatened 
Sarkozy stresses "his High demand was Parisians with a spare "Robin Hood" operations ­determination to carry out expected for the more than bicycle or motor scooter restoring power to house­this reform" and hopes to 10,000 bikes recently were renting them out on a holds that cannot afford implement them quickly, installed by city officials at Web site that promised their electricity bills. presidential spokesman 750 spots across Paris to they could "earn money The Comedic Francaise David Martinon said. encourage a reduction in thanks to the strike." theater and Paris' National 
Rail traffic shut down car use. The bikes, which Motorcycle taxis, able to Opera, whose employees across France late can be left at any of the weave through snarled also would be affected by Tuesday, and the SNCF rail stations, proved extremely traffic, looked like a good the pension change, can­network said only 15 per­popular during a short solution. Managers for two celed Wednesday perform­cent to 20 percent of trains transit strike last month, motorcycle taxi services ances. on major lines would run when the number of daily said they were completely Young people also joined during the strike. It said users doubled to 180,000. booked through early the fray, angry over a new traffic would likely be dis­Officials said they would Friday. Car shares were law to give public universi­rupted through the week­deploy 260 workers armed another option. ties the power to raise end and urged travelers to with metal cutters to While the transit walkout tuition and accept private postpone trips. retrieve bikes from anyone would have the biggest donations. Student leaders 
With Paris subway work­who tried to hog them all impact, employees of state­say that will keep the poor ers set to join in, the city's day. The bicycles are run electricity, gas and out of college. public transit authority, intended to be used for other services were expect­As of Tuesday, students RATP, predicted almost no short trips, and rental ed to join the strike. at 26 of France's 85 uni­trains would run on most prices skyrocket as the Electricity workers said versities had voted to routes starting Wednesday. clock ticks -usually they would cut power to strike, said UNEF, the lead­Only one line was expected enough to deter riders local offices of Sarkozy's ing student union. 



Chicago cardinal elected head of USCCB 
religion will once again figure promi­Tuesday calling conditions in Iraq

Associated Press nently. "unacceptable." He stressed the need George received 85 percent of the for a bipartisan "responsible transi­BALTIMOHE-The cardinal elected vote out of a field of 10 candidates at tion" out of the country. Tuesday to lead the U.S. Homan the bishops' fall meeting. He had Pope John Paul II. who died in 2005, Catholic bishops' conference was served the last three years as the con­vehemently opposed the military already one of the most influential ference vice president. The prelate strike, and his successor; Pope men in the American church. holding that job customarily is elected Benedict XVI. has conden1ned the Cardinal Francis George, archbishop to the top post. "continual slaughter" in the country. of Chicago for a decade, earned two George sueceeds Bishop William Benedict expressed his concerns doctorates in philosophy and theology, Skylstad, of Spokane. Wash., who is directly to President Bush in their first knows six languages and has deep ties ending his term. Bishop Gerald meeting in June at the Vatican. within the Vatican. Kicanas of Tucson. Ariz., was elected Skylstad said some policy makers As the new president of the U.S. as the new vice president on the third have failed to recognize American fail­Conference of Catholic Bishops, he will ballot. ures in the invasion and occupation, host Pope Benedict XVI's visit to Public policy issues, from war to pol­while other U.S. lawmakers haven't Washington and New York in April itics, are part of the agenda or this acknowledged "the potential human . and guide church leaders through a week's event. consequences of very rapid withdraw­presidential election season in which Skylstad released a statement al." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 14, 2007 
Some universities that offer sions committee either way -they will be notified at the the early decision option, like and if it's toward an accept­same time as other regular Cornell, state on their admis­ance letter, perhaps it's in the decision applicants, around sions Web page that applying student's best interest his March 29. Some applicants, early offers an advantage for a application is not reviewed however, are denied under student in the application pool until this information is in. early action -and they may because "enthusiasm for "So, in some cases a stu­not re-submit applications for Cornell is considered a plus." dent's application may become the same academic year, 
Saracino mentioned, howev­stronger after the Iaccept­Saraeino said. er, that this doesn't necessari­ance I deeision is made," he "For those eandidates, we ly apply to Notre Dame's early said. "Generally, we suggest usually feel that oven if we program, and that there is no that if a student feels that waited for more information, general advantage to applying their application is 'good' but the candidate would not be early. not 'outstanding' by the Nov. 1 admissible," he said. 
"The advantages really deadline that they should wait "Therefore, we're giving them depend on the student," he until the regular decision more time to look at alterna­said. deadline on Dec. 31." tive ehoiees, and high sehools 
For some students, he said, Students who are deferred appreeiate this." last-minute information like under the early action pro­mid-semester grades or gram arn told that their ere­December standardized test dentials will be reviewed Contact Rohan Anand at scores could tip the admis-again in the spring and that ranand@nd.edu 
ARABIC J>I~OGRAM IN.FORlVIATI()N SF~SSION 
• 
Learn about Notl·e name's Arabic Program 

• 
Caree1· Opportunities in Business, l\Jcdia, Government 

• 
!\teet A1·abic [VIajors and the Faculty 



Come, have some Pizza and a drink! 

\Vednesday, November 14 at 5 Pl\'1 131 Dedo Hall 
'fhe Progt·am in Arabic and J\liddlt• East Studies Classics Department 631-7195 http://classics.nd.edu 


Early 
continued from page 1 
school students and the Univnrsity's finaneial aid options for international stu­dents. 
llistorieally, thn University has seen a high level of inter­est from students in Latin Amnriea, he said, but more recently his office has been targeting Asian countries heavily. This year, for exam­pin, South Korea boasts the highest number of internation­al students enrolled in the current freshman elass. 
"The oconomy is doing ext.rnmnly well in Asia, so we're putting our money where our mouth is," Saracino said. 
Whiln admissions would like 
to see more applicants !'rom arnas likn thn Middle 1\ast, Al'riea and Australia, limited time and resources prnvents the ort'iee from nstahlishing tho 111 arkots thny are devnloping in areas like llong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan and mainland China, for nxamplc, Saradno said. 
Another big change this year is the laek ol' early admission programs at several peer institutions. Saraeino said the admissions committee thinks the decisions of Harvard, 

"We personally do not (~/fer early decision or single­choice early action because we don 't believe it is in the best interest ofthe applicants. 5ieniors are still going through the evaluation process and we want to give them plenty oftime to, review other col­leges /and! receive financial aid pack­ages so that they can make an informed decision by the May r deadline." 
Dan Saracino assistant provost Undergraduate Admissions 
Princeton and the University of Virginia to eliminate their early admissions programs last fall have already had a bearing on Notre Dame's admissions process this year -and will continue to do so. 
Because there are usually overlapping candidates that apply to those schools and to Notre Dame, many students admitted early will not aecept or decline their offer until the spring, when those other sehools have released their deeisions. 
"That eould cause some con­fusion within our application pool, and it will be different to predict a yield on early action and rngular action students," Saradno said. 

Tho University has also teamnd this ynar with eompa­nins such as ()unstBridge and the outside vendor Hoyall & Company to attraet more domnstic students. {)uestBridge, an online Web sitn, helps thn admissions committee identify talented students l'rom lower socioeco­
n o m i c: ba ck g r o u n ds a n d 
matches them with the good financial aid paekages the University can offer, Saracino said. 
Hoyall & Company, based in Biehmond, Va., targets high­achieving minority students and inc.ludes them in a data­base of potential applicants. It means applicants are identi­lied earlier than ever before. 
"For us, undergraduate admissions has evolved into an 18-month eyde instnad of 12­

month cyele," Saracino said. 
In order to be considered for early aetion admission, eandi­dates had to submit applica­tions to the ad missions office either electronically or through regular the postal system no later than Nov. 1. Deeision letters that admit, defer or deny the applicant admission to the University are usually mailed out on Dec. 15, and admitted students have until May 1 to accept or deeline the offer, Saracino said. 
Other universities also offer specific early admission pro­grams, inducting early deci­sion or single-ehoiee early action. Under a binding early dneision agreement, the candi­date -as well as their par­ents and high school guidance counselor -must sign a note pledging the applicant will 
attend that uni­versity il' admit­ted. Therefore, thny may only apply early to only one institu­tion, Saracino said. 
Sing Ie-choic e early aetion, on thn other hand, is non-binding but mandates the stu­
dent  does  not  
apply  early  to  
other  sehools.  

Admitted stu­dents have until May 1 to aeeept or deeline their admissions otTer. 
Notre Dame, however, has always offered a very basic early action program that allows stu­dents to apply early to as many schools as they wish. 
"We personally do not offer early deeision or sin­gle-choice early action because 

we don't believe it is in the best interest of the appli­cants," Saracino said. "Seniors are still going through the evaluation process and we want to give them plenty of time to review other colleges [and] receive financial aid packages so that they can make an informed decision by the May 1 deadline." 

''""_ 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, November 14, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  13,307.09  +319.54  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,783  68  604  4,157,017,480  
AMEX  2,413.27  +35.00  

NASDAQ 2,673.65 +89.52 NYSE 9,860.98 +291.01 S&P 500 1,481.05 +41.87 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,435.88 +310.94 FTSE 100 'London~ 6,362.40 +24.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
E*TRADE FINL CORP (ETFC) +40.85 +1.45 5.00 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +4.12 +2.01 50.74 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +3.05 +4.38 148.08 CITIGROUP INC (C) +6.94 +2.33 35.90 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE +1.07 +0.045 4.256 13-WEEK BILL +5.66 +0.180 3.360 30-YEAR BOND +0.24 +0.011 4.605 5-YEAR NOTE +2.05 +0.077 3.828 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -3.45 91.17 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -8.70 799.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.75 89.93 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 111.0900 EURO 0.6835 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9586 BRITISH POUND 0.4821 

IN BRIEF 
Sirius shareholders allow XM purchase 
· NEW YORK -Shareholders approved a deal Tuesday to allow Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. to acquire its rival XM Satellite Hadio Holdings Inc. for about $5 billion, but the largest hurdle has yet to come ­regulatory approval in Washington. 
Shareholders of Sirius and XM had been widely expflcted to approve the deal, which would allow the companies to save costs on programming, acquiring sub­scribers and broadcasting. Shareholder advisory firms had already endorsed the deal. 
More difficult will be getting the deal approved in Washington, where the Department of Justice and the Federal Communications Commission must both give their blessing. Several consumer groups have opposed the combination, saying it would create a monopoly that could hurt consumers. 
U.S. begins fiscal year with high deficit 
WASHINGTON -The government start­ed the new budget year with an October deficit of $55.6 billion, up sharply from last year even though government rev­enues hit an all-time high for the month. 
The Treasury Department reported Tuesday that the defieit for the first month in the new budget year was up 12.6 per­cent from the imbalance in October 2006. 
The Congressional Budget Office is fore­casting that tiH1 imbalance for the entire year will show an improvement from last year, when the deficit fell to $162.8 bil­lion. a five-year low. 
The CBO is projecting that the deficit for the current 2008 budget year will decline to $155 billion. But CBO is forecasting that deficits will begin to rise again in 2009 and some private economists are calling for the imbalance to start rising this budget year. 
The 2007 deficit for the budget year that ended on S(1pt. 30 was 34.4 percent lower than the $248.2 billion deficit recorded in 2006, reflecting faster growth in govern­ment revenues than spending. 

Bay Area economy hurt by oil spill 
Seafood, tourism industries suffer from closed beaches, delayed fishing seasons 
Associated Press 

SAN FHANCISCO -The oil spill that has already fouled San Francisco Bay and delayed the Dungeness crab season is raising fears that visitors will be reluc­tant to dine in the city's famed seafood restaurants. 
"It's not going to be a pretty picture. It's definite­ly going to hurt," said Anthony Geraldi. co-owner of Fisherman's Grotto, adding that seafood sales are the one bright spot during the normally slow fall tourism season. 
Several beaches remained closed Tuesday, nearly a week after a cargo ship struck the Bay Bridge, releasing 58,000 gallons of bunker fuel in the bay's biggest oil spill in nearly two decades. 
The sea lions and other marine mammals at the city's world-famous Fisherman's Wharf have largely avoided exposure to the oil, and the stench of fuel that had hung over the bay dissipated by Tuesday. But dark, patchy slicks continue to float in some areas, and several beaches remained closed as teams in yellow hazardous-mate­rials suits shoved sticky globs of oil and sand into plastic bags. Triathlon to cancel the caught far offshore, or closed Angel Island and 
Sue Kelvington 's visit to swimming portion of the elsewhere on the Pacific canceled all public ferry Ocean Beach turned messy competition. Dozens of the Coast. Even the crabs on service to that popular hik­when some of the children 900 athletes were hoping ice in front of wharf eater­ing and biking destination. in her group went swim­to gain points to qualify for ies were likely shipped in Angela Jackson, spokes­ming and emerged with oil the Olympic Games. from the Pacific Northwest, woman for the San stains on their skin. Dungeness crab is popu­but some tourists were not Francisco Convention & 
"They'd never seen the lar with tourists and is a taking any chances. Visitors Bureau, said fer­ocean," said Kelvington, Thanksgiving tradition for "We haven't had it," said ries to Alcatraz were still who was visiting from Salt many residents~ The crab Eileen Klinkatsis, visiting doing a brisk business. Lake City with her daugh­season had been scheduled from North Carolina for Ballard said it's too soon ter and some cousins. to begin Thursday, but Gov. the Oracle World software to know whether the spill Explaining why they Arnold Schwarzenegger conference. As she spoke, cost the city tourism dol­ignored warnings to stay issued an executive order she looked out over the lars -hotels were mostly out of the ocean, she said delaying opening day until barking sea lions at Pier booked this week because her relatives "were going Dec. 1, or until fish and 39. "I really don't think of the Oracle conference. to have fun anyway." game officials decide the we're going to have it at But city officials were con­
Over the weekend, the waters are safe. all." sidering a promotional spill forced organizers of Most seafood sold at The California State Park campaign to reassure the the San Francisco Fisherman's Wharf is Service also temporarily public. 


Wal-Mart in position for holiday success 
ago. ters including Wal-Mart, he said.
Associated Press 

Wal-Mart shares spiked $2.65, or At the same time, Niemira said Wal­
6.1 percent, to close at $45.97 Mart is working to address past prob­
BENTONVILLE, Ark.-A year after Tuesday. lems. its worst holiday sales season ever, Hetail experts say Wal-Mart's flag­"I actually think they may perform Wal-Mart Stores Inc. may rebound to ship U.S. stores may be in the midst of remarkably well this holiday season," have a good season after finding the a turnaround after two years of a Niemira said. right mix of merchandise and market­zigzag course between upscale and Last November, Wal-Mart reported ing to complement its return to a focus discount goods that has slowed sales its first negative monthly same-store on low prices. growth. sales in a decade as a push into high­
A whiff of this already showed up Third-quarter sales at stores open at er-end fashion and home decor sold when the nation's largest retailer post­least a year, not counting fuel, were up poorly and muddied its low-price ed third-quarter earnings Tuesday of 1.5 percent in the company's U.S. image. For the period November $2.86 billion, an 8 percent rise that stores, same as a year ago. The com­through January, which includes most beat Wall Street expectations. pany expects same-store sales for the sales from gift eards redeemed after 
The company earned 70 cents per fourth quarter to rise no more than 2 the holidays, same-store sales growth share, up from 62 cents per share in percent. slowed to 1.3 percent last year from the same period a year ago. The 70 Michael P. Niemira, chief economist 7.2 percent in 2001-02. cents includes an after-tax gain equal and director of research for the Wal-Mart's early start in this year's to 1 cent per share. Analysts surveyed International Council of Shopping holiday came under a cloud when it by Thomson Financial had forecast Centers, said an uncertain economy reported October same-store sales earnings of 67 cents per share on rev­will send more shoppers to discoun­were flat for the namesake stores, enue of $91.67 billion ters for holiday purchases. Even if minus Sam's Clubs, on the back of 
Wal-Mart had revenue of $91.95 bil­Wal-Mart's core lower income shop­unseasonably warm weather that hit lion in the period ending Oct. 31. up pers spend less, consumers with more sales of clothes and other seasonal 
8.8 percent from $84.47 billion a year money are likely to switch to discoun-goods. 

page 8 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 14, 2007 
NBC 
continued from page 1 
r.lw novo! of the sanw name by Sex and llw City author Candace Bushnell. 
"I literally stalked Candaee Buslmdl. ... I happenod to bn at a wedding that shn was at and ... rnanagml to convinen hnr that NBC was thn plaen fi1r 'Lipstkk Jungln,"' shn said. 
O'Connnll shownd a dip reel, or "sizzle mel," of I 3 current NBC shows, like "Friday Night Lights" :~n.d ..._rhn Oflien.:: ruul a preview of" 
l.1pst•ek .Jungle. 
The dovnlopnmnt prtK:nss behind these shows bngins right after the Fourth of July, O'Connell said, whnn lwr oflicn rncnives about 300 pitches. Each year, they purehaso around 60. 
"A writer will come in and explain the characters, the world, Um story nngirw," she said. 
l.m;t year, out of" tho roughly 60 story idnas. night pilot<> worn shot in the spring. Allor pilot<> am nvaluat­c~d. NBC put<> togc~ttwr it<> fall schod­uln. Four of the pilot<; that were shot made it to this year's fall sehoduln and one, "Lipstick .Junglo," will bo addod mid-snason. 
"Tho businoss side of tnhwi'>ion is something that's important," she said. "Whnn .Josh Schwartz pitehod 'Chuck,' ho said, 'It's Tho 4{)-Year­Oid Viq..,rin mont'> Bourne ldontity.' I said, 'I have no idea what that mnans, but I want it.'" 
In tho pitch, what i<; most impor­tant is tho world the writers create, but it also mattnrs how thny snll it to U1n studio. 
O'Connnll said many shows lit into one of throe franchises ­"mndiea.l, law or cops" -and that c:1m holp dolinn tho story nngine, or what is going to drive the story 
c~ach wcc~k. 
"In 'llousn,' the story i<> going to walk in through tlw doors ... in 'Chuck,' it's different," shn said. 
In the ease of "Chuek,'' its origi­nality attractod O'Connell. along with it<> relation to what she called an "intornsting pattern in tohwision now." 
"The genk is bncoming tho hero ... thn disenf"ranehisnd, the under­dog,'' shn said. 
The show dnals with an average eornputPr nerd who accidentally rec:nivc~s top-sm:rPt information lhnn a rll).,'l.IP CIA spy. 
The targnt audiencP fi1r "(:huck" is young nwn. O'Connell said, but l"inding an audience for sonw shows-likn "Friday Night Ught<>," which tolls thn story or a high school li1otball temn -pose prob-

The Shirt 
continued from page 1 
Nnarly 100,000 Shirts have bnnn sold naeh of thn past five years, LnNoir said. Tho suceess has spawnnd several spin-ofT itnms, including a "The Shirt" sweatshirt last year and "The Shirt" hat this year. llowever, salns of these items haVfl not bmm as good a<> the original product. 
"The hat W<L<>n't <L'> successful <L'> we had hopnd,'' LeNoir said. "Part of that W<L'> bec:ausn it didn't eome out until the Boston Collegn wnnk­end. and we should have pushnd it soorwr before the season tanknd." 
Nmwthnless. hn said both items haw bnPn elli~ctiw <L<> litmus test<; fill" futurn "The Shirt" product<>. 
"IL's good to sen what products wn should marknt for our 20th annivnrsary in two ycmrs,'' LeNoir said. 
lkyond plans to nxpand salns of Tlw Shirt. bPyond thP Notrn Damn Bookst.or·n and to possibly nxplorn new product<>. Colt said he doesn't plan to chango tlw design process, 

lmns for executives. The drama, 
now in it<> seeond season, is "one of 
the best shows WP have," she sa.id. 
"My theory !about 'Friday Night Light<>'l is I fi~PI like if I talk to a per­son who's seen it, UJey love it. The trouble i<> getting <Ul audience," she said. 
Student<; plruming on pursuing a career in television should be an audicmce, shn sa.id. 
"It's OK to watch TV. It is really important to read a script 1Uld then watch it on TV. Watching a<> rnMy pilots as possible is the most instructive thing you can do ... how did these shows get started,'' she said. 
Before working at NBC, O'Connell worked at Imagine Television, where she developed projects, including the Emmy­award winning cult hit "Arrested Dnvnlopment." 
That project, which was can­celled after it<; third sea<;on on FOX, is an nxrunple of how "television is heartbreaking," she said. "We have to deal with a lot of emotion in the creative process." 
Also, the fate of "Arrested Development" i'> illustrative of "how many factors go into why certain television shows are successful," O'Cormnll said. 
"It is quite possible if 'Arrested Development' was on NBC after 'The Olliee' that it would have had a dillerent trajectory,'' she said. 
A Notre Dame graduate, O'Connell encouraged students interested in careers in entertain­ment to take classes in the Departmfmt of Film, Television 1Uld Thnatre. 
"I laving a knowledge of story­telling and writing is very impor­tant in this very subjective indus­try," she sa.id. 
Alter she was asked her opinion on the Writers Guild of America strike, which reached its eighth day Tuesday, O'Cmmell sa.id, "I w1Ult it to be over very soon.'' 
"I completely understand what they are looking for, but thL<; could creatfl so much collat<~ra.l drunage. People are losing their jobs ... it could have <Ul enormou..<;, irrepara­ble efli~et on the business,'' she said. 
O'Connell also showed "dailies," or raw, unedited footage, from "Blue Blood,'' a show currently being filmed and direet<~d by Brett Hatnnr of Hush !lour liune. 
"You have to lnam how to watch da.ilins," she said. " It is interesting to see tim raw material and then what it has the potential to turn into." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
whic:h is eurrnntly done by a corn­mitten. ''I'm comfortable with the proenss a<; a whole,'' Gott said. 
In other COR news: 
+ The eouncil discussed how to indude student input in the selee­tion of a commencement speaker. After corresponding with the offiee of University President Father Jolm Jenkins, senior ela<;s vice prnsident Chris Doughty sa.id he was able to gain a better understanding of how the selec­tion process works. · 
"It is the decision of Father Jenkins, and sometimes that deci­sion is not made until late spring," Doughty said. 
.lfmkins will aceept letters of mc:omnwndation fi·om student<> in addition to hnaring the opinions of several student and faculty groups. Doughty said. llowever, Doughty said he hopes to have a sit-down rnenting with Jenkins to discuss the available options and sharn student opinions with him. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 



Kellogg Institute International Film Series 
orkiiWomen

orld 

Focusing on Levi Strauss & Co., this film follows the relocation of garment production from Western countries to nations such as Indonesia, the Philippines, and Turkey, where low wages are the rule and employee rights are nonexistent. 
Behind the new gospel of free trade are the real lives of women like Yanti, a 26-year-old Indonesian who works ten hours a day, six days a week, for $60 a month, and Maria Therese, a union representative in the Levis factory in Yser La Basse, France. Working Women of the World puts these women's stories into the larger history of the development 
Wednesday, November 14th at 7pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
KELLOGG 
INSTITUTE 
Cosponsored by the Higgins Labor Research Center 
Wednesday, November 14, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Chlamydia cases set record for U.S. STDs 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -More than 1 mil­lion cases of Chlamydia were reported in the United States last year -the most ever reported for a sexually transmit­ted disease, federal health offi­cials said Tuesday. 
Offieials at thP. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said they think better and more intensive screening aceounts for mueh of the increase, but added that ehlamydia was not the only sexually transmitted disease on the rise. 
Gonorrhea rates are jumping again after hitting a record low, and an increasing number of cases are eaused by a "super­bug" version resistant to com­mon antibiotics. 
Syphilis is rising, too. The rate of congenital syphilis -which can deform or kill babies -rose for the first time in 15 years. 
"Hopefully we will not see this turn into a trend," said Dr. Khalil Ghanem, an infectious diseases specialist at Johns Hopkins University's School of medicine. 
The CDC releases a report each year on chlamydia, gonor­rhea and syphilis, three diseases caused by sexually transmitted bacteria. 
Chlamydia is the most com­mon. Nearly 1,031,000 cases were reported last year, up from 976,000 the year before. 
The count broke the single­year record for reported cases of a sexually transmitted disease, which was 1,013,436 cases of gonorrhea, set in 1978. 
Putting those numbers into rates, there were about 348 cases of chlamydia per 100,000 people in 2006, up 5.6 percent from the 329 per 100,000 rate in 2005. 
Since 1993, the CDC has rec­ommended annual screening in sexually active women ages 15 to 25. Meanwhile, urine and swab tests for the bacteria are getting better and are used more often, for men as well as women, said Dr. John M. Douglas Jr., director of the CDC's Division of Sexually Transmitted Disease Prevention. 
About three-quarters of women infected with chlamydia have no symptoms. Left untreat­ed, the infection can spread and ultimately can lead to infertility. It's easily treated if caught early. 
Health officials believe as many as 2.8 million new cases may actually be occurring each year, he added. 
Chlamydia infection rates are more than seven times higher in black women then whites, and more than twice as high in black women than Hispanics. But it's a risk women of all races should consider, CDC officials said. 
"If (health care) providers think young women in their practice don't have chlamydia, they should think again," said Dr. Stuart Berman, a CDC epi­demiologist. 
The gonorrhea story is some­what different. 
In 2004, the nation's gonor­rhea rate fell to 112.4 cases per 100,000 people in 2004, the low­est level since the government started tracking cases in 1941. 
But since then, health officials have seen two consecutive years of increases. The 2006 rate ­about 121 per 100,000-repre­sents a 5.5 percent increase from 2005. 

Health officials don't know exactly how many superbug cases there were among the more than 358,000 gonorrhea cases reported in 2006. But a surveillance projeet of 28 cities found that 14 percent were resistant to ciprofloxacin and other medicines in the fluoro­quinolones dass of antibioties. 
Similar samples found that 9 percent were resistant to those antibiotics in 2005, and 7 per­cent were resistant in 2004. The appearance of the super bug has been previously reported, and the CDC is April advised doctors to stop using those drugs against gonorrhea. 
Douglas said it doesn't look like the superbugs are the rea­son for gonorrhea's escalating numbers overall, but they're not sure what is driving the increase. 
NDprof: Polls not accurate 
Special to The Observer 
Current polls tell us that Sen. Hillary Clinton clearly is the fron­trunner for the Democratic nomi­nation, and Rudy Giuliani has taken the lead among Republican eandidates. But with a year to go before elections, can we be sure that these will be the two names on the ballot for presi­dent? 
Not necessarily, according to University of Notre Dame politi­cal scientist Darren Davis, a nationally recognized expert in public opinion, elections and vot­ing behavior and author of "Negative Uberty: Public Opinion and the Terrorist Attacks on America." 
"Public opinion polls are an indispensable resource in elec­tions and governance, and if done correctly, provide a reliable snapshot of how the public per­ceives candidates and issues," says Davis. 
"However, without a complete understanding of how voters reach their decisions, the factors that impinge upon those deci­sions, and equally important, the underlying methodology of opin­ion surveys, polling results ean be-and often are-mislead­ing. It is true that one can get public opinion polls to say what people want them to say." 
Consider the record of some previous Demoeratie year­ahead polls: 
+ 
In November 1971, surveys predicted that Democrats would nominate Edward Kennedy or Edwin Muskie. In 1972, the nominee was George McGovern. 

+ 
In November 1975, Kennedy again was predicted the Democratic nominee: but in 1976, Jimmy Carter was nomi­natnd. 

+ 
In early November 1979, polls prndicted that Kennedy would defeat Carter for the Democratic nomination-he did­n't. 


+In 1987, Jesse Jackson was the frontrunner, ynt in 1988, Michael Dukakis was the nomi­nee. 
+ In 1991, Mario Cuomo was the predicted nominee. yet Bill Clinton was the aetual nominee. 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, November 14, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Catholic faculty and the NO mission 
I~( l. Kux 77'1. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Somh !lining I!JI!, No1re D•mc. IN 46556 
EDII'OR IN CIIIEF Maddie IIanna 

MANAGING EDITOR 8USINF.'iS MANAGER Ken f'owler Kyle West 
Ass·1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Kart·n Langky 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Jncy King 

SI'OIITs EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SeEN 1'. EDITOR: 'E1c Andrt•ws 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: 1\;uic Kohler 

PIIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GnAI'IIIC~ EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
AllVI'RTISING MANAGER: Jessica Correz 
All DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO ('574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (~71) 6.~ 1-6900 obscrvad@nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-1542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsmcl!.0nd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnt-ws.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK {574) 631-5303 vi~wpoim.l @nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sporrs.J@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 

PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphow@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper puhlished in print and online by the srudents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither imtirurion. The Observer reserves the righr ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edirors and deparrmem editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vi~poim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor muse be signed and must include conract inf(.,rmarion. 
Qurstions regarding Obsm'"policies should be dirt:c~d to Editor in ChirfMaddie HamUJ. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
flu~ (lt.rvcr (USPS ~?') 2-iOOU) n puhlish«l Munday rhlllugh t:ru:Uv CU<•H durins ~m Jnd VO&C:mon pcnod. A wbsl.nptmn lu The Oh.k:rv<r ih .S IOil tOr nne a\.adcmic: ~.u, S'i'\ rurunc...cnJC\ICt, 
·nu~ ()lmrw:t i~ puhlt~ohctl.tt rosTMA.ITFR 

11,?1 Suurh DmmttH.III Send ,uidrOlli tnrt«fiutu tn: Nuut' IJ.anu.·, lN •lf•HC.-nn•J 11u~ Ofl.korvcr l'cuudic.al po..r.aKC r.ar•l .u Nuuc: D.amc P.O. [\mt Tl9 
,m,1 ~.Muinn.tlnllulini\ uttico. 024 South Dtning lhtll Nunc: 0.111u:, IN 4f,'5Sl}o-0779 
l'hc (.)J~rvcr 1' .t nle'mhc:t ,,flhl" Aw... lo~ICI'II•r~. All reprudu""tKIIt rifdu~ ;trt' 
tCICfVCfl 
"Tho Catholic identity of the University," says the Mission Statement, "depnnds upon ... the ... presence of a predominant number of Catholic intellec­tuals." Ex Corde Ecdesiae (ECE), the 1990 apostolic eon­stitution on Catholic Charles Rice universities, requires morn 
Right or
explicitly that "the 
Wrong?
number of non­Catholic teachers should not be allowed to eonstitute a majority within the institution." Notre Dame's pursuit of recognition as an elite msearch university has coincided with a sovere drop in the pnn:nnt of faculty who identify themsPlves as Catholic. Hetirements and other factors portend an irreversible dedine, far bP.low 50 per­cont. That can be avertod, as the Project Sycamore analysis shows, only by an immodiato change to the hiring each year of a strong majority of Catholics. 
Thn administration creatnd an ad hoc committee to addrnss this problem. The September report of that eommittee is less than persuasive in its analysis and not hnlpful in its conclusions. But that report is not the subject of this nssay. Hather, it will be useful to reflect on the Oct. 11 address, "Catholic Colleges and Universities Today," by Cardinal Avery Dulles at Assumption College. 
A convert and the son of John Foster Dulles, President Eisenhower's Secretary of State, the Cardinal has rendered dis­tinguished service to Catholic higher edu­cation. Using as his "primary !,'llides" ECE and Cardinal John Henry Newman's "The Idea of a University," Cardinal Dulles addresses bluntly the hiring of Catholic faculty. He does so in the context of culture and the relation of the univer­sity to the Church and its magisterium or teaching authority. A "Catholic institu­tion," he said, "must be founded on three principles: that there is a God, that he has made a full and fmal revelation of himself in Jesus Christ and that the Catholic Church is the authorized custo­dian and teacher of this body of revealed truth." 
The Cardinal proposed "that all disci­plines involving human values should be taught at a Catholic institution with due attention to their religious implications." "Graduates," he said, "should not go forth with an advanced education in liter­ature and science, while remaining at grade school level in their knowledge of religion," induding "the interplay between faith and reason." He reminds 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

us that "lwle live in a consumerist society, 
in which colleges tend to shape their poli­
cies according to tlw demands of the 
market, as though the measure of sue­
cess were to construct mom buildings 
and increase student enrollmnnt. ... Our 
colleges and universities must ... guard 
against being eoopted into this culture, 
which is ... anti-Christian and dehuman­
izing." 

The cardinal's remarks are relevant to 
Notre Dame in his treatment of religious 
diversity and the marginalization of reli­
gion by the academic establishment. Ile 
questioned the pursuit of diversity as a 
goal in itself: "Postmodern students ... 
imagine that changn and diversity arn 
desirable for their own sakes.... 
IS]tudents should be educated for the 
world of today I and I a variety of cultures 
may be a source of enrichment. But for 
nations to live together in peacn and 
friendship, they must share common con­
victions regarding ... the basic norms of' 
morality." 

"Religious diversity," he said, "is not desirable in itself. It appeals chiefly to those who believe there is no truth in religion anyway. If we bolieve that God is one, and that Jesus is his incarnate Son, we will hope that all peoples, with their difl'erent voices and idioms, may someday unite in praising him. To make this goal persuasive in the contemporary atmos­phere of subjectivism and relativism is a serious challenge. Still another challenge eomes from the academic establishment in America today. In secular circles there is a virtual consensus that no courses ought to be taught from a distinctive reli­gious point of view. Faith is generally held to have no place in the classroom, at least on the level of higher education. If this only means that faith should not be imposed in the classroom. we can agree. But if it means that professors should not manifest their religious beliefs or seek to defend them, the objection is unsound." 
Cardinal Dulles went on to relate the hiring of all faculty to mission without limitation to percentages. "A Catholic institution," he said, "has to be clear about its mission. An essential step ... is that faculty be hired for mission. If the teachers are hostile to the mission of the college or indifferent about it, the college will suffer. It does not suffice to hire fac­ulty who are nominally Catholic. If teach­ers are angry with the Church or unsym­pathetic toward her doctrines, no changes in the curriculum will succeed in making the institution truly Catholic." 
The Cardinal stressed that the Catholic 
university "participates ... in the mission of thn universal Church." and that thn teaching authority of tlw Church should be weleomed: "Cardinal Newman ... points out the <tdvantages that tlw guid­ance of thn magistnrium gives for tlw ... university itself. Just as wn turn to pro­fessors to teach us disciplines in which thoy arn nxpnrt. so wn turn to tlw ... Chureh to give seeurn guidancn in mat­ters of religion. For it is to the Church that God has entrusted tho dnposit of faith ... for answering important quos­tions that ... arise in thn human h1mrt. ... Without the helping hand of thn Church. Newman contends, the human mind gravitates toward infidelity .... Tho Catholk ... university ... should gratefully acknowledge tlw men~y of God who has provided an institution that has for two thousand ynars kept thn Christian rnVPla­tion complnte and unsullied. Whatever the latest theories of professors or tlw inclination of students may b(\ the col­lege should not forsake its Catholic alle­giance. While olli'ring its studonts a vast panoply of skills and learning, it gathers up the fragment-; of knowledg(~ undPr the luminous angis of Christian faith, pro­dainwd today as always by the sueeossor of Pet(~r and thn bishops in union with him." 
Mneting the challnngf~s ladng a Catholic university, Cardinal Dulles said, "cannot be thn t<L'ik of the prnsidPnt alone. lie must have baeking from the trustees and cooperation from the faculty and administration." The administration and the ad hoe committee seek to build such cooperation. The proportion of Catholic faculty at Notrn Dame is declin­ing, however, not because suitable candi­dates cannot be found, but because of the obstacle course any seriously Catholic candidate faces in obtaining departmen­tal approval. 
The University mission is subordinated to the contrary will of component depart­ments. The Academic Articles, however, vest the power to appoint faculty in the president himself. The existing processes will produce only marginal and fruitless tinkering. The president has power, in effect, to govern by veto. In support of the mission, he ought to use that power. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the faculty ofthe Law School. He can be reached at (547) 633-4415 or at rice.!@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
Nl'WS Scene Marcela Berrios Tae Andrnws 
What are you more

Mandi Stirone Viewpoint Dan Jacobs Bethany excited about: 
Submit a Letter 
Gra(>hics Whitfield Notre Dame Hockey or Madeline Nies 
Notre Dame Basketball? 


to the Editor at 
Sports Fran Tolan 

www.ndsmcobserver.com
Ellyn Michalak Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. Sam Werner 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When you are kind to someone in trouble,_zjou hope they'll remember and fje kind to someone else. And it'll become like a wildfire." 
Whoopi Goldberg American actress 



THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 14, 2007 page 11 
LEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Thanks, Band 
What things can you count on semester, we've learned that we every football Saturday? Several won't be let down by the halftime things for sure: candlelight dinners, show. The enthusiasm of the band ' that random dude completely flip­is contagious, and when we're ping out over yet another bad play, down by ... a lot ... we'II still be Oflicer Tim McCarthy, TV timeouts, cheering and chanting and dancing! but above all, the Notre Dame So here's to you, Kenneth Dye, Marching Band. As seniors looking keeping the Notre Dame spirit at the tail end of a season that alive. we're not so proud of, we'd like to say thank you for the amazing Suzanne Ouyang antics of the band and to Band Lara Canham Director Kenneth Dye. Sheena Plamoottil 
Aircraft carriers, Chevys, tread­seniors mills ... what will he think of next? Pangborn Hall If we've learned anything this Nov.l2 
Students give Stadiu111 energy 
I'm writing in response to Robert Russo's gard the fact that the student section pro­hilarious Letter to the Editor ("Appreciate vides the vast majority of the energy in the football experience," Nov. 13). Russo rather stadium, chanting and yelling and scream­clearly missed the sarcasm in the letter ing for their team -even in this abysmal advocating that Charlie Weis pay back the year. students for a terrible season. He launches You're right, Russo. There are many who into a screed about appreciation for the would pay over face value for our discount­football experience and then makes the ed tickets. But if they cheer like the rest of laughable statement that the athletic the non-student crowd, I think Notre Dame department could instead sell our student could win every sport magazine's award for tickets for full face value. "Least Terrifying Stadium to Play In." 
That's a great idea, Russo. Let's change the dynamic of the stadium from approxi­Ben Meekins mately 70,000 people sitting and rarely graduate student cheering to approximately 80,000 sitting offcampus and rarely cheering. Let's completely disre-Nov. 13 

Student section deserves appreciation 
Where's the thanks? This past guard. For years, it's been a Notre Dame looking at the ground, stumbling into the seems like, practices more than the Saturday, my eyes could not believe tradition for the football team to salute tunnel and the locker room after NO's team does. Sure, Coach Weis can thank what they were seeing. And no, I'm not the student body after every home alma mater was played. the band at the Pep Rally, but on game talking about when our team officially game. You can find a picture anywhere Sure, it's been a hard season. But it's day all that goes out the window. The and statistically placed itself as Notre of golden helmets raised in thanks to the been hard for everyone! The students students are not formally recognized. I'd Dame's worst ever by losing to Air Force student body-win or lose. And this and team together feel the pain of los­just like to challenge the football team to 41-24. That came as no surprise. Ten year especially, Coach Weis has really ing, and in past years have together felt continue on the nice tradition of saluting games into the season, I'm still waiting emphasized the relationship between the bliss of winning together. The foot­the student body by raising their hel­for something positive to come from our the team and the students. ball team must think that they don't mets to them after every game -win or football team. Look's like Charlie and the If the relationship is so good, and the need to thank anyone anymore. Well, lose. gang didn't come through on their team appreciates the fans so much, why the student body stood for four hours on promise given at the Pep Rally about didn't they show their appreciation after Saturday in really cold weather to cheer Matt LaFleur giving the students something legitimate the game Saturday? What the students on a football team who has constantly freshman to cheer for. got instead was a bunch of dejected foot­all year looked lazy and lethargic. O'Neill Hall 
But that's not what caught me off ball players, hanging their heads and We have a marching band who, it Nov. 13 
Forging a ne-w path of Christian-Muslitn rapprochetnent 
Recently, 138 Muslim scholars and cler­ics from various backgrounds and coun­tries, including the U.S., drafted a letter addressed to all the major Christian reli­gious leaders of the world emphasizing beliefs common to both religions. These central beliefs are the love of God and of one's neighbor -beliefs that immediately resonate with Christians. The Christian leaders addressed included Pope Benedict XVI, the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Greek Orthodox Patriarch and evangelical Christian leaders. 
Although the letter did not receive over­whelming attention in the world press, it touched a chord among many Christian interlocutors. Since the letter's circulation, a number of representatives of various Christian denominations, including a spokesperson for the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops and the Archbishop of Canterbury himself, have responded gra­ciously, reciprocating the Muslim desire to seek common ground between the two faiths on the basis of shared beliefs and values. This reciprocity signals a potential sea-change in Christian-Muslim relations. 
Never has the time been more propi­tious for seeking a Christian-Muslim rap­prochement and building a solid alliance in confronting religious extremism and the violence it often engenders that so plague our world today. The alternative is grim. Religious rivalries in the past have led to bitter wars and other forms of con­flict, contributing to the perception that the creation of a common ground between Islam and Christianity must remain a pipe dream. 
For those of us who study the historical trajectory of these religions this is any­thing but a pipe dream. Current efforts at seeking a Christian-Muslim rapproche­ment represent a rather belated recogni­tion of the historical fact that the destinies of these two world religions and civiliza­tions have been and continue to remain conjoined. In a seminal work entitled "The Case for Islamo-Christian Civilization," historian Richard Bulliet of Columbia University has remarked that, "[l]ooked at as a whole and in historical perspective, the Islamo-Christian world has much more binding it together than forcing it apart." 

Much of Muslim and Christian history in fact cannot be fully understood in all its dimensions in isolation from the other. While a part of this intertwined history has bequeathed painful memories, part of it continues to inspire hope in the present and into the future. Moving past the jihads and the crusades, we would do well to remember, for instance, that the sharing of learning between Muslim realms and Christendom kept the intellectual legacy of classical antiquity alive in the pre-modern period and contributed to the European Renaissance. Islamic civilization fmds its roots in the Judea-Christian religious tra­dition and Greco-Roman intellectual lega­cy as much as Western civilization does. 
We are at a historic crossroads. The prophets of doom and damnation are plentiful on both sides, overshadowing the less sensational efforts being made by a growing number of Christians and Muslims of good will to build bridges based on shared ethical and moral values. Among such shared values is protection of human life and of the environment as God's custodians on earth, as Archbishop Celestino Migliore, who will visit Notre Dame this week, has stressed. 
We can choose to capitulate to the prophets of doom because they are louder and often have better access to the bully pulpit, or we can choose to succumb to the love of God and of neighbor -as the best of our traditions insist -and chart a better, more hopeful future. 
Asma Msaruddin Associate Professor, Arabic and Islamic Studies Department ofClassics Nov.l3 


Global poverty, a call for awareness 
Fact: More than one billion people live on less than one dollar each day. Extreme poverty affects over a billion people on our planet. The effects of this hardship reach further than most realize. Poverty causes suffering such as insufficient hous­ing and education, hunger, disease and political unrest. As Notre Dame students, we are given a unique roll in the fight against global poverty and the hardships it creates. 
We have the responsibility to raise awareness, both on our campus and throughout this country. Awareness is the most effective way to promote a solution to extreme poverty and AIDS. The ONE Campaign is an American social movement designed to fight extreme poverty and global dis­ease worldwide. ONE pursues this goal through a campaign of awareness, education and activism on campuses and in communities across our nation. 
Notre Dame students can get involved in the ONE Campaign at Notre Dame by joining the Notre Dame ONE Campaign Facebook group, signing the ONE declaration and beginning to raise awareness on campus by wearing white ONE bands and T­shirts. Together, as ONE, we can demand vital changes in national attitudes toward fair trade, debt relief and international aid. Together, as ONE, we can do our part to make poverty history! 
Joe Venturini 
junior 
Morrissey Hall 
Nov. 13 


An old-fashioned pep rally 
I would really like to see an old-fashioned pep rally this Friday. As an alumnus, I have been attending pep rallies for several years at the Joyce Center. They seem so script­ed. How about, for Duke, a return to tradition: The band marches the entire campus, students follow along, pep rally at Stepan, only students allowed in. (If the alumni and parents need to see it, tele­vise it to the JACC or onto the side of Grace Hall.) 
There is something about the heat in Stepan, the crush of the crowd, the band storm­ing in from the side, the drums so loud you can't hear anything, including your own cheering, the team up close and personal on the stage. 

Make this Friday about the student body and the team by holding an old-fashioned, motivating pep rally. 
D.O. Childers, Jr. 
alumnus 
Class of 1979 
Nov. 13 


CLASSIC BOARD GAMES 
' ', ~ 
By STEPHANIE DePREZ 
Scene Wri[er 
The winter season is fast approaching, and that means two things. 
First, Notre Dame students are gear­ing up for the weather and the long hours spent hanging in the dorm to avoid freezing to death. Second, now begins the frantic search for Christmas gifts. And what better way to deal with both issues than by buying an entertain­ing board game for those long winter nights? 
Many pPople scoff at the idea of board games. Why bother when we have such honorable amenities as Guitar Hero III? The day must come, though, that you do master the expert level of every song, and the glory is over. There's still TV, though, right? Well, as long as studio producers refuse to sit down with the Writers Guild of America, all you're going to see on your Comcast-provided cable for the next few months is "America's Next Top Model." There is a remedy, though, and way to consistently counteract boredom. That would be the great American pastime of gathering your roommates -and whomever is wandering around your section -and playing a board game. 
Here's a look at some of the best hoard games on the market this Christmas: 
Scene It?: Movie Edition (2nd Edition): This is an updated release of the classic from a few years ago. Pop the disc into your DVD player and set up the hoard on your coffee table. Teams com­pete to answer question about movies, but the best part is, for a lot of the ques­tions it doesn't matter if you've seen the movie or not. Whether you are a film bufl' or a casual moviegoer, this game is intensely fun and overly addicting. Other editions include Disney, Harry Potter, 007, Marvel Comics, Sports, Music and TV. 
Scattergories: Each team gets a pad with a list of everything from "musical group" to "vegetable." Roll the die and get a letter. Turn the timer, and each team has to come up with something for each category that begins with that let­ter. But be careful -you only get the point if no other team came up with the same answer. 
Cranium: If you haven't played it 
R 


Board games such as Scattergories can provide indoor winter fun. 
already (or read the back of the box while waiting for your Starhucks hack home), you are missing out. This game appeals to all sides of the brain. Teams move around the board, which is divided into quarters. On one section you act out or hum answers for your teammates. In the others, you draw or mold clay, recall trivia, or solve word puzzles. No matter what your talent is (or what you lack), there's bound to be something here for you. 
Electronic Catch Phrase: Everyone sits in a circle, and you are teammates with every other (alternating) person. Pass the disk around and try to get peo­ple to guess the world it gives you. Pass it fast, because whoever gets stuck hold­ing it when the buzzer goes off is elimi­nated. The team with the last man standing wins. 
Trivial Pursuit: This classic game has been reincarnated so many times that there's bound to be an edition for you. Teams move around the board answer­ing questions in a variety of categories. Tailor-made editions include Lord of the Rings, Star Wars. Chicago, New York, Totally 80s, Pop Culture, Nickelodeon and Book Lovers. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
SCENE AND HEARD: GAMING fl 
Maybe you were a Candy Land junkie, 

always searching for that elusive Queen Frostine card that would carry you to the top. Maybe you got your kicks by playing Chutes and Ladders-even if you didn't realize that a "chute" and a 
Analise Lipari 

"slide" were the same thing until Assistant Scene years later. Or Editor maybe you even played Hungry Hungry llippos until every hungry hip­popotamus had had his or her fill of those white, marble-like thingies. 
Regardless of the particulars, each of us goes into nostalgia mode when some­one sparks a conversation about child­hood board games. Some of them may have been based on a particular televi­sion show or movie, while others have concepts so zany-I'm looking at you, 
Crackers in My Bed -that they have to be seen in game board form to be believed. Either way, mention even one game you played in Regardless oft your youth and each.ofus goes
undoubtedly your 
mode when so

friends will chime in 
with their top three, 
conversation a five or even 10 board games they played back in the day. There's something about the board games of the eighties and nineties that helped make our collective childhood as great as it was. Mousetrap was huge when I was in kindergarten, and few accomplishments I gain nowadays feel quite as gratifying as watching Mousetrap's Rube Goldberg-style con­traption actually trap my opponent's plastic mouse. Another favorite in our house was Pen the Pig, a game whose object was, shockingly enough, just that. You and your fellow five year-olds used little white fences to try and trap your pigs -whkh came in designer colors like hot pink and lime green -faster than your opponents. Sometimes playing "farmhouse" with the colorful critters took precedence over finishing the pig­penning process, but I digress. 
Someone's favorite childhood board game can say a lot about who he or she is as a person. If you loved to play Sorry as a kid, maybe your vindictive streak runs a little too strong for your mild­


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Wednesday, November 14, 2007 page 13 


"'ft·t ..
J 

. . . f . /; ~~ . '· ·. 
-Jj£JJJJ10 J [) 

.S~manlha 

peers. If you liked playing the of Life the best, you're too serious your own good. If, like me, you Hungry Hungry Hippos while baby sister was asleep because she born three days before your fifth -and had the nerve to arrive 
orne n said birthday -and all you , to do was torture both her and parents with the loudest birthday 
ever, well, then maybe you just relax. Other games were more frustrating, fun or even boring. Clue was and is 
game in my family, but strate­against full-grown adults at the ten was usually an unsuccessful 
even if you'd learned to sleuth 

a storm by watching old school Mary · and Ashley video&. I was never a fan of Battleship, either, unless I 
ded my own sound efiects every time someone sunk my aircraft carrier. And even if Dane Cook has preceded me, I 
believe that Monopoly should be particulars, the only form of tor­
to nostalgia ture allowed by the Geneva Convention, 
sparks a 
since one game could childhood last as long as a pris­zmes. oner's internment. 
Thankfully though, , this isn't the majori­ty; games are meant to be fun, and they're still pretty awesome. There's a reason why TV networks air those "Family Night" board game commercials -rolling the dice across a game board 
you back to one of the best times of 

life. Try playing Connect Four again see if you can stop your old competi­side from rearing its head. Or start a 
of Candy Land in your 24-hour 
•~'oa1~e 
and count how many people walk and say, "Aw, man, I love that game!'' anything else from childhood, these games make up a small piece of who we and occasionally returning to them 

we grow older just makes you feel In these crazy times, I'll take 

•P..
..ttt; Pretty Princess, Trouble and even Hungry Hungry Hippos over joining the "real world" any day. 


The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 

By CAITLIN FERRARO Scene Writer 
The highest rated new comedy of the season, "Samantha Who?" centers on a woman who suffers from retrograde amnesia. The show is definitely worth remembering. 
The premise is simple, yet unoriginal: A girl named Samantha (Christina Applegate) wakes up after an eight-day coma with amnesia, only to discover she was a horrible person. 
The comedy had its own identity issues from its beginning, when due to 
. copyright concerns (from Dr. Seuss' estate) it had to change its name from "Sam I Am" to "Samantha Be Good," before finally settling on "Samantha Who?" 
The Emmy-winning Applegate master­fully portrays the titular character, Samantha Newly. Applegate has not been this good since her 10-year embodiment of trashy Kelly Bundy on "Married ... with Children." This show is her comeback as she shines as a funny, charming and chic leading lady. 
The cast of actors surrounding Applegate is superb as well. After wak­ing up, Sam discovers she has unstable relationships with all those around her. Seasoned comedic actors Jean Smart and Kevin Dunn, who form a dynamic duo, play the parents to whom Sam has not spoken in two years. When Samantha first wakes up, her mother (Smart) is disappointed because it inter­rupts her video entry for "Extreme Home Makeover." The only other two people who go to the hospital are Sam's boyfriend, Todd (the adorable Barry Watson), and Sam's quirky junior high best friend, Dena (Melissa McCarthy of "Gilmore Girls" fame). It turns out Sam is cheating on Todd and ditched Dena in high school to be popular. All this while Sam's supposed best friend, raging alco­holic Andrea (Jennifer Esposito), could not be happier that Sam has forgotten she was a recovering alcoholic herself. Suffice it to say hijinks ensue. 
Everything about this show is so very wrong, yet the train wreck of insane events feel real and are laugh-out-loud hilarious thanks to the talented cast. Esposito could teach Paris Hilton the meaning of narcissism as she tempts Samantha to rejoin her on the dark side. 
Potential quibbles with the show are 
Smart, Jennifer Espostto &Barry Watson 

Samantha Who? 
Network: ABC Starring: Christina Applegate, Jean 



Christina Applegate stars in "Samantha Who?," ABC's latest comedy. 
few and far between. From time to time, Samantha has flashes of her former horrible self and she endeavors to make changes in her life. Sometimes these glimpses of Sam's past are not particu­larly comical or necessary. While direc­tors depict evil Sam incurring wrath upon those around her (and often Applegate with a different hairstyle), they do not always directly contribute to the show. 
Following in the thematic pursuit of "My Name is Earl," Samantha aims to turn over a new leaf and be a better person. But "Samantha Who?" has yet to perfect the format. The episodes sometimes seem a bit frantic and can jump around at times. 
Some of Sam's deep philosophical con­versations with Todd's apartment door­man Frank (Tim Russ) border on ridicu­lousness, but most are great fun. In the episode entitled "The Job," Sam con­sults Frank on her outfit. He responds: "Coco Chane! said that to avoid over­accessorizing, women should look in the mirror and remove one thing. With you, it was often your dignity." Ouch. 
The other episodes thus far include Sam pretending she was away in rehab instead of in a coma, crashing a wed­ding in which she had encouraged the bride to have an affair and stressing over forgetting her past sexual experi­ences. Future. episodes promise similar 
insanity as Sam tries to regain her memory by visiting a hyp­notherapist, and she pretends to be an avid hockey fan to impress a date. 
While the show may be still working out a few kinks, Applegate is charmingly endear­ing and Smart constantly finds laughs. In the end, if you are not watching this fall's new No. 1 comedy, you must be having a memory lapse. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar 1 @nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 14, 2007 
NBA 




Pierce scores 31 as Celtics beat Pacers 101-86 
Lewis lifts Magic to 103-76 victory over Seattle; Bobcats offensive duo of Wallace and Richardson dominates Heat 91-76 
Got him upset, and as a coach,
Associated Press 

you've got to make a decision. 
INDIANAPOLIS-Paul Pierce Sometimes there, we went to shook ol'f' a hard foul, then (isolations) for Paul right away lwlpml the Boston Celties surge after that, and my read was if past the Indiana Pacers. he gets going because of that, 
.Jamaal Tinsli~y hacked Pierce then we ride him." on a drive to the basket late in Moments after Tinsley's foul, the second quarter, and Pierce Pierce went baseline for a rnspondnd by scoring 13 of his thunderous dunk. A Celtics 31 points in a three-minute player on the bench shouted, span that broke things open in "Oops, you got him mad! Uh­a victory Tuesday night. oh!" Pierce fueled a 14-5 run 
Boston remained unbeaten that gave the Celtics a 52-43 (6-0) and matched its best start lead at halftime. since the l'JH7-H8 snason. The Ray Allen picked up where Celtics still are chasing their Pierce left off. Scoreless in the best start, 14 straight wins to first half, Allen had 15 of his 17 begin the 1957-5H season. points in the third quarter. The 
"You've got to be playing very Celtics led by as many as 16 in well to be 6-0," Indiana's the period and took a 76-65 .Jermaine O'Neal said. "They edge into the fourth quarter. have a very good team. Their "I pick and choose my supporting guys are doing very, moments, and that's how the very well. You've got to tip your game shifted," Allen said. "As a hat ofT to those guys." scorer, you just allow the game 
The game was tied at 38 to come tr!. you, and you find when Tinsloy fouled Pierce. your spots. Pierce quickly turned toward Indiana made a push late. Tinsley, but kept his cool. Tinsley scored back-to-hack Suddenly awakened, Pierce buckets to cut Boston's lead to even did push-ups between free 89-82 with 4:06 to go, but throws to taunt Tinsley and the Kevin Garnett made a long crowd. jumper on the other end to help 
"I was just trying to blow ofl' the Celtics maintain control. some steam, get my head Garnett had 18 points and 11 IHu:k," he said. "That's all." rebounds, his sixth double-dou­
Boston coach Doc Rivers took ble in six games. advantage of the situation. "Kevin is the glue of that 
"Clearly, they lit a lire under team," O'Neal said. "Paul and Paul," Rivers said. "lie thought Ray are very, very good play­the play was not a clean play. ers. I didn't have any doubt 

AP Celtlcs forward Paul Pierce looks to pass while Pacers forward Danny Granger defends during Boston's 101-86 win Tuesday. 
that these guys would be able to blend into a system, but emotionally, the energy comes from Kevin." 
Magic 103, SuperSonics 76 

Rashard Lewis wanted to 
show the Seattle SuperSonics 
what they were missing. He 
wished it hadn't come in his 
former team's NBA-leading 
eighth consecutive loss. 

Lewis scored 22 points, 19 in 
the first half, against the fran­
chise that drafted him out of 
high school nine years ago, and 
the Magic won Tuesday night. 

The SuperSonics have not won since April 7 of last sea­son, when Lewis was still on their side and went for 35 points against the Utah Jazz. It is the worst start in franchise history, surpassing an 0-6 streak in 1969-70. 
"I kind of root for some of those guys, especially the way they've started off," Lewis said. "I wanted them to get rolling, at least get a couple of wins under their belt. Like l said, l'm still dose friends with some of the guys on the team, so l wish them the best." 
Two other NBA teams are winless, but Minnesota and Golden State have only played five games. The loss opened a live-game East Coast road trip for Seattle, which will get another chance Wednesday against Miami. 
The Magic improved to 6-2, despite committing 26 turnovers compared with 17 for Seattle. The Magic were aver­aging 13 turnovers, second in the league, but committed 16 in the first half alone. 
Along with Dwight Howard, Lewis rested the fourth quarter. Howard had only one first-half point, but finished with 13 points and 12 rebounds, while Hedo Turkoglu scored 17 points and Trevor Ariza had 11 points and 11 rebounds. Keith Bogans scored 16 points on 5-of-9 3­point shooting to help bust Seattle's zone defense. 
"I had my shot going early in the game and was able to knock down a buneh of 3s, and then Keith got his shot going in the second half," Lewis said. 
Kevin Durant continued to struggle from the field as Seattle shot a season-worst 34 percent. The heralded rookie was 2-for-8 in the first half, getting just four points off a dunk and fast-break layup. He didn't make his first jumper until the third quarter, and fin­ished with 10 points on 4-for­13 shooting. 
''I'm just playing basketball," Durant said. "The spotlight is coming from the media -I try not to get into that. I just want to play basketball and try and get better and help my team get better." 

Bobcats 91, Heat 76 
Minutes after watching the Miami Heat miss shot after shot in another uninspiring per­formance that ended in a loss to the Charlotte Bobcats, coach Pat Riley was asked what he could do to generate some offense. 
"Me? Play. I guarantee you l should suit up. I'd play better than some of them right now," Riley said Tuesday night. "I guarantee it. I swear to God. With an old hip and 62-years­old and I can't see, I'll play bet­ter than some of my guys tonight. Come on, they were pretty bad." 
And it's becoming routine. With Dwyane Wade watching again from the bench, his knee still not ready to play, the Heat fell to 1-6 by managing 12 points in both the first and third quarters in an effort that left Shaquille O'Neal despon­dent. 
"It was very, very embarrass­ing," O'Neal said. 
Behind 19 points from Gerald Wallace and 18 from Jason Richardson, the Bobcats held the Heat to 38 percent shooting in their second win over Miami in 10 days. 
Emeka Okafor added 13 


points and 10 rebounds as the Bobcats ran at every opportuni­ty against the aging Heat, who appeared to have little to give two nights after winning their first game in New York. 
"You grandfather playing time to all your starters or guys that have been in the rotation and you're losing games," said Riley, who suggested a players­only meeting. "Eventually you've got to shave the beard and either look younger or get somebody else in there. You ean't continue like this." 
O'Neal had 17 points and six rebounds, but got little help. While O'Neal shot 7 -of-14, the other four starters combined to shoot 9-for-34. No other play scored more than 10 points as Wade watched from the bench in a tan jacket. 
"We've got to make shots," said Wade, who has yet to play after offseason knne surgery. "One person is not going to save us." 
And with Wade saying hn was unsure if he'd play Wednesday against Seattle, the Heat are searching for ways to turn around their league-worst offense after going 1-of-7 from 3-point range. 
"There have been a few bright moments but we're not coming together consistently," Riley said. 
The Bobcats did, two nights after blowing a fourth-quarter lead in a loss to Houston. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Blue &Gold Homes now showing  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  PREGNANT  
WANTED  FoR SALE  08-09 &09·10. Bluegoldrentals.com  ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232­0964. www.victorytickets.com  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  OR KNOW  
Large house available for 2008-09.  or assistance. please call Sr. Sue  SOMEONE  
Looking for a playful, kind and  3 bdrm/2 bath home for sale  516 N. St. Joseph St. 4 bdrm, 1.5  Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more  WHO IS?  
responsible person to watch my two  $95,000/lor rent $900. 706 N. St.  bath.  PERSONAL  information, visit our website at:  You do not have to be alone.  
children (6 & 10 yrs.) in my home  Louis. Contact Brad 574-220-8666.  1014 N. St. Louis Blvd. 4 bdnn, 2  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg- We want to help.  
occasionally.  bath  If you  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  Call  
Please call Jill574-288-7118. Seeking part time nanny for our 3  FoR RENT  Very clean homes. 574-276-3176.  or someone you care about  in THE OBSERVER.  our 24 hour confidential  
children. 4 miles from campus. 2-6 pm daily.  Blue & Gold Homes  TICKETS  has been sexually assaulted,  Adopt: a young loving couple long to share their hearts and home with  hotline at 1-800-No Abort  
Email schedule availability &qualifi­ 2nd semester sale. $200 P/S just  visit  a newborn. Will provide endless  or visit our web site  
cations to  off campus 'alumni owned".  ND tickets for sale. Best Prices.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  love. Expenses paid. Call Eileen  at  
twnannysearch@ gmail.com  Bluegoldrentals.com  574-288-2726  shtml  and Ed 1-800-718-6577.  www.lifecall.org  





OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, November 14, 2007 CoMrruo FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NBA 
Atlantic Division 

team  record  perc.  strk  
Boston  5-0  1.000  W5  
Toronto  4-3  .571  W2  
New Jersey  4-3  .571  L2  
New York  2-3  .400  L2  
Philadelphia  2-4  .333  L2  
Central Divisi on  
team  record  perc.  strk  
Detroit  5-1  .833  W2  
Indiana  3-3  .500  L3  
Cleveland  4-4  .500  L1  
Milwaukee  2-4  .333  L2  
Chicago  1-5  .167  L1  
Southeast Division  
team  record  perc.  strk  
Orlando  5-2  .714  L1  
Charlotte  3-3  .50D  L1  
Atlanta  2-4  .333  L2  
Washington  1-5  .167  W1  
Miami  1-5  .167  W1  
Northwest Divi sion  
tmtm  record  perc.  strk  
Utah  6-2  .750  W4  
Denver  5-3  .625  W3  
Portland  3·3  .500  W3  
Minnesota  0-5  .DOD  L5  
Seattle  0·7  .DOD  L7  
Pacific Division  
team  record  perc.  strk  
Phoenix  5-2  .714  W2  
LA Clippers  4-2  .667  L2  
LA Lakers  3-2  .600  W1  
Sacramento  2·5  .286  L1  

Golden State 0·5 .000 L5 
Southwest Division 

team record perc. strk 
Houston 6·1 .857 W3 San Antonio 6·1 .857 W3 New Orleans 6-2 .750 W2 Dallas 4·2 .667 l1 Memphis 1·4 .200 L2 

GB 
2 2 3 3.5 
GB 
2 2 3 4 
GB 
1.5 2.5 3.5 3.5 
GB 
1 
2 4.5 5.5 
GB 
.5 
1 
3 
4 
GB 
.5 
1.5 
4 
NCAA Hockey USA Today/USA Hockey Magazine Poll 
team  record  previous  
1  Michigan  9·1-0  2  
2  Miami {Ohio)  9·1·0  1  
3  Michigan State  8·1-0  a  
4  Denver  6·2-0  5  
5  North Dakota  5·3-1  4  
6  New Hampshire  5·1-1  7  
7  Colorado College  5·3·0  9  
8  Clarkson  7-3-0  8  
9  Boston College  3·2-4  6  
10  Wisconsin  5·3·0  10  
11  NOTRE DAME  7-4·0  12  
12  Minnesota  6·4·0  14  
13  St. Cloud State  6·2·2  NR  
14  Massachusetts  4-2·3  NR  

Also Receiving Votes: Harvard 25, RPI21, Maine 15, Bowling Green 7, Michigan Tech 6, Niagara 5, Air Force 2. St. Lawrence 1 
around the dial 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL Akron at Miami (OH) 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL NIT Season Tip-Off 10:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

LA. Lakers at Houston 9 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK-C.C. Sabathia beat Josh Beckett 
at last  - albeit  a  few  
weeks  later  than  he  
hoped.  

Sabathia won the AL Cy Young Award on Tuesday. topping Boston's ace and two other worthy con­tenders by a comfortable margin to become the first Cleveland Indians pitcher in 35 years to earn the honor. 
Sabathia received 19 of 28 first-place votes and finished with 119 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Beckett, who outpitched Sabathia twice in the playoffs, was second with eight first-place votes and 86 points. 

"I did look at a few num­bers," Sabathia said on a conference call from his California horne. "I defi­nitely thought that Beckett -it could have went either way. I'm just happy and thankful that it went my way." 
It might have gone the other way if October results counted. Voting took place before the post­season, when Sabathia struggled as Beckett put together a string of domi­nant outings to help Boston win the World Series. 
The Red Sox right-han­der trounced Sabathia two times in the AL charnpi-
IN BRIEF 
Swede hired as U.S. 
women's soccer coach 
Pia Sundhage's immersion into U.S. culture introduced her to Americans' "Go for it" mentality. 
But when it comes to soccer, her fellow Swedes' deliberateness might sometimes work best. the former international star said Tuesday after being hired as the U.S. women's national team coach. 
American officials turned to a for­eign coach for the first time after failing to win this year's World Cup. Sundhage, an assistant for China during the World Cup, is familiar with many of the U.S. players, hav­ing coached in the WUSA during the league's three-year existence. 
She wants her new team to control the ball and dictate tempo more. 
"It's very tight at the top level," Sundhage said. "I think it's about being comfortable with the ball. I don't think it's a big step, but a very important step." 

onship series and went 4-0 with a 1.20 ERA in four postseason starts, striking out 35 and walking two. Sabathia was 1-2 with an 
8.80 ERA and 13 walks in three playoff outings. 
"The first two l can defi­nitely say I was trying to do too much," Sabathia said. "Just trying to make perfect pitches." 
John Lackey of the Los Angeles Angels got the other first-place vote and came in third. Cleveland's Fausto Carmona was fourth. 
Sabathia went 19-7 with a 3.21 ERA and 209 strike­outs, pitching a major league-high 241 innings. Beckett (20-7) became the only big leaguer to win 20 games since 2005, cornpil· ing a 3.27 ERA in 200 2-3 innings. Lackey led the AL in ERA at 3.01, going 19-9 and tossing 224 innings. Carmona was 19-8 with a 
3.06 ERA. 
"I was excited. My family and everybody were around," Sabathia said. "I was surprised. Beckett had a great year and an even better postseason." 
The only other Cleveland pitcher to win the award was Hall of Farner Gaylord Perry in 1972. Now that he's got one of his own, Sabathia plans to display the trophy prominently. 
''I'm sitting in my office right now, I'm looking for a spot. I'll probably put it right here," he said. 

Texas Tech coach fined 
for criticizing officials 
LUBBOCK. Texas-Texas Tech coach Mike Leach was fmed a record $10,000 by the Big 12 Conference on Tuesday for his harsh criticism of game officials following last week's loss to Texas. 
The fine doubled the previous high by the league, levied twice before, against Kansas coach Mark Mangino three years ago and former Kansas State basketball coach Jim Wooldridge during the 2005-06 season. 
Leach was reprimanded and put on notice that "any future such behavior will result in a more serious penalty, including a possible suspension," the conference said in a news release. 
Leach and Texas Tech were not com­menting on the fine, school spokesman Chris Cook said. 
After No. 12 Texas beat Texas Tech 59-43 on Saturday, Leach condemned the officiating crew in Austin, calling their work "a complete travesty." 
PGA to put FedEx Cup after 
Ryder next year 
PONTE VEDRA BEACH. Fla.-The PGA Tour decided to put another cup ahead of its own Tuesday, moving the FedEx Cup finale to the week after the Ryder Cup next year to allow Americans to be fresh as they try to end a decade of losing. 
Without switching around the 2008 schedule, some players might have competed four consecutive weeks in the FedEx Cup, then headed straight to Valhalla Golf Club for the Ryder Cup, regarded as one of the most tiring and pres­sure-packed weeks in golf. 
The changes means there will be a two-week break in the middle of the playoffs, between the BMW Championship in St. Louis and the Tour Championship in Atlanta. And it gives the PGA Tour its first week without golf during the season since 1989. 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 14, 2007 
TENNIS 

No.2 Nadal falls to Ferrer at Masters Cup 

Associated Press 

SIIAN<;IIAI, China -Hafael Nadal and Novak I>jokovie lnarned friendship doesn't eount for mueh at the Masters Cup. 
Both lost to buddies Tuesday in thn round-robin phase of the snason-ending tournament fea­turing thn top night players. Nadal lost to David Ferrer 4-6, 6-4, (J-3 in a match betwenn Spaniards. A weary Djokovie lost to Hirhard Gasquet of Fran<~n 6-4, 6-2. and was elimi­natml from eontnntion for thn semifinals with onn mateh left in the Gold Group. 
In the Hed Group, top-ranked Hoger Federer and No. 4 Nikolay Daydenko lost their first matches Monday and will play each other Wednesday, followed by Andy Roddick against Fernando Gonzalez. 
Nadal, ranked No. 2, said there really are no upsets in this tournament, given the elite field. 
"We play against the best always, evnry match, so any­thing ean happen," Nadal said after his nearly three-hour struggle against Ferrer that divided the loyalties of Spanish 
Djokovic loses to France's Gasquet in season-ending tournament 
fans, who draped national flags From 1-1 in the third set, Masters Cup and just to play my around the indoor arena. Ferrer ran ofT four straight game. I did a perfect match. I 
"We have a very good rPla­games. With both men brnath­playnd a lot of amazing shots tionship," Nadal said. "But ing hard, Ferrer served for the with my backhand." when you are on court, you try matr.h, only to see Nadal break Dj okovic, ran knd No. :{, your best." and fend off a matr.h point in looked oil' in every phase of his 
Nadal held a 4-2 advantage in his next service game to pull game, overhitting his usually head-to-head meetings. Ferrer within 5-3. reliable forehand and having said his only advantage against Ferrer then hnld at love, fin­troubln with his strong snrvn to the man he called the best play­ishing the match when Nadal fall to 0-2. lie started ofT list­er in Spanish history comes tried a drop shot that hung up a lessly and was incrnasingly dis­when they face off in video little too long, giving Ferrer consolate as thn match worn on. games. enough time to smack a back­lie was mathematically elimi­
"Just in the PlayStation I'm hand crosscourt winner before nated from reaching the semifi­better than him," Ferrer said, dropping onto his back in relief'. nals. laughing. "I was very nervous because I Djokovie said he had nothing 
With Nadal a left-bander, the was a little bit cramping from left after playing more than 100 two men played like mirror the tension, matches this year. images with their preference from the "Unfortunately for the baseline, sharply angled nerves," again, I couldn't be winners and refusal to yield on Ferrer said even close to my shots. of Nadal's level," he said. "I
"Today I had nothing
Showing little respect for each last service was frustrated 
to lose."
other's serves, they combined break. "And because of that. I for five breaks in the first set Rafa is didn't feel so well and 11 for the match. Ferrer unbeliev­Richard Gasquet physically, and men­didn't hold serve until his fourth able. He's a tally I just couldn't ...
Tennis player
attempt. Nadal finished off the fighter all be so confident on set on Ferrer's 14th unforced the match. I the court. I didn't error off his usually reliable play perfect find any solutions." forehand. in the third "He was playing 
Ferrer pulled himself together set. If I don't well, " Djokovic and served for the second set at play perfect, I cannot beat added. "He's a very talented 5-3, only to be left muttering to Rafa." player and he's playing smart." himself after Nadal broke at Ferrer ran his record to 2-0 in Djokovic, who tossed his rack­love, the last three points com­the Gold Group, while Nadal fell et in frustration twice, won only ing on clean winners. But he into a tie with Gasquet at 1-1. six of his 1<J service points in shrugged it off to break right "Today I had nothing to lose," the second set and hit a back­back the next game to even the Gasquet said. "I just had to hand wide for his 27th unforcnd match. enjoy the moment to play in the error on match point. 

--~-----------------------------------­
Wednesday, November 14, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Now Leasing for 2008-2009 
424 N. Frances Street 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

SAINT .JOHN BOSCO 
PATRON SAINT OF TilE YOlJNC; 
JJ7ith good reason the Church made Saint John Bosco Patron t~{ the young. lie cared for the homeless youngsters who roamed tile city street, anti.finuuled a Society, the Stllesitul.\'• to continue his Jvork. 
The Salesians are now the 
Allen continues, "St. John second largest Religious Bosc~J became a tireless cat­Order in the Catholic Church echist. among the young, and help the young and the hearing confessions, saying poor in 134 countries. Masses, and organizing 'ora­
To quote John Allen, the tories' who;:rc his boys could Vatican Correspondent For the play, study and worship... National Catholic Reporter, Thus the Salesians pastoral ·'the great Orders have usual­model was f(xged: solld. ly been born in response to orthodox Catholic piety; an some crisis-the Franciscans. 'in-the-trenches· commirmcnt fc>r example. to urbanize and to the young, the poor, and to the need to evangelize the education; and a smiling 
cities, tiK' Jesuits to the Reformation, and the need J()r a Catholic counter-offensive. For the Salcsians it was the Industrial Revolution, especially the zones of despair, turmoil and revolution on the outskirts of the great industria! cities.'' 
closeness to the people." 
In describing St. John Bosco's order today John Allen \vrites, ""fhe Salesians are seen as robustly n:~liable -·-not theological innovators, but down-to-earth. pastors and educators, and generally with a good sense of humor." 

]()read John AHen's full article about the Salesians, visit: http://nationalcatholic reporter.org/word/pfw063006.htm 
If you are thinking about dedicating your life to the ser·vice of the young and pom·, consider Joining the Salesians of St. .John Bosco. For more infm·mation visit us at: www.salesianvocation.com 
or write to: SALESIANS OF ST. JOHN BOSCO, 315 Self Place, South Orange, N.J 07079 Email: salvoc@!aol.com, Phone: (973) 761-0201 
''!believe that the 5'alesians plc~yed an important role in thefi>rmation (?(my vocation."····· Pope John Paul Il 

GYMNASTICS 
U.S. women's team tops competition 
Karolyi praises achievements at championships 
it to the semi-centralized system 
Associated Press 
Karolyi created and his wife, 
The U.S. women got a gold Martha, now oversees. star from Bela Karolyi to go The top junior and senior along with their gold medals gymnasts come together for from the world gymnastics monthly training camps, and championships. there are set standards that 
The Americans, fresh from a every athlete must meet. Not dominant performance at worlds only does this ensure an endless that included golds in both the supply of talent, the competition team competi-between the gen­tion and all­erations makes around, are the "We've never had the U.S. team strongest group stronger.
before a team win in 
the United Dating to 2001, States has ever such a powerful the Americans are had, Karolyi manner. the only team to said Tuesday. medal at every Considering he world champi­
Bela Karolyi 
was front-and­onships and center for the USA gymnastics coach Olympics. They 
Magnificent Seven's gold-medal performance in 1996 and Mary Lou Retton's triumphs in 1984, that's high praise. 
"We've never had before a team win in such a powerful manner," Karolyi said from Boston, where he was promoting next summer's women's national championships. "The Magnificent Seven, that was a strong team. But it was in our country, it was in Atlanta, in front of a tremendous crowd. 
"This team is winning around the world since 2001. Wherever they go, they are coming back with some amazing results, some amazing achievements," he said. "Every year, they get better and better and better and better." 
That should bode well for next summer's Beijing Olympics. 
As the reigning world champs, the Americans will be favorites to stockpile even more gold. While Romania and Russia will present a chal­lenge, the won nine of the 15 
medals at the 2005 world championships with Chellsie Memmel and Nastia Liukin going 1-2 in the all­around. 
In addition to the team and all­around titles in Stuttgart, the Americans won golds on balance beam and floor exercise. They brought home a total of seven medals. 
They have not one, but two women who can legitimately vie for next year's all-around title. 
Liukin has been at the top of the sport for three years now, and her nine medals at the world championships tie Shannon Miller for most by a 
U.S. gymnast. But Liukin was slowed by an ankle injury for much of the last year, and now finds herself playing catch-up to Shawn Johnson. 
Johnson, all of 15, won every event she entered this year, including becoming only the fourth American woman to win 
the world all­around tiile. 

biggest compe­"If ILiukin] is
"Wherever they go,
tition most like­back in her nor­
they are coming back 
ly will be China. mal shape, with a After winning with some amazing repaired ankle, their first team she is going to
results." 
title at the 2006 give a very big worlds, the run," Karolyi said. 
Bela Karolyi 
Chinese shuf­"She is a power­fled their lineup USA gymnastics coach house that you 
for this year's worlds in Stuttgart, Germany. They left behind Pang Panpan, a member of the 2006 squad, and Olympic bronze medalist Zhang Nan, and brought some youngsters for international experience and exposure. 
The kids did all right, helping China win the team silver. 
But performing in front of a raucous home crowd will be a completely different experience, Karolyi said. 
"The crowd sometimes plays a tremendous role to give you wings and carry you to victory. At the same time, great teams under the pressure have broken down," he said. "It is something we have to [wait to] see. I can't predict that one." 
Of course, the Americans went to the Athens Olympics as favorites, too, after winning the 2003 world title in Anaheim, Calif. They came home with sil­ver, their finish behind the Romanians something of a dis­appointment. 
What sets this team apart is the blend of old and new, a cred­
just can't put 

aside. There's going to be a tremendous fight. It's going to be one of most incredible Olympic trials 
"And it's not just between these two," Karolyi added, "but the other ones coming from behind." 
Sam Peszek, Shayla Worley and Ivana Hong all made the world team in their first full year as seniors. Another youngster, Bridget Sloan, was the alternate. 
Add veterans Alicia Sacramone, who has seven medals from the worlds, Memmel and Jana Bieger, and the competition just to get to Beijing is going to be fierce. 
"Martha doesn't like [medal predictions] because she doesn't want to put the bug in their heads and put additional pres­sure on them. I'm much more optimistic," Karolyi said. "I would like to get them used to early with the talk that they are powerful enough and strong enough to win. 
"And I believe they are going to have a bright position on the podium." 
page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, November 14, 2007 

Wednesday, November 14, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Ravens season echoes 2006loss against Colts 
Baltimore defense still strong, but home loss to Cincinnati highlights problems; Boller to replace quarterback McNair 
Colts game," Clayton said, couple of field goals. So, in assessing the Ravens' Billick keeps calling for short
Associated Press 
referring to last season's 15-6 When it came time to ana­prospects for 2007, Billick passes when a handoff would 
BALTrMOHE -In the wake postseason debacle against lyze the 2006 season, coach touted a 13-3 team with 20 of be far more efficient. of Sunday's wretched 21-7 Indianapolis. Peyton Manning Brian Billick and the team's 22 starters back to finish what That tendency was openly home loss to Cincinnati, failed to produce a touchdown hierarchy dismissed that they started. questioned by Ravens line­Baltimore Ravens wide receiv­against Baltimore's top-ranked game. After all, they reasoned, "I don't know that there's backer Ray Lewis after Billick er Mark Clayton recalled defense, but Ravens quarter­we scored plenty during the that one singular issue that we ordered three consecutive another strikingly similar back Steve McNair threw two regular season and hey, the don't feel good about across passes when Baltimore needed defeat. interceptions and managed Colts were so good they ended the board," Billick said in July. 1 yard to extend a drive in the 
"That reminded me of the only to set up Matt Stover for a up winning the Super Bowl. "It's hard not to be optimistic." waning moments of a 19-14 
Turns out this edition of the loss to Buffalo. Ravens (4-5) is far more com­The Ravens had a bye after parable to the team that lost to that game, then returned to Indianapolis than the one that get hammered by Pittsburgh averaged 22 points during the 38-7 on Monday night. That regular season. was precursor to an·even big­
That, and a left shoulder ger embarrassment: a loss at injury, led to McNair being home to the Bengals, who replaced by Kyle Boller at came in 2-6 with the 31st­quarterback for the next two ranked defense. games, at least. The fans jeered the Havens 
The defense, as usual. has when they came off the field at been outstanding. Despite halftime, and by game's end being compro-the stadium mised by the loss was nearly of free agent empty. Those Adalius Thomas w h 0 and injuries to remained Trevor Pryce, "That reminded me of booed some Chris McAlister more.
the Colts game." 
and Samari It's quite Rolle, Baltimore possible the ranks fifth in the Mark Clayton 34-year-old NFL and four Ravens wide receiver McNair is too times has held old to be the opposition to effective. one touchdown Now, he's or fewer. sidelined 
Clayton was with the reminded of the Colts game shoulder injury. because Baltimore's defense "There's no way you can play kept Cincinnati out of the end with a subluxed shoulder and zone, and still the Ravens lost. be able to protect yourself." Therein lies the reason the Billick said. Ravens almost certainly won't Some suggest it's time for be playing football in January. Billick to go, even though he 
McNair deserves much of the won a Super Bowl in 2001 and blame -he has 11 turnovers is signed through 2010. Those and only two touchdown pass­are the big topics of discussion 





THE CORE COUNCIL FOR GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENTS IS SEEKING NEW UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT MEMBERS FOR 2008-2009 
-------------------·-··········--·-·------­We welcome both "allies" and gay, lesbian or bi-sexual students. 
Applications are available on the Core Council Web Site; 
http:llcorecouncil.nd.edu 
or can be picked up from The Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 8am to 5pm Monday-Friday 
Completed Applications are due Monday, December 3 by 5pm in the Office of Student Affairs 
Your participation in this Council will: 
• 
~ssist with identifYing the ongoing needs ofgay, lesbian .andbi-sexualstudents 

• 
Assistin implementing campus-wide educational programming on gay andlesbian issues 


Please visit our web site for more informati011: http:!!corecouncil.nd.edu 

es-but he's also had the mis­fortune of working within a system entirely devoid of imag­ination. Baltimore's offense has scored 10 touchdowns this season, only two in the last two games. The Ravens' aver­age of 15.3 points per game is better than only Kansas City, St. Louis, Atlanta and San Francisco, which are a collec­tive 10-26. 
Nearly half of Baltimore's 138 points have been provided by Stover, by far the team's most potent offensive threat. 
When the Ravens were struggling to 
around Baltimore these days, not potential playoff matchups. 
Billick got the job in 1999 because of his ability to run an offense. Except for last sea­son's 10-game run, the Ravens have won solely on the ability of the defense during his tenure. 
Billick soon may have to adhere to a do-it-or-else sug­gestion from owner Steve Bisciotti to have someone else to call the plays. Billick, in turn, might want to ask for a new quarterback. 
The Ravens 
got McNair 
because Boller 


score last sea­just wasn't
"There's no way you
son, Billick good enough.
can play with a
fired offensive McNair, a for­coordinator subluxed shoulder and mer NFL co­Jim Passel and MVP, was sup­
be able to protect
took over the posed to make
yourself."
play-calling. In Baltimore's Billick's first offense as good game in the Brian Billick as the defense. dual role, Now, ironically,
Ravens coach
Baltimore amassed 16 first downs before halftime in a 35-22 rout 
of New Orleans.  
That  victory  started  
Baltimore on  a  9-1  run that  
ended  with  the  Joss  to  

Indianapolis. During the off­season, Billick promoted Hick Neuheisel to offensive coordi­nator but insisted on keeping the play-calling duties. 
The long passes, reverses, draw plays and screen passes that worked so well last year apparently are no longer part of the game plan. Running back Willis McGahee has been better than adequate as the successor to Jamal Lewis, but 
the fans are 
clamoring for 
Boller. Or even third-stringer Troy Smith. 
Clearly, Baltimore needs to address its offense before the defense gets too old. Lewis, Pryce, McAlister, Holle and defensive tackle Kelly Gregg are all in their 30s. Maybe the Havens can get some help with a high draft pick, although that's not exactly the prefer­ence of defensive end Terrell Suggs. 
"It doesn't feel like rock-bot­tom," Suggs said Sunday. "It depends on what we do from here on out. If we end up with a top 10 pick, then that's rock­bottom. Cut and dried." 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 14, 2007 
NFL 

Jones set to accept plea deal 
Associated Pr~ss 
LAS VECAS -Suspended NFL player Adam "Pacman" .Jones is expeeted to take a plea deal that will get him probation in rnturn for testi­mony about a Las Vegas strip club triple shooting. his lawyer said Tuesday. 
The TennesSIH\ Titans r,or­nerbaek intends to plead no contest to one charge of con­spiracy to commit disorderly conduct, a gross misde­meanor, in roturn for a promise to suspend a sen­tence of one year in county jail, according to a written plea agrnement obtainml by The Associated Press. 
"We haVI\ a deal," Clark County prosecutor Victoria Villegas said. "I can't talk about the negotiations until it's actually filed with the court." 
.Jones' attorney, Hobert Langford. was scheduled to appear in court Tuesday to inform l.as Vegas .Justice of tlw Peace Tony Abbatangelo of the plea, but tlw !waring abruptly was rescheduled for Thursday. 
Villngas said llw delayed !waring was tho rnsult of a scheduling mishap. 
"lie has agreed to ll\stify in whatever hearings come up regarding the shooter," Langford said . .Jones. who was not expected to attend Tuesday's hearing, would not be senteru:ed until after testifying. he said. 

Manny Arora, .Jones' AtIan ta-based attorney, said their focus was to clear the cornerback of involvement in the shooting and called the deal the best situation for .Iones. 
"While I think we would've been suecessful at trial, it could've been six months to a year away, and he may have lost another year of eli­gibility by going forward. In the real world, sometimes you have to make these diiTi­eult deeisions for what's best for your earner. and we did­n't want this dragging on any further," Arora said. 
In addition to one year of probation, .Jones must attend an anger manage­ment pro­gram, com­plnte 200 

hours of "fie has agreed to testify implicates. If corn mu n i ty in whatever hearings he's not going 
servien to implicate
come up regarding the 
within a anyone, I'm year and shooter." going to be submit to absolutely random furious. l
Robert Langford
drug test­really am sick
Adam Jones' attorney
ing, accord­of it," she 
members of his entourage wore involved in a melee inside. 
"I can't comment because that's an ongoing police investigation," Langford told the AP. 
Langford said, however, that Jones did not know the identity of a man whose photo was released in June by poliee. Investigators said they wanted to question that man in the shooting. The photo was obtained from surveillance cameras, and police said they thought the man lived on the East Coast. 
Police have not charged anyone with the shooting, which left three people wounded. including a bar employee, Tommy Urbanski, who was paralyzed from the waist down. 
News of Jones' plea deal surprised Urbanski's wife, Kathy. as she prepared to go to work Tuesday. 
"I want to 
see what he 
does, who he 

ing to the plea deal. Langford said .Jones alrnady is subject to drug testing under NFI. rules. 
On Thursday, Abbatangelo is expected to waivt~ .Jones' preliminary hearing on two felony conrcion ehargns stemming from allngations hn ineilnd a meiiH~ inside the club. Thn PvidPntiary hear­ing was postponPd Oct. 2'J whiln piPa rwgotiations con­tiruwd. 
Langford would not say if .lonns krww tho idPntity of a gunman who authorities say opnnnd l'irn and woundnd thn~~~ p1Hlple FPb. JIJ outsidn t.lw Minxx c;entlnmen's Club minutns aftnr .Jonp,s and 
said. "I just 

hope the vic­tims have rights in this situ­ation. Obviously, the crimi­nals do." 
Kathy Urbanski said she didn't think the original charges against Jones were strong enough, especially not while she and IH\r hus­band still live in a hotel while tlwir homo is renovat­Pd to make it wheelr,hair accessible. 
Urbanski. co-worker Aaron Cudworth and elub patron Natalie Jones have each fill)d rivil lawsuits seeking damages from Jones. 
Urbanski's lawsuit also sPnks damages l'rom the NFL. the Titans and the 
owners of Harlem Knights, a Houston strip club that host­ed events at the Minxx club during the NBA's All-Star weekend. Feb. 17-19. 
''I'm pleased to see he's accepting responsibility for his conduct on the date in 
question,"  said  Hi chard  
Schonfeld,  lawyer  for  
Cudworth,  a  bar bouncer  

who was wounded in the shooting. 

Fortner friend testifies against O.J. Sitnpson 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS-O.J. Simpson's one-time golfing pal glared at him across a courtroom Tuesday and said the former football star wanted him to bring "heat" to a confrontation with two sports memorabilia dealers in a hotel room. 
Minutes later, Simpson's lawyer accused the friend, Walter Alexander, of being a liar, and the two wound up in a heated exchange in the third day of a preliminary hearing in the armed robbery case. 
Justice of the Peace Joe M. Bonaventure will decide after the hearing whether there is enough evidence for Simpson and guns or asked anyone to bring them to the hotel room. Wearing dark glasses and a dark suit with a white shirt and white handkerchief in the breast pocket, he sometimes smiled but frequently shook his head as Alexander testified. 
Simpson has said he intend­ed only to retrieve items that were stolen from him by a for­mer agent. including the suit he wore thn day he was aequit­ted of murder in 1995 in the slayings of his wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend, Honald Goldman. 
Alexander depicted Simpson as the mastermind of the plan to recover his possessions by setting up a sting opera­

two other men to tion in which
"After he asked me ifI
stand trial. the two deal­Alexander's could watch his back ... ers would 
testimony was it was kind oflike, 'Hey, think they 
the strongest for were meet­
do you think you can
prosecutors so ing with a far. lie and get some heat.'" potential Michael buyer. The McClinton, who three were
Walter Alexander 
also testified in town for a
witness in O.J. Simpson trial 
against Simpson mutual 
Tuesday, struck deals with prose­cutors and pleaded guilty to lesser eharges, as did Charles Cashmore, who testified last week. 
"After he asked me if I could wateh his back. he leaned for­ward and it was kind of like, 'Hey, do you think you can get some heat?"' Alexander said. '"Just in case things go wrong, can you bring some heat?"' 
Simpson, 60, has maintained in interviews and through his lawyers that he never saw any 


Solidarity Sunday 
Novemher 18, 2007 
CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &lESBIAN 

The Spirit of Inclusion ...
STUDENTS 
friend's wed­ding Sept. 13. 
McClinton volunteered to supply guns and Simpson said they probably would be needed only to show dealers Bruce Fromong and Alfred Beardsley "we mean business," Alexander said. 
Alexander said he aecepted a .22-caliber pistol from McClinton that he tucked into his waistband while McClinton strapped on a shoulder holster containing a .45. 

"Strangers and Sojourners no longt·r'' (t:phcsians 2:19) 
''We value gay and lesbian members of this community as we value all members of this community''" "We consciously create an environment of mutual respect, hospitality and warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish" "We prize the uniqueness of all persons as God's creatures." -adopted by the Officers ofthe University on Ausust 17, 1997. 
Please join the Notre Dame family in a weekend-long spirit ofprayer and welcome. 
Copies of the entire statement ofthe Spirit of Inclusion will be available following all Masses on November 17-18, 2007. 

Wednesday, November 14, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Seniors 
continued from page 24 
said. "I'm not doing that. He came baek !for a fifth year] to play. lie didn't come back here to ehcerlead. I think you owe him the right to play." 
Sullivan to miss Saturday's game 
Fifth-year senior center .John Sullivan will miss Saturday's game because of the undisclosed injury that forced him out of the Air Force game. 
Sullivan has been aiding freshman quarterback .Jimmy Clausen with pre­snap reads, including iden­tifying the middle line­backer. Weis said that duty will fall on back-up center Dan Wenger this week but that Clausen is almost able to do it on his own. 
"We'll start with Danny, see how it goes, and if it isn't going too well, we'll put the burden on the quar­terback," Weis said. "We'd like to, as it goes into this offseason, put all the bur­den on the quarterback." 
Weis said Sullivan will help Wenger and Clausen with the reads in practice. 
"We'll give him a con­structive role this week where he won't just feel like he's pushed off to the side," Weis said. "lle'll almost be like an extra assistant coach out there, which that will help us, too. this week." 
Wenger has played both guard and center this sea­son, hut Weis said the soph­omore is more suited to the role of center. 
"Danny is a much more natural center than guard." he said. "lie's more com­fortable in there. That's where he played his whole 

high school career, and although we'll greatly miss Sully and all he's done on and off the field for us, hav­ing a guy like that who is a natural center in there. I think this gets him into his natural position rather than being knocked over at the guard." 
Weis said he is hopeful Sullivan will be able to return fur the season finale against Stanford, but the coach doesn't want to rush him back and hurt his chances in the NFL. 
"You're always concerned about something happening which would cost you a little time," Weis said. 
Vaas returns to Notre Dame Stadium 
Peter Vaas, who was Notre Dame's quarterbacks coach during Weis' first two sea­sons in South Bend, will return this weekend as Duke's offensive coordina­tor. 
Weis said the fact that Vaas knows the Irish offense is "a pain in the butt," but that Vaas won't be able to steal any Notre Dame sig­nals. 
"The only signaling we really do offensively is sig­naling numbers," Weis said. "So unless you have the number sheet and know what we're doing, that would be the only way that it could really hurt you." 
Other injuries 
Weis said junior nose guard Pat Kuntz and sopho­more safety Sergio Brown will not play against the Blue Devils, while freshman tight end Mike Ragone and fifth -year senior punter Geoff Price are unlikely to play because of injuries. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Irish senior Ashley Tarutis sets the ball during Notre Dame's 3-1 victory over Cincinnati Friday night at the Joyce Center. Tarutis and fellow senior Adrianna Stasiuk lead the Irish into the Big East Tournament. 
different than the college game -just the level and
Friends 

speed of the sets." continued from page 24 Stasiuk and Tarutis quickly 
developed a chemistry that Tarutis said. "It has such a has improved over the past rich tradition." four years. This connection 
Tarutis also cited the on the court led to a cama­school's welcoming nature. raderie that now extends 
"I'm really short for the beyond the game. [setter) position, so [Notre "[Stasiuk and I] have a Dame] made really special me feel really relationship comfortable. and friend­and it was a "She's been my best ship," Tarutis great offer said. "She and
friend here for four 
for a school I know what 
years.
like this," each other is Tarutis said. going to do. Stasiuk and Ashley Tarutis We don't have Tarutis were to worry. We
Irish senior setter 
immediately put onto the same court as freshmen. 
"Coming into freshman year, everything was a whole new experience," Tarutis said. "Everything just seemed like a whirlwind. Also, setting-wise, obviously, the high school game is way 

A bit ofIreland in your own backyard. 

Just seconds from campus. With it'i many choice beverases, heartyfood and lively conversation, Bri8id's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the flreplace and lots ofbi8screen TVs to watch all theSames. And we're open seven niShts a week, too. 
(WaterfOrd Estates u.x:Jge has hotel rooms at reasom1blerates for upcomingNDfootball weekends.) 

can emotion­
ally feed off of 

one other. If one of us is having a bad game. and the other one gets on !the other], there are no hard feelings. 
"We can have little tiffs on the court and then be best friends again in two sec­onds. She's been my best friend here for four years." 
As seniors. both playors are floor generals for the Irish. Tarutis, the team's setter, is a natural leader while Stasiuk has benn hon­ored as the team's captain. 
In four years, Tarutis and Stasiuk have helped produce a record of 90-39. But the fate of this season may hinge on their play this weekend in the Big East Tournament in Milwaukee. The Irish will open against Cincinnati on Friday at 11 
a.m. If the seniors can lead their team to a champi­onship, they will find them­selves in their fourth NCAA Tournament in four years. 
"I hope this season ends with our team doing our very best and surprising the favored teams we play both in the Big East tourney and in the NCAAs," Stasiuk said. "I love being the underdog." 
But with the end of the season nearing, life after graduation also beckons for Stasiuk and Tarutis. For Stasiuk. that may not mean an end to her volleyball career. 
"My majors are accounting and television." Stasiuk said. "My plans for next year are to work at a public account­ing firm in Los Angeles and play beach volleyball as much as possible land] con­sider my options for playing sand lvolleyballl." 
Tarutis is less ambitious about finding a career in her sport. 
"I think after 11 years, this is my last go around with [competitive] volleyball ­maybe I'll be one of those 

old ladies in the old people league," Tarutis said. "When I graduate, I will be getting a master's degree in social work. Right now, my hope is to work with families, ospe­cially families with special needs kids. Maybe I can help alleviate some of their prob­lems or disruptions in family life [as a therapist]." 
Notes: 

+ 
Stasiuk currently has career totals of 428 games played, 228 assists, 273 blocks and 1,537 points, which amounts to 3.59 scores per game. She is in the top 10 in the Notre Dame career record books in many categories. 

+ 
Stasiuk is second in matches with 10-plus digs and also in double-double matehes with 89 and 61. respectively. She is third with 1.451 digs and third with 126 serviee aces as well as sixth in matches with 1 0-plus kills at 71. She 

Stasiuk became the seventh player in Notre Dame history to enter the 1,000 kill/1 ,000 dig club. 

+ 
Tarutis has played in 449 games, which is sixth best for any Notre Dame vol­leyball player. Along with 224 career kills and 123 total blocks, Tarutis is third all-time in assists with 4,615 helpers, sixth with 113 serv­ice aces. and ninth with 1,060 digs. 



remains 1Oth in kills with  
1,243.  
Earlier  this  season.  

+Tarutis became the sin­gle season record holder for assists when she notched 1,573 helpers in 2005. Tarutis is the only current player to have played in 100 percent of all possible Irish matches during her career at Notre Dame. "I want to contribute to the team in whatever way I can," Tarutis said. "If that means I'm on the court in every match of every game in every play, then that's fine -whatever is best for the team." 
+Two Notre Dame players were honored with the Big East Conference's weekly awards. For her perform­ances in tho two Irish wins last weekend, sophomore outside hitter Megan Fesl was namod the conference player of the week. Freshman middle blocker Kellie Sciacca garnered rookie of the week honors. It is the first week this year in which teammates swept the Big East honors. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu and Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 14, 2007 
that big play." Barlow said she sees her­
Gaines 

self simply as a role player who tries to get involved in
continued from page 24 

the offlmse. 
game. McGraw said, one of Notre Dame's goals was to lake charges against Lady Toppers forwards Dominique Duek and Crystal Kelly in order to try to gel them in foul trouble. Gaines took two eharges in two minutes against Duck to put the jun­ior in narly foul trouble. 
McGraw said getting Kentucky's top players in foul trouble was important. 
"Wn had a lot of things we were looking at, and all of them looked pretty good at praeliec," she said. "But my favorite was when [Kelly! was on the bench." 
Kelly had one of the worst games of her career Tuesday, shooting 1-of-7 from beyond the arc with seven points and four boards before fouling out. Thn performanee snapped the senior's 49­game streak of scoring in doublf~ figurns. Kelly finished tlw game without a two-point field goal for the first time in her carenr at Western Kentucky. 
"I don't know if that's evnr happerwd. llopefully it will never happnn again," KHlly said. 
Irish guard J\shiHy Barlow lwlped snt the tone for Notre Dame throughout the gamn. Barlow finished with 1 S points on 5-of-R shooting, including 3-of-4 from thrnn­point range. 
"I think shn's bnnn great. ... To me, shn's the person that stead ins us sometimes," Md;raw said. "They wnrn on a run and things got a little sloppy in the second half. She t:omes in, she drives the ball and gnts a layup and gets to the foul lirw. Shn's the one that's always going to make 
"I just go out there and play my game," she said. "Whatever Coach wants me to do, that's what I'm going to go out there and do." 
Western Kentucky was unable to keep up with the Irish in the first half and fell behind 50-23 going into the break. Notre Dame was able to push the score up by using effective fast-break offense throughout the opening half. 
"I thought we could have turned the shot clocks off." MeGraw said. "I thought there was a lot of running going on; it was quite a track meet. I was glad we had a lot of depth." 
Even though Notre Dame was able to dominate the first half, Western Kentueky shrank the Irish lead in the second by outscoring the Irish 36-2R. 
"I thought we got a big lead and we got complacent. You get up thirty and you feel like 'We're going to win, let's just let the clock run,"' MeGraw said. "So I was a little disap­pointed with our execution and our defense in the see­ond half." 
Lady Toppers coaeh Mary Taylor Cowles said she thought her team stepped up its game in the seeond half to eut down the lead. 
"If we could have put two halves together defensively, then it might have been a dif­fen~nt story," Cowles said. 
Notre Dame travels to College Park. Md., on Friday for its first away game of' the season against No.:~ Maryland in the NIT semifi­nals. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Blueline 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame's defense, the staple of its success last season, was a huge question mark for the team coming into this fall. 
The young group of bluelin­ers is led by its only two sen­iors, Brock Sheahan and Dan VeNard. VeNard saw limited ice time last season due to injuries that plagued him early in the year. Last season, the team graduated three defensemen, two of whom signed profession­al contracts shortly after their college careers ended. 
The Irish have had to regroup with a corps of younger, albeit talented defensemen. Freshmen Ted Ruth and Ian Cole were thrown into the mix immediately, and so far, both have answered the call as well as could be imagined. They are joined by sophomores Brett Blatchford and Kyle Lawson, who have already stepped into leadership roles and are build­ing a bright future for a back line that has become a trade­mark for Jeff Jackson in South Bend. 
!\big part of Notre Dame's suceess on the defensive end has been the goaltending of junior Jordan Pearce, who had a combined 64 saves against Davis and the rest of the HedHawks over the weekend. The Anehorage, Alaska native has been the most pleasant surprise of the year so far for the Irish. Pearee was expeeted to battle highly touted fresh­man Brad Phillips for time early in the season, but quiekly took over the role as the No. 1 netminder. Pearce is currently second in the country in min­utes played and has suecessful­ly replaced Dave Brown between the pipes. 
Pive of Notre Dame's first 11 games have been against teams 

Thought you couldn't study abroad? Don't want to miss a semester on campus? 

Vienna, Austria 
Paris, France Dublin, Ireland Rome, Italy Puebla, Mexico Amsterdam, Netherlands Toledo, Spain Taipei, Taiwan Kampala, Uganda London, United Kingdom 
Come to an information session to learn more... 
Thursday, November 15, 2007 5:00pm 126 DeBartolo 
Application deadline is March 1, 2008 (except Kampala and London) http: I /www.nd.edu/ -ois/Apply 

ranked in the top 15, with four against Michigan, Colorado of those against teams in the College and Massaehusetts. So top five. the schedule isn't getting any 
The daunting early schedule weaker. was hardly an easy start for a But from here on out, things team that lost eight key players should only get bettflr for the last season. The Irish have Irish as they continue to grow weathered the initial storm and more comfortable playing with survived in one piece. The team one another. has matchups against defend­ing national champion Contact Dan Murphy at Michigan State, as well as drnurphy6@nd.edu 
~,:j:> '', "the C.?\MPUS SHOPPE.S Plaxn :\;:, , , ', , (with Shtdr. B~9cl~ 11~d 'BMwr~n !Itt 'Bun) 

Hours: 

1813 South Bend .Avenue Monday-Saturday 10am-8pm South Bend, j N 46637 S"'1day 12pm--5pm (574) 271-4990 
Litttited tittte offers for students: 10% off with a Full Service. 

:"" :'i<' ' f--;' '. --,; :,h.-, 
12 noon-5 p.m. Palais Royale Ballroom, 105 W. Colfax. Ave., South B.,nd 11,., 3rd annual Bella Bridal Event and Style Show offer> «uerything ]OU nrcdfor_your .<J>rcioi J'!l' incbding sfYlnhou, at 1::~ 0 P-m. cmd 3:30p.m., .food and bevtruge lusting and tlae latest iwuJ<ddingsjy/t, 
Tickets $5 in advance_, $10attlwdoor 
Purchase tickf~ nt the Morri.< Box Office 574 -285--9190 or onliM nt 
www. bellalH'idalevent.cotn 
One ofthe most hilarious plays ever written 
Directed by 
Mark Abram·(openhaver 
Costume5 de5igned by Melissa 8. Bialko Scenery and Lighting designed by Michaela Duffy 
Utti~Th~~tr~ 

Thursday, November 15 at 7:30 P.M. Friday, November 16 at 7:30P.M. Sunday, November 18 at 2:30P.M. & 7:30P.M. 

The Importance 
-of Being 



Wednesday, November 14, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 


MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 
Let's see ... Long Island UniYersity, 
10,000 undergrads is a lot, but they 
were 10-19last year in the North 
East Conference. Hnnn, neYer 
heard of that one, can't be too goo<L 
\Ye'U play them, shouldn't he 
too tough to pull out a \'i.ctory. 
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Robert Dillman  
40 Make music on a  48 Present but not  58 Depended (on)  
comb  active  59 Pivot  
41 Answer before  49 Contents of  
exchanging rings  some shells  61 Score after  
42 Have a  to  50 Be cozy  deuce  
pick  51 Write  62 Bakery display  
43 Sentimental drivel  permanently 55 Rock concert  63 u  homo"  
46 Hinder  setting  64 Line holder  
47 Some auto deals  57 Pitchers' stats  67 NASA vehicle  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzletorum. Crosswords tor young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

JJf!JMJJJ1J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
TARFD 
I I I 


@2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
I BOLEN 

I [J bI 

.....
I TOOWWK± 
WHE:N THE NATURE
( J ( J 
CAMP C.UT ITS RATE,
www.jumble.com 
THE NUDISTS--­
tDYFLAG j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I r I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: [XI JAlI I] "(I XJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: CRIME TIGER AMBUSH QUORUM Answer: What the mob boss allowed the masseuse to do -"RUB" HIM OUT 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Amit Paul, 24; Winona Ryder, 36; Kate Jackson, 59; Richard Dreyfuss, 60 
Happy Birthday: Change what isn't working for you. It's the uncertainty of not knowing where you are heading that plays on your nerves. Develop a strategic, well-thought-out means to achieve your goals. Your backup plan will be equally important and will give you strength and courage. Your numbers are 10, 19, 27, 30,35,41 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Rid yourself of guilt or the feeling that you can't do something. It's time for you to try something new. Make a move if it will lead to a more eACiting future. Change will inspire and exhilarate you. 4 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You've got the added discipline needed to get things done. Talk to people in the know and you will get the answers required. A serious look at something that someone else presents may lead you in a new di­rection. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will tend to change your nilnd a Jot, confusing the people with whom you talk about work, money and finances. It may be that you don't want anyone judging you for the purchases or choices you make. Face your responsibilities. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Say what's on your nrind. You may feel emotional about a lot of different things going on in your life today but, keeping your thoughts locked up will not solve your prob!tnns. Deal with each issue as it arises. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Help the people who count most--the ones you live with or hold close to your heart. This is a perfect time to sign or negotiate a con­tract that is of a personal nature. A decision you make will help you achieve greater stability in your life. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You've got plenty to think about today but, ifyou let your emotions take over, you may find yourself in the center of a sticky situa­tion. Changing your mind or getting involved in something you know little about will lead to criticism. 2 stars LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): By taking a creative approach to something you want to do, you will stir up a lot of interest. You should be able to get both the pros and cons thrown at you by those who can help you make it to the next leveL Openness will be your ticket to success. 5 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't be too quick to invest in something that ounds good but that you know little about. Stick to what you know and do best. Impulsive purchases will lead to financial arguments with the people you are in­volved with. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS {Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't spend on love, trying to attract some­one who isn't likely to be impressed with your financial irresponsibility. Put your money into something that helps you get ahead. You may be charming but, with­out closing deals or saving, you will not get ahead. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stage meetings or get involved in a convention or tradeshow that will honor something that you want to learn more about. You can increase your income ifyou aren't impulsive. Financial security will be yours if you are cautious. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Everything is turning in your favor today but don't take advantage of others. Now is not the time to push everyone to do things your way. Back off and let people come to you. 5 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): You will tend to be unreasonable when it comes to emotional matters. Take a step back and fully understand your position and the position of those who oppose you. Don't make a final decision thoughtlessly. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You take life seriously and formulate and execute your plans carefully. You are unique, emotional, sensitive and have widespread interests­
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential 
consultations 



Down 

It has arms, legs and a back 2 "Let's go!" 
3 "Sometimes you feel like 
4 Italian river valley in W.W. II fighting 
5 Page of music 
6 Cosmonaut Leonov, the first human to walk in space 
7 "Holy moly!" 
8 Fair-sized plot 
9 Old British gun 
1 0 Fountain offering 
11 1991 Geena Davis title role 12 'The Sound of Music" hit 13 "Sophie's Choice" author 18 Per 22 Catch 24 Celebrity 26 Fort on 
Monterey Bay 
27 w.c. 
28 Tempe sch. ­
29 nny tale 
31 Part of r.p.m.: 
Abbr. 32 Pre-1868 Tokyo 33 Dog in 1930s 
films 35 Fitzgerald who sang "A-nsket, 
A-Tasket" 38 Comics cry 39 Start of long­
distance dialing 
CROSSWORD 
Across 441mpart A diehard enemy 45 Broadcast might want yours portion 6 Gather 
46 Call in draw poker
11 QB's goals 
52 John P.
14 Amor vincit 
Marquand
15 Milk: Prefix 
detective 
161n 
53 Signify 
17 Call in roulette 
54 Prefix with 
19 Suffix with fish 
carpal
20 For smaller 
56 Sounds of 
government, 
walking in
presumably 
moccasins
21 One who 
60 Deicing tool 
supplies the 
means 

65 Detroit-to­23 Knocks off Philadelphia dir. 25 Gun dealer's 66 Call in craps stock 
68 Family room 
26 Norway's patron 
69 Challenge to _
saint 
70 Family girl 
30 Call in blackjack 34 Robot maid on 71 Inexact fig. 

'The Jetsons" 72 Request to meet 36 Buttresses in person 37 Call in many a 73 Photographer 
betting game Adams 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, November 14, 2007 
page 24 
... 
N 0 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Spinning the Toppers 
Irish take down Western Kentucky in NIT second round 
By JAY FITZPATRICK A'snciate Sports Editor 

With 15:06 IHft in the first half. Irish point guard Tulyah Gaines sank a long two-point jurnpshot to give NotrH Dame a 12-3 lead -one it did not relinquish Tuesday as it coast­ed to a 78-59 win over Westnrn Kentucky in the sec­ond round of the preseason women's NIT. 
"J think with a veteran group you really expect to !get a quick lead!," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I think when you come out you're just curious to see who's going to be the one today that's going to get us started." 
Gaines was a dominant pres­ence on both ends of the court in the first half. The senior point guard had six points, five assists, three rebounds and no turnovers in 30 min­utes. 
"I though Tulyah played really well. She had a great floor game.... I just thought she was outstanding as a leader tonight," McGraw said. 
Gaines was also a crucial part of the Irish defensive ganwplan. Going into the 
see GAINES/page 22 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Seniors look back on careers 
Stasiuk, Tarutis lead squad into Big East tourney against Cincy 
By PAT O'BRIEN and ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writers 
Senior captain Adrianna Stasiuk and senior setter Ashley Tarutis have played together for four years, started most of Notre Dame's matches, and posted superb statistics while pro­viding the spark and heart for the Irish. 
The two players may have come from different parts of the U.S. -Stasiuk is from Park Ridge, Ill., while Tarutis hails from Long Beach, Calif. -but both had the same reason for coming to Notre Dame. 
"I chose NO because it had the best combination of aca­demics and strong athlet­ics," Stasiuk said. "An NO degree will get you set for life." 
Notre Dame "is such a great combination of aca­demics and athletics," 
see FRIENDS/page 21 

HOCKEY ANALYSIS 
Irish defense leads the way 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
Notre I>anw 's 27 -6-:{ reeord 

last. season was no fluke. 
This year's tnam, which is now 7-4, provml that over the weekend when, for the second year in a row, it knocked out the nation's bnst team. 
In 2006, tlw Irish slaugh­tered Boston College 7-1 in Boston; this year they split a weekend series with No.1 Miami (011). Going into the weekend, the well-oiled Hedllawks looked as close to unbeatable as possible. The veteran squad reeled ofT blowout after blowout victory to bring a perfect 7-0 record into its contest with the Irish. 
So far this season, th1~ Hndllawks have been led by an offense that averages more than live goals every time they lace up their skates. In two gamns against the Irish they rnanagml to squeeze in a com­binml total of four-and that was with Miami returning its Jnading scorer from last year, Nathan Davis. Arguably the most dangerous player in the wuntry this year, Davis was held to one goal on the week­end. 
see BLUELINE/page 22 


FooTBALL 

Weis uses seniors to motivate squad 
Coach urges Irish to beat Duke for the upperclassmen 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 

When a team is 1-9, it's hard to find motivation. 
That is why Notre Drrme coach Charlie Weis is calling on his team to "win one for the seniors" Saturday against Duke in the season's final home game. 
"As far as the underdassmen go, I think that they have to put any selfishness aside," Weis said. "This isn't a game you worry about for those guys, worrying about next year. It's sending !the seniors) out the right way." 
Weis said when he first came to Notre Dame, he didn't realize how emotional senior days would be for departing players. It only sunk in during Notre Dame's final home game of Weis' first year as coach, against Syracuse in 2005. 
"1 know offensively it took us over a half just to really get anything going at all because there was a lot of guys that are going through what's happmwd in their careers over the last four or live years," Weis said of that game. "It's something that you have to try to keep them grounded." 
Most of tho time, Weis said, he tries to keep his team on an even keel, trying not to make any game more important than the others. But he also aims to have a new motivational mes­sage for each game, and senti­mentality is the easy choice for this week. 

"I think that each week you try to have a message for that game, so I think it actually plays right into that, our way of looking at it one week at a time," he said. "That happens to be the message for this game right here." 
Even though his team is basi­cally playing for next season at this point, Weis said, he would not bench any of his starting seniors. 
"Let me take, for instance, John Carlson. I'm not going to take John Carlson and say, 'OK, your career is over now,"' Weis 
see SENIORS/page 21 






