
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 1 SATURDAY, AUGUST 25,2007 
2 ND students shot outside Club 23 
Recovering seniors expected to enroll for fall semester; police continue investigation 
By KAREN LANGLEY News Editor 
Police are still searching for the man who shot and wounded two Notre Dame students early Tuesday out­side the Club 23 bar on Notre Dame Avenue. 
Seniors Matthew Collins and Mitchell Depree were shot around 1 a.m. Tuesday following a "harsh" conver­sation with the shooter, who returned several minutes later in an SUV and fired five shots a·t the students, said Capt. Phil Trent, a spokesperson for the South Bend Police Department. 
The students were taken to St. Joseph Regional Medical Center, .where Depree was treated for a leg wound and then released, Trent said. The gunshot wounds Collins received to his abdomen and leg, however, were initially considered so life threaten­ing that he requested and received last rites. 
Collins said Thursday he is "doing fine" and expected to make a full recovery. A bul­let will remain permanently in his abdomen, however, since any~ procedure to remove it would be too risky, he said. 
Collins said the shooter ­who neither he nor his 
see SHOOTING/page 7 


Freshmen set admissions records 
First-year students chosen from strongest applicant pool yet, boast 1390 average SAT scores 

Expected enrollment: 1,993 Ethnic Minorities: 22% International Students: 3% Children of Alumni: 23% Average SAT: 1390 Amount in top 10% 
of High School class: 84% 
Soun.:e: Notre Dame Admissions 
Students who expressed interest in: 
Art< & Letters 

Observer Ora hie/MADELINE NIBS 

Crisis notification 
system launches 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame will launch a mass notification system this fall to enable administrators to notify students of any eampus emer­gency via e-mail, text message and voice mail. 
The University began exploring the idea of putting a notification system in place during the fall of 2006, said Jay Steed, executive assistant to Chief Information Officer Gordon Wishon. 
The Office of Information Technologies had originally planned to do a pilot project with the notification system, Steed said. But Notre Dame sped up its plan this spring following Ap1;il's tragedy at Vrrginia Tech. 
Notre Dame officials signed a contract May 23 with the Connect-ED service, a company that uses web-based technology to help clients send messages to large numbers of people in a short period of time. 
The Office of the Registrar sent students an e-mail Aug. 22 requesting they submit a cell phone number and a non-Notre Dame e-mail address when they enroll for the semester. This con­tact information will be kept pri­vate and will be used only for emergency notifications, Steed said. 
see SYSTEM/page 5 By KAREN LANGLEY 

News Editor 
This year, being a freshman is something to brag about. 
The Class of 2011 is new on the Notre Dame campus, but its members have made it through the most selective admissions process in University history. 
The 1,993 students in the freshman class are among the 24 percent of applicants accepted this year by the University. 
Only 15 years ago, Notre Dame accepted a full 50 per­cent of applicants for the Class of 1996. 
Notre Dame is one of less than 10 U.S. universities that accepts fewer than 50 per­cent of applicants and then enrolls more than 50 percent of accepted students, said Daniel Saracino, assistant provost for admissions. 
"The student who applies to Notre Dame has Notre Dame as a first choice," he said. 
The average SAT score of the freshman class -1390 on the critical reading and 
see 2011/page 5 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Voting delayed on ordinance 
Plan to require party permits stalls 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor" 
The South Bend Common Council voted Aug. 20 to post­pone the public hearing on the proposed ordinance that would require students living off campus to register large parties 10 days in advance. 
The ordinance would require residents of "board­ing houses" -residences with two or more unrelated occupants -to apply for a permit from the city 10 days prior to any gatherings that host more than 25 guests and serve alcohol. 
The public hearing will be held Aug. 27. Council mem­bers said this would allow time for any changes needed to enforce the bill and defend against any legal challenges -two concerns raised at the Community Relations Committee meeting held ear­lier Monday night. 
Immediately before the Council meeting, Mayor Steven Luecke advised the Community Relations Committee to postpone the hearing for 30 days. 
"Through good dialogue, [the billl will have a chance to do what we want it to do," he said. 
see PERMIT /page 6 

Largest class arrives at Saint Mary's 
Increase in freshman enrollment part of5-year plan to boost school size 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
The 481 students who will enroll at Saint Mary's this week comprise the largest freshman class to enter the College in 17 years -an increase that officials say is critical to the College's development. 
The increase comes as the first goal in a five-year plan to stabilize enroll­ment at 1,600, said Dan Meyer, Vice President for Enrollment Management. 
"At this size [1,600 to 1, 700], Saint Mary's will be a more robust institu­tion, better able to absorb 
see SMC/page 7 


r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Saturday, August 25, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Guns and lavvs 
'1\vo Notm I >amP snniors just got shot. 
Tim South Bnnd dty coundl is plowing ahnad with an ordinance timt, many out­ragnd studnnl-; argun, would mean the dnath of' oll~nunpus house parties. 
It's a blnak grnnt­ing, I know. But bnf(wn you start bit­tnrly wishing you wnnt to that statn school in a rnal eol­h~w~ town with li1rty othnr kids li·om your high school, rmrwm­bnr why you camn. 

This is NotrP Maddie Hanna Danw. Hudy imagns 
<L-;ide, them are Editor in Chief 
phmty of people who 
only dream of' going 
h1~rn -and plnnty 
more who flood campus for a taste of that 
drnmn nvery f(Jotimll weekend. Wn're the 
lucky ones. 
We're more fllrtunatn than popular, however. You've arrivnd on campus at a time when long-simmering town-gown tensions have reached a new peak. For years, South Bend residcnl<; have eom­plainnd about tim musk-blaring, lawn-lit­t.nring habil-; of' thnir Notre Dame neigh­bors. For years, South Bend bars have housnd underagn Notrn Damn students, a situation timt occa-;ionally results in an embarra-;sing bust. For years, South Bend and st.at.n policn ollicers have pat.rollnd Notre Dwne-hnavy apmtnwnt complexes, slapping not.-quit.e-h~ga.l partygoers (<md t.hnir nnabling hosl-;) with arrnst. tickets and lines. 
Thn proposnd party permit. ordinance -lilllownd by ti1e shooting in a studnnt rwighborhood -only makes the situation worse. 
Why do twnnt.y percent of' us still insist on living off cwnpus? 
As gorg11ous as Notre Dame's campus is, it's also extremnly insular. That's great for walking to da-;s without having to dodge trallk, fhr always spotting a familiar face in LaFortune, for spp,nding sunny after­noorL<; tossing fooiliall-; on South Quad. 
But a<; we get. older, whetiler we stay on campus or move oil', our Notre Dame lives incrmL-;ingly ndge into Soutil Bend. A few weeks here, and you'll look fbrward to a trip to Meijer. You'll consider an off-cam­pus dinner a treat. Eventually, you'll find dorm parties a litUe too sweaty. And you'll know more and more friends who move into apartmenl<; or houses. 
I ean 't tell you exaetiy how many rude Notre Damn studenl-; are to blame lor tile shaky relationship with tile community, or how m<my angry Soutil Bend residents, resenting pa-;t inddenl'>, arc unfairly shov­eling blame on tile rnst. oftile student. body. 
I don't. know exactly what. happened bnlhrn Mattilnw Collins and Mitchell Dnprne got shot. whntiler tile violence was complnt.oly random or related, to some degree, by tile fact tilat tilcy go to Notre Dame. 
But I know tilat tiln time I've spent. off campus ha<; defined my Notre Dame expp,rience -tile group trek-; to Turtle Crnek, the lazy Saturday mornings at l.a.layette, tile late nights at Nick's Patio. 
It's far from a perfect situation, but Notre Dame and Soutil Bend are linked. The streets outside of Notre Dame's green quad-; are, in parts, ugly and rough, but tiley shouldn't be shunned-just approached witil tile intelligence tilat got you here in tile first plac.e. 
Contact Maddie IIanna at 
mhannal@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards i!Self as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ADVICE DO YOU HAVE FOR FRESHMEN? 

Brie Anne Eichenhorn  Molly Pfister  Andrew Matasic  Pete Gargula  Michael Schaefer  Kyle Peters  
senior  senior  junior  senior  senior  junior  
Opus  Opus  Alumni  Keough  Dillon  O'Neill  
"Meet lots of  "Make friends  nRow. ,,  "Don't ever go  "Make friends  "Work at  
people."  with someone  to Club 23."  with your hall's  Reekers."  
,,with a car.  cleaning crew."  

ORIENTATION WEEKEND 
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION WEEKEND SCHEDULE 
1:00 p.m.  Official Orientation Joyce Center  10:00 a.m.  Student Panel Little Theatre  
3:15p.m.  Parent Orientation Joyce Center  1:30 p.m.  De~artment Fair Student Center  ~.; w  
8:00p.m.  Meeting with Rectors and Hall Staff Residence Halls  4:30p.m.  Mass O'Laughlin  
10:00 a.m. Eucharistic liturgy Joyce Center 11 :30 a.m. Box Lunch Joyce Center 12:00 p.m. The Spirit of Notre Dame Joyce Center  4:00p.m. 9:00p.m.  Small Grou~ Meetings Noble Family Dining Hall Jamaica Shako Library Green  
TODAY  TONIGHT  SUNDAY  MONDAY  TUESDAY  WEDNESDAY  

a:: 
IJ.I 
:1: 
~ 
IJ.I 
3: 
_, 
cc 
(,) 0 ...1 



71 55 


80 60 

HIGH LOW 


HIGH LOW 


Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Saint Mary's fills 4 administrative positions 
Chiefinformation officer, Student Involvement director, Residence Life director, and Multicultural Affairs director selected 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer  prehend the situation here would be inadvisable." Thomasson said she wants  Wise. Saint Mary's also filled the posi­tion of director of student involve­ return to school sooner," Johnson said, "but she decided to stay on last year."  other cultural aspects that reflect the diversity present here in our campus," Olin said.  
Saint Mary's students to work  ment -formerly named the  Dieujuste comes to Saint Mary's  She also plans to reach out to  
Saint Mary's has filled four  with her in some sort of job shad­ director of student activities - from Northeastern University in  other offices and departments on  
vacant administrative positions  owing capacity in the Department  over the summer.  Boston, where she was the assis­ campus to "coordinate programs  
that were left open at the end of  of Information Technology.  Karen Siron, previously the  tant director of residence life. She  and explore where we can poten­ 
the 2006-07 school year.  "This would be more than just  coordinator of residential life and  also won the Resident Assistant of  tially collaborate."  
Janice Thomasson began her  having roundtable career discus­ assistant director of campus activ­ the Year Award at Boston College,  While it is an important role of  
new position as chief information  sions or monthly meetings in a  ities and student commons at  where she com- OMA, Olin  
ollicer (CIO} July 23. Thomasson  group," she said. "It would be  Jacksonville University, replaces  pleted her under­ s  a  i  d  
most recently served as CIO at Murray State University in Kentucky and has held similar positions at Daytona Beach Community College and the Medical College of Ceorgia.  'Til be working with the student leaders this year to incorporate other cultural aspects that reflect the diversity present here in our ,,campus.  much more focused and personalized." While there is no such shadowing program in place at the College yet, Thomasson is committed to make it hap­ former director George Rosenbush, who retired during winter break in 2006 for health reasons. Siron has been spending her time preparing for freshman ori­entation and learning about Saint Mary's, Vice President of Student Affairs Karen Johnson said. The position and office were renamed in order to better reflect Siron's new responsibilities,  graduate and graduate degrees. Larisa Olin also took over a new position at the College during the summer. Olin, who served as the assistant director of multicultural affairs for close to two years, recent­ "Diversity requires everybody,s commitment and a change in our attitudes to create an inclusive environment in which every single mem­ber of a community has a very important contribution to make.,,  increasing the recogni­tion of diversity at S a i n t Mary's is a task that extends beyond the office. "Diversity requires  
While she has not enactBd any major changes at the Collngn so  Larisa Olin director of multicultural affairs  pen because "it is one of the most effective ways for young  Johnson said. "[It] is a more descriptive name of what that office does -it is much more than just activities,"  ly became the director of multi­cultural affairs after that position  Larisa Olin director of multicultural affairs  everybody's commit­ment and a change in  
far, Thomasson  women  to  Johnson said.  remained open for  our  atti­ 
said she has several ideas for  determine whether a telecommu­ The College also hired Slandeh  a year.  tudes  to  
tnchnology enhancements that  nications career is tor them."  Dieujuste, who will serve as the  Olin's plans for the Office of  create an inclusive environment  
she will introduce over the next  Thomasson startnd in the posi­ new director of residence life.  Multicultural  Affairs  (OMA)  in which every single member of  
year as they receive approval  tion  after  former  CIO  Keith  Dieujuste replaces former direc­ include the creation of a new stu­ a community has a very impor­ 
from College Pmsident Carol Ann  Fowlkes, who had been at the  tor Michelle Russell, who left  dent club and issuing a biannual  tant contribution to make," she  
Mooney.  College for more than five years,  Saint Mary's to pursue a Ph.D. at  newsletter to alumnae who were  said.  
"I am currently in listening  left to become the vice chancellor  State University of New York­ active with OMA.  
mode," Thomasson said. "To  of information technology and CIO  Buffalo.  ''I'll be working with the student  Contact Liz Harter at  
make changes before I fully com- at the University of Virginia at  "It had been [Russell's] plan to  leaders this year to incorporate  eharteO1@saintmarys.edu  


.---------­
page 4 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 25, 2007 
Construction projects continue across campus 
Law School construction begins on Notre Dame Avenue; Duncan Hall remains on schedulefor summer 2008 completion 

By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Several construction proj­ects are underway at Notre Dame as the University con­tinues to execute its 10-year development plan. 
On the west side of campus, Duncan Hall, a new male dor­mitory, is being built next to McGlinn Hall. Work on the building, funded by 1952 Notre Dame graduate Haymond T. Duncan, will be completed by the summer of 2008 and should house stu­dents in the fall of that year. The dorm will house 232 stu­dents and is being built to relieve overcrowding in the residence halls on campus. 
The construction of three 
s I A M RESTAURANT ------·········-·-···--·-·----­From the Far East comes a tustef(Jr the remurkahle. bringing tlze true taste of11wiland across the waters and continents, justfor you. This is a trip into the exotic and rlze delicious. with authentic Thai cooking that can't be.f(mnd am•wlzere else in A1iclriana. Come e1~ioy an elegant evening (~{sampling some (~(the world's .finest cuisine that will excite yourfit•e senses: sweet, sour. salty, spic:y. and natural. L---­-----··-··-·-·--········-----· 211 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 232,-4445 www. SjamThaiSouthBend .com  
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students  
Atria Salon, will be giving away 100 complimentary Haircuts & styles to the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. This is our way to say thank you for your support for the last 10 years, along with welcoming new students to our salon. Atria Salon Specializing in Color 574-271-8804 South Bend, IN 2039 South Bend Ave. www.AtriaSalon2.com Located off Ironwood and State Rd. 23 in the Martins Shopping Plaza-within walking distance from campus  
To qualify for this promotion, please call the salon coordinator@ 271 8804 and let them know your interested. *Certain restrictions apply. Atria salon 2 has the right to refuse promotion without any advance notice. This promotion has no cash value. Expires September 20th, 2007. Please ask about our student discount cards.  


more dorms is included in the 10-year master plan. 
Workers are currently in the process of completing masonry work on the second floor of Duncan, Vice President for Business Operations Jim Lyphout said. 
In preparation for a new Law School building on DeBartolo quad, work was done last spring on the 

chilled water system between the Morris Inn and the Notre Dame Post Office. The Post Office was then torn down during the summer to accom­modate for the new building. 
Work is now underway on the law building, Lyphout said. An area beside the existing Law School has been 
fenced off, blocking pedestrian traffic down sidewalks from Main Circle to DeBartolo H a I I Excavation for the building is slated to start during the first week of school. 
Further south on 
Notre Dame Avenue, con­struction on the new engi­neering building should start after Thanksgiving. Stinson­Remnick Hall, a $69.4 million engineering building, will be erected on the site currently occupied by the University Club. 
The University Club will be torn down around Thanksgiving to make way for the work. Stinson-Hemnick Hall should be completed in approximately three years. 
The segment of Juniper Hoad which previously ran through campus was elosed to traffic last year and has been transformed into a walker-friendly area, with a pedestrian plaza between Notre Dame Stadium and the Joyce Center. 
During the week before commencement in May, a storm with high winds passed through the campus and knocked a small spire off the upper part of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. As a pre­caution, the three remaining small spires were removed during the summer. The spires will be replaced and other renovation and repair 
work will be done on the out­side of the building. These repairs will not take place until summer 2008. 
"It requires the erecting of scaffolding, and we don't want to do that now that school has started," he said. "We will wait until after grad­uation next year." 
The storm 
also knocked 
down about 20

"[Repairing the 
trees near the

Basilica] requires the 
Clarke erecting of scaffolding, Memorial Fountain
and we don't want to 
commonly

do that now that school 
known as has started. We will Stonehenge ­and eight trees
wait until after 
near the

graduation next year." 
Grotto. The trees will be Jim Lyphout replaced in the 
vice president for spring of 2008. business operations 
Work is con­
tinuing on the 
Melissa Cook Stadium, which will house the v.arsity softball team. Construction began this sum­mer and should be finished in April 2008. 
Starting this semester, the area between the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center and Edison Hoad will be devel­oped into Notre Dame Commons, a park-like area of approximately 12 acres. 
The space will be land­scaped and sidewalks will be added. Eventually, Lyphout said, the Commons area may have features like a clock tower and a sundial. 
Immediately south of cam­pus, construction should begin this fall on Eddy Street Commons, a 25-acre, $200 million project that will cre­ate a new residential area and will feature retail shops, restaurants and hotels. 
The retail and restaurant sections should be completed by the summer of 2009, and the town homes and condo­miniums will be developed in phases, with completion set between 2009 and 2011. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

NQMA 
Atruly unique dining and drinking experience, 
featuring a creative blend of fusion style culinary delights w1th a delic21te to~.J.ch of Asian flavors m an exc•ting yet intimate satt1ng. 
Ptus, a stylrsh and contemporary fu!.lorl martm1 bar. 
Conwniently locate-d 1n th~· center of Downtown South Bend between Morn-s PerlOfmmg Arts Center. College Football Htlll ol Fame. and Marriott Hotel 
119 NQrth Mtch1gan Stretrt, Downt<lWn South Bend. 



Reservat•ons (BCommended. 
Go to www,clubNOMA.corn or www.openlable.corn. Or call: 233.4959. 
l..OclkK"lg for a bartender, cocktail 9BI"\\EEI', and hostess 
.-----------------------------~---~-------­
Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 5 
write new messages according to University's request for cell phone variety of mass notification got paths to communicate," she the circumstances of the emer­numbers and non-Notre Dame e­options for quite some time, said.
SysteiD 
gency. mail addresses. McDonald said. The system's The new notification system is continued from page 1 The prerecorded messages "The goal is to reach the maxi­adoption is not the first part of were composed by the Office of mum amount of people in as a direct result of a series of plans 
"The goal is to reach the
University President Father News and Information, Steed short a time as possible," Steed the Virginia Notre Dame has John Jenkins sent an e-mail to said. They have already pre­said. They are still exploring Tech shootings, maximum amount of in place in case the student body Aug. 13 in which loaded messages for potential other avenues to reach people, she said, and its of an emer­
people in as short a time 
he described the notification sys­emergencies, such as tornados, and the University is working implementation gency on cam­
as possible. " 
tem and requested that students lightening, a gunman on campus with Corncast to develop a means will not affect pus. A special participate in the program. and a gas leak, among others. of communication through cam­tuition costs. task force is in "Our hope The Office of News pus television. They are also Natash a Jay Steed charge of an and prayer and Information developing a Web site to alert visi­Rabe, the Chief annual review
executive assistant to the 
is that we will most likely tors to emergency situations on Business Officer and update of

chief information officer 
never need "Our hope and prayer is send out the notifi­campus. at NTI Group, the emergency to use the that we never need to cations, said Micki "If we reach enough of the cam­the company plans. system at Kidder, the Vice pus through different vectors, that distributes the Connect-ED Kidder, who is the Assistant
use the system at Notre

Notre Dame, Chair of the people will start to talk and go to service, said the company saw an Director of the Board Secretariat
Dame, but we want to be

but we want Emergency the Web site to fmd out what is increase in inquiries about their in the President's Office, as well to be certain certain that everything Planning going on," Steed said. product after the Virginia Tech as other members of the that every­Committee at The University will test the incident. Emergency Planning Committee, 
is in place should a

thing is in Notre Dame. service in the next few weeks. "College campuses across the are routinely in the process of
major emergency occur.

place should "The idea is to Thereafter, it will be tested once nation are all addressing this updating plans for various emer­a major provide the safest each semester to confirm reliabil­issue right now," she said. gency scenarios that could occur emergency Father John Jenkins environment we ity. The company has contracts on campus. 
. " 

occur. can for the Notre Saint Mary's will also use with Princeton University, Tulane They plan to create a Web site

University president 

Jenkins said Dame community," Connect-ED to notify students of University, Texas Tech University to house the University emer­in the e-Steed said. any emergency. and the University of Oklahoma, gency plans during the next few mail. The service costs "New students and their par­among other schools. months. 
With Connect-ED. the $2 per person for one year of ents have responded to the Approximately one million stu­"We want and encourage stu­University can upload contact unlimited messages. Notre Dame Connect-Ed system positively," dents, faculty and staff have their dents, stan· and faculty to famil­information for students. faculty currently has contact information said Melanie McDonald, a contact information registered on iarize themselves with the plan," and staff onto a Web portal. The for 16,500 people, largely from spokesperson for Saint Mary's. the service. Kidder said. system allows information to be the Office of the Registrar, since "They are grateful to know that Rabe stressed the importance of sent in several ways, including students must provide a contact student safety is a top priority, students participating in the pro­Liz Harter contributed reporting text messages, voice mail mes­number during web enrollment. and that we have begun to imple­gram. to this story. sages and e-mails. Clients of The service allows multiple num­ment a very efficient emergency "We've all got to work together, Connect-ED can design pre­bers and e-mail addresses for communication system." including student<>, to understand Contact Kaidynn Riely at scripted messages and ean also each person -hence the The College has been studying a the issue and make sure we've kriely@nd.edu 
The University seeks a stu­new freshmen were involved an athletic team. gridiron, Saracino said. dent body which is diverse in in a wide variety of extracur­+ 7 percent became Eagle In the face of such strong
2011 
the broadest sense, Saracino ricular activities -often in Scouts or Gold Scouts. competition, only exceptional said. Socioeconomic diversity leadership roles. "We're not looking for well­applicants are now members
continued from page 1 
and diversity of experience + 11 percent were editor of rounded students as much as of the Class of 2011, Saracino 
arc important factors as well a school publication. a well-rounded class," said. math sections -is the highest as ethnic diversity in compos­+ 10 percent were student Saracino said. "We want those "It makes me very proud as on record. Eighty-four percent ing a well-rounded class. he body president or senior class who are leaders." [an alumnus] to see the young of first-year students ranked said. president. The incoming class also men and women coming to in the top-1 0 percent of their This year's class draws from + 33 percent held part-time includes six sets of twins, a Notre Dame," he said. "These graduating classes, a figure all 50 states and the District of jobs during the school year. tinsmith who will study engi­are students who are passion­which has varied only slightly Columbia, as well as 21 for­+ 90 percent participated in neering, a student who had ate about the place, who want in the last decade. eign countries, Saracino said. community service. deferred his acceptance to to come to Notre Dame and 
As in other recent admis­Three percent of the fresh­+ 50 percent were involved serve in the Navy in the who will leave it a better sions processes, many talented man class is made up of inter­in music, art, drama or dance. Persian Gulf and one student place." applicants were denied admis­national students. The most + 65 percent lettered in at whose great-grandfather was sion to the Class of 2011, commonly represented foreign least one varsity sport. one of the legendary "Four Contact Karen Langley at Saracino said. country is South Korea, which + 37 percent were captain of Horsemen" of the Notre Dame klanglel@nd.edu 
The class includes 19 stu­is horne to 22 members of the dents who achieved perfect Class of 2011. China and standardized test scores of Canada are the next-most rep­2400 on the SAT or 36 on the resented countries. ACT. The Office of Admissions 
Despite the high academic would like to bring in a class 

marks of  which  is  five  
the class, N o t r e D a m e  "It makes me very proud as [an alumnus] to see the  ·percent inter­national, Saracino said,  
s  e  e k  s  young men and women  because  "we  
students w h 0 excel in  coming to Notre Dame. [. . .] These are students who are  learn from each other who are different."  
o t  h  e  r  passionate about the place,  International  
areas as we I I , Saracino  who want to come to Notre Dame and who will leave it  students are the only appli­cants who are  
said.  a better place."  not guaranteed  
"  0  u  r  financial aid for  
goal is to create the most  Dan Saracino director of admissions  full demonstrat­ed need, Saracino said.  
talented  The University  

and interesting and diverse has practiced a need-blind class possible," he said. admissions policy and guaran­
Students who are members teed to meet all demonstrated of an ethnic minority account financial since 1997, he said. for 22 percent of the class. Students who identified Though this figure is down themselves as Catholic make slightly from the previous up 85 percent of the class, 
freshman class, which was 24 while 23 percent of incoming percent minority. Saracino freshmen are the children of said no trend should be an alumnus. Those propor­inferred from the one-year tions mirror those of the appli­
drop. When the Class of 2001 cant pool, Saracino said. entered Notre Dame ten years Men account for 52 percent ago, only 14 percent of stu­of the class and women 48 dents were of an ethnic minor­percent, figures that also mir­ity. ror those of the applicant pool, 
A higher percentage of stu­he said. Saracino said Notre dents of an ethnic minority Dame can attract such high were admitted this year than interest among men at a time ever before, he said, but a when a numerical predomi­
lower proportion chose to nance of women is becoming enroll. increasingly common in higher 
"We went into the May 1 education because of its aca­deadline thinking we'd have demic majors -such as engi­more ethnic minority [stu­neering, business and science 
GET INVOLVED IN IRISH ATHLETICS 
The Sports Information Office is looking_ for student assistants for the'2007-08 school year.Anyone interested in tak1ng an active role in Notre Dame athletics should come to an informational meeting ... 
Tuesda~ August 28 -10:00 PM Lnd Floor Office Gate 2, Joyce Center 
Students are needed for writing, working events, office hours, and more. 

For more information, contact Bernie Cafarelli at 1-7516. 
IN 

dents] than ever," Saracino and not nursing or education. said. While in high school, the 
,-tge 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 25, 2007 


Per01it 
continued from page 1 
-.uockn asknd the Cou neil to r P!'i no the b iII so that it is "undorstandabln, enforceable afl{l ol'f'oetivo." 
Both Council membnr AI "Buddy" Kirsits. a sponsor of the bill, and Council attorney Kathlnnn Cekanski-Farrand said aftor tho m 1oting that s• von days "extremely disappointed" about the postponement. 
Haucous student parties at the end of the school year contributed to tho immediate need for the ordinance, he said. 
"We wouldn't have to do this, but when students left, our n(~ighborhoods were ripped apart," he said. 
While several dozen stu­dents and residents attended 
the meeting, 
no one was 
allowed to 
w.ould be "We wouldn't have to do speak. nnough time District 4
this. but when students 
to make any Council mem­
left, our neighborhoods 
changes nec­bnr Ann nssary for tlw were ripped apart." Puzznllo said bill to bn tho decision passnd. AI "Buddy" Kirsits to postpone 
Kirsits said South Bend for sevnn IJpfore thP Common Council member days rather 
Council nlf'nt­ing that tlw hill should lw JJhSSPd n•gardlnss of ehangos th-tt might lw nondPd later. 

"It may not lw perl'net, hut it addrPssPs tl11• issun." lw said. ··tr wn nnPd to tweak it down l he Iilw. we do it t h n n . W n need to toll poopln or the bnhavior wo nxpnct of them in our community." 
..ator, ho said he was 
than the mayor's rec­ommended 
30 was due to a desire to quickly pass the ordinanee, which includes legislation to rngulato lawn parking. 
"This is f'ootball season," she said. "We're anxious to do it as soon as possible." 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle 1 @nd.edu 




-~%~­

Join Comcast at our 
SAINT 


·~·~· 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE

~! \;,:,,~ Events! NOTRE DAME, IN 
To get more information on optional products and services that will compliment 
Comcast is proud the service already provided in all undergraduate residence halls, visit us at the locations below:
to be the provider 
•I _.,1

At Notre Dame~-nc· 6uiiding, RO('!Y'; .J 
· ofcable television 

• Saturday, August 25th, 9:00 a.m. to 12 noon
and enhanced video 

• Sunday, August 26th, 1 :00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. products for the • Monday, August 27th, 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. 
• Tuesday, August 28th, 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
University ofNotre 

• Wednesday, August 29th, 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Dame and Saint 

At Saint Mary's Co: 
:::._ ~ary's College. 

.-, • Thursday, August 30th, 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. 
• Friday, August 31st, 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. 
Upgrade to 
OUt , !EJW4 .. ill$$ IQJ#S & 3& &$j!) 2i 


All Digital Lineup 

• 
-Access to 1 , 1 00 hours of free and pay-per-view With Comcast Digital Starter, yoiLJ'II get access to programming to pick and play whenever you're ready. 
our c:ontent, available under the "Get Local" and "Sports & Fitness"
Set your own start time. Pause, rewind and fast-forward anytime. 
folders throughout the school ye~ar:
Interactive Program Guide -Search for programs by time, category or channel Interviews Inside NO Football Practice Reports Inside NO Hoops1 movieplex· Music Pre & Post Game Inside NO Sports
Plus more 
CHOICE'
Different movies. Different days. Shows Women's and Men'sand Different interests, with a new 46 channels of 
Press Conferences Soccer
theme everyday interruption-free music 
EEE141#'. ; J.l::CG. 

Visit 
or call 1.866.594.1234 to order! 
'Offer avaolahle to current Comcast Stantlard Cable residential customers who upgrade to Digital Starter. Certain services are available separately or as apart of other levels of service.A converter and remote 
control is required to receive On Demand service. Free On Demand programming is limited. Some On Demand selections subject to charge indtcated at time of purchase. Additional installation, equipment 
ami othm charges may a~ply Price shown does not include applicable taxes. franchtse fees and FCC fees. Call Corneas! tor restnctions, minimum requirements and complete details about servtces and 
comcast. 
pnctng_ Pncong and programmong content may change_ All services not avatlable in all areas. Service is subject to tlle tenns and conditions ol Comcast Subscriber Agreement Other restrictions may apply_ Comcast 02007. All rights reserved. www.comcast.com/notredame 

Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 7 
"There is no tripling of stu­Princeton Review recently dents in any dorm," Meyer named Saint Mary's as the
SMC 
said. "We opened up a wing in "Best Midwestern College for continued from page I McCandless (Hall! that was 2008" and US News & World 
previously closed and hired Report ranked Saint Mary's admission fluctuations," he additional [resident assis­91st among the top 100 liber­said. "Also, that size is closer tants]. We have housing space al arts colleges in the nation. to what we're made for." that can accommodate. Mooney first addressed this 
At the start of the fall of However, next year could be long-term plan in her inaugu­2004, the student body num­troublesome." ral address in January 2005. bered 1,505 students. As of Additional professors were In that speech, she said stabi­Thursday, total enrollment for also hired, including in the lizing enrollment was her "top this year was Department priority." She took steps expected to be of Modern toward realizing the goal by
"It is important to

1,597 students. Languages, creating the position of Vice 
The fresh­maintain the quality of Meyer said. President for Enrollment man class the students and Saint The appli­Management. which entered cant pool The College's efforts to sta­
Mary's admission 

Saint Mary's increased bilize enrollment has financial
standards. " 

one year ago this year to relevance, as well. In 2005, had 427 stu­1,281-an Saint Mary's faced a $1.5 mil­dents. This Dan Meyer 8.6 percent lion budget deficit due to year marked a vice president for increase small classes and fewer 
enrollment management

13 percent from the tuition dollars. increase in previous "By hitting 

While the number of minori­Texas. All three states experi­ty students in the freshman enced anywhere from a 25 to class increased this year to 4 7 7 5 percent increase in 
students enrolled students. 
Total Applicants....•................. 1,281 Enrolled Freshmen...•.•••••••...... 481 Percent Early Decision ............ 8% Students with Alumni 
Connection......••••••••••...........•..• 33;4% High School Valedictorians ••••• 8 High School Salutatorians..... ., 4 High School GPA between 
3.81 and 4.0•..••••••••••••••.••.••••••.... 30.9% International Students•••••.......• 3 Amount in top 10% of High 
School class: ............................. 33.1% 
Diversity 
L.i$1 Year: 43 ethnic minoriUe.s Afrlean Ameriean: 11 American IncJian: 2 Asian/Pacific: i0 Hispanic: 20 
this Year: 47 ethnie minorities 
Afritan American: 5 American I~an: ·~ 

from 43 in Those three states con­

enrollment. The freshman class of 2005 had only 350 students. While the goal is to increase  year's pool. More than 60 per­cent of incoming students had an average high school GPA of 3.61 or higher.  the [enroll­ment] mark at 1,600 or 1,700," Meyer  "We welcome diversity across the board. We don't target any specific  last year's class, the percentages remain  tributed to the higher number of Hispanic students in the class of 2011. Last year there were 20 Hispanic freshmen;  
class size, Meyer stressed that  Enrolling freshmen  come  said, "we  are  group.  roughly the  this year, there are 33.  Other  
the standards of the College  from 32 states and include  better  same, Meyer  minority groups, however,  
will not be compromised to make numbers. "It is important to maintain  one international student from China and two U.S. stu­dents who were living abroad  equipped to deal with that problem."  Dan Meyer vice president for enrollment management  said. "This was the largest  such as African Americans, were less represented this year than last.  
the quality of the students and  -one in Germany and one in  Meanwhile,  class  in  "We  welcome  diversity  
Saint Mary's admission stan­ Turkey.  Mooney  has  sheer  num­ across the board," Meyer said.  
dards," Meyer said.  College President Carol Ann  started an initiative to double  bers, but in proportions, they  "We don't target any specific  
The administration has pre­ Mooney's initiative to increase  the College endowment fund,  stayed about the same," he  group."  
pared for the growing enroll­ enrollment is part of a larger  which would reduce depend­ said.  
ment by opening new housing  goal to boost Saint Mary's  ence on enrollment for finan­ The college recruited heavi­ Contact Katie Kohler at  
and increasing staff.  national  recognition.  cial stability.  ly in California, Florida and  kkohleO1@saintmarys.edu  

average build wearing a clean, white T-shirt -then




Shooting 
walked out of sight. continued from page 1 He reappeared moments later in the passenger seat of friends had ever met a black SUV as it drove up to approached him, Depree and the curb where the three sen-another Notre iors stood, Dame senior in then said, front of Club 23 "Thanks for 
while they 'This is quite an uncom­the ride, 
were waiting mon occurrence. We do you [exple­for a ride, tive] Notre
not believe in any way,

according to Dame stu­
his mother, shape or form that this dents," Karen Collins. was random." K a r e n When the Collins said. man asked the The man
Capt. Phil Trent 

three students fired five
South Bend Police for a ride, they Department shots. Two said no, Karen hit Collins, Collins said. and one hit The man -Depree. who police described as a The car's driver then drove shorthaired black male of northbound on Notre Dame 
Avenue, Trent said. said. 
University officials were Karen Collins said the notified of the shooting before University "has been great" 2 a.m. Tuesday and became throughout the ordeal. immediately involved, No charges had been filed University spokesperson as of Thursday, but police are Dennis making Brown said. progress 
Associate in the case V i c e "I would hope the as investi­President for gations
student population wouldn't 
Residence continue,
let this scare them into not
Life and Trent said. Housing Bill enjoying themselves or "This is Kirk visited quite an
enjoying the community 
Matthew uncom­
here."
Collins and m 0 n Depree at occur­the hospital Capt. Phil Trent rence," T u e s d a y South Bend Police Department Trent said. 
morning, "We do Brown said. not believe Both Matthew Collins and in any way, shape or form Depree said they intend to that this was random." enroll for the fall semester, he Seven South Bend Police 
cars responded to the scene, Trent said. Police do not know whether the suspected shooter was inside Club 23 before the shooting, he said. 
"I would hope the student population wouldn't let this scare them into not enjoying themselves or enjoying the community here," he said. 
Students are far more likely to be victims of property crime than violence, he said. 
Police have asked anyone with information about the incident to contact the South Bend Police Department Investigative Division at (57 4) 235-9263. 
Chris Hine contributed reporting to this story. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle1 @nd.edu 




State trooper fatally shot near Fort Wayne 
Man who killed officer, then himself, in July along U.S. 24 had history of mental problems, police say after investigation 
Associated Press  not yet been turned over, state police Detective Mark  cerned us," Heffelfinger said. "That even with his psychological  Rich, a detective who was an 18-year state police veteran, was  and an unmarked car, displayed his badge and followed proper  
Heffelfinger said Tuesday.  issues that he did have access to  on his way home from the Peru  procedures when he stopped to  
FORT WAYNE, Ind. --Police  Heffelfmger said Vultaggio had  guns."  post when he stopped to help  help, police said. He was not  
want to know why a man who  twice been com- Police  Vultaggio, who he thought was a  wearing a bulletproof vest, but he  
fatally shot a state trooper and then killed himself was able to  mitted to psychi­atric facilities and  'That is one thing that  found two rifles and a  stranded motorist about 40 miles southwest of Fort Wayne.  was not required to wear one when stopping to help a motorist,  
obtain firearms despite a history of mental problems. The investigation into the July 5 shooting death of Indiana State  was undergoing counseling at the time of the fatal shooting. State  concerned us, that even with his psychological issues that he did have  shotgun in the sport­utility vehi­cle used by  Vultaggio's father had reported the SUV stolen a day earlier, but Rich did not know that before stopping to help.  Heffelfinger said, and it was not clear if a vest would have saved him. "There was nothing Trooper  
Police Master Trooper David Rich along U.S. 24 near Wabash is  p o I i c e Superintendent  access to guns."  Vultaggio. The shot- Rich was shot in the chest. Vultaggio then reloaded his shot­ Rich did that would have elevated this guy's concern that he felt cer­ 
complete, but questions remain about whether his slaying was preventable.  Paul Whitesell said at Rich's funeral that Vultaggio had  Detective Mark Heffelfinger Indiana State Police  gun he used to shoot Rich  gun and killed himself, police said. Tests showed Vultaggio was not  tain he had to shoot somebody," Heffelfinger said. "It wasn't like he just got caught robbing a  
Police subpoenaed the psychi­ threatened to kill  and  then  under the influence of drugs or  bank."  
atric records of the shooter, 21­ his own family and schoolchild­ himself was Vultaggio's but was  alcohol and had only nicotine in  Heffelfinger said any officer  
year-old Joseph M. Vultaggio Jr.,  ren.  registered in his mother's name,  his system, Heffelfinger said.  who encountered Vultaggio might  
of Gaylord, Mich., but they have  "That is one thing that con- Heffelfinger said.  Rich, who was in plain clothes  have been at risk.  



page 8 The Observer + THE YEAR IN REVIEW Saturday, August 25, 2007 
At global health forum, Jenkins announces a new initiative in Uganda. Brann dies in crash. Mc.Alarney suspended. 

By KEN FOWLER 

News Wrirer 
Hotel to open at Saint Mary's 
Congregation of the Sisters of tlw Holy Cross President Sister Joy O'Grady announced Aug. 16 plans for Saint Mary's to lease eampus land to the Holladay Corporation for an on-campus Hilton Garden Inn. The addition of the hotel. expected to open by the start of the 2007 football season, prompted a contest for the renaming of the Inn at Saint Mary's and concern about the possible influx of travelers on campus. 
Notre Dame begins mission in 
Uganda 
The second annual Notre Dame Forum, focusing on the "global health crisis," took place Sept. 14 in the Joyee Center. The forum's panelists included Dr. Paul Farmer, the founding director of the inter­national non-profit organiza­tion Partners in Health, Dr. Jeffrey Sachs, director of the United Nations Millennium Project and Dr. Miriam Opwonya of the Makerere University Infectious Diseases Institute in Uganda. 
At the forum, University President Father John Jenkins announced the University's decision to participate in the Millennium Villages Project in Uganda, where the Congregation of the Holy Cross has established a strong presence. 
Jenkins followed that dis­cussion with a trip to Uganda in support of the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals and Notre Dame's commitment to the village of Nindye, in hope of improving the quality of life of its residents. From Jan. 5 through Jan. 12, Jenkins led a group of delegates -inelud­ing Executive Assistant to the President Frances Shavers, Associate Vice President for Marketing Communication 
ear 
Todd Woodward and Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative (NDMDI) Director Father Bob Dowd-in a week-long trip to Uganda to see firsthand the University's NDMDI partnnr village. 
Caitlin Brann dies in car crash 
Notre Dame senior Caitlin Brann died Nov. 10 in an early-morning ear crash on the Indiana State Toll Hoad near LaPorte, Ind. Brann, whose blood-alc~ohol content was more than throe limns the legal limit at .249 percent, had her rear passenger-side tirn blow out, causing her to lose control of her 2000 Chevrolet Cavalier convert­ible, aeeording to an Indiana State Police report. 
More than 200 students gathered at the Grotto the next day for a candlelight memorial in honor of the sen­ior from Pasquerilla East Hall. 
'Loyal Daughters' debuts 

"Loyal Daughters," a stu­dent-created production about sexuality and sexual assault at Notre Dame, pre­miered Nov. 13 at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center without Jenkins' endorsement. The play, whose inception he praised in his "Closing Statement" on aca­demic freedom in April 2006, ran without his endorsement because of what he called a "neutral" stance on extramar­ital sexual relationships. 
The performances were fol­lowed on three nights by pan­els discussing the prevalence of sexual assaults on college campuses -including Notre Dame -and the hope of pro­moting an environment more conductive to fostering bettor gender relationships. 
McAiarney arrested, suspended 
Notre Dame basketball starting point guard Kyle McAlarney was suspended for the spring semester al'ter his arrest Dee. 29 on marijuana 
•2006 
possession ehargns. Mc­Aiarnoy, who was pulled over during what a poI it~n rn port ealled a "routine" trafl'ie stop, was enrolled in elassns for morn than a wnnk in January bPforn learning of his suspen­sion from the Office of Hesidencn Life and !lousing Jan. 2:{. 
McAiarnpy's motlwr, Janice, said in interviews that slw was upsPl with tho length of time it took thn University to come to a decision on MeAlarnt~y's punishnwnt. 
The decision also sparked campus debate over the SOVPrity of SUCh punishnwnts and whether Notre Damn was consistent in its treatmnnt of MeAiarnny. 
Hodges makes history 

Kim llodgos and Kelly Payne camn away with a narrow vie­tory over opponents Colleen Ferreira and Jenny Antonelli in the Saint Mary's student body presidential and vice presidential elections Jan. 25. llodges, who is black and came to tho College hoping to "to be the first at something," was inaugurated April 1, becoming tho l'irst Afriean­Amnrican to lead the College's students. 
Notebaert follows McCartan 
Hi chard Notebanrt, a 10­year member of tho University Board of Trustees and chief executive officer of Qwest Communications International, was nlncted to a throe-year term in February. !lis term was set to begin on July 1, making him Notre Damn's sixth chairman. 
lin succeeded Patrick McCartan, who was chairman of the board for sevnn years. 
Notebanrt, who received his undergraduate and graduate degrees from tho University of Wisconsin, has served as eluLir of the University Helations and Public Affairs and Communication Committee. Notebanrt is also one of the University's 12 
September 14 

August 16 The second annual NotreDame Congregation of the Sis~ Health Forum. focusing 6n the January 22ters of the Holy Cross ''global health crisis." at the Joyce 
Notre D~me pasketball point President Sister Joy Center. Panelists ipclu~ed Dr. Paul guard Kyle McAlarney 1sO'Grady announces plans Qfarmer..the foundtng ~ll'ector .of the suspended for the semesterfor Saint Mary's to )ease . l!lternattonal !J-On-profit orgaal:t..J.· 
after his arrest in December Campus land to the Holla-t10n Part.ners m ~ealth; J:?r. Jeffrey on marijuana possession day Corporation for an ~achs, ~uec!orof th~ Umted Na-charges.. The. decision on-campus Hilton Garden t1<~n~ Mtllenmm ProJect and Dr. 
sparked campus debate over 0Inn. The hotel is expected Mt~tam ppwony~ of the: Makerere the severity and consistency 
to open by the start of the U!ltver~ttyinfectiOus Dt~~asesin~ 
of.such punishments. 
2007 football season. stltute m Uganda. 


Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + THE YEAR IN REVIEW page 9 
ND, SMC student body presidential elections make history. 'Loyal Daughters' and 'Vagina Monologues' performed. 
e 
e 



10 ev1ew 
•2007 
Fellows, who make up the "University's ultimate govern­ing body." 
Crews cause gas leaks 
A gas leak on St. Joseph's Drive caused the evacuation of seven buildings -includ­ing DeBartolo Hall and Decio Hall-on campus Feb. 13. 
Crews working to fix a bro­ken water line struck a 4-inch gas line with a backhoe, prompting gas and soot to rise more than 20 feet in the air for more than an hour. 
A month later, on March 26, a construction crew working on St. Joseph's Drive south of the Center for Social Concerns caused the rupture of another gas line. In that incident, vibrations from the digging likely unsettled the soil and caused rupture in the transition point, "that had been failing already," Director of Utilities Paul Kempf said. 
University officials defended staff efforts after each inci­dent and said they were just examples of the inherent pos­sible problems of construc­tion. 
Brown, Braun make history 
After a hotly contested race for the top two spots in stu­dent government, Liz Brown and Maris Braun were elected student body president and vice president, respectively, in a closed-door Student Senate meeting Feb. 18. 
The final vote came after a run-off with contenders Danny Smith and Ashley Weiss failed to produce a majority winner. During that race, Morrissey senator Greg Dworjan illegally used stu­dent government printers to produce flyers for the "cam­paign to abstain" and posted the flyers without proper approval. The campaign criti­cized both tickets and asked students to select the "abstain" option on their bal­lots. 
Brown and Braun became 
Ja_nuary 25 . . . 

Samt Mary's·students Kimberly Hodges new student body 
· president. Ho~g¢$ becomes the fttst African-American to lead the College's students beginning with hetinauguj;ation April L 
the first all-female ticket to lead Notre Dame's student body when its term began April 1, and the pair's choice of Sheena Plamoottil as chief executive assistant created an all-female top-three for Notre Dame's student government. 
'Vagina Monologues' opens off campus 
Students performed the first of three renditions of "The Vagina Monologues" in front of an audience of approxi­mately 50 people at South Bend's First Unitarian Church Feb. 28. 
The presentation, which was moved off campus after organizers could not secure the endorsement of an aca­demic department at Notre Dame, came nearly a year after Jenkins' decision not to ban the play from campus but instead restrict it to an aca­demic setting, in which it can­not raise money. By moving off-campus, the performance was able to collect more than $200 on opening night and donate the money to chari­ties, including the YWCA of St. Joseph County, which has the only overnight shelter in the county. 
Campus construction progresses 
Construction on several projects continued throughout the school year, with work on campus roads, new buildings and repairs. 
The most striking change early in the school year was the closing of Juniper Road and the creation of a new entrance to campus several hundred feet west of Twyckenham Road. 
The University also pushed forward its planned develop­ment south of campus, with Kite Realty submitting its pro­posal to South Bend for zon­ing approval in late April. As the University plans the future of the southern side of campus, it continued con­struction of a new road from the "C" parking lot to Edison Road to replace Juniper Road. 

In March, Notre Dame broke ground on Duncan Hall, a planned male dormitory on West Quad. 
Duncan Hall will house 232 students and stand next to McGlinn Hall, which was the last dorm built by the University, completed in 1997. The new dorm will be the first of four new dormito­ries the University hopes to build in the next 10 years. Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves said the new building, funded by 1952 Notre Dame graduate Raymond T. Duncan, will be completed by the summer of 2008 and will house students that fall. Construction on "Athletic Quad" -between Notre Dame Stadium and the Joyce Center -will continue as the University makes the space more pedestrian friend­ly. 
Memorial Mass held for Va. Tech victims 
Notre Dame held a memori­al Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart April 17 for the victims of the shooting mas­sacre at Virginia Tech days earlier. 
The Basilica was packed to a standing room only capaci­ty, with the entire rear lobby of the church completely full. The Mass drew more people than the 9/11 five-year anniversary Mass, which took place in the Basilica during the fall semester. 
In the days after the inci­dent, Notre Dame officials were initially hesitant to com­ment on the University secu­rity protocols. Three days after the shootings, Jenkins sent an e-mail to students ­which was also posted on his Web site -assuring students and parents the University has a plan in place to respond to emergencies. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

page 10 The Observer + ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 25, 2007 


E'VE BEEN 
PUTTING OUT* EVERY NIGHT FOR 

ORE THAN 40 YEARS. 
*WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NEWSPAPERS. HAVEN'T YOU HEARD OF PARIETALS YET? 
Meet editors from News, Sports, Viewpoint, Scene, Photo, Graphics & Ads to find out what you could do for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's daily newspaper. 
0 

PleaseJoin Us For 
The Observer Open House 
Sunday, September 2, 2007 
3-5 p.m. 
Basement of South Dining Hall 
There will be food (you'll learn to take advantage of this). 
Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

FJ~~ (!_)U
/

£~
'l"~ Q/. cdw .~ r£ffW tud!lhn.J, 
only one 1gathers students, faculty, staff and their families to welcome the new year 

J 0 Y C E C E N T E R , T U E S D A Y, A U G U S T 2 8 
PROCESSION BEGINS AT 5 :20PM 

Enjoy a picnic, family fun and music immediately after Mass on DeBartolo Quad 
(Dining Halls will be closed for the occasion) 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
page 12 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 25, 2007 

NCAA president discusses reform 
Special to The Observer 
NCAA President Myles Brand acknowledged that he was "preaehing to the choir" when he discussed academic and fiscal reform in intercol­legiate athletics at Notre Dame on Aug. 20. 
"You're doing very well hnre," Brand told an invited assembly of Notre Dame fac­ulty, staff', athletic depart­ment officials and coaches. "Athletics is about winning, but it's also about graduat­ing student-athletes. You ean do both, just look at Notre Dame." 
Now in his fifth year as NCAA president, Brand said modern reform in college sports dates to a 1991 report by the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, which was co-chaired by Notre Dame's president emeritus, Hev. Theodore M. llesburgh, C.S.C. 
Brand, formerly president at Indiana University and the University of' Oregon, believes his appointment was a dear signal by his peers that they want athlet­ics programs to show more 
in the past, and that he anticipates resistance if or when sanctions are applied to programs that fail to meet APH standards. 
"Can the presidents, ath­letic directors and NCAA hold the fort'?" he wondered. "It will be very interesting." 
Brand admitted that fiscal reformation in college sports is a more dil'licult issue. 
"The NCAA cannot control individual institutions' deci­sions on spending," he said. 
Brand said that athletic department budgets are a relatively small percentage of any university's overall budget, but that the rate by which they are increasing is a concern. 
Over the past decade, the athletics programs of only six institutions -including Notre Dame -have been in the blaek, while the rest are subsidized to greater or lesser extents by their uni­versities. 
"Now, there is nothing wrong with subsidizing a department. After all, phi­losophy departments, for example, don't bring in more money than they spend," said Brand, 

responsibility in who is him­
"Athletics is about 

regard to aca­self a
winning, but it's also 

demics and philoso­linancial affairs. about graduating pher. "So, Under Brand's subsidizing
student-athletes. You

leadership, the athletics is 
can do both, just look

NCAA has insti­OK. The 
tuted two new at Notre Dame. " question is ,tt..eadfnnic stan-by how ,dards by which much'?"
Myles Brand

student-athletes The ath­

NCAA president 

and teams are letics expe­
measured: the 
Craduation 
Succnss Hate (GSHI and the 
Academic Progress Hate 
(APHI. 
The c;sH provides.~ "r_nore accurate measure of the graduation rate of' student­athlntes than does a similar measure administered by the Department of' Education, according to Brand. 
The APH surveys the per­formance of' every team at nvery NCAA institution. Teams that fail to maintain a minimum standard will race a loss of' scholarships and potential decertification. 
"We'll be most successful if' we don't issue any of the sanctions," Brand said. "The goal is to change behavior." 
However, after accumulat­ing APH data for three years, Brand said there are indications that as many as 40 percent of football pro­grams in the Football Bowl Subdivision, formerly known as Division 1-A, and 45 per­cent of Division I basketball programs could lose schol­arships within the next year or two. 
"Somnone's not listening out there," he said. That isn't the case at Notre Dame, he emphasized. 
"You don't have any teams even close to being at risk of' losing scholarships," he said. "That is very unusual. Even the very finest schools havn one or two teams at risk." 
Brand addnd that acadnm­ie reform movements in higher ndueation have failed rience on a 
college campus is valuable, he said, and certainly has a place in higher education. 
"College is more than just classroom instruction," he said. "We take teen-agers and teach them life skills, goal setting, values and atti­tudes that are productive. 
"That's where athletic par­ticipation comes in. Learning to persist and work hard -athletes learn that every day on the field. Not all of our students learn these lessons as tangibly. There are other ways -in student journalism, band or other extracurricular activi­ties -but athletics is the best. That's why we want broad-based athletics pro­grams." 
That said, he added: "So, how much should we subsi­dize athletics'? We are not acting fiscally responsibly when funds are being taken from academics to support athletics. That's when there is a problem." 
While the NCAA is unable to dictate how universities chose to spend on athletics, the association sponsored a study that was issued last year that provides all insti­tutions with comparative data on athletics spending. 
Brand's talk  was  titled  
"The  State  of'  Collegiate  
Athletics  in  the  21st  

Century: Issues, Challenges and Expectations" and was sponsored by Notre Dame's OITice of' the President, Faculty Board on Athletics and Department of Athletics. 


Fein nan1ed nevv director of CEST 
Civil engineering, geological sciences professor replaces Maurice 
Special to The Observer 
Jeremy B. Fein, professor of civil engineering and geological sciences and director or the Environmental Molecular Science Institute at Notre Dame, has been appointed 
director of the University's Center for Environmental Science and Technology (CEST). He replaces Patricia A. 

Maurice, pro-Fein fessor of civil engineering and geological sci­ences, who had served as director since 2003. 
A cooperative effort between Notre Dame's Colleges of Engineering and Science, CEST fosters interdisciplinary environ­mental research and education by promoting the cutting-edge ana­lytical technologies and providing the advanced instrumentation needed to address complex envi­ronmental issues. 
"The center offers a unique interdisciplinary environment that enhances researeh capabilities for faculty and students throughout the University," Fein said. "Its main function is to provide a wealth of state-of-the-art analyti­cal facilities that a single investi­gator could never manage or maintain on his or her own. In addition, we have extremely well­trained technicians who maintain the instruments and teach stu­dents and faculty how to use them. 
"CEST plays a crucial role in research projects that involve departments across the University, such as biological sci­ences, civil engineering and geo­logical sciences, chemical and biomolecular engineering, chem­istry and biochemistry, the Notre Dame Radiation Laboratory, and anthropology." 
Fein's research encompasses geomicrobiology and aqueous environmental geochemistry. lie uses experimental data to con­struct quantitative thermodynam­ic and kinetic models of' mass transport in baeteria-water-rock systems, whieh are used to quan­tify heavy metal and radionuclide mobilities in systems of geologic and environmental interest, sueh as eontaminated groundwater aquifers and oil-field reserves. 
Fein earned a doctorate in geo­chemistry from Northwestern University in 1989, a master's degree, also in geochemistry from Northwestern, in 1986, and a bachelor's degree in geophysical sciences from the University of Chicago in 1983. 
Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1996, he served as an assistant professor in the Department of' Earth and Planetary Sciences at McGill University in Montreal. 



ND hosts sesquicentennial 
Fort Wayne/South Bend diocese invited to religious celebration 
Special to The Observer 
Families, single people, reli­gious and clergy of the Diocese of Fort Wayne/South Bend have been invited to the Notre Dame campus on Aug. 18 for a Eucharistic Congress celebrating the diocese's 150th anniversary. 
Local, regional, and interna­tional Eucharistic Congresses have been held throughout the Catholic Church since 1881. Their principal purpose is to deepen understanding and invig­orate devotion to the Eucharist, and they are often convened to mark special occasions in the life of the Church. 
Bishop John M. D'Arcy of Fort Wayne/South Bend expressed his "fervent hope that all the faithful of our diocese will pilgrimage to the University of Notre Dame for a day of spiritual joy and renew­al." Calling the campus "a place dedicated to Mary, the mother of' God," he added that the Congress would include "some­thing for everyone to renew hearts and spirits in Christ whose 'steadfast love endures forever."' 
Joining Bishop D'Arcy at the Congress will be Notre Dame fel­low and trustee Bishop Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C., of Peoria, Ill., and Archbishop Daniel Buechlein, O.S.B., of Indianapolis. 
The daylong event featured 120 catechetical lectures and discussions, an ecumenieal 
prayer service in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, a continual recitation of the Rosary at the Grotto of our Lady of Lourdes, praying of' the Stations of the Cross, provision of the Saerament of Heconciliation at several sites throughout the campus, and an exhibition of local religious art in the Joyce Center. 
"I have requested there be no Masses, weddings, funerals, rec­onciliation or athletic and school activities in the parishes and high schools of the diocese that Saturday," D'Arcy said. "This will make everyone free to come together for one magnificent liturgy at the conclusion of' the day." 

Team works to make ionic solvents 
University researchers actively pursue clean energy technologies 
Special to The Observer 
Researchers at Notre Dame have a proven track record in energy related research, but with the creation of the Notre Dame Energy Center in 2005, they joined the many other insti­tutions actively pursuing clean energy technologies. What is unique about one of the most current projects is that it evolved from unrelated research creat­ing a domino effect. 
Edward J. Maginn, professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering, and a team of facul­ty and students had been work­ing to make environmentally friendly solvents using ionic liq­uids (ILs). ILs are a relatively new class of chemicals with diverse properties. In addition to being liquid at room tempera­ture, many ILs have low com­bustibility, provide exceptional thermal stability and work well as solvents for diverse com­pounds. 
"We didn't expect the carbon dioxide to be so soluble," Maginn said in an interview for the arti­cle "Making Dirty Coal Plants Cleaner," which appeared in the July 13 issue of' the journal Seience. "It sounds trite, I know, but one of the exciting things about research is how pursuing one activity can shed light on another, opening totally new avenues of possibility." 
The team -Maginn; Joan F. Brennecke, the Keating­Crawford Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and director of the Notre Dame Energy Center; William F. Schneider, associate professor of chemical and biomolecular engi­neering; postdoctoral research associates JaNeille Dixon, Wei Shi and Keith Gutowski; and graduate students Jessica Anderson, Manish Kelkar and Elaine Mindrup -began exploring their findings in a series of' difl'erent experiments. They are now working on a fed­erally funded project to capture and separate C02 for existing and future carbon-based electric generation power plants. 
This is particularly important because emissions from the coal­fired plants (approximately 2,100 in the world) are responsi­ble for close to a third of the greenhouse gases caused by humanity. In the United States alone, the gases some 600 plants produce surpass the amount generated by cars and all other industries combined. Hegardless of its country of origin, C02 con­centrations in the atmosphere have increased since the onset of industrialization. Today levels are at approximately 380 parts per million, a number that's expected to rise to 500 or more parts per million by 2050. Is it any wonder that finding a way to curb these carbon emissions is a popular idea'? 
According to Maginn, there are basically three approaches to capturing C02 in flue gas: pre­combustion capture, post-com­bustion capture, and oxy-firing. Maginn and the team are con­centrating on post-combustion activities, which apply to the vast majority of existing power plants in the world. In l'aet, they have established a cooperative research and development agreement to develop novel tech­nology and commercially focused approaches to C02 capture and separation and are working with DTE Energy, Detroit, Mich.; Babcock and Wileox, Babnrton, Ohio; EMD Chemicals, Inc., Gibbstown, New Jersey; Trimeric, Buda, Texas; Air Products, Allentown, Pa.; and the National Energy Technology Laboratory, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 13 

RSC names Bohn North American associate editor 
Special to The Observer 
Paul W. Bohn, Arthur J. Schmitt Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at Notre Dame, has been named the North American associate editor of T h e Analyst by the R o y a I Society of 
Chemistry (RSC). 
A journal of the RSC, The Analyst publishes original research discussing the fundamental theory, prac­tice and application of ana­lytical, bioanalytical and detection science. Its read­ers include academic and industrial researchers working in a variety of areas, including analytical chemistry, bioanalytical sci­ence, biomedical science, biotechnology, detection science, pharmacy, physics, materials science and engi­neering. 
Bohn's responsibilities as associate editor will include evaluating manuscripts submitted to the journal, identifying qualified reviewers and working with the author(s) and reviewers to address revisions and mediate technical issues 

while maintaining the stan­dards of The Analyst. 
A member of the Notre 
Dame faculty since 2006, 
Bohn's research interests 
encompass molecular 
transport on the nanoscale; 
the development of optical 
spectroscopic measure­
ment strategies for surface 
and interfacial structure­
function studies; optoelec­tronic materials and devices, chemical sensors and molecular approaches to nanotechnology. 
Bohn is a member of the American Chemical Society (ACS) and a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He also has received numerous awards, including the 2006 Research Team Award from the U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory; the 2005 Bomem-Michelson Award from the Coblentz Society, presented to scientists who have advanced the tech­niques of vibrational, molecular, Raman or elec­tronic spectroscopy in memory of Professor A.A. Michelson, developer of the Michelson interferometer; the 2004 Spectroscopy Society of Pittsburgh Award, which recognizes outstanding contributions in the field of spectroscopy; and the Spectrochemical Analysis Award from the ACS 

Bohn received his bache­lor's degree in chemistry from Notre Dame in 1977 and his doctorate, also in chemistry, from the University of Wisconsin at Madison in 1981. He joined Bell Laboratories that same year as a member of the technical staff. Most recent­ly, he served as the Centennial Professor of Chemical Sciences at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 
Committed to raising pub­lic awareness of chemistry and the chemical sciences, the Royal Society of Chemistry boasts 43,000 members worldwide and manages an internationally acclaimed publishing busi­ness for the education, training and promotion of the sciences. 

Political 
•

examines 
scientist diversity 
ND professor published zn APSA journal 
Special to The Observer 
The federal Voting Rights Act has been indispensable to the political progress of minority populations in the United States, but they still are severely underrepresent­ed at every level of govern­ment, new research by a University of Notre Dame political scientist indicates. 
Writing with three co­researchers in a journal of the American Political Science Association (APSA), Dianne M. Pinderhughes, professor of Africana studies and political science, observed that, at the congressional level, "the vast majority of nonwhite House members" were elected from districts covered by the Voting Rights Act, which was passed originally in 1965 to end dis­criminatory electoral prac­tices in the South. 
The law has been renewed several times, and its cover­age expanded to assure access to the vote for people who speak languages other than English. Beginning in 1982, the law also protected the creation of "majority­minority" districts, so that nonwhite voters would have a chance to elect candidates of their respective groups to office 
Pinderhughes and her col­leagues found that of the 71 black, Latino, Asian and American Indian House mem­bers in the 109th Congress, more than 60 percent came from districts covered by one or another of the anti-dis­crimination provisions of the Voting Rights Act. All 25 of the Latino members came from such districts. 
At both the congressional and state legislative levels, the sheer numbers of non­white representatives have grown substantially over the last quarter century, but in percentage terms, they remain far short of true pro­portionality. 
Nonwhites were 31 percent of the U.S. population in 2000, but they were less than 12 percent of the members of the House of Representatives. The 891 nonwhite members of state legislatures in 2006 were only 12 percent of the total 7,382 state lawmakers. 
Pinderhughes' co-researchers are Pei-te Lien of the University of Utah, Carol Hardy-Fanta of the University of Massachusetts at Boston, and Christine M. Sierra of the University of New Mexico. 
The voting rights article appeared in PS: Political Science and Politics, one of three journals published by APSA. The data in the article are related to a larger study on elected officials of color being conducted by the same research team. 
Pinderhughes joined the Notre Dame faculty in autumn 2006 from the University of Illinois-Urbana. She currently is president-elect of APSA and will assume the presidency at the organization's 2007 annu­al meeting in Chicago next month. 
Candidates to woo voters at GOP conference 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Fred Thompson, the all-but­declared GOP presidential candidate, will join two other contenders in wooing hun­dreds of activists from 12 Midwestern states during a three-day Republican get­together that begins Friday. 
Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney and former Arkansas Gov. Mike lluckabee also will speak at the Midwest Republican Leadership Conference, billed as a springboard for GOP presidential candidates in an electoral-rich region that includes key nominating states such as Iowa. Illinois and Michigan. 
All have caucuses or pri­maries by Feb. 5, and Ohio ­which decided the 2004 pres­idential race -is a tradition­al swing state in general elections. Combined, the 12 states -which also include Indiana, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, the Dakotas, Minnesota and Wisconsin ­have 124 electoral votes out of 270 needed to become president. 
Indiana Hepublican Chairman Murray Clark said the conference, held once every two years, energizes the party faithful and sharp­ens their focus on the next election. It takes on added importance this year, he said, because there are so many Republican presidential "wannabes" heading into the nominating season. 
He said he was surprised that more GOP contenders weren't attending. 
Among the absentees are former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and Arizona Sen. John McCain. Giuliani spent part of this week in California and will be in the early primary state of New Hampshire on Saturday, his campaign said. 
McCain, whose campaign has been limping, was on vacation in the Bahamas this week. He was preparing for a speech to the National Guard in Puerto Rico on Monday, a campaign spokeswoman said. 
Robert Schmuhl, a profes­sor of American studies at the University of Notre Dame, expects the three who are coming to speak on a wide range of issues. 
"In some of the states, the socialist views resonate more deeply and in others econom­ic concerns are at the fore­front, so this convention real­ly allows the candidates to present themselves in a broader way," Schmuhl said. 
He said the event could especially benefit Thompson, the "Law & Order" actor and former Tennessee senator. He is expected to officially enter the race next month and has polled well in national sur­veys. But some have suggest­ed that he is starting too late, and he has offered few specifics on what he would do as president. 

"If he is trying to build his following, it is important to get his message to as many people and as many states right now," Schmuhl said. 
Homney comes to the con­vention having easily won Iowa's high-profile Republican Party Straw Poll earlier this month, getting twice as many votes as Huckabee, who came in sec­ond. Homney was expected to win because he had spent months and millions of dol­lars on the effort. 
Huckabee said his showing was impressive because he had little money to spend. Giuliani, Thompson and McCain skipped the event. 
A national Gallup poll taken Aug. 13-16 showed Romney trailing front-runner Giuliani and Thompson, but he has led in recent polls in Iowa and New Hampshire, which traditionally have kicked off the nomination process. He also topped the GOP field in fundraising during the first six months of the year with $35 million. 

page 14 The Observer + STATE NEWS Saturday, August 25, 2007 
County officials weary of getting blame for tax woes 
Associated Press 
DUNLAP, Ind. Commissionnrs from five Indiana countiHS grappling with high property taxns say they'rH tired of Gov. Mitch Daniels blaming the problem on local govern­ment officials. 
During an Aug. 17 meet­ing of commissioners from St. .losnph, Elkhart, I.agrangn, Marshall, and 
Steuben  counti.es,  
LaCrange  County  
Commissioner  George  

Bachman bristled at the governor's repeated com­ments largely blaming the high taxes on excessive local spending. 
"For the governor to say it's the counties' fault is ridiculous," Bachman said. 
lin and the other com­missioners met in Dunlap about 20 m ilns west of South Bend to work on a position statement they hope to present to Daniels in tho near future about taxns. 
Statewide, taxes on honwownnrs are expected to rise 24 pnrcnnt on aver­age this year, although many taxpayers face bills that have spiked far high­er. 
Daniels has largnly blamed high property taxes on local spnnding, such as 
costly school building and Justice Randall Shepard as renovation projects, as co-chairmen of the blue­well as inefficient govern­ribbon commission. 
ment. 
"As long duplicative, overlap­
p i n g , 
antique government all over the place, you are going to have too much local spending, and there­fore too high of property taxes," he said last During Friday's meeting, as we have the commissioners reached 

':4s long as we have duplicative, overlapping, antique government all over the place, you are going to have too much local spending, and therefore too high of property taxes. " 
Mitch Daniels Indiana governor 
a general consensus that the panel Jacks 
but should have -local gov­ernment representa­tion. 
An earlier version of their state­ment sug­gested that the counties would sup­
month in declaring his re­election bid. 
LaGrange Commissioner Phillip Curtis said he was upset that local govern­ments are not on a blue­ribbon commission appointHd by Daniels to make recommendations about streamlining local governments. 
"Don't do something without asking us," said Steuben County Commissioner Hon Smith, adding that state officials "don't always know how county government works." 
Daniels has named for­mer Gov. Jon Kernan and state Supreme Court Chief 

port increases of up to 2 percent each in the state sales and income taxes, provided the move led to a decrease in property taxes. 
The new statement rec­ommends that funding for schools, welfare and juve­nile detention services be removed from property tax levies and made a state responsibility, but omits a reference to a specific tax increase. 
"These programs and services should instead be funded with a combination of increases in state corpo­rate and personal income taxes, and state sales tax," the statement reads. 
Co111111ission pledges study of local govenunent 
Reform panel to conduct analysis oflocal services 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Leaders of a 
panel on local government reform 
pledged Wednesday to conduct a 
comprehensive study of how local 
services are decided, provided and 
paid for in hopes of fmding ways to 
make them more efficient, effective 
and cheaper. 
Former Democratic Gov. Joe Kernan and Chief Justice Randall Shepard, co-chairmen of the Indiana Commission on Local Government Reform, told reporters after a first private meeting that steep increases in property taxes this year should pave the way for meaningful recom­mendations for reforming local gov­ernment. 
"This is a period in which citizens are more focused on what it is their government is doing and how it is doing it," Shepard said. "You hope out of the level of interest and in some places anger has generated the impe­tus for reforms that wouldn't occur if everybody were sitting around under very ordinary, sort of ho-hum circum­stances." 
The property tax increases and local government's reliance on those taxes was a key reason Gov. Mitch Daniels recently created the seven­member panel. Daniels, a Republican, has said for its size and population, Indiana has far too much local gov­ernment. 
About 2,730 local units have authority to levy property taxes, with only nine states having more, accord­ing to the Daniels administration. To govern all these units, Indiana elects nearly 11,000 officials, ineluding 1,100 with responsibility for property tax assessment. 
The commission, which i'> staffed by the Center for Urban Policy and the Environment at Indiana University­Purdue University at Indianapolis, will try to determine what local govern­ment offices could be eliminated to achieve efficiencies and cost savings. Daniels wants to know specifically whether township and eounty proper­ty tax assessors should be abolished in favor or a uniform process run by the state. 
The governor also wants to know what local government units, includ­ing schools and libraries, could be consolidated to reduce overhead and administrative expenses, and what constitutional, statutory or adminis­trative changes are necessary to achieve significant refiJrms. 
Daniels want'> reeommendations by the end of the year so they can be considered during the 2008 lngL'llatiwl session or beyond. A separate eom­mission of lawmakers and out'lide tax experl<; i'i studying ways of providing property tax relief and reform, and the two panels are expected to share information in the coming weeks. 
The local government commission, primarily through the Urban Policy Center, is expected to spend the next five or six weeks reviewing pmvious data and proposals and having pri­vate interviews with associations that represent local units and officials such as counties, cities and towns, schools and a<;sessors. 
Farmers harvest early to avoid losses 
Corn planters anticipate stornzy weather, gather crops in advance 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Some Corn Belt farmers are starting har­vests weeks early, worried that stormy weather now could cause damage lo corn plants already suffering from a dry, hot summer. 
"If we start getting a lot of wnt wnather with the wind, it could cause these stress11d plants to fall ovnr," said Handy Grennwell, a farmer who has started harvesting his 7,500 aerns ol' 1:orn in Union County, Ky. "You have the potential of a lot of loss." 
The long string of hot days has pushnd corn growth about a wnek ahnad of the average time, so harvest will be a little narlier this year for much of t.hn country, said Chris Hurt, an agricultural economist at Purdue University. 
Grnnnwnll. who has about I 0 pnrcnnt of his corn crop har­vestlld so far, said Wednesday hn would typically be starting thn harvnst in a few w1~nks. Farmers in dry parts of Indiana, Illinois and K1mt.ucky arn starting to harvnst corn, although sonw aro waiting. 
An oarly harvest can come with a price. 
Farmors like Grnenwell must dry out the corn manually sincn it isn't spending as much timn drying on cornstalks. c;reenwell says it costs him about $35 an acre in energy costs or more than $250,000 total -to dry corn. But he's willing to pay rather than worry about even bigger possible losses. 
"It outweighs tlw loss poten­ti<tl," he said. 
Corn plants can stop growing because of stress from sum­mnr heat and drought condi­tions, said Roger Elmore, an Iowa State University corn specialist. Some farmers in the 

driest part of Iowa have con­sidered an early harvest, but most of the state's farmers plan to wait. 
"We've got another few weeks to go," he said. 




The Next Stage· 
Somedllj 
f""~'"'j 
~ coll~e..­
~Hl 

fodlAj Get a Wells Fargo student loan 
Federal funding not enough? Wells Fargo offers flexible, affordable private student loans' designed for: 
• 
Undergraduate and graduate studies 

• 
Career/professional certification 

• 
Law and MBA programs 

• 
Health professions programs 


With these private student loans, you'll enjoy: 
• 
No origination, disbursement or repayment fees 

• 
No payments while in schooF 

• 
Interest rate reductions when you pay responsibly 


Seize your someday.sM Calll-888-512-2647 or visit www.wellsfargo.com/special (keyword: college 2007) to find out more today. 
1 All loans subject to qualification. 2 In-school periods vary based on loan program 
© 2007 Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. All rights reserved. 
Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 


*connectedthinking 
© 2007 Pr:cewaterhouseCoopers LLP: All rignts rese!v~d-"PncewaterhouseCoopers" refers to Pn~..ewaterhouseCoopers. LLP {a Delaware iimitad liability partnershiP} or, as tha context requires, the Pricewaterhr.,us~Coopars global netwon~ or other rnember firms of the network, each of which :sa sap:;trat'Y at;d lndep;::!-!"ldent legal entity, "conr.ectedthmKlog is a tr~demark of Pdce\-Aiatet'hCdSel~oper~; U.P {US}. VlJe ars proud to hear: Affirmative Actton and E<Nal Opportunity Employer. 

Welcon1e Back, 
NOTRE DAME! 
lk!flj1 l!0~c0!1j)c I"Uhlil tm1 ~ -------£23 flillfJi~ 
THREE BIG DAYS 
Exclusive for Notre Dame Students! 
• 
~EINZ 
5

:sunsttK @ Kirnberty-Ciart 
~~~~---=====:_--~·~----­



THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Saturday, August 25, 2007 page 17 
THE OBSERVER 

The buhpmdntl, Daily Nnvspapt!r Suving Notre Drtm~ mul&lint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITORS: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Khorey Chris Hine ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DEsK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
oBsERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the student• ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisuation ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparunent editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and musr include contact information. 
Q11estiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to F.ditor in Chief Maddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Olmrvcr (USPS 599 2~4000) is 1-mhlihhed Mon<lay through Friday o:ccpf {lurin~ enm and nation pc:rKK!~. A lulw:riptiun m Thi:: Obscrvuis $10(} fi,rouc: :ICI.~mic y~r. $55 fi.,r one scmcs1cr. 
lltc Ohscrva i~ puhlish~:d at: 024 Somh Dini~ Hall Stnd addrt!S$ corrtcrions ro: Nutn: [bmc. IN 46556-0779 The Ob,a-vu Periodical pnsto~ge p.a.id ;u Nn~;rc Dante P.O. .Box779 :md Jddiriotulmailing offict"S. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nom Da~. IN 465S6-0n9 

The: Observer is a mem~r of the Associated Pr~. AU reproduction rights are 
=<V<d 
The simple lie 
For 18 years, many people-probably friends are the majority-have fed you a lie. Perpetuated primarily by the young, the falsehood inflicts indiscrimi­nately. Its strength is its simplicity: You can't change the world, you can't shape the future, you can't make a dif­ference. 
But if you failed to detect the untruths in simple arguments, you wouldn't be here today. And if you don't believe you can change the world, Notre Dame isn't the place for you. 

Seven blocks from a four-lane road overlooking the sea of peace and only one from the pathway of posh is a pristine church called St. Monica's in a city by (roughly) the same name. 
Cruising along the Pacific Coast Highway two days before starting a sum­mer internship in Los Angeles, I had mapped out the parish for 5:30 p.m. Mass on a 70-degree Saturday. It was a chance encounter, or so I thought. 
Dressed for success in lacrosse shorts and a T-shirt one size too small, I was the outcast visitor, imposing on a cele­bration with soloists fit for West L.A. and arches that reach for the oh-so-tangible stars. 

Ken Fowler 
Managing Editor 
Then the pastor flipped the switch on the digital projector in lieu of a homily, and sound waves from a familiar voice vibrated in my ear. I peered at the screen, and my eyes did not dare belie my ears. Father Bob Dowd-to me, Professor Dowd-was narrating a 12­minute compilation of still photos with an explanation of the importance of St. Monica's sponsorship of a parish in Kenya. It was a message from a voice, and I'd heard them in conjunction before. It took me a while to be sure, but my hunch that it was Father Bob's voice was right. 
If you're lucky enough to meet Father Bob, you'll never be able to communi­cate fully who he is. To paraphrase what alumni say about Notre Dame, there aren't enough words to explain just how good of a person he is, but once you meet him, there are too many words that come to mind to pass on what you've gained from your relationship. He's the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative (NOMOI) director and an assis­tant professor of political science. 
He's been the point man on that proj­ect, which Notre Dame hopes will reju­venate a village and its faith. The millen­nium development goals, pushed forth worldwide by the United Nations, res­onate with him and a lot of faculty on campus. And they want Notre Dame to be a part of making things happen in improving the quality of life worldwide. 
That kind of idealistic thought, that commitment to service, is something 
you'll find prevalent here over the next four years. And even if you stripped 
away the gold flakes adorning the dome, 
the bricks supporting Notre Dame 
Stadium and the mural affixed to the 
Hesburgh library, there's still a lot to 
love about this school. Your task is to 
find those things, and make them even 
more prevalent. 
During the next four years, you'll get to know that Executive Vice President John Aftleck-Graves is the second-most respected person on campus, behind only Father Hesburgh. You'll discover that Charlie Weis' malapropisms -like when he said Rhema McKnight "is kinda like a la David Givens" -can be terribly insightful and awfully hysterical. And you'll realize that there isn't a thing in this world you can't achieve with resolve, passion and faith. 
And there isn't a better place to discov­er that than here. 
Ken Fowler is a political science major from Long Beach, N.Y., home to 3.5 miles ofpristine white sand, decades ofcor­ruption and so many bars that Newsday called it the new "Margaritaville. "He has an unusual affection for the music of Edwin McCain and the Goo Goo Dolls. Oh, and Derek Jeter. He can be contacted at kfowlerl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Make Notre Dame yours 
Besides a general recollection of being nervous, awkward and home­sick, I have a very vivid memory of Freshman Orientation. 
We were having small-group chats in the basement of Farley Hall, where nervous freshmen were supposed to share their most embarrassing moments or, if they could be a fruit, which they would choose. 
I had never had a beer, a boyfriend or a bunk bed, and day one at Notre Dame had been over­whelming, at best. I was supposed to be loving it here, but I was friendless and unsettled. This was supposed to be the time of my life? 
So, instead of adding to our fantastic frosh-o discussion, I pulled my knees to my chest, stared at the ground and silently decided right then I was going home. 
I would pack up my things and drive back with my parents when they left the next day. 
Maybe college just wasn't for me. 
I think I lost my resolve to leave somewhere between DomerFest and a campus scavenger hunt, and when it came time for goodbyes, I knew I'd 

Mary Kate Malone 
Assistant Managing Editor 
have to say them. 
My RA nudged me off to play slip and slide Twister with Knott Hall as my parents snuck away in our emptied mini-van on Sunday. I think I cried in a bathroom stall. 
If only I had known what awaited me. 
But that's what being a freshman is all about. It's about not knowing -and finding your way in spite of it. 
If you're like me when I was a fresh­man, you're probably reading this while peering over a bowl of Cheerios in North Dining Hall, sitting next to and across from new "friends" who were strangers 12 hours ago. 
Granted, most of you stellar-than­ever students are loving it here, but for those of you who are still unsure, have a little faith. I was in your shoes, and I made it through. You will, too. It can be hard at first, and then it's easier, and easier, and pretty soon, you'll never want to leave this place. 
Maybe it's Mary. Maybe it's magic. But Notre Dame does that to you. My uncle, a 1971 Notre Dame alum­nus, might have put it best. 
During dinner at my grandmother's house in South Bend last week, the conversation shifted to the University, as it tends to do in a family that oozes Notre Dame. Uncle Jack sighed, shook his head and said: "Gosh, you know, if I could go back, I would squeeze every last drop out of that campus." Maybe kids these days are too young to appre­ciate college, another uncle added. By the time they realize how many oppor­tunities they had, they're in cap and gown. 
Don't let that be you. Make Notre Dame yours. Whether you're a fourth­generation Domer or the student who came here on a dream and a prayer from Oregon, you belong here. Find where you fit, and then go leave your mark. 
The truth is, I still feel like a fresh­man. Not in that homesick-awkward­scared sense, but because Notre Dame still feels new. 
Three years here and, even though I've walked well-worn paths, ate hun­dreds of dining hall meals, and cheered my heart out at many football games, Notre Dame has never lost its luster. 
And that's how I hope it stays forev­er. Life is better when it feels like it's just beginning, and you really are at the starting line. 
Mary Kate Malone is a left-handed American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor from Columbus, Ohio. She urges all freshmen to try North Dining Hall's fantastic tomato soup. Contact her at mmalone3@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF News Sports  QUOTE OF THE DAY  QUOTE OF THE DAY  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Karen Langley  Chris Hine  
Kaitlynn Riely  Chris Khorey  
Katie Kohler Marcela Berrios Liz Harter Graphics Madeline Nies  Dan Murphy Bill Brink Scene Tae Andrews Michelle Fortice  "The universe is change; our life is what our thoughts make it." Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Roman Emperor  "Genius without education is like sil­ver in the mine." Ben Franklin American statesman  "Doubt is not a pleasant condition, but certainty is absurd." Voltaire French novelist  
Matt Hudson  Viewpoint  
Illustrator  Joey King  
Graham Ebetsch  Kara King  

..---------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 18 
Saturday, August 25, 2007 
Campus leaders welcome Class of 2011 
Dear Students: 
With the beginning of a new academic year, I extend a warm welcome to all new and rnturning stu(ifmts of the University of Notre Dame. In particular, I wish to congratulate and welcome our freshmen and transfer students. We are excited and grateful that you are here, and we will strive to help you grow during your time at Notre Dame. 
Make the most of your time here. Be open to engaging new friends, those who may have very similar or very different personal stories and perspectives. Embrace each classroom experience as an opportunity to learn, hone your talents, and share your ideas. If you live in a rnsidnnce hall, explore the multiple ways that you can contribute as a leader. When you face challenge, know that you are not alone and do not hesitate to seek support from those around you. Finally, in all that you do, take a few moments each day for personal reflection to rnfresh your spirit. 
One of the primary objectives of Notre Dame, as a Catholic university, is to develop people who will be prepared to make positive contributions to the Church and the world and to con­front the challenges of the future. We are confldent that you possess the talent and desire to make meaningful and lasting contributions. 
Once again, weleome to Notre Dame. May you soon come to feel at home on campus, and to love this plaee, as do so many graduates of past years. I hope to meet you in person over the course of your time, and throughout that time, I will keep you in my prayers. 
In Notre Dame, 
Reverend John I. Jenkins, C. S.C. University president August 24, 2007 

Wnkome home Class of 2011. 
On behalf of your new roommatns, best friends, classmates, teammates, co-workers and sistnrs, we extend a warm weleome to the Class of 2011. You are now joining an alliance of intelligent, accomplished, and innovative women who are dedicated to help­ing you conquer all of your academic and personal endeavors. As the student body presidnnt and vice prnsident, we extend our warm welcome to the Saint Mary's College eommunity. 
We eneourage you to be open to new friends and diverse experiences throughout the next four ynars. Your elasses will allow you to enhance your skills. Each dormitory will be a home for you to lind new friends and a chance for independence. There will be innumerabln possibilities for you to embrace your spirituality, expand your cultural nxpnrim1ee, and advance in aeadmnics. Saint Mary's will also inspire you to be involved in positive contributions to the community at large. 
It is our hope that you will use you individual skills and talents for the betterment of our community. As you begin your transformation from young ladies to women, know that we are here for you. We look forward to meeting you! 
Welconw home Saint Mary's Women of 2011, 
Kimberly Hodges Saint Mary's student body president r Kelly Payne Saint Mary's student body vice-president Augusr 24, 2007 
On behalf of the faculty and staff at Saint Mary's College, I extend a warm welcome to the Class of 2011 and to our transfer students. As a graduate of Saint Mary's and now its 11 t.h president, I care deeply about this special place, and about you, our students. A<> Saint Mary's students, you are following in the fooL<>teps of generations of remarkable, accomplished women, and, like them, your talents will leave your distinct mark on the College. 
At Saint Mary's we will challenge you. We will help you learn the extent of your capabilities and how to use them well. You will reeeive an excellent Holy Cross edueation-an edueation that is committed to the development of the whole person. 
As a Catholic college, we cherish intelleetual pursuits because they enrich our understanding of God and God's creation, whieh in turn helps us build and sustain more just and equitable communities. We hope one result of your Saint Mary's edueation is that you will devel­op a sense of obligation to the common good and that your life and work will reflect that understanding. 
We have a proud 163 year tradition of educating women to make a difference in the world. Now it is your turn to make history at Saint Mary's College. I look forward to accompanying you on this journey. 
Carol Ann Mooney College president Augusr 24,2007 

Welcome home! After months full of college applications and uneertainty, we are thrilled that you now count yourself as a member of the Notre Dame student body. The first weekend at Notre Dame will be one you remember for the next four years. From the stress of moving in and meeting your room­mate for the first time to a weekend full of Frosh-0 events and new faees, your first weekend at Notre Dame will memorable. 
As you begin your new life at Notre Dame, we encourage you to approach each situation with an open mind. Enjoy the many Frosh-0 events and use them as an opportunity to meet new people -you never know who will end up being your best friend for the next four years and beyond. Take time out of your busy weekend to attend Orientation Mass and get a true feel for the well-rounded lifestyle Notre Dame eneourages. 
After you settle in and you become comfortable navigating your way around campus, we encourage you to lind something you're passion about and to get involved. Break out of your eomfort zone and try something new from volunteering within the South Bend community to joining the ski tnam. Notre Dame offers something for fwery student. Find your niehe within the University community where you can make a dill'erenee. But most of all, dis­cover what the Notre Dame family means to you. College may only be four years long, but the friendship you make now arc friendships that last a life­time. The lessons you learn now in the challenges along the way are lessons that will help you for the rest of your lif'e. Approach the next four years with the knowledge that now you arn a part of the Notre Dame Family for life. 
We welcome you to sonw of the busiest and most exciting years of your life; enjoy every moment. We encourage you to stop by the Student Government ofnce on the second floor of LaFortune if you ever have any questions about student life or have a desire to get involved. 
Weleome to the Family, 
Liz Brown Norre Dame srudent body president Maris Braun Notre Dame srudent body vice president Augusr 24,2007 

Welcome to the Notre Dame Family. Whether you join us as a first-year undergraduate, a transfer student, or a new graduate/professional stu­dent, it is an honor to be among the first to weleome you to the University of Notre Dame. On behalf of all of us who serve in Student Affairs, we are glad you are here and hope that you will soon feel eomfortable calling this place home. 
This University offers a host of incredible resources that exist to help you do just that. Our 27 undergraduate residence halls and two graduate residence facilities are at the heart of the very real sense of community that is one of the most distinctive features of a Notre Dame education. The quality of the student service departments in the Division of Student Affairs is unparalleled; these offices include Alcohol and Drug Education, Campus Ministry, the Career Center, the Counseling Center, the Gender Relations Center, Health Services, International Student Services and Activities, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, the Office of Residence Life and Housing, Notre Dame Security/Police, and Student Activities. The staffs in your residence halls and graduate residences are present to assist and to support you in your transition to life at Notre Dame. 
Although we provide a variety of services, we share a common desire to do everything we can to help facilitate your intellectual, spiritual and per­sonal growth. 
As a community, we draw our strength from the unique and diverse gifts offered by each of you. We hope that all of you will be able to aehieve the goals you set for yourselves this year. 
I hope that I will have the opportunity to eome to know as many of you as possible in the months ahead. Until I am able to greet you in person, please know that you have my very best wishes for a year filled with all God's blessings. 
Father Mark Poorman vice president for srudent affairs August 24, 2007 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Saturday, August 25, 2007 page 19 
Socratic wisdom 
Some things change with every freshman class. 
Statistics improve. Every year it will be smarter, more accomplished, and better at making college applications than its predeces-· sors. 
The obvious tran­sitions are made -­it will be composed of a different amount of different individuals who will go on to interact in new and distinct ways with their peers and profes­sors. 
Policies change -­each year, the incoming freshmen will experience greater drinking restrictions and penalties than the preceding class (in the form of new University regula­tions, more thorough police enforce­ment, or the rising opportunity cost of college drinking generated by the superinflationary increase of tuition prices). 
Some things don't change. 
Whatever the brightness statistics, the average entering class will always think it's pretty damned special to be 

Joey King 
Viewpoint Editor 

here, and with good reason. Admission is becoming more difficult everywhere. They don't go to Directional State U. and they're proud of it. As a freshman, answering "I go to Notre Dame" is impossible to do without pride sliding just a little into arrogance. And, for all the regulating, Keystone Light will continue to have a market outside of America's trailer parks. 
I want to focus here on the arro­gance, since it's most pronounced for freshmen. A major part of your college education will be learning just what exactly you know and don't know, and you're four years behind on it, coming right out of the place where you did know everything. 
I'm not trying to preach modesty here. This arrogance--which is so definitive of the freshman class --is exactly what helps you to try new things and fully explore your new­found independence. If anything, it should be amplified. Just about every­thing that happens to you on the weekends here won't happen with such regularity after college, and never in the same way. But the experi­ence will make up a huge part of the people you become when you leave here. 
But back to learning what you know and don't know. Don't channel any arrogance into assuming you know what comes best from experience. Instead, appreciate the experience you lack and fix it as fast as possible. Put all your pride-inspired confidence into your weekend shenanigans and other enlightening antics. 
Most importantly, do not write let­ters to the editor that highlight your experience deficit. Writing a vitriolic letter is usually a good way to tell peo­ple you don't really know what you're talking about. Anyone well-versed in an editorial subject will recognize the ambiguity of the question that made it worth debating in the first place, 'instead of casting aspersions at the grammar of previous letters. It makes you look like an idiot, and it makes me look like an idiot for publishing it if nothing better comes in. 
However evil you find birth control, abortion, or the Keenan Revue, no one will respect your post-high school opinion if you devolve into ranting. It's too obvious you haven't properly examined the question. 
But is it okay to devolve into verbal ranting over a generous (perhaps too generous) share of Natty Light on a Wednesday? 
Yes. When you're in college. And only when you recognize that this is only one amid a limitless list of experi­ence-building options, and one where you aren't making other people read its haphazard arrangement in the pages of The Observer the next day. 
The main discrepancy I want to highlight here is experience versus assumed wisdom. Bad letters to the editor are only one highly tangible example of this, and the one that I've become most familiar with. Please don't assume that drinking Natural Light is the recommended path to wis­dom through experience, even if alco­hol can accelerate the Socratic real­ization that you know nothing. Just chase experience for its own sake. 
But keep in mind that such a Socratic acceleration can't really be a bad thing. 
Joey King is a senior mechanical engineering major with an interest in philosophy. Regarding Socratic accel­eration, he would quote Heraclitus' caution: "It is better to hide ignorance, but it is hard to do this when we relax over wine." He can be contacted at jking7@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

All in the family 
My mother went to Saint Mary's. My dad went to Notre Dame. I am a true legacy and I am proud of that. However, when I applied to Saint Mary's, I did so with the intention of not going. I wanted to be different. I Katie Kohler 
wanted to stay out east. I wanted to go Saint Mary's to college with my Editor friends. But I did-n't. I am here and it was the best decision I have ever made. 
I did not send in my confirmation to Saint Mary's until April 30. (It was due May 1.) Talk about cutting it close. I was going to Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass. I had a friend going there, it was five hours away and it was a great school. 
During the application process, I visited all the schools I applied to, except Saint Mary's. I had seen it a million times, from every angle --or so I thought. It wasn't until I visited over AnTostal weekend that I proved myself wrong. For the first time in my life, I saw South Bend in a new light. I saw what drew my mom, my seven aunts and my three cousins here, And now I saw that it drew me here too, 
It's so hard to explain how you "just know." For everyone, it is different. Sometimes, you don't know if it's the right place for you until after you get there. It could be that first English class, the first football game, or the beloved DomerFest. For me, it was when I met Dr. Mooney, the College president, on my last visit to campus. Her enthusiasm about Saint Mary's and her new position and her drive to make it an even better school made it something I wanted to be a part of. 
As I prepare to enter my junior year, I am more excited than ever to do all the things that make Saint Mary's special. I am excited to add to the memories. To stay up all night talking about nothing and eating EZ­Mac. To paint my body in the second row of a Notre Dame football game. To be part of a very special relation­ship between two schools. And to do exactly what I am doing now, address­ing the student body through the newspaper. 
My advice is this: College goes by way too fast. Have fun, but don't for­get to do your work. Stay involved and participate in what you love. You have four years to make something of yourself. And I have no doubt you will do just that as a Belle. 
Katie Kohler is a junior political sci­ence and English major. She can be contacted at kkohleO 1 @sain tmarys. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 20 
Saturday, August 25 2007 
Web Images Video News Maps Gmail more • 
B10ogle s::ress e.g., "SFO" --··--..··----~ @;;:;:~~~:;;.-s;;~r, aen'1 ~ 
Serving the Blue and Gold Nation Search the map Find businesses { Get directions 
· Search Results My Maps Now! 

Newt Drag &drop the blue line to customize your route 
c::! Avoid highways Get reverse directions 
'From: Home 

1. 
Start by unpacking your gear 


2. 
Say good-bye to Mom and Dad 

3. 
Prepare for the best four years of your life 

4. 
But before the football games, SYRs and other campus antics can begin, it helps to know the lay o' the land as you navigate the twists and turns of life here in our comer of the Bend 

5. 
Whether you're looking for some non-dining hall chow, decide you need some peace and quiet to crack some of those shiny new textbooks, or just want to check out something new, here are some of the. lesser-known crooks and crannies located around campus 

6. 
So here's the key: green flags stand for grub, blue flags stand for books, and flags stand for...well, some of the "hidden gems" tucked away around campus. 

7. 
One more thing: welcome home 


lX;

<;> To: University of Notre Dame 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Saturday, August 25, 2007 page 21 
Saved Locations ISign in IHelp 
Directions 

page 22 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 
Webb eyes second Cy Young 

Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Now that his scoreless streak is over, Brandon Webb is setting his sights on something else: a sec­ond straight Cy Young Award. 
Webb's string ended at 42 innings Wednesday night when he gave up a run in the first against Milwaukee. He went on to pitch the NL West-leading Arizona Diamondbacks to a 3-2 win. 
"I finished up pretty strong last year, and I feel pretty strong right now," Webb said. ''I'd say it's pretty comparable." 
Webb was nowhere near Cy Young contention when he dropped three straight deci­sions to fall to 8-8 on July 20. But the 28-year-old righty has won six straight starts ­including three complete-game shutouts -and has helped carry the surprising young Diamondbacks. 
"Since then, he's taken oft' and been the horse that we expect him to be," Arizona manager Bob Melvin said. 
Webb's 191 2-3 innings are most in the majors. He has three shutouts, and no other National Leaguer has more than one. 
Webb's 2.63 EHA is fourth in the NL, behind Chris Young's 2.12, Jake Peavy's 2.21 and Brad Penny's 2.59. 
Webb has 166 strikeouts. Only Peavy, with 186. has more in the NL. 
"The numbers will show right now, especially here recently, 
CLASSIFIEDS 
that he's been about as good as he's ever been in his career," Melvin said. 
"We've had some success this year, and we don't have it with­out him. We didn't give him much run support early on in the season," he said. 
Young has been viewed as the Cy Young favorite since midsea­son. But he left the Padres on Wednesday to have his sore back examined, and that may throw the race open. 
As Webb closed in on Orel Hershiser's major league record of 59 scoreless innings, set in 1988, the Arizona ace's name popped up in more Cy Young debates. 
"I don't know if it's the streak. The scoreless innings obviously brought my ERA down a ton (from 3.38 to 2.63). But the wins that come with it have also helped out a lot in that regard, I would think," he said. 
Melvin, then with San Francisco, homered against Hershiser shortly before he embarked on that 59-inning streak in 1988. 
"There's so many easy ways for a run to get on the board. It takes some luck. But it also takes a lot of skill. And his skill through 42 innings was like nothing I've ever seen before," he said. 
Milwaukee manager Ned Yost said Webb had to overcome more than the opposing lineups. 
"[The media is] hammering you about the streak, what about the streak?" he said. "If they would just leave him alone 

and let him go out and pitch 
this game, he'd stand a lot bet­
ter chance of doing it, but 
nobody wants to do that stuff 
anymore." 
Webb generally seems immune to pressure. He is a laid-back Kentuckian who wears flip-flops and relaxes by playing the guitar in front of his locker stall. But he acknowl­edged that he was relieved when the streak ended. 
"The attention that it got, every day coming in and having to deal with it _ for it to be over, I can kind of take a deep breath and be like, 'Good, let's just go win some ballgames, "' he said. 
Webb's demeanor didn't change after he won the Cy Young Award last year. But his repertoire did. 
He came to spring training ready to develop his changeup, which has become a nasty com­plement to his trademark sinker. 
"I think that's what's made him who he is right now," Melvin said. "Now, his sinker's as good as we've seen it all year, but at times this year he has struggled with the com­mand of it, and his secondary pitches have enabled him to continue being a successful guy." 
Webb has come a long way since 2004, when the Diamondbacks lost 111 games and he led the league with 16 defeats, 119 walks and 17 wild pitches. Back then, Webb seem­ingly tried to strike out every hitter because he didn't trust his fielders. 
His approach changed in 2005, when the Diamondbacks shored up their middle infield with Craig Counsell and Royce Clayton. Webb began throwing more strikes with his sinker, allowing batters to pound the ball into the dirt. 
When Webb agreed to a $19.5 million, four-year contract with the Arizona Diamondbacks in January 2006, he knew he had accepted more than money and security. He also accepted the responsibility of being Arizona's top starter. 
"I think he was ready to step up in the fashion that he did, and he ends up winning the Cy Young," Melvin said. 
Now Webb may make it two in a row. 
"Stuff-wise, I'm right where I want to be," Webb said. "I feel pretty good. I would say it's up there with the tops where I've felt in my career, being able to locate as well as I have." 
Saturday, August 25, 2007 
NFL 

Steelers punter vvell vvorth the high price 
Rookie Daniel Sepulveda benefits from Tomlin's increased focus on special teams 
sions that most punters don't
Associated Press 
have -namely, a linebacker­
like body. At 6-foot-2 1/2 and 

PITTSBURGH The 229 pounds, he resembles Pittsburgh Steelers never first-round draft pick paid more heavily for a Lawrence Timmons in size, punter than they did Daniel and Sepulveda outran him Sepulveda, giving up a fourth during some predraft work­and sixth-round pick to get outs. him. So far, they're not disap­Sepulveda didn't punt in pointed with high school, their invest­either, becom­ment. "We put our ing a punter at 
"We put our Baylor only
money where 
money where after walking our mouth is our mouth is on at line­with him," with him.,, backer, the Mike Tomlin same position said, a refer­older brother 
Mike Tomllln
ence to the Stephen played new coach's Stealers head coach there. The 
emphasis on special teams.That leg Sepulveda is giving the Steelers is making them look wise with that money, too. 
It was only a preseason game but, given that the kicking game is the one aspect of the preseason that most mimics that of the regu­lar season, the Steelers were delighted with Sepulveda's 
50-yard  average  on  four  
punts  Saturday  against  
Washington.  

The Baylor rookie punter was their standout during a dreary first half of a game the Steelers would win 12-10 on three field goals in the fourth quarter. The Steelers have devoted more time to the kicking game under Tomlin than with any previ­ous coach. 
"I think it's great they're putting so much emphasis on special teams," Sepulveda said, referring to the numer­ous morning practices devot­ed to them during camp. 
The Steelers ended last season convinced that they needed an upgrade at punter, even though the long-reliable Chris Gardocki -their regu­lar for three seasons -has never had any of his 1,1 77 punts blocked. 
However, Pittsburgh was only 28th in the league in punting average (41.3) last season, and 19th in net aver­age (36. 7 yards). 
Sepulveda gives the Steelers some added dimen­
younger 
Sepulveda went on to become the first two­time winner of the Ray Guy award presented to the col­lege football's top punter, averaging 46.5 yards last season. 
After the draft, Sepulveda discovered pretty quickly that Pittsburgh is a football-inten­sive place to be. There, he was reminded constantly of how he hit a 51-yard punt against North Texas several years ago, then went down­field and leveled the punt returner with a big hit. 
Sepulveda thought the play was long since forgotten, only to learn numerous Steelers fans had watched it online. 
"That's pretty cool, that they're talking about a punter even before they've seen him play," he said. 
Sepulveda also has been asked repeatedly about his ability to kick the "Aussie roll" -a type of punt that, when landing inside a 20, doesn't bound toward the end zone but backspins and remains in play. The idea is to get the ball to rotate back­ward like a kickoff, rather than spiraling like most punts do, by kicking it on its end. 
After watching Cowboys punter Mat McBriar employ the roll, Sepulveda was determined to learn it him­self. The kick gets its name from Australian football, where the tactic is heavily used. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR SALE 
Condo For Sale 2 br twnhse w sun room great SB neighborhood $93,000 call 269-445-2765. 
Spacious Bass Lake home just 15 min. from campus. 2550 sq. ft., 4 bdrm,3.5 bath, 2 firepl, large deck, 40 ft. pier. $189,500. For private showing call Mike Keen, 574-514-2096 Market Place Realty. 
Charming historic home overlooking river 5-7 min. from campus. 3 bdrm,2 bath, hardwood floors. $130,000. For private showing call Mike Keen, 574-514-2096, Market Place Realty. 
4 bdrm,2.5 ba home at 4210 Cross Creek Dr. Great comer lot on a cul-de-sac w/big deck & fenced-in yard. 10 min. to ND. The MLS #is 219961 or www.Kristinperk.com. Or call Kristin at 574-274-2104 today. 
3 bdrm,2 full BA ranch at 52233 Ironwood Rd. Many updates. New flooring in kitchen & FA & newer cherry cabinets w/granite countertops & stainless steel appliances. glass-enclosed porch and 2-car garage. Just min. to ND. The MLS # to see on line is 218253. For more info. please call Kristin Perkins at 574­27 4-21 04 today or visit me at www.kristinperk.com 

Very nice 3 BR 2 BA ranch at 1213 Climbing Rose Ln in Mishawaka, IN. Easy 12-15 min. drive to ND. Fenced back yard, full basement w/egress window & large eat-in kitchen. Home is only 4 yrs. old. Call Judy Allie at 574-220-9043 tor your private showing today. MLS # is 220031. 
FoR RENT 
Bed & Breakfast 3 mile ND Best Area. South Bend, IN 46614 287­4545 
LODGING FOR FOOTBAL GAMES Visit www.amishcountrybb.org tor 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
House for rent. 1 blk to ND. 1205 N.St. Louis. 232-0875. 
House for rent. Walk to Campus. 3bdr. Washer/dryer, Landlord does yardwork. $750/mo. 574-250-1266. Fum. apt., sleeps 4 maybe 6. ND home games. Right next to ND. 574-273-3030 ask tor Pat. 
AVAILABLE­ND HOME GAME WEEKENDS. (Thurs-Sat). Adorable 2 BDRM, 
1.5 BAhome in Excellent area, only 5 min. to ND. LVGRM + FAMRM & Screened-in Porch. No Smokers! Security Deposit. 574-360-8240. 
Furnished, 1 bdrm apt., 2 rni. to ND, AC. non-smoker, no pets. $450/mo 
+ utilities, free laundry, fenced yard. 57 4-289-9365. 
Furnished, 1 bdrm apt., 2 mi. to ND, AC, non-smoker, no pets. $450/mo 
+ utilities. free laundry, fenced yard. 574-289-9365. 
TICKETS 

WANTED­ND FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. www.victorytickets.com 
Want USC tix & will trade other games for USC. Call574-276-8507. 
Want USC tix & will trade other games tor USC. Call574-276-8507. 
PERSONAL 
LASER CREATIONS Unique Products Thru Laser Technology. Laser etched logo gifts, signs, award plaques, name tags, rubber stamps, glass etching, etc. Call Jack 574-273-8662 or email: lssercr@comcast.net 

Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
GET INVOLVED IN IRISH ATHLETICS 
The Sports Information Office is looking_ for student assistants for the L007-08 school year.Anyone interested in tak1ng an active role in Notre Dame athletics should come to an informational meeting... 
Tuesda~ August 28 -10:00 PM Lnd Floor Office Gate 2, Joyce Center 
Students are needed for writing,working events, office hours, and more. 
For more information, contact Bernie Cafarelli at 1-7516. 
• 



The Next Stage® 
s"JW,~ 
w.y cio«/<illj ,..cceM.rtt 
"'"' look tJ.f 'otd Ill 
my ht.a.;r. 



Talk with a Wells Fargo Banker and get your PhD in Money-omics. 
With College Combo®, designed especially for college students, you get: 
• 
Free Wells Fargo College Checking® account* 


• 
No annual fee Wells Fargo® Check Card -now with Visa® payWave 

• 
Free access to Wells Fargo Online® Banking and Free Bill Pay 

• 
Free Direct Deposit of paychecks and/or financial aid 

• 
Free access to over 6,800 Wells Fargo ATMs 



Stop by your local Wells Fargo and talk with a banker today. 
*Eligibility subject to approval. Students must provide proof of enrollment at an accredited college/university or trade school when the account is opened. $100 minimum opening deposit required for new checking account. Additional restrictions apply. 
© 2007 Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. All rights reserved. Member FDIC. 
CROSS COUNTRY Skilled freshn1en vvill aid returning starters 
Springer and Jackson may make an impact immediately for already-strong Irish squad 

By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
A year older, a year better. 
At least that's what coaches Joe Piane and Tim Connelly hope their teams display this season. Both the men and women return a strong group of runners from teams that first at the NCC and fifth at the Great Lakes Regional. Olding, who was named to the 2007 ESPN The Magazine Academic All-American Track/Cross Country second team in June, is ready to race again after having off-season surgery. 
"To be very honest with you, she wasn't 100 percent 
finished third in the Big East last season. 
Junior Patrick Smyth and senior Jake Watson lead a men's squad that captured first in the C r u s a d e r Invitational and the National Catholic Championship (NCC) in 2006. Smyth and Watson both posted top-1 0 finishes in the Big East meet last October, 
"We have our whole team back from last year plus we've got a handful of freshmen coming in that have the potential to contribute. " 
Tim Connelly Women's coach 
last year," Connelly said. "But she's had a good summer and is ready to go." 
Connelly said he has high expectations for his team to win the Big East title this year because they have last year's experience. 
"Anytime you go into some­thing like that that's your goal," Connelly said. "On paper it looks like we 

earning all-conference hon­ors in the process. Men's coach Joe Piane said he expects the same consistency from Smyth and big things from Watson this season and also expects some members of the freshmen class to con­tribute immediately. 
"There's two kids [Paul Springer and Dan Jackson] who I think who could step in and help us and the rest of our kids can help us down the road," Piane. "In terms of cross-country, it's a very good class." 
Senior Sunni Olding will anchor a group of runners that developed last year and improved as the season went along. The women placed might be very good. We have our whole team back from last year plus we've got a handful of freshmen coming in that have the potential to contribute." 
Meanwhile, the incoming freshmen class can develop behind the experienced group of upperclassmen. 
"There's a pretty good group there that has the potential to come in and con­tribute, but at the same time there also a good group returning that kind of used last season as a start and built on that in the track sea­son," Connelly said. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 25, 2007 
NO TENNIS 

Bass, Thompson twins leave 'big shoes' to fill 
singles player year at No. 1
''The depth we had last

Stephen Bass. singles and 
year was a rea/luxury

"That cre­will have to ates big shoes that we will not be likely step up his to fill," Irish 
to afford this year. " play and 

coach Bobby assume a lead­Bayliss said. ership position 
But Notre Bobby Bayliss on the team. Dame has an Irish coach The return­influx of new ing players, talent this especially year with Ross, have seven freshmen -David been showing improvement, Anderson, Shaun Tan, Tyler Bayliss said. Davis, Stephen Havens, Matt "Ross has made a jump over .Johnson, David Stahl and the summer improving his vol­Andmw Zutz. leying and backhand and will 
But Bayliss is willing to be be a strong lineup presence for patient. While the newcomers us," Bayliss said. are talented, he said, they will The Irish take their opening need time to develop, though. serve on September 13 at the 
"The depth we had last year Olympic Field Invitational in was a real luxury that we will Chicago. 
Women replace Thompson 
twins 

The Notre Dame women will begin the 2007 season with high expectations. 
The 2006-07 team, which fin­ished 28-4, featured only two seniors in twins Catrina and Christian Thompson. While their departure vacates the top two singles and No. 1 doubles positions, the 2007-08 Irish welcome back integral players from last year's team, and have added even more talent to their roster. 
"They were so good for us for four years, it's a big spot to replace, but I think that we have a lot of returning players that played well at lower posi­tions and can step up," coach Jay Louderback said. 
Leading the charge of new, young talent coming to the team is freshman Kristin Rafael, one of the top high school players in the country last year. 
"She is a great competitor," Louderback said. "I think dou­bles-wise she should help us and I think [her playing] singles will play a big part." 
The biggest hurdle for the Irish will be figuring out who has improved over the summer and made the necessary leaps needed to step up and play at a higher level. With all of their returning talent, it could get crowded at the top. 
The top candidate for the No. 1 singles position could be 

Irish men add seven new faces to roster for the 2007-08 season 
By JAY WADE Sports Wrirer 
The Notre Dame men will begin the new year with many new faees. 

The Irish, who finished 26-4 in 2006, graduated four sen­iors, three of whom played in every singles and doubles match. That group ineludes former No. 1 not be likely to afford this year," Bayliss said. "I think that those [senior] losses will be very significant, but when you have freshmen and even returning players who did not play you have a ton of enthusi­asm, so I think we'll be a very spirited and hard-working team and I expect us to be very tough in the top part of our line up." 
The Irish are not without vet­eran leadership, however, as they return such standouts as Sheeva Parbhu, Andrew Ross and Brett Helgeson. Parbhu is expected to fill the "big shoes" of Bass this 

Colleen Rielley, a sophomore who went 30-11 at the No. 3 singles spot in 2006-07. Other notable returning players will be junior Kelcy Tefft, who played was 26-9 at No. 4 sin­gles, and her partner on last year's No. 2 doubles team, sen­ior Brooke Buck. 
At doubles, the pair went 25-7 last year. 
,. 

The Professional Theatre in Residence at the University of Notre Dame
h1Summer
S aKespeare 

OST 
a ROMANTIC COMEDY 
by William Shakespeare directed by Jay Paul Skelton 
AUGUST 21-SEPTEMBER 2 
Decio Theatre -DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
574-631-2800 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
NationalCity..

'W NOTRE DAME Production Underwriter http:/ /shakespeare.nd.edu 
"The big thing for us this fall is going to be to establish our lineup and our doubles teams," Louderback said. "We have a lot returning, a lot of people com­ing back, and we just need to get everyone to get back play­ing." 
Contact Jay Wade at jwade@nd.edu 

-----------------------------------' 
Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 page 26 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 25, 2007 



Meet student members of the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students and find out more about resources available to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning students on the Notre Dame campus. 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students will host aRECEPTION for interested first-year students: 
Monday,August27~ 
1:30-3:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse Building 
(3rd Floor Lounge) 
Visit our web site at http://www.corecouncil.nd.edu/ 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students also sponsors: 
Coffee &Conversation at the Co-Mo Solidarity Sunday CommUnity NETWORK Sessions 

Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
HOCKEY 
Banner year for Irish brings in strong recruits 

onship. the Class of 2011 walks onto reason. I assume that I'll proba­Ruth. Cole was drafted in the By KYLE CASSILY and Banners are new to Notre campus. The seven incoming bly do exactly what I did two flrst round, 18th overall, by the DAN MURPHY Dame's hockey rink, but they freshmen have been called the years ago when I started here. St. Louis Blues, making him the 
Sports Writers 
aren't to head coach Jeff best recruiting class in the I'm going to play a couple guys highest picked Notre Dame Jackson, who has three national nation -a more than solid early on." player in program history. 
Notre Dame's name splays championships at Lake Superior addition to an Irish team that Pearce platooned in the net "They're both big strong kids. across a boldly-lettered banner State. In just two years he and lost eight seniors, four of which with Brown two years ago as a They're going to really make a that hangs high over the ice at his staff have transformed the have signed pro contracts. freshman before Brown proved difference for us, especially Joe Louis Arena in Detroit now, Irish from an average to subpar "This is going to be my first that he was capable of starting clearing out our net." Jackson and it has a twin above the program into a national power­go-around. This is really our for the Irish every night. Since said. sheet in the Joyce Center as house, and he did it with none first class together as a staff," then, Pearce has received spot Jackson plans to pair the two well -matching monuments to of his own recruits. Jackson said. starts and spelled Brown in sev­freshmen with more experi­the team's first league champi-That changes this year when Four of the freshmen were eral mid-season games. enced players, most likely sen­
selected in the NHL Draft in Phillips was a prize grab for ior Brock Sheahan and sopho­June, and two will come from Jackson and his staff in the more Kyle Lawson. Stockholm, Sweden. recruiting season. He was the The Irish also add depth on 
"From a talent perspective highest-rated North American the offensive end with Swedish this is probably as good as class goaltender among collegiate­recruits Robin Bergman and we ever had at Lake Superior," bound players and was selected Calle Ridderwall out of Jackson said. "The one differ­in the seventh round of the NHL Stockholm and Ben Ryan out of ence we have is that they are draft in June by the the United States Hockey younger." Philadelphia Flyers. League. Nashville selected Ryan 
The biggest single loss for the To prepare for life at Notre in the fourth round of June's Irish from last season was the Dame as a student-athlete, draft. graduation of goaltender Dave Phillips enrolled at the The international trio will Brown, who amassed numerous University this summer to take supplement the "little guy" line school records and was a final­classes and work out, adding of junior Erik Condra and soph­ist for the Hobey Baker Award. eight pounds to his 160-pound omores Ryan Thang and Kevin 
There are two frontrunners to frame. Deeth, who produced most of replace Brown between the "I can't watch him in the Notre Dame's goals last season. pipes -junior Jordan Pearce weight room or on the ice, but I Jackson wasn't ready to say and freshman Brad Phillips -hear the guys said he did really whether this year's team will be but Jackson isn't quick to give well," Jackson said. better than last's. the starting job to either net­Regardless of who ends up in "It will be more talented, but minder and may continue that net, he will have plenty of help better is a different word," way well into the season. from his defensemen. Despite Jackson said. "I can't give you 
"It's too early for me to say," losing three veteran players on the..answer to that question Jackson said. "I have all the the blue line, Jackson believes yet. confidence in the world in his team will be grittier on Jordan Pearce. He's going to defense than last year's No. 1 Contact Kyle Cassily at come in here and compete to ranked unit in the nation. kcassily@nd.edu take that No. 1 spot, but we The Irish added two top and Dan Murphy at recruited Brad Phillips for a prospects in Ian Cole and Teddy dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Join us as our brothers in Holy Cross celebrate their profession of perpetual vows and consecrate their lives to Christ forever. 

Saturday, August 25, 2007 
2:00p.m. 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
vocation.nd.edu
Stephen A. Lacroix, C.S.C. Andrew M. Gawrych, C.S.C. 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 28 The Observer+ SPORTS Saturday, August 25, 2007 
GOLF 


Get a FREE iPod® nano* 
when you sign up for KeyBank's FREE Student Checking Package. 
We'll send you an iPod nano when you: 
• 
Open a Free Student Checking 1 Account with Debit Card! 

• 
Open a No Annual Fee Credit Card3 with 1o/o cash back" 

• 
Enroll in Free Online Banking and Online Statements 


With your Student Checking Package, you'll enjoy free use of any ATM, plus receive reimbursement, up to $6 per month, of ATM fees charged by other banks5 
For more information, stop by our office next to University Park Mall, call 247-2861 or visit Key.com. 
KeyBank 

K~~y-B•a•n•k•is•M•e•m•b•e•r•FD•I•C•~•2•0•07•K•~•co•rp................................~....-~~ 
iPod~ nano is a registered trademark of Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple is not aparticipant of this promotion. 
·vou must be at least 18 years old to meet all package requirements needed to receive the iPod nano. Get atree iPod nano when you open afree Student Checking Account between July 22,2007 and September 7, 2007 and fulfill all other package requirements by October 5, 2007. Offer available to individuals without an existing checking account at KeyBank. Limit one free iPod nano per Student Checking Package. Offer valid until September 7, 200/ or while supplies last. The iPod nano shipped may differ from the iPod nano sl10wn. You must have aU.S. mailing address on October 5, 2007 to he eligible. The value of the iPod nano will be reported on Form 1099-INT. 
·Client must be at least 16 years ot age (must be at least 18 years of age tor this Student Banking Package offer) and either ahigh school junior or senior or enrolled in post-high school education (college or trade) to open this account. Minimum opening deposit of $50. Clients under the age of 18 are required to have aparent.iguardian as joint owner on the account, ancl both account owners must sign aStudent Supplemental Agreement. If you close your account wtthin 180 days of account opening, you will be charged a$25 account early closing fee. Other miscellaneous charges may apply, 
'Key Student Checking clients under llie age of 18 can be Issued an ATM card. However. adetJit card will only be issued to clients 18 years and older. 'Credit cards are issued tJy Citibank (South Dakota), NA Subject to credit approval Additional terms and conditions apply. To apply, you rnust be 18 years of age or older. 'The rebate is calculaterJ as 1% of your net monthly purchases. You may accumulate a maximum of $100 per billing cycle and $300 In any calendar year. payable in $1 DO checks. Please see the Rebate Terms and Conditions when you apply. '·Refund of the first 2ATM surcharges. up to $6 per montll, of other bank's ATM cash withdrawal surcharges when the withdrawals are made witll aKeyBank debit card 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame golf pro­gram received a vote of confi­dence before the start of the fall season. 
The September issue of Golf Digest ranked the men's team No. 9 and the women's team No. 11 in a poll of top U.S. col­legiate golf programs. 
The poll awarded rankings in three categories: golf, academ­ics and a combination of both, the last known as the "bal­anced rankings." 
The balanced category also took into account the facilities, coaches, climate, player growth, team adjusted scoring average and academics, and it was here that the Irish earned the highest 
Program receives high n1arks fron1 Golf Digest 
Men ranked ninth, women 11th in recent survey 
"We weren 't even
rankings. The where we're 
rankings were mentioned last heading." compiled from year. at least in The women surveys sent to lost a playoff
the top so."
college coaches against around the Louisville in last nation. Susan Holt spring's Big East "We weren't tournament
Women's head coach 
even mentioned after tying them last year, at in regulation. least in the top With three of 50," women's head coach their four all-eonference play­Susan Holt said. "For us to go ers returning, they should be in 
10effo111e rJreJh111til! C6JJ.I 
Start the school year off right with your skin looking & feeling GREAT.qcome see me! 

Peggy Dibble 

Aesthetician ... and don't forget to mention this ad!! 
MICHIANA EYE CENTER 
Peggy is available: Monday-Friday: 9am-Spm 


Saturday: 8:30am -12:00pm & fACIAL PLASTIC SURGERY 

401 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 574.282.2020 
For all your cosmetic, skin care and hair removal needs come to our South Bend location just minutes from campus on North Michigan Street. 
Peggy is a licensed aesthetician and specializes in Jane lredale mineral-based makeup, LaRoche-Posay skin care products, facials and waxing services. 
From your face to your legs, Peggy will have your skin feeling smooth, soft & beautiful! 
Call Peggy Today! 
574.282-2020 
There were some schools in there that we're much better· than that were ranked right there with us." 
Recruiting takes off 
Whether it's the facilities or the results, recruits have noticed. The two incoming freshmen on the women's team, So-llyun Park from Seoul, South Korea and Katie Conway from Wading Hiver, N.J., make up the highest­ranked recruiting class --for the men or women --Notre Dame golf' has ever seen. 
"We're expecting them to be in the top five from day one. So-llyun is ranked in the top 20 [nationally). Katie's ranked in the top 40," Holt said. "We have two verbal commitments already for 2008, so we're excited about 

from there to where we appeared in this year's edition is certainly a testament I think, more than anything, to the quality of recruits that we've got coming into the program and our facilities." 
The men's team was No. 14 in the academic rankings and No. 35 in the golf-only catego­ry. The women were No. 10 in the academic rankings and No. 21 in the golf-only section. 
The South Bend climate, inhospitable to golfers for much of the year, dropped Notre Dame's rankings slightly, but men's coach Jim Kubinski said even that was becoming less of an obstacle. 
"This year we have two kids from California and one from Florida, so we're getting kids from all sorts of weather cli­mates that maybe we didn't have in the past," he said. 
Both Holt and Kubinski said the highly ranked Warren Golf Course --designed in part by two-time Masters champion Ben Crenshaw --and the statn­of-the-art Holl's indoor practice facility contributed signilkantly to the high rankings. Both also cited the increased funding available since 2000. when golf became a full scholarship sport. 
Nothing gets the attention of recruits like success, however. 
"We've had a number of good wins, the last couple years especially, and I think recruits are starting to take notice," Kubinski said. 
Holt believed the poll to be an accurate representation of the program. Kubinski agreed, but said the team adjusted scoring average was poorly calculated. 
"When you play a very diffi­cult golf course like Purdue or good shape for the fall season. 
"[Sophomore! Annie Brophy had a breakout spring. She really stepped up," Holt said. ''I'd like to sec her pick up where she left off. !Junior Lisa Maunu's] a really experieneed player, but last year she had some setbacks and some injuries, so that was really frustrating for her." 
Maunu rebounded from injuries sull'ered last season to compete on the Canadian national team and travel over­seas to play this summer. 
The men, who also finished second behind Louisville in last year's Big East tournament, have a strong freshmen class as well. Dustin Zhang from Calgary, Alberta, Tyler Hock from Ocala, Fla., Jeffery Chen from Walnut, Calif., and Connor Alan-Lee from Solana Beach, Calif., may all crack the start­ing lineup at some point in the season. 
"In the three, four and l'ivn [lineup! spots, we weren't get­ting a number of good scores. We were very ineonsistPnt," Kubinski said. "This year, hav­ing anoth1~r four players to draw from, I think we're going to be a much more consistent tnam from Ispots I one through nve in the lineup instnad of .i ust being top-heavy." 
Kubinski mentioned senior Greg Hodgers, who shot a 69 in lhe final round of the Big East hampionship last year, as a breakout candidate. Arter a good freshman fall, junior Josh Sandman missed his freshman spring due to injury and had a bit of a slump last year. 
"lie played well, but he didn't play well for Josh," Kubinski said. "I think this will be a real bounce-back year. lie could be 

Ohio State and you play it in in contention for All-American 30-degree weather, that's dif­status if' he plays to his abili­ferent from playing an easy ties."
Recycl 

course in 80-degrec weather," 
Kubinski said. "So your scores Contact Bill Brink at are affected. That put us down. wbrink@nd.edu 
Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 

for the 2007-2008 Atademic Year 
From the Division of Student Affairs 
Rev. Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C. 
Vice President for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-7394 
Ms. Ann Firth Mr. William Kirk 
Associate VP for Student Affairs Associate VP for Residence Life 316 Main Building 316 Main Building 631-2685 621-6144 
Mr. M. Brian Cou!!hlin Sr. Susan Dunn, O.P. Dr. G. David Moss 
Assistant VP for Student Activities Assistant VP for Student Afairs Assistant VP for Student Affairs 315 LaFortune Student Center 316 Main Building 316 Main Building 631-9314 631-5550 631-5550 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F. Ms. Jennifer Monahan 
Special Assistant to the Vice President Executive Assistant to the Vice President 316 Main Building 316 Main Building 631-5550 631-5550 
ALCOHOL & DRUG EDUCATION CAMPUS MINISTRY Ms. Christine Nowak, Director Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C., Director 204 St. Liam Hall 316 Coleman-Morse Center 631-7970 631-8725 
CARRER CENTER GENDER RELATIONS CENTER 
Mr. Lee Svete, Director Ms. Heather Rakoczy, Director 248 Flanner Hall 311 LaFortune Student Center 631-5200 631-9340 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT SERVICES &ACTIVITIES MULTICULTURAL STUDENT PROGRAMS &SERVICES 
Bethany Heet. Interim Director  Ms. Iris Outlaw, Director  
204 LaFortune Student Center  21 0 LaFortune Student Center  
631-3825  631-6841  
RJ:SIDENCE IJFE & HOUSING  SECURITY  
Mr. Jeffrey Shoup, Director  Mr. Philip Johnson, Director  
305 Main Building  204 Hammes-Mowbray Hall  
631-5551  631-5555  
STUDENT ACTIVITIES  UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER  
Ms. Peggy Hnatusko, Director-Programming  Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich. Director  
Mr. Ryan Willerton, Director-Facilities  3rd Floor-St. Liam Hall  
315 LaFortune Student Center  631-7336  
631-7308  
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES  
Ms. Ann E. Kleva, Director  
St. Liam Hall  
631-7497  
~UNIVERSITY OF  
WNOTREDAME  

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 25, 2007 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McGraw's frosh trio bring new skills to squad 
By BILL BRINK Spons Writt•r 
Somn may sen Notre Damn's close loss to No. I send North Carolina in tlw second round of last year's NCM Tournament as cllmwralizing. Irish coach MuiTet McCraw certainly dons not. 
"I think it gavn us a lot of mnli­dPnce," Md;raw said. "We all canw out of that ganw about a wonk latPr ready to start prac­tice." 
Wlwn the Irish start fall prac­ti<~ns on Oct. 12, tlwy will be joined hy three in<~oming fn~shnwn: Bneca Brusznwski, l>nvnn~aux Peters and Brittany Mallory. Each of tho frnshmnn possesses a skill Notrn l>anw lackPd last season. l'ntnrs is an accomplished shot blocker and rcboundnr, Mallory shooL-; vnry wdl from the ouL-;idn and Brusznwski, whiln also a good ouL-;idn shootl'f, is a vnrsatiln play­er who will lit in well with Notre l>anw's new f(ntr-out of1imsiVI~ set. 
"I guess it was a eombination but I would say we rnally wanted to go after two things, a three­point shooter and a rPbounding shot blocker," McCraw said. 
PPtnrs, a (>-ft)()t-2 li>rward from (:h icago 's Fnnwick II igh Sehool, W<L'i thn highest-rankml player tho Irish landed. She was a Mcl>onalds AII-Ameriean and a throe-time Street & Smith's All­American honorabh~ rmmtion. 
"Peters is someone who can rnally rebound," McCraw said. "She can block shots. That was something we lacknd last year, was a shot blocker. She runs the floor extremely well, so she's going to help our press." 
Peters will also help lill the void in the defense and rebounding department creatod by the gradu­ations of Brnona Gray and Crystal Erwin. 
In addition to being named to the all-Illinois second team by the Chicago Tribune, Pnters was awardnd all-eonfimmcn honors in 2005 and 2006. 
Mallory brings a dill"1mmt skill set. 
"Wn worn not a very good thrne­point shooting team, and I think that !Mallory! is a very good thrne­point shooter," McGraw said of the 5-foot-lO guard from MeDonogh School in Baltimore, Md. "I thil1k she'll bP a real asset for us just bemuse of hnr ability to do, really, what we struggled with last year." 
Mallory averaged 20.1 points and 7.8 rnbounds per game in her senior ymtr, when McDonogh went 2:H>. 
Bruszewksi, a 6-foot-1 forward from Wheeler High School in Valparaiso, Ind., spent her senior year recovering from an ACL injury but was still high on McGraw's list. 
"She's somnone who we feel tits in really well with our offense becausn she can handle the ball, she can shoot thn throB, she can rnbound," MeGraw said. "She's someone who we think can post up smaller guards and use her size to her advm1tage." 
Dnspite the talHnt these fresh­men bring, they will have trouble earning playing time. The Irish return seven veterans, including junior Lindsay Schroeder, who missed last season with a knee injury. 

"Initially, it will bn a good situa­tion for them because there won't be a lot of pressure on them," McGraw said. "It will be rnally a chance for them to grow, llmrn the system, and till in." 
McGraw said that thH eight-man rotation of last year's team was one body short, and the team will likely utilize a nine-man rotation this year. 
One of those eight, sophomore guard Melissa Lechlitner, compet­ed with the gold-medal-winning 
U.S. under-19 team in the World Championships in Bratislava, Slovakia. 
"I think it's going to do great things for her leadership and con­fidenee, not that she needPd it ­she's very confident," MeGraw said. 
While Lcchlitner was looked upon as a leader rather than a seorer on the under-19 team, McGraw hopes she can return to putting points on the board for the Irish. 
Perimeter defense, the bane of Notre Dame's defensive play last season, will be the foeal point of preseason practice. 
"We gave up way too many threes. That is a huge problem that we've got to fix," McGraw said. ''I'm hoping the veterans are a little more determined to be bet­ter defensively." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


we still love you.
A 

\'(/e would like you to adopt [)rigid's, Lismore and all ofthe facilities of\'(/aterl1xd [states Lodge 
as you await ~l new pernwnent home on campus in 2009. r::or University Club members, Waterford features: 
• 
Your own restaurant for breakf~1st • ~)0% Discount on <~~uest rooms -7 days/week • Complimentary van service to/From the 

• 
Your own restaurant t(>r lunch Circle on campus, Monday through Friday -6 days/week (11:30 a.rn.-1:30 p.m.) 

• 
Your ovvn restaurant for dinner • Health club nnd pool privileges -7 days/week • 25% Discount on all food; 10~::; discount on 

• 
Your own space for rneetin~ss or banquets all beverages for tlp to 500 people • Monthly billing to your own ~u.:count 


• Unlimited free fX1rkin<'$ \XIe'll even display your stein collection until you <¢,et n new horne. And, ifenOU(sh local members respond quickly, we should be able to put some ofyour previous 
ste1ff back to work. Ce11l me. Sincerely, 


o'li(i/~e !B'T.enan 
(NO '71) 

Waterford Estates Lod<3e 
52890 SR 933 North 
Waterford 
just north of the Notre Dnme cmnpus 
estates lodge
South Plt~nd, IN 4GG37 
(574) 272-5220 
Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 31 
MEN'5 BASKETBALL 
With K-Mac back on court, Irish look to reload 


Suspended guard, lofty expectations return to Brey's team 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
Despite graduating its two leading scorers -guards Colin Falls and Russell Carter -Notre Dame retains a strong nucleus of talent and experience headed into the 2007-08 season. 
Mike Brey, 2007 Big East coach of the year, will look to juniors Kyle McAlarney and Ryan Ayers to fill the gaps in the lineup left by Falls and Carter. 
McAlarney returns to Notre Dame's starting lineup after sit­ting out most of last season. The University suspended the sopho­more after he was arrested last December for marijuana posses­sion. 
Before his suspension, McAlarney averaged 10.3 points 
Own a Piece of ND History Commemorating the 35th Anniversary of ND Coeducation 
At www.thankingfatherted.com www.amazon.com and on campus at The Notre Dame Bookstore 
1972 -ND undtrgrndUtttc women's NOW n·cnUti11gposter 
2an7-ND \l11men C:IJJs.f a11d Stuik'ttt Grf'i)erntllifnt Offkers .Sr6.9) 
$r6.9; 

Sro from the sale ofeacb poster will be donated to ND Gentler Relations Center 
In Bookstores Nationwide September 4th From Andrews McMeel Publishing 
Thanking

£hnnkw,g lat!IL'r fL·d rouncl.atil•n 
-~ Ann Thl.'rt''>t" D.tr111 P.~lmt:t. f:rlJnH 
ND alumnae and ND celebrities th,mk Father Tedfor the g~ft of coeducation and discuss the impact oftheir NJJ educations. 
Profits ben~fit The 'l7;anking Bzther Jed Scholanhip Fund 
The Thanking Father Ted Foundation 
For more information, go to www. TbankingFatberTed. com 
Notre Dame Wilmen -Connect 
and 5.4 assists per game. He is poised for a breakout year in the Big East. 
"Here's a young man who has absolutely accepted responsibility and learned from a mistake and is honored to be back, thrilled to be back with his teammates. He did a fabulous job leading as soon as he got back," Brey said. "He's very hungry to get back on the court and be part of this and he's done a great job coming right in and his teammates love having him back. There's a toughness and an edge about Kyle that helps our team toughness." 
Ayers was mostly a spot-up shooter off the bench last season, but this season, Brey hopes he can gain the confidence to use his 6-foot-7 frame to create more shots inside 3-point line. So far, Brey likes what he sees from Ayers in his summer workouts. 
"We're excited and enthused about him stepping in to a Carter or Falls kind of role and being able to be a shot maker for us and do other things too, and he did that last year," Brey said. "His eyes are on the door swinging open with Carter leaving and jumping on that. He's done every­thing this summer to solidifY that in my mind." 
Senior Rob Kurz and sopho­more Luke Harangody will com­prise the Irish frontcourt for the second year in a row. Harangody averaged 11.2 points and 6.2 rebounds per game and earned a starting spot thanks to his hard­nosed style of play around the basket. 
Kurz, the lone senior on the team this season, averaged 12.6 points and eight rebounds, but his role this season will extend beyond the court. 
"Rob did a fabulous job leading and running the pickup games, and you know Rob is that work­horse that's going to be there every day leading the team," Brey said. 
Sophomore Tory Jackson will round out the starting lineup. Jackson entered the lineup after McAlarney's suspension and 
played solid defense from the start. As the season progressed, he grew into a major offensive threat due to his ability to get to the basket off the dribble. 
Off the bench, junior Zach Hillesland will lend versatility with his size, quickness and bas­ketball smarts, junior Luke Zeller, the tallest player on the team, continues to develop, while soph­omore Jonathan Peoples will back up Jackson and McAlarney. 
Fighting for spots with the bat­tle-tested veterans will be four freshmen who bring a variety of options to the table. So far, their biggest impact has been to push the team harder. 
"1 think what was impressive about them as a group, the eight veteran guys that they're joining are pretty intense, hard-working, business-like guys, and they did­n't pull those eight back," Brey said. "They added to them and I congratulated them for that, that they added to that." 
Brey said he did not know whether any freshmen will be red-shirted or which players would see what amount of time come November, but he likes what they add to the team. 
Carleton Scott brings some depth in the post, and Brey said his long wingspan should help in rebounding and grabbing loose balls. 
Tim Abromaitis spent his sen­ior year of high school and sum­mer workouts putting on more than 20 pounds of muscle, Brey said. 
"He's in good shape. He can shoot the ball, so that makes him interesting because we lost two real good shot makers," Brey said. "Anytime you're a shot maker I think there could be an opportunity given what we lost." 
Ty Proffitt will contribute some versatility to the guard position, with his ability to play point or off the ball, while Tyrone Nash could see some minutes, thanks to his 6-foot-8 frame and knowledge of the game. 
"Nash is probably the most physically ready to go because he went to a year of prep school, and he's already got Big East strength which really helps hin1." Brey said. "I don't know what position he is -he's just a good basketball player. When you're a versatile guy like that and you're physically ready. you make your­self valuable early as a fresh­man." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
page 32 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 25, 2007 

for the 2007-2008 Atademic Year 
From the Division of Student Affairs 
Rev. Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C. 
Vice President for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-7394 

Ms. Ann Firth Mr. William Kirk 
Associate VP for Student Affairs Associate VP for Residence Life 316 Main Building 316 Main Building 
631-2685  621-6144  
Mr. M. Brian Coue:hlin Assistant VP for Student Ac!i'vities 315 LaFortune Student Center 631-9314  S r. Susan Dunn, O.P. Assistant VP for Student Afairs 316 Main Building 631-5550  Dr. G. David Moss Assistant VP for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-5550  

Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F. Ms. Jennifer Monahan 
Special Assistant to the Vice President Executive Assistant to the Vice President 316 Main Building 316 Main Building 631-5550 631-5550 
Alumni Hall McGlinn Hall 
Rector: Rev. George Rozum, C.S.C. Rector: Sr. Mary Lynch, S.S.J. 
Badin Hall 
Rector: Sr. Denise Lyon, I.H.M. 


Green-Phillips Hall O'Neill Hall 
Rector: Ms. RacherKellogg Rector: Mr. Edward Mack 
Carroll Hall 
Rector: Rev. James Lewis, O.Carm. 



Dillon Hall 
Rector: Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. 


Farley Hall St. Edward's Hall 
Rector: Sr. Carrine Etheridge, I.H.M. Rector: Rev. Ralph Haag, C.S.C. 
Fisher Hall Siegfried HaJJ 
Rector: Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C. Rector: Rev. John Conley, C.S.C. 
Howard Hall Sorin Hall 
Rector: Sr. Katherine Collard, I.H.M. Rector: Rev. James King, C.S.C. 
Keenan Hall Stanford Hall 
Rector: Rev. Mark Thesing, C.S.C. Rector: Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 

Walsh Hall 
Rector: Sr. Janet Stankowski, O.P. 

Knott Hall Welsh l,amily Hall 
Rector: Br. Jerome Meyer, C.S.C. Rector: Sr. Christine Connolly, O.P. 
Lewis Hall Zahm Hall 
Rector: Ms. Linda Cirillo Rector: Mr. Corry Colonna 
Lyons Hall 
Rector: Ms. Denise McOsker 


University Villae:e &Cripe Street Apartments 
f::1'ector: Mr. Nafhan Elliot 
($1UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 


-----~---­

--------~----------; 
Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 33 
our relationship is right now," Brewster said.

Title Run 
Brewster hopes that her continued from page 40 expertise in blocking will 
help give Brown more time since their rookie seasons to focus on the new offense and this year Stasiuk was the team is using this sea-unanimously son. selected to the The team preseason all­"They are all great will be switch­conference ing to a faster­
players and they all 

team. paced, more 
The Irish also respect what our exciting offen­
get another relationship is right sive attack in healthy dose of now. which the ball experience can come from from new assis­anywhere on tant coach Lauren Brewster the court. 
Lauren Irish assistant coach Brown hopes Brewster. that the teams Brewster joined increased thn coaching staff this sum­depth and speed will make mer, but is no stranger to for a perfect fit with the new Notre Dame volleyball. The system. 2006 graduate was a two­"We are trying to capital­timn All-American under ize on some of the strengths 
Brown and one that we of the best have," Brown blockers in the said. "We are
"We are able to move 

program's his­able to move 
our hitters around a

tory. our hitters "She is a little more and have a around a little great blocking more and
few different 

coach and just have a few
patterns."

a really val u­different pat-able person to terns." have in the Debbie Brown Notre Dame gym," Stasiuk leaps head­
Irish coach 

said. first into its 
Brnwster and season this Stasiuk played weekend with togethnr for two seasons a pair of matches against prior to Brewster's return as top-1 0 teams. The Irish took a coach. According to both, on No. 9 Minnesota yester­the transition to a player­day and play No. 7 Florida coach relationship for all of Sunday at 7 p.m. in the the upperclassmen has gone Joyce Center. smoother than expected. 
"They are all great players Contact Dan Murphy at and they all respect what dmurhpy6@nd.edu 

"These condos are a win-win proposition!" 
-Mike c;olic, ESPN Personality and former Notre Dame football pl,1yer, Class of ·'85. 


Plus, purchase a unit now and Waterf-ord will donate 2~~ ofthe purchase price to Hannah & Friends -a charity founded by MaunJ and Charlie Weis to help improve the quality oflife for children and adults with spednl needs. 


Freshmen Parents: Book novv for 2011 Graduation with only a $25 deposit. Corne over in person to visit Wnterf'ord first-hand and we'll wnive the deposit! 
(:;uest rooms still available for most '07 horne football games. 


Located at 52890 SR 933, just north ofthe Notre Dame cmnpus and minutes from downtown South Bend and the South Bend Rec3ional Airport.
Waterford 

Contact Wnterford Estates Lodge at (574) 272-5220 
estates lod<~e or online at www.waterfordestateslodge.corn 

Saturday, August 25, 2007 

page 34 The Observer + SPORTS 
Goals 
continued from page 40 
the starting lineup and know that tlw baekbone of his mid­finld would be covernd by the two-limn All-American, llnrmann Trophy semi-finalist and l'ormnr eaptain of' thn U.S. undnr-20 national team. 

"It was huge what !Greg Dalby! brought to our program, and most impressive of all was just that hn was a great per­son." Clark said. "lie did so rn ueh for us -both on and oil' the field -and I don't think I've nvnr hnard anyone say a bad word about Greg Dalby. That won't be easy to replaen." 
Who will bn assigned the unenviable task or filling Dalby's dnats is still up in the air. but Clark has a plethora of options. Heturning starters Miehanl Thomas, Cory Hellas, and Alnx Yoshinaga are all pos­sibilities, but Clark is consider­ing all thnw at ollwr positions. Tho wildcard is freshman Matt Armstrong, a high school AII­Amnriean, who has impressed in preseason practiee. 
"Armstrong. judging by pre­season. looks like a very strong player," Clark said. "lie has all the tools to play, and I don't know if' there arn many better f'rnshmen central midfieldors than him in tho country." 
Dnl'nnsive center midfieldnr isn't tlw only vacancy lel't behind by graduating seniors. With the graduations of' Dalby and eon tral de f'n ndor Dale Hellas. Notre Dame will bn without tlwir co-captains from tho past two seasons. and Clark will bn forced to replace what lw called vc~ry good lead­ership. 
"That's thn big unknown," Clark said or this year's loader­ship. "Whiln the nnw captains I Hyan Miller, Matt Besler and Yoshinagal have dono evnry­thing asked or thnm so far, you won't really know how it will go until you hit some road bumps." 
While Notre Dame is sur­rounded by questions for this upcoming season, they will have onn dnlinitive answnr up front. Josnph Lapira will once again line up at forward this season. and so will his 32 career goals, 13 career assists and llormann Trophy. 
After spending the summer training with European clubs Derby County (English Premier League), Glasgow Hangers (Scottish Premier League) and a stint with the Irish national team, Lapira could be set to improve on last year's record­breaking season -at least according to Clark. 
"Those experiences have been fantastic, and I expect Joe to be a bettf~r all-around player this year," Clark said. "I don't care if he scores 22 goals again. as long as thn team is seoring goals, but I expect him to be a better player." 
The No. 11 Irish won't have to wait long to find out whether their raised expectations for this season will be met. Their first four opponents, including the two preseason games, are all ranked in the top 20, and Notre Dame's first six games will match the Irish against top-30 squads. 
"I think we'll be in good shape, and we'll lind out pretty early," Clark said. "That's the way we want it to be." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd.edu 



For your convenience, the following Student Service Offices will be open under the "Golden Dome" 
·!iii .... ,............•... ,....... 1Saturday (Aug~~~ 2S)f~from 9:00 a.m. to Noon ::m·········································· and ...·==+\~:-~:=:' ::.;...:. Sunday (August '26) from 1:.00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. TV' "!iF ••  

Student Accounts Financial Aid Student Employment Immigration Services Undergraduate Admissions Residence Life and Housing 
100 Main Bu ld ng 115 Main Bu ld ng 115 Main Bu ld ng 121 Main Bu ld ng 220 Main Bu ld ng 305 Main Bu ld ng 
Regular business hours are 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 35 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 

The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students Welcomes the Class of 2011. 
We members of the Core Council are administrators and gay and lesbian students who are aresource in identifying the ongoing needs of our gay, lesbian, and bisexual students. By implementing campus-wide educational programming on gay, lesbian, and bisexual issues, the Core Council strives to eliminate homophobia and make Notre Dame aplace that accepts and prizes the uniqueness of all its students. 
. 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students will host aRECEPTION for interested first-year students: Monday, August 27thst 
1:30-3:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse Building (3rd Floor Lounge) 
Visit our web site at http://www.corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

.• 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---­
page 36 The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 25, 2007 
UNC 
continued from page 40 
"Wiwn you play a loam liko ltlw Tar IIP1dsl. it's not an oxhi­bilion ganw." 
Notrn Darrw lost Pight sm1iors from last y1~ar's l.l'am. which fin­
and sophomore Miehele Weissnnhofer, who found the back of the not 18 limos. 
Woissenhofer is also known for hnr aerobatk 11ip throw-ins, which give tlw Irish an extra offonsive weapon. 
Notn~ Damn will play a tough 
non-conforence schedule, which ineludes five ranked 


ishnd 25-1-1 and "We had a great teams -No. 7 won tho Big l•:ast Penn State, No.
result today. but 
championship. Tho 8 Santa Clara, Irish took big grad­lots of things can No. 9 Stanford, uation hits in tlw happen over the No. 1:~ Florida, midfiPid, wlwrP Jpn and No. 23
course (~{the
Btu:zkowski and .Jill Oklahoma
.. 
season.
Krivac1~k startPd State. last. snason, and Then the Irish along tlw back linP, will begin their
Randy Waldrum 
wlwrn Christio Big East season,
Irish coach 
Shannr and tnam 
captain Kim 
l.ornnznn ll'd an othnrwiso 
young dl'fPnsn. 
Against North Carolina. Waldrum usPd a rotation of sophomorl' CourtnPy BosPn, sPnior Ash!Py Jonns. junior ltdwcca Mnndoza and frosh­man l.aurnn Fowlkns alongsidP roturning startl'rs sophornorn Brittany B o 1: k and s n n i or Amanda Cinalli in tlw rnidfinld. Snnior Susan Pinnick did not play against North Carolina, but is also nxpn1·tpd to bl' part of tlw rotation. 
Waldrum said hP was plnasnd with his i ni'Xpl' ril'nCIHI Ill id­fiPidPrS. 
"I likl' our dq>th. Wn playPd a lot of JH'oplP today, and I think WI' did prHly wnll." lw said. 
Ill' also said lw was plnasant­ly surprisPd by Boson, who is coming ofT a foot injury. and Mnndoza. who playnd only infn•quPntly last yPar. 
"Slw's shown that aftor lwr first two ynars. slw's rPady to como in and play," Waldrum said of tlw junior. 
At dnfnndnr. sophornorns Amanda Clark and llalny Ford rntu rn aftnr 1:ontri but.i ng 1~arly and oftnn as frPshmnn. Junior CarriP Dow. who missed most of last season with a kneo injury. did not play in the rain as a precaution, but is nxpect­nd to start this s1mson as shn did lwr fn~shrnan ynar. 

Junior l~lisn Wnhnr and frnshrnan Juli1~ Scheidler got much of tlw playing limo at the rnrnaining dofnnsivn spot against North Carolina. Weber is a transfer from Wisconsin. 
Up front. the Irish return tlwir two loading goal scornrs from last snason-junior Kerri Hanks, who scored 22 goals, 
Write-::~,:,_ 
Spo;fl~lZr 
Call.•. Chris C:Y. 
-:.. ~~ ;.~:'!:~Z. ; :. ~ .... 
631~­

4543. 
where No. 12 
Hutgers and No. 
16 Connnctkut await. 
Waldrum said he is excitnd by this year's team but was rnlur.tant to prndict a return to the championship game. 
"It's too early to tell," he said. "We had a great result today, but lots of things can happen over tlw course of the season." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
•CARPET •VINYL •WOOD •CERAMIC 
•AREA RUGS 

Decorators Walk Shopping Center • Grape at Day Road, Mishawaka OVER 1000 CARPET REMNANTS ON SALE! 
Senior midfielder Amanda Cinalli moves upfield during Notre Dame's 2-1 win over Florida State in the NCAA College Cup on Dec. 1. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME~, 
WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
Live, learn, and work in the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester. 
FIRST YEAR STUDENTS & PARENTS: Info Meeting, Saturday, August 25th, 4:30p.m., 143 DeBartolo Hall. Or contacr rhe Washingwn Pmgram Oftice, lo.J Hurley, (574) 631-7251 or wp@nd.cdu. Deadline ro applv for next academic year is November 15th. www.nd.edu/-·wp 
SAVINGS UP TO 
50% 
REG. PRICES 
Doug1as Road east to Grape, tum right (south) 
onto Grape Road, 1/2mile on left at~ 
tum right for the !best deals on carpet. 
OUR ALREADY REDUCED PRICES 
MON.·FRI 9:0()..8:30 SAT. 9:00-5:30
277-9711 
SUN. 1:00-5:30 




Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 37 
Questions 
continued from page 40 
win this year? I think I have an ethical responsibility to all those nine guys that came back. They all graduated; it isn't like they're coming back to graduate. They all graduat­ed. They all came back to win this year. I owe it to those nine guys to try to win now." 
Offensive positions up for grabs 
With so many starters departing, nearly every posi­tion on the field is open for competition. 
The most important starting race is at quarterback, where Quinn's departure leaves the Irish with three quarterbacks who have thrown a combined total of two collegiate passes. 
.I unior Evan Sharpley is the veteran of the group, having thrown both of those passes and having been Quinn's back­up in 2006. Sophomore Demetrius Jones, the most ver­satile of the three, brings on added dimension with his speed. He had a 31-yard run in the spring game and threw the contest's only touchdown pass, but he also threw an intercep­tion. 
Freshman Jimmy Clausen, who enrolled in January and was the No. 1 high school quarterback in the nation, throws the best out of the three but had a procedure on his elbow over the summer. Still, Weis said he would be ready to start the opener against Georgia Tech on Sept. 1 if he earned the job. 
"The best thing about the competition is that everyone has different strengths and weaknesses," Jones said. "The head coach's job is do decide whose strengths we can best take advantage of." 
To catch passes from the three signal callers, the Irish have a mix and experience and inexperience. 
The good news for Notre Dame is that fifth-year senior tight end John Carlson is back after catching 4 7 passes for 634 yards and four touchdowns in 2006 despite missing two games with an injury. Junior wide receiver David Grimes also returns after catching 26 passes for 336 yards and 2 touchdowns as Notre Dame's third wide out last year. 
But after those two, the returning players have just three catches for 21 yards between them. A host of wide receivers, including junior D. J. Hord, sophomores George West, Richard Jackson, Robby Parris and Barry Gallup, and freshmen Golden Tate and Duval Kamara, are all looking to get on the field this season. 
Weis has said West has the edge as the No. 2 receiver, but only by a small margin. 
At running back, five players are competing for playing time. 
Fifth-year senior Travis Thomas, who spent his first three years as a running back and was a starting linebacker last season, probably will start against Georgia Tech. He had 13 rushes for 78 yards and two touchdowns in limited offensive attempts last season. In 2005, backing up Walker, he ran 63 times for 248 yards and five touchdowns. 
The only other back with experience is sophomore James Aldridge, who rushed for 142 yards on 37 carries as a reserve last season. 
Senior Junior Jabbie, a con­verted defensive back, rushed for 8 7 yards on 13 carries in the spring game and earned offensive MVP honors. 
Freshman Robert Hughes is a bruising back, and his class­mate Armando Allen might be the fastest of the five. 
Although he is the presumptive uncertain, with junior Mike Turkovich and sophomores Dan Wenger, Eric Olsen and Matt Carufel competing for starting positions. 

Defense sees a complete overhaul 
After allowing 24.1 points per game over the last two sea­sons under coordinators Rick Minter, Notre Dame's defensive corps will turn to former New York Jets assistant Corwin Brown to try to shed its sieve­like reputation. 
Brown, who was the defen­sive backs coach for the Jets for three seasons and before that was an assistant at Virginia under head coach Al Groh, brings something close to what is known as a "3-4" defense. The formation, which features three down linemen and four linebackers, is rare in college football and is designed to create maximum confusion with blitzers from all angles. Brown will direct a 3-4 person­nel package, where the defense can alternate the amount of linemen from three to four ­or even other amounts -with the same players on the field. 
But the Irish defensive line has just one player with signifi­cant experience. 
Fifth-year senior Trevor Laws, the only returning starter on the line, will be the anchor of the group, moving from defensive tackle, where he made 62 tack­les last year, to 

starter, Thomas said he expects  'This years going to  defensive end in the 3-4 scheme.  
plenty of car­ be different than the  At  the  other  
ries for the younger backs.  first two years. ,,  end spot, fifth­year senior  
"It could be a  Dwight  
rotation,"  he  Charlie Weis  Stephenson and  
said.  "I  don't  Irish coach  senior  Justin  
really  know  Brown are com- 
how it's going  peting to start.  
to work out."  While  the  two  

Junior Asaph Schwapp is combine for just 19 career back at fullback after missing tackles, Weis said, coaches are the last nine games of 2006 impressed with Brown's tenaci­with an injury. At 261 pounds, ty and work ethic. he is a physical force as a lead "He's probably the most blocker, but he has only aver­pleasant surprise on the entire aged 2.5 yards per carry thus team," Weis said of the senior. far in his career. "His motor has really 
The offensive line will be impressed me most. It's very anchored by two returning encouraging. He's been a pain starters -fifth-year senior in the butt to block." John Sullivan at center and At nose guard, a key position sophomore Sam Young at right in the 3-4, Irish coaches tackle. Junior Paul Duncan appear to have settled on jun­appears to have locked down ior Pat Kuntz as the starter. the left tackle position, but Kuntz is known for his hard both guard spots are more work on the field but is under­sized at 285 pounds. Freshman Irish last year and returned an Ian Williams, listed at 300 interception for a touchdown in pounds, may also see playing the spring game. time. Cornerback Ambrose 
Senior Maurice Crum returns Wooden, who has been a at inside linebacker after lead­starter for much of the last two ing the team with 100 tackles years, also returns. in 2006 as an undersized mid­dle linebacker. Crum has added A three-way kicking contest 15 pounds since last fall and While fifth-year senior will fit in better as one of two punter Geoff Price returns inside linebackers in Brown's after averaging 45.4 yards per defensive scheme. Next to him kick last season, Notre Dame's in the middle will be a rotation starting place-kicker job is still of fifth-year senior Joe up for grabs after the gradua­Brockington, who started at tion of Carl Gioia. the tail end of 2006, and soph­Sophomores Ryan Burkhart omore Toryan Smith, who was and Nate Whitaker and fresh­highly regarded out of high man Brandon Walker may all school and made nine tackles see the field this year. Weis has in mop-up duty. said that one might win the 
In Brown's scheme, the out­kickoff job while another han­side linebacker position wi"n be dles extra points and field different from that of years goals past. Under Minter, outside linebackers were smaller and An early season gauntlet relied on more in pass cover­The Irish open the season age. In the 3-4, outside line­with eight tough games, includ­backers play close to the line of ing road trips to No. 5 scrimmage and need to be big­Michigan, No. 14 UCLA and No. ger and more physical. 17 Penn State. They also wel­
With that in mind, Irish come No. 1 USC to Notre Dame coaches con-Stadium in verted former October. defensive end After the contest
"The best thing about 
sophomore with the Trojans, John Ryan to the competition is the schedule gets outside line­easier, with serv­
that everyone has 
backer, and ice academies
different strengths 
the sopho-Navy and Air more is and weaknesses.,, Force along with expected to Duke and hold down Stanford. two
Demetrius Jones 
one starting teams that went a
Irish quarterback
spot. combined 1-23 last 
On the other season. side, fifth-Weis said with year senior Anthony Vernaglia Notre Dame's inexperience, he and junior Scott Smith are will be prepared to change competing for playing time. game plans on the fly if a game 
Vernaglia began last season isn't going well. as a starter, but was supplant­"This year's going to be dif­ed by Brockington midway ferent than the first two through the year. years," he said. "You have to 
The secondary is Notre be ready to adjust because the Dame's most experienced posi­last thing you want to do as a tion, with senior Terrail coach is go in with one thing in Lambert and fifth-year senior mind and have that not work." Tom Zbikowski back at corner­But Weis said he still expects back and strong safety, respec­plenty of victories this year. tively. ''I'm very confident in the 
Junior David Bruton is team," he said. expected to start in the other

Fifth-year senior running back Travis Thomas looks for a hole during the Blue-Gold Game on April safety spot. Bruton was a spe­Contact Chris Khorey at 
21. Thomas, who played linebacker last season, will be back on offense this year. cial teams standout for the ckhorey@nd.edu 
page 38 The Observer+ SPORTS Saturday, August 25, 2007 
SAINT MARY'S ATHLETICS 
Taking the next step 
Belles' fall sports look to build on successful 2006 seasons and challenge for MIAA, titles in 2007 
rosults of tho day's early
By ELLYN MICHALAK matches. 
Sports Writer 
The Belles open their confer­ence slate on Sept. 4 against 

The four Saint Mary's fall Adrian College on the road. sports team's, which all ranked Adrian was ranked third in the in the middln of thnir eonfer­MIM last season with a league mlees in the 2006 season, look record of 12-4. to take the rwxt step and eom­"I am really looking forward pnte for spots in the top of the to another great year. We grew MIAA in 2007. so much last year and earned a 
lot of respect within our con­Volleyball ference and within our region," 
After finishing 17-10 and Schroeder-Biek said. "Despite fourth in the MIA;\ last year, the losses of our very strong Saint Mary's wants to finish senior class, I don't look at this Pvnn higher in thn league as a building year. We will just standings. continun to work hard and not 
"I want to see us challenge takn our eye off our goal." for the top spot in the confer­nn1~n," Be lies coach J u I ie Cross Country Sehroednr-BiPk said. "Wn have The Belles finished in fifth been making a climb and I place in the MIM in the 2006 nxpeet us to eontinue that season, and they are hoping to dirnb. Wn gairwd a lot of eonfi­perform better and move into denen as a squad this past sea-the upper half MIM teams this son." fall. 
Last season. senior Anno Saint Mary's score of 125 at Cusaek won the eonference's last year's M IAA cham pi­dnfensivll player of thll year unships Parned it its best con­award and Lorna Slupezynski fernnce finish in Belles history. narnnd freshman-of-the-year Coach Jackin Bauers said she honors. Junior sPttPr Amanda thinks the young squad can do David was fourth in the MIM even better. in assists per game. "The team is going to be very 
And whilll Cusack has gradu­different this season, with eight ated. Slupczynski and David of our seniors graduating and arn ba1~k to lead an experi­ninn frnshman joining the enced squad that indudes hit­team." shP said. ters Kania IIPIIrnann and Cathy Among the key returners are Kurc~zak. senior Megan Gray, junior talent to the team this year. I Saint Mary's is working hard tion," Hamilton said. 
"Those two lead our team in Alicnn Miller, junior Caitlin believe that the program and to nnsure that they regain the attaek perenntage," Sehromler­Stnvnnson and sophomore team c~ontinue to grow and title. Soccer Biek said of Ilellrnan and Emily Graf. strengthen every year," The Belles, who did not lose Under the coaching of four­Kurezak. "And rounding out Last season, Gray earnfld Bauters said. "We are looking any players to graduation, fin­year veteran Caryn MacKenzie, the returning kny players is first-team MIAA honors and to improve within the confer­ishod fifth in the MIAA last the Belles captured fourth s n n i or de fp n s i v e s p e ~~ i a I is t. became the first Saint Mary's ence this year, placing better at year, but coach Mark placo in the MIA;\ in the 2006 Marissa Cross. Slw is a very runner to compete in the NCM both our Jamboree lat Tri­Hamilton believes a year of fall snason with a 4-3-1 eonfor­powerful playPr and positive Division III Championship. State] and Conference experience will pay off with ence record and a 5-S-2 ovPrall eourt pnlsenl~e." Mngan McClowery also will Championship lat Albion!." dramatie improvemnnt. record. 
Saint Mary's bPgins its season be a key runner for the squad. The Belles will kick off their "Katie O'Brien is a returning After graduating six seniors with tlw Monmouth tourna­Competing last year as the season on Sept. 1 at the Tri­senior who we expect to lead last season, the Belles return ment on Sept. 1 with threo Belles' top freshman, State Invitational in Angola, the team both on and off the 14 players, nine of whom matdws in a single day of play. McCiownry nnver finished Ind. course," he said. "She has played in all 15 games last They first will f'aee Hobort worse than fifth place in any been playing golf' all summer year, and add nine freshmen. Morris CoiiPge at I) a.m., fol­racn. Golf in tournaments in Florida. I · At forward, the loss of top lownd by a mateh against Loras Bauters said this year's fresh­Although the 2006-07 Saint am positive that she will come seornr Ashley Hinton will be Collngn at I p.m. and a third men will have a similar impact. Mary's golf squad failed to back this season stronger filled by her sister, junior match latnr in tlHl day, with the "We have a wonderful group win the MIAA Championship than ever." Lauren Hinton. Ashley Hinton opporwnt determined by tho of freshmen bringing a ton of for the first time in five years, During the 2005 season, scored seven goals while 
O'Brien received second-team assisting six others in the 2006 honors in the MIAA. season and scored 21 career 
In addition to O'Brien, goals. She was also twice Hamilton looks to juniors named to the MIAA's first team. Meredith Fantom and Perri Lauren Hinton also scored Hamma to lead the team. seven goals last season. Fantom and llamma both con­The Belles also have to sistently shot rounds in the replaee a four-year starter at low 90s last year. goalkeeper. Laura Heline had 
While the upperrlassmen 94 saves in 2006 and startnd will try to pick up where they all but one game in the past left off. Hamilton is also four years. Hnr replacement counting on the incoming has not yet been named. freshmen to perform at a top­MacKenzio will be looking to notch level. sophomores Micki Bedinger 
"We have a pretty big fresh­and Katie Wehrli to fill the for­man group joining the team ward positions. While Iledinger this fall." he said. "A big scored two goals last season, determinant of our season Wehrli started 11 of the 15 will be up to freshman. This is games played by the Belles. definitely one of the best After allowing only 1.5 goals freshman classes we've ever per game in 2006, n~turning brought in." defenders senior Sarah 
The Belles begin their sea­DuBme, scmior Justine Higgins, son on Sept. 1 at the Ferris and junior Mandy Thompson State Invitational. The tourna­will be key parts to the Belles ment includes a mixture of defense. top Division II and Division III Saint Mary's will play its first schools. The Belles will have a non-conference game of the ehanee to compete against season on Sept. 1 at Case DePauw University who is Western. Their eonferencn sea­ranked No. 2 in Division III. son will begin Sept. 22 at Saint 
"The tournament will be a Mary's against Kalamazoo great chanee to get a first College, who finished behind look at our conference rivals. the Belles in 2006. We will be a·bie to get an early 


Senior right side Marlsa Gross bumps the ball In a 3-1 win over Tri-State on Sept. 26, 2006 at look at how we will stack up Contact Ellyn Michalak at the Angela Athletic Center. The Belles finished 17-10 last season. against this year's competi-emichaJa@nd.edu 
Saturday, August 25, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 39 ... 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across Player in three 1970s Pro Bowls g Dispersion 
devices 151nfernal 16 Any of six popes 17 It's heard at 
many a wedding 18 San Francisco neighborhood, with "the" 19 Basketball analyst Elmore 20 Former Shea players 22 Neighbor of lsr., 
once 23 Threaded holder 25 "Christ's Entry 
Into Brussels in 1889" painter 26 Snow on an album cover 27 Sigmoid curves 29 Trough site 30 "Please." to Franz 
31 Swiss multinational 33 Didn't just nosh 35 Kind of carriage 37 Molotov cocktail, e.g. 40 Shucks, so to speak 
44 Mets manager Minaya and others 
45 One along an autobahn? 
47 Aunt who sings part of 'The Farmer and the Cowman" 
48 High ones may produce a roar 49 Cape wearer's field 51 Focus provider? 52 Canyon, e.g. 53 Columbus, e.g. 55 Educ. Testing Service offering 56 "Not right now" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

58 Picasso mistress and subject 
60 Where Antonio and Shylock litigate 
61 Ingress 62 Tequila brand with a red sombrero bottle top 63 Levied 
Down Waldenbooks alternative 2 It's sweet, it's 
said 3 Ways of access 4 Lower, in a way 5 Tombstone, e.g. 6 Fresh face at a 
firm 7 Easterners 8 "Hey!?" 9 Edsel model 
10 Intake optima: Abbr. 11 Return address abbr.? 12 Orient 13 Plant of the arrowroot family 14 View coral reefs, maybe 21 Not false 24 Mountaineering aids 
26 Word in a documentary's credits 
28 Folks guilty of disorderly conduct 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Puzzle by Victor Fleming 

30 "Goin' to 37 Not hold 49 One of the Chicago Blues" something Gospels, in a composer against Spanish Bible 
38 Select for a case 50 Cadbury Adams 32 Ranch brand
39 Runaway extension? 
53 Minute: Prefix41 Advertisers' 

output 54 Thin 
34 "Of the," in Oviedo 42 Cookout setting 57 RNA is a topic in 43 In sequence it 36 Campaign staple 46 Curtain fabrics 59 Family V.I.P.'s 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
JUMBLE 
~oorn~rn. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
UNDAT 
[II j 
©2007 Trlbune Media Services, Inc.
i5;fi (J 
tTHINEW j
I J r 
www.jumble.com
tGLOUEY ±
J I r J I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 

HE rI I I I I JHIS .. rI I I I J 
(Answers Monday) Yesterday's I JAumbles: ERUPT THICK LADING PURITY nswer: What the bowler used when his ball went astray -"GUTTER" TALK 
HOROSCOPE 

Aries (March 21 -Apri/20) .... 
Avoid use of the 'R' word. If you fail to heed this advice, God will strike you dead. 
Taurus (April21 -May 21) 

Things are looking up for you today, and the wind will be at your back. Those who would fart in your general direction will be behind you, and thus their stench will travel downwind, far from your nose. 
Gemini (May 22 -June 21) 

No matter how hard you try, that hot tub is not going to fit in your dorm room. 
Cancer (June 22 -July 22) 

Beware the temptation this weekend to pick up a prostitute on the south side. She will destroy your future and turn you into a funny anec­dote that will be told in the South Bend police department for years to come. In your cell, you will curse that you didn't stick with jersey chasers. 
Leo (July 23 -August 21) 

You've had something on your face since lunchtime. No one wants to tell you about, but it's there. And it's really noticeable. 
Virgo (August 22 -September 23) 
If you're under 21, don't drive your of-age friend to the liquor store. You will be caught. And arrested. And ResLifed. And kept off the two­deep. And executed. (This message brought to you by the Indiana State Excise Police and sponsored by Jeff Carroll.) 
Libra (September 24 -October 23) 
Michigan sucks. (The heavens are sure you already know this, but they just wanted to repeat it so you don't forget.) 
Scorpio (October 24 -November 22) 
Go to Stepan Center. Go directly to Stepan Center. Do not pass go. Do not collect 200 dollars. 
Sagittarius (November 23 -December 22) 
Today is Saturday and you are at Notre Dame. Show this horoscope to anyone that doesn't believe horoscopes are always accurate. Never ques­tion the heavens! 
Capricorn (December 23 -January 20) 
Your parents will show up for a surprise visit early the morning after you throw a party and break parietals. 
Aquarius (January 21-February 19) 
Tonight you will go to Domerfest and hang out with people who you will never speak to again. Until senior year, when you will awkwardly run into each other at Corby's and wonder why the other person looks so familiar. 
Pisces (February 20-March 20) 

If you're over 21, don't drive to the liquor store with underage kids in you're car. You will be caught. And arrested. And ResLifed. And executed. (This message brought to you by the Indiana State Excise Police.) 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City _______ State _____ Zip._______ 
.­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Saturday, August 25, 2007 
page 40 
FooTBALL 

Rebuilding? 
Weis refuses to lower expectations despite losing 12 starters from 2006 squad 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Sports Ediwr 
"Tradition never graduates." 

That's tlw mantra for Notrn Dame eoach Charlie Wcis this season, aftnr his team lost 12 starters from last year's I0-:~ squad. 
(;one are quarttlrback Brady ()uinn, holder of more than 30 sehool rneords, running back Darius Walker, who ran for over I .000 yards in each of the last two seasons, and the two most prolilk rneeivnrs in Notre Dame history statistically ­.lefT Samardzija and Hhnma 1\·trKnight -as wrdl as three linPman on each side of tl11~ ball. two cfp,fnnsivn backs and the plaeekkker. 
But for WPis, who rnfusns to

-say thn word "rp,huilding," the 2007 te;un will be cxpnetnd to perform at lnast as well as the previous orw. "May (;od strik<~ me doad if I usn that word. I'll rwvnr usn that word. You usn it, I'm not using it," Weis said when his team arrivn.d for fall camp Aug. 6. "You know, I have nirw lifth­ynar seniors that eame back for another year. Don't you think I own it to them to try to 
see QUESTIONS/page 37 


NO VOLLEYBALL 
Veterans return for shot at title 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
Last season, Notre Dame came three points away from capturing the Big East championship. This time around the Irish have a new look and are the preseason favorites to win it all. 
Four talented freshmen join the squad this year despite losing only one sen­ior to graduation in 2007. Stephanie Slatt, Kellic Sciacca, Angela Puente and Mngan Dunne are expected to use their speed to con­tribute right out of the gates. 
"They're all working really hard and making good progress, Irish coach l)(~bbie Brown said. "They have a grnat work nthie and the senior leadership has really set the tonn for that." 
Co-captains Adrianna Stasiuk and Ashley Tarutis are Notre Dame's only sen­iors this season, but bring an abundance of talent and experiencn to the table. Both players have been starters 
see TITLE RUN/page 33 

ND WoMEN's SoccER 
No. 1squad aiins for chatnpionship 
By CHRIS KHOREY SportS Editor 
Notre Dame came within one game of a national championship last season. 

But, with th<~ opnning reg­ular season game of the 2007 still a week away, the Irish have already erased the memory or that loss. 
Notre Dame and North Carolina, tied for No. 1 in the preseason coaches poll, played an exhibition match Sunday in a rematch of the 2006 Women's College Cup final. The 2-2 draw, played in soggy conditions, fea­tured much of the same intensity and passion as last year's title game. 
And although his team did not eome away with a win, Irish coach Randy Waldrum was pleased with what he saw. 
"We're very happy with the result, especially since it's the preseason," Waldrum said. "I thought today we had the better opportunities. We fought for every loose ball. It's one of the best games we've played against Carolina since I've been here. 

loss to North Carolina In the 2006 NCAA College Cup Final. see UNC/page 36 
MEN's SoccER 

Lofty goals follow historic tourney run 

By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

Irish eoach Bobby Clark is nothing if not ambitious. 
One year after enjoying the most successful season in pro­gram history-one that includ­ed Notre Dame's first-ever trip to the quarterfinals of the NCAA Tournament, as well as the pro­gram's first ever Hermann Trophy winner -Clark and his team are raising the expecta­tions. 
"The legacy of the previous teams has been tnrrilic, but the 
· question now is if we ean take it a step furthnr," Clark said. "Every year you try to get a lit­tle bit better, and this squad has the potential to do that." 
Whatever potential this Irish team may have, there remains a gaping hole at defensive cen­ter midfield that will be difficult to replace. For the past four seasons, Clark has been able to pencil Greg Dalby's name into 
see GOALS/page 34 






