
,-------------~------------------------------------------------------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 26 TUESDAY, OCTOBER2. 2007 
Campus crime shifts from 2005-06 
Annual NDSP statistics show jump in liquor violations, larceny; decline in burglaries 
reported crimes for the 2006
By KAREN LANGLEY 
calendar year, as mandated
News Editor 
by the federal Clery Act. College and university law Though statistics from the 
enforcement agencies are the Notre Dame Security Police 
only agencies required by
annual crime report show a federal law to report crime decrease in reported burgla­
statistics, said NDSP director 
ries on campus from 2005 to Phil Johnson. 
2006, there is also an 
An incident of theft is cate­
increase in liquor law arrests 
gorized as burglary when it 
and an even larger 
involved breaking and enter­increase in larceny reports ­
ing. A larceny involves the between the two years. 
wrongful taking of property
The small number of 
from an owner. Theft from a 
reported forcible sex offenses 
private dorm room is thus 
also increased slightly from 
labeled a burglary, while 
2005 to 2006. 
theft from an outdoor quad is 

The NDSP crime report, which was e-mailed to stu­dents Monday, discloses see CRIME/page 4 


ND junior -writes bestselling Harry Potter book 
'Mugglenet' site draws 40 million hits each month, earns Spartz six figures per year 
author J.K. Howling. Falls in Love, and How Will "So I thought, what the hell,By MADELINE BUCKLEY But in May 2006, Spartz the Adventure Finally End." It and I made a Web site." 
News Writer 
received an email from was published in November The site that had humble 
Ulysses Press, a publishing 2006 and quickly became a beginnings blossomed after 
It's not every college junior company that expressed bestseller. hard work. who can plump his resume interest in a book of his Spartz's passion for all "I didn't have huge plans with running a Web site that insights things Potter began when he when I started," Spartz said. receives 40 million hits a into the 
was 12 years old. "But when I saw what poten­month and co-authoring a H a r r y "I read the first and second tial it had, I was determined book that spent 26 weeks on Potter Harry Potter book[s] in one to put in as much effort as The New York Times chil­series. night, and finished the third possible to make it the dren's bestseller list. T h r e e the next day," he said. "A biggest and most comprehen­
But Notre Dame junior months month later I started sive Harry Potter site on the Emerson Spartz can. and it later, Mugglenet." Internet." all goes back to Harry Potter. Spartz and The highly successful Harry Eight years later, Mugglenet 
The Mugglenet.com site -a team of Potter Web site was a prod­certainly is one of the biggest one of the most popular friends had Spartz uct of both passion and Harry Potter Web sites. It llarry Potter sites online -completed opportunity. earns Spartz more than had aln~ady garnered Spartz the book, entitled "That Will "I had just started home $100,000 a year, he said, 
significant iricome and an Happen in Harry Potter 7: schooling, and had too much exclusive interview with Who Lives, Who Dies, Who time on my hands," he said. 


'Loyal Daughters' rehearses 
By KATE McCLELLAND 
News Writer 
Hehearsals are underway on "Loyal Daughters. and Sons," the Notre Dame-speeific play on sexuality and sexual assault, which was renamed from last yflar's "Loyal Daughters" to rnllect a greater incorporation of male perspectives. 
"Loyal Daughters" debuted last Novnmber undnr then-sfm­ior Emily Weisbecker, the author of thn play. Weisbecker was an organizer of the February 2006 "Vagina Monologues" production that prompted extensive campus debate about the role of aca­demic freedom at a Catholic university and unrealized spec­
DUSTIN MENNELLAffhe Observer 

ulation that the "Monologues" 
Lisa Velte, right, Tina Fuller, middle, and Cassie Papak perform see AUDITIONS/page 4 a skit in the November 2006 production of "Loyal Daughters.'' 

NDSP Annual Crime Report 
Campus Statistics 
Burglary Larceny 
Offenses 
Liquor Arrests Liquor Law 229 354 266Violations 

*Statistics 

see SPARTZ/page 6 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Group discusses taxi fares, green summit 
The purpose of the summit ByjENNMETZ 

is for information sharing, Assistant News Editor 
Plamoottil said, and it will contain presentations from 

Student task force chairs administrative, student and reported on plans that student government spl~ak­ranged from holding environ­ers. mental meetings to fighting She said an advantage of cab fee hikes during the the summit is that it will Campus Life Council meeting "increase networking Monday. between environmental 
Sheena Plamoottil, chair of groups" on campus. the Task Force on Campus Student body vice president Environment, said her task Maris Braun reported on the force is currently working on Task Force on Student a University green summit. Development. She said she The first of three summits will meet today with will take place Wednesday. Associate Provost Dennis No title or location was announced. see CLC/ page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Irish Guard takes bye at Purdue 
Squad stays home because of violation 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 

The Irish Guard's absence from this weekend's football game at Purdue resulted from a behavior violation that occurred previously, Assistant Director of Bands Larry Dwyer said Monday. 
The Guard routinely travels with the band to its away game performances. Dwyer was unable to specifY the last band perform­ance that had not included the Guard. 
Dwyer declined to elaborate on the nature, time or persons involved in any incident because of student privacy rules. 
The absence -which Dwyer declined to describe as a suspen­sion -is not slated to extend to other planned band performanc­es. 
"I would think they will be back for the rest of the season," he said. 
Dwyer said all 10 Guards dressed for the band's previous performance at the Sept. 22 home game against Michigan State. 
Only nine Guards performed on the field at that game. 
The incident leading to the Guard's absence Saturday "had to do with a violation of the band's code of conduct," Dwyer said. 
This code is an "extensive" 24­page booklet that "essentially incorporated everything in du Lac by reference" while also including 
see GUARD/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
We're not Jesus Ca111p 
In thn 2006 docwmmtary Jesus Camp was a study of thn ovangnlieal Christian movnmnnt, an attmnpt to depict what it io; likn to bn a child in a born-again Christian homn. It is also probably thn singln most lrightnning film I 
Joseph

have evnr snen. 
McMahon
<:hildmn a.r«~ 
shown spt~aking in 
News

tllll).,'lWS, d<mdng 
Production
around in army 
Editor

fittigw~s and crying 
IL'i thny publidy 
conli~ss thnir sins. 
All thn kids an~ attPnding ministnr 

Bncky Fishnr's "Kids on Firn School of 
Ministry" camp in Dnvil's Lake, North 
I>akota. Fishnr's rm~ssage io; simple -tho 
children nnnd to lnad the eonservatiw 
Christian movmnnnt's charge and bneomn 
part ofthn "army of'Cod." The languagn 
is rmninis1:ent of brainw<L'ihing tnch­
niqw~s smm in fundamental Muslim 
madrwmhs. with thnsn ehildrnn being 
nneouragnd tl> "w<Lo;h away sins in tlw 
blood ol'.lnsus so tlmt lw may rnturn." 
llownwr. ao; radieal ao; tl1is indoctrina­
tion may snem. dons thn Christian right 
havn a good idna? Should not all Christi<m 
institutions tl~ach litnrally what their doc­
trinn says, and ignom everything elo;n'! 
TIH~rn arn schools whnro this n~ally happens. Avn Maria Uniwrsity, a nnw Catholic institution in Florida lhundt1d by 'lhm Monaghan. tllP owner of Domino's pi:t.za, W<L'i nstablishnd bm:ausn Monaghan li~It tlw otlwr U.S. Catl1olic uni­versities did not haw tlw "highest st.cm­danls." Thio; is from the samn man who gavn the world thn wonder of the Orno pi:t.za. 
<>nn 111' thn tl1in).,'S tlmt mak1~s Notn~ Danw truly Sl)('dal i'i that wn arn a Catholic uniwrsity that dons not indoctri­rmh~. In 1972, wlwn Fathnr I h~sburgh dndd1~d to bt•gin admitting women <L'i undnrgraduatl•s, lw sent tl1e mnssagn that Notre Damn W<L'i going tl> bm:omn onn of' thn bt~st univnrsitins in thn U.S. Wn havn h>p-notl:h undnrgraduat11 pro).,rr·ams in nnginnnring <md business and nxcdlent hrr·aduatn schools. Frnshmen are olli~rnd coursns dealing witl1 evolution and gennt­i<~'i. Tlwrn is nvnn an optm dialogue about homosexuality. Thn dm:bion h> open up tiJP University and allow morn th;mjust Catholic doetrine tl> bn taught has hnlpnd Notrn Damn to truly evolw inti> not just onP of' thn bt1st Catl10lie st:hools, but inti> on1~ of tlw bt~st uniVPrsitins liw undergrad­uates in thn country. 
Ynt, what is truly remarkable is that all this has bnnn aeeomplishnd while the University still eontinues to maintain its Catholic identity. Unlike in Avn Maria or at Jesus Camp where students and kids are brainwashed into believing, Notre Damn allows students to ehoosn. Eighty-live per­cent of Notre Dame students identify tlwmselvns as Catholies, and thou­sands of students go to Mass every Sunday. Perhaps rnost impressively, Notre Dame students are renowned for their sense of social justiee, and thB high participation rates of numerous service programs conlirm this. Despitn what critics on both sides may say, the Univnrsity has benn able to transform itself into the premier Catholic institution in the nation that can rival any school in intellectual standards while still maintaining a Christian faith. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at 
jmcmaho6@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itSelf as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH SEASON PREMIERE LAST WEEK WAS YOUR FAVORITE? 


Kelly Kanavy Elizabeth Pillari Isaac Reichman Molly Schall Andrew Seelaus 
sophomore senior freshman freshman sophomore Lyons Cavanaugh Fisher Holy Cross offcampus 
"Gossip Girl. " "That's what ."'The Offizce. '" "'The Office.' "Professor she said.,, Dwight is my llowland's class homie for life. " prevents me 




OFFBEAT 
Sheriff offers to marry 
fugitives 

LAPEEH. Mich. -The 
Lapeer County sheriff 
wants to help two bank 
robbery suspects tie the 
knot. 

''I'll volunteer to marry them in the jail if they sur­render," Sheriff Hon Kalanquin said Monday. Kalanquin said he wanted the Lapeer couple off the streets before their cash ran out and they attempted another robbery. 
A 24-year-old man and a 23-year-old woman are suspected of taking about $5,000 in the Sept. 19 rob­bery of a Lapeer County 
TODAY IX 


bottle containing their wedding vows. A few weeks later, the bottle was found by Fred and Lynnette Dubendorf. of Mears, Mich., who were also mar­ried on a beaeh -exactly 28 years before Kloska and Behrs. 
"It was meant to be," Kloska said. "This was a sign to me." 
Kloska, 46, and Behrs, 41, have been together for five years, but with several !'ailed marriages between them, they had doubts about remarrying. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Bank & Trust branch in Deerlield Township, about 60 miles north of Detroit. 
Detectives determined that the robbery money was used to buy wedding rings, pay back rent and pay the woman's attorney for work done in a child custody case, The Flint Journal reported. 
Message in bottle: Marriage meant to be 
RACINE, Wis. -Melody Kloska and Matt Behrs take it as a sign they were meant to get married. 
After tying the knot on a Lake Michigan beach on Aug. 18, they released a 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

from watching any television." 
IN BRIEF 

Craig Cramer will perform in a faculty organ reeital tonight at 8 in Heycs Organ and Choral Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents. 
Thorn will bn a workshop titled "Interviewing for the Academic Job Market" Wednesday from 4 
p.m. to 5:15 in 126 DeBartolo Hall. Hegistration is needed. Panelists will eoncnntrate on issues related to Seience and Engineering students. 
Notre Dame men's soeeer will play Michigan Wednesday at 7 
p.m. at Alumni Field. 

There will be an Eastern Orthodox Prayer Service Wednesday as part of the Prayer From Around the World series. The servkn will bn at 8 p.m. in 330 Coleman-Morse. 
The Feast of St. Franeis Mass will be held Thursday at 5:15 
p.m. at Alumni Hall chapel. The Mass is sponsored by the Orestes Brownson Coundl. 
A conferencn on "Knowledge and Hcligious Identity: Institutions of Iligher Learning in Judaism. Christianity, Islam and Beyond" will take plaee all day Friday at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The Black Cultural Arts Council is holding auditions for its annual talent show, Blaek Images 2007. The auditions are Monday, Oct. 8 and Tuesday, Oct. 9 from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. in 
LaFortune Gold Hoom. All tal­ents arc weleome to audition. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 82 LOW 63 

1.&.1 :::1: 

!;;: 
1.&.1 
3: 
...J 
C( 
(..) 



0 

HIGH 70 HIGH HIGH 80 85
..... 

LOW 63 LOW LOW 57 63 



Atlanta 82 I 59 Boston 71 I 53 Chicago 78 I 57 Denver 72 I 49 Houston 90 I 70 Los Angeles 84 I 60 Minneapolis 69 I 56 New York 71 I 58 Philadelphia 75 I 59 Phoenix 91 I 71 Seattle 58 I 51 St. Louis 84 I 59 Tampa 88 I 73 Washington 78 I 61 
Tuesday, October 2, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BoARD oF GovERNANCE 



SMC discusses curricullilll changes 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY News Writer 
Changes to the general edu­cation requirements for a Saint Mary's degree were the subject of a faculty presenta­tion at the Board of Governance meeting Monday night. 
Associate Dean Joe Incandela, chair of the Ad Hoc Committee on General Education, spoke about the importance of these changes and the need for student and faculty involvement. 
"Your possibilities of suc­cess increase when you have lines all moving forward together," lncandela said. "The more involvement we have, the more tangible good things that will come out of it." 
Faculty committee members have been ,reviewing possible models for the new general education requirements. After a survey they narrowed down the possibilities to two mod­els. 
These models have not yet been released to students. 
Incandela announced that the current general education requirements are almost 30 years old. "This is a different world and we are educating people for a different centu­ry," he said. "What we have now is pretty good, but we can always do better." ships or donating things like 
Incandela encouraged stu­classrooms or benches," dents to participate in the McKevitt said. decision-making process. He The committee is asking stressed the importance of the each student to make a mone­
student voice.  tary  dona­ 
"We  don't  t  i  o  n  
want to write these goals about any col­lege," he said. "We want to write them about Saint  "We don ,t want to write these goals about any college. We want to write them about Saint Mary,s. ,,  Freshmen are asked to donate 25 cents; sopho­mores 50 cents; jun­iors 75 cents;  
Mary's."  and seniors  
Students can  Joe lncandela  $2.  
see  the  associate dean  The dona­ 

progress that has been made and opportuni­ties on how to become involved at the general educa­tion site: http://smcgened.blogspot.com 
The site also offers details about the new curriculum's goals, which address diversi­ty, women's studies, Catholic character and integration of learning. 
In other BOG news: 
+ Heather Frey, assistant director of the annual fund, and Beth McKevitt, the senior chair for the Senior Gift and Quarters Campaign, spoke to BOG about the purpose of the campaign. 
"The Senior Gift and Quarters Campaign is a tradi­tion of students giving back to Saint Mary's through scholar­
tions will go 
into each 

class' account, Frey said. 
+ The Quarters Campaign will host Karaoke Idol at 7 
p.m. Nov. 8 in the Vander Vennet Theater in the Student Center basement. Campaign members will ask for dona­tions at the door. 
The event is a spin on the reality show "American Idol," and the campaign is asking for groups to register to enter and sing on stage. 
"Talent isn't required," Frey said. "The judges will score you based on the criteria of costume, attitude, talent and creativity." 
Judges will be selected from Saint Mary's faculty and staff. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


College honors Hispanic heritage 
By CLAIRE FRAZIER News Writer 
While a number of Latin American countries celebrate their independence during September and October, stu­dents at Saint Mary's have been celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month. 
Hispanic Heritage Month was established in 1989 and has been celebrated at Saint Mary's ever since. The month begins on Sept. 15, the eve of Mexico Independence Day, and ends Oct. 15. Other Latin American countries that cele­brate their independence dur­ing these weeks include Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Chile, and so the month is dedicated to acknowledging and celebrating the diverse Hispanic cultures. 
Festivities began Sept. 16 at Saint Mary's with a Mexico Independence Day lunch. The Noble Family Dining Hall was filled with Mexican music and decorations, and the aroma of tamales and tacos had stu­dents waiting in long lines for their meals. 
"I had never heard of Hispanic Heritage Month till I walked in for lunch," fresh­man Megan Johnson said. "I liked the music and all the decorations they had up, but my favorite part of it all was the Mexico flag cake." 
Other activities are also planned so students can expe­rience the different aspects of Hispanic life, from religion to recreation, said Thelma Garcia, vice president of La Fuerza. 
A bilingual Mass was held Wednesday in Le Mans Holy Spirit Chapel. 
The newest event this year was the Salsa Night on Sept. 
27. The Student Center was transformed with colorful ornaments and a live band, Orquestra Couribe. 
Salsa dancer Kelley FitzGerald praised the idea of Hispanic Heritage Month. "I think the culture is great," she said. "It's family oriented and celebratory about life." 
The sponsors include La Fuerza, the Office of Multicultural Affairs, Student Diversity Board, Campus 

Ministry,  Board  of  
Governance,  ICIP  and  
Sodexho.  

Upcoming events include the movie panel on Frida, starring Salma Hayek, at 8 
p.m. Friday in Vander Vennet and Latin Flavors, a presenta­tion of Latin American cuisine from 6 to 8 p.m. on Oct. 8 in Reignbeaux Lounge. 
Contact Claire Frazier at cfraziO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


BURRITOS 100% OFFITHAfS RIGHt FREE. 
Visit our restaurant at Main & Douglas, and we'll give you a 
FREE BURRITO 
Wednesday, October 3rd, II AM -I 0 PM. 


MAIN & DOUGLAS 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
CriiDe 
continued from page 1 
labeled a larceny. 

There were 51 burglaries reported on campus during 2006 -a sharp decline from the S7 burglaries reported during 2005. 
Johnson said the decrease could be attributed in part to education efforts. The police have been working with resi­dence hall staffs io increase safety measures in dorms. Hesidents are urged to lock their doors when they are out of' the room or asleep, he said. 
"Crimes will happen often because of' opportunity," he said. "The way we live and interact with people and organize our lives may make us susceptible to crime." 
Though the number of bur­glaries dropped in 2006, the numbor of larcenies rose from :{65 reported campus incid1111ls in 2005 to 521) inci­
dents in 2006 -an increase chance of recovering them if' of 45 percent from one year they are stolen, he said. to the next. Criminals can sometimes 
"Many larcenies on campus take advantage of a close are preventable if people take community, he said. steps to protect their proper­"Men and women at Notre 
ty," Johnson  Dame  are  
said.  pretty trust­ 
Unlocked bicycles and unguarded laptops may invite the attention of a possible thief, he  "Crimes will happen often because ofopportunity. The way we live and interact with people and organize our lives may make us susceptible to crime. "  ing," he said. "Most of us are going to respect peo­ple's proper­ty and live by the  
said.  Golden  
At least part of the dramatic  Phil Johnson NDSP director  Rule." The ber  num­of  

puses around the country, too many for us," he said. sexual assaults are underre­The number of liquor law ported," he said. "It doesn't arrests increased from 180 necessarily mean an increase arrests in 2005 to 227 arrests in frequency." in 2006. Liquor law violations 
NDSP is working with referred for disciplinary offices and agencies such a action dropped, however, the Gender from 354 Relations violations Center, the "Men and women at in 2005 to 
Office of Notre Dame are pretty 266 viola-
Student tions in
trusting. Most ofus are
Affairs, the 2006. Office of going to respect people's T h e 
Residence property and live by the increased 
Life and number of
Golden Rule. " 
Housing and arrests in the Sex 2006 might Offense Phil Johnson stem from Services and the addi­
NDSP director 
Family tion of a Justice Center seventh of' St. .Joseph County to edu­home game to the football cate people about what con­schedule that ynar, he said. stitutes a sex offense, how Notre Dame's campus is these crimes can be prevent­notable for the degree to ed and what services are which its residents consider available for victims of one another's safety, Johnson crimes. NDSP also offers a said. 12-hour rape defensp, eourse for women. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle I @nd.edu 

"Any number of assaults is 

Auditions 
continued from page 1 
might be banned. 
This year, scriptwritor Sarah Van Mill, director Megan ()'Donoghue and assistant diroclor Meghan Hartmann worked together to develop the production -which will run in mid-November-and made a concorted effort to draw in the perspectives of' both genders. 
In conducting her interviews, Weisbecker focused on women and their testimonies. This year, however, men began approaching Van Mill during tho interviow process, wanting to lPII l.lwir stories. 
Van Mill dndd!~d to chango the til.le "not only because llu~ male perspectivP was a critical part of the play in the first place, 

hut also "We want there to be a step out of lwcause we one role
realization ofthe 
wanted to and into
complexity and really
include another Ill 0 r 0 Ill IHl personal aspect of quickly. 
in this sexuality -a true The cast 
yoar's play," met for a
appreciation for the 
she said. full read­
"This is diversity ofsexuality." through of about them, the script too." one week
Sarah Van Mill 
Sho inter­af'ler audi­
senior
viowod as tions, and
scriptwriter
many men individual 
as possible for the pro­duction and includod the rosults of those discussions, she said. 
More mnn have been incor­porated into this year's piece, and male sexual assault testi­monios figure more promi­rwntly into the series of skits. 

"Loyal l>aughlers and Sons" will be a succession of' skits that are "ind1~pendent but linkod." Van Mill said. 
/\II stories are drawn from the Notre Dame community, and all deal with sexuality and soxual assault. An introduction prior to the series provides baekground and sets up the storiPs, whiln thn conclusion Will f(~attrre tiH~ entire Cast gatlwrnd as o1w to further nrnphasize ttw pnrfonnance's rnessagP. 
Tlw ordnring of skits in this ynar's play will hn significant. Van Mill said. 
"For nxample, a skit that ndall~s information on post­t.r·au mat.k strPss disordnr will follow a skit that has a person 
rehearsals 

for oach skit bngan this weekend and are ongoing. 
The production team has also been dnveloping its focus for "Loyal Daughters and Sons" and would like students to draw three things from the pnrf'ormance. 
"First, wn want there to bn a realization of the com plexily and roally personal aspeet of sexuality -a true apprecia­tion for tlu~ divflrsity of sP.xual­ity," Van Mill said. "There also nnnds to be an awareness of the reality of sexual assault in the world, and in our world, today." 
But above all. "we want it to bn about healing," she said. "That is the most important ~art ~~.f 'Loy a I Daughters and Sons. 
This ynar's performances of "Loyal Daughters and Sons" will be held in Washington llall from Nov. 12 to 16. 
Contact Kate McClelland at mmcclell@nd.edu 
dealing with post-traumatic stress disorder," she said. 
Weisbecker's writing from last year's "Loyal Daughters" will be incorporated into this year's "Loyal Daughters and Sons," along with nnw materi­al written by Van Mill, she said. The goal, according to Van Mill, is to keep adding fresh material every year, while still preserving some of the earlier stories. 
About 50 actors auditioned on Sept. 15 and 1(>, and each received a role. 
"Wn really needed a huge cast," Van Mill said, "because a lot of background informa­tion goes into each story that is told." 
The production team decid­ed against casting a single actor in multiple parts, Van Mill said. because the emotion­ally draining scenns could makn it dif­ficult for actors to 
CLC 

continued from page I 
.Jaeobs, faculty co-chair for the Notre Dame Code of' Honor Committee, along with other members of' the Committee, to discuss student government initiatives and greater publicity for the Honor Code. 
Braun said a possible publici­ty campaign will deal with the student pledge that reads, "As a member of the Notre Dame community, I will not partici­pate in or tolerate academic dishonesty." 
ller task force discussed the possibility or hosting a panel discussion during this year's Ethics Week to examine cheat­ing from an ethical perspec-

A bit ofIreland in your own backyard. 
' s 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterfurd Estates Lodge has hotel r<X)IllS at reasonable rates fur upc'orni~ NDfbotball weekends.) 

live. 

Keenan senator Gus Gari presented on the Task Foree on Community Helations, which examined issues related to stu­dent safety ofT campus. 
A growing concern of the task force is how taxis charge students, Gari said. 
Companies are charging more than the across-the­board $3 fare typically pre­sented to students at presenta­tions by groups like Pillars, dis­cussing safe ways to return to campus, he-said. 
The task force is currently examining and evaluating the policies of' local cab companies. 
Gari also said he has looknd at a Univmsity of Virginia pub­lication titled "The Good Neighbor Guide," whieh describes how to live safely and responsibly off campus. The guide contains descrip­tions of ordinances pertaining to noise, trash rP-moval and alcohol, according to the UVA Web site. 
Gari said hfl hopes to apply these ideas to Notre Dame. 
"Hopefully the students will see something llike this] in the near future," he said. 
Student body president Liz Brown also encouraged mem­bers of the Campus Life Council to attend the University Forum Monday rather than their usual task force meetings. 
"It'~. going_ to be a great event, she satd. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

rise in reported larcenies can be attributed to an increase in camp us b icyc I e the f'ts, he said. 
"I don't think every students at Notre Dame believes that taking someone else's bike for a joy ride is larceny," he said. 
NI>SP encourages bicycle ownnrs to register their bikes so that there will be a greater 
foreible sex offenses reported inereased to five reported incidents in 2006 from one report in 2005 and two reports in 2004. 
The increase in reported incidents could be an increase in reports of inci­dents taking place rather than an increase in total inci­dents, Johnson said. 
"At Notre Dame and cam­






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 2, 2007 CoMPILED fROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Rebels killlO peacekeepers in Darfur 
HASKANITA -Rebel forces stormed a small African Union base in northern Darfur and killed at least 10 peacekeepers, leaving behind charmd armored vehicles and bombed out bar­racks in an unprecedented attack on the bclea­guerP.d mission that threatened upcoming pP.ace talks. 
More than 30 peacekeepers wen~ still missing by late Sunday, indicating the death toll from the attack could rise significantly. 
About 1.000 rP.bels from the Sudan Liberation Army attacked the base outside the town of llaskanita Saturday al'tnr sunset when Muslims bmak thP.ir daytime fast for the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, AU officers told The Associated Press Sunday at the scene of the attack. Thn rebels eventually stormed the base early Sunday, they said. 
Myamnarrefusesto meet with U.N. envoy 
YANGON-A U.N. envoy was unable to meet with Myanmar's top two junta leaders in his efl"ort to persuade them to ease a violent crack­down on anti-govnrnment protesters, but was allowed a highly orchestrated session Sunday with detained opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi. 
The military government, meanwhile, flooded tim main city of Yangon with troops, swelling their numbP.rs to about 20,000 by Sunday and ensuring that almost all demonstrators would remain oil" the street<;, a diplomat said. 
Scores of people also were arrested overnight. further weakening the flagging uprising against 45 years of military dictator­ship. The protest<> began Aug. 19 when the gov­ernment sharply raised fuel prices, then mush­roomed into the junta's largest challenge in decades when Myanmar's revered monks took a leading rolP. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Mullen pledges to meet Iraq challenges 
FORT MYER -Navy Adm. Mike Mullen was sworn in Monday as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and pledged to make sure that the nation's military is ready to meet the challenges of the future. 
"The fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan will one day end," Mullen said at a ceremony at Fort Myer, Va. "We must be ready for who and what comes after." 
"That's the promi<>e we've made," said Mullen. "We owe it to the American people and to all of you, our men and women in uniform and your families, to provide you with dear direction, out­standing equipment and focused policies you need to do your jobs." 

600 nurses on strike in Appalachia 
HAZARD -At least 600 nurses in the Appalachian regions of Kentucky and West Vtrginia went on strike Monday demanding better benefit<> and safer staffing from the impoverished area's largest health care provider. 
Registered nurses began picketing in shifts just after midnight outside nine Appalachian Regional Healthcare hospital<> after several weeks of con­tract negotiations failed. 
The non-profit company brought in vans of nurses from temporary worker agencies to staff the hospitals as union nurses carrying placards walked picked lines outside. 
In I Iazard, about two dozen striking nurses car­ried signs that read: "Every patient deserves a nurse!" and "We demand safe staffing." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Yotmg drops out of race for governor 
INDIANAPOLIS -State Senate Minority Leader Richard Young, the first Democrat to join the 2008 race for governor, dropped out on Monday. 
Young, 64, said it would take at least $20 million to mount a successful race and he realized he could not raise that much. He also said that getting out would give the other two Democrats seeking the nomination -former U.S. Rep. Jill Long Thompson and Jim Schellinger, president of an Indianapolis architecture firm ­more room to compete for the party's nod. 
IRAQ 


U.S., civilian deaths lo-west in 12 months 
September figures suggest American forces could be making headway against extremists 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -The number of American troops and Iraqi civilians killed in the war fell in September to levels not seen in more than a year. The 
U.S. military said the lower count was at least partly a rosult of new strategies and 30,000 additional U.S. forces deployed this year. 
Although it is difficult to draw conclusions from a sin­gle month's tally, the figures could suggest U.S.-led forces are making headway against extremist factions and dis­rupting their ability to strike back. 
The U.S. military toll for September was 64, the low­est since July 2006, accord­ing to figures compiled by The Associated Press from death announcements by the American command and Pentagon. 
More dramatic, however, was the decline in Iraqi civil­ian, police and military deaths. The figure was 988 in September -50 percent lower than the previous month and the lowest tally since June 2006, when 847 Iraqis died. 
The Iraqi death count is considered a minimum based on AP reporting. The actual number is likely higher, as many killings go unreported. 
Nevertheless, the hearten­ing numbers emerged just effort," they said. continue to be observed and gence assessment at the three weeks after U.S. Their message opened with be further extended to all Pentagon and analyst with Ambassador Ryan Crocker greetings to the Iraqi people members of Jaysh al-Mahdi the private Center for and commander Gen. David during the holy month of (Arabic for Mahdi Army)," Strategic and International Petraeus argued before a Ramadan, when Muslims Crocker and Petraeus wrote. Studies in Washington, said divided Congress that more focus on their spiritual lives After a violent confronta­the decline in violent deaths time was needed for Iraq to and fast from dawn to dusk. tion between the Mahdi Army was a positive trend that does begin seeing results from "Please know that we and guards at a religious seem to be related to the President Bush's dispatch of remain absolutely committed shrine in the holy city of increase in U.S. forces. But he an additional 30,000 forces to to this effort. ... Much work Karbala in August, al-Sadr said it was too early to know pacify Baghdad and sur­lies ahead of us. Despite the said he was standing down ifitwilllast. rounding regions. challenges, we can, together, his fighters for six months to "We tend to focus too much 
On Monday they issued an achieve success," the two reorganize. on killing rather than wound­unusual joint statement to the men wrote in the statement Col. Steven Boylan, ed, on extreme acts of vio­Iraqi people that credited signed and dated by each. spokesman for Petraeus, said lence rather than patterns of them for the decline in vio­Of particular note, the mes­there was "no silver bullet or displacement or ethnic lence. sage referred to anti­one thing" responsible for the cleansing." He said that when 
"We must maintain the American cleric Muqt.ada al­declining death tolls. But he looking at overall stability in momentum that together we Sadr by his honorific, Sayyid credited increased U.S. troop Iraq, killings are only one have achieved. We are confi­Muqt.ada. Sayyid is a title des­strength, saying that had measure. dent that you and your fellow ignating a religious figure as allowed American forces to "This is, I think one of the citizens will continue to dis­a direct descendant of the step up operations against al­great difficulties. It's a very play determination, that Iraqi Prophet Muhammad. Qaida in Iraq and other complex pattern of fighting security forces will remain "We also sincerely hope insurgent and militia fighters. and people look for simple vigilant and that additional that the cease-fire declared Anthony H. Cordesman, statistical bottom lines rather Iraqis will join our combined by the Sayyid Muqtada will former director of intelli-the overall pattern," he said. 



Attorney: Suspected rapist a 'survivalist' 
Associated Press knife," said Nye County District Attorney charges, including assault, battery, 
Bob Beckett. resisting a police officer, auto theft, leav­
LAS VEGAS -The fugitive accused of Investigators were interviewing people ing the scene of an accident and con­raping a little girl on videotape was por­who know Stiles and pursuing hundreds tempt of court. trayed Monday as a dangerous, knife­of "very fruitful" leads Monday from He was convicted in 1999 in Las Vegas wielding survivalist who once vowed across the country, said police Capt. of carrying a concealed weapon, and in never to be taken alive and formerly Vincent Cannito, head of the depart­2001 of conspiracy to commit grand lar­worked as an animal trainer with Las ment's youth and family crimes unit. ceny, according to court records. Stiles Vegas illusionists Siegfried & Roy. "He does have a very violent past," also pleaded no contest in Houston in 
The FBI and Las Vegas police pressed Cannito said, "and he has a history of 1993 to unlawful carrying of a weapon. a nationwide manhunt for Chester narcotics usage, so we do consider him The district attorney said Stiles vowed "Chet'' Arthur Stiles, 37, who authorities to be a very dangerous individual." in the past not to be taken alive by say can be seen molesting a 3-year-old Authorities were seeking Stiles on an police. girl in a mysterious video that was unrelated warrant issued last year Beckett said Stiles has claimed to be a recorded four years ago and surfaced charging him with fleeing to avoid prose­former Navy SEAL and a black belt in last month. cution on allegations he groped a 6-year­karate, and claimed to own several 
"He's a survivalist type who isn't both­old girl in 2003. guns, including a rifle, shotgun and pis­ered by living without electricity or Las Vegas police say Stiles had a string tol. But the district attorney said he water, and always carries a fighting-type of arrests dating to 1999 on several could not confirm any ofthat. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
f'ans on campus. "I wondered why some guy for Spartz yet, however. A lit­said. "We took a lot of heat 
"Everyone in my dorm Joe was calling me at eight in tle less than a year later, he from fans for some of' the thn­knows me as the guy who the morning," he said -but received the email from ories we prnsnntnd, but we

Spartz 

continued from page 1 started Mugglenet, and some­then comprehension dawned. Ulysses were right 
limns I get people walking by "She said she thought she Press. about a whieh he invests in global to look in my room," he said. would have to do a lot to con­The pub­lot of the nrwrgy projects involving solar "My roommates just think it's vince me that it was really her, lisher liked "[My projections/ were very big plot­power. funny." but I recognized her voice." t h e lines of
controversial. We took a lot of
Spartz has been ablo to This in-dorm celebrity is not His initial reaction was pure Mugglenet B o o k
heat from fans for some ofthe
rnanag•~ tho si1P while pursu­the most impressive attention shock, he said. site and Seven." ing his studies lweausn lw has Emerson has received -par-Howling invited Spartz, asked if theories we presented, but we T h i s learned to tieularly along with another Harry Spartz were right about a lot ofthe summer,dnlngatn. from the Potter Web site owner, to con­would con­Emerson
big plotlines ofBook Seven." 
"I have a "Hveryone in my dorm knows perspec­duct an exclusive interview. So sider writ­traveled large vol­me as the guy who started tive of on July 14, 2005, before the ing a book. to 45 unteer starr any real release of the sixth book, he lie soon Emerson Spartz cities pro­
of' 120 peo­Mugglenet, and sometimes I get 
Potter f'lew to Scotland and inter­teamed up Mugglenet founder motingplo from all people walking by just to look in fan. viewed Howling about the with other the book. over the my room. My roommates just 0 n e series. Mugglenet E v e n 
world," he morning The meeting went well. staffers to now that
think it's funny. " 
said. "Thoy 

i~ May "She was the nicest, most produce the book. all sevnn books are released, eover a lot 2005, he down to earth person," Spartz The book made predictions Mugglenet is still going strong. or tlw tasks Emerson Spartz received said. "The interview was only about the final book in the Spartz plans to eontinue run­that. I usod Mugglenet founder a call supposed to last an hour, but seven-volume series of Harry ning the site -particularly to have to from we ended up talking for about Potter and sold 350,000 copies with two morn movies and a do all on n o n e two and a half hours. I felt like worldwide. Spartz described possible Harry Potter encyclo­my own." other than Harry Potter she really enjoyed talking to a the experience as "surreal." pedia on the horizon, he said. 
Some of' tho poople he works 
author J.K. Rowling. !lis real Harry Potter fan." His published projections "Harry Pottnr still has a with on Mugglennt have l'athnr burst into his room. A transcript of this interview were met with high emotion legacy," he said. 
beeome his best friends, he 
nxcited, saying that Jo, as she can be found on the Mugglenet within the Harry Potter eom­said. llnre at Notre Damn. he had identified herself, was on site. munity. Contact Madeline Buckley at gnts attention from Mugglennt the phone for him. The surprises were not over "It was controversial," he mbucklcy@nd.cdu 

Guard 
continued from page 1 
rules sp11cilic to band aetivities, he said. 
The set of rules applies to "behaviors which would havn an irnpaet on tlw band's prae­tien, performanee or public image," Dwyer said. 
The C:uard was not at band praetiee last week, he said. 
"I expect they will be baek with us [today[ at regular rnhmtrsal," he said. 
Guard C<tpUtin Connor Martin declined to comment "out or respect lilr tim privaey or individuals involved ... 
Dirnetor of' Bands Kenneth Dye said tlw absenee of' the Cuard was bnhavior-rnlated. 
"Tiwy didn't do what they were supposed to do," he said. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglc I @nd.cdu 
Thursday 

October 4 
7:30P.M. 

Vander Vennet Theatre Student Center Saint Mary's Collcoc
b Free ,md open to the public. 



Britney Spears loses custody of tvvo children 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Britney Spears hit another personal low, being ordered to relinquish her children by a judge who had eited her drug-and-alco­hol-fueled lifestyle. 
Ex-husband Kevin Federline will take Sean Preston, 2, and Jayden James, 1, beginning Wednesday "until further order of the court," Superior Court Judge Scott M. Gordon ruled Monday. 
Phone messages lel't for rep­resentatives of Spears and Federline were not immediately returned. 
This is the latest problem to plague Spears, whose fortunes have taken a very public turn for the worse sinee splitting from Federline, 29, last year. The two were married in 

Woodstock Theologial Center 

Georgetown University 
CENTER FOR SPIRITUA.l.fi)' SAINT MARY'S (X:li.UGE 

Evolution and Faith: 
What is at Stake? 
October 2004. Spears filed for divorce last November and it became official in July. 
Since becoming single, Spears has appeared increasingly erratic and out-of-control. First, she was photographed at various Hollywood hotspots partying hard with Paris Hilton, with some photos capturing the pop star without panties. Then Spears shaved her head as paparazzi looked on, beat a ear with an umbrella and ended up spending a month in rehab. 
Last month, Gordon said Spears engaged in "habitual, frequent and continuous use of controlled substances and alco­hol" and orden~d her to under­go random drug and alcohol testing twice a week as part of her ongoing custody dispute with Federline. 
Spears also was previously ordered to meet weekly with a "parenting coaeh" who was to observe and report back to the court about her parenting skills. Both Spears and Federline must complete the court's "Parenting Without Conflict" class. 




-----~~---­
Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 14,087.55 +191.92
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,467 96 1,786 2,978,017,707 
AMEX .2,410AZ,1im;,,;£9.2$ NASDAQ 2,740.99 +39.49 NYSE 10,184~50 .+14£.22 S&P 500 1,547.04 +20.29 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,845.96 o.oo FTSE 100 (London) 6,506.20 +39.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +1.13 +1.72 154.30 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.15 +0.59 52.00 WALGREEN CO (WAG) -14.99 -7.08 40.16 CITIGROUP INC (C) +2.25 +1.05 47.72 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.48 +0.022 4.557 13-WEEK BILL +2.57 +0.095 3.795 30-YEAR BOND -0.72 -0.035 4.798 5-YEAR NOTE --+0.17 +0.007 4.236 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.42 80.24 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.10 754.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.25 87.43 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 115.7250 EURO 0.7025 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9923 BRITISH POUND 0.4894 
IN BRIEF GM may close plant in Indianapolis 
DETHOff -General Motors Corp. could dose or sdl a stamping plant in Indianapolis under a tenta­tive contract agreement reached last week with the United Auto Workers. according to a detailPd copy of the agreenwnt. But the local union leader in Indianapolis said he has received as.•mrances from a top UAW ollidal that the plant would remain open. 
Thn move is the downside of job security pledges that the UAW won in the negotiations, including mmmit.mnnL'> lor new products at 16 plants. About 
74.000 hourly GM workers will vote on the pact starting this week, with a final tally to bn donn by Oct. 10. 
Gregg Shotwell, a GM worker and fi-equent critic of the UAW, posted most of the contract details on the Intnrnet. I Ie said he received the agreement from a local union official who attended a meeting Friday in Detroit. IIe would not identify the official, but the accuracy of its contents was confirmed for The A<>sodatnd Press by a union leader who requested anonymity because members have not yet voted on the pact. 
According to the detailed document, called the "white book," work at the Indianapolis stamping operation will continue or be rea.llocated to another GM plant "until sueh time as the plant can be sold to an ouL'iide buyer." 
Ci~h!roup estimates profit drop for thuo quarter 
NEW YORK -Citigroup Inc. estimated Monday that iL'> third-quarter profit will drop 60 percent, as the nation's largest bank took losses of more than $3 billion after writing down securities backed by underperforming mortgages and loans tied to cor­poratn buyoul<>. 
The bank also said its profit would be dampened al'tnr boosting loan loss reserves by about $2 bil­lion. 
Despite the profit decline, Citigroup's stock, already pummeled due to worries about how the bank fared during the volatile summer months, lifted modestly in early trading, with investors apparently relieved that loan losses weren't even wider. 
Citigroup's announcement was the latest disap­pointment resulting from this year's problems in the mortgage industry and financial markets. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Stocks rally as credit crisis passes 
Dow Jones climbs above 14,000; investors believe Fed may raise interest rate again by month's end 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Wall Street began the fourth quarter with a huge rally Monday, sending the Dow Jones industrial average above 14,000 and well into record territory for the first tin1e in 2 1/2 months. Stocks were buoyed by a growing belief that the worst of the credit crisis has passed. 
While the beginning of the new quarter was an incen­tive for institutional investors to buy, they also seemed to bn motivated by a sense that banks and other financial companies generally weath­ered the recent credit mar­ket upheaval. Both Citigroup and Switzerland's UBS AG issued third-quarter profit warnings, but indicated the current period might see a return to normal earnings levels. 
Meanwhile, the market was optimistic that new eco­nomic data might nudge the Federal Heserve toward another interest rate cut at its Oct. 30-31 meeting. The Institute for Supply Management said the manu­facturing sector grew in September at the slowest pace in six months; the trade group said its index of man­ufacturing activity registered at 52.0 in September, below foreeasts for a reading of at lnast 52.5. 
"People are getting more confident there is going to be signal that corporations are rose 20.29, or 1.33 percent, kel<; by lowering key interest an October rate cut," said feeling comfortable in mak­to 1,547.04, nearing its all­rates half a percentage John C. Forelli, portfolio ing big moves despite recent time trading high of point. manager for Independence market turbulence. 1 ,555.90, also reached in Bonds moved higher Investment. "To some The Dow rose 191.92. or mid-July. The Nasdaq com­Monday. with the yield on degree, it looks like Citi 1.38 percent, to 14,087.55. posite index rose 39.49. or the benchmark 1{)-year kitchen-sinked the quarter, The blue chip index sur­1.46 percent, to 2,740.99; Treasury note falling to 4.55 and that from here going passed its closing record of the tech-laden index percent from 4.59 percent forward will be calmer. 14.000.41 set in mid-July, remains well below its high late Friday. Fixed-income That's underpinning the and moved into record terri­of 5,048.62, reached in 2000 investors, currently con­financials." tory, rising as high as when it was bloated by the cerned about the dollar's 
Enthusiasm about acquisi­14,115.51 and eclipsing its dot-com boom. recent weakness, interpret­tion activity picked up after previous intraday high of The Dow finished a turbu­ed the ISM report as not nec­Nokia unveiled an $8.1 bil­14,021.95 set July 17. lent third quarter with a 3.6 essarily portending an inter­lion offer to buy navigation­Broader market indexes percent gain, after the Fed est rate cut, which would software maker Navteq also rose sharply. The eased investor concerns over further erode the U.S. cur­Corp. The deal was seen as a Standard & Poor's 500 index the credit and housing mar-rency. 

Belo to spin off newspaper operations 
found" changes in both businesses and industries, but down nearly one-third
Associated Press 

was good for shareholders. from five years ago. Profit margins will 
DALLAS -Belo Corp. said Monday it The move underscored investor dis­probably keep shrinking as readers and plans to spin off its newspapers, which dain for newspaper stocks. Shares of advertisers shift to the Internet, he said. have been struggling to keep readers Belo, The New York Times Co., The "Newspapers are going through a bad and advertising dollars, into a new com­Washington Post Co., Tribune Co., and patch, and it's not clear how they'll come pany that will operate separately from Gannett Co., owner of USA Today, have out of it when the auto and real estate its 20 television stations. lost about half their value since early industries recover," he said. Morton said 
Shares of Belo Corp. surged nearly 19 2004. he doubts either will become a huge percent. Some companies with holdings in both source of advertising again. 
Investors had pressed Belo to consider newspapers and TV may face similar Speculation about other diversified splitting up the company, arguing that pressure to break up, analysts said. media companies that might follow the struggling newspaper business was "Bela's stock was at $17 a share and Belo's lead focused on Media General a drag on the stock price. The TV sta­not going anywhere," said Edward Inc. -its shares rose 9 percent on the tions accounted for half of Belo's rev­Atorino, an analyst with The Benchmark Belo news-and The E.W. Scripps Co., enue but two-thirds of its gross earn­Co. "If I were Gannett, and my stock which has said it will close The ings. were down to $44 (from $90 in 2004), Cincinnati Post and The Kentucky Post. 
Chairman and Chief Executive Robert I'd call in my investment bankers and Tribune, which owns the Los Angeles Decherd had resisted, however, saying see if this works for us." Times, the Chicago Tribune and about the newspaper side of the company was John Morton, a newspaper analyst two dozen TV stations, considered sell­too small to stand on its own. But the and appraiser, said profit margins at ing its broadcast operations but rejected company had quietly explored a split publicly traded newspaper companies in the idea. Putative buyer Sam Zell has since April, and on Monday, Decherd the first half of this year averaged 16 indicated he will keep both parts of the said the move recognized the "pro-percent -better than many other business. 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
Arrrish gather intnetnory of shootings 
Community outside Philadelphia remembers children murdered last year 
Associated Press 

NICKEL MINES, Pa. -Amish 
families sang hymns, prayed and 
sharnd a meal with statn troop­
ers and other guesL-; on Monday 
to mark the first annivnrsary of a 

massarrn at a orw-room school­
house. 

State l'olieP Commissioner 
.lefl"rny Millnr was orw of several 
dozen peopiP to atll~nd tlw pri­
vatn. noontinw gatlwring al thn 
honw or till' l·:lwrsol family, 
whosl' daughtPr, Naomi Hose. 
was orw of live girls slain in tl11• 
shooting. 
"It n~rtainly nwans a lot fi1r us to spend sonw limn with the fam­iliPs," Miller said aftorward. "Tiwrn's no other place wn would havn rathl'r hnnn this morning." 
Also aw~nding wen~ communi­ty nwmbnrs, state troopers and olTirials from Virginia Tnch, wlwrP a gunman killnd 32 stu­dents and faculty nwmbers in April. MiiiPr said. 
Though grat.Pful fi11· all tlw lwlp and sympathy it has rnePivnd, the Amish community is hoping to bn lnf't alonn as much as possibln Tuesday during tlw aetual annivnrsary or tlw shootings. 
Tlw Nnw I lope Amish School, which rnplacPd tlw one torn down aflnr llw attack, was dos1~d Monday and will remain shut Tunsday. 
Children playPd baseball on tim school's liPid on Monday and those gatlwred at lhn farmhouse shared a nwal or chicken. pota­toes and dessert. Millnr said. lin said he madn hrinf n~marks al lhn gatlwring "to sharn with tlu~m that they arn never far from our lwarL-;." 
Tlu~ families are expected to shan~ somn quil't time together Tuesday, Milh~r said. 
A yPar ago, life hen~ wnnt lar-g~•ly unnoticC'll by thn widnr world -and iL-; rnsidents liknd it that way. But all that changed Oct. 2, 200(J, whnn tlw gunman killml livn girls at tlw school and woundml livn otlwrs. 
It was about I0::{0 a.m. when Charlin Hoberts, a milk truck driver from a rwighboring vil­lagn, showPd Up at till~ door of thn Amish sdwol an hour's drivn west of downtown Philadelphia. and the ominous sound of med­


HobnrL-; carriPd rm~arms, tubes ical and news helicopters over­of snxual lubricant and the hard­head. warn he thought he might need Amid the chaos and heart­to lock himsnlf inside West Nickel break, the Amish instinctively Minns Amish School and immobi­reached out to Hoberts' widow, lizn his victims. Marie, the three children he Jell 
In a horrifying attack that behind and his parents. Even unfolded over the nnsuing 40 bPfore their own fivn daughters minutes, the 32-year-old son of a had been buried, the victims' 
pol ice  officer  families wern  
would shoot the  showing  
girls and then kill himself with  "It certainly means  Hoberts' fami­ly kindness,  
a shot to tlw forehead from his 1) mm hand­gun.  a lot for us to spend some time with the families. There's no other place we  condolence and com pas­sion. At thn end  
In a briPf cell  would have rather been  of tlw week, a  
phorw conver­satilm with his  this morning."  snries of horse-and­ 
wifi~  and in sui­ b  u  g  g  y  
cidn  notes,  Jeffrey Miller  corteges car­ 
Hoberls indicat­ state police commissioner  ried the dead  

ed he was angry with Cod for the cll~ath of his inlitnl daughtnr in 1997 and riven by the guilt or having moh~stml two girls 20 years earli­er. 
lin SIH'nwd to have prepared for a lengthy singe, but if that was the l'ase. his plan was liJiled wlwn tnacher Hmma Man Zook daslwd out tlw door to summon help. About 20 minutes after the singe bngan. the first slate troop­nrs wern on the scene. 
Their sudden appearance led a panicked Hoberts to insist they back oil'. There was virtually no time for rwgotiation before he abruptly shot the girls in rapid succession. 
Hoberts left bnhind a puzzling trail or evidence that authorities today lind as senseless as the day thn attack occurred. I le had no criminal history, had rwver bnrm treated for nwntal illness and there seems to be nothing to sub­stantiate his elaim of having molestnd his two relatives dnl'adns earlier. 
In Nickel Minns, whnn~ lili~ had bnnn marked by the prndietabln rhythms of tiw growing SIHlSOn and the church calendar. Hobnrts' attack made the modern world suddenly inescapable. 
The usual quint. was shattered by tlw arrival of hundreds of polkl' and nmergnney workers girls' coffins 
from private 

funnral cere­monies, past thn Hoberts' home and on to freshly dug gravns in the Bart Township Amish ceme­tery. 
HoberL-;' family quintly laid him to rest in an unmarked grave live days aftnr the murders, besidn the body of his Jato daughtm in GPorgetown. 
About half the 75 mourners at Hoberts' graveside were Amish. including family members or vic­tims, and the Amish later desig­nated a portion or the millions in donations they have received to benefit Hoberts' children and widow. 
On Oct. 12, the Amish had the schoolhouse torn down before dqwn, converting the land whern it stood into pasture. It only took a few months to ernet a new and morn seeum school nearby. 
THE HENRY LUCE FOUNDATION 
f7\o

Wo When it's the prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an excltlng1·yrJob In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 2, 2007. 
PAKISTAN 

Suicide bomber kills self, 14 others 
Associated Press 

PESHAWAR -A woman det­
onated explosives hidden 
under her burqa at a police 
checkpoint Monday, killing 
herself and 14 others in what 
appnared to be Pakistan's first 
female suicide attack, ollieials 
said. 

The blast in the troubled town of Bannu underscornd the growing Islamic militant threat in Pakistan, five days before President Gen. l'ervez Musharraf, a U.S. ally, senks re-election. 
Militants attacked a security post in tlw same northwcstnrn region later Monday and 24 policemen were feared cap­tured, ollieials said. 
The suieide bomber was in a rickshaw when it was pulled over by police al a chnckpoint in Bannu, said Ameer llamza Mahsud, the local policn chief. 
Investigators determined that it was a suicide attack and that the bomber was a woman w110 wore the head-to-toe burqa veil common in Pakistan's northwnst and in neighboring Afghanistan, Mahsud told Tho Associated Press. 
There was no claim of responsibility. Forensic exports would examine the attacker's dismmnbered body for dues to her identity, Mahsud said. 
However, he said it was pos­sible that the bomber came from the nearby tribal belt along the Afghan frontier, whern militants afliliated with the Taliban and ai-Qaida have seized considerable control. 
While there have been 
reports of women being 
trained to carry out suicide 
bombings in Pakistan, 
Monday's blast appnarml to be 
the first confirmation of surh 
an attack in nitlwr Pakistan or 
Afghanistan. 
Army spokesman Maj. GPn. Walwed Arshad said the dead ineluded four police ortieers and 11 other pooplo, among them the bombnr. Mahsud said many of tho casualties had been 1:rowdnd around a nearby bus stop. 
Sonw 150 militants attacked the Hichi Fort security post west of Bannu on Monday evening with rocknts and gun­fire, according to an intelli­gnnce ollidal. 
Tlw oiTieial, who was not authorized to speak publicly, said tho insurgents overran the post and captured 24 paramili­tary police olTicors. Arshad eonlirnwd the attack but said hn had no confirmation that anyorw was eapturnd. 
Bannu is near the North Waziristan tribal region, about 110 miles south of Peshawar. 
In n~cent months, militants have st.agnd almost daily attacks on s1~cu rity forces in North Waziristan and sur­rounding areas since the breakdown of a pnaee agrne­mnnt. 
Tho 2006 agroement had drawn criticism from the United Statns that it had given al-Qaida breathing space to rngroup and perhaps plot new attacks on thn West. 

Tuesday, October 2, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Feds attempt to deport 85-year-old Atlanta man 
German-born citizen condemns Holocaust, denies accusations of being a former Nazi guard and dog handler 
Associated Press  herds and Rottweilers during World War II, but he angrily  dog handler, serving from 1942 to 1944 at the Dachau and  served as an SS guard at Dachau and Buchenwald for  was not immediately returned. The deportation case was filed  
LAWRENCEVILLE,  Ga.  - denied being a war criminal.  Buchenwald  concentration  two to three months each as a  after  a  review  of  German  
Federal authorities have begun deportation proceedings against an 85-year-old suburban Atlanta man who they say served as a Nazi guard and trained and handled attack dogs at the Dachau and Buchenwald  "I didn't commit no crimes," camps in Germany, the immi­Henss said in a thick German gration document states. accent. "I didn't hurt nobody. There, Henss instructed other Otherwise I guards in the wouldn't have use of"I hate to rush tocome to the trained United judgment . ... But it seems attack dogs  dog handler, according to the charging document. On Monday, he acknowledged training dogs but said he fought in Russia and never set foot inside Dachau or Buchenwald. "The training of dogs was no  records, prosecutors said. Jaclyn Lesch, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said the government does not plan to file criminal charges against Henss. Henss is hard of hearing, has  
concentration camps. The Department of Justice and Department of Homeland Security allege Paul Henss, a German citizen who lives in Lawrenceville, about 30 miles  States." H e n s s called the Holocaust "a catastrophe" and said:  he's in denial. He seems surprised this came to light, a little taken aback about being disocvered."  to guard prisoners and prevent their escape, and person­ally guarded  crime," Henss said with his wife sobbing next to him outside their well-kept one-story brick house. "I was not training them to hurt people." Henss said that when he came  had some heart problems and uses a walker. He said he has lived in Georgia for 10 years. "We couldn't even imagine that Mr. Henss could do that," said Nuzzu Syed, who lives two  
northeast of Atlanta. entered the U.S. in 1955 after hiding his concentration camp service. The Department of Justice announced the action against Henss on Monday; federal authorities filed an immigration document making the allega­tions Sept. 4. On Monday, in his driveway in  "Everybody in prisonersRabbi Ronald Bluming Germany and forced­knows that Lawrenceville spiritual leader labor details wasn't right." to prevent According escapes, to federal authorities authorities, allege. Henss joined the Hitler Youth SS regulations during Henss' organization in Germany in time of service said dogs were to 1934 as a 12-or 13-year-old boy be trained "to 'bite without  to the U.S. 33 years ago, he did not tell immigration officials about his military service in Germany and was not asked. "I forgot about the war," he said. "I wanted to leave the war behind me." After coming to America, he worked in the packing industry, he said. He added that he does  doors down. "They're such a nice, elderly couple." Rabbi Ronald Bluming, the spiritual leader of the county's oldest synagogue, said the news was "disturbing." "I hate to rush to judgment. If it's going through the courts, we need to wait for more informa­tion," said Bluming, who has led  
a tidy, middle-class neighbor­hood where the streets are  and joined the Nazi Party in 1940.  mercy' and to literally tear pris­oners to pieces if they attempted  not know why his wartime serv­ice is being questioned more  Temple Beth David for six years. "But it seems he's in denial. He  
named aftnr tennis stars. Henss  He entered the Waffen SS in  to escape," the document states.  than six decades later.  seems surprised this came to  
said he had been an SS soldier  1941 and volunteered the fol­ Henss admitted in a sworn  A message left Monday for  light, a little taken aback about  
and had trained German shep­ lowing year to become an SS  statement March 13 that he  Henss' attorney, Douglas Weigle,  being discovered."  

Wom_an vvho died at airport vvas en route to rehab program_ 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX-A woman who died after being handcuffed and detained at the Phoenix airport was on her way to an alcohol rehabilitation program in Tucson, her family said Monday, accusing police of manhandling her during the ordeal. 
Carol Anne Gotbaum, 45, was late for a flight Friday and became angry when a gate crew didn't let her on the plane. Officers handcuffed her behind her back and took her to a hold­ing room, where she kept screaming, authorities said. 
A Gotbaum family representa­tive will be present at an autopsy on Tuesday, said their attorney, Michael Manning. 
"She was a loving and devoted mother of three children under the age of nine who was on her way to an alcohol rehabilitation facility to seek treatment," Betsy Gotbanm, the victim's stepmoth­er-in-law, said in a statement. 
Carol Gotbaum "appears to have been manhandled by the Phoenix Police Department," said Gotbaum, New York City's public advocate. "She cried out for help at the airport, but her pleas appear to have been met by mis­treatment." 
"We are not jumping to any conclusions, but the circum­stances surrounding Carol's death appear to be unusual enough to raise serious questions and warrant a thorough investi­gation," Betsy Gotbaum said. 
Police spokesman Sgt. Andy Hill said officers checked on Gotbaum regularly while she was detained. During one of the checks, officers found Gotbaum unconscious with her hands "pressed against her neck area," Hill said. 
In a statement released later Monday, Hill said Gotbaum had been shackled to a bench as well as being handcuffed. The shack­le's chain ran from an eyehook and the other was connected to the chain on Gotbaum's hand­cuffs. 
I I ill said officers followed estab­lished policy while detaining Carol Gotbaum. He added that police procedures for arresting someone at the airport haven't changed since the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attaeks. 
"Everything, so far that we know, is according to policy," Hill said. 
Manning, who was hired by Gotbaum's family to monitor the police investigation, said it does­n't seem possible she could have killed herself. 
"It doesn't make any sense," he said. "She was handcuffed behind her baek and shackled to a table. It doesn't make sense that she could have physically managed to strangle herself." 
Manning, a high-profile lawyer who represented the government against failed savings and loan executive Charles Keating, has previously won settlements against Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio in wrongful-death lawsuits. 
Rejoice! Mass 

October 7, 9:00p.m. 
Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother Coleman Morse Center 
All are welcome! Pizza to follow! 
CM 
For information, contact Judy Madden 631-8508 or jmadd!.!n2(~!nd.cdu 

U.S.AIR FORCE 

IF YOU SPEAK A FOREIGN LANGUAGE, SEE THE WORLD. 
If you speak a foreign language or are cur-rently learning one, we have countless opportunities awaiting you in Air Force ROTC. 
• Tuition assistance  • Officer commission  
• Monthly living allowance  • See the world.  
Our  current  language  needs  include  Chinese,  Persian.  Hindi,  

Indonesian and countless others. 
Call1-866-4AF-ROTC or visit AFROTC.COM. 
---~----~ ----­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWP,OINT
page I 0 
Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
~-~----==================================================================== 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Notr< Dam<, IN 46556 024 South Dining 11all. Notre Dame, IN 46S56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAt;ING t:DITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
A.~s·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity Ass·1: MANAGING EI>ITOII: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen l.1nglcy 
VIEWPOINT EI>I'IOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khnrey Chris Hinc SCENE EDITOR: T.1e Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

PIIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
AllVImTISING MANAGEit: Jessica Cortez 

AI> DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian SagarJia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6'127 
AovERTISING 

(574) 6.ll-6900 ob~ervad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6jl-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) (,_11 ~4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.cdu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.t·du 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the indcpmdent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du L1c and Saint Mary's ( :ollq~e. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not r;owrn"d by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adwrrisemrnts based on content. 
The new> is reponed as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and drpartmt·nt editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the vit·ws of the authors and not neet·ssarily those ofThe <)b.«·rvt•r. 
Vic'Wpoint span· is available to all readers. Tht· tree expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.etrcrs to rhe Editor must be signed and must indude C(IJllacl inJ(,rnlation. 
Qtm-tiow rrgardhtg Obsm;rr policirs should be dimud to Fditor in ChiefMaddie 1/anrw. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11tC" Ult5K"rvcr lll"illS "i')') l..-11KX1J IJ l'uhhahcd Muutl;~y !ltmul{h FnJ.ar ~cpt durm~o; rx.un .uwl "'"'"unn 1-.cn•~l\ A ~ul...cuprkll\ w ·1 hl'" O~vcr i~ JIUO fm t11tt· ~~.ti.l('mk y(',:lf: $';5 ILH ntu;: NC:mnll::r 
The Ob~ervcr ii pul~i.Ju,l Jl POSTMASTER UH "iuurh Dum1B 11&11 Send .tdth~\ t:tJtrCLiinm 1ft Nnm· l>amc, IN 4M~6 1!77'1 'Ou:Oh~t'I'VC'r l'criv.Jk.d PCJ~I.ti(O: po~ud .u Nnuc o..m, 1~0 Hn• n9 .and .u!Jiri.m.al nmlulft ollk.c·"· Ol4 ~uurh l>im11~ I !Jll 
Nu!r\' [)o~me, IN 46';;6.07;'9 
l1lt' l lh.crver L' il rnc:mhct ul 1hc: ~w.utrd Pre.;),. AU rcprodut:cmn uKim m: 
lt'lol'IVC\j. 

Anorexia and the ·devil 
My last summer at Notre Dame, a philosophy professor sponsored a con­test, soliciting papers about the "cul­ture of death." To most people, that nxpression means things like, well, pseudo-doctors 
Greg
pulling babies three­
Yatarola
fourths out the birth 
canal, puncturing 
Dome and 
their skulls and sue­
Domer 

tinning out the eon­tents. But I thought partial-birth abor­tion was too easy a target. You eould even say it's a no-brainer. 
I never submitted a paper -I'm too lazy and had no chanee anyway. But I did come up with a topic which I thought was original, more pleasant than infanticide, and one whieh I think a lot about anyway: Women's physiques. (woo-hoo!) 
You don't have to be the most obser­vant cultural critie to notiee that popu­lar standards of women's beauty have changed drastically over the past 50 years or so, especially over the last 20. Numerous commentators have rnmarked that if Marilyn Monroe wanted to be a beauty icon or sex symbol today, she'd have to lose at least 30 pounds. I could waste this whole artiele citing examples of how extreme these modern standards for women are, but sadly. I don't need to. They're all around us -in the movies and on television, on posters and bill­boards, in Victoria's Secret catalogs and on too many magazine covers. 
I could spend not just this article, but my whole column this semester discussing the damage these distorted appearance ideals cause for so many healthy, normal women. That wouldn't be necessary either. I've known women just about everywhere I've gone, including Notre Dame, who've suffered terribly as a result of trying to look the way they think society tells them they should look. Who doesn't know such women? 
What's ironie to me is that these beauty standards, however unrealistic and hurtful. aren't even beautiful. or course, I can only speak fully for myself. and parily for guys I know well, but without having done any serious scientific survey on the matter I'd say men generally aren't attracted to muscular abs, prominent collar­bones, or hard faces. Sure, some guys lind lean women attractive, but they've been conditioned to. That, and they tend not to be the manliest sort, from what I can tell. A glorious war was fought by heroes like Ajax and Aehillns over Helen of Troy, and I guarantee she never stepped onto a treadmill. Heal men like real women. 
There's a silver lining in this partic­ular cloud. Mainly at the gym, but also at the store -hell, sometimes at Mass -many girls dress like Amazons, showing about as much of themselves as the law permits. This angers me because women usually 11aunt their attractiveness, such as it is, not to bring joy to anyone's heart-which it would in the context of a loving, com­mitted relationship-but rather to dominate men who see and desire thnm. Wise the poet who observed: Man's desire is for woman, but woman's desire is for man's desire. Fortunately, though, because of our upside-down notions of what's attrac­tive, it's almost always the girls with the least to show ofT who show ofT tho most. And often they have tattoos, too, which make them even less tempting. Meanwhile, those who'd really put souls in danger are all bundled up, ashamed that their ribs aren't sticking out. 
So contemporary beauty standards cause health problems, physical and psychological, for vast numbers of women, and it's arguable that they don't even make women better-looking anyway. You probably didn't need me to tell you this. Then where's the cul­ture-of-death angle? That's much harder for me to articulate, and I'd appreciate it if more clever folks could follow up and explain it better, if they 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
,/..---·--· -...._--~ ·--::---....... 
l_o. k--PASS--_:)
~~--,/_-­
. 
. 

can even toll what I'm trying to say. 
Physical attraction is ordered to the end of procreation. You eould eon­elude this whether you consider man theologically, as a being speeially designed by God, or biologically, as a result of random mutations and natu­ral selection. This connnetion is borne out in the faet that what men naturally find most attractivn in womnn corre­lates positively with fertility. 
It's well-known that when women get too thin, they can't conceive a child at all. It's also true that as they drop toward that lnvnl, their fertility drops correspondingly-mathemati­cally, it's not a step function. But I think we can intuit this without sei­ence. Just look at onn of those scrawny women on sornn magazine cover sometime -whnther one of those stupid guys' rnagazinns, likt• Maxim or Stuff, or Cosmo -and ask yourself whether you can sne lifn com­ing from her. Looking at hnr, isn't the very thought of mothnrhood an absurdity'? 
I'm not saying women are just breeding machinns. or that individual women are wicked if they look likn Olympic track athlt~tes and have built­in partial birth-control. What I'm say­ing is that it's disordernd for society to promote that as the ideal. It's a subtle rejection of, and attack on, wormm 's life-giving ability. Then~ 's a sick brave­new-world-ish element to it that I can't quite explain, but which I clearly sense nonetheless. Would I say it's part of a plot by Satan to destroy humanity? That might be putting it a bit strong. It's not isolated, alas-it's part of a creeping androgyny that threatens men too. But that's a differ­ent gripe! 
Greg Yatarola 's not a mean, grumpy old grad, he just writes like it. He can be reached at gregpy@hotmail. com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obsemer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Karen Langley Chris Khorey Bohan Anand Greg Arbogast John Tierney Sam Leonard 
Graphics Meghan Veselik 
Matt II udson Scene 
Chirs McGrady 
Viewpoint 
Michelle Johnson 
OBSERVER POLL 

How many Heisman Trophies will Golden Tate win? 1, 2, 3 or 4? Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Don't go around sgying the world owes you a living. The world owes you nothing. It was there .first. " 
Mark Twain author 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 2, 2007 page 11 
Increased a-wareness needed on itntnigration issue 
Who among you would pay $1,500, walk for three days in the desert, and risk rape or death ... for a job? 
I ask this question not to shock. nor to exaggerate, but to offer a dose of reality in preparation for 
Ally Brantley 
the Academic Forum, coming up 
Guest Columnist 
Oct. 8. As we make our way through the fall semester, precariously balancing football Saturdays and study-filled Sundays. it is important to step out of "the bubble" and remember the broader issues that grip our nation and world. 
Immigration. too often described as today's "hot-button issue," is about more than polities or economics. It is about people, social justice, and solidarity. Immigrants are more than passive actors in a cost-benefit analysis; they are deter­mined, hopeful, gracious, and strong human beings. They are not invaders, looking to gobble up our tax dollars or steal our jobs. Rather, they are here to make a better life for themselves and their families, and many hope to eventu­ally return to their home countries. 
Over the summer, I was able to spend eight weeks volunteering and studying in Tijuana, Mexico, thanks to the Center for Social Concerns' International Summer Service Learning Program. For four of those weeks, another Notre Dame stu­dent and myself worked at the Casa del Migrante of Tijuana. And even if you've only been to Cancun for spring break fes­tivities, you can guess that the Casa del Migrante is just as it sounds: a house for migrants. 
Each night, the Casa del Migrante houses between 100 and 150 migrants, all men, the majority arriving with a recent deportation order from the United States. We provide them beds, clothing, food, showers, spiritual guidance, med­ical aid, and opportunities for work. Our guests can only stay for up to 12 days, providing them time to decide whether to stay in Mexico or to cross the border yet again. 
With operating hours from 6 a.m. to 
11:30 p.m., I spent most of the day spending time with migrants, answering their questions (and/or trying to pretend I fully understood what they were saying), cooking, cleaning, doing laundry, passing out clothes, and learning about their lives. Each migrant entered with the same look on his face: Dejected and tired. Some broke down into tears with worry about their families in the United States. They never got to say goodbye. 
Although the migrants I encountered had faced enormous hardships, they were still courteous, always offering to help with chores and eager to share sto­ries with myself and other volunteers. One migrant proudly read poetry he had written while in jail. Many recounted their stories of crossing the border, some being left by coyotes (guides) in the desert, while others made it, though only after walking for days and days, without food, water, or shelter. 
One night, a migrant stumbled into the Casa, disoriented and hungry. In the mid­dle of the night, he had a violent seizure, a result of the intense stress and exhaus­tion of his deportation. After living in the United States for nearly 30 years, he was pulled over, failed to produce proper identification, and was told he could not return for another 30 years. 
At the end of my four weeks at the Casa, I found myself disillusioned with my own country. I had heard too many stories of racial profiling and violence by authorities towards migrants. I had seen too many migrants broken by hard physi­cal labor or years in prison for the crime of being illegal. And too many would return to the United States, despite deportation and a "threatening" tall fence. I had lost faith in a country that measures immigrants' value by economic standards and beefs up border security, but does little to provide for immigrants being exploited deep within the United States. 
But with the help of more than a few people at Notre Dame, I found hope and comfort. I realized that change begins with an understanding of solidarity, or the ability "to look into the eyes of anoth­er person and to see the hopes and anxi­eties of a brother or sister," in the words of Pope John Paul II. It often takes an experience .outside of our own comfort zones to truly understand this, to attempt to share in others' frustrations and heartache, as I experienced over the summer. But living with migrants is not the only way to experience solidarity, for 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'The Office' exe1nplifies solidarity 
What does solidarity have to do with the hit TV show "The Office"? We could start with the international solidarity of it, in that we have England to thank for coming up with the original British version. It is important, after all, that we recognize that sometimes humor does translate (think Monty Python). Perhaps there is more to this cubicle­world commentary than the usual British fare, no matter how entertaining the usual fare might be. This show has something worth translating. Could it be sol­idarity? 
Consider, for example, the way that the characters interact with each other. First of all, they become familiar with each other, building relationships out of necessity and not always volun­tarily. Nonetheless, it is an essen­tial part of the human experi­ence. You have to learn to get along with the people around you. It is, in fact, a basic human impulse to do that by building relationships. It is no secret that the oldest form of human punish­ment was and still is among the harshest: Banishment from the community. Studies have shown that there is no greater indication that a relationship is nearly over than when two people stop responding to each other. Even the snide and awkward com­ments that erupt between char­acters on 'The Office" are far better than no response at all. 
Consider also the characters themselves. Where else would you get such an unlikely, eclectic group of people who gather everyday and spend a majority of their productive time together than an office? What better metaphor is there for our com­mon humanity? We are lumped together on this planet, given responsibility for the resources of the world and each other. 
Solidarity is nothing more than acting in accordance with our collective responsibility for each other. When the members of the office are not beating up on each other but rather supporting each other by contributing their piece of the work, the office flourishes. Similarly, when each individual acts in community to contribute to the common work of the world, the world flourishes. 
Here on campus, The Center for Social Concerns is highlight­ing this point during the 2007-08 academic year. In the 20th anniversary year of the encyclical Sollicitudo rei socialis (On Social Concern), Pope John Paul II describes solidarity as the reality of how humanity shares respon­sibility for the goods and the problems of the world. The Center for Social Concerns is holding this encyclical up by cele­brating solidarity in its 25th anniversary year with events such as the Oct. 14 talk by former President of Ireland, Mary Robinson, at Washington Hall. See socialconcerns.nd.edu for more events and information. 
It is fitting and natural that we gratefully share in England's good idea-"The Office" -and it is similarly fitting and no less natural that we should also share responsibility for addressing the local problems of world hunger, poverty, disease and suffering in general. If we can share a few laughs along the way, that's even better. 
Mary Tracy graduate student theology deparunent Sept. 28 

we are able to connect with them in small ways often overlooked in our busy lives. For example, they are a displaced people, alone and far from home -look­ing back to our first days in college, it may not be too difficult to empathize. 
To realize our equality with all immi­grants compels us to serve others and seek just reforms, ones that value the humanity of migrants and protect their rights. In saying this, I am not endorsing any political view of immigration reform. In fact, I don't have any concrete answer for what the government should do, but I am imploring you all (if only in 800 words) to take another look at the issue and understand the necessity for social justice. 
So, please, if you cannot attend the Academic Forum, look out for other events on campus to increase your knowledge of migrants and the ongoing political debate. Research on the Internet. I highly suggest visiting the Justice for Immigrants Campaign (http://www.justiceforimmigrants.org/ind ex.html) or the Migration Policy Institute (migrationpolicy.org). 
Rethink the issue. Put yourselves in their shoes. And if it moves you, act. 
Ally Brantley is a junior history major, currently studying in Washington, D.C. Contact her at abrantle@nd.edu with any questions or comments. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
The best ca1npus job 
A couple of weeks ago, The Observer's question of the day was "What's the best job on campus?" Surprisingly, none of the students polled chose the night shift pool operator at Rolfs Aquatic Center. That's my job, and it is indeed the best job on campus. 
What makes it so great? There's the facility itself. The Rolfs pool is a gorgeous full 50 meters, filled with nearly one mil­lion gallons of cool, crystal clear (with just a hint of Caribbean blue), Perrier quality water. Those in the trade have referred it to as the "Jewel of the Midwest." Working to keep it so beautiful is extremely satisfying. 
Then there are the students. You meet a lot of them on this job: Athletes and those employed as lifeguards and issue room personnel. What wonderful young adults! It's a pleas­ure working with them, and knowing that they're going out into the world gives me more hope for the future of our country than anything else. 
Finally there is the ipherently noble nature of the work. Every night I do battle against countless hordes of fungi, bac­teria and other germs. They are a foul lot that would do harm to those same good students and other patrons. I must fight this invading army alone. Even so, I slay them by the millions to keep the facility safe! I know what you're think­ing: "It must take a mighty warrior to do that job." No com­ment. 
So, University president? Landscaper? Professor? Vending machine stocker? Yes, yes, all very nice and highly coveted positions, but can any of them really claim to be the best job on campus? No! Mine is! 
Larry LeMaire night shift pool operator Rolfs Aquatic Center Sept. 27 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, October 2, 2007 

:foo :Jig~ters c~ange formu{a, 

sti{{succeed 
* 

"Echoes, Silence, Patience & Grace."
By STEPHANIE DePREZ 
Dave Grohl has come a long way.
Scene Writer 
Ever since his days as Nirvana's drum­mer, he has been working hard toWhy mess with a good thing'? 
make great music. After Kurt CobainIf your sound is great and your ehmn­died, Grohl started developing the Fooistry pnrfnet. why not just chug out the Fighters. And in 1995 a full band was same old stuff that always works'? Well, 
established. Though there have beenapart from the fear of channeling the multiple drops and new additions toBritney Spears method of music pro­
the band, the basic concept has stayed
duction, one might deviate from the the same -post-grunge with catchy
goldon standard because there is, 
melodies.

indeed, something hotter to achieve. 
The Foo Fighters popularity spans
This is exactly what the Foo Figh tors over a decade and spreads worldwide. 
provo with their new studio album, 
The band's sound can pretty much sum up all the good rock from the early mil­IPnnium that hasn't been indie, emo, or, well, The Hod llot Chili Peppers. Tlw Foo Fighters have become quintes­sential life-rock. With its new album, orr the group seems to tip its hat tn a style. gmwric sound, while taking on a more mature exploration of the band's abili­ty. The Foo Fighters are still there, but so is something new. 
"Echoes, Silence, Patience & Grace" opens with "The Pretender" in classic Foo Fighters-form. A driving guitar and powerful drums announce the arrival of this new Foo era. Think of it as this album's "Times Like These." Be sure to
Photo courtesy of shielaomalley.com 
Dave Grohl, formerly of Nirvana, has pack it for that late night drive with the found success with the Foo Fighters. windows down. Don't be fooled, 
a mere live minutes. After this brief histo­Hy CLAIRE REISING ry lesson, the conflict begins as a Saudi ScmcWritcr Arabian terrorist group led by Abu 
Ilamza (llezi Saddik) attacks an 
lmagi1w tim trigg~~r-happy light semms American neighborhood in Saudi Arabia, of S.W.A.T. combined with the intrigue killing hundreds of civilians and an FBI and cultural message of Syriana. Director agent. When the FBI hears the news, l'ntnr Bnrg attnmpts to blend thnsn two agent Honald Fleury (Jamie Foxx) con­nlmnnnts in Thn Kingdom, but the plot vinces authorities to sfmd a team to Saudi and eharadnrs la<~k tlw d1~pth nendnd to Arabia to investigate the attack, but the dnlivnr a strong political messagn, and team must overcome culture shock and t.hn film rnwrts to a stnrnotypical action an inf1exible government to succeed in flil~k. the mission. 
Tlw Kingdom snts up thn storyline with With grandiose action sequences, Berg a montagn of Anwrica's relations with relies heavily on special effects, complete Saudi 1\rabia. compressing thn 1970s oil with a car chase and exploding buildings. rrisis. t.hn Porsian Gulf War and 9/11 into During the terrorist scene at the begin­ning or the film, the effects contribute to a 
The Kingdom 
sense of urgency as blasts bombard the neighbor­hood and civilians futilely 
Directed by: Peter Berg 
attempt to protect them­selves. Eventually,
Starring: Jamie Foxx, Chris Cooper, Jennifer 
though, the violence 
Garner and Jason Batemen 
grows overbearing and 

numbing, with incessant explosions and machine gun rounds assaulting viewers' eardrums. 
The Kingdom's plot shines during suspenseful moments, however, such though, because "Let It Die" and "Come Alive" (irony at its best) come out of nowhere. These tracks each begin with about two minutes of acoustic preparation before the boom­ing electric instruments come blasting in. They are built on the formula of the classic build-up, and culminate in a rousing chorus of angst. It is quite a treat to hear a song go from plucky guitar to all-out screamo. Only the Foo Fighters could pull it off. 
Songs like "Summer's End" and "Cheer Up, Boys (Your Make Up Is Hunning)" are iPod mainstays. !Ieavy hooks and infectious drums keep the pulse of the album going. "Ballad of the Beaconsfield Miners" is a chance fur dueling guitars to show 
in a quasi-indie 
Echoes, Silence, Patience & Grace The Foo Fighters
Heard on its own, you would never guess that 
Released by: RCA 

this instrumental piece 
Recommended Tracks: Summer's End,
comes from the Foo Fighters. The album 
Cheer Up, Boys, The Pretender 
closer, "JlomP," is a simple man-and-piano ballad. Grahl's stripped­down voice stands in striking contrast to the rest of the album, leav­ing a listener to ask, "Is 
as a kidnapping and hand-to-hand com­bat. These personal, intense fights engage the audience more than haphazard machine gunfire, since the characters must depend more on their strength and judgment and less on high-tech weapons. 
Ironically, Berg strives to deliver an anti-violent message in the midst of the carnage, but these efforts sometimes get lost in the film's us-versus-them mentali­ty. The Kingdom establishes a pro­American bias, contrasting Agent Fleury's friendly visit to his son's elementary school with a brutal Saudi Arabian police interrogation. Also, instead of trying to learn Islamic customs, the FBI agents view these practices as inconveniences, such as when American forensics scien­tists cannot touch the bodies of dead Muslims. In an "attempt" to understand Islam, an agent peruses The Complete Idiot's Guide to the Koran while joking about meeting virgins in Paradise. 
During one scene, Berg shows the thoughtful side of the Islamic community by briefly portraying a Muslim family praying with peaceful music in the back­ground. However, this scene seems detached from the rest of the characters and plot. The Kingdom better succeeds in bridging the cultural gap through the friendship between Fleury and Colonel Faris AI Ghazi (Ashraf Barhom), the 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

this really the Foo Fighters?" 
This eclectic album seems to work in spite of itself. The beats and levels cre­ated by the alternating song styles llow together. This is an album in the great­est sense of the word. 
It's easy to hop on iTunes and buy the three songs you decide you like based on their 30-second sound elip. But that would be a grave mistake. All of the songs have something to add. 
The Foo Fighters have managed to step back from their usual sound and give us what every great roek band should: a great album. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

Saudi Arabian official who aids the FBI team. Faris is one of the movie's only dynamic characters, and Barhom power­fully portrays his relationship with Fleury as the two fathers share stories about their sons. When the FBI team first arrives, Faris is reluctant to help, but his stubbornness gradually erodes, ·and he develops into a likable eharaeter. 
The other roles, while entertaining, become stock charaeters to lit the action movie mold. Foxx portrays Agent Fleury as the typieal, impeccable, tough-guy hero, and this character lacks the com­plexity Foxx shows in some of his former films, such as Hay and Collateral. Besides developing a friendship with Faris, Agent Fleury does not change much throughout the film. 
Jennifer Garner and Chris Cooper also join the cast as members of the FBI team, portraying cookie-cutter Americans. Garner's willful forensic scientist clashes with Islamic customs, and Cooper's cow­boy-like explosives expert clumsily han­dles the language barrier. 
The Kingdom gives American audiences a thrilling, reassuring story, in which the "good guys" inevitably prevail. However, viewers looking for political or cultural insight will not find much in this film. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
page 13 



Photo courtesy of humormeblog.beloblog.com The popular "Caveman Commercial," an ad campaign for Geico Insurance, is set to become a sitcom on ABC. The show is scripted by Joe Lawson, creator of the ads. 
OfT-campus cooking is truly the sur­vival of the fittest. While some of my roommates resort to peanut butter sandwiches or canned meat of various kinds, my culinary tastes are down in the dumps. 
One of the eater­
Chris McGrady 
ies that can pro­vide satisfaction no matter what is Assistant Chipotle. This envi­Scene Editor ro-friendly, Colorado-based restaurant serves up a piping-hot burri­to in a matter of minutes. Add God-like guac. beautiful braised beef, tasty tor­tillas, all washed down with an ice cold bee ... urn, soda. It can't be beat. But on this past Sunday, I set out to try some­thing different-the home-cooked meal. 
TherP is a certain satisfaction to a homn-cookPd meal. But this is trickier than one might imagine. I fancy myself a pretty good cook. but I realized I can really only cook a few things well. Just the other day I tried to grill out some bratwurst. Easy, right? Not so fast, hombre. The charcoal wouldn't light (no lighter fluid). Forty-five minutes and 12 newspapers later, 1 had erected a pyre worthy of any Greek god and I finally got the coals lit. Just when the brats were nearing their greasy perfec­tion, I was trying to move them when the grate Oipped, dumping the scrump­tious sausages into the ashes. Sigh. Another meal bites the dust. 
Fortunately, there is a benevolent retired boxer who wanted to enter the grilling world, and I set out for my apartment's George Foreman Lean Mean Fat Grilling Machine. Surely I can't mess this up. Dice up a chicken breast, season, and throw it on there. Voila! 10 minutes later, a strangely chemical smell is coming from the grill. WTF, mate? Lo and behold, a plastic fork was somehow resting against the top of the cooking service, melting and dripping down onto the chicken before hardening into some kind of charred Darth Vader-esque shell. Strike numero dos. 
So now it is going on 10 o'clock. I'm hungry as hell and I'm not gonna take it anymore. Grilled cheese it is. Butter the bread, turn on the stovetop, add a little bit of cheese. Oh, this is looking good and golden. Out of nowhere, a fly enters the pictur~. I will not have this disgusting creature ruining my meal, not now. I begin to swing violently as the fly goes all kamikaze on my sand­wich. In an unfortunate series of events, 1 miss the fly, hit the handle of the pan, and send my tasty-toastie across the room like a rock out of a tre­buchet. With a resounding splat, the sandwich embeds itself on my wall. Strike three -I'm out. 
There are certain times when a man must admit defeat, and this is one of them. Go ahead, roomie, pass the canned meat. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl @nd. edu 

By MARK WITTE 
Scene Writer 
The famous Geico Neanderthals have a nnw home -the 8 p.m. time slot on ABC. 
The show will focus on the lives of three Neanderthals, Joel (Bill English), Andy (Sam Huntington), and Nick (Nick Kroll) living as "the world's smallest minority" in modern day San Diego. 
According to ABC Medianet, "Joel, Nick and Andy have to overcome prej­udice from most of the llomosapien world and the misconceptions that modern society has of its earliest ancestors." 
Three years ago, the car insurance company that became famous for its slogan, "Fifteen minutes could save you fifteen percent or more on car insurance," hit television airwaves with a series of Neanderthal-themed commercials advocating the company's simplicity. 
The commercials revolved around Neanderthals taking offense to the slo­gan "Geico: So easy a caveman could do it." 
Created by Joe Lawson of the Martin Advertising Agency, the commercials were popular enough to merit 11 dif-
Caveme 
ferent ads over a three-year period, as well as the creation of an interactive­online site, "The Caveman's Crib." One of the cavemen even made a cameo during Super Bowl XLI. 
However, Lawson and Geico's biggest Neanderthal accomplishment may have yet to be seen. 
In March, ABC gave the go-ahead for production on a Lawson-scripted pilot inspired by his GEICO commercials. Under "Blades of Glory" directors Josh Gordon and Will Speck, the pilot was picked up by ABC. 
It was slated to run for 13 episodes. Tonight at 8 p.m., Lawson's "Cavemen" will make the transition from a 30-sec­ond time slot to a 30-minute one. 
The show promises to pose a unique perspective on political correctness, but can it stand up to the Tuesday night competition? 
Last year FOX's "American Idol" and ABC's "Dancing with the Stars" domi­nated Tuesday nights, receiving the second and third highest rating on tel­evision behind only the Wednesday night showing of "American Idol." "Dancing with the Stars" has since vacated Tuesday's 8 p.m. slot, where "Cavemen" will now club away at CBS's "NCIS," FOX's "Bones," and NBC's "Singing Bee." 
"Bones" and "NCIS" have run for three and five seasons, respectively, and the shows have had a consistent and fervid following. The "Singing Bee," which aired for the first time in July, received the second highest rat­ing of that week, second only to the 2007 MLB All-Star Game. 
This fact does not bode well for the fledgling "Cavemen" and ABC. It is likely that the competition will not be friendly to these ambitious Neanderthals. 
Despite the popularity of the adver­tisement, whether the caveman joke will continue to be funny and popular enough to support a full-fledged sitcom remains to be seen. 
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish youngsters illlpress as tealll hosts Fallon Invitational 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 

With the ITA Championships in just two wonks, Notrn Dame got plonty of warm-up action during tho Tom Fallon Invitational at the Courtney Tennis Center last wnnkend. 
Players from Ball Stat(\ Purdun, Wnsl!~rn Michigan. Michigan, Iowa, Michigan Stall\ and Indiana carne to South Bend to eornpPle in individual singles and doubles rnat(:hos. No Wam score was kept. 
Irish eoach Bobby Bayliss said he was impressed with the play of his live frnshrnm1. 
"The good nows is that we have livn frnshrnen, who hard workers, and willing to Inurn," Bayliss said. "The bad news is we have live frnshmen who are still learning, and ~e're still learning about thorn. 
On Friday, frnshman Tyler Davis delimted Paul Foley of Purdue, in a super tiebreak, 5-7, 6-3, 1-0 {13-11). 
Fellow freshmen Stephen llavens and Dan Stahl won more easily. llavens beat Boilermaker Gril'fin Nieberg, 6-4, 6-1, while Stahl boat Erie Hamos of Purdue, (J-2, 6-2. 
The last two freshmen had a rougher go in their matches. David Anderson lost to Alex Birchmeier from Western Michigan, 6-2, 7-5 and Matt Johnson lost to Michael Calderon, also from Western Michigan, 6-4, 7-5. 
Notrn Dame's veterans also had a good day Friday. 
Sophomorn Sean Corrigan took down Eren Turkmenler of Purdue, 7-5, 6-4, junior Santiago Montoya easily beat Boilermaker Jose Fuenmayor, 6-0, 6-2. sopho­more Graham King defeated another Purdue player, D.J. .Johnson in a super tiebrcak 6-2, 1-6, 1-0 (1 0-7), and junior Brett Helgeson defeated Indiana's Santiago Gruter 6-0, 6-2. 
Helgeson also defeated Kazuya Komada !'rom Western Michigan, 7-5, 6-1. 
Sophomore Patrick Callaghan suffered the only defeat among Irish upperclassmen, a 6-4, 6-2 loss to Indiana's Peter Antons. 
In doubles play Friday, Helgeson and Montoya beat Jorge Hodrigucz and Eduardo Pavia from Ball State 8-5. Davis and I ravens teamed up for an 8-2 win over Walker Grimes and Gregory I lolm of Iowa. 
On the second day of play, Notre Dame won 10 of its 12 matches. 
Stahl defeated John Allare of Michigan State 7-5, 6-3 at No. 1 singles. Davis faced a tough oppo­nent in Michigan State's John Stratton but won in a third-set super tiebreak 3-6, 6-0, 1-0 (10­8). 
Johnson defeated Ty Sauerbrey, 
MLB 

Rockies rally to top Padres 
Associat"d J>ress 

DENVEH -In a season that needed an extra day, Matt Holliday and the Colorado Hockies needed extra innings to pull ofT the most dramatic comeback of the year. 
Holliday raced home on .Iamey Carroll's shallow l'ly ball, capping a stunning, three­run rally in the 13th inning against Trevor Hoffman and leading the Hockies over the San Diego Padres 9-8 Monday night in a tiebreaker for the NL wild card. 
"It's been an incredible run from game 1 to game 163," Hockies manager Clint Hurdle said. 
Arter Scott Hairston's two­run homer put the Padres ahead in the top of the 13th, Colorado came back against baseball's career saves leader. 
The Hockies, who won for the 14th time in 15 games, took thll longest one-game ti11brnaknr in major league his­tory. They advanced to play Philadelphia in the first round starting Wednesday. 
Kaz Matsui and Troy Tulowitzki, who had four hits, lined back-to-hack doubles ofT Hoffman, making it 8-7. Then llolliday tripled off the wall in right to tie it. 
After Todd Helton was inten­tionally walked, Carroll lined out to right fielder Brian Giles. 
Giles' throw home bounced in front of catcher Michael Barrett, who couldn't hold on as Holliday swiped the plate, then lay face-down after cut­ting his chin with his headfirst slide. Umpire Tim McClelland made a delayed safe call, and replays were inconelusive on whether Holliday touched the plate with his left hand or was blocked by Barrett's left foot. 
"I don't know. He hit me pretty good," Holliday said. "I got stepped on and banged my chin. I'm all right." 
Said Padres manager Bud Black: "It looked to me like he did get it." 
Carroll entered the game as a pinch-runner in the seventh inning and stayed in to play third base. He got one hit before finding himself in posi­tion to hit the sacrifice fly that won it. 
"I was just trying to get a ball up in the zone," Carroll said. "llad a guy at third. Matty did a great job. Matty ran his butt ofl'. I am so happy that we get this opportunity to go on." 
Hoffman (4-5), who has 524 career saves, blew his seventh chance in 49 tries. On Saturday, he was one strike away from clinching a playoff spot when Tony Gwynn Jr. hit a tying triple for Milwaukee, which went on to win 4-3 in 11 innings. 
"I'm having a hard time expressing myself right now," HotTman said. "I wish I could, but I can't after what hap­pened tonight." 
The Hockies won the longest game at Coors Field this sea­son behind Holliday, the MVP candidate who won the NL bat­ting title at .340. He also drove in two runs to take the league RBI crown with 137, one more than Philadelphia's Ryan Howard. 
Ramon Ortiz (1-0) got the win. He was the Rockies' lOth pitcher, taking over after Jorge Julio gave up Hairston's homer. 
"All we kept saying was 'hold 'em at two, hold 'em at two,"' Hurdle said. 
The Rockies are headed to the playoffs for the first time since 1995, when they lost to Atlanta in the first round. 
After stranding runners at second in the 1Oth, 11th and 12th off Matt Herges, the Padres broke through against Julio. 
Brian Giles drew a leadoff walk and Hairston homered into the bleachers in left-cen­ter. 
also of Michigan State, easily by a score of 6-0, 6-4. 
Havens beat Pavia of Ball State 6-1, 6-4. Anderson defeated Shaun Bussert, also of Ball State, 6-1,6-0. 
Helgeson defeated Spartan Nex Forger 6-1,6-3. 
In doubles play, I lelgeson and Montoya earned a win over Chris Madden and Andrew Mazlin of Michigan 9-8 (7-2). 
Meanwhile, Anderson and Johnson fell to Bryan Norvilh~ and Kazuya Kamada from Western Michigan 8-4, and Montoya and Havens fell to Purdue's Foley and Hamos 9-8 (7-5). 
Notre Dame posted a 7-6 sin­gles record in the final round on Sunday. Helgeson again led the Irish with a dominant 6-0, 6-1 vic­tory and earned Most Valuable Player Honors for the tourna­ment. 
Stahl, Davis and Havens joined Helgeson on the All-Tournament team. Stahl was victorious in a three set marathon 7-5, 4-6, 10-6. Davis prevailed 6-3, 7-6 (8-6). 
The Irish will take this wnekcnd off and travel to the ITA Championships in two weeks. 
Seniors Sheeva Parbhu and Andww Hoth did not play in the tournament. Bayliss said Hoth was out with an ankle injury, but he did not speei!y Parbhu's injury .. 
"We're waiting on the results from the orthopedist lon Hoth]." Bayliss said. 'They will tell us if he nends an MHI or what kind of treatment." 
When Parbhu is healthy, Bayliss said, he will be one of Notre Dame's top players. 
"Essentially I have two number ones," Bayliss said, referring to Helgeson and Parbhu. "They played two and three singles last season, and were great for us." 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL -BLUE LEAGUE 
High-scoring Walsh 
faces swarming Farley 
By PATRICK STYNES Spons Writer 
Farley vs. Walsh 

Undefeated Walsh looks to extend its winning streak to five while Farley hopes to improve its 2-1-1 record when the teams meet tonight. 
Walsh has been a terrifying squad on both sides of the ball, shutting down teams on defense while stringing together masterful drives on offense. Farley has proven to be formidable as well, how­ever, with a strong defense that shut out Pasquerilla East earlier this year. 
The Walsh squad will throw quite a few different weapons at Farley's defense. Senior quarterback Mary Sullivan is a threat both in the air and on the ground, and the solid receiving corps of senior captain Marie Brenner and sophomore receiver Sierra Smith has given defenses trouble all year. 
On the defensive side of the ball, led by senior Julie Campbell, the Wild Women have been successful in put­ting pressure on the quarter­back, causing turnovers and not allowing any team to set­tle into a rhythm on offense. 
"The defense as whole unit has been working so well together," Brenner said. "This is the best team I've seen in my four years here." 
The Farley squad will look for help from junior captain and wide receiver Jenny Rolfs to overcome the swarming Walsh defense. She has been an integral part of the Finest offense, pulling in plenty of dutch catches. 
On defense, shutdown sophomore cornerback Caitlin Shepherd hopes to bring her best game to try and contain the receivers of the Wild Women. 
Tonight's game will likely prove difficult for the Finest, as Walsh may have too many weapons for the Farley squad. 
The Wild Women offense will be looking to put on another offensive clinic tonight at 8 on Riehle Field. 
Contact Patrick Stynes at pstynes@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 r.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right w edit all classifieds for comem without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: Light blue pencil case that says 'Le Petite Prince· on it. 
Call or text Tara at 517-927-4193. 
WANTED 
STUDENT WORK 
$12.75 base-appt. Flexible sched­ules, no experience needed, cus­tomer sales/service. conditions apply, all ages 18+. 
574-273-3835, 
www.workforstudents.com 

FoR SALE 
Call me for a list of properties near ND. 574-217-1557Tatiana --------------------------------------·------­Moving on with my life Moving in with yours. 
Lake St. George is your new home With an almost view of the dome Sleep in one of three suites Taste the city water. It is sweet 
New. New Everything 
You can have it for some bling Not too bad for $345 thousand 
Call Jan Lazzara on her band 574-233-6141. 
FoR RENT 
LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcountrybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. --------------------··------------------------­Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms. Walk to ND. 574-876-7341. For Football weekends, caii574­532-1408. 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2008­
09: 3-9 BEDROOM HOMES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
Call Bill574-532-1896. 
TICKETS 

WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 
--------------·---·-----------·---··-·---·--·-­FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 
574-232-0964. www.victorytickets.com ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 574-288-2726. 
Buying BC/USC tix. 
574-277-1659. 

============== 
PERSONAL 

Spring Break 2008. Sell Trips, Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for group discounts. Best Deals Guaranteed! Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco. 
Bahamas. S.Padre, Florida. 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP. at 1­
7819. 
For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
My first time doing the Classifieds in like forever. 
TBS has a baseball game that doesn't involve the Braves???? 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, October 2, 2007 Colv\PllED FROtv1 TriE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NFL AFC East 

team Patriots Buffalo N.Y. Jets Miami  record 3-0 1-3 1-3 0-4  perc. 1.000 .250 .250 .000  PF 114 41 72 78  PA 35 93 103 119  
AFC North  
team Pittsburgh Cleveland Baltimore Cincinnati  record 3·1 2·2 2·2 1-2  perc . .750 .500 .500 .333  PF 111 109 79 93  PA 47 118 90 95  
AFC South  
team Indianapolis Tennessee Jacksonville Houston  record 4-0 2-1 2-1 2-2  perc. 1.000 .667 .667 .500  PF 131· 64 46 94  PA 74 46 34 80  
AFC West  
lPam Denver Kansas City Oakland San Diego  record 2-2 2-2 2-2 1-3  perc. .500 .500 .500 .250  PF 72 56 102 68  PA 95 66 100 102  
NFC East  
team Dallas Washington N.Y. Giants Philadelphia  record 4-0 2-1 2-2 1-3  perc. 1.000 .667 .500 .250  PF 151 53 88 84  PA 72 49 100 73  
NFC North  
team Green Bay Detroit Chicago Minnesota  record 4·0 3·1 1-3 1·3  perc. 1.000 .750 .250 .250  PF 105 114 60 67  PA 66 121 95 59  
toam Tampa Bay Carolina Atlanta New Orleans •  NFC South record perc. 3·1 .750 2·2 .500 1·3 .250 0·3 .000  PF 81 82 56 38  PA 44 87 80 103  
NFC West  
team Seatlle San Francisco Arizona St. Louis  record 3·1 2·2 2-2 0-4  perc. .750 .500 .500 .000  PF 87 56 84 39  PA 53 93 80 103  

MIAA Women's Soccer Standings 
team league overall 
Albion 2·0-1 8-1·2 Calvin 2-0-0 5-3-1 SAINT MARY'S 1·0-2 5·1-4 Adrian 1-1·1 4-6·1 Hope 1·1-0 5·6-0 Kalamazoo 1·1-0 6·3·1 Alma 1-2·0 6·4·1 Olivet 0·2·1 5·4·2 Tri-State 0-2-0 0-8-2 
around the dial 
NCAA FooTBALL Marshall at Memphis 8 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

CINCINNATI-Tom Brady had three more touchdown passes. Sammy Morris had one of the best games of his career. The New England defense had its way. 
Expect anything less? 
The Patriots remained one of the NFL's four unbeaten teams Monday night -and, so far, the best of the bunch -by beating the Cincinnati Bengals 34­13 with a performance that showed their versatility. 
And, they've only just begun. 
New England (4-0) is off to its best start since 2004, when it won the Super Bowl for the third time in four years. An offense energized by the addition of receivers Randy Moss, Donte' Stallworth and Wes Welker showed it can grind it out, too. 
Especially against a team like the Bengals (1-3), who had trouble just getting a defense on the field -and counting to 11 while they were at it. 
Moss caught a pair of touchdown passes, and Morris ran for 117 yards, giving the Patriots more than enough on a night when they didn't need a whole lot. 
Cincinnati was missing middle linebackers Ahmad Brooks and Caleb Miller, leaving a big hole in one of the league's worst defenses. When Lemar Marshall hurt 
IN BRIEF 

Memphis will have moment of 
silence for teammate 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -A University of Memphis football player was fatally shot on campus in what police believe was a targeted attack, and classes were canceled Monday as a precaution. 
Taylor Bradford, 21, apparently was shot near a university housing complex about 9:45 p.m. Sunday and then crashed a car he was driving into a tree a short distance away on campus, officials said. 
"We found him with a bullet wound to the body and the ambu­lance took him to the hospital where he was pronounced (dead)," said Roger Prewitt, a Memphis Police inspector. 
Detectives investigating the shoot­ing received reports of gunfire being heard in a parking lot of the housing complex about 200 yards from where Bradford was found, police spokeswoman Monique Martin said. 
an Achilles' tendon in the first quarter, the Bengals moved rookie safety Chinedum Ndukwe into a linebacker's spot. 
The Patriots had more linebackers in their offenses on goal-line plays than the Bengals had in their defense on many plays. And one of them -Mike Vrabel ­caught a 1-yard touchdown pass in a Super Bowl flash­back. 
Missing their top runner didn't slow the Patriots. 
Morris, an eighth-year journeyman playing for his third team, got to take cen­ter stage because Laurence Maroney was out with a strained groin. He had the second 100-yard game of his career, including a 7­yard touchdown run on fourth-and-1 put the Patriots in control in the third quarter. 
Morris' 49-yard run-the second-longest of his career -set up Brady's 1-yard touchdown pass to Vrabel, who has nine career catch­es, all for touchdowns. Two of them have come in the Patriots' Super Bowl wins. 
Brady, the two-time Super Bowl MVP, didn't have to do anything sensational in an offense that could grind it out against a depleted defense. He was 25-of-:~2 for 231 yards with the touchdown pass to Vrabel and two to Moss. streak, and we were able to take advantage." general manag­er Pat Gillick said. 

Olympic track and field 
great dies at 71 
FOBT MYERS, Fla. -AI Oerter, the discus great who won gold medals in four straight Olympics to become one of track and field's biggest stars in the 1950s and '60s, died Monday of heart fail­ure. He was 71. 
Ocrter died at a hospital near his Fort Myers Beach home, wife Cathy Oerter said. He dealt with high blood pressure since he was young and struggled with heart problems, she said. 
·"lie was a gentle giant," she said. "He was bigger than life." 
Oerter won gold medals in 1956, 1960, 1964 and 1968. Oerter and Carl Lewis are the only track and field stars to capture the same event in four consecutive Olympics. 
Oerter, however, is the only one to set an Olympic record in each of his victories. 
Pacers first-round draft pick
ordered to do service 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers forward Shawne Williams was ordered Monday to perform 40 hours of community service for driving without ever having received a license and a judge suspended a pos­sible 60-day jail sentence. 
Williams pleaded guilty to the mis­demeanor charge in Marion Superior Court. He also was fined $400 and ordered to pay $160 in court costs. 
The 6-foot-9 Williams, a first-round draft pick last year out of Memphis, was arrested Sept. 11 after a traflic stop in which marijuana was found in his car. One passenger was charged with possession of the drug and another was charged with hand­gun violations. 
Williams showed Judge Linda E. Brown a new driver's license at the hearing, which was rescheduled after he failed to show up in court Friday. 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
Just one of the many reasons you should go back to school! 


-
Pe? tY?.I/:es Cot-ndo__Cj'-"' ])reSS dot4..Jn deys 
r7e.ld tt-/ps
/ 


School do.nces 
c.:~ ' ' .,i.
c>C,ence e:X?e.hMt!Y?£.:5 B:rt1?.-:fc-a; tt-eats CJ1r:stMc;;.s /?!t:o/.:5 No hoMeb...Jori: da;s 


Pt·a.cl/ce. cd"'te.r sc)Jool 7/Je. ;:;/to/jl'OLlnd 5c!Jool l;·;ct£tre dc;y 
Join us tonight . for 
ACE Kicl<off 7pm Legends 
Hear from a current ACE teacher and learn more about the application process. 

Tuesday, October 2, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
know no boundaries 

WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER • TICKET OFFICE: 631.2800 • PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
Next World View Film, Coming in December: All the Invisible Children • December 8 • Director Katia Lund to discuss her film 
r;t;JUNIVERSITY OF 
,j""M, D E B A R T 0 L 0 
~NOTRE DAME '-'~~ ¥' PERFORMING ARlS CENTF.R 
Office of the President 
Tuesday, October 2, 2007 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
CLUB SPORTS 
Ultin1ate, rugby tean1s PC?St successful weeks 
Special to The Observer 
Ultimate 
Tlw rnnn compntou against a 

l'iold of 32 tnams at the 
lluckt.olwrfest Tournament in 
Whitnwatnr. Wise., this wonk­
nnd. 
To gain exporimH~n. tho team 

was split into two squads. 
Ead1 JWrforrnod wolf, placing 
firth and ninth in tho ontiro 
com poti ti on. 
Tho l'irst toarn was corn­

prisiHI of mostly sophomoros. 
With strong handling from 
Mich:wl Carilli and Miehaol 
Banning. tlw toarn poundnd 
out a 4-0 rocord on tho first 
day, taking advantago of ni1:n 
woatlwr for its doop garno, 
fpaturing cuts from Soan 
McCullough and dl'fl~nsl' from 
.John Crnil. 
On Sunday. tlw Loam lost in tho quartnrl'inals against a snasorwd Loam of l'lu b playnrs but was abln to rPeovnr for a fifth placn spot owrall. 
Tlw snconll squad. lnd by junior Thomas Hivas, fought its way to a 4-:{ n~cord. Al'tor a rough day in pool play on Saturday whero it lost snvoral closn games, tho club roboundou with a :{-0 n~eonl on Sunday. Tlw vietorios on Sunday rPiiod on a strong zono dnfnnsn through Llw hard run­ning of froshrnan Charles Landis, John Millor and Patrick Kozak. A summer of oxporionco rnfloetod tho irnprovnnwnts of Mikoy Moses and Brian Nnlb as tlwy holpnu tho o ITo n s n uown t h n l'i ol u . 1:atc hi ng ove ry disc thrown tlwir way. 
Tlw Lournanwnt rnarkou an oarly soason suceoss for tlw Irish. with each hall' of the liHtm porforming lwttor than many full squads in tho Midwnst n~gion. 
Corning out strong, the wonHHl ran, throw and jumped Lo n a r n n in L h pI a c ~~ at tho lltu:ktobnrl'nst. 
On Saturday, tho Irish dnf'1mtnd Wostnrn Illinois 13-X but wont down to Wisconsin Eau-Ciaire, Wisconsin and Minnosota. Solid dofense by sophornoro Erin Maxwell and sonior Lorotta Brown kept ovory game close, while good cuts by freshmen Amy Bilek and Mogan Franke kept tho olTenso flowing. Both girls caught several scorns. 
Finishing fourth in their pool, tho squad proceeded to the ninth place bracket for the second day of the tournament, wlwre it faced Earlham and thon Western Illinois for the seeond time. The dub defeat­ed both toams quito readily, securing a ninth place finish in the tournament overall. The Irish improved in their play from Saturday to Sunday, looking much more comfort­able with each other on the l'ield. OITnnse was led with great throws from seniors Shannon Morrison and Libby Whiting. and junior Elizabnth Crosby assisted on several scorns. 
Thn elub next plays at the 14th annual ltchl'est in Nashville, Tenn., Saturday and Sunday. 
Rugby 
Aftnr dnl'eating defending CARFU champion Loyola the day before, Northwestern 
looked to score big on its 
home field against Notre 
Damn. But the Irish didn't let 
that happen. 
The game opnnod in an ugly 
fashion, riudlod with penalties 
on both sidns. Overcoming this 
start, Chris !!arrington scored 
a try about 10 minutes into the 
ganw. Five minutns later, the 
Wildcats responded with a 
liold goal. closing the gap to 7­
:L firorn that point it was all 
Irish as the club scored 58 
unanswerPd points and won in 
a rout, 65-3. 
Chris Brown scored three 
trios for the Irish, Sean 
Mitchell and Andy Mullen 
added a pair each, while Don 
Crniwn, David Bray, and 
.Jonathan l.indl elosnd out tlw 
scoring. In a B-siue game, the 
Irish again pn~vailed, I 0-0. 
Andrew O'Conner and Chris 
llapak each accounted for live 
points with tries. 
Tlw elub will return to 
action next wenk when it hosts 
Calvin College and St. Joseph's 
on Saturday at the West Quad 
lields. 
Salling 
Onn week al'tnr finishing 
third in a 12-selwolli!~ld at the 
MCSA Sloop Championships in 
l>ntroit, the club returned to 
tlw Detroit area for the Cary 
Price Mnrnorial Intersectional 
Hngatta. Tlw event was hostnd 
by Miehigan. but held at Gross 
Pointe Yacht Club. 
Tho luck of the Irish turnnd with fickle winds as the club l'inishod sixth in the overall standings. Chris May and Paul Cordes finished fifth in the B races among 14 teams, but thn normally strong crew of John Dailey, Ali Donahuo and Caroline Yamartino had an uneharactnristie showing, fin­ishing I Oth. 
Dailey has been a premier sailor for several years and usually finishes at or near the .top for thn Irish. 
Bowling 
The American lloartland Bowling Conference kicked off its s1mson in Pittsburgh this wnokend. 
Notrn Dame finished 32nd in a strong fip,lu, as the tourna­rnnnt was won by reigning national champion, Saginaw Valley State, one of many var­sity teams that Pntered. 
Chris Kieser led the Irish with a high team average of 204.8, and Nick Manieri rolled a high game of 233. Allie llonslPy had a personal best game of 1 X 1, inel uding three strikes to open and four to dose the game. 
The club did well in the baker games, in which each elub member throws two frames for a composite team score. After three very close losses in the opening games, tlw I r is h w o n the Iast two games, including one over 9th place Cincinnati. The elub nonded to roll eight straight strikes to finish the game, and it responded to the challenge. 
Five women competed in thoir llrst tournament for the Irish, and the young squad shows promise for the season. James Breen, Carty Sarachman, Lindsey Zimmerman, Maggy Siefert and Alexandra Desch con­tributed to the scoring. 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL-BLUE LEAGUE 
Winless squads face off 
McGlinn, P.E. look for first victory; Cavanaugh takes on Howard 
ByJARED ]EDICK and 
MEGHAN MCMAHON 
Sports Writers 
McGlinn vs. Pasquerilla East 
McGlinn and Pasquerilla East want to prove different things to the rest of the Blue League but approach tonight's game with equal intensity. 

Despite putting together a promising drive near the end of last week's game against Cavanaugh, the Shamrocks did­n't have enough timo to score and left with a heartbreaking 6­0 loss to the Chaos. Tonight, winlnss McGlinn hopes to enjoy what will likely be its final game. 
"We have had a lot of fun this year despite all or our lossos," senior captain Taryn Lewis said. 
The Shamrocks hopo an improved passing game will finally earn them a win and build some momentum for next year. 
The offense is leu by junior quarterback Sarah de (;root and sophomore running back Tina Noronha. 
It has been a tough year for the Shamrocks, but they bolieve their frnshmen-laden team has a bright future. 
"We hope that the freshmen make a good core for next year," Lewis said. 
Still, as a senior, "I would like to go out with a win," she said. 
On the other side of the lield, the Pyros eorne into the game 0-3-1 with losses to Walsh, Farley and Cavanaugh, as well as a tie with Howard. 
Leading the Pyro offense is talented freshman quarterback Caitlin Lynch. Lynch hopes to lind openings in the Shamrock defense and connect with sen­ior captain and wide receiver Caroline Nally. 
It is possible for both these tnams to sneak back into play­off contention with a win tonight and a loss from Howard. 
But it d()(~S neither team any good to be scoreboard watch­ing, however, unless it can win. With both teams hungry for a chance for playoff contention, tho matchup is sure to go down to the wire. 
MeGlir.m and Pasqunrilla East meet tonight at 7 on Hiehln Field. 
Cavanaugh vs. Howard 
Cavanaugh takns on lloward tonight in a game with great impact on post-season play. 
As the playol'fs near, the Chaos (2-2) hope to seal the second-place slot in the Blue Division. A Dueks victory would keep Howard in playoff con­tention, but a loss would bn fatal. 
Cavanaugh's two losses were both decided by point-after eon­versions; the Chaos fnll 7-6 to both Walsh and Farlny. The Chaos made their lirst conver­sion of' the season Sunday against PE and went on to defeat the Pyros 13-7. 
"Sometimes when the pres­sure is on we get a little flus­tered," senior captain Tarah Brown said. "When we get closp, to the end zone or need a good play, we don't always come through." 

Pursuing the Life of tne Mind 
7:30 p.m. Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
129 DeBartolo Hall 
Meet representatives from the Graduate School and learn about graduate school options and how to get there. 
With discussion to follow: 
Speaker 

Donald L. Stelluto, Ph.D. Executive Assistant to the Dean, College of Arts and Letters 
Contact information: Office of Undergraduate Studies, 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
The Chaos are preparing for Howard by p1~rl'eeting their ability to both make and stop extra-point plays. With the leadership of junior quarter­back Katie Dunn on o!l'lmse and senior Liz Brown on defense, Cavanaugh looks to aequirn its third win with a team effort from every playor. 
Tho Ducks (1-2-1) have also fallon victim to elosfl ganws. Like Cavanaugh, they lost to undefeated Walsh by only two extra point conversions. 
"We have no seniors on our team this year," sophomorn captain Mary Jenkins said. "We'n~ kind of young and inex­perienced, so wo sometimes havo a hard time taking advan­tage or opportunities like oxtra points." 
Despite their age, lloward's young players are filling leador­ship roles well. Frnshman Kayla Bishop leads the ofl'enso at quartorbaek, and sophomorn Emily Stewart averages onn intorception per game for the l>ucks. 
Jenkins said the lloward oll'ense has great chmnistry and works well togetlwr. It will bn interesting to sne how it per­forms against a tough Cavanaugh defense. 
Despitfi tlwir ovnn rn1:ord, the Chaos have outscored their opponents by 10 points and havn only allowed 21 points all season. 
The teams will match up tonight at 9 on Hiohle Field. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu and Meghan McMahon at mmcmaho2@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 2, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Pangborn 
continued from page 24 
touchdown of the day -a pass to freshman Mary Forr. The Orians converted the extra point to make the score 7-0. 
The Phoxes failed to answer on their next two drives, but inter­ceptions by freshman Kathy Poploski and sophomore Meghan Bescher gave Pangborn excellent field position. 
Pangborn brought the score to within one on a touchdown pass from freshman quarterback Gabby Tate to sophomore Annie Kotz. Another connection, this time to Bescher for the extra point, brought the teams to a tie. 
"The receivers did a great job of getting open. They had a lot of pass rush, but our offensive line did great," Tate said. 
The Purple Weasels made a risky call to go for it on fourth down in their own territory late in the first half, and it cost them a turnover on downs. 
Taking advantage of the mis­take, Tate threw for another score to Bescher as time ran out, giving the Purple Weasels a 13-7 half­time lead. 
Pasquerilla West stalled on its next drive deep in Pangborn terri­tory and turned the ball over on downs for the second time. The Weasels made up for it, however, by sacking Tate in her own end­zone for the safety, bringing the score to 13-9. 
Both teams traded punts and interceptions until the final whis­tle. 
Pasquerilla West coach Paul Wallenberg still has high hopes for his team. 
"It was a tough game. We are at . 500 right now, but the sky is the limit," Wallenberg said. "We will make the playoffs and we will be in the stadium for the third year in a row." 
The Phoxes think this victory is a good sign. "If we can beat [Pasquerilla 
Westl. we can beat anyone. But we really need to keep working if we want to advance," Mattingly said. 
Welsh Family 22, Lyons 6 
Welsh Family has "bring it" written on the back of its bright orange uniforms. On Sunday, the team certainly did. 
Welsh Family took down Lyons 22-6, improving its record to 5-0 on the season. 
Led by the passing attack of jun­ior quarterback Jenni Gargula, Welsh Family dominated the play on both sides of the ball. 
The team used a short-passing game plan instituted by coach Mike Kaiser. Gargula piled up three passing touchdowns and completed 16 of 20 passes. She also threw her first touchdown to sophomore Mary Clare Rodriguez. The other two touchdown passes went to junior Kristy Szczepaniec. 
"A win is a win," Gargula said. "We still need to keep working and improving, but we got the win and that's all that matters." 
Welsh Family's defense allowed only a fourth quarter touchdown and forced one interception, one turnover on downs and three sacks. 
"I thought the defense played great as usual, shutting them down for most of the game, and the offense did well executing the plays," Kaiser said. 
For Lyons, the game plan was to get the ball into the hands of its two playmakers, freshman run­ning back Neva Lundy and sopho­more quarterback Claire Connell. Lundy or Connell touched the ball on more than half of the offensive plays, but the Welsh Family defense was able to contain the duo and hold them to the single touchdown. 
"We came out strong, but we just weren't able to execute on offense," senior captain Judith Kaczmarek said. "That will be our last loss this season," 
Lyons coach Matt Gelchion said he will re-think the team's tradi­tion of guest pre-game speakers. 
Sunday's speaker, his roommate Joe Mancuso, was unable to yield the results that Gelchion had hoped for. 
The highlights of Mancuso's speech included comparing Welsh Family's large roster to the popu­lation of China and describing the Lyons team as a "steaming heap of perfection with a side of mash potatoes." 
On Thursday, undefeated Welsh Family will face off against Badin. Lyons will take on Lewis Thursday. 
Farley 6, Howard 6 
In a matchup between two vaunted defensive units, Farley (2­0-2) and Howard (1-1-2) struggled to a 6-6 tie Sunday at Riehle Field. 
In the first half, neither offense was able to score any points despite decent drives by both teams. 
"Our defense did a great job this week. We just need to work on the offense by using more short quick plays," Farley captain Jenny Rolfs said. "[Senior] Anna Pursley and [sophomore Caitlin] Shepherd did a good job defending this week." 
However, early in the second half, Howard sophomore captain Mary Jenkins intercepted a pass, giving the Ducks possession on the Farley 10-yard line. Three plays later, they were able to punch it in for the score. They converted the extra point initially, but it was called back because of an illegal blocking penalty. 
Since Farley was having prob­lems moving the ball, it looked liked Howard was going to hold on for the win. However, on the sec­ond-to-last drive of the game, Farley was able to move the ball down the field. A fourth-down pass from Rolfs to freshman receiver Kelly Weber gave Farley its only touchdown. Farley's run for the extra point was stuffed. 
Howard had a chance to win it at the end but a pass that would have won the game fell incom­plete. 
Farley captain Jenny Rolfs said the Finest defense was once again 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2007 8:00PM, REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
TICKETS: $10, $8 FACULTY/STAFF, $6 SENIORS, $3 STUDENTS CALL 574-631-2800 OR VISIT HTTP://PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
THE SEVENTH IN A SERIES OF NINE CONCERTS DEVOTED TO THE COMPLETE ORGAN WORKS OF DIETERICH BUXTEHUDE (CA. 1637-1707). 
fi+.1l.J N TV E RS 1TY OF 
~DEBARTOLO
WNOTREDAME 
~ PERFORMINGARJSCENTER 
Department of Music 
solid but the offense needed improvement. 
Farley has already clinched a spot in the playoffs, but needs a win or a tie in its game against Cavanaugh tonight to qualifY. 
Cavanaugh 13, Pasquerilla East 7 
In a game with two teams that had a lot to prove, Cavanaugh defeated Pasquerilla East Sunday after a wild final five minutes by a score of13-7. 
"We had a good team effort today," senior captain Tarah Brown said. "It was our best offensive game of the year, and we also scored our first extra point of the year." 
Cavanaugh came out strong on its first drive, with junior quarter­back Katie Dunn completing her first five passes on the game. The drive culminated with a touch­down pass from Dunn to Brown. The Chaos were unable to convert the point after the touchdown, however, leaving the score at 6-0. 
From that point until the five­minute mark in the second half, the game turned into a defensive battle. On the first two Pyro drives, Cavanaugh forced a turnover on downs and an inter­ception. Pasquerilla East returned the favor, however, with its own turnover on downs and intercep­tion on Cavanaugh's two posses­sions after its opening scoring drive. 
The Cavanaugh defense was tested throughout the game but didn't give up an offensive touch­down. However, the Pyros still found their way onto the score­board late in the game. 
With about five minutes remain­ing, Cavanaugh was able to stop them on fourth down after the Pyros had marched deep into Chaos territory. On their first offensive play following the turnover, Cavanaugh threw an interception that was returned for a touchdown. P.E. was able to put the ball in the end zone for the extra point, which gave the Pyros a late 7-6 lead. 
Although Cavanaugh had not moved the ball well early in the game, its offense came to life when it took over with about three minutes left in the game. P.E. was able to force Cavanaugh into a fourth-and-long situation with less than two minutes left to play, but quarterback Katie Dunn found senior wide receiver Elisa Suarez for the first down. 
On the next play, Dunn again found Suarez, who was downed at the one-yard line. Dunn then con­nected senior wide receiver Sarah Van Mill for the game-winning touchdown with under a minute left in the game. 
With the win, Cavanaugh improved to 2-2 on the season, while P.E. fell to 0-2-2. 
Lewis 6, Breen-Phillips 0 
Lewis snuck past Breen-Phillips Sunday, beating the Babes 6-0 and getting itc; first win of the season. 
"It was grPat to finally get a win today," Chicks sophomore quar­terback Catherine Guarnieri said. "We were 0-7 last year, so this is the flrst time I've ever experi­enced a win." 
After a scoreless first half, Lewis completed an 80-yard drive that resulted in the only touchdown pass of the game to freshman receiver Chrissy Nypaver. The Chicks failed to convert for the extra point, but took the lead to make the score 6-0. 
Babes junior quarterback and captain Melissa Meagher was impressed with her team's defen­sive performance. 
"Our defense played fantastic today," Meagher said. "They kept the pressure on the entire game." 
Freshman Kristin Moore kept BP's defensive line solid with a sack and a deflected pass. 
The BP offense, on the other hand, struggled to move the ball down the field. In the first half, freshman Gabby Moriel caught a perfect pass from Meagher for a 30-yard gain. The resulting first down was one of only three for the Babes. 
Meagher had a difficult time finding open receivers. She was sacked four times. The Babes ended up punting on every posses­sion except their last, when the Lewis defense forced a turnover on downs . 
"We need to work on getting offensive plays together and strengthening our offensive line," Meagher said. 
Lewis hopes to make Sunday's win a turning point for its season. 
"We are a good team and we have a lot of fun," Guarnieri said. "We can only go up from here." 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu, Alex Barker at at abarker 1 @nd.edu, Peter Reisenaur at preisena@nd.edu, Mike Gottimer at mgotimer@nd.edu and Meghan McMahon at mmcmaho2@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
O'Noiii'J-6 Sunday. two long passes from senior quarter, Knott freshman running points on a cornplntnly horizontal "We had never linnd up in PAT quartnrback Kevin Habil to sen­back J.T. Hedshaw took a handofl' dive into the end zone to make a
Keenan 
continued from page 24 
tlw defending champions. 
"I got ofT the ball, got some penetration and just slapped at his arm," Dear said. "I just looknd up and prayed no one would catch it." 
l>nspitn being outgained 220 yards to 58 and not recording a first down until the first play of thn fourth quarter, the Knights led fiw much of the gamn thanks to a ')(1-yard punt n~turn by sen­ior Jon Wood. 
"J~vnn though I was at the one lyard-linnl, I saw I had enough SIHLCI~ to makn a return," said Wood, who left the ganw with an ankle injury. "I made the dedsion to catch it, and W1 yards Ialor, we'rn on the three [yard-line[." 
Morrissey marched right back into the Kennan red zone, but the nine-play drive nnd1~d with the first of thn Manorites' three turnovnrs on downs when a potential touchdown pass was dropped on lilltrth down. 
Both dnfenses looked dominant until Morrissey's second posses­sion of tlw seeond half, wlwn tlw Manoritns finally found a chink in the Knights' armor. Sophomore running back Danny Deveny took a toss to the right, and instead of turning it uplield as lw and sen­ior running back Nick Bencomo (12 carrins, 36 yardsl had all day, l>evnny dropped bark and lirnd a strike to junior receiver Carl /\rHII~rs1m (6 catdws, 115 yards), who camo down with the ball, broke a tackle and was oil' to the races for a 57 -yard touchdown. 
"Wn knew 1/\ndersnnl would rnakP. a play. I In always makes plays," said l>nvnny, a former high sdwol quarterback. "Wp, didn't plan it, and we'd n1wer run it in practice bnl'ore, so I just threw it up there for him." 
Kmman frnshman Ashley Cooke blocked the ensuing point-aftnr an attempt to keep the score at 6-6 and regain a little momen­
[point after touchdown[ lor] 
kicked field goals in practice 
before" Keough coach John 
Kadous said. 
Junior Stnve Simeonidis ended 
up mrning through with the field 
goal, giving Keough the advan­
tagfl with 34 seconds lef't in the 
game for the win. 
With sophomore Nate Hothenberger and junior Nazur Ahmed gashing the Angry Mob del'onsn, the Kangaroos got a jumpstart in the first half. 
A I 0-yard run by Ahmnd in the second quartnr led Keough to a first-and-goal situation, and quartnrback Matt Briggeman complntl\d a touchdown pass to sophomore John Maier, giving tlw Knough defense a lot of monwntum for the second quar­tnr. 
"Our ollimsn couldn't move the ball," O'Neill senior captain Pat Conlny said. 
I lownver, O'Neill eventually got it tog~~ther by running in a touch­down in the fourth quartor. 
Whilo junior captain Tom O'l>onrwll said that Keough plans to givo Dillon "the same old lbuttl kicking," O'Neill will start from SITatrh bdore its game against Morrissny Sunday. 
"Evnrything needs to be improved. We need to lind some­thing that works [because[ what we'n~ doing now isn't working," ho said. 
Stanford 6, Dillon 0 
Just as it did last week, the Stanford defense led the way to anothnr shutout victory, defeating Dillon 6-0. The key was getting tho right players in the right spot, junior captain Hob lluth said. 
"We had guys in the first half and up until the third quarter playing defensive line that were rnally just offensive lineman. Our defnnsn got drastically better when we played actual defensive linmnan," lluth said. 
The reason for the switch, 1-luth said, was that the defense had 
ior receiver Pat Gotflbeski, 
including one for a touchdown. 
Fisher eontinued to dominate 
oll'ensively in the second half, rip­
ping off a 13-play drive to get 
within field goal range. The Otter 
defense came up big when it 
mattered, though, blocking the 
field goal attempt. 
Even after the big defensive stop, Sorin's offense continued to have trouble holding on to the ball. Sophomore running back Hob Gallic fumbled the ball on the first play of the drive, giving the Green Wave the ball on the Sorin 25-yard line. Fisher again madn the most of Sorin's miscue, punching the ball into the end zone in six plays and, after a failnd two-point conversion, giv­ing the Green Wave a 12-0 advantage. 
Af'tnr the game, Bove attributed the loss to the two key turnovnrs and expressed disappointment at Sorin's 0-2 start. 
"''m at a loss for words right now," Bove said. "We're just going to have to go back to square on11 [at practice[." 
Despite the lack of an nfl'ective running game, Fisher managed to movo the ball well through the air, mainly through the duo of Rabil and Gotebeski. who had seven receptions on the day. 
"They've been playing together for years," Donovan said. "And today they just gelled." 
Fisher looks to build on this victory when it faces Carroll this weekend, while Sorin has a bye week to try and rebound from its disappointing start. 
Knott 6, Zahm 0 
After being shut out last week­end, Knott rebounded to defeat Zahm 6-0 Sunday. 
The Juggerknotts started the game with the ball and kept pos­session for the entire first quar­ter. After driving into Zahm terri­tory, Knott faced a fourth and long. 
On the final play of the first from sophomore quarterback Aidan Fitzgerald, but suddenly dropped back and throw a strike to freshman Cameron Smith. 
Smith caught the ball on the half-yard line to give Knott a first and goal to open the second quarter. On the next play, Fitzgerald called his own number and powered into the end zone to give Knott a 6-0 lead. 
It appeared Zahm was going to answer. The Habid Bats drove down the field, Jed by senior quarterback Sean Wieland and junior running back Then Ossei­Ant. llownvnr, Zahm was stymied by the Knott defense and failed to convert on fourth and long in Knott tflrritory. 
"The first drive we didn't set the tempo," Zahm senior coach 
T.J. Stouder said. "Next week we need to come out and get intnnsi­ty and try to get back to the sta­dium." · 
The Zahm sideline bngged f(Jr a pass interference penalty, but Knott still gained possession. 
"I have to give credit to Vince Srejma, our defensive coordina­tor," Knott head coach Brian Lohr said. "I le kept our dHI'ense on our tons and kept the Zahm offense guessing. He gave them a variety of difl'erent looks and our guys played hard, bottom line." 
Zahm will look to bounce back against Siegfried next Sunday while Knoll tries to keep rolling versus St. Ed's. 
St. Edward's 7, Carroll 6 
Despite turnovers and an acro­batic touchdown catch from Carroll star receiver Paul Tassinari, St. Edward's beat the Vermin 7-6 Sunday, reaching 2-0 for the first time in recent memo­ry. 
The first and only points St. Ed's scored came when senior strong salety Dan Murphy inter­cepted a pass and returned it f(>r a touchdown on Carroll's opening drive. 
Tassinari scored Carroll's only grab. "Tall Paul," as he is called by opponents and fans, had a productive game, catching live passes for 98 yards including his one touchdown. 
Following Tassinari's catch, the game became a defnnsive battle. 
St. Ed's senior captain Ge Wang called it an "ugly" win, but said that this kind or defonsive efl'ort was just what tho struggling oll'ense neodnd. 
"We're in each game as a team no matter what," Wang said. "If our offense isn't doing hot, our defense had bottor bail them out, and vice versa. We have full con­fidence in each other there." 
Freshman quarterback Matt /\boling did throw two. intercP.p­tions, but as iL'i eaptain demand­ed, the St. Ed's defense hung tough, corning up with three picks of its own; the first by Murphy, thn second by sopho­more dnfensivo end Joe DeMott, and the third by Costanzo. Wang credited the entire defense for creating the turnovers. 
"We were able to get a lot of' pressure on the quarterback thanks to great play by our line­men and linebackers," Wang said. "But ovnn with that pres­sure, we still gave up plays to Tall Paul." 
Overall, he said, the gamn showed that oven at 2-0, St. Ed's still has a lot to work on. 
"We didn't come out mentally that sharp today," Wang said. "We just have to go back to the drawing board on offense and figure out what didn't go as well as we planned. At this point we can't get down on ourselves; we are 2-0. But there are a lot of things wn ean do to get better." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgam­
ber@nd.edu, Eugenia Alfonzo at 
ealfonzo@nd.edu, Andy 
Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu, 
Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu, 
Andy Renner at 
arenner@nd.edu, and Griffin 
Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 
tum, whieh would prove crucial on the Knights' following drive. 
Facing a third-and-seven on thn first play of the f(mrth quar­lt\r, freshman quarterback Brian Costello found junior Andres Villalba out of the backfield for a 17-yard screen pass and the Knights' first first-down of the game. Another screen on the next play, this time to Gonzalez, netted 20 yards and put the Knights just oul'iide the Manorite 20-yard line. 
After Costello's deep pass to junior receiver Jim Zenker was incomplete and no pass interfer­ence call was made despite a brief argument, sophomore cap­tain Pat Burns carne on to attempt a 37 -yard field goal that gave the Knighl'> the lead. 
The kick was df11lectnd at the linn, but the groans from the Kennan sideline were silnncod as tho ball continued on il'i path and sailed through the uprighl'i for a IJ-6 load. 
"I saw the right side of the line givP up some ground, but it was such a good hold and snap that I didn't think it would matter," Burns said. "Luckily I kicked it hard nnough for the wind to help us out a little bit." 
The celPbration would have to wait. The Manorites made it intornsting by getting all the way to the Keenan 5-yard line, but Morrissey was unable to convert on il'i four tries within the 10. 
"It was a great game all around," Deveny said. "We hope to see them again in the playofi<>. because that's the most fun in a game we'II have all year." 
Keough 9, O'Neill 6 
They'd never practiced it bnfore, but the Roos managed to make a field goal late to beat somn players that play rugby and couldn't get there until the third quarter. But it did not seem to matter who was on the field for the Griffins, since the Dillon offense could not get anything going. 
Looking for a spark, Stanford inserted mobile junior Dave Costanzo at quarterback and drastically changed its offensive style late in the second half. 
"We ran our spread option offnnsn, which I really didn't want to do this wnek," lluth said. "We have got to work on getting our regular pro-set offenses working." 
The result, however, turned out to bn exactly what the Griffins wern looking for. After Stanford's drive was kept alive by a Dillon penalty for roughing the punter, Costanzo found freshman wide receiver Tom Smith for a 40-yard touchdown pass with only a few minutes remaining. 
Fisher 12, Sorin 0 
Fisher defeated Sorin 12-0 Sunday in the Green Wave's first game of the season. 
The Otters threatened early, driving the ball effectively to the Fisher 25-yard line. The drive teaturnd a key fourth-down con­version on a catch by junior rec!liver Conor Douglass, but stalled, and the attempted field goal went wide right. 
"We came out and drove the ball strong," senior captain Ryan Bove said, "but after the missed field goal, we sort of fell apart." 
After forcing a Fisher punt, the Otters could not take advantage of the defensive stop, and turned the ball over on a fumbled pitch near midfield. 
Fisher managed to capitalize with a quick drive comprised of 

Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 2 

7:30 p.m. -9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesb1an. and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family. their f11ends, and supporte1s to an inl01mal gathering at tt1e Co-Mo. 
Everyone 1s welcome and confidentiality IS assured. 

CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY & LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
The Central European Studies Program in Innsbruck, Austria 
• 
Immersion in German language and culture 

• 
Academic year and semester options 

• 
An opportunity for exposure to Central European Issues 

• 
A great location from which to access Eastern and Western Europe 


INFORMATION SESSION with Dr. Gernot 0. Guertler, Director of the Central European Studies Program, and CESP returnees on 
Thursday, October 4th and Tuesday, October 30th 5:30 PM -120 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline is November 15,2007 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Fowlkes 
continued from page 24 
whelmed by getting thrown all over the place." 
Fowlkes' "great physical presence," Waldrum said, helped her find success in the defensive third. 
"She's very good in the air, and physically very strong," he said. 
The other defenders have responded, looking more at 
home in the Waldrum said. 
"I think they're comfort­able with it. I think you can see in t h e i r p l a y , 
, 

w e r e starting to settle in a little 
b i t 
more," he said. "I do 
brought some 
TO 
new backfield, 

7 think early on just get­ting them used to the sys­
tem took a little bit of time, and now we're starting to see some benefits." 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
think it has "I think that's why you want confidence to two good center backs who 

all the players and kind of can handle the ball, so you 
settled  things  can  take  
down for us."  risks with  
Waldrum said the play of the center backs has a trickle-down  "I do think it has brought some confidence to all the  your out­side backs to get for­ward. And  
effect on the rest of the offense. Center backs who are able to  players and kind of settled things down for , us.  w e v e clearly d o n e that."  
control the ball,  The Irish  
like Fowlkes and Dew, inspire the  Randy Waldrum Irish coach  came of  out the  

outside defend­ers to take more chances -all 
the while hav­ing confidence that the center backs can han­dle the reper­cussions. 
"When you've got two center backs like that who can hold the fort down defensively, then you can take more risks coming out of the back," Waldrum said. 
weekend 
with an 8­

1 scoring margin, out-shot their oppo­nents 36-10 and 20-3 in shots on goal and had an 8-2 corner kick margin. Waldrum said that in the 4­3-3 scheme -which fea­turp,s four defenders, three midfielders and three for­wards -the team must use its outside defenders on offense. 
"I think early on just get­ting them used to the system took a little bit of time, and now we're starting to see some benefits," he said. "[Junior defender) Elise IWeberl spends as much of the game in the attacking end as she does in the defending end, and !fresh­man defender] Julie [Schiedler] is really starting to grasp that concept too. And I think that's partly because of Lauren and Carrie Dew." 
Without the outside backs involved in the offense, Waldrum said, the offense plays too narrow. 
"We play central midfield­ers, so the space we've got to occupy when we have the ball, we've got to get some width in our team, and the players that provide that for us are our outside backs get­ting forward," he said. 
The success and influencfl Fowlkes has had in the back­field may stem from her poise, Waldrum said. 
"When she came in, she came in like a veteran play­er," Waldrum said. "We never really looked at her from day one like a fresh­man. She's come in physical­ly prepared to play and men­tally prepared to play right form the beginning." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Slz~le'ne (Sizzlelini®) ­
EveryTuesday enjoy our 
Sizzlelini® Specialty (enough 
for two) for just $1 0,95 
Asizzling skillet of tender· chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented wrth peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;:qef1e (Bellini) ­
Afrosty raspbetTY, green apple or 
peach Italian work of art for $2 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­
Visit us EVERY Tuesday for 
lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 
p~~AN ,•,T.,C.IH""'E~N"1:",;"":,;1Jr---l 
1!1 
Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
511 0 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 
Reservations Accepted 
FROM 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
MEN'S GOLF 
Tough second round drops Irish to sixth 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Tlw Irish slippPd Monday after a promising start at tlm Fighting Irish (;ricliron Classic at tlu1 Warren Golf Coursn, fitlling from third to sixth placn aflnr a rough second round. 
Al'tnr a solid opening round of 289 put Notm Dmn11 in tl1ird place -just f(mr strokes bnhind lnader Michigan State -the Irish fell three places with a round of 295 (15-over). 
While the Irish struggled, the Spartans fired a six-under 274 to open up a 14-shot lead ovnr Baylor. 
Notre Dame also trails third­place Arkansas, fourth-place Lamar and fifth-place North Florida entering the final round today. 
"We wantnd to gPt into that final pairing and trust our preparation and eoursn knowlPdge could got us an opportunity to get a win," Irish mad1 .lim Kubinski said. 
Unfortunately for Notre Damn, thn tnam will haw to make up 25 shol<> to cat.eh the Sparums. 
Irish sophomore Doug Fortner. who entnrnd the day tind f(Jr first, fin1d a 72 to nntnr a fimr-way tin f(w sncond. l>nspitn a rocky thmt nine, Fortnnr rallied to binlin t11rnn of tho last six holns to finish at two-over on thn round. 
Fortm~r trails lnadPr Hyan Brnhm by f( mr shol'i allnr I11P Sparum fin~d a six-undnr Sf'mnd round Monday. Bmhm is at f(Jur undnr par f(Jr Uw tournamnnt entPring the third round. TiPd with Fortner at 1wnn par are Michigan State's .Jack Nnwman. Baylor's Cody Paladino, and <il~cwgntown's Vinmzo Salina . 
.Junior .Josh Sandman is sm:ond among Irish golli.1rs, eurrnntly in a tiP [(Jr 15tl1 allnr a second round of 
73. Sandman. who shot an opnning round of 71, was in sevnnth place c~ntnring thn final holn but finished witl1 a doubln-bogP.y. 
One shot bl•hind Sandman were f'mshman Tylnr !lock and sopho­morn Kyln Willi<>. Tognthnr, thn Irish undPrdassnwn an• at five-ovnr but arn compnting <L'i individuals in tlH~ Lourn amnn t. 
Al'tnr Fortner and Sandman, hownvnr. the Irish startnrs strug­glt·d throughout tlu• sncond round. 
"Wamm (i!Jlf'Coursn is a tnmwn­dous tnst," Kubinski said. "ThP mn­dit.ions wnrn tough <L'> wdl." 
Wet conditions from ovllrnight storms h~d tournanwnt ollidals to 
Write 
Sports. 

Contact Chris at chine@ nd.edu 
invoke the "lilt, clean, and plaee" rulP ((Jr tlm second round. 
lri<>h senior starters Greg Rodgers and Eddie Pm:knl<> am tied lor 41st at 1<)-ovnr alter rounds of 76 and 
74. Sophomore Carl Santos­Ocampo is the last of the Irish starters, tied f(Jr 65th at 20-over. 
Virginia and Colorado State are tied lcJr seventh behind Notre Dame and trail th11 Iri<>h by six shot<>. Iowa ranks nintl1 of 12 tea.nlS with a total of 36-over. 
Tee times for the third and linal round will bl1gin at 8:30 a.m. today at Warren Golf Course, with Irish starters teeing oft' the first tee in 10­minute interval<>. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Adrian 
continued from page 24 
11-6 on the year, and 8-1 in the MIAA. Its only loss in con­ference play has been to unde­feated conference leader Calvin. 
Saint Mary's did not fare as well as Adrian in its own tri­
The Belles had four players with double-doubles in the effort against the Bethel Pilots. Sophomore outside hit­tl~r Lorna Slupczynski had 18 kills and 14 defensive digs, freshman outside hitter Andrea Sasgen contributed 14 kills and 19 defensive digs, and senior setter Amanda David had 55 assists and 11 digs. Hellmann was a leader 
angular last weekend, falling to conference foe Tri-State and local rival Bethel in its own tournament. 
The Belles team leaders against Tri­State were junior middle blocker 

"In order for us to be a first-round conference host, we need to really step up not only our physical game but [also] our mental game. " 
Julie Schroeder-Biek Belles coach 
in the effort again with 13 kills and 17 digs. 
The two loss­es brought the Belles to a record of 6-1 0 overall and 3-5 in MIAA play. 
After losing to Tri-State, the Belles have played all the teams in the 

Cathy Kurczak with 14 digs MIAA conference. Schroeder­and sophomore outside hitter Biek is ready to start facing Kaela Hellmann with 14 her competition again, and defensive digs. will not take even last-place 
My Contacts Backup from 

U.S. 
Cellula~ gives you the peace of mind and security of knowing you can rescue all your contacts, even if you can't (or would rather not) rescue your phone. 

U.S. 
Cellular is wireless where you matter most:"' 



-f_US.Cellular 
getusc.com 1-888-BUY-USCC 

customers will incur data 
C2007 U.S. Cellular 
Alma, which beat the Bolles Sept. 13, lightly. 
"We need to face every sin­gle MIAA opponent as our biggest threat. We are not overlooking anyone and we are not perceiving anyone as unbeatabln," Schroeder-Biek said. 
One of Saint Mary's goals this snason is to be a host in the conferenee tournament. In order for this to happen. the Belles must rank in the top four of the MIAA. Hight now, they sit in lil'th place. 
"In order for us to be a lirst­round eonfcrnnce host, we need to n~ally step up not only our physical game but !also] our mental game," Sehroeder­Biek said. 
The Belles will need to play with high intensity against a strong defense and offense when they face off against Adrian tonight at 7 in the Angela Center. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO l @saintmarys.edu 


.---------------­
Tuesday, October 2, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 

68 Birds whose heads can rotate 135" left or right 
69"Got it" 
70 Full of lip 
Down How much to 
pay 2 Play parts 3 Quickly growing 
"pet" 4 Painter Matisse 5 Wee bit of work 6 Best-seller list 7 Toe the line 
8 What a welcome sight relieves 9 Neptune's realm 
10 Lofted approaches to the green 
11 Earring shape 
12 Charged particles 13 They may be burned and boxed 
18 1993 Israeli/ Palestinian accords site 
19 Swarrn 
24 "_ Drives Me Crazy." #1 hit by the Fine Young Cannibals 
26 Like some smiles and loads 
27 Holder of a dog's name and owner info · 
28 Tea of "Spanglish" 
company 31 Outlying community 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Tom Heilman  
32 0-Day beach 33 Apportioned 34 First month in Madrid 36 Social workers' work 40 "You got that right!" 41 Pastries in "Sweeney Todd"  45 Action film firearm 47 Tick off 48 Mental grasp 49 Newswoman Paula 53 First lady after Hillary 54 "What a relief!" 55 Rod's partner 57 Decent plot  59 Island garlands 60 Theme of this puzzle 61 Pop artist Warhol 62 First ahd last digit in a Manhattan area code 63 Sch. in Troy, N.Y. 64 Parts of gals.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
1 
rJ I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Rese!Ved. 
A DUCT 
1 
rJ 
NOAWHY J 

WHE:N THe: Re:TU<.e:e: WAS ~ORW WITHrJ r I I A GOL-D WATCH, He: 
www.jumble.com 
BE:CAME: THe:--­
THIMER 
J 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

rI I JT~ rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: BURST TUNED ANGINA QUIVERYesterday's 
Answer: What the gym boxers used to go for a couple of "rounds"--A "SQUARE" RING 

JUMBLE HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAM by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirio 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
In recognition of 40 years
to form four ordinary words. 
of mentorious serv1ce... 
YOCEV 


EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jay Underwood. 39; Mark McGwire, 44; Randy Quaid, 57; Stella Stevens, 71 
Happy Birthday: You'll be thinking big this year but don't let it get out of hand. Restraint and focus will lead to success. Love, romance, travel and intrigue will all be in the stars. Don't be fooled by someone who tells you his or her plans are better than yours. Hold on to your dream and make it work for you. Your num­bers are 3, 7, !5, 26, 38, 41 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Don't get upset over something that really doesn't matter. Bide your time and concentrate on work, your health and the things you enjoy doing most. Travel may entice you but you are better off staying put. 4 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Emotions will flare up today, especially if you haven't followed the path you wanted to. Where you end up will be dependent on the changes you make in your vocation and how you go about achieving your dreams for the future. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): Don't fool yourself into thinking all you have to do is put in time and everyone else will do the work. You will be questioned and called up, so be prepared to do your part. Overreacting or deception will not work. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Say what you think and get things out in the open. You need to examine what you want to do and set your mind on following through and being successful. Deal with any issues pertaining to children. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll get further ahead if you let others have a moment in the spotlight. Lend a helping band and you will be praised for your efforts. Someone you meet at work, a lecture or through a friend will be important to you. 4 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't take what's being said or done the wrong way. An emotional display will lead to greater problems. If change is needed, you can eventually make your move. For now, just observe. 2 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You have to take a chance. A short trip or taking on a new project will open avenues to new possibilities. A creative talent you have must be developed. You will be able to tum a profit by using your skills and in­vesting. 5 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A creative investment will pay off. Don't hesitate to take advice or to spend more time and effort networking with people who can help you get a project off the ground. Property renovations or purchases are fa­vorable. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS {Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't exaggerate or take on too much. Be upfront about what you want and how you intend to get it. This isn't the time to test a partnership or to push others to do things your way. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jau. 19): You won't be told the whole story of what's going on at work or with colleagues. You have to be more observant and less wrapped up in your own moneymaking schemes. Rethink your next move. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Use your creative talent to make changes at home that will add to your comfort and impress someone you love. A chance to get rid of some of the items you have been hanging on to will also help you rid yourself of bad memories. 5 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The chance to get a debt paid, to win something or to come into a rebate or inheritance is looking good. Make personal alterations that will allow you greater freedom. An older or more experienced individual will have valid but daunting advice. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are open-minded with a unique way of approaching things that can convince others to take part in whatever you want to pursue. You are an adventnrer, an inventor and a traveler. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
CROSSWORD 
Across 1 Private stash 6 Eighty-six 
1 0 Very smart 
14 Earthy pigment 
15 Double-reed 
woodwind 
16 Ruffian 
17 Police ploys 
20 Old Russian ruler 21 lid trouble 22 Omar of TV's 
"House" 23 of Man 25 Farm milk 
producers 27 Type 30 End-of-day 
spousal salutation 35 Clear. as a winter windshield 37 Crossed out 38 Sign of things to come 
39 When said three times, a W.W. II movie 
40 Give the giggles 42 Gallery showing works by Turner, Reynolds and 
Constable 43 Calendario units 44 De~.ussy's "La 
45 Lead down the aisle 46 "Call when you get the chance" 50 Flutter 51 Pocket particles 52 Sandbox item 54 Univ. lecturer 56 Way to go 58 Duchess of ___ , Goya subject 62 Bogart/Hepburn film 65 Work in the garden 
66 Use of a company car or private washroom, say 
67 Took a shot at 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
page 24 
INTERHALL 

Pangborn knocks off defending champ PW to stay in playoffhunt 
By JARED JEDICK, ALEX BARKER, PETER REISENAUR, MIKE GOTrMER AND MEGHAN McMAHON Spons Writers 
Pangbom 13, Pasquerilla West 9 
Pangborn edged l'asquerilla Wnst 13-IJ Sunday in a gamn whnre both teams traded poinlo; and momentum from start to lin­ish. 
Pangborn improved to 2-1-1 on thn ymtr, putting the team back into playofl' contention. 
"Wn playtHI great against a good l'asquerilla West team," Phoxes coach Mike Mattingly said. "We wem abln to capitalize on thnir mistakt~s." 
The game began with an irnprnssive drive from Pasquerilla Wnst. the two-time defending champion. Freshman quarter­back Grace Orians marched her team down the field to put the ball in the end zone filr the first 
see PANGBORN/page 19 

Titans fall 

Left, Melissa Meagher of Bree~Phillips pursues Kristin Moore of Lewis In the Chicks &0 win Sunday. Right, St. Ed's quarterback Matt Abeling looks downfield for a receiver In St. Ed's 7-6 win over Carroll. 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Lineup change pays off 
Fowlkes' shift from midfield to defense helps stabilize team 
By BILL BRINK Spons Writt•r 
BPforP the Irish bPgan Big 1\ast play on Sept. 21, thny 
Wf're 2-:~-J. 
T IH~ y s t r u g g Ie d f'i n d i n g tlH~ i r ide n lity on d n f' n n s e and had dil'f'iculty convert­ing scoring opportunities. 
After a 4-0 win over I>el'aul. however, tlw team turned around. Since that game, Notre Dame is :~-1 and has allowed 0.75 goals per ga nw. Part of' the rover­sal may lw duP to a position rhange -tlw Irish movPd l'rnshman LaurPn Fowlkes from midfiPidnr to ePntnr 
ba<~k. 
ThP Irish dPI'Pnsn had b P <' n sus p P c t a II s P as o n . lnjuriPs arcounl for sonw of' tlw prohlPms; junior Carrie l>ew is still suf'f'Pring from a knee injury, and sophomore llalny Ford has missed thP last six gamPs with a ham­string injury. 
In light of' thesP def'i!'ien­<~ies, head !'oarh Handy Waldrum said moving Fowlkns to <~nntN hack gave the dPI'ensn a much-n<HldPd boost. 

"I think what shP's proba­bly don!' for us is just givnn us some stability back there," Waldrum said. "Siw just gives us another player 

that's composed with the ball. She has a calming efTnct with tlw team." 
Waldrum said Fowlkes has adjusted wnll to the nnw position. 
"Whnn wn rneruited her, 
WP saw her play all over the field and all kinds of differ­ent positions," Waldrum said. "Surprisingly for a freshman, slw's not over­
see FOWLKES/page 21 
Defensive stand leads Knights over Manor in battle of unbeatens 
By MATT GAMBER, 
EUGENIA ALFONZO, ANDY 
ZICCARELLI, SAM WERNER, 
ANDY RENNER AND 
GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Sports Writers 
Keenan 9, Morrissey 6 
Sunday's battle between Ke1man and Morrissoy had it all: long punt roturns. blocked kicks, trick plays and somn controver­sial officiating. 
But in the end, it was a gutsy, old-fashioned defensive stand that made the difl'erence in tho 9-6 Keenan vktory. 
It took 13 plays, but the Knights finally stopped the Manorites' eomeback bid as freshman linebacker Bart Dear, lining up at nose guard in a short yardage formation. tipped Morrissey junior quarterback Joe McBrayer's final pass, cap­ping an emotional victory over 
see KEENAN/page 20 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles look for better result against Adrian 

By SAMANTHA LEONARD Spons Writer 

After losing to Adrian in its MIA/\ opener almost a month ago, Saint Mary's will f'acn ofT against the Bulldogs Tunsday for the second time this season. 
"We have made a lot of changes since we played them a month ago," Belles coach .Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "Wn had our worst attacking match evnr against Adrian." 
Adrian is coming off two vic­tories in the Olivet Triangular. 
where it defnated conl'Prence contnnders Olivet and Kalamazoo. 
In the sncond ganw, against Kalamzaoo, thnw Bulldogs had double-digit kills: s1~nior out­side hitter Lindsey Eshelman (19), junior outside hittnr .Jenny Carlson (1 :H and senior middle hittnr Sara Morningstar (10). Six Bulldogs had at least 14 digs in the victory as well; Mercy led thn way again with 27. 
Adrian improved its record to 
see ADRIAN/page 22 






