
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 41: ISSUE 74 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31,2007 

Suspension recalls past cases, raises questions 
High-profile nature of McAlarney marijuana incident brings debate to new level 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
When the University sent sopho­more guard Kyle McAlarney home last Monday, it wasn't just the bas­ketball player's name that got splashed across national head­lines. 
The decision to suspend McAlarney -who was arrested Dec. 29 on charges of marijuana possession -immediately pro­jected Notre Dame into the debate. 

"The bad news is everyone always looks at cases that involve athletes as some kind of litmus test for the school or program," 
1200 said Mike Coffey, the men's bas­ketball editor of NDNation.com. 
1000 But despite the extensive media 
800

attention McAlarney received, he certainly isn't the first student ath­
600

lete to get in trouble with the University. Like its students, Notre 
400 Dame's varsity athletes face disci­plinary action from the Office of 
200 Residence Life and Housing on a 
0 
see ATHLETES/page 8 

Office of Residence Life and Housing
Disciplinary Incidents 
I 
6 

1074 1019 t-­ 

f-­ 
f-­ 
t-­ 
94  t-­79 48 ........,  

Athletes .Total 

2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 Statistics JKovided bttbe 7.5% Athletes 7.4% Athletes 4.7% Athletes Office,;::d Jr.:;t;.~• ife 
Hodges makes College history 

Junior becomes first black student body president at Saint Mary's after close election 
African American student body president. And I just thought, 'Hey, this could be really cool to be the first,"' Hodges said. "But beyond that I felt really blessed to know I was the best candi­date despite my color." 
After what she called a "crazy" run-off election where she was "going against two great leaders," Hodges -a first generation College student -made his­tory. 
"[African American stu­den_ts] have run before and they've lost...to my knowl­edge there hasn't even been a class president who has been African American," 
see HODGES/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


PEMCo. 
•

organizes newforrnn 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 

After months of rehearsal, the cast of the Pasquerilla East Musical Company's (PEMCo.) production of Ragtime ­along with a panel of guest Speakers -will step out of character to reflect on the play's themes of prejudice and the pursuit of the American dream. 
Senior Tim Masterton. the show's co-producer, helped plan an academic forum for next Wednesday to comple­ment the four performances of the play. The forum will give the Notre Dame community ­which hails from all over the country and the world -a chance to discuss the social and cultural observations of Ragtime, Masterton said. 
"We figured this would be the best way to take a step back from the show and try to make more relevant some of the things that were discussed in our show," he said. 
Ragtime, a musical based on 

E.L. Doctorow's 1975 novel of the same name, is about three different groups that come together in America in the early 1900s, Masterton said. 
The play's depiction of the interactions between the established white aristocra­cies, African Americans in Harlem and immigrant groups from across eastern and west-
see RAGTIME/page 9 


Dining Halls to replace 40,000 stolen objects 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Nearly 40,000 items ­ranging from dinner plates and utensils to coffee cups and bowls -have been stolen from both North and South dining halls this year alone, said Dave Prentkowski, Director of Notre Dame Food Services. 
At a cost of about $25,000, approximately 11 ,000 spoons, 8,000 knives, 4,000 forks, 6,000 coffee cups, 5,000 plas­tic cups, 1 ,500 dessert plates, 1,500 brown bowls, 3,000 blue bowls and 2,500 dinner plates will need to be replaced due to theft this year. 
The trend has remained steady over recent years, Prentkowski said, even after the dining halls began to offer Styrofoam cups and plastic spoons for take-out items dur­ing September of 2005. He said that the addition of those options has helped -but not solved -the problem. 

There was a significant increase in theft several years ago when both dining halls allowed book bags and back packs to be brought inside the cafeterias in response to prob­lems of theft occurring in the lobby while students ate, Prentkowski said. 
Students who choose to steal and are caught "loading up their backpack with cups or sandwiches" often face dis­ciplinary action from the Office of Residence Life and Housing, he said. 
"I think it's [sometimes) a matter of convenience ... other times I think it's inten­tional," Prentkowski said. 
Part of the problem, he said, is that students may not know there are plastic spoons avail­able and will instead walk out 
see THEFTIpage 4 

Senior w-orks at homeless shelter 
Summer Service Learning Project popular choice for internships 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
For Notre Dame senior Sheldon Dutes, last summer was anything but ordinary. For two months of the respite between spring and fall semesters, Dutes worked in Kansas City, Kan. serving homeless men, immi­grants and children. 
Dutes participated in the Center for Social Concern's (CSC) domestic Summer Service Learning Project (SSLP), a pro­gram which hopes to draw over 200 participants again this sum­mer SSLP Director Andrea Shappell said. 
Eight weeks of Dutes' summer were spent on his SSLP assign­ment serving at; the Shalom House, a shelter for homeless men. Dutes said that the experi­ence pushed and challenged him from the start. 
"I went in with a sort of ideal-
see CSC/page 4 



By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
Junior Kimberley Hodges arrived at Saint Mary's College in the fall of 2004 wanting "to be the first at something," a goal she quick­ly accomplished when she became the first black stu­dent to join the College's soft­ball team. But last week's victory in the student body president race marked an even bigger first for Hodges and for the College -she became the first black woman in the school's 152­year history ever to hold the position. 
"Going into it, I knew it ­that there had never been an 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 31, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Magical phone calls 

When my little sister, Evelyn, turned three last year, my mom called from home with a special request: Could my roommate call Evelyn and pretend to be her favorite Disney princess, Cinderella? 
I understand how Emma Driscoll cheesy this sounds. I get that some 
News Wire 

people think that 
Editor

encouraging chil­dren to hold unreal beliefs does them a serious disservice. However, anybody who lives over half way across the country from their lit­tle siblings knows that you do what you can -even if it means awkwardly asking your freshman year roommate to be a Disney character. Fortunately, my roommate quickly agreed, found her inner princess voice, and called to wish my sister a "magical" birthday and to inspire her to be the best princess she could be. 
Last weekend, Evelyn turned four and I had to ask a similar favor. Evelyn no longer preferred Cinderella, but would love it if Belle and Ariel could give her a call. My current roommate and some of our other friends readily expanded on this, and by the end of the night, Evelyn had reminisced with Jasmine about her pet tiger, Raja, and Ariel about her sidekick, Flounder. Snow White had told her that her gift would soon be in the mail. We carefully plotted so that when Evelyn answered the phone, the princesses were already on the line. If she knew that I was involved, it would ruin the pretense (at least that's what we thought). 
Later that night, Evelyn hurriedly told me about her presents (and shamelessly called me out for not sending onet. Suddenly, her voice grew really excited and she anxiously asked me if she could talk to Snow White. Somehow, she had discovered that I was associated with the princesses. That's when I realized that either my sister thinks that I go to col­lege in a castle and hang out with a bunch of Disney princesses, or, as another friend suggested, she knows it's all pretend and just chooses not to care. Knowing Evelyn, it's probably a little bit of both. 
After laughing with my friends over their princess impressions, I found myself admiring Evelyn. She did not waste any energy overanalyzing her phone conversations. If she had, she could have noticed that half of the princesses had the same voice. She may have realized that at one point, when I accidentally took the phone too soon, she was really talking to me when she thought she was still chat­ting with Belle. Sure, if she had thought about it a bit more, she may have seen through to the real. In this situation, though, if she had seen the real, I think she would have missed the point. 
Maybe in this case the real is a mat­ter of interpretation. Despite its less­than-enchanting exterior, Pangborn Hall might really be a castle. And in my opinion, Evelyn really did talk to some princesses on the phone... Cheesy? Yes, but at least I can claim that it runs in the family. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make. mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT CELEBRITY DO YOU MOST RESEMBLE? 





Brianna Muller Justine Duffy Sean Fox 
freshman freshman senior Lyons Lyons off-campus 
"Gonzo from "Lindsay "Kiefer The Lohan. Screw Sutherland, at Muppets. , that." least that's what Tim says. 

Tim Loh  Nick Zarazua  Claire Connell  
senior Keough  junior Carroll  freshman Lyons  
"Mike Jones, cause we  'Tom Cruise. The smile."  "Brad Pitt. I get that all the  

tippin' on 4-4's. , 


OFFBEAT 

Western screech-owl moves into home 
UGENE, Ore. -Saws buzz and carpenters ham­mer nails, set up ladders and run an air generator. AI doesn't give a hoot. The brownish Western screech­owl showed up at Laura Fenimore's house as she began adding what will be her new great room. 
"I thought the construc­tion noise, the dog or the power tools would scare him off, but the next day he comes right back," said Fen4Dore, 50, a lawyer who works from home. 
But it seems AI is handy to have around. He doesn't make a mess, he isn't noisy and he helps with rodent control. 
When she moved into her house in 2000, Fenimore spent a couple of years bat­tling mice, and hired exter­minators who shooed them into burrows in her back­yard. 
Bears helmet breaks on statue of lion 
CHICAGO -An effort to honor the NFC Champion Chicago Bears hit a snag Tuesday morning when a huge football helmet broke as .it was being placed on one of the lion statues that stands guard outside the Art Institute of Chicago. 

It seems the frigid weath­er, often referred to as Bears weather in Chicago, may have been to blame. 
"They're made of Fiberglas and (one) broke," said Art Institute spokesman Chai Lee. 
Some theorize the broken helmet had nothing to do with the weather at all. 
"I think the lions got swelled heads since we won," joked Gary Heitz, project manager for Chicago Scenic Studios Inc., the com­pany that made the helmets. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 

0 HIGH 23 HIGH 8 HIGH 27 HIGH 15 HIGH 8 HIGH 7
...I LOW 15 LOW -5 LOW 12 LOW 0 LOW 0 LOW -2 
Atlanta 44 I 36 Boston 36 I 27 Chicago 21 I 15 Denver 32 I 6 Houston 54 I 38 Los Angeles 69 I 48 Minneapolis 9 I 1 New York 38 I 34 Philadelphia 40 I 33 Phoenix 68 I 45 Seattle 48 I 30 St. Louis 24 I 15 Tampa 69 I 60 Washington 42 I 30 
a: 
1.&.1 
:::c 

!;;: 
1.&.1 
3: 
...... <C 
(,) 

time." 
IN BRIEF 

Tenor Mark Beudert performs a faculty recital with mezzo­soprano Karen Lykes and pianist Timothy Cheek at Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight at 8. Tickets are $3 for students. 
The Winter Career and Internship Fair will be held Thursday from 4 to 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Field House. 
Sabine MacCormack, the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. Professor of Arts and Letters Chair, will deliver the lecture "The Worlds of Jose de Acosta {1540-1600)" Thursday at 4:15 
p.m. in Room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center. 
The student group, Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMCO), proudly presents "Ragtime" on Friday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. "Ragtime" will also be playing Feb. 3, 9 and 10. Tickets available at LaFortune box office and are $6 for sen­iors and $8 for adults. 
The Late Night Olympics will be held from Friday at 6 p.m. to Saturday at 4 a.m. in the Joyce Center. The event raises money for St. Joe County Special Olympics. 
The Notre Dame Scrabble Club is hosting a Scrabble Tournament Saturday from 
8:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. There is an entry fee of $50.00. There will be different divisions for players of all skill levels. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
Wednesday, January 31, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
SUB proposes refortns 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
Student Union Board (SUB) man­ager Patrick Vassel proposed amendments to sections in the con­stitution relating to budget struc­ture at the Council of Representatives (COR) meeting Wednesday. 
Budget oversight was among Vassel's main concerns, as current procedure dictates that the Financial Management Board (FMB) must approve organization spending over $5,000. 
SUB often exceeds $5,000 in expenditures and is often working with agents on tight schedules. 
"Raising it to ten [thousand dol­lars] would make a big difference to us." Vassel said. "It's more just being able to have a little more flexibility within our own organiza­tion." 
While the oversight mark may be low for SUB, other members point­ed out that it suits other student organizations just fme. 
"If a club only has a few thou­sand dollars in their account and they want to plan this huge trip somewhere then that's something FMB needs to see," Class of 2008 president Bridget Keating said. 
Breen-Phillips senator Maris Braun said that "the amount of money [SUB] deai[s] with on a reg­ular basis is so much more than everyone else's," suggesting that SUB could be made an exception to oversight restrictions. 
Vassel also noted that a section of SUB's budget is meant for "policy­based programming" and should be relocated under student govern­ment funds. When the fund was created, it was thought that all pro­gramming should be very explicitly kept under programming bodies, namely SUB, and not student gov­ernment, Vassel said. 
"As far as we're concerned it's student government's money," he said. 
Vice president Bill Andrichik voiced concern that relocating the division of SUB funds to student government funds could result in FMB adding less money to policy­based programming. 
"If we took it out of SUB [we need] to make sure it's still consid­ered a separate entity ... so that it's not lumped under a student gov­ernment budget," he said. 
Vassel agreed, saying that he doesn't "want that money to disap­pear ... it just doesn't need to be under SUB." 
In other COR news: 
+ Student body president Lizzi Shappell announced the Community Summit will take place on March 2. Letters will be sent to local leaders and there are plans to further network with other univer­sities in the area. She also encour­aged members to attend the Notre Dame Eating Disorders Conference, set to take place next Thursday, Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 
Graduates see diplo111a flavvs 
Spelling error in 'chairman' prompts Registrar's office correction 
"As soon as we found out
By BECKY HOGAN 

about it, the Registrar's
News Writer 

Office did not hesitate to rectify [the mistake]. It was As the seniors of the class in the students' interest that of 2007 begin their final we acted with haste," Kil 
semester at Notre Dame,  said.  
visions of having a diploma  Kil  
in hand are  
fast appro­ 

'Tou can hardly
aching. For the gradu­see the word ated class 
'chairman,' but we 
of 2006, 
decided that ifit
however, the certifi­was our child, we cates verify­
would not want 
ing the 
it ... ,
completion of their undergrad­David Kil uate studies 
assistant registrar 
were slig­htly flawed. 
The diplomas that were distributed for August 2005 and May 2006 contained a spelling error in the word "chairman." 
"It was a transposition of two small letters under the signature of the Chairman of the Board of Trustees, in the word 'chairman' ... you could hardly see it," Assistant Registrar David Kil said. 
The error was first brought to the attention of the University after the May 2006 commencement cere­monies when a sibling of a graduate noticed the spelling mistake, Kil said. 

explained that although the error was hard to catch, the University felt that it was nec­ponsible for printing the diplomas -replaced all of the defective diplomas by September 2006 following the commencement cere­monies. 
"[Herff Jones] covered everything -the replace­ment, mailing and postage," Kil said. 
Vogelheim explained that 
she was 
not sur­

ed that if it was our child, we would not want it, so we went ahead and dealt with the company and had them replaced," Kil said. 
Alumna Amelia Vogelheim, who graduated last May, said that she did not notice the spelling mistake until she received a notice from the University about the error. 
"I was at home [when I received the notice], laughed and then immediately ran to my room to verify the mis­spelling,'' Vogelheim said. 
According to Kil, Herff Jones -the company res-ed that at
alumna 
no cost to 
myself, I 
received 

an extra diploma that for all intents and purposes was as good as the first. I suppose the other option was to have people request a new one free of charge," Vogelheim said. 
Kil said that the Office of the Registrar has already checked the diplomas for Aug. 2006 and Jan. 2007 to ensure that the error is not repeated. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

essary to "I was ... delighted prised correct that the
that at no cost to 
the mis­diplomas
myself, I received
take. w e r e "y 0 u an extra diploma replaced. 
that for all intents 
can hard­"It was ly see the probably
and purposes as 
w o r d the right 
'chair­good as the first." thing to man,' but do. I was we decid­... delight­
Amelia Vogelheim 
THINKING ABOUT TEACH FOR AMERICA, THE ACE PROGRAM, OR OTHER SERVICE TEACHING OPPORTUNITIES? 




Academy Rep 
C a n t e r of ~T a m p a 
WANT TO CHANGE THEUVES OF AT-RISKMINORI1Y STUDENTS? CHECKOUT 
AMERICORPS TEACHING OPPURTUNITES 
WITH ACADEMY PREP CENTERS IN SUNNY FLORIDA! 
To learn more about this unique oppmiunity to educate amazing sh1dents ~md serve communities in need in Tampa and St. Petersburg, Florida, contact Kristy Craig (see belmv) 
STOP BY OUR TABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME DIVERSITY RECEPTION AND CAREER AND INTERSHIP FAIR ON FEBRUARY lsr, 2007! 
CONTACT: Kri.'ily Craig, AmeriCorp.\' Teacher Manager, 727-420-7468, kcraig(ii;ttcademvprep.org www.academyprep.org 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 31, 2007 


Theft 
continued from page 1 
with a stainless steel spoon while eating a cup of yogurt. 
Other times, a student steals to "stock up their dorm room," Prentkowski said. 
For junior Emma Pineda, though dining hall theft isn't "right," she said she can understand why some students do it. 
"It's convenient to steal -for grab 'n go, or for cereal in your room ... you need a spoon," she said. 
And with no one watching some of the time, sophomore Erica Sanchez said that, even though it "isn't acceptable to steal," sometimes it can just be a joke. 
In some cases, a student's ID number will be specially flagged in the card services system, Prentkowski said. When that student's card is swiped at the dining hall entrance, a notice appears stating that the student has previously committed a theft of dining hall property. As a result, they are not allowed to carry their book bag inside, he said. 
"Ultimately, [the cost] ends up being passed on to the stu­dents, through room and board costs," Prentkowski stated. 
Food Service's annual budget is in the process of being sub­mitted for next school year, he said, and will include estimates to cover the cost of replacing stolen items. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

esc 
continued from page 1 
ist vision of making a diiTnr­enee," Dutes said. "By the third day, I wantnd to go horne." 
That third day was disruptnd by th1~ violence of a substaneP abuser on site, I>utes said. Still. he was abln to movl' past tlw incident and eontinun to help "those loss fortunatn." 
In a neighborhood that almost "always led the l'ivn o'clock news, nevm for anything posi­tive," Dutes said he worked with the center's stall' to hnlp the 25 men who stay ead1 night. Tlw Shalom I louse a shnlter that is a part of tho national Catholic Worker House organization. 
Cooking, cleaning and paint­ing were some of the jobs assigned to Dutes. in addition to his daily task or cleaning the three shower stalls used by thn residents daily. As a part of the experience, Dutes said hn left anything excessive -from his iPod to laptop-at home, work­ing to "better empathize with the community I was serving." 
"It was definitely a humbling experience," Dutes said of the work. 
He spent time with the men at the site, who arrived at 4:30 
p.m. each day and had to leave by 8 a.m. each morning, sleep­ing in what "looked kind of like an old hospital ward." 
Whether playing a pick-up game of soccer, starting a game of chess or simply listening, Dutes said he learned a great deal from those he served. 
"They weren't homeless for the reasons we often think they are homeless," he said. 
Some were born into poverty and others had been hit by mis­fortune. But some ol' those he worked with even had advanced degrees, Dutes said. 
Tlw Shalom House caters to immigrants, Dut1~s said, and Ihat helped him to see thP plight of migrants in a new light. 
"The experience deepened my understanding of tlw immigra­tion dPimtn." he said. 
In addition to his work at tlw Shalom !louse, Dutes said he spnn I. tinH) at a neighborhood learning dub, tutoring children in lirst through eighth grade. 
Dutes said the whole experi­nnen was well worth his effort and "vory rnwarding." 
"To soP that they are no dif­l'nrcnt that we am" was espe­cially important to Dutes. 
Shappell said there are important benefits to both those participating and those receiv­ing services. 
"Many students find these eight weeks as a spark to con­tinue to be engaged in ... a soeial issue, either as a career, as a volunteer or as board members for organizations," Shappell said. 
The SSLP program places stu­dents in approximately 200 sites 

arOUnd the COUlltry With the II!!!!::!!!!•V:A:LID:FO!R:FI!RS~T~1!00~0~RE~SE!RV~AT!IO~N!S.!!!!!!!!! 
help of Notre Dame Alumni ;: Clubs in area cities each sum­mer, according to Shappell. Participants spend eight weeks immersed in a poverty experi­ence, with "the opportunity to address the injustice of pover­ty," while earning three Theology credits, she said. 
Types of work vary from com­munity to community, as chosen by the local Alumni Club, which also arranges for housing and food for participants. 

"Many sites relate to persons who arP homeless ... and many involve working with children, but there are also sites who address the needs of I disablnd people!, youth in the juvenile justiee system and lWPn nnvi­ronmlmtal projPets." Shappell said. 
The program, often called an internship. provides students with supervised expnrinnl:e in a spnl'.ifie profession, induding sociology, psychology, arrhitnc­ture, business, law and social work, Shappell stated. 
In addition to 1mrning thrnn crndits -which can now apply to the CSC's new Catholit: Soda! Tradition minor-students receive a scholarship for the fall sernest1~r after participating in 


SPRING BREAK 
INFORMATION 800-488-8828 
www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
fREE SPRING BREAK MODEL SEARCH CALENDAR* 
the program. 

"All SSLP students receive the $2,300 scholarship," Shappell said. "The AmeriCorps Educational AwarJ of $1,000 is also available for those students who do not plan to participate in a two year post-graduate s1~rvire program." · 
ShappPII statnd that there will bn information sessions for the program lwld on Feb. 6 at 6 
p.m. in tlw esc building class­room. All studPnts am welcome to attPnd, she said, even if they are not sure they want to apply. Past participants will speak at all sessions. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 


www.womenscarecenter.org 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 31, 2007 CO.\W!LED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Venezuela seeks defense missiles 
CARACAS -Venezuela plans to obtain air defense missiles to guard strategic sites such as oil refineries and major bridges against any air strike, a top military adviser to President Hugo Chavez said Tuesday. 
Gen. Alberto Muller said Venezuela is look­ing to buy surface-to-air missile systems from Russia or another country to defend "strategic points in the country." 
"They are for air defense," Muller told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. "They are not for attacking anybody." 
Chavez, a close ally of Cuban leader Fidel Castro, has repeatedly warned against a pos­sible U.S. invasion, and his government is bol­stering military defenses in Venezuela, one of the world's largest oil exporters. American officials insist they have no such military plans, but Chavez insists Venezuelans must be ready just in case. 
Russia's Interfax-Military News Agency reported Tuesday that between 10 and 12 Tor-Ml missile systems could be supplied to the South American country. 
Shiite pilgrims ambushed, 58 dead 
BAGHDAD -Bombers struck Shiite wor­shippers in two cities Tuesday and gunmen ambushed a busload of pilgrims in a series of attacks that killed at least 58 people as more than 2 million Shiites jammed major shrines for ceremonies marking Ashoura, the holiest day of the Shiite calendar. 
The bloodshed took place despite height­ened security following a battle with mes­sianic Shiites who authorities said planned a large assault on Ashoura ceremonies. With security so intense at the main venues, extremists chose targets in smaller cities where safety measures were less stringent. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Doctor accused of aiding terrorists 
NEW YORK-A doctor accused of pledging to treat al-Qaida members can be prosecuted because medical care counts as material sup­port to terrorists under federal law, a judge said Tuesday. 
Dr. Rafiq Abdus Sabir, an Ivy League-edu­cated doctor, had argued it was unconstitu­tional to prosecute a doctor for providing medical services. 
He was arrested in May 2005 at his home in Boca Raton, Fla., accused in a plot to assist terrorist organizations along with a New York jazz musician, a Brooklyn bookstore owner and a former Washington, D.C., cabdriver. Sabir has pleaded not guilty and remained jailed since his arrest. 
He was charged with conspiring to provide material support or resources to a terrorist organization from October 2003 through May 2005 by providing and trying to provide med­ical support to wounded terrorists, knowing that al-Qaida engages in terrorist activity. 

Climate change may be down played 
WASHINGTON -Federal scientists have been pressured to play down global warming, advocacy groups testified Tuesday at the Democrats' first investigative hearing since taking control of Congress. 
The hearing focused on allegations that the White House for years has micromanaged the government's climate programs and has close­ly controlled what scientists have been allowed to tell the public. 



LOCAL NEWS 
Cold spell hits Central Indiana 
INDIANAPOLIS-Indianapolis is getting hit this week with some of the coldest weather of the season, most days bringing high tempera­tures only in the 20s with a chance for snow. 
Although most forecasts call for no signifi­cant accumulation, salt trucks and plows from the city and state will be on the roads, especially the bridges and overpasses that freeze first. 
Not since a weeklong stretch in early December -when nighttime lows were in the teens, and even down to 7 degrees on Dec. 8 -has Central Indiana experienced winter weather this cold. 

PALESTINE 
Gaza cease-fire starts after 36 killed 
Truce ends five days of intense fighting between rival groups, Hamas and Fatah 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY -Gaza's 
warring factions began to 
hold their fire Tuesday as 
a truce took effect across 
the volatile territory and 
brought hopes for an end 
to the infighting that has 
left 36 people dead in five 
days. 
But the killing of a 
Hamas militant by rival 
Palestinians-combin ed 
with an Israeli airstrike on 
a smuggling tunnel fol­
lowing a suicide bomb­
ing-underscored the 
fragility of any lull in 
Gaza's bloodshed. 
Palestinian Prime 
Minister Ismail Haniyeh of 
Hamas called for a total 
halt to the violence. 
"The past few days were 
difficult, and everyone 
paid in blood," he said in 
Gaza. "Everyone is facjng 
a difficult test, either we 
maintain this calm ... or 
everything collapses 
again, and then everyone 
will be held responsible." 
Previous truces between 
Hamas and Fatah mili­
tants in Gaza have quickly 
collapsed into new fight­
ing, and it appeared 
unlikely the two sides 
would comply with all the terms of the current was killed in the southern rule," he said. him to resume peace talks 
agreement, such as hand­Gaza town of Khan Younis. The truce agreement did with Israel. 
ing over all those involved Hamas officials blamed nothing to resolve the Coalition talks have bro­
in killings and abductions. the shooting on Fatah mil­underlying power struggle ken down and appear
Late Tuesday, the two itants, and Hamas sup­between Hamas and Fatah unlikely to resume soon, sides began releasing porters took to the air­that has fueled the fight­though both Saudi Arabia hostages-fighters kid­waves, saying those ing. The two sides have and Egypt have offered to napped over the past behind the campaign been at odds since Hamas mediate. week-both sides said. against their group must defeated Fatah in legisla­Even if the truce holds, it 
Hamas and Fatah gun­be targeted. tive elections a year ago, does not necessarily mean 
men have used prior lulls However, Hamas officials dividing power in the peace for Gaza after a 
to prepare for more fight­said they would not retali­Palestinian government. Palestinian suicide bomber 
ing. ate. President Mahmoud from Gaza killed three 
On Tuesday morning, the Both Fatah and Hamas Abbas of Fatah, elected people in the Israeli resort 
streets of Gaza were calm, say bringing suspects to separately two years ago, city of Eilat on Monday. 
as radio stations loyal to trial is crucial to maintain­has urged Hamas, which Early Tuesday, the 
Fatah and Hamas groups ing the truce. faces international isola­Israeli army bombed a 
played national songs "If the killers remain in tion because of its anti­tunnel it said was meant 
instead of factional music the streets, the cycle of Israel ideology, to join for use by Gaza militants 
and stopped inciting their bloodshed will not stop," Fatah in a more moderate for another attack. No 
supporters against their said Maher Mekdad, a coalition. He hopes a soft­casualties were reported.
rivals. Fatah spokesman. er platform will help end a In the past, militants dug
Hopes for an enduring "Families of victims will crippling international aid such tunnels to attack truce fell in the afternoon take the law in their own boycott imposed after Israelf army outposts and after a Hamas gunman hands, and revenge will Hamas' victory and allow other targets. 



Miller refutes Libby in CIA case 
Associated Press was hearing Valerie Plame's CIA job when he spoke with Russert and 
for the first time from NBC's Tim other reporters. 

WASHINGTON -Reporter Judith Russert on July 10, 2003. Miller became a heroine to many Miller testified Tuesday that former Five government officials, includ­press groups when she went to jail vice presidential aide I. Lewis ing ex-White House press secretary rather discuss conversations with a "Scooter" Libby identified a CIA Ari Fleischer. also have testified that source whose identity she had operative to her on two occasions on they discussed Plame and her CIA agreed not reveal. She since left the dates earlier than he has told investi­job with Libby before July 10. Times for freelancing amid a contro­gators he first heard the information Earlier Tuesday, the jury saw notes versy over her reporting techniques. from another reporter. Libby took on or about June 12 that Her appearance at the trial filled the 
Miller, the former New York Times indicated Cheney himself told Libby courtroom seats for the first time reporter who spent 85 days in jail then that the war critic's wife and drew several retired reporters. trying to avoid revealing these con­worked at the CIA. Accompanied to court by her versations, said Libby identified the The discrepancy over when Libby defense attorney, Bob Bennett, Miller wife of a prominent Iraq war critic learned about Plame is a major ele­answered Fitzgerald's questions in a as a CIA employee in face-to-face ment in the charges on which he is calm, clear voice never taking her meetings on June 23 and July 8, being tried. He is not accused of gaze from him. She seemed less calm 2003. leaking her· name but rather of per­when questioned by defense attorney 
Libby, then Vice President Dick jury and obstruction of the investiga­William Jeffress; her eyes darted Cheney's chief of staff, told the FBI tion into how her name leaked. Libby occasionally to the jury and she and a grand jury that he thought he now says his memory failed him cleared her nose into a handkerchief. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 31, 2007 
Hodges 
continued from page 1 
Hodges said. Hodges was admittedly a dif­ferent type of candidate. 
''I'm not Catholic. I'm not the. typical 'what people would view Saint Mary's as being' type of student," Hodges said. "But I live my values and when you do that, you truly push diversity. When you truly defy diversity, it's far beyond ethnic­ity and race." 
Although Hodges will be tak­ing on a new title, she is cer­tainly not a beginner at addressing issues of race and diversity on the Saint Mary's campus. 
As the student diversity board vice president this year, Hodges was active in recruiting black students to the College. Her interest was peaked when she realized that there was only one black student in the class of 2009. She marched into the office of Dan Meyer, the vice president of enroll­ment management and said, "We need to do something about that." 
Meyer agreed and began to 
work with Hodges to do "what was necessary." 
"I went to high schools throughout Chicago and recruited. I did multi-cultural calling. I said, 'You need to apply.' And I turned in at least 50 applications [for students of diverse backgrounds]," she said. "And I did more calling after students were accepted to make them come to Saint Mary's." 
Hodges' hard work resulted in another first for the College -a record-high number of black women in the freshman class. 
"There were four black girls from my high school alone and we made history with 13 black students [in the class of 2010]," she said. 
Her role on the Student Diversity Board (SDB) -which Hodges said has had black and Hispanic presidents -is one that Hodges cannot take on again. 
"I know that we'll have stu­dents next year that will step up in my position, but I'll always be a loud mouth and a huge voice for Saint Mary's wherever I go," she said. 

Still, the goals she set out to fulfill on the SDB remain high priorities for Hodges. Though diversity was not an issue addressed on her presidential platform, Hodges plans to con­tinue her efforts during her term. 
''I'm a huge advocate on our campus," she said. "I find [pushing diversity] to be some­thing that we'll have to do." 
And throughout her three years at Saint Mary's, Hodges has recognized a need for such an advocate's presence. She said she has had many conver­sations with young women of color of the College's campus who do not think they fit in. 
Luckily for those students, those are feelings she under­stands well. Hodges came to Saint Mary's from Seton Academy, an all-girls college preparatory school in South Holland, Ill., where she was "president of everything you can name." 
Though she called the school a "mini-Saint Mary's," there was one distinct difference ­it was at least 90 percent black. 
So when she arrived at Saint Mary's to find that she was just was one of just three black stu­dents in her class, she "wanted to leave." 
Hodges prayed and decided to stay at the College, recogniz­ing her importance as one of only a handful of black stu­dents on campus. Instead, Hodges propelled herself to find her purpose at SMC, which she found relatively fast. At the start of her second semester freshman year, she was elected to the first year board. 
"It's funny because freshman year l was like, 'I'm going to be student body president.' I made that up in my mind before I came," she said. "And I decided to run because I knew that I wouldn't be com­plete or be fulfilling my mis­sion if I didn't." 
Next year, Hodges imagines her duties being a bit more "structural" than in years past -focusing on issues of pro­gramming and retention. She said that she will not be able to do as much grassroots work as she is used to. 
Rather than traveling to local high schools and meeting with potential black Saint Mary's students, Hodges will use her new position of leadership to "make sure that diversity is not just in our student body, but also in our faculty." 
"We have literally one hand­ful [of black faculty members]. We just had a few leave," she said. 
Hodges is inspired by the Saint Mary's diversity initia­tive, which states that with the hiring of faculty and staff there must be at least one multi-cul­tural or diverse candidate before the hiring actually occurs. As student body presi­dent, Hodges said she will be part of that hiring committee. 
Hodges lives, breathes and sleeps thinking about diversity issues -literally. She lives on the inter-cultural floor in Regina Hall and shares a room with her sister Kristle, a fresh­man. 
"It's amazing because we have people from all different nationalities -some from Bulgaria, from China, some African American and some main-stream Saint Mary's stu­dents." 
Since her victory last week, Hodges has received "tons of emails" from different people in the administration, who she didn't "even know were rooting for me." 
And Hodges' family was just as excited. Her sister was "cry­ing and praising God" with her once the announcement was made. Her mom came to South Bend the night before with her pastor from back home. 
"They were ridiculous. Of course they were excited," she said. "I feel like with my par­ents, they know that I'm kind of always involved and always active." 
Hodges appreciates all the support she can get. While she said the student body president "is for the students of course," she acknowledged that some­times in order for goals to be fulfilled, alignment with the administration is essential. 
"For me to have that support, my job will be so much more meaningful," she said. 
And when Hodges takes office on April 1, she will be sure to hit the ground running. 
"Everything that we put on our platform we will definitely accomplish. If we needed to do them tomorrow, we could," she said. "I am almost positive that I can deliver that, if not before the first semester is over." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 



bright ideas welcome 
Ideas like GE's compact fluorescent lighting with energy savings of 70-75 percent and 8-10 times longer life than incandescent light bulbs. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to turn on your ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance, manufacturing, sales and marketing, human resources. or information technology. 
Come learn about GE's leadership programs and internship opportunities for business, IT and engineering majors. 
Winter Career & Internship Fair February 1, 2007 Joyce Center Field House -North Dome 4 PM-8 PM 

ecomaginationsM 
to learn more visit us at gecareers.com 
on equal opportunity employer 
A diversified technology, financial services. media 
company.

• imagination at work 
--·(.:::...... 
' ./ 


Wednesday, January 31, 2007 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Bernanke receives high marks 
After tough start, new Federal Reserve chairman runs economy effectively 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The 
economy tested Federal 
Reserve Chairman Ben 
Bernanke during his first 
year on the job. A sinking 
housing market and a trou­
bled auto industry threat­
ened to short-circuit eco­
nomic activity. Gyrating ener­
gy prices threatened as well. 
By most accounts, the Fed 
chairman passed. 

"I think he has done a 
pretty masterful job playing 
with the hand he has been 
dealt," says Terry Connelly, 
dean of Golden Gate 
University's Ageno School of 
Business. 

Inflation calmed down 
along with once-raging ener­
gy prices. The jobs market is 
sturdy, the nation's unem­
ployment rate last year fell to 
a six-year low of 4.6 percent. 
And economic growth in 
2006 is estimated at just over 
3 percent, a solid perform­
ance. 

Bernanke and his col­
leagues gather Tuesday for a 
two-day meeting to discuss 
what is needed to keep the 
economy on track and 
improve the central bank's 
communications with Wall 
Street and Main Street. 

They were widely expected 
to hold an important interest 
rate steady at 5.25 percent. If 
so, commercial banks' prime 
interest rate for certain cred­
it cards, home equity lines of months," observed Nariman tic predecessor, Alan Financial. "He is more a 
credit and other loans would Behravesh, chief economist Greenspan, who ran the Fed behind-the-scenes guy. He 
stay at 8.25 percent. at Global Illsight. for 18 1/2 years, and was speaks more plain English, 
Since August, the Fed's key Still, even when owlishly lilscrutable peering using football analogies and 
interest rate hasn't budged, Bernanke's message was out from black hom-rimmed things like that. But the jury 
giving borrowers a break. clear and consistent-notably glasses. is out on whether that is the 
Before ·that, the Fed had his mostly upbeat assess­The new Fed chief, whose right way to go or not." 
steadily boosted rates to fend ment last year about the beard and less buttoned up Inside the Fed, Bernanke is 
off inflation. economy's growth prospects­demeanor bring to mind the well liked. "People feel like 
Economists give Bemanke, many on Wall Street had rumpled professor he once they have more of a say in who took the helm last taken a decidedly dimmer was, is trying to create a policy decisions. There is a February, high marks for his view. more democratic central sense within the Fed there is handling of the economy A respected economist bank by gently shifting the more contribution, less of the thus far. They believe he has who spent most of his profes­spotlight of monetary policy­benevolent dictatorship," recovered from communica­sional life in academia, making to the institution Swonk said. tions blunders early in his Bernanke never worked on rather than its chairman. At four of the Fed's interest chairmanship that sent Wall Street. Skilled commu­The change in style from rates meetings last year, stocks on Wall Street into a nications are critical because the bespectacled one to the Bernanke was faced with nosedive and cast doubt on a single utterance by a Fed bearded one may take some one dissenter: Jeffrey Lacker, his credibility. chief can affect the financial getting used to, investors and president of the Federal 
"Mr. Bemanke's C+IB-per­fortunes of millions of economists said. Reserve Bank of Richmond, formance in the early investors. "Bernanke is more of a Va. Lacker had wanted to months of his chairmanship Bernanke speaks clearly teacher than a preacher," ~oost rates, while the rest of has become a B+/A-per­and plainly, a sharp contrast said Diane Swonk, chief his colleagues voted to leave formance in the past few to his often deliberately cryp-economist at Mesirow them alone. 

Strategists: more than rank to funds 
Associated Press study that few funds which ranked "The numbers are similar to what among the top 25 or even 50 percent would happen if you just pick a fund NEW YORK -Wanted: M. fund w/ of their peers managed to consistent­randomly," Dash said. top 25 percent rank. ly maintain their performance. Dash isn't against using the ratings 
Given the scads of mutual funds In the past five years, only 13.2 and reviews, though he contends out there, investors might be tempt­percent of large-cap funds, 9.9 per­investors often rely on parameters ed to turn to the want ads rather cent of mid-cap funds and 10 percent that are too narrow. Limiting a than sort through heaps of funds in of small-cap funds were able to search to funds that, for example, hopes of finding a good match. More remain ranked among the top half of rank in the top 25 percent of their often, befuddled investors depend on funds for the entire period. category can be too restrictive, he fund rankings to bring a cool empiri­The top 25 percent ranking proved argues. He noted that many of the cal eye to their search. But those even more daunting a challenge, top funds were once those ranked in who invest solely based on rankings with only 3 percent of large-cap and the middle 50 percent-formerly B risk disappointment. 2.5 percent of mid-cap funds staying and C students that eventually made 
"Using historical top quartiles to in that zone for five straight years. the honnr roll. 
predict top quartile performance is a Stats for small-cap funds were even "Just the fact that maintaining a bit like rolling the dice," said Srikant more grim: None were able to hold top quartile performance is so diffi­Dash, an index strategist at Standard onto a top 25 percent ranking for the cult means you are leaving out some & Poor's Corp. S&P found in a recent entire period. very good funds," he said. 
page 8 The Ob$erver + CAMPUS NEWS -Wednesday, January 31,'2007 

Athletes 
continued from page 1 
fairly regular basis. 
The numbers 
"I think with athletes, when you get in trouble, it's usually report­ed," said Ashley McConnell, a sen­ior and former football player who was suspended for fall of 2004. "This stuff happens pretty fre­quently." 
In 2002-03, 94 disciplinary cases involving varsity athletes were brought to the University, according to statistics provided last fall by the Office of Residence Life and Housing. There were 1,246 incidents that year, putting athlete-related cases at 7.5 per­cent. 
In 2003-04, 79 of 1,074 discipli­nary cases involved varsity ath­letes -a similar frequency from the year earlier, at 7.4 percent. 
The 2004-05 year saw a drop in the proportion of athlete-related cases, down to 4. 7 percent. Varsity athletes were involved in 48 of 1,019 cases handled by the Office of Residence Life and Housing that year. 
The statistics are for the num­ber of incidents, not the number of individuals, meaning they don't account for repeat visits. Director of Residence Life and Housing Jeff Shoup declined to comment and said he is not responding to The Observer's requests for informa­tion. 
During each of the three years, the football team accounted for the most incidents: 21 in 2002-03, 22 in 2003-04 and 15 in 2004-05. The football team roster usually has around 100 players. 
Men's basketball, whieh usually has 14 players, had three cases reported to the Office of Residence Life and Housing in 2002-03, nine in 2003-04 and two in 2004-05. 
High profile scrutiny now••• 
While the numbers help put the McAlarney incident into context ­add one to men's basketball, 2006-07 -this case is different, on certain levels. 
It's about the starting point guard, for one. And it involves marijuana. 
Blue and Gold Illustrated writer Bob Chmiel, who served as Notre Dame's recruiting eoordinator from 1994-97 and the coordinator of football operations from 1998­2000, said he couldn't remember the last reported case involving a Notre Dame athlete and marijua­na. Neither could Coffey, who runs the NDNation message board. 
"Usually when something like that happens, my experience is Notre Dame doesn't usually come out and say, it's because of drugs," said Coffey, who graduated from the University in 1991, started NDNation in 1999 and published "Echoes on the Hardwootl: A History of Notre Dame Basketball" in 2004. 
Chmiel noted that not all athlete drug usage is reported. Notre Dame's drug testing program ran­domly seleets student athletes for hair testing and, when testing for anabolic steroid use, eonduets urine testing -sometimes ran­dom, sometimes team selected. 
The University's program "func­tions independently from, but works in conjunction with" the NCAA drug-testing program, aceording to athletic department policy. 
Former Notre Dame football player Reggie Brooks, who gradu­ated in 1992 and now works for the Office of Information Technology, said athlete drug use is nothing new. 
"Oh, yeah," he said when asked if he knew fellow athletes who smoked marijuana when he played for Notre Dame. "It was present back then -and it was­n'tjust the athletes." 

But at a place like Notre Dame -which Chmiel said "holds itself to a higher standard" -drugs aren't quickly ignored. 
"People expect more from Notre Dame. That's because Notre Dame expects more from itself," he said. "When you sign up for Notre Dame, whether it be as a student, a coach, an employee -you should be held to a higher stan­dard." 
But both he and Brooks said certain people outside the Notre Dame community preoccupy themselves with finding fault with­in the University. 
"Notre Dame, more than any other university, is scrutinized to the nth degree," Brooks said. 
"There are people that revel in seeing a pinch in the armor, so to speak, at Notre Dame. You're going to be under a microscope," Chmiel said. "Does that add to responsibility? Yeah, it does." 
But "when it's good," he said, "it also enhances accomplishments." 
Chmiel said the McAlarney case was startling. But he believes it was magnified given the state of today's media landscape. 
"I just think there's more infor­mation, readily available," he said. "With the Internet ... now, [report­ing] is almost immediate." 

••• and then 
The last incident of this magni­tude involving the men's basket­ball team, Coffey said, was proba­bly the dismissal of Doug Gottlieb. In 1996, Gottlieb -a prized recruit who now works for ESPN Radio -was accused of stealing his friend's credit cards. He was gone bP.fore his sophomore year. 
That was off-season, however. In terms of high profile in-season cases, Coffey mentioned Mark Stevenson, who was arrested in December 1987 in connection with a shoplifting incident. In January, he was arrested on minor in possession charges and suspended from four basketball games. That spring, eoach Digger Phelps dismissed Stevenson from the team, but said he would be allowed to return under seholar­ship lbr his senior year. 
Stevenson, a 1985 McDonald's I Iigh School All-Ameriean, trans­ferred to Duquesne. 
A more recent incident took pla<:e in October 2000, when bas­ketball players Troy Murphy, Jere Maeura and Tom Timmermans were among 147 individuals eited for minor in a tavern during a raid of Finrmgan 's Bar. 
But beyond basketball, there have been multiple high profile incidents involving Notre Dame 
endless oppo 
athletes. In early 2002, football players Lorenzo Crawford, Justin Smith, Donald Dykes and Abram Elam were dismissed from the University following aceusations of raping a female Notre Dame stu­dent in an off-campus house. 
Coll'ey also referred to Cooper Rego, the Notre Dame football player who was expelled in 1999 after aecusations of sexual assault surfaced. Rego transferred to West Virginia, and Coffey said there was eontroversy when the Mountaineers came to play Notre Dame during the 2000-01 season, since Hego had been harmed from campus. 
The fallout 

The McAlarney debate ­spedlieally, questions surrounding University policy -has yet to die down. 
"You don't want to see a school bend rules for an athlete, but often times a high profile case like this can be used to evaluate rules for student athletes or non-ath­letes," Coffey said. 
Brooks called McAlarney's mari­juana possession a "fairly egre­gious mistake," expressed concern with the University's decision. 
"I've never been big on the drug scene, I know it's fashionable nowadays ... at the same time, what's the difference -other than the legal ramifieations -between alcohol and marijuana?" he said. "Both impair your judgment." 
While he was quick to say he Qidn't have complete knowledge of the circumstances surrounding the case, Brooks said he thought sus­pension was "a little harsh." 
As an athlete who "had run-ins with Student Affairs," he said, "I thought we were sometimes tar­geted." 
"Sometimes Notre Dame takes the stance of preferring image over just decisions," he said, explaining that at times, he felt the University had higher expectations for athletes to counter the percep­tion that those in sports were receiving preferential treatment. 
For McConnell, who said the University denied his request to receive a year of eommunity serv­ice instead of suspension for an unspecified offense, there has been no preferential treatment. Whatever perceptions exist of how Notre Dame treats it<> athletes, he said there's no escaping the inevitable. 
"I don't know any athlete -or a non-athlete -who has gotten out ofResLife," he said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


1n a family ~etting 
NIBCO is a global leader in the manufacture and technology of How-control products, and we are looking for enthusiastic talent to join our team! 
We are currently looking to fill positions for Sales Trainees. 
Your future at NIBCO can be anything you want it to be, and we will give you the tools you need to be successful in a stimulating work environment. 
Visit the NIBCO booth at the Winter Career Fair on February 1st and talk to the NIBCO team about the endless opportunities in a family setting. 

Wednesday, January 31, 2007 
8:00 PM, Leighton Concert Hall 

Faculty Recital Mark Beudert, tenor With Special Guests Karen Lykes, mezzo-soprano Timothy Cheek, piano 
Tickets: $10, $8 Faculty/Staff, $6 Senior Citizens, $3 Stude Call 63 1-2800 or visit http:/ /performingarts.nd.edu 


DEBARTOLO 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
Wednesday, January 31, '2007 ~th~ bbserver +·cAMPUS NEWS page 9 

RagtiDie 
continued from page 1 
ern Europe who came to America at the turn of the cen­tury results in "a dramatic telling of the melting pot that was present at this time in America," Masterton said. 
All the groups are different, but each aspired to some ver­sion of the American dream, he said. 
"We want to break open this idea of the American dream and how it is very central to immigrants coming to America ... and what that means in the 100 years after the show takes place," Masterton said. 
PEMCo. invited five speakers to comment on the play in the forum entitled "Ragtime 100 Years Later: Defining Our Generation's American Dream." Graduate School Dean Donald Pope-Davis, Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs G. David Moss, associ­ate professor of economics and policy studies Martin Wolfson, Notre Dame graduate student Crystal Blount and Christy Fleming Greene, the advisor for Shades of Ebony and assis­tant professional specialist in the First Year of Studies, will all speak at the forum. 

Ragtime is the most ambi­tious show PEMCo. has pro­duced since it was started ten years ago, Masterton said in a news release, and the first show they have produced that lends itself to further academic discussion. 
Senior Jack Calcutt, the director of Ragtime, wanted to put on this show when he applied for the position last February, Masterton said. 
"We wanted something that had substance and could be socially relevant and could translate to people's experi­ence at Notre Dame," he said. 
The show, with its diverse cast, also allowed the produc­ers to pick a varied group of students to play the parts. 
"We've never really had very many African American mem­bers of the club," Masterton said. "We were really excited to expand the group." 
Unlike the production of Footloose last year, the racially charged language of the play and its thematic elements sep­arated it from plays PEMCo. 
THINKING ABOUT GIVING BAGK? 

ACE is a two-year post-graduate teaching service program featuring a Master of Education for all candidates. 
Come talk to ACE at the Winter Career Fair. 
THINKING ABOUT GIVING BAGK? 

T<·duwlogy Risk I htternal Andi1 



RISK 
AND WHY PROTIVITI IS THE BEST 
PLACE TO EXPLORE 
YOUR POTENTIAL 
A 
t Protiviti we are :focused on managing risk to achieve potential. This applies to our clients mid our employees. We see risk as an opponunity to improve. To work with Global 500 firms around the. world to grow their business. To help our employees grow professionally and personally. So if you are looking to fully explore your potentiaL we believe that the only risk not to consider is working somewhere other than Protiviti. 
Chech on-line at you1· unit•er.,·i{lj career ce-nll:r for available job opportunitie.1· at Protir·iti. 
Know Ri.,.k. Know Reward.''' 
has performed before, Masterton said. 
"We felt like we had to do this [academic forum] because there are so many things that need to be discussed," he said. 
Ragtime will be performed Feb. 2, 3, 9 and 10 starting at 7:30 p.m. each night. Tickets -six dollars for students and senior citizens and eight dol­lars for adults -can be pur­chased at the LaFortune Box Office or by phone through the box office. The forum discus­sion -co-hosted by the stu­dent groups Shades of Ebony and Wabruda -will take place Wednesday, Feb. 7 at 7:30p.m. in Washington Hall. The forum discussion is free. 

Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


It's possible at StJohn's University­the only American University that offers this unique opportunity for graduate study in Rome. Whether you are interested in pursuing an M.B.A. degree in Finance, International Business or Marketing Management, or an M.A. degree in Govern­
ment and Politics with a specialization in International Relations, 
our expert professor-s, and the Eternal City itself, will help you 
prepare for the global arena. 
·1· ·11 t·e·r;::l st·e.c··l ?
........ _l. \.._;~ / ·' .• 
For more information: (212) 815-9216, Ext. 2 info@stjohns.edu www.stjohns.edu/learnmore/00719.sju 
The Allstate Insurance Company would like to meet you. 
We'll be sharing infonnation about the company, our incredible growth and our hiring needs for Internship and Full Time Entry Level positions. This will also be 
your opportunity to talk to senior leader. Ifyou are majoring in Computer Science/Engineering, Finance, Business or considering a career in one of the following fields, don't miss this opportunity to learn more about the organization: 
System Analyst Project Manager Application Developer Corporate Relations Marketing Business Analyst Process Analyst Network Engineer 
Internship and Full time entry level candidates welcome! 
Meet the Firm Date: Wednesday, January 31st 
Time: 5:00p.m.-7:00p.m. 
Where: Montgomery Theater LaFortune Student Center 
Allstate will be at the Career Fair on February 1 
PIZZA AND SOFT DRINKS-Business Casual Attire 
Allstate accepts resumes electronically through our website. 
Please visit us at wvNoJ.allstate.corn/careels ~Allstate. 
"fOti'm m gooo l'tanda 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, January 31, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd:edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotte Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chie£ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Lerrers to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The omcrver (USPS 599 2-4000) h publi~lu~d Monday Through Friday ~J:ccpr during cx:un and wc.nion periods. A sumwplion ro The Observer is $100 for one academic >:-'r; $55 furoncs.rntOter. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South bitting Hall Send addrd$ cotrttrions to: None Dame, IN 46556..0779 Tiu: Observer 
P..:riodical p<>stage_ paid at ~tre Dame RO.Bo<779 
..md addida:nal mailing offices. 024: St\Uth Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 4:65_56..0779 

Tht Observer is a member ofthe Al>sociatcd Press. All rcproducrion rights are 
fc::5et"Ved. 
Bears • • • Bears ••• Ditka • • • Money • • • Bears • • • 
Super Bowl XLI is this weekend. My apologies to all you Superfans out there, but I do not have much invested in this year's Super Bowl contenders. I do, however. have much more interest in the good food and entertaining commercials that are synonymous with Super Bowl Sunday. Those commercials, as we all know, come with a hefty price tag. This year, advertisers must be willing to shell out over 2 million dollars for a 30­second spot during Super Bowl XLI. Companies such as Pepsi and Budweiser willingly hand over the cash knowing that their <tclver­tisements will bring in more money and prosperity to the company. 
That price tag, however, pales in comparison to the cost of a politieal campaign. To even be considnrnd a can­didate in the 2008 presidential election, presidential hopefuls must bn willing to fundraise at least 100 million dollars. As a result, candidates (and their loving lobbyists) are wasting little time. It is not even February of 2007 and eon­tenders such as Obama and Clinton are already campaigning in Iowa in an effort to raise money for a much-heated race. The morn candidates collect money from lobbyists and big corpora­tions, the more loyalties and favors candidates must be willing to pay once elected. 
While I anxiously await my favorite pre-game meal consisting of homemade Italian sausage sandwiches, a side of queso and Tostitos chips accompanied by a few chuckles at a Budweiser com­mercial, I decided I should be more concerned about the condition of our country than the smorgasbord of dolce­tables featured on Super Bowl Sunday. And although its okay that we succumb 

Katie Palmitier 
A l-1--hrd to the Wise 

to companies' advertising and their 2 million dollar ads do not go to waste on Sunday when I pick up a twelve pack of Pepsi at Martin's, it is not okay that candidates are falling for big companies and lobbyists traps. Once elected, con­gressmen and women are spending a majority of their time in office paying back favors and passing legislature that benefits those that supported their campaign. The American people, there­fore, are left out in the dust. While we may be concerned about those Bears' fans and their unhealthy obsession with football and Polish sausage, we should take lime to consider the unhealthy obsession political candidates have with money and its effect on the well being of America. 
Every day politicians am out collect­ing hundreds of thousands or dollars from lobbyists and big industries, even when the next election is two years away. With every passing day, candi­dates are accumulating funds as laws and legislature that affect the well being of Americans fail to pass or even be discussed. Former Senator Alan Simpson (D-Wyoming) admittnd to the fail urn of elected officials, stating in a recent Boston Globe article, "When we were spending so much time raising money, we simply could not devote quality time to thoughtful decisions and debate. It lowered the substance of our work." 
Our health care system is in dire need of attention; thousands of Americans are living without health insurance and are unable to all'ord proper medical earn. Education in America is failing; college tuition is rising and the oppor­tunity for grants and loans is not easy to come by. The environment of not only America but also the whole world is in danger; global warming has proven to be a threat to our nation after ominous signs such as Hurricane Katrina, melting icecaps and rising global temperatures. The Colts, howev­er, cannot blame global warming for their demise by Hurricane Ditka on Sunday. Most prevalent of all, the con­flict in Iraq has yet to be solved; over three years and three thousand casual­ties have passed and a clear plan has yet to be established for the United States' victory in Iraq. 
Instead of dealing with these issues, politicians spend their time schmoozing at cocktail parties and dining at Le Bee Fin. And when it does come time to debate and decide on legislature, the individuals or corporations that were most philanthropic towards a political campaign will be the root eause for the way each decision is made, hence why Big Tobacco, Big Oil and the NRA are still in existence. Campaign finance reform needs to be established so that the American people become the rea­son as to why decisions are made rather than Big Business hegemons. 
While money will always be involved in polities and is needed to run a suc­cessful campaign, I believe in the theo­ry that less is more. The less time spent raising money, the more constituents will benefit. While we all anxiously await the match up of two hometown teams and the release of millions of dol­lars worth of 30-second commercials this Sunday, candidates will be busy at work raising money for their own 30­seeond commercials for election that is two years away. And as each candidate climbs his or her way up to the 100 mil­lion dollar mark. the interests and needs of the American people will slow­ly be blurred out of the vision of politi­cians. The sooner campaign Jinanee reform is finally taken seriously, the sooner the American people will be bet­ter represented and our nation, let alone the world, will be a healthier, more secure place to live. 
Go Bears. 

Katie Palmitier is a sophomore political science major. She can be contacted at kpalmiti@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF News Graphics OBSERVER POLL Kate Antonacci Matt Hudson Jennifer Metz Sports Emma Driscoll Kate Gales Did the University handle Kyle John Tierney Fran Tolan 
McAlarney's case fairly? 
Viewpoint Scene Kara King Sean Sweany Marty Schroeder Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
SubmitaLetter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There is no fate that cannot be surmounted by scorn." 
Albert Camus French novelist 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 31, 2007 page 11 
U-WIRE 
Keep your eyes on your prize, not som.eone else's 
Wait till you're older. That's what children are often told as they're growing up to con­sole them when they want things they can­not have due to their age -such as alco­hol, a driver's license or the chance to go to 
college. . Amanda . I was such a child, Whitsitt m a hurry to grow up, wanting what I University of couldn't have yet. As South Florida a child -and even as Oracle an adult-the feel­ing of being left behind when everyone else is zooming past at a million miles an hour can be quite frustrating. 
Many people (myself included) have this semi-insane need to plan out each aspect of · their lives, always getting their "ducks in a row" for the next step. In eighth grade, I was the kid who studied the high school course booklet front and back, having my classes picked weeks before my classmates did. 
While this approach may work from birth to senior year in college, it tends to create more hassle than peace of mind. This is because the time prior to one's graduation from college is nearly always filled with uncertainties, such as the questions of where one will live and work. Still, this urge to plan and keep pace with everyone else does not go away at this stage of life, espe­cially when it comes to relationships. 
My boyfriend and I have been dating for nearly six and a half years-yes, I'm seri­ous. We started dating when I was 15 and he was 16, so obviously, we weren't going to be getting married after a year of dating. We have put a lot-and continue to put a lot-into our relationship. It hasn't been easy. What can make it even more madden­ing, at least for me, is the fact that people who have been dating for less time than we have are beating us to the altar. It's not that I'm not happy for my friends -I just want so badly to experience that same kind of happiness. 
Part of the reason my boyfriend and I have not taken the plunge yet is that we wish to be stable in our careers and finances first. This is a reasonable goal­it's what works for us. That's what I had to keep telling myself when logging on to my Facebook account and seeing two more of my friends had become engaged. 
In the midst of my happiness/disbelief, I decided to cling to my faith in God. I had to remember that He is behind everything: Things happen in His time, not mine. He's in control and I am not. For someone who is always in planning mode like me, relin­quishing that control is more difficult than it sounds. I just have to remember that through constant communication through prayer, He'll tell me what I need to do. 
Some may not have such a faith in God or another higher power, and those that do may not feel ready to relinquish control of their life to their respective higher powers. These people must remember that in the long run, life is not about keeping pace with others, though MTV may tell them other­wise. Everyone does not operate at the same speed and what works for one person does not always work for the next. Besides that, after an extended period of time, cran­ing one's neck to take a look at what every­one else is doing can be downright tiring. 
So the next time someone else gets a pro­motion-and along with it, a six-figure salary-or someone else is about to have a baby when you and your significant other have been wanting one for quite some time, be happy for them (genuinely happy) and take heart that what you desire will come to you in time. Be patient. 
When someone's lost their keys and they're looking for them like mad, it's not until after they calm down a bit and stop scrambling that they tend to find them. That's what life is like -when we stop scrambling, we find what we've ultimately been looking for. 
This article first appeared in The Oracle, the daily paper ofthe University ofSouth Florida, on Jan. 30. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Expanding the student support 
Saturday's halftime show featured the Notre Dame Band's drum section. They ran through their cadences and did their usual great job, but it was a missed opportunity to improve crowd participa­tion at the games. The student section has some specific cheers that accompany some of the cadences. The drum line's perform­ance was an opportunity to educate the crowd about how to emu­late what the students do during certain cadences. Why not try to expand the cheers to the rest of the arena? This shouldn't be hard. Send cheerleaders to different sections during TV timeouts, have the leprechaun briefly explain what's happening over the PA system, and instruct those sections to do what the cheerleaders do. It wouldn't take long to get the arena waving arms and chanti­ng along with the students -11,000 participating instead of a couple of student sections would help make the JACC more intimi­dating. 
Kevin O'Neill alumnus Class of '76 Jan. 29 



Re-evaluated m.arijuana policy needed 
The decision regarding Notre Dame point guard Kyle McAlarney's future was released Tuesday afternoon. The sophomore, who was arrest­ed for possession of marijuana after a game in late December, was dis­missed from school and will be eligible to reapply to Notre Dame for sum­mer sessions. Many will probably be up in arms over the apparent mar­tyring of aJamiliar campus figure, but the real issue is not this one case, but rather the University's policy on marijuana that has been in place f.or years. Not only does Du Lac claim that being caught with any marijuana one time is a violation worthy of expulsion, they actually back it up. Kyle is not the first student to be suspended after his first marijuana offense and not the first to be suspended for possessing an amount so small that it would generally result in a slap on the wrist as far as the law is con­cerned. I know Notre Dame is not Berkeley, and I'm not proposing that it should be, but when a university's policies regarding marijuana are sig­nificantly stricter than the law's, there is something seriously wrong. The United States laws regarding marijuana were drawn up during a time · when knowledge about drugs was so limited that films such as "Reefer Madness" (a 1936 film in which people who are high on marijuana are depicted as sex-crazed murderers) were taken seriously, and these laws have not changed much since. While the country's marijuana laws are strict, Notre Dame's policies blow them out of the water. In an environ­ment where binge drinking is practically encouraged, one offense for pos­sessing marijuana, a significantly less dangerous drug, will almost cer­tainly result in expulsion without guaranteed readmission, throwing your life completely off course. Something here just doesn't add up. 
Marty Roers junior off campus Jan. 24 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
~a'o~ uru ~lelvs.~et I"
cag!ecarroons.com 1 • 
~ 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
r ..

.. J.' 
.. ---­
r-.­
...-._·' 
. . 
. ­
r.J. . . ,,
. --.-..­
· . .' 
0 ·-..... '-'. 
Ju,L 
·:o;._ ..--,~-:-:;<: 
,_~ ~-­
. 

LATEST DAY OF '24' MAINTAINS MOMENTUM FROM EARLIER SEASONS 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
Scene Writer 
To the delight of millions of viewers, federal agent Jack Bauer-com­pellingly embodied by Kiefer Sutherland in Fox's heart-pounding "24" -may be having the longest day of his life, again. ­
However: far from losing its momen­tum. the suspenseful anti-terrorism series returned to the water coolers and online discussion boards with the explosion of a nuclear device in California, the death of a familiar face and the introduction of Bauer's malev­olent brother. 
While the first few episodes this sea­son were intriguing, they failed to spellbind viewers compared to the first handful of episodes last season, which were unforgettable. 
To the show's credit, the bar was set incredibly high in the very first episode of season five. Very few plot twists could shake viewers with the same intensity as the assassination of the regal President David Palmer (Dennis Haysbert) without warning. 
In its fifth year, the clock was alive and ticking for Sutherland and his associates. 
They received Emmy Awards for outstanding male performance and drama series while viewers cogitated Bauer's escape from the maximum­security Chinese prison where he was taken in the season finale last May. 
They waited for months to see him return to North America and now that he is back in action, the Chinese prison is old news. Nay, make that ancient history. 
It happened five hours ago and in the fast-moving "24," five hours is enough time to kill thousands of inno­cent civilians with a chemical virus, steal a stealth bomber and use it to shoot down Air Force One or even suf­fer from a mild bout with amnesia. 
It's all in a day's work for Bauer. 
The series chronicles 24 hours of national security emergencies with 24 episodes that unfold -in most easPs -in natural time, with every passing second. 
Oftentimes the screen is fractun~d into three or four frames that aceonJ­modate difl'erent story lines as they unfold simultaneously. 
The innovative and ambitious story­telling model has glitches, however. 
Bauer's ability to drive across down­town Los Angeles during the rush hour in less than 10 minutes remains dis­putable, but viewers wink at it because "24" is, after all, a work of fiction. 
This work offiction, nonetheless, hits a home run with interpretations and representations of threats and scenar­ios that could easily come to pass with­in the White House or the C.I.A. or Osama Bin Laden's lair. 
The first episode of the first season -completed before the 2001 World Trade Center attacks -ends with the explosion of a commercial airplane lor terrorism purposes. 
The second season fmds Bauer des­perately racing against time to keep the United States from declaring war in the Middle East mislead by erro­neous information and fabricated intelligence. 
In the fifth season he delivers America from the dangers of a rogue president. 
The list of similarities between the scripts of "24" and the headlines in The New York Times carries on -but more Americans learn national securi­ty protocols from television rather than newspapers because through Bauer they experience firsthand the urgency of the threat, the burden of protecting the country and the agony involved in the obligatory sacrifices. 
Unlike many of his fictional contem­poraries, Bauer's heroics are driven by habit and obligation. 
Wednesday, January 31, 2007 
lie may be msoun:eful and delight viewers with rnmnorabln quotations ­including "You are going to tell me what I want to know. It's just a matter of how much you want it to hurt." ­but Bauer is not a gallant hero and "24" is not liwmulaic. 
Baunr defeats his enemies every sea­son but where one is eliminated. live more arise -and his enthusiasm for law enforcement dwindles. 
His efTicient modus operandi thrives on his resolve and his viciousness ­which viewers condone in Bauer's eir­cumstances but often eondemn in Guantanamo. 
He fights for democraey and the safety of little children but his only rewards are a murdered wife, an estranged daughter, a drug addiction and a legion of enemies on every conti­nent and in Washington. 
Therein the series also distinguishes itself from its predecessors. 
The West Wing in "24" is different from the sugarcoated one known to Martin Sheen's supporters, where a compassionate president and his dedi­cated personnel make difficult deci­sions to protect the voters. 
The Washington known to Sutherland's supporters is plagued by conspiracies, ulterior motivations and betrayals. 
Palmer's own Cabinet removed him from office because they had different agendas and last season, President Charles Logan (Gregory Itzin) supplied nerve gas to Russian extremists in an elaborate scheme to create an oppor­tunity to increase American military presence in central Asia and conse­quently access the oil reserves in the region. · 
Monday's episode reminded viewers of the duplicity in Washington when agendas collide, as White House chief of staff Tom Lennox (Peter MacNicol) coerced one of his dissenting col­leagues into resignation to implement without hindranee his draconian pro­posals against Middle Easternnrs in response to detonation of the nuclear doviee in tho West eoast. 

Next wenk th<~ writers will continue to bring raeial profiling into the Counter Terrorist Unit (CTU) and Bauer's mission -as if confronting the treacherous mercenary in the Bauer clan and locating four ticking nuclear bombs were not enough to drain the man's strength. 
It might take a few more weeks before viewers can digest the revela­tion of Bauer's wieked brother -the ultimate criminal puppet master last season. 
This news may score with the view­ers who also watch "Days of our Lives," but for those who eagerly await ingenious and credible plot twists, the story line is disappointing. 
Bauer, nonetheless, remains, and the viewers won't desert him. 
The ratings have steadily inereased since the series premiered in 2001, breeding an army of assorted followers that range from U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney to novelist Stephen King to Sarah Michelle Gellar ("Buffy the Vampire Slayer"). 
They will all keep watching, biting their nails and anticipating the next jaw-dropping clifThanger. 
The death toll in Los Angeles this season already surpassed the 12,000­mark and it's only noon on Bauer's watch, which means he's angry and facing many more hours of rampage and opportunities to indulge his trig­ger-friendly finger. 
"The only reason you're still con­scious is because I don't want you carry you," Bauer growls in the fifth season. America can only hope he gives her more unforgettable quota­tions before he shoots. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of tv.com 

Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland), left, helps a young girl don a gas mask in the sixth season of "24," the popular Fox terrorism drama. 
Photo courtesy of tv.com Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland), right, presses enemy James Nathanson (Geraint Wyn Davies) for information in a recent episode of "24." 
' 
~ 
.uu#,· 
ACTION THR 
ByKENFOWLE Scene Writer 
The line was episode sub-par b 
Hours after a n 
in Los Angeles s1 the VVhite House all Muslim feden Arabic descent cached. The mo ing one for CTU's Yassir, so her i plained to CTU's tered Republican, . The jof-e -tha1 
be a terrorist 
example of Fox's 
to common politi 
sages. The politi 
even before the 
Bauer's life. 
Two days befor all the stops for it ing "24" during NFL coverage. 1 debut within weel tled in Lower Mar a non-fietion act < "24" was in doubt 
Network execu the American pu show dealing witl soon after thous died at work on 1 Tuesday morning. on with the show, 2001 to an aud broadcast standa fourth-place Fox. 
So Fox stuck first 13 episodes 
to finish the seas two, which bee become at least s Throughout, always drawn th observers and se 
In Day 4, whic Council on Arne blasted "24" for terrorists" as th to detonate a 
u.s. 

But there's the 
The reason continue to c · viewers compe wateh, as the s and at least so producers portr rorist attacks of result of only G demented Presid would become story is shieldi would turn away 
Day 5 escaped cally correct b "Russian separa the season. Any 

ER NSIDER 
OTHE Wednesday, January 31, 2007 BSERVER Winter Career and Internship Fair 

tail 
'1, .. 
thursday
february1 

12:00 -2:30 prn 
diversity reception 
a networking opportunityfor students and organizations embracing diversity 
monogram room, joyce center 
all are welcome to attend 
4:00 -8:00 prn 
career&internship fair 
joyce center fieldhouse 
student ID required 


findoutrnore! 
The Career Center 
careercenter.nd.edu/dynamic.php?content=WCIF2007
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
every college • every major • internships • full-time 
'page 2 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Wednesday, January 31 '· 2007 
Winter 2007 Career and Internship Fair 


. l 
~
.. ~ 
Wednesday, January 31, 2007 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 3 
Winter 2007 Career and Internship Fair 
and Internship fair ar presentations 
chance of a life 
employers be,ore the fair on wed 
lntersport, Inc 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. in 140 DeBartolo 
lntersport is an Emmy Award-winning creator, producer and distributor of original sports ng content, and an indus­try leader in sports hospitality and event marketing. The Chicago-based lntersport's list of media partners includes ABC, CBS, FOX, NBC, ESPN, FSN and the Speed Channel. 
The Field Museum 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. in 125 
The Field Museum is an educational institution that provides research and learning for greater public under­
standing and appreciation of the world in which we live. Its coU•ctio~s,.public learning programs, and research are insepara­
bly linked to serve a diverse public of varied ages, backgrounds '~~d fl. ... wledge. 
Advertising, PR, & Marketing 
Pab~l 
8:00 -9:30 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Participating Organizations: 
• 
Hill and Knowlton -One of the world's five largest public relations firms, Hill and Knowlton has 71 offices in 

40 countries, including 19 in the United States. Currently employing 1100 people, the firm provides both public relation and lobbying services to local, multinational and global clients. 

• 
Porter Novelli -Porter Novelli is a leading, global PR and lobbying firm. With employ~~:1 ~orking in nearly 60 cit­

ies, Porter Novelli manages more than a dozen global programs for clients such as Wyeth, Gillette, Qualcomm and Dow, coordinating global and regional strategy and execution • 

• 
Starcom Media • Starcom Media is a global media buying and planning agency with offices in 77 countries 


around the world. Experts in the areas of online, video game advertising, mobile and many'6tfl~ifuture-focused medi­urns, SMG still provides an industry benchmark through its award winning core product. 
additional employer presentations 
Industry Organizations Time Location 
• 
Communications EchoStar 5:15p.m. University Club 


• Defense 
Northrop Grumman 3:00 p.m. LaFun -Dooley 

,.;,:,..,::.
·.-:·=·~·. 
I 

•Insurance 
Allstate 5:00 p.m. LaFun -Montgomery ' 

• 
Non-Profit/Health Camp Sweeney 5:45p.m. Flanner 114 


" 
,..... 

for more information visit us on the web at careercenter.nd.edu 
-
page 4 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Wednesday, January 31, 2007 


~PLATINUM~ 
bp 

TARGE'T: GENERAL MILLS 

> 

accenture 

JANICKI
High perfi::u-rru:Jtu::e. Delivered 1/f!I)U~fii:Ji.J 
~GOLD~ 

LEa\1A'4 BROTHERS 
G .. WbetiJ \~~~iqp qe~ fMJi/(:1! 
Offliiellar·.·.······ 
Hill and Knowlton, Moody's K.M.V, RSM McGladrey & Grant Thornton 

The Diversity Reception 
is a networking event designed to allow students to connect and build relationships with organizations that embrace and promote diversity. 
Faculty and Staff are encouraged to attend! 
Thursday, February Ist 
The Diversity Reception Noon -2:30pm precedes Winter Career and Internship Fair 4pm-8pm at the joyce Center. 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, January 31, 2007 
page 13 
LLER ADDRESSES POLITICS, TERRORISM 
.omic relief in an series standards. dear bomb exploded 
rb Valencia, Calif., 
a directive that agents and those of ust have their files 
9/11, Fox pulled out new drama, promot­Sunday afternoon he show was set to but as the dust set­ttan in the wake of terror, the future of 
ves contemplated if lie was ready for a tar•rm•;ct activities so of citizens had otherwise beautiful decided to press debuted Nov. 6, ce mediocre by but exceptional for 
the show after the and ordered 11 more 
n. One season became ~me four, which has ~ven and a movie. however, "24" has 
careful eye of political sitive television critics. ran from 2004-05, the can-Islamic Relations s portrayal of "Islamic 'perpetrators of a plot clear weapon on the 
ub for a major drama. y the show's ratings is because long-time friends and family to )rylines stay relevant ewhat realistic. If the o/ed the six biggest ter­ihe past decade as the rmans, Serbians and nts, then the audience eenly aware that the reality, and viewers
! 
lthe wrath of the politi­r only talking about ~ts" for the majority of lne who cared enough to make a connection would realize it was a veil for the mainly Muslim "ChPchen rebels," but no storm brewed from thf1 subtle language. 
Season 3 was the subtlest of all, but perhaps the most partisan. Airing from 2003-04, then-president David Palmer was in the middle of a tight re-election campaign with his sleazy opponent, Senator John Keeler. Though Palmer was identified as a Democrat in the first season when he initially ran for election, Season 3 remained conspicuously absent of political party references. But as President Bush ran a close race against John Kerry-whose name's first six characters are identical to the first six characters of Palmer's foe ­"24" played on the real presidential race. The show created an official cam­paign logo for Keeler with the same fea­tures as Kerry's signature stamp -blue background, white font, a white star and multiple wavy red lines. 
See Also 
But more than 

just partisan poli-"Sutherland displays tics, hot-button diverse talent" issues of counter-
and
terrorism run deep ill "24." "Network TV takes 
In 2005, Adam page"Green of the New 

page 14
York Times wrote a 1,300-word col­umn for the Sunday paper largely bash­ing "24" for its depiction of torture and, in his view, its seeming face-value acceptance of its use. But in the evalua­tion of torture, Green and others miss a central theme of "24" throughout the past four seasons -immoral means sometimes achieve results, and villain­ous characters sometimes make right­eous decisions. Howard Gordon, one of the show's executive producers, has defended the program countless times over the past year, as "24" tries to elimi­nate situational certainty and create spheres of insecurity and confusion of right versus wrong. 
In Season 3, for instance, CTU agent Gael Ortega is found to be smuggling information to the Salazar brothers ­that season's main antagonists -and is tortured by CTU's regional director before agent Tony Almeida reveals that Ortega is part of a long-planned second­choice strategy to bring down the Salazars. 
Much like in the debates over the show's ramifications for Muslims in the past and present, the debate over the depiction of torture is understandable from the perspective of a television cri­tique. 
While "24" has been a sparkplug for controversy, the show has been even more a magnet for second-guessing. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, January 31, 2007 
ACTOR FEATURE 
Sutherland displays diverse talent in film, TV 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor 
Before he was saving the world as gov­ernment agent· Jack Bauer on Fox's hit show "24," Kiefer Sutherland was one of Hollywood's busiest and most versatile actors. In a career that now stretches over two decades, he has quietly become one of the industry's most respected per­formers, amassing an impressive resume of films and roles that highlight an actor who isn't afraid to take risks whether he is acting on the silver screen or the small screen. 
Sutherland comes from acting lineq.ge, as both his parents -Donald Sutherland and Shirley Douglas -are noted thespians. Donald has been a Hollywood staple for over three decades, having appeared in films like "M*A*S*H," "JFK" and "Cold Mountain." 
The younger Sutherland began acting as a teen, and made his first movie appearances as a teenager in the early '80s. ·He appeared in a series of roles for the first half of the decade, but his breakthrough came as the bully Ace Merrill in Rob Reiner's 1986 classic "Stand By Me" and the vampire leader David in Joel Schumacher's cult film "The Lost Boys." 
Bigger parts in films like "Young Guns" followed, and memorable turns in "Flatliners" (where he met Julia Roberts, with whom he had an extended romance) and Reiner's "A Few Good Men" helped elevate him into a minor star. The '90s, however, were a mixed bag for Sutherland, as he often took eso­teric roles, such as the mad scientist Dr. Schreber in Alex Proyas' 1998 film "Dark City." The ranginess of Sutherland's choices demonstrated his versatility, though his penchant for smart, ominous villains hinted at the intensity he would bring to the character of Jack Bauer. • 
Fox launched "24" in 2001 with Sutherland in the lead as government agent Jack Bauer. The show's novel con­cept, cinematic style and twisting plot turns made it an instant hit, and helped launch Sutherland into the public con­sciousness. 
Since then, Sutherland's.film work has slowed considerably. He has only starred in a handful of movies in the past half­decade, the most notable of them Joel Schumacher's tight, fast-paced thriller "Phonebooth," D.J. Caruso's "Taking Lives" arrd Clark Johnson's disappointing "The Sentinel." The latter picture fea­tured Sutherland in a role that isn't much different from Jack Bauer, as he plays a Secret Service agent who is attempting to uncover a plot to kill the president. 
The movie-like production values of "24" has proven immensely popular over the course of its five years, earning both the show and Sutherland numerous awards and accolades. The actor's com­plex characterization of Bauer has been extremely well-received by critics and audiences. Sutherland deftly balances a spectrum of emotions stemming from Bauer's sense of duty and personal vendettas. 
Sutherland has been recognized by media outlets for his work on "24," and has won several awards amongst numerous nominations. Most notable among them include the 2002 Golden Globe for "Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series -Drama," the 2006 Emmy for "Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series" and a pair of Screen Actors Guild Awards for "Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series" (in 2004 and 2006). 

Jack Bauer has become something of a cultural icon, though Sutherland's versa­tility and talent means that he probably won't become pigeonholed. Though he may always be associated with the antiterrorist agent, Sutherland has already proven that he is capable of other roles: Like Sean Connery's James Bond, Sutherland's Jack Bauer will always be his most immortal role -but unlike Connery, Sutherland doesn't have to prove himself as an actor after "24" ends. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

ENTERTAINMENT FEATURE 
Network TV takes page out of Hollywood's book 
By SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editor 
Just about any night of the week, tel­evision viewers can tune in to shows so elaborate, complex and effects-filled it seems Hollywood has invaded the small screen. While this has been somewhat of a staple in television since its incep­tion in the 1950s, modern technology allows television series creators to cre­ate more wide-ranging and engaging programs than ever before. 
Television used to be more straight­forward with "Seinfeld" and "E.R.," but it has become -more than ever -an experience for its viewers thanks to the inclusion of technical and specific ter­minology and jargon. The various incarnations of "CSI" and "Law and Order" spinoffs began the pattern of giving viewers an in-depth look into the workings of crime investigation and courtroom procedure. 
As television viewers demanded even more detail and connectedness to their shows, the concept of serialization became the hottest method of snaring audiences and keeping them loyal to a show. This meant that a program would tell a large story arc over the course of a season while telling small­er, more detailed stories in each indi­vidual episode. 
To entice viewers to watch these seri­al shows, producers make use of eye­catching features such as multiple locations that often feature large-scale set pieces, large casts of characters and numerous special effects. These on-camera elements are combined with smart writing from shows like "Law and Order" to create television shows 
that are in essence weekly movies broadcast into homes all over the world. 
Current shows are most famous for adopting this style, but early television pioneered the trend with shows like "The Adventures of Davy Crockett," starring Fess Parker. Walt Disney cre­ated this serialized show in 1954 to tell various stories from the life of the "king of the wild frontier." The shows were aired in serial format and were not simple, studio-based shows, but were filmed on realistic sets. 
In the modern era, "24" continued this trend while employing technologi­cal advances to create more realistic special effects than those used in the 1950s. Show creators adopted an epic scope to tell their story while also cre­ating characters with enough depth to solicit sympathy and attraction from viewers. Many Hollywood actors including Keifer Sutherland, Elisha Cuthbert and Dennis Hopper were attached to "24," giving the show an acting credibility that earned it dozens of awards. 
The success of "24" was aided by already existing audiences familiar with similar cinematic, serial television shows on other networks including HBO's "The Sopranos," "Lost" and, more recently, Fox's "Prison Break." The trend of using Hollywood actors continued with ABC's "Lost," which stars "Lord of the Rings" actor Dominic Monaghan (Merry Brandybuck), and Bryan Singer -who directed the first two "X-Men" films -is a producer of Fox's "House." These shows mimick the engaging characters and compelling storylines of "24" and became almost cult-phenomena within weeks of their respective debuts. 

Unlike their film counterparts, shows such as these benefit from their contin­ued existence in that fans have the ability to influence decisions show cre­ators make as the seasons progress. Internet communities have sparked changes on "Lost," especially with respect to how the show reveals its mysterious secrets. 
Fans of "24" called a telephone num­ber repeatedly displayed on cell phones that were seen during airings of the show. They were then connected to the "Fan Phone," which gave them a chance to interact with and give input to the show's creators. The end result of this fan interaction allows serial tel­evision shows to look like movies, but also adapt to changing times and audi­ences. 
The effort that goes into making a single episode of this type of show is immense, with several days of 14-hour shoots necessary for one episode of "24." This sheer amount of work caus­es very few serial shows like "24" to succeed, but when they do, the result is television as immersive and captivating as the movies. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 

Wednesday, January 31, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
BROWNING 
CINEMA 
Heaven (2002) 
Directed by Tom Tykwer R, 96 minutes Thu, Feb 1 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Shut Up and Sing (2006) 
Directed by Barbara Kopple R, 99 minutes Fri, Feb 2 at 1 0 pm Sat, Feb 3 at 1 0 pm Sun, Feb 4 at 4 pm 
Iraq in Fragments (2006) 
Directed by James Longley NR, 94 minutes Kurdish, Arabic, and English languages with English subtitles Fri, Feb 2 at 7 pm Sat, Feb 3 at 7 pm 
Babel (2006) 
Directed by Alejandro Gonzalez lnarritu R, 142 minutes Japanese Sign Language, French, Eng­lish, Spanish, Japanese, Berber, and Arabic languages with English subtitles Thu, Feb 8 at 10 pm Fri, Feb 9 at 7 and 1 0 pm 
Divan (2004) Director PEARL GLUCK will be pres­ent for discussion 
Directed by Pearl Gluck NR, 77 minutes Sun, Feb 11 at 4 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 31, 2007 
NBA 
Arenas scores 36 as Wizards down Pistons 
slack for Jamison, scored 15
LeBron-less Cavs 
points on 7-for-8 shooting.clobber Warriors; Butler finished with 13 points. 
Chauncey Billups scored 24Kobe-less Lakers fall points, Prince had 19 points, and Richard Hamilton and Associated Press Rasheed Wallace finished with 15 apiece for the Pistons, who 
Gilbert Arenas had 36 points, ended up outshooting the 11 assists and seven rebounds Wizards (52 p~rcent to 49 per­Tuesday night as the cent) Washington Wizards beat the Detroit Pistons 104-99 in a first­Cavaliers 124, Warriors 97 place showdown, a victory tem­Sasha Pavlovic scored a pered by a knee injury to career-high 24 points filling in Antawn Jamison. for the injured LeBron James 
The win kept the Wizards and the Cleveland Cavaliers ahead of the Pistons atop the rolled without their superstar, Eastern Conference and gave pounding the Golden State the teams a split of the four­Warriors on Tuesday night. game season series, leveling the James missed his second first tiebreaker should they fin­game in a less than a week with ish the regular season with the a sprained right big toe, an same record. Washington beat injury that isn't going to Detroit twice in five days, improve without rest. including a 99-96 win on the Cleveland's medical staff road Friday. advised James to take night off 
But the Wizards left the court and there's a chance he could anxious for news about miss a few more games. Jamison, who sprained his left The Cavaliers didn't need knee after colliding with team­James against the Warriors, mate DeShawn Stevenson under scoring a season-high in points the basket during a fast break with their most balanced attack with 6:29 to play in the first in nearly 13 years. They quarter. improved to 8-2 in games the 
Jamison, who entered the All-Star forward has missed game averaging 19.7 points and because of injuries during his 
8.1 rebounds, did not return career. and was to be re-evaluated Donyell Marshall added 15 after the game. Jamison hyper­points, Zydrunas Ilgauskas 14 extended the same knee against with 10 rebounds and Cleveland Cleveland's 115-100 loss to the second to take a 52-43 lead but closed to 96-94 on Boston on Jan. 20, although it snapped a three-game losing Phoenix on Sunday. at halftime. Indiana shot 61 Radmanovic's 3-pointer with 45 was not the same knee that streak at home while getting percent in the first half, includ­seconds left. Curry made two required surgery two years ago. eight players in double figures Pacers 103, Celtics 96 ing an 11-for-15 effort in the free throws 10 seconds later, He was given two days off from for the first time since April 22, Jamaal Tinsley scored a sea­second quarter. and after Maurice Evans' 3­practice last week to rest the 1994. son-high 28 points as the pointer rattled out, Los Angeles knee and responded with his Baron Davis scored 21 points Indiana Pacers beat Boston on Knicks 99, Lakers 94 got the ball back after Jamal two best games of the season: to lead the Warriors, who Tuesday night to hand the Playing without the suspend­Crawford turned it over. 35 points against Detroit and 34 opened a six-game trip with one Celtics their 12th straight loss. ed Kobe Bryant, the Los However, Jared Jeffries points against Boston on they'd like to forget. Jermaine O'Neal added 25 Angeles Lakers' late rally fell blocked Brian Cook's 3-point Sunday. They went just 2-for-20 on 3-points and eight rebounds for short in their season-high third attempt and New York put it 
Jamison would be difficult to pointers, committed 20 the Pacers, who won for the straight loss, to the New York away with three more free replace if he's out for any turnovers and were never a fourth time in five games. Knicks on Tuesday night throws. extended period -he, Arenas threat in dropping their fifth AI Jefferson led the Celtics Eddy Curry had 27 points and It was a rough way for the and Caron Butler form the straight road game. with 15 points and 17 nine rebounds and Stephon Lakers to start an eight-game NBA's highest-scoring trio at a AI Harrington added 13 points rebounds. It was his 20th dou­Marbury scored 22 points for Eastern trip, their longest since combined 70 points per game and Andris Biedrins 12 for ble-double of the season. the Knieks, who led most of the playing eight straight on the -but the Wizards persevered Golden State, which took the Indiana, the worst shooting game but never pulled away. road from Dec. 9-20, 1989. without him Tuesday to win for Cavaliers to overtime before team in the league, shot a sea­David Lee grabbed 13 rebounds Bryant will be back Wednesday the seventh time in eight losing on Jan. 20. son-high 53.6 pnrcent from the and Jamal Crawford added 17 when Los Angeles visits Boston. games. This one was over early as the field. points. He hoped to play Tuesday, 
Washington shot 61 percent Cavaliers bolted to a 15-point The Celtics are two losses Bryant was penalized one seeking an immediate hearing in the first quarter, led by 19 lead after 12 minutes and never short of breaking the franchise game without pay earlier at the league office during the points midway through the sec­let the Warriors get inside dou­record for consecutive losses. Tuesday for hitting San afternoon since he was already ond, then held off the Pistons ble digits the rest of the way. They can tie the mark of 13 Antonio's Manu Ginobili in the in New York. But that request after Detroit pulled within sin­Searching for more points Wednesday at home against the face late in the Lakers' overtime was denied, since normal NBA gle digits in the fourth. Arenas, from his point guard, Cavs Los Angeles Lakers. loss to the Spurs on Sunday. policy is for the player to serve who scored 14 points in the coach Mike Brown replaced Gerald Green hit a 3-pointer Without his 28.4 points per his suspension and hope to get final period, converted a three­Eric Snow in the starting lineup to cut Indiana's lead to 100-96 game, the Lakers shot only 43.5 his money back later if he wins point play with 1:44 to play to with rookie Daniel Gibson, who with 26 seconds left. percent and lost for the fourth his appeal. restore a 10-point lead. finished with 12 points, two Tinsley made the second of time in five games. Bryant and the Lakers were 
The Pistons made one final assists and two turnovers in 25 two free throws with 25.7 sec­Lamar Odom had 25 points, surPrised by the penalty, and push, due. largely to the minutes. onds left to push the lead to nine rebounds and six assists the fans at Madison Square Wizards' three missed free Pavlovic started last Friday at five, then he made two more for the Lakers. Vladimir Garden were bummed them­throws in the final 30 seconds, Philadelphia when James free throws with 8.9 seconds Radmanovic added 18 points selves. but Tayshaun Prince then missed his first game of the sea­remaining to end the threat. and nine boards and Smush There were mostly boos when missed a 3-pointer that would son to rest his toe. But coach Boston led 30-24 at the end of Parker scored 14 points. Bryant's absence was have cut the lead to two. Mike Brown curiously sat the 6-the first quarter, but the Pacers The Lakers trailed by seven announced during pregame 
Stevenson, picking up the foot-7 swingman during outscored the Celtics 28-13 in with 1 1/2 minutes remaining, introductions. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
andersonNDrentals.com  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ 
WANTED  FoR RENT  Luxury townhome,walk to NO. 3or4  FoR SALE  PERSONAL  ONE WHO IS?  
bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09.  You do not have to be alone.  
CASHIERS NEEDED.  House available for 2007-2008.  $600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569.  2001 MERCURY GRAND  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
Very Large, Close to Campus, Just  'MARQUIS LS.  We want to help.  
APPLY IN PERSON. U  Renovated. Contact  Furn home avail. 2/15 to 8/15. Walk  Do not go it alone.  
MacSwain@ gmail.com  to Univ. Call561-596-0194.  4-DOOR.  Call our 24 hour confidential hotline  
NIVERSITY MARATHON,  If you or someone you love needs  
Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5  BETTER HOMES,BETTER  EXCELLENT CONDITION.  confidential support or assistance,  at 1-800-No-ABORT  
405 933N  bdrm, 3 bath homes, frpls, 2-car  AREAS,BETTER DEALS.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP,  
IN ROSELAND.  garages. Call574-232-4527 or 269­ BlueGoldRentals.com  51,000 MILES.  at1-7819.  or visit our website at  
683-5038.  
HOURS WILL VARY  2 bdrrn condo JPW & Grad wknds.  ONE OWNER,  For more information,  www.lifecall.org  
Newly remodeled 3 and 4 bdrm  1 mi to NO. 614-985-5003.  visit our web site at  
AND  houses available for sale/rent.  $6,500.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg- References required.  
Contact Meredith Allsop, Milligan  2-6 BDRM HOMES.$245/PER­ nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  
NO CALLS.  Real Estate 220-9817.  SON/M0.574-329-0308  CALL 243-5454.  in The Observer.  Call 288-6795.  


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, January 31, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
Women's Basketball Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Duke (41)  21·0  1241  
2  North Carolina (9)  23-0  1209  
3  Tennessee  19·2  1102  
4  Maryland  21-2  1089  
5  Ohio State  18-1  1066  
6  Connecticut  18·2  987  
7  LSU  20-2  939  
8  Stanford  18-3  919  
9  Oklahoma  17-2  862  
10  Purdue  19·3  739  
11  George Washington  18·2  727  
12  Arizona State  19·3  714  
13  Baylor  18-3  671  
14  Georgia  18-4  600  
15  Vanderbill  18-4  474  
16  Marquette  19-2  448  
17  Bowling Green  18·2  434  
18  Texas A&M  15-4  425  
19  Louisville  18·2  396  
20  Middle Tenn. State  19·3  385  
21  California  16-5  206  
22  Nebraska  17-4  154  
23  Rutgers  12·6  86  
24  Wisconsin-Green Bay  17-3  74  
25  James Madison  17-2  69  

Women's Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team record points 
1 Duke (25) 21·0 769 2 North Carolina (6) 23·0 750 3 Tennessee 19·2 697 4 Maryland 21·2 688 5 Connecticut 18·2 649 6 Ohio State 18·1 616 7 LSU 20·2 577 8 Oklahoma 11·2 549 9 Stanford 18·3 537 10 Arizona State 19·3 467 11 Baylor 18-3 462 12 George Washington 18·2 444 13 Purdue 19·3 374 14 Georgia 18-4 359 15 Vanderbilt 18·4 336 16 Bowling Green 18·2 307 17 Louisville 19·2 282 18 Marquette 19·2 257 19 Middle Tenn. Slate 19·3 221 20 TexasA&M 15-4 215 21 California 16-5 133 22 Nebraska 17-4 92 23 Michigan State 15-6 44 24 Wisconsin-Green Bay 17-3 33 25 Rutgers 12-6 31 
Women's Basketball 
Big East Standings  
team  Big East record  
1  Connecticut  9·0  
2  Marquette  7-2  
3  Louisville  6·2  
4  South Florida  6-2  
5  Rutgers  6-2  
6  west Virginia  5-3  
7  NOTRE DAME  4-3  
8  DePaul  4-5  
9  Seton Hall  4-5  
10  Pittsburgh  3-4  
11  St. John's  3-5  
12  Cincinnati  3-6  
13  Providence  2-6  
14  Syracuse  2·6  
15  Villanova  1-7  
16  Georgetown  1-8  

overall record 
19·2 
19·3 
20·2 
16·5 
13·6 
14·7 
13·7 
14-8 
11·9 
15·5 
7-12 
12·9 
12·9 
8·13 
6·15 
11-11 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Miami at North Carolina 7 p.m., ESPN 
Texas at Texas Tech 9 p.m., ESPN2 

NBA 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Kobe Bryant was suspended one game without pay by the NBA on Tuesday for strik­ing San Antonio's Manu Ginobili in the face. 
With his Los Angeles Lakers in New York to play the Knicks, Bryant request­ed an "immediate hearing" with the league office to appeal the suspension. But his request was denied because it would have devi­ated from standard proce­dure, and Bryant was still slated to miss the game Tuesday night. 
"This is not the process that we use at the NBA. Certainly, in theory, given 
the fact that the Lakers 
were  in  New York,  we  
could  have  heard  an  
appeal.  But  again,  we  

never have, as it's not part of our process," said Stu Jackson, the league's chief disciplinarian for on-court actions. "He does have the right to an appeal at a later date. If he were to win that appeal, he would get his money back." 
Bryant's absence left the Lakers without their lead­ing scorer when they opened an eight-game road trip. 
"''ve been waiting to play here. It's always been a fun place for me to play here, and I'm surprised. Shocked, by it, actually," 
IN BRIEF 
Duke lacrosse sexual assault 
hearing rescheduled 
DURHAM, N.C.-A critical hearing in the Duke lacrosse sexual assault case has been postponed until May as the new prosecutors continue to study evidence. 
Prosecutors from the state attorney general's office met with defense attorneys and the judge for about two hours Tuesday. It was the first meet­ing between the parties since the state took over the case this month from embattled District Attorney Mike Nifong. 
Lawyers said afterward that a planned Feb. 5 hearing where the accuser was expected to appear would be rescheduled for May 7. 
"We will use this time to continue reviewing the case files, talking to the many people involved in the cases, and making sure that all dis­covery requests have been responded to properly," state Attorney General Roy Cooper said in a statement. 
Bryant said. "I unintention­ally caught Manu Ginobili. What do you say? It's a basketball game. You unin­tentionally catch people with elbows every once in a while." 
Players association spokesman Dan Wasserman said a letter was sent on Bryant's behalf to the league office requesting the hearing, and that Bryant volun­teered to review the video­tape and talk to commis­sioner David Stern or the "appropriate league offi­cial." 
''I'm blown away by it. I really am," Bryant said. "It just makes no sense." 
The play occurred with 2. 7 seconds remaining in the fourth quarter of the Lakers' 96-94 overtime loss to the Spurs on Sunday. 
"It's just unintentional," Bryant added. "I felt horri­ble about it. It's just basket­ball, it happens." 
Jackson disagreed, and offered the NBA's explana­tion on a conference call. 
"Some of the determining factors were the fact that there was contact made with Ginobili above the shoulders and the fact that this particular action by Kobe was an unnatural basketball motion. Following a shot, he drove a stiff arm in a backward motion and struck Ginobili in the head," Jackson said. 

Brazilian star Ronaldo to join 
Italian team AC Milan 
MILAN, Italy -Ronalda's farewell to Real Madrid didn't include any fond words for coach Fabio Capello. 
The World Cup's all-time leading scorer left Madrid for AC Milan on Tuesday, returning to Italy's Serie A for a reported $9.73 million trans­fer fee. The 30-year-old Brazil strikP.r will join Milan until 2008 ­the same length as the remainder of his contract at Madrid. 
"My heart's breaking but life goes on," Ronalda told reporters in Madrid. ''I'm a great Madrid fan. I'm not so sure about the coach." 
"I know that Ronalda is Milan's," Capello said. "I wish him good luck, that he does what he used to be able to do, that is be a great play­er." 
Honaldo hasn't been picked to play by Capello since a Jan. 7 defeat at Deportivo La Coruna. 
·Heisman winner Smith hopes 
to play for Browns 
CLEVELAND -Usually the one 
avoiding pressure, Troy Smith is put­
ting the heat on the Cleveland 
Browns. 
Ohio State's Heisman Trophy-win­

ning quarterback is lobbying his 
hometown team to select him in 
April's NFL draft, and he isn't miss­
ing any chance to remind the 
Browns that he'll be available to 
them soon. 
Smith was named the area's out­

standing collegiate athlete at 
Monday night's Greater Cleveland 
Sports Awards, and during a taped 
acceptance speech he thanked the 
city's fans for their support. 
"Hopefully, I'll get a chance to rep­

resent you guys at the next level with 
the Cleveland Browns," he said. 
Smith hasn't hidden his desire to 

play for the Browns, who after fin­
ishing 4-12 last season will pick 
either third or fourth in April's draft. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 31, 2007 
NFL 
Super Bowl QBs take different roads to Miami 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -One has been called Da Worst, the other is Da Man. 
Rex Grossman of the Bears vs Peyton Manning of the Colts in the biggest Super Bowl mis­match ever. 
Not close to being true, of course, but it's perception that counts. 
Rex Grossman can't do any­thing right, even in Chicago, where every mistake leads to more cries for his benching. He had a passer rating of zero in one game this season and 1.3 in another on a team that is car­ried by its defense. 
Manning, the most talented in a family of quarterbacks, is a two-time NFL MVP who holds any number of passing records. Barring injury, he could retire as the most prolific passer in league history. 
About all they have in com­mon is zero Super Bowl victo­ries. Until now, the only real knock on Manning is that he could never win the big one. 
"I read the Colts media guide on the way down: 18 pages of Peyton," Bears coach Lovie Smith said after he arrived in Miami. "It showed me what's in store for us." 
That compares with three pages for Grossman in the Chicago guide. 
There will be more pages next season, but they will have to list games like those against Arizona, when he threw four intereeptions and lost two fum­
bles. Typieally, the Bears won 24-23 on two fumble returns and Devin Hester's punt return, enhancing the perception that Chieago finished 13-3 in the .regular season despite its quar­
terback. 
Grossman's take? 

That he has played 12 good 
games this season and six bad 
ones, inducting the playoffs. 
But people only remember the 
bad ones, ineluding two on 
national television -the 
Arizona game and the meaning­less season finale against Green Bay when he tied an NFL record with a passer rating of 0.0, throwing more intereep­tions (three) than eompletions (two). 
Then he compounded his mis­take by saying afterward that beeause the game had no bear­ing on the standings, he hadn't prepared as thoroughly as he should have. 
Not preparing thoroughly is something Manning never does, meaningless game or not. 

Urlacher prepares for 
finance ;:ccottnlin&
shovvdown with Colts 
Raised in a small town, Bears linebacker has become a big star 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Brian Urlacher was 
so at ease he slept on the flight 
to the Super Bowl. And when 
Sunday arrives, he'll make sure he tunes into his favorite morn­ing fishing show on TV. 
Just to sort of chill. 
Once he hits the locker room 
to get ready for the biggest 
game of his life, 
Urlacher will eat a 
"Brian Urlacher is 
couple of cookies baseball, all that preferably a guy I will good stuff." chocolate chip. It was really
always know 

He'll cap his good during his
where he is." 

pregame routine senior year, when by listening to Urlacher led his some music. Peyton Manning prep team to a 14­Then at game­0 record and a
Colts quarterback 

time, with millions watching, he'll step onto the finely manicured grass at Dolphin Stadium and stare across the line at one of the NFL's greatest quarter­backs, Peyton Manning. 
Both will be making hand sig­nals, pointing and instructing their teammates where to go on every play. It'll be a showdown between the two marquee play­ers -the two central charac­ters -of the Indianapolis Colts and Chicago Bears. 
"Brian Urlacher is a guy I will always know where he is. You just can't help it," Manning said of the Bears' six-time Pro Bowl middle linebacker. "There are certain guys like that." 
Urlacher, who was hurt in 2004 when the Colts beat the Bears 41-10 behind Manning's four TD passes, said the Bears will have to be ready for Manning's line of scrimmage antics and deal accordingly. 
"You are not going to fool Peyton Manning. He knows where to go with the football before it's even snapped," Urlacher said. 
Uri<:lcher has come far just to reach the point where he can defend and match wits with Manning as the Bears go for their second Super Bowl win in 21 years. 
Urlacher grew up in the small New Mexico town of Lovington, population around 9,000, and worked summer jobs in oil pipeline construction, toiling for 12-hour shifts in 100-degree heat for $7 an hour. 
He went off to college at New Mexico when he got few other recruiting feelers. There, his speed, strength, versatility and athletic ability turned him into 
a star. "I was just happy to make it 
GET YOUR CAREER 
to college," he said. 
As a safety and linebacker while also playing wide receiver and returning kicks for the 
STARTED IN INDY 
Lobos, he was taken by the Bears in the first round of the 2000 draft. 
Urlacher's small-town roots served him well. 
"That was the No. 1 thing, the work ethic, I think," Urlacher said. 
"We played sports. We 
played street football and played basketball, ran track, played 
state title, catching 
61 passes. 
At his first training camp with the Bears, a fresh-faced Urlacher was just happy to learn there was a Wal Mart where he could do his shop­ping. 
Now his No. 54 jersey is one of the most popular in the NFL, he's done commercials, signed a nine-year contract worth more than $50 million in 2003, and even dated socialite Paris Hilton. 
INC(~NI) 
supp•)rt srudtn!S who are· int<:rt"ted 
lil obrmn.ing in.. 
tcm::;hips ;md uhi nlcite!y f\lll-·tiiYl<: crnpfo;.·TtH:~n;: in dH.~ S t<l tC 0 ( indiana apon gr:\d'wn.ion :md the ,,mpluy,•t:o lod:ing to hire nwm. 
Let Indiana Careers help you in your Indiana job or ilncm~hip search! 
For add.itional detnils contact: 
Indhma Careers @ Notre D<mle 248 Fl.anner H,lll Notre Damet IN 46556 
Phone; 631"2964 EmaU: indianacareers~)nd.edu Web: Indian~Carceu.nd.edu 
l * 


_.:areers 
@)NOTRE DAME 
Two programs are available to support students who take internships or full­time professional positions in Indiana. 
Internship Stipends targeting Notre Dame Juniors-$188,000 has been awarded to students over the past 2 summers! 
Students accepting a qualified internship in Indiana can ap­ply to receive an additional bonus for their summer intern~ ship experience! The stipend is based upon the salary being paid by thdr internship employer: 
Sl,00--6.50/hour= $2,000 stip~nd $6.51-12.00/hour =$1,500 stipend $12.01-17.99/hour = $1,000 stipend $18.00 and more =$500 stipend Unpaid internships = $3,000 
Criteria for a qualifi~d internship Include: 
30-40 hours per week liJ-..12 weeks over the summer The position is rel:~~cd to the student's field of study and consistent with their level of education 
Stipends are aw:mkd on a rolling h;,8is by INC@ND .s long as funding L< still a"tilable. Contact INC((iiND early! 
Holy Cross Stt.~dents: 
Tim Ryan at tpryan@hc<>.;nd.edu 

1~< CXti;'.\1 1) Ck:r $512,00\LOO h:~; hLd! 

? yc:w.. \X/c Jr<.' ,tJ..;,' Ul hcip ou \'·,"h \•.•i.H In.(\i;).xLl.-'<J.rch: 
Full-Time Award Program for 
graduating students in any college that pays $375.00 per month for 2 years when you work in a full-time professional position in Indi­ana. 36 students in the past two years have received the award totaling $324,000 over two years. 
If you are contemplating employment in Indiana make sure you apply before March 
1. 2007. You don't need to have a job to ap­p!y,_ Students are selected based on the fol­lowing criteria 
• 
Internship Experiences 

• 
Application & Essay 

• 
Personal Interview 

• 
Faculty Reference 

• 
Notre Dame GPA 


• 
Community Involvement while at ND Extracurricular activities while at ND 

• 
Leadership positions held while at ND 


In their own words... 
I am V(!ty grateful for the mone-y ] am rccdving. 1f it w:tsn't for lndian:t ( :arecrs, l would nor h<tV(' been abk to 1ake this imi.:nu;hip which I fed has been a v·ery vaiuahlt· e-,cpt·ri~nfe thus far by not only giving me real-life cxpc<1cnce in the career l woukllikc to go into, but also in as:surA in!( me that thi' really b the 1\'Pe ofwork I want to go into afwr grndunting from. Nnl1"c Omnc. 
-·CI-.lc.~cn 
r would like [() pcrs.omtlly thank ~:he JNC@ND Ad· mhs~ions r.ommittt'<~ for choosing me a::. il rec.ipi<~nt of dw l odiana Carc.·ers Award. It i$ both a plc:l$· ure and an honor to be reco~nized among Cc.lUOt­less oucstanding and de­serving students at the Unh~crsity. I am sure that with this as:s.ist~1ncc I can contribute 10 ~:he bctt<~r· mt·nt of t.hc stale of lndi·· ann fmd. uphold tht' t•xpt'<:·· t:m:ion5 of tht.· Univenity and du.· prcJgt-am. -Tricia 


Wednesday, January 31, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

JANICKI 

INDllSffUES 
Would you like to work for acompany on the leading edge of composite technology? 
Join the team at Janicki Industries and help change the way advanced composites are built. Work on advanced defense systems, leading edge aerospace projects, and other developing projects. 
CURRENT OPENINGS INCLUDE: 
• 
Mechanical Engineering and Industrial Technology/Design students for summer internships 

• 
Full-time Mechanical Engineers/Industrial Technology/Design Engineers to start after graduation in 2007 


See you at the 2007 Winter Career Fair on February 1st. 
EOE. Visit website at www.ianicki.com. E-mail kmartin@janicki.com. 

Ready for a floodtide of career opportunities? Then you're ready for a career at KPMG. We're the Big Four audit, advisory, and tax firm with the strongest growth record over the past decade. And we're always looking for the next wave of talented newcomers. Including you. For more information on career opportunities at KPMG, please contact Christina Wiley, Campus Development Manager at: cwiley@kpmg.com or call 312-665-1000. Then dive right in. 
www.kpmgcampus.com 
AUDIT • TAX • ADVISORY 

KPMG Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/0/V. 020051(PMG LLP, lhe U.S. member Arm of I(PMG lntorn<rtlonal. "Swl~9 conOBrative. AU rights rP.serveci. 

MLB 

Bonds inks deal to remain a Giant 

Slugger will make $15.8 million as he chases Aaron in 2007 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -Barry Bonds never wanted to leave the Giants. They have been his team for more than a decade. They were the team of his late father and also his godfather, 1-iall of Farner Willie Mays. 
After nearly two months of negotiations, Bonds finally has his new deal -to stay put right where he believes he belongs. 
Bonds and San Francisco completed a $15.8 million, one­year contract Monday night after the slugger spent hours at the ballpark being examined by teain doctors. 
The club announced the deal, which took significant time to finish after the sides agreed on financial terms Dec. 7 on the last day of baseball's winter meetings. 
Now, the 42-year-old Bonds can focus on the upcoming sea­son. He has 734 home runs, 22 from breaking Hank Aaron's career record, and he plans to play beyond this year if he fails to set the mark in 2007. 
"I think I'll be around until I'm 100, or at least try to," Bonds said. 
Before the contract was com­pleted, Bonds had to pass a physical and the parties had to work out complicated language regarding his behavior and what would happen if he were to be indicted. 
A federal grand jury is inves­tigating whether Bonds per­jured himself when he testified in 2003 in the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative steroid distribution case that he hadn't knowingly taken any performance-enhancing drugs. 
"I knew things would work out. This is where I always wanted to play and always loved to play," Bonds said. "The city of San Francisco is what I love. The people of San Francisco are who I love. There's no better place for me to be. This is my history. The people in San Francisco deserve it all." 
On a conference call late Monday night, Bonds was asked why it took so long for his con­tract to be completed. 
"I was on a skiing vacation," he said, laughing. "It didn't take any time. It's normal proce­dure." 
As part of the deal, Bonds' trainers -Harvey Shields and Greg Oliver -will no longer be allowed in the clubhouse, where they previously had their own lockers next to Bonds' space. 
"I have no problems with it," Bonds said. "(Oliver) and Harvey will be with me, just outside the ballpark." 
Shields and Oliver will no longer be on the Giants' payroll and they won't be permitted in restricted areas in any big league ballpark. 
If they were to make road trips, it would be on Bonds' dime or their own, two baseball officials said, speaking on con­dition of anonymity. Bonds underwent X-rays and many other tests from multiple team doctors Monday. 
The seven-time NL MVP waved and smiled as he left the stadium and then quickly drove away with agent Jeff Borris. 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, January 31, 2006 
lnten·ace 1otum 
JJialoflues on Ike Atttetitas: A (mulliiRate fon,etsalion 
5:30 p~m. 
Coleman­Morse Lounge 



Resu01e 
continued from page 24 
But none of that is true any more after the Irish dis­patched of the Orange 103­91 in a game that wasn't even that close. 
So how did Notre Dame change its road luck and earn in win in one of the toughest places to play in college basketball? 
It finally moved the ball on offense. 
In their road losses this year, especially against Villanova and Georgetown, the Irish stood around a lot and their offense stagnated. Against St. John's, they decided to try having Russell Carter be their only offense, which resulted in a career­high 32 points for Carter and a loss for Notre Dame. 
However, against Syracuse's defense, all of that changed. Even playing without Kurz, who was out with an ankle injury, the Irish on the road looked like the versatile, quick team that they have been at home this year. 
Notre Dame began the game looking to feed the post. Forward Luke Harangody was the main beneficiary, scoring 21 points. 
But it wasn't just Harangody that benefited. Once the Orange realized the big freshman was killing them inside, they collapsed their defense, allowing out­side shots from Colin Falls and Carter. 
And once those shots started falling, Tory Jackson and Zach Hillesland had more room to penetrate. 
It wasn't all rosy, however. Syracuse started full court pressing the Irish and dis­rupted the young Notre Dame guards enough to almost get back in the game. The Irish didn't make a field goal for the last 10 minutes of the game, although they did hit 24 free throws over that time slot. 
But the press-breaking struggles just give coach Mike Brey something to work on in practice. Tuesday's games showed that this Irish team has a 
ton of potential. 
Notre Dame is 18-4 overall 
this season and 6-3 in the 
Big East. 
That conference record 
puts the Irish in fifth place, 
but they are only a game 
behind Louisville and 
Georgetown and they hold 
the tie breaker over the 
Cardinals. 
If Notre Dame can work its 
way into fourth, it will earn 
a bye in the Big East confer­
ence. 

And the Irish's schedule 
sets them up to do exactly 
that. 

The Irish travel to league 
bottom-feeder South Florida 
this weekend and then head 
up to Chicago to face DePaul 
next week. Then they return 
home to face Providence. 
Each of those games is 
winnable, and even if they 
go 2-1 they'll still be in good 
shape at 8-4. 
After that, Notre Dame 
travels to struggling 
Cincinnati and plays DePaul 
again, this time at home, 
before a show down with 
Marquette at the Joyce 
Center Feb. 24. 
Once again, 2-1 is likely, leaving the Irish at 10-5 with only the league finale against Rutgers left. · If Notre Dame can contin­ue to play the way they did Tuesday, 11-5 and a first round conference tourney bye are also likely. A 13-3 conference record isn't out of the question either. 
Regardless, the win over Syracuse was a huge step forward toward the pro­gram's first NCAA Tournament appearance since 2003. 
Not bad for a young team that was expected to strug­gle to reach the NIT level of the past few seasons. 
Not bad for a team that had to deal with the suspen­sion of its starting point guard and has its most experienced big man hob­bling. 
Not bad for a team that couldn't win on the road. Not bad at all. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd. edu. 

Wednesday, January 31, 2007 The Observer +SPORTS page 21 


I believe that 
talented people make 
all the difference n1 
the \vorld. 
One of the bcs. things ! like. abtmr working 
at Enterprise. is that there~s so rnuch focu~ 
on everyone's individual abihtie.s and 
achieven1\.:.nb. It all ha~ to do ·with an 
nvcrriding entrepreneurial philosophy that 
sows that )'! 'ur :·>uco.··:ss is n11ty up to yPu. 
1'his mt~ans rhat rht•re ·s no ~_')nt:: standard 
1t also n1can::> that f.'tn \\"nrking alongs.i.de and learning dil1erent things from a wide group of talented people eve<y day. It's great to be at a cotupan:y where everybody's differences ·-whether they be bt.Sine>S philosophies or cultur<1l ideals ... ;me not only accepted, they're parr of rhc very fabric <)four su<.ccess.. 

What company best 
n~presents me? 

\Vc ;.ue <.m equal opportunity empluyer. M/F/D/\~ I bdieve this one. 
For all of your skin care & hair remova'l 
needs tome to our South Bend location 
'. just a couple miles from campus on North Michigan street Peggy is a Lkensed Aesthetkian and specializes in Bikini, Brazilian, and full leg wax. From lip to leg, Peggy will have your skin feeling smooth and soft so you are ready to hit the BEACH! 
Peggy is available 
• Monday -FridayPeggy Dibble 9am-5pm Aesthetician 
"Saturday 8:30am -12:30pm 
Call Peggy TODAY! 
574.282.2020 
...and don't forget to mention this ad!! 
& FACIAL PLASTIC SUHGERY 
401 N. Michigan St South Bendt IN 574.282.2020 

AP Irish guard Russell Carter holds the ball in the first half of Notre Dame's 103-91 win over Syracuse Tuesday. 
Juiced 
continued from page 24 

three-pointers in the first half. 
The Orange (15-7, 4-4 Big East) answered with a 9-2 run to cut the Irish lead to two, but Syracuse's defense could not stop the red-hot Irish, who played without starting forward Rob Kurz (sprained ankle). Falls, for­ward Ryan Ayers and guard Jonathan Peoples each con-. nected from beyond the arc to increase Notre Dame's lead to 43-30 with 6:13 left in the half. 
"If we didn't have anything in transition we were really smart offensively. We only had two turnovers at half­time," Brey said. "We didn't force anything in transition. On the road, in the past, we had done that." 
After missing their first three attempts beyond the arc, the Irish connected on 10 of their next 14, forcing Syracuse out of their tradi­tional 2-3 zone and into a man-to-man defense. 
Despite the adjustment, Notre Dame was able to score 18 points off of Syracuse turnovers and ended the half leading 61­42. 
"Notre Dame is a very good shooting team and we had to play ·them man-to­man," Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said in his post­game press conference. "It was very disappointing." 
Halftime did little to cool down the Irish. 
A jump shot by forward Ryan Ayers gave Notre Dame a 79-55 lead with 10:51 left in the game. Even though this was Notre Dame's final field goal of the game, solid free throw shooting down the stretch helped the Irish stave off a late Syracuse run. 
The Irish shot 30-of-36 from the charity stripe for 
the game, led by point guard Tory Jackson's 11-of-14 per­formance. 
"We should be doing that from the foul line," B r e y said. 
Syracuse guard Eric Devendorf did not help the cause for the Orange, shoot­ing 0-of-11 from the field. 
Syracuse's defensive pres­sure stifled Notre Dame and allowed the Orange to cut the Irish lead to 90-79 with 
3:07 remaining. The Orange would double-team the first Irish player to touch the ball inbounds while Jackson, Notre Dame's main ball han­dler, waited around half court for passes that never made it to him. 
Notre Dame adjusted by moving Jackson up into the front line of Syracuse's pres­sure and was able to break the press forcing Syracuse to foul. The Irish drained 13 of their next 14 free throws to seal the victo­ry. 
Jackson finished with 19 points and seven assists. Harangody contributed a team-high 23 points and 13 rebounds while Hillesland added 14 points, 10 boards and six assists. The big men also combined to shoot 11­of-12 from the line. 
"Harangody and Hillesland look like All-Americans instead of first-year play­ers," Boeheim said. 
Carter scored 18 points while Fails poured in 16 points with most of those coming in the first half when the two combined for eight three-pointers. 
Syracuse forward Demetris Nichols had 29 points while forward Terrence Roberts added 20. 
Notre Dame hits the road again to take on South Florida Saturday. The Irish defeated the Bulls 82-58 last Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

... 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 31, 2007 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
last faced the Belles in early 
January. Saint Mary's (8-10, 
7-4 MIAA) struggled from the 
floor, hitting only 31 percent 
of its shots en route to a 82­
63 loss at Olivet. 
Saint Mary's recent success 
gives the Belles hope against 
a talented Olivet squad. 
"[We] have become better 
shooters as a team," Belles 
coach Jennifer Henley said. 
"But we have got to shut 
them down. We have our 
hands full." 
The Belles will need a well­rounded effort to avoid a repeat from their last contest against the Comets. In the first game against Olivet, jun­ior guard Allison Kessler scored 30 points, recorded five steals and hit 13-of-14 from the line. She was 8-of­15 from the field, but the rest of the team only made 25 percent of their shots. 
"These kids are starting to step up and it takes pressure off of Kessler," Henley said. "We still need to work for better shots." 
The Belles have worked on rebounding and defense in practice this week to gain a physical edge. 
"There's no reason we should be out rebounded with our size and speed," Henley said. "We've been working on closing out so there aren't any wide open shots from the help side. [Olivet forward Stephanie] Smith hit wide­open thr(:les last time we played." 
Today's matchup will be one of youth versus experi­ence. Olivet has seven seniors and two juniors on their ros­ter. The Belles are a much younger team, with only two seniors and one junior. 
When the Belles have been successful this year they have received help from freshman center Anna Kammrath, freshman guard Patty Duffy and sophomore forward Erin Newsome. It is when Saint Mary's relies solely on upper­classman primarily Kessler or senior point guard Bridgett Lipke -that the team struggles. 
Newsome was key in Belles' victories over Alma and Tri­State last week and was named MIAA player of the week Jan. 21-28. In those two games she averaged 22 points, including her career high of 30 in Saturday's win against Tri-State. On Saturday Newsom posted her third double-double of the season and is now averaging 
11.2 points and 7.3 rebounds per contest. 
"Erin has really improved this year," Henley said. "I think her biggest improve­ment has come on the defen­sive end." 
Henley noted that Newsome's accomplishments were especially impressive considering that she runs cross country for Saint Mary's. The basketball sea­son and the cross country season overlap, as cross­country competition inter­feres with the beginning of the basketball season. 
"We get her late and she has to work twice as hard just to catch up," said Henley. 
Saint Mary's and Olivet face off at 7:30p.m. in the Angela Athletic facility. 
Contact Dan Cooper at dcooper 1 @nd.edu 
tinue that success against the Panthers. 
Against Big 
"/feel really good 

East opponents, 
Barlow has aver­about the psyche of aged 9.3 points the team right per game while 
now.

Lechlitner has 8.2 points, 3.4 assists and only 1 Muffett McGraw turnover per 
Irish coach 
game. 

"They've been playing great, all three of them," McGraw said getting twenty points and fif­of her freshmen. "We teen rebounds between the outscored Connecticut's two of them." bench, and we've outscored a Walker is one of three play­lot of teams' [benches] that ers for the Panthers scoring in we've played. I couldn't be double figures, along with happier with how the fresh­sophomore guards Shavonte men are coming along, so Zellous (19.6) and Xenia hopefully they continue to Stewart (11. 9). play well and keep getting "They have three big scor­better." ers. So we're going to be test­
Williamson plays a different ed again, as we were at role for the Irish this season Connecticut and I think we than her fellow freshmen, as handled that well," McGraw she comprises one-half of said. "Hopefully we'll be able 
CHARISMATIC RENEWAL AT NOTRE DAME 
The story, personal witness. papal teaching 
Wednesday, Jan. 31 7:00 PM 116 DeBartolo 

"I expect a lit­tle bit more [from the cen­ters]." McGraw said. "I think we got a good dou­ble-double in most of the games, and then we tapered off with Marquette and Connecticut. So we need to get back to where we're 
ATIJSciNAi~OsEme Observer Irish guard Ashley Barlow drives against Indiana guard Nikki Smith in a 54-51 loss to the Hoosiers Dec. 3. 
to identify the shooters and be 
able to find them, and work to · keep Walker ofT the boards." 
But for McGraw the key to 
the game will be to correct 
the team's offensive struggles. 
"I just think we feel good 
about the offense in terms of 
execution," she said. "I think 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
for more information about the Peace Corps, visit www.peacecorps.gov or call 312.353.4990 
we have to set better screens and get a really good shot so that everybody feels that we are accomplishing something. · We're executing; the shots just aren't dropping." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Panthers 
continued from page 24 
look to score. I think they are trying to score." 
Freshmen guards Lechlitner and Barlow along with fresh­men center Erica Williamson have been crucial to the team's success this season. McGraw hopes they will con­Notn~ Dame's center tandem with junior Melissa D'Amico. 

The duo averages a com­bined 16.4 points per game and 11.5 rebounds per game, helping provide the Irish with a strong presence in the post. But against Pittsburgh, the Irish will see a tough opposing center -Marcedes Walker. Walker averages 14.9 points and 8.8 rebounds this season to go with her 18 blocks. 
... 

Wednesday, January 31, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 
0\-\  '/ Elt-1-1.  1\" 5  />..  \  At-\  I WA.r-:r1'  'lou.  "lo  ~lr-JU"  
NEw  SE..t>..E-~"f'E~,  INtctlll CA<t'..D  uP  -ri-IE.SE  .-n4~€.€  
IWo  \  fu..:c.H P.. "'i.lNI:r"  So'1'1"LE:>  ov:  t)tE..T  <:-o~€.  
C:rE..T A. -n.or-1"4 At:.HE:.. 


PowE.P,.. 

BLAcK DoG 
'OA:<..r~ of(: 

I'LL f'cz.o~ASL'j Ca-lSUME... 
Of' -n-\E..'S.E. "ToNI\.21-\1 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
LIAMMORAN 

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  34 Like this clue's  60 Tuckered out  
Madrid museum  answer, in five  61 Boxer's  
6 Wear at the  letters  annoyance  
edges  35 Factory whistle  62 Ladies' men  
10 Radio switch 14 Break of day 15 Wrestling ring encloser 16 Shopaholic's delight  time 36 brat 37 Words of apology ­40 Slippery swimmers  not!  63 Cultural doings 64 Burg 65 Popular theater name DOWN 

41 Seas of France 

17 Words of 1 Pitchfork­
42 Neuters

admiration -shaped letters 
43 Plus-or-minus

not! 2 Reddish-brown
fig.

20 Hang around 3 Tolstoy's
44 Dated Karenina21 Architectural 45 Classic street

molding 4 "O.K., back to
liners work"22 Bookish sort, 46 Managed care

slangily 5 Make a choice 
grps.23 Trucker on the 6 Frankincense
48 Creole 

air and myrrh, but
vegetable not gold25 Shea squad · 50 New driver, 7 Memorization.26 Company frequently aArea that maywhose name is 51 Fabled race 

have stained

pig Latin for an loser insect 
glass
53 Final Four org. 9 "Uh-huh"28 Hearth refuse 57 Words of 10 Racecourse31 Item with a congratulation since 1711

concave head -not! 11 Hardly ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE revolutionary':"T.,..,....,...,..,., 12 A lot of beef? ~~:-:+.=-! 13 Funnyman Brooks ~~:-+:="'! 18 Tiller's tool _.lllllt::-:-t-:~~+=-t-:-1 19 Lady bighorns 24 Memory unit 25 Selection screen 26 They're carried by people in masks 27 Pull off a high­risk feat 29 Goes bad 30 Company publication 32 TV trophies 
WILLSHORTZ 

33 Centers, of  47 Gymnastics  54 French film  
sorts 34 -'Pea  competitions 49 Something under the  55 Camera setting 56 Part of P.G.A.:  
36 According to  counter that  Abbr.  
schedule 38 Short holiday?  puts people under the table  57 Eddie Gottlieb Trophy org. 
50 Level  
39 PC person  51 Hawaii's  58 Commonly  
44 Early video  Bay  59 Prima donna's  
game  52 From the top  problem  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 
··~rd!l; ''$ I Ju~.· ~
· · 
1 
AnS?.r&: 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Khleo Thomas, 18; Wilmer Valderrama, 27; Christian Bale, 33; Phil Collins, 56 
Happy Birthday: Act on your intuition not your emotions this year. Changes with regard to your vocation or financial situation appear to be positive, if you are willing to take action and make the necessary moves. This is not the year to ponder what to do next but, instead, a time to push forward. Your numbers are 10, 16, 22, 28, 31,35 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You may have to juggle things around to appease someone you care about. Emotional matters will escalate if you aren't willing to back down or at least compromise. Pick and choose your battles wisely. ** TAURUS (Aprll20-May 20): Be careful today because someone is likely to call your blutT or ask you to follow through. Have everything in order before you proclaim that you can do things. Your timing must be impeccable. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone may try to make some underhanded moves but, as long as you are aware of it, you should be able to keep things in order. Don't overreact. Facts will be what count. *** CANCER (June 21.July 22): Aggression may not be the way you handle matters but, today, you will need to put a little force behind your ideas and actions. A problem with someone you work with can be worked out but not if you back down. Change will be necessary. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A business trip or meeting will pay off. You will have the upper hand and be able to put a deal you've been working on to rest. Don't fool yourself, however, into thinking the. work is done. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Diversify today if you want things to pan out. Use your imagination and you will get far better results. A love connection can be made or a relationship taken to the next level. A change in your status is apparent. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let your emotions cloud your vision, causing you to make a poor decision that will influence your future. Prepare to take a rather unusual approach to get to where you want to go. It's the element of surprise that will count.** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll do far better with acquaintances than you will with close friends and family. Get out on the road and make your rounds. Present and promote today and you will prosper--but don't offer more than you have to. 
***** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Talk is cheap but, if done properly, it can get you· what you want. Use your imagination and paint a scenario that is attractive to others and you will win a position that will help you get ahead. Change will come to you if you have presented your case well. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may feel pulled in two different directions emotionally. State your case rather than letting your stress levels increase. A romantic relationship can tum into something very special. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Now is a good time to take care of matters that are affecting your work. So much will depend on how you present yourself to others today. Be sure to stay within the boundary set by society if you want to excel. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Focus on someone you want to spend more time with. A chance to develop a creative idea you have is possible. Children can influence your decision. Don't get angry with someone who is trying to help you. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are independent but sensitive to the needs of others. You can take advantage of any situation that arises. You are quick and intelligent and have great vision. You are charismatic and popular. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for corifidential consultations 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THA! SCRAMSLF:OWOR'P OAME 
b~ ~nrilmw.ld lf!nd Mliltu l!ofli!it«mo 
'NHAT THF. CA?Thl\N G:PKE il-it: ~1\' 
Ht:l-MSMt.N. 
~lftli 01rr.:~~ngli' lhi;o qn;:l"d I~Jt:nn; tOlOH!ll:f%, iM'OlOO !11\6~. 86 i!U~sled ltr ~ aoo.-e tat!J.X.,n. 
{AJW<~~.•<MS 'klrmrnw) 

t)fli!Bl THAC'f i«LOf'liD DtSt.'l>\Y Wflern tim i:lur !<f'~ "~'"~nt 'kl VIDIO\' 'tho .roa !llOimmW!i = ·'f'Hif ·<me~ Stoe 
EUGENIA LAST 

•
/ 
-------------~----------------------------., 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, January 31, 2007 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
61 points in the first half propel Irish to win at Carrier Dome 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Notre Dame forwards Luke Harangody and Zach Hillesland each had a dou­ble-double as the Irish exploded for a 61-point first half. snapped their season­long road losing streak and defeated Syracuse 103-91 Tuesday at the Carrier Dome. 
"We've been searching for a road league win," Irish coach Mike Brey said in his post-game press conference. 
"This is  a  nice way to start  
it off."  
Early  in  the  first  half,  

Notre Dame (18-4, 6-3 Big East) opened up a 28-19 lead, thanks to the sharp shooting of guards Russell Carter and Colin Falls. The two combined for eight 
see JUICED/page 21 

Orange juiced 
Irish accumulating solid record as they close in on postseason 
This was a game Notre Dame wasn't supposed to win. 
Despite being ranked No. 19 in one poll and No. 21 in another, the Irish went into Tuesday's contest against Syracuse with several rather large monkeys on their back. 
They had­n't won a true road game all season. 
They hadn't won in the Carrier Dome since forward Rob Kurz was in high school. 

And they hadn't won back to back games since Jan. 14. 
see RESUME/page 20 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Pittsburgh concludes three-gatne trip for ND 
McGraw "feels good" about team's psyche despite dropping two consecutive games 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles to face rival Comets 
Saint Mary's carries three-game win streak into Olivet rematch 
By DAN COOPER Sports Writer 
The Belles look to extend their three-game win streak to four games today -and get some revenge for a lop­sided loss to Olivet earlier this season as well. 
Saturday's win at Tri-State may have been just the confi­dence boost the Belles need­ed as they prepare to face rival Olivet. 
The Comets -who are 9-8 overall and 6-4 in the MIAA -had no trouble when they 
see BELLES/page 22 


By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
Despite having lost back-to­hack games for the first time this season, Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw remains confident in her team's abil­
The Irish (13-7, 4-3 Big East) will wrap up a three game road trip against the Panthers (15-5, 3-4), a team that until a 51-50 loss to Seton Hall Saturday was ranked in the top 25 of both polls. 
In Notre Dame's previous two games, one of the main 
ity to per­
problems was its inability to form well establish a rhythm offensive­tonight at ly, pressuring guard Charel Pittsburgh Allen -the team's leading at 7 p.m. scorer -to put the scoring 
"I feel on her shoulders. But Allen really good only "shot 8-of-37 in the two about the losses and received little help psyche of from her teammates offen­
the team Allen right now," she said. "We had a good practice yesterday. I think we know we played better against Connecticut than against Marquette. 
"I think that's going to be key to see how determined we are and· how we can bounce back after two loss­es." 
sively. 

"I talked to Charel about her role, basically, and it's not her job to carry the team," McGraw said. "So we are encouraging, without changing anything, encour­aging Melissa Lechlitner and Breonna [Gray] and Ashley [Barlow] and everyone to 
see PANTHERS/page 21 
f
'. 
I • 
Nfl 

SPORT BALl
en 
MLB 
SPORT
SPORT 
SPORT 
(.) Outfielder Barry 

Rex Grossman and 
Linebacker Brian 
Wizards 104 

Cavaliers 124 
Knicks 99

1--w z 
Bonds signs one-year, 

Peyton Manning get set 
U rlacher discusses his 
Pistons 99 

Warriors 97 
Lakers 94 
$15.8 million contract 

to square off in the 
long road to the NFL at 
Forward Gilbert 

Cleveland wins in a 
Eddy Curry scores 27

cc :3 

Super Bowl. 
Super Bowl Media Day.
with Giants. 

= Arenas scores 36 points 
blowout despite playing 
points and grabs nine 
as Washington wins the 

without superstar 
rebounds to lead host
cc 
first-place showdown. . 

LeBron James. 
New York. 
=c 
page 16 
page 16
page 16
page 19 
page 18 

page 18 






