
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 104 THURSDAY, MARCH 22,2007 
STUDENT SENATE 

Jenkins fields questions from group 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
University President Father John Jenkins ended an after­noon that included open office hours by visiting the Student Senate Wednesday, giving mem­bers the opportunity to ask questions about topics ranging from tuition increases to research. 
Jenkins opened the floor for discussion and told senators he appreciated their work as rep­resentatives of the student body. 
"Please know that your work is important and we value it, and whatever you say we will listen to it," Jenkins said. "We many not agree with everything you say but we will listen to you." 
Welsh Family senator Mary Popit asked Jenkins for his thoughts on a resolution the Senate passed two weeks ago, which urged the University to add sexual orientation to its anti-discriminatory clause. 
Jenkins said he had not yet 
see JENKINS/page 4 


ACE teacher, alum meets with First Lady 
Class of 2005 grad discusses state of schools post-Katrina with Laura Bush 
try -Stowe has spent nearly two years in Pascagoula, Miss., where she has helped those struggling in the after­math of Hurricane Katrina. 
A year and a half after the hurricane, Stowe is a few months away from ending her term in Mississippi. Schools and students along the Gulf Coast continue to strug­gle, Stowe said, and First Lady Laura Bush recent­ly assessed the state of schools and the obstacles they still face. 
Stowe said Bush's sec­retary called her person­ally to invite her to meet 
see STOWE/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Cathedral High gives upNDlogo 
Use of Leprechaun violated trademark 
By KATIE KOHLER 
Saint Mary's Editor 
After almost 90 years of using Notre Dame's Leprechaun logo, Cathedral High School in Indianapolis is changing its image -a move strongly supported by Cathedral's principal, if not its alumni. 
Cathedral, whose students have been known as the Fighting Irish since the school's founding in 1918, will no longer be permitted to use the Leprechaun logo due to the University's allegation of trade­mark infringement. 
An Indianapolis Star article published on March 16 said Cathedral will stop using the logo, much to the chagrin of many alumni who feel "dis­owned by their own family," as Mary Boyle, president of the Cathedral Alumni Association, told the Star. 
Dave Worland, Cathedral High School principal, had a more optimistic view of the sit­uation. 
"I can understand why some people are upset because it has been part of our identity for so long," he said in a telephone interview with The Observer. 
Worland said he has not experienced any backlash from the students and sees the situ­ation as a positive one. 
"The students think it is 
see LOGO/page 8 

Irish tnascot cotnpetes on SpikeTV progratn 
ByJENN METZ News Writer 
Just because Notre Dame's basketball season has come to an end doesn't mean that Leprechaun Kevin Braun's duties are over. Tonight, the senior will be featured in a special college mascot edition of SpikeTV's "Pros vs. Joes 2" -potentially the last time he will be seen in the green suit. 
Braun, along with Penn State's Nittany Lion Dave Johnson and Wisconsin's Bucky Badger Sky Halverson, flew to California to film the episode last December on an all-expenses paid trip. 
Preparation began early last fall when Notre Dame cheer­leading coach Jo Minton told Braun he had an offer to be on the show, which airs at 10 
p.m. tonight. With the help of his fellow cheerleaders, Braun prepared an audition video that showcased him playing basketball and football around campus. 
Braun said the show usually puts three regular "Joes"-in this case, the mascots -with varied athletic skills up against retired professional athletes, or "Pros," in their respective sports. 
While the three mascots signed documents that forbid them to discuss the results of the contest, Braun said keep­ing that information from family, roommates and team­mates "has been pretty diffi­
see BRAUN/page 8 

Panel evaluates Honor Code 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
Academic integrity is an essential aspect of Notre Dame's mission, and students, faculty and administrators share the responsibility of upholding the Honor Code, a three-person panel said Wednesday. 
University Vice President and Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs, philosophy professor Bill Ramsey and senior Sarah Glatt spoke to about 30 people at this semester's second-to-last Theology on Tap event, "To Cheat or Not to Cheat: The Academic Honor Code." 
The issue of academic integrity "really cuts right to the heart of the University," Jacobs said, citing a phrase in Notre Dame's mission statement requiring members of the community to "seek and share truth for its own sake." 
Jacobs said the Undergraduate 
see CHEATING/page 10 


Professor Bill Ramsey, right, discusses cheating with Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs and senior Sarah Glatt Wednesday. 

By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Notre Dame alumna Liz Stowe has had her fair share of extraordinary experiences in recent years, including living 
through  Hurricane  
Katrina  as  a  second  
grade  teacher  in  

Mississippi. She can add meeting the First Lady to her list. 
A second-year partici­pant in Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) program -a two-year post-grad­uate service program that allows participants to teach in Catholic schools across the coun­

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, March 22, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Squirrels are evil 

If there's one thing that I have learned while at Notre Dame, it doesn't have to do with theology or English. It's not about friendship or religion, life, work, society or univer­sity life. It has nothing to do Chris McGrady with relation­ships, truth, faith, 
Assistant
imagination or 

Scene Editor 
the development of a viable skill set that will help me in the real world. It's simply that squirrels are evil. 
Yeah, I said it. These furry fiends attack at a moment's notice and the truth is that the squirrels of Notre Dame are multiplying. 
Yeah, you know the ones -the obese little fluff-balls that roam this campus like bloodthirsty scavengers. They are growing in numbers by the day. In their plot to control the foot­ball team, run the dining halls and disrupt the campus sprinkler sys­tems, the squirrels require a large amount of funding. To defray the cost, these beasts seek monetary "donations" obtained largely through armed robbery of helpless North Face wearing, iPod-toting students. 
To help avoid these surprisingly carnivorous beasts. I'd like to make you aware of a few of their strate­gies for overtaking the common stu­dent. Remember. knowing your enemy is key to survival. 
The first tactic is called the "wolf pack." In this strategy, the squirrels attack in large numbers, sometimes 40 or 50 deep. They overtaken the victim by sheer force and drag them off to their secret lair (thought to be somewhere in South Dining Hall). 
Another tactic often employed by these animal assassins is the "kitty coup." Only certain squirrels are able to pull this off, but given the large size of these monsters, it can be done. A particularly chunky squirrel is outfitted with a cat collar and poses on the quad as a harmless feline friend. The unsuspecting vic­tim approaches the "cat" and is quickly subdued by a strong tran­quilizer stolen from the chemistry lab. Hours later, the injured party awakens frightened, alone, and 100 Flex Points poorer. These creatures will show no mercy. 
In addition to the large possum or "cat-like" squirrels, there is another variety called sprinters. These small­er, more agile creatures dupe their victims with exceptional speeq. 
As one undisclosed junior says, "Those squirrels are quick as [exple­tive]. They'll run up your pant leg and take you down." 
This is not an exaggeration -this is the plain and simple truth. Try out running these speedsters and you'll find yourself on the wrong end of a squirrel showdown. 
Until NDSP starts an initiative to help control the squirrel population, it is necessary to become educated about the dangers of these horrific brutes. This may seem ridiculous to you, but when you see one of these fatal mammalian creatures approaching you, you'll know to be on your guard. 
Contact Chris McGrady at 
cmcgrad 1 @nd. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU THINK THE WARM WEATHER WILL LAST? 









David Wilkerson Kate Kinasz Patricia Wilbur Jenny Plagman Lauren Pienn Ted Lee 
sophomore freshman freshman freshman senior freshman Carroll BP McGlinn BP Lyons Alumni 
"Absolutely not. "Of course. It's "Of course, or at '7 don't know, "No, that would "Hell yeah, I'm We live in South always hot least I hope so. " but I hope it be too good to going to hang 
Bend." when I'm snows soon." around." 

KATE FENLONfThe Observer 

Saint Mary's president Carol Ann Mooney, right, and philosophy professor Patricia Sayre, second from right, speak to two Saint Mary's students before the College's "Women Honoring Women" event Wednesday night. 
OFFBEAT 
Man gets probation for dead deer sex 
SUPERIOR, Wis. -A 20­year-old man received pro­bation after he was convict­ed of having sexual contact with a dead deer. The sen­tence also requires Bryan James Hathaway to be eval­uated as a sex offender and treated at the Institute for Psychological and Sexual Health in Duluth, Minn. 
Hathaway's probation will be served at the same time as a nine-month jail sen­tence he received in February for violating his extended supervision. 
He was found guilty in April 2005 of felony mis­treatment of an animal after he killed a horse with the intention of having sex with it. He was sentenced to 18 months in jail and two years of extended supervision on that charge as well as six years of probation for taking and driving a vehicle with­out the owner's consent. 
Man in WWII uniform attacks 2 at museum 
McMINNVILLE, Ore. -A man dressed in a World War II military uniform attacked two employees at the Evergreen Aviation Museum this week, police said. McMinnville Police Capt. Dennis Marks said Gerald Lahey, a transient, broke into the rear of the building and smashed the glass panel of a display case. He then removed the coat, hat and pants from a World War II uniform and put them on. 
Lahey was inside when operations director Phillip Jeager, 33, of McMinnville and cafe manager Cheryl McKay, 62, of Sheridan arrived for work Monday morning. Marks said Lahey punched Jeager several times and bit McKay. 
Neither employee required hospitalization. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
U.l 
::::c 
~ 
::U.l ...I 
<C 
(.) 



57 HIGH 62 40 LOW 45 
0 
HIGH 65 HIGH 55
...I 
LOW 42 LOW 42 

be true." out with Kate Kinasz." 
IN BRIEF 

The 2007 Natural Law Lecture, entitled "Why I Am (Almost) a Natural Lawyer," will be given by John Gardner, Professor of Jurisprudence from the University of Oxford at 4 p.m. today in the Notre Dame Law School Courtroom. 
John Bruton, the EU ambas­sador to the United States, will speak about "The Future of 
Economic  and  Political  
Helations  between  the  
European  Union  and  the  

United States" today at 4:30 
p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
As part of the Nanovic Institute film series: "Terrorism: Perspectives from European Cinema," the film "Battle of Algiers" will be shown tonight at 7 and 10 in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents. 
Clayton Eshleman, professor emeritus of English at Eastern Michigan University, and poet Johannes Goransson will give a poetry reading tonight at 
7:30 in the Reekers Hospitality Room. 
The Class of 2008 presents Irish Idol tonight at 10 in Legends. 
Men's baseball will play South Florida Friday at 5:05 
p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. For tickets, call the Athletic Department's ticket office at 631-7356. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 65 HIGH 53 LOW 42 LOW 45 
Thursday, March 22, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Center holds annual luncheon 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
With former Notre Dame football star Mike Golic as its keynote speaker, the annual Nose-On Luncheon raised an estimated $70,000 Wednesday for the Logan Center, a developmental­disorder support organi­zation in South Bend. 
Organizers hoped the event, more than just a fundraiser, served as a way to increase aware­ness of developmental disorders in the commu­nity. 
During his speech, Golic emphasized the importance of sports in the life of those who are helped by the Logan Center. 
The Logan Center serves individuals with developmental disabili­ties in all stages of life. It also provides resources for individuals and their families and advocates for developmental dis­ability awareness, but is not an institutional set­ting with caregivers. 
Golic told the audience that the biggest smile that he ever wore -­when he ran out of the tunnel as a Notre Dame football player --could not compare to the smiles he saw on Logan Center clients Wednesday morning at the "Breakfast of green noses to fundraise Champions," at which for the Logan Center this sports enthusiasts had month. Students from the breakfast and talked to Stanley Clark Elementary the ESPN personality. School, which sold the 
The positive reaction of most noses of any area the Logan "Champions" school, were invited to at the breakfast remind­attend the luncheon ed Golic that "sports are Wednesday. a good thing" and that More than 600 commu­they are nity members capable of volunteer at helping the Logan
"ft,s a wonderful

people feel Center every h a p p y thing they,re year, and about life, many of the
doing and we can 

he said. helpers come
keep it going. ,,

Golic said from Notre the most Dame and important Mike Golic Saint Mary's, thing for according to
keynote speaker 

the  public  
to  remem­ 
ber  is  to  
remain  aware  of  the  
efforts  at  the  Logan  

Center. 

"It's a wonderful thing they're doing and we can keep it going," he said. 
Like many support groups, the most impor­tant thing the Logan Center provides is hope, Logan CEO Dan Harshman said. 
The Logan Center maintained a focus on community awareness in March, which is Disability Awareness Month. Next week the center will welcome hun­dreds of fifth graders to tour the facilities and see the equipment. 
The trip is a reward for the students who sold 
A n n 
Lagomarcino 
of the Logan Center. 
Logan Center volun­teers do a variety of work, ranging from serv­ing as board members, working on committees, planning fundraisers and working directly with individuals. 
In addition to volun" teers, the Logan Center is always in need of mone­tary donations. 
"It's always a stretch for us," Lagomarcino said of the center's finances. "Government funding never meets our needs and we always struggle to reach more people." 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 

Professor honored by women of Saint Mary's 
By MANDl STIRONE 
News Writer 

Susan Latham, professor of commu­nicative disorders, received the "Women Honoring Women" award Wednesday night during Saint Mary's fifth annual Women Honoring Women ceremony. 
Latham was joined by fellow final­ists women's studies professor Astrid Henry and education professor Nancy Turner, who were selected from sev­eral nominees by the Student Academic Council (SAC), said event organizer Maggie Siefert, student body vice president and SAC coordi­nator. 
Siefert said the ceremony was expanded this year to include the stu­dents who nominated the finalists. Originally only SAC members, a pro­fessor of her choice and two students chosen from every department were invited, as well as the nominees and their husbands, Siefert said. 
"We are just excited that it is an ongoing event that has become a tra­dition to celebrate the great women of Saint Mary's," she said. 
The event, a formal dinner, began with a "cocktail hour" and then a din­ner, after which the students who nominated Latham, Turner and Henry each read their nomination presenta­tions. 
Senior Grace Guebert nominated Henry for being an outstanding edu­cator as well as a mentor and friend, she said in her speech. She described Henry as having "great respect for the women of the college." Guebert talked about Henry's warm smile and "open, understanding nature," going on-to call her a "sister to all the women of Saint Mary's." She also shared a per­sonal account of how welcome Henry made her feel during Guebert's first year. 
Next, senior Erin Turner read her nomination of Nancy Turner for "put­ting her whole heart into her work," and being a role model for her stu­dents. Erin Turner spoke about how Nancy Turner is organized and effi­cient in everything she does and is someone who has good moral quali­ties. She also spoke about the new program in Special Education Nancy Turner is working on. 
Senior Jessica Andrusiak then took the podium to speak about Latham. She said she was "blessed to be in her class," and talked about Latham's cru­cial research and development of a speech communicative disorders major at Saint Mary's. Andrusiak also said how responsive and enthusiastic Latham is during classes, sometimes bringing her students bagels. 
Siefert then took the podium along with last year's award recipient, Mary Ann Merryman, to announce the win­ner. 
After the announcement, a choked up Latham spoke of arriving at Saint Mary's 20 years ago as a student and how the campus was filled with "so many amazing women." Latham then went on to say how blessed she felt because she was still a part of the col­lege. 
"I just feel grateful everyday that I get to come and work here," she said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Its a whole new place! New local ownership & management -Newly remodeled for 2007 -2008 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
4 2 4 N. Frances Street 

• 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 

• 
Off-Street Parking 

• 
Washer and Dryer 

• 
Dishwasher 

• 
Central Air 

• 
Security System 



Renting fast-call today for 2007-2008 


Contact Kramer at (574J 315-5032 or (574J 234-2436 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 22, 2007 
through the University's endow­Nonetheless, he said the prob­study halls, we will be able to mentally-friendly building. ment and various benefactors. lem of debt for graduates who create study space and we will Keough senator Brian
Jenkins 

But, Jenkins said. the high  go into service is a  dilemma  be able to bring in transfer stu­ Corrigan asked Jenkins how, in  
continued from page 1  price of attending Notre Dame is a good investment.  that warrants more attention. Giving people access to better  dents," Jenkins said. Howard senator  Analise  Notre Dame's pursuit to improve its reputation as a  
seen the recommendation but  "If you  are going to spend  living areas is another topic  Lipari, who is also an Observer  research institution, it could  
that he is committed to support­ money on anything, it's not a  Jenkins addressed. Judicial  assistant Scene editor, asked  avoid diminishing its dedication  
ing people of all sexual orienta­ bad investment," he said.  Council  presi- Jenkins about  to undergraduate education.  
tions and encouraging that they  Jenkins pointed out that the  dent I.iz Kozlow  the low grade  Jenkins said Notre Dame will  
be treated with respect and not excluded or ridiculed in any way. He said concerns could arise  earning power of a person with a college degree -and espe­cially a person with a Notre Dame degree -is, on average,  asknd Jenkins what the priori­ties are for new residence halls  "The problem with non­discrimination against sexual orientation is  Notre Dame recently received from the Sustainable  not lose its dedication to under­graduate education, even as it pushes for more research achievements.  
with the statement, however. "The problem with non-dis­crimination against sexual ori­entation is it's sometimes not clear what that means," he said. "What am I committing to when I am committing to that?"  thousands of dollars a year more than a person without a degree. But a Notre Dame degree does not necessarily translate into a large salary, Morrissey senator Greg Dworjan said. He  -whether they are to increase the student body population or to make the cur­rent halls less crowded.  it's sometimes not clear what that means. What am I committing to when I am committing to that?"  E n d o w m e n t Institute. In its annual College Sustainability Report Card, which covers environmental  "Insofar as we are better at research, we are better at undergraduate education," Jenkins said. "If you look at the [teacher course evaluations]. it's often the case that people who are strong at research are good  
Fisher senator Drew Clary  asked Jenkins how students  Jenkins said  and  endow­ teachers too. I don't think they  
touched on another controver­ who plan to go into careers in  the addition of  Father John Jenkins  ment practices,  are in opposition to each other."  
sial topic when he cited the announcement made in  education and government can afford these lower-paying jobs  new residence halls is not  University president  the institute gave Notre  In other Senate news:  
February that tuition would  with thousands of dollars of  meant  to  Dame  a  D­ 
climb  5.4 percent  - up  to  debt from a Notre Dame educa­ increase the number of students  minus ­ the lowest grade given  + The Senate unanimously  
$35,187 for the 2007-08 school  tion.  admitted to the University.  in the survey.  approved Student Union Board  
year. Clary asked Jenkins if  The  University  gives  out  "This  may  shock  you,"  Jenkins said environmental  manager Patrick Vassel as this  
there were any plans to "put the  financial aid in  an effort to  Jenkins quipped, "but some of  concerns are issues Notre Dame  year's recipient of the Michael J.  
brakes  on"  future  tuition  make a four-year education at  our dorms are crowded."  needs to tackle.  Palumbo award, which annually  
increases.  Notre Dame affordable, which  Compared to other colleges,  "It's something that we need  honors an undergraduate stu­ 
Jenkins agreed with Clary  makes the school more accessi­ Notre Dame's residence hall  to continue to reflect on and  dent for his or her dedication  
that tuition is expensive, but  ble for people of varying eco­ system has become overcrowd­ address in an appropriate way,"  and  service  to  the  Student  
said  even  the high price to  nomic brackets, Jenkins said.  ed and students need  more  he said.  Union.  
attend Notre Dame does not  "I know it's still not cheap, but  space, he said.  Jenkins said the new engi­ 
fully pay for everything. Instead,  at least it gives people access,"  "[With the  new residence  neering building should meet  Contact Kaitlynn Riely at  
he said, the balance is achieved  he said.  halls]. we will be able to create  certain criteria for an environ­ kriely@nd.edu  

Unive~sity 
rem_em_bers Rom_ero 
Associated Press 
The 27th anniversary of the assassination of Salvadoran Archbishop Oscar Romero will be commemorated at Notre Dame March 27 and 29 with a panel discussion, a Mass and a lecture by Judge Victoria Marina de Aviles of the Supreme Court of El Salvador. 
The panel discussion, "Human Rights in El Salvador Today," will be held at 12:30 p.m. March 27 in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Panelists will include Aviles; Neris Gonzales, a Salvadoran Catholic Church worker and plaintiff in the recent Florida trial of Salvadoran military lead­ers responsible for torture and other human rights abuses dur­ing their country's civil war; Douglass Cassel, director of Notre Dame's Center for Civil and Human Rights; and John French, associate professor of history at Duke University and visiting fellow at the Kellogg Institute. 
Following the discussion, a Mass for women who serve in Latin America will be celebrated at 4 p.m. in the Church of Loretto at Saint Mary's College. 
Aviles also will give the annual Romero Lecture, "El Salvador's Reform of the Judiciary," at 8 
p.m. March 29 in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center. The lec­ture will be in Spanish, but an English translation will be avail­able. 
Archbishop Oscar Romero was assassinated by a right-wing death squad while presiding at Mass on March 24, 1980, in a hospital in San Salvador. His out­spoken advocacy of human rights, his denunciations of U.S. military aid to El Salvador, his call for Salvadoran military per­sonnel to disobey immoral orders and his insistence that the Church be inseparable from the poor all made him a figure of some controversy before and after his death. 

The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents The 2007 Natural Law Lecture Why I Am (Almost) a Natural Lawyer John Gardner arch 22, 2007 4 p.m. ··:otte Dame Law School Courtroom '\&~ ' '  



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 22, 2007 CoMPH.ED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Palestinians find international help 
RAM-\LLAH, West Bank -A top European Union envoy met with a senior member of the new Palestinian government Wednesday, joining the U.S. in ending a year of ostracism and leav­ing Israel increasingly isolated in its demand for a total boycott of the Hamas-Fatah coalition. 
However, the Islamic militant l-lamas itself is still being shunned, and economic sanctions remain in place. The boycott has been a costly policy, international aid officials indicated. 
Donor countries had to send more aid to the Palestinians in 2006 than the year before to ease a humanitarian crisis set off by the embargo. Despite the increased aid, public institutions and services suffered because the funds bypassed the government, and the Palestinian economy shrank by 6.6 percent. 
The Palestinians hope the government installed Saturday, an alliance of Hamas and the Fatah Party of President Mahmoud Abbas, will lead them out of international isolation -even though the coalition did not meet international conditions for acceptance, such as recognizing Israel's right to exist. 
Chirac endorses rival as successor 
PARIS, France -After holding out for months, President Jacques Chirac on Wednesday endorsed fellow conservative Nicolas Sarkozy's bid to succeed him, despite long and sharp per­sonal and political differences between them. 
Chirac also said Sarkozy would quit as interior minister on Monday to devote himself fully to the close race in which he is narrowly the front-run­ner. 
Chirac's declaration of support and Sarkozy's departure from government had long been expected. Even so, the president kept praise for his former protege and later rival to a terse tele­vised declaration. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Gore testifies on environment 
WASHINGTON -Al Gore made an emotional return to Congress Wednesday to plead with law­makers to fight global warming with moral courage while revealing nothing about whether he'll join the 2008 presidential race. 
Fresh off a triumphant Hollywood appearance in which his documentary "An Inconvenient Truth" won two Oscars, Gore drew overflow crowds as he testified before House and Senate panels about a "true planetary emergency." 
Gore faced a skeptical reception from Republicans who questioned the science behind his film. 
"You're not just off a little, you're totally wrong," said Texas Rep. Joe Barton, as he challenged Gore's conclusion that carbon dioxide emissions cause rising global temperatures. Gore responded that he would like time to answer without being interrupted. 
Chicagoan arrested in terror case 
TOLEDO, Ohio -A Chicago man pleaded not guilty Wednesday to charges that he plotted to recruit and train terrorists to attack U.S. troops. 
Khaleel Ahmed is charged with conspiring with his cousin and three Ohio men between June 2004 and February 2006 to kill or maim Americans overseas, including those in Iraq. 
Ahmed, 26, and his cousin Zubair A Ahmed, 27, were arrested last month; Zubair Ahmed has yet to enter a plea. Three Toledo-area men ­Mohammad Zaki Amawi, Marwan Othman El­Hindi, and Wassim I. Mazloum -were charged. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Electronic highway tolls to expand 
GARY, Ind. -Motorists on the Indiana Toll Road will be able to use electronic tolling in northwest Indiana by May. 
Toll road operator ITR Concession Co. announced Tuesday it plans to introduce E-ZPass electronic tolling from the Illinois line to mile marker 23. It hopes to have electronic tolling on the rest of the 157­mile highway by October. 
"It's the future of every toll road. You need to be electronic," ITR Concession spokesman Matt Pierce said. 
The Indiana Toll Road E-ZPass will go by the name 1-Zoom. 
IRAN 

Leader defends nuclear program 
Khamenei threatens 'illegal actions' if provoked by U.N. or United States 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN -Iran's top leader warned Wednesday his country will pursue "ille­gal actions" if the U.N. Security Council insists it halt uranium enrichment, an apparent reference to nuclear activities outside international regulations. 
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei also warned the United States that Iran would fight back with "all its capacities" ifattacked. 
"Until today, what we have done has been in accordance with interna­tional regulations," Khamenei said. "But if they take illegal actions, we too can take illegal actions and will do so." 
He did not elaborate on what the "illegal actions" could be, but Iran is a signa­tory to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, the agreement under which the 
U.N. inspections are held. 
Iran says it will never give up its right under the treaty to enrich uranium and pro­duce nuclear fuel. But it has offered to provide guaran­tees that its nuclear pro­gram won't be diverted toward weapons -as the 
U.S. and some of its allies fear. 

The five permanent mem­bers of the Security Council -the United States, Russia, held informal discussions in administration officials Africa, which holds the China, Britain and France New York on Wednesday urged patience with U.S. rotating Security Council -and Germany have ahead of a meeting to dis­efforts to crack down on presidency, has proposed drawn up new sanctions to cuss possible changes to the Iran as Democrats leveled extensive changes to the punish Iran for rejecting draft sanctions resolution. fresh criticism of the gov­resolution-including elim­
U.N. demands to halt The new sanctions would ernment's approach. inating the arms embargo enrichment -a process ban Iranian arms exports "Iran is a country very -and a 90-day "time out" that can produce fuel for a and freeze the assets of 28 much on the defensive right on all sanctions. reactor or fissile material additional individuals and now," said R. Nicholas Although the five council for a nuclear warhead. organizations involved in Burns, undersecretary for powers remained united on 
"If they want to treat us the country's nuclear and political affairs at the State their draft, discussion of with threats and enforce­missile programs -about a Department. South Africa's proposals ment of coercion and vio­third linked to Iran's "The United States is com­seemed likely to delay a lence, undoubtedly they Revolutionary Guard, an mitted to pursuing a diplo­vote. must know that the Iranian elite military corps. matic solution to the chal­Russian Foreign Minister nation and authorities will The package also calls for lenges posed by Iran. This Sergey Lavrov said his use all their capacities to voluntary restrictions on will require patience and country "will not support strike enemies that attack," travel by the individuals persistence," he told the excessive sanctions against Khamenei told the nation in subject to sanctions, on Senate Banking Committee. Iran," and added that the an address marking the first arms sales to Iran, and on The U.S. and France are draft resolution has been day of Nowruz, or the new financial assistance or hoping the new sanctions softened at Moscow's Persian New Year. loans to the Iranian govern­will be adopted by the end behest, including narrower 
Ambassadors from the 15 ment. of the week, but that goal restrictions on officials' Security Council nations In Washington, Bush seemed complicated. South travel. 

Rove subpoena spurs fight in capital 
Gonzales and insisting that the firings spokesman Tony Snow. "They will have
Associated Press 

were appropriate. White House rejected the offer." 
WASHINGTON -A House panel on spokesman Tony Snow said that in He added that the offer for interviews Wednesday approved subpoenas for offering aides to talk to the committees on the president's terms -not under President Bush's political adviser, Karl privately, Bush had sought to avoid the oath, on the record or in public -is Rove and other top White House aides, "media spectacle" that would result final. setting up a constitutional showdown from public hearings with Rove and Democrats dismissed the overture, in over the firings of eight federal prose­others at the witness table. large part because there would be no cutors. "The question they've got to ask transcript. 
By voice vote, the House Judiciary themselves is, are you more interested "There must be accountability," coun­subcommittee on commercial and in a political spectacle than getting the tered subcommittee Chairwoman Linda administrative law decided to compel truth?" Snow said of the overture Sanchez, D-Calif. the president's top aides to testify pub­Tuesday that was relayed to Capitol Hill The Senate Judiciary Committee licly and under oath about their roles in by White House counsel Fred Fielding. scheduled a vote Thursday on its own the firings. Publicly, the White House held out set of subpoenas, with Democrats com­
The White House has refused to hope there would be no impasse. plaining that the threat of force is the budge in the controversy, standing by "If they issue subpoenas, yes, the only way to get a straight answer from embattled Attorney General Alberto offer is withdrawn," said White House the White House. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 22, 2007 
Stowe 
continued from page 1 
the First Lady on Feb. 22. 
"[Her secretary] invited me to have lunch with the First Lady, [a local congressman] and eight other representa­tives from schools along the Gulf Coast," Stowe said. 
Bush has been affiliated with ACE since 2001, when the Laura Bush Scholarship was established. The award is given to a student attend­ing an ACE-participating school in Texas, Bush's home state. 
"She wanted to know the condition of the [hurricane­affected] schools," Stowe said, adding that the First Lady's press secretary trav­eled with her and later wrote a report detailing their find­ings. 
Bush's familiarity with ACE and another similar post­graduate teaching opportuni­ty, Teach for America, led her to quiz Stowe on differ­ences between the two differ­ent programs during their conversation. 
"As a principal from anoth­er Catholic school said his greatest need was good teachers, Mrs. Bush turned to me and asked about the ACE program," Stowe said. "She asked something like, 'Now do you get as much 

support through ACE as you would through Teach for America?' 
"I was able to tell her that we learn the current best practices ... while we gain experience in the class­room," Stowe said. "I told her that this all takes place with the support built into the program through our fac­ulty, pastoral staff, princi­pals, mentor teachers and the community in which we live." 
Stowe said the First Lady was receptive to the positive things she had to say about ACE. 
"I think she 
the opportunity to talk about the kids ... and what I thought are the biggest needs for them." 
Stowe said she feels the children's specific day-to-day concerns go unnoticed while administrators think about enrollment numbers, budgets and the like. 
"Although they are there for the children ... I feel the needs of the kids are over­looked," Stowe said. 
Stowe said she shared the feelings of her students with Bush in the form of journal entries, reflecting on the time immediately before the 
storm, and 

was impressed because they  "As a teacher, I had  during and after the hur­ 
both have some things that are similar, but some [of the support  the opportunity to talk about the kids ... and what I thought are the  ricane hit. "My stu­dents made a Katrina book  
ACE provides] isn't found in the Teach for  biggest needs for them.,,  at the begin­ning of the year with  
America  pro- each of their  
gram,"  Stowe  Liz Stowe  experiences,"  
said.  ACE teacher  Stowe  said.  
As  the  only  "We  made  
teacher present  another  

during the lunch, Stowe said [copy] for Mrs. Bush, so we she brought a different per­were able to share our sto­spective to the discussion ries with the First Lady. I than the principals and rep­thought it would be great for resentatives of schools there. her to see accounts of the 
"Some of the principals storm from the eyes of a were talking numbers," seven-year-old." Stowe said. "As an adminis­Stowe said these accounts trator, that's what's on their arc moving reflections of the minds. As a teacher, I had struggles her students face. 
"The children in this area ever she travels, Stowe said. are hurting," she said. "There was only one secret "When they lost their homes service agent in the room, so and their schools, they lost it wasn't very noticeable," their worlds." Stowe said of the security. 
She said her students are In addition to the lunch, far from recov-the First Lady ering from the visited a pub­trauma. "[Laura Bush/ lic school in 
"When it the area and
genuinely cared about 
storms during the nearby the school day, what was going on, Boys and we gather on the the problems and Girls Club, rug and talk Stowe said.
issues that people are
about why we While meet­are safe," Stowe facing.,, ing Bush was said. "One of my certainly a students once special occa­
Liz Stowe
asked, 'Ms. sion, Stowe
ACE teacher
Stowe, when is said she was the water going more pleased to come through to be able to the windows?' I couldn't tell relate her students' stories him it was not going to, as I and their needs to the First know he has already experi­Lady. enced this at seven years "I think I was most honored old." to represent the kids," she 
Throughout the meeting, said. Stowe said she was During the rest of her time impressed by Bush's friendly in Mississippi, Stowe said she personality and concern for hopes to be as much help as the issues discussed. possible to the students and 
"She genuinely cared about community. what was going on, the prob­"I hope that I can be fully lems and issues that people present for the kids and their are facing," Stowe said, needs, as well as the commu­describing her as a maternal nity," she said. "It's been an figure who was easy to talk amazing opportunity to be to. "Mrs. Bush was a very here during this time .... I nice woman.... She related feel blessed to have been to the people; she wanted to placed here." hear their stories." 
Bush did bring a small Contact Aaron Steiner at entourage, as she does wher-asteiner@nd.edu 



Did you know that Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors and entering Grad students can join Army ROTC and receive afull scholarship? Did you know that Army ROTC only requires about 5hours of your time per week? Did you know that ROTC scholarships cover full tuition, fees, $900 per year for books and pays a monthly stipend? Get the facts; contact Captain Kelley Osborne at (574) 631-4656 or eosborne@nd.edu. 
Recycle The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Thursday, March 22, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
12,447.52 +159.42
}ones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,679 130 586 1,977,205,620 
AMJX••····· . ,. !f'il!~li6~;qQ ' .,•i:~ll·~~iil 
NAS~Q 
2 7 NYS£~'· 
S&PSOO 
NIKKEI(TokyoJ ··· FTSE. IOO(London) 6,256.80 36.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +3.53 +0.62 18.17 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) 
+ 1.81 +0.06 3.37 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +2.44 +0.68 28.52 
NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) + 1.93 +0.84 44.42 
INTEL CP (INTC) +1.84 +0.35 19.34 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.64 -0.029 4.518 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 4.910 30-YEAR BOND -0.23 -0.0 I I 4.696 5-YEARNOTE -1.23 -0.055 4.415 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.36 59.61 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +I .00 660.00 PORK BELLIES (centsilb.) -0.68 I 02.88 
Excha Rates 

YEN 117.5350 
EURO 0.7467 
POUND 0.5081 
CANADIAN$ 1.1564 
IN BRIEF 
Biotech companies to focus on fuel 
SAN FRANCISCO -Biotechnology was first applied in medicine, then farming. Today, dozens of lifesaving drugs are on the market, while many crops are genetically engineered to with­stand weed killers. 
Now, a 2-year-old push to develop alternative fuels is driving biotechnology's growth into the industrial sector. 
Most of the 5 billion gallons of ethanol pro­duced annually in the United States is still made by fermenting corn, but the crop is expensive and its use in biofuels cuts into the nation's food supply. So the Canadian biotech company Iogen Corp. has developed a method for deriving ethanol from a variety of plants including wheat, oats and barley. Others are genetically engineer­ing microbes to produce enzymes that will con­vert the cellulose in crop waste, wood chips and other plants into ethanol. 
President Bush helped breathe new life into this once-sleepy biotech sector by touting the need to ramp up production of this "cellulosic ethanol" in his last two State of the Union speeches. 
IDA bars input from drug companies 
WASHINGTON -Outside experts with more than $50,000 in ties to drug and medical device companies regulated by the Food and Drug Administration would be barred from advising the agency under draft guidelines issued Wednesday. 
The conflict-of-interest guidelines would allow scientific experts who accept less than $50,000 in corporate grants, contracts and consulting fees-or hold less than that amount in company stock -to still serve on the FDA's advisory com­mittees. But that could happen only if the need · for their services outweighed the potential con­flict, and only if they were nonvoting members, according to the draft. 
The agency relies on its panels of outside experts for recommendations on drugs, vaccines and devices. It wasn't immediately clear how many advisers would be barred, but Randall Lutter, the FDA's acting deputy commissioner for policy, told reporters it was a "significant num­ber."The release of the guidelines brought rare praise from a lawmaker and a watchdog who have criticized the FDA. 
Sirius presses for XM merger 
Satellite radio leader promises changes zn bid for government approval 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Sirius 
Satellite Radio Inc. is prom­
ising more programming 
choices and lower pricing 
options as part of an effort 
to convince federal regula­
tors to approve its proposed 
acquisition of rival XM 
Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. 
The deal still faces oppo­
sition from several con­
sumer groups, however, 
and what's certain to be a 
tough regulatory review in 
Washington by antitrust 
authorities and the Federal 
Communications 
Commission. 
In an application submit­
ted to the FCC on Tuesday 
and disclosed in a regulato­
ry filing on Wednesday, 
Sirius said that the com­
bined company would allow 
subscribers greater flexibil­
ity in choosing program­
ming options, including a 
lower price if they elect to 
receive fewer channels. 
Customers of both Sirius 
and XM already can block 
out adult-themed channels 
such as Playboy, adult 
humor and urban music, 
but they don't receive any 
discount for doing so. 

In their filing with the FCC, the companies said that customers could elect AP to receive fewer channels Sirius Satellite Radio CEO Mel Karmazin testifies Tuesday on Capitol Hill before for a rate lower than the a Senate Judiciary subcommittee hearing on the proposed XM-Sirius merger. current monthly fee of $12.95 offered by both CEO Mel Karmazin made signed exclusive contracts terrestrial radio. companies. his third appearance in with sports leagues or pop­On Tuesday, a group of 
Customers could also front of lawmakers to ular entertainment six consumer and advocacy 
continue to receive the answer questions about the providers. Karmazin said groups asked the Senate standard Sirius package or proposed transaction, to be he was open to regulatory panel to call for a tough XM package for the same paid for with stock valued oversight of price increases regulatory review of the rate, or they could choose a at $4.7 billion when the as a condition of the merg­transaction, which would best-of selection of chan­deal was announced Feb. er. eliminate one of the only nels from both services for 19. Sirius and XM were two competitors in the · what the companies said During the hearing, Sen. explicitly forbidden from emerging satellite radio 
would be a "modest premi­Herb Kohl, D-Wis., ques­merging when their licens­business. 
um" to the cost of one serv­tioned Karmazin's stance es were granted a decade The statement from 
ice. that the combined company ago, but the companies are Consumers Union, the 
Sirius and XM have said would face competition arguing that much has Consumer Federation of 
that all customers will be from terrestrial radio, MP3 changed since then, and America and others said 
able to continue using the players and Internet radio. that the companies now that the deal would reduce 
radios they currently have Kohl also voiced concern face increased competition competition and decrease 
even after the deal closes. that the combined company in audio entertainment choices for consumers. 
The FCC filing came on would raise prices in the from iPods and Internet possibly lead to higher 
the same day that Sirius' future, particularly if it radio, as well as traditional prices. 

Stocks rally in largest gains since 2004 
"future policy adjustments" will they expect," said Quincy Krosby,
Associated Press depend on inflation and growth -chief investment strategist at The NEW YORK -Wall Street rallied more neutral language that the Hartford, referring to gross domes­sharply Wednesday after an eco­market interpreted as opening the tic product _ the broadest measure nomic assessment by the Federal way for a possible rate cut. The Fed of the economy. Reserve ignited hopes that the cen­indicated that it remains vigilant "They made it clear that they tral bank has warmed to the idea of about the threat of inflation, remain data-dependent. However, lowering short-term interest rates. though. given the data they have today they Largely thanks to Wednesday's The market was also relieved that see an economy that is still expand­triple-digit gains, the Dow Jones the central bank left in place lan­ing, albeit more slowly." industrials have surged 337 points guage in its statement that it still According to preliminary calcula­this week, the best three-day per­expects the economy will "continue tions, the Dow Jones industrial formance for the blue chip average to expand at a moderate pace." average rose 159.42, or 1.30 per­since November 2004. While a slowdown in the economy cent, to 12,447.52, after having Investors had nervously awaited likely would quell the threat of been little changed before the Fed the economic statement that accom­inflation and perhaps open the way announcement. It was the index's panied the Fed's decision to leave for a rate cut it would also dent cor­biggest one-day gain since July 24. short-term interest rates porate profits. Broader stock indicators also unchanged at 5.25 percent, and "I think it did a bit to assuage the posted strong gains. The Standard were encouraged that the central equity market's concerns that the & Poor's 500 index jumped 24.10, bank didn't refer to the possibility Fed understands there is a possibil­or 1. 71 percent, to 1,435.04, and of "additional firming" of rates as it ity that the drag on the consumer the Nasdaq composite index did in January. Policymakers said could bring GDP down below where advanced 47.71, or 1.98 percent. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 22, 2007 
Braun 
continued from page 1 
cult." 
The competitions featured on tonight's show include baseball, football, soccer and basketball events with Darryl Strawberry, Andre Reed, Cobi Jones and Spud Webb, respectively. 
The trip to California was "different," Braun said. He arrived late Sunday night and immediately began filming segments for the show. 
"It was bizarre," he said. "I was jet-lagged. We were on a very nocturnal-like schedule." 
The filming took· place d ur­ing class days, but Braun said his professors were very sup­portive and excited about his opportunity. 
Though he's been featured on TV many times as the Leprechaun, Braun said film­ing on a set was a <ery differ­ent experience. 
''I'm used to being in five­second clips ... [but] in [the episode] I'm prominently dis­played performing athletic feats," he said. "It was fun playing sports on camera, but I had to perform with person­ality." 
Braun said the show's events are creative and tend­ed to focus on aspects of the sports the pros excelled in. One event with Strawberry featured the former MLB star hitting fly balls for the Joes to catch. 
There are three preliminary events, and the top two mas­cots from those advance to overtime, which features more direct competition. The events were filmed in the Home Depot Center outside Los Angeles, the home of Major League Soccer's L.A. Galaxy. 
The winner of the show gets to "take the jersey off the Pro's back" and receives signed jerseys. Braun men­tioned a "Pros vs. Joes Tournament of Champions" as another incentive to win. 
While they competed in nor­mal athletic gear, Braun and the other mascots filmed the introductory segments in their suits. 
"The pros heckled us in our goofy outfits," said Braun, who described the experience as "intimidating." 
"The other two can't see [in their outfits], they don't talk, and they're covered in fur," he said. "It was interesting to see the other mascots' per­sonalities come out and to watch them do their thing." 
His three years of cheer­leading experience made him physically stronger, he said, but Braun had to think back to his high school intramural days to prepare for the com­petition. While he said he was pleased with his performance, he is curious how the editors treated the mascots during the production process. 
"I have no idea what the final product looks like. The three of us did some very embarrassing things.... I don't know how many bloop­ers they're going to show," he said. 
Braun said he and the mas­cots didn't get to interact with the pros that much during the early filming. 
"It was someone's job to take care of the pros so we wouldn't pester them," he said. 
After the final event, howev­er, they took the Joes back to their locker room and signed autographs and took pictures. 

"They [the pros] were very nice, but trash talk was encouraged. They wanted to make good, sensational TV," Braun said. 
Braun said about 25 percent of the filming was devoted to the actual competition, while 75 percent was "reality TV stuff," like the trash talking. He's most concerned about how his acting looks on film. 
"I want people to watch, but at the same time I'm afraid about how potentially embar­rassing this could be," he said. 
Even with the risk of embarrassment, Braun said all three mascots jumped on board with the show, which he called a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. 
"Overall, it was a very excit­ing experience and I have maintained close contact with the other two mascots," Braun said. "Being in front of a camera and learning how many people go into the pro­duction of a successful TV show were very eye-opening experiences." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Logo 
continued from page 1 
something cool because we may have a contest to create a new mascot or something dis­tinctly different than Notre Dame's Leprechaun," he said. 
Worland, who sends weekly e-mails to parents, students, faculty and staff, said he fre­quently reminds his con­stituents that the phasing out process is in full swing. 
Cathedral is not the only high school being asked to abandon its logo, Associate Vice President for News and Information Don Wycliff said. 
"Our general counsel tells me there have been literally dozens of schools over the years that have done the same thing," he told The Observer. "And every one of those schools thinks it is a special case for which the University ought to make an exception." 
Wycliff said the University had contacted Cathedral in 2000 about this issue. 
"There's nothing unusual about what Notre Dame has done in this case," he said. "It's a protect-it-or-lose-it situa­tion." 
The controversy at Cathedral made news when a parent who worked for the Star forwarded the information to the Star's sports department. 
"I think it really made a dif­ference that the last e-mail was sent right before St. Patrick's Day," Worland said. "It became a story repeating news that was already published in December." 
Still, the added publicity has not placed any more pressure on Cathedral or disturbed rela­tions with the University. 
"We have a great relationship [with Notre Dame] and I totally understand why they are ask­ing us to do this," Worland said. "We are not expecting Notre Dame to make an excep­tion for us because if they did, they might as well let loose for all the other schools who use the logo." 
Notre Dame has not set a deadline for Cathedral to com­plete the phase-out, but simply requested it produce no new merchandise or apparel with the logo. 
"The fact that the discussions between Notre Dame and Cathedral High have been going on since 2000 indicates that we have been generous in allowing the school to phase out the use of the University's marks and adopt others," Wycliff said in a press release Saturday. 
Since the process to change logos began years ago, Worland has been encouraging the use of the Celtic cross, another symbol of the school's Irish heritage. 
Overall, Worland said he and other members of the Cathedral community respect Notre Dame's stand on the issue and are willing to comply as soon as possible. 
"We respect their trademark rights. That's what trademarks are for," he said. "This issue will not change our relation­ship one bit." 
Worland said he is using this as a learning experience for his students. 
"We want to teach students that not respecting the trade­mark is the same as copying music or work. We don't want to teach the wrong example," he said. "This situation is no different. It shows our students the right thing to do.'' 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

THE NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND CULTURE PRESENTS THE 22N° ANNUAL PHILIP AND DORIS CLARKE FAMILY LECTURE ON MEDICAL ETHICS 
/ 

FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2007 Professor Margaret Monahan Hogan 

! !" 

Executive Director of the Caraventa Center for Catholic Intellectual Life and American Culture, 
McNerney-Hanson Chair of Ethics, University of Portland 
McKenna Hall Auditorium 
4:00PM 

Lecture is free and open to the public. 

Thursday, March 22, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
\ 

MANUFACTURER'S COUPON EXPIRES 4/30/07 
F R E E 
20oz BOTTLE OF _ VAULr, VAULT ZERO­-OR VAULT RED BLITZ 
CONSUMER ONLY ONE COUPON PER PURCHASE. YOU PAY SALES TAX ANO!OR DEPOSIT CHARGE. COUPON MAY NOT BE ASSIGNED. TRAtJSFERREO. SOLO. PURCHASED OR REPRODUCED. ANY OTHER USE CONSTITUTES FRAUD. CASH VALUE 11100 Of 1 CENT. J -. · 
1 RETAILER: WE Will REIMBURSE YOU FOR THE RETAIL PRICE OF THE SPECIFIED PROOUCHJOTTO EXCEED S1.39. PLUS 8t HANDLING / ALLOWANCE, IF YOU AND THE CONSUMER HAVE COMPLIED WITH OUR COUPON REDEMPTION POLICY AVAILABLEATTHE REDEMPTION (' ADDRESS. MAIL COUPONS TO: CMS DEPT.. 49000. ONE FAWCffi DRIVE. DEL RIO, TX 78840. ©2007 The Coca-Cola Company. "VAULT.' "VAULT RED BUTZ,"VAULT Zero.' me VAULT1o~.1he VAULT Bot11e and "ZERO' are lrademorks oflhe Coca-Cola Company. 
46019 

--------------------------------------------------------. 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, March 22, 2007 
Pet owners frightened after recall 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -A recall of potentially deadly pet food has dog and cat owners studying their animals for even the slightest hint of illness and swamping veterinarians nation­wide with calls about symptoms both real and imagined. 
"It's like we're on pins and needles," said Brian Paone, a 27-year-old loan auditor in Knoxville, Tenn., who scheduled a blood test with his vet after realizing both of his cats had eaten brands on the recall list. 
"You kind of sit there and wonder -it's terrible to say this -you wonder if this is going to be your last moments with your pet. It's not pleasant." 
Some of the 60 million cans and pouches of food have been blamed for kidney failure in scores of animals and killed at least 16 pets. Neither the manu­facturer nor authorities have been able to determine why the pets died. 
Atlanta veterinarian Will Draper received so many calls and e-mails about the recall that he drafted a newsletter on it and e-mailed his customers. 
"That helped tremendously," Draper said. "It has calmed clients." 
Since Friday, nearly 100 brands of the "cuts and gravy" style food have been recalled by Menu Foods of Canada, includ­ing popular labels sold at Wal­Mart, Kroger and other large retailers. 
Veterinarians are directing most questions to the Food and Drug Administration's recall Web site. Some have agreed to run blood tests on pets, even though many of the animals have not consumed any of the recalled brands. 
Pet owners with animals showing symptoms such as vomiting, lethargy and extreme thirst are being told to bring them in for immediate exami­nation. 
"The recall is huge. It's unprecedented, and people are seeing their dog food is on the list and picking up the phone, wondering if there's anything they can do or what to do," said Tim Hackett, who runs a small­animal clinic at Colorado State University in Fort Collins. "Fortunately, most of these ani­mals are absolutely fine." 
Julie Benesh of Chicago brought her cat, Truffle, to a vet's office Wednesday after realizing the animal had eaten some of the contaminated food. The cat was lethargic and had been drinking an unusual amount of water. 
"That's my baby," Benesh said of the black-and-white cat she's had since the animal was a kit­ten. "We've been through a lot together." 
The Animal Medical Center on the East Side of Manhattan has tested 143 animals for renal failure since Saturday. Of those, 10 were confirmed to be diet-related cases, and one cat died. 
"I have people coming in who haven't even said their pet's eaten the bad food, but they're worried that maybe the recall has not been broad enough so they want their pet tested to be sure," said Ann Hohenhaus, a veterinarian at the clinic. 
something wrong," he said. While taking a hard line

Cheating 
against academic dishonesty, referring to it as "an ugly

continued from page 1 
form of fraud," Ramsey said a Academic Code of Honor has a goal of the educational between loyalty and disloyal­ty," he said, asserting that a decision to remain silent when a friend cheats can be considered disloyalty to Notre Dame, one's classmates and 
dual purpose, aiming both to process at promote academic integrity Notre Dame is and to provide procedures for to foster an penalizing students for dis­ethic in which honesty. a student 
Glatt addressed the issue would not con­from a student's point of view, sider cheating raising the thorny question of a means to get whether circumstances mat­ahead. ter when it comes to cheating. "We're here 
"Here at Notre Dame, one of to make you the main concerns is ... how into a certain much you should worry about kind of per­[reporting another student's son," he said. cheating]. if everyone is "IThe motiva­morally and intellectually tion to attend responsible for themselves," Notre Darnel is 
"/ think sometimes faculty suppose that ifwe need to explain what's wrong with cheating, there's already something wrong. 
Bill Ramsey philosophy professor 
oneself. 
Faculty Honor Code Officer and philosophy pro­fessor Thomas Flint, who was not among the panelists Wednesday, explained some of the specifics of the Honor Code. Flint said, as at many uni­versities, Notre Dame's is a "modified honor redesigned to give professors more control over matters of discipline in certain cases. The change has resulted in a significant rise in reported infractions, he said, the caus­es of which remain unclear. 
"There's no reason to think that dishonesty among Notre Dame students has increased 61 percent over one year, but I know of no data that shows that it hasn't either," Flint said. "We're in an area where all one ean do is speculate." 
Wednesday's panelists touched on students' increas­ing use of the Internet as a vehicle for plagiarism, but Flint said the Internet can be a double-edged sword. 
"Professors have largely caught up to the students in terms of computer literacy, and most are quite adept at using Google, Turnitin.com or other resources to uncover cases of Internet-based cheat­ing," Flint said. 
The Theology on Tap series is sponsored by Campus Ministry. The next event, the semester's last, will take place April 18. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 

she said. 
Ramsey described academic dishonesty from a faculty member's perspective, but emphasized the need for both students and professors to ensure that clear goals and expectations are established at the beginning of each course. 
"I think sometimes faculty suppose that if we need to explain what's wrong with cheating, there's already 
not to get into medical school, and it's not to get into law school, and it's not to get that really good job. It's to become the kind of person who belongs lthere]." 
Ramsey also addressed Glatt's point about the choice between upholding the Honor Code and remaining loyal to a friend or classmate, arguing that the ethical conflict is illu­sory. 
"The choice is not a ehoice code," which allows students and faculty to administer it jointly. 
"Personally, I think we were wise to adopt a modified honor code," he said. "Cheating hurts other stu­dents, but it also does enor­mous damage to the teacher­student relationship." 
Flint also commented on the University's new system for responding to Honor Code infraetions, which was 


OPEN TO ALL 
NOTRE DAME, SAINT MARY'S AND HOLY CROSS STUDENTS! MANY AREA JOB AND INTERNSHIPS! 
CHECK OUT THE J42 EMPLOYERS AND JOBS POSTED AT: WWW.INCCONSORTIUM.ORG 
COME SEE WHAT'S NEW AT TURTLE CREEK!! 
We're Renovating AGAIN! New POOL-HEATED!! New LANDSCAPING New BASKETBALL COURT 
Turtle Creek Apartments 574-272-8124 
Office Hours: M-F9AM-7PM SAT 10AM-4PM SUN 12 PM-4 PM 
@ 
£QUAl HOU$tNG OPP"ORTUN1T'f 

Thursday, March 22, 2007 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Nominations for the 
Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies I 04 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April 9, 2007 
VATICAN CITY 
Legendary Don King visits r·ope Benedict 

Associated Press 
Don King got a front row seat at Pope Benedict XVI's general audience Wednesday. The usually flamboyant boxing promoter, wearing a blue suit with his pre­ferred high hair style primly flat­tened for the papal event, gave the pope a green-and-gold box­ing belt and a handwritten letter asking for prayers for people ranging from President Bush to the world's sick and aged. 
"I was thrilled to be there. It was a deep spiritual experience," King told The Associated Press after the two-hour open-air audi­ence in St. Peter's Square. 
In Rome to discuss possible boxing matches in Italy, King had expressed his wish to meet with the pope. 
, 

Don King Productions spokesman Alan Hopper said the Vatican visit was arranged through a boxer King represents -Italian super welterweight champion Luca Messi, whose brother Alessandro is a Catholic priest. 
King was seated in the front row of a special section on the steps of St. Peter's Basilica. He was able to hand the pope the gift and the letter as Benedict drove slowly by in an open jeep at the end of the audience. 
King, who spent four years in prison for manslaughter, had hoped for a personal meeting with Benedict. Very few nonchurch people, however, receive private time with the pope during his Wednesday audi­ences. 
ATRIA SALON2 
Specializing in color 
271.8804 

The Original "Specializing in Color" Salon, where we make blondes "BLONDE"! 
HIGHLIGHTS & CUTS: $79.00 
STARTING MARCH 2157-APR/L 10m 2007 
NO ORDINARY SALON, NO ORDINARY BLONDES. 
"CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 
Atria Salon 2039 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 t: 574.271.8804 
-MUST PRESENT THIS AD-
Happy 21st Birthday Colleen Ferreira 
Our little girl in Ballet shoes. Ice skates and High school musicals has grown up to be A Very Special Young Lady 
We are so proud of you WE LOVE YOU!!! 
Mom, Dad, Nick, Bill & Jen 
THE CUSHWA CENTER
d n_ 
F 
FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
presents 
Anzerican Catholic Studies Senzinar ••La... Guadalupanas de Queretaro: Embodied Devotional PerCormances and the Political Economy of" Sacred Space Production" Elaine A. Pefia University of" Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 
Thursday, March 22, 2007 4:15p.m. 1140 Flanner Hall 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, March 22, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Cultural confrontations 
The lntkpmdent, Da.ily NffWsp«pn-Serving Nom Daml! arJJ Saitrt Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAl INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63!-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574} 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

~ ~(USPS 599 l-4000) i~ publishm Monday through Fridity acqn: during ('Xllffi and VllCol.tion pc=riods. A subscription to The. Obs(:rver i$ $100 for unc: academic pr: $55 fur one scmc:s~er. 
The Ob~rvcr is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address correcrion.~ co: 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 Th< Obscrv" 
Periodical postage paid at N.me Dame ~0. 8<>, 779 
and o~ddidonaJ mailing offi.ce3. 0,2:4 Soorh Dining Hall 

Now: Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observct Is a member ofthe AssocLucd Press. All reproduaion rights are teservcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Chris Khorey John-Paul Witt Michael Bryan Viewpoint Lorenzo Reyes Alyssa Scene Brauweiler Erin McGinn Graphics Jarred Wafer 
Kids say the darnedest things. Working at a camp with high-schoolers last summer, I gained a new perspec­tive on a younger generation. "Younger" by only a few years, sure ­but contrary to pop­ular belief. college really does expand your mind and help you mature. 
In observing the dynamics of an age I myself so recently outgrew, my insights were not entirely positive. For instance, the campers would toss around racial stereotypes that could be playful or border on brutal insensitivity. To them, things like big Mexicans or golf-playing African­Americans were anomalies to be point­ed out. 
Before you stop reading, my misan­thropic reader, know that I too was once in your position. Sure, thought I, this whole race issue is important. But we're light-years beyond that now, aren't we? Racism may exist in some parts of the world, but here in our little community we are surely too egalitari­an to waste time worrying about dead issues of the past. Racial conflicts have been resolved, the world has learned its lesson, and our new generation will usher in an era of humanitarian peace once we claim our place in society and brush aside the dying embers of our less-tolerant progenitors. 
I held this mindset for my first two years on campus. If a column had nothing shocking to say about race or ethnicity in the first paragraph, I would probably skip over it. What more could be said? At my most dose-minded, I even thought that if we all just left this supposed "issue" alone, it would even­tually become moot and we would all come to a glorious understanding of 

James Dechant 
ForegoneConclusion 

our harmonious multiculturalism. 
Wrong. In the months since my expe­rinnees last summer, I am rethinking the way in which we learn about other cultures. Because there most definitely arc still things that need to be said. I'm not taking an overly eynieal stand on the matter-MLK and others have not toiled in vain, and we are leagues beyond the segregation of fifty years ago. But in our age, as America blinks tho dust out of her eyes and realizes she is not alone (for example, we are just now confronting the Arab world for tho first meaningful time), compas­sionate minds are needed. Minds that won't see generalities. 
Baek to the camp situation. The play­ful comments didn't bother me, but the arrogant presumptions of cultural awareness did. Campers assumed they knew all about a raee or culture, when in some eases they were obviously encountering such a person for the first time. The source of their behavior lies in a eareless ignorance, something many of us can identify with. We assume what we've "heard" about an ethnicity applies to individuals, when we actually have no personal experi­ence to guide our behavior. 
An ignorant mind, in terms of raee, probably means you're trying to com­prehend generalities, when you should be focusing on particulars. The prob­lem many people experienee when try­ing to break out of their bigotry stems from not being able to see past the entrenched praxis that urges us to see things in broad strokes. When accused of using stereotypes, one's compensa­tory and superficial reaction often clings to the same kind of textbook totalities, only with an aim of compas­sion. Example: Don't know anything about black people'? Just watch Dave Chappelle and take notes. No personal interaction neeessary. 
We are all guilty of this culture eo­opting. Cultures are valuable, incredi­bly dense and dynamic organisms. 
Understanding one takes time, and we 
eannot honestly consider ourselves 
multicultural if we do not invest the 
time to learn. You cannot understand a 
race or a culture through the incom­
plete lens of fashion or television or 
holidays, thank God (think St. Patrick's 
Day). Those important elements help 
broaden your horizons, but they are 
secondary to the integral demand of 
understanding individuals. The real 
cure is to try to learn about a culture 
from a person, not to learn about a 
person from a culture. 
Don't view individuals as tools to help you gather knowledge, but when the opportunity arises; do try to meet diverse people and get to know them. Don't approach them assuming the article on Wikipedia about their culture will help you understand their actions; instead, learn about their background by inter-acting with them. I delineate the prefix to stress that understanding is a two-way street: it requires dia­logue. not monologue. To work against the cultural ignoranee that breeds hate, meet people. And please avoid stereotypes and generalizations, even ones said casually or "in good fun." I know at least a few of the campers matured in this manner after aetually talking to new people. 
Primarily, try to open your mind and don't assume the struggle to end big­otry and stereotyping has ended. Many people still use stereotypes, learning about "the wholly other" from televi­sion rather than from a person. Try to ehange that -because after all, there is hope. You've got to admit, it's getting better ... a little better all the time. 
James Dechant is a junior studying abroad in Rome this semester. Questions, complaints and rude remarks can be sent to jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer: 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

1Submit a.LetterI
How far will Notre Dame go in 

"Only Irish Coffee provides in a single
the NCAA hockey tournament? 

glass all four essential food groups: alcohol, caffeine, sugar. fat." 
1to the Ed1tor at · 
Alex Levine Irish author, actor, musician 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

:j ,] www.ndsmcobserver.com 'i ' 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 22, 2007 
page 13 
The privilege of pressure 
"Pressure is a privilege." Billie Jean King, a pioneer in women's tennis, reportedly responded with this quotation when asked how it felt to be playing in her first U.S. Open. And it's true. Ifyou've got sweaty palms over an exam, a sporting event, a presentation, a concert or a project for which you're responsible, just remember, you've gotten this far Kate and people believe in you. Faced with Barrett the kind of pressure that interrupts 
FaithPoint
my sleep, churns my stomach, becomes a constant distraction, my first desire is usually just to disappear, or at least take a really long nap until it's all over and hope that someone else will pick up the slack for me. It takes a lot of extra effort and will to face that pressure and think of it as ­of all things! -aprivilege. 
My 10-year-old son just competed this past weekend in a regional swim meet that brought swimmers with low enough times to Columbus, Ohio from Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky and West Virginia. He paced, he squirmed, he complained that we were late to meet his coach and teammates (we were half an hour early), he paced some more. From our seats up in the stands, we could see him on deck waiting for his events to start, still pacing and squirming. My first instinct was to try to pro­tect him, to believe that it was all too much for him. Then it occurred to me that he had come to the meet because he was fast enough to get there. He had worked hard enough; he had developed his God-given athletic ability. The pressure he felt was a privilege. 
You don't have to be THE best. Chances are, unless you're Albert Einstein or Leo Tolstoy or Michael Phelps, somebody else out there is better than you at whatever it is you do. You ought to try, however, to be YOUR best. Remember the parable of the talents from Chapter 25 of Matthew's gospel? A master, going on a journey, gave considerable sums of money to three of his servants ­five, two and one talents, each talent the equivalent of many years of wages-"to each according to his ability." While the first two each doubled the amount the master gave them, the third simply buried his master's money in the ground and waited for him to return. The master did­n't mind, Jesus tells us, that the servant with two talents made less than the one who started with five. Only the servant who did nothing at all, who took no initiative, angered the master. Do we take the risk, accept the chal­lenge to make the most of the gifts God has given us, though the pressure may make us sweat, or pace or squirm? 
You don't have to be doing the most important thing in the world to feel some well-deserved pressure. Maybe you're not discovering the cure for cancer or ending the war in Iraq or figuring out how no child will be left behind. OK, look at where you are and do something else that will help build up the Kingdom of God and better our world. Martin Luther King, Jr. once famously said, "If life makes you a street sweeper, be the best street sweeper you can be." 
Believe it or not, we're coming to the end of Lent. Palm Sunday is a mere ten days away. Imagine the pressure Jesus must have felt, facing hostility, anger, brutality, undeserved accusations, mockery and ultimately certain death. Even as he cried out to God to "let this cup pass from me," he recognized that his gift, his privilege, was to follow the will of his Father completely: "Yet not what I want but what you want." Perhaps we too can find in Jesus' experience, as we walk with him in these fmal days of Lent, the grace to follow the will of God in our own lives. And if exploring your own faith makes you squirm a little bit, ifit makes you uncomfortable, remem­ber that God has given you gifts you may not even know about yet. What a privilege. Make the most of it! 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Kate Barrett, director ofresources and special projects in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Spring break 2007 South Florida, uncensored 
When one thinks ofsweatshops, coun­tries such as China and India probably come to mind. Most people think sweat­shops in the United States do not exist; most people feel employee abuse and slav­
ery are long gone. Up  Kristofer  
until a few months  Trujillo  
ago, I also shared  
these common  Guest Column  
American misconcep­ 

tions. This past spring break, I went on the Migrant Experiences Seminar in Immokalee, Fla., which was offered through the Center for Social Concerns. It was through this seminar that I was exposed to the harsh realities migrant workers face. 
Notre Dame, an institution that promotes Catholic social teaching, has previously taken initiative against large corporations that exploit employees. Many may remem­ber the Taco Bell boycotts that took place on campus several years ago. These boy­cotts were a large success due to nation­wide student involvement and activism. While this was a monumental step toward a fair wage for farm workers, it only marks the beginning. We as a Catholic community must continue to be advocates for social justice in every aspect oflife. 
The battle for migrant worker rights is still ongoing. While in Immokalee, I saw a community exploited in every possible way. For instance, most migrant workers must rent trailers which are often roach-and rat-infested-many do not even have elec­tricity or running water. According to an article published in Gulfshore Life Magazine, the cost for one ofthese trailers is roughly $500 per week. When I asked several people in the community about the cost of housing, they reaffirmed the over­charging. Due to the ridiculous pricing, people are forced to combine incomes to pay the rent; many 2-bedroom trailers have 10-16 occupants. This description is not solely based on interviews. For one of the nights I was in Immokalee, I stayed in one ofthese trailers. It was difficult seeing human beings forced to live in such a state while I attend a school with an endowment ofover $4 billion. 
Despite the Taco Bell boycott victory, stagnant wages and worker abuse are still prevalent in the fields. At wages of 40-45 cents per 32-lb. bucket of tomatoes picked -wages that have remained the same since 1979 -migrant workers earn signifi­cantly less than those at the poverty line. The very best workers only earn $50 for a full day's work. Taco Bell is only one pur­chaser of tomatoes. Pressure has been placed on other fast-food giants so that they too will increase the pay offarm workers and enforce a code ofconduct throughout their supply chain. McDonalds, the face of the industry and a main purchaser oftoma­toes in Immokalee, has refused to follow Taco Bell's footsteps. The migrant workers have united and are once again seeking allies. Notre Dame students have proven to be a very powerful force in the past; it is now time to continue where we left off. 
It is important to note that there is a dif­ference between charity and social justice. I do not wish for people to simply throw money at the problem and hope it fixes itself; that is not activism or social justice. 
These people are not looking for handouts; they want people to work with them to change a system ofexploitation. We need to become conscientious consumers so as not to promote situations of exploitation like those that I witnessed first-hand while on spring break. 
For those that want to take action, the Coalition of Immokalee Workers -a group ofmigrant workers that banded together several years ago in an effort to end unfair treatment -is organizing a rally at McDonalds' corporate headquarters in Oak Brook, Ill;, April13 and a parade in down­town Chicago April14. This is being done in an effort to send a clear message to McDonalds and other fast-food corpora­tions that exploitation is wrong. 
Kristofer Trujillo is a freshman Finance and Political Science Major living in Keough Hall. He can be reached at ktrujill@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Energy conservation tip 
In the spirit ofenergy conservation, which may be the most important way to avert human-caused global climate change, I suggest we turn off the skyward facing spot­lights that adorn the top ofthe main building and run all night. However impressed with ourselves we might like to feel on the frequent 2 a.m. journeys from the library to our residence hall, perhaps we can display our grandiosity by being an example of conservation in an America that needs a greener future. 
Dan Lano junior Sorin College March 21 

When science looks at sex 
As a part ofthe Progressive Student Alliance's Week ofAction, Dr. Timothy Murphy will be speaking about the biology and ethics ofhomosexuality tonight at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium at the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies. Our views ofhuman sexuality are often influenced solely by religion or the norms ofour culture. Opinions rarely are informed by scientific, objective views. The discussion often is based on faith, but not reason. While I do not believe that science alone can answer all ofsociety's ques­tions, I am sure that it is a necessary part ofthe answer. Just as society asks clergy and theologians about homosexuality, society should also turn to scientists to provide their answers. I hope that Dr. Murphy's lecture will provide some answers to ethical questions about human sexuality research and offer a different perspective to the discussion. 
Mike McCann junior Keough Hall March 21 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

"FOUR YEARS uno IT AND ISTILL CAN'T TELL ASUNNI FROM ASHUTE.'' 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Thursday, March 22, 2007 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Greatest security 'Breach' investigated in new film 

Fathers," he holds his own against Cooper and delivers an effective, sensitive per­formance that draws audiences into his increasing fears and paranoia. Also look for notable performances by Gary Cole (better known as the boss from "Office Space") in a surprisingly well-crafted dra­matic turn as an FBI agent, as well as Laura Linney as the agent in charge of the investigation. 
"Breach" is only Ray's second film as director -the first was the similarly­themed "Shattered Glass," which was about real-life reporter Stephen Glass, who fabricated articles for several publi­cations. Ray, who wrote and directed "Shattered Glass" and directed "Breach," seems to be carving out a nice little niche for himself. Like Phillippe, he is quietly building a reputatuion as a talent worthy of greater exposure. 
Although the real Hanssen is locked away in Colorado's "supermax" peniten­tiary (where the Unabomber is also serv­ing his sentence), his actions still have ramifications in today's world. 
"Breach" isn't a perfect film, and its simple approach means that its scope and breadth is relatively modest, but it's still pertinent and enjoyable -and a chilling reminder of the evil that men can do. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu and Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
By ERIN McGINN and BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Critics 

Seven months before the 9/11 attacks, the United States had already encoun­tered another threat to national security. It was discovered that FBI agent 
Robert Hanssen -Breach esting film, which is only a few months 
a refreshing removed from approach to this type mandatory retire­of material. It runs ment had under two hours, worked as a spy for Director: Billy Ray though it's conceiv­the Soviet Union for Writers: Adam Mazer and William able that a film of a period of at least Rotko this type could be 15 years. The Starring: Chris Cooper, Ryan bloated out to three secrets that he Phillippe, Laura Linney and Gary Cole hours. Instead, 
revealed, including the sensitive proto­col regarding the location of government superiors during an attack, caused immeasurable damage to national securi­ty and has been described as one of the worst intelligence disasters in American history. 
Billy Ray's "Breach" tackles the internal investigation by the FBI to nail Hanssen as the perpetrator. Hanssen (Chris Cooper) is portrayed as a God-fearing loyal Catholic and, to the casual observer, it's hard to believe that he would be capable of betraying his country. 
Eric O'Neill (Ryan Phillippe) is the fledg­ling FBI agent assigned to be Hanssen's assistant in an FBI attempt to garner inside information to solidify the belief Hanssen is a double agent. O'Neill then faces the difficult task of not only collect­ing information for his superior officers but also gaining the trust of Hanssen with­out arousing his suspicions. Since this is the assignment that could gain him full agent status, it is also the first time that he lives the life of an agent, which takes a toll 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 

"Breach" is a film that wants to be as taut as the older Cold War thrillers and tries to teach viewers lessons about contemporary global affairs. Unfortunately, it ultimately fails to achieve either goal. 
Everything about this film -except for perhaps Chris Cooper's perform­ance -is mediocre. The writing was nominally good -it wasn't horrible, but it didn't impress -and the cam­era, except for a few shots, was as stat­ic as a shoe 
carpet. 

Even though the film clocked in at only 110 minutes, it felt much longer due to the poor pacing and poor attempts at transition­ing from calm to tense moments. 

"Breach" tells the story of FBI agent Robert Hanssen, who sold government secrets to the Soviet Union for many years and was responsible for the largest security breach in the history of the United States. Cooper, one of the only bright spots in the film, plays Hanssen with gusto and relishes the role of the model American whom the audience knows is a traitor but whom the other characters think is, aside from being a little off kilter, a fine patriot. Cooper is one of the most ver­satile actors in Hollywood and this film, despite its poor technical aspects, allows him to showcase his skills. 
Director Billy Ray has written a few films in the past and directed one ­on both him and his wife Juliana (Caroline Dhavernas). 
It is interesting to get this perspective into an agent's personal life and how his job affects his family. Dhavernas gives an excellent performance as O'Neill's wife, who struggles to come to terms with his rising new position in the Bureau. 
"Breach" is a 
tense, taut and inter­
director and co-
screenwriter Billy Ray wisely decides to cut to the heart of the story, giving the film a lean, focused style that prevents it from flagging or feel­ing pretentious. 
That "Breach" is essentially a true story makes it even more compelling, and its insights into what could drive a man to betray his country are effective. There is a wonderful scene toward the end of the picture in which Hanssen tells another FBI agent that the "why" doesn't matter -this sums up the meaning of the film. Ray is not interested in cheap psychology, but rather in simply telling a story. 
Cooper is unabashedly the dominating presence in the film, perhaps granting Hanssen more depth and dimension than the real-life spy deserves. Alternately charismatic and terrifying (in almost equal measure), viewers get a sense of the disturbed and calculating mind behind Cooper's dark eyes. 
Phillippe is quietly making a case for himself as a great actor. Coming off of his outstanding performance in "Flags of Our 
2003's "Shattered Glass," starring the wooden Hayden Christensen. Although that film was well received by critics, the same success didn't transfer over to "Breach." Ray's pacing is stilted and, aside from a few genuinely tense moments, the movie has no heart. Ray can't decide whether he wants to feel sorry for Hanssen or condemn him. 
Ryan Phillippe and the rest of the cast play their roles well enough. They seem locked in the conspiracy of the film that leaves no room for character development. Cooper's Hanssen takes over the movie but does it in such a way that is excessive and borders on 
camp. 

dragged over thick The talent of the
Breach 
actors aside, the script does little for them. It tries to weave its way through a web of lies but ends up only 
being caught in its own attempts to be brilliant and subtle. 
Screenwriters Adam Mazer and William Rotko have little experience in film -aside from being associate pro­ducers for "Super Troopers." They have little business writing a screen­play about one of the most important 


Ryan Phillippe, left, and Chris Cooper turn in the strongest performances in the film as federal agents both trying to outsmart and outmaneuver the other. 
points in American intelligence history. The producers should have found  Everything about this film -except for perhaps Chris Cooper's performance ­is  film beeause there is nothing good -or bad -about it. It revels in mediocrity.  
someone with a little  mediocre.  The end of the film is  
more experience, as  unsurprising,  not  
"Breach" does not  because of its outcome  
involve cops pulling  but because of the gen­ 

over teenagers for smoking too much uine unexcitement. The twists and ganja. Whoever was the primary writer turns that are supposed to keep view­for "West Wing" would have been a ers in the edge of their seat end in a 
better choice. "Breach" is a movie that wants to be 
so much more than it actually is. Clever quips and metaphors can't be used for this powerful looking shot that is deflated of all gravitas because no one cares about the charaeters. 
For a decent film that requires no attention to enjoy, see "Breach." However, "United 93" and "Independence Day" are better for films for examining serious and enter­taining threats to America, respective­ly. 
At least the latter know what they are. "Breach," unfortunately, just never figures it out. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, March 22, 2007 
page 15 

Paranoia leads to thought-provoking situations 
Protection challenges privacy in a world rocked by terrorism 
I spent spring break in Europe with my roommates James and Adam. It was, in many ways, an eye-opening experience. One night, we decided to attend a show­ing of "Les Miserables" at the Queen's Theater in London. After spending the day exploring the city, we arrived at the theater for the evening's per­formance. 
After finding our seats, we went off to the bar to get some­thing to eat and drink. We sat there for maybe 20 minutes, after which they dimmed the lights and an announcement via speaker asked every­one to return to their seats. 
We noticed that there didn't appear to be very many people in our section, but didn't think much of it until we got to our seats. There, to our surprise, a secu­rity guard was holding a brown messen­ger bag. 
"That's my bag," said Adam. "This is yours?" asked the security guard. "Ticket please." Adam complied, and the guard shook his head angrily. 
"You oughtn't have left it unattended, you know -keep all your belongings with you at all times." 
The guard turned, and that's when we noticed that our section of the theater only appeared empty because the the­ater workers had held the occupants back while Adam's bag was investigated. After the guard gave the "OK," the patrons began to saunter back in, clearly annoyed with the inconvenience. 
A distinguished-looking couple-a middle-age English woman and a com­parably aged black man -sat next to us. 
"Was that your bag?" asked the man, with more than a hint of disdain. "You oughtn't have left it alone." 
"I know," Adam said. "I didn't think anything of it." "Don't you know it might've been a bomb?" 
"Why would someone put a bomb here?" I asked. The man gave me his best "stupid Americans" look. 
"What do you mean 'why'?" he said. "I mean, it doesn't make any sense ... " I started. "Of course it doesn't make any sense," he snapped. "Terrorists bringing bombs 

Brian Doxtader 

Scene Writer 
on the tube and blowing up half the city doesn't make any sense either, does it?" 
He had clearly misinterpreted my question -when I said "here" I was referring to the 20-pound nosebleed cheap seats in the second balcony where we were sitting, not the theater as a general statement. 
"It may not make sense to you and it certainly doesn't make sense to me, but that's the way it is," the man continued breathlessly. "People blowing each other up in the tubes. And for what? Some kind of political or religious statement? Senseless." · 
I leaned back and decided not to remind him that we were about to watch a show that featured students violently barricading the streets as a political statement. 
By the next day, I had largely forgotten the previous night's little fiasco, except as a humorous -and no doubt embar­rassing to Adam-anecdote. That evening we rode on a crowded tube toward Piccadilly Circus when we noticed an unattended suitcase. It was brown and tattered, with the name "OBAMA" etched on the top and some writing in a language I didn't recognize on the side. The three of us regarded the seemingly abandoned case and I felt the hairs on the back of my neck slowly rise. 
"What do you think?" whispered Adam. 
"I don't know," I said. "Don't touch it." 
We looked around for a potential owner, but the closest occupants were an elderly woman and a British couple cradling a child. I started to back away from the case, slowly edging myself toward the other end of the tube -not that it would have really mattered had the case really contained a bomb. 
"It's all right," I said to Adam. "Don't say anything." 
"Let's get off at the next stop," recom­mended James. Adam and I nodded in agreement, nervously waiting out the tube's bumpy approach to its next desti­nation. 
Finally, James decided it wasn't worth waiting and loudly inquired if the case belonged to anyone. A man, sitting across the tube, claimed ownership, say­ing simply, "It's mine." 
We all breathed out and remained on the tube until our final destination, but I know that for me a full sense of relief only came when I stepped off the tube at Piccadilly Circus. 
Afterward, we were all embarrassed. What a silly, paranoid, senseless turn of 
SPOTLIGHT ON LEGENDS 
THURSDAY MARCH 22 9:00PM 
Tryouts, finalist, obnoxious judges, you picking the winner, and William Hung. We've got them all tonight! You've heard of American Idol. Now the Class of 2008 brings you IRISH IDOL. Your very own classmates have made it through the preliminary rounds and now battle it out in the finals. Cheer your friends as they compete for amazing prizes. The audience picks the winner! 

events. Of course there was no threat; no approach. You can't walk around more than the night before, when London without the suspicions that your Adam's bag became the subject of con­every move is being watched, and I sternation in the Queen's Theater. Still, question whether the added security is the pall of the event lingered and I worth what feels like a gross invasion of couldn't help thinking that our fears privacy. Standing on that tube, I under­were not entirely stood that it made no difference unfounded­It is a strange and whether or not the London especially in police saw the events unfold -if
deeply disturbing feeling 
light of our seat­there really were a bomb, the partner's willful to step onto an everyday footage from the camera (had it paranoia con­mode oftransportation survived) would merely have cerning the tube made its way to the elegiac
with lingering doubts 
the night prior. reports of the senseless tragedy 
Such senseless about safety -even two on CNN and the BBC. violence rocked years removed from the I offer no solutions -I would London back in not be so presumptuous as to try 
original tragedy. 

July of 2005 (the incident to which the man was referring), when four sui­cide bombers killed 52 commuters and injured 700 more. With that context in mind, it's easier to see why there was such a fiasco at the theater. 
It is a strange and deeply disturbing feeling to step onto an everyday mode of transportation with lingering doubts about safety -even two years removed from the original tragedy. 

London's solution is obvious-there are closed-circuit cameras everywhere, monitoring for criminal behavior. Yet there is something vaguely sinister, vaguely "1984" -ish about such an 
to neatly offer an answer to a 
problem that the world's great­est minds have spent years trying to solve. I only know that for a brief instant, I saw the world through differ­ent eyes -eyes that were always alert, eyes that were always guarded, eyes that belonged to those who constantly live in fear and suspicion -and I did not like what I saw. 
Senseless. 

Contact Brian Doxtader at 
bdoxtade@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
DOORS OPEN 
8:30 
FINALIST 

RYAN DEIGNAN JoHN FISTER JoN GAus MALLORY O'BRIEN LESLIE PENKO Scon RoBINSON CAROLYN ROSE SULLIVAN TIARA ToRRES DAVE TUASON PAM WILLIAMS 
LAST YEARS WINNER: Mallory 0' Brien. She's competing again this year. 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 22, 2007 
NBA 

Duncan, Spurs dominate struggling Pacers 
Mavericks outplay LeBron and the Cavs; Williams leads streaking Heat over Hawks; Hart and Clippers edge Bucks late 
Associated Press The Pacers snapped an 11-third foul with 7:55 left in the game losing streak with a home second and sat the rest of the 
Tim Duncan showed his team­victory over Atlanta on half. Tinsley picked up his sec­mates how they need to play to Saturday, but have since lost ond foul 34 seconds later and it regain the form they had during two in a row as they struggle only got worse from there. the Spurs' recent 13-game win­for a spot in the playoffs. Jeff Foster stole the ball from ning streak. O'Neal was expected to miss Parker and passed to Tinsley, 
Duncan scored 27 points, 19 the game with a sore left knee who went up against Duncan in the first half, to lead San he injured in the Pacers' loss to and got whistled for an offen­Antonio to a 90-72 victory over the Houston Rockets on sive foul. Tinsley angrily the slumping Indiana Pacers on Tuesday, but started anyway. grabbed the ball and rocketed it Wednesday night. O'Neal already had missed in a high arc from one end of 
"I thought Timmy was very three games after an MRI earli­the court to the other, where it focused tonight," Spurs coach er this month revealed a sprain landed in the first row. He was Gregg Popovich said. "He was in the knee. ejected with 3:59 left in the half very aggressive with the ball. "I don't think Jermaine's 100 and had six points. He wasn't looking for other peo­percent," Popovich said. "You ple and worrying about getting had to factor that in. He's trying Mavericks 98, Cavaliers 90 other people involved. He just to play through it. We caught a Dirk Nowitzki and LeBron was demonstrative offensively." break there." James struggled. Fortunately 
The Spurs, who have clinched At least once on Wednesday, for Nowitzki, the rest of the a playoff spot, snapped a two­O'Neallooked as if his knee was Dallas Mavericks outplayed game losing streak that came bothering him. He said the James' teammates. after they had won a season­injury is keeping him from Nowitzki scored 23 points and high 13 in a row. being an effective. Jason Terry added 21 to help 
Francisco Elson had a season­"l played on one leg today," the Mavericks beat the high 14 points, and Tony Parker O'Neal said. "My explosion is Cleveland Cavaliers for the sec­and Matt Bonner added 10 pretty much zapped." ond time this month Wednesday apiece. The Pacers outshot the Spurs night. 
Ike Diogu scored 14 points for in the first quarter and built a "That's why we are a great the Pacers, who fell apart after five-point lead heading into the team, because other guys point guard Jamaal Tinsley was second following a 9-2 run to stepped up when we needed ejected. Mike Dunleavy scored close the quarter. them," said Nowitzki, who 11, and Jermaine O'Neal and But then the Pacers ran into added nine rebounds and six Troy Murphy each added 10. trouble, as O'Neal picked up his assists. 
The Mavericks, who have the percent," .James said. "l took Clippers 104, Bucks 103 NBA's best record at 56-11.. two dangerous hits today." Jason Hart made the go-ahead
have won four straight and are basket with 3 seconds left to give3-0 on a six-game road trip Heat 91, Hawks 83 the Los Angeles Clippers a victorythat's included victories over Miami has endured so much over the Milwaukee Bucks on 
Detroit and New York. adversity this season that the Wednesday night. The Mavs controlled the game Heat's dwindling lead hardly Hart's shot from the baseline 
for all but the first quarter, concerned Jason Williams. bounced twice on the side of the making the Cavaliers look inept "It seems like someone has rim before falling in. and one-dimensional offensively been out for us all year long," Corey Maggette scored 2 2 on their own court. Williams said. "So we just have points and Elton Brand had 21 
James had a tough night to keep doing what we have to points and eight rebounds for Los 
shooting and got roughed up as do to win." Angeles, which moved into the well. He finished with 31 points Williams had 21 points and No. 8 spot in the Western 
but was 12-for-28 shooting as eight assists, and the Heat beat Conference. he single-handedly tried to put the Atlanta Hawks Wednesday Milwaukee, which trailed by 22 his team back in it. night for their 1Oth victory in 11 points late in the third quarter,
"Our defense won the game," games. got 27 points and five rebounds Nowitzki said. "LeBron is a Josh Smith scored 27 points from Michael Redd. It was his great player and will always get for Atlanta, which had its five­fifth straight game with at least 
his numbers, but we were mak­game home winning streak 25 points. ing him take some tough shots." snapped. A jumper by Hart gave Los 
As if James' night wasn't hard Williams had eight of Miami's Angeles its biggest lead, 88-66 enough, he banged his head on last 12 points, including a 19-with 2:24left in the third quarter. the floor after getting spun footer he banked in against But Milwaukee used a 12-0 run around by Josh Howard while .Josh Childress that pushed the to get back in the game, cappedgoing for a loose ball. He was lead to 85-80 with 1:03 remain­by a free throw by Charlie Bell to slow to get up but stayed in the ing. trim the deficit to 99-98 with 2:26 game . "They were pressing and left. 
.James also took an elbow trapping," Williams said. "but After a free throw by Brand, from Nowitzki with 1:39 left when they decided not to dou­Bell drilled a 3-pointer that gaveand fell to the floor. ble-team me, I just had to be Milwaukee a 101-100 lead, its 
''I'm definitely not feeling 100 aggressive and take the shot." first since 9-8. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. $15.50 base·appt. flexible schedules, no exp.needed, customer sales/serv· ice, conditions apply, all ages 17+, positions in all of Indiana & Michigan, 273·3835. www.work· forstudents.com 
NEEDASUMMERJOB?Camp Tannadoonah is hiring 2007 camp staff. Have the best summer of your life! Visit www.tannadoonah.org 
FoR SALE 
Oakhill condo·3·4 bdm,3 full baths,21evels,large deck. 312·933· 7234 or email mstacey1 @nd.edu. $210,000 abo. 

*ND CONDOS* NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos Minutes from campus Starting in $130,000s 574·252·2427 ndcondos.com Reserve Yours Today! 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER AREAS,BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 
Now leasing for 2007/8. Great houses close to campus. Anlanproperties@ comcast.net 
3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for 07/08 school year. On line see rent· nd.com or mmmrentals.com. Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb· spot.net or phone 574·277·4759. 
3·bdrm 1·bath house. Walk to ND. 
1219 N. Twyckenham. Call574· 231·0967. Large 2·bdrm condos, 
18027 & 18041 Bulla Rd. Call574·233·4590. RENTLIKEACHAMPION 
3·5 bdrms avail for 07·08. 
$250/bdrm. Call 312·545·5123 or email mitchell.58@ nd.edu 
1 bdrm apts available summer & fall 
07. 1 mi to ND in quiet historic neighborhood. 
$575/mo. Laundry/Security. Call 574·532·8718. 

Beautiful 3·story townhouse over· looking river, 1/2 mi. to ND. 2 decks, large windows, 3 bdrm, 3.5 bath, 2,000 sq.ft., 2-car garage, $1500/mo OBO. Avail. April1. Call Ben 574·302·7415. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call 
Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. For more information, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Lysander: Where4 was I 2 this keen mockery born? Helena 
Looking for a JOB or INTERN· SHIP? Make your resume available to THOUSANDS of employers! 

Sign up for your FREE account on MONSTERTRAK, the #1 student job search engine! 
Register now to be eligible for a $2,500 giveaway! 
xxx.monsterTRAK.com/2500. 
Adopt: 

A young loving couple long to share their Hearts and home with a new· born & will provide Endless love. 
Expenses paid 
call Eileen & Ed at 
1·800·718·6577 PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME· ONE WHO IS? 
You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confi· dential hotline at 
1·800-No·ABORT or visit our web· site at www.lifecall.org 
There was once a barber. Some say that he lived in Seville. Wherever he lived, all of the men in this town either shaved themselves or were shaved by the barber. And the barber only shaved the men who did not shave themselves. 
Did the barber shave himself? 
John Smeltz may quite possibly be the second coming 
It takes a big man to cry, but it takes a bigger man to laugh at that man. 

Thursday, March 22, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Goodell to address off-field problems 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -NFL commis­sioner Hoger Goodell could announce new initiatives Tuesday that will allow him to impose harsher and quicker discipline for players who get into trouble off the field. 
League spokesman Greg Aiello said Wednesday during a conference call that Goodell eould use his first full league meeting, to be held next week in Phoenix, to address the arrests and other off-field episodes that plagued the league in the last year. 
They include the arrests of nine members of the Cincinnati Bengals; 1 0 encounters with the police by Tennessee's Adam "Paeman" Jones; the four­month jail sentence imposed this week on Chicago's Tank Johnson on weapons charges; and other run-ins with the law by NFL players. 
The policy would allow Goodell. who has been meeting with players, owners and team oflicials, to impose harsher dis­cipline earlier than in the past, when the NFL has waited for legal steps to be finished before imposing fines and/or suspen­sions. 
"What's important to him in developing this policy is that it is supported by a wide faction of people in our league, mean­ing the owners, the players' association, the players and the dubs," Aiello said. "He's been very encouraged by the strong stance that the players have taken in terms of looking for a more effective policy." 
Most of the conference call was devoted to recommenda­tions for changes in playing rules made by the competition committee. 
The biggest change would be moving the kickoff in overtime from the 30-yard-line, the spot in regulation, to the 35. 
Atlanta general manager Hich McKay, the committee's co­chairman, said the committee believed the kickoff spot was the major reason that that 62 percent of teams winning the coin toss won overtime games last season, not necessarily on the first possession, but because of the field position they got. McKay said it stemmed from the change in 1998 that moved the kickoff back to the 30 and added the "K-ball," a kicking ball harder to kick deep. 
Until then, winners and losers of the toss had won just about equally. 
"This is something we resis­ted," McKay said. "But there was an advantage gained by the coin toss. We think we can cure those stats and make the coin toss less of a factor." 
The rule would have to be approved by three-quarters of the teams, as would a variety of other proposed rules changes. 
One would make instant replay, which is due to expire after two more seasons, a per­manent part of the league's rules. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Volunteers will hope to contain Oden, OSU 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO -Tennessee's Bruce Pearl is far too good of a talker to frame his team's upcoming game against Ohio State in worn-out coachspeak. 
So when he essentially says "it's not Greg Oden, it's the rest of the Buckeyes" that he's focused on containing Thursday night, at least give him the ben­efit of the doubt and listen to his explanation. 
Start with the background. 
The Volunteers faced Ohio State in Oden's 1Oth game of the season, back in January, when Oden was adjusting to the col­lege game and still wearing a brace on the surgically repaired right wrist that delayed the start of his college career. 
Those things were supposed to be holding him down. Instead, he had his first monster game: 24 points, 15 rebounds, perfect from the foul line (6-for­6), four assists, three blocks and a steal in 36 minutes. 
Yet the Buckeyes, playing at home, still needed what was then a career-high in points from freshman point guard Mike Conley and a 3-pointer from Hon Lewis with 11.2 sec­onds left to beat the Volunteers 68-66. 
Ohio State (32-3) hasn't lost since, a run of 19 in a row it takes into a semifinal against Tennessee (24-1 0) in the NCAA tournament's South Hegional. 
Pearl spent this week studying his team's near-miss in Columbus and most of the other 18 games in the Buckeyes' run. After concluding there's no stop­ping Oden -"He's unlike any­body I've ever gone up against," Pearl said -he set his sights on everyone else wearing red and white. 
And the part that scares him the most? 
'They've not broken out yet," Pearl said. "They've not had that breakout game that we all know they're capable of." 
Buckeyes coach Thad Matta was flattered by the notion his top-seeded team has gotten within four wins of a national championship by merely grind­ing out games. 
However, he agrees that his team can do whatever it takes to win, as opposed to being a juggernaut that goes out and does things its way, daring oth­ers to stop it. 
"The thing I love about this team is we've shown that we can play a lot of different ways," Matta said, listing a few exam­ples -not including the over­time win against Xavier in the second round that kept Ohio State in the tournament. 


NCAA BASKETBALL 

Howland, Dixon vvill square off in Sweet 16 

Associated Press SAN JOSE, Calif. -The almost daily phone calls haven't stopped this week even though Ben Howland and Jamie Dixon will be on opposite sides of the court Thursday night. It's hard to break a routine built through decades of friendship. The only change in the coaches' relationship is what they discuss. Talking about strategy, and their teams' strengths and weak­nesses has to take a back seat at least until after Thursday night's third-round game between Howland's UCLA Bruins and Dixon's Pittsburgh Panthers in the San Jose RegionaL "I think it's inevitable it was going to happen," Dixon said Wednesday. "It hasn't changed [our relationship] at all. We've talked a couple of times, not too much about the game, just about families and different things 

besides that." 
Whether the relationship has an impact on which team advances to Saturday's regional final remains to be seen. 
"I think it's pretty unique and pretty interesting," Bruins point guard Darren Collison said. "But again, to me it won't be about the coaches. It will be about the play­ers on the court. That's what will dictate who wins the game. The coaches will just do their job and that's just to coach and tell us what plays to run." 
That's one area that will provide at least a little bit of a wrinkle since the Panthers (29-7) still use many of the same plays they ran before Howland left for UCLA (28­
5) following the 2002-03 season. 
But with scouting and the use of video what they are in the mod­em game, Howland thinks it will be just like playing any other team. 

Join one of Chicago's premier companies! 
Morningstar will be coming to Notre Dame on Wednesday, March 28, 2007 from 1-2:30 pm in the Dooley Room at LaFortune Student Center to talk to you about an exciting opportunity to join our sales team as an Account Executive. In this one-hour information session, you'lllearn about what it takes to be successful in this role, the day-to-day responsibilities, and opportunities for advancement once on board! 
Morningstar's Account Executive position is for individuals who thrive in a fast-paced, client focused environment. This position is responsible for representing Morningstar's software and web-based investment planning tools and services to the financial advisor community. It is ideal for those who enjoy an environment where rewards (compensation) are directly proportional to your performance and success in maintaining existing customer relationships and initiating new ones. To read a full job description, please visit: 
Please bring copies of your resume and cover letter to the infonnational session. Candidates will then be selected for on-site interviews in Chicago during the last two weeks of April. 
Please RSVP for this event by sending an email to accountexJ..~utive(mmorningstar.com and place Notre Dame in the subject line. 
We look forward to meeting you! 
Morningstar is an equal opportunity employer. 
.­

Terms: All fares a~ebased on rOOfldtrip travel and include aStudentUniverse service fee of $5. Domestir fares indurle a7.5% US transportation blx. Otiler Ill'"" andfw vary, <iep.nding on tlle Hlnerary and are not Included. Fares a~e subject to av~labUity and rhange without notl<e. Domestic flights must be purchased8 <lily> in advance and tffjuirea 2day min silly induding aSat night required max stay is 30 days. Fares valid Moo·Thu until Mar JO.Intema­tional flights valid Moo-Wed. Europe fares must be purchased 7days in advana. by Mar 25 and require a 4 day min stay amax stay of 365 days. Valid fm departures through Mar .15. Asia/Australia fares must be purchased 4days In advance and ""!Uire a 2 day min stay max stay of 365 days. Asia fares are valid fur departures through Mar 31. Austral~ fares are valid fm departures from Apr 1through Apr 27. Blackout dates and other restrictions may apply.
ec:• StudentUniverse.com 

CHM1BER SINGERS
•
Nancy Menk. Conductor 
Favorite Opera Choruses Presented with Scenic Video 
with special guests, the LaPorte High School Mixed Chorale Thomas Coe, Director 
Sunday, March 25,2007 O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Moreau Center for the Arts Saint Mary's College 7:30P.M. 
For group discount information, or to purchase tickets, caU the Saint Mary's College box office at 
(574) 284-4626. 
MoreauCenter.com 
ART~lNDlANii
-f!f­

INNM:!t AXfS 0.1MMmiON
SAINT 

REGiONAl. PA!UNER.\
MARY'S 

"~"'l"•'l!'r'lri~:""r...,,..,,..,..:or 
l'<•~I>XSt.kooGpl:f;;>.oro:y.IN;
COLLEGE 

~;.)ilo4:.J«<!\J1>:!M:•I-: ~~~· 
~y.<lf<ll"~~~,.-;,...~,1 ~~~~ ...."':S.ffl!<:«<!:~·· 
NOTRE DAME, IN 


-
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, March 22, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 19 
NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record con[. last ro Toronto 3J.31 25·15 5·5 .. New Jersey 31-37 21~17 3·7 New York 30-37 19-22 5-5 Philadelphia 26-42 15·23 6·4 Boston 20-48 12·27 4·6 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record con[. last i.o 
Detroit 43-23 27-12 7·3 Cleveland 41-27 23·17 8-2 Chicago 39-30 28·13 7-3 Indiana 30-37 21-17 1·9 Milwaukee 25·41 12·28 6·4 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record con[. ...,, last :to Washington 36-29 23·16 5-5 Miami 37-30 2'1-17 9-1 Orlando 31·38 18-23 3-7 Atlanta 27-42 14·27 5·5 Charlotte 26·43 17-22 4-6 
Western Conference, Northwest DMsion 
team record con[. last ro Utah 44-23 26·12 6·4 Denver 34·31 17-22 7-3 Minnesota 28·38 16-25 2·8 Portland 27-40 16·24 3·7 Seattle 26-40 13-24 4·6 
Western Conference, Pacific llivision 
team record con[. last 10 
Phoenix 51-16 26·11 7·3 L.A. Lakers 35-32 21-16 3· 7 Golden Slate 32-37 19-21 6-4 L.A. Clippers 31-36 1.6·23 3-7 Sacramento 29-38 14·23 4-6 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record conj last ro Dallas 56-11 33·8 8-2 San Antonio 47-20 2841 8-2 Houston 43-25 21·19 7·3 New Orleans 3N7 17-23 3-1 .. Memphis 17·51 '9·30 2"8 
NCAA Men's Lacrosse Inside LacrosseJJ'opr~O~' ,............. 
team 
1 Cornell 2 Virginia 3 
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
13 
14 15 16 
17 18 19 20 

around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Kansas vs. Southern Illinois 7:10p.m., CBS 
Memphis vs. Texas A&M 
7:27 p.m., CBS 
UCLA vs. Pittsburgh 
9:40 p.m., CBS 
Ohio State vs. Tennessee 
9:57 p.m., CBS 


NFL 


Associated Press 
Houston -The Houston 
Texans are close to acquir­
ing Matt Schaub from the 
Atlanta Falcons. 
A trade for the highly 
regarded backup quarter­
back was expected to be 
announced Thursday, 
according to a person with 
knowledge of the deal who 
requested anonymity 
because the deal hadn't 
been completed. 
The person did not dis­
close the details of the 
trade. The Houston 
Chronicle and the NFL 
Network said the Falcons 
will get second-round 
picks in 2007 and 2008 
and that the teams will 

swap first-round picks this year, with Atlanta moving from 10th to eighth. 
A call by The Associated Press to Texans general manager Rick Smith was­n't immediately returned Wednesday. Rich McKay, Atlanta's general manager, had no comment. 
"Matt's a restricted free agent," McKay, chairman of the NFL's competition committee, said during a conference call with national reporters in preparation for next week's league meetings. "He's clearly entitled to visit every team. We've talked to a number of teams that have interest in Matt. That's all I'm going to say." 
Houston television sta­tion KRIV reported on it's Web site that Schaub and agent Joby Branion arrived at Houston's George Bush Interconti­nental Airport on Wednesday. 
"We have an agreement in place," Branion told KRIV. "I dealt with Rick Smith on Ahman Green a couple of weeks ago. That gave us a great deal of comfort heading into these discussions believing we could get something done and we did. It wasn't easy but I think both sides are comfortable with where we are." 
Schaub, who has per­
formed well in preseason games, has started two games in his three-year career and is 84-of-161 for 1,033 yards with six touch­downs and six intercep­tions. 
The acquisition of Schaub would make the possibility David Carr will remain with the team seem unlikely. Unhappy with Carr's performance, Houston tried to sign both Jeff Garcia and Patrick Ramsey before the two signed with other teams. 
The Texans hoped that Carr, the first pick in the 2002 draft, would have a breakout year under the tutelage of first-year coach Gary Kubiak. 
IN BRIEF 
Artest faces four counts of 
misdemeanors after arrest 
SACRAMENTO -Sacramento Kings forward Ron Artest faces four misdemeanor charges stemming from a dispute with his wife at home earlier this month. 
The charges were filed late Tuesday. Placer County Deputy District Attorney Dan Quick said Artest will be arraigned Thursday on charges of battery and corporal injury to a spouse, false imprison­ment and dissuading a witness from reporting a crime. Each carries a maximum sentenc·e of one year in prison. 
The former Indiana Pacer was arrested March 5 at his estate in Loomis, 25 miles northeast of Sacramento, and was released from custody after posting a $50,000 bond. 
A Placer County sheriff's report said Artest grabbed a woman and pushed her down, then slapped her face during an argument. 

Illinois won't discipline AD 
after incident 
CHAMPAIGN -The University of Illinois will not discipline athletic director Ron Guenther for yelling at men's basketball coach Bruce Weber and Illini players during the team's NCAA Tournament loss Friday. 
Guenther yelled substitution advice to Weber -who was just a few feet away -and also yelled "Warren -you idiot" after a play by Illini forward Warren Carter, according to a report on CBS Sportsline.com. Guenther also pounded the table throughout Illinois' 54-52 loss to Virginia Tech in Columbus, Ohio. 
Richard Herman, chancellor at the Urbana-Champaign campus, said Wednesday that Guenther -in his 15th year as AD at Illinois -would not be disciplined. He said Guenther had apologized to Weber and Carter. 
The outbursts happened because Guenther is a fan, Herman said. 
Eru!les head coach Andy Reid 
reffrrns from leave 
PHILADELPHIA -Philadelphia Eagles coach coach Andy Reid will return from a leave of absence Friday, five weeks after leaving the team because of his two oldest sons' legal troubles. 
Reid is scheduled to return to his duties full time Friday, in time for the NFL owners' meetings in Arizona next week. The team scheduled a news con­ference Friday morning. 
Reid took a leave of absence Feb. 12, after his two oldest sons became embroiled in legal troubles stemming from separate traffic incidents Jan. 30. 
Britt Reid, 21, faces a felony charge of carrying a firearm without a license and misdemeanor drug charges stem­ming from a road rage incident in which he allegedly pointed a gun at another motorist. 
Garrett Reid, 23, faces charges he injured a woman in a traffic accident while under the influence of heroin. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 22, 2007 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Salukis hope to upset Jayhavvks 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) ­Rodrick Stewart waited patient­ly for the perfect shot, slipping through a crowd and moving behind a screen before letting it fly. 
The meatball-sized wad of paper flew over a cameraman and hit Kansas teammate Mario Chalmers in the chest while he answered questions in the locker room. The Jayhawks' leading scorer in the NCAA tournament didn't even dangle a participle, coolly fin­ishing his conversation to his laughing teammates' delight. 
The top-seeded Jayhawks seemed remarkably stress-free on a cool Wednesday in California, one day before meeting Southern Illinois in the West Regional semifinals. 
Sure, expectations are still huge for everybody in this proud program. But after embarrassing first-round exits in the past two tournaments, Kansas feels fortunate simply to be planning for a second weekend and beyond. 
And even facing the fourth­seeded Salukis' intense defense couldn't bow their shoulders. 
"After last year, we waited a long time to get this chance," said coach Bill Self, who has led three schools to nine straight NCAA tournament appear­ances, including four at Kansas. "In a weird way, and not in a good way, I think the 


AP Kansas forward Julian Wright dunks in the second half of the Jayhawks' 88-76 victory over Kentucky Sunday in Chicago. 
failures last year prepared us for this year. We don't really see the (No.) 1 seed as pressure any more. Everybody is here for a reason." 
While the Jayhawks (32-4) got to San Jose with an up­tempo offense that bested Florida, Southern California and most of the Big 12 Conference, Southern Illinois (29-6) is built to neutralize the nation's best offensive talent­and Kansas has more than its share. 
Brandon Rush and his 
Kansas teammates have watched tape of the trapping, aggressive style with which the Salukis yielded just 56.1 points per game -the third-fewest among 336 Division I teams this season. Kansas can't recall facing a better defensive team, yet nobody in .layhawk blue seemed distressed. 
"The way they trap. the way they get through a screen, they're like piranhas," said Rush, who scored 19 points in the Jayhawks' second-round win over Kentucky. 

Motivated Florida ready for Bulldogs 
Billy Donovan leads the defending champs against 5-seed Butler 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -lie's been "Oflicer Bill," a history pro­fessor, a tour guide, a father fig­urn and even a friend. 
lie's been way mom than just a coach. 
Billy Donovan has been a mas­ter motivator for top-seeded Florida, inspiring players with championship rings, famous dads and NBA futures to play hard, stay focused, follow his "live in the moment" catch-phase and possibly become the first team in 15 years to successfully defend its title. 
lie's kept the Gators hungry and humble while dealing with ofl'-the-chart expectations, outside influences and the constant pres­sure of trying to make history. 
"Sometimes when you hear the word motivation, people think it's a rah-rah speech every day," Donovan said. "I think there's dif­ferent ways to motivate people and to inspire people. I would say that I spend every single day try­ing to do that." 
Florida (31-5), which plays fifth-seeded Butler {29-6) on Friday in the Midwest Hegional in St. Louis. has won 14 consecutive postsea­son games and cut down live sets of nets in the past 11 months. 

Aside from having live talented, unselfish and experienced starters, a big key has been Donovan's motivational tactics. 
He's invited big-name sports celebrities to speak to the Gators -a list that includes NBA legend Jerry West, New England Patriots coach Bill Belichick and St. Louis Cardinals manager Tony La Hussa. 
He's shown clips from movies and sporting events in hopes of providing inspiration. He's told stories about all-time greats like Muhammad Ali, Michael Jordan, Pete Sampras and Tiger Woods. 
He even brought in ronowned sociology professor Harry Edwards, widely considered the leading expert on issues of race and sports. 
"{Edwards) talked about push­ing the ball back up the hill," for­ward Corey Brewer said. "You can't push it up the same way, and you've all got to go up togeth­er. It's time to get together and go back up the hill." 
Belichick made an encore appearance two weeks ago after florida won a third consecutive conference tournament. 

Thursday, March 22, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 -.. 

The Core Council is seeking new undergraduate student members, regardless of sexual orientation. 
Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Core Council web site http:/lcorecouncil.nd.edu/ Applications are due by 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, March 23, 2007, and can be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 

lanned 
ancy? 
yo~ love needs help please call. 

support anc.l assistance at:~.ai~r:tb,re at Notre Dame: 
Campus J\linistry, 1-7163 
,;;"au~,-~ u:~uJJ:<.:u, Counseling Center, 1-7336 
Health Services, 1-8286 
Community Resources: 
Center, 234-0363 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Men1phis, Aggies vvill play in Texas shootout 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO -Some Texas A&M students wore paper bags over their heads during Acie Law's freshman season, embar­rassed to be rooting for a team that didn't win a conference game. 
Now, Aggies fans are decked out in maroon shirts, eager to be part of what Law and his teammates are doing. 
For Memphis (32-3), the No. 2 seed in the NCAA South Regional, that means once again playing in front of a parti­san crowd despite have a better seed. 
"I would have never imagined playing in San Antonio with the Sweet 16 with the opportunity to go to the Elite Eight after what I experienced by fresh­man year," Law said Wednesday. "Coach came in and he changed all our mind­sets. He told us we were going to win, and not take as long as people thought." 
That's exactly what the Aggies have done under Billy Gillispie, going from that 0-16 record in the Big 12 to the NCAA round of 16 and a school­record 27 victories only three seasons later. 
And Texas A&M won't be far from home Thursday night for its first regional semifinal game since 1980. The game will be in the Alamodome, only about a 2 1/2-hour drive from campus. 
When the Aggies finished their open practice, the players greeted and shook hands with fans, many who chanted Law's name. 
A crowd of more than 30,000 is expected Thursday, mostly in A&M colors. If the Aggies (27 -6) win, there might not be another color visible for the regional final this weekend -much like when Texas won a regional final in the same building four years ago. 
"It may be able to help you get over a couple of tough spots in the games, but it won't be the ultimate determining fac­tor," Gillispie said. "We learned that last weekend, and every­body is coming here for a rea­son. Everyone is coming here to win." 
JIMMY'S FIRST DAY 



page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 22, 2007 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Air Force beats DePaul, heads to NIT seniliinals 
Tigers advance past Orangefor ninth win in a row at Littlejohn 
Associated Press 
AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. -Jacob Burtschi scored 13 points, including the winning

... ­
basket with 7. 7 seconds left to send Air Force to the NIT semifinals with a 52-51 win over DePaul on Wednesday night. 
Draelon Burns, who scored 18 points and had five 3­pointers, rimmed out a 3­pointer from the right corner at the buzzer after Burtschi missed a free throw following his layup, and the usually sub­dued crowd at Clune Arena stormed the court, their Falcons headed to the NIT Final Four and "New York, New York" playing over the loud speakers. 
The Falcons (26-8), top seeded in the West, play South Region top seed Clemson in the semifinals on Tuesday night at Madison Square Garden in New York. Mississippi State will face West Virginia in the other semifinal. 
Matt McCraw also scored 13 points for the Falcons, who nearly saw their 33-game 

home winning streak against nonconference opponents snapped. 
Clemson 74, Syracuse 70 
K.C. Rivers had a career­high 29 points and the Tigers bounced the Orange at Littlejohn Coliseum. 
It was the Tigers (24-10) 
ninth straight NIT victory at 
home. But this one did not -come easily. 
Syracuse (24-11) cut Clemson's 17-point lead to 69­68 on Demetris Nichols' tip-in with 19.8 seconds left. However, Rivers, the team's best free-throw shooter, hit a pair of foul shots to extend the lead. 
Josh Wright's open 3-pointer 
with about 10 seconds left 
bounced off the rim and into 
the arms of Tiger guard Vern 
Hamilton. 
Hamilton followed with two 
foul shots to clinch the victory 
-and Clemson's first trip to 
Madison Square Garden since 
1999. 
Then, the Tigers were sec­ond to champ Cal. This time, they can keep a curious streak alive for the Palmetto State as they try and become the third straight South Carolina team -the Gamecocks won the past two NITs -to hold the trophy. 
MLB -SPRING TRAINING 

Sosa, Rangers fall to slugger's former squad 
Associated Press 
When Sammy Sosa stepped to the plate, he looked out to see Cubs starter Jason Marquis wearing the slugger's old No. 21. 
This was definitely not an average spring day for Sosa in his return with the Texas Rangers after a year away from the game. 
Sosa got a mixed greeting Wednesday from a large crowd of 11,674 at HoHoKam Park, where he spent so many spring afternoons during his 13 sea­sons with the Cubs. 
"You know, regardless, no matter where I play, my heart is always going to be in Chicago," Sosa said. 
"I don't think anyone's going to take my name away from Chicago.... My name is always going to mentioned in Chicago." 
Sosa went 1-for-3 in his return. to Mesa, Ariz., and the Cubs beat the Rangers 11-7 on Daryle Ward's grand slam in the bottom of the ninth inning off Jesse Ingram. 
Starting in right field, Sosa grounded into a forceout, legged out an infield single and hit a hopper that took a wild bounce before Cubs shortstop Ronny Cedeno reached up and made a nice play before throw­ing him out. Sosa's still batting .410 this spring. 
How did the fans in right field treat him? He used to be their darling, an entertainer when he played the position in Chicago. 
"Great," he said. 
•j 

Did they yell at him? 
"In my favor, yes," he said. 
"He deserves good things from the fans. He did a lot of good things in Chicago," Cubs pitcher Carlos Zambrano said. 
Sosa hit 545 of .his 588 homers with the Cubs. How big a deal are the 12 homers that would land him at the 600 land­mark? He actually wants more. 
'Tm not going to get in shape for 12 home runs. I'm going to go out there and play. It's going to happen," said Sosa, who also wears No. 21 with the Rangers. 'Tm thinking I'm not satisfied. More than that." 
White Sox 10, Giants 9 
At Tucson, Ariz., Bobby Jenks' ERA ballooned to 10.50 for his five spring games after he allowed three runs and three hits in two innings. White Sox manager Ozzie Guillen said he is concerned about his clos­er. 
"I worry about Bobby. If you are not ready one week and a half before the season starts, you have problems," Guillen said. "If you are not ready to this point, and you are not in condition to start the season right now, you have to dig in and start pushing yourself to get better." 
Red Sox 7, Pirates 3 
At Bradenton, Fla., Daisuke Matsuzaka allowed one run and one hit in 5 2-3 innings. The Red Sox right-hander struck out seven and got a standing ovation when he left the game. 
Ne·w Mexico seeks Alford 
to contact Alford about the scheduled," he said.
Lobos get permission 

job. Barta, when asked whether to talk to Hawkeyes' "It will be Coach Alford's he has heard any updates decision as to whether he Wednesday night, said:coach about vacancy chooses to visit with them," "Hopefully, we'll know more 
Barta said in 
Associated Press 
Wednesday. 

IOWA CITY, Iowa -The Alford, who University of New Mexico has was out of been given permission to t o w n interview Iowa basketball Wednesday, coach Steve Alford about the didn't imme­Lobos' head coaching vacan­d.i ate I y cy, Iowa athletic director respond to Gary Barta said Wednesday. interview 
Alford, wbo was Indiana's requests. high school Mr. Basketball at G r e g New Castle in 1983 and led Remington, Indiana University to the New Mexico's 1987 NCAA championship, associate ath­has been mentioned as a letic director 
a statement by tomorrow." 
"It will be Coach Alford's decision as to whether he chooses to visit with them." 
Gary Barta Iowa athletic director 
Alford has a 152­106 record in eight seasons at Iowa, and is under contract through 2011. 
He led t h e Hawkeyes · to three N C A A 

New Mexico candidate since for media relations, wouldn't appearances, and Big Ten coach Ritchie McKay was elaborate on the Lobos' tournament crowns in 2001 fired after five seasons. coaching search Wednesday and 2006. This season, the Barta confirmed that New night. Hawkeyes finished 17-14 and Mexico athletic director Paul "We do not at this time were not invited to the NCAA Krebs asked for permission have a news conference or NIT tournaments. 
• 
Italian 

• 
Steak & Cheese 

• 
Ham & Cheese 

• 
Chicken Club 

• 
Veggie 

• 
Pizza Melt 



Free Delivery On Campus 
Limited time offer. Prices, tax~ delivery areas & charges may vary by 
location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 
N. of Cleveland Rd. 
52750 IN 933 574-243-1122 
SERVING NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
Pizza ® 

Visit us on tht"~ Web (1t WVYW.marcos.r.om @2007 Marco's 
1)-107 
.. 

i a I k A b o u t N 0 e Da m e a n d Ge t p a d . 

OF 

p 

a n s 0 H 
r e 



Thursday, March 22, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
TRACK AND FIELD 
ND finally heads outside 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame travels to Tucson, Ariz., today to compete in the Jim Click Multi-Events/Shootout. The meet, which lasts until Saturday, is Notre Dame's first outdoor competition of the season. 
After an indoor season that cul­minated in two All-America per­formances in the NCAA Championships, the Irish are making the transition to outdoor competition. Training and com­peting outside allows the team to practice skills it hasn't worked on before and offers a break from the monotony of the Loftus Center. 
"The men and women in the 4­by-1 00-meter [relays) will do baton exchanges which basically we did not do at all at the begin­ning of the indoor season," Irish coach Joe Piane said. "And frankly, just getting outdoors is a joy." 
The outdoor track is 400 meters long, twice as long as the standard indoor track. The length of the track could decrease the times posted by the runners. 
"In theory, it should be faster because the turns are so spa­cious," Piane said. "Indoors it's a little tight, but outdoors the radius is much larger." 
Some events during the indoor season change once the team moves out<>ide, and some events don't exist during the indoor sea­son. The discus and javelin throws and the 400 hurdles are exclusively outdoor events. Also, the 60-meter hurdles becomes the 100 hurdles for women and 110 hurdles for men. 
"You take a discus thrower or a javelin thrower, they're waiting all season just to get outdoors," Piane said. "So they've been training from September on just to get to the outdoor season." 

The Shootout, which is primari­ly an individual meet, will give coaches a chance to see how ath­letes who have not yet competed handle their first meet. 
''I'm really anxious to see what [freshman) Balazs Molnar does in the 400 meter hurdles. He was one of the best intermediate hur­dlers in Europe last year, so I'm really anxious to see what he can do during the outdoor season," Piane said. ''I'm anxious to see what [freshman] Jaclyn Espinoza can do in the discus. She's throw­ing well already, but let's see how well she can do." 
Piane said he also excited to see how throwers, including junior Kyle Annen and senior Garet Koxlien, perform in their first competition of the season. Annen's best hammer throw of the 2006 outdoor season was 
61.46 meters at the Big East Championships. Koxlien's season­best discus throw for the 2006 season came at the CalPoly Invitational, where he threw for 
51.52 meters. 
''I'm anxious to see how the people who don't have the oppor­tunity to do those event<> start off the season," he said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

NHL 
Fedoruk knocked cold as Rangers beat Flyers 

NEW YORK -The New York Rangers used their fists and sticks to beat the Flyers 5-0 Wednesday night, with Philadelphia's Todd Fedoruk getting knocked out by Colton Orr's punch. 
Orr flattened Fedoruk with a hard punch 21 seconds into the game in response to Philadelphia's rough play in the last meeting on Feb. 17. Fedoruk was removed from the ice on a stretcher and taken to St. Vincent's Hospital and kept 
overnight. "He is having Sabres' sputtering Orr didn't special teams.
problems with short­
dress for that Drew Stafford had
term memory, but
game, a move two third-period Rangers coach other than that, goals and Clarke Tom Henney said he is great." MacArthur also he regretted. But scored in helping Orr quickly Buffalo snap a 
Claude Macaluso 
made his pres­season-worst ence known in Rangers team doctor three-game home 
down to the bottom of his neck. There are no fractures, (his) brain looks fine. He is going to be fine." 
Brendan Shanahan had two assists in his first game back from a concussion sustained against Philadelphia. Henrik Lundqvist shined again, mak­ing 17 saves for his second shutout in three games. 
Sabres 5, Capitals 2 
Daniel Briere and Derek Roy scored power-play goals, sparking the 
the rematch. 
He squared off with Fedoruk in the Philadelphia zone and decked the hard-hitting for­ward with a right hand to the left cheek. Fedoruk went down on his back, was strapped to a board, and had his head immobilized before being wheeled off. 
"Todd is doing fine," Rangers neurologist Claude Macaluso said in a statement. "He is awake. He is "having some problems with short-term memory, but other than that he is great. There are no neu­rological problems at all. 
"We scanned him basically from the top of his head right 
losing streak. Dainius Zubrus had two assists in his first game against his former team; the Sabres acquired the forward in a deal with the Capitals last month. 
Buffalo converted two of four power-play chances to end a seven-game drought -the team's longest since 2003-04. 
The Eastern Conference­leading Sabres (47-19-7) joined Nashville in becoming the second NHL team to reach the 100-point mark this sea­son. 
Brian Pothier and Donald Brashear scored for the Capitals (26-35-13), 1-8-2 in their past 11 road games. 
NHL 
Sabres reestablish hoine ice do1ninance in win over Caps 
Associated Press hopefully we're out of it now first time since early last season. didn't score, said Alex Not exactly how Sabres coach 
and we can look forward and "Small things mean a lot and I Ovechkin, the Capitals star held Lindy Ruff drew it up, but he'll 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -Heading come into the playoffs on a roll." think we just want to be ramp­without a point for a third con­take it, considering it was his toward the playoffs, Daniel Drew Stafford had two third­ing up at the right time," said secutive game. team's first goal in 26 power­Briere and the Buffalo Sabres period goals and Clarke Ryan Miller, who made 24 saves. Brian Pothier and Donald play chances. want to address a few deficien­MacArthur also scored, while "Last 10 games for us is going to Brashear scored for "We had some good power cies: fix their sputtering power Dainius Zubrus had two assists be a focal point and tonight was Washington. plays on the road trip and play and regain their edge at in his first game against his for­a good step forward." The Sabres, coming off a 2-0-2 missed some great opportuni­home. mer team; the Sabres acquired It helps that the Sabres fine­four-game road swing, took con­ties," Ruff said. "But you don't 
Check and check. the forward in a deal with the tuned their game against the trol with a three-goal second want to talk about missing great 
Briere and Derek Roy scored Capitals last month. Capitals (26-35-13), who contin­period. opportunities. You want to talk power-play goals, helping the The Eastern Conference-lead­ue displaying the telltale incon­Roy's goal, which opened the about scoring on the opportuni­Sabres end a three-game home ing Sabres (47-19-7) joined sistencies of a young team. scoring 40 seconds into the sec­ties you get." skid with an easy 5-2 win over Nashville in becoming the sec­Besides dropping to 1-8-2 in ond, came courtesy of a fortu­Briere's goal, which put the the Washington Capitals on ond NHL team to reach the 100-their past 11 road games, the nate bounce after Dmitri Sabres up 3-1 , came on a gritty Wednesday. point mark this season. Capitals failed to build off two Kalinin's shot from inside the play, set up after Zubrus forced 
"This is definitely what we The two power-play goals home wins in which they blue line sailed wide and high. a turnover behind the Capitals wanted to clean up," Briere ended a seven-game drought _ outscored their opponents by a The puck bounced to the right of net. With a step on Washington said. "Sometimes it's a good Buffalo's longest since 2003-04. combined 12-2, including a 7-1 the net, where Hoy slid it in the defender Jeff Schultz, Briere thing to hit the rough patch And the Sabres avoided losing win over Tampa Bay on Sunday. open side with goalie Olaf Kolzig skated out in front and wrapped before you hit the playoffs. And four straight at home for the "They just played well. We looking the other way. it in through Kolzig's legs. 

' 
' 
I I ·_·___I 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 22, 2007 
NO SOFTBALL 

ND to play first home game 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame plays its first game of the year at Ivy Field tonight. 
After going 9-12 against stiff competition over the past four weeks, the Irish take on IUPUI in a final tune-up before starting conference play this weekend. 
The Jaguars got off to a very slow start this year, losing their first 11 contests. However, IUPUI worked out the kinks last week­end at the Rebel Games in Kissimee, Fla., and went 5-1 in the tournament. The turnaround included a 10-0 rout against Army and a thrilling come-from­behind 6-5 win over Fairleigh Dickinson in extra innings. 
Sophomore pitcher Breanna Howell, who will most likely start for the Jags tomorrow, picked up the win in both contests. Howell leads the team with a 4-3 record and an ERA of 4.03. The only other IUPUI pitcher to pick up a win on the season is senior Angelica Espinosa. 
The Jaguars have made just one trip to Notre Dame in the program's history in 1999 ­IUPUI came away with a 2-1 vic­tory in nine innings. 
This time around the Irish are a bit more accustomed to picking up wins late in close games. Notre Dame is 3-1 in one-run games, with all three of those wins coming in walk -off fashion. 
The Irish bats have struggled recently scoring only four runs in the past five games including shutout losses to Pacific, No. 8 Texas and No. 2 Arizona State. The IUPUI pitching staff should help the Notre Dame hitters get back on track after facing pow­erhouses from some of the top programs in the country. 


The Irish have been without their leading hitter, senior out­fielder Stephanie Brown, during the five-game slump. Brown was injured during practice when a ground ball took a bad hop and caught her just below the nose. Prior to the injury, she was hit­ting .440 with 15 runs scored from the leadoff position. 
Since Brown went down, Notre Dame has turned to its pitching staff to try to bail the team out. Sophomore hurler Brittany Bargar currently leads the team with a 2.77 ERA, but her record has dropped to 6-7 with tough losses to the Sun Devils, Longhorns and No. 16 Louisiana-Lafayette all in the past week. 
Bargar will look to get back to the .500 mark with a win over the Jaguars tonight. 
Tonight's game is the first of five that Notre Dame will play this weekend at home. The Irish have doubleheaders scheduled against St. John's Saturday and Seton Hall Sunday. Saturday's matchup will mark the begin­ning of Big East play as Notre Dame attempts to defend its 2006 conference championship. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Broncos 
continued from page 28 
that gets you fired up," Pollock said. "Hitting i'i contagious." 
Lilley lit the fire under the Notre Dame bats with a single as the team entered the bottom of the fourth with the 5-3 lead. The eight­run inning inducted two-run singles from Lilley, Jeremy Barnes and Ryne Intlekofer as well an unearned run apiece from Polloek and senior Danny Dressman. 
Notre Dame coach Dave Schrage said Lilley serves an important leadership role. 
"Brett is so consistent," he said. "I Ie comes everyday to the ballpark with a great attitude and works hard-you win a lot of games with Brett Lilley. Every time he comes he's giving everything he's got." 
The Irish extended their lead to 15-4 in the bottom of the sixth as freshman Austin Pearce drove in an RBI offhi<> first career hit. 
Western Michigan threatened in the top of the eighth but was unable to dose in on the Irish lead. Freshman right-hander Steven Mazur gave up a two-run homer to Kyle Galbraith and a one-run single to Matt Abro before retiring from the mound. 
Sophomore right-hander Brett Graffy took over in the middle of the inning. Bronco Kyle Gendron drove in one run off an error to close out the inning and bring Western Michigan within six. Those four runs would fmd the ommsive game for the Broncos. 
Cycling through two pitchers in one inning happened often during the offense-focused game. Sophomore left-hander Sam Elam started the game for the Irish. Grafly threw two innings from the mound and Andrew Scheid, Tony Langford and David Mills tallied an inning apiece -Mazur only saw action in the first part of the eighth inning. Tim Mowry started from the mound for Western Michigan, pitching 2.2 innings before the Broncos brought in six pitchers from their bullpen. 
Using many pitchers in the mid­week non-conference game allowed Notre Dame and Western Michigan to rest their arms, since both teams play in conference series thi<> weekend. 
The Irish responded to Western Michigan's drive in the eighth with two runs in the bottom of the inning. Schrage noted the team's ability to respond from behind the plate every time Western Michigan drew closer. 
"I think our guys did a great job of answering back when Western Michigan would score," he said. "I was very happy with how we hit the ball long." 
Even though the Broncos responded with strong offensive innings, Pollock said, the Irish were confident they would respond. 
"We kept battling. We didn't put up runs in just one inning, so that always keeps you into the game more," he said. "And I think that carried over toward defense too ­a game like [Western Michigan] kept everybody on their toes and rnady for the next pitch." 
Notre Dame sealed the win with a no-run ninth-inning. Schrage said the team hopes to stay strong from behind the plate and tune up defensively as it prepares for its weekend series against South Florida. The Irish will look for strong showings from Lilley and Pollock again as they face tougher competition from the mound. 
"Right now [Pollock's] as hot as anybody and hopefully that will continue," Schrage said. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish jump out to early lead, cruise to 16-9 win over OSU 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
After several straight games of overcoming an early deficit, the Irish finally got the start they were looking for Wednesday, jumping out to a 9-1 halftime lead and beating Ohio State 16-9 at the Loftus 

the year, with nine different players scoring points on the match. Sophomore Jane Stoeckert and senior Meghan Murphy led the way with four points each. Junior Caitlin McKinney and senior Lena Zentgraf also netted three goals apiece in the victory. 
"It was a total team effort," Coyne said. "We do everything 
game, so when the time comes we'll be a solid tournament team." 
Slahor led the Buckeyes with three goals, and six different Ohio State players netted one goal on the game. 
The Irish dominated posses­sion offensively and defensive­ly, out-shooting the Buckeyes 33-14. 
home for the Irish in almost a month -was moved from Moose Krause Stadium indoors to the Loftus Center earlier in the week due to weather concerns. 
Next up for the Irish is a Big East matchup with Loyola in Baltimore. The Greyhounds have struggled this season and have a 1-5 record after Wednesday. 
The match is the Big East opener for Loyola, while the Irish are 0-1 in Big East play after a loss to Syracuse Sunday. 
The Irish improved to 6-2 on the season with the win, while Ohio State dropped to 3-2. 
Contact Michael Bryan at 




Thursday, March 22, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
VS., 

NCAAs 
continued from page 28 
Regional. Former Irish standout Alicja Kryczalo won the women's foil competition and then-sopho­more Patrick Ghattas collected the men's sabre crown. Two weeks ago, two new Notre Dame fencers -freshman epeeist Kelley Hurley and sophomore foilist Adi Nott­captured titles in the regional com­petition at the Joyce Center. 
"I know there's going to be a lot of different competitors," Nott said, comparing her expectations of this weekend's event to the Midwest Regional. "I want to fence better than I have [this year]." 
Ghattas, now a senior and three­time All-American, will compete at the NCAAs after a third-place fin­ish in the Regional March 10. Ghattas has finished second at Nationals two years in a row. 
The competition begins today with round-robin competition on the men's side. Further men's rounds and direct elimination fol­low on Friday. The women start fencing on Saturday before finish­ing Sunday, when the NCAA awards one national championship for a team's combined men's and women's performances. Notre Dame finished fourth in 2006. 
Irish senior Valerie Providenza will look to become the first Notre Dame women's sabreist ever to earn All-American status four straight seasons. She won the indi­vidual crown as a freshman before finishing fourth in 2005 and ninth in 2006. 
Providenza will be joined in her weapon by sophomore Ashley Serrette, who is making a home­coming of sorts. The sophomore native of Orange, N.J., earned a bid in the NCAAs with a sixth-place finish at the regional competition. (Ohio State had three fencers in the top five, but NCAA rules limit teams to two entries in each weapon per gender.) 
This weekend's competition will be the flrst NCAA Championship action for five of Notre Dame's 11 fencers. Serrette, Hurley, junior epeeist Greg Howard, sophomore foilist Emilie Prot and sophomore sabreist Bill Thanhouser will be making their championship debuts. 
Hurley, who has dropped only four bouts all season, represents Notre Dame's best chance at a vic­tory from the first-timers. 
Among the returning competi­tors, Nott finished sixth in the NCAAs as a freshman, while junior foilist Jakub Jedrkowiak placed seventh in 2005 and eighth in 2006. Last season, sophomore epeeist Karol Kostka and sopho­more foilist Mark Kubik fmished 18th and 21st, respectively. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
IRISH IN THE NCAA's 

Kelly Hurley  FR  EPEE  Greg Howard  JR  EPEE  
Valerie Providenza  SR  SABRE  Karol Kostka  so  EPEE  
Ashley Serrette  so  SABRE  Patrick Ghattas  SR  SABRE  
Adi Nott  so  FOIL  Bill Thanhouser  so  SABRE  
Emilie Prot  so  FOIL  "akub "edrkowiak  JR  FOIL  
Mark Kubik  so  FOIL  

JARRED WAFER/Observer Graphic 

Olivet 
continued from page 28 
won all six matches in straight sets. 
Saint Mary's now boasts a 5-4 overall record, alongside its lone win in the MIAA in its first match. Olivet's setback now leaves it at 1-2 in the MIAA with an overall record of 4-3 on the season. 
Prior to the match, senior Kelly McDavitt spoke about last week's play and its effect on the season. 
"We all learned a lot from our match play experience," she said. "I think our team is ready for the sea­son. We all have the potential to per­form well on the courts. We have the mindset of being focused and work­ing hard. Every ball with a pur­pose." 
Starting the match from the No. 1 spot, McDavitt defeated Olivet senior Rachel Vilums 6-1, 6-0. From the No. 2 spot, freshman Camille Gebert overcame Comets sophomore Jaclyn Mummaw 6-2, 6-3. 
In the third match of the day, Saint Mary's sophomore Mary Campbell beat Olivet junior Abbie Utberg in the first set 6-3, but then finished off the match with an overpowering 6-0 set. Belles freshman Usa Rubino faced freshman Celeste Gruber from the fourth spot and won 6-1, 6-2 in a consistent performance. 
Belles senior Tara O'Brien earned a victory for Saint Mary's in the fifth spot with her steady showing over Olivet senior Jaime Morrison. O'Brien conceded two games in the first set, 6-2, but then blanked her opponent in the final set, putting the contest away. 
In the final match of singles play, Saint Mary's junior Cassie Quaglia defeated Lindsey Struble, a fellow junior, 6-3, 6-3, finalizing the Belles' sweep over Olivet in singles play. 
With the match already decided, Saint Mary's didn't let up. In the first match of doubles play, McDavitt and Gebert extended their doubles win­ning streak to six, defeating Olivet's pairing of senior Mallory Bailey and Vilums8-5. 
From the second spot in doubles play, the Belles continued winning, this time thanks to Campbell and Lisa Rubino, who earned an 8-5 vic­tory over Olivet's Utberg and Mummaw. 
In what was shaping out to be a clean sweep, the Belles slipped for the first and only time against the Comets doubles team of senior Corey Jager and Struble. O'Brien and Belles senior Grace Gordon weren't able to overcome an 8-4 performance from the Olivet duo. 
Freshman standout Gebert spoke about the uneasiness prior to the match and team's potential. 
"It was nice to get our first confer­ence match out of the way. I think that everyone's nerves were racing, but we pulled through as a team," Gebert said. "There is something special about our team this year -I think that we have the potential to go very far. It will all depend on our heart." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
Wisconsin 
continued from page 28 
day. It'll be [No. 4 seniors] Christian and Catrina Thompson, and after that we still don't know," Louderback said. "Katie Potts will step into the doubles ... but we don't know the combinations yet." 
Louderback said Tefft, Potts and freshmen Cosmina Ciobanu and Kali Krisik would be in the doubles mix. 
No. 19 Catrina Thompson will lead the Irish out of the No. 1 singles slot. She has a 13-3 dual-match record and has won her last four, includ­ing a 6-0, 6-3 win Saturday over No. 31 Blakeley Griffith of Tennessee. 
Catrina Thompson will take the No. 2 slot and try to rebound after dropping all three of her matches last week. 
The other nationally ranked singles player for Notre Dame is No. 62 Ciobanu, who has a perfect 16-0 dual match record out of the No. 5 slot. Ciobanu slid 31 spots from the last set of rankings, but Louderback said that is to be expected with the automated nature of the computer rank­ings. 
"The problem is if you aren't playing No. 1 or No. 2, you can drop fast because you don't get points for play­ing there," he said. "Now, they went to the computer two weeks earlier than nor­mal, so the rankings, espe­cially the team will be adjust­ing a lot each week. Florida jumped ahead of us and we're tied with Stanford and I think the top four in the team rankings have really separat­ed themselves." 



Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 22, 2007 

Student Union Board 

Speakers Series 


Ana Gasteyer 
Thursda arch 22nd 8:00p 102 eBartolo 

Beginning 
continued from page 28 
Quinn, two top receivers in Rhema McKnight and All­American Jeff Samardzija, three-year workhorse Darius Walker at running back and three offensive lineman, position battles for the top spot on the depth chart will shape the spring. 
At signal-caller, the battle will feature three returning players -rising junior Evan Sharpley and rising sophomores Zach Frazer and Demetrius Jones. But the most intriguing storyline is the arrival of high school star Jimmy Clausen, one of three early-enrolling freshmen. 
Weis said he hopes to cut the competition for the starting job down to two by the end of spring practice, with the top candidates vying for the job once summer camp starts in August. He said he would focus his attention "heavily -almost exclusively" on the quarterback battle as Corwin Brown installs the new 3-4 personnel defense. 
''I've set this up where every­one will get their fair chance to show that they can run the team," Weis said. 
Frazer said his strengths are in leadership and size -he's the biggest of the group at 6-foot-4 and 226 pounds. 
"Each of us is very different, but I think my skills and my tal­ents definitely bring something to the table," Frazer said. "The competition's going to get tough but I'm working towards trying to get one of those two spots." 
Jones said the competition is open both in terms of informa­tion and candidates. 

"Coming into spring we all know the expectations on the field as well as off the field," he said. "There's not any hidden secrets about the responsibility we're going to have to take on, there's not any secrets period." 
But then there's the question of to whom who the new quar­terback will be throwing. 
Weis said rising junior David Grimes, the No. 3 wideout last fall, would be the top receiver to start the spring. Grimes, a 6­foot, 174-pound speedster, underwent an undisclosed sur­gery after the Sugar Bowl in January. 
"A couple days before spring break, when I said, 'If I don't see him go full-speed, he's not going on spring break,' he ran around great," Weis said with a laugh. "So from what I saw right before spring break, I have very high expectations." 
Weis said he talked to Grimes about successful wideouts in the NFL whose heights were shorter than the prototypical receiver frame, including former New York Jet Wayne Chrebet and current New England Patriot Troy Brown. 
"I've talked to him about a bunch of guys that I've coached in the past that have not been the biggest in stature that have been very, very, very productive and productive as in the lead roles," Weis said. 
But after Grimes, even more questions remain. 
Behind Grimes are rising jun­ior D.J. Hord, who is fully healthy after missing all of 2006 with a torn Achilles tendon, ris­ing sophomore George West, who enrolled early a year ago, and classmates Richard Jackson and Robby Parris, the tallest receivers on the Irish roster at 6­foot-3. 
But all four are wet behind the ears. In fact, with Chase Anastasio deciding against applying for a fifth year, only two Irish wideouts, other than Grimes, have logged even a sin­gle catch in college. West caught two balls as a freshman, and Parris hauled in one. llord returned seven kickoffs as a freshman but never saw the ball on offense. 
In the backfield, early-enrollee Armando Allen will battle with nsmg sophomores James Aldridge and Munir Prince and multi-faceted fifth-year senior Travis Thomas. 
Weis said Thomas, who played outside linebacker in 2006, likely would start at the beginning of the spring but could move back to defense. Thomas had 13 car­ries for 81 yards and two touch­downs on limited offensive action last season. Aldridge car­ried 37 times for 149 yards, while Prince had 34 yards on 15 attempts. 
On the offensive line, Weis said rising sophomores Dan Wenger, Eric Olsen and Matt Carufel like­ly would battle for the two open spots at offensive guard, while rising sophomore Bartley Webb and rising juniors Mike Turkovich and Paul Duncan will fight for the open left tackle position. 
On the other side of the ball, new defensive coordinator Corwin Brown will instill the 3-4 personnel -a scheme largely unfamiliar to the Irish. 
"Defensively, although person­nel comes into play, the changes are more schematic, and you're going to put it in -in its due course-and you're going to be very deliberate in how you put it in," Weis said. "So everyone 

POSITION SWITCHES TO S'tART SPRING 
NEW 

POSITION ILB RB OLB DE 59 CHRIS STEWART OG. INT 90 JOHN RYAN DE OLB 
knows what they are doing and you arc building a system rather than just throwing a system at them." 
Despite the changes, Weis refuses to allow excuses to lower his team's expectations for the upcoming season. 
"All you do give a scapegoat and say, 'You only have three guys coming back on offense, you only have a few more com­ing back on defense,"' Weis said. "I don't think that's what good teams do." 
To accommodate the switch to a 3-4 from a 4-3, some Irish per­sonnel will be switching posi­tions. Rising sophomore Chris Stewart will join the defensive line this season after spending his freshman campaign at left guard, but Weis left open the possibility that Stewart could return to the offense. 
Weis said overall the switch in 
JARRED WAFER/Observer Graphic 

defenses will benefit both the players he has now and any recruits looking to come to Notre Dame because the outside line­backer slots on the 3-4 accom­modate players who are too small to be defensive lineman, but too slow to play linebacker in a 4-3 set. 
"This gives you a lot more flex­ibility because now, both those guys, both the guys on the out­side are capable of being either a defensive end or a linebacker on every play," Weis said. "And this way the defense and the offense really never knows which one is which: Is this guy a linebacker in this play or is he a defensive end on this play? By natural view of that, it causes confusion." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu and Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Thursday, March 22, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 


BLACK DoG 
LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 


WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Dan Reichert 
33 Equine color 44 Like most music 50 Book after in record stores Daniel 
34 R & B's Winans 
nowadays 
51 Spanish35 Pallid 45 Washed 
vacation site 46 Actress Lindsay
37 Rum drink 53 Not esto or eso 47 Seemingly
38 Deal gently with 54 PC operator
forever 39 Biology topic 55 Opinion
48 Sea eagles 
43 Looks 49 Muddies 57 Physicians' grp. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Side in an annual all-star

1 Designer for game
Jackie 33 _ Building,

5 When one onetime part ofmight have a Rockefellerlate lunch Center
10 Damage assessment grp. 
36 Cobblers' cause?

14 One-sixth of an inch 40 Suffix with ballad
15 Indian palace 41 Upbeat
16 Long periods 42 Beaut
11 Yield 43 Exudation,
1B Web listings for maybe
an old western? 45 Bush White

20 Remedy House dog
provider 46 Part ownership

22 Ingredient in a lyonnaise dish in a bar? 
23 Hockey gear for 51 Like some rams and ewes? 
chemical bonds 

25 Hot Wheels 52 Expunged company 
56 Comment on a 28 Some are woman from personal Copenhagen? 
29 More remote 58 "_ living" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

59 Strip between stripes 60 Loud rumble? 61 Pilgrimage 62 Added conditions 63 Syrian leader 64 Days of_ 
DOWN 1 Kind of column 2 Teller of stories 3 Unbleached: Fr. 4 Soprano, for one 5 Dutch beer 6 A lake or a 
Chevy 7 "Movin' Out" 
Tony winner B Ebbs 9 Good cheer 
1oDeceptions 11 "Sesame 
Street" regular 12 Speedy sharks 13 Part of 
57-Down: Abbr. 19 Ton of bricks, e.g. 21 Sci-fi writer _s. Tepper 24 The Green Hornet's valet 
25 Tiny critter 
27 Stratum 30 "__,me?" 31 The invaders in 
"The Invaders" 32 Farm enclosure 
JUMBLE 
JJIJJMrnTbJ! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KOHCE 
[ J I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
KETOS ± 

tMISTUR t
IJ I J 
www.jumble.com
tERPICH j
IJ [ I I 


'"->· 
A: "r I I I I I I J" rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: VIXEN MIDGE INDUCE VIABLE Answer: Whether on board or on shore, a submarine crew can be -IN A "DIVE" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Matthew Broderick. 45: Rosie O'Donnell. 45: Gary Oldman. 49: Timothy Dalton. 61 
Happy Birthday: It's time to take what you want and go after what you've lost. You have to be strong and confident and let everyone know you mean business. Secure your position and prepare for the future. This year. don't give in to demands hut rather. set the standard and call the shots. Your numhers are 2, 7. 18, 28, 33.40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't let money matters cause you emotional worry. Buckle down and set a hudget. An opportunity to start something new or learn a new skill that will help your career is apparent. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Love. romance and doing things that help others should all be built into your schedule today. A look at a possibly lucrative investment will excite you. Don't let an older individual in your life put restrictions on you. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may have big ideas and want to make mega changes but instead. lay your plans out carefully and make sure they are viable before you move ahead. Someone who interests you may fool you into thinking you can make unrealistic gains. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You are thinking clearly but it's what you are thinking about that may be a little off course. Put your efforts into professional or educational pursuits. It is apparent someone has caught your eye --think with your head, not your heart. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Have fun but keep in mind that someone around you is probably leaving you out of the wheeling and dealing. You may want to enjoy the moment that feels like victory but, if you aren't part of the game, your 15 minutes of fame won't be all that satisfying. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You've got it happening today, especially if you network and put yourself in a position to make gains or learn something valuable. You have luck and love in your comer. Aim for financial gains and interesting partnerships. 5 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A fabulous idea along with some good suggestions from interested parties will make your day. Do everything in your power to get things happening but don't use your own money. That's what partners are for. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Don't miss out on an opportunity to partner with someone or spend time with the one you love. You have to interact with others to expand your horizons and move forward in a positive manner. Changes at home will be good. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make an effort to do something nice for someone you love. You don't have to overspend to impress --just be sincere. Someone will call your bluff if you fabricate a story. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. l 9): Make the changes at home that will raise your comfort level and help you feel more at ease with your overhead. Someone you are close to will have a good suggestion regarding an emotional situation you are facing. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. l 8): Be careful not to let your emotions get the better of you. You will be prone to flying off the handle and putting blame where it doesn't belong. Step back and consider that you may be part of the problem. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You have vision regarding what will and what won't work. .::> Keep things sir:nple and you will find the success you are looking for. Don't be afraid to backtrack, apologize or accept some of the blame for what happened in the past. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive to the needs of others and discerning about who is or isn't legitimate. You are quick to take action and open to suggestions but not likely to put yourself in an awkward position. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenia/ast.com for confidential consultations 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


WHAT SHE: E:XPE:RI­E:NC.e:D WHE:N SHE: SHOPPe:D FOR A C.AC.TUS PL-ANT. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, March 22, 2007 
page 28 
FENCING 

ND travels to Jersey for NCAA meet 

By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame may not be the favorite, but the Irish plan on rat­tling some sabres starting today as the four-day NCAA Fencing Championships kicks off at Drew University in Madison, N.J. 
Columbia, Penn State and St. John's are the favorites, each qualifying the maximum 12 fencers for the event. But Ohio State and Notre Dame, two peren­nial powers who failed to qualifY a full squad, have shown an ability to overcome a numbers disadvan­tage in the past. 
Last season the Buckeyes quali­fied just nine fencers yet finished third with 155 points-only 10 behind champion Harvard. For the Irish, Notre Dame's 2005 championship marked the only time a squad ever captured the title without a full allotment of fencers. 

"I think we have a shot," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said of his team's chances this weekend. 
And he has empirical evidence on his side. 
Like they did two seasons ago en route to a national champi­onship, the Irish qualified 11 fencers for this year's NCAA Championships. 
But the similarities don't stop there. In 2005, Notre Dame captured two titles at the NCAA Midwest 
see NCAAS/page 25 

VANESSA GEMPIS!The Observer Irish sophomore epee Alex Grlgorenko, left, competes In the Midwest Conference Championships March 4 at the Joyce Center. 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles win 8-1 to open WAA.year 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
There was no doubt about this one. 
Saint Mary's demolished confer­ence opponent Olivet 8-1 Wednesday at Notre Dame's Eck Tennis Pavillion in the opening serve of the team's MIM schedule. 
The Belles looked comfortable in every aspect of the match, most notably in singles play, where they 
see OLIVET/page25 
FOOTBALL 

Spring beginnings 
Weis says expectations still high as young squad starts practices 
By CHRIS HINE and 
KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writers 
Tradition never graduates, but experience does. 
A year after posting a banner that read, "9-3 is not good enough," Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said Wednesday he picked a theme -"Tradition never graduates" -for spring practices that would eliminate any low expectations as the team replaces seven offensive and transitions to a new defen­sive scheme. 
Weis' comments came at the team's news conference to usher in the start of spring ball. Notre Dame held the first of its 15 spring practices Wednesday at the Loftus Center. 

The Irish enter the spring needing to fill the top of the depth charts on an offensive unit that led Notre Dame to a 10-3 record and a Sugar Bowl appearance last season. 
"Our identity on offense is going to be more personnel­related than it is schematically because we changed people," Weis said. "There's been a great influx of new people coming in, so now, for example, let's say your runner is a different type of runner than Darius [Walker]. Well, you know, that might change what you do offensively as far as the run game goes." 
With the Irish losing four-year starting quarterback Brady 
see BEGINNING/page 26 

SPRING POSITION 
BATTLES  
OUTSIDE LINEBACKERS  RUNNING BACKS  QUARTERBACKS  
:;~::::-::.-.  
Kevin Washington #42  Armando Allen #5  Demetrius Jones #3  
6'1 240  Jr  5'10  190 Fr  6'4 210 So  
Morrice Richardson #53  Munir Prince #25  Jimmy Clausen.  
6'2 235 So  5'10  184 So  6~3 ..  207, Fr .·. ·:::::::·  
-:-.,::~;:::~:·:·  
Anthony Vernaglia #54  ZachFrazer  
6'3 233 Sr  A  6'3 226 So  
.·4@:=  
sylln"sharpley #13  
6'2  2121FJr  
·<~IF··  

BASEBALL 

Irish crush Broncos at Eck 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Notre Dame scored eight runs in the bottom of the fourth to jump ahead 13-3 and cruise to a 17-9 win over Western Michigan Wednesday at Eck Stadium. 
The outburst was the third inning in which the Irish have driven in seven or more runs this season. 
The win, with its season-high 17 runs, put Notre Dame just above .500 with an overall record of 10­9. 
Freshman third baseman A.J. Pollock led the Irish offensively, going 5-for-6 from behind the plate. Notre Dame jumped out to an early 1-0 lead and never allowed the Broncos a chance to take the game. 
"It was a great day to hit and everybody swung the bat well, so 
see BRONCOS/page 24 


ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

No. 3 squad to play Badgers in Madison 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
Days after surviving its first road trip of the season without dropping a match, Notre Dame is on the road again to face Wisconsin today. 
Last week, No. 3 Notre Dame (15-1) captured three matches away from home, including its first two outdoor matches against No. 15 Duke and No. 31 Tennessee. 
The Irish will try to win their 12th straight against the unranked Badgers, who will likely be without their best player, No. 18 Caitlin Burke, who has been out nearly two months, Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback said. 
"They've struggled this year," Louderback said. "If their kids are back and healthy, it could be a good match. If their kids are out, they're struggling. They've had about eight days to rest and [Burke has] played dou­bles, but we just don't know who'll be in the lineup for them." 
The Irish are suffering from injury problems of their own. 
Louderback said junior Brook Buck will not play today due to an undisclosed injury. Her injury will affeet the com­binations Notre Dame sends out to play doubles. Buck, along with sophomore Kelcy Tefft, is currently ranked No. 15 in the ITA Tennis rankings with an 8-5 record. 
"We were trying a couple different doubles teams yester­
see WISCONSIN/page 25 





