------------------------------------------------, 
. ' 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Four tickets run for student body leadership 
Experienced contenders face newcomers in Feb. 12 election 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
With current student body president Lizzi Shappell and vice president Bill Andrichik due to graduate in May, eight new faces have climbed into the ring, their eyes on one prize: becoming the next leaders of Notre Dame's student government. 
In an e-mail sent to The Observer Thursday, the Judicial Council announced the four tickets running this year. 
The students running for president and vice pres­ident are junior Liz Brown from Cavanaugh and sophomore Maris Braun from Breen-Phillips, junior Danny Smith from Alumni and junior Ashley Weiss from Breen-Phillips, freshman Cipriano Rivera of St. Edward's and sophomore Catherine Kane of Welsh Family and freshmen Garrett Coggon and Mike Padberg, both from Zahm Hall. 
This year's candidates include an all-female tick­·et, a ticket with two ROTC members and a transfer student. Brown and Braun enter their campaign armed 
see ELECTIONS/page 4 

Candidates create personal blogs to communicate with voters 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
With student campaign races heating up, both Liz Brown and Danny Smith are doing something unprecedented in Notre Dame election history ­they are both taking their campaign trail online with blogs. 
While the Judicial Council, the governing body for University elections, encourages candidates to cre­ate Web sites, Brown and Smith independently came up with the idea of running a blog. 
"When we were originally brainstorming our plat­form, we decided that we want to run a blog to keep people informed about what's going on in student government," Smith said. "We wanted people to be able to communicate with us. We realized that this is a goal for our campaign too, so the blog idea real­ly branched off a platform idea." 
While the blogs are the newest addition to the campaign trail, neither candidate wants new tech­nologies to replace actually going out and meeting potential voters. 
see BLOGS/page 6 


Students have turned to Anthony Travel to organize and book spring break trips. 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
There seems to be one adage Notre Dame students follow in plan­ning their spring break vacations: haste makes waste. That is, those traveling worldwide for the nine days of respite this March haven't delayed making their final arrange­ments. 
Avoiding procrastination has cer­tainly been economical for sopho­more Brandon Doyle and his fellow quad members from Siegfried Hall, who are traveling to Orlando. Three of them will fly down and one will drive so they have access to a car once they arrive. 
"We booked our tickets in December and got great airfares," 
Spring break plans already in the making 
Doyle said. "And with a car, we can easily get around Orlando -see the Disney parks, Epcot Center and Universal Studios, and visit beaches within an hour's drive easily." 
Whether spring break travel plans are voyaging to domestic beaches or hopping across borders to hit up international hot spots or heading home, the majority of the student body simply wants to escape the wintry climate of Northern Indiana. 
Such is the case for junior Angel Leal of Howard Hall and her friends from California and Texas. Naturally, their main priority in choosing a vacation was to land somewhere sunny. 
"We felt that we had to get out of the Midwest for break this year," 
see BREAK/page 3 

High turnout likely for Late Night Olympics 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
Tonight the Joyce Center will transform into an athlet­ic center with a cause, host­ing one of the most widely attended charity events of the year -Late Night Olympics. 
This will be the 21st year that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students gather to raise funds for the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. Students participate in ath­letic events and raise money as a dorm. Last year nearly 1,200 participants raised approximately $8,300. 
"Typically, the grand prize winner takes half of the money for their dorm. Last year, the MBA students won, but gave all right back to charity. This is the only time I have ever seen that during my time here," Bill Regan, assistant director for instructional programs and special events at RecSports, said. 
Annual turnout is expected to be similar to previous years, but Regan hopes the weather will not be a factor tonight. 
"I hope the snow doesn't deter people from coming out and having a good time," he said. 
Late Night Olympics con­sists of 17 events, ranging from 3-on-3 basketball to inner tube water polo. Each 
see OLYMPICS/ page 6 


Shappell presents progress 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
The Student Affairs commit­tee of the Board of Trustees gave the Shappell-Andrichik administration a positive appraisal Thursday when stu­dent body president Lizzi Shappell, vice president Bill Andrichik and chief executive assistant Liz Brown presented their State of the Student Union address to the committee mem­bers. 
Andrichik said the past year has been a successful one. 
"We started the year with about 35 or so platform initia­tives and we have either fully completed or, if you include the things that are going to happen, like the Eating Disorders Conference and the Community Summit, then we are in the upper 20s to approaching 30 of those [initiatives]," Andrichik said. 
Shappell said this year her administration was able to complete most of the objectives on their initial platform because they haven't had to deal with any of the sudden issues that arose last year, like the academic freedom debate and the disorderly house ordi­nance. 
"It's been a far more relaxed year in that sense with not dealing with as controversial 
see BOTIpage 6 

.. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, February 2, 2007 
.. 
INSIDE COLUMN 

State of the headshots 
Hello, dear reader. I am writing today about something that is important to me, and I have decided to write this in inside column format. I've decided to position my words in a column-like shape to talk to you about the sorry state of headshots in The Observer. 
You may remember my other inside col­umn (the second of three, if you are into collecting my inside columns) of Fall 2006, when I discussed the importance of having the proper headshot to go with your article in our student news­paper. I think you'll agree, articles with­out headshots suck. 

Since my column's appearance, I have seen a larger number of headshots in The Observer (directly attributable to me), but I have also seen a steady decline in quality. This is disturbing. 
CASE IN POINT: The issue of Tuesday, January 30th is strewn with awful, stu­pid headshots. 
EXAMPLE A: Jonathan Klinger's arti­cle on fair trade in the Viewpoint sec­tion has with it possibly the worst head­shot in Observer history. It appears to be cropped from a larger photo of Jonathan (or, if I may, Jon) near a coral reef. However, this cannot be so because he is wearing a suit. Ridiculous. 
Further more, his head isn't even fill­ing the frame of the headshot. There is a limited space in which to make a headshot IMPACT. I suggest you fill it, Jon. 
EXAMPLE B: Marty Schroeder's arti­cle on Super Bowl commercials. The way his head is slightly cocked, but not cocked all the way, makes me distrust him and his motives. His stare suggests something to me of a secret, not unlike the Mona Lisa. I don't want to stare at the headshot and try to figure out what he is thinking; I want it all in the article. Give me a headshot that says,"no need to look here, it's all in the article." Marty, take your half-cocked Mona Lisa smiles and leave them at home. 
But do not lose hope, dear readers. Among strewn piles of senseless crappy headshot rubble, there are some shiny good things. The edition of Wednesday, January 31st, in the Viewpoint section features a very well done headshot of Katie Palmitier. Neutral background, full frame, and the perfect facial expression. Wow. 
While there are many terrible head­shots in the Observer, not enough arti­cles even give their writers a chance by including them. Missed opportunity. Recall Ken Fowler's passionate polemic against that Selena Roberts woman or whatever. Now imagine Ken's column with him staring right at you looking SUPER serious. HOLY CRAP! I've met Ken (nice guy) and he could do it, no problem. 
So I call on you, the readers, to demand more headshots. Write in, and -oh whatever, this'll probably get cut off at the end anyway·s. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Adam Fairholm at afairhol@nd. edu 

Adam Fairholm 
Cartoonist 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 63!-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ACTIVITY WOULD YOU ADD TO LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS? 



Andrea Mayus Kate Kenahan Marie Sydlik 
junior junior freshman Welsh Family Welsh Family Welsh Family 
"Wait, what? "Flamingo "Relays-This dancing. , they were fun parachute in high school has a gym class. " knapsack?" 

Ryan Pantages  Sean Mallin  Tony Crosser  
freshman  sophomore  junior  
Keough  Keough  Keough  
"Bowling­ "Bikini  ':4. J!Vii tennis  
the greatest  contest, so I  tournament  
sport in the  could  with Father  
world."  participate. ,  Poorman."  


OFFBEAT 

'Super Tonio' causes sensation in Cancun 
CANCUN, Mexico-He is called "Super Tonio," and at a whopping birth weight of 14.5 pounds, the little fellow is causing a sensa­tion in this Mexican resort city. 
Cancun residents have crowded the nursery ward's window to see Antonio Vasconcelos, who was born early Monday by Caesarean section. The baby drinks 5 ounces of milk evtfty three hours, and measures 22 inches in length. 
"We haven't found any abnormality in the child, 
there are some signs of high blood sugar, and a slight blood infection, but that is being controlled so that the child can get on with his normal life in a few more days," Narciso Perez Bravo, the hospital's director, said on Wednesday. 
Fake employer took women's urine samples 
OMAHA, Neb. -A 36­year-old Omaha man accused of luring women to his home and taking urine samples when they thought they were applying for a job was found guilty Thursday of two counts of criminal impersonation. 
Victims told police Kevin Oliver said he worked for cell phone company T­Mobile and was interview­ing them for jobs. Prosecutors said there never were any jobs. 
"To this day, we don't know what his ultimate goal was but whatever it was it was deceptive, it was damaging and it was protracted," said Omaha city prosecutor Marty Conboy. "This went on for 18 months that we know of." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The student group, Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMCO). presents "Ragtime" tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. "Ragtime" will also be play­ing Feb. 3, 9 and 10. Tickets available at LaFortune box office and are $6 for seniors and $8 for adults. 
The Late Night Olympics will be held from today at 6 
p.m. to Saturday at 4 a.m. in the Joyce Center. The event raises money for St. Joe 
.county Special Olympics. 
Country megastar Dierks Bentley, accompanied by Cross Canadian Ragweed, will perform at 9 p.m. at Legends. The event is free and open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students with ID. 
The New Orleans Jazz Orchestra will perform a show called "New Orleans: Then and Now" Saturday at 8 p.m. in Leighton Concert .Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Call the ticket office at 631-2800 to purchase tickets at $15 for students, $30 for facul­ty/staff/seniors and $36 for 
the general public. 
The Notre Dame Scrabble Club will host a Scrabble Tournament Saturday from 
8:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. There is an entry fee of $50. There will be different divisions for players of all skill levels. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
c:: 
LLI :::z::: 
!ci: 
LLI 
3: 
....I 
<( CJ 



0 

HIGH 22 HIGH 6 HIGH 8 HIGH 7
...I LOW 0 LOW -4 LOW 0 LOW -10 

7 
-2 
Atlanta 50 I 35 Boston 37 I 28 Chicago 20 I 14 Denver 5 I -4 Houston 61 I 45 los Angeles 65 I 46 Minneapolis 5 I -1 New York 39 131 Philadelphia 41 I 29 Phoenix 61 I 44 Seattle 46 I 27 St. louis 27 I 19 Tampa 74 I 69 Washington 39 I 32 
-

Friday, February 2, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Career fair enjoys high turnout 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 
Nearly a quarter of Notre Dame's student body and over 100 employers trekked through snow and ice to the Joyce Center Thursday night to take part in the Wmter Career Fair. 
"I think this may be our largest and most diverse career fair since 1999," said Lee Svete, director of the Career Center. "There's some­thing for,every major, which is usually hard to do with a career fair. It's a mixed buffet table of opportunities." 
Anita Rees, associate director of the Career Center, noted that there was a "constant flow" of students with some showing up at 
3:50 p.m., 10 minutes before the fair's 4:00 start time. · 
"There was an especially heavy flow at the beginning," Rees said. "Employers were amazed with the turnout and they're saying how great Notre Dame students are." 
Students came dressed in busi­ness suits and formal attire to network with potential employers and try to land interviews and ultimately, internships or jobs for after-graduation. Class levels ranged from freshman under­graduates to MBA candidates to even PhD candidates. 
"1 !:!arne at the last minute to find a job. [The Career Fair] is practice for interviewing in the future," said Liz Sarb, a studio art and design major. "I also came as moral support for my friends." 
One surprise of the night was the amount of freshmen that came to the fair to seek out employers, which "impressed" Rees. 
Freshmen can have a hard time landing internships or even get­ting much attention from employ­ers who are often more interested in recruiting sophomores and jun­iors. 
''I'm not necessarily looking for an internship, but it's good to make contacts and see what's out there," said freshman aerospace engineering major Ted Reinhold, who talked to a BP Oil Company recruiter. 
Freshman Melissa Dondalski, who attended the Diversity Reception before the fair, echoed Reinhold's sentiments. 
"It was a little disappointing because there aren't a lot of opportunities for freshmen, but it was still a good experience to meet employers," she said. 
With so many interested stu­dents, queues were inevitable at the fair. Long lines of up to 15 Arts and Letters students waited to talk to recruiters from Chicago's Field Museum while long lines of Finance majors wait­ed at Goldman Sachs. 
Students weren't the only ones who noticed the long lines. 
"Employers were amazed with the turnout. They've been impressed with how many stu­dents have come out," said Suzanne Thorup, program man­ager for internship development at the Career Center. 
Although Chicago and the Midwest were well-represented, employers came from as far as Seattle and Washington, D.C. to attend the event. Svete called it "a 
testament to Notre Dame stu­dents and what they offer." Employers also praised the stu­dent body. 
"I've been in this business for 23 years and have recruited stu­dents all over the world, but Notre Dame has the highest cal­iber of students," said Sam Long, a recruiter from E&J Gallo Wrnery, based in Modesto, Calif. "They have strong integrity, great social skills and passion for what they do. They also have the strongest moral compasses of any students I've seen." 
Long praised Svete for prepar­ing Notre Dame students so well for the fair and also for the suc­cess of the fair itself. 
"Lee· [Svete] has such passion and integrity. He really wants the best for his kids," he said. 
Many of the corporate recruiters are Notre Dame alum­ni. Anthony Salvador, a former linebacker on the varsity football team who graduated last spring and now works for E&J Gallo Winery, called coming back to Notre Dame for the Career Fair a "great experience." 
"It's great to be able to help out the company since I'm familiar with Notre Dame students. I can point out familiar faces who are qualified for positions with the company." 
Svete estimates there will be about 1,000 interviews taking place today as a result of the Career Fair, with about 81 employers scheduling upwards of 15 interviews each. 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 
Break 

continued from page 1 
Leal said. "So, we began search­
ing for places on Travelocity.com, 
and we got a package deal to 
Mazatlan [Mexico] that ended up 
being cheaper than Cancun or 
other popular sites." 

While students like Leal may 
have struck gold relying solely on 
Internet deals, on-campus 
resources such as Anthony Travel 
also organized some vacations 
that many students found attrac­
tive, said Kayleen Carr, leisure 
manager for the company. 
"The two biggest destinations this year include a cruise on the Carnival Glory, which roughly 100 Notre Dame students have ·booked cabins on," she said. "The second largest destination, Costa Rica, will be hailing about fifty 
students." 

Carr also noted that most stu­
dents traveling on the Carnival 
Glory cruise will be seniors, as 
they are required to be 21 years 
of age to book a cabin. Most 
Notre Dame students paid rough­
ly $600 apiece to go on this 
cruise. 

In addition, students who opted 
to travel on the cruise -a seven­
day passage through Costa Maya 
and Cozumel, Mexico; the 
Bahamas and Belize -are main­
ly seniors looking to commemo­
rate their final spring break doing 
something unique. 

"It was the most convenient 
and affordable trip for us," said 
senior Christa Laneri, who will be 
going with her roommates. "We 
wanted to do something special 
like a cruise through the Western 
Caribbean, and a group of girls 
going on a cruise will be much safer than going to a foreign country." 
Junior Ted Buch found a unique way to escape the frigid weather: flying to Egypt to visit a fellow Notre Dame friend who is studying abroad at the American University ofCairo. 
"I want to make a point of going somewhere for break," he said, "and I'm tired of the same old, same old. I've always been fasci­nated by pyramids, hieroglyphics, and now that I have a friend there, it makes sense to visit." 
Many students seeking last­minute deals can use STA Travel, the world's leading student travel organization with 400 worldwide branches as a resource. Carrie Moffatt, the branch manager at the Purdue University location, said there has definitely been a major increase in college students traveling this spring break. 
"Students seem to be picking up on the great deals offered in London, Paris, Amsterdam and Rome," she said, "and even more expensive vacations to places like Costa Rica and the Caribbean have been l:iot this year." 
Buch's preparation for his jour­ney will certainly require more cash than a trip to Central America, but for him, months of personal savings plus a job wait­ing tables will help fund his endeavor. Besides that, there's lit­tle to worry about, he said. 
"The flight and the hotel accommodations will take up most of my costs, but I think it's all worth it," Buch said. "I imag­ine I'll do all the sightseeing·and enjoy the nightlife in Cairo. My only hope is that I don't run into trouble anywhere." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 





third eye blind common black eyed peas 
to run , cake 
Apply Now to be 
guster e 
The Chair of The Show 2007 

Jason mraz 

Committee 
george clinton 
Application online at sao.nd.edu or 315 LaFortune. 
talib kweli Email to theshow@nd.edu or return to 315 LaFortune by Wednesday, February 7th at 5PM 
better than ezra 
Questions? Email theshow@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 2, 2007 
Renovated health center dedicated, ready for use 
Jenkins says blessing over Saint Liam Hall 
By MEG HAN WONS News Writer 

Visitors who step inside the newly renovated University Health Center, now known as Saint Liam Hall, will discover a "magnificent transformation," as Director of Health Services Ann Kleva called the building at its dedication Thursday afternoon. 
Although Saint Liam Hall was fully operational on Jan. 15, according to staff pharmacist Betsy Creary, it was blessed and dedicated yesterday as part of the Board of Trustees weekend. 
University President Father John Jenkins said a prayer and 
sprinkled a plaque in the lobby with Holy Water. "Let us ask God's blessing on this place," he said. 
Kleva encouraged the Trustees and special guests in attendance to tour Saint Liam Hall at their leisure after the ceremony. 
While the fa.-,;ade of Saint Liam Hall remains consistent with the former University Health Center, the new inside bears no resem­blance to the old. 
"The building was completely gutted," registered nurse Pat Brubaker said. "They took all our input about what we [the stam would like -we're really pleased that the building now supports us in our care. 
'The beds are better, the door­ways are better, the exam rooms are bigger, there is more confi­dentiality ... the care was excel­lent before, but now we have a space that reflects that level of care." 
Pharmacist Betsy Crnary said she is also enjoying the new space. "Before, we just had a win­dow in the hallway for the phar­macy, now we have much more space and there is morn confiden­tiality," she said. 
Saint Liam Ilall was an $8 mil­lion project, according to tho health service's Web site. Level one of the hall features an allergy clinic, business offices, a laborato­ry, the pharmacy, a student insur­ance office, a travel clinic and an x-ray room. The second level fea­tures a small chapel, a state-of­tho-art conference room, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, patient rooms and administrative offices. Level three is home to additional conference 
Elections 
continued from page 1 
with years of experience in Notre Dame's student government. Brown is the chief executive assistant to Shappell and Braun, Breen-Phillip's senator, serves on the Senate Community Relations and Academic Affairs commit­tees. 
Brown also oversees the Campus Life Council (CLC) task force on Social Concerns and the Senate Multicultural Affairs eom­mittee. In her three years serving student government, she said she has served on five out of the nine student senate committees. Braun has served on two of the other four committees. 
Their combined experience in student government makes for a strong ticket, Brown said. 
"Between the two of us I think we really have a complete view of what student government can 
.
.
.
•. 

sac ~ Peh 3.., 2007 
to pm.., Leae11q 
ur,nru-a:~tlff 4~~kdt~d's 11r~J•dtiM JUt~ ..~ ;uul t.tdU~ ~h#l ~~4P:m~dWJ {~~'%Mf$~£ii:i4Pwt. 
And 

PRSAOHBR .NlOSS 
* ll-'tif.~r f@~t l~i£M4Pwt U'as~~~~f4, ~e4»fllt !tlff~l, tawad ,.~~lurtlaq JtltJIIIJ:lt'flf 
do and what it is supposed to do and how it's done," she said. 
Brown said her close interac­tion with Shappell and Andrichik has shown her the leadership the job requires. 
''I'm with them more than any­one else all week and I see the demands," Brown said. 
Their campaign slogan, "rais­ing the bar, redefining the stan­dards," sums up the Brown­Braun campaign's vision to change the way they look at the issues the student government has been addressing, Braun said. 
Their campaign will focus on five main areas: rethinking com­munity relations, promoting social concerns, improving the academic environment, "revamping" student government by making it easier for students to get involved and enhancing student life through initiatives like a guest meal exchange pro­gram and a shuttle to South Bend Airport. 
Brown and Braun want to 
increase student involvement in government committees through online applications and forums, but their most popular idea may be making Martin Luther King Day an officially recognized University holiday. 
The Smith-Weiss ticket also comes packed with experience and overflowing with ideas for next year's student government. 
Among the many proposals the candidates have made part of their platform, Smith said, are a partnership with the Ruckus Network, Inc, a legal video and music downloading site for col­lege students and the use of Domer Dollars in the Joyce Center and the Stadium. Smith also hopes to make football ticket booklets obsolete by encoding ticket information on student IDs. Their platform includes a plan to put the football ticketing system online, create a band away-game endowment so the marching band can travel to more away games and address the high rooms and the University Counseling Center, which was for­merly housed in the old post office on Notre Dame Avenue. 


Sister Sue Dunn, former rector of Lyons hall, attended the dedica­tion. 
"I just think it's amazing ­everything is so well done. It's a very professional and welcoming place ... it's a wonderful gift to us all," she said. "It's especially great that all things related to wellness are now in the same building." 
Megan Pohl, a senior who has experienced both the "old" and the "new" health centers, said Saint Liam hall trumps the old center. 
"The atmosphere was much more reassuring," she said. "It looks much more like a doctor's office than the old health center did." 
costs of prescription drugs on campus. 
Smith is Alumni Hall's senator and the chair of the CLC task force on Student Concerns. Weiss is the chair of the Senate Gender Issues committee and is the coor­dinator for the University's first student-run Eating Disorders Conference. 
But Smith said their qualifica­tions go beyond their student government experience. Smith has been a member of the Notre Dame Marching Band for the past three years and sits on the Deus Caritas Est committee to discuss Pope Benedict XVI's first encyclical. Weiss served on the Junior Parents' Weekend com­mittee and has political experi­ence from the University of Rochester, where she was a stu­dent for her freshman year and half her sophomore year. 
Smith said Weiss's experience at Rochester can bring a "fresh perspective" into student govern­ment. And Weiss agreed that her outside experience, along with their combined involvement in activities during their college careers, strengthens their ticket. 
"Danny and I run on the fact that we are two candidates who have experience outside of the student government office," Weiss said. "When we walk into a room, we know what we are talking about on any aspect of life. Believe me, from transfer­ring I know this." 
Over the next week, Smith and Weiss hope to make it to every dorm. Twice. 
"Our goal is to meet as many individuals as possible," Weiss said. 
The candidates also plan to go to Clover Hidge and Turtle Creek to stomp for votes. 
Smith said he and Weiss have done their research and are sure they can implement all their ideas 
"Danny and I are confident that we can answer any ques-
A plaque in the lobby reminds all who enter Saint Liam Hall that it was made a reality through a very generous gift from the William K. Warren Foundation of Tulsa, Okla. 
"Saint Liam Hall is named in honor of Saint William of York, the patron saint of William K. Warren, Senior," the plaque reads. "Saint William of York was a 12th century bishop who was known for his gentleness and charity as well as a life of inter­cession which brought healing to many." 
The final inscription reads, "May Saint William's prayers inspire each patient within this facility to retire to good health." 
Contact Meghan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 
tion, address any issue, on sever­al different levels," Weiss said. 
Rivera and Kane also bring a unique perspective. Hivera, a freshman, served in the Marine Corps for the past few years and was stationed with the 11th Marine at Camp Pendleton, Calif. Kane is a sophomore midship­man in the Navy ROTC program. 
Neither Rivera nor Kane have experience in Notre Dame's stu­dent government, but said their leadership experience in other activities makes them qualified for the positions. 
"I served in high school on stu­dent government. I had a lot of experience there, but not here. But school government is the same anywhere ... ," Kane said. "I think experience doesn't have a lot to do with it ... anyone can put the pieces together." 
Rivera said his experience in the Marine Corps makes him the best candidate for student body president. 
"Leading under stress and leading small units of Marines I think will equate leading in the student body," Hi vera said. "I think there are parallels in that." 
Rivera-Kane's platform includes allowing meals to roll over from one week to the next, making free tutoring available and free from freshman to senior year and extending the use of Domer Dollars and Flex Points throughout campus . 
Coggon and Padbp,rg, both freshman, make up what seems to be the unofficial annual Zahm ticket. The Observer was unable to reach either candidate for comment Thursday. 
The election for student body president and vice president will take place Monday, Feb. 12 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. A debate will be held Wednesday, Feb. 7 at 7:30 
p.m. in the Main Lounge of LaFortune. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

ELlA'S 
editerranean Cuisine 

,...~w.~-.~-----~~~------------­
Open: Tues.-Sat. Jlam-2pm & .fpm-9pm (.\'w1. and Mon. closed) Dine-in • Take-Out • Catering 
------------~~~~~-----------­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes .. _ Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 .South Bend, IN ./6637 
reservations for Valentine's 



ORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 2, 2007 CoMrru:o FROM THr: OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.N. sees China as key to end crisis 
KHARTOUM, Sudan -The United Nations hopes the Chinese president will push for a solution to the Darfur crisis during his land­mark visit to Sudan on Friday. But Khartoum expects its staunchest diplomatic ally to stick to boosting commercial ties, particularly those assuring its access to Sudan's oil. 
The road to Khartoum's airport was lined with the red banners of communist China and the flag of Sudan's Muslim fundamen­talist regime on Thursday ahead of Hu Jintao's two-day visit, the first by a Chinese president to Sudan. 
China, which is the biggest foreign investor in Sudan and buys two-thirds of the country's oil exports, has used its veto­wielding status at the U.N. Security Council to prevent harsh measures against Sudan over the Darfur conflict. 
Suicide bombers kill 45 in Baghdad 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -A pair of suicide bombers detonated explosives Thursday among shoppers in a crowded outdoor mar­ket in a Shiite city south of Baghdad, killing at least 45 people and wounding 150, police said. Bombs and a mortar attack killed at least 17 others in both Shiite and Sunni areas of Baghdad. 
Overall, more than 100 people were killed or found dead across the country, reflecting the ongoing wave of sectarian and insur­gency bloodletting as the U.S. military gears up for a major security operation to stem the violence. 
The biggest attack took place in the cen­ter of Hillah, a city about 60 miles south of Baghdad. Police and witnesses said the two bombers strolled into the Maktabat market about 6 p.m. when the area was packed with shoppers buying food for the evening meal. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Engineers say 127 levees at risk 
WASHINGTON -One hundred twenty­seven levees around the country are at risk of failing, according to a list to be released Thursday by the Army Corps of Engineers. 
Communities near those levees were being notified as the list was readied for release in response to Freedom of Information Act requests filed by news organizations, includ­ing The Associated Press. 
The figure was provided by Butch Kinerney of the Federal Emergency Management Agency's national flood insurance program. Earlier reports had said the list would con­tain the names of 146 levees at risk of fail­ure, but recent inspections whittled that number down. Kinerney did not provide a list of the levees or where they are located. 
Caucus conflict over mistreatment 
WASHINGTON -Three female members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus accused the organization's male leaders Thursday of treating women unfairly. Rep. Loretta Sanchez said the caucus chairman called her a "whore." 
Rep. Joe Baca denied uttering the insult, which Sanchez cited among grievances that led her to announce this week she was quit­ting the group. 
LOCAL NEWS 
NFL cancels church's Bowl showing 
INDIANAPOLIS -The NFL has nixed a church's plans to use a wall projector to show the Colts-Bears Super Bowl game, saying it would violate copyright1aws. 
NFL officials spotted a promotion of Fall Creek Baptist Church's "Super Bowl Bash" on the church Web site last week and overnighted a letter to the pastor demanding the party be canceled, the church said. 
Initially, the league objected to the church's plan to charge a fee to attend and that the church used the license-protected words "Super Bowl" in its promotions. 
IRAN 

Tehran pushes nuclear program 
Ahmadinejad announces plans for uranium enrichment at anniversary celebrations 
Associared Press 

TEHRAN -President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad launched anniversary cele­brations Thursday for Iran's Islamic Revolution with a defiant promise to push ahead with the country's controversial nuclear pro­gram. 
Ahmadinejad suggested Tehran would announce next week that it is begin­ning to install a new assem­bly of 3,000 centrifuges in an underground portion of its uranium enrichment facility at Natanz that the 
U.S. has warned could bring further sanctions against the qmntry. 
The Iranian leader said his government is deter­mined to continue with its nuclear program, despite 
U.N. Security Council sanc­tions imposed over its refusal to halt uranium enrichment, a process that can produce fuel to gener­ate electricity or for the fis­sile core of an atomic bomb. 
Kicking off 10 days of cel­ebrations to mark the 28th anniversary of the 1979 Islamic revolution that brought hard-line clerics to power, Ahmadinejad said Iran will celebrate next week "the stabilization and the establishment of its full right" to enrich uranium at the facility. The installation would be ments over the past month. tions in memory of the 
The chief of the U.N. a major jump in Iran's ura­Tehran originally said last Islamic revolution. He has nuclear watchdog agency, nium enrichment program, year that the installation also called people to the Mohamed EIBaradei, said though it could take months would begin by the end of streets that day to show last week that he expected to set up the 3,000 cen­2006, but January came support for the nuclear pro­Iran to announce "they are trifuges and get them work­and there was no word the gram. going to build up their ing. In the process, uranium work had started. "Enemies of the Iranian 3,000 centrifuge facility" in gas is spun at supersonic On Sunday, an Iranian nation ... must know that February. There had been speeds in a connected array lawmaker said installa­their wrongful beliefs will speculation the announce­of centrifuges to purify it. tion had begun, but he be revealed once again dur­ment could come during the Uranium enriched to was quickly contradicted ing Feb. 11 rallies by the revolution anniversary. around 5 percent is used by officials from the coun­great Iranian nation," he 
U.S. Undersecretary of for fuel for a nuclear reac­try's Atomic Energy said, according to the state­State Nicholas Burns said tor; enriched to 95 percent, Organization. Mohammad run news agency. Iran would face "universal it can be used to build a Saeedi, the agency's The United States and international opposition" warhead. deputy head, said, "If we many Western countries over the step. "If they think Iran now has two cas­begin to install cen­accuse Iran of seeking to they can get away with cades of 164 centrifuges trifuges, we will publicly develop nuclear weapons, a 3,000 centrifuges without each. Tens of thousands are announce it." charge Tehran denies. The another Security Council needed for a continuous Ahmadinejad's remarks Security Council has threat­resolution and additional program. The status of the Thursday signaled that Iran ened to impose further international pressure, then new centrifuges has been would begin the installation sanctions on Iran if it con­they are very badly mistak­unclear as Iranian officials before Feb. 11 -the final tinues to refuse to roll back en," Burns said last week gave contradictory state-day of nationwide celebra-its program. 

Casey: troop increase· unnecessary 
Associared Press Casey said they could "either rein­White House worked to hold down 
force success, maintain momentum the number of GOP defections while 
WASHINGTON -The outgoing or put more forces in a place where two liberal Democrats attacked the top U.S. general in Iraq diplomati­the plans are not working." compromise as too weak. cally aired his differences with the As the general spoke at a Senate "It is essentially an endorsement commander in chief on Thursday, confirmation hearing into his nomi­of the status quo, an endorsement I telling lawmakers that President nation to become Arm'y chief of simply cannot make in light of the Bush has ordered thousands more staff, the full Senate lurched toward dire circumstances in Iraq and the troops into Iraq than needed to a widely anticipated debate on the need for meaningful action now," tamp down violence in Baghdad. administration's policy, the first said Sen. Christopher Dodd of 
Gen. George Casey quickly added since midterm elections in which Connecticut, who is seeking the he understood how his recently opposition to the war helped install 2008 Democratic presidential nomi­confirmed successor, Lt. Gen. David a new Democratic majority. nation. Petraeus, could want the full com­One day after critics of Bush's Casey endured occasional sharp plement of 21,500 additional troops revised war strategy merged two criticism as he appeared before the that Bush has ordered to Iraq. competing Senate measures, the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 2, 2007 
"We start slow, but every­
derly house ordinance -as papers read each day. The pro­
thing is in full swing by 9:30," 
"more proactive" than reac­gram is under budget, Brown
OlyDlpics 
BOT

he said. 
tive. Shappell cited evidence of said, so they are considering
Events are generally
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 the proactive nature of her adding another dispersal loca­

designed to be self-officiated 
administration by describing tion in the Hesburgh Librarydorm is paired with a dorm of and those that are not will be 
events," Shappell said. the success of the South Bend and installing taller racks in 
the opposite sex to compete refereed by a RecSports stu­
One Board member agreed, bus tour for freshmen that the North Dining Hall location. for the grand prize. dent worker. 
joking that Shappell might look took place in August and her Andrichik briefed the Board "We have an event for Safety is also one of Regan's 
back on her administration as hopes for building relation­on the work he has done to everyone," Regan said. "There top priorities this weekend. 
the "golden years" of student ships with community leaders improve student-alumni rela­are more competitive events "We want this to be a fun 
government. in the upcoming community tions. His goal has been to as well as the more laid back, event." he said. "We want kids 
A board member said the summit. increase communieation such as kayak races and tar­to be smart, because we don't 
issues the Shappell-Andrichik One Board member said, in between the two groups, he get golf." like to throw people out." 
administration chose to tackle light of Notre Dame's recent said. Money is raised in five dif­Students who appear to be 
were "substantive" and ones involvement with the One major push he has made 
ferent ways for the event, intoxicated will be asked to 
they "could really impaet." Millennium Village Project in has been to grant students starting with each partici­leave. 
"It's been a pleasure to work Uganda, that it's important for access to the Golrish network pant's required entry fee. "In the past, there hasn't 
with all of you," a Trustee said. Notre Dame to stay involved in so they can utilize alumni con­Each dorm is required to give been anything drastic, but we 
"You've been thoughtful, tena­its own eommunity as well. tacts in their job search. at least a $150 donation in just want to make this a fun 
cious, organized ... and I think "Oftentimes schools are high­Discussions with the Career order to be eligible for the night for everyone," Regan 
very efl'ective." ly criticized for the fact that Center, the Alumni Association, grand prize. Other scheduled said. 
The Observer has a poliey of they are across the ocean but the Development Office and 
activities are Penny Wars The signature event of the 
not attributing information or not even in their local area," other parties involved have throughout the night, which night will take place at 9:30 
quotes to specific members of the Board member said. resulted in a compromise,began Monday, a raffle and p.m. in the field house when 
the Board. And the South Bend bus tour Andrichik said. 
open skating. beneficiaries from the Special Thursday's presentation in and the community summit are "Now, students during senior Late Night Olympics is one Olympics play a game of bas­
McKenna Hall was a more good ways to get involved, the year only and graduate stu­of three major fundraisers ketball against rectors and 
detailed version of the speech Board member said. dents have access to the full sponsored by RecSports this staff members. 
Shappell gave Jan. 17 to the One trustee asked Shappell if contact network of over year. Other events RecSports "People really seem to like 
Student Senate. she had an agenda for the 100,000 active e-mail address­sponsors include the Domer this event. Students get a 
Shappell described the plan community summit. Shappell es and lists," he said. "Those Run in the fall for ovarian chance to see where their 
for next week's Eating said they will come to the students take a 20-30 minute cancer, as well as a run in the money is going," Regan said. 
Disorder's conference, which meeting with eertain diseus­long class before being grantedspring to benefit the local Regan has high hopes for 
she said should take the issue sion topics -like better inte­access, which allows them to Rebuilding Together initiative. another successful year from 
in a "more academic direc­grating students into off-cam­have their resume ehecked and Late Night Olympics, however, an event that has become a 
tion." In light of a recent law pus neighborhoods and pro­to learn the proper way to con­is the biggest event. growing tradition on campus. 
passed in Spain banning moting internship and service tact someone professionally.""We get such a great turnout "We would like to see out 
extremely thin models from activities -but they won't Andrichik said he has also because it is something fun numbers up and encourage 
participating in runway shows. have an agenda. been working on ways for stu­
and different to do," Regan everyone to come out, even on 
the eating disorders discussion "We are more so looking to dents and alumni to interact in 
said. this cold winter night," he 
is a "timely topie," Shappell network and establish relation­a social atmosphere and is With every dorm is planning said. 
said. ships and get conversations working with the Alumni to participate, Late Night 
Shappell said she hopes by started that we hope can con­Association to transition the Olympics officially starts today 
having an academic discus­tinue outside this summit Goirish Network to a new soft­at 7 p.m., but begins gradual­Contact Becky Hogan at 
sion, the University community through the appropriate par­ware program that will allow ly, Regan said. rhogan2@nd.edu 
can start to decide how to best ties," Shappell said. for a better networking Web 
address the existence of eating Brown updated the Board on site. 
disorders on campus. the status of the College This is the second of three 
Shappell updated the Board Readership Program, an initia­meetings the Board of Trustees 
they took measures to ensure pri­
on their eommunity relations tive that provides three papers will hold with members of the vacy by restricting who can view 
progress -an issue that has -the New York Times, the student government this year.
Blogs 

been a central concern for stu­Chicago Tribune and USA The topic of the first meeting continued from page 1 "[Vice Presidential candidate] 
their photos. 
dent government for the past Today -to four different loea­in October was to brief Board 
Maris [Braun] and I have clean 
two years. tions aeross campus five times members on the Faeebook Web ''I'd be concerned about the profiles anyway, " Brown said. 
Shappell described her a week. site. blog being a little too impersonal "Everyone's been increasingly 
administration's approach to Brown said the program has if we were going to lean heavily concerned, since ResLife has 
community relations -a year been a success, with approxi­Contact Kaitlynn Riely at on it, but we're just going to use been checking them. It's not real­
after the passing of the disor-mately 90 percent of the kriely@nd.edu it as a supplement to what we ly anything we were worried 
were planning to do prior to even developing the blog idea," Brown said. 
While the Brown and Smith campaigns are experimenting with the use of blogs, they will also continue to use the standard campaign Web sites and Facebook groups -methods vot­ers became familiarized with during past elections. 
Student body president Lizzi Shappell said the addition of blogs allows candidates to contin­ue the recent trend of using tech­nology more consistently throughout the campaign. 
"In my two years of campus­wide elections, I have noticed increased use of Web sites and Facebook groups," she said. 
Although Brown believes that the Facebook group is "not quite indicative of how much support you really have," she does find the group provides an effective means of communication with students. 
"Facebook is a great way of getting the word out about our campaign, and it's a way to get people to go the Web site," she said. "It's also our best way of me~~aging large groups of peo­ple. 
Although Facebook can add to a campaign, both Brown and Smith have recognized the hid­den dangers of the site and said about. Unless you have some­thing to hide, there's really no reason for your profile to be pri­vate." 
Smith also opted to keep his profile open to allow others to check out his basic information -information he believed voters have the right to know. 
Despite technology's assistance throughout the campaign, Smith believes that it remains second­ary to talking with students. 
"It's still as important to meet as many people as possible in person. No form of technology can replace going out and meet­ing people," he said. "A lot goes into meeting people and students take much more from a face-to­face interaction than they do from something online. 
"The easiest way to get infor­mation out is online, but we also want to communicate with peo­ple." 
Shappell agreed that a cam­paign needs to be run on the ground, regardless of the candi­date's use of technology. 
"While these are effective methods of campaigning, I think the posters, dorm visits, debates and publication endorsements remain equally important ele­ments," she said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierney@nd.edu 

Con~e and Listen 
Con~e and Read 
Con~e and Play 
Lectio@Eieven 
A Late-Night Caba..et fo.. the Soul 
11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
February 6 featuring: 
Music by the Lazy Susans 
... 

Lectio@Eleven brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears' 
We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser at jcouser@nd.edu or call631-3923. 
Sponsored by First Year of Studies 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Friday, February 2, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
12,673.68 +51.99
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,425 Ill 874 2,961,687,306 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MOTOROLA INC (MOT)  +0.50  +0.10  19.95  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -1.36  -0.09  6.55  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS(SPY)  +0.60 +0.86  144.61  
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  -0.11  -0.05  44.02  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.23  +0.0 I I  4.837  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.30  +0.0 15  4.99  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.14 +0.007  4.933  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.31 +0.0 15  4.834  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.84  57.30  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +5.1 0  663.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.10  102.60  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  120.7150  
EURO  0.7677  
POUND  0.508 I  
CANADIAN$  1.1 789  

IN BRIEF 
Visteon Corp. plans plant closing 
INDIANAPOLIS -Visteon Corp. plans to close an eastern Indiana auto-parts plant in September, a move that will idle nearly 900 workers in a county where it has for decades been the largest employer. 
Visteon announced the closing of the Connersville plant on Thursday, as part of the company's three-year plan to fix, close or sell about 30 facilities to make the compa­ny more globally competitive, said Jim Fisher, a spokesman for the Michigan-based company. 
"We've done a very thorough review of this facility," Fisher said. "We do not believe there is a viable business case for continuing to operate it." 
The plant in Connersville, some 60 miles east of Indianapolis, has about 750 hourly -and 140 salaried employees. Visteon and union representatives will begin negotiations over severance packages, Fisher said. 
Stocks rise following spending data 
NEW YORK-Stocks climbed for the third straight day Thursday as an already buoyant Wall Street embraced robust consumer spend­ing figures and largely overcame disappoint­ment in Google Inc.'s profit report. Both the Dow Jones industrials and the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies closed at new highs. 
The gains follow(ld Wall Street's best day of the year on Wednesday, when it advanced sharply after the Federal Reserve signaled that the economy remained solid and that inflation was mostly in check. The central bank's com­ments, which followed its decision to leave short-term interest rates unchanged, injected a bit of confidence into an uncertain market. The first month of the year had revealed investor uneasiness about whether stocks were poised to climb higher from sharp gains seen in 2006 or whether the Fed and a drop corporate profits would bring an unceremonious end to the party. 
Economic data continued to play a big role in trading, as it has all week. As expected, con­sumer spending in December showed its biggest increase in five months, rising 0.7 percent. 
"It seems to me the Fed is on hold for the fore­
seeable future and stocks are taking solace in 
that," said Brian Levitt, corporate economist for 
OppenheimerFunds Inc. 
Exxon Mobil posts record profits 
Oil conglomerate announces high numbers despite fourth-quarter earnings 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -Tick. Tick. 
Tick. In those three sec­
onds, Exxon Mobil made 
$3,7 50 last year. 
In the same three sec­onds, the average American worker made about 20 cents. 
More than ever, time is money. And for oil con­glomerates like Exxon Mobil Corp., the money has never been better. 
The Irving, Texas-based company on Thursday posted the largest annual profit by a U.S. company -$39.5 billion-even as earnings for the last quarter of 2006 declined 4 percent. 
The record net income amounted to roughly $4.5 million an hour for the world's largest publicly traded oil company, which produces about 3 percent of the world's oil. 
That compares to about $12 an hour for the aver­age U.S. worker, accord­ing to the Labor Department. 
But out-of-this world profits may not last. The lower commodity prices that sank their teeth into Exxon's fourth quarter may linger for at least the first part of 2007, even as the cost of doing business rises because of firm John S. Herold Inc. based ConocoPhillips said the record $370.68 bil­factors such as a short­Exxon Mobil's profits its $15.5 billion profit lion it posted in 2005. age of drilling equipment didn't go unnoticed on last year topped its previ­"Exxon Mobil continued and labor. Capitol Hill, where one ous record from 2005 by to leverage its globally 
So while big players lawmaker called them about $2 billion dollars. diverse resource base to like Exxon Mobil Corp., "outlandish" and said oil Chevron is scheduled to bring additional crude oil Chevron Corp. and companies have benefited report 2006 results and natural gas to mar­ConocoPhillips -first, too long from a Friday. ket," said Rex W. second and third, respec­Republican-backed ener­Exxon Mobil's 2006 Tillerson, chairman of the tively, among integrated gy policy that cheats profit beat its own previ­Irving, Texas-based corn­
U.S. oil companies -are · American taxpayers. ous record for a U.S. pany. expected to continue to Exxon Mobil wasn't company of $36.13 billion Exxon Mobil's record rake in piles of cash, the alone among oil and gas set in 2005. Its net earnings followed a year totals aren't likely to be entities posting a huge income for 2006 equals of extraordinarily high the eyepopping amounts profit in 2006. On the approximate gross energy prices as crude oil of recent quarters. Thursday alone, three domestic product -a topped $78 a barrel in 
''I'd say overall, if you other companies -Royal measure of all goods and the summer -driving up look for earnings to Dutch Shell PLC, services produced within average gasoline prices decline 5 to 15 percent Marathon Oil Corp. and a country in a given year in the United States to from the huge highs this Valero Energy Corp. -of countries like more than $3 a gallon. past year, you're proba­also reported best-ever Ecuador, Luxembourg Prices retreated later in bly going to see most of full-year profits. The fo).lr and Croatia. the year as crude oil sup­these companies fall companies combined had Also notable was Exxon plies grew and concerns within that range," said earnings of $75.6 billion Mobil's revenue, which over Middle East tensions John Parry, a senior ana­last year. rose to $377.64 billion eased, among other fac­lyst at energy consulting Last week, Houston-for the year, surpassing tors. · 

Senate votes to raise minimum wage 
consequences. It would be one of the Democrats have insisted they want a
Associated Press 

first major legislative successes of the minimum wage bill with no strings 
new Democratic-controlled Congress. attached, though some have conceded 
WASHINGTON -The Senate voted "Passing this wage hike represents a the difficulty of passing the legislation overwhelmingly Thursday to boost the small but necessary step to help lift in the Senate without tax breaks. federal minimum wage by $2.10 to America's working poor out of the Republicans stressed the importance $7.25 an hour over two years, but ditches of poverty and onto the road of the business tax breaks in the bill, packaged the increase with controver­toward economic prosperity," said though it was a significantly smaller sial tax cuts for small businesses and Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. tax package than Republicans had higher taxes for many $1 million-plus President Bush urged the House to sought during previous attempts to executives. support the measure, including the tax raise the minimum wage. 
The increase in the minimum, the help for small business. He said, "The "The Senate's reasonable approach first in a decade, was approved by a Senate has taken a step toward help­recognizes that small businesses have 94-3 vote, capping a nine-day debate ing maintain· a strong and dynamic been the steady engine of our growing over how to balance the wage hike labor market and promoting contin­economy and that they have been a with the needs of businesses that ued economic growth." source of new job creation, a source of employ low-wage workers. The bill must now be reconciled with job training," said Sen. Michael Enzi, 
A top priority of Democrats, the the House version passed Jan. 10 that R-Wyo., who helped manage the wage hike has both real and symbolic contained no tax provisions. House debate for the GOP. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Friday, February 2, 2007 
THE 0BSERvtR 
Election result symbolic, foretelling 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 465 56 
Kimberly Hodges' recent student body election victory rep­most neeessary level-the one that will draw prospeetive stu­
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

resents more than a successful campaign driven by a goal­dents who have the ability to alter the diversity breakdown. MikeGilloon laden platform -it marks a milestone in College history. There's nothing more powerful in drawing students to a eol­MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER As the first black president of the 1,500-membnr Saint lege than testaments from people who go there and love it. Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara Mary's student body, !lodges is a testament to the College's ini­Hodges didn't love it immediately, however -and that tiative to increase minority rP.presentation on campus -and makes a testament from her more powerful. Although she ini­
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala 
an encouraging sign for that initiative's future. tially felt out of place as one of three black women in her 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
This year Saint Mary's boasts its highest per­freshman class, Hodges decided to stay at the 
O 
Jhe
NEWS EDITORS: Kare Antonacci centage of students representing diverse multi­College and find her sense of purpose, a much
userver 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King cultural backgrounds -10.1 percent. It's fitting needed attitude that shows ability to succeed at that more of those voices are finding thnir way Saint Mary's does not depend on race and reli­
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 

Editorial
into student government. gion.
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
Hodges helped inerease the numbor of black It is imperative that her push for increased 
SAINT MAllY's EDITOR: Kelly Meeban 

students from one in the Class of 2009 to 13 in the Class of diversity continues during her time on the faculty hiring com­PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 2010 -a eausn shfil supported through visits to Chicago high mittee because College professors should reflect the multicul­GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert schools. tural needs and baekgrounds of their students. Those visits shattered the vision of a eompletely homoge­Being a minority in a nearly homogenous campus environ­
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
nous Saint Mary's student body, and she returned to Saint ment can be intimidating, but Hodges' ambition and student 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 

Mary's with at least 50 applications from students with diverse government sueccss offers a updated image of the traditional CONTROLLER: Kyle West backgrounds. Saint Mary's woman and will hopefully contribute to future WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas These recruitment efforts change the College's image at the diversity initiatives at the College. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
{574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

{574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
{574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574} 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

oBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
. POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserVes the righ.t to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistanr Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infurmation. 
Qtmtions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilkon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Clboen-e< (IJSI'S 599 HOOO) b publi"-'1 Monday dun"Sf> !'ruby =I"duriog c:x;am and -qcatiou.pcioch. As~ption ro The-OhKrvcr i.s$101)-~r .one academic year. $55 fur oru:: srmm.er.. 
The Ohsc:nrtt' is published ae; POSTMASTER 024 Soum Dining HaJJ Send address co:rrt:ttiom: to: No<r< Dame. IN 4655iHJ779 The Clboen-e< 
l'criudkal postage paid ar Notre Dame go,Box779 and additional-llllliling offi(;(:S. 024 S<>um Dining Hall 
Nom Dam<,l.N -165*0779 
Tht!: Observer is a member-ofthe A.isociatcd Preo;s. All repmduaion rights ate reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Eileen Duffy Jay Fitzpatrick Kate Antonacci Deidre Krasuk 
Ryan Sydlik Bill Brink Viewpoint Scene Kara King Marty 
Graphics Schroeder Tom Hanculak 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Did the University handle Kyle McAlarney's case fairly? 
%of votes #of votes 
"The highest reward for man's toil 
a. Yes, his punishment was consistent with 37 667 
is not what he gets for it, but what 

University policy, but the policy is too severe. a. 
he becomes by it." 

b.
Yes, his punishment was appropriate. 32 579 

c. 
No, his punishment was not fair. 31 560 


John Ruskin English essayist 

This poll is based on the result of 1806 
votes at httpJ!www.ndsmcobserver.com/ 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, February 2, 2007 page 9 
Global warming grounds Punxsutawney Phil 
On Gobbler's Knob this morning, Punxsutawney Phil endured his 121st rude awakening while being groped, as usual, in inappropriate places -all in the name of the groundhog's prognosti­cation and the local economy's enrich­ment. Although Phil has seen his shad­ow more than 90 percent of the time during his storied past, much to the dismay of us Northerners, the betting money this year challenges that trend. 
With weather forecasts calling for snow showers in Pennsylvania, nearly three-quarters of Las Vegas betters believe (at 13-4 odds) that Phil will not see his shadow and that spring is just around the corner. But alas, global warming will soon retire ole rodent Phil and devastate not only the lives of ordinary Punxsutawney citizens, but of Phil and his protectors ... including Bob Roberts (a name worth repeating) whose official title is "His Protector." 
Once higher temperatures increase throughout the world, the cold weather season will abbreviate. As the winter calendar diminishes, Phil will need to adjust his timetable of six more weeks of potentially cold weather. The Groundhog Club's "Inner Circle," those gentlemen who wear top hats and bestow titles that belie reason upon 

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 

each other, will advise Phil on how to adapt his predictions. 
Phil might slice the 6-week extended cold weather timetable back to a month, and continue to decrease hiss options each subsequent year until February in Pennsylvania averages 60-degree daily temperatures. At that point, it would not matter whether or not the sun cast Phil's scary shadow. On the upside, though, Phil would improve his accuracy record, thus rivaling his distant cousin and fellow furry forecaster, Georgia's General Beau Lee, Ph.D. Cousin Lee claims a 94 percent accuracy record ... hardly a difficult task even for a rodent in a state that averages 44 degrees in February and 53 degrees in March. 
On the down side, the demise of the world-famous Yankee groundhog would be the tipping point for both a local and national economic catastrophe. Every element of our GNP would suffer. One simply can review today's Groundhog Day schedule to realize how global warming would end most activities, thereby casting the nation into a rodent­like state -going down the hole. 
Imagine the confusion in the local Punxsutawney unemployment office while bureaucrats attempt to match the expertise of the Inner Circle's members to new jobs. The conversation would sound something like this: 
"Hello, we are recently unemployed because we did not heed AI Gore's warning about global warming. Can you assist us?" asks Treasurer and Head Hailmaker Keith Shields. 
"What have you gentlemen done prior to this?" asks the bureaucrat. 
Vice President and Chief Healthman Paul Johnston answers, "These two are Co-Handlers, but that one is a Cloud Builder while the other is a Fog Spinner." 
"I thought you were all either butlers, waiters or funeral directors," replies the bureaucrat. 
"Actually," interrupts the Big Flake Maker, "These two also work well together. He is the Stump Warden, and that's the Burrow Master. And this duo is the team of the Iceman and Storm Chaser." 
Peering over his bifocals, the bureau­crat asks, "Why are those gentleman sit­ting way over there so far away from everyone?" 
Sky Painter answers, "Everyone keeps them at some distance. He's the Plow Man, and he's the Big Windmaker." 
For Phil's part, to survive the rodent would need another skill like playing chess. He would be reduced to a more demeaning setting, like appearing in sleeping pill commercials with Abe Lincoln. He would become sullen know­ing that his inability to weather global warming single-handedly caused a great depression that rivaled the 1929 stock market crash. 
For example, Vegas oddsmakers would no longer handle two-way action on bets covering Phil -other than to speculate if he might bite Lincoln. Toyota, the official car of Phil, sales would fall behind GM, Ford and Chrysler. While Phil's Food Court would close and the groundhog cookie decorat­ing would end, only the pancake break­fast, complete breakfast buffet and Groundhog Luncheon would barely sur­vive. Pro Wrestling would cancel the Groundhog Rumble at the Community Center Gym, thereby threatening the future of the sport. 
The mayor would no longer perform Groundhog Day wedding ceremonies in Phil's Wedding Chapel at the Civic Center. Phil's funhouse and maze would close as would Phil's Shadow Chaser event at the Punxsutawney Christian School. Upset Christians would demand the cancelation of pagan rituals like the "Phil Phind Scavenger Hunt," the Woodchuck Whittle Carving Show and the crowning of Little Mr. and Miss Groundhog. 
Anarchy would rein as alcoholic bev­erages or illegal substances would now be permitted on the premises. The movie "Groundhog Day" would play nonstop, and conditions would force Phil to move to Georgia and live with his Rebel cousin where he would be forced to eat grits. 
Global warming gloom would spread over mankind. Damn AI Gore and his crystal ball! 
Gary Caruso, Class of '73, is a politi­cal strategist who served as a legisla­tive and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Added cost from dining hall theft 
only encourages 
On Jan. 31 a front page article detailed this year's crime spree in the dining hall. Over 40,000 items were stolen, totaling a cost of $25,000. As a student at the university and an avid thief, I question the validity of the university's claims. To begin: the numbers of items stolen are rounded off, and my guess is they are round­ed up, perhaps to the nearest half-thousand. If the University wants to call attention to a theft problem, specific numbers will make the problem more realistic in the eyes of the students. Also, it is very likely that every missing utensil is considered "stolen," including lost or broken items. 
Secondly, Director of ND Food Services Dave Prentkowski threatens passing the cost on to the stu­dents. We already had $200 added to our tuition to pay for stolen items. This did not help cover the costs, rather it encouraged those not stealing to begin so they could get their $200 worth. Passing on the costs to the students is not going to fix the problem. This also fails to take into account the return of silverware at the end of the year. Many dorms have containers at the end of the year for students to return stolen dining hall goods that they stole for school-year-only use. We have senior citizen volunteers guarding the dining hall. Shouldn't they be enough to catch the thieves? 
If you ask me, the students are stealing for two rea­sons, neither being to "stock their dorm rooms." The students want to make back the extra $200 on their tuition bill, and they want the challenge of successfully stealing from a guarded dining hall. Take away the guards at the exits and stop adding charges to tuition. The result will be an immediate increase in stolen goods, for probably a week, and then students will get bored and the numbers will drastically decrease. Now that I know I will be charged next year to replace equip­ment I'm not stealing, I may begin "stocking my dorm room" in order to cover the extra costs. 
Tyler Elson junior Dillon Hall Feb. 1 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

~OUt.D ED MAKE IT TO THE TV VJITH THE REMOTE, ENSURING ANOTHER Nfl. SUNDAY, OR ~OUt.D IT BE RGURE SKATING? OH... ~HAT AHm!! 
-'1 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 10 Friday, February 2, 2007 
Humorous 'Office' deserves place among the elite 
Not too long ago, I was watching an episode of "Seinfeld" and remarked that they don't make shows like that anymore. It's not just that "Seinfeld" was funny or that it was sharp and relevant-it was 
one of those rare shows that reached critical mass and became a cultural indicator. The proof of this is the way in which "Seinfeld" became quotable and everyone knew the reference. 

Things like "not that Brian Doxtader 
there's anything wrong with that" or "no soup for you" 
were immediately Scene Editor recognizable and people even referred to certain situations as a "Seinfeld moment." 
It's hard for sitcoms to reach that same kind of level nowadays. The can­cellation of "Seinfeld" and "Friends" left an empty void of sharp, well-writ­ten comedy. The ones that come clos­est, like "Arrested Development," were too clev~r for their own good and were canceled in the face of low ratings. 
Which brings me to "The Office," NBC's adaptation of the British hit of the same name. "The Office" has everything going for it-it has a gen­uine talent in star Steve Carrell, is well written, funny and has serious and effective emotional undertones. The show has improved steadily with age, and by now (the third season) the characters and their relationships have been firmly developed and the plotting has found its own identity, differentiating it from the British ver­sion. 
"The Office" is part of the new age of sitcoms, a mockumentary style that uses hand-held cinematography and direct addresses to the camera. Like "Arrested Development," it seems too clever for its own good, and while it has been a critical success (much like Ron Howard's show), it is consistently outperformed in the ratings depart­ment. "The Office" is part of Thursday's line-up, which includes perennial favorites "Scrubs" and new 


Photo courtesy of sonypictures.com 
The classic show "Seinfeld" is often compared to "The Office" for its brilliant casting, clever humor and the cult-culture that forms around the show. 
hits like "30 Rock," and has just been picked up for a fourth season. 
More than any other sitcom on televi­sion right now, "The Office" is close to reaching a critical mass akin to "Seinfeld." Though viewership is not as high as, say, "American Idol," its fan­base is devoted. Even Sports Illustrated's Stewart Mandell used to regularly mention the show in his week­ly column. Yet "The Office" is so close to escaping "cult show" status in reaching mainstream audiences. "Arrested Development," like the once-canceled "Family Guy," posthumously found ne~ fans on DVD, but "The Office" still has a chance to become the biggest show on television. If that happens, it would be a true rarity, something only achieved by shows like "Seinfeld" and "The Cosby Show" --the best show on TV could also be the most popular. 
The best parts of the show are the dialogue and the aCting. "Daily Show" alums like Steve Carrell (who won a Golden Globe for this role) and Ed Helms whip off quotable lines effortless­ly such as ''I'm always thinking one step ahead. I'm like a carpenter ... who builds stairs" or "Toby is in HR. which technically means he works for corpo­rate, so he's really not part of our fami­ly ... also, he's divorced so he's really not part of his family." These are among the countless gems in each week's script. 
I'm really pushing for "The Office" to succeed because we need more shows like it-shows that are insightful and intelligent. "Seinfeld" worked because it said a lot about our society and we were able to see some of our most ridiculous fears and hopes reflected in it. "The Office" works for much the same reason, but it's a better show, with a strong cast and lots of personali­ty. It's really a once-in-a-lifetime kind of show, the kind of program that makes "Must See TV" a truism, the kind pro­gram that people will talk about years from now and say, "They just don't make shows like that anymore." 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
PLAY PREVIEW 

PEMCo's latest production is truly impressive 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Assistant Scene Editor 

With "Ragtime," the Pasquerilla East Musical Company takes a sweeping step into deeper and far more serious territory than it has ventured towards before. Tackling such issues as poverty, racism, moth­erhood, love and the spectacle of the "American dream," PEMCo's "Ragtime" is a rousing success. 
By far the most ambitious produc­tion that PEMCo has undertaken in recent memory, the strength of "Ragtime" is a testament to the power of a magnificent score and an earnest, energetic cast. Quelling doubts regarding how well an ama­teur cast of students could tackle "Ragtime," a musical rife with deep social, political and emotional strife, the production is impressively well done. 
The complex and interwoven plot is set up very well with the play's open­ing number, "Ragtime," which juxta­poses against one another three cen­tral, conflicting groups: the upper­class, white community of La Rochelle, New York, the mass groups of immigrants from Eastern and Western Europe and the residents of New York's Harlem, and each group gives rise to a central plotline. In Harlem, ragtime-playing pianist Coalhouse Walker (Kyle Carter) intoxicates dancers with his rebel­lious new type of music. In New Rochelle, a typical American family headed by Mother and Father (Jacqui Acuna and Tim Politano) lives a seemingly content life of economic success. Lastly, in the Lower East Side neighborhoods of New York, Latvian immigrant Tateh (Tim Masterton, also co-producer) strives, like millions of others, to capture his piece of the great American pie. 
If, for any reason, a potential audi­ence member were contemplating not seeing "Ragtime," Kyle Carter's per­formance as Coalhouse Walker should and will overwhelmingly per­suade them to change their mind as soon as possible. Carter is remark­able in a role most doubted could be even adequately filled; he is magnet­ic, sweet, affable, powerful and alto­gether extraordinary. 
The depths of his surprisingly impressive voice and his mastery of Coalhouse's emotional range are striking, and, to his credit, his strengths as a performer firmly anchor the show. 
Acuna, as well, demonstrates her notable skill as a musical theater actress, playing the role of the unknowingly forward-thinking Mother with grace and subtlety, as well as her possessing a simply beau­tiful voice. 
Other cast members of particular note include Will McAuliffe as Younger Brother, a man seemingly lost in the early twentieth century's tumultuous change who finds an unexpected calling; Allison Giovinazzo as Evelyn Nesbitt, a scan-dal-ridden media darling whose moral ambiguities capture the atten­tion of a nation; Andrew Wright as Booker T. Washington, a figure whose educated, peace-conscious attitude towards race relations comes in jarring conflict with episodes of racially motivated vio­lence. 
The play asks several difficult ques­tions of its audience about the truth­fulness of possibility and social mobility in America -specifically the America of a century ago, with the existence of Jim Crow laws and dirty tenements rampant, but these questions are, no doubt, still very meaningful for audiences today. With symbols of great promise, like Coalhouse's beloved Ford Model T, come also failure, unhappiness and death. The cast does a fine job of articulating the nuances of these issues, well aided by the strength of the source material. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER ­
CENE
Friday, February 2, 2007 
page 11 

EASTWOOD UNEARTHS HEARTFELT STORY OF IWO JIMA 
picture, it's in "Letters from lwo Jima" By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
that the veteran director most fully real­Scene Critic 
izes his goal. With poignancy and rever­
ence, he shows us the harsh truths of 
The art of writing letters, that once war and its ability to reveal the very best great vessel of human emotion, is slip-and worst qualities of the human race. ping steadily into distant memory. With over 20,000 voices to consider, Keystrokes have supplanted penmanship Eastwood and screenwriter Iris for documenting our most heartfelt Yamashita settled upon a handful of gen­hopes, dreams and wishes. Of this erals and soldiers, navigating them increasingly quaint practice, Elizabeth through the bloody conflict. The story Hardwick, an American literary critic, begins with the arrival of Lt. General once wrote, "Letters are above all useful Tadamichi Kuribayashi (Ken Watanabe) as a means of expressing the ideal self; to the shores of Iwo Jima. Having stud­and no other method of communication ied in America, Kuribayashi is sent to is quite so good for this purpose." fortify the island defenses against the 
In his most accomplished artistic state-impending arrival of the American ment to date, "Letters from Iwo Jima," armada. A brilliant tactician, he forgoes director Clint Eastwood addresses more traditional trench warfare tech­Hardwick's romantic notion headlong, niques, devising a scheme to dig expan­for the soul of E.astwood's film is sive underground tunnels through the revealed not through words but in the black volcanic rock of the island. aching sentiments and desperate In an early scene, Kuribayashi steps scrawls of soldiers, written shortly out from the plane and into the light. As before sacrificing their lives. he surveys the vast, desolate reaches of 
Originally titled "Red Sun, Black lwo Jima's shoreline, we are privy to his Sand." an elegantly innermost thoughts, vague alias, "Letters Letters from lwo Jima revealed through his 
\~£i~f~:~:ib~~: {;jJ-:J,;s ~]JJjJ :,jg :::e~:h~e~~~n~~ 
cherishes that virtue Director: Clint Eastwood life for my country," above all others. Set Writer: Iris Yamashita he writes, the key61 
years ago, it Starring:KenWatanabe,Tsuyoshiihara, word being deter-reveals the 1945 K . N' . d R K mined. Knowing full 
Battle of Iwo Jima azunan momtya an yo ase well the extent of from the perspective of the Japanese sol-America's military might, Kuribayashi diers who fought and died there, and has come to this island to die, like an whose several hundred letters, ancient samurai whetting his blade unearthed many decades later, inspired before his final battle. Eastwood spends the film's emotion. the next two hours helping us to under-Shortly after wrapping production on stand why. "Million Dollar Baby" in 2004, a film that Embracing his inescapable fate, earned him dual Oscar statuettes for Kuribayashi, a kind but firm leader, Best Director and Best Picture, implores his troops to make these tun­Eastwood undertook his most ambitious nels the last stand against the waves of project yet -a World War II opus seen American troops who make landfall through the eyes of the American and halfway through the film. The Japanese Japanese forces that invaded and soldiers digging those tunnels include defended that island's harsh black soil. Saigo (Kazunari Ninomiya), an idealistic The clash at Iwo Jima had tremendous baker unused to the terrors of warfare, implications for both nations. Over and Shimizu (Ryo Kase). a quiet, 20,000 Japanese troops, forced to guard reserved former member of Tokyo's mili­the tiny island with only ground forces, tary police force. Both men are young and 7,000 Americans perished in a bat-and idealistic, forced to deal with vio­tle that lasted almost a month longer lence and death despite the contradic­than the United States expected. tions to their gentle natures. Wisely, Eastwood decided to split the Perhaps Kuribayashi's staunchest sup-expansive story into two segments. porter is Lt. Colonel Takeichi Nishi While "Flags of Our Fathers," the (Tsuyoshi Ihara), a Japanese nobleman American take on the conflict, was a fine and Equestrian Gold Medal winner at 
RAMA GOTTUMUKKALNObserver Graphic 

the 1932 Olympics in Los Angeles. Nishi, to its name -Best Picture, Best like Kuribayashi, faces a stern moral Director, Best Sound Editing and Best challenge because of his fondness for his Original Screenplay. But "Iwo Jima" is a friends in America. Together, they form film of such harsh beauty, it deserves a the emotional core of the film and a dozen more. Chief amongst these is the moral compass for American audiences stark and evocative cinematography trained to abhor Japan as the faceless employed by Tom Stern, a longtime enemy in most World World II films. Eastwood collaborator. Utilizing a desat­Emanating strength and nobility, their urated color palette, Stern has seemingly performances are t~ strongest in a film leached away all the vitality in the film, that features a superb cast . . leaving a pallor that suits and unrelentingly powerful Horrifymg, powerful, the film's mood. performances. Watanabe is visceral, uplifting, Eastwood has claimed no stranger to themes of bleak and deeply Best Director honors twice honor and sacrifice for his ,/'F. • "! 1. , at the Oscars, for 2004's country, having previously G.JJectmg, WO zma "Million Dollar Baby" and debuted in the American covers the gamut of 1992's "Unforgiven." While consciousness with "The emotions. both of those tr.iumphs Last Samurai." Just as were deserved, h1s latest Wantanabe was a boon in that film, directorial effort -completed at the Ihara is a gem in this one. tender age of 76 -surpasses them. 
Horrifying, powerful, visceral, uplift-Every great picture has a signature ing, bleak and deeply affecting, "Iwo moment that stands the test of time, Jima" covers the gamut of emotions. It's causing viewers to ruminate on its a deeply human film, one of those rare impact decades after its completion. war pictures that reveres life even as it "Letters from Iwo Jima" has at least half takes so much of it. The movie says a dozen, more than enough to make it more about war in its quietest lull than the best war film since 1998's "Saving the loudest cacophonies of lesser films Private Ryan." like "Pearl Harbor" and "Windtalkers." While crafted with the cinema, the 
A little past the midway point of the most visual of mediums, in mind, here is movie, the Japanese troops win a minor a film that has all the affection, melan­victory. Briefly halting the tide of the choly, warmth and genuine human feel­American forces, they wound and cap-ing of the most sincere, handwritten let­ture an enemy. Despite their dwindling ter. medical supplies, Nishi orders his team's It took an American director born and medic to tend to the American soldier bred in westerns to show us the high and introduces himself. "I lived in costs of war for the ravaged nation of California for a while," Nishi says in Japan. Eastwood and his collaborators excellent English, adding that he consid-make us care so deeply for these charac­ers Douglas Fairbanks and Mary ters, these human beings, that when Pickford, two of Hollywood's they fall, we can barely most beloved film stars from It took an American stand to watch. that time period, to be good director born and Readying his troops for friends. . the final banzai charge, 
Eyes wide with wonder at bred m westerns to Kuribayashi addresses their mention, the soldier, show us the high costs them in the pale moon-who looks barely old enough if fi h d light 
to shave, responds in kind. o war. or t e ravage "A.day wt'll come when "Oklahoma is where I'm natwn ofJapan. they will weep and pray from,"' he admits through for your souls," he says the pain. In that one moment, the con-with a tender but steely resolve. He nection between these two men, meeting draws his samurai sword, the most in the harshest of scenarios, is revealed. revered symbol of the motherl.and he Their respect is mutual. Had they met in will die to protect. "I will always be in another life, they might even be friends. front of you," he concludes. The scene ends shortly thereafter, and Sixty-one years later, that day has the bloodshed continues. come. On a technical level, every aspect of "Letters from Iwo Jima" is transcendent, Contact Rama Gotturnukkala at with four Academy Award nominations rgotturnu@nd.edu 

Clint Eastwood, left, directs Lt. General Tadamichi Kuribayashi (Ken Kuribayashi (Ken Watanabe), far left, and Takeichi Nishi (Tsuyoshi lhara), Watanabe) in preparation for a scene from "Letters from lwo Jima." far right, strategize over Japan's defense in the deeply affecting war film. 
-
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 2, 2007 
NHL 
Kolnik breaks slump, leads Panthers in victory 
Dunham's playing experience behind the net with Hossa, Kovalchuk gives Islanders needed boost to defeat Thrashers 
Associated Press slap shot from the point went off the post and hit the back of 
SUNRISE, Fla. -Florida Kolzig's leg, Stumpe! retrieved Panthers center Jozef Stumpe! the puck from behind the goal stayed sharp and helped a strug­line and flipped it over the gling teammate get out of a Washington goalie. slump. Stumpe! came close to record­
Stumpe! had two goals and an ing his first hat trick since Feb. assist against Washington, and 3, 1998, when he took a cross­new linemate Juraj Kolnik ice pass near the net. Kolzig snapped a five-game point denied him with a sliding save. drought with a goal and an Stumpe! set up Kolnik's goal assist in the Panthers' 6-3 victo­when he fed him a cross-ice pass ry over the Capitals on Thursday on a 2-on-1 and Kolnik one­night. timed it past Kolzig. 
"We got a big performance out "It's always nice to play with of people like Jozef Stumpe!," Jozef," Kolnik said. "He's a Florida coach Jacques Martin smart center. He knows where said. "I thought his line was his wings are." really excellent. Juraj Kolnik gave us a big game on that line, Islanders 5, Thrashers 2 and it seems like the change of Spending last season with lines really helped out." Atlanta gave Mike Dunham an 
Stumpe! had three points for appreciation for Marian Hossa the second time in three games and Ilya Kovalchuk. and has posted 15 points in 11 So it was no surprise the New games. York Islanders goalie felt satis­
"I feel comfortable out there," fied after stopping the prolific Stumpe! said. "We got this one Thrashers scorers. • done, and obviously we need to "They have the power to do get the next one." it," Dunham said. "We knew 
Martin Gelinas, the player they would get their chances. replaced by Kolnik on the line We just wanted to keep them to that includes Stumpe! and a minimum."
--
Rostislav Olesz, also had a good Jason Blake scored the go­anything can happen, so what­has earned points in five straight Fleury stopped the final two night with two power-play goals. ahead goal midway through the ever you're familiar with from games -four since the All-Star Canadiens shooters, Chris The Panthers finished 3-for-6 third period and Miroslav Satan · practices goes out the window." break. Higgins and Tomas Plekanec, with the advantage. had a goal and two assists to Kovalchuk, the NIIL leader in Nolan rested center Alexei after Alex Kovalev had matched "We just have to play a simple help the Islanders beat the power-play goals last year and Yashin, who has tendinitis in his Christensen's score. Fleury game, especially on special Thrashers on Thursday night. seventh this season, thrust his right knee, and No. 1 goalie Rick made 40 saves in regulation and teams," said Stumpe!, whose After blowing a 3-0 lead in the left arm in frustration after he DiPietro, who was knocked out is 9-1-2 in his last 12 starts. second goal came during a third period on Wednesday and blew a chance with 16:44 quickly by the Thrashers in the "I've never seen the (Eastern power play. "Make sure you get losing to Detroit in overtime, the remaining. previous meeting after he Conference) playoff race so goals, and we don't get any Islanders couldn't hold a 2-1 Atlanta has failed to score a allowed three goals on five close, five or six teams are so against. Just playing our hock­advantage as Jim Slater's wris­power-play goal in five ·of six shots. close, and it was a playoff ey." ter got by Dunham on the stick games, going a combined 3-for-"Especially after the last so­atmosphere," said Sergei Ville Peltonen had the other side with 10:23 remaining. 30. The Thrashers also blew a 5-called defeat, we responded Gonchar, who scored twice on goal for the Panthers, 7-1-2 in Blake bailed out New York on-3 opportunity in the first well," Nolan said of his team's the power play and had another their last 10 home games. with a breakaway goal 2:19 period. loss to Detroit. "Missing the peo­slap shot deflected in by Malkin. Chris Clark, Alex Ovechkin and later, sending the puck from the "I got a lot of chances," ple we were, it was a good win "You could see their intensity Dainius Zubrus scored for right circle over the shoulder of Kovalchuk said. "I need to shoot for us." was there. But we're playing Washington, 2-7 in its last nine. goalie Kari Lehtonen. It was his 100 percent." with more confidence." Ovechkin scored for the fourth fourth goal in five games and his Trent Hunter's 12th goal, Pittsburgh 5, Montreal 4 The Canadiens trailed 4-2 consecutive game and extended team-leading 27th. which came on the power play The Pittsburgh Penguins were after Gonchar scored twice dur­his point streak to 13 games, the Dunham battled injuries as with 3:59 left, made it 4-2. introduced to playoff-style hock­ing a rare seven-minute longest in the NHL this season. Lehtonen's backup last season, Victor Kozlov scored twice, ey by the Montreal Canadiens. Pittsburgh power play in the He leads the league with 33 appearing in just 17 games and including an empty-netter. The youthful Penguins like the second period. But Montreal tied goals. posting an 8-5-2 record. He New York earned three of a way they responded against an it on goals by Mike Johnson and The Panthers beat Washington watched Hossa and Kovalchuk possible four points in Atlanta opponent that looked to be try­Mathieu Dandenault in the fmal for the third time in 19 days. practice nearly every day, how­during a seven-day span. The ing to intimidate them from the 5 1/2 minutes of the third, with 'They seem to play pretty well ever, and worked against both Islanders fell behind 3-0 to the start. Johnson's shot deflecting in off against us," Capitals defense­players many times. Thrashers in the opening six The Penguins squandered a Gonchar and Dandenault's shot man Jamie Heward said. "Sometimes goalies come back minutes last Friday but rallied to two-goal lead late in the third bouncing in off defenseman Rob "They've got a lot of speed, and to a team that released them last force overtime. period, but Scuderi's skate. they have a lot of'cohesiveness year with something to prove," Atlanta, the Southeast Division Evgeni Malkin won the "Those were tough bounces to now. They're doing the right Islanders coach Ted Nolan said. leader, had won three of four shootout by deftly faking out take, but we stuck with it and things. They're playing well "He played well tonight." . and five of seven. David Aebischer with an inside­got the two points," Penguins together." Bossa, whose scored the win­"I felt at 2-2 that we missed a out move as Pittsburgh beat forward Sidney Crosby said. Ed Belfour stopped 27 shots ning goal against New Jersey on lot of good scoring chances," Montreal on Thursday night for Crosby, drilled in the midsec­and improved to 20-6-2 against Tuesday, missed a penalty shot Thrashers coach Bob Hartley its fifth consecutive victory. tion by Maxim Lapierre immedi­Washington. Olie Kolzig made 26 in the second period after said. "We could have scored 20 Erik Christensen also put the ately after the opening faceoff to saves for the Capitals. Brendan Witt tackled him to goals. What counts is that we puck past Aebischer as the set the tone for a physical and Stumpe! opened the scoring at prevent a breakaway. Bossa's had the game, we had the crowd Penguins won th.eir second feisty game, assisted on each of 
1:17 when he backhanded in a drive clanked off the outside of behind us and the momentum, shootout in a row -they beat the Penguins' first three goals. long rebound from the slot. the right post. and we gave it away." Dallas 4-3 on Friday -after los­Crosby became the first player 
His second goal came at 8:14 "I got lucky on the penalty The Islanders had lost five of ing five of their first six. to break the 80-point mark this of the second and gave Florida a shot," Dunham said. "He hit the seven and 11 of 15 to fall into Montreal dropped its fifth in season with 82, including 25 4-1 lead. After Ruslan Salei's post. When you play the game, 11th place in the East. New York nine shootouts as Marc-Andre goals. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR­ 
QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT  
WANTED  CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE  
OWNER, $6,500. CALL 243-5454.  
CASHIERS NEEDED. APPLY IN  
 
PERSON. UNIVERSITY  
MARATHON, 405 933N IN ROSE- FoR RENT  
LAND. HOURS WILL VARY AND  
NO CALLS.  
House available for 2007-2008.  
FoR SALE  Very Large, Close to Campus,  
2002 Dodge Neon 4 Door Excellent  Just Renovated.  
condition 54,000 miles Two owners  Contact  
$4,500 Call 323-5318 or 634-4605.  MacSwain@ gmail.com  

Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5 andersonNDrentals.com 
bdrm, 3 bath homes, frpls, 2-car garages. Call574-232-4527 or 269-Furn home avail. 2/15 to 8/15. Walk 683-5038. to Univ. Call561-596-0194. 
Newly remodeled 3 and 4 bdrrn houses available for sale/rent Contact Meredith Allsop, Milligan Real Estate 220-9817. 
Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4 bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. $600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569. 
Better Homes, Better Areas, Better Deals. BlueGoldRentals.com 
2 bdrm condo JPW & Grad wknds. 1 mi to ND. 614-985-5003. 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.$245/PER­SON/M0.57 4-329-0308 
Newly renovated home for rent, 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, 
close to ND/SMC. Available now and for 07-08. Inquire @574-289-7791. 
PERSONAL 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No-ABORT or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­7819. For more information, Visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml Or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Happy Birthday Hannah!!!!! 
Happy late Birthday Katie!!! 

. •' 
OUND THE NATION 
Friday, February 2, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 

NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic 
team record pet. GB Toronto 23-23 .500 New Jersey 22-24 .478 1 New York 20·28 .417 4 Philadelphia 15-32 .319 8.5 Boston 12·33 .267 10.5 
Eastern Conference, Central 
team record pet. GB Detroit 26-18 .591 Chicago 26-20 .565 1 Cleveland 26-20 .565 1 Indiana 24-21 .533 2.5 Milwaukee 18-28 .391 9 
Eastern Conference, Southeast 
team record pet. GB Washington 27-18 .600 Orlando 24..22 .522 3.5 Miami 21·25 .457 6.5 Atlanta 17-27 .386 9.5 Charlotte 17-28 .378 10 
Western Conference, Southwest 
team record pet. GB Dallas 38·9 .809 San Antonio 32-15 .681 6 Houston 29·16 .644 8 N.O./Ok. City 19-26 .422 18 Memphis 12·35 .255 26 
Western Conference, Northwest 
team record pet. GB Utah 30·17 .638 Denver 22·21 .512 6 Minnesota 22-23 .489 7 Portland 20·27 .426 10 Seattle 17·29 .370 12.5 
Western Conference, Pacific 
team record GB 

Men's Basketball Associated Press Top 25 
team record points 
1 Florida 19·2 1n3 2 Wisconsin 21-1 1734 3 North caronna 1Q.2 1672 4 Oblo State 18·3 1545 5 UCLA 18•2 1482 6 Kansas 1873 141.4 
··~:::: :·:::::::~:::: 

7 Pittsburgh 19·3 1330 ··=·}IJ 8 Duke 18•3 1211 g 
Oregon 19•2 1209 10 TexasA&M 17-3 1191 11 Memphis 17·3 1086 12 OklahomaStale 18·3 1023 13 Butler 19-2 933 14 Marquette 19·4 903 15 Nevada 19·2 766 16 Virginia Tech 16-5 608 17 Air Force 19-3 506 n 18 Washington State 17,4 483 19 Alabama 15-5 30s.*,. 20 Arizona 144) .. 28 21 NOTRE DAME 11JAfit'!' 23 22 Texas 15-5 209 23 Stanford 14-5 208 24 Vandel'biH 15-6 200 25 Clemson 18·4 188 
around the dial 
NBA 

New Jersey at Orlando 8 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 


AP 

Nuggets forward Carmelo Anthony was not one of seven reserves named to the Western Conference All-Star team. Anthony was suspended for 15 games earlier this season due to a fight against the Knicks. 
Anthony left off All-Star roster 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -One bad night may have overshad­owed all the good Carmelo Anthony has done this sea­son. 
The NBA's leading scorer was not among the seven reserves announced Thursday night for the Western Conference team that will play in the NBA All-Star game. 
Denver teammate Allen Iverson was chosen, extending his streak of consecutive All-Star appearances to eight. He started the last seven games while playing for Philadelphia. Anthony, who is averaging 31.3 
points but missed 15 games while suspended for his role in the brawl at Madison Square Garden, 
was  the  most  obvious  
omission.  
Earlier  Thursday,  

Anthony said he hoped his suspension wouldn't pre­vent him from earning his first All-Star spot. 
"I hope no one holds that over my head over any­thing," he said. "Things happen. One incident like that is held over one per­son's head, life ain't fair. 
"I did my punishment. I could've easily kept my name out there by appeal­ing it and doing other stuff about it, but I just did my 15 games suspension and 
IN BRIEF 

Retired Nf\ players lobby for 
better pensions 
MIAMI -They limp through life, often too proud to ask for handouts but desperately in need of help. They are the aging NFL retirees and, as a rule, the older they are, the less they receive from the league's pension and disability funds. 
"An embarrassment," is what famed former player and coach Mike Ditka called it. 
"Twenty percent of nothing is noth­ing," former Bills offensive lineman Joe DeLamielleure said. 
Ditka, DeLamielleure and another Hall of Farner, Lem Barney, joined one­time Packers star Jerry Kramer on Thursday to promote Kramer's endeavor to auction championship rings and other valuable memorabilia to raise money for their fellow retirees. 
Ditka described the situation as "shameful," saying he received a $100,000 donation from an owner of a sport other than football. 
hopefully put that behind us." 
Steve Nash, Amare Stoudemire and Shawn Marion were all chosen from the Phoenix Suns, but Dirk Nowitzki was the only player picked from the Dallas Mavericks, who have the league's best record. The Mavericks had been hoping Josh Howard would be selected as well. 
Detroit and New Jersey had multiple reserves picked for the Feb. 18 game. Chauncey Billups and Richard Hamilton, who both made their first appearances last season, are going back, and Jason Kidd and Vince Carter will represent the Nets in the game at UNLV's Thomas & Mack Center. 
Indiana's Jermaine O'Neal and first-timers Dwight Howard of Orlando and Caron Butler of Washington round out the East reserves. 
The seven reserves were voted on by the head coaches in their respective conferences. Coaches couldn't vote for their own players, and had to select two forwards, two guards, a center and two players regardless of their posi­tion. 
The remainder of the West reserves were San Antonio guard Tony Parker and Utah forward Carlos Boozer. 

Concussion forces Matheny to 
retire after 13 seasons 
SAN FRANCISCO -Mike Matheny's decision to retire was made for him. His doctor refused to clear the long­time catcher to play in 2007 after a concussion sidelined him for the final four months of last season. 
Matheny's announcement Thursday that he is hanging up his catching gear after 13 major league seasons came as no surprise. He didn't play again for the San Francisco Giants after May 31 following a series of foul tips he took in the mask -and doctors warned him that he was more susceptible to even further damage if he received another blow. 
"This is not a shoulder, a knee or an elbow," Matheny said on a conference call. "We're talking about the brain .... I didn't expect this. I don't think any­body did." 
In early December, Matheny under­went another extensive battery of tests at the Sports Concussion Program. 
Judge allows negligence 
lawsuit against NFL 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -A federal judge ruled Thursday that Korey Stringer's widow can proceed with her negligence lawsuit against the NFL and equipment maker Riddell Inc. over his heatstroke death. 
Kelci Stringer sued the league and Riddell following her husband's death in 2001, claiming the NFL hadn't done enough to insure that equipment used by players protected them from injuries or deaths caused by heat-related illnesses. 
Korey Stringer, a 335-pound line­man for the Minnesota Vikings, died from heatstroke after he practiced in the sweltering heat and humidity that pushed his body temperature to 
108.8 degrees. He was 27. 
Judge John Holschuh dismissed one of the lawsuit's claims, in which Kelci Stringer argued that the NFL didn't set proper guidelines for prac­ticing in the heat. 
'•. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 2, 2007 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Seminoles visit ND for weekend matches 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Wrirer 

All signs point forward for the Notre Dame men's tennis team as the Irish will look for their second and third wins against No. 13 Florida State today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Notre Dame blanked Indiana 7-0 on Monday to better their record to 2-1 overall (1-0 at home). Notre Dame's wins over Indiana and William and match so it's a big momentum builder." 
Coming out of the gate with the doubles point under their belt will allow the Irish to focus on the singles-matches. Notre Dame will be challenged by Sucupira as well as senior Ytai Abougzir. Abougzir is ranked No. 2 in the world in under-18 play. 
The Seminoles will have to make an adjustment to play on the indoor courts at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The Irish also have the added boost of home 
Mary gave the court advantage
"We,d really like to 
team a two-point as well as team
start offplaying
jump in the Fila that is healthy rankings to· consistent yet and playing well.
move to No. 11. aggressive doubles. " 
The Irish last · "The added faced the boost you get
Bobby Bayliss 
Seminoles in from a home 2006 where Irish coach crowd that spurs 
they rallied for a 4-3 win in Tallahassee. Notre Dame has won four of its last five against Florida State. The Seminoles have posted a 5-0 mark for the season after garnering vic­tories over Florida Atlantic, Georgia State and Furman. The Seminoles first singles player, Jonathas Sucupira helped secure a victory over 
Georgia State "All signs point to houses Ludovic with a 6-3, 6-4 our team playing a Walter and 
win over Andres Jonathan Stokke,
very good match 
Arango. but have promis­The Irish will both days." ing talent in look to get ahead freshman Dylan early by taking Arnauld and
Bobby Bayliss 
at least two of Aaron Carpenter.
Irish coach 
the doubles matches. Coach Bobby Bayliss feels grabbing the doubles point will be a helpful boost for the team. 
"We'd really like to start off playing consistent and yet aggressive double," he said. 
Jumping out to the 1-0 lead after doubles play will relieve pressure for the Irish singles. 
"It all starts there if we can get that first point of the match from doubles," Bayliss said. "Either team that gets the doubles point only has to split the singles to win the 
you on and 

pushes you a lit­tle higher is always an advan­tage," he said. 
The Irish will look to come away from Florida State's match with a win to prepare them for Saturday's match against No. 8 Duke. 
Notre Dame fell to the Blue Devils 4-3 in Feb. 2006. The 
Blue Devils lost 
senior power­
Carpenter 
clinched the 7-5, 

6-3 victory in sixth singles to give Duke the 5-2 win over No. 52 Old Dominion. 
Despite losing in 2006, the Irish will hope that the combi­nation of home court advan­tage and talent will lead to a strong showing against the Blue Devils. 
"All signs point to our team playing a very good match both days." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 6 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends. and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone 1s welcome and confidenliahty IS assured. 
CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN · 
STUDENTS 


COMMUNITY 



-------------.-.-.-.--­Friday, February 2, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NO TRACK 
Team faces home challenge 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has had a lot of success this season, but will face its biggest test of the season when it competes in the Meyo Invitational this weekend at the Loftus Center. 
The Meyo Classic is the high­light of Notre Dame's indoor season with top teams from across the country participating. 
The Irish have started the season strong, with multiple qualifiers for both the men and women's teams. The last time the squad competed at the Notre Dame Invitational Jan. 26, 31 Irish athletes qualified for the Big East championships later this month including six Notre Dame male mile runners. 
Notre Dame's female team was just as impressive in the distance events, with two Irish athletes qualifying for the mile and 3,000 meter races. 
Both teams have also per­formed well in the sprint events, with each gender sending at least one runner to the confer­ence championship in the 60, 100, 200 and 400-rneter dashes. 
Despite having such success in almost every event, Irish coach Joe Piane said that every event is critical to the team's success. 
"We need to have good per­formances to ·get us prepared for the Big East meet," he said. "So may it be the 60 meter dash or the 35 pound weight, we need to perform well in order to be prepared properly for the Big East championship." 
The main event of the Meyo Invitational every year is the "Meyo Mile" in which the top distance runners from across the country compete. This year, Notre Dame will provide some of that talent, including junior Jake Watson and senior Todd Ptacek, who run the mile in 4:03 and 4:05, respectively. 

"It should be a very, very good run," Piane said of the meet's signature event. "Hopefully we'll have somebody approaching four or at least approaching four." 
With only one meet remaining before the Big East champi­onship, the Irish will have to try· to accumulate as many confer­ence bids as possible this week­end. The only remaining meet this season is the Windsor Team Challenge, and Piane said he is not sure of how many competi­tors he is going to send. 
"So we really gotta jump on the horse real quick and get some kids qualified," Piane said. "And we've done it on the women's side and the men's side." 
Overall, Piane has been pleased with his team's per­formance in the indoor season. Piane said that so far the team is accomplishing its goals for the indoor track season. 
"Our goal is always to do well at the Big East and hopefully at the NCAAs. So the first step is to get as many kids qualified for the Big East as possible," he said. "Generally we have 28 to 30 or 32 per gender qualified and I think we're pretty close to that now. 
"We'll get a few this week­end." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
NO SWIMMING 

Irish focus on Big East despite Louisville meet 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men and women will both travel to Louisville this weekend, but they will be in a New York state of mind. 
has floundered their way to a 3-9 dual meet record. The Cardinals lost in their last meet 189-110 against Jan. 27. 
"Louisville isn't as fast up front or as complete as Northwestern or West Virginia, but they're very good in the stroke events and the 

This week-end's meet against the Cardinals will  "We're looking very much at the. Big East [championships]."  relays," Welsh said. "I would put them as one of the top four teams in  
be  the  final  the Big East."  
meet for both the men and the women before  Tim Welsh Irish coach  The Notre Dame women can expect a stronger chal­ 
they  head  to  lenge  from  
East  Meadow,  Louisville  this  

N.Y., and Long Island, N.Y., for weekend. The Cardinals hold a the Big East championships 10-2 record in dual meets this that begin Feb. 14. season, and they are corning off 
"We're looking very much at a 189-111 win at Western the Big East [championships]," Kentucky Jan. 27. Irish men's "I don't know coach Tim how much of a Welsh said. threat they'll be to 
"We're in a "/ think it will be us," senior Katie 
sharpening our depth that pulls Carroll said. "I process right don't think they
us through."
now, and this have the depth we weekend is our do, and I think it last chance to Kati~ Carroll will be our depth get things right Irish senior that pulls us 
before we get to New York." 

For the No. 17 men's squad, Louisville will be a reprieve from the stiff compe­tition the team has faced in recent weeks. Notre Dame suf­fered their first dual meet loss of the season at the hands of then-No. 8 Northwestern by the score of 167-131 Jan. 20. The Wildcats -now No. 6 -are undefeated in dual meets on the season. 
through." That kind of con­
fidence is not sur­pnsmg after Notre Dame's showing in last weekend's Shamrock Invitational. With 
.wins over Oakland, Connecticut and West Virginia, the Irish went 3-1 on the weekend with the only stumble corning against No. 15 Penn State. 
With their defeat of West Virginia last weekend, the Irish gained the upper hand on one 

Last weekend, the Irish host­of the primary challengers to ed the Shamrock Invitational in Notre Dame's bid for their 11th which they participated in a consecutive Big East title. The quadruple dual meet against Irish face a similar opportunity No. 19 West Virginia, Penn this weekend against the State, Connecticut and Oakland. Cardinals. Notre Dame went 2-2 on the "This is another good oppor­weekend, defeating Connecticut tunity to send a message," and Oakland but falling short Carroll said. "It will show them against Penn State and still­that we're not messing undefeated West Virginia. around." 
The Irish will look to pick up some momentum this weekend Contact Greg Arbogast at against a Louisville squad that garbogas@nd.edu 
Is it you? 

,.Qne person· 
. makes a difference 
l;when the mission of Christ 
.. .):~,: 
meets the world. 
that person. Join 
us~%· 
For more Information ~bout oe,cotntn'l! a Maryknoll Priest Brother, contact: 
__ o_.,.rr, Director 
Hyde Par~ BlVd. IL 606154217 


INFORMATHH4tU. MEETING: MON, FEB 5 AT 5PM DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 2, 2007 
FENCING 
Irish prepare for Midwest Duals 
Bednarski will not rest top competitors 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame wants to make the most of its home tune-up. 
The Irish host Indiana, Michigan State and Purdue in the Midwest Duals Saturday at 10 a.m. in the Langford Gym­the team's usual practice facili­ty in the northeast corner of the Joyce Center's second floor -before traveling to Durham, N.C., Feb. 9 for the two-day Duke weapon, said the Irish will stay focused for the event. 
"It is important that we do well against them," he said, adding that falling into a false sense of security could hurt the Irish after last week's tough competition. 
Bednarski said he expects the competition to feature at least one or two high-quality fencers among the weaker squads. 
"Sometimes one of them is better, and we will try to show that no one, even good, can ... beat our fencers," he said. 
Junior foil Rachel Cota said 
the women in 
her weapon 

Duals against some "Sometimes one of division want to of the best teams sweep the com­
them is better, and 
in the Southeast. petition.
we will try to show
"This will be a ''I'm pretty tune-up for our that no one, even confident that fencers before the good, can ... beat the foil girls longer competition will go 27-0,"
our fencers." 
next week," Irish she said. "Our coach Janusz goal is to have 
Bednarski said. Janusz Bednarski 
fun." For the No. 5 After finish­
Irish coach 
Irish men and No. 2 Irish women, Saturday's competition should be easier than their duals in New York a week ago, when the squads combined to finish 7-5. At Purdue, Michigan State and Indiana, fencing is only a club sport. 
"You can not underestimate an opponent," Bednarski said. "We should win this tourna­ment, but how we win, it's my problem." 
Junior epeeist Greg Howard, the team's captain for his 
ing 17-1 each 

in the NYU Duals last weekend, Irish standouts Kelley Hurley, a freshman epeeist and Patrick Ghattas, a senior sabre, may see limited action. If the Irish can handle the competition without their top fencers, Bednarski will substitute younger and "fresher" fencers to face the opposition, the coach said. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfolwerl@nd.edu 
Jackson 
continued from page 20 

Miami and a four-point lead over third-place Michigan. 
The "nation's best" label is not the only milestone possible for the Irish this weekend. With one more conference win, Notre Dame will set a program record with 16 league wins in one season -currently the Irish are tied with the 1981-82 and 1998-99 teams at 15 wins. 
"We've proved we can play with pretty much everybody we've played," Jackson said. "We haven't played New Hampshire or Minnesota or those teams. But within our conference we've shown we can play pretty much against anybody." 
Bowling Green has had very few bright spots in a sub-par season, but one came last weekend when the Falcons picked up a 2-2 tie against Alaska. The Falcons have only two scorers with more than 20 points -Jonathan Matsumoto (24} and Derek Whitmore (20} -and are in last place not only in the standings, but also in team offense (1.86 goals per game), team defense (4.0:3 
goals per game} and on the power 

"But within our
play (.088 success percentage). conference we've Falcons goal­
shown we can play
tenders Jimmy 

pretty much 
Spratt and Eddie Neville have split against anybody." time and the brunt of the 
Jeff Jackson 
opposition's 

Irish coach 
offense this sea­

son, and it shows in their numbers. Spratt has a :3.82 goals against average with a 4-15-1 record, while Neville owns a 4.18 GAA. 
The Irish met the Falcons in a two-game home series earlier in the season with Notre Dame sweeping 5-2 and 4-0, but that hasn't kept Jackson from fret­ting more over this weekend than over Miami. 

"I get more nervous about these games, than I do about Miami of Ohio because I know 
our guys will be as ready to play as they need to be [against Miami]," he said. "This is part of us becom­ing a good team, being a good team is going to be able to respond coming off a tough week­end against Miami and then going into Bowling 
Green, playing a team that's last in the standings." 
Irish goalie Dave Brown ­who came up big against the RedHawks with 40 saves on 43 shots faced in two games ­will most likely start Friday night against the Falcons, but Saturday's starting goalie depends on several factors, Jackson said. 
It depends on the number of shots Brown faces in the first game and if he appears fresh when the time comes Saturday, Jackson said. 
Jackson said that in order to help keep Brown physically and mentally ready, he gives the goaltender days off where he does not have to put on his equipment, but only does car­diovascular training. 
"Keeping him from putting his equipment on everyday is the key," Jackson said. 
The puck will drop in both games at 7:05 p.m., but it will not televised locally. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

SPRING BREAK 
INFORMATION 800-488-8828 
w~w.sandpiperbeacon.com 
fREE SPRING BREAK MoDEL SEARCH CALENDAR* 
*VALID FOR FIRST 1000 RESERVATIONS. 
DEVELOP 
THE MARKET FOR 

A 

A truly unique dining and drinking experience, 
featuring a creative blend of fusion style culinary delights with a delicate touch of Asian flavors in an exciting yet intimate setting_ 
Plus, a stylish and contemporary fusion martini bar. 
Conveniently located in the center of Downtown South Bend between Morris Performing Arts Center, College Football Hall of Fame, and 
Marriott Hotel. 

119 North Michigan Street, Downtown South Bend. 



Friday, February 2, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 


Relax 

continued from page 20 
[Kessler]." 

Kessler -the Belles' leading scorer -has not been the focal point of Saint Mary's offense during the streak. Aside from Newsom, guard Bridget Lipke has averaged 13.8 points per game in the four-game stretch. Henley said center Anna Kammrath has also improved over the season. 
"Anna really stepped up and worked her butt off," Henley said. "She's incredibly coach­able, she's in great shape and she has a good understanding of the game. We want to work on shot selection and get her stronger in the paint, but she's played very well. 
"Neither Kammrath or Newsome were starting at the beginning of the season. That shows you how hard they worked." 
Regardless of her lessened impact on the team's offense, Kessler hasn't slowed down. She dropped a career-high 33 points 
HOOK, LINE AND SINKER 
Wednesday against Olivet, and is now 28 points shy of 1,000 for her career. 
"As only a junior, that's amaz­ing," Henley said. "She'll get it. The only question is whether she'll get it at home or on the road." 
Kammrath and Newsom will have their hands full against Calvin's inside game. Forwards Lisa Winkle-who averages 9.4 boards per game -and Marcia Harris seal up the inside. 
Calvin has made 47.4 percent of its field goals and 37 percent from three-point range, a facet of their game that will take away the option of playing a zone defense. Combined with the post play, Calvin poses a potent threat. The way the Belles are playing, however, cre­ates palpable excitement. 
"We're the ones that played them closest, with a one-point loss," Henley said, referring to the 53-52 Belles loss on Jan. 6. The Belles came a missed free­throw away from forcing over­time. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


PERIENCE I FOR FREE INFORMATIONAL MEETING: MON, FEB 5 AT 5PM DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER  
Write Sports. CallKen. l-4543.  

DAN COOPER/The Observer 

Irish forward Luke Harangody attempts a hook shot during Notre Dame's 90-45 win over Winston-Salem No. 29. 
.. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 2, 2007 
maybe practice Friday, Brey said. As of now, Brey said it
Bulls 

would be a game-time deci­continued from page 20 sion as to whether or not the 
junior. big man will play. said before practice "I don't want to play any Thursday. "Even though more without him," Brey we're young, we're not dumb. said. "We need Also, they've been marketing him no matter 
this game in their athletic who we play in "You're seeing a Brey said. "One 
with 6.3 rebounds per game. But 
department since August. this league, but I of the things 
over the recent road trip, Allen
young man [in
This will be their best home also don't want we've worked 
only shot 15-of-55 for 10.6 points 
crowd and they'll be looking to do anything Jackson] who gets on is to put a set 
per game. McGraw believes that 
to get their hands on us." stupid and have in to get him 
one of her team's problems dur­
more confident 
South Florida's defense was this thing sore into the lane ... I 
ing the losing streak has been
every week." 
also able to frustrate Irish for three weeks. think we're 
that no one other than Allen has 
guard Russell Carter in the We will have to starting to learn 
been able to pick up the slack if 
teams' first meeting. The see how he is Mike Brey how to use this 
she is shut down offensively. 
Bulls held the Big East's sec­Saturday after­Irish coach type of point 
"I think everybody needs to 
ond-leading scorer to just noon." nine points -well below his Kurz is second 
18.4 points per game confer­on the team with 14.0 points ence average. per game and first with 8.8 
"It's a very tough place to rebounds per contest. play in South Florida," Carter If Kurz sits out, and South said. "A lot of teams have Florida is able to contain trouble down there." Carter again, point guard 
Last time the teams Tory Jackson and forwards squared off, Irish forward Zach Hillesland and Luke Rob Kurz picked up the slack Harangody will have while the Bulls concentrated increased importance in the 
on Carter. Kurz  offense. The trio  
finished with  a  had  no  trouble  
team-high 21 points and 10 rebounds. "I think the  "Even though we're young, we're not dumb."  contributing against Syracuse. Harangody (21  
one thing about  points,  13  
our team is we haven't done all these special  Mike Brey Irish coach  rebounds) Hillesland points,  and (14 10  
aging 13.9 points and 7.4 son. 


things to get one guy going if he isn't going," Kurz said. "We've usually taken advan­tage of them taking away a guy or two and other guys have scored. 
Notre Dame, however, may have to play without Kurz for the second straight game. 
Against Villanova last Saturday, he exited in the second half with a sprained ankle and sat out Notre Dame's 103-92 win at Syracuse Tuesday. Kurz would only shoot around in practice Thursday, and 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 
rebounds) each 

set season-highs in points and rebounds while Jackson scored a career-high 19 points at the Carrier Dome. Jackson was also able to break Syracuse's full-court pressure and get to the free throw line late in the game, going 11-of-14 from the char­
ity stripe. "You're seeing a young man 
Allen 

[in Jackson] who gets more confident every week. He 
continued from page 20 became more confident last week when he knew Kyle 
too much," she said. [McAlarney] was not coming 
Overall, Allen is the Irish's back and that 
leading scorer at 15.7 points per he is the guy." 
game and is second on the team 
guard as a 
take a little more aggressive weapon." 
approach to the offense and look South Florida center 
to score some points," she said. Kentrell Gransberry hurt the 
"And I think everybody needs to Irish inside last time, scoring 
rebound a little bit more. I think 23 points and grabbing 11 
individually we just need to step boards. If Kurz is not able to 
up a little bit." play, Notre Dame will have to 
While Notre Dame's offense adjust defensively. 
will try to reload, its defense will The Irish could take an 
be tested once again by West extra step inside in their 
Virginia's strong combination of man-to-man defense, or 
post play and three-point shoot­switch to a zone to prevent 
ing. Gransberry from hurting 
Inside for the Mountaineers, them inside again -some­
junior center Olayinka Sanni has thing that has brought the 
been a dominant presence aver­Irish success earlier this sea­
rebounds per game. West Notre Dame was able to 
Virginia is also not afraid to effectively shut down St. 
launch shots from long distanc:;e John's forward Lamont 
with two players -guards Hamilton in the second half 
LaQuita Owens and Sparkle the Red Storm's 71-68 win 
Davis -who have each attempt­over the Irish last Tuesday. 
ed over 100 three-pointers. In After Hamilton scored 23 
comparison, the Irish on the sea­points in the first half, Notre 
son have attempted only 204 Dame switched to a 2-3 zone 
shots from beyond the arc. defense and kept Hamilton 
Another crucial factor in the scoreless in the second half. 
Mountaineers' success is their familiarity with each other. On Contact Chris Hine at 
West Virginia's roster, there are chine@nd.edu 
three seniors and six juniors 
compared with only two fresh­men. 
"And you remember last year, it was the same team that got to the Big East final and they're on a seven-game winning streak, so they're on a roll," McGraw said. 
One of the key factors for the Irish in defending against the Mountaineers will again be the play of Notre Dame's freshmen trio of guards Ashley Barlow and Melissa Lechlitner and center Erica Williamson. 
'They're outscoring most of the teams we've played," McGraw said. "When all of them are freshmen you expect a little inconsistency and certainly we've had that. But overall I'm really pleased." . 
Against the Panthers, Williamson was one of the few bright spots for the Irish, notch­ing 10 points and eight boards in the loss. 
"I think Erica Williamson in particularly lately has really, really stepped up her game. She's given us great production of the bench both rebounding, scoring and defense," McGraw said. 
Barlow and Lechlitner have been effective in some games this season, McGraw added, but their inconsistency off the bench has hurt the Irish in some games. 
''I'm looking for Melissa Lechlitner to continue to shoot the ball and be aggressive attacking. And Ashley Barlow, same thing," she said. "I think all three of them -they need to take more active roles and not sit back and wait for the upperclass­men to take over." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 


,,--------------------------------------------~,
I \ 
Receive a 2 liter Coke product for 99¢ with the purchase of a$5 To Go Pizza. 
Coupon required for 99¢ 2 liter. No coupon required for $5 To Go Pizza. Not to be used with any other coupon or discount. Coupon has no cash value. Please present this coupon before ordering. Limit one per customer. Only valid at LaFortune Sbarro. Offer expires February 28, 2007. 
,,_____________________________________________,,I 
Sbarro accepts * 
SuNDAY, FEB. 4TH FRIDAY, FEB. 2ND 
vs. DuKE @ NooN 
vs. FLORIDA STATE @ 4:00PM 
vs. ToLEDO@ 6:00 
FREE T--SHIRTS TO 
EcK TENNIS PAVILIO
~ 
SOUTH BlEND ORTHOPAEDICS

T 100 FANS! 
.. 


------~ 
=F=rid=a=y=,F=e=b=ru=a=ry==2=,2=0=0=7================================T.=n=e=O=b=u=r=ve=r=+==T=()==[)=i\==Y===========================================p=a=g=e=1=9 _ l 
I 
1 

ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
litl~!'obll 
BLAcK DoG 
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
A+IP.I-\A \-\A ~A I LE.TS SEE.. 
'{ouR FAJ-l'-'-( L-16€-f!..AL ARIS E.ouCAT\oN l.:JE.\ 'fOU OU"'C OF '(OU~ 
PI>,~\<:.INLX" SPAC..E. NOV~, '-OU£t:sE. BD'f I 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
SEL.tC..T-5TA~T. 

LIAMMORAN 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Take the top off 

1 Seminal 34 Superstition that computer game a rookie's of 1989 second season 
8 Special will fail delivery? 

37 Under the table 14 Shop steward, 
38 Key of thebriefly 

"Eroica" 16 When some 
39 Kind of bladehands join 40 Break or time11 "Sold!" 

follower18 Touching 

41 Go bad

19 1982 Richard Pryor flick 
44 Slangy intensifier

20 Kick in 22 It's east of 
45 Tallinn's St. Church, onceMayfair said to be the23 Farm stand tallest building units in Europe24 Spider's legs, 47 Tum overe.g. 

26 Article of 48 Saragossa is on apparel akin to it a tarboosh 50 Squeeze 
27 Dump 51 Major milk 28 Entangles maker 
30 Wonderland 53 Met who won directive the 1985 Cy 32 Relaxed Young Award 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
loss) 32 Highlighted rte. on a map 33 Hungarian filmmaker Tarr 
55 Doesn't let differences cause conflict 
57 Stumblebum 58 Show stopper? 59 Catering aid 60 Took over 
DOWN 1 Some executive 
offices 2 Because 3 Good thing to 
be put out of 4 Lab wear 5 Chinese leader? 6 Small heart, say 7lt helps in 
passing 8 Lecture follow-up 9 Language related to Bannock 10 Band featured on the reality show "Rock 
Star" 11 Rarely 12 100% 13 Went out for a 
while? 15 Clinical trial phenomenon 21 Problem while 
drying out 24 Utah city 25 Party hiree 28 Rescuee's cry 29 It can help you 
carry a tune 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Mike Nothnagel  
34 It may be found in a slip 35 Just out, maybe 36 Some mail services: Abbr.  41 Winner of the first World Series (as the "Americans") 42 "Swan Lake" princess  49 Something picked up in a gym 51 Universal Postal Union headquarters  
37 Breakfast order 40 An oenophile might detect a hint of this  43 Stiffened 46 Slow 47 It may appear on a record  52 Strong team 54 It's a big stretch 56 Large cells  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE  HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION  
~®)1~Unscramble these four Jumbles,  THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion  
one letter to each square,  
to form four ordinary words.  
DYLOM 1 rJ  b 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc.  
r~~~~--t j  
INGINN  
rJ 1 www.jumble.comI DEGULC jI I r  (] [ J  WHAT THE: SHIPS CAPTAIN 010 WHEN HE GOT A COMPUTER Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.  

Answer here: "r I I I I I J' rn 


(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: QUOTA CHESS SECEDE DUPLEX Answer: When the pumpkin was weighed, the record was -"SQUASHED" 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Lola Forsberg, 7; Lee Thompson Young, 22; Lisa Marie Presley, 38; Pauly Shore, 38 
Happy Birthday: The sooner you are upfront about who you arc, what you are capable of doing and how much effort you arc willing to put into your future, the sooner you will be successful. You have what it takes but stubbornness must be put aside if you want to excel. Your numbers are 9, 14, 16, 29, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21·Apri119): Very little will be out in the open. Keep your wits 
about you and focus more on what you are doing for others. Keep your reputation 
as stellar as possible so that no one can put you down or complain.*** 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Take a very secretive approach to everything you 
do and you will be able to accomplish so much more. A new partnership will be 
iffy but that shouldn't stop you from getting to know this person better. **** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): An older individual can have a profound impact on 
your life today, especially in your future plans. Emotional matters will only get in 
the way of discovering what you are truly capable of doing. Be totally professional 
and straightforward. ** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): There is plenty happening around you so respond 
accordingly. Love is in the stars--make a point of spending time with that special 
person. If you are single, you'll meet someone new. Be careful if traveling. ***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel, trying new things and expanding your interests 
should all be penciled in today. A partnership will take on a new flavor but be sure 
it's going in a direction suitable to your future plans. Anger will get you nowhere. 
*** 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Open up new doors that will lead to a more challenging 
and interesting future. Learning something new will help you determine what you 
might enjoy doing. Don't mince words with someone who has far more knowledge. *** 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Look at the big picture and you will get some creative 
ideas for making financial gains. Hold on to ownership or position yourself well 
with partners. Home improvements will cost but will raise the value of your property. 
*** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Focus on the creative and don't 1et snide remarks 
by those you usually trust stop you from following through with what you want to 
do. A love connection looks promising. Leave some time for intimacy in the evening 
hours. ***** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Everything is beginning to take shape and the chance to really get into what you want to do is apparent. Talks will lead to some interesting proposals. Don't let your emotions interfere with what you are trying to accomplish. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make your point and get things done today that will shape what happens to you in the future. Make your comments count ~~~~on't be afraid to be a little bit different. Take charge and try something new. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Stick to what you know and don't try to convince people that you know more. It will be sticking to things, not embellishing or taking on too much that will make the difference. Concentrate on projects that involve your community. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will enhance your reputation if you find solutions to problems that crop up. Someone you do business with may try to take advantage of you. Keep your money in a safe place and don't expect anything for nothing. *** Birthday Baby: You are creative, intuitive and secretive. You are passionate and must be engaged in what you are doing in order to do it well. You can be the best at whatever drives you the most. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun. eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

-
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Friday, February 2, 2007 page 20 
HOCKEY 

No. 2 Notre Dame vies for top ranking at BGSU 
Jackson not distracted by teamfs success 
By KYLE CASSILY News Writer 

A No. 2 unanimous national ranking with several first-place votes in the last month of a long regular season means nothing. At least that's what the Irish say. 
"The ranking is insignificant until if and when we get to Joe Louis Arena -and having to win there," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said in reference to the CCHA semifinals and champi­onship in Detroit in March. 
Coaches usually walk a mod­est line, but their players can sometimes be a little more forthcoming. Right? 
"Rankings are nice-they're nice to see sometimes -but we try to focus on every weekend coming up," sophomore left wing Garrett Regan said. "Right now where we're ranked isn't as important. Obviously we just want to keep playing as well as we can, and the rankings will take care of themselves." 
Guess not. 

But, whether they like it or not, the Irish name will come up across the country this weekend whenever national rankings are discussed, as the CCHA-leading icers travel to Bowling Green for a two-game series against the last-place Falcons. The first-ever No. 1 ranking in program history could hang on the Irish mantle, if only temporarily, with a sweep -and a little bit of Black Bear help. 
If No. 9 Maine can take one -or both ends -of a bitter two-game series in the tiny vil­lage of Durham, N.H., against its archrival No. 1 New Hampshire this weekend, the pollsters could vault the Irish ahead of the Wildcats. 
"To be [the] No. 1 ranked team, it doesn't bother me," 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

From start to finish 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 

Even though Notre Dame defeated South Florida handi­ly at the Joyce Center Jan. 21, there are plenty of reasons for the Irish to avoid looking past the Saturday contest against the Bulls in Tampa. 
On the year, the Bulls (11­11, 2-6 Big East) are 8-4 at home. Meanwhile, the No. 19/21 Irish (18-4, 6-3 Big East) have struggled away from the Joyce Center, win­ning just two of their six games on the road. 
"We would be really na1ve and not very smart to think it is going to be easy down there. They're healthier and they've played well at home," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey 
see BULLS/page 18 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish look to beat WVU, end losing streak 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame is hoping to end its current three-game skid, but may have to wait as they face off against a surging West Virginia squad Sunday at 5:30 p.m. at the JACC. 
The Irish (13-8, 4-4 Big East) are returning home after a three­game road trip in which the team failed to win a game. Meanwhile, the Mountaineers (15-7, 6-3 Big East) have taken a different route, winning seven straight and eight of their last ten games. 
"They're playing really well right now; they're in fourth or fifth place in the Big East," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "So it's kind of a tough game to be coming off a three-game losing streak to face." 
In the Irish's last game out against Pittsburgh, they failed to put two strong halves together and were outscored 45-34 in the second half en route to a 71-62 loss. One of the main factors in the team's losses over the road trip according to McGraw was the team's dependence on guard Charel Allen. 
"We need to get a little more from everyone. I think that we're relying on Charel Allen a little bit 
see ALLEN/page 18 Jackson said. "But fame is fleeting." 


The Irish (21-5-2, 15-3-2 CCI-lA) come into the series against Bowling Green (5-22-1, 3-17-1 CCI-lA) after an emotion­al win and tie at home with No. 10 Miami last weekend that strengthened Notre Dame's iron grip on first place in the CCHA. With eight garries remaining in the regular season, the Irish have a three-point lead over 
seeJACKSON/page 16 
SMC BASKETBALL 
SMC rests, prepares for Calvin 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
It would be tough to imagine -given the nature of the team's practice Thursday -the Belles are in the midst of a four-game winning streak and preparing for a road game at Calvin Saturday. 
After playing a version of the childhood game around-the world, Saint Mary's (9-1 0, 8-4 MIM)-engaged in a free-throw competition. Each successive shot made allowed the player to advance one basket. 
Reach the end and relax until time expires. 
Fall short and run sprints. 
Shortly thereafter, cupcakes were distributed and as "Happy Birthday" was sung to forward Jane Fleming, who turned 19. After that, the team was dis­missed. 
"They've been playing hard," head coach Jennifer Henley said. "We don't want them to get burned out." 
The Belles are averaging 78.5 points over their last four games, 12 points above their season average. Leading the offense has been forward/center Erin Newsom. The sophomore -last week's MIAA Player of the Week -has averaged 19.3 points and 8.8 rebounds per game in the four-game stretch. 
"Newsom has come full circle on defense," Henley said. "But unless you're looking for it, you won't notice it. 
"We've scored 83 and 81 points our last two games, and it's not all [guard] Alison 
see RELAX/page 17 


FENCING  Nil TRACK & FIELD  NO SWIMMING  TENNIS  NBA  NHl  
Midwest Duals Saturday The Irish will compete at the JACC this week­ Meyo Invitational Saturday-Sunday The "Meyo Mile" highlights Notre  The men's and women's teams travel to Louisville to take on the Cardinals this weekend.  No. 11 Irish host No. 13 Florida State and No. 8 Duke at home today and Saturday.  The NBA releases its. All-Star rosters, with the most notable exception being Nuggets forward Carmelo Anthony.  Florida 6 Washington 3 Panthers right wing Juraj Kolnik breaks out of a five-game scoring  
end as a tune-up for the  Dame's  last  home,  drought in the Florida  
Duke Duals next week.  indoor tournament.  win.  
page 16  page 15  page 15  page 14  page 13  page 12  








