
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 79 WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 7, 2007 
New engineering building approved 
'Huge learning center,' Stinson-Remick Hall to be built on current University Club site 


By KATE ANTONACCI News Ediror 
Yet another part of the University's 10-year strategic plan will come to life in the next few years in the form of a new $69.4 million College of Engineering building, the University officially announced Tuesday. 
The Board of Trustees approved plans for the 142,000 square-foot construction on Notre Dame Avenue at its Feb. 2 meeting. 
The construction -which will sit between the McKenna Center for Continuing Education and the Hesburgh Center for International Studies -will replace the existing University Oub. 
The building project comes at a time of expansion for the engineer­ing department in terms of increasing numbers of students and faculty joining the College. 
"This wonderful new facility will address multiple needs in our College of Engineering -providing much needed space for our emerg­ing research in nano technology and energy, and enhancing the interdisciplinary experiences of our undergraduates," University President Father John Jenkins said in a press release. 
The building -to be named Stillson-Remick Hall-will boast an 11,800-square-foot seniicon­ductor processing and device fabri­cation clean room, a nano technol­ogy research center and an Energy Center, according to the release. 
The structure -whose exterior will stick to the "brick gothic" style seen on campus -will also fea­ture a "huge learning center" for undergraduate engineers, which Executive Vice President John Aflleck-Graves said the University desperately needs. · 
see BUILDING/page 4 
JEFF ALBERT/Observer Graphic 


NO hosts eating disorder conference 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Eating disorders, disordered eating and body image issues are among some of the most pressing issues of our day, especially on college campuses, says Notre Dame graduate student Ali Wishon. This weekend Student Government leaders hope to address the problem with the inaugural Notre Dame Eating Disorders Conference. 
The conference -which runs Thursday through Saturday -is a joint effort of the Student Government, the Gender Issues Committee and other campus groups. 
Titled "Eating Disorders and the Campus Culture," the event will bring together experts in the field that will address a broad audience including students, fac­ulty, staff and administration from Notre Dame, as well as researchers, graduate students and representatives from treat­ment and counseling centers across the country -all with hopes of promoting awareness, research and further action. 
A first for Notre Dame, the nation 
The student-led and student­organized conference is one of the first of its kind in the nation, said event organizer and student body president Lizzi Shappell said. 
"Typically, these conferences are organized out of the University's counseling center, out of the biology, sociology or psychology department or organ­ized by other national organiza­tions," Shappell said. 
An event like this is "very novel throughout the country," she said. 
Wishon, who coordinated the event along with Senate Gender Issues Chair Ashley Weiss, said a conference like this -focused on the college environment as a fac­tor in eating disorders -isn't typical. 
"It's difficult, because there are only a handful of people who are studying eating disorders right 

Top 3 supporting-editors appointed 
As managing editor, Fowler Cassily, who has worked as a Observer Staff Report 
will be responsible for assist­sports writer since freshman ing Hanna in supervising The year and copy editor since 
Ken Fowler, Kyle Cassily and Observer's editorial depart­October 2006, will work on Mary Kate Malone have been ments. He also plans to focus improving writing and updat­hired to oversee The on improving the depth of ing The Observer's Web opera­Observer's editorial operations reporting, the quality of writ­tions. in 2007-08, incoming editor in ing and the "I fee I chief Maddie Hanna efficiency of honored to announced Tuesday. production have been 
Iianna also said business in the office given the manager Jim Kirihara will be through chance to retained at his current posi­better use continue tion for the rest of the semes­of available a n d ter. technology. improve 
Fowler will serve as manag­" T h e upon the ing editor, while Cassily and Observer standard 


Cassily

Malone will serve as assistant has been already set managing editors. Fowler and the domi-by The Observer," Cassily said. Cassily will take over on nant part of my college life, Malone, who was news edi­March 19, while Malone -and I'm excited for a new tor from March 2006 through who is studying in London for challenge in a new position," December, will also work to the spring semester -will said Fowler, the paper's cur­step into the role this fall. rent sports editor. see STAFF/page 6 now," she said. "More research needs to be done throughout the field." 

Weiss said they hope the event this weekend spurs discussion and promotes awareness ­something that could lead to research and advance knowledge of the issues, Notre Dame and beyond. 
Bringing 'top researchers in the field' 
Keynote presenters will include a Harvard Medical School schol­ar, Dr. Roberto Olivardia, and an award winning documentary photographer, Lauren Greenfield, along with a variety of other 
see DISORDER/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Kite given rights to develop 
Eddy construction to begin by end of 2007 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Ediror 
Plans for the development of Eddy Street Commons took a leap forward Tuesday when the University announced it had entered into an agreement with Kite Realty Group Trust to give the group exclusive rights to prepare and implement a design for a com­mercial district south of campus. 
Notre Dame Executive Vice President John Aflleck-Graves said the search for a contractor began almost two years ago. From the approximately 90 firms the University approached, Kite was selected for the task. 
"We decided that Kite was the most qualified," Affieck-Graves said. "It was a very, very careful process." 
The Indianapolis-based compa­ny has plans to build a mixed-use area near the intersection of Eddy Street and Angela Boulevard on approximately 30 acres of land currently owned by the University. The plan includes a retail center, a full-service hotel with business conference facilities, office space and condominiums, townhouses and apartments. The development is expected to take up more than 500,000 square feet south from Edison Road to Howard Street. 
In a press release from Notre Dame's Office of News and Information, Thomas K. McGowan, Kite's executive vice president and chief operation offi­cer, said the company was pleased to have been chosen as the devel­oper for the project. 
see EDDY/page 4 

Frigid air causes pipes to burst, flood Keough 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
News Ediror 
With South Bend temperatures dipping well below zero degrees this week, all it took was a slightly­cracked window or an ·unsecured door for heating pipes to burst twice in Keough Hall -once early Sunday morning and again Monday morning -causing serious flooding in the men's dormitory. 
"The freezing isn't the problem ­it's when it starts to melt that the water starts flowing," said Scott Kachmarik, associate director in the office of residence life and housing. 
The most serious flood involved a discharge of Keough's fire sprinkler system in the front entryway just after 7 a.m. on Monday, said rector Mark DeMott. 

Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) arrived quickly on the scene to help "keep damage to a mini­mum," DeMott said. 
Building Services in normally the first on scene to begin water clean up and to "assist in any further damage by moving items and belongings and working to contain the spread and flow of the water," Kachmarik said. 
"They also will immediately check the floors below and work to mini­mize the damage of water that might be running down the walls and through the ceiling," he said. 
A plumber is also called to shut 
see PIPE/page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 7, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A matter of race 

Today is National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. I imagine the emergent social problem ofAIDS in the African American community may lie far from the minds ofmost Notre Dame students, but it does not, on this day, lie far from mine. 
Steve Kerins 

I have lived in Wilmington, Delaware, since I News was 10 years old. Production Although Delaware 
Editor 

is bland in many ways, it has a partic­ularly long, regrettable history of poor race relations. Disparities in HIV rates are just the latest in a long line ofproblems to divide ethnic and racial enclaves in my city. 
More than 20 percent ofDelaware resi­dents categorized themselves as "black" in the last census. African American history runs richly through the state. Wilmington is home to the oldest black church in the country. As the East Coast's northernmost outpost of segregation, crossing Delaware's northern border marked a vast improve­ment in conditions for thousands of African Americans in the early 20th century. 
As in many states, race relations did not quickly improve following desegregation. Riots in Wilmington following the assassi­nation ofMartin Luther King, Jr., in 1968 prompted the governor to deploy the National Guard, which remained in place until the following year. 
Although public schools were eventually legally integrated, de facto segregation remains the norm throughout much ofthe state. 
In response to desegregation, many white families chose to withdraw their chil­dren from the public school system. In my county today, about a third ofschool-age kids are enrolled in private or parochial schools. Public education is grossly under­funded in Delaware compared with neigh­boring states. 
Race relations also remain exceptionally poor in Delaware. The Wilmington Police Department engages in 'Jump-outs," in which officers spring from unmarked vans and detain individuals loitering on the street. The detainees are then typically photographed, searched, and fingerprint­ed. The program has drawn heavy criti­cism for civil rights violations and possible racial profiling. 
Wilmington has one ofthe highest per capita HIV infection rates in the country, especially among African American men. Delaware was one of the last states to implement a needle exchange program for intravenous drug users, thanks to stalling on the part oflegislators from rural, largely white areas ofthe state. HIV infection, of course entirely preventable, may be reach­ing epidemic proportions just miles from my home. 
In my otherwise commendable (and almost entirely white) private high school, the effects ofracism were rarely discussed. This seemed unusual to me given that its leafy property sat mere blocks from some ofthe poorest black neighborhoods in the United States. I wondered whether we might have heard more about local social issues ifthe neighborhood residents had been white. 
At Notre Dame, another place where uncomfortable issues of race can some­times be pushed under the rug, I hope we can take a moment today to ask ourselves what we can do to combat this latest mani­festation ofracial antipathy. I don't have the answers, but maybe tOgether we can think ofsome. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and suives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE DAY OF THE WEEK? WHY? 








James Gower  Jason Zgrabik  Whitney Drake  Cait Keilty  Evan Brogan  Matt Beall  
senior off-campus  senior off-campus  freshman Cavanaugh  freshman Cavanaugh  senior off-campus  sophomore O'Neill  
''Tuesday, because it  "Wednesday, because having  "Wednesday, because it's my  "Friday, because it's the  "I think I'll roll with Sunday. "  "Fun-day. It's fiun. "  

sounds like a "D" in front of birthday!" start ofthe there's more "N" is just weekend." than one of weird." them. " 


JENNIFER KANGfThe Observer 
Sophomore Alexandra Minnis waters plants in the new greenhouse in Jordan Hall of Science Tuesday. Dedicated Sept. 15, Jordan Hall contains 200,000 square feet of research space, 40 laboratories and a state-of-the-art planetarium. 
OFFBEAT 
Teen gets frostbite after run 
BUFFALO, Minn. -A teenager who wanted to con­tinue the family tradition of running around the garden barefoot during halftime of the Super Bowl game has learned a painful lesson. 
It was 17 below zero at halftime Sunday in this city about 30 miles northwest of Minneapolis, and D.J. Brown's dad said it was too cold to continue the tradi­tion. But the 18-year-old sen­ior at Buffalo High School ran outside in his T-shirt and jeans, threw off his socks and shoes, and ran around the block. 
"I consider myself having a high pain threshold, and this was just so 10 out of 10," he said. "I was, like, chewing on a towel." 
He was treated for second­degree frostbite on both feet at the burn center at Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis and was on crutches and pain medication Monday. 
. 
290 climb Empire State Building 
NEW YORK -Germany's Thomas Dold, 22, won the Empire State Building Run­up on Tuesday for the second year in a row. Suzy Walsham, 33, of Singapore, won the women's competi­tion. 
A total of 290 runners from around the world, ranging in age from 18 to 77, competed in the 30th annual race up the famed sky­scraper. 
Dold's winning time of 10 minutes, 25 seconds was just over his 2006 time of 10 minutes, 19 seconds. 
Another German, 23-year­old Jahn Mattias, came in second with a time of 10 minutes, 56 seconds. 
The runners raced up 86 floors, or 1,576 steps, from the building's Art Deco lobby. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

a: 
LLI 
::1: 

!;;: 
LLI 

3: 
..... 
c:r: 

(.) 




0 
HIGH 15 5 HIGH HIGH

... 
LOW -3 -13 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
17 3 
18 
7 
IN BRIEF 
As part of the Notre Dame Literary Festival, essayist and humorist David Rakoff will 
speak  tonight  at  8  in  the  
LaFortune Ballroom.  
The  academic  forum  

"Ragtime 100 Years Later: Defining Our Generation's American Dream" will be held tonight at 7:30 in Washington Hall. Five campus speakers will comment on the themes of the musical "Ragtime." The event is free of charge and is co-hosted by the student groups Shades of Ebony and Wabruda. 
Freelance writer, editor and publisher Anne Elizabeth Moore will teach her tricks of the trade Thursday at 3 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Center. 
Efraim Inbar, Professor of Political Studies at Bar-Ilan University, will give the lecture "Israel's Security Environment" Thursday at 8 
p.m. in Room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
As part of the Notre Dame Literary Festival, writer, novel­ist, essayist, editor, and founder of the independent book pub­lishing house McSweeney's, Dave Eggers will read from his latest work in Room 101, DeBartolo Hall at 8 p.m. 
The Kellogg Institute will be hosting the annual Celebration of Brazilian Carnaval featuring live music by the group "Chicago Samba," Friday, from 8 p.m. to midnight in South Dining Hall. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 
17 

LOW 
3 


Atlanta 59 I 38 Boston 24 I 12 Chicago 15 I 0 Denver 44 I 29 Houston 70 I 51 Los Angeles 72 I 51 Minneapolis 11 1-6 New York 21 I 15 Philadelphia 29 I 14 Phoenix 77 I 51 Seattle 50 I 42 St. Louis 25 I 18 Tampa 73 I 48 Washington 31 120 
Wednesday, February 7, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Men1bers discuss use of SUB funds 
BySONIARAO 
News Writer 
Members discussed redefining the purpose of the Student Union Board's "carry forward" fund dur­ing the Council of Representatives (COR) meeting in Lafortune Tuesday evening. 
The lund, which has served as a reservoir for all unused funding from Student Government, Judicial Council, Hall President's Council and Student Union Board (SUB), has accumulated well over $100,000. 
SUB manager Patrick Vassel said it's "a large amount of money that seems that it's not being put to the best use." 
Money from the fund l!as not been drawn from any student organizations, student body presi­dent Lizzi Shappell said. 
"I can't recall anyone ever asking for money out of [the carry forward fundi," Shappell said. 
There was a general consensus in putting the money in the carry forward fund toward an endow­ment, using the interest from it each year toward SUB functions. According to a sununary of Student Union Programming distributed before the meeting, "Major speak­ers, national and international leaders, personalities, and the types of speakers that Notre Dame should attract to campus are nor­mally above the total allocation for all speakers. Likewise, major per­formers cost at least $100,000 for talent alone. Obviously, this is an area of student life that is under­funded." 
Breen-Phillips senator Maris Braun noted that SUB could invite bigger bands to concerts and improve overall student life at Notre Dame ifit had the money. 
"I don't think it comes down to the fact that SUB can't do it," Braun said. "I think it's just that we don't have the money." 
Vassel said the speaker series and concert series that exist at other universities would be a great asset to Notre Dame, but "dollar signs were just flying through my head as I was sitting in the Joyce Center because those things aren't cheap," he said. 
Discussion on endowment possi­bilities was tabled until more spe­cific information could be obtained about money in the fund. 
In other COR news: 
+ 
Vice president Bill Andrichik reported on the Student Senate opinion about the presidential divi­sion of SUB's budget discussed dur­ing last Tuesday's COR meeting. Senate members seemed to agree that the division should be put under student government rather than SUB, but wanted to "make sure that the money would still be available and that FMB would con­sider it a separate entity." As for moving SUB's oversight level from $5,000 to $10,000, Andrichik said members thought it "contentious." 

+ 
Judicial Council President Liz Kozlow announced that the presi­dential debates will take place Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the main lounge of Lafortune. Voting day is Monday. 


Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 
Law & .... 

Please join the Law School for its 2006-2007 series of interdisciplinary discussions. All programs begin at 4:00p.m. and will be held in Law School room 120. 
Thursday, September 28, 2006 
Hun1an Rights and Human Atrocities in Uganda 
Presenter: Todd David Whitmore Department of Theology Respondent: Doug Cassel Center for Civil and Human Rights, The Law School 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 
The Biophysics ofLife and Public Policy Disputes: Interfacing with the Scientific Community on Bioethical1ssues 
Presenter: Phillip Sloan Program of Liberal Studies Respondent: Carter Snead The Law School 

Thursday, February 8, 2007 
The Other Alien Debate: Biology and Policy ofInvasive Species 
Presenter: David Lodge Department of Biological Sciences Respondent: Alejandro Camacho The Law School 
Thursday, March 1, 2007 
Identifying Tax Effects on Charitable Giving 
Presenter: Daniel Hungerman Department of Economics and Econometrics Respondent: Lloyd Mayer The Law School 
Author, politician to inaugurate series 
By KATIE KOHLER Assistant News Editor 
The first annual Plamondon Endowed Lecture in Communications Studies at Saint Mary's begins today with nation­
ally accred­ited author and political campaign expert Dr. Kathleen H a l l Jamieson. 
The lec­


ture, enti-Jamieson t l e d "Deception in Politics," is 
free and open to the public. It will be held at 7:30 p.m. in the Little Theater in the Moreau Center for the Arts on Saint Mary's campus. 
The lecture will focus on the role of the media, namely television, in shaping elec­tions today and in the past. Jamieson will also heavily focus on the 2004 presiden­tial election. 
The series, named for Ann Plamondon, a professor in the Communications Department since 1981, was initiated by fellow communi­cations professor and department chair Dr. John Pauley. 
"Dr. Plamondon is a long­standing member of our department. In honor of her retirement at the end of this academic year, we wanted to give ongoing tribute to her by establishing this series," Pauley said. 
Plamondon's influence on her students prompted the creation of the event, as for­mer students provided the funding to endow the series. 
"I think it's wonderful that we have the chance to do this," Plamondon said. "We didn't have any real ways to bring in a fascinating expert in communications and now we can. I just think it's great." 
Jamieson is the first speak­er in this annual series and was chosen for her extensive work with elections, cam­paign ads and her role as a political critic in several important elections. 
Jamieson is the Director of the Annenberg Public Policy Center and a professor of communications at the Annenberg School of Communication at the University of Pennsylvania. She has written several books on the topic of cam­paign deception and their influence on election results. 
In addition to her role at UPENN, Jamieson serves as a political contributor to CBS News. During the 1996 pres­idential debates, she also appeared on "The News Hour" with Jim Lehrer. For her work in the field, she has been labeled an expert in political communications. 
"She is in the top of her field and embodies what we, at Saint Mary's, stand for," Pauley said. "She is a great person to inaugurate the event." 
While Jamieson is a woman, the series will not be limited to female speakers. 
"Dr. Jamieson is just a great speaker and a strong figure in communications. In choosing the speaker next year, we will look for people with similar qualifications, regardless of gender," Pauley said. 
Pauley and other members of the communications department are hoping for a considerable turnout at the event. 
"We have contacted faculty of American studies and political science students over at Notre Dame as well as local schools such as IUSB," Pauley said. 
Plamondon, who also resides in New York, hopes for the continued success of the program. 
"In the future, I would love to come back each year. It all depends on where I am," she said. 
This is not Jamieson's first visit to the College. She was also present at the sesqui­centennial in 1994. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 7, 2007 
Eddy 
continued from page 1 
"This is a wonderful opportu­nity for us to develop a project of this magnitude that will simulta­neously serve as an extension of the University and an addition to the community," he said. 
Kite was announced as the preferred developer in August and the last few months have consisted of negotiations about how Kite would use the land and how it would divide the amount of retail area versus residential area, in addition to other con­cerns the University posed. 
"We just weren't going to give it to them and let them do what­ever they wanted to do," Aflleck­Graves said. 
But now they have reached the stage where they agreed Kite is the "master contractor," he said. Notre Dame will not own the property except for land adjacent to campus, he said, and this will be Kite's -not Notre Dame's ­
Disorder 
continued from page 1 
experts. 
Both keynote speakers are "huge" for the conference's inaugural year, Shappell said. 
"Dr. Olivardia is one of the top researchers in the field, espe­cially in male eating disorders," Shappell said. Olivardia studies body image issues in men and is co-author of the book "The Adonis Complex." 
Greenfield has won HBO awards and gained national recognition for her documen­tary film "THIN". The film screening and discussion with Greenfield will help to balance Olivardia's presentation, Shappell said. 
"It's great we have the pop culture element in Lauren Greenfield. but also the more academic element in Dr. Olivardia," she said. 
"We've really tried to identify the key players in the field," Wishon said. "We tried to bring together a group of people who are covering all aspects of eat­ing disorders, since they are so complex." 
In addition to presenters and campus resources, the University Counseling Center, the University Health Center and Campus Ministry will be featured in a Notre Dame panel discussion on Friday, Weiss said. 
"We have the unique opportu­nity to talk about what our resources are and what our resources could be, [becoming] a leader in how eating disorders are addressed on campuses," Shappell said. 
Number one focus: students 
"We're doing this for the stu­dents," said Wishon of the con­ference's overall purpose. "We want to get people talking and people to realize that this is a serious, life threatening issue on college campuses." 
Shappell agreed, saying that operation. 
"We decided that this would be something that our students would enjoy. We are the people who will push the project," Affleck-Graves said. "In that sense, we've done all the plan­ning up till now. But now it's time to hand the planning over to the developers and let them do it." 
The retail development and the construction of new apart­ments, condominiums and town houses on the corner of Eddy Street and Angela is the first phase of a five-part plan. 
The University has also dis­cussed plans with Kite to build a technology park, to extend Napoleon Street and construct residential housing along the extended area and to add addi­tional retail and services near the Five Points intersection. Parts of the project will proceed at a pace dependant on city approval. Kite has the responsi­bility to get all its plans through the city council, Aftleck-Graves said. 
He said does not know what 
this is a "unique opportunity to hear and even interact with some of the leaders in this fiflld." 
In addition to stimulating dis­cussion among students, organ­izers say that they hope the · event results in a greater emphasis on eating disorders across campus. 
"My greatest hope is that this starts research and discussion . . . as to how we address this issue, both academically and in campus life," Shappell said. 
Beyond Notre Dame, Wishon said she hopes the event will inspire all people attending to effect change. 
"We have brought together an exceptional group of researchers, and hope that everyone in attendance will walk away with a better under­standing of the complexity and urgency of the issue," Wishon said. 
A long time in the making 
Student Government initia­tives have addressed eating dis­orders issues in the past, but student government leaders have been working on the idea of a broader event with a greater impact for years, according to Wishon. 
"After watching several friends struggle with eating dis­orders, [former student body president] Adam Istvan decided that the Gender Issues Committee needed to take a closer look at the issue," Wishon said. 
Since then, Wishon and Shappell have coordinated Eating Disorder Awareness Weeks for the past two years. 
The pair had "talked for a long time ... about how we wanted to take it to the next level," Shappell said. 
When Shappell was elected president in 2006, Wishon said they were ready to pursue organizing a large-scale confer­ence. 
"When I was elected presi­dent, it was something that I was very passionate about, so we decided to [start] the very 
,8 907 E. LA SALLE AVE. 234·0363 
@~ !J}J 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 
www.womenscarecenter.org 
the cost of tho project will be, since Kite has not disclosed il<i budget to thn University. 
Aftleck-Graves said he hoped Kite would break ground on tho project by the end of 2007. 
"Hopefully the whole project will be done in four or five years." 
The construction work should not impact Notre Dame's cam­pus, he said. 
"We are hoping it's going to be very attractive to the students," Affleck-Graves said. "It will be a place where they can go and do some shopping, they can do relaxing ... but I don't think con­struction will afl"ect campus at all." 
Kite Realty Group Trust devel­oped Erskine Village on the site of the former Scottsdale Mall on the south side of South Bend. It has developed several properties in Indiana and Illinois, including projects in Chicago, Indianapolis and Naperville. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
long process of planning for the event," she said. 
With help of current Gflnder Issues Committee co-chairs Weiss and Kevin Gimber, plan­ning began last spring and con­tinued over the summer, Wishon said. 
"This conference has been a long work in the making and we are anxious to showcase and stimulate dialogue," Weiss said. 
Anyone interosted in attflnd­ing should register in advance, Weiss said, which can be done online at marketplace.nd.odu/cce. 
Registration is free for Notro Dame students, faculty and stafl'. Event<> will be held at vari­ous venues across campus. A complete schedule is also avail­able online. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
ASPIRE 
I 
I S 

HTT;Jj/§UMMER5CHOOLGEORGETOWkLEDU 

slJ,tnn:l:Er a'r 
GeOrGETOWn 
UniVeRSITY 
G 
et ahead by enrolling in Summer School 2007 at Georgetown University. Choose from over 300 courses and learn from the world's foremost faculty. Network and enjoy exclusive Washington access available only to Georgetown University students. 
You've had enough ordinary summer breaks. This year, aspire higher. 
Enroll in Surnrner School 2007 
at Georgetown University. 
Visit summerschool.georgetown.edu 
or call 202.687.8700 
do in the building," Affieck-Graves said. "It's a continual back and forth 
Building 

between the faculty, the University continued from page 1 · and the architect." 
The next step in the project is to 
"This Inew building! is just addi­tional space for engineering. They will still continue to occupy the old buildings. It's not replacing anything ... it's responding to additional needs we have," he said. 
The ideal start date lor construc­tion would be late November, Aflleck-Graves said, though work may be delayed until early 2008 if all of the planning is not complete by the fall. Construction is expected to be compleied in late 2009 or early 2010. 
The construction timeline was moved up because funds were col­lected earlier than expected. 
The University began to raise money lilT the new building in early 2000-2001, Aflleck-Graves said, and it took five years to close the project. The eollection time was less than half that of the DeBartolo Center for the Porfi>rming Arts, which opened in the fall of 2004, and is similar in size to the en!,rineering building. 
Though the University has been in the "planning stages" for six years, construction on such a project can­not begin until funding is sflcure. 
"The big buildings an~ more diffi­cult because they are a large amount of money," Aflleck-Graves said. "The dorms have been a little easiflr, thfly arfl a littlfl eheapflr." 
An lndianapolis-ba.<>nd arehitflctur­al firm has been working with the Univflrsity for the past six to eight months, Alneek-Graves said, during which time architects have met with engineering faculty to determine the needs in tim building. 
The University did not disclose the name of' the architect. 
Becausn faculty in biological sci­ences often work with those in chemical and biomedical engineer­ing, Nllnek-Graves said that people from diflnront disciplines will get to use thfl new building -and were consulted in the planning. 

"The faculty has to get together about what they want to do in the Contact Kate Antonacci at building, what sort of tflaching they kantonac@nd.edu 
continue working with the faculty, Aftleck-Graves said. The architect has almost finished the design draw­ings and interviews of three con­struction firms will begin at the end of February. The construction firm will work with the architect in final­izing the architectural design and doing the design drawing." 
Gradually, the University will "move to place where we say, this is what we need, this is the funding that we have, this is what we can do," Aflleck-Graves said. 
In order for construction to begin, the University Club -a private not­for-profit organization founded in 1958-will be demolished. 
"!The University Club is] an inde­pnndent organization, with an inde­pendent board of directors," Affleck­Graves said. "We don't have much control of the University Oub." 
The lJniversity Club was first warned about the possibility of being demolished in 2002, Aflleck-Graves said. A few years later, Affleck­Graves "gave them notice they would have to be out sometime after December 2005." 
One alternative is to move the club to what currently is Greenfield's International Cafe in the Hesburgh Center. But Aflleck-Graves said that it is "really their decision" as the University has no control over the club. 
The building gains its name from the principal benefactors.-Kenneth and Ann Stinson and Jack and Mary Ann Remick. Kenneth Stinson grad­uated from the University in 1964 and currently sits on the Board of Trustees. Jack Remiek graduated in 1959 and sits on the University's advisory council for the College of Engineering. • 
The learning center will be named after benefactors Ted and Tracy McCourtney. 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 7, 2007 CotvlP!LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Cockpit video documents death 
LONDON -A leaked cockpit video pub­lished Tuesday captures a dramatic exchange between two American pilots whose voices choke up when they learn they have killed a British soldier in a 2003 friendly fire incident in Iraq. 'Tm going to be sick," one pilot says, later adding "we're in jail, dude." 
Despite British requests, the Pentagon had refused to release the video to the family of Lance Cpl. Matty Hull, who died when at least one U.S. jet flred on his convoy in the south­ern city of Basra. But after excerpts of the video were published in The Sun newspaper, and the footage was widely broadcast, U.S. authorities agreed to release it for the British inquest. 
Neither pilot from the Boise, Idaho-based 190th Fighter Squadron was disciplined in the U.S. military's own investigation, which concluded the pilots "followed the procedures and processes for engaging targets," Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said Tuesday. 
Palestine tries to negotiate truce 
RIYADH -Palestinian factions on the brink of civil war gathered Tuesday in Mecca, Islam's holiest city, in a last-ditch effort to end their bloody conflict. The Saudi-led push is key to any future peace talks with Israel-and to Arab efforts to blunt Iran's growing power. 
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah and Khaied Mashaal, leader of the militant l-lamas movement, flew to the Saudi city of Jiddah before heading to Mecca to meet their host, King Abdullah, ahead of the start of talks Wednesday. 
The talks are open-ended, a reflection of Saudi Arabia's determination to keep them going until the Palestinians reach a deal for power-sharing in a new coalition government. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Court hears libby grand jury tapes 
WASHINGTON -On grand jury audiotapes played at his trial on Tuesday, former White House aide I. Lewis Libby said he learned about a CIA officer from Vice President Dick Cheney, forgot it, then learned it again from NBC News reporter Tim Russert a month later. 
The complicated history of Libby's recollections is at the heart of his perjury and obstruction trial in exposing of the identity of Valerie Plame, a CIA employee. She is married to war critic and former Ambassador Joseph Wilson. 
Judge orders Church record release 
LOS ANGELES -A judge Tuesday ordered the Roman Catholic Church to release insurance records and confiden­tial files related to a priest who had been convicted of molestation before being transferred to California. 
Superior Court Judge Peter D. Lichtman ordered the Archdiocese of Milwaukee to make public 3,000 pages of insurance records and hundreds of pages from files on Siegfried Widera. 
Lichtman wrote that Widera's files prove that "priests with known sexual proclivi­ties have been handed off from location to another without regard to the potential harm to the children of the Church." Kathleen Hohl, a spokeswoman for the Archdiocese of Milwaukee, said it would abide by the ruling but declined further comment. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Scrap gathering proves dangerous 
SOUTH BEND -Dennis Mackey has col­lected scrap metal for money, and he knows that gathering it can be dangerous. 
"It depends on what kind of scrapping you do. You have to use common sense," he said Monday as he stood waiting for lunch at the Hope Hescue Mission just south of downtown. 
Scrapping has drawn attention in this northern Indiana city since the bodies of four homeless men known to be "scrappers" were found last month in manholes 75 yards apart. The men were killed when they were struck in the head with blunt instruments, police say. 
IRAQ 

Iran blames U.S. for kidnapping 
Diplomat's seizure may further inflame tensions between Washington, Tehran 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Gunmen wearing Iraqi army uni­forms seized an Iranian diplomat as he drove through central Baghdad, officials said Tuesday. Iran said it held the United States responsible for the diplo­mat's "safety and life." 
One Iraqi government offi­cial said the Iranian diplo­mat was detained Sunday by an Iraqi army unit that reports directly to the U.S. military. A military spokesman denied any U.S. troops or Iraqis that report to them were involved. 
"We've checked with our units and it was not an MNF-1 (Multi-National Forces -Iraq) unit that participated in that event," said Lt. Col. Christopher Garver, a U.S. military spokesman. 
Iraqis also faced more vio­lence on Tuesday as U.S. and Iraqi forces set up more checkpoints in preparation for a security sweep in Baghdad amid complaints that the operation was mov­ing too slowly. 
Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki acknowledged that preparations for the crack­down were off to a slow start. 

"The operations will unite us and we will take action soon, God willing, even probably going to be a both sides for letting their step up encounters with though I have the feeling rolling implementation." disagreements spill over the Iranians" in Iraq, Iranian that we have been late and The Iranian government border, with the U.S. deten­state television reported. this delay has started to give condemned the seizure of tions of at least eight He also told state TV that a negative message," he Jalal Sharafi, the second Iranians in recent months. al-Maliki had appointed a said in a meeting with mili­secretary at the Iranian The White House also has team to investigate the fate tary commanders shown on Embassy in Baghdad, saying authorized U.S. troops in of the Iranian diplomat. Iraqi state television. he was seized Sunday by Iraq to kill or capture There were conflicting 
Defense Secretary Hobert gunmen who "operate Iranian agents deemed to be descriptions of the abduc­Gates said Tuesday the under the supervision of the a threat, saying evidence tion. increase in U.S. forces in American forces in Iraq," was mounting that Iran is An official with the Iraq is "not the last chance" the official Islamic Republic supporting terrorists inside Iranian Embassy in to succeed and conceded he News Agency reported. Iraq and is a major supplier Baghdad, who spoke on was considering what steps "Iran holds American of bombs and other condition of anonymity to take ifthe buildup fails. forces in Iraq responsible weapons used to target U.S. because he was not author­
"I would be irresponsible for the safety and life of the forces. Iran has denied the ized to disclose the informa­if I weren't thinking about Iranian diplomat," IHNA charges. tion, said the diplomat was what the alternatives might quoted him as saying. The Iranian ambassador heading to check on the be," Gates told the Senate The incident comes as to Baghdad, Hassan Kazemi planned opening of an Armed Services Committee. tensions have been rising Qomi, said the gunmen used Iranian bank Sunday in the 
Gates said the operation between Iran and the United American vehicles and the central Karradah neighbor­was to have started on States and the Shiite-led diplomat's seizure appeared hood when he was seized by Monday: "It's probably going Iraqi government has shown to be "within the framework men wearing Iraqi army to slip a few days, and it's increasing impatience with of U.S. president's order to uniforms. 

House plans vote on troop increase 
Associated Press Across the Capitol on the Senate side, security post southwest of Baghdad and 
Defense Secretary Hobert Gates said a Marine who died Monday in Anbar 
WASHINGTON -The Democratic­Tuesday that U.S. forces might be able province-and eight Iraqis were killed controlled House is planning to vote to start leaving Iraq before the end of by car bombs in Baghdad. In all, more next week on opposing President the year-if daunting conditions includ­than 50 people were killed or found Bush's Iraq troop buildup in a wartime ing subdued violence and political rec­dead in Iraq. clash between Congress and command­onciliation are met. Bush's revised strategy has sparked er in chief. In Iraq, however, Prime Minister strong opposition among Democrats, 
The precise nature of the nonbinding Nouri al-Maliki said the Baghdad secu­and officials said that Pelosi and measure remains to be determined, rity operation that the buildup was Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., officials said Tuesday, although designed to help was starting slowly had both pledged to their rank-and-file Brendan Daly, a spokesman for and insurgents were responding by that next week's vote would merely bP Speaker Nancy Pelosi, said it would killing as many people as possible. the first attempt to pressure the presi­focus on "our opposition to the surge" New checkpoints were up, and there dent to shift course in the war. Other in troops. were reports of increased vehicle legislation will be binding, they said. 
The Pentagon is in the midst of imple­inspections and foot patrols, but vio­Under House rules, Democratic lead­menting Bush's order to raise troop lev­lence continued. ers have the authority to advance a els by 21,500, part of a plan to help The U.S. announced two American measure to the floor for three days of quell sectarian violence in Baghdad. deaths-a soldier killed Tuesday at a debate and a vote. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 7, 2007 
"This is not the first time things may take a few days, Kachmarik To protect items that may be Kaclunarik noted one company like this have happened," Roach said. permanently damaged, -Baylor, Freyer & Coon, Inc. ­
Pipe 
continued from page 1 
off water supply to the affected area and to replace the damaged pipe or heating coil, Kachmarik said. 
Keough's housekeeping staff was also on hand to clean up the mess caused by the flooding. 
"The men of Keough Hall have been exceptionally patient and very helpful with the clean-up process," DeMott said. "Everything should be back to normal by the end of the week at the latest." 
While Keough is the only dormi­tory to report flooding and burst pipes, O'Neill Hall experienced minor problems due to the cold weather. 
"We just had, on Sunday after­noon, two radiator leaks," rector Edward Mack said. "The first one was a little more major, but once the plumber got here and showed me how to turn the water off we were able to handle the second leak pretty easily." 
The radiators, located on the first and third floors, were a direct result of open windows. 
"We had to manually turn off the radiators and remove belongings from the room," Assistant Rector Patrick Roach said. 
Mack and Roach sent out e­mails, hung up flyers and made an announcement at Mass to avoid similar problems in the future. 
"Generally, clothing, books and Kachmarik stressed the impor­that offers students as much as furniture can either be laundered tance of having adequate insur­$6,000 coverage for under $100 or simply left to air-dry," he said. ance coverage on belongings per year. "Electronic components should not through "your family's' homeown­be turned on until they have com­ers insurance or some other type Contact Kate Antonacci at pletely dried out internally." of'renter's insurance' plan." kantonac@nd.edu 
A Missing Chapter on the Missing Chains: Telling Tales and Making it up in the Irish C.ountryside  
Guy Beiner Department of History Ben-Gurion University ofNegev l11ursday, February 8th 4:00 P!\1 Hesburgh C:enrer Auditoriurn Follmved by the launch of Beiner's ne"\Y book Re1ne11zbering the Ye~lr ofthe Fre1u·h: Irish Folk History and SocialMenzory. . .\.hdison: University of\'7isconsin Press, 2007 by James Smyth, Department of History  
Club Information Meetings Mandatory for the two highest ranking officers ofall undergraduate clubs Monday, Feb 5th@ 5 pm-Academic Clubs Tuesday, Feb 6th @ 4 pm -Athletic Clubs Wednesday, Feb 7th @ 5 pm -Cultural Clubs Wednesday, Feb 71h @ 6 pm -Performing Arts Clubs Thursday, Feb 8th @ 5 pm -Social Service Clubs Thursday, Feb 81h @ 6 pm -Special Interest Clubs Cli&J/6CF6'Clfil' Want to get involved with Student Government? Want to allocate over a quarter of a million dollars? We are looking for enthusiastic underclassmen to become representatives on the Club Coordination Council! All club members are eligible to run. Elections will be held at the Club Information Meetings. * If you are unable to attend the Club Information Meeting of the division which you would like to run for, send an email to ccc@nd.edu expressing your interest or send a written statement with a member of your club who is able to attend the CIM.  

Staff 
continued from page 1 
improve writing and help over­see the daily operations of the newspaper. 
"I look forward to the opportu­nity to help lead The Observer," Malone said. 
Fowler, a junior political sci­ence major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor, began working at The Observer as a sports reporter his fresh­man year. He has covered a wide variety of beats, including foot­ball, Notre Dame women's soc­cer, Notre Dame women's bas­ketball, Saint Mary's basketball, fencing, baseball, men's golf and Saint Mary's cross country. 
Fowler is from Long Beach, N.Y., and he lives in Siegfried Hall. 
Cassily joined The Observer as an Interhall writer in fall 2004. 
said. "We know it happens when it is this cold, so we want people to be smart about leaving their win­dows open," Roach said. 
Kachmarik's office has also heard of problems in "one other hall, which hasn't been con­firmed." 
DeMott said that students need to remember to keep windows closed during cold weather, a point that was echoed in an e-mail sent to all on-campus residents Monday by the Office of Residence life and Housing. 
"Because of the extremely cold temperatures and wind chills, the Department of Facilities Operations has requested assis­tance to insure that residence hall windows are shut tightly and secured," the e-mail said. "Even the smallest opening allows for a draft to enter the room and. cause pipes to freeze and break." 
Students unable to regulate the heat in their dorm rooms were encouraged in the e-mail to notifY a member of residence hall staff so "a work order can be submitted for diagnosis and repair." 
The time frame for fixing the burst pipe depends on the extent of the damage, the thawing of the pipe and the availability of access to the broken pipe, Kachmarik said. 
As for the flooding, cleaning up the water happens pretty quickly, though drying out afiected objects 
He has since covered the hockey, baseball and women's volleyball beats. 
Cassily, a junior history major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor, is orig­inally from Rochester, 
N.H. He lives in Siegfried Hall. 
Malone started at The Observer as a Malone


news writer in fall 2004. Since then, she has reported on the academic free­dom-Catholic character debate, the administration's use of Facebook, the controversy sur­rounding the dome regilding and student government. 
Malone, who is a junior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor from Columbus, Ohio, lived in Farley Hall through last semester. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS

Wednesday, February 7, 2007 
page? 

Dow }ones  12,666.31  +4.57  
Up:  Same: Down:  Composite VolumE  
2,068  162  1,199  2,610,448,878  
AMEX  z:148T&8''''<iil!J;t~'~~fli  

NASDAQ. 2,47J•. ~9 . +0:8~
NYSE .. 
9,345~ifj ;'!iiilll!i~32,()j 
S&PSOO 1,448.00 +1.01 
NIKKE.I(rokyo) •t•,$&38~18• •.• '40068:18• FTSE I OO(London) 6,346.30 +28.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.34  -0,10  29.51  
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  -0.16  -0.07  44.05  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.14  +0.03  21.31  
CISCO SYS INC (SUNW)  + 1.66  -0.11  6.53  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.89  -0.043  4.765  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.30  +0.0 IS  5.010  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.81  -0.040  4.870  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.85  -0.041  4.755  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.14  58.88  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +2.60  658.70  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +2.03  103.98  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  120.1850  
EURO  0.7702  
POUND  0.5075  
CANADIAN$  I. 1824  

IN BRIEF 
NBC Universal hires new CEO Zucker 
NEW YORK -How Jeff Zucker handled adversity as NBC plunged to fourth place in the prime-time ratings was one of the measur­ing sticks General Electric Co. chief Jeffrey Immelt used in choosing him to run NBC Universal. Immelt said Tuesday. 
Zucker's rise from directing Katie Couric in the morning to running a huge media con­glomerate was completed when corporate owner GE announced his appointment as president and CEO of NBC Universal. He replaces Bob Wright, who has run NBC for 21 years. 
Zucker, 41 and a two-time cancer survivor, has essentially been trying out for Wright's job over the past two years in running the compa­ny's television operations. 
"We like the way Jeff has handled tough times," said Jeffrey Immelt, chairman and CEO of GE. "He never got down and continued to drive the company in a positive way." 
In addition to directing NBC's attempts to revive its prime-time fortunes, Zucker is in charge of a stable of networks including USA, CNBC, MSNBC, Bravo, Sci Fi and Telemundo. The company also owns the Universal movie studio and theme parks in Florida and California. 
Coca-Cola secretary faces jail time 
ATLANTA -The government said in court papers Tuesday it believes a former Coca-Cola secretary convicted of conspiring to steal trade secrets from the beverage giant should be jailed immediately because she poses a flight risk. 
In a motion filed in U.S. District Court in Atlanta, Assistant U.S. Attorney Byung J. Pak said clothing, prescription medication, papers and other personal items were found in Joya Williams' Mustang during a search after a fire destroyed her apartment Friday. 
The fire, which has been ruled accidental by local officials in Norcross, occurred nearly 90 minutes after the guilty verdict was reached in federal court in Atlanta. 
Wal-Mart faces class-action suit 
1.5 million female employees allege retailer discriminated in pay, promotion 
Associated Press  
SAN FRANCISCO ­A fed­ 
eral appeals court ruled  
Tuesday that Wal-Mart  
Stores Inc., the world's  
largest private employer,  
must face a class-action law­ 
suit alleging as many as 1.5  
million former and current  
female employees were dis­ 
criminated against in pay  
and promotions.  
The ruling by the 9th U.S.  
Circuit Court of Appeals  
upholds a 2004 federal  
judge's decision to let the  
nation's largest class-action  
employment discrimination  
lawsuit go to trial, possibly  
exposing the Bentonville,  
Ark.-based retailing power­ 
house to billions of dollars in  
damages.  
"Plaintiff's expert opinions,  
factual evidence, statistical  
evidence and anecdotal evi­ 
dence present significant  
proof of a corporate policy of  
discrimination and support  
plaintiff's contention that  
female employees nation­ 
wide were subjected to a  
common pattern and prac­ 
tice of discrimination," the  
court wrote in a 2-1 deci­ 
sion.  
Wal-Mart said it would ask  
the court to rehear the case  
with the same three-judge  
panel or with 15 judges, a  
move likely to idle the case Betty Dukes, a plaintiff in a class-action lawsuit against Wai-Mart Stores Inc.,  
for months. Tuesday's ruling speaks at a news conference Tuesday in San Francisco.  
came 18 months after the  
case was argued.  independent businesses, and  male counterparts. Jenkins  "Although size of this class  
"This is one step of what is  that the company did not  rejected as "impractical"  action is large, mere size  
going to be a long process,"  have a policy of discriminat­ Wal-Mart's suggestion of  does not render a case  
Wal-Mart attorney Theodore  ing against women.  having individual hearings  unmanageable," Judge  
Boutrous Jr. said. "We are  U.S. District Judge Martin  for each plaintiff and he  Harry Pregerson wrote for  
very optimistic of obtaining  Jenkins, the San Francisco  planned to use a statistical  the majority, which upheld  
relief from this ruling."  trial court judge who said  formula to compensate the  Jenkins' decision in its  
He said Wal-Mart's own  the case could proceed, had  women ifthey won.  entirety.  
review found no significant  ruled that anecdotal evi­ Wal-Mart said the judge's  Robin Conrad, a vice presi­ 
disparity in pay between  dence warranted a class­ scenario was an unprece­ dent with the U.S. Chamber  
men and women at 90 per­ action trial. Wal-Mart took  dented denial of its rights  of Commerce, blasted the  
cent of its stores.  the case to the San  and sought to dismiss the  decision. If it stands, she  
Wal-Mart, which currently  Francisco-based appeals  case. The company said  said, it likely would force  
employs 1.3 million workers,  court.  women who allege discrimi­ Wal-Mart to settle out of  
claimed that the convention­ Jenkins said if company­ nation could file lawsuits  court than risk losing at trial.  
al rules of class action suits  wide gender discrimination  against individual stores.  "It's basically extortionist,"  
should not apply in the case  is proven at trial, Wal-Mart  The women's lawyers said  she said. "It's giving the com­ 
because its 3,400 stores,  could be forced to pay bil­ the idea was ridiculous, and  pany no option other than to  
including Sam's Club ware­ lions of dollars to women  would clog the federal judici­ settle a ease of this magni­ 
house outlets, operate like  who earned less than their  ary.  tude."  

Face book, Comcast ally to air series 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Comcast Corp. and Facebook.com are joining forces to create a television series from user-generated videos that will appear online and through video on demand. 
Called "Facebook Diaries," the series will consist of 10 half-hour episodes produced by R.J. Cutler, known for his edgy work gathering stories from regular folks in shows such as "American High," a non­fiction TV series chronicling the lives of suburban teens at an Illinois high school. 
The shows, which will start air­ing later this year, will be seen simultaneously on Facebook and Comcast's Ziddio.com, a video uploading Web site similar to YouTube that was launched late 
last year. The videos also will be carried on Comcast's video on demand service, which stores shows on its cable TV system for viewers to watch•whenever they want. 
"We've been having some dia­logue with Comcast for a couple of months just on and off, just as they were putting their video plans together," Owen Van Natta, chief operating officer of based Facebook, said Tuesday. "Then we engaged R.J. Cutler and we came up with this idea." 
He said the ability to get users' videos on cable TV as well as online appealed to the company. The social networking Web site doesn't have a video uploading feature; users share links to their favorite videos. The deal with Philadelphia-based Comcast, the 

nation's largest cable TV operator, will expand Facebook's video shar­ing capability. 
The deal also is expected to drive more Web traffic to Ziddio from Facebook's more than 16 mil­lion users. Facebook, based in Palo Alto, Calif., is the second biggest social networking site behind News Corp.'s MySpace.com and the seventh most trafficked site in the country. 
"We're tapping into Facebook's very large and very young demo­graphic," said Elizabeth Schimel, senior vice president of entertain­ment for Comcast Interactive Media. 
Comcast and Facebook wouldn't comment on the deal's details, but Van Natta did say there will be "sponsorship and advertising opportunities." 
-----------, 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT

page 8 
Wednesday, February 7, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Parallels exist between drunks, government 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDIIDR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 

AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWs EDITOR: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDimR: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDimR: Kelly Meehan 
PHom EDITOR: Dustin Mennella· 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tht:: Observer (USPS 599 2-400{)) is published Monday through Friday exc.c:pt during exam and vacarimt periods. A subscription ro Tiu:· Ob.scrvcr is $1 00 for one.academ.iG­year; $55 fur one scmcs[tr. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 SoUth Dining Hall Sefid add.res5 corrections ro: 
Norte O;une,. IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid .a1 None Dame P.O. Bo:r.T!9 
and additional mailing offices. 024 Soudt Dining Hall 
Norrc Dame, IN 465:)6.-0n9 
Each week, my view towards the gov­ernment more closely resembles my opinion toward Fisher Hall's dorm drunk -when he throws up on the side of the building on Monday night, it is hardly an unexpected 
Mark
event, yet still quite 
Poyar
pathetic. Similarly, as the government 
Actual 
continues to spew 
Common Sense 
bad laws and make poor decisions on a daily basis, it is still disgusting, but it happens so frequently nowadays that I'm never surprised. However, there are a number of reasons why the dorm drunk is preferable to the United States government. 
Firstly, the "legislation" emanating from the dorm drunk rarely impacts me, despite the fact that I live in Fisher Hall as well. Sure, l might catch an occasional whiff of upchucked Blazing Sea Nuggets (rightfully so). I might have to side-step them on the second floor stairwell on the way to lunch on Tuesday afternoon. I might even have to help the dorm drunk stumble into his loft and turn him on his side so he can pass out. But the dorm drunk's actions rarely have a lasting impact on me; they are fleeting college experiences that I will one day look back on and laugh about. I'm never worried that the dorm drunk is going to install surveil­lance cameras in my room or steal my money and call it the income tax. The dorm drunk will never ban drinking or gambling and tell me it is for my own good. The government, on the other hand, does all these things with impuni­ty. 
Secondly, the dorm drunk doesn't even attempt to rationalize his actions. He knows his actions are corrupt and doesn't make vagup, references to inco-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
hernnt concepts in an Orwellian fash­ion. lle doesn't claim he did the techni­color yawn all over the :m bathroom last night for the common good, moral values, national security, spreading democracy, the poor or the children. lie isn't foolish enough to tell me that ban­ning online gambling protects "American values" (apparently freedom of choice, personal responsibility and the right ol' contract aren't "American values"). lle won't attempt to persuade me that I have a "right" to universal health care (apparently, the "right" to steal other people's money through the tax code and use it for your own pur­poses was what John Locke was talking about when he talked about "rights"). He doesn't start wars and then pretend the purpose was to spread "democracy" or "freedom." He doesn't pretend that his actions are anything other than what they are-he engages in no dou­ble-speak. The US government and its politicians, on the other hand, do all theso things. 
Thirdly, the dorm drunk usually limits his partying to the area directly around the dorm. lle is seen as a good-natured fellow (albeit a drunk one) by the rest ol' the Notre Dame community who rarely does them wrong. Yes, he might occasionally wander in a drunken haze all over campus and pee on the side of another dorm, but he parties almost exdusively in Fishor Hall. Unless one of the other dorms hurts his person or steals his booze, ho has no motivation to venture outside the walls of Fisher. His actions are confined to his home. He exists pnaeefully alongside everyone elsn. The dorm drunk does not go bray­ing into battle likn a learning-disabled jackass against another dorm that did him little or no wrong. The dorm drunk isn't foolish enough to give those who already don't like his partying ways another excuse to hate him. He does not warmonger. The US government, on the other hand, does all of these things. 

Finally, the dorm drunk isn't too much of a burden on society. Yes, per­haps he will mistake a fellow Fisherman's laptop for a urinal in the wee hours or the morning or pass out naked in Ellie's bed (our rector's dog) in the middle of the first floor entrance way, but at least his shenanigans pro­vide much needed college stories to a college that is relatively tame compared to other schools. Although it is true that he wreaks havoc on other people's belongings, he is still personally fiscally responsible for whatever damage he causes. He cannot legally take 39 per­cent of my earnings without repercus­sion. He is not endowed with the power to take half of the belongings of my dead relative without suffering the con­sequences of doing so. lie can't institute pri1grams to punish the productive for being successful. The US government, on the other hand, does all of these things. 
While there is certainly a resem­blance between the US government and our dorm drunk, the dorm drunk is obviously preferable to the US govern­ment. Let's replace our representatives with dorm drunks. It can't get any worse. 
Mark Poyar is a junior Finance major and Vlce President of the College Libertarians. Their website is http://n dlibertarians. blogspot. com. lie is currently studying abroad in England and can be contacted at mpo­yar@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and notneces­sarily those of The Observer. 

The Ob~rvcr is J member ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are caglecartoons.com courant.com/boblog ~-;;{J7114~ t"~fJT. 
ft'l>CfVtd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
OBSERVER POLL
Katie Kohler Sports Jennifer Metz Eric Retter 
What was your favorite Super 

Steve Kerins Chris Hine John Tierney Lorenzo Reyes Bowl commercial? Viewpoint Scene Bethany Sean Sweany 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

Whitfield Tae Andrews Graphics at www.ndsmcobserver.com Jeff Albert 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Submit aLetter 


"Roll down the window and let the wind blow back your hair. The night's busting open. these two lanes will take us anywhere. "
,to the Editor at Bruce Springsteen singer and songwriter
.:1 www.ndsmcobserver.com'
:1~ . . ... >: 

... 
, 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT·

Wednesday, February 7, 2007 page 9 
U-WIRE 
Human rights violations often ignored 
According to a recent BBC undercover investigation, Oct. 1 has many interesting meanings in the People's Republic of China. It is, of course, the country's National Day. It is also, the BBC reports, the peak of organ sea­
Michael Segal 

son in China's rapidly growing organ trans­
Harvard

plant centers (frequent­
Crimson

ed by many a rich Westerner in need of a liver or two). The reason for this October surge in organ supply is simple, the BBC reports: Prisoner executions in China always go up before the national holiday. 
The BBC learned of this fall prisoner organ harvest through hidden camera footage taken by BBC correspondent Rupert Wingfield Hayes. In the video, Hayes strolls into one of the largest organ transplant centers in Northern China in order to procure a liver for his "ailing father." Not particularly in the mood for subterfuge, Hayes asks the doctors ifthey . received the organs from executed prison­ers. The hospital officials cheerfully pro­claim, 'The prisoners on death row have done many bad things. Before they die they give their organs as a present to soci­ety." 
However, Hayes notes that the idea that Chinese prisoners are willfully donating their organs to "society" (i.e. to rich Westerners) is tenuous at best. In a coun­try where convicts are often taken directly from the courtroom to the execution ground and due process is a figment of the imagination, ethical considerations about prisoners' rights seem a bit out of place. Indeed, Hayes' conversation with the father of an executed prisoner highlights this reality. When asked whether his son ever consulted with him about donating his organs after his execution, the father replies, "I didn't even get to see my son after he was arrested...The day he was shot they called me and said I could come and pick up his ashes." 
This practice should be disturbing to Westerners for a few reasons. Most obvi­ously, the Chinese government's decision to profit off the remains of executed prison­ers is one more nail in the coffm of civil lib­erties in the country. Even more impor­tantly, unrestricted organ harvesting cre­ates a juicy financial incentive to maximize the number of executions in China, which already happens to execute more people than the rest of the world combined. Yet perhaps the most frightening part about China's crimes against its citizens is that, for the most part, we don't care about them. 
Specifically, the West seems to be suffer­ing from a bad case of myopia. A 2005 Pew Research Center Global Attitudes Poll found that, in countries such as Britain, Germany, Spain, France and Russia, China is viewed far more favorably than the, United States. One can only conclude that a giant fourth of July organ harvest might do the trick in winning these nations' approval. 
Another revealing instance of Western apathy toward non-Western abuses is the ongoing U.S. military prison abuse scan,­dal. If foreign prisoners are mistreated by Americans, activists immediately spark a worldwide, front-page furor-and right­fully so. But when it comes to the far more routine, and more sinister, abuse of prison­ers' rights in China, we are deaf and dumb. Since it is not the U.S. committing the acts, Americans feel no guilt, Europeans feel no vindictiveness, and therefore no one has any notable reason to object. 
Nor is China the only country that stands to gain from this selective moral blindness. Africa is another success story, where for years massive human rights abuses went effectively unchallenged while the world arbitrarily decided to monitor other issues, such as the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, with eagle eyes. A bit of data from the Center for Public Affairs in Jerusalem: Between the years 2000 to 2003, Amnesty International released 52 reports on Sudan, where, even before Darfur, a heavi­ly civilian-targeting civil war was killing hundreds of thousands. In the same inter­val, 190 were released about Israel. 

In any objective valuation, these num­bers would make no sense. But who ever said objectivity mattered? Indeed, when the United States and Israel are viewed by many as the greatest human rights viola­tors in the world, while a country like Sudan has as recently as 2005 served on the U.N. Commission for Human Rights, it quickly becomes clear that Lady Logic has run away from us. Similarly, while China conducts executions en masse and then makes a profit off the bodies of the deceased, and the world claps its hands in approval, we can rest assured that objec­tivity lies safely in its grave. Such selective morality, which lacks any and all perspec­tive on who the true enemies of human rights in our world are, is a farce at best, and a crime against humanity at worst. 
This article first appeared in the Harvard Crimson, the daily paper of 
U-WIRE 
Super Bo-wl activities raise larger questions 
Before you read this, please know I don't hate the United States of America. Some of you will read this and think I do. I don't. I love this country and am grateful I grew up here. But, to para­phrase Spider-Man's Ben Parker, with Jake great wealth comes Meador great responsibility. 
Daily

Sunday was one of 
Nebraskan

the biggest holidays in America, e:ven if it technically isn't one yet. According to an Australian newspaper, we ate 15 tons of potato chips, spent $150 million on Super Bowl merchandise and 90 million of us watched 30-second ads that cost their creators $3.3 million to air. 
Do you know what some people in Indonesia were doing last night? One hundred thousand people in the capital 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
city of Jakarta were sleeping in mosques, hotels, government buildings or wherever else they could find because their homes were wiped out in massive floods this past Friday. 
Now don't get me wrong. I'm not say­ing everyone who watched the Super Bowl or bought Super Bowl merchan­dise should feel guilty about doing so. I watch it every year and always enjoy it. But even as we enjoy the luxuries we're fortunate enough to have, we need to think responsibly about what we do with the country's many resources. 
In the United States, we can have pretty much whatever we want. And even if you're one of the poorer people in the United States, you're still much better off than many in Africa and Southeast Asia. And we think that's how it's supposed to be. I'm afraid former President George H.W. Bush spoke for many when he once said, "The American lifestyle is not up for negotia­tion." But where does our lifestyle leave the rest of the world? 
Perhaps the simplest way to illustrate this comes from The Miniature Earth project. They've produced a video that can be seen at http:/1216.70.117.172/me_english-.htm. According to the film, if you keep your clothes in a closet, your food in a refrig­erator, you sleep in a bed and you have a roof over your head, then you are wealthier than 7 5 percent of the world's population. 
So what does all this tell us? First, I hope none of us take for granted how truly blessed we are. Stop complaining about your professor, your classes, your roommate, your living situation or how "poor" you are. You're one of the one percent of people worldwide who is able to go to college. If anything should char­acterize the citizens of the United States, it should be a profound sense of gratitude and humility because, for whatever reason, God has blessed us with some amazing resources few oth­ers have. 

The hard fact is that if we really want­ed, we could end poverty. The only thing stopping us is our excessively affluent lifestyle, but we have to decide, are they up for negotiation ... or not? 
This article first appeared in the Daily Nebraskan, the daily paper ofthe University ofNebraska, on Feb. 6. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 






page 10 
Tt-IE OBSERVER 
CENE 
Wednesday, February 7, 2007 

Inside the Worl 
The Future of lnteracti 
Wll WOULD LIKE TO PLAY 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Scene Writer 
Nintendo took a chance with the release of the Wii. It would not compete with the latest Microsoft and Sony releases by traditional meas­ures-such as enhanced, high-definition graph­ics -but Nintendo's innovation made the Wii a highly interactive console that appeals to both hardcore and casual garners. 
Nintendo's new system packs power, cus­tomization and high levels of interactivity into its hardware for the intense garners while adopting a sleek, white look similar to the iPod in order to attract a more general audience. 
The Wii comes with an LED equipped sensor bar (centered above or below any television screen) that in conjunction with the remote picks up the player's movements. The console is the smallest of all Nintendo units, only about the size of three DVD cases, and can be oriented horizontally or vertically. The front of the con­sole accepts Wii optical disks and Nintendo GameCube discs (though not standard DVDs and COs). The console also has two USB ports and one SD card slot. The remotes run on AA batter­ies. 
The remotes (or Wiimotes) are surprisingly sensitive. While there are limitations as to how far and from what angle a player can approach the sensor, the remotes can distinguish a multi­tude of different motions and provide six degrees of movement. Most of the time, the required motions are intuitive. The remote takes some time to get used to for more complex games, but the basic games, like those offered in "WiiSports," can be picked up in a couple of plays. 
Often, for those more complex games the remote is paired with the included nunchuck, which adds on an analog stick and two addition­al buttons. The remote has a speaker on it, allowing the user to hear the sounds of their movements, such as the clash of a sword. Nintendo also included a vibrating feature on the remote, which is often used to remind the player to make a menu choice. An additional controller can be purchased that allows users to play clas­sic Nintendo games they have downloaded to their Wii. 
"WiiSports" -a game which comes bundled with the console -allows users to play bared­down versions of games including tennis, golf, bowling, boxing and baseball. Tennis and boxing stand out as the more fun of the five, but all the WiiSports games are entertaining as players physically roll their bowling ball down the alley and swing their tennis racquet. 
Other games specifically designed to be played on the Wii showcase the range of its ability. "WarioWare: Smooth Moves" requires the user (like in past editions of the game) to play a series of short, random games in which they must fig­ure out what to do on their own. There are no more button combinations; the player has to move the remote in many different ways, all of which the system can differentiate, from letting it drop in free fall, hitting it between two hands or using it like a pencil. "Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz," which similarly cashes in on the motion capability of the remote, is a little more difficult to use as the motions are a little less intuitive, but can be just as fun. 
Wii also works well with more traditional games that have been updated to work with the Wii controllers, such as "The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess" and "Madden NFL 07." Players swing their sword and throw passes, making the games more immersive than their predecessors. The Wii console is also backwards compatible with all Nintendo GameCube soft­ware, though a GameCube controller is still nec­essary to enjoy these games. 
The interactivity of the Wii makes it most suit­able for multiplayer use. Unfortunately, most of the multiplayer games require the use of multi­ple remotes, which adds on hefty $60 fee for each new remote and nunchuk pair. 
Unlike other game consoles, the Wii is attempting to create a more versatile piece of equipment than just a pure video game system. Users can upload photos from their SD memory See Also cards and use the basic 
image editor to view and "Console evolution flirts change them (mostly in with virtual reality" fun, rather than serious ways). They can leave messages for other play­ers on the console and send messages over the internet and to cell phones. Also if they connect the Wii to the internet, users can check the weather, surf the internet, use the shopping channels and get news updates. After creating a Mii -a 3-D caricature of the user -players can store up to 10 on the remote and bring them to play on another Wii console. Eventually, Wii is supposed to have on-line game play where garners play as their Miis in multi­player online games, although this feature has not yet been perfected.This merger of gaming with online interactivity will bring a sense of community to video gaming that has never been accomplished before. One thing that needs to be improved on the Wii is the straps on the remote. Considering how much the remote swings around, Nintendo should have created a stronger way of keeping it attached to the user's wrist to prevent it from flying across the room. However, Nintendo is offering to replace the original straps with new ones made from a slightly thicker material. As video games like "Guitar Hero" and others become more and more immersive as gaming technology becomes more advanced, the versa­tility and interactivity of the Wii should serve it well. 

HISTORY OF VIDEO 
By MARTY SCHROEDE Assistant Scene Editor 
In 1958, William Higinbo ated what many consider first video game -the "Po ecessor "Tennis for Two." step of using an analog os as a platform transform tainment forever. From th ble beginnings now stands try that rivals Hollywood. 
Video games are an inde of modern life -from n love the latest Role Playin (RPGs) to the newest form entertainment in the Nint The history of the video g of cutthroat business prac artistry that is just now be' nized as a relevant cultural 
It must be said that "T Two" is not really what m consider a video game, bu spawned is important to un in the face of the modern e ment industry. After 1~ Magnavox Odyssey hit the in 1972 to become the fi commercially marketed vic console. Powered by battE lacking anything in the way capabilities, ·this pmved·th could be created and play1 a board, but on a screen. 
The games were basic an tridges -the format that the industry standard until Playstation (PS1) was relea games on COs. This system Nintendo's first foray into 1i game market as they distril, Odyssey in Japan before m to design their own c1 Although now the stuff of 1 and game buffs, the Odyt milestone in entertainment :1 
Atari 

As much as the Odysse milestone, it failed to 
on the newly emerging sole market. It was Christmas 197 5 ­released its already game "Pong" -that sole market exploded. based on the success games, which had been several years. However, console included only other games could be the Odyssey. Atari, now success of "Pong," rel1~aset1 
.... 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Wednesday, February 7, 2007 

of the 
Gaming 


GAMES: FROM "PONG" TO THE W11 

page 11 
.• 
. 
,.,

W 
2600 in 1977, which was capable of using game cartridges so multiple games could be purchased and played on the system. Although it took some time to be noticed, it became the best selling present dur­ing the Christmas season in 1979, selling over a million units. 
By 1982, the Atari was selling eight million units per year, making it the most successful game console of the late 1970s and early '80s, and familiarizing users with a diverse array of games including "Pac~ Man," "Space Invaders" and the first incarnation of "Donkey Kong." 
Following the success of the Atari 2600, it would be some years before something truly lasting would be released in the world of the home console market. The Commodore 64, released in 1982, had the most advanced graphics at the time but was a system that straddled the gap between home computer and home console. Quickly overtaken by other video game and home computer companies, it would last for a few years more but not as long as the now dominant market names. 
Mario takes control 
The next windfall for video gamers·came•in 1985 in the form of the Nintendo Famicom, or Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) outside of Asia. Bundled with the now leg­endary "Super Mario Bros.," this console signaled the end of the 1983 crash and defined what is consid­ered a video game console today. Still revered by many as the symbol of their childhood, this system was a big success not only in Asia, but also North America, having sold over 60 million units since its launch. 
Nintendo was the first console maker to openly accept games from third-party developers. Capcom's "Mega-Man" franchise and Square Enix's (then Squaresoft) "Final Fantasy" series were games that have become the stuff of legend but were not developed in house by Nintendo. This is not to say Nintendo did not make games for its own sys­tem. The "Mario Bros.," "Zelda" and "Metroid" series were all created by Nintendo and are still being released today for newer systems. With games such as these, Nintendo showed not only technical advance­ment in its console hardware, but a creative capacity in game design that altered what people thought 

•t until 1 Atari 
arcade ne con­is was ucade md for s home tg." No , unlike ling the lleAtari 
were video games. 
All good things must come to an end and it was no different for Nintendo's near monopoly on the video game market. In 1989, the Japanese gaming company Sega released the Sega Genesis in America. This system was an improvement over the old NES due to the increase from an 8-bit to a 16­bit processor. 
Increased graphics capabilities were showcased in the now famous Sega franchise, "Sonic the Hedgehog." Another advancement on the part of Sega, which predicted the rise of the CD formatted game, came in the form of Sega CD. This could play music CDs and some games. As foresighted as this was, the CDs suffered from extended load times, which hampered the success of this console. 
Nintendo, seeing competition in the form of better graphics and game franchise creations from Sega, released the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES). Available in North America in 1991, this system sparked the biggest con­sole war in the history of video games between the Sega Genesis and the SNES. With games such as "The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past," Nintendo took back some of the market share it had lost to Sega. Other games such as "Super Mario Kart" helped the SNES become a home console staple. 
Games go 3-D 
The Nintendo 64, released in 1996, was a huge jump in graphics capabilities from the old 16-bit SNES. As the title of the console makes clear, this was a 64-bit sys­tem that had the first fully 3-D graphics showcased in games such as "Super Mario 64" and "The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time." Aside from these games. the first person shooter (FPS) based on the James Bond film "Goldeneye" paved the way for the explosion of first person shooters so popular today as shown in games like "Halo." 
Sony also jumped into the console market with its release of the PS1 in 1995. The biggest change in video games associated with the PS1 was the shift to games on CDs instead of cartridges. Also, separate, remov­able memory cards used to save games were introduced, allowing people to transport their memory 
.... ""
·-·-·........, 
~g 
oN 
-c 
c: 
Cl)
.... 
·-c: 
z 
cards to play saved games instead of an entire system. Load times were somewhat of an issue -the main reason the Nintendo 64 opted for the cartridge format -however, the CD format offered third-party devel­opers more disc capacity and the ability to create epic RPGs such as the successful "Final Fantasy VII." 
After these, Sega had its last con­sole, the Dreamcast, which was one of the first consoles to be able to connect to the internet and allow game play over it. However, due to poor business decisions, Sega left the console industry and is now focused on being a third-party game developer. Nintendo released the Gamecube, which focused on fami­lies and social game play with games such as "Mario Party" and "Super Smash Brothers Melee," the sequel to the very popular "Super Smash Brothers" on the Nintendo 
64. Sony has had the most success so far with its Playstation 2. This system currently has the lion's share of the market even with Microsoft's introduction of its own Xbox. 
The situation today is one of held breath and anticipation. Nintendo has released its Wii, Microsoft has the Xbox 360 and Sony has the Playstation 3. No one system has emerged as the victor in this seventh generation of video game consoles. 
The high-definition DVD war is now in play as Sony is backing Blu­Ray and Microsoft backs HD-DVD. "Gears of War" for the Xbox 360 has set the tone for FPSs and Wri's revo­lutionary controller is the first major change in controller technology since the inception of the home con­sole. Sony has many loyal fans but the high price and current lack of games has left the Playstation 3 struggling. 
The history of the home console is one of creative genius and hard-line business. From humble beginnings with analog technology and no more graphic power than two bars hitting a circle across the screen, video games are a mainstay for everyone from children to business profes­sionals. As more and more people who grew up with video games enter their adulthood and have chil­dren of their own, the future is bright for this always innovative entertainment. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 

,,~; 
J H 
3-! 
~.) i~ 
-~J 



... ., 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 
Wednesday, February 7, 2007 
'VIRTUAL REALITY IN PERSPECTIVE 
Console evolution flirts with virtual reality 
As accessory technology develops, garners find themselves 'in the game' 


limited capabilities of sensing hand By ERIN MCGINN movements. Assistant Scene Editor The ideas behind the original Nintendo accessories carried through From the beginning, virtual reality into the following generation of inter­has always been seen as the final fron­active gaming accessories which 
tier for video games. The desire to accompanied new consoles. Sega's pop­make players really feel like their ular "House of the Dead" franchise onscreen actions are emerged in the controlled not just by mid-90s in both 
pushing a button, but by The ideas behind the original arcades and home actually performing the Nintendo accessories carried consoles (Sega's motion involved has Saturn and
through into the following 
been omnipresent Dreamcast), which
generation ofinteractive 
throughout the history used a light gun of video games. And as gaming accessories which evolved from video games have Nintendo's original
accompanied new consoles. 
evolved, they have come model. The closer and closer to Dreamcast gun reaching that level of sophistication. receives light through a photodiode 
When the original Nintendo system located within the barrel to detect light (NES) first came out, it came with reflecting off of the screen and trans­games and accessories that had lates the player's shooting to carnage already begun to simulate real-life onscreen. actions. Nintendo 's Power Pad found itself 
"Duck Hunt" involved the use of a reincarnated through the "Dance light gun which players pointed at the Dance Revolution" (DDR) craze of the screen in order to take down the ducks. late-90s. By following arrows moving It has been so popular and beloved as a on the screen, players stepped on the game that a new version will be corresponding directional arrow spaces released on Nintendo's !attest system, on a pressure-sensitive foot pad. The the Wii. Players could also run in popularity of "Dance Dance "World Class Track Meet" by using Revolution" spawned a number of Nintendo's Power Pad. Even back in music-related titles, each with their 1989, the initial plans for the current­own interactive accessories. era Wii-mote could be seen in "Karaoke Revolution" is based on Nintendo's Power Glove, which had karaoke singing, where the players sing into a microphone and the game ters on the screen. detects the pitch of the singer's voice In 2003, the Playstation 2 released and awards points based on how close the EyeToy, which is a device similar to the singer is to the actual pitch of the a webcam. The EyeToy allows players song being sung. There are currently to interact with the game through several versions of the game on the motion, color and sound detection. market, including "Karaoke Revolution There were several games developed Presents: American Idol," in which the for the PS2 which implemented the player must suffer through the criti­EyeToy, in addition to games such as cisms of Idol judges Simon, Paula and the "Harry Potter" series which includ­Randy at the end of each performance. ed several mini-games which utili;.;o;ed The critiques of their virtual renditions the Eye Toy's capabilities. even affect.the player's final score. The relatively new handheld 
Recently popular are the "Guitar Nintendo DS brings interactivity direct­Hero" games for the Playstation 2. ly to the palm of the player's hand. The Much like "DDR," the players follow the DS is capable of detecting sound and notes as they appear on the light, as well as making use screen and "play" their guitar of a touch screen which by simultaneously pressing allows more interaction
With each new
the corresponding notes and between the game and the strumming the main key in generation of player, even with old-school rhythm. The game features consoles, the games such as "Mario" or popular songs by such artists "Mario Kart." 
level ofplayer
as Cheap Trick, KISS, With each new generation Nirvana, Foo Fighters and interactivity of consoles, the level of play­Rage Against the Machine. er interactivity continues to
continues to 
On a similar note, would-be evolve. And although none of
evolve.

virtual drummers can enjoy the current game systems playing with the Donkey Kong have yet advanced to the Bongos while playing the point of true "virtual reali­"Donkey Konga" titles on Nintendo's ty," it is now possible for players to Game Cube or through the "Taiko: shoot virtual guns, sing virtual karaoke Drum Master" system on the PS2. With and play virtual guitars and drums, all both systems, players use an electric from the comfort of their sofas at bongo drumset and its accompanying home. drum beats to play a song, or, in "Donkey Konga," to control the charac-Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

Video garners can now get their virtual groove on by playing "Dance Dance Revolution," which lets players boogie down in the privacy of their living rooms. 
Photo courtesy i Would-be guitarists can now put down those air guitars and pick up "Guitar Hero," a video game which lets players rock out with their socks out at home. 
Wednesday, February 7, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 15 AT 7:30PM LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
TICKFTS: $16. $30 FACUlTY/STAfF. $."l0 SFNIORS. ANI) $1.'i All ST\JOFNTS 
PERLMANISCHMIDTI BAILEY TRIO 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23 AT 8 PM 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
$30, $25 faculty/staff/seniors, and $15 all students 
Legends of Notre Dame and the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center have created a fantastic package that includes dinner at Legends and a ticket to the Perlman/Schmidt/Bailcy Trio performance. Tickets for the package are $38 (a 25% savings on performance tickets and 40% savings on dinner). Your coupon for dinner will be held with your ticket at the ticket office and needs to be picked up betore your 6PM dinner reservation at Legends. 

BROWNING 
CINEMA 
Babel (2006) 
Directed by Alejandro Gonzalez liiarritu R, 142 minutes Japanese Sign Language, French, Eng­lish, Spanish, Japanese, Berber, and Arabic languages with English subtitles Thu, Feb 8 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm Fri, Feb 9 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
The Watermelon Woman (1996) 
Directed by Cheryl Dunye NR, 93 minutes Sat, Feb 1 0 at 2 pm 
Go Fish (1994) 
Directed by Rose Troche NR, 84 Minutes Sat, Feb 1 0 at 4 pm 
Roy Cohn/Jack Smith (1994) 
Director Jill Godmilow will be present Directed by Jill Godmilow NR, 90 Minutes Sat, Feb 1 0 at 7 pm 
Transamerica (2005) 
Directed by Duncan Tucker R, 103 minutes Sat, Feb 1 0 at 1 0 pm 
Divan (2004) · Director PEARL GLUCK will be present for discussion Directed by Pearl Gluck NR, 77 minutes Sun, Feb 11 at 4 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
r------------~-----­
.. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 7, 2007 
NBA 

Celtics on wrong side of history with loss 
Szczerbiak. "When we didn't
Knicks need just one 

double, they got a layup. When more victory to tie last we did double, someone cut to the basket, they made a pass
year's total after win and they still got a layup." 
Pistons coach Flip Saunders Associated Press was only disappointed by the fourth quarter, which saw the 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -Celtics rally from a 24-point Boston Celtics coach Doc Rivers deficit to make the final score knows that his team would respectable. struggle to beat anyone in the "Your main guys should have NBA at the moment. the opportunity to sit down and 
Trying to beat the Detroit ice in the fourth quarter of a Pistons with newly acquired game like that," he said. "We Chris Webber was nearly impos­had to bring those guys back sible. with five minutes left to make 
Webber had 1 7 points and six sure we won the thing." assists as the Pistons put on a Rivers, though, wasn't passing clinic for three quarters impressed. while handing the Celtics their ''I'm not going to put a lot of 15th straight loss, 109-102 on stock in that," he said. ''I'm not Tuesday night. sure how much the other team 
"We really didn't have a was still competing at that chance," Rivers said. "We played point." a better team tonight. They had The Celtics, who extended the some matclmp advantages, and worst losing streak in franchise they went right at us. The prob­history, haven't won since a 128­lem is that, with Webber in the 119 victory in Memphis on Jan. middle, there's not much you 5. They have allowed at least can do. He might be their best 100 points in five straight passer." games. 
Antonio McDyess finished with "We did what we were sup­18 points in 20 minutes, hitting posed to do," said Chauncey his first eight shots before Billups. "That team is obviously Kendrick Perkins blocked the struggling, and we jumped on ninth. them. They kept fighting, but we points, while Hichard Hamilton and final turnover of the game ineffective on defense. 
"I got some easy baskets early won the game." had 10 points and a season-high for the Magic, and was grabbed Then suddenly, they turned and I just kept going," he said. Boston also had to send for­11 assists. hard on the ensuing fast break into the team they think they can "He didn't foul me on the ninth ward Paul Pierce home with an "That was surprising, given by Hedo Turkoglu, who was become. one, either. That was a good infected left elbow. Pierce, who the way Hip usually chases whistled for a flagrant foul. Stephon Marbury scored 12 of block." has missed Boston's last 23 shots," McDyess joked as Patterson hit both free throws, his 15 points in an early second­
McDyess and Webber com­games with a foot injury, is Hamilton got dressed in the then followed Mo Williams' miss half run that overwhelmed the bined to shoot 17 -for-22 against expected to be hospitalized for at adjoining locker. "He actually with an emphatic dunk off the Clippers and turned the game Boston's overmatched interior least two days, which will push throws a nice pass." carom to give the Bucks a 106-around, sending New York to a defense. his possible return back past the 96 advantage with 3:23 left. victory over Los Angeles on 
"We just couldn't stop anything All-Star break. Bucks 116, Magic 111 Orlando never got closer than Tuesday night. ' 
in the post," said Wally Billups led Detroit with 24 Ruben Patterson scored 14 of the final margin as both teams Jamal Crawford and Eddy his 27 points in the fourth quar­traded free throws. Milwaukee Curry each scored 23 points to ter and the struggling finished 29-of-46 from the line, lead New York, which shot poor­Milwaukee Bucks beat the while Orlando was 26-of-38. ly and defended worse in the Orlando Magic on Tuesday night Earl Boykins had 24 points, first two quarters before control­to snap a four-game losing Charlie Villaneuva 22, Charlie ling the second half of its second streak. Bell 20 and Williams 13 for the consecutive victory. 
The Bucks won their seventh Bucks. New York (22-28) improved to straight at home against the · Howard had 21 points and 11 13-13 at home and needs to win Magic but have still lost 15 of rebounds, his 34th double-dou­only once on a three-game road their last 18 games overall, in ble of the season for the Magic. trip before All-Star weekend to part because Michael Hedd Orlando's Keith Bogans scored a match its victory total from last remains sidelined with a season-high 19 points, Turkoglu season's 23-59 failure under sprained left knee. 18, Carlos Arroyo 14 and Tony Larry Brown. 
Milwaukee hopes to hit its Battie 11. "You hate to look at it like that, stride when Redd returns as Orlando started the fourth but that's crazy," Crawford said. early as this week from an quarter by missing its first five "I think we'll definitely have that absence of at least 16 games. shots and going 10:45 spanning win total by the break. We're a Regardless, the Bucks finally the fmal two quarters with only better team." found the much-needed offense one field goal. At one point in the New York never led in the first they've been missing since his dry spell, Bo Outlaw slapped an half and trailed by as much as departure. empty chair repeatedly after 12. But the Knicks stormed out 
Patterson was the big reason failing to save a loose ball that of halftime with a 24-4 spurt, why. He scored eight straight had bounced high off Patterson turning a 10-point deficit into a points as Milwaukee seized con­and would have been the 10-point lead in a span of 9 1/2 trol late in the fourth quarter, Magic's ball anyway. minutes and handing the starting with a free throw to Still, Orlando pulled within Clippers their second straight make it 99-94. On the Bucks' four before Patterson's spurt loss. next possession, he hit a desper­began. Elton Brand had 22 points and ation, 29-foot rainbow 3-pointer 13 rebounds for the Clippers, before Dwight Howard answered Knicks 102, Clippers 90 who lost for the third time in 10 with an alley-oop slam to make The New York Knicks spent games and fell to 1-2 ·on their it 102-96. the first half looking like the seven-game Eastern trip. 
Next, Patterson picked off team they have been for too Reserve Tim Thomas also had Jameer Nelson's pass, the 17th long: inconsistent on offense and 22 points. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content withour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4  Newly renovated home for rent, 3  ConcordParty.org • We Listen  PREGNANT OR KNOW  Who's the most famous person you  
WANTED  bed/3.5 bath. 07·08,08·09. $600/Bed/mo. 574·360·2569.  bedrooms, 2 baths, close to ND/SMC. Available now and for 07·  U!'JPLANNED PREGNANCY?  SOMEONE WHO IS? You do not have  have ever met?  
08. Inquire  Do not go it alone.  to be alone.  The Hardly Boys: Two young  
House  BETTER HOMES,  @574·289·7791.  If you or someone you  We want  whippah snappahs with a knack for  
available for  BETTER AREAS,  love needs confidential support or  to help.  writing sports articles.  
2007·2008. Very Large,  BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com  PERSONAL  assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn,  Call our 24 hour confidential  Would somebody give me a job.  
Close to  OP, at 1·7819. For more informa·  hotline at  
Campus,  2 bdrm condo JPW &  COMMON SENSE COMPUTER  lion, visit our web site  1·800-No·ABORT  Bobby doesn't wish people happy  
Just Renovated.  Grad wknds. 1 mi to ND. 614·985·  repair,clean-up,reload,  at  or visit our website at  birthday. Get over it.  
Contact  5003.  data back-up.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg·  www.lifecall.org  
MacSwain@ gmail.com  Student discount. 1 .5 mi. from ND  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  Ray takes long showers  
2·6 BDRM HOMES.$245/PER·  728  in  Bill O'Reilly.  
andersonN Drentals.com  SON/M0.574·329·0308  E. Colfax 574·217·8851  The Observer.  Chaminade Grad.  Lauren Graham or Alexis Bledel.  

Wednesday, February 7, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
CLUB SPORTS 
Squash team. splits matches at Washington 

Silver Point Capital Q 


Representatives from the Chicago office of Silver Point Capital, a multi-strategy investment fund that currently manages over $6 billion of capital will be available to answer questions regarding hedge funds, private equity, distressed debt and other alternative investment strategies on Wednesday, February 7th from 5 pm -5:30 pm in the Stadium Room at The University Club. 
This will be structured as a Q & A session so please come prepared with any questions you may have about the industry and career opportunities in this sector. 
Silver Point is made up of a diverse group of individuals with backgrounds at firms such as Goldman Sachs, The Blackstone Group, Texas Pacific Group, Wells Fargo Foothill, Madison Dearborn and Merrill Lynch. The firm based in Greenwich, Connecticut currently employees over 200 individuals with additional offices in London, Chicago, Atlanta and Los Angeles. 
Figure skating earns silver medal in event 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame participated in the second annual West Coast Round Robin, hosted by Washington. The Irish dropped a pair of matches in opening play, but rebounded to win two matches to close out the weekend. 
Friday, the Irish fell to the host Huskies 6-3. James Zhang and Phil Moss posted straight game wins at No. 1 and No. 9, respec­tively, while Pedro Gochicoa came back to win a dose five game con­test at No. 6. Later on Friday, Notre Dame dropped its second match, 9-0, to No. 19 Stanford. 
Saturday saw fortune smile on the Irish as they opened with a 5­4 victory over USC. No. 2 Javier Palomo, No. 4 Mike McConnell, No. 5 Jose Palomo, No. 7 Leigh Chapman and No. 9 Julian Lagoy won for Notre Dame, while Zhang, Moss, Gochicoa and Thomas Lee also played hard in losing close matches. 
The Irish completed the tourna­ment on a high note, with a 6-3 win over Cal. Zhang, Javier Palomo and Moss won four game matches at the top three spots. Jose Palomo and Lee posted four game wins as well at Nos. 5 and 6, and Chapman came from 2-0 down to win a 3-2 contest at No. 7. 
Skiing 
The Irish competed this week­end in their second MCSA event of the season. The men's team finished second, while the women's team took third. Both men's and women's snowboard teams captured first place in their competition. 
In Slalom competition Saturday, Notre Dame's Molly Fox, Stephanie Vossler, Liz Keedy, Katie Paquette and Anna Jansons finished ninth through 13th respectively. Teammates Caitlin Keilty and Mary Kate Sweeney were 15th and 16th while Nicole Hernandez and Reilly Gallagher came in at 28th and 29th. 
In snowboarding's first com­bined race results, Casey McNeill, Cat Dunne and Katie Rehberger captured first, second and third overall in the women's division, respectively, and took first, third and fourth, respectively, in the second race combined results. In the two men's races, Joe Wells finished first and third, Alex Gorrell took third and fifth. Andy Martin took first in the second race, with Jeff Kroon at fourth. 
Figure Skating 
Notre Dame completed its com­petitive season this weekend with a performance at the Frazier, Mich. that earned the club silver medals. The 10 Irish skaters fin­ished just behind Northwestern, a 20-member team. 
The Irish skated to music from "Phantom of the Opera", the Addams Family theme song and a musical score from "Edward Scissorhands" 
This season featured a pair of silver medalist finishes and a first place at the Dr. Porter competi­tion in December. The Irish will conclude their performances with a Feb. 25 exhibition, "Ice Ice Baby", at the Joyce Center. 
Women's Water Polo 
In their first game of the sea­son, the Irish gained a major vic­tory over the Michigan State Alumni team, which boasted six players from the 2006 National Championship team. With two scores by Bridget O'Neill, and one each from Cristina Romano, Kat Kennifer and MC Cimino, the Irish took a 5-4 lead late in the game before the Spartans scored a quick goal before time expired, forcing sudden death overtime. 

Bridget O'Neill scored the win­ning shot in the second period of OT on a pass from Kristin Schmitt. Freshman goalie Betsy O'Neill came up huge in the goal, recording 14 saves. 
The Irish next faced Wisconsin. En route to a 15-2 victory, every­one got good minutes for Notre Dame. Schmitt, who had five goals, led the Irish in scoring. Romano, who had four, and Kelly Horner, who had two, were also strong offensively for Notre Dame. Cimino. Katie Godfrey, Emily Harig, and Kristen Harchut all added to the tally, and goalie Maggie I Iyde came out with eight saves, including a blocked penalty shot to shut down the Badgers. 
Sunday morning pitted Notre Dame against the Toronto. The Canadians came out first, scoring three quick goals. The Irish answered with two scores by Horner and one by Romano to tie it up. 
Four unanswered Canadian goals were just enough to keep the Irish at bay. despite a quick hat trick by Bridget O'Neill in the fourth quarter, ending the game at a 7-6 loss. Betsy O'Neill had 15 saves in goal. 
Playing for third place in the tournament, the Irish met hosts Michigan State in a defensive struggle, with no score put on board until the end of the third quarter. With only one score by Romano, the Irish lost 2-1. Betsy O'Neill had eight saves in goal. 
Women's Ice Hockey 
Notre Dame traveled to Chicago to play three different squads. Friday night, it struggled the entire game against the'"Flash, yet prevailed 3-2. While the Flash scored first in the first period, Notre Dame senior Annie Tilton answered with a goal in the sec­ond period. 
In the third period the game picked up and the Irish scored twice more. First, freshmen Emily Chappell scored with an assist from sophomore Margaret Knoedler, and then Knoedler found the net, assisted by sopho­more Lauren Beuke. The Flash scored once more but the Irish held on for the victory. 
The Irish dominated Saturday's game against the Tigers. The Irish had four goals in the first period alone. Beuke scored first off of a pass from senior Jed goal in the second period. 
Senior goaltender Mindy Stack played a solid game as she backed up the Irish defensively. The Tigers broke their scoreless run with a goal within the last minute of playing time, but the Irish stayed on top to win 5-1. 
Sunday morning, Notre Dame faced off with the Penguins, its fmal opponent for the weekend. Chappell opened the first period with a goal off an assist by Knoedler and sophomore Amy Wilbelmy. 
Notre Dame eventually pulled out the 3-1 win. 
The team's success this week­end helped to boost its overall record to 14-5-1, which is impor­tant as its starts looking at the upcoming playoff games. 
,....---------------·~-------· ---­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 7, 2007 
Post 

continued from page 20 
per game. 
"I think our post play overall has helped our recent success with the win streak," Henley said. 

Both Kammrath and Newsom feel that their indi­vidual contributions merely dovetail with the team's play as a whole. 
"Our team has shown that it is very balanced, and if one player can't get the job done, others have been able to have big nights," Kammrath said. "We have had quite a few games when more than two players have been in double figures. It's hard for other teams to handle a team like ours." 
Nevertheless, there is a strong association between the six games the Belles played ­five of which were victories between Jan. 13 and Jan. 31 -and the performance of Newsom and Kammrath. 
After the first six games of the season, Kammrath aver­aged 6.5 points and 5.5 rebounds in 24 minutes per game, while Newsom aver­aged 7.9 and 5.9 in 21.9 min­utes. 
During the recent six-game stretch, Kammrath averaged 
29.5 minutes per game, scored 
10.2 points and pulled down 
9.2 boards. 
Newsom averaged 30.5 min­utes, 15.8 points and 7.8 rebounds during the same period. 
It was in that span that each player brought their true potential into stark relief. 
On Jan. 20 against Adrian, Kammrath broke out for 25 points and 14 rebounds, shooting 10-of-14 from the field. 
"It was fun to play that game in particular because everyone did so great," Kammrath said. "I just found myself open on offense and was able to con­vert." 
Newsom displayed the same abilities on Jan. 27 against Tri-State, scoring 30 points and gral!lbing 11 rebounds while shooting 7-of-13. 
"We definitely had a height advantage which all of us post players made good use of," Newsom said. 
Henley also noted the size difference. 
"Our guards recognized this early and got Erin the ball," she said. 
As a result, Newsom was named the MIAA Player of the Week that week. 
Both players have taken the increased action in stride. 
"I don't care how many min­utes I play as long as we walk away with a win," Newsom said. 
Kammrath, in her first sea­son at the college level, had a tougher adjustment period, but started to feel comfortable around the fifth or sixth game of the season. 
"At the beginning, it was scary for me to be playing at a college level. I was nervous and didn't have much confi­dence in myself," she said. 
Kammrath and Newsom have a competitive but helpful relationship with each other, continuously trying to make the other better. 
"Anna [Kammrath] is great to play with," Newsom said. "She's a very supportive and unselfish teammate." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Throughout the season he has performed well in his

Bartlett 
niche for the team. That is why the 5-foot-11, 200-pound

continued from page 20 
right wing was not surprised the roster. The trio of seniors at all when Irish coach Jeff has had the job of shutting Jackson came to him over two down the opponents' top lines weeks ago, a few days before to give the Irish youth plenty their matchup with CCHA of chances to fill the nets. rival No. 12 Miami. 
Bartlett's role Bartlett, Jindra when on the and Paige were ice, he says, is given a mission to to keep the shutdown the
''I've always known 

puck out of the Redl-lawks' Hyan
I would be in a

Irish zone, fin­' Jones, Nathan ish his checks, defensive role, Davis, and Brian and crash the Kaufman -one
which is completely 

net hard -of the most dan­
fine with me.,,

something that gerous Jines in earned him his the conference two most Michael Bartlett and the nation. recent goals. Mission accom­
Irish right wing 

All of these plished. jobs are as "Coach said he much about needed us to be heart as they real strong defen­are about talent, and Bartlett sively. It's not always the most has shown he has both. prestigious job but we all did 
''I've always known I would our job," said Paige following be in a defensive role, which Friday night's 4-1 victory. is completely fine with me," The group was able to hold he said. Davis -one of thn top three candidates for the l-lobey Baker award -to a scoreless weekend and keep the rest of his linemates from causing any serious damage as the Irish took three points from Miami, who had been nipping at Notre Dame's heels for the top spot in the conference. 
All three players have 
legiate career, is no stranger to being a role player. The Illinois native has been a defensive-minded skater since his high school days as well as the two years he spent playing for the U.S. National Development team. 
The senior has quietly become an irreplaceable part 
worked together on and off 

throughout "Coach said he the past four needed us to be 
years and 

real strong 
have built a 

defensively. ,,
strong chem­istry that allows them 

Jason Paige
to smother 

Irish center
opponents before they even get the chance. 

in the Irish hockey machine, and the Irish anticipate that he will keep his nose to the grindstone if Notre Dame hopes to retain its No. 1 rank­ing as the season winds down. Bartlett and company wlll have their hands full once again this weekend as Nebraska-Omaha comes to town for a 
"Basically we just tried to keep the puck down in their end, the more we are down there the less chances they have to play offense," Bartlett said. 
Bartlett, who has scored 10 goals and 17 assists in his col-weekend series at the Joyce Center. The first game begins Friday at 7:35 p.m. with Saturday's matchup at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Turtle Creek Apartment HoiDes 
THE Place to be at ND!! 

Join us at the Clubhouse on February 14th for a 
Valentine's Day Open House 
From 10 am to 6 pm! All Current & Future Residents are Invited to Dip into a BUFFET of 
CHOCOLATE GOODIES TREATS, OHMY! 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Ph 574-272-8124 



I I 
' ' . I 
Wednesday, February 7, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

r-------------­
t 
' ~ 
' ! page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, February 7, 2007 ' 
' 
~ 
' 
' ~ 
' 
' 
' 
Louisville 
continued from page 20 
and added 12 rebounds against the Blue Demons. She leads the Cardinals with 21.7­points (49 percent from the field) and 11.5 rebounds per game. 
McCoughtry was also recent­ly named to the John R. Wooden Midseason All­American team, a prestigious group of 20 players who will compete for the Player of the Year award at the end of the season. 
But the recognized forward is only one reason why the Irish will have their hands full in the paint. 
Although Notre Dame out­rebounded West Virginia 46­to-23, it faces a Louisville team who averages 10 more rebounds per game than Notre Dame does -the Cardinals grab 47.8 boards per game compared to Notre Dame's 37.8. 
Aside from McCoughtry, cen­ter Jazz Covington (7.5 rebounds per game) will be another obstacle in the post. Louisville also holds a plus­
10.8 rebounds per game ratio over their opponents. 
But for all of Louisville's strengths in the post -they struggle from the perimeter. The Cardinals have shot only 29 percent from behind the arc and in their two losses com-bined sank only 20 percent of their three-point attempts. 


Both Louisville losses have come on the road -a 106-94 overtime loss at Providence Jan. 3 and a 74-58 lost to South Florida on Jan. 16. And McGraw understands the importance of capitalizing on the home-court advantage. 
"You have to take care of your home court," McGraw said. "Everyone in the league is struggling to win on the road. There's not been a decent road win until [Monday] night when Connecticut beat Marquette -that was I think the first one. I think we really have got to take care of our home court. And we have a lot of great opportunities coming up." 
Junior guard Charel Allen will lead the Irish offensively. Allen was named to the Big East Honor Roll for the third time last week, and she also has one Big East Player of the Week under her belt this sea­son. 
The most important factor, however, may still be the Joyce Center and the fans who were noticeably absent on Super Bowl Sunday. 
"We're hoping that the crowd comes back for [Wednesday's Gamel," McGraw said. "We're going to need all the help we can get." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Signing
Day 
continued from page 20 
ers will mark the second straight top-1 0 class accord­ing to Tom Lemming, the national recruiting analyst for CSTV. 
On one end is Armando Allen, a 5-foot-10 running back from a Miami suburb. On the other is Chris Little, a 6-foot-5, 340-pound tackle from Jeffersonville, Ga. 
In between are the coveted Clausen, an Italian kid named Ragone from Weis' old Jersey stomping grounds and a wide receiver from Tennessee with a name that destirwd him for Golden glory. 
The Irish are expected to land only two defensive line­men -end Kerry Neal and tackle Ian Williams -but will grab two running backs, two receivers and five offensive linemen. And the one quar­terback everyone wanted but only Weis got. 
It's the second straight year the Irish will bring in two top tailbacks, and this year's receivers compare favorably to last year's group. What's more, after receiving a bare cupboard on the offensive line, Weis restocked the shelves with six big men last year and this year's five. 

But the recruiting saga this year was more moving than most. Clausen's commitment helped the Irish reel in the top offensive recruits, Lemming said, but the Irish experienced frustration on the defensive side of the ball. 
Linebacker Chris Donald passed on the Irish and will stay in state to be a Volunteer. Lineman Will Blackwell of West Monroe, La., chose LSU after the Sugar Bowl. Lineman Martez Wilson of Chicago will sign with Ron Zook and Illinois, while Anaheim linebacker Chris Galippo will go to USC. 
The worst for Notre Dame, though, was losing defensive end Justin Trattou of Hamsey, 
N.J. Lemming doesn't have him rated in his top 100, but Scout.com ranks him as the fourth best defensive end prospect in the country. He committed to Notre Dame in June but visited Florida Jan. 19 and soon thereafter told Weis he'd be going to Florida 
"Calvin's strength is their inside game, and they did a 
pretty good job of shutting down ours," Henley said. "We continued from page 20 didn't show up." 
The Belles were out of the jumpstarted Calvin's offense. game in the second half, shoot­The Knights never looked ing just 19.4 percent. Henley back. attributed the poor shooting to 
"We came out flat," Belles slow ball movement and fail­coach Jennifer Henley said. ure to attack the gaps. "We didn't step up to play. "It's not like we didn't shoot When you play Calvin you have the ball," she said. "We just to bring your couldn't get any­best, and we thing to fall." didn't do that Calvin outscored 
Calvin 
"When you play

tonight." Saint Mary's by 18 The Belles Calvin you have to points in the sec­
trailed 34-21 bring your best, ond half. after a first half "We've been
and we didn't do

in which the down like that in Knights (19-1, that tonight." other situations," 12-0 MIAAJ shot Henley said. "We 
48.6 percent talked a lot about
Jennifer Henley 

from the l'ield getting to the foul
Belles coach 

(41.7 percent line in the second from three-point hall', trying to play range). Saint Mary's forward catch-up when Anna Kammrath was com­the clock was stopped." pletely neutralized near the Guard Alison Kessler was basket, grabbing only three the high scorer on the night rebounds and failing to score a for Saint Mary's with 16 point in the game. points, and forward Erin instead. 
The Irish picked up two verbal commitments after Trattou's switch, but line­backer Brian Smith and kick­er Brandon Walker don't enter as difference makers the way Trattou could have. 
But starting today, Trattou and Donald, Blackwell and Wilson, Galippo and everyone else will mean nothing to Notre Dame unless they see the field against the Irish. Notre Dame will continue striding in the Red Queen race that is recruiting, forget­ting the past and looking at the future. 
The recruits who sign today will talk to media only once or twice between now and their sophomore seasons, and the continual rebuilding focus will shift to a new year of high school players. Analysts and coaches are already fol­lowing current juniors des­tined to make an impact in Division I. 
But today, the Irish can be happy with what they've got. The next national signing day is a long way away. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Newsom led the team with 10 rebounds. 
Harris led the Knights with 17 points on 6-of-9 shooting. Forward Lisa Winkle had 13 rebounds. 
The game marked the sec­ond-lowest point total for Saint Mary's on the season. The Belles scored 42 points in a loss to Hope on Nov. 28. 
The loss came after a two­day delay due to a blizzard in the Grand Rapids area. Henley hoped the delay had no effect on the game. 
"I talked to the kids about it. but at this point in the season, it's all mental," she said. "You have to be ready to go. I would hope something like a delay that's out of our control would­n't affect us." 
Despite the team's lackluster play, Henley credited Calvin's skill. 
"You have to give Calvin credit," she said. "They're ranked [high] in the country for a reason." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


KELLOGG INSTITUTE 

Foreign Film Series 
ORFEU (2ooo) 
Portuguese with English subtitles 
Introduction by Sandra M. Teixeira, Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Maria Arenillas, PhD candidate, Literature Program 
7 pm TONIGHT! Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Cosponsored by the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures Program in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies. 
kellogg.nd.edu/events 
Wednesday, February 7, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CROISSANTWORLD 
BLACK DoG 
\'vE ~o"T A St:.oc.\-\uR.E. F~oM 
u.E.... Ff'!.oM '"fi.\E. Wlt-lTE..R, CAF-E.E.f?. fEST. M'f f'E.SUI-\E.. WI~ A RIP IN 1\, A P\-1010~ 
coP'{ oF M'\ F-ESUME. So IHEf?..E.S NO ~\P IN \"T I t"\'f 
PI-lONE-, P.,.NC> A PENC.\\._. 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
I'VE. PES\£:tNA.TE..t> tHIS 
P£-N'-\L AS M'\ :SoB­
PE.NC.\\... 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~OOID1IR 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, That was
Hey, you said $500. This is yesterdayto form four ordinary words. 

$400' 
AVVLE 
j
I I r (j 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~~1~~-t I J 
WHA-T nf: 51-W­
tFALACI j 
HE:I<.O GOT WHE:N 

HE: TOOK HIS HE:r<O
J r
1 

www.jumble.com TO MARKET.
tENGALC t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J I I J I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: A 

" rI I I I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: FLUKE SILKY LAWYER JACKET Answer: How she felt after the fender bender ­LIKE A "WRECK" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Masaharu Fukuyama, 38; Axl Rose, 45; Natalie Cole, 57; Tom Brokaw. 67 
Happy Birthday: This can turn into a money year for you if you are intent on making some progressive investment moves. Any opportunity that comes your way has to be seriously considered and should probably be put into play. You have some very good times ahead as long as you maintain moderation. Your numbers are 15. 17, 28, 33. 36, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Quit sitting idle and hop to it and you will set the standard for everyone else. Don't be aggressive or pushy with others. You have to move along at your own pace regardless of how slow others are. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An aggressive move on your part could put you in a better position but don't leap without the proper information. Take the back door to get somewhere -that way you will surprise the people who may want to block you or hold you back. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let anyone get away with emotional blackmail when you should be concentrating on your own goals. A younger or older person may be able to help you in a way you least expect. A creative idea will bring you financial gain. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You should make changes even if someone you are close to doesn't agree with your decision. You may take on too much. Be careful that you can reach your deadlines and promises made so that you don't look bad. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You don't have to travel to fmd a little excitement and entertainrhent. Make plans that will lead you to a challenging. inexpensive activity. The more you can do for less, the further ahead you will be at the end of the day. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may feel as ifeveryone is trying to tell you what to do and how to do it and they probably are. Some of the suggestions made will be worth listening to but, if someone tries to use force, align yourself with someone less aggressive. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): All sorts of possibilities will unfold if you try your hand at something new. A short trip will pay off in the people you meet and the information you discover. Get serious about your goals. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone you are close to may withhold information you need to make an emotional or personal decision. A romantic opportunity will leave you feeling good about your future. Don't give up or in to what others want. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be fooled by what you hear. Rumors and gossip will lead you down the wrong path. A chance to make a professional change or look into a vocation that interests you will raise your spirits. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll be inclined to let your emotions lead the way, causing mistakes that will be difficult to fix. A love relationship will test you and challenge your ability to give as much as you receive. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Money should be on your mind. You will have a great idea and, if you can keep it small to begin with, you will be successful. A partnership will prove to be beneficial. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): There will be just as much going on behind the scenes as there will be out in the open. Bide your time and watch what everyone else does before you make a decision. Someone may try to trick you into taking action that isn't warranted. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You were born with luck. intuition and the power of P.,rsuasion. You are a doer and organizer who can get others motivated. You are a mastermind and a born leader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comforconfidential consultations 



LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Blazing gun 1 Indian chief 37 Belt-attachable device
6 Spilling point 39 Nicknamed
10Wild 40 Clouds (up)
14 Without help 42 Work sweat15 Mystique 43 Assign, as the16 Exploits 
blame 17 Unsuccessful 
45 Guard's intra? 

batter's intra? 
49 Is bedridden 20 It can take your 
50 Cow-headedbreath away 

goddess21 _Spiegel 
51 Rough-cutmagazine 54 Start and end of22 Sizes up or the Threedown? 

Musketeers' 23 Koh-i-motto diamond 
55 Pinnacle 25 "Waterloo" 
59 Quotation citer's 

quartet intra? 
26 Hot dog 62 Lose strength in vendor's intra? 
the backstretch 33 Spiritual leaders 63 Tent event 34 Letters on 64 Hazardous Challenger 
65 Regarded 35 Nefariousness guardedly 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
66 Biblical plot 67 Pays (up) 
DOWN 1 Outdoor event 
planner's worry 2 A chorus line 3 stick 
(incense) 4 Reception aid 5 Part of H.M.S. 6 Napoleon's 
place 7 Regretful one s Audit grp. 9 "Goldilocks" 
figure 10 Dropped movie scene 11 "But,_ was ambitious, I slew him": 
Brutus 12 Eye drop 13 Retired fliers 18 Hero type 19 Napoleon's 
place, once 
24 Green-I ights 25 Notre Dame niche 26 More and more of news shows nowadays 27 Stubble remover 28 Baja buddy 29 Dearie 30 Former Mrs. Trump 31 Olympus competitor 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky 
32 Sweat 46 "Peace on 53 Second earth," e.g.
37 "Don't give me 54 Fit that!" 47_Collins, 
56 Playbill info
former space
38 Knuckle 
draggers 
commander
41 Hurt 58 Haagen-Dazs 48 Tropical escape alternative
43 23rd in a series 51 Tea for two 60 Sorry
44 "That just place
shouldn't 61 Piece-keeping happen" 52 Anthem opener grp.? 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Wednesday, February 7, 2007 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 17 Louisville up nextfor lady hoopsters 
By BILL BRINK 
Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame broke its three­game losing streak with a 77­67 win over West Virginia Sunday, but it will face anoth­er tough challenge in No. 17 Louisville tonight at 7 at the Joyce Center. 
The Cardinals (21-2, 7-2 Big East) enter the game having won four straight, including an 86-68 victory over DePaul in their last game Feb. 3. 
"They're a great team," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "It gives us a great chance to boost our RPI and play a ranked team." 
Notre Dame's defense will have to focus on shutting down Cardinals forward Angel McCoughtry, who scored 29 points on 11-of-20 shooting 
see LOUISVILLE/page 18 

Trudging along 

Irish guard Charel Allen pushes the ball up the floor while center Melissa D'Amico follows during Notre Dame's 77-67 win over West Virginia Sunday. 
fOOTBALL RECRUITING ANALYSIS 
Turbulent recruiting year ends 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
It's over. 

Notre Dame's recruiting sea­son, which began with two early surprise commitments, picked up a full head of steam when California quarterback Jimmy Clausen said he was coming to South Bend and then sputtered with lost bat­tles and a notable de-commit­ment, ends today. 
Twenty players are expected to sign national letters of intent this morning to play for Notre Dame and coach Charlie Weis. 
For the Irish, the new play-
see SIGNING DAY/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL FEATURE 

Post workers delivering results for Belles 
conference game by 25 points been their 47 percent shooting It could be a coincidence. that first game, they continued By BILL BRINK 
and scored an average of 57.4 from field goal range in the The game didn't ring any bells to start." Sporrs Writer 
points in those first seven second half. with Belles coach Jennifer Since that win, the Belles 
games. Or it could have been the Henley. have gone 8-5 -including a It all started Dec. 6, 2006. Still, the Belles managed a fact that this was the first "I don't recall the first start streak during which they won Saint Mary's traveled to 56-48 victory that night. It game in which both freshmen for either of them. You'd have four straight and five of six ­
Adrian that night after a 1-6 could have been because they center Anna Kammrath and to go back and check all the and they now score 64.8 points start to its season. The Belles held every Bulldog to single sophomore forward Erin box scores," Henley said. "But had lost their only previous digit point totals. It could have Newsom started. I do know once they started see POST/page 16 
HOCKEY 

Bartlett,line111ates shut down Irish opponents 
By DAN MURPHY Sporrs Writer 
With the score tied 2-2 and less than a minute remaining 
in the second period of Friday's game against Bowling Green, right wing Michael Bartlett got loose in front of the net 

and ham-Bartlett mered home a rebound that gave Notre Dame a 3-2 win and secured the No. 1 ranking 

SK.UNG 
..... 
" 
Notre Dame finishes z strong in the season's 
second MCSA event.
::5 
= 
cc 
!i page 15
en 

in the country. 
The goal also snapped a 24­game goal drought for Bartlett, who now has six career points against the Falcons (four goals, two assists). The senior added a second goal Saturday night in a 2-1 Irish victory. 
"It felt great ... it's been a while," Bartlett said. "They don't always come but when they do it's nice." 
Although he has not been lighting up the scoreboard this season, he and linemates T.J. Jindra and Jason Paige have been just as much a part of the team's success as anyone on 
see BARTLETT/page 16 
WOMEN'S HOCKEY 
leers win all three games in Chicago over the weekend to improve to 14-5-1. 
page 15 SMC BASKETBALL 

Calvin crushes St. Mary's 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
The Belles had momentum on their side, but not enough to push them past No. 3 Calvin Monday night as the 
Knights  defeated  Saint  
Mary's  75-44  in  Grand  
Hapids, Mich.  

The Belles (9-11, 8-5 MIAA) trailed by eight points with 14:55 left in the first half, but a tip-in by Calvin forward Marcia Harris fol­lowed by a three-pointer by guard Nikki Zimmerman ­who was 3-of-5 from 3-point range in the first half en route to 11 total points ­
see CALVIN/page 18 


SQUASH 
Irish split weekend matches at Washington. 
page 15 
NBA 
Knicks 102 Clippers 90 
New York is one victory away from tying last season's total after win over Los Angeles. 
page 14 

NBA 
Bucks 116 Magic 111 
Ruben Patterson scores 27 points to help struggling Milwaukee top Orlando. 
page 14 
NBA 
Pistons 109 Celtics 102 

Boston loses franchise record 15th straight game Tuesday night. 
page 14 




