
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 113 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2007 

Football distribution system to change 
Online ticketing will allow students to bypass multiple lines, registration to start Monday 
By CHRIS KHOREY and 
CHRIS HINE 
News Writers 
The chaotic fall tradition of multiple trips to Notre Dame Stadium to buy football ticket booklets is being replaced by an online-based ticket system the Ticket Office hopes is more convenient for students and employees alike. 
Ticket Office Director Josh Berlo said Tuesday all students currently enrolled at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's who plan to buy student ticket booklets for the fall 2007 football season will have the opportunity to register online starting Monday. 
Under the previous system, students waited in line at Notre Dame Stadium twice each August -once to pick up a lot­tery number and again to get the actual ticket booklet. 
Fisher Hall sophomore Mike Moriarty said he was excited for the change. 
"That was kind of a hassle having to go back and forth and all that," he said. 
But other students, including Lyons Hall freshman Claire Connell, said the system was just fine how it was. 
"I don't think it's that big of a deal," Connell said. "I wouldn't mind walking over to the stadium to do it." 
In order to sit with friends, students will be able to create groups online, Berlo said. Each group will be seated together. 
"[Students] can set up a group and they can have the system e-mail their friends the name of the group or they can just pass on the information for the group themselves," Berlo said. "As long as they purchase their tickets and specify which group they'd like to be in by the .?eadline, they should be all set. 
Cavanaugh Hall sophomore Kaitlyn Clarke said the old sys­tem allowed students to have some say over where they sat, whereas the online distribution might be more randomized. 
"[Under the old system,] you know if you go early to the sta­dium you know you're going to get the best lottery numbers because even though they say they're random, they're not actually random," she said. "They do give them in order. But, going online, maybe that will make it more random." 
Berlo said that while a dead­line has not been set yet, stu­dents returning next fall who wish to buy tickets will have to do so some time this spring. Students will be notified of the deadline by e-mail, he said. 
The ticket office has used online procedures for several 
see TICKETS/page 4 



University: No kickbacks from lenders 
English department denies religious focus 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL News Writer 
While junior English stu­dents in need of a senior writ­ing seminar may have been surprised to see three of the four fall seminars focusing ­to some degree -on ele­ments of religion, the content of these classes has more to do with individual professors' areas of interest or expertise rather than a push to include more "Catholic" classes, said Susan Harris, chair of the Undergraduate Studies com­mittee for the English depart­ment. 
While discussions about Notre Dame's Catholic char­acter may result in an increased focus on Catholic issues in the classroom, Harris said that does not translate into direct pressure fr.om the administration for curriculum changes. 
Instead, Harris attributed the number of religiously­themed courses to the English faculty, which boasts a num­ber of professors with partic­ular specializations in religion and literature, Harris said. Additionally, she said some areas of study require reli­gious query. Harris said it is difficult to assess the litera­ture of the Middle Ages with­out taking Christianity into account. 
Even when there isn't a direct religious connection, she said, questions along the­ological lines may result from literature's inquiries into the 
see ENGLISH/page 3 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Philosophy professor leaves ND 
Ramsey picks UNLV for lifestyle, location 
By KATE ANTONACCI Associate News Ediror 
After teaching thousands of first-year students· during his 18 years at Notre Dame, Associate Professor of philos­ophy William Ramsey has resigned and will be leav­ing to teach at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. 
"For me it came down to weighing incommensu-Ramsey 


rable fac­tors," Ramsey said. "That is, a career in a well-established, 
prestigious department at a school with excellent students versus living in a place that allows for the kind of lifestyle I find rewarding and that is closer to my family. I chose life." 
The decision was still a dif­ficult one, but one Ramsey said he'd been considering for a while -especially in the winter "when there are many days that I don't see the sun," he said. 
Regarding rumblings ­some within the philosophy department -that the University "dropped the ball in trying to retain me," 
see RAMSEY/page 4 
Notre Dame Federal Credit Union* \Yells Fargo 

*separate from. and indept.ndentof the University ofNotre Financial Services

By KAITLYNN RIELY Assisram News Ediror 
Suspicions about improper relationships between colleges and student loan companies have fueled an investigation by the New York State attorney general, and more recently a congressional inquiry, but at Notre Dame there are no kick­backs, a University representa­tive in the Financial Aid office said. 
Joseph Russo, the director of Student Financial Strategies, said Notre Dame has not been contacted regarding the investi­gations. 
"I think we have a pretty good reputation," he said. "Anyone's welcome to come and investi­

Anthony M. Cuomo, New York's attorney general, ques­tioned the relationship between student loan companies and col­leges, the New York Times reported Tuesday. Colleges fre­quently created preferred lender lists so their students can con­tact them for loans to pay for school. Cuomo believed these loan companies were giving uni­versities payment in exchange for any increases in the compa­ny's number of student loans at the institutions. 
Russo said Notre Dame does not accept any form of kickbacks from the lenders on its preferred lender list. 
'The University of Notre Dame stands for quality and integrity, and to suggest that we would be 
gate." see LENDERS/page 4 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Candidates approved to posts 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
Newly inaugurated student body president Liz Brown and student body vice president Maris Braun began their administration of Council of Representatives (COR) meet­ings Tuesday as COR approved candidates for vari­ous leadership positions for the 2007-08 term. 
The appointments included a policy branch controller, director of communications, chief controller for the Student Union Board (SUB), co-directors of programming for SUB, director of opera­tions for SUB and director of publicity for SUB. 
COR approved junior 
see COR/page 6 


From left, chief executive assistant Sheena Plamootil, president Uz Brown and vice president Maris Braun sit at the COR meeting Tuesday. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 4, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
JC Superstar 
In honor of Easter, I'd like to talk about one of my favorite retellings of the Passion. No, it's not "The Passion of the Christ" or "Jesus of Nazareth." It's "Jesus Christ Superstar," which I consider not only one of the best 
tellings of the last Brian Doxtader 
days of Jesus' life, 
but one of my Senior Staff 
favorite albums. 
Writer 
The problem with "Jesus Christ Superstar" (or "JC Superstar" as we call it in the biz) is that it's been so watered­down through countless incarnations ­the West End and Broadway versions, the awful 1973 Norm Jewison film ver­sion, the revivals featuring Sebastian Bach. In the beginning, "Superstar" was written and conceived by a then 22-year­old Andrew lloyd Webber, who collabo­rated with a young lyricist named Tim Rice. Both Webber and Rice were coming off the success of "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat," which was first performed when Webber was only 19. Designed as a rock opera akin to The Who's groundbreaking "Tommy," "Superstar" far outstripped that album in terms of musicality and depth. 
Unlike the Broadway and film versions that followed, the original 1971 concept album really rocks -in fact, it sounds a lot like any other 1970s prog album, except the musicianship, singing and songwriting are a lot stronger. It features one of rock's best vocalists in Ian Gillian (of Deep Purple fame) in the lead role and some of the best songs Webber would ever write. In my opinion, it was all downhill after this (the mere men.tion of "Cats" makes me cringe) as Webber became infatuated with his own fame, making more and more pretentious shows as time wore on. 
"Jesus Christ Superstar" works best as a capsule of its time -the gospel updat­ed for hippies, with a rock-and-roll foun­dation. Note that I call it an album -it's easier to just pretend the later versions of it don't even exist. It's the gospel story told largely through the eyes of Judas, which itself was a radical idea -it paints Judas as misunderstood, and Jesus as a flawed savior who struggles with his des­tiny -both hard things to swallow back in 1971, though largely accepted nowa­days. 
It's easy to not take the lyrics seriously -"one thing to say for him, Jesus is cool" growls one of the Pharisees -but the fact is that the album is filled with irony and wordplay, despite being sur­prisingly faithful to the Gospels -the "Superstar" theme itself comes back right after Jesus has been condemned, and it's sung by an already-dead Judas. While some of Rice's lyrics are admittedly juvenile at best, the music overcomes many of those shortcomings -like opera or operatic musicals ("Les Mis," for example), "Superstar" makes use of repeated themes or motifs and, in all actuality, the weakest of these may be the main theme. 
I think "Superstar" gets a bad rep and it's really a shame -anyone who gives the original album a chance might be legitimately surprised. The fact is that Webber was once a brilliantly talented young man, and "Superstar" is evidence of this. It's an ambitious and engaging work, and best of all, it brought Jesus to a whole new generation of music fans. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE CARTOON GROWING UP? 



Chris Lee  Brian Dolinar  Jessica Stouffer  Matt Lucci  Tom DeGregoris  
senior offcampus  freshman Siegfried  sophomore Howard  junior Morrissey  freshman Siegfried  
"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, because April's hot and Casey's a  "Garfield, because I love ,lasagna.  "Thundercats h0.f"  "Duck Tales, because Uncle Scrooge is a cash money millionaire. "  "Captain Planet. He's a hero, gonna take pollution down to zero. "  




baUer." 
Honey bear flees zoo, bites bus passenger 
MEXICO CITY, Mex. -A kinkajou, also known as a honey bear, that escaped from a Mexico City zoo boarded a bus and attacked a passenger, officials said Tuesday. The kinkajou, which is about the size of a small dog, got on the bus at about 11 p.m. Monday after escaping from the San Juan de Aragon Zoo. 
The animal sat next to the bus driver for almost an hour as he drove through the city, and scratched and bit a 20­year-old female passenger when she tried to hold it, the Mexican news agency may top them all. In com­ments published Tuesday, the 63-year-old Holling Stones guitarist said he had snorted his father's ashes mixed with cocaine. 


"The strangest thing I've tried to snort? My father. I snorted my father," Richards 
was quoted as  saying by  
British  music  magazine  
NME.  

"He was cremated and I couldn't resist grinding him up with a little bit of blow. My dad wouldn't have cared," he said. "It went down pretty well, and I'm still alive." 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
Notimex said. 

There was some initial confusion about the animal's identity. While Hed Cross spokesman Jair Martinez ini­tially identified the creature as a monkey, and some local media referred to it as a lemur, Aleli Mayorca of the city's main Chapultepec Zoo said it was a "martucha," or kinkajou, a nocturnal animal native to Central and South America. 
Keith Richards: "I snorted my father" 
LONDON -Keith Richards has acknowledged consum­ing a raft of illegal sub­stances in his time, but this 

IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame women's softball will play Valparaiso today at 5 
p.m. at Ivy Field. 
The Ballroom Dance Club will be teaching the Hustle and Mambo in 205 Rockne Memorial from 8 p.m. to 10:30 tonight. All Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students are invited with a valid ID. The cost is $4 a night. 
The Lord's Supper Mass will be held for Holy Thursday at 5 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Classes will not be held Friday through Monday in observance of the Easter holiday. Classes will resume Tuesday. 
Good Friday Mass to celebrate the Lord's passion will be held at 3 p.m. Friday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Ben Hur will be shown as a silent film with piano accompani­ment by Dave Drazin on Friday at 7 p.m. in DPAC's Browning Cinema. The cost is $3 for stu­dents. 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team will play against the University of California Saturday at 1 p.m. in Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Paschal Vigil Mass to cele­brate the Lord's passion will be held at 9 p.m. Saturday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Easter Mass will be held at 8 a.m., 10 a.m. and noon Sunday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 


36 HIGH 17 LOW 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY a: 
IJ.I 
:::c 
~ 
IJ.I 
3: 
...I 
ct 
(,) 0 



HIGH 38 HIGH HIGH HIGH 35
...I LOW 27 LOW LOW LOW 20 



Atlanta 70 I 58 Boston 39 I 34 Chicago 38 I 33 Denver 59 I 28 Houston 74 I 67 Los Angeles 73 I 55 Minneapolis 33 125 New York 49 I 43 Philadelphia 61 I 48 Phoenix 92 I 64 Seattle 57 I 41 St. Louis 52 I 42 Tampa 82 I 66 Washington 69 I 56 
Wednesday, April 4, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Young Executives help local charity 
College club to help Children's Dispensary generate business plan for expansion, funding 
By MANDl STIRONE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Young Executives Club will use its business expertise in a humani­tarian effort, teaming up with the Children's Dispensary -a local service organization -to provide the charity with a new business plan. 
Young Executives hopes to help the Children's Dispensary develop new marketing and fundraising strategies, spread the charity's name in the com­munity and help the organiza­tion recruit new volunteers, said Lindsay Niemiec, the Young Executives vice president of marketing. Niemiec is head­ing the marketing management committee for the Children's Dispensary project. 
The Children's Dispensary was founded in 1909 and origi­nally handed out medication to children, but in 1920 it switched to helping children and families with special needs, she said. 
"It falls between the cracks," Niemiec said. "We found it was a really great organization. They do such great things for kids with special needs around here and [for] the community." 
The organization has since instituted different programs to cater to the different needs of its community, which range from autism to Down's syn­drome to learning disabilities and emotional impairments, the organization's Web site said. 
Besides Niemiec's committee, Young Executives also created a finance and accounting com­mittee to work on the project, she said. 
Some of the Saint Mary's par­ticipants will investigate ways in which the organization can expand and receive more grants and funding, Niemiec said. The students will also pro­pose methods to cut down costs at the Dispensary. 
Young Executives has talked with different Saint Mary's clubs, and the group is plan­ning to contact some Notre Dame clubs· as well to recruit volunteers for the Dispensary, Niemiec said. 
Niemiec said the project could give students the oppor­tunity to volunteer at a lesser­known, yet admirable organiza­tion. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

English 
continued from page 3 
meaning of existence. 
"Even courses that don't necessarily advertise [as specifically Catholic] can still connect to those theological questions," Harris said. 
Following the debate that University President Father John Jenkins' "Closing Statement" on academic free­dom sparked in January of 2006 and the announcement of increased efforts to recruit more Catholic faculty last September, the question of the role that Catholicism will play on an intellectual level for Notre Dame has been a topic for much discussion. 
The discussions on Catholic character "are playing a role but not one that is easy to summarize" for building aca­demic curriculum, Harris said. 
"It often comes up in faculty meetings," she said. "We are talking about what Catholic character means for the University and what it might mean for the department." 
The department, however, has never felt any pressure to tailor offerings to the adminis­tration's preferences, Harris said. 

"There has never been any micromanagement from the top," she said. 
The department, she said, does not steer its classes toward a particular direction in which the University may be heading, but it is "trying to get involved in the conversa­tion" and is using the discus­
sions of the University's character and mission to engage its stu­dents. 
"It is some­thing that stu­dents are inter­ested in," she said. "[The aca­demic freedom debate] sparked discussion in all of my classes." 
Since Notre Dame has had 
who were asked said they did not notice an increase in the number of courses with a reli­gious affiliation offered for next semester. 
The primary concern for the English department, Harris said, is ensuring all majors can fulfill the requirements to graduate. 
In the English major, stu­
"We are talking about what Catholic character means for the University and what it might mean for the department.'' 
Susan Harris English professor 
religion and literature as a specialization historically -it is even its own interdiscipli­nary minor -it is difficult to determine whether there has really been an increase in Catholic courses and if it's specifically due to increased discussion about Notre Dame's Catholic character, Harris said. 
Several English students 
dents have four required classes, five elective classes and one senior seminar. The content of the electives and the senior semi­nar is "more or less up to the individual pro­
fessors,"  she  
said.  
In  the  long  

term, Harris said the depart­ment has been 

discussing putting together "a more organized set of offer­ings on religion and litera­ture." However, the Undergraduate Studies .com­mittee does not count creating courses with obvious connec­tion to strictly Catholic ideas as its first priority. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell kmcdonn3@nd.edu 


What are you doing next sumn1er? 


0 
n 


May 14-June 15, 2008 
V". All retur·ning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible V" Four and one-half week study in London V" Mid session study/travel to Paris, Norn1andy, Belfast, or ....\.msterdam ,/Earn 6 credit hours ../Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 
Information Sessions for 2008 & 2009 Programn1es: 

ril 


'
'




11 :45 to 12:30 P .l\1. DeBartolo 101 or 5:00 to 6:00P.M. DeBartolo 126 
Applications are available at 223 Brownson HalJ or on-line at www.nd.edu/~sum.lon 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 4, 2007 
Lenders 
continued from page 1 
putting a lender on the list because they give us donuts on Friday morning -come on, this is Notre Dame," Russo said. 
How Notre Dame selects its lenders and why they are on the list is made public, Russo said. 
Citibank controversy 
The New York Times reported Tuesday that Citibank and five universities agreed Monday to pay a combined $5.2 million to students and the New York attor­ney general to resolve the inves­tigation into the relationship betWeen student loan companies and colleges. 
Citibank, a preferred lender at Notre Dame, will pay $2 million into a fund to educate students and their parents about college loans. New York University, Syracuse, St. John's, Fordham and the University of Pennsylvania will pay $3.2 mil­lion to student borrowers who received loans from companies that provided money as incentive for the institutions to encourage the students to use the lenders, the Times reported. 
Neither Citibank nor the uni­versitil~s admitted any wrongful actions but nonetheless all will adopt a code of conduct regard­ing relationships between lenders and the institution. 
Otibank is one of six preferred lenders for Notre Dame. Russo called Citibank a "quality lender." 
"We have nothing but the high­est respect for them," he said. 
And Notre Dame does not receive kickbacks for putting Citibank or any other lending company on their preferred lender list, he said. 
History of the list 
The University has a preferred lender list that it developed in the early 1980s, Russo said. This list can be found on the Office of Student Financial Services' Web 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
years now, Berlo said, but wait­ed to switch the student lottery over until they felt the process was as perfected as possible. This patience, he said, would ensure the new system will not experience the same problems that other paper-to-online tran­sitions have encountered. 
"We launched online ticketing a little over three years ago, but site and is available to students and their parents in a booklet entitled "Affording a Notre Dame Education." 
The lenders on the list are Citibank Student Loans, College Board Education Loans, Chase, Nellie Mae, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union and Wells Fargo. 
Russo said he worked to devel­op a list of preferred lenders before creating such lists were common at colleges. 
Notre Dame was on the fore­front of the movement to recom­mend lenders to students because the University draws students from around the coun­try, and the wide variety of loan­ing companies that students were using proved to be "a real challenge" for the Financial Aid office at Notre Dame, Russo said. 
"[We] wanted to look for some standardization, simplification, efficiencies and of course wanted the best lenders who had the best products and services," he said. 
So Russo identified about 25 of the best lenders and sent out a questionnaire about each com­pany's products and services. 
Each company returned their answers to the surveys, and Russo then picked the seven best lenders who met every criteria. Over four years, the University phased in this preferred lender list, "which didn't demand, but encouraged students to consider these lenders who we have eval­uated have the best products and services," Russo said. 
Russo said students are not limited to just these lenders, and said the Financial Aid office can, and does, process applications from lenders that are not on the list. 
For the 25 years since the list was created, the lenders have remained the same for the most part, although two of the original seven merged, one was removed from the list and the College Board was added to the list in the 1990s. 
The lenders were chosen based on several factors of excel­lence, Russo said, including their 
given how important student ticketing is, we wanted to make sure that our online system had been tested and that it was working well before we moved it online," he said. 
The Ticket Office spent the last few years researching online ticketing procedures at other schools before finally deciding on one that worked for Notre Dame, Berlo said. 
"We tried to figure out the best way to emulate what they did at those institutions," he said. 

commitment historically, their reputation for holding onto a loan instead of selling it, their rates and their service to cus­tomers. 
These lenders were not just evaluated once, but are continu­ally evaluated to make sure they measure up to high standards, Russo said. 
Russo said the University once took a lender off the list because it failed to show the commitment they had promised after leader­ship of the company changed hands. 
Attracting lenders 

Most lenders want to get on Notre Dame's preferred lender list, Russo said, because the University's credentials attract them. The lenders are impressed by Notre Dame's statistics, Russo said, including its retention rate, graduation rate and alumni sat­isfaction with their college expe­rience. 
Lenders know that Notre Dame students also borrow a lot of money, Russo said, and they know they are responsible about paying it back. 
"I could probably go to lunch every day of the week with a bank that wants to tell me about their products and services," he said. "They want to get on this list." 
Just how much lenders want to get on a university's list is an issue that has Cuomo and now Congress concerned. 
Russo called Notre Dame a "national leader" in creating the preferred lender lists. 
"We were one of the first schools in the country to do this -only because we had no choice," he said. "It was over­whelming to deal with fifty dif­ferent ways of doing business from thousands oflenders." 
Russo said 85 percent of Notre Dame students now receive loans from one of the six preferred lenders, taking out tens of mil­lions of dollars a year in total. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at 
kriely@nd.edu 

Ticket prices have gone up $3 per game this year. Ticket books will cost $217 for Notre Dame students and $291 for Saint Mary's students. 
Notre Dame will play seven home games next fall -against Georgia Tech Sept. 1, Michigan State Sept. 22, Boston College Oct. 13, Southern California Oct. 20, Navy Nov. 3, Air Force Nov. 10, and Duke Nov. 17. 
Contact Chris Khorey ckhorey@nd.edu and Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

scholars working on things 
like, say, the political views
Rainsey 

of Augustine, do much more continued from page 1 for the Catholic character of 
Notre Dame than having a Ramsey said the rumors sim­certain percentage of ply aren't true. Catholic faculty working on 
"There was some miscom­things unrelated to a munication, but they did Catholic intellectual tradi­move to make a strong tion." counter-offer," he said, not­Still, Ramsey said there ing that the chair of the are many religious schools department made a concen­that would not allow some­trated effort to retain him. one like him to teach, and 
"I certainly appreciate students should appreciate that," Ramsey said. "As it Notre Dame's recognition turns out, relo·cating the uni-that "becoming an intellectu­
versity wasn't  - al  grown-up  
an  option,  requires expo­ 
though  I  sus­ ''I've come to  sure to a  range  
pect I'm not the only one who wishes that it  appreciate much of what Notre Dame  of different views and also having your  
was."  stands for and is  own  beliefs  
For  Ramsey,  trying to do, and I  challenged."  
his life passion of rock climbing  think that the  "If they ever lose sight of  
was  actually  a  administration  that,  it  will  
huge  motiva­ deserves credit for  make  Notre  
tion. "Here, the nearest climb­ understanding the difference between  Dame not just a poorer universi­ty, but a poorer  
ing is 400 miles  education and  Catholic univer­ 
away. there,  it's  Out 15  indoctrination."  sity," he said. Ramsey said  
miles away; in  he  sees  the  
fact Las Vegas  William Ramsey  change  as  a  
is  one  of  the  associate professor  good one, espe­ 
main climbing  of philosophy  cially because  

hubs in North America," he said. "I also enjoy mountain­biking and trail-running, and [Las Vegas] offers plenty of that as well." 
Though Ramsey is an athe­ist -and generally recog­nized as such on campus ­he said his departure really has nothing to do with reli­gion. 
"I have always felt wel­comed at Notre Dame, and that says a lot about the place," Ramsey said. "I've come to appreciate much of what Notre Dame stands for and is trying to do, and I think that the administration deserves credit for under­standing the difference between education and indoctrination." 
The recent discussion about the Catholic character of Notre Dame's faculty and the desire of some to have a majority of Catholic faculty have raised other questions about the best way to make Notre Dame distinctively Catholic, Ramsey said. Specific concerns, he said, focus on sacrificing scholar­ship for religious affiliation. 
"Imagine if similar restric­tions were placed on football recruiting," he said. "I have always believed that world­class Protestant or secular his appointment 
in Notre Dame's philosophy department has been his only academic posi­tion after graduate school. 
Ramsey will be entering the University of Nevada, Las Vegas philosophy depart­ment as one of the more sen­ior people in a "very young, but smart" department. 
"It has a lot of potential for building, and I find that exciting," Ramsey said. "They are going to have me initiate a large introductory class, and I'm hoping it will be as gratifying and stimu­lating as the one I've been teaching here." 
Though teaching at a large, secular, public univer­sity will be "very different in many ways," Ramsey said he hopes his new post will be as rewarding and "downright fun'' as his job at Notre Dame. 
Often rated among the best teachers at the University, Ramsey won the Thomas P. Madden Award for outstand­ing teaching of freshmen 1999. He was also awarded the College of Arts and Letters Sheedy Award for excellence in teaching in 2005. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


National Alcohol Screening Day is 
Thursday April Sthf Stop in for a quick check-up at NDH, SDH, or LaFortunefrom llam-lpm. 
PRIZES! FORTUNE COOKIES! GIFT­CERTIFICATES! 
Sponsored by: 
lNfVERSITY OFt:;:~:rm ()1/iu 4 rltaJht &t).., &~~ 
~OTIR.~ DAMELlsTEmNa 
1(~•••.,"1(.;>~ -:>­
104 Sw...t.!c.w..·~'.: • f$74i ~1-7'9ro 
-..d.aiM/-~ 

JPILLARSi;;~ 
U!!ivil!rnii)lCounselingCsnt'.!r 

ORLD .& NATION 
Wednesday, April 4, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVK:Es page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Britain wants dialo2ne with Iran 
LONDON -Britain called for direct talks with Iran over 15 captive Britons Tuesday after speaking for the first time with the chief Iranian negotiator. The announcement followed the sud­den release of an Iranian diplomat in Iraq that raised new hope in resolving the standoff. 
In a statement late Tuesday, Prime Minister Blair's Downing Street office said "both sides share a desire for an early resolution to this issue through direct talks." 
Hours after Foreign Secretary Margaret cau­tioned against expecting a swift resolution to the crisis, Downing Street struck an upbeat note, announcing there had been "further contacts" between the two countries, including with chief negotiator Ali Larijani. 
"The prime minister remains committed to resolving this by diplomatic means. The UK has proposed direct bilateral discussions and awaits an Iranian response on when these can begin," Blair's office said. 
National strife starts in Zimbabwe 
HARARE -Trucks of riot police drove through Zimbabwe's capital and military heli­copters flew overhead Tuesday on the first day of a national strike to protest deepening eco­nomic hardships blamed on the goverrunent of President Robert Mugabe. 
Soldiers armed with automatic rifles stood at intersections in Harare's main industrial district where some factory gates were closed, along with several banks, shops and fast food stands. Most downtown shops were open, and com­muter buses were full ofpa•;;sengers. · 
Zimbabwe's main trade unions called the two­day strike to protest an economic crisis that has brought 80 percent unemployment, the world's highest inflation rate and acute shortages of food, hard currency and gasoline. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Former FBI agent disappears in Iran 
NEW YORK -An American who mysteri­ously disappeared in Iran while on a busi­ness trip is a former FBI agent in New York and Florida known as a meticulous investi­gator and an expert in busting Italian and Russian mobsters. 
The retired agent was identified as Robert Levinson, 59, of Coral Springs, Fla., a U.S. official familiar with the case told the Associated Press on Tuesday. 
He was last heard from around March 11 while in a coastal area of southern Iran, where he was working for an independent filmmaker, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the situation. Levinson was reportedly near or on Kish Island, a resort area in the Persian Gulf. 
Democrats tell Justice aide to testify 
WASHINGTON -House Democrats on Tuesday asked a top Justice Department aide to come to Capitol Hill for a private interview in the next week on the firing of federal prosecutors, arguing that she cannot simply refuse to testify on the matter. 
Monica Goodling, who has said she would assert her Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination to avoid appearing at Senate hearings, must tell Congress which specific questions she's refusing to answer, Democrats said in a letter to her lawyer. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Military: 2 more Hoosiers die in Iraq 
A West Point graduate from northern Indiana and an Indiana National Guardsman both died in Iraq, military officials said Tuesday. 
Army 1st Lt. Neale Shank of Fort Wayne died Saturday in Baghdad, and National Guard Staff Sgt. Bradley King of LaFontaine died Monday. 
The death of 25-year-old Shank was not related to combat and was being investigated, the Department of Defense said Tuesday. King, 28, was fatally injured by an improvised explosive device during combat operations in AI Amiriyah, National Guard officials said. 
IRAQ 

Safer Baghdad pushes back curfew 
Iraqi government eases restrictions as violence falls in capital city but rises elsewhere 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD Ciling improved security in the cap­ital, the Iraqi government said Tuesday it was shorten­ing the Baghdad curfew by two hours and would allow citizens to be on the streets untillO p.m. 
The easing of the ban on movement around the city coincided with a. one-day sharp drop in the number of people known to have been killed in sectarian violence nationwide. According to police and morgue reports, 18 people were killed or found dead Tuesday. 
Violence in the capital has declined since the latest U.S.­lraqi joint security operation began on Feb. 14, though there have been spectacular attacks. 
But bloodshed has increased elsewhere in Iraq after insurgents and militia­men moved operations out of the capital in advance of the security crackdown. Last week more than 600 people were killed nationwide in sectarian attacks, mainly truck and suicide bombings thought to be the work of Sunni insurgents or al-Qaida in Iraq. 

Brig. Gen. Qassim. al­Moussawi, the spokesman for the Baghdad security operation, said the curfew of sectarian violence that A government collapse Maliki's orders and after the had been shortened in the subsequently swept Baghdad likely would have brought Kurdish threat, to a plan to capital "because the security and surrounding regions. chaos to the 7-week-old resettle to their home regions situation has improved and Shiite lawmakers, mean­Baghdad security operation Arabs who had been moved people needed more time to while, said the government with al-Maliki a lame duck into Kirkuk after Saddam go shopping." decision that likely will hand premier and commander in Hussein's Baath party came 
Since the start of the secu­the oil-rich city of Kirkuk to chief of Iraqi forces. to power in 1968. rity operation, the military Kurdish control was forced "The Kurdish coalition The plan is said to be vol­had enforced a 8 p.m. to 5 on Prime Minister Nouri al­exerted enormous pressure untary and Arabs who agree 
a.m. 
ban. Before that, the Maliki when Kurds threat­on us. One of them was a would be paid $15,500 and curfew had been 11 p.m. to 5 ened to walk out of his ruling threat by Kurdish lawmakers given a piece of property in 

a.m. 
coalition and bring down the to boycott parliament and by their regions of origin, 


Police in Samarra, howev­goverrunent. ministers to quit the govern­according to former Justice er, said U.S. and Iraqi forces The threat and al-Maliki's ment," said Haidar al­Minister Hashim al-Shibli, had taken up positions capitulation dramatically Abbadi, a member of al­who oversaw the committee around the city, 60 miles outlined the prime minister's Maliki's Dawa party. He on Kirkuk's future. north of Baghdad, and tenuous hold on power and described the Kurdish pres­While the decision avoided imposed an indefinite curfew further emphasized the pos­sures as "blackmail." what Shiite lawmaker Sarni starting at 7 p.m. Tuesday. sibility, some say the likeli­At issue was Article 140 of al-Askari said would have 
Samarra was the scene of hood, that Iraq could break Iraq's constitution that calls been "a major political cri­an al-Qaida bombing of a into Kurdish, Shiite and for a referendum in Kirkuk sis," he said the plan would Shiite holy shrine in Sunni regions with little or on the city's status by year's "cost the government about February 2006. Many blame no central government con­end. The government agreed $4 billion and that is a huge that attack for the eruption trol. Thursday, presumably on al-number." · 

SYRIA 

Bush denounces Pelosi's Syrian trip 
Associated Press 
DAMASCUS -House Speaker Nancy Pelosi mingled with Syrians in a market and made the sign of the cross at a Christian tomb Tuesday during a visit to pursue dialogue with the country's leader. President Bush denounced the trip, saying it sends mixed signals to Syria's government. 
Pelosi's visit to Syria was the lat­est challenge to the White House by congressional Democrats, who are taking a more assertive role in influencing policy in the Middle East and the Iraq war. The Bush administration, which accuses President Bashar Assad's govern­ment of supporting terrorism, has resisted calls for direct talks to help ease the crisis in Iraq and make progress in the Israel-Palestinian peace process. 

Soon after Pelosi's arrival in Damascus, Bush criticized her visit. 
"A lot of people have gone to see President Assad ... and yet we haven't seen action. He hasn't responded," he told reporters at a Rose Garden news conference. "Sending delegations doesn't work. It's simply been counterproductive." 
Pelosi, a California Democrat, did not comment on Bush's remarks before heading from the airport to Damascus' historic Old City. She was scheduled to meet Assad on Wednesday. 
Wearing a flowered head scarf and a black abaya robe, Pelosi visit­ed the 8th-century Omayyad Mosque, shaking hands with Syrian women inside and watching men in a religion class sitting cross-legged on the floor. 
She stopped at an elaborate tomb, said to contain the head of John the Baptist, and made the sign of the cross. About 10 percent of Syria's 18 million people are Christian. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, April 4, 2007 
COR 
continued from page 1 
Dominic Debonis as policy branch controller, after Brown nominated him, not­ing that he spent last sum­mer "garnering real world experience in finance, interning with Intel Software's Finance Department." 
Junior Will Kearney was approved as the new direc­tor of communications. 
"I am confident that Will is qualified for the position due to his impressive writ­ing abilities and unique flair," Brown said. "His sense of humor and enthusi­astic personality will posi­tively influence the office and transform students' per­ception of student govern­ment." 
Kearney said one area he plans to improve is Stall Notes. 
"I felt that they were a lit­tle on the boring side and tedious to read," he said. "I think we could spice them up a little bit." 
Junior .Sarah Schmall was approved as the chief con­troller for SUB. Board man­ager Phil Ross said Schmall "has the technical skills and knowledge of programming necessary to serve with other members of the Executive Board." 
Meghan Kelly and Peter Biava were approved as co-directors of programming for SUB. Kelly is a junior psychology student from Walsh Hall and Biava is a junior finance student from Keough Hall. 
Sam McDonald was approved as the director of operations for SUB. McDonald is a sophomore marketing and economics student, and in the past he has organized various events including Fall Mall and exam stress relievers. 
Laura Fox was approved as the director of publicity for SUB. Fox, a junior English student, was the Notre Dame Literary Festival programmer and worked with the current director of publicity on other projects throughout the year. 
Brown also noted that she wanted members to start thinking about goals for COR's upcoming year. 
"COR dealt with the off­campus ordinance and its effects on community rela­tions two years ago, and most recently COR has talked about fiscal policies including the recently creat­ed student endowment," she said. "That being said, we'd be open to anything that anyone would like to talk about." 
Ft~rther discussion on pos­sible initiatives will continue next week. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 

~{])u 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 www.womenscarecenter.org 


Shots .fired in CNN offices 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -In the same atrium where panic had seat­ten'ld witnesses just moments before, large-screen televisions showed CNN's coverage of a fatal shooting in the complex that houses the network's headquarters. 
"We heard the shots, pop, pop, pop," said Victoria Opalaeh, who was at a Starbucks coffee shop in the building's main atrium when the shooting occurred Tuesday in a nearby hallway. "Everybody stood up and start­ed running." 
Hundreds of diners and tourists rushed in a human wave away from the sounds of gunshots. Sandwiches were dropped in mid-bite, and a few people ducked under tables. Lines of people waiting for CNN studio tours quickly fell apart as police officers rushed to the scene. 
Soon afterward, an injured man and woman were carried out on stretchers, just feet from the televisions and the crowds watching. Police say a domestic dispute led a man to pull a gun on a woman and shoot her just before 1:30 p.m.; a security guard then shot the man. 
The woman died on arrival at a downtown hospital. The man, whose face was, covered in blood when he was carried out on a stretcher, was in critical condition. 
Police spokesman James Polite described the man as the woman's ex-boyfriend. 
The woman worked at the attached Omni Hotel, officials said. She was Clara Riddles, 22, of College Park, said Caryn Kboudi, a spokeswoman for the hotel chain, based in Texas. 

She did not know what Riddles did at the hotel, and said the company was not aware of any of the woman's domestic trou­bles. 
Minutes after the shooting, an announcement over the building's public-address sys­tem said there had been gun­fire "with potential casualties." Police cordoned off an area by the escalators near the main entrance of the building, facing Centennial Olympic Park. The park is where a bomb exploded during the 1996 Summer Olympics, killing a woman and wounding more than 100 peo­ple. 
"I heard four or five shots. I really didn't see it. I got out of there quick," said Jas Stanford, 27, who had been helping take down a temporary stage in the park used for college basket-
Got 3 weeks?· Get 3 credits! 
ball's Final Four festivities. 
Besides the Omrii Hotel, the complex includes restaurants, a bookstore and souvenir shops. It's connected to Philips 
Arena,  home  of the  NBA's  
Atlanta  Hawks  and  NHL's  
Atlanta Thrashers.  

Jacques Richard, 60, of Paris, was part of a group touring the CNN studios when he heard the gunfire. He said the group was immediately brought down an elevator and dispersed. "We had our guide with us and everyone was calm," he said. 
In the food court, Trina Johnson, 44, of Atlanta, was with her daughter on a family outing. 
"All of a sudden we heard a big boom. We thought it was an explosion," she said. "We did­
o't see the gun. Everybody just started running." 
Hey guys! 
The summer session is open to you too! 

Get summer credits ... and still have a summer break. 
/ 
Saint Mary's offers an intensive three-week summer session that lets you get the credits-and the break-you need! The /' Saint Mary's summer session offers courses on a variety of / topics including audiology, pottery wheel,. Islam, human anatomy, dance, theatre, sociology, music, and more. 
-~!~­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 

/ ./ SUMMER SESSION 2007-MAY 22-JUNE 8* 
* Five weeks required for select courses. 
For complete information visit www.saintmarys.edu/ -summer or call (574) 284-4560. 
For additional information on study abroad opportunities visit www.saintmarys.edu/-cwil or call (574) 284-4263. 
Applications will be accepted through May 18. 
Wednesday, April 4, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
12,510.30 +128.00

}ones  
Ujx  Same: Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,380  124  873  2,985,480,929  
NASDAQNYSE .  2 450.33 +28.07 9:3s:~ill~!!ro·;·n·:r··+;s~i;~  
S&PSOO  1,437.77  +13.22  

NIKKEI(Tokyo) 17,50811~; ;:1w.w;!¥.26~!lii) FTSE IOO(London) 6,366.10 +50.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
FIRST DATA CP (FDC)  -0.37  -0.12  32.33  
NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ)  + 1.31  +0.57  44.16  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.17  -0.01  5.79  
S&P RECEIPTS (SPY)  + 1.08  + 1.53  143.69  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.47  +0.022  4.664  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  4.905  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.21  +0.0 I 0  4.846  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.64  +0.029  4.562  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.30  64.64  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -1.80  669.70  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.08  I 01.28  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  11a755o  
EURO  0.7499  
POUND  0.5066  
CANADIAN$  1.1586  

IN BRIEF 
Southwest Airlines reaches settl~ment 
CHICAGO -Southwest Airlines Co. has reached a settlement with the family of a 6-year-old Indiana boy who was killed when one of the air­line's jets skidded off a runway and slammed into a car in which he was riding. 
Joshua Woods' parents filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Southwest and Boeing Co., the plane's manufacturer, in Cook County Circuit Court nearly a year ago. The suit alleged that both companies made mistakes and missteps that led to the Dec. 8, 2005, accident at Midway International Airport. 
A spokeswoman for Dallas-based Southwest said Monday that the airline and the Woods family were the only parties to the settlement reached in February. Calls to the family's attorneys and Chicago-ba-sed Boeing were not immediately n~turned Monday evening. 
Financial details of the settlement were not released. 
Stocks rise as house market rebounds 
NEW YORK -Stocks surged Tuesday on signs of resilience in the housing market and the U.S. consumer, with falling oil prices giving investors an extra reason to rally. The Dow Jones industri­als gained more than 120 points to reach a five­week high. 
The National Association of Realtors' index for pending sales of existing homes rose in February at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 0.7 per­cent. The index is well below where it was a year ago but stronger than investors expected, reas­suring them that the housing sector, while weak, is not being pummeled by the struggling subprime mortgage sector. 
Fears that lending problems will spill over into the rest of the economy have been a major factor behind the market's volatility of the past several weeks. The uptick in home sales was slight but came as a pleasant surprise to investors who had been bracing for the worst. 
"That says people are getting mortgages, people are buying houses, people have incomes, jobs, all that good stuff," said Kim Caughey, equity research analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group. "You'd never go out and buy a house if you think you're going to get laid off. Consumers are optimistic about the future, and as we all know, the con­sumer drives this economy." 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Toyota pickup sales on the rise 
Ford still leads nation in total truck sales, but sales down sharply since March 2006 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -The fight over the key pickup truck market played out in automakers' March sales figures, with Toyota making some gains. 
But Ford, GM and 
Chrysler continued to hold 
their own against the latest 
competition from the 
Japanese. And GM says 
Toyota is drawing from a 
very loyal customer base for 
its Tundra buyers, not from 
owners of GM's trucks. 
"We're not seeing a lot of cross-shopping occurring," said Paul Ballew, GM's exec­utive director of global mar­ket and industry analysis. 
Toyota sold 13,196 Tundras in March, up 11.8 percent from a year ago. The redesigned Tundra, Toyota's first true full-size pickup, is a sign of the com­pany's ambitions in a lucra­tive sector dominated by American automakers. 
"Competition has ramped up considerably since we introduced this product in February," said Don Esmond, senior vice presi­dent of automotive opera­tions for Toyota Motor Corp.'s U.S. arm, in a con­ference call. 

Ford Motor Co. regained from General Motors Corp. the claim to having the nation's top-selling pickup truck last month. Even Ford and DaimlerChrysler. Detroit Three have seen increase. So far this year, though F-series sales fell Toyota reported Tuesday Asian rivals led by Toyota Toyota has sold 61,635 
15.1 percent from March that its U.S. sales jumped capture growing shares of hybrids in the U.S., up 68 2006, the industry's best 11.7 percent compared with the U.S. market. Autodata's percent from the first three month of the year, the com­a year ago, boosted by figures show GM, the months of last year. That pany still sold 71,481 last record hybrid sales and world's largest automaker, includes 28,453 hybrids last month. And it says increas­strong overall car sales. had 22.4 percent of the U.S. month. ing availability of the 2008 Industrywide, light vehicle market in March, with Ford Toyota's previous best Super Duty should help sales by major automakers holding 17.1 percent and sales month was last July, future F-series sales. rose 0.8 percent to 1.54 mil­Toyota with 15.7 percent. when it sold 241,826 vehi­
Overall, the best monthly lion, Autodata Corp. said. Still, GM and Ford said sales cles in the U.S. sales performance ever for The overall rise in U.S. of their newer vehicles gen­Detroit-based GM, whose Toyota and gains by fellow sales came despite GM and erally improved. fleet sales dropped for the Japanese automakers DaimlerChrysler 's sales In all, Toyota sold 242,675 month as it works to cut American Honda Motor Co. falling about 4 percent each Toyota and Lexus vehicles low-profit sales to rental car and Nissan North America and Ford posting a 9 per­in the U.S., including companies, sold 345,418 Inc. helped the industry in cent drop. Ford still held off 140,009 cars, up 19.4 per­light vehicles, including March top last year's best Toyota for the No. 2 U.S. cent from the same month a 136,866 cars, up 2.3 per­month for U.S. sales -sales spot for the month. year ago, and 102,666 cent, and 208,552 trucks, despite declines by GM, The numbers come as the trucks, a 2. 7 percent down 7.7 percent. 

Justice tries to close 125 tax stores 
Associated Press Sohail and other defendants "creat­lent returns. ed, directed, fostered, and maintained Managers at the franchises repeated­
WASHINGTON -The government a business environment" at the ly told tax preparers that "we are not said Tuesday it is trying to shut down Jackson Hewitt franchises "in which the IRS" and that it is not their respon­more than 125 Jackson Hewitt tax fraudulent tax return preparation is sibility to prevent customers from filing preparation stores in four states for encouraged and flourishes," according bogus returns. systematic "tax-fraud schemes." to court documents. Many of the stores catered to cus­
The Justice Department accuses the Employees were encouraged to tomers seeking refund anticipation· franchises of bilking the government ignore telltale signs of fraudulent infor­loans based on phony returns. out of more than $70 million through mation and to file claims even when it In one instance, a Jackson Hewitt fraudulent practices such as using was obvious customers were using franchise customer claimed a fuel tax phony W-2 forms, bogus deductions fake W-2 forms or false deductions. credit so absurd that the tax filer and fuel tax t::redits and false claims A sample of returns prepared by would have had to drive almost 1,400 regarding the earned income tax cred­franchises connected to Sohail found miles a day. it. 31 percent contained false information The suits seek court orders shutting 
Jackson Hewitt Tax Services Inc. is such as phony earned income tax cred­down the franchises. the nation's second largest tax prepar­it claims, bogus deductions and fraud­"I am deeply disturbed by the allega­er. The franchises were either totally ulent W-2 forms. tion that a major franchisee of the or partially owned by Farrukh Sohail, The suits, filed in federal courts in nations second-largest tax preparation the Justice Department said, and Chicago, Atlanta, Detroit and Raleigh, firm is intentionally preparing improp­involved "a pervasive and massive N.C., also allege that managers and er tax returns with inflated refunds," series of tax-fraud schemes," accord­employees at the Jackson Hewitt fran­said IRS Commissioner Mark W. ing to court filings. chises took kickbacks for filing fraudu-Everson. 

page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 4, 2007 
Giuliani visits Iovva for race 
Presidential candidate stops in Hawkeye state 
Associated Press 
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa -GOP 
presidential hopeful Rudy 
Giuliani, the consummate New 
Yorker, sought on Tuesday to 
convince conservative Iowa 
Republicans he has plenty in 
common with them. 
"We're all much more similar 

than we think, whether you're 
in Iowa or you're in New York, 
or California or somewhere 
else, you've got the same 

issues," the former New York 
mayor said on his first visit to 
the important early-voting state 
since becoming a presidential 
candidate. 
"This is no different than campaigning in New York," he added. "You walk around. You talk to people. You listen to what they have to say." 
Giuliani backs abortion rights ·and gay rights, stances that may hurt him among the state's con­servative GOP voters, who will help choose the Republican nominee. Those positions ­and his previous absence in Iowa -have fueled speculation that he may bypass the leadoff caucus state as GOP rival John McCain did in his unsuccessful 2000 bid. 
However, Giuliani indicated he would compete in Iowa, telling reporters: "It looks very, very good for us. It's a place where we're competitive. It looks like a place where we would have good chance." 
Still, it wasn't clear to what degree he would focus on Iowa. He was holding just two events on his inaugural visit to the state, a walking tour of a Cedar Rapids neighborhood and a question-and-answer session in West Des Moines. 
GOP caucusgoers in Iowa tend to be more conservative than the Republican Party as a whole. Giuliani, however, sup­ports domestic benefits for gay couples and believes individuals have the right to decide whether to get an abortion. 
As he campaigns, Giuliani tries to allay conservatives' con­cerns on both fronts. He empha­sizes his opposition to gay mar­riage. He also maintains that he personally opposes abortion and insists that he would appoint conservative judges who would "strictly interpret" the Constitution, which some conservatives take as a refer­ence to overturning Roe v. Wade. 
Some leaders in Iowa believe he must do more. 
"The campaign has not made any overtures to sit down with some of the key activists," said Steve Scheffier, president of the Iowa Christian Alliance, who is staying neutral in the race. "He's going to have to discuss specific issues where we want specific answers." 
Giuliani made no apologies for his positions. "I am who I am. People have to evaluate the whole record," he said. 
A national hero in the after­math of the Sept. 11, 2001, ter­rorist attacks, Giuliani leads all other Republican contenders in national popularity polls despite his deficiencies in the eyes of conservatives. 
Forecaster predicts busy storm season 
Associated Press 
DENVER A top researcher predicted a "very active" 2007 Atlantic hurri­cane season Tuesday, with at least nine hurricanes and a good chance one will hit the 
U.S. coast. 
The forecast by William Gray predicts 17 named stornis this year, five of them major hurricanes. The proba­bility of a major storm making landfall on the U.S. coast this year is 7 4 percent, compared with the average of 52 percent over the past century, he said. 
Here's the plan that gets me 
everything I need: 
• 
1000 Anytime Minutes for $49.99 ~ Unlimited CALL ME Minutes~ ' Unlimited Night & Weekend Minutes 

starting at 7 p.m. 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
FREE Incoming Picture Messages 



~ 

Devin Oklahoma Motorola Sliver RAZR 
Mobile AIM• application Is a separate 
service requiring sep~~r•te Ht~p. 

Offer valt.'i 'Ni'tt: t\~J ~r;:tr :1$'.11\ie !~Jfl~:~:~nt an w11j1~ H!"f'x1 n~t:h al S49 99 an\1 hi~!hE:r J\il ~J:nkf ngr:~Hrnfr.ll:=: ::un~:l/.:1 ;_-; earfv· \i:"'!r:llfHtbn !m I)OOil nnr.r:JV.a: requ1:s:.t $80 ar.li'v<ttnr: ~~~:) $:5 f:11~;1C!1~1:t ct:rJnqelw K.;am~1~! t.harg:1:. f:¥.r:. &;1-ri':a~~e~, a*.:·a~;e d'~.rget:, ar..fl ttJxes a;.:p:y $1:-*:~ R~;;u!t:tay Ci.Bt R~cGvHry Ff..'fJ :w~~1. ~~*~ ~i noi a tax nr gGVfJfllflllmi l"f'f.JtJ:rt:.:fJ rJ1~1~ge. I owl nel~v,·.~-x. aM~tag(~ fnj n~~iarl!!;t"' rrl.i:rv Vfi'i !JJiJ~; r.1urxk~l q,; lo tt~:, r~;¥t f.Ji! IT"il'Jlu USit rJJ !J.l'fi~t! a')!·~,Uit.!tt:;s ~JCCi.~)!anw of oor k1 m~ wr.J mld!tir!!·~:; ()"JJi3! r~tJ1i:...iiL"~"~ Hi"X/i Unlimited CALL M£ Minutes.. a:·r: ;)11 d:!!l;;~:m frr-.rr: pa~.a(;-e mintrtcr. ar::j t£11 Bvr~lnhie onry t1:">.10 k\"":l):.;:r.g r.:-::~~ 1n ~f~JJ &)1:;-~ r:a!hng :~r;,;: :. C<'.ait:·~it:q ..vea diffa~: ::om r.al"iT:ai ~~l:r:g ~li{:a Unlimited Nights & Weekends w·Ud ~·lkY!C'Ifh: mrm(il: F-riday t pm. to 6::,g am r:-r:d rt ::iav :Sc'!hr'£!': .and r~r..1"1y N~j.1t W¥~ ;,~;.Kl rnk:t.Hffi fl!; fMtlat.~~ !n k.:-<1~ ca!~::J aH=.:d ordv. Picture Messaging :,\~:;\:t~ lJ.~; Gel1U[J!-$ am.'f:J?-;d 0!1i.Yli.l J!>.J ,;:.~:g.: pir;r:. r:cture W:e:.~Jt\J orr.y f..Vil~.f.il"~t~ tYl ~xt.:ryttjgl?~ fX.M}fagu l!t'J. You mJy W dtll"g:.;.j rr.r ~Jdl..~e :'!'~s_;agt.l!: ~tt! lrr1:: fJ.Jr yi"XIhl, Hv~Y. ~ r·a df.llrv'fJrOO lc tt't?. :::lff:Cec if'.2~:!eri due ro S'y~lem cr OO:T:I"XJt:bi:ity :S&.:e:; US Cei~;iaf%·1s not re.spr;rSit)f:: !!.1r cor:ter:t o! o!ct:.i!C$ Text Messaging· :~';t1a: ~Jl:..ltle an:! l}€!""'h-:S reQt.trec lrer. m,~-.<';1 be in L~r ~~Jlfal !(11.1;1 W!rxl r~e.a irt ~'i:Cf. ~o wc?k. F\.~Ci.ft,~\r r:l::.'>' df:f.tf·d .T: omer m:ra:s !"'£t't...:mc am IJ1(.J!t..>S. u.s Ceit:..tt~ ~ fK)i Ji.2!:l!11V0 !f~~>UJI'Jl frt,.zyy (X 1inrJ!=fK.'!~ ~ ::.;(; d:WK.Jf:r lint Pf: ffiff.i:~~JiJ I;."':I" 'fJ)(;. 1~1\roi'jh"j ' ::. CctUc..;fi' (ij~ ~f..>e;tY.fi~il!t: ;u: t'A"Y":I~I"rt of f(!f;s:iig:?.S. A(.118f{JfJ or $[) 1~ rx.~ (,~Jigoi!1J f!l,.~~: ~i!XP.!es ,: !lr; f!U:..~J!)J ~)(!tj.".Jge ~s ~:00 ~~ ~;.Xf:J:!':'J pif..kl:f..~ r."l:.: ~~ e>:a:cded. Rx" =~t tr~"i.l!:. ~zy ,_X"f'=tt:l:t !i).i;.Ki:ng r-ev r..r:Gr:-e n.:moo: may 00 r:trnr:epted by :hird nr:rne~~ (By-~ US f. ~-~!t:~~ Te~ ~..,lr~-~.aq!ng "f.':t agroo ro bf..: I.K.r...o.i h~· & i~ a:n ro.""Y.t:x·lf}.. .1J W1N< u..m .. i~~! a:n'.tMe:Xt)ingte·:ry;) ~-~ 2f.(;7 AO:.. u Cl\1: RtJ.15 rm:·o£-...:.:.! ACt.:..~..~ a:~J fmtv t ~S! m: !1~~1 !r~r.iuwxKs o! Af.lf. U.C. Sffl: stm: fr;r ,r..::-3:;.~ U!l~lm Grnc o:ia ©;r.YJQl U.S. Ce!i::1.1:-t-
The forecast, issued two months before the hurricane season starts, is virtually iden­tical to the one Gray issued before the 2006 season, which turned out far quieter than he and others had feared. 
"Our forecast skill does improve as we get closer to the start of the season," said Phil Klotzbach, a member of Gray's team at Colorado State University. "Stay tuned." 
Last May, Gray's team fore­cast 17 named storms in 2006, including nine hurricanes, five of them major ones, and an 81 percent chance that at least one major hurricane would hit the U.S. Scientists with the National Hurricane Center and two other National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration agencies issued similar predictions. 
Instead, there were 10 named storms in 2006 and five hurricanes, two of them major ones, in what was con­sidered a "near normal" sea­son. None of those hurricanes hit the U.S. Atlantic coast ­only the 11th time that has occurred since 1945. 
Gray's team said a late, unexpected El Nino con­
tributed to the calmer season last year. El Nino -a warm­ing in the Pacific Ocean -has far-reaching effects that include changing wind pat­terns in the eastern Atlantic, which can disrupt the forma­tion of hurricanes. 
Over the past winter, a weak to moderate El Nino occurred but dissipated rapidly, Klotzbach said. 
"Conditions this year are likely to be more conducive to hurricanes," he said. In the absence of El Nino, "winds aren't tearing the storm sys­tems apart." 
! I 
i. 
~ 
I '
a
~ 
Take our best network challenge, test our products, experience our customer service and make sure they are right for you. 
U~. Cellular 
... 'IJ"'lJI~! •..tiJ.: ­
Check out the ALL NEW getusc.com 
1-888-buy·tlSCC 
J 


------~--­
Wednesday, April 4, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
EPA revives request to set errtission standards 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -The Bush administration has reopened California's stalled peti­tion seeking to control greenhouse gases after the Supreme Court's ruling this week that the govern­ment can regulate emissions from cars. 
The action by the Environmental Protection Agency breathes life into California's effort to become the first state to cut tailpipe emissions from cars, light trucks and sport utility vehi­cles. It also could influence the outcome of an auto industry law­suit in California to block the state regulations, contained in a 2002 state law. 
"We've reviewed the issues within the waiver request," EPA spokeswoman Jennifer Wood said Tuesday. "We're moving forward to the next steps of the process." 
The agency next will schedule a public comment period and public hearing. 
At stake is California's 2005 petition to gain an exemption from the federal Clean Air Act, which does not regulate green­house gas emissions from cars. The state law passed in 2002 would reduce the emissions from cars and light trucks by 25 per­cent and from sport utility vehi­cles by 18 percent starting in 2009 -and requires the waiver for implementation. 
Ten other states have since adopted California's standard, while Maryland is considering a bill that would enact it. 
The EPA had argued that the agency could not regulate green­house gas emissions from vehicles because to do so would require an increase in fuel economy stan­dards, something only the U.S. 
Department of Transportation can set. 
But in its 5-4 decision Monday, the Supreme Court ruled that the EPA had such authority. 
"It's clear EPA has to consider California's waiver request now," said Sean Hecht, executive direc­tor of the environmental law cen­ter at the University of California, Los Angeles. "That doesn't mean it's a foregone conclusion with respect to the waiver request." 
California has special authority under the federal Clean Air Act to set its own vehicle pollution stan­dards because it began regulating air pollution before the federal government did in the 1970s. Other states that want to adopt California's, standard cannot implement it until the EPA grants California a waiver. 
Monday's court ruling also prompted movement Tuesday in a separate lawsuit brought by the auto industry to prevent California from moving forward with its reg­ulations ifit receives the waiver. 
The California Air Resources Board, along with several envi­ronmental groups, officially noti­fied U.S. District Judge Anthony Ishii of the Supreme Court's deci­sion. In January, he placed the lawsuit on hold pending a deci­sion by the court. 
.It's unclear what the next step will be in the case, which is being heard in federal court in Fresno. But both sides said the Supreme Court's decision favors their argu­ment. 
"The case will affect all of the pending litigation that California has with both the auto companies and Midwestern energy compa­nies," California Attorney General Jerry Brown said in an interview Monday with The Associated Press. 
SOLOMON ISLANDS 

Tsunami victims receive aid 
Associated Press 
HONIARA -The first boat­loads of international aid reached survivors of a devas­tating tsunami in the Solomon Islands on Tuesday, but offi­cials warned of a dire food shortage if supplies don't quickly get to hundreds of people camped on remote hill­sides. 
At least 28 people died in Monday's tsunami and quake, measured at a magnitude of 
8.1 by the U.S. Geological Survey. The victims include a bishop and three worshippers killed when a wave hit a church and a New Zealand man who drowned trying to save his mother, who remains missing. 
Disaster officials said the toll was expected to rise as rescue crews reached outlying vil­lages that were flattened by the waves. Bodies could be seen floating in the water by authorities conducting aerial surveys of the destruction; there was no official count of those missing. 
Some of more than 2,000 people who spent Monday night camped on a hill behind the town of Gizo returned Tuesday to look for supplies or loved ones. Others were too afraid to venture to the coast amid more than two dozen aftershocks, including at least four of magnitude-6 or stronger. 
Julian Makaa of the National Disaster Management Office said more than 900 homes had been destroyed around Gizo and about 5,000 people affected. 
Boats reached Gizo on Tuesday from the Solomons' capital, Honiara, carrying food and other supplies, some of which was distributed to sur­vivors. But officials said short­ages would become dire with­in days without more help. 


"There is no food available" in Gizo and Noro, a nearby town, said government spokesman Alfred Maesulia. "Some settlements have been completely wiped out by the waves." 
Australia, New Zealand, the International Red Cross and the United Nations were among those offering aid, but no formal relief plan was announced after a day of meetings by senior govern­ment officials. Makaa said the airport had been cleared of debris and would reopen Wednesday. 
tin-and thatched-roof build­ings collapsed along the muddy shore. Other structures leaned awkwardly on broken stilts as men picked through the debris. 
"There are some very ragged, remote areas and there's no connecting roads, (just) isolated villages," Deputy Police Commissioner Peter Marshall told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio. 
Makaa said officials could only guess at the numbers of dead in the most remote vil­lages, where two-way radio is the usual mode of contact with the outside world. 
The earthquake, which struck about six miles beneath the sea floor and 25 miles from Gizo, set off alarms from Tokyo to Hawaii, testing pro­
MAKE A DIFFERENCE WITH SOCIAL WORK 

Join Saint Mary's College Nationally Accredited Social Work Program this sum­mer and next fall and learn how to work with people in all settings: individuals, families, communities and organizations. With the knowledge you gain here, you can truly make a difference in the lives of others. 
Summer Session: May 21st-June 8th Sexuality, Intimacy and Relationships 
Monday-Friday 6:00-9:00 p.m. 
Family Violence and Sexual Abuse Issues 
Monday-Friday 9:00-12:00 p.m. 
Fall Courses Introduction to Social Work 
Tuesday and Thursday 11:00-12:15 p.m. or Tuesday and Thursday 3:30-4:45 
Relationships, Intimacy and Sexuality 
Wednesdays 6:00-8:30 p.m. 
Human Behavior and the Social Environment I Monday, Wednesday and Friday 9:00-9:50 a.m. or 
Tuesday and Thursday 6:00-7:15 p.m. 
Intercultural Leadership Development 
Monday and Wednesday 3:00-4:15p.m. 
Department of Social Work -Dr. Fran Kominkiewicz, Director ---~~··-·-­574/284-45I 5 kominkie(ij;saintmarys.edu Saint Mazy's Colleg~For course descriptions and more information: www.saintmarys.edu/~socwork/ 
NOTRE DAME -INDIANA 

Six doctors and 13 nurses cedures put in place after the would be among the first 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami flown to the towns of Munda that left 230.000 dead or miss­and Gizo, where the region's ing in a dozen countries. only hospital was inundated But because of Gizo's prox­with water, he said. imity to the epicenter, the 
Disaster teams that flew destructive waves -up to 16 over the coast around Gizo feet high -hit before an reported the "destruction was alarm could be sounded. The massive and widespread," said disaster has rekindled debate Fred Fakarii, chairman of the about whether the multimil­National Disaster Management lion-dollar warning systems Council. installed after the 2004 tsuna­
Aerial TV footage showed mi are worth the cost. 
Lutheran Services ELCA 
Gloria Dei Lutheran Church 
225 E. Haney St., South Bend Parking: Broadway at Carroll, 2 blocks east ofMichigan 
Maundy Thursday Eucharist, Foot Washing Good Friday Prayer Vigil7am-7pm Saturday Easter Vigil Bpm Easter Sunday 1Dam, Pancake Breakfast Bam-9am 

-----~---;------------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, April 4, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
T1HJ.J.p..Je.4 Doily N-_..-$<rvi.gNon. Dam. muls.w.t MmY• 
P.O. Box m, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPOIITS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYsTEMs ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Noue Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisuation ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparunent editors. Commentaries, letrers and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infurmation. 
fbtestions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanr/4. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer {USPS 599-14000} is pubtuhed Monday through Ftiday m:tpt during exam and va<:arion periods. Asubscription to Tht Observer is $100 for ont academic year: $55 for one scmest.er. 
The Observer is published at:. POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send 2ddress rotreaions to: Nom Dame, 1N 465'%-0779 The Obruv<r Periodical postag~ paid ar Notte Dame P.O.IloxTI'J and additional mailing offid::lh 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame-, IN -46.5-564>779 
The Observer is ,a member ofdu: ksm:iated P.ras. All reproduction rights .are 
~ 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Marcella Berrios Chris Hine Aaron Steiner Bill Brink John Tierney Tim Labarge Viewpoint Scene Kara King Sean Sweany Graphics Tae Andrews Jeff Albert 

No money, mo' problems 
Over spring break technology dropped a massive bomb on me. Not only is my year-and-a-half-old Mac iBook on its last leg, but my iPod's hard drive is damaged, and my dog ate my digital camera. No lie. She really did. 
Needless to say, I am in dire need of some technological replacements. With the help of a gentle reminder from my parents, I unfortu­nately realized I am a little light on cash flow. Considering I haven't received a paycheck since August, the bi-week­ly "Rocco's money" sent to me by Nana is spent-albeit very well-at Rocco's and my birthday is not until October, I am going to have to hold off on replac­ing my beloved iPod and will just have to make do with my the-T-key-doesn't­work-laptop for the time being. 
Unfortunately, Babs and George Sr. didn't give their son George the same gentle reminder my parents gave me before he decided to go to war. The United States was deficit spending before the war even began, constantly fighting the rising costs of Social Security and health care. While I sym­pathize with the President in making finaD.cial decisions, the difference between deciding whether or not to buy a new pair of designer jeans when your funds are already low and deciding whether or not to go to war with anoth­er country is stark. Perhaps the President rushed into making this world-altering decision, and perhaps he should have done some research before doing so. 
If Bush had done a little financial investigating, he would have undoubt­edly noticed that the United States couldn't afford to go to war. America 

Katie Palmltler 
A Word to the l'Wse 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

can barely afford to function as it is, relying too heavily on our China-issued MasterCard. And with Baby Boomers on the verge of eligibility for Social Security and healthcare, the country will soon be on a downward spiral towards bankruptcy. 
While Social Security and healthcare are in dire need of reform, they are both necessary and manageable. The war in Iraq, however, has come to be perceived as not so necessary and quite unmanageable. Because of the current war and because of lack of funding, Social Security and health care have not received the attention they deserve dur­ing the shift of the Baby Boomers. The war is eating up the United States' already limited funds, leaving social welfare, education and healthcare pro­grams by the wayside. 
Not only are Social Security and healthcare suffering from war costs, but post-war expenses are also being neg­lected. Many people fail to realize that we are going to be paying for these hon­orable soldiers long after their tour is complete. Soldiers are coming back with physical and mental healthcare needs, and those needs deserve the highest level of care. 
So you may be wondering how we are going to pay for this. It's obviously not going to come from taxes -taxes remain low despite the current rise in spending. While taxpayers may be happy now, their children and grand­children will soon be paying for their stinginess. Usually when a country goes to war, all the citizens are in some way affected, such as through the draft or through an increase in taxes. American citizens have yet to feel the repercus­sions of this war. It seems unfair to have such a small percentage of citizens involved. But because taxes have not been adjusted and because there is no draft, many Americans remain unaf­fected. It would only be fair then, nonetheless rational, to have an increase in taxes during wartime. Higher taxes seem like such a small price to pay when soldiers are losing their lives and family and friends are losing their loved ones. 
Eliminating tax cuts, however, will never happen. Not with this administra­tion, at least. While already fighting declining approval ratings, a tax increase is unlikely to be seen. However, an increase in taxes could be the answer to the country's financial problem. If some financial rearranging does not happen soon, you and I are going to be the ones suffering the con­sequences. My generation, as well as future generations, will undoubtedly be paying the costs of the country's current financial insufficiency. Not only will we be paying off financial debts, but also a debt to society. Over the past several years, the United States has created many enemies, and it will be up to my generation to mend those broken rela­tionships. 
Along with occasionally reminding me of my poor spending habits, my parents always advised me to never bite off more than I can chew. While not com­pletely broke, I just can't swallow the price of a new Mac and digital camera right now. But in time, I will hopefully have the resources. The United States, although already suffering from a severe deficit, can be capable handling the situation. We just need to take it one bite at a time. The more people become aware of and express America's fman­cial problem, the more likely change will take place, and thus the more likely current U.S. citizens and future genera­tions will be saved from fmancial bur­dens. 
Katie Palmitier is a sophomore political science major. She can be contacted at kpalmiti@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
Do you feel the Notre Dame Law School is well respected? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A person may cause evil to others not only by his actions but by his inaction, and in either case he is justly accountable to them for the injury. " 
John Stuart Mill English economist 


--------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 4, 2007 page 11 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
UWIRE 


Google Maps misleads users with old photos 
It may be time to break out the whitewash, at least if you're Coogle, Inc. 
The Associated Press recently reported that Coogle Maps has replaced its most recent images of New Orleans with satellite photos taken before Hurricane Katrina devastated the city more than a year ago. 
The news of the apparent switch has left many in the city stunned and angry. 
Though New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin says there's Jonathan no conspiracy, that the city did not encourage Coogle Sanders to remove the "rebuilding" images in order to promote 
Ball State 

tourism, the question must be asked: Were Coogle's 
University

intentions pure? 
Daily News

If not, what's next? 
Could we soon look at New York and see images of the city pre-Sept. 11? Many movies since September 11 have gone to great lengths to remove imagery of the Twin Towers, so what's to stop Coogle Maps from rewriting history by putting them back in? 
Better yet, we should be asking ourselves why Coogle would think history needs to be messed with at all. 
New Orleans was devastated by Katrina. The world knows it; it's been ingrained in our consciousness. So what is to be gained by eliminating the images of people rebuilding the city? 
Coogle spokesman Chikai Ohazama told the AP that the pre-Katrina images were the best it has to offer. "Numerous factors decide what goes into the databases," he said, "everything from resolution to quality, to when the actual imagery was acquired." 
It's difficult to believe, however, that there's any good reason for Coogle to have jumped back 18 months to highlight a New Orleans that no longer exists. 
Flashing back to photos of a city that existed in August 2005 isn't going to boost tourism for the city in April 2007. So if the city applied pressure to Coogle to "backdate" its imagery they did so under a misguided and embar­rassing plan. 
And if Coogle Earth is looking to truly be "the ultimate research, presenta­tion and collaboration tool for location-specific information," as it implies on their Web site, what is accomplished by visually traveling back in time and providing the world with images of a world that does not exist? 
Last week the Daily News exposed flaws in the Wikipedia database, which students frequently use for class work. Wikipedia, however, is controlled by a non-profit organization and a network of volunteer contributors who work to keep material up-to-date. Any flaws in their database are because of out­right vandalism or mere ignorance on the part of contributors. 
Coogle, however, is a multi-billion-dollar corporation attempting to control as much of the Internet pie as it can get its hands on. With Google Earth it has an opportunity to provide the world with a wealth of satellite imagery at the click of a mouse. 
Instead it chooses to either cater to the whims of city governments hoping to boost tourism, or worse, it would rather direct surfers to the New Orleans that featured more "searchable monuments," a way to direct traffic. 
Coogle Earth therefore creates the world Coogle wants us to see, the world that brings more hits and looks prettier and more palatable to the consumer. 
That, my friends, is much worse than any threat Wikipedia imposes. 
This column first appeared in the April 3 edition ofthe Daily News, the daily paper at Ball State University. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Submit a Letter to the Editor or Guest Column to viewpoint.l @nd.edu or online at www.ndsmcobserver.com. Letters to the Editor uld be no more than 350 
words in I longer than with name, year, 
include the a 
Submissions must be in by 3:00 p.m. to be considered for publication the next day. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A111erica the [censored] 

Twenty years after the greatest American of all-time, Ronald Reagan, defeated Communism with his bare hands, traces of Communism are starting to creep back right here at Notre Dame. As Bookstore Basketball kicks off, I can't help but notice that the censorship of team names closely resembl~s the same censorship that defined Soviet Russia during the Cold War. 
"5 Guys that Love Tim Hardaway ... But in a Totally Hetero Way," now known as "Team 51," are simply five guys who admire the basketball skills of anyone who can average 17.7 points per game and a staggering 8.2 assists per game over 15 years in the NBA. We are just trying to show our support for an NBA legend, regardless of how the liberal media portrays him off the court. 
A friend of mine's team, "The Sticky Bandits" was censored and replaced with "Team 201." As many of you do know, and all of you should know, the Sticky Bandits were the bad guys from Home Alone 2 and also a sequel to this guy's team from last year, "The Wet Bandits" (from the original Home Alone). After a week of confusion over his censored name, my buddy hopped on UrbanDictionary.com to fmd that the Sticky Bandit is also a vulgar sexual act, the details of which I will leave out of this let­
ter. 
I know that Student Activities has started 
using UrbanDictionary to try to stay on top of 
all the new, hip lingo kids are using nowadays, 
but anyone can post a definition, regardless of 
whether or not it is actually common slang. I 
myself have added the defmition for "Rock the 
Cashbox," even though I am pretty sure no one 
outside a handful of people have ever used the 
phrase. Completely appropriate teams such as 
"Kittens and Puppies," "Sunshine," and "The 
Little Engine That Could" are all names that 
were unjustly censored this year for unknown 
reasons. 
Just as our Forefathers believed when they 
founded this great nation of ours, it is a much 
worse evil to censor the freedom of innocent ·people than to allow those with wrong inten­
tions to speak freely. 
Student Activities, open this gate. 
Student Activities, tear down this wall. 
Tom Martin 
JUniOr 
Siegfried Hall 
April3 

Sacrilegious leprechaun? 
In light of the recent theological debates taking place in Viewpoint these past few weeks, and with religious issues on people's minds, now seems the perfect time to broach this subject. I believe that our mascot, the leprechaun, should be removed and replaced by another figure, one that more closely fits with this school's Catholic teachings and tradition. 
The leprechaun, while great for stirring up crowds, is an idol which draws worship away from the Lord. I propose to replace this pagan idol, which engenders belief in the so-called "luck of the Irish" and draws attention away from the faith of the Irish, with a Catholic fig­ure like St. Francis of Assisi. Such a figure would be a mascot that students and fans alike could rally behind, while not taking away from the Catholic n~ature of this great institution. Should the luck of the Irish really be the message that this school sends to everyone who views our sports teams? This could be a great opportunity to spread God's message in a forum that so often ignores it. Should this univer­sity really say no to a previously untapped forum such as this? 
Yours in Christ, 
Michael J. Scully sophomore Zahm House April2 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, April 4, 2007 


;&"'
• , > 
-
REVIEW By TAE ANDREWS 
Film critics have pointed out ing champ who is banned from that a secret cabal exists which the sport for life after a fracas runs the majority of Hollywood with Jimmy MacElroy, played by comedies these days. This group, Jon l-Ieder. known as the "Frat Pack" as At this stage of his career, both a play on Frank Sinatra's Ferrell's acting is pretty much "Rat Pack" and a reference to plug-and-play: throw him into the group's collaboration on the any role as any professional and smash comedy Old School, has he'll deliver. Ferrell is more or 
including BLADES···.
members  less the same  
in  all  of his  
Will Ferrell,  OF  performances  

b r o t h e r s GLORY Owen and Luke Wilson, Vince Vaughn, Ben Stiller and Jack Black. 
This elite comedy circle has had collaborations on films such as "Anchorman: The Legend of Hon Burgundy," "Old School," "Dodgeball," "Starsky & Hutch," and "Zoolander" -in other words, most of the funniest films to come out in the last decade. 
These same haters have criti­cized that the comedy from this Frat Pack has become a bit for­mulaic -the fraternity brothers seem to just mix and match pairs for buddy comedies and sprinkle in impromptu cameos for added measure. Which might be a problem -if that formula was­n't so damn funny. 
"Blades of Glory" starts with a base of Frat Pack ringleader Will Ferrell, pairs it with Jon "Napoleon Dynamite'"s l-Ieder, then throws the two of them on skates as a male-on-male dou­bles team and lets hilarity ensue. 
As he did in "Anchorman" and "Talladega Nights," Will Ferrell celebrates the mediocrity of the American male in "Blades of Glory" to hilarious effect. With his signature deadpan delivery of dimwit lines, penchant for inappropriate remarks and ten­dency to get naked, Ferrell scores again as Chazz Michael Michaels, a former singles skat­
(read: hilari­
ous), but with a few subtle nuances. "Anchorman's" Ron Burgundy was known for his blundering buffoonery and sexist remarks, whereas "Talladega Nights" saw rerrell adding a twist to the usual routine with a Southern drawl as Ricky Bobby. 
The common thread between all of his characters is their stu­pidity, immaturity and paranoid homophobia, which often becomes ironic as his characters engage in homoerotic interplay. Chazz Michael Michaels is much the same, with a few new twists: he's still dumb as a brick and shows off far too much pasty man thigh, but boasts a rock star mentality and is a self-confessed sex addict. 
By all accounts Jon l-Ieder plays the "straight man" to Ferrell's clownery, but this is ironic given the emasculating tendencies of his character, pret­ty boy Jimmy MacElroy, who sports a variety of f1amboyant costumes throughout the movie. (At one point, Michaels and MacE!roy have their coach tell them that MacElroy is to be the "female" in their male-on-male skating partnership.) 
Who says typecasting is a bad thing? After the smashing suc­cess of Napoleon Dynamite, actor Jon l-Ieder has more or less been rehashing that same per­sona in the few roles he's had to date. "Blades of Glory" is more of the same, but also allows l-Ieder the comedic edge of only having to chime in now and again as Ferrell carries the comedic tune. 
By pulling in fellow comedians Will Arnett and Amy Poehler as brother-sister doubles skating pair Stranz van Waldenberg and Fairchild van Waldenberg, in addition to Jenna Fischer (of "The Office" fame) as their reluctant sister, screenplay writ­ers Jeff and Craig Fox give the cast enough snappy lines to keep the laughs coming. The quote­ability factor is definitely in play here, as you will undoubtedly soon begin hearing people parrot some of the many hilarious lines from the film. · 
A common criticism of "Blades of Glory" is that it's basically just the movie "Dodgeball" on ice (right down to a pair of side­splitting sportscasters). Well, "Dodgeball" went on to earn $114 at the box office (and per­haps more importantly, the much-coveted "Fresh" rating on rottentomatoes.com). 
Does "Blades of Glory" have the same time-and-time-again re-watchability of Anchorman? No. But then again, how many comedies do? Is it full of one-lin­ers and worth plopping down a few bucks to see at the local Cinemark? Yes. 
In the end, the joke may be on all of us. After "Blades of Glory" kicked off with an opening week­end of $33 million, one thing's for sure: Ferrell and his Frat Pack are laughing all the way to the bank. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 



Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 
Stranz (Will Arnett), left, Katie (Jenna Fischer), center, and Chazz Michael Michaels (Will Fairchild Van Waldernberg (Amy Poehler) are rival skaters. (Jon Heder) perform many unic 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, April 4, 2007 
page 13 
"Ladies and gentlemen, can I please have your attention. I've just been handed an urgent and horrifying news story. I need all of you to stop what you're doing and listen.... Cannonball!" 
While this is only a quote from "Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy," an urgent and horrifying news story to go along with it is how conversation in our society is slowly disintegrating from intellectual dialogue into a con­stant stream of quotes gleaned from Hollywood's most suc­cessful comedies. 
I'm not necessarily saying this is a bad thing, but that could be because I was sucked Sean Sweany into the trend and began quot­ing movie lines many years ago. I am saying those not Assistant familiar with the above quote Scene Editor should pick up a copy of "Anchorman," lest they have · no material to use in everyday conversation. 
The phenomenon is actually quite amazing. No longer do movie quotes serve as filler material or as examples to use in the midst of a "real" conver­sation, but they now make up entire conversations by themselves, sometimes just starting with a sim­ple "I love lamp." 
It seems this trend started becoming popular earlier this decade with nostalgic comedies like "Old School" and "Super Troopers." Incantations of "I see Blue, he looks glorious," or repetitions of "Littering and ... , " quickly proliferated thanks to their hilarious associations within the respective films, making each an instant classic. 
Fans quickly memorized other lines in the movies and had quotes appropriate for any situa­tion ready at their fingertips. 
Have a section-mate who misses the weekly sec­tion dinners? Quote "Anchorman": "It's the section dinner. We do it every week." Mystified by all the time your mother spends in the kitchen? Quote "Wedding Crashers": "I don't even know what she does back there!" Having a philosophical debate about the intrin-
JEFF ALBERT I Observer Graphic 
sic properties of nature? 
Quote "Super Troopers": "Nobody owns the water, man, it's God's water." 
These films provided perfect source material for the eager "quoters" because of their outrageous, memorable one-liners and fun plots. 
Financial success led actors like Will Ferrell, Vince Vaughn, Steve Carrell, the Wilson brothers and Ben Stiller -the so-called "Frat Pack" -to make dozens of other films in a similar vein to their early hits. The best lines from films such as "Wedding Crashers," "The 40-Year-Old Virgin" and "Anchorman"-and even smaller films like "Harold and Kumar go to White Castle" ­entered into the popular vocabulary, expanding the base from which people could draw to speak in quotes. 
This craze is not understood by everyone. Why do we (and by this I mean the college-age genera­tion) speak in quotes? Maybe we are not imagina­tive or funny enough on our own. Or perhaps the writing of comic geniuses like Ferrell and Vaughn are so good and applicable to our own experi­ences that we feel compelled to use it in order to express ourselves, even if we are in a "glass case of emotion." 
The most hardcore "quoters" can hear a quote and continue reciting a particular scene from memory or conduct an entire conversation in quotes, plucking and pulling from different films as is necessary. I like to think of this not as a mindless way to avoid serious conversation, but an opportunity to display a skill in textual analysis by determining which quotes are appropriate for which conversational situations. 
With more people jumping on the quoting band­wagon with each Frat Pack film, those who refuse to quote movies are quickly getting lost in transla­tion. With no middle ground in this situation, all it takes to be able to converse in the modern world is the time to watch these films -and a good memory. 
So start memorizing, but most of all, "Stay classy San Diego." 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
··-~­
\ 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com  Photo courtesy of movieweb.com  
Ferrell), left, and Jimmy MacEiroy  Bitter enemies, Chazz, left, and Jimmy must learn to  work  
maneuvers in their routines.  together in "Blades of Glory" if they wish to win skating gold.  

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, April 4, 2007 

By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
Everyone has a personal favorite Will Ferrell moment. Whether it's his appear­ance as Frank the Tank in "Old School," bopping his head through a car window in "A Night at the Roxbury" or stuck in his glass case of emotion in "Anchorman," Ferrell has managed to irrevocably touch the lives and hearts of college students everywhere. 
Even in his younger years, Ferrell found ways to make his name known. He was a kicker for his high school football team, where he still holds the school record for most field goals made. He graduated from the University of Southern California with a degree in Sports Information, and it was only six years later that he would receive the biggest break of his life. 
In 1995, Will Ferrell joined the cast of NBC's "Saturday Night Live," where he quickly became one of their more popular comics. He is fondly remembered by fans for his portrayals of President Bush, as well as Alex Trebek in the "Celebrity Jeopardy!" sketches. Another popular character was night clubber Steve Butatbi, who was then brought to the big screen in the 1998 film, "A Night at the Roxbury." Ferrell remained a member of the SNL cast through 2002, when he turned to focus on his film career. 
Ferrell, as well other members of the "Frat Pack," rocketed to fame with the smash hit "Old School." Ferrell went on to enjoy back-to-hack box office successes with the feel-good "Elf," and "Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy." "Anchorman," arguably Ferrell's most popular fihn, stars Ferrell as a 1970s news anchor. Supported by such cast members as Steve Carrell and Vmce Vaughn the film is regarded as a gold­standard of modern comedy. 
After the high-flying success of "Anchorman" Ferrell went through a rela­tive dry-spot with the box-office flops "Kicking and Screaming" and "Bewitched." As the Frat Pack members started going their own separate ways, fans worried that Ferrell had lost his comic magic. 
Ferrell might have been down, but he cer­tainly wasn't out. He came back last year with the hit "Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby." Starring Ferrell, John C. Reilly and Sacha Baron Cohen, the film enjoyed a lot of success and put Ferrell back in the spotlight as America's funny man. 
Striving to succeed outside of the younger, college crowd, Ferrell starred in the dra-medy "Stranger Than Fiction." In the film, he plays an IRS agent who hears a narrator in his head plotting his death. Much like Jim Carrey with "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind," Ferrell proves that his acting talents can go farther 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com News anchor Ron Burgundy (Will Ferrell), who "had suits so fine they could make a wolverine purr" stays classy for the city of San Diego in "Anchorman." 
than drinking and crotch jokes. 
Even though he was excellent in "Stranger Than Fiction," it's the low-brow humor where Ferrell truly shines, and he recently returned to the big screen with Jon I Ieder in "Blades of Glory." Impatient fans can already begin to look forward to his next film, "Semi-Pro," which looks to the intrica­cies of the basketball world, in the same vein that he has already done racing and figure skating. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
ACTOR fEATURE 
Quirky 'Napoleon' launches Heder to success 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Some think Jon Heder is the funniest thing since "Animal House." Other claim he is nothing more than a mumbling idiot who may or may not be good with the Bo stall'. Whatever you think, there is no denying that l-Ieder, with his breakout role in the smash indie success "Napoleon Dynamite" and his most recent role opposite the comedy king Will Ferrell in "Blades of Glory," is on his way to his own brand of comedy star­dom. The only question is whether he can keep it up. 
Born in the college town of Fort Collins, Colo., l-Ieder grew up in a large family of six children alongside a twin brother, Daniel. Fluent in Japanese after spending time at a Mormon mission in Japan, l-Ieder attended Brigham Young University where he befriended the future director of "Napoleon Dynamite," Jared Hess. 
This friendship would become a boon for l-Ieder after he was cast in the short film "Peluca," which would become the basis for "Napoleon Dynamite." 
With his monotone delivery and obses­sion with ligers, l-Ieder's Dynamite became a national darling. Shot in Preston, Idaho on a $400,000 budget, "Napoleon Dynamite" took the American film scene by storm. The title character had a little bit of everything geeky, nerdy and awkward -something just about everyone could relate to. With other comedies offering loudmouth jokes about topics better fit for the gutter, l-Ieder infused "Napoleon Dynamite" with a humor that made any topie funny. Standing proud with his "Vote for Pedro" buttons and his immortal dance attack to the tune of Jamiroquai's "Canned Heat," lieder stopped traditional comedy in its tracks and put himself on the map. 
With the release of "Just Like Heaven," l-Ieder landed a role next to the promi­nent Heese Witherspoon and Mark Huffalo. Although the film was generally poorly received, it was a welcome addi­tion to l-Ieder's resume. Following this, he starred in "The Benchwarmers." Produced by Adam Sandler, it was 
. panned by critics and saw lieder return­ing to the "Napoleon Dynamite" style of humor that was brilliant the first time but was becoming cliche. Looking for a new outlet, lieder found a comedic role that still allowed him to explore his craft opposite Billy Bob Thornton in "School for Scoundrels." Even though Todd Phillips' script was accused of being sloppy and not up to the standard of Billy Bob Thornton's stature, it gar­nered attention for l-Ieder. "Blades of Glory," starring both Heder and Ferrell, marked the biggest success for Heder since his debut in "Napoleon Dynamite." Unlike his more recent comedies, "Blades of Glory" is loved by critics and doing very well at the box office. Propped by the star power of Ferrell, "Blades of Glory" still allows 


star Mila Kunis, l-Ieder seems to be delv­ing into some roles that move away from the clueless funny-man stereotype that he has to fight in order to be successful. Heder is a talented actor and it would not be surprising if he moved on to big­ger and brighter things in the not so dis­tant future. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel @nd.edu 
Heder to shine. 

Being able to keep up with the ener­getic Ferrell is a feat in and of itself. But to be noted as funny while starring with Ferrell is quite an achievement. The future looks bright for l-Ieder provided he keeps picking roles akin to his Jimmy Mac Elroy in "Blades of Glory." 
His next film, due out this year, is enti­tled "Moving McAllister." Starring oppo­site Rutger Hauer and "That '70s Show" 
Wednesday, April 4, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 

MAGNIFICAT IS AN ENSEMBLE OF VOICES AND INSTRUMENTS SPECIALIZING IN MUSIC OF THE EARLY BAROQUE ERA 
FRI, APR 20 AT 8 PM 

PARSONS OMPANY THURSDAY, APRIL 26 AT 8 PM FRI APRIL 27 AT 8 PM
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 

TICKETS: $48, $40 FACULTVISTAFFISENIORS, AND $15 All STUDENTS DEClO MAINSTAGE THEATRE AND $10 ALL STUDENTS 
TICKETS: $25, $20 FACULTY/STAFF/SENIORS, 

DIRECTOR HASKELL WEXLER 
IN PERSON AT THE BROWNING CINEMA 
Who Needs Sleep? (2006) Wed, Apr 11 at 7 pm
THU. APR. 19 AT 7 PM 



PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE 

Medium Cool (1969) 
FEATURED GUESTS 

Thu, Apr 1 2 at 7 pm 
VICTOR HERNANDEZ CRUZ, POET DONALD W. SAVOIE, MUSICIAN 

Haskell Wexler is scheduled to be present at both screenings 
POETRY IMUSIC !COFFEE ICONVERSATION 

BROWNING 
CINEMA 
Ben Hur (1926) Directed by Fred Niblo NR, 143 minutes 35mm Print Live piano accompaniment by Dave Drazin Thu, Apr 5 at 7 pm 
Who Needs Sleep? (2006) Director Haskell Wexler is scheduled to be present Directed by Haskell Wexler NR, 78 minutes 35mm Print Wed, Apr 11 at 7 pm 
Medium Cool (1969) Director Haskell Wexler is scheduled to be present Directed by Haskell Wexler R, 11 0 minutes 35mm Print Thu, Apr 1 2 at 7 pm 
The Devil's Backbone (2001) Directed by Guillermo Del Taro R, 106 minutes Spanish language with English subtitles 35mm Print Fri, Apr 13 at 7 pm and 10 pm 
FILM LINE: 631·FILM 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 4, 2007 
MLB 
Peavy's solid outing gives Padres their first win 
Olsen's performance on mound and at plate gives Marlins win over Nationals, varied offense lifts Twins over Orioles 
Associated Press better show than that." Gonzalez hit an RBI single in Barry Zito, San Francisco's the first. Mike Cameron drew a 
SAN FRANCISCO -Jake new $126 million left-handed leadoff walk in the fourth and Peavy upstaged both superstar ace with the nasty curveball, Jose Cruz Jr.'s bases-loaded Barrys -and his former man­was outpitched by Peavy in his walk gave San Diego a 3-0 lead ager. National League debut after before Peavy (1-0) hit into an 
Peavy sparkled in six shutout spending his first seven seasons inning-ending double play. innings and the San Diego across San Francisco Bay with ''I've just got to be a little Padres beat the San Francisco the Oakland Athletics. more aggressive on first-pitch Giants 7-0 on Tuesday in the "When you're going against strikes," Zito said. "Opening day season opener for both clubs, Peavy, you have to keep the is always kind of a zoo out giving rookie skipper Bud Black game close.... He's tough when there. You have to lock in.... I a win in his debut against pred­he is on top of his game, and he was pretty comfortable out ecessor Bruce Bochy. was today," Bochy said. "Zito there." 
"That's the way you draw it threw all right. He was just up up," Peavy said. "Put some there in pitches." Marlins 9, Nationals 3 zeros on the board and make it Bonds waved and tipped his Scott Olsen was as good at hold up. That's a good day. I feel cap in every direction to the the plate as he was on the healthy. That's the biggest thing sellout crowd of 42,773 when mound. for me." introduced before the game, Olsen had a double, a single 
Barry Bonds resumed his pur­then No. 25 walked out hand-in­and an RBI, all while taking a suit of Hank Aaron's home run hand with his godfather, Hall of two-hit shutout into the sixth record with a single, stolen Farner Willie Mays, when he inning Tuesday night and help­base, walk, groundout and fly was honored with a group of ing the Florida Marlins beat the ball to the warning track in a 1-San Francisco's former All­Washington Nationals to for-3 showing on a day when Stars. The 42-year-old Bonds improve to 2-0 for only the sec­the Giants matched their most needs 22 home runs to break ond time in their 15 seasons. lopsided loss in an opener in 75 Aaron's career mark of 755. "If he can pitch like that every years. The Padres earned the The closest the Giants came to time out, we'll be in business," first opening-day shutout in scoring was when Bonds tried Marlins manager Fredi team history. to come around from second on Gonzalez said. Nook Logan (left foot) and short­ball last night, and tonight 
San Francisco was shut out on a throwing error by shortstop How about Olsen's work with stop Cristian Guzman (left ham­we're stealing bases and hitting opening day for the first time Khalil Greene and was easily the bat? string). balls in the infield. It's great. We since a 6-0 defeat against Bob nailed at the plate by first base­"We've got a little more So Washington called up Kory play the game," said starting Gibson and the St. Louis man Adrian Gonzalez in the respect for him as a hitter, I Casto, who never had played pitcher Boof Bonser, who left Cardinals in 1967. The Giants first inning. Bonds had stolen guess," Gonzalez said. above Double-A, and started with the score tied after six haven't lost by more than seven second base. The Nationals, meanwhile, him in the outfield. Josh Wilson innings. runs in an opener since falling Zito (0-1). who signed the could take solace from this: No played shortstop, his first big After back-to-hack home runs 13-5 to the Philadelphia Phillies richest contract ever for a pitch­one got hurt. league start since appearing in by Justin Morneau and Torii in 1932. er during the offseason, allowed Before the game, Washington 11 games with Florida in 2005. Hunter highlighted a 7-4 win in 
"They pretty much shut us two earned runs and four hits in put two starters on the 15-day Wilson made one of the the opener, Minnesota played an down," Giants shortstop Omar five innings. The 2002 AL Cy disabled list because they were Nationals' two errors, part of a extra-speedy version of small Vizquel said. "It was terrible. Young Award winner struck out injured during Monday's 9-2 series of miscues that drew ball against Cabrera ( 0-1). We should be able to put on a two and walked two. loss to Florida -center fielder scattered boos from the Randell White walked to start 
announced crowd of 20,894, the seventh, and pinch-runner about half as big as opening Jason Tyner stole second after day. Wilson also made an ill­stumbling into the base to bare­advised attempt at a shovel pass ly beat a way-wide throw by with his glove (a play that was catcher Alberto Castillo. ruled a hit for Dan Uggla), first Tyner then came home on the baseman Dmitri Young let a ball blooper by Bartlett, one of the go through his legs for an error, scrappy contact hitters who and reliever Hay King failed to frustrated Chieago White Sox cover the bag at first on a possi­manager Ozzie Guillen so much ble double play. last year he nicknamed them 
"It takes more than that to the "piranhas" -after the frustrate me. We've just got to pesky, exotic fish featuring dan­play better defense," gerously sharp teeth. Washington manager Manny · "It's just. a good team," Tyner Acta said. "We've just got to said. "We can hit for power. We keep on working. We'll get bet­can manufacture runs." ter at it." Pat Neshek (1-0) pitched a 
scoreless seventh for the victory, Twins 3, Orioles 2 and Joe Nathan earned his sec­
The Minnesota Twins have ond save after three relievers shown the Baltimore Orioles a worked out of a two-on jam in well-rounded offense. First it the eighth. was power, then the "piranhas." Bonser endured a rough 
Jason Bartlett's broken-bat stretch with two outs in the single drove in the go-ahead run third, when Melvin Mora home­in the seventh inning, and the red, Nick Markakis doubled, Twins ran past Daniel Cabrera Miguel Tejada walked and 
San Diego pitcher Jake Peavy throws during the Padre's 7-0 victory against San Francisco Tuesday. to beat the Orioles on Tuesday. Aubrey Huff hit an RBI single to Peavy threw six shutout innings, gave up three hits, walked two and struck out six. "We love it. We hit the long make it 2-0. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Cute House $59K-near ND,3BR,wd RENTLIKEACHAMPION 3-5 Houses for rent for 2007/B,B/9. 3BR House-near PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­flrs,2BA,garage,zen Garden by bdrms avail for 07-08. $250/bdrm. Close to campus. ND/food/bus,2BA,garage,zen gar-ONE WHO IS? You do not tiave to WANTED architect,deck,alarmsys,fireplace, re Call 312-545-5123 or email 3-9 bedrooms. den,deck,alarmsys 614-353-5889 be alone. We want to help. Call our 
nted@$650. 614-353-5889 mitcheii.5B@nd.edu Call Anlan Properties at $675 24 hour confidential hotline at 1· IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. $15.50 532-1896. BOO-No-ABORT or visit our website base-appt flexible schedules, 1 bdrm apts available summer & fall 2 bdrm home close to ND. Avail at www.lifecall.org no exp.needed, customer FoR RENT 07. 1 mi toND in quiet historic Very large home for Now. $650/mo + utilities. Call sales/service, conditions apply, all neighborhood. $575/mo. rent for next school year. 1 block Peggy 269-687-3096. Tytania: Have none I yr people stir ages 17+, andersonNDrentals.com Laundry/Security. Call574-532-east of campus. Walk to me; have exposition of sleep. positions in all of Indiana & 8718. class/food/shops. Bottom Michigan, 273-3835. BETIER HOMES, 4 huge bedrms/3 full baths/ PERSONAL www.workforstudents.com BETIER AREAS, Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt large kitchen-tam rm Adopt: A young loving couple long 
BETIER DEALS. loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl. all appli. & laundry rm. 3 decks UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do to share their Hearts and home with . BlueGoldRentals.com AIC,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 + overlook huge fenced yard. Very not go it alone. a newborn & will provide Endless FoR SALE 3 util. 630-417 private & safe! Must see! 239-707-If you or someone you love needs love. Expenses paid call Eileen & 3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for 8763/MCL214@ aol.com 2025. confidential support or assistance, Ed at 1-800-718·6577 
•No CONDOS• NEW 2/3 BR, 07/08 school year. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­
2 bath condos On line see 4 Bedrooms 2 Baths Swanson 5 rooms for rent, summer 2007. 741 7819. If you or someone you care about Minutes from campus Starting in rentnd.com or mmmrentals.com. Highlands; Central Heating & air; Eddy. Very close, For more information, visit our web has been sexually assaulted, visit $130,000s Contact Gary at remodeled appliances; $1250/mo; available NOW if necessary. site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart-http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape 574-252-2427 ndcondos.com Grooms@ourwebspot.net or Responsible parties, students OK. $300/mo per person. (913)481-ments/pregnant.shtrnl or see our bi-to learn about resources at ND and Reserve Yours Today! phone 574-277-4759. 574-243-2778 1918. acrutchf@nd.edu weekly ad in The Observer. in South Bend. 
-

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 4, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 17 


team 
x·Detroit x·Cieveland x·Toronhl Washington x·Chicago Miami New Jersey Orlando Indiana New York Philadelphia Charlotte Atlanta Milwaukee Boston 
NBA Standings 
Eastern Conference 
record 
47-26 
44-30 
41-32 
39·33 
44·31 
39·34 
34·39 
34·40 
32·41 
31-42 
29·44 
28·46 
21·41 
25·47 23·50 
Western Conference 

team record 
x-Dallas 61-12 x·Phoenix 55·18 x·San Antonio 52-21 
x·Utah 48·25 
5·5
·8-2,,. ,..

x-houston 47-27 L.A.lakers 39-34 6·4 
last1o·· 
6·4 5·5 7-3 5·5 7-3 5·5 6·4 5·5 3·7 2·8 4-6 5·5 2-8 2·8 5·5 
lastlO g,1 6-4 H 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Denver 
L.A. Clippers Golden State New Orleans Minnesota Sacramento 
36-36 36-37 35-49 33·40 31·42 30·42 
5·5 7-3 6-4 . 
5·5 3·7 2·8 

Seattle 30·43 
5·5 Portland 29~44 Memphis 19·56 
x·clinched playoff spot 
NCAA Men's Tennis FILA Collegiate Rankings 
team aug. 

1 Geor~tia 96.83· 2 Ohio State 90.82 3 Virginia 89.23 4 Baylor 84.69 5 North Carolina 79 6 NOTRE DAME 78 6 Mississippi 72.31 8 Illinois 71.3 9 usc 79.98 10 UCLA 68.75 11 Wake Forest 65 .:·-=::·:.::·::;;; 
~:;:;:;:;

12 Alabama 63.64 13 LSU 62.99 14 Oklahoma State 62.1 15 Texas 
60.13 16 Duke 17 Pepperdine 18 Florida 19 Michigan 20 NC State 21 Boise Slate 22 Tennessee 23 Old Dominion 24 Rice 25 florida State 
":<·:~=·:::::=::::~­

around the dial 
NBA 
Bulls at Pistons 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB Mets at Cardinals 8 p.m., ESPN2 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR -Michigan 
hired John Beilein to coach 
its men's basketball team, a 
person close to the 
Wolverines program told 
The Associated Press on 
Tuesday. 
The person spoke on the 
condition of anonymity 
because the school wants 
Beilein to have the opportu­
nity to inform his 
Mountaineer players that 
he's leaving before 
Michigan publicly 
announces the hiring. 
West Virginia player 
Darris Nichols said Beilein 
planned to meet with his 
players Tuesday. 
Beilein will be introduced 

at a news conference on Wednesday in Ann Arbor, the person close to the pro­gram said. 
Media reports linked Beilein with the Wolverines just days after he led the Mountaineers to the National Invitation Tournament championship. It will cost Michigan $2.5 million to buy out Beilein at West Vrrginia, plus perhaps about $1 million a season in a multiyear contract. 
Beilein's West Virginia teams made deep runs in the NCAA tournament the previous two seasons. Despite graduating their top four scorers from a year ago, the Mountaineers went 27-9, including a 78­73 win over Clemson in the NIT title game on Thursday. 
The 54-year-old Beilein, under contract through the 2011-12 season, earns at least $740,000 per season with annual increases of $20,000. 
He takes over for Tommy Amaker, who was fired last month following six sea­sons without an NCAA tour­nament appearance. 
Wherever he's coached, Beilein has been a success, taking teams without great talent to five NCAA tourna­ments and six NIT appear­ances in 29 seasons. His 1­3-1 defense gives oppo­nents fits and his offense ranked second in the coun-
IN BRIEF 
Drunk driver injures officer 
during Gator celebration GAINESVILLE -A drunken driver slammed into a police officer who was clearing Florida Gators fans from the streets early Tuesday, critically injuring him, then ran two motorcycle officers off the road before he was stopped, authorities said. 
The Florida Highway Patrol said Austin John Wright, 21, of Atlantic Beach, had a blood-alcohol level more than twice the legal limit. 
The Gainesville Police officer, Lt. Corey Dahlem, was hospitalized in critical condition, police spokesman Keith Kameg said. None of the other officers was injured. 
Police had been clearing the streets early Tuesday of the nearly 25,000 fans celebrating the University of Florida's 84-75 win over Ohio State for the Gators' sec­ond straight NCAA basketball title. 

~oodell meets ~th players to discuss suspeDSIOilS 
NEW YORK -NFL commissioner Roger Goodell and league officials met with Adam "Pacman" Jones Tuesday as the Tennessee Titans' cornerback attempted to avoid a long suspension following a series of arrests. 
Goodell and his staff also met with Cincinnati wide receiver Chris Henry and members of the NFL Players Association executive board as he pre­pared a tougher policy on NFL players who violate the law. 
Goodell has said he will announce his decision on suspensions or other disciplinary action before the draft on April 28 and perhaps in the next 10 days. 
The NFL had no comment and lawyers for the players had no imme­diate response. The meeting with the players was held away from the NFL offices where six television cameras stationed themselves with no one to interview. 
try with 10 3-pointers made per game this season. 
In only one of his five previous coaching jobs has Beilein stayed more than five years. He spent nine years at LeMoyne, then five apiece at Canisius and Richmond before coming to West Virginia, where he just completed his fifth sea­son. 
In 2005, after taking the Mountaineers to the NCAA regional finals, Beilein received a contract exten­sion to derail a possible courtship from Virginia. 
Last year North Carolina State came calling, but a $3 million buyout clause in Beilein's contract derailed negotiations. 
Duke women's basketball 
coach takes job at Texas 
DURHAM -Gail Goestenkors accomplished just about everything she could at Duke, from winning five Atlantic Coast Conference champi­onships to reaching four Final Fours. 
The only thing that eluded her is a national title. She's off to Texas to find it. 
The coach who built a powerhouse during her 15 seasons coaching the Blue Devils' women's team resigned Tuesday to take over at Texas, replacing Hall of Farner Jody Conradt. 
"In the end, it came down to her seeking a new challenge at this stage in her career and her life," Duke athletic director Joe Alleva said in a statement. "While we are disappointed that she has chosen to leave, we have to look forward now and search for the best women's basketball coach for Duke University." 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Volunteers b~at Scarlet Knights for seventh title 
Tennessee wins 59-46 in Summitt's 947th career victory, Parker scores 17 points and Anosike grabs 16 rebounds 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 4, 2007 

Associated Press  or realized it was a  national  
championship game," Stringer  
CLEVELAND  -Everyone is  said. "We looked like a  deer  
gazing up at good ol' Rocky Top  stuck in headlights. "  
again.  After building a 16-point lead  
After  a  nine-year  title  and then holding off a late push  
drought, Tennessee and coach  by Rutgers, the Lady Vols could  
Pat Summitt are NCAA champi­ finally celebrate, dribbling out  
ons.  the final 30 seconds under the  
The Lady Vols captured an  Hutgers basket. When the final  
elusive seventh national title  horn  sounded,  Dominique  
Tuesday night, beating Rutgers  Hedding flung the ball high  
to the ball for second and third  enough to hit the scoreboard as  
shots in a 59-46 win to reclaim  Tennessee's players, some in  
their customary place above all  tears. danced at midcourt as  
other programs.  orange, blue and gold confetti  
Rutgers  coach  C. Vivian  fell from above.  
Stringer had hoped to win her  "To win anything you have to  
first title, 25 years after her  be a tight team," Summitt said.  
first national title appearance.  "They believed in each other  
Instead, Summitt won her sev­ and they all had one goal, to be  
enth. 20 years after her first.  here in Cleveland and cut down  
"I can't even describe it," said  the nets. I'm real, real proud of  
Tennessee's  All-American  this team."  
Candace Parker. "This is what  Hutgers, which knocked off  
everyone came to Tennessee to  No. 1 Duke earlier in the tour­ 
do, and we did it."  nament,  was  attempting  to  
Parker scored 17 points to  become the third straight first­ 
lead the Volunteers (34-3), but  time winner following Baylor in  
the most outstanding player got  2005 and Maryland in 2006.  
plenty of help from Shannon  Summitt's 947th career win AP  
Bobbitt and a supporting cast of  NCAA president Myles Brand hands. Tennessee players the championship trophy after thecould be one of her sweetest.  
less-heralded teammates, who  The  Hall of Fame coach  Volunteers' 59-46 victory over Rutgers Tuesday. The win was Tennessee's seventh championship. - 
too  often this  season stood  joined on the floor afterward by  
around and watched her.  her mother, Hazel Head, in a  held each other accountable.  stretch.  turnover that led to a layup by  
Not this time.  wheelchair  -had captured six  They called each other out."  Several times, Stringer. back  Alexis llornbuckle, and for the  
The Lady Vols, trophy-less in  national titles from 1987-98,  Parker, too, had been looking  in the championship game for  first  time  all  evening,  
their past five tournament vis­ but had been shut out for No. 7  to solidify her place among the  the first time since leading  Tennessee's fans sensed this  
its, wanted this title  -badly.  despite having some of her most  best to ever wear UT's orange  Cheyney to the 1982 game, put  might be the Lady Vols' night.  
Almost from the outset, they  talented teams.  and white. She knew only a title  her hands to her head in disbe­ They were feeling even better  
outworked the young Scarlet  "I think when we lost to LSU  would fulfill her legacy and  lief  at  seeing  unforced  one minute later when Bobbitt  
Knights (27 -9), wqo waited until  in the SEC tournament it wa~  allow her to be mentioned along  turnovers  and  lackluster  hit another 3.  
the final game of an improbable  the best thing that happened to  with  Chamique  Holdsclaw,  defense.  Still,  the  Scarlet  Knights  
tournament run to show their  us," Summitt said. "You never  Tamika Catchings and Bridgette  Stringer had called her sen­ weren't  going  to  quit  on  
inexperience.  like to lose, but we really came  Gordon.  ior-less squad of five freshmen,  Stringer, who earlier this sea­ 
"Maybe we read the headlines  together as a team. I'd say they  She belongs in their class  three juniors and two sopho­ son kicked her team out of their  
now. And she's not going any­ mores, a "team of destiny."  locker room and took away any­ 
where.  As  it  turned  out,  only  thing with "Rutgers" written on  
"Why wouldn't I? Why would­ Tennessee will leave Cleveland  it because she felt they weren't  
n't I?" said Parker,  fulfilled.  playing up to the school's stan­ 
when asked if she  Trailing by 11  dards.  
would  wear .  "I can't even  at  halftime,  A 3-pointer by Matee Ajavon  
orange next sea­son. "I just wanted to win a national  describe it. This is what everyone  Hutgers, try~ng to become the low­est-seeded team  ended a 7-0 run that brought Hutgers to 50-42, but Parker made six straight free throws in  
championship, and  came to Tennessee  to  win  the  37 seconds to make it 56-44  
this team did that. Our banner is going to l:)e in the  to do, and we did it.,  women's tourney, settled down early in the sec­ with 1:08 left. As she went down the floor, Parker looked at the bench where senior Sidney  
rafters  forever,  ond  half  by  Spencer was crying, knowing all  
and we left mark Tennessee."  our at  Candace Parker Volunteers forward  matching Tennessee's intensity and  the hard work during the off­season would end the best way possible.  
Bobbitt scored  closed to 35-28  Seconds later, Stringer, who  
13 points ­ 9 of them on three  on Vaughn's putback with 13:33  dropped to 0-6 in NCAA tourney  
3-pointers in a lightning-quick  left.  matchups against her close  
span in the second half ­ and  That's when Bobbitt, a 5-foot­ friend Summitt, began clearing  
Nicky Anosike, who made her  2 bundle of New York City play­ her bench.  
teammates  sign  a  pact  in  ground moves and energy, hit  "I still love my team, and I  
January to reinforce their com­ the first of three 3-pointers in a  think they did a wonderful job,"  
mitment to winning it all, had  span of 2:43. The first one came  Stringer said. "This was no  
16 rebounds for the Lady Vols,  after two offensive rebounds by  doubt the most rewarding year  
who had 24 offensive boards.  the Lady Vols.  I've had in so long."  
Kia Vaughn had 20 points and  After  a  Hutgers turnover,  Still, this tournament ended  
10 rebounds to pace Rutgers.  Bobbitt drained another 3. As  the same way it has nearly one­ 
But thet Scarlet Knights made  the Scarlet Knights brought the  third of the time since it started  
Tennessee forward Candace Par ker looks to pass the ball while  far too many mistakes to chal­ ball up the floor, Bobbitt was  -with Tennessee setting up  
Rutgers guard Epiphany Prince p lays tough defense.  lenge the Lady Vols down the  waiting for them. She forced a  ladders to cut down the nets.  
VS. VALPARAISO  

TUES, APRIL 3RD@ 2PM vs. PURDUE 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

---------------------------------------------------------~----------, 
Wednesday, April 4, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
White guys bring noise against 446 
By ELLYN MICHALAK and 
JAY WADE 
Sports Writers 
It was a neck-and-neck race between Team 446 and Five White Guys Bringin' in the Noise, but ultimately the collaborative efl'ort and teamspirit of the noise­bearing sophomores from Keenan clinched the 24-22 win over the freshman team from Carroll. 
Dan "The Noise" Hussey summed up Five White Guys strategy succinctly. 
"The duck flies south -we shall take the west," he said. 
But the strategic mastermind was the team's coach, manager and friend -sophomore Scott McBride. 
"Well, you see, plan number one is don't lose, but plan number two is just as awesome -the three tall kids stand in the middle and let the fast kids control the ball. With a plan this sweet, I think we can win," he said prior to the game. 
The competitive Carroll team went into the game with a differ­ent mindset. 
"We expect it to be a long, hard struggle and a test of persever­ance," guard Tom Bybicz said. "Team 446 is all about heart." 
From the first play of the game, it was obvious that these teams meant business. 
Five White Guys Bringin' in the Noise had a signature play, dubbed "Computer Blue," that, combined with numerous .fast break lay-ups by Jordan DelPalacio, allowed the team to gain control and have the half­time lead of 11-10. Deep into the second half, key shots by top scor­er Jon Sarna allowed Team 446 to gain a lead of 18-16, but a problematic eye injury to player Chris Weinacht ultimately slowed the team down. 
Despite the win, White Guys' manager McBride hopes his team can play even tougher in the next 
~e. /trn~ur team seems to have had . trouble finding the backboard ,"' today," he said. 
Team Wu Tang Clan 21. 
Team 59719 
In a classic battle between two teams from the second floor of Stanford, the Wu Tang Clan topped Team 597 Tuesday. 
In a game that lasted more than an hour and 10 minutes, this rivalry was more of a marathon than a sprint. Because the two teams knew each other well, they jawed back and forth constantly. 
The talk was silenced, however, when Wu Tang Clan's Tamba Samba, who was the most athletic and energetic player on the court, won the game on a long jumper from the side of the basket. 
"Wu Tang Clan ain't nothing to [mess] with," Samba said in cele­bration over the hard-fought vic­tory. 
The two teams were evenly matched, trading baskets the entire game. For the first hour of the game, the score went back and forth. After the hour mark, though, it became clear that the Wu Tang Clan was the better-con­ditioned team, as they started to out-hustle Team 597 towards the end. 
While Samba was a big factor in the game for the Wu Tang Clan, he was not a one-man wrecking crew. Martin Quintara, the self-proclaimed "best-looking player on the team," ended up not being just a pretty face. He led the Wu Tang Clan in scoring with eight points. 
When asked what they would do after their hard fought victory, Andrew Baroody shouted a response. 
"We're on our way to Disneyworld!" 
Team America 21, Team Nevemudes 17 
In a game that sported way more than its fair share of short shorts, oddly taped helmets and even a mullet, Team America pulled away after halftime to defeat the_Nevernudes. 
At the start of the game, it was clear that both teams meant busi­ness, as demonstrated by their flexible, tight-fitting shorts, which gave both teams the range need­ed to play their hardest. 
The Nevernudes played a fast, up-tempo style that featured many full-court heaves to players on the other side of the court. In contrast, Team America chose to slow down the pace and pick the Nevernudes apart with their lead­ing scorer, Ted Grossestreuer. 
At halftime, Team America led 11-10, but after the break Nevernudes could not maintain their up-tempo style, slowing down the game and playing at Team America's pace. Team America took advantage of this, scoring in bunches with their strong post play and suffocating defense. 
It also seemed that Team America was better equipped to handle the distraction of short shorts than were the Nevernudes. 
"We felt bad about our short shorts until they took off their pants." Team America member Arthur Kinsey said. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu and JayWade at jwade@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hawkeyes hire new coach 
Lickliter signs a seven-year contract worth $1.2. million per year 
AP Iowa head coach Todd Lickliter signs autographs during a pep rally Introducing him to Hawkeyes fans Tuesday. Lickliter was 131-61 during his six seasons at Butler. 
Associated Press 
IOWA CITY, Iowa .-Iowa athletic director Gary Barta had no idea the man he was about to ask to be his new basketball coach had won a national coach of the year award the night before. 
In three meetings with Iowa officials at the Final Four, Todd Lickliter never men­tioned the honor. That show of humility cinched it for Barta, who moved quickly to bring the architect of Butler's recent success to Iowa. 
"That told me a lot about the person we had been meeting with," Barta said. 
The 51-year-old Lickliter was introduced as Iowa's coach Tuesday, having agreed on a seven-year deal worth $1.2 million annually. 
Lickliter was 131-61 in six years at Butler, leading the Bulldogs to a pair of appear­ances in the NCAA tourna­ment's round of 16 and 29 wins last season. He takes over for Steve Alford, who left for New Mexico on March 23 after eight up-and-down sea­sons. 
''I'm thrilled," Lickliter said. "It had to be an awfully good resume to catch Iowa's atten­tion." 
It's hard to escape the paral­lels between Lickliter's arrival and Alford's back in 1999. Both were Indiana-born, mid­major coaches who used an appearance in the NCAA tour­nament run to the regional semifinals as a springboard to Iowa. 
That's where the similarities end. Lickliter worked as a high 

school coach in Indiana for well· over a decade, even spending part of one season coaching in Saudi Arabia. He got back in college ball by tak­ing a job as an administrative assistant under Barry Collier at Butler in 1996, and pro­duced immediate results upon being elevated to head coach in 2001. 
He led the Bulldogs to 26 wins and the Horizon League regular season title in his first season, then guided them to two NCAA tournament victo­ries as a No. 12 seed a year later. 
This season, Lickliter and the Bulldogs proved early on they were too good to be con­sidered underdogs. 
Butler knocked off Notre Dame, Indiana, Tennessee and Gonzaga to win the NIT Season Tip-off championship and earn a spot in the Associated Press Top 25. Butler then beat Old Dominion and Maryland in this year's NCAA tournament before falling to eventual national champions Florida. 
For his efforts, Lickliter was honored as Division I Coach of the Year by the National Association of Basketball Coaches. 
"I felt like I had a good job." Lickliter said. "I would not have left there unless it was a unique and special opportuni­ty." 
Iowa had initially turned to Tennessee's Bruce Pearl, who was an assistant with the Hawkeyes from 1986-92. The Hawkeyes received permission from Tennessee to formally interview Pearl, but Pearl quickly turned them down. 
Lickliter is Barta's first major hire at Iowa since suc­ceeding Bob Bowlsby, who left last summer to take the AD job at Stanford. 
"I had a plan, and I'm very happy to say that the plan worked well," Barta said. "Everybody I was interested in already had a very good job." 
Barta, who said the only offer he made was to Lickliter, is hoping the former Butler coach can jolt a program that sorely needs it. Asked what brand of basketball he planned to bring to Iowa, Lickliter said simply, "a win­ning" one. 
"Our style is opportunistic. We want to seize opportuni­ties. We want to attack with poise and great ball-handing. We're not concerned with tempo. We're going to take what's given to us," Lickliter said. 
Iowa won just one NCAA tournament in eight seasons under Alford, whose tipping point at Iowa just may have been the desperation buzzer beater by Northwestern State's Jermaine Wallace that beat the third-seeded 
~ Hawkeyes in the first-round of the 2006 tournament. Attendance has been on a steady decline at Carver­Hawkeye-despite Iowa's 31­2 home record over the last two years -as the relation­ship between Alford and Hawkeyes fans soured. Alford even hinted upon his arrival in New Mexico that Iowa favored football over basketball. Lickliter dismissed that notion, adding that he was so excited about getting to Iowa his car is still in Atlanta. 
..---------­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 4, 2007 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles to battle Hope for first conference vvin 
League leaders face Saint Mary's at home 
By REBECCA SLINGER Sports Writer 
The Flying Dutchmen of Hope College in Holland, Mich., may not sound like a force to be reckoned with. but their record over the Belles says differently. 
Hope (11-5) is tied for first with Alma in the MIAA with a 4-0 league mark -and the Belles (13-3) lost to Alma Saturday 9-1 and 4-0. In the past two seasons. Saint Mary's has lost three out of four games to the Dutchmen, the Belles only victory coming 1-0 last season. 
Saint Mary's sophomore pitcher Kristin Amram said this league game will not turn out like their losses to Alma, 
"We got our bad day out of the way," Amram said. "We're not going to let it happen again." 
Amram also said the Belles want to avenge their past loss­es, but the team is not focusing on those games. 
"Our main focus is this sea­son," she said. "We feel that we're better ... than last year. We're going out against them just like they're any other team. We're going to play our game and not worry about anything else." 
If sophomore pitching duo Calli Davison and Amram can pitch with their usual control against Hope's strong· hitting, the Belles could compete with the Dutchmen. Hope junior out­fielder Jessica Regnerus enters with a .512 batting average, and junior catcher Kylee Brouwer is hitting .510. But Hope could have a difficult time with its powerful hitting when they face Amram (0. 72 ERA) and Davison (3.22). 
The Belles also will look to take advantage of Hope's pitch­ing. The Dutchmen's best pitch­ers are freshmen Deidra Enochs (1.92) and Sara Fisher (2.65). Belles freshman outfield­er Ashley Peterson -entering the contest batting .455 -will pose the biggest obstacle for Hope. The Belles also will look to their power -senior short­stop Sarah Miesle, who has a slugging percentage of .800, Amram (.714) and sophomore catcher Ashley Fusaro (.808). 
"[Hope] can definitely hit, but we have a different team," Amram said. "We have different pitching. They have not seen this pitching staff before. I think we're completely ready for this team tomorrow." 
The Belles face Hope at 3:30 
p.m. today on their home field. 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Team stays perfect in MIAA 
Saint Mary's drops just one game to Adrian, improves record to 7-6 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Spons Writer 

Saint Mary's added a third win to its already perfect conference record Tuesday by defeating MIAA foe Adrian College 8-1. 
The Belles (7-6) dominated. winning every singles match in straight sets and prevailing in the first two doubles matches. 
"The competition was not very strong," Coach Dee Stevenson said in regards to the Adrian squad. 
In the first match of the game, senior captain Kelly McDavitt controlled the pace, defeating Adrian junior Lindsey Eshelman 6-1 and 6-2. At No. 2, Belles standout freshman Camille Gebert shut out sophomore Sandy Towler 6-0 in the first set and polished oil' the win with a score of 6-2 in the seeond set. 
In the third match of the day. freshman Lisa Hubino set the pace, defeating Adrian fresh­man Kristina Baker 6-1. 6-1 . Belles freshman Caitlin O'Brien defeated Bulldogs senior Karen Kruisenga in straight sets, 6-3 and 6-0, in the fourth match. 
Competing in the firth singles spot, junior Cassie Quaglia pre­vailed, beating Adrian sopho­more Leann Brooks 6-1, 6-1. In the final singles competition of the day, senior Grace Gordon dominated the match and defeated sophomore Ellen Kroll 6-1, 6-2. 
In doubles competition, the powerhouse duo of Gebert and McDavitt crushed Eshelman and Kruisenga S-3 in the first spot. While senior Tara O'Brien and Gordon defeated Baker and Brooks 8-2 in the second dou­bles spot, Belles players Hubino and Caitlin O'Brien fell 8-6 to Kroll and Towler in a tight match. 
The team will go on to com­pete next at the Midwest Invitational Friday and Saturday. The Belles will play first against Wisconsin­Lacrosse, a team that the Belles lost to earlier this season. 

"We have improved since the beginning of the year," Stevenson said. "I think we have a chance at beating them. It will be a tough match, but we defi­nitely have a chance at win­ning." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 4, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Oakland 
continued from page 24 
stranded three runners when designated hitter Tony Langford struck out looking with the bases loaded. 
Notre Dame left 14 runners on base Tuesday, continuing a trend that dates back to the South Florida series March 24-26. Including that series, the Irish have stranded 9.6 runners per 
retire the side. 
Notre Dame responded in the seventh, scoring three runs against Oakland reliever Ben Darga to take a 6-1 lead. Langford singled and got to second on a sacrifice bunt by Dressman, then advanced to third on a single by Barnes and scored on a base hit by Brezovsky. 
Ashdown advanced the runners with a bunt, and Lilley drove in Barnes with a single. With the bases loaded, 
Pollock got 

game over the drilled in the
"The top ofour

last two weeks. knee with a pitch 
"The top of order is doing a to force in our order is great job ofgetting Brezovsky. doing a great Oakland got
on, but we have to

job of getting on, two runs in the
drive them in. " 

but we have to eighth against drive them in," Irish reliever Schrage said. Dave Schrage Mike Dury. First Notre Dame baseman Ryan
Irish coach 

got another run in the third when a double by left fielder Ross Brezovsky scored sec­ond baseman Jeremy Barnes, but once again the Irish couldn't plate a second run­ner. 
Catcher Matt Smith grounded out to third, and right fielder Brayden Ashdown flied out to strand Barnes. 
Boleski had a rough start to his outing, allowing three runs on five hits while walk­ing four batters in the first three innings. He also threw two wild pitches and balked once. 
But starting in the fourth, Boleski settled down, allow­ing just two base runners and no hits or runs before being pulled with two outs in the bottom of the sixth. 
Oakland (8-16) scored its first run in the top of sixth on an RBI single by third base­man Andy Shepherd. The Golden Grizzlies threatened to score more, putting run­ners on second and third with two outs, but left fielder Drew Jenison grounded out to Heath and center 
fielder Justin Wilson reached on errors and then scored on consecutive singles by Shepherd and Jenison to make the score 6­3. 
Right-hander Kyle Weiland then replaced Dury on the hill and got pinch-hitter Andrew Stafford to bounce back to the mound to end the threat. 
Weiland then showed he could contribute offensively as well, singling to lead off the bottom of the eighth and scoring on a ground out by Smith to put his team up by four. 
"That was the first time I've been up since high school," Weiland said. "There was no pressure on me. [Running the bases] was weird. I wasn't sure what I was doing out there." 
Weiland went back to the mound in the ninth and allowed two runners to get on, but managed to get three outs to end the game and earn the save. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Outdoor 
continued from page 24 
team we were three or four weeks ago," Louderback said. 
Tuesday's match featured the return of Irish freshman Colleen Rielley from injury. Rielley had not played in Notre Dame's previous three matches but came back strong, posting a 6-2, 7-5 victory over Purdue's Neela Vaez. 
"[Rielley] was a little rusty. She won the first set, got down 4-1 in the sec­ond," Louderback said. "But then, she got back in it and played well." 
Rielley paired with fresh­man Cosmina Ciobanu in her first doubles match of the season. The duo made quick work of Purdue's Anya Dzeva and Alejandra Boeker in an 8-0 victory. 
"We're always weak on doubles. Every kid on the team, we work on it all the time. They wonder some­times, 'I'm not playing, why am I doing this?"' Louderback said. "But they have to be ready for days like this. [Rielley] played a lot of doubles in practice and the time comes when you're going to get the shot at playing, and she was ready." 
Ciobanu and Rielley's vic­tory helped Notre Dame capture the doubles point. The No. 8 nationally-ranked duo of Christian and Catrina Thompson over­came a deficit of 4-3 to cap­ture an 8-5 win over No. 45 Brook Beier and Mallory Voelker. Notre Dame's No. 2 doubles team of freshman Kali Krisik and sophomore Kelcy Tefft downed Vaez and Cigdem Duru 8-3 to complete the doubles sweep. 
In singles play, No. 26 

Catrina Thompson fell to Voelker 6-4, 4-6, 1-0 (11-9) in the No. 1 singles slot. 
"She let the wind bother her a little bit," Louderback said of Catrina Thompson. 
Krisik played No. 6 sin­gles in place of injured jun­ior Brook Buck and cruised to a 6-1, 6-1 victory over Boeker. 
"She can do a lot of every­thing. She's very solid, is good off the ground, makes a lot of balls when she's on the baseline. But she can also come in. She can volley well when she needs to come in and she plays prob­ably as good of defense as anyone I've ever had," Louderback said of Krisik. "When she gets in trouble and someone has her on the run, she lobs really we.ll and gets herself out of trou­ble well. The defense she plays in a match is excep­tional." 
Ciobanu stayed perfect in dual-match play with a 6-1, 6-0 win over Dzeva. Christian Thompson posted a victory at No. 2, 6-3, 6-2, over Beier and improved to 11-8 in dual match play. 
"Christian played well. [Beier] beat her last year when we played Purdue. So, I think for her, she definite­
ly  wanted  to  win  it,"  
Louderback said.  
Tefft  rounded  out  the  
scoring with  a  6-0,  6-3  
defeat of Duru at No. 4.  

Louderback said he still is not sure when Buck can return to the lineup. 
"She's kind of day-to-day right now as to when she's going to start practicing again," Louderback said. "At this time, right now with our schedule, it's a good time not to push it." 
Notre Dame takes on Indiana in Bloomington Saturday at 10 a.m. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Ten 
continued from page 24 
fielder Davey Leach. Leach found the net by firing a deep shot with less than a sec­ond to go in the third quarter. 
"It was definitely a good win," Irish jun­ior goaltender Joey Kemp said. "We left [Villanova] in the game a little bit, and they are a good comeback team. Earlier this year, they were down by five against Towson, and they came back to only lose by one. It felt good to put that kind of team away and win 15-5." 
Other Irish scorers included senior mid­fielder Lucius Polk and freshman attack Will Yeatman. Polk netted two goals and added an assist, while Yeatman scored one and racked up two helpers. Hubschmann also added an assist to his late second­quarter goal. 
Sophomore attack Peter Christman and freshman midfielder Grant Krebs each tacked on a score, while senior attack John Greaney (one goal) and junior attack Alex Wharton (two assists) notched points. 
Kemp made seven saves in over 51 min­utes of play. Sophomore goaltender Scott Rodgers played the last 8:48 of the game, in which he made four stops without allowing a goal. 
"I was a little slow in the first half, but I played a lot better in the second," Kemp said. 
Notre Dame held a slim margin over Villanova on shots, 39-33. Irish junior mid­fielder Taylor Clagett went 14-of-20 in faceoffs for the game. 
"It has been rocky so far on faceoffs," Clagett said. "However, during the past few games it has gotten a little better." 
Villanova's offense was led by senior midfielder Andy German, who netted two goals and added an assist. Junior attack Jay Foley (two goals), junior attack Chris MacDonald (one goal), sophomore attack Tim Langan Jr. (one assist) and senior defensive midfielder Mike Hass (two assists) each scored points for the Wildcats. 
Sophomore goalkeeper Andrew DiLoreto earned the loss, allowing 13 goals with five stops. 
The Irish will try to push their winning streak to four games when they play league-rival Air Force Friday at 5 p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 
DID YOU WANT ANTIBIOTICS WITH YOOI CHICKEN? WE DIDN1 THINK SO. 
That's why we're serving naturally raised chicken. 
In fact, the chicken and pork we serve in Mishawaka are free of antibiotics and added growth hormones, fed a vegetarian diet and raised humanely. We think meat raised this way, naturally, tastes better. 
Serving naturally raised chicken is another step in our ongoing Food With Integrity journey -bringing you the best ingredients from the best sources.. 
C~ipotle 


-SERVING NATURALLY RAISED CHICKEN lN MISHAWAKA­
MEXICAN GRILL 

MAIN & DOUGLAS 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 4, 2007 
Rain for a 21-8 win. Purple Rain, dressed like they

Ballin' 
had just stepped off a Prince and 

continued from page 24 
responding to the challenges he posed at the break. 
Ben Mertz, playing center for Chorale, began to dominate in the post and proved to be too much of a physical specimen for Team 432 to handle. 
In addition, Andrew "Blevins" Walker began to dominate the boards, while Jesse Goliath con­tinuously knocked down open jumpers to maintain the lead. 
In the end, the aggressiveness of Chorale proved to be the key. 
Wilt Chamberlain's Illegitimate Children 21, Team 449, 8 
After a strong defensive effort, Wilt Chamberlain's Illegitimate Children were able to triumph in their first-round matchup with Team449. 
The Illegitimate Children, led by team captain Brandon Faus (11 points), seized an early lead and never looked back, excelling at both ends of the court. 
"It made for a great day despite an oncoming thunderstorm," Faus said. "It was run-and-gun, we were pretty much up the whole way. We just pushed it and had fun on these nasty courts." 
After the game, though, Faus was humble and refused to take any 
449's best player, 
~-­
Matt Belton (seven points and eight blocks), and the lack of a second scoring option hurt 449 when Belton struggled. 
The Children were able to spread the ball around with rela­tive ease. Mike Dowdall and last­second replacement Alvin Reynolds each contributed to the blowout with solid performances. 
As the Illegitimate Children jumped out to a commanding 13­4 lead just after halftime, it was evident Team 449 lost confidence as they began to hang their heads with every missed shot. 
With the dominating 21-8 victo­ry, Wilt Chamberlain's Illegitimate Children will look to carry their momentum into the second round 
You've Never Seen Ballin' Uke This Before 21, Purple Rain 8 
After an even start, You've Never Seen Ballin' Like This Before pulled away from Purple the Revolution tour, started the game with hot outside shooting and took a 4-2 lead. Ballin', dressed in NBA jerseys, quickly responded to tie the game at four. 
Ballin' then went on a 7-0 run to take an 11-4 lead at halftime. 
While his team struggled in the second half, Purple Rain coach Hank Jenkins remained positive. 
"We're trying to stay purple out here and make it rain," Jenkins said. 
Led by Brett Berceau's mid­range shooting, Ballin' closed out the game on a 10-4 run for the win. Ballin' consisted of team members Anthony Bencivenga, Jim Murphy, Jeremiah Herman, Brett Berceau and Pat Cassidy. 
Ballin' coach Andy Pauwels was not satisfied with his team's performance, however. "My sum­mary of the game is this -what are we thinking?" Pauwels said. "If they want to win next round they better get their heads in the game." 
Random Engineers With No Particular Talent 21, You Think We're Bad But You Have No IdeaS 
The Random Engineers With No Particular Talent had enough ability to take a 21-5 win over You Think You're Bad But You Have 

Changes in American demography make it imperative forI N S T l T UTE for professionals and leaders, in all fields, to understand the politics, economics, and cultures of the US Latina/Hispanic community. Health professionals, for example, are already implementing programs tailored to the needs of US Latinos/Hispanics; the private sector is recognizing their growing purchasing power; and policymakers and politicalLatino studies leaders have come to realize that Latinos/Hispanics may play a UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME decisive role in the US electoral vote. The minor or the supplementary major in Latino studies willWHY CHOOSE deepen students' knowledge of the cultures, art, history,A MINOR OR A literature, religious life, political expression, and public policy issues of nearly 40 million Latinos/Hispanics in the UnitedSUPPLEMENTARY States. MAJOR IN The programs encourage research into new issues such asLATINO STU DIES changing immigration patterns, remittances, emerging transnational communities, and cultural flows betweenAT ND? Latinos/Hispanics in the United States and their families' countries of origin. While the emphasis is on domestic communities, consideration of globalization, immigration, and border issues introduces an international dimension. For more information contact: Yolanda Lizardi Marino, Director of Academic Affairs, Institute for Latino Studies, 230 McKenna Hall; (574) 631-0940; or at ymarino@nd.edu. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS Invites Nominations for the Sheedy Award Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall Deadline Monday, April 9, 2007  

individual credit for "We just pushed it No Idea. the victory. Applying full court
and hadfun on 
"We played very defensive pressure,
these nasty

well as a team," Faus team members 
courts.,,

said. "I give all the Marie Sydlik, Tyler credit to "Bo" Badke Emptage, Adam and "Wild" Dean Cunningham,
Brandon Faus

Fernandez." Patrick Kosciuk and
Wilt Chamberlain's

The Illegitimate Marcin Morys were Children were able Illegitimate Children able to collect easy 
to contain Team captain baskets underneath 
against a much shorter No Idea team. 
No Idea, a team of senior girls with a self-described lack of tal­ent at the game of basketball and an overwhelmed captain in Kate Gales, made a strong effort in the loss and were very happy with the performance. 
"It was very fun -what Bookstore Basketball is all about," Gales said. "We're all proud to be' part of this great tra­dition." 
No Talent showed great sports­manship in the last minutes of the game. Ahead 20-1, the team allowed four No Idea team mem­bers to score in their final Bookstore Basketball game. 
This season was a drastic improvement for No Idea, since the team was shut out 21-0 in its first-round game last year. 
Contact Dan Maloof at dmaloof@nd.edu and Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Streak 
continued from page 24 
Senior Stephanie Brown received the conference's highest honors, being named Big East player of the week for the first time in her career. The veteran center fielder scored five runs and knocked in four more while going 13-for-18 at the plate last week. 
Brown and the rest of the Irish bats will face a tough test when they face off against Crusader hurler Chris Halstead this afternoon. Halstead is 4-0 in her first eight appearances, averaging five strikeouts per contest. 
The Crusaders (14-8) come to South Bend with a 4-3 record on the road and have struggled to put up big offen­sive numbers all year. Valparaiso has only scored more than five runs in five of its first 22 games. On the season, the Crusaders are hitting .244 as a team. 
The South Bend weather may also play a key role in slowing down the offense for both teams this afternoon. The local forecast is calling for high temperatures in the 30s and a possibility of scat­tered snow showers through­out the day. After a month in sunny California, followed by two unseasonably warm weekends in the Midwest, neither team will be prepared for the drastic change in tem­perature. 
If the snow holds off, the opening pitch is scheduled for 5 p.m. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


~--­
Wednesday, April 4, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

HENRI ARNOLD

ADAM FAIRHOLM JUMBLE
CROISSANTWORLD 
MIKE ARGIRION 


MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 


KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
are proud to announce the strongest incoming class ever. With a selectivity rate of 23 percent. the Class of 2011 boasts an average 1414 SAT, 32.5 ACT and 4.2 
class ranking. 

LIAMMORAN 
...although you have great assets, we are unable to offer you a place in the Class of 2011... 

WILLSHORTZ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Amanda Bynes, 20; Jennie Garth, 34; Eddie Murphy, 45; Alec Baldwin, 48 
Happy Birthday: You'll be torn between what you want to do and what you must do. Stop fretting and prepare to put in extra hours. You have the discipline and the stamina to see matters through to the end this year. The more you do, the better you will Ji:el. It's all about keeping the momemum flowing. Your numbers are 4, 17, 19, 23, 27,33 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Talk about your plans and keep everyone in the loop who can contribute to what you are doing. A business trip will ensure you seal the deal you are working on. Love is looking good, so mix business with pleasure.**** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Money_ matters must be taken care of. If you owe someone or someone owes you, it's time to pay up or collect. You will do well if you engage in a little evening romance. Someone you meet today will give you something to think about. *** · GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will do really well today if you do your own work and don't trust anyone else with your ideas. You have what it takes to advance but someone is likely to try to take credit for your ideas. Take control. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have trouble differentiating between what you are supposed to be doing and what you are being told to do. Ask pointed questions so you don't make a mistake. Don't overspend tryi!lg to impress. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will learn a lot from the people you are with today. Love is in the air and you should be able to hook up with someone special. A creative hobby will impress someone you want to get to know better. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Watch your back. Someone you least expect will do something to make you look bad. Refrain from getting angry --by remaining composed you will end up looking good. Rely on your knowledge and business savvy. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The more you juggle, the better you will do. You will have a good idea what will work and what won't and can impress people with the solutions you come up with. Love, romance and socializing are all in a high cycle. 
***** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let someone you are close to confuse you about what you can and can't do. Forge ahead with a creative project regardless of how much it pays. It's the end result that will count and bring you recognition.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You are likely to confuse the people closest to you. Your unpredictability will leave everyone wondering what you'll do next. A chance to travel may entice you but it will probably turn out to be stressful.** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An uncertainty at work will leave you wondering. You are probably overreacting and should continue to go about your business incorporating new and interesting dimensions to your work. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take the initiative and follow through with your plans. It's when you become wishy-washy that you lose ground. Someone special will want to spend more time with you. Get involved in a new pastime. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep things to yourself today. Someone is likely to steal your idea or try to take credit for your work. A disagreement with someone you love will escalate if you don't back down. * * 
Birthday Baby: You are dynamic, ingenious, creative and quick to take control ofany situation you face. You are a doer who is compassionate, caring and willing to bend over backwards for others. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfon. eugenialast:comfor confidential consultationi 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Meat loaf serving, e.g. 5 Preserve, as preserves 10 Possible college class pres. 14 El Cid, to Spaniards 15" Foolish Things" (1930's hit) 16 Title girl in a 1986 Starship 
hit 17 no. 18 Uncovered 19 Press 20 Slangy question 
from a benefactor, maybe 
23 Prosperity 24 Style of shorthand, informally 27 Shocked 
30 French possessive 32 Time, in Italian 33 Bullwinkle, for one 34 of Leningrad, 
1941-44 35 Hightail it 36 1964 party song 
by Manfred Mann 40 F.B.I. employee: Abbr. 41 "Gosh" 42 Cancellation 43 Wine and dine, say 44 Whips but good 45 Hangar contents 47 Higher-ranked 49 Author Sholem 50 Stuffy sort 56 Suffix with stink 58 Kind of artery 59 Numismatist's classification 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

60 Highly distasteful 61 Below, to a bard 62 Strikeout ace Nolan 63 Brokerage initialism 64 Parental units? 65 Cries during a bikini waxing? 
DOWN 1 "Pygmalion" playwright 2 Solidarity's 
Walesa 3 Bowed, in music 4 Home of the 
Kalahari Desert 5 Craft for J.F.K. 6 Thing that 
doesn't go off without a hitch? 7 Oreg. or La., once 8 Did something with 9 Education 10 "Revolution," to "Hey Jude" 
11 "The Company of Women" author, 1980 
12 Old peso material 13 Give the ax 21 "Indubitably" 22 Like prunes 25 Soreness? 26 Some plasma TV's 27 Early in the morning 28 Baby talk 
29 Do-it­yourselfer's collection 
30 Seconds 31 Ancient dweller 
of modern Iran 34 Nod, maybe 37 In great disfavor 38 Towering over 39 Rushed 
45 Excites, with "up" 
46 Digital readout, initially 
48 Earl _, first African-American to play in the N.B.A. 
49 "It's _!"("See you then!") 

51 1997 Peter Fonda title role 52 Naturalist Fossey 53 Belafonte catchword 54 20-20, e.g. 55 Achings 56 German article 57 Victor 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, April 4, 2007 
page 24 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Declawing the Cats 
Notre Dame wins 10th straight at home 15-5 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
Sophomore attack Ryan Hoff scored five goals and junior mid­fielder Michael Podgajny added three tallies and four assists as No. 13 Notre Dame cruised to a 15-5 victory Tuesday over Villanova. 
The win is the lOth-straight vic­tory at home for the Irish, dating back to 2005 and their third in a row. 
The Irish (6-3) played strong out of the gate, taking a 5-0 lead early in the second quarter. However, Villanova (4-4) did not quit. The Wildcats netted four of the next five goals to cut the score to 6-4. Irish senior attack Brian Hubschmann stopped the bleed­ing by netting his only goal to give Notre Dame a 7-4 lead at the half. 
After the halftime break, the Irish never looked back, closing the game on an 8-1 run. This streak included the first career goal scored by sophomore mid-
see TENIpage 21 
ND SOFTBALL 


BASEBALL 
Irish stop slide with 7-3 victory 
By CHRIS KHROREY Sports Editor 
.Second baseman Jeremy Barnes and left fielder Ross Brezovsky scored two runs each as Notre Dame recovered from a two-game slide at Pittsburgh over the weekend with a 7-3 

· non-conference victory over Oakland Tuesday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
"After last weekend, we need­ed something," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "Every day, we have to play like there's no tomorrow." 
Notre Dame (13-14, 1-4 Big East) got on the board first, see­ing 31 pitches from Golden Grizzlies hurler Scott Boleski in the first inning and plating a run by shortstop Brett Lilley on a sacrifice fly by center fielder Danny Dressman. 
The Irish scored again in the second on an RBI single by third baseman A. J. Pollock, but 
see OAKLAND/page 21 

Win streak at stake against Valpo at Ivy Field 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Ediror 
Notre Dame will put its 10­game win streak on the line this afternoon against the Valparaiso Crusaders at Ivy Field. 
The team's last loss was an 8-0 shutout at the hands of 

Pacific March 17 in the Judi The Irish (19-12) started off against Pacific, and the pitch­Garman Classic. Since then, the 2006 home season in sim­ing staff has given up only six the Irish have won their first ilar fashion, winning their runs during the stretch ­eight Big East matchups, as first seven games at Ivy Field including five shutouts in well as two non-conference while the 2005 club reached conference play. victories over IUPUI and double-digits in home wins Sophomore ace Brittney Toledo. All 10 wins have been before surrendering their Bargar has Jed the staff with a part of an 11-game home first loss in the white jerseys. three goose eggs to bring her stand for Notre Dame that During this year's opening season earned-run average to ends with this afternoon's tear, the offense has cranked 2.00. Bargar was named to 
game. 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Strong play takes backseat to style 
By DAN MALOOF and 
MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writers 
In a hard fought battle Tuesday at the Lyons basketball courts, Chorale emerged victori­ous in their first round match up with the formidable Team 432, 21-13. 
At the beginning of the game, the ladies of Team 432 were able to control the tempo, hit­ting big shots when they needed to and keeping the score rela­tively close. 
However, Thomas DeGregoris proved to be an unstoppable force and quickly took the game into his own hands, despite fail­ing to convert on a "360-wind­

~ 
mill dunk" early in the first half. DeGregoris made his pres­ence felt on the defensive end with two steals that lead to fast­break lay-ups, as well as a Greg Oden-esque block that almost brought down the house. 
With a halftime score of 11-5, DeGregoris brought his team together and gave a halftime speech. 
"We have to stop playing timidly," DeGregoris said. "We have to take it to the house a lit­tle more and stop making stupid fouls. We started looking good toward the end of the first half after a rough start, but we just have to understand that we're big boys, and we just have to slip and slide and take it to the house." 
As the second half began, it was clear that his team was 
see BALLIN' /page 22 

out 57 runs since the shutout the Big East honor roll this 
week after giving up only one run and six hits in three wins. She also recorded her first career home run when she launched a game-win­ning, three-run blast to break a 1-1 tie in the bottom of the seventh inning against Toledo. 
see STREAK/page 22 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Boilers beco111e 14th-straight victitn 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 

Ignoring the ominous weath­er forecast, Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback insisted his squad play Tuesday's match against Purdue outdoors. 
"When we decided to go out­doors I think everybody thought I was crazy because it was calling for rain," Louderback said. 
But there was nothing crazy about No. 2 Notre Dame's methodic 6-1 victory over the No. 46 Boilermakers. Tho Irish (19-1) extended their dual­match winning streak to 14 with the win. Purdue fell to 10­4. 
"We've been just kind of get­ting through the last matches and I thought today we got outdoors, played well, and I thought we looked like the 
see OUTDOOR/page 21 





