
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 70 THURSDAY, JANUARY 25,2007 
STUDENT SENATE 

Group passes Domer Dollars resolution 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate unani­mously passed a resolution Wednesday that asked the University to review the Domer Dollar card swipe systems on campus. 
The resolution -prepared by Residence Life chair Pat Knapp and Alumni Hall senator Danny Smith for his Campus Life Council (CLC) Student Concerns task force -identified occa­sional service interruptions in the card swiping system. 
The resolution said students should have access to a service for which they have already paid. To avoid problems with the wording of the resolution, Knapp said he has already _spo­ken with all the parties involved. 
"We structured it in such a way that we communicated with the CLC and the adminis­trators first and then went back and worked on the language on it and talked to pretty much everyone who would be effected -the stakeholders," Knapp said. 
The resolution asked that the Department of Food Services work with the Office of Information Technologies and the Vending Software Company to allot resources to make the card swipe systems reliably accept Domer Dollars. 
"We would like the adminis­tration to conduct a study or review, whatever you want to call it, to determine the best way to fix the system per [Vending Operations Manager] Dean Winter's and [Director of Food Services] David Prentkowski's recommenda­tions and then implement those recommendations," Knapp said. 
The resolution will be pre­sented to the CLC for approval 
see SENATE/page 4 


New passport laws affect spring breakers 
Students returning from Mexico, Caribbean will need to travel with additional documentation 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
Starting on Tuesday, the United States Department of Homeland Security began requiring air travelers re­entering the United States departing from cities in Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Bermuda to carry a passport with them ­changes that will affect Notre Dame students who intend to travel to the involved coun­tries either for spring break or study abroad. 

It is the first of a two­pronged phase initiated by the 9/11 commission, titled the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) ­and will likely affect Spring Break travelers in March. 
The second component of the WHTI, which takes effect on Jan. 1, 2008, will extend 
SMC gym improves security measures 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
Students trying to lose extra post-holiday weight or stay in shape this semester may be happy to hear Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility implemented new rules to guarantee their safe­ty. 
Under the new rules, stu­dents will have to show their school identification at the door to enter the facilities ­an upgrade from previously nonexistent security meas­ures. 
Other changes include the addition of a second desk worker at the Angela's north 
door, which will be locked at 7 p.m. every night, Athletics Director Lynn Kachmarik said. 
Students seemed optimistic about the new procedures. 
"It makes more sense because anybody could walk in here," sophomore Kaela Hellmann said. 
Senior Michelle Lonnee agreed, noting that the lack of security in the past has opened the gym doors to peo­ple who don't belong there. 
"It's a good idea because a lot of random people come here to workout," she said. 
Kachmarik also said she hoped to get a scanner sys­tem in the future that would 
see SECURITY/page 3 

the passport requirements to include travelers entering the United States crossing land and sea borders. 
"These new laws were implemented most likely because of increasing risks in air travel," said Kayle en Carr, leisure manager for Anthony Travel. "They were actually supposed to begin last year, but the airlines kept postponing the dates because of the potential 
effect they could have on tourism in Mexico and [the] Caribbean." 
Because the National Passport Processing Center in New Orleans will most likely be receiving an influx in applications owing to the new laws, Mary Kowalksi, vice president of travel serv­ices at Anthony Travel, rec­ommended that these stu­
see PASSPORTS/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Brey addresses decision 
McAlamey suspension saddens hoops coach 
By BOB GRIFFIN 
News Writer 

Two days after Notre Dame suspended sophomore basket­ball player Kyle McAlarney, the University had not released official information, although head coach Mike Brey commented on the situa­tion after the team's 71-68 loss to St. John's Tuesday. 
Breywho spoke McAiarney about his developing bond with McAlarney as the season pro­gressed -said he was devas­tated when informed of the Office of Residence Life and Housing's decision to suspend the guard for the spring and summer semesters. "I love Kyle McAlarney," Brey told the New York Post follow­ing Tuesday's game. "He's real­ly like a son to me and I miss him. To say that wasn't a dag­ger to all of us would be an understatement." McAlarney was arrested in the early morning hours of Dec. 29 on marijuana possession charges. Janice McAlarney, Kyle's mother, said Brey and Athletic Director Kevin White 

see MCALARNEY/page 6 

Newspaper readership thrives 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
Newspaper readership pro­grams implemented last year at Notre Dame and three years ago at Saint Mary's have proved successful ­even gaining momentum over time -say student govern­ment representatives and stu­dents. 
Through the College Readership Program, copies of national newspapers are made available for free on both campuses every week­day. Students, faculty and staff can peruse The New York Times, The Chicago Tribune, USA Today -and, at Saint Mary's, the South Bend Tribune as well. 
Notre Dame student body 
see NEWSPAPER/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, January 25, 2007 
INSIDE CoLUMN 
The joy of rocks 
Rocks are everywhere. There is no doubting that, nor do I think anyone would. However, like some friend who is always around eating your food, I think rocks are unappreciated. Think about it -if that 
friend was to leave, you may have more food, but something would still be missing. 
Well, that metaphor may have fallen short, 

but the point Dustin Mennella remains. Rocks, or naturally occur­
ring aggregates of Photo Editor minerals by defini­
tion, have played an important role in the history of the world up to this 
point. In fact, the Earth itself could be viewed as a large compilation of solid and molten rock (without which we would be as homeless as hobo Joe). 
And hey, the Stone Age? Without rocks, what would cavemen have used to invent tools? But moving on, this isn't about the past-there are plenty of rocks around to appreciate today. You could be walking along the road and come across a felsic Rhyolite (an igneous type), or perhaps even a nice metamorphic Gneiss, who knows? 
For as long as I can remember I have always enjoyed climbing, and I would climb anything really. Trees were major targets, but jungle gyms, cars and even houses as I got older were all summited in turn. As we grow older though, different things are expected of us, and alas my tree climb­ing days are now very few and far between. 
However, I recently discovered the Rockne Memorial contains a rock climbing room -"climbing on rocks?" I thought. Sure, I don't see why not! I tried rock climbing out for size, and with it rediscovered my joy of climb­ing. I found the challenge of traversing an inclined face, or completing a cer­tain climbing route entertaining, and also a good way to keep in shape. 
But I digress, back to rocks. As of now I have only climbed in man-made gyms, but I hope to climb actual rocks in the future. Perhaps a nice sandstone wall or granite boulder would be nice, I'm not really sure what rock-types are good for climbing. By the way, did you know that from an engineering per­spective, rocks larger than three inch­es in diameter are classified as boul­ders? 
New Mexico. Just one word away from traditional Mexico, which is also the traditional Spring Break destina­tion. However, for my Spring Break, I signed up for a geologic field trip into the Bandelier Mountains of New Mexico for some true rock apprecia­tion. Carlsbad Caverns is also on the itinerary, where the nation's deepest limestone cave exists within a Permian-age fossilized reef. Needless to say, I am already excited. 
Perhaps next year I should plan to study the black sand beaches and Basalt lava-flows of Hawaii for spring break ... 
Contact Dustin Mennella at 
dmennell@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW MANY TIMES DO YOU CHECK FACEBOOK EACH DAY? 






Jasmin Jones John Linnemanstons Keriann Hopkins Matthew Baca Meggan Borchardt Mychal Stanley 
junior  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  
PW  Alumni  PE  Fisher  
"Annie checks  "I do it about  "I don't know if  "Everyone  
Stalkbook for  three or four  I want to reveal  knows I never  
me.  ,times.  that to The  check  

Observer." Facebook." 

their human companions as they down their favorite micro brews. 
The measure was intro­duced by Sen. Ken Jacobsen, a Seattle Democrat who got the idea at the Fish Tale Brewpub, formerly known as the Fish Bowl, in downtown Olympia 
"I was sitting at the Fish Bowl looking at all the dogs outside sitting in the cold and the rain, while all the owners were warm inside," said Jacobsen, who doesn't own a dog. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Scientists can't get sloth to move 
JENA, Germany Scientists in the eastern German city of Jena said Wednesday they have finally given up after three years of failed attempts to entice a sloth into budging as part of an experiment in animal movement. 
The sloth, named Mats, was remanded to a zoo after consistently refusing to climb up and then back down a pole, as part of an experiment conducted by scientists at the University of Jena's Institute of Systematic Zoology and Evolutionary Biology. 
TODAY 

0::: 
LLI :I: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
<C 
(.) 0 


Neither pounds of cucumbers nor plates of homemade spaghetti were appetizing enough to make Mats move. 
"Mats obviously wanted absolutely nothing to do with furthering science," said Axel Burchardt, a uni­versity spokesman. 
Wash. lawmaker says bars shouldn't ban dogs 
OLYMPIA, Wash. -If dog-loving lawmakers pre­vail, Fido could soon be sidling up to bar stools around Washington state under a measure that would allow well-behaved, leashed canines to join 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
J) 
¢: 


HIGH 20 HIGH 15 HIGH 30 HIGH 33
...I 
LOW 13 LOW 13 LOW 20 LOW 10 
sophomore freshman McGlinn Alumni 
"Way too "That's what much." she said." 
IN BRIEF 

Kellogg institute visiting fel­low Cecilia Martinez-Gallardo will give a lecture on "The Use of Appointment Strategies in Presidentialism" from 4:15 to 6 p.m. today in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the event is free and open to the public. 
The 18th annual ND Student Film Festival will take place today through Saturday at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The festival features 13 short films made as class projects during the past year. Tickets are $6 for general admission, $5 for faculty/staff and $3 for stu­dents. 
U.S. Comptroller General David Walker will speak today at 10:40 a.m. about "America in 2017: Making Tough Choices Today Can Help Save our Future," part of the Ten Years Hence lecture series. Walker will talk about project­ing U.S. fiscal health in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. 
Summer Shakespeare pres­ents "The Romeo and Juliet Story: In Concert" Friday at 
7:30 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. The performance fea­tures two singers, three actors and a 30-piece orchestra onstage. Ticket prices range from $12 to $50. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 18 HIGH 18 LOW 6 LOW 5 
Atlanta 49 I 33 Boston 25 I 19 Chicago 25 I 14 Denver 49 I 20 Houston 55 I 40 Los Angeles 71 1 46 Minneapolis 24 1 09 New York 30 I 25 Philadelphia 34 I 24 Phoenix 67 I 44 Seattle 48 I 37 St. Louis 36 I 24 Tampa 63 I 47 Washington 38 128 
--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, January 25, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SPEND THE NIGHT WITH 13 AMAZING FILMS YOU'LL NEVER SEE AGAIN. 


improved, many non-commu­nity members have found
Security 
their way into Angela." Erin Sullivan, the director
continued from page 1 
of student workers in Angela, require students to slide their said the changes were direct-school identifi-ly related to cation to gain safety con­access to cerns. With
"As our equipment
Angela. Notre the old sys­
Dame current­has improved, tem, staff 
ly employs a many non-community members similar sys­were not able
members have found 
tem. to determine 
"We are just their way into whether peo­working to Angela." ple entering make sure the gym that those who belonged
Lynn Kachmarik 
come into our there. 
Athletics Director
facility have The security the authority Saint Mary's upgrades to do so, for were trig­liability rea-gered by a sons," she said. recent incident where a man As equipment has not affiliated with SMC inter-
our 

rupted a softball practice in Angela to play basketball with his children, according to security director Dave Gariepy. 
When the Angela staff con­fronted the stranger he became "verbally abusive and belligerent," he said. 
Security officials were called to the scene but the man and his children left Angela before they arrived. 
Gariepy alsb said the man's name has been obtained and a "no trespass warning" has been sent to him. 
Saint Mary's Security will also continue to work with the Angela staff to prevent any security breaches in the future. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
• Only afew apartments left for 2007-2008 • 2-bedroom, 2-bath with 1,250 square feet • Large balcony &cathedral ceilings • Washer/dryer, dishwasher, central air conditioning • Walking distance to campus Call Susan at 574·243·7530 or email us at stadiumclubcondos@sbcglobal.net ' ", ' / ':;: ':  

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 25, 2007 
Newspaper 
continued from page 1 
president Lizzi Shappell said she considers the program a complete success, hearing nothing but positive feedback since its August start. 
Notre Dame's fledgling pro­gram has a consumption rate of about 90 percent, she said. 
In fact, it has been so popu­lar while coming in under­budget that a sixth newspaper distribution center was added, making daily papers available in Hesburgh Library, South and North Dining Halls, LaFortune and a location for off-campus students in C lot. 
Senior Chris Harris, coordi­nator of the Readership Program at Notre Dame, agreed with Shappell's analy­sis. 
"I haven't heard one bad thing about it from anyone taking part in the program," Harris said. 
He said he has received no complaints about the program 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
Feb. 5. 
Since the resolution was passed with little debate, most of the meeting was spent on committee reports and Senate administrative business. 
Student body president Lizzi Shappell, vice president Bill Andrichik and chief executive assistant Liz Brown said they are preparing their report to the Board of Trustees next Thursday. The report will focus on four main areas -the upcoming community summit, the eating disorders confer­ence, alumni-student relations initiatives and follow-up on the status of the College Readership Program, Shappell said. 
Siegfried senator Jim Lockwood asked Shappell whether the program could provide more New York Times papers and fewer editions of The Chicago Tribune and USA Today. Lockwood also asked about the possibility of adding The South Bend Tribune to the program. Shappell said she would consider these sugges­tions. 
"We wanted to do a full year of the College Readership Program as it is and then we will reevaluate it," she said. 
Gender Issues chair Ashley Weiss said right now it's "crunch time" for her commit­tee's work on the eating disor­ders conference that will take place Feb. 8-10. Her committee is now working on advertising and finalizing the paperwork for the event, she said. 
Andrichik asked the senators to remind people that, although the conference is free for Notre Dame students, they should still register on the Center for Continuing Education's Web site. 
Minority Affairs committee chair Destinee DeLemos said she is working with the College of Arts and Letters to explore the creation of a Native American studies minor. 
Since Dillon Hall senator Tyler Langdon left this semes­ter to study abroad, the CLC lost one of its Senate liaisons. Lockwood was elected as the new liaison and Pasquerilla East senator Emily Cooperstein was selected as the alternate. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

from the· student body, and noted that the 90 percent con­sumption rate is only an aver­age. 
He added that students have even been stepping up and recycling. 
"I think the students realize they have a civic duty to recy­cle, and if they don't, USA Today takes recycled papers collected at the end of the day anyway," he said. 
Saint Mary's is also seeing similar levels of success with its College Readership Program, which began during the 2003-04 school year. Unlike with Notre Dame's pro­gram, students must swipe their ID cards at boxes on campus to access the newspa­pers for free. 
The Chicago Tribune was added to the mix -along with the locked boxes -at the beginning of this academ­ic year, as the budget for the program was increased from $7,500 to $13,000 per year. 
Saint Mary's student body president Susan Mcllduff said 2005 was the first year the program was not limited to the spring semester; before then, it was about half the size of the current program. 
Originally, there were only two distribution sites -the Student Center and LeMans Hall -but locations at the library and Madeleva were added this year, she said. 
"When Kellye Mitros and I were elected as student body president and vice president 
© 2007 ERNST & YOUNG U.P 
[for 2005-06], we decided to offer the program for the entire academic year, Mcllduff said. 
During the past year, Mcllduff and current student body -vice president Maggie Siefert worked to add The Chicago Tribune to the pro­gram to cater to the many students from the Chicago area. 
Mcllduff said she thinks the "students benefit greatly from the papers." 
"They're always gone by mid-day," she said. "Also, I have noticed that more pro­fessors are assigning current event journals relating to the course's subject matter." 
·Students at both schools generally seem to approve of 
the program. 

Notre Dame senior Walter Machnicki said he particularly likes The New York Times ­that program's most popular publication. 
"I like that they have The New York Times instead of just grabbing The Chicago Tribune for my non-Observer news," he said. 
Likewise, Saint Mary's soph­omore Beth Alexander also enjoys the opportunity to read a national newspaper. 
"A lot of us are so busy that we don't have time to watch the news on TV with the newspapers we can read at leisure," Alexander said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at 
astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Looking for a career that gives you h i s. 
Whatever your career goals, you'll find apath that helps you reach them at Ernst &Young. We've created aflexible work environment that provides options for managing personal and professional growth and success. So visit us on campus or at ey.comjusjcareers. 
FORTUNE~ 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 

QualityIn Everything We Do 


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 25, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israeli president faces rape charge 
JERUSALEM -Israeli President Moshe Katsav, facing charges of rape and abuse of power, asked parliament Wednesday to tem­porarily remove him from office in an effort to blunt growing calls for his resignation, including one from the prime minister. 
At a stormy, emotional news conference at his official residence, Katsav blamed Israeli media for his plight, using terms like "witch hunt." "McCarthyism" and "persecution." He shouted at a local TV reporter, pounding on the podium and gesturing angrily during a rambling diatribe that lasted nearly an hour. 
The president has been under intense pressure to quit since Attorney-General Meni Mazuz notified him Tuesday that he planned to indict him after a monthslong investiga­tion into allegations by four women who worked for him. The charges include rape, abuse of power and sexual assault. 
. 
Italy uncovers human trafficking 
ROME -More than 2,000 people through­

out Italy-most of them foreign-are 
accused of human trafficking following an 
investigation that uncovered minors and 
adults forced into prostitution and working in 
sweatshops. police said Wednesday. 
The four-month investigation uncovered 

hundreds of trafficking rings, some of them as 
small as three or four people, said Chief 
Supt>rintendent Chiara Giacomantonio. 
"There were no surprises. Unfortunately it's 

all well known," Giacomantonio said. "It's 
Albanians exploiting Romanian women, 
Chinese exploiting Chinese, Africa on Africa. 
Most of the people running the operations 

and their victims came from countries in 
Eastern Europe, including Moldavia, Albania 
and Romania, as well as countries in Asia. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Kerry removes name from candidacy 
WASHINGTON-Democratic Sen. John Kerry, who fell 118,601 Ohio votes short of the White House in 2004, said Wednesday he will not run for president in 2008. 
"We came close ... certainly close enough to be tempted to try again," the Massachusetts senator said, recalling his defeat. 
"There are powerful reasons to want to continue that fight now. But I have concluded this isn't the time for me to mount a presi­dential campaign." 
llis decision leaves a field of. nine Democrats running or signaling their inten­tion to do so, including Sens. Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois, and John Edwards, Kerry's 2004 vice presidential running mate. 
Flu infects cruise ship passengers 
SAN FRANCISCO -A highly contagious form of stomach flu sickened hundreds of passengers during a worldwide voyage on the famed Queen Elizabeth 2 cruise ship in what health officials called an unusually large outbreak. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported 276 passengers and 28 crew members had come down with norovirus by the time the ship docked Wednesday in San Francisco for a regularly scheduled stop, though only four passengers remained sick. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana hostages found unharmed 
ELKHART -Kimberly Walker's ex­boyfriend had been convicted before in an attack on her, so when the woman called during the three days he allegedly held her and their four children hostage, her family knew by a code word that she wasn't all right. 
The ex-boyfriend, 30-year-old Jerry White, is accused of bursting into Walker's home Saturday, shooting one man and kidnapping Walker and the children, ages 16 months to 9 years old. On Tuesday, police found the family safe at a motel near Walker's home and arrested White. 
Pentagon criticizes Bush's plan 
Sending more troops to Iraq may hinder quick response to crisis at home 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Bush's troop buildup in Iraq and the demands of the four-year­old war are causing con­cern at the Pentagon that the conflict could hamper the military:s response to domestic crises. 
The head of the National Guard said Wednesday his troops lack the necessary equipment and that will hurt their ability to respond to natural or manmade dis­asters at home. 
"I am not as comfortable as some others seem to be in accepting the low readi­ness levels here at home," Lt. Gen. Steven Blum said. "It creates a problem. It will cost us time and time will translate into lives." 
Adm. Timothy Keating, commander of U.S. Northern Command, also said there may be "specific equipment shortfalls that, in the longer term, could have an impact on our abil­ity to respond." 
Keating also said that right now, "the analysis we've done does not indi­cate any significant degra­dation in our ability to respond" to a crisis at home. 

Their comments came as opposition grew in Congress to President Bush's plan to send more than 21,000 mandant of the Marine they train for the mission, equipment in Iraq. additional troops to Iraq in Corps, told the House but would have it as they "Units that have returned the coming months. Armed Services Committee cross into Iraq from are trying to replace and 
The military leaders, in that the buildup is putting Kuwait. repair their equipment," interviews with The more pressure on the mili-. Equipment and training Feickert said. Associated Press, echoed tary, and that the response ·are main concerns for the "With this new situation, warnings from other mili­to a crisis elsewhere proba­troops at home, particularly they might be called upon tary commanders about the bly would be slower and -for National Guard units to come up with even more buildup's potential effect on more risky. that have scrambled to get equipment to bring deploy­the readiness levels of Schoomaker said Army equipment. Units have ing units up to strength." forces at home. units moving into Iraq are resorted to swapping equip­Keating said concerns 
Some at the Pentagon fully trained, staffed and ment among the states to focus more on whether the believe the training and equipped. But, he said; "I ensure that trucks, helicop­military has the training equipment shortfalls affect have continued concerns ters and communications and equipment to respond homeland defense. Yet oth­about the nondeployed equipment are where they to multiple situations at one ers believe the milhary is forces," as well as the are needed most. time. big enough and strong "strategic depth of our Noting the Guard was The military, he said, enough to respond to any Army and its readiness." short on equipment before needs more training and crisis -but that response Army officials also say it the war began, Andrew equipment for chemical, would not be as neat or as will be a struggle to get all Feickert, national defense biological, radiological and quick as it should be. the equipment they need specialist with the nuclear attacks, including 
Gen. Peter Schoomaker, for the buildup. Some Congressional Research chemical suits, medical the Army chief of staff, and troops, they said, may not Service, said deployed units equipment and treatment Gen. James Conway, com-have all their equipment as then had to leave much facilities. 

IRAQ 
U.S., Iraqi troops clash with Sunnis 
Wednesday, with at least 69 people Sunni stronghold to launch targeted
Associated Press killed or found dead, inCluding 33 tor­raids in a third bid this month to clear BAGHDAD -U.S. and Iraqi troops tured bodies found in separate loca­the neighborhood of militants. battled Sunni insurgents hiding in tions in Baghdad. Armored vehicles massed along Haifa high-rise buildings on Haifa Street in With President Bush pushing a con­Street, where a median with trees the heart of Baghdad Wednesday, troversial plan to increase troops separates four lanes of traffic lined by with snipers on roofs taking aim at strength in Iraq, government tall apartment houses built by gunmen in open windows as ,Apache spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh said the Saddam Hussein for loyalists and dis­attack helicopters hovered overhead. latest joint raid was aimed at clearing sidents from other Arab countries. Iraq said 30 militants were killed the Haifa Street area of "terrorists mainly Syria. and 27 captured. and outlaws" targeting residents. He The U.S.-Iraqi force faced fierce New details also emerged about the promised such operations would con­resistance from insurgents using downing of a private U.S. security tinue as U.S. and Iraqi troops prepare hand-grenades, rocket-propelled company helicopter on Tuesday, with for a broader security crackdown to grenades and small arms from the 
U.S. and Iraqi officials saying four of stanch the sectarian bloodletting that high-rises, the American military five Americans who died in the inci­has turned Baghdad into a battlefield. said. The explosions were so loud dent were shot execution-style. At 5 a.m. Wednesday, Iraqi army they could be heard_ across the capi­Violence was unrelenting in Iraq on and American troops moved into the tal. 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 25, 2007 
··Passports 
continued from page 1 
dents act soon to insure they receive their documents on time. 
"We have been seeing more people coming in and asking about new passport applica­tions," Kowalski said. "It used to take four to six weeks to process a passport; now, it will probably take up to eight weeks." 
Sophomore Nicole Bernal, who's traveling to Baja, Calif. for Spring Break, wasted no time in submitting her docu­ments. 
"I noticed my passport had expired before Christmas, and because I'm also travel­ing to Rome for the architec­ture program junior year, people told me I should get my passport renewed fast," she said. "I sent off every­thing a week before Christmas break, and it took almost six weeks before I got it back." 
The experts at Anthony Travel recommend that even students who are going on cruises or driving across borders should still pay attention to the laws and insure that they have a renewed passport to carry with them in case of an emergency. 
"We're planning a lot of student spring break travel, including a cruise to Mexico, Belize and the Bahamas," Carr said. "Though the cruise doesn't require a passport, if there is an emer­gency and somebody people had to fly home, they won't be able to re-enter easily without one." 
According to the U.S. Department of State, stu­dents who most recently renewed their passports at the age of 15 and below are only covered for five years before expiration, and will have to reapply for a new one for a fee of $97. However. students who last renewed their passports after the age of 16 only have to renew their passports each decade for a fee of $6 7. 
Moreover, if somebody needs to expedite their pass­port renewal with a guaran­tee to receive it back after processing within three weeks, it will cost them an extra $60, plus roughly $30 to send it via express mail. 
Fortunately, the Notre Dame post office is now accepting passport applica­tions and is equipped with all the necessary resources to help students with inter­national travel, so they don't have to go to the trouble of visiting the passport agency downtown. 
"We are an authorized passport acceptance agency, and we check to make sure that all of the· paperwork is correct before forwarding them to the National Passport Processing Center," said Ellen Bystrom, postmas­ter at the Notre Dame Post Office. "We also can take photos on site, and we rec­ommend students make appointments between class­es, but we also accept watk­ins." 
The Notre Dame Postal Office charges a $30 process­ing fee, and an extra $15 for photos. Customers seeking passport photos may not wear hats or headgear obscuring the hairline, nor dark or nonprescription glasses with tinted lenses. 
Additionally, students will have to bring along with their application proof of cit­izenship, either using a pre­vious passport or a certified copy of their birth certifi­cate, a government issued photo ID such as a driver's license or military ID and two checks or money orders -one to send to the Department of State and one for postal fe.es. 
"It was fairly busy back in December, even though it's only a fifteen-minute proce­dure," Bernal said. ''I'm relieved that I got it sooner, so I suggest that students get an appointment soon. They ask numerous questions 
including citizenship, place of birth, where you are going and why you are traveling there." 
Anthony Travel projects that over 75 percent of its Notre Dame customers have valid passports for travel, but should always be aware of changes to the border patrol regulations and have contingency plans in ease something goes awry during their journeys. 
"It's always best to chnck with your travel profession­al," Kowalski said, "and that's why we're here for the Notre Dame community." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
McAlarney 
continued from page 1 

were "shocked" by the University's decision, which she said came after her son's meet­ing Monday with Hesidenee Life and Ilousing officials. 
Senior Associate Athletics Director John lleisler and Notre Dame sports information direc­tor Bernie Cafarelli both declined to comment Tuesday. Cafarelli said Brey could not comment either. 
Associate Vice President for News and Information Don Wycliff and Residence Life and llousing Associate Director Lori Maurer also said Tuesday they 
THE POWER TO 
PRESS 

byLG<I> 
Built-in MP3 player 

with FM transmitter Sprint Music Store'M enabled Sprint TV'"' enabled Built-in 1.3MP camera and camcorder Bluetooth"' technology microSD external memory card 
$49.99 
Save $250 instantly 
Reg. $299.99 each. 
Sprint Music Store 
Wirelessly download digital tracks to your phone. Choose from hundreds of thousands offull-length songs from virtually every genre and listen to them wherever you go. 

could not comment on individ­ual disciplinary cases. 
McAlarney's arrest happened close to campus, hours after the sophomore scored a career­high 21 points in a Notre Dame victory over Rider. 
He entered the St. Joseph's County pre-trial diversion pro­gram, a system that gives sub­jects the opportunity to have charges expunged from their records, on Jan. 18. 
McAlarney was averaging 
10.3 points and 5.4 assists per game prior to his suspension. 
The Observer could not reach McAlarney for comment Wednesday. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 


PLAY 
·MOTORAZR™ V3m 
by Motorola 

Sprint Music Store'M enabled Bluetooth"' technology Built-in 1.3MP camera and camcorder Sprint TV'M enabled GPS enabled 
$Z9.99 
Save $220 instantly 
Reg. $249.99. 


SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA STORE HOURS 
Bask CommuntcaUons

Sprint Store Express Sprint Store Express 
Martin's Plaza Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge Sun............... 12pm-5pm 
2010 5. 11th St.

52991 SR993 Ste. B University Park Mall 
269·357-0000

2035 South Bend Ave. South of the Mall Mon.-Fri. ......... 10am-8pm 
574-243-8900 6501 Grape Rd.
574-277-7727 across from McDonald's Sat................ 9am-7pm 
574-277-4360
574-243-2100 

Se habla Espaiiol 

Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Network reaches over 250 million peo­ple. Offers not available in all markets or retail locations. Add'l terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store for details. Up to $36 activation & $200 early termination fees apply per line. Deposit may be required. Instant Savings: Offer ends 2/17/07 or while supplies last. No cash back. Taxes exclud­ed. Activation at time of purchase required. ©2007 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint, the "Going Forward" logo, the NEXTEL name & logo, & other trademarks are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. 
Thursday, January 25, 2007 

MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
12,621.77 +87.97

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,273 142 1,007 2,783,313,800 



NASDAQ 2 466.28 
-fii(i~ii[~ll!l~t?JJJ!!!!I!~;;i!lilll:i~lll~lllllfl~!1llltlllllll 
S&PSOO 1,440.13 +34.87 
Nli«SI:«<il'lilll\':il!li;l;liilil1;11,\l;l;iil[ilfllil;!l~': 
FTSE IOO(London) 6,314.80 +87.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) +1.65 +0.72 44.306.15 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +8.66 +0.49 20.89 INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.41 +0.29 26.04 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +3.26 +0.85 26.89 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +0.12 +0.006 4.810 13-WEEK BILL -0.30 -0.0 IS 4.990 30-YEAR BOND +0.27 +0.0 I 3 4.910 5-YEAR NOTE +0.13 +0.006 4.806 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.33 55.37 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.30 648.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.88 +2.88 
Excha Rates 

YEN 120.2200 EURO 0.7716 POUND 0.5085 CANADIAN$ 1.1778 
IN BRIEF 
McDonald's quarterly profit doubles 
CHICAGO -McDonald's Corp., the world's largest fast-food chain, said Wednesday that its fourth-quarter profit more than doubled, thanks in large part to the spinoff of a burrito chain and strong sales in Europe. 
The earnings were" in line with prelimi­nary results released last week but the stock slipped after some analysts said operating profits were below their expecta­tions. 
The restaurant company earned $1.2 bil­lion, or $1 a share, in the quarter ending Dec. 31. That was up from $608.5 million, or 48 cents a share, during the same peri­od last year. 
McDonald's revenue climbed 11 percent to $5.6 billion, from $5.01 billion during the year-ago period. 
Even without the gain from the spinoff of its Chipotle chain, McDonald's said income from continuing operations climbed to $761.2 million, a 26 percent increase from $604.8 million last year. 
Home Depot CEO earns small salary 
ATLANTA -The Home Depot Inc. is pay­ing new Chief Executive Frank Blake a fraction of what it paid his predecessor, Bob Nardelli, and has taken the unusual step of promising Blake no severance pack­age if he leaves. 
But executive compensation experts don't expect the decision announced Wednesday by the world's largest home improvement store chain to set a trend in corporate America, despite the ire that hefty salaries have drawn among investors. 
"I wish it were a trend," said Lowell Peterson, a New York labor attorney who is familiar with executive compensation issues. "I suspect it's unique to Home Depot because the pay and severance package given to Nardelli was so out of line." 
Atlanta-based Home Depot said in a regu­latory filing that Blake could earn as much as $8.9 million in total compensation this year. 
That's a fraction of the $25. 7 million a year on average that Nardelli was earning at Home Depot excluding stock options. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Congress halts minimum wage bill 
Lawmakers cite tax break attachment as reasons for delay in Washington 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The 

minimum wage increase 
that was supposed to zip 
through Congress veered 
onto a collision course 

Wednesday as lawmakers 
argued over business tax 
breaks that would be 
attached to ensure 
Republican support. 

Democratic leaders in the House began laying ground­work to blame the Republicans for any impasse. Senate Democrats, however, cautioned their House colleagues not to jeopardize legislation they'd promised to approve if they gained control of Congress. 
House Democrats 
demanded a clean bill from 
the Senate-no tax attach­
ment -setting up a con­
frontation that could delay 
final congressional passage 
of the $2.10 an hour 
increase. 
The Senate did vote 54-43 
to advance a House-passed 
measure that would lift the 
pay floor without any 
accompanying tax cut. 
However, that was well 
short of the 60 votes needed 
to keep that version moving. 

The vote was a signal to the House that without the tax breaks a minimum wage bill appeared doomed in the Senate. And the Senate promptly moved to a broader bill, backed by its Senate Democrats seemed House. think tank, inflation has Democratic leaders, that more willing to accept the Still, in a separate vote eroded the value of the min­would raise the minimum tax portion ifit meant fulfill­Wednesday, the Senate imum wage to its lowest wage to $7.25 an hour over ing their campaign promise. effectively killed a modified level in more than 50 years. 26 months and provide $8.3 "Both bodies want to keep line-item veto bill. The "Minimum wage workers billion in tax benefits to their eye on the ball," said Republican-inspired meas­are men and women of dig­businesses over 10 years. Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., ure would have permitted a nity," Sen. Edward Kennedy, 
In the House, Democrats a co-sponsor of the Senate president to pluck individ­D-Mass., a longtime advo­threatened to stifle that tax break provisions. ual items out of spending cate of raising the wage effort by enforcing constitu­House Democrats could bills and submit them to floor, said. "They do some of tional precedents that try to alter or even remove Congress for a vote. the most difficult, back­require all tax bills to origi­the tax package from the Senators also defeated a breaking jobs in our society. nate in the House. They Senate version when the Republican amendment that They deserve a fair wage blamed Republicans for the two houses try to reconcile would have given only the that respects the dignity of brewing impasse. their differing versions in a states the right to increase their work and they should­
"Democrats are commit­conference committee. the minimum wage. n't have to live in poverty." ted to helping small busi­In the meantime, the con­The federal minimum Since the House passed its nesses, but we should not frontation exposed difficul­wage has been unchanged version two weeks ago, delay a minimum wage ties the Democratic majority for 10 years. In the mean­Speaker Pelosi, D-Calif., and increase another day in may well encounter when time, a number of states Rep. Charles Rangel, the order to negotiate a tax sending other House legisla­have moved on their own to chairman of the taxwriting package," said Brendan tion to the Senate, where increase their minimums. Ways and Means Daly, a spokesman for the minority Republicans According to the Center Committee, have prodded House Speaker Nancy enjoy more power to shape for Budget and Policy the Senate to keep tax pro­Pelosi. legislation than in the Priorities, a liberal leaning posals out of the bill. 

Tech sectors help boost Wall Street 
Associated Press There was little overall movement in good numbers because they didn't 
the energy and health sectors in want to take anything for granted 
NEW YORK -Wall Street bounded response to President Bush's State of because they had been laggard for a 
higher Wednesday, lifting the Nasdaq the Union address, during which he while." 
composite index well over 1 percent called for expanded health insurance The tech-laden Nasdaq composite 
after profit reports from Yahoo Inc. and coverage and a 20 percent reduction index jumped 34.87, or 1.43 percent, to 
Sun Microsystems Inc. restored the country's consumption of gasoline 2,466.28. The gain marked the 
investors' confidence in the tech sector. over the next 10 years. Some alterna­Nasdaq's biggest one-day increase 
The Dow Jones industrials logged fresh tive-energy companies pulled back since early December. 
trading and closing highs. after rising sharply before the speech. The Dow rose 87.97, or 0.70 percent, 
Tech stocks have borne most of Wall In an essentially all-earnings day, to 12,621.77 after rising 56.64 on 
Street's concern about the health of investors were left without new eco­Tuesday. The Dow surpassed a record 
corporate earnings in recent weeks. nomic data to help provide some clues close of 12,582.59 set Jan. 16; it was 
Restive investors, taking their cues about the direction of interest rates. the Dow's 26th record close since the 
from a flurry of profit reports, have "I think investors were waiting with blue chip average began its surge high­
been at turns pleased and concerned the techs for the earnings to come out," er at the start of October. The Dow also 
about the prospects that profit growth said Neil Massa, equity trader at John reached a record intraday high of 
will help drive stocks higher following a Hancock Funds. "Investors were in the 12,623.45, topping a trading high of 
sharp run-up in 2006. show-me mode. They had to be shown 12,614.00 reached a week earlier. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, January 25, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Save it for the toilet 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notro Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINlSTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Obsetver is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer resetves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters tq the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quertiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilluon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-400Q) is _published Monday through Fr.i®:y ac~pt during exam -and vacation pecibds. A,.sub$cripdon m The: Observer 1s $.100 for ope-~cmic year; $55 fur .one semesrer. 
The Obsc:rvtr is published at:: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address cort'ealons t(l~ Notre D""" IN 46556-<l779 Th<~ Periodical postage paid ar Notte D.amt ?.O.Box779 and addici.onal mailing.o!Hces, 024 South Dinjng HaJJ 
Non< Dam<, IN 4&556-0779 
The Obs~rva k a member ofthe &sedated PrCSll. All teptoductionrigbn are resctv«i. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Amanda Michaels Madeline Nies 
Marcela Berrios Sports , 
Uz Harter Eric Retter 
Rohan Anand Fran Tolan 
Viewpoint Bill Brink 
Alyssa Scene 
Brauweiler Erin McGinn 

Toilet paper is an immensely valu­able creation, without which we'd be relegated to using newsprint, our left hand, or perhaps even discarded sheep's wool (like those in the Viking age of England did) to unsoil ourselves in the lavatory. 
While toilet paper is typically used to clean messes, any high school kid could tell you that it can also be used to make messes ­messes of hate, that is. 
After all, the jun­iors bate the sen­iors. The soccer players hate the football players. The cheerleaders hate the pom-pom squad. 
And how do they manifest this hate? By thrusting roll after roll of Charmin onto t~eir enemy's trees. 
The ensuing mess often enrages lawn maintenance-freak fathers and some­times even prompts principals to hold school-wide assemblies in which they threaten to disband the football team if the "toilet paper vigilantes" persist. 
But toilet paper isn't the only good thing in America that can be used in a bad way. The list even extends beyond eggs, shaving cream or any other of the array of household items thai teenage angst teaches high-schoolers to abuse. 
In fact, what perhaps tops the should-be-a-good-thing-but-can-cause­trouble list is not actually a thing at all. Yet it leads to hate and fuels a desire in some not only to damage property, but to damage lives. 
What is it, you ask? Believe it or not -American Pride. 
American Pride can be beautiful ­when we resound in chords of "God Bless America," when we fly American 

Liz Coffey 

The Coffey 
Grind 

flags from our front porches and when 
we plop ourselves on lawn chairs on a 
muggy July night, waiting for the pop 
of the Independence Day fireworks. 
But other Americans take this Pride 
too far. They plop themselves on lawn 
chairs in the stifling Arizona desert, 
day after day waiting for wanna-be 
immigrants to cross the American bor­
der. These Americans might see fire­
works too -fireworks made by the 
shotguns some choose to carry. 
Many of these "border vigilantes" 
profess to be part of a group that 
describes itself as "a citizens' 
Neighborhood Watch on our border." 
They call themselves "The Minuteman 
Project." 
The Minutemen? Most Americans 
know about the original Minutemen ­
that rag-tag bunch of Revolutionary 
War-era New Englanders who pledged 
to be ready to toil with the Redcoats at 
a mere "moment's notice." History has 
everafter heralded them as heroes. 
But the modern-day Minutemen? 
Heroes? Hardly. 
"We are a nation of immigrants." 
President George W. Bush spoke these 
words over and over again in the 
spring of 2006. But do most of ioday's 
pride-filled Americans even under­
stand what thai means? 
It seems as though the only American 
history many know of is that of the 
white Lexington and Concord 
Minutemen, who thrust America into a 
War of Independence, after which the 
nation expanded tenfold as a result of 
a so-called "God-ordained" Manifest 
Destiny. This led prideful Americans to 
believe they had the right to enslave 
the blacks and exterminate the Native 'Americans as they marched across the 
continent. 
But in the late 19th and early 20th 
centuries, many of our white ancestors 
were not marching across a continent; instead, they were sailing across an ocean. They didn't enter America at Roanoke, Jamestown, Plymouth Rock or any of the other historically roman­ticized "ports of entry." Instead, they landed in America cramped and crowded at Ellis Island. 
And they were hated. The Protestants hated the Catholics. The Germans hated the Irish. And everyone hated the Italians. 
And how did they manifest this hate? By killing one another -sometimes even with hatchets. 
But by and large, we don't see riot­rousing hate between these groups anymore. Americans of varying degrees of whiteness co-exist in the same neighborhoods and even marry one another without thinking twice about it. 
While sneaking across the American border is certainly illegal (as is toilet­papering trees, I might add), that does­n't mean that you, as an ordinary pride-filled American, should sit at the border with a shotgun. True, the immi­gration debate is a complex issue, but need we further soil the debate by turning it into another mess of hate? 
After all, being a modern-day Minuteman doesn't make you a hero; instead, it makes you like one of those pathetic people who remain frozen in the high school world long after gradu­ation. 
Toliei paper shouldn't make a mess. And American pride shouldn't make you a bigot. 
Liz Coffey is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at ecoffey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
If the Democratic primary were held today, who would you vote for? 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Man's inhumanity to man makes countless thousands mourn." 
Robert Burns author 


THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 
.-------:---c--------­
Thursday, January 25, 2007 
The first weeks of the beginning of the second semester are always marked by three special dates and occasions, all of which point toward different aspects of unity and solidarity. 
The first celebration is when the Catholic Richard V. Church celebrates a Warner, CSC World Day of Peace. 
FaithPoint

The Catholic under­standing of peace is that it is both a gift from God but a human work as well. And as each new year begins, at least recently, more wars are raging, more innocent victims are dying every day, many of the members of our armed forces are in harm's way and continuous streams of refugees and suffering people could fill the headlines every day ifsuch tragedies had not become so commonplace among us. I am always encouraged to see student organizations who take up the causes of peoples who suffer as a result of wars and struggles. And as the years have passed, the work of the Kroc Institute has become 
Seeking solidarity 
very significant and made its mark as one of the outstanding academic programs and institutes in the United States. Every Friday, the 5:15p.m. Mass is celebrated in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart to pray for peace. In the face of such human suffering, it may seem fruitless to spend 30 minutes in prayer. But in the face of such human suffering and injustice, we do let our prayers and voices rise for our brothers and sisters and ask the Lord to continue to raise up among us people who will pursue peace with justice for all God's people. 
The second celebration in January is the national holiday honoring the work of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. On our own cam­pus, University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh is always interviewed when this day is celebrated because of the contributions he made as chairman of the Civil Rights Commission when the land­mark law which King promoted and died for ended years of segregation and racial intolerance, creating a solid legal basis on which to begin what remains a long and difficult struggle in our country and other countries around the world. One of the members of our staff, Chandra Johnson, is one of the outstanding campus ministers in our country with innovative and significant programs which enable us to participate in the important work of cross-cultural min­istry. 
Finally, the Catholic Church celebrates the Octave of Church Unity during the third week in January. The prayer of Jesus is that all Christians may one day be united, and significant work in ecumenical and inter-religious dialogue has taken place for the past four years since the closing of the Second Vatican Council. The preface for the Masses during the Octave state beautifully what we pray for and seek during these days. "Through Christ you bring us to the knowledge of your truth, that we may be united by one faith and one Baptism to be His body. Through Christ you have given the Holy Spirit to all peoples. How wonder­ful are the works of the Spirit revealed in so many gifts! Yet how marvelous is the 
page 9 

unity the Spirit creates from their diversity, as He dwells in the hearts of your children filling the whole Church with His presence and guiding it with His wisdom!" While sig­nificant work in ecumenical and inter-reli­gious dialogue takes place through mem­bers of our Department of Theology and in the Tantur Ecumenical Institute in Jerusalem, another member of our staff, Priscilla Wong, offers Prayer From Around the World in different Christian, Muslim, Hindu and Jewish traditions. 
It is important for us to promote solidari­ty in all of these for us and others as well. As we begin a new year, it is also important for us to be reminded of these three ele­ments of human solidarity. 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Father Richard Warner, director ofCampus Ministry. He can be reached at rwamer@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
McAlarney suspension justified 
In the article regarding Kyle McAlarney's suspension for two semesters (Jan. 24, actions that are taken by our family members make headlines internationally. We 'University suspends McAlarney'), I find the statements by his mother to be a bit are scrutinized far more than any other school I have ever seen. Therefore, it is of disturbing. All Notre Dame students-athlete or not-are given a thorough high importance that such matters be addressed by the University in an appropri­description of du Lac. Each student is given an orientation of du Lac and knows ate manner and whether the individual or his parents agree with the decision, it is what the rules at Our Lady's University are and what is expected of each individual. the consequence to the action. In this case, the University is handling the situation You may argue the point that in your opinion the punishment may not fit the crime, with the individual and dealing with someone who broke the rules of du Lac. I but that decision is for University officials to make. Stating that the University is understand how difficult this must be for the individual and his family; however, the using this individual to make an example out of is ridiculous. The University did not University should not be targeted for doing its job. make the error in judgment to possess the substance, the individual did. I do under­stand the feelings that are being expressed by the individual's mother, however -Lucy Lopez to make allegations that are inaccurate and sound more like excuses to try and Class of 1996 cover up the mistake that was initially made. A Notre Dame student, athlete or not, Tampa, Fla. is subject to the rules in du Lac -period. Notre Dame is in the spotlight 2417 and Jan. 24 
Suspension w-as overkill 
It is often said that college is a microcosm of the real world. If that were that case, then Kyle McAlarney would have been back playing against Georgetown or Tank Johnson would have been placed on death row. For those of you on the University judicial board, please -gain some perspective. An overwhelming amount of illegal underage drinking is allowed in each resi­dence hall every weekend, yet one student is suspended an entire semester for having maru­juana in his car. As I remember the stories, a past student was booted from his residence hall for being in Pasquerilla West Hall at 12:30 a.m. studying on a Monday, yet another student throwing around sexist remarks directly at a female rector got a "firm talking-to ..."Either there is a serious consistency problem, or the administrators guiding the process are seriously screwed up in the head. I vote for both. Meanwhile, there's one point guard who has seven more months to learn a lesson that I am sure he already understands, while a good chunk of the current Notre Dame student body will break the law tomorrow night in Dillon Hall. 
HapaDima Los Angeles Jan. 24 

After reading of the University's decicison to dismiss Kyle McAlarney from Notre Dame in this morning's South Bend Tribune, I shared the news with a fellow Michiana resident who also has very close ties to the University. (Two of our parents were employed at Notre Dame for about 25 years). I thought I would share his thoughts when I relayed the message of the decision to dismiss Kyle. "Actually, I am quite relieved. I was afraid they were going to have him stoned to death in front of Sacred Heart Chapel. Whoever made this decision needs to look deep into their Christian heart and see exactly what was the motivation behind this decision. I doubt it is anything Jesus would be proud of. What has happened to mercy and forgiveness? If they believe that Notre Dame as an institution has anything to offer, to better the Christian character of their students and help them make good choices, then why would they send Kyle away from that environment and cast him out? I think this decision is flat-out wrong and reflects very poorly on the University." I think his comments are well stated, not to mention true and appropriate. 
Todd Maher Granger Jan. 24 
I just read on NDNation.com that Kyle McAlarney was sus­pended from school. Please tell me this isn't true. Frankly, it's embarrasing. The punishment certainly doesn't match the misdemeanor. Has the University gotten so caught up in its conservative self-righteousness that it's now making an example of one of its more visible members? I hope not. Suspension from the basketball team for the remainder of the year is much more fitting. McAlarney's smoking mari­juana does affect his stamina and does hurt the team. It should not be tolerated. McAlarney's smoking marijuana does not hurt the Notre Dame community. It may offend some of the community's more conservative members. However, let's not confuse smoking marijuana with murder or rape -or invading countries that pose no threat to you. As importantly, we should look to the past as a means to move forward. In my four years at Notre Dame, a number of kids were caught smoking marijuana. None of them were suspended from school. All of them received some form of discipline. However, none of these punishments were as dra­conian as academic suspension. Now would be a great time for University President Father John Jenkins to intervene in the name of common sense. Clearly, common sense went hugely wanting at McAlarney's disciplinary review. 
Jeff Barber Class of 1982 Pinsburgh Jan. 24 

Fashion show restrictions unreasonable 
The Bernina of America Fashion Show is scheduled to take place at Saint will be presenting is one that will not make women feel better about them­Mary's on March 11. Saint Mary's women received an email about this event, selves. I know that my body isn't even close to those requirements, but I don't which is raising money for a new Breast Care Center at Memorial Hospital. think it should be. With all of the body issues that are present on college cam­This is a great cause, and I fully support their efforts. puses, why should we reinforce the feelings of inadequacy? It's time that we 
However, I do not agree with the requirements for models. The email stated see real women on a stage. that the models must must be at least 5'9", have a bust of around 35", a waist size around 25" and hips around 35". I don't know too many women that fit Sarah Nielson this description. I realize that the people organizing the fashion show are try­JUlllOr ing to raise money for something that will benefit many women, but in the Regina Hall process they are just reinforcing a harmful stereotype. The image that they Jan. 22 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Thursday, January 25, 2007 
DPAC FEATURE 

Student Film Festival returns for 18th year 
Thirteen movies demonstrate the admirable talent of student filmmakers 
By ANALISE LIPARI and ERIN MCGINN Assistant Scene Editors 
Annually, the Notre Dame Student Film Festival allows student filmmakers a chance to exhibit their dramatic, humor­ous and occasionally off-kilter work to the University and general public. This is the 18th year for the festival, which has come a long way since its original incep­tion in the basement of what is now McKenna Hall. 
"I think there were about seventy-five people who showed up," said Film, Television and Theater professor Ted Mandell. "The students put the show together and just about any film that they could get their hands on was in the show." 
Over the years the film festival grew bigger and kept moving to larger loca­tions, reaching its final home in the Browning Cinema in 2004. 
All of the films shown at the Film Festival were created in production courses within the Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) department. 
"They are projects done for class, just like a research paper in history, except that many of them are seen by an audi­ence of 1200 or more." Mandell said. "I believe the quality of filmmaking has improved every year. This year's batch of films, overall, are really well done." 
Often engaging the community by 
yet. The Film 
and $6 general public.
Festival will play host to 13 differ­ent and diverse selections from students within the FTT department. 
"I think students will be surprised at the quality of filmmaking and surprised at the topics undertaken," Mandell said. "Many of the thirteen films are made to convey a strong message or tackle tough subjects in thought provoking ways. Others are just plain enjoyable, plus there's a surprise star who pops in too." 
In light of the recent debate over the presence of "The Vagina Monologues" on campus, one film of interest for students may be "Loyal Daughters," a film by Molly Miner, Kathleen Kudia and Monica Engel that profiles the cast of Notre Dame's last production of the Eve Ensler 


Even the simplest of scenes takes extensive planning in order to film. The students shown here are filming a scene for Jean Milan and Rama Gottumukkala's film "My Rapist." 
tics often left the town's residents disgruntled and protesting. Whether viewed as an expose on small-town politics or a charac­ter study in power and its affect on the human ego, "Welcome to Snyderville" takes a different and intriguing approach to the com­munity right outside the bound­aries of Notre Dame. 
Another film that takes a dif­ferent angle on a familiar subject at the University, vocation to the priesthood, is Emily Andreas' and Rin Westcott's "Stained Glass Ceiling." Through interviews and alternated voice-overs, the film chronicles one devout woman's desire to be ordained as a Catholic priest, questioning the audience's and Church's opinions on the subject in a subtle and compelling way. 
The most literary film is that of Trevor Park and Pacifico Soldati's black-and-white "Adaptation," literally an adapta­
tion of the short story "Theft" by Depression-era writer Katherine Anne Porter. It tells the story of a 
filming with stu­18th Annual Notre Dame ject. dents and locals in Directed by Jean
Student Film Festival
well-known area Milan and Rama locations, this Gottumukkala, "My
When: Thursday-Saturday, 7 p.m. and
year's crop of Rapist" takes a
lOp.m.

films may prove to straightforward
Where: Browning Cinema 

be the strongest and powerful
Cost: $3 students, $5 faculty and staff, 
play. In the context of the heated discus­sions that took place in recent memory, as well as last fall's student-produced work of the same name, "Loyal Daughters" will inevitably be an afl"ecting look at a controver­sial and timely sub­
approach to dis­
cussing this most 
personal of crimes with three victims. (Gottumukkala is an assistant managing editor of The Observer). The film alludes to the issue of breaking the silence about the victimiza­tion of these women, and in turn asks the audience to examine its own views and sensitivities as well as the consequences of remaining silent. 
A third film to tackle deeper issues of personal identity and the complexity of societal pressure is "Flipped," by Lisa Goepfrich, Brandon Kusz and Fabian Farias. In a somewhat "reversed" envi­ronment, "Flipped" envisions a high school where the majority of the students and teachers are gay, and a young het­erosexual student named Nick struggles with hiding his sexuality. The difficulties, dispute over a missing purse between a harassment and even violence that Nick young maid and an older woman. faces during the film qui-There is also the heart­etly echo what the film­wrenching "In Memory," makers view as our soci­in which Ishira Kumar,
"Many ofthe thirteen 
ety's own discomfort with Nich DeCapioi and Beth
films are made to
homosexuality and the Napoli examine one problems that gay teens convey a strong woman's descent into face today. message ... others are Alzheimer's disease, 
Taking a lighthearted, through the eyes of her
just plain enjoyable.,, 
more humorous young granddaughter 
approach is a film by who watches her grow Katie Johnson and Ted Mandell older and slowly becomes Tamara Gillings entitled senile.
professor
"Yiayia and the Evil Eye," in which a Greek teenage boy is convinced, courtesy of a story from Greek folklore, that his blue eyes -with their supposedly uncontrollable power­could unwittingly bring about destruction and death. Is the evil power of his eyes a real, terrifying phenomenon, or is the problem, as his optometrist suggests, entirely in his head? When the optometrist disappears, all bets are off. 
Noble Robinette, Jacob Imm and Mike Molenda bring a documentary filmmak­er's insight to the discussion with "Welcome to Snyderville." Filmed in the tiny town of Roseland, Ind., "Welcome to Snyderville" looks at the ever-present and at times stifling voices of David and Dorothy Snyder, two town council mem­bers whose stronghold on Roseland poli-The ambitious "SAGE­
WISE da Versitle 1," is a documentary by Edward Song following Stefan Rios, a northern Indiana UPS deliveryman, on his break dancing jour­ney across the United States. He travels from Indiana all the way to New York to try and fulfill his dreams. 
The film festival rounds out with another four films, including "Unseen" directed by Gottumukkala and Dan Moore, "666-7734" directed by Tedd Hawks and lshira Kumar, "Shadow Boxing" directed by Darrin Bragg, Michael Burke and Mike Peterson and "De Capo a! Fine" directed by Erin Allen and Beth Napoli. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu and Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER. 
CENE
Thursday, January 25, 2007 
page 11 

By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Critic 
As a bomb explodes dangerously close to Theo, he grimaces with pain and covers his ears, trying to blot out the excruciating tinny sound that accompanies the blast. But he can't and neither can we, as direc­tor Alfonso Cuar6n allows that awful sound to linger for a full minute after the fact. 
"You hear that ringing in your ears?" Julian (Julianne Moore), Theo's ex-wife, asks him after another such explosion. "That's your ear cells dying. You'll never be able to hear that frequency again. Enjoy it while you can." 
Children of Men 


Director: Alfonso Cuar6n Writers: Alfonso Cuar6n and Timothy J. Sexton Starring: Clive Owen, Julianne Moore, Michael Caine and Claire-Hope Ashitey 
These horrific sights and sounds pepper the landscape of "Children of Men," a film that offers a frightening vision of how far a world -perhaps even ours -could plum­met toward chaos. Marked by violence and desolation, it's a dark reality that threatens to shatter the most brittle of humanity's commodities -hope. 
In 2027, mankind is gasping its last breath, struggling in a world where pro­creation is a distant memory. After all, if women can't have babies anymore, what else is there to hope for? Indeed, hope seems the most important word in the film as these characters have so little of it. 
A former peace activist, Theo (Clive Owen) is resigned to civilization's inevitable fate. But when Julian enlists Theo's help, he is faced with guarding a miracle. He is charged with safely transporting Kee (Claire-Hope Ashitey), a young, pregnant black girl, to the scientists of The Human Project. If Kee and her baby live, so too might the rest of humanity. 
The promotional material behind "Children of Men" almost shouts a single question: "Why are women infertile?" Cuar6n argues that the answer doesn't matter, and his movie never offers a solu­tion to this seemingly central question. Women stopped having babies 18 years before the opening credits roll. And by the time the end credits roll, that question has gone unanswered. 
Instead, what the film does so brilliantly is take us on one man's odyssey to restore hope to a world that severely lacks it. Far from a traditional high-concept film, view­ers are thrown headlong into the second act. It's an atypical choice that allows Cuar6n more time to play in a world that is painstakingly realized. 
Nowhere is this more apparent than the film's Academy Award-nominated cine­matography. The camera employed by Cuar6n to tell this story is as unstable as the world around it. In one breathtaking segment, we're thrown headlong into the rubble of a refugee camp. As the angry hiss of machine gun fire, tanks and explo­sions rock the scenery, Theo scrambles to find Kee in a shot that continues unbroken for nine minutes. Debris falls all around and blood spatters onto the camera sur­face in an exhausting, masterful segment that mirrors the peril of Theo's journey. 
It's easy to forget how often Owen has been in front of the camera in the last few years. Since his first major role as a sniper in 2002's "The Bourne Identity," Owen has had memorable turns in "Sin City," "Closer" and "Inside Man." But here, he is at his very best. He has to portray a fragile character, someone dangerously close to the edge of a precipice that much of mankind has already fallen over. As the heart and soul of the picture, Owen domi­nates every scene he's in, which helps because he's in so many of them. 
Hope is one of the two most eagerly sought commodities in cinema, the other being redemption. Characters find hope and lose it all the time. But with "Children of Men," Cuar6n tortures his characters by continually holding it an arm's length away, seemingly impossible to reach. He keeps it from them for so long, without offering a clear reason why, that when we glimpse it near the film's end, we fmally understand what made Theo suffer after it in the first place. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgotumu@nd.edu 
CUARON 'S lATEST DEMONSTRATES HIS POTENTIAL 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
Alfonso Cuaron's "Children of Men" starts out as a complex rumination on soci­ety, but ultimately reveals itself as a glori­fied chase film. Ultimately, the visceral impact of "Children of Men" punches the gut more than it picks the brain, but as a "thinking man's thriller," it has few peers. 
The film is set in London in 2027 in a world in which women are no longer able to have children. In its opening scene, the audience is informed that 18 year-old "Baby Diego," the youngest person alive, has just been killed. Theo Faron (Clive Owen), an office worker with a checkered past as a protestor, discovers Kee (Claire­Hope Ashitey), a girl who has become pregnant. Working with an activist group led by his ex-wife Julian (Julianne Moore) called The Fish, Faron tries to bring Kee to a boat that contains the so-called "Human Project" in order to save the human race. 
In terms of sheer craftsmanship, "Children of Men" is nearly flawless. 
Cuaron's previous work includes both artsy independent films ("Y Tu Mama Tambien") and Hollywood blockbusters ("Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban"), but "Children of Men" is his most accom­plished film to date. The hand-held cam­eras and "cinema veritae" documentary style is at first jolting, but becomes increas­ingly immersive as the film wears on. Cuaron's camera is constantly moving, one of the director's trademarks, but rarely without purpose. Many of the war scenes are so perfectly choreographed that they resemble a musical more than a chaotic thriller. 
The performances are solid throughout, but nobody outside of Owen is really given a chance to fully explore his/her character. In particular, Moore's fiery, sensitive turn as Julian would have benefited from more screen time. Michael Caine has a show­stealing turn as the hippy-ish Jasper Palmer, and Danny Huston has a memo­rable cameo that recalls Joe Turkel's dia­bolical Eldon Tyrell from "Blade Runner." 
"Children of Men" is set in the future, but it's not a futuristic film. In fact, its deliber­ate resemblance to modern day is unset­tling, but effective, evoking a "1984"-esque vibe without over-reliance on typical sci-fi trappings. In fact, the most spectacular special effects are during the technically complex war sequences, which resemble "Saving Private" more than they do "Star Wars." 
"Children of Men" has a lot to say about a lot of social issues ranging from immigra­tion to religion, but its approach is not quite comprehensive or clear enough. There are many unanswered questions, and while that might be deliberate, it mud­dles many of the film's themes. In ways, it feels like an incomplete picture, and prob­ably could have benefited from another 20 minutes or so in order to slow down and more fully explore its intriguing premise. As it stands, it plows through its two hours with bulldozing force that leaves the view­er stunned and exhausted. 
Some of the questions the film raises (why can women no longer have children?) are irrelevant, but others (why is Kee able to get pregnant?) would clarify the plot and give the film a better thematic anchor. Kee 
Children of Men 

herself is held at an odd distance, and the audience is never given a chance to really understand her, or understand why she is so important to the human race. 
"Children of Men" is a very good film, but it's far from perfect. Its technical accom­plishments and visceral approach to intel­lectual material is unique, but audiences are inclined to leave the theater with more questions. Cuaron has proven himself a great director, but he has yet to make a truly great film. "Children of Men" is his best to date, but it's easy to wonder if there's a "Director's Cut" already waiting in the wings. Most films falter from being too long. "Children of Men" is one of the precious few that suffers from being too short. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 


page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 25, 2007 
NBA 

Sixers down Cavs in double overtime thriller 

second half, and the Suns beat
Nash, Suns win 15th 

the New York Knicks straight for second Wednesday night for their sec­ond 15-game winning streak of
time this season the season. 

Barely a month after estab­
Associated Press lishing the longest winning 
CLEVELAND Andre streak in franchise history, the Iguodala scored eight points in Suns equaled it by turning the second overtime and fin­things around after a sluggish ished with a with a season-high first half in the second night of 34 as the Philadelphia 76ers a back-to-hack. handed Cleveland an embar­Steve Nash finished with 21 rassing loss with a 118-115 win points and 14 assists as the over the slumping Cavaliers on Suns scored 63 points in the Wednesday night. second half after an un-Sunslike 
Samuel Dalembert added 20 49 in the first two periods. points and 10 rebounds before Shawn Marion added 18 points, fouling out in the second OT as Leandro Barbosa had 15, and the Sixers snapped a five-game Stoudemire grabbed 11 losing streak on the road and rebounds. won for just the third time in 20 Phoenix became the first team games outside Philly. to have two separate 15-game 
Kyle Korver's two free throws winning streaks in the same with 2.1 seconds left put the season since the Los Angeles Sixers ahead by three, and Lakers had streaks of 19 and 16 Philadelphia held on when in a row during the 1999-00 LeBron James, who made two season. The Suns will go for a 3-pointers in the final 8 seconds franchise-record 16th straight to get Cleveland within one, was win Friday night at Milwaukee long with a 3 before the horn. in the third game of a five-game 
James scored a season-high trip. 39 points -13 in the second Jamal Crawford scored 29 OT -and Larry Hughes added points, 23 in the fourth quarter 26 for the Cavaliers, who have in an attempt to keep New York dropped five of six and have lost close. two straight at home where Eddy Curry added 25 points they are 15-5. for the Knicks, but only four in 
Cleveland, the NBA's worst the final 33-plus minutes. He Philadelphia swingman Andre lguodala, left, looks to go to the basket during the 76ers' 118-115 free-throw shooting team at 68 also left with an injury in the win over the Cavs Wednesday. lguodala finished the contest with 34 points. percent, went 25-of-34 from the final quarter of New York's sec­line. The Sixers, meanwhile, ond straight loss. missed a 3-pointer and Bobcats had won the last two After trailing 65-45 in the went 26-of-27 on their free The Knicks were already Peterson made one of two free meetings, including a 103-96 third quarter, the Pacers throws with Iguodala making without starting point guard throws with 2.6 seconds left. win in Detroit two weeks ago. pulled to 70-66 on two 3-point­all 12 of his attempts. Stephon Marbury, who missed Butler had 19 points for the With their lead cut to 84-82 ers by Granger and one by 
Rodney Carney had 18 points his first game of the season Hornets, who lost in on Derek Anderson's layup with Darrell Armstrong to begin the and Andre Miller 16 with eight because of left knee tendinitis. Philadelphia on Tuesday night. just over 5 minutes left, fourth. Marquis Daniels' run­assists for the Sixers. Toronto won despite shooting Chauncey Billups hit a 3-pointer ner 4 minutes later gave 
Zydrunas Ilgauskas had 23 Raptors 90, Hornets 88 just 18-for-27 from the line. on the next possession to start Indiana a 7 5-7 4 lead, its first points and 10 rebounds for Chris Bosh scored a season­The Raptors improved to 3-1 an 8-2 run. Tayshaun Prince's 3 since early in the first quarter. Cleveland. high 35 points, including a tying on their five-game homestand. with 3:24 left gave the Pistons a The Pacers built a six-point 
Iguodala, who made big plays 3-pointer with 1:01 left, and the Toronto won despite missing 92-84 lead. lead with 1:30 left, but consec­all night, fouled out Ilgauskas Toronto Raptors rallied for a starting point guard T.J. Ford Wallace's two free throws utive 3-pointers by Jason on a questionable call under­victory over the New Orleans and No. 1 pick Andrea with 1:19 left gave Detroit its Kapono and Wade down the neath -the Cavs' center Hornets on Wednesday night. Bargnani. first double-digit lead as the stretch tied the score at 87 appeared to get all ball on a Jose Calderon had four points The Hornets began the fourth Pistons earned a 2-2 series with 17 seconds remaining. block -and the Sixers' swing­and. a block in the final 30 sec­on a 10-0 run capped by split. man made two free throws with onds for the Raptors, who Brown's 3-pointer, but Toronto Hawks 82, Celtics 76 
2:24 left to give Philadelphia a trailed by as many as 15 in the followed with a 14-3 run to cut Pacers 96, Heat 94 Joe Johnson and Josh Smith 1 08-104 lead. fourth quarter. the lead to three. Peterson Danny Granger scored 14 of each scored 21 points as the 
But James kept the Cavs in it Bosh pumped his fists after capped it with a 3-pointer. his 16 points in the fourth Atlanta Hawks handed the by making three 3-pointers and his 3-pointer tied it at 81. ' quarter and overtime as the Boston Celtics their ninth scoring 11 points over the next Calderon followed with a layup Pistons 103, Bobcats 92 Indiana Pacers rallied from a straight loss, Wednesday night. 
1:38 before Korver's free to give Toronto its first lead of Hichard Hamilton scored 22 20-point second-half deficit to The Celtics have dropped 16 throws and James' failed final the game with 28.4 seconds left. points and Rasheed Wallace beat the Miami Heat of their last 18 and are tied with fling ended the 3-hour, 1-Bobby Jackson tried to drive added 11 of his 20 in the fourth Wednesday night. Philadelphia for fewest wins in minute game. past Calderon for a layup on the quarter to help the Detroit The Pacers' victory spoiled the Eastern Conference at 12. 
James banked in a 5-foot run­next play, but Calderon blocked Pistons salvage a season series the return of Shaquille O'Neal, Zaza Pachulia added 10 ner with 1:04 left in the first OT his shot and followed with two split with Charlotte with a win who came off the bench after points and nine rebounds off to give the Cavaliers a 99-98 free throws, over the Bobcats on Wednesday missing 35 games while recov­the bench for Atlanta, which lead, and after Anderson Jackson followed with a layup night. ering from knee surgery. snapped a three-game losing Varejao drew a charging foul in with 14.6 seconds left, but Bosh Chris Webber added 19 points O'Neal finished with five points streak and has won both meet­the lane on Miller, it appeared made two free throws with 13.8 for the Pistons, who shot 52 and five rebounds in 14 min­ings with Boston this season. Cleveland would survive. seconds remaining to make it a percent in winning their third utes. Boston, already without lead­
four point lead. Bosh finished straight game. Dwyane Wade, who missed ing scorers Paul Pierce and Suns 112, Knicks 107 11-for-19 from the field and 12-It wasn't easy for Detroit, Miami's victory at New York on Wally Szczerbiak, also lost AI Amare Stoudemire scored 26 for-18 from the line. which has struggled against Monday due to a sprained left Jefferson due to an ankle injury 
of his 30 points in Phoenix's big New Orleans' Rasual Butler Charlotte all season. The ankle, scored 32 points. in the fourth quarter. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Newly remodeled 3 and 4 bdrm What do cows do for entertain-houses available for sale/rent. men!? WANTED FoR RENT Contact Meredith Allsop, Milligan FoR SALE PERSONAL Real Estate 220-9817. They rent moovies! CASHIERS NEEDED. House available for 2007-2008. 2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Very Large, Close to Campus, Just Houses for rent, 3 to 6 bedrooms, QUIS LS. You know that little indestructible APPLY IN PERSON. Renovated. Contact walking distance, 4-DOOR. Do not go it alone. black box that's used on planes? 
MacSwain@gmail.com mmmrentals@ aol.com. Why can't they make the whole UNIVERSITY MARATHON, Call Gary EXCELLENT CONDITION. If you or someone you love needs plane out of the same substance? 405 933N IN ROSELAND. Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5 57 4-993-2208. 51,000 MILES. confidential support or assistance, 
bdrm, 3 bath homes, frpls, 2-car ONE OWNER, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, Why is it that when you transport HOURS WILL VARY AND NO garages. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-Luxury townhome,walk to NO. 3or4 $6,500. at 1-7819. something by car, it's called a CALLS. 683-5038. bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. CALL 243-5454. "ship" men!, but when you transport 
$600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569. For more information, something by ship, it's called Local family looking for a babysitter. BETTER HOMES,BETTER visit our web site at "car" go? Preferably looking for a freshman or AREAS,BETTER DEALS. Furn home avail. 2/15 to 8/15. TICKETS http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­sophomore. References required. BlueGoldRentals.com nant.shtml B-Experience a must! Transportation Walk to Univ. WANTED-3 tix NO hockey Sat. or see our bi-weekly ad in The E-necessary. Call (574) 247-9213. andersonNDrentals.com Call561-596-0194. Jan 27. Call 703-585-8663. Observer. D! 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, January 25, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
team 
New Jersey 
N.Y. Rangel'S Pittsburgh .N.Y. Islanders .· ... ,zz~ZJL,, Philadelphia 
team 
Buffalo Montreal Ottowa Toronto Boston 
team 
Atlanta Carolina Tampa Bay Washington Florida 
Western Conference, Central Divisiorf 
team record · CJT i·· ,... ·· ·point$ ··· Nashville 34·12 3 71 Detroit 30-14 If· 65 St. louis 19-21 8 46 Columbus 18-25 5 · ·41 Chicago 17-24 · · 7 41 
Westem Conference, Northwest Division 
team record OT points 
Vancouver 27-19 2 56 Calgary 26-17 4 56 Minnesota 25-20 4 5.4 Colorado 24-20 3 51 Edmonton 23-21 4 50 
Western Conferencet Pacific Division. 
team record OT 
Anaheim 30·12 8 San Jose 32·16 .0 Datlas 29·18 1 Phoenix 22·24 2 Los Angeles 16·28 6. 
Women's Basketball MIAA Standing$. 

league overall team record · record 
1 Calvin 2 Hope 3 Albion 4 Olivet 5 ST. MARY'S 6 Alma 7 Adrian 8 Kalamazoo 9 Tri-State 
9·0 
8~2 
5·5 6-4 6;4 3-6 3-7 2-8 2•8· 


16•1 
16·2······ 
10~8' 
g:::g 
7•1tf 7-9 
8~9 
3"1.5.·· 
4%t 

NFL 

-
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The NFL is 
going deeper into the wal­
lets of players who get 
caught using steroids and 
other performance-enhanc­
ing drugs. 
After four months of 
sometimes intense negotia­
tions, the league and union 
announced Wednesday 
more extensive testing for 
performance-enhancing 
drugs and the addition of 
the blood-boosting sub­
stance EPO to its list of 
banned substances. 
The union also agreed 
that players suspended 
after testing positive will, 
for the first time, forfeit a portion of their signing bonuses in addition to the salary they will lose during their time away. That is sig­nificant because the signing bonuses often are the only guaranteed portion of a player's salary and can be larger than salaries, which sometimes are kept artifi­cially low to keep the team under the salary cap. 

"It is important that the NFL and its players contin­ue to be leaders on the issue of illegal and danger­ous performance-enhanc­ing drugs in sports," NFL commissioner Roger Goodell said. ''These latest improvements will help ensure that we continue to have a strong and effective program. As we have done in the past, we will review and modify the policy on an ongoing basis." 
In addition to the new test for EPO, the agreement includes an increase from seven to 10 of the number of players on each team randomly tested each week during the season for steroids and other perform­ance-enhancing drugs. That means there will be 12,000 tests each season, up from the current 10,000. 
The new policy will make the NFL the only North American sports league to regularly test for EPO. Urine will be tested, not blood, for EPO. Baseball did a round of urine testing for EPO in 2005. Rob Manfred, MLB's executive vice president for labor relations, said Wednesday there were no positives among the 500 samples tested. 
Baseball conducts urine tests of major and minor league players for perform­ance-enhancing drugs and stimulants, with each play­er tested at least twice ran­domly per year. Baseball does not conduct blood tests and does not test for EPO or human growth hor­mone. Baseball and its players union have agreed they will test for HGH if a urine test for that drug is validated. 
IN BRIEF 

Weir tries for fourth 
straight U.S. title 

SPOKANE, Wash. -For a three­time national champion, Johnny Weir makes a pretty good underdog. 
Weir is going for his fourth straight title at the U.S. Figure Skating Championships this week, a run that would put him on par with the likes of Brian Boitano and Scott Hamilton. But figure skating is all about 'what have you done for me lately,' and the guy making the noise these days is Evan Lysacek. 
"Being an underdog coming in is natural," Weir said Wednesday. ''I'm not always going to be invincible, I'm not always going to be top dog. Evan Lysacek has had a great season. I'm going to fight as hard as I can to be the four-time national champion. 
"All the chatter...is just talk and is not something I take very seriously," Weir added. "It doesn't change the way I'm prepared for this competi­tion." 
Ford ends its Champ Car 
series sponsorship 
DEARBORN, Mich. -Ford Motor Co. said Wednesday it has withdrawn as an official Champ Car World Series sponsor. 
Ford had participated in Indianapolis-based Champ Car and its predecessor, CART, since re-entering open-wheel racing in 1992, first pro­viding engines and then sponsorship. 
"We evaluate all of our racing pro­grams on an annual basis and have decided that this sponsorship does not align with our current business objec­tives," said Dan Davis, director of Ford Racing Technology. 
Davis said Ford's withdrawal from Champ Car will not affect the other racing programs the company sup­ports, including NASCAR's three major national touring series, the NHRA PowerAde Drag Racing .Series, the Grand-Am Rolex Sports Car and KONI Challenge Series, as well as sev­eral U.S. Auto Club-sanctioned series. 
Dungy pl.a.ns on making 
career decision after season 
INDIANAPOLIS-Colts Coach Tony Dungy will wait until the end of this season before considering his future with the team. 
Dungy signed a contract extension last year that would keep him in Indianapolis through 2009. But many have wondered whether the 51-year­old coach, who had said previously he intended to retire at age 50, might resign if he wins the Super BowL 
"That's something I've not thought a whole lot about," he said Wednesday. ''I'll sit down with (owner) Jim (lrsay) and my wife at the end of the year. The first thing you have to do is make sure you're still wanted back. I never take that for granted any more." 
Dungy made a similar statement after last season when the Colts were eliminated from the playoffs in a 21­18 loss at home to eventual Super Bowl champion Pittsburgh. 
around the dial 
NBA 
Dallas at Chicago 8 p.m., TNT 
New Jersey at L.A. Clippers 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
TENNIS Australian Open Semifinals 3 p.m., ESPN 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 25, 2007 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Gonzalez prevails over second-ranked Nadal 
Williams, Sharapova advance on women's side of the bracket 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia ­Rafael Nadal limped out of the Australian Open complaining his leg was too sore to chal­lenge Fernando Gonzalez in the quarterfinals. With Gonzalez stinging winners past him from both the forehand and back­hand sides, though, even a fit Nadal might have struggled. 
The lOth-seeded Gonzalez had 41 winners in a 6-2, 6-4, 6­3 upset over the second-seeded Nadal on Wednesday, earning him a semifinal spot along with top-ranked Roger Federer, Andy Roddick and Tommy Haas. 
In the women's semifinals later Wednesday, the unseeded Serena Williams was to contin­ue her unlikely quest for an eighth Grand Slam title. Limited to only four tournaments last year by recurring knee prob­lems, Williams was not expect­ed to be a serious contender at this year's Australian Open. 
But she was one win away from the final, as was top-seed­ed Maria Sharapova -who reached the semis with a 7-6 (5), 7-5 win over Anna Chakvetadze, a fellow 19-year­old Russian. 
Williams was to face 17 -year­old Nicole Vaidisova of the Czech Republic in the first semifinal, followed by Sharapova against fourth-seed­ed Kim Clijsters. 
Gonzalez, who will be playing in the semifinals of a Grand Slam tournament for the first time, will get a day off to watch Thursday's semifinal between defending champion Federer and sixth-seeded Roddick. Gonzalez will face Tommy Haas on Friday. 
French Open champion Nadal was the only player to beat Federer at this stage of a tour­nament last year, doing it four times in finals. Federer was 91­1 against everyone else -his only other loss an upset to Andy Murray at Cincinnati. 
It was a five-setter against Murray on Monday that Nadal thinks derailed his prospects of making the Australian Open fmal. 
"I can't run a lot," he said Wednesday. "It was difficult to play one match like this, quar­terfinals of one Grand Slam, with pain. If I am playing bad, well, you can go home and say disappointing. But today I just say, 'Well, I can't do more. I try my best."' 
He called for a medical time­out in the third set and had to go to the locker room to remove his long, green shorts for treat­ment on his upper left leg and buttock. 
Roddick is only 1-12 against Federer, but the 24-year-old American had match points against Federer at the Masters Cup. last November and beat him in the fmal of an exhibition tournament at Kooyong on Jan. 14. 
Gonzalez was hardly a con­tender until he beat local favorite Lleyton Hewitt in the . third round and fifth-seeded James Blake in the fourth. The 26-year-old Chilean won 12 of 15 matches to end 2006 and made three finals -losing two to Federer. 

He always had a powerful forehand but was too erratic with it, often criticized for swinging and missing too many times on big points. But since starting work last year with Larry Stefanki, who coached John McEnroe and helped Marcelo Hios and Yevgeny Kafelnikov reach No. 1, Gonzalez has been improving. 
"I used to just hit, hit, hit, and maybe I win the point -now I have other strategies," he said. "I am playing great tennis. I can do great things in my game." 
Gonzalez broke Nadal's serve twice in the first set, in the opening game of the second and twice again in the third, and only faced three break points. He had support from a scatter­ing of Chilean supporters wrapped in flags and chanting in Spanish. 
And he had growing support from the local crowd. Early in the third set, a man yelled: "You're the man, speedy." 
Clijsters reached the women's semis by defeating Martina Hingis 3-6, 6-4, 6-3 on Wednesday. Hingis' comeback run from three years in retire­ment ended last year in a quar­terfinal loss to Clijsters, who also beat her in the same stage at the French Open. 
"It's great playing her and everything, but I don't want to see her in the quarterfinals ever again," said Hingis, who won three titles here and figured in six straight finals through 2002. 
Clijsters· has reached the semis in every trip she's made to Australia since 2002, and has bowed out to the eventual champion every time -losing three times in the semis and dropping the 2004 final to Justine Henin-Hardenne. 

WHAT DOES 
PLS 
STAND FOR? 
Great Books Great Profs Great Friends 
LEARN MORE... 
THURSDAY,JANUARY25 7:00PM CoMo LouNGE 
~FREE PIZZA~ 

Golf, Tennis, Heated Pool, Beach 
Check it out at WWW.VrbO.COm/3 147 

Thursday, January 25, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
JPWMass Lector Auditions 
..... --..;; 

JP\X' Lector auditions '\Vill take place in the Basilica of the Sacred IIeart on each of the follo"\ving dates: 
Monday, January 29th at 4:00pm Tuesday, January 30th at 4:00pm 
Please attend one of the t\vo auditions. For further inforn1ation, please contact Harv I-Iutnphrey at 631-8520 or by email at hutnphrey.17@nd.edu 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Handling 
continued from page 20 
steals per game, almost an entire steal more than Connecticut, who ranks second in that eatego­ry in the Big East at 11.06. 
One standout performer in the last three games in regards to turnovers has been freshman guard Melissa Lechlitner. In the past three games, Lechlitner has only one turnover, coming against Marquette Tuesday. Over that same stretch, the freshman has notched 18 assists, including a career high nine against Syracuse. 
"I think we're making better decisions," McGraw said. "I don't think we're forcing things, l think we're taking more shots rather than trying to force a turnover." 
The other key factor in Notre Dame's success this season has been free throw shooting. The exceptional free throw rate has not only helped the Irish main­tain their leads or shrink those of their opponents, it has in fact saved two important road wins. 

Notre Dame's wins against Michigan on Dec. 1 and Valparaiso Dec. 19 were each the result of last-minute free throws. 
Against the Wolverines, guard Tulyah Gaines sank the go-ahead points with four seconds to play before guard Charel Allen iced the win at 61-58 with two more foul shots in the final seconds. 
At Valparaiso, Breona Gray sank one of her two free throws in the final second to give the Irish a 60-59 win to add to their NCAA Tournament resume. 
Even though limiting turnovers and making free throws are important aspects of winning, McGraw understands that her team needs to do more if it hopes to succefld in the remainder of its Big East schfldulfl. 
"We don't talk about [turnovers at practice] at all, and we don't talk about the free throws, and those are two things we're doing well," she said. "1 think I might just shut up about everything and see if we get good at some­thing else," she said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

SPECIAL PRESALE! FRIDAY, JAN. 26·10AM TO 2PM Limited number of tickets available at Saint Mary's College Student Center. Cash, checks, Visa, Mastercard, Discover, American Express or Debit cards with Visa or MC logo accepted. 
r----------------------------­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 25, 2007 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
Henley said. 
Henley said the Scots played a "triangle-and-two" defense in which two players played man-to-man while the other three were in zone coverage. The two man-to-man defend­ers matched up with Kessler and senior point guard Bridget Lipke and were sue­cessful in reducing their con­tribution. 

Saint Mary's bench scored only two points in Saturday's 84-72 win over Adrian but the reserves came up big on Wednesday. In total, the Belles bench contributed 19 points to the cause and fresh­man guard Patty Duffy dropped 15 points in 21 min­utes of play. 
"We needed another shooter and Patty gave us a momen­tum swing," Henley said. "She hit some tough shots from outside." 
Duffy, who has been plagued by ankle injuries, was 3-of-6 from behind the arc and was able to take pressure off of Kessler and Lipke. 
Henley also mentioned free throw shooting as a key to Saint Mary's success. The Belles made 82 percent of their free throws and Kessler was 6-of-6 from the charity stripe. 
Saint Mary's has now won two in a row and three of 
useumsI !Iris 
1\ 

GET YOUR CAREER STARTED IN INDY 
their last four. The Belles travel to Angola, Indiana to face Tri-State -who is 2-8 in the MIAA and 4-14 on the year -at 1 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Dan Cooper at dcooper1@nd.edu 


Sunday, January 28, 2:30p.m. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center University of Notre Dame 
Zofia Glashauser -SBSO Concertmaster 
Gabriel Schlaffer -SBSO Principal Viola 
Salieri -.Sinfonio. in 'D Sponsored by: 
June H Edwards
Mozart -.S!IIIIJ'Iwny ~No. 55 
Moz.art-.Sinjimio. Concerlunlc 
Guest A,flst Underwriters: 
The Healy Group llr;w'%:ii9Ul'(M :tl-iiJhfiih'f'ii}.M Robert P Curtis. CLU. ChFC 
<I~roatl1uay ~ghts 
Saturday, !=ebruary 10, 8:00 p.m. 
Morris Performing Arts Center 
Featuring Craig Schulman & Kim Crosby 

A Pops! performance to remember featuring the music 5 onsored by of Rodgers & Hamrrterstein, Gershwin, Andrew Lloyd b P Weber and more of your favorite Broadway hits! "'~:f!~.:.Lt~~~~~~~~ 
Guest Ar?ist Underwriter· 
9-lot Cuban {Jazz 
!=riday, March 9, 8:00p.m. 
Morris Performing Arts Center 
Featuring Arturo Sandoval 
Four-time Grammy award winner Arturo Sandoval can burn through an Afro-Cuban groove, bebop tune or Mozarl concerto. A protege of Dizzy Gillespie, he ".. ,possesses some of jazz's fiercest chops!' said lhe New York Post. 

Thursday, January 25, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
McAlarney was a better out­result, Jackson is only averag­tune of 5.2 assists per game. MacAlarney's absence. The 6­side shooter than Jackson, but ing 5.2 points per game, com­Another player thrust into foot-9 Hillesland has the size of
Changes 
he was not as quick. pared to McAlarney's 10.3 playing time has been freshman a big man, but the ball handling 

continued from page 20 Unfortunately for the Irish, before the suspension. Jonathan Peoples. Peoples, who ability and quick1~ess of a 
teams are sagging off Jackson Still, there are positive signs. played sparingly early in the guard. Like Jackson, he strug­opponents are now able to focus outside, respecting his quick­Jackson is slowly taking on season, was gles with his out­on stopping Jackson's offensive ness but daring him to take out­McAlarney's leadership role and expected to spend side shooting, but game, which is very different side shots that he hasn't been has been effective running this season accli­his size and ath­
McAlarney was an
than McAlarney's. consistently making. As a Brey's motion offense to the mating to the col­leticism present
important cog in 
lege game. serious matchup Instead, he's been Notre Dame,s problems for most breaking full court opponents. This 
machine, but 
presses against season is
without him the 
Villanova and Hillesland's first Seton Hall. Irish are still a year with extend­Peoples has been ed playing time, 
special group. 
a solid defender and an effective ball handler, averaging barely a turnover per game, but oppo­nents know he isn't a threat to score. 
With the scoring from the point guard position down sig­nificantly, Notre Dame's other players will have to pick up the slack. 
First and foremost, Irish lead­ing scorer senior Russell Carter will have to take his game to even higher heights. Carter showed he is capable of taking over games after his 32-point outburst against St. John's Tuesday. That's not necessarily good news, however. The Irish lost to the Red Storm 71-68 because they were too reliant­on Carter offensively. 
Furthermore, a major offen­sive strength of this team has been its balance. For most of the season, other teams have had to respect the ability of most of the Irish team to score if left open. Even without McAlarney, the Irish cannot panic and get into a pass-to­Russell-and-stand-around offense that will be too easy to defend. 

Senior guard Colin Falls will be one of the players whose play will be crucial to take the pressure of Carter. Without McAlarney, Falls is Notre Dame's only major outside shooting threat. As such, teams will be more focused on denying him the ball outside three-point arc most the time. Despite this, the Irish need to get Falls the ball, whether it be through the senior's hustle or a designed play from Brey. 
The best way to get defenders to give Falls and Carter space on the outside is to make oppo­nents respect the scoring ability of Notre Dame's inside players. 
Sophomore forward Zach Hillesland has shown potential to pick up the scoring slack in however, and he is 

only averaging 5.6 points per game so far. If the Irish want to reach their goals despite losing their point guard, they need Hillesland to use his athletic ability to get to the bas­ket more often. 
For Notre Dame's more tradi­tional post players -junior Rob Kurz, sophomore Luke Zeller and freshman Luke Harangody -the absence of McAlarney has meant, and will continue to mean, a greater reliance on them to score and rebound. Without McAlarney's outside shooting presence, the Irish getting the ball into the post has been both harder and more important, and more missed outside shots have meant more offensive rebounds. 
So far, Kurz and Harangody have both stepped up to the challenge at various times, but have not always been consis­tent. 
Zeller has seen reduced play­ing time due to his struggles with back-to-the-basket oll'ense. His shooting ability does add a different dimension, however, and Brey may start to usc him in the future to draw larger defenders away from the basket to open up driving lanes for Carter and Jackson. 
McAlarney was an important cog in Notre Dame's machine, but without him the Irish are still a special group. It will take maturity from younger players thrown into action and hard work from players learning new roles, but, even without its orig­inal starting point guard, Notre Dame can still accomplish its goals this season. 
The views expressed in the column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Sample fares From South Bend to: Chicago $151 Minneapolis $151 
Sample fares From Chicago to: Madrid $258 Rome $304 


~-----­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 25, 2007 
Lawsuit 
continued from page 20 
jobs. That's what everyone else says because they want to put words in your mouth. The bot­tom line is when you "re unhealthy, you're unhealthy, do you something about it." 
In his autobiography, No Excuses, however. Weis had a less confrontational tone. 
"I said, 'Look at that fat ass,' " Weis wrote in No Excuses. "I wish I had been looking at someone else. Unfortunatelv, that fat ass was me." · 
Weis has insisted that the surgery was not an attempt to increase his chance at getting a head coaching job. At the time of the surgery, Weis was considered one of the top offensive coordinators in the NFL but weighed around 350 pounds. 
Weis' case is going to trial more than two years after a Massachusetts review board decided he had enough evi­dence to go forward with the lawsuit. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl @nd.edu 

Turtle creek partments 
Iii~ place to be at NO!! 

Your favorite off-campus community ls welcoming GREAT students for the 2007-2008 school year! Turtle Creek is proud to offer the 
following amenities:  
*Renovated apartments  *Carports available  
*24-hour laundry facilities-BRAND NEW!  *Closest to campus  
*Sparkling pool with sun deck  "Patios/balconles  
*Fun-filled volleyball court  *Walk-in closets  

Turtle creek was voted Sportsll!ustrated.corrrs BEST PLACE TO TAILGATE! Come join the fun and LIVE AMONG THE LEGENDS! 
Call our professional and friendly staff to schedule your tour today! Leasing Hours: M~F 10-6, sat. 10·5 Phone: 574·272·8124 

Patron Saint of Students and Universities 
5:15pm Mass Basilica of the Sacred Heart January 29, 2007 
. John Jenkins, CSC; Celebran with the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir 
L r Cheese & 1 Topping 
Free Delivery On Campus 
I. irolted tim~ off.::r. Pr!ces. tax, deliver,; areas & charge~ rnc.Jy vary by location. Excludes ether offers. Good at parti<opating I"'at ions only. 
52750 IN 933 

• 
2
N. of Cleveland Rd. 574.. 
SERVING NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S
Pizza 


Atria salon 2 
Specializing in Color 
271.8804 
Help us celebrate the New Year. We are giving away 100 complimentary haircuts to students of Notre Dame & St. Mary's. This is our way of saying thank you for all your support for the past 10 years. 
This Is a limited promotion nnd certain restrlctiOnl:l apply. Please call the salon to schedule your complimentary haircut and rnantlon thia c1d to the receptionist r~t tha.llme of booking your appointment 
Please present this ad to the receptionist before services are performed 
Atria salon 2 
2039 South Bend Ave .. South Bend. IN 46637 
January 27,2007 • 7:30P.M. • O'Laughlin Auditorium 


For tickets visit the Saint Mary's College Box Office or call (574) 284-4626. -t±t­
112 adults, 110 senior citizens, SAINT 19SMGND staff, and 18students MARY'S COL LEGE 
NOTRE DAME, lN

MoreauCenter.com 
Thursday, January 25, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

BLACK DoG 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
LIAMMORAN 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

66 Penciled-in eyebrow, e.g. 67 Timbre 68 Land on Lake Victoria 69 See 60-Across 

DOWN 1 Hang around at an accident scene 2 Like some educ. publishing 3 Shakespeare's "very foolish 
fond old man" 4 Many a prof. 5 Car introduced 
in 1904 6 Anna's lover in 

"Anna Karenina" 7 facto 8 Glib romancer 9 Poetic 
contraction 10 Music storage 
place 11 Con 12 Wrinkly fruit 13 Allen and Ott 18 Connects 19 Bygone N.L. 

team 24 Penguins' home?: Abbr. 25 Person in a sauna 27 Maryland's -· Air Force Base 28 _ von Baeyer, 1905 Chemistry Nobelist 29 Page in an account book 
WILLSHORTZ 

55 Swenson of "Benson" 
57 Goldbrick 
58 A lot of Eurasia, once: Abbr.
48 Glossy fabric 
poet 

51 Attention-getter 59 Writer Sholem 33 Ed Sullivan, e.g. 
52 Happy cry in 61 Not old: Ger.
34 Cache song 62 Municipal pol.
40 Browning and 53 Animals in simmering harness 63 Civil War inits. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

JJWJW&iblE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
It wasn't me to form four ordinary words. 
YOPEN 
1 

rJ [] 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
i?fi I I
tTAILIC 

IJ I b 
NOT n:u...ING me: 
www.jumble.com 
TRUTH CAN BE:--­
tWELBIA t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I I XJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: A rI I ]-( I I I I I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) ­Yesterday's I Jumbles: SKUNK DRAWL WOBBLE BOTILE Answer: What happened to the library thief? ­HE WAS "BOOKED" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mischa Barton, 21; Tatyana Ali, 28; Yakov Smimoff. 56; Neil Diamond. 66 
Happy Birthday: Just when you least expect it, someone will call your bluff, so make sure you have done your homework and are ready to move forward. Bragging will set you back and cause stress. You can tum your financial situation around this year if you look for new ways to bring in more moola. A creative idea will go the distance. Your numbers are 9, 25, 29, 33, 35, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Expand on ideas you have. Gather information that will make you more knowledgeable before you try to convince others to back your plans. A connection made at an event will help you put things in perspective. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Just when you think you have everything covered. someone will create a problem for you. Don't take things too seriously. Stay playful but determined to finish what you started. It's your attitude that will make the difference today. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): As long as you stick to what you have already laid out as the way to go. you will be fine. It's the sudden alterations that will get you into trouble. It's time to trust in yourself. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone isn't on your side and will probably offer you help. only to renege. Count on your own merit and talent to get things done. Don't waste your energy arguing or stewing about what others are doing. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take pride in what you do and you will attract plenty of well­wishers and support. Love will be knocking at your door. A creative idea you have can now be launched, but stick to your game plan. Last minute changes will backfire. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone you are close to will overreact, leaving you confused. Worrying won't do you any good. Acceptance will be what keeps you out of trouble and moving forward in a positive direction. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Start something new, meet new people, get involved in something that interests you, travel or set your sights on love. Get out and enjoy what life has to offer. A talk will lead to interesting information regarding someone from your past. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may have to do a quick step to avoid some emotional turmoil happening at home. The more time spent with acquaintances or trying something new, the more you will learn, prosper and get ahead. Travel will lead to information. 3 stan-
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Invite people over who have the same interests or who belong to a group you are involved with. The more getting-to-know you do, the bette! off you'll be. Someone will offer you something you don't expect. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may think you have everything in order but a problem may develop with a friend, relative or neighbor. Get in touch with someone from your past who may have the knowledge you are looking for to proceed. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A good deed will be repaid. Consider what you want to do and put yourself in a position to do so. Interviews, sending out your resume. starting your own business or teaming up with people who can compliment your talents should be your goal. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be sure before you put too much on the line. Get your legal papers in order and look for an opportunity to make your move. If you don't stick to the truth, you will not get away with it. Be upfront about what you want and what you know and can do. 3 stars 
Birthday Bahy: You are an action person who thinks standing up and is always prepared to jump with both feet. You are creative, unique and competitive. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun. eugenialast.com for confidential consultation> 

-
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Hairstylist's supply 4 It may be high 
or faint 10 Bud 14 Newcastle 
Brown, e.g. 15 Cry with an outstretched hand 16 Venetian 
magistrate of old 17 Start of a riddle 20 Diva Te 
Kanawa 21 Tic-lac-toe loser 22 Line on which 
y=O 

23 Start of Massachusetts' motto 
26 Music at many a memorial 28 Riddle, part 2 35 Tractable 36 Boosts 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
37 One with Red Cross training, maybe: Abbr. 
38 Lena of "Polish Wedding" 39 Better suited 41 City near Crawford, Tex. 42 Golfer's concern 43 Another, in Madrid 44 Person bringing much happiness 46 Riddle, part 3 49 Dugout shelter 50 Z zebra 51 Shot 54 Command to Fido 56 Wagner heroine of Brabant 60 End of the riddle 64 Author Silverstein 65 Marx collaborator 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, January 25, 2007 
page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Weis' malpractice case set to begin 
Irish coach fell into a coma following 2002 gastric bypass surgery 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis' lawsuit against the two doctors who performed his gastric bypass weight-loss surgery in 2002 has been scheduled to begin in court Feb. 12. 
Brian Hardin, director of football media relations, said Weis was recruiting away from campus and unavailable for comment Wednesday. Hardin said Weis likely would not comment on the lawsuit in the future. 
In the days following the surgery at Massachusetts General Hospital, Weis suf­fered from internal bleeding. He went in for a second sur­gery and fell into a coma for two weeks. 
In the lawsuit, Weis alleges that physicians Charles M. Ferguson and Richard A. 

Hodin failed to meet the prop­er standard of care. The Boston Globe reported that New England Patriots quar­terback Tom Brady, who Weis has said was a frequent guest at his house and help with his kids after the surgery, will be a key witness in the case. 
Weis' lawsuit claims that as a result of the surgery, Weis suffers from limited move­ment in his legs and feet and continues to experience signif­icant pain. 
Weis has said repeatedly in the past that his father's death from a heart attack at age 56 was a primary factor in his decision to have the high-risk surgery. 
"You want to know why you do it? Because for 10 years you're over 300 pounds and your father died at 56 of a second heart attack," We is said at the press conference introducing him as Notre Dame's coach in 2004. "You're afraid if you stay at the same level, you're going to drop dead. That's why you do it. It has nothing to with getting 
see LAWSUIT/page 18 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish cut down on turnovers 
ByJAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Despite falling to Marquette 71-62 Tuesday night, the Irish still sit in the top half of the Big East standings, due in part to their ability to limit turnovers and sink free throws. 
Notre Dame is the best free­throw shooting team in the con­ference at 77.8 percent and sec­ond only to South Florida in turnover margin at plus-3.84 turnovers per game. 
"We're not trying to do too much. I think we're playing within ourselves and I think that's why we're not turning the ball over," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
In 19 games this season, the Irish have committed 330 turnovers, but have limited that number to 10 against St. John's Jan. 16, 11 against Syracuse Saturday, and only 12 against the Golden Eagles. Accompanying this low turnover rate has been Notre Dame's abil­ity to steal the ball effective. Notre Dame averages 11.95 

-
see HANDLING/page 15 


SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles top Alina for road win 
By DAN COOPER Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's traveled to Alma Wednesday night and returned home with a victory after defeating the Alma Scots 66-58. 
The win lifts the Belles record to 7-10 overall (6-4 MIAA), while the Scots drop to 7-9 (3-6 MIAA), respective­ly. 
It was a close game throughout and the Belles took a narrow 37-36 lead into halftime. In the second half, the Belles took control and pulled away by outscoring the Scots 29-22. 
Alma's defense was tough, holding junior guard Allison Kessler to 11 points -eight points off her season average -on just 2-of-9 shooting. 
"You have to credit Alma, they took Kessler out of the game," Belles coach Jennifer 
see BELLES/page 16 
MEN'S BASKETBALL COMMENTARY 
Players must step up to replace McAlamey 
Sophomore point guard Kyle McAlarney has been suspend­ed for the semester and will not play again for the 2007 Irish. 
That news has been out for a cou­ple of days now and McAlarney is headed home to ponder his future. 

But what about the future of the team? No. 21/22 Notre Dame is still in the hunt for an NCAA Tournament bid and possibly even a Big East title. However, without McAlarney, several Irish players will have to adjust to new roles. 
Notre Dame has played without its former starting point guard for eight games now, going back to the Stony 

Chris Khorey 
Associate Sports Editor 
Brook win Dec. 30. The Irish are 5-3 in those games, win­ning all five home games and losing three on the road. 
The most obvious change to Notre Dame's lineup over the past eight games has been freshman Tory Jackson step­ping into the starting point guard role in place of McAlarney. Jackson had been getting 15-20 minutes per game while McAlarney rested early this season and his ener­gy had been a spark. He was able to come in for short spells and shut down the opponent's point guard completely while making athletic plays on the offensive end. 
Now that he's been thrust into the starting job, however, Jackson won't just be a role player. Playing 30-35 minutes per game means he can't expend the energy defensively that he could off the bench and, consequently, he's less of a shut down defender. Also, 
see CHANGES/page 17 


ME~'S TE~~IS ~BA ~BA ~BA 
~BA 
~BA 
..... 

(,) Fernando Gonzalez 76ers 118 Suns 112 Raptors 90 
Pistons 103 
Pacers 96 

z defeats second-ranked Cavaliers 115 Knicks 107 Hornets 88 
Heat 94

Bobcats 92
::5 Rafael Nadal in straight Cleveland guard Phoenix extends Toronto forward Chris 
Detroit tops Charlotte 
Indiana pulls off 
c::s sets in the Australian Lebron James misses winning streak to 15 in Bosh scores 35 points to 
behind 22 points from 
overtime win after 
Open semifinals. buzzer-beater as victory. lead his team to a 
guard Richard 
trailing by 20 in the 
Philadelphia wins in narrow victory. 
second half. 
Hamilton. 

double overtime. 
!:i ~ 

page 14 page 12 page 12 page 12 
page 12 
page 12 

