

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41 : ISSUE 92 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2007 
Construction starts on water system 
Students respond to flood 
Volunteers sought to clean local Food Bank 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
After a Feb. 14 pipe break at the Food Bank of Northern Indiana damaged 15,000 pounds of food, Notre Dame students have responded -or are planning to respond -to the request for volunteers to help salvage what's left. 
The pipe break occurred in the corner of an unheated room on the northwest side of the second floor of the Food Bank's warehouse, said Dennis Brown, the executive director of the Food Bank. 
When a Notre Dame student heard about the flooding, he encouraged students to help. 
Senior Ryan Daily, the com­munity volunteer request coor­dinator for Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns sent out a notice to "hopefully every dorm service commissioner" last week so they could inform their residents about the situa­tion and see if anybody would want to help out. 
Daily felt that if students received the request from their dorm service commissioners, they would be inclined to vol­unteer. 
"I presume students have helped out. and if not, they will be helping soon," he said. 
Daily was right, as Welsh Family resident assistant Shelly Heger heard about the pipe break and the need for volun­teers from her service commis­
see FLOOD/page 6 
THE 

Kellogg receives Coca-Cola grant 
Company awards $290,000 to fund Notre Dame Prize, internships 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
PEPYND fundraises for school 
Group to hold dinner for Cambodia effort 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
A group within the Student International Business Council (SIBC) hopes to raise $1,000 at a fundraising din­ner tonight to help a not-for­profit organization build a school in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. 
Notre Dame Class of 2002 alumna Daniela Papi helped found Protect the Earth Protect Yourself (PEPY) Ride, an organization that supports education projects in develop­ing areas and encourages adventure travel. Senior Tim Rann met Papi while he was volunteering in Cambodia two summers ago, and he decided to establisb a PEPY chapter at Notre Dame within the SIBC. 
"Our Notre Dame chapter helps PEPY by providing busi­ness consulting, financial statements and ideas on how to improve their operations," Rann said. 
PEPYND held a fundraising dinner in December and raised nearly $850 to fund this new project. Since then, the organization has increased that figure to approximately $19,000. Rann said he hopes to raise roughly $1,000 more during tonight's dinner to reach their goal. 
"We're grateful for the very generous donors who have come forth helping us raise the money for this project," Rann said. "Now, we're rely-. ing on the students to help us 
see PEPYND/page 4 By JOHN TIERNEY 


News Writer 
Construction began Monday on the chilled water system between the Morris Inn and the former Notre Dame Post Office in prepa­ration for the construction of the new Law School this summer, said University Utilities Director Paul Kempf. 
Preliminary utility work is "typically required" before actual construction on a project begins, Kempf said in an e-mail Monday. In this case, the work is necessary because the chilled water system for the area sur­rounding the Law School conflicts with the planned 
construction and must be relocated. 
"Further utility construc­tion work will likely also occur prior to the start of the building construction later this year," he said. 
The system, which. oper­ates primarily from April until November, is responsi­ble for delivering chilled water from the centraUoca­tion at the Utilities Complex to specific points on cam­pus, Kempf said. Because the Law School construction is scheduled to begin in the summer -when the chilled water system is needed ­the system must be relocat­ed prior to the start of the season. 
see WATER/page 3 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
The Coca-Cola Foundation recently awarded Notre Dame a $290,000 grant to support two distinguished programs at the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the University announced Monday. 
The funds will go toward the Notre Dame Prize for Distinguished Public Service in Latin America and will expand the Kellogg Institute Internship Program, which will benefit 20 students during the next two summers. 
The Coca-Cola Foundation -which has given more than $155 mil­lion to educational issues 
over the last 10 years ­focuses on improving quali­ty of life in different com­munities and enhancing individual opportunity through education. 
"Our programs support scholarships for aspiring students; encourage and motivate young people to stay in school; and foster cultural understanding," according to the Coca-Cola Foundation Web site. 
Nearly $180,000 of the grant will go toward the Notre Dame Prize, which is awarded to some of the leading political, civil and religious figures in Latin America. The money will provide three years of sup­port for the prize, accord­ing to a press release. 
The Notre Dame Prize for Disting.uished Public Service in Latin America was established in 2000 and is given annually to an individual from that region who has effectively and substantively furthered the public good in one or more countries of the region. The award focuses on an indi­vidual's accomplishments in areas like government, religion, .education and media. 
"[The Notre Dame Prize] is the only award of its kind to recognize the efforts of public figures to enhance the region's wel­fare by strengthening democracy and improving the well being of its citi­zens," the press release· 
see GRANT/page 4 

Tw-o tickets proceed to class council run-off 
Sophomore Class Council were By EVA BINDA announced Monday at 9 p.m.
News Writer 
on the third floor of 
LaFortune. 
Since no ticket in the race Judicial Council president for Sophomore Class Council Liz Kozlow said 1,053 fresh­won 50 percent plus one votes, men voted in the election ­the Schmidt-Lakusta-Hwang­50 percent of the class, she Kyrouac and the Mathews­said. Adsit-McDonald-Rose tickets Kozlow, who was hoping for will proceed to a run:off elec­at least a 50 percent turnout, tion Thursday. said she was pleased with the 
The Sophomore Class number of freshmen who Council was the only class voted in the election. council to hold an election this "It was really impressive year since only one ticket ran considering the turnout in in both the junior and senior other elections," she said. council races. The Student Schmidt-Lakusta-Hwang­Senate voted unanimously in Kyrouac garnered 470 votes each case to suspend elections (44.6 percent), Mathews-Adsit­for these two races last McDonald-Rose won 279 votes Wednesday. 
Elections results for see ELECTION/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, Februa(y 27, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Survivor already? 
I lost my ID card thi'l weekend. The impact ofthis loss didn't quite hit me until dinnertime, when, realizing I only had 61 cents in cash, I took out a package of my room's seemingly endless pile ofCup of Noodles and put some water on to Jennifer Metz boil. Our water heater might be ille­
News
gal, but desperate 
Production
times call for desper­ate measures. 
Editor 
While stressing out, I did what I do best-put in a DVD box set and sit and watch. For hours. Inspired by their second turn on The Amazing Hace, I recently pur­chased the eighth season of Survivor to pay tribute.to my favorite couple, possibly ever -Boston Rob and Amber. 
(You can request online that they come to events. Whoever it is that organizes big events here, I'm just putting it out there. I'm sure they're not that expensive. I'd go.) 
My ridiculous collection of box sets, in retrospect, is probably the reason for my untimely shortage of funds. 
For one day, at least, I am playing my own version of the show-Survivor 25: Indiana. I can boil water. I rely on my Cup of Noodles for sustenance. I make alliances with my fellow "tribemates" to gain access to their valuable FlexPoints. 
Rewards won today: a coffee at Starbucks, three yogurt-covered pretzels and a water bottle. Challenge lost: my fight with the card swiper at the Hock who ju'lt couldn't believe I was a Notre Dame stu­dent on my way to volleyball class. 
Honestly, who would lie to go to volley­ball class? 
I watched my Survivor while I wa'l study­ing for an anthropoioh'Y test. It was appro­priate, I thought, since I saw the castaways make tools, create .culture and find their niche in the group. 
I also watched my Survivor when I wa'l hungry because I knew, luckily, I wasn't as hungry a'l them. 
But was I really luckier? In my box-set season, the Survivor cast members get to live with Rob and hear that lovely accent every day. And they participate in what might possibly be one ofthe most fun and challenging experiences ever. 
Which brings me to a recent addition to my life goal list: to win Survivor. 
I shouldn't really have a problem achiev­ing this goal, I don't think. I swam in high school, and on every season except Africa, most challenges involved some form of swimming. I'm very good atjigsaw puzzles and the Jumble. I can cook a Cup of Noodles. That's instant-so is rice, right? All of these skills make me worthy ofthe game to which I have, in effect, devoted seven years of my life. 
Is that pathetic? 
The UPS delivery man who brought me Survivor All-Stars thought so. When I leapt from my loft, thrilled to hear, "Barnes and Noble for Jenn Metz," he was curious as to what wa'l in my package. When I told him, his face showed that he didn't expect me to order something like this. 
He didn't understand how I could watch a reality show, let alone re-watch a reality · show. I think he threw some air quotes around the word "reality" a few times. 
But my stress-induced box-set watching has its purpose. I have so many strategies in the works that I have the potential to be the best survivor ever. I'll learn how to make fire with sticks before I go to the island. I'll work out. 
And when pretty boy Probst calls my name, I'll be ready. 
Contact Jennifer Metz atjmetz@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE CLASSROOM BUILDING ON CAMPUS AND WHY? 


Angie Maxey Bret Shapot Jenn Cassidy 
junior junior sophomore Welsh Family Alumni Lyons 
"Crowley, "Jordan "The Band because I just because it has building, 
got engaged good lab because that's there this facilities." where Dr. weekend." Kenneth Dye 
lives." 





Paula Freitag  Ryan Bradley  Sam Chen  
sophomore McGlinn  senior Zahm  senior offcampus  
"DeBartolo, because it's close. I don't like to walk. "  "Fitzpatrick: It's where we do flow analysis, if you know what I mean."  "DeBartolo. IfI want to see all my friends on campus. I just stand in the  
hallway at break time. "  


Boutique receives 20 pounds of marijuana 
PIIILADELPHIA Workers at a downtown boutique called police after unexpectedly receiving two buckets of marijuana worth $90,000. Police were called to Fusion on Saturday after employees received the two packages of marijuana totaling about 20 pounds. 
"Officers received a call that the manager of the store had received a pack­age from FedEx and when he opened it there was a five-gallon bucket inside," said Capt. Chris Werner. Inside that bucket was 1 0 pounds of marijuana. The second package arrived 
about an hour later, this one from a diiTerent deliv­ery service but with similar contents. 
Both paekages were from California and addressed to the store, but there were no names on the address labels. 
"It was obviously intend­ed for someone in the Philadelphia area," Werner said. "We are trying to find out who." 
Dog saves man from bear 
CATAHACT, Wis. -Jason Schindler says he wouldn't be alive if it were not for his dog, Dude. The 27-year-old rural Cataraet man said the 8-year-old mixed-breed hound jumped between him and an attacking black bear Thursday night, saving his life but giving up his own. The animal sustained at least 28 puncture wounds to his ehest and neck, he said. 
"I'd hate for someone else's dog to go through what mine did," he said. 
Schindler and his wife, Kimberly, buried the dog with a blanket and pillow the next day, using a rented jackhammer to dig the grave in the frozen soil. 
lie said he heard the dog yelping loudly Thursday after dark and went out to see what was happening. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY a:: 
1.&.1 
:::1: 
!;;: 
1.&.1 

J)
3: 
....I 
ct 
(..) 

0 HIGH 32 HIGH 24 HIGH. 43 HIGH 48
...I LOW 17 LOW 14 LOW 25 LOW 33 IN BRIEF 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre presents Agatha Christie's "The Mousetrap" on the Decio Mainstage Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The show opens today at 7:30p.m., and continues until Man~h 4. Evening performances are at 7:30 and the Sunday matinee is at 2:30 p.m.Tieket prices are $12 for the general public, $10 for senior citizens, ND laeulty and stan· and $8 for students. 
There will be a panel presen­tation on "Sex and the City of God" Wednesday at 7:30p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall. It will examine the interplay between Catholieism and eontemporary culture. 
Muslim prayer and medita­tion will take plaee Wednesday from 7 p.m until 7:45 in room 330 of the Coleman-Morse 
Center.  This  is  part of the  
Prayer  around  the  World  
series.  

Freshmen can vote Thursday in the run-off election for the sophomore class council. Voting will take place between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. Students can access the voting Web site by clicking on a link in an e-mail from the Judicial Council. 
Legends will host Last Cornie Standing Thursday at 10 p.m. Admission is free. 
Notre Dame Track and Field will hold the Alex Wilson Invitational Saturday at 10 a.m. at the Loftus Sports Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 35 HIGH 33 LOW 30 LOW 28 
Atlanta 62 I 43 Boston 34 I 27 Chicago 34 I 28 Denver 51 I 22 Houston 76 I 52 Los Angeles 59 I 52 Minneapolis 31 I 19 New York 40 I 30 Philadelphia 43 I 29 Phoenix 74 I 46 Seattle 46 I 33 St. Louis 45 I 29 Tampa 76 I 64 Washington 48 I 32 
Tuesday, February 27, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group vvelco:m.es College alull111ae 
Alumnae Association Board members encourage student interaction 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) welcomed Alumnae Association Board President Kara O'Leary and member Lee Ann McConnell to its meeting Monday, where the two alumnae expressed a desire to con­nect with Saint 
an opportunity for the Alumnae Board to connect with students and give you some ideas as to what you can expect when you leave the comfort of Saint Mary's and enter the real world," said McConnell, who is a graduate of the Class of 1985. Both women expressed an interest in getting to know more students on campus and 
Mary's  stu­ 'Take the time to  told BOG that  
dents. And visiting the BOG is just one of the ways that they are doing so,  connect with us. It's ·nice to walk around campus and be able to recognize you."  any questions that arise about the Alumnae Association can be direct­ 
McConnell said.  ed to them via  
"We're  very  Lee Ann McConnell  e-maiL  
involved," said  Alumnae Association  "Take  the  
O'Leary, who is  Board member  time  to  con­ 

a graduate of the Class of 1989. "We come to campus twice a year and have meetings." 
The Alumnae Board partici­pates in campus events like the upcoming annual Midnight Madness, an activity that brings members of the Saint Mary's community together. They also host a Grace Under Pressure event during their fall meeting, which is designed for seniors. 
"[Grace Under Pressure] is nect with us," 
McConnell 
said. "It's nice to walk around campus and be able to recognize you." 
The Board is comprised of 18 women who graduated in different years and live in dif­ferent locations, O'Leary said. 
The Board is in place to promote opportunities for alumnae to connect with each other and the College. 
"When you locate to your new home [after graduationl. go on the Web site and find 
your [alumnae] club," McConnell said. "There are Saint Mary's women right around the corner from you and you don't even know it. They will be the first to extend a helping hand and welcome you." 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
Voting for the class board elections has been moved to today. Students can vote on PRISM from 12 a.m. to 11:59 p.m. 

+ 
The Diverse Student Leadership Conference (DSLC) will take place this weekend beginning with a reception Thursday evening during which College President Carol Ann Mooney will address participants. The event ends Saturday with a keynote speech by Peggy Macintosh in Carroll Auditorium at 4 p.m. 

+ 
Registration for Saint Mary's second-annual Dance Marathon begins this week. Dancer registration packets can be picked up in Regina and Holy Cross Halls today, and McCandless and LeMans Halls Wednesday and Thursday from 7-10 p.m. 


Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Water 
continued from page 1 
The construction should not impact students in a sig­nificant way, although it will close some pedestrian walk­ways east of the old post 
office. Kempf said efforts will be made to minimize the disrup­tion. 
This new construction project is not expected to create prob­lems similar to the gas leak that occurred two weeks ago near the 1-Iesburgh Library when 
"Further utility said. 
T h e

construction work 
University

will likely also occur requires all prior to the start of parties that 
intend to exca­
the building 
vate on campus

construction later to obtain a per­this year." mit. Parties that maintain underground
Paul Kempf 

facilities are director additionally Utilities required to 
a gas main 

was struck during under­ground digging. 
Kempf said the Utilities Department is not taking additional precautions to prevent another gas leak, but said the University is a member of the Indiana Underground Utilities Plant Protection Services and enforces rules that go above 
and beyond their specifica­tions. 
The gas main puncture, Kempf said, was caused by a failure to mark the facilities stage of construction. 
"Unfortunately this does happen, but considering the amount of underground activity on campus we have few such prob­lems," Kempf 
mark their 

facilities in the event of excavation, he said. 
This campus construction is scheduled to be completed by early April, before the chilled water season. Kempf said he does not anticipate any significant issues with the construction, unless a cold spell hits. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 

Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Ad1nissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an i1nportant contribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and communication within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus 
Among our candidates, we will seek a Latino Recruitment Coordinator. (Fluency in Spanish will be strongly preferred.) 
We will also·seek an Asian Recruitment Coordinator. 
Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity with all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplmnacy and the w·illingness to work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Please Note: Interviews will not be held until late March. Preferred start date is July 1, 2007. 
Please complete the on-line application at http://jobs.nd.edu to be considered. Requisition # 020070065 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 27,2007 
PEPYND 
continued from page 1 
out and 100 percent of the proceeds from the dinner will go toward the fund.~· 
Cambodia is a country with a high population of impover­ished and uneducated chil­dren. Seventy-five percent of them do not complete school beyond fifth grade. But through fundraising and vol­unteering initiatives, PEPYND has already helped build one school for children in Siem Reap, about 40 minutes out­side Phnom Penh. 
Rann and nine other mem­bers of PEPYND will visit 
Cambodia dur­"!have huge ing spring expectations for the 
break to over­
trip, and rm 
see the start of 
the project -looking forward to building a sec­working with the 
ond school -as 
kids.,,
well as to inter­act with Cambodian chil­Sahil Rajvansh dren. When he freshman 
first marketed the idea back at December's dinner, Rann said he received 30 signatures from interested students. 
"We got the process rolling back in January and we've helped build an itinerary leav­ing on Friday, the ninth of March and returning the fol­lowing Sunday," he said. "For the most part, we'll be split­ting time between Phnom Penh and Siem Ram, the loca­tion of the first school." 
Each volunteer will be spending approximately $850 in airfare to travel to Cambodia, plus an additional $300 for their personal expenses during their stay. Although this may seem a lit-· tie steep -especially in lieu of pursuing a vacation back at home or at a popular beach destination -the volunteers are nonetheless excited to go. Freshman Sahil Hajvansh said the trip will be expensive, but is for a good cause. 
"I have huge expectations for the trip', and I'm looking forward to working with the kids," Rajvansh said. "It's also incredible that Tim's done everything from scratch, and so I know we'll be able to work together comfortably." 
Rajvansh, who is from New Delhi, India, said he has seen the poverty and orphans that exist in his native country. Still, he thinks that it will be interesting to compare the sit­uation he's seen in India to what he will experience in 
Cambodia. 
"I want to see if the conditions vary in attitude and intensity in Cambodia," he said. "Even though I live in an exotic country, I think that visit­ing Cambodia will be just as cultur­ally interesting." 
One of the major projects 
that the volunteers will tackle includes taking 40-50 of the children to see Angkor Wat, a pristine Buddhist temple con­sidered to be one of the Seven Wonders of the World. 
"It's a symbol or pride for Cambodia," senior volunteer Alex Harty said. "It's sad that these children are so close to it, but cannot afford the jour­ney to visit it. I'm glad that we're going to help them see something that will teach them more about their cul­ture." 
The dinner will be held in the Sorin Room in LaFortune from 6-8 p.m. tonight. A $5 donation is suggested. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 


Grant 
continued from page 1 
said. 
The award carries a cash prize of $10,000, with an equal sum to be given to a Latin American charitable organization chosen by the recipient. 
The inaugural award was given in 2000 to Enrique V. Iglesias, president of the Inter-American Development Bank. Other recipients include former Chilean President Patricio Ay Iwin Az6car, Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva and Latin American Cardinal Oscar Andres Hodrfguez Maradiaga. 
The remaining $110,000 of the grant will go toward supporting 20 students par­ticipating in the Kellogg Institute's international internship program for the next two summers. 
The Institute's internship program gives "undergradu­ates opportunities to gain hands-on experienee with international poliey insti­tutes, non-governmental 
organizations and busi­
nesses, including micro-finance groups in Uganda, 
U.S. embassies in Argentina and Chile, small farming operations in Mexico, and healtheare faeilities in the Dominican Republic," the press release said. 
Though the program already sends students to dif'f'erent loeations in Asia and Africa, the grant will help to expand the pro­grams on those continents. 
Other international sites include Lima, Peru, where there are internships in theatre, education and music; Mexico City, Mexico, for the U.S. Foreign 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journali·sm 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, 
or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due by Friday, March 2, 2007. 
Commercial Serviee; Asia or Latin Ameriea, with the Poundation for Sustainable Development; and Leogane, Haiti, at the flopital Sainte Croiz. 
Domestic sites for Kellogg Institute internships inelude Minneapolis with the Minnesota Advocates for Human Hights and Washington, D.C. with the Seeretariat for Latin Ameriea for the U.S. Confercnec of Catholic Bishops. 
T h e K e II o g g I n s t i t u t'e focuses its academic and research activities around the themes of democratiza­tion and the quality of dflmocraey, growth and democracy, public policies for soeial justice, religion and soeiety, and social movements and organized eivil soeiety. 
The internships share these same goals, as senior Claire McArdle said about her 2006 summer internship with the Minnesota Advocates for Human Hights. 
"We didn't necessarily work on issues of democrati­zation or religion specifical­
ly, but we focused more on social justiee issues, specifi­cally for refugees and immi­grants from other coun­tries," McArdle said. "They sought political asylum because of issues with lack of democracy or religious persecution so that conneet­ed back very well to the goals of the Kellogg Institute." 
McArdle said the Kellogg Institute gave her a grant that was deposited directly into her Notre Dame Federal Credit Union account and left her in eharge of lodging, transportation, food and any other costs for her summer. 
The internship, MeArdle said, gave her insight into what she wants to do in the future working in immigra­tion services. 
"Especially with all the emphasis that the University is putting on international issues and original research, this type of grant is very beneficial to the University as a whole, to the Kellogg and the undergraduate stu­dent body," McArdle said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
r-------------------------------------------------~ 

Got a little 

left over from Valentine's Day? 
Share it with University benefactors at... 
"THANKSGIVING IN FEBRUARY" 
Wednesday, February 28th 12pm-7pm Sorin Room, Lafortune 

*Pizza, Cookies, and Pop will be served* 
Sponsored by the Senior Class Gift Committee and the Annual Fund 
Notre Dame 
ANNUAL FUND 


Muslim Prayer Wednesday, Febntary 28th 7:00-7:45pm. 330 Coleman-Morse 
Experience an evening ofMuslim prayer and meditation as the fourth in a series exploring the beliefs and practices of the world's great faith tr.lditions: 
"An Everting ofPrayer fr01n Aronnd the World" 
Sponsored by: ND Muslim Student Assoctation, Campus Ministry, FOG Graduate. Residences, GSU, ISSA, University Village 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 27, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRE sERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran's Ahmadinejad faces criticism 
TEHRAN, Iran -President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad faced a new round of sharp criticism at home Monday after he said Iran's nuclear program is an unstoppable train without brakes. Reformers and con­servatives said such tough talk only inflames the West as it considers further sanctions. 
The criticism came even as new signs have arisen that Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is growing discon­tented with Ahmadinejad, whom he is believed to have supported in 2005 presi­dential elections. 
Last week, Khamenei voiced rare criti­cism of the domestic performance of Ahmadinejad's government, and the presi­dent was notably absent when a group of Cabinet members and vice presidents met with Khamenei, who has the final word in all political affairs in Iran, including the nuclear issue. 
NATO takes over Afghan security 
CONAKRY, Guinea -Guinea's president named a new prime minister Monday from a list approved by union leaders, replacing an ally whose appointment sparked protests that have killed scores of people in recent weeks. 
In a decree read on state radio, President Lansana Conte appointed Lansana Kouyate as prime minister. Kouyate, who has worked for several international groups serving West Africa, takes over from Eugene Camara, a longtime Cabinet member whose appoint­ment angered the unions, which said it vio­lated a power-sharing deal. 
Scores died in clashes with security forces and subsequent rioting after Caniara was appointed earlier this month.Unions restart­ed a nationwide strike in protest and called for Conte to step down. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Governors address global warming 
WASIIINGTON -Fed up with federal inac­tion and convinced of the dangers from glob­al warming, five governors from Western states agreed Monday to work together to reduce greenhouse gases. 
Their promise to target global warming was the latest of a rush of new ideas shared this week as states push ahead on climate change and clean or alternative energy. 
"Thankfully the country has reached a tip­ping point on this issue. I wish we had done it 20 years ago," said Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty, a Republican who last week signed into law a requirement that utilities generate a quarter of their power from renewable sources such as wind, water and the sun by 2025. "Governors, members of Congress and others are now scrambling to be bold." 
Judge dismisses Libby trial juror 
WASHINGTON -After the judge dis­missed one of its members, the jury finished a fourth day of deliberations Monday with­out a verdict in the perjury trial of former White House aide I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby. 
Most of the morning was consumed by deciding what to do about an art historian on the jury who saw or read something over the weekend about the trial. After inter­viewing her in private along with lawyers in the case, U.S. District Judge Reggie B. Walton ruled that "what she had exposure to obviously disqualifies her." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Charges upheld against running back 
IN.DIANAPOLIS -Affidavit<> by a police officer who arrested Indianapolis Colts running back Dominic Rhodes can be used in the drunken driving case against him, a judge on Monday ruled. 
Rhodes' attorney, Jim Voyles, argued during a hearing that there were inconsistencies between the affidavit the officer wrote soon after arresting Rhodes on Feb. 20 and a supplemental report filed later. 
Marion Superior Court Judge Barbara Collins turned down that motion but allowed Rhodes to keep his driver's license pending future hearings. 
IRAQ 


Shiite leader escapes explosion 
Vice President Adel Abdul-Mahidi survives assassination attempt in Baghdad 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Iraq's Shiite • vice president narrowly escaped assassination Monday as a blast ripped through a government meeting hall just hours after it was searched by 
U.S. teams with bomb-sniff­ing dogs. At least 10 people were killed. 
Adel Abdul-Mahdi was slightly wounded in the explosion, which splintered chairs, destroyed a speak­ers' podium and sent a chilling message that sus­pected Sunni militants can strike anywhere despite a major security crackdown across Baghdad. 
As U.S. forces sealed off the area around the munic­ipal building, investigators grappled with the troubling question of how the bomb was smuggled into the min­istry of public works -a seven-story structure with crack surveillance systems from its days as offices for Saddam Hussein's feared intelligence service. 
The bomb -possibly hidden in the podium ­went ofT moments after the minister for public works finished a speech in the third-floor chamber, wit­nesses said. Abdul-Mahdi had made a welcoming smoke." Shiite political group. municipal building wasaddress a few minutes ear­Suspicion for the attack Even as Iraqis learned of another blow to claims bylier, raising speculation the fell on Sunni insurgents, the attack, word was com­U.S. and Iraqi forces that abomb could have been on a who have waged nonstop ing from neighboring nearly 2-week-old security
timer-trigger that missed 
bombings and attacks Jordan that their president, sweep across Baghdad isthe vice president by sheer against Iraq's majority Jalal Talabani, was facing makingheadway.On

luck. 
Shiites for cooperating with more medical tests. Sunday, more than 40 peo­Among those killed were the U.S.-backed govern­Talabani, from Iraq's ple were killed in a suicideseveral ministry employees,. 

ment. Kurdish north, was taken blast at a mostly Shiite col­police said. More than 25 

Adbul-Mahdi is one of to Amman after falling lege.

were wounded, including two vice presidents. The unconscious Sunday. His Criticism of the securitythe public works minister, other, Tariq al-Hashemi, is son, Qubad Talabani, said plan is getting louder. 
Riyad Gharib. 
Sunni. the 73-year-old leader was Al-Hashemi, the SunniAbdul-Mahdi -smoth­An Associated Press pho­"up and about" and blamed vice president, told the APered by his bodyguards in tographer witnessed securi­the episode on fatigue and the security plan does not

an instant -suffered 
ty forces hustling a man exhaustion. treat all groups equally ­minor leg injuries and was from the building, but there "He'll be back in Baghdad an apparent reference tohospitalized for tests, his were no immediate reports soon, added Foreign Sunni complaints that theyoffice said. He was later of any arrests. Minister Hoshyar Zebari. are facing the most pres­released. 

"The aggression against But his private physician, sure and attention.

"I heard a big explo­
you this day is further proof Dr. Yedkar Hikmat, would "Up to now, legal proce­sion,"said Tagrid Ali, a pub­that these groups are doing give no timetable on his dures have not beenlic works ministry employ­their best to destroy Iraq's discharge, saying only that observed," he said in anee who attended the gath­unity," said a message to rumors Talabani had heart interview. "The humanering to honor outstanding 

the vice president from problems were "categori­rights of Iraqis have notworkers. "I fell to the 

Abdul-Aziz al-Hakim, who cally wrong." been respected as they

ground, and the whole 
heads the country's largest The bombing of the should be." 

place was filled with black 



Group suggests 'forever' stamp 
Associated Press panel also would sharply scale back the letter. WASHINGTON -No longer will peo­price of heavier letters. So there would be no need to buy ple have to wonder if those old stamps "Adoption of this proposal is good for small-denomination stamps to add to in the bottom of the drawer are still the Postal Service, postal customers envelopes. good for postage. Nor will they have to and our postal system," commission Currently, first-class mail costs 39 cobble together a collection of small chairman Dan G. Blair said at a brief­cents for the first ounce and 24 cents stamps to add up to a new price. ing. for each additional ounce. The Postal Regulatory Commission is A forever stamp would not carry a While the first ounce would rise to 41 recommending a new type of stamp -denomination, but would sell for what­cents under the proposal, it would cost it's been dubbed "forever" -that sells ever the first-elass rate was at the time. just 17 cents for each additional ounce. for the first-class rate and remains For example, if the 41-cent rate takes That means the price of sending a valid to mail a letter no matter how effect, forever stamps would sell for 41 two-ounce letter would actually much rates go up in the future. cents. If rates later climbed to 45 cents decrease from 63 cents to 58 cents. On Monday, the commission also rec­or more, the price of the forever stamp The proposal also recommended a 2­ommended a 2-cent increase in first­would also go up at the counter or cent boost, to 26 cents, in the cost of class rates to 41 cents, a penny less machine, but those purchased before mailing a post card, also a penny less than the post office had sought. The the change would still be valid to mail a than the Postal Service had sought. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 27, 2007 
Flood 
continued from page 1 
sioner. 
"I think it's really cool that the service commissioners brought it to our attention," Heger said. 
An article from the South Bend Tribune about the pipe break was attached to the e­mail from her service commis­sioner, which inspired Heger to want to help. 
"I read the article from the South Bend Tribune and it seemed like such a horrible thing that happened to them," she said. "They lost a significant amount, maybe a 'majority, of food that they had available ... We have time and we are able, so why not?" 
Since people depend on the canned goods stored by the food bank for their daily food vacs and had eight men work­ing for eight or nine hours straight pulling water off the floor," Brown said. "Then we had volunteer crews, service workers and staff trying to res­cue as much food as we could." 

One of the difficulties caused by the water damage was that wet can labels were no longer legible and it was impossible to tell what the original contents were. The food bank had to get rid of these cans, along with the paper goods supply, Brown said. 
Beside the food supply, the food bank will need to replace the furnace in the corner where the break occurred. A supply vent and insulation will also be needed, Brown said. 
Heger contacted the food bank toward the end of last week with the intention of gath­ering a group of girls from her dorm section to volunteer over 
source, the loss  "They're afood bank,  the  weekend.  
can  have  a  so everything they do  Heger  heard  
tremendous impact. "It just seemed  is getting these canned foods out to people and  back from the food bank Monday and is  
like such a hor­ ifthey don't have  now  planning  
rible thing hap­pened to them," Heger said.  canned food, then peo­ple can't eat."  to take her sec­tion to help sometime later  
"They're a food  this week.  
bank, so every­thing they do is getting these canned foods  Shelly Heger Welsh Family resident assistant  "I think we're going to be sorting, re­labeling and  

out to people and if they don't have canned food, then people can't eat." 
The pipe burst occurred when cold from a fresh air vent made the cast iron clamp that holds three pipes together to clamp. Due to the water pressure in the pipes, water immediately escaped and "there was a tor­rential downpour." 
"We had water coming down the walls, through the ceilings and down the stairs from that corner area and we ended up with about three inches of water in a 40,000 square foot area [where food was kept]," Brown said. 
Since the lower level of the warehouse is about 82,000 square feet, Brown said the water affected close to half the warehouse. Although the fire alarm sounded, Brown said "by the time they were able to turn off the water to the building, the damage had been done." 

' 
I Crews began to clean up the
'' 
damages at the food bank the morning after the event. "We purchased three wet-dry 


Election 
continued from page 1 
(26 percent), Vento-Romano­Callinan-Green garnered 180 votes (17 percent) and Landry­Abercrombie-Bodien-Dixon won 61 votes (5.8 percent). 
Kozlow said 63 students voted 
to abstain. 
Both Grant Schmidt and Adam Mathews, the presidential candidates for the two run-off tick­ets, said they were happy with the results and were looking for­ward to the upcoming run-off election. 
"Obviously 44 

just salvaging some of the food that they lost," she said. 
Volunteer Coordinator for the Food Bank Beth Graham said while she has had "a lot of offers [of assistance! from Notre Dame students," she has not scheduled all of them yet because it can be difficult to train new people under such circumstances. 
"Sometimes it's almost over­whelming because we're kind of restricted in some ways on the hours we can have volunteers. ... It can be kind of hard to manage a lot of different people and we have to teach every new person [what to look for]," she said. 
Graham also said the Notre Dame students who have already helped with the damage are either regular volunteers or are completing community service hours. 
"It's not that they don't want to be here. They are great workers, but that's why they are here, first," Graham said, before adding that some stu­dents who began volunteering 
experience. Once the results are in, we'd like to get down to work." 
Mathews said he and tlie other candidates on his ticket plan to reach out to the students who abstained from voting or did not participate at all in the next few days. 
''I'd like to fmd out what those students want and what inter­
"It's just been a good experience to learn the ins and outs andfind out what people want." 
Adam Mathews candidate freshman class council 
percent is pretty nice," Schmidt said. "Win or lose -it's been a fun experience. When you lind out results like that, it gets you more excited. We're doing this for a reason and we have the 

ests them," he said. 
Mathews also said he has enjoyed the cam­paigning experi­ence so far. 
"It's just been a good experience to learn the ins and outs and lind out what people want," he said. 
The run-on· elec­tion will be held 
Thursday. Freshmen can vote from 8 a.m. to 8 p. m. through the Judieial Council Web site. 
,Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 
at the Food Bank for communi­we're estimating that we are ty service continued to volun­going to be somewhere in the teer after completing their five to ten thousand dollar required service range as far as expenses and 
The total cost of the Oooding damages," Brown said. will be steep, Brown said. Fortunately, the Food Bank "When all is said and done, has received offers of donations 
to help repair the damages. 

"It's looking like we should be able to break even," Brown said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 


B.P. Meal Auction 
Benefiting Meals on Wheels 
H0 ~ 
00

Bid on the opportunity for you and a group to dine with "campus celebrities" including ... 
Anre Venter Chandra Johnson Chuck Lennon Prof. McKenna Dean Woo The Leprechauns Coach Brey Volleyball Girls Fr. Hesburgh Reggie Brooks The Undertones Prof. Hums Cheerleaders Fr. Poorman Hockey Guys Geoff Price & 
Bob Morton 

For a complete description of the meals: www.nd.edu/--bphall 
Wednesday, Feb. 28. LaFortune Ballroom. 7:00-9:00 P.M. 

LOYOLA 
I SUMMER SESSIONS 
UNIVERSITY CHICAGO 



YOUR CHICAGO SUMMER CLASSROOM: 
Get ahead or try sonzething new! 
• 
Spend this summer in Chicago and study at Loyola, ranked a top national university by U.S. News & World Report. 

• 
Get your degree faster! Earn general education, major or elective credit. 

• 
Choose from more than 250 courses offered in four convenient sessions. 

• 
Access nearby Chicago internships, beaches, ballparks, festivals and more. 

• 
Tell high··school sophomores and juniors they. can earn college credit early with Loyola's new Pre-collegiate Summer Scholars program. LOYOLA 


UNIVERSITY CHICAGO 
.....,
E;.•..•~ 
~ a 
.2:: ....:,
0.-p ()
~1\f. \)"<;)."
Apply today. Courses fill up fast! 
www.luc.edu/summer Preparing people to lead extraordinory lives 
Loyola is an equal opportunity employer and educator. ©2007 Loyola University Chicago. 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, February 27, 2007 
page?" 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow }ones  12,632.26  -15.22  
Upc Same: Down:  Composite Volume:  
I,5 77  135  I ,682  2,585,326,0 I 0  


NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) -0.49 -0.22 45.04 ISHARE RUS 2000 (IWM) -0.24 -0.20 81.75 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.43 +0.09 20.85 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.09 -0.13 145.17 

Treasuries 
I0-YEAR NOTE -1.00 0.047 4.631 
13-WEEK BILL +0.1 0 +0.005 5.045 30-YEAR BOND -1.02 -0.049 4.733 5-YEARNOTE -0.99 -0.046 4.614 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.25  61.39  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +3.10  689,80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.28  104.30  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  120.5650  
EURO  0. 7582  
POUND  0.5093  
CANADIAN$  1.1604  

IN BRIEF 


Large deal brings hope to Wall Street 
NEW YORK-Wall Street extended its decline Monday as concerns about a market correction offset investor optimism that acquisition activity is on pace to set a record this year. 
The $45 billion buyout of electric utility TXU Corp. injected confidence into the market that merger and acquisition activity could surpass last year's record $4 trillion level. The deal, led by a COIL'iortium of buyout shops that include Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Texas Pacific Group, would go down as the largest leveraged buyout in 
U.S. history. 
Other deals included Station Casinos Inc., which agreed to be bought by a private equity firm start­ed by the company's founding family. Temple­Inland Inc., a conglomerate that offers everything from packaging material to financial services, announced it plans to separate itself into three standalone public companies. 

Engraver sentenced to federal prison 
WASHINGTON -A former Treasury Department employee was sentenced to nine months in federal prison Monday for steal­ing more than $67,000 in uncut sheets of $1 00 bills that he tried to launder through casino slot machines. 
David C. Faison, 56, was also ordered to pay back the government $37,200-the amount he fed to slot machines in Atlantic City, West Virginia and Delaware between May and August last year. 
The rest of the money -nine sheets of partially printed $100 bills-was recovered at Faison's house in Largo, Md., hidden inside a roll of Christmas wrapping paper. 
Faison was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Paul L. Friedman less than a year after he admitted to the scheme and pleaded guilty on Sept. 6 to federal charges of mate­rial for counterfeiting purposes. Additionally, he will be put on supervised release for three years after serving his prison term. 
Faison had worked as a stock control recorder, distributing currency paper within the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, when he stole 21 sheets of partially printed $100 bills. Each sheet contained 32 bills, which were missing serial numbers and Treasury Department seals.comment. 


WellPoint announces new CEO 
Company will become the biggest Fortune 500 company with afemale in charge 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS­
WellPoint Inc. said Chief 
Executive Larry Glasscock 
plans to step down, and 
promoted its general coun­
sel as his replacement who 
will make the health insur­
er the biggest Fortune 500 
company with a woman at 
the helm. 
Angela Braly, who joined the nation's largest health insurer executive ranks two years ago, will take the CEO post on June 1 while Glasscock stays on as chairman of the board. 
Glasscock, 58, is also stepping down as president and Braly will assume that post as well. 
Glasscock cited family reasons for his retirement as president and CEO and did not elaborate during a morning conference call with analysts. But he did say the Indianapolis-based company considered "a very wide range of possible succession options and sce­narios" before choosing Braly. 
WellPoint ranks 38th in 
the 2006 Fortune 500 list of 
the biggest companies. The 
next largest company with 
a female leader is No. 56, 
Archer Daniels Midland 
Co., where Patricia A. 
Woertz serves as chairman, 

CEO and president. ute. graduate degree from Wel!Point was formed when 
Braly said she might He also noted the impor­Texas Tech University. Indianapolis-based Anthem bring "great perspective" to tance of handling public Braly said the company Inc. acquired Thousand the new role because of her policy, legislative and regu­will focus on growing mem­Oaks, Calif.-based gender. latory issues in the future. bership but also will contin­WellPoint Health Networks 
"What we know at "These are all areas that ue to look for more merger Inc. in a $16.5 billion deal. WellPoint is that 70 percent Angela is incredibly skilled and acquisition opportuni­The combined company of the health care decisions at, in addition to knowing ties to drive future growth. changed its name to are made by women, so I how to run a company, so Her selection surprised WellPoint Inc. think it's a very natural that was a very important some on Wall Street. One Under Glasscock's leader­place for me to be, both as aspect of her selection as analyst told Chief Financial ship, WellPoibt and its a businesswoman and as a my successor," he said. Officer David Colby during predecessor companies consumer of health care for WellPoint shares fell 50 the conf6rence call that he grew from 6 million med­my family," said Braly, who cents to $81 in midday had seemed to be ical members and $6 billion is married and has three trading on the New York Glasscock's likely successor, in revenue to more than 34 school-age children. Stock Exchange. They are and asked whether disap­million medical members 
Braly, 45, has been an still near the higher end of pointment will prompt him and more than $60 billion executive vice president their 52-week range of to leave. in revenue. with the company since $65.49 to $84.15. ''I'm not sure I'm disap­"Larry has delivered 2005. Before that, she was Braly joined Blue Cross pointed at all," Colby said. unprecedented growth and president and CEO of Blue Blue Shield in 1999 after "I think she has great skills value creation for Cross Biue Shield of being a partner with a St. to run the company, and WellPoint's members, Missouri. Glasscock cited Louis law firm. She earned I'm very happy to work investors and associates," the membership and prof­her law degree from alongside with her." said Jackie Ward, presiding itability growth her compa­Southern Methodist Glasscock joined Anthem director of WellPoint's ny saw then as an attrib-University and her under-Insurance in 1998. In 2004, board of directors. 

Navistar, Ford Co. in plant dispute 
elaborate. made about 300,000 engines for Ford. 
Associated Press 

Ford spokeswoman Becky Sanch But Wiley said that number has been 
ARRENVILLE, Ill. -Navistar said the automaker would be able to cut dramatically because of Ford's International Corp. said Monday it will continue making the F-Series trucks financial problems. idle a 1 ,200-worker Indianapolis fac­for the "near ten;.n." · The Indianapolis factory made tory because of an ongoing dispute "We've been working closely with about 400 engines a day. Wiley said with Ford Motor Co. Navistar ... for many months to he did not know how long the shut­
The Warrenville, IlL-based truek resolve the commereial issues we've down would last. and engine maker said Monday that · been having," she said. "We've always The Alabama plant will continue Ford has "stopped honoring" the honored the agreements we've had operating because it also produces terms of a contract for thousands of and we'll continue to do that." engines for other companies, Wiley diesel engines used in the automak­The 4.6-liter Power Stroke is the said. er's popular F-Series heavy-duty only diesel engine used in Ford's Last month, Ford sued Navistar, truck line. heavy-duty trucks. About 40 percent saying the company failed to comply 
Navistar said in a statement that it of the nearly 800,000 F-Series trucks with an agreement to share warranty pays suppliers and employees under sold by Ford last year were diesel­costs. Dearborn; Mich.-based Ford contract terms and "expects Ford to powered. also accused Navistar of "unjustifi­honor the terms of its agreement." In past years, Navistar plants in ably" raising prices and said it would Spokesman Roy Wiley declined to Indianapolis and Huntsville, Ala., try to recover its costs. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, February 27, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

The beauty of our federalist system 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dinint~ Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin . 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Amonacci VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Ooxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Meimella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu. 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed ~y policies ofthe administration ofeither institurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s publbhcJ Mond<ty through Friday c~ccpt duri1'S exam and v.tcation period~. A subscripriun to The Observer fs $.100 for onl.' academic ye-ar; $55 fur nne ~ml~fer. 
The Observer is publishe!d at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining 11.!.11 Send address oor~crions to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical poru.g.e paid .u Noue Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. Ol4: Sourh Dining Halt 
Nortt Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Ohscrv« is a mem!Kr ofthe Associated Ptesli. All reproduction righr.s Are <<=V«<. 

As a columnist for The Observer, I have to try and come up with something inter­esting to write about every two weeks, and I've had many conversations with other columnists about the dilliculty of !in ding topics which you, the reader, would be inter­ested in. This is a tough problem, and my approach is to read the letters you send to the editor, take the issue and put forth my view on the matter in a rea­soned and respectful way. This approach, however, requires me to read Viewpoint almost every day, and in the course of doing so I see that very few of the debatns in this section end with compromisn. Most of the time, the rhetoric only gnL'i worse and both sides fmd as sharply divided as they were when the discussion began. 
American society in this respeet is not far removed from the Notrn Damn com­munity. In our society there are many issues on which both sides hold nearly irreconeilable differences. I highly doubt that we will nver reach a societal conson­sus on drug policy, the role of religion in public life or abortion. Positions on these issues depend on foundational principles, and as such, are not easily changnd. 
Different areas of the eountry hold vary­ing predominant foundational prineiplns, and debates on controversial issues often begin when communities enaet laws based on these prineiples. Soon afterwards, the actors involved in the debate turn to the national stage where they seek to see their policy enacted at the federal level. In 1973, abortion supportnrs were able to force the legalization of abortion on the entire country, induding communities which were fiercely against the practice. Though abortion was a state issue before 

Jonathan Klingler 
Forward the Revolution 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Hoe v. Wade, the pro-life movement focused on winning national victories to limit or eliminate the practiee. Because of the initial nationalization of the issue in 1973, members of both sides of the debate not only seek to advance their cause in states that support their stanee, but seek to enact their policy in states that do not. 
The drive to resolve most, if not all, issues at the fi)derallevel threatens to standardize /\rnnrican politics and culture in thn same way that McDonald's has stan­dardized fiH>d and Wal-Mart has standard­iznd retail shopping. Though I strongly believll that my dassiealliberal and Christian principles arc true, I would rather win or losn debates in the several states than in one centralized federal leg­islature. People bnlieve difl'enmt things in difl'ernnt areas, and the current trend towards nationalization unneenssarily raisns the stakes and thus adds to the growing sense of polarization in our nation. 
Our economy is increasingly national­ized and globaliznd, and li>r the most part, inereased trade has provided Amerieans and pnopln around the world with higher wages. greatnr access to goods and a lower eost of living. Unli>rtunatnly, the widening scope of our economy has allownd a "winner-takes-all" homogeniz­ing eonsumnr culture to emerge in tho 
U.S. Our greatnr mobility and access to goods has bmwlited us m:onomieally, but it also threatens to destroy the values, local sentirmmts and cultures that help us to define our lives. 
II' we are to onjoy the fruits of globaliza­tion and a groatly expanded economy, we also need to take deliberatl) efli>rL'i to pre­serve local culture and our sense of identi­ty. According to Tom friedman, the author of "The Lexus and the Olive Tree," "Evon if we can get the right polities ... fi>r sustain­able globalization, there is another, less tanhrihle set of polieies that nm~ds to be kept in mind -the need for community, for spiritual meaning and for values which with to raise our children." Even if people in California drive Volvos, play Japanese computer games and wear clothes pro­duced in China, they need to know what they believe and what makes them differ­ent from Chinese, lloosiers and Texans. 
The beauty of our federalist system is that it allows for the preservation oflocal culture while providing the economic and security benefiL'i of a larger government. Alexis de Tocqueville wrote, "No one can be more indined than I am to appreciate the advantages of the federal system, whieh I hold to be one of the combinations most favorable to the prosperity and free­dom of man." Our federal system is one of our greatest asseL'i, and it is wPII-suited to take on our age's great challenge of pro­teeting local identity and culture. 
I don't think it would be a surprise to anyone if I said that the peoph~ of Calililfnia and Indiana had divergent views on marijuana, the role of religion in public lifiJ and abortion. Instead of trying to make the whole country likn Indiana or Caliii>rnia (depending on your foundation­al bnliefs) citizens of each statn should be able to legislate on these controversial issues as they see fit. We need to work to presnrve both the values and 1:ultural praetices that give our lives meaning. By unleashing the power of federalism, we can do that in a way that reduces contro­versy and increases community autonomy. Let California be California, and let Indiana be Indiana. 
Jonathan Klingler is a senior manage­ment consulting major and president emeritus ofthe Notre Dame College Republicans. He currently resides in Keenan //all and enjoys Tolstoy and Matlock. He can be contacted via e-mail at jklingle@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL
Kaitlynn Riely Jay Fitzpatrick Sonia Rao Deirdre Krasula What event interests you more: 

Viewpoint Lorenzo Reyes Bengal Bouts or Tom Zbikowski's 
Bethany Scene Whitfield Tae Andrews upcoming charity fight? Graphics Matt Hudson 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Your time is limited, so don't waste it

Submit aLetter 
living someone else's life ... have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become."

to the Editor at 
Steve Jobs CEO of Apple Computer 

www~ndsmcobserver.com, 

Tl·-IE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 27, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Saint Mary's new-residency policy threatens enrollment 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

,~....~~/Tl/fl j)GJ/1/v'eajoSr 02-(-zl/07 www.caglecartoons.com 
The new residency requirement for Saint Mary's students that was decided upon without diverse input from stu­dents and faculty will be disastrous to the future of the college. President Carol Ann Mooney has said that the college is currently facing an enroll­ment crisis and has set the goal to increase enrollment by 15 percent with the Class of 2011. Unfortunately, I strongly believe this new residency requirement will drop the number of applicants to an all-time low. Had stu­dent input been gathered on this issue, such a decision would have never been made. 
Karen Johnson, vice president of stu­dent affairs at the College, said that 

current students were not consulted because the requirement would not affect them. Current students should have been asked for advice because current students are the most knowl­edgeable about the wants and needs of prospective students having been there just months ago. 
When high school seniors are making a college decision, they look at a num­ber of factors, with student life being of great importance. When students enroll at Saint Mary's and see that dorm living is the norm for three years, many choose to follow this path of on campus residency. However, without this knowl­edge of the norm, high school seniors will not choose a campus that requires them to stay on campus for three years over a college that does not. 
The trend among American college students is to move off campus and Saint Mary's should not go against this.· More students want to live off campus than on campus and if a college denies students of this right, prospective stu­dents will seek an education elsewhere. Applicants to Saint Mary's will drop with the consequence of an even fur­ther decline in enrollment. Furthermore, this is creating an identi­ty for the college that is similar to a girls' boarding school, not an open­minded, progressive women's college. 
Johnson stated the single positive attribute of the requirement when she 
said, "Students who live on campus have been shown to be more successful -both academically and co-curricu­lary." However, it should be up to the students and their parents -not administrators -to decide whether or not they should stay on campus for per­sonal development. I would encourage administrators to reconsider how prospective students will perceive this residency requirement before there aren't any students to fill the residence halls at all. 
Maggie Oldham 
senior 
offcampus Feb.22 

Eucharist com_ic not inappropriate 
Paper should uphold 'free trade of ideas' 
Erik Bootsma, I, for one, hope you are the only student in this fme institution who took offense at the cartoon published in this paper making light of the Eucharist. You argue that while we can debate the presence of God in the Eucharist, "all of [the institution's] organs should point to the truth" and that the Eucharist is not "an acceptable form of ridicule," ("Eucharist comic was blasphe­mous," Feb. 26). 
I'm not going to quote Bible verses back at you, but do you really think that The Observer should censor its content from a religious point of view? Notre Dame, as you may have noticed, isn't a hotbed ofdiversity, especially when it comes to religious views. I can't imag­ine this image would be improved by quash­ing satire that pokes fun at the Catholic faith. One day, you may have to accept that not only does everyone not share your views, many of us don't want your views being forced upon us, even though we attend a Catholic universi­ty. 

To quote Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, "But when men have real­ized that time has upset many fighting faiths, they may come to believe even more than they believe the very foundations of their own con­duct that the ultimate good desired is better reached by free trade in ideas -that the best test of truth is the power of the thought to get itself accepted in the competition of the mar­ket, and that truth is the only ground upon which their wishes safely can be carried out." 
Jake Vos 
graduate student off campus Feb.26 


Cartoon funny, not improper 
I do not understand why people are offended by comics. Comics are meant to be a quick chuckle in between hours of work. 
In responses to Michele E. Sagala ("Cartoon crossed the line," Feb. 26), "making fun of the Institution of the Eucharist, especially in this season of Lent" is funny. I laughed. I also feel that God has a sense of humor and is secure enough to take a joke. 
In response to Erik Bootsma ("Eucharist comic was blasphe­mous," Feb. 26), please turn and look at the top of the front page of your Observer, where it says "The Independent Newspaper SerVin-g Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." 
Perhaps you should look at the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution: "Congress shall make no law ... prohibiting the free exer­cise thereof; or abridging the free­dom of speech, or of the press." I think the comic is pointing to another truth, that people like to laugh. I have found far more truth in Carlos Mencia, Dane Cook and Jerry Seinfeld than in Catechism 2148. 
I pose this question -can you really respect someone you cannot joke with and make a joke about? 
Phillip Whelan sophomore Carroll Hall Feb. 26 


THE OBSERVER 







CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, February 27, 2007 
2007 0SCARS IN REVIEW 

Latest Oscars shines with flair and fashion 

Director Martin Scorsese, second from left, finally receive~ his Oscar in the com­pany of fellow greats Francis Ford Coppola, George Lucas and Steven Spielberg. 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The 2007 Academy Awards brought nearly one billion viewers more than the usual amount of surprises and whimsy this Sunday night. Complete with interpretive dancers, a sound effect chorale and newbie host (and goofball extraordin aire) EII en DeGeneres, this year's quirky Oscars felt surprisingly fresh and more than a little entertaining. With its fair share of glamorous fashion and several unpre­dicted upsets -especially that of perennial "bridesmaid-but-never-a­bride" director Martin Scorsese -the 2007 Oscars shot a lively jolt of energy into the arm of the nearly 80-year-old broadcast. 
Red carpet arrivals were the talk of multiple channels during the hour and a half before the official broadcast began, with E! Entertainment, TV Guide and others dissecting and schmoozing with the Hollywood elite on what is often considered fashion's most widely­seen runway. Pop culture pundits like Joan Rivers and Ryan Seacrest 

were in full Adding a decidedly "Ellen" flavor first 15 minutes of force as stars ofunassuming irreverence to the the show. Adding a 
and nominees decidedly "Ellen" fla­
evening, DeGeneres opened with a
like Meryl vor of unassuming Streep, Kate low-key, funny monologue about irreverence to the Winslet and both her lifelong dream to host the evening, DeGeneres 
even "Daily opened with a low­
Oscars and her decision to, this
Show" alum key, funny mono­Steve Carell year, celebrate the nominees logue about both her made their way rather than just the winners. lifelong dream to 
down the red carpet. 
Oscar fashion in 2007 saw an inter­esting mix of standards -legendary designers like Valentino and Armani justifiably remain widely worn on Hollywood's biggest night -and risk­takers, with fewer stars taking the safer route in their attire choices in favor of "fashion roads less worn" like feather­accented skirts and gold bodices. One such risk-taking star was "Dreamgirls" Supporting Actress winner and "American Idol" alum Jennifer Hudson, who paired a stunning Oscar de Ia Renta chocolate brown frock with what appeared to be a silver-plated jacket abandoned by an extra from "Barbarella." 
While some, like Hudson, may have had less success with risky fashion, oth­ers, such as respective· Supporting Actress and Best Actress nominees Cate Blanchett and Penelope Cruz, absolute­ly shone in their more unique choices. Cruz, for example, wore a flowing, fem­inine pink gown with enough yards of fluffy, feather-heavy skirt to clothe the entirety of Angelina .Jolie's growing international brood, but pulled off the potentially overwhelming Versace cre­ation with her typical ease. 

Other stars to note were Kate Winslet, in a very feminine celadon-colored, one-shoulder Valentino; "Babel" new­comer Rinko Kikuchi, who was sporting a form-fitting, black lace-laden Chane!; Gwyneth Paltrow in her pleated and peachy gown from hip newcomer Zac Posen; "Little Miss Sunshine" herself, fifth grader Abigail Breslin, in a sweet, pink fluff-fest of a dress; and Best Actress winner Helen Mirren, who left audiences pleasantly surprised with her gold-embroidered gown from classic designer Christian Lacroix that was anything but matronly. 
Once the broadcast got underway, it was first-time host Ellen DeGeneres who put her own unique spin on the often-stuffy awards ceremony, leading a sizeable gospel choir through the 
aisles of the Kodak 
Theater within the 
host the Oscars and 

her decision to, this year, celebrate the nominees rather than just the winners. A subsequent short film featured a series of endear­ingly awkward interviews with the 2007 band of nominees, summed up succinct­ly by Supporting Actor winner Alan Arkin's thoughts on winning and los­ing."Losing builds character," Arkin ~said with a smile. "Winning is easy. 
Anyone can win." 
The statement was ironic coming 
from Arkin, who won the Supporting 
Actor prize for "Little Miss Sunshine" 
over predicted favorite and Golden 
Globe winner Eddie Murphy. 
Arkin's win was one of several sur­
prises at this year's Oscars, with the 
seemingly heavily favored "Pan's 
Labyrinth" losing the Foreign-Language 
film award to "Das Leben Der 
Anderen," a critically-favored German film about the complexities of the East German Secret Police. Another such surprise was the environmentally-con­scious fable "Happy Feet," which won in the Animated Film category over Disney and Pixar's wildly popular 'Cars." In the seemingly innocuous Best Original Song category, AI Gore's "An Inconvenient Truth" found unexpected Oscar gold with an original Melissa Ethridge song, "I Need to Wake Up," over a record three tunes from the night's lone musical, "Dreamgirls," marking the first time in recent memo­ry that the Original Song winner came from a documentary film. 
Other 2007 winners came with far less surprise. Both Forest Whitaker ("The Last King of Scotland") and Mirren ("The Queen") had won an impressive series of critical prizes between them since award season began, and despite an impressive breadth of competitive talent in both categories, the two were rewarded a final Oscar cap to their respective growing lists of accolades. 
Sofia Coppola's controversial "Marie Antoinette" won the prize for Costume Design, hardly a surprise given the sheer volume of gowns worn by Kirsten Dunst in the film. Jennifer Hudson's win for Supporting Actress was also some­what expected, given her win for the role at the Golden Globes in January. 
The ultimate surprise, however, was that of Scorsese's Best Director win ­Scorsese, effectively the Susan Lucci of the Academy Awards since 1981's "Raging Bull," finally got his prize for his frenetic and fantastic Best Picture winner, "The Departed." Presented by a trio or venerable directing legends, George Lucas, Francis Ford Coppola and Steven Spielberg, Scorsese's long­awaited trophy seemed nothing short of totally deserved. 
Other highlights of this year's Oscars included a hysterical song-and-dance number featuring Will Ferrell, Jack Black and John C. Reilly lamenting the fate of the oft-ignored comedian come Oscar season; the pairing of youngsters Abigail Breslin and .laden Christopher Syre Smith to present both short film awards; and "Little Miss Sunshine" stars Steve Carrell and Greg Kinnear's cheeky take on the importance of sound editing. 
Ultimately, the 2007 Oscars will be remembered as the year of Scorsese and "The Departed," of what DeGeneres called the "most internation­al" grouping of nominees the Oscars have ever had, and of an overall rejuve­nation of Hollywood's most storied night. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
courtesy realtvnews.com From left, Forest Whitaker, Jennifer Hudson, Helen Mirren and Alan Arkin each took home an Aca~my Award during Sunday night's prestigious awards show. 
THE BSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, February 27, 2007 
page 11 
DIRECTOR FEATURE 
-
'13 Tzameti' director talks about film at ND 
love and admiration for the cinema. By BRIAN DOXTADER Both Gela and Temur recently collab­Scene Editor orated on a project called "L'Heritage" 
("The Legacy"), which they co-wrote 
Director Gela Babluani, already one and co-directed. It is the first film Gela of the most celebrated new filmmakers made in his homeland of Georgia. in the world, came to Notre Dame last "13 Tzameti" has a unique look weekend to screen his first film, 2005's because it was shot in black-and-white "13 Tzameti." The film has been a CinemaScope (widescreen). Babluani major critical success on the film festi­said this was a conscious decision, not­val circuit, winning the "Best First ing that, "With black-and-white, you're Feature" at the Venice Film Festival more focused on features, on mise-en­and the "Grand Jury Prize" at the scene." Sundance Film Festival. The director, The film is unique for its story and who speaks four languages (Georgian, themes, which hearken back to French French, Russian independent cinema, and English) especially the French recently moved to The film industry runs in New Wave (a revolu­New York and is the Babluani family. Gela's tionary film movement working on an of the late 1950s and
brother Georges is the star 
American remake early 1960s). The linch­of "Tzameti." of "13 Tzameti" and his pin of the movement Babluani was father Temur was also a . was writer/director born in Georgia Jean-Luc Godard,
noted filmmaker, though
while the country whose influence has not was still under the elder Babluani gave it been lost on filmmakers Soviet regime, but up in 1992. today. does most of his "Everyone in French film work in Paris. independent cinema The film industry runs in the Babluani tries to imitate Godard," Babluani said. This mentality is reflected throughout "If you want to see blood, you can family. Gela's brother Georges is the "But they try to imitate him from an "13 Tzameti." None of the characters turn on any channel on TV," Babluani star of "13 Tzameti" and his father intellectual standpoint, not a visual are depicted as outright villains, and said. "It doesn't shock anyone anymore Temur was also a noted filmmaker, standpoint." even the protagonist is shown as a con­and I wanted the violence [in '13 though the elder Babluani gave it up in This Godardian influence is evident flicted and morally problematic char­Tzameti'] to be psychological. There's 1992. through "13 Tzameti," especially in acter. only one special effect, which is very 
"My father is my best friend," Babluani's visual style, which is at once Babluani's brother is the star of the brief ... I wanted it to be closer to reali­Babluani said. "He finished with the traditional and progressive. He uses film, and Gela noted that he chose ty." cinema in '92. It wasn't a good experi-subtle moving camera and cinematic Georges for very specific reasons. "13 Tzameti" is being remade in e n c e techniques like Georges' performance has also been America with Babluani at the helm. No because he freeze-frames w e I I -actors are set in had so many "13 Tzameti" has a unique look effectively, though received, place yet, but the
The director is adamant that he prefers 
problems. the film is deeply leading to film will carry
because it was shot in black-and­
When he grounded in reali-a Cesar (a smaller projects with smaller budgets, many of the same
white CinemaScope (widescreen). 
decided to ty. This grounding European themes and will
but his enthusiasm and talent are 
stop, it did­Babluani said this was a conscious demonstrates equivalent focus around simi­
undeniable. After starting small, only 
n't motivate decision, noting that, "Wzth black­strains of the of the lar set-pieces -for 
me because Italian Neo-Realist Academy bigger and better things lie in wait for instance, the game
and-white, you're more focused on 
we had a lot movement, espe-Awards) will remain the
this talented upcoming director. 
of problems. features, on mise-en-scene., cially in its usage nomination focal point of the It felt like of non-actors in for "Most plot. Yet the direc­we had all key roles and its Promising Actor" (meilleur espoir mas­tor stressed that he is not interested in problems all the time. So when I decid­realistic depictions of events. Yet culine). "remaking 'Tzameti' shot-for-shot." ed I wanted to make films, he was Babluani noted that "13 Tzameti" is a "I wanted the lead character to be Whatever the case, "13 Tzameti" put sad." complete work of fiction with few, if really different from the others, and Babluani on the proverbial map, and 
Babluani thus had little interest in any, ties to real-life events. Georges has an innocence, especially will certainly lead to larger endeavors. making films when he was growing up, "I try not to make movies about his face," Babluani said. "But there's a The director adamantly insists that he which allowed him to watch movies things that have really happened," violence about him as well. You believe prefers smaller projects with smaller "without pretensions." Babluani said. "I wanted to make a that he's capable of violence, which is budgets, but his enthusiasm and talent 
"I didn't look at [the cinema] for the movie about what's happening today in what makes the story believable." are undeniable. After starting small, technical aspects or anything," the world, but I didn't want to do a real That violence is key to the film's plot, only bigger and better things lie in wait Babluani said. His father's influence story. If we do that, we find excuses for though Babluani is quick to point out for this talented upcoming director. was strong, but the appeal of filmmak­people, we depict good people and bad that he approaches violence in a differ­ing was stronger, and Babluani's deci­people and I really didn't want to make ent way than most, preferring a non­Contact Brian Doxtader at sion to make movies grew out of his a movie about good and bad." explicit style. bdoxtade@nd.edu 



I 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 27, 2007
I 
I I 
' 
' 
' 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Gelchion pins Sayles against ropes for win 
stopped the contest midway Mike "I'm On the Poster" 
By BILL BRINK through the second round. Hennig def. Bill "The Brobot" 
Sports Wrirer 
Hull David "J-Rock" Pepe def. Connor llennig carne out strong and 
Matt "Joltin" Gelchion's speed "The Conqueror" Cain fast, not allowing !lull to throw and aggression were too much for Pepe's form and aggressive style many punches in the first round. Michael "Saylor" Sayles to over­were too much for Cain to handle I Iennig's punches W(lfe quick and come. in the first round. Pepe was the accurate. The second round was 
Gelchion was on the attack for aggressor for most of the fight and more of the same, and Ilull strug­the entire first round, twice forc­landed a strong one-two combo gled to protnct hirnsolf. The fight ing Sayles against the ropes. midway through the second was stopped midway through the Sayles' defense was better in the round. Cain managed to knock second round. second round, allowing him to Pepe off his game with a few shob block many of Gelchion's jabs, but to the head during the second Matt "Poz" Posluszny def. Conor Gelchion kept the pressure on and round. The intensity dropped in "Chicken Hawk" Douglass landed numerous head shots. the third round; but Pepe still con­Posluszny's strong jab was Sayles was more aggressive in the trolled the fight. prevalent in the first round, snap­third round, but Gelchion's combi­ping Douglass' hnad back on morn nations were too tough for him. Kris "EI Azteca" Perez def. than one occasion. Douglass sacri­Sayles' blocking got sloppy near William Brown ficed punch speed for strength. the end of the fight. Perez came out firing, but landing a few strong right hooks. 
Brown was able to counter effec­Douglass came back in tho seeond Chris Izaguirre def. Nathan tively, blocking and returning round, landing a strong right that "Preeminent Pre" Serazin many of his punches. Brown came knoeked Posluszny to the mat. 
Izaguirre had the upper hand out much stronger in the second Posluszny dominated the third from the opening bell. He waited round, doing a good job of block­round, knocking Douglass to the until Serazin threw a punch and ing or avoiding Perez and landing mat twice with straight rights. capitalized on Serazin's lowered many strong shots of his own. defenses, landing many rights to Perez got to him, however, and Phillip "The Spaniard" Hicks def. the head. Izaguirre again broke landed a straight hard shot to Patrick "The South Bend through Serazin's blocks in the Brown's head, knocking Brown to Brawler" Kibbe second round, connecting with the mat and ending the fight. Hicks chased Kibbo around the most of his headshots. After a ring for most of thn flrst round, stoppage in the fight, Serazin con­Eric "A Second Reading From but didn't land many punches any punches. lie protected him­and dropped him to the mat with nected on a few of his jabs, but the Book of" Feduska def. until the end of the round. Kibbe self decently but could not keep a left hook. This forced the referee another flurry by Izaguirrre Christopher Hanlon was much quicker in the second up. The mlim1e stoppod the light to stop the fight. forced him into the ropes. Hanlon landed some key right round, but Hicks' defense was in the middle of the second round. 
crosses and a few combinations in hard for him to penetrate. Hieks Dan "You're In the Uon's Den Sagar Navare def. Danny "Dirty the beginning of the first round. finally broke through with a Joseph "Thor's Hammer" Leary Now" Rodgers def. Mike "A Dish Water" Wemple Feduska, though out-boxed, land­thnlfl-hit combo against the ropes. def. Kevin Hederman Best Served Cold" Suso 
The first round was fairly even, ed some body shots near the end. Hieks' eombinations took over in Both boxers' defenses were The first round was fast but with neither fighter able to take Feduska regrouped in the second the third round, keeping Kibbe at good for the majority of the first sloppy, with both fighters attack­advantage of the other. Navare round, landing more body shots bay. round, either dodging or blocking ing for the majority of the round. took over in the second round, and effectively using his jab and t_heir opponent's punches. Rodgers had the early advantage, effectively countering many of combinations. In the third round, Lawrence "The Boston Hederman landed a strong right, effectively using his combinations. Wemple's punches. The intensity Feduska came out strong, taking Massacre" Sullivan def. Steven and Leary worked I Iederman up Suso's nose was bleeding uncon­from the eod of the second round advantage of Hanlon's faltering Sushinsky against the ropes with eombos trollably, foreing the referee to continued into the third, with both defenses to land more jab-cross The fight was fairly even in the near the end. The seeond round stop the fight after the first round. fighters throwing a lot of accurate combinations. first round, although Sushinsky started in Leary's favor, but punches. The third round ended flustered Sullivan at times by Hederman fought back and took Mark "The London Blitz" Bond amid a barrage of punches from Christopher Hartstein def. Mark landing combos. Sullivan got his eontrol near the end. Leary domi­def. Jordan Runge both fighters, but Navare put the "The Shark" Weber jab and right hook to the body nated the third round, waiting for Both fighters had their jab pressure on and connected more Both fighters started fast, working during the second round. Hederman to throw a punch and working in the first round. Bond often. throwing many accurate punches, But Sushinsky fought back, land-responding with numerous eom­had the advantage at first, suc­
but Hartstein had the advantage, . ing a strong r~ght near the end of bos. cessfully using his jab to set up Will Marra def. Walter "Project" using his right hook very effective­the round. Sushinsky pressured eombinations, but Runge made a Bruen ly and forcing Weber to the ropes. Sullivan in the third round, throw­Jesse "Wolverine" Brawer def. run near the end of the round. 
Bruen was unable to throw any­More combinations by Hartstein ing combinations and keeping Brian Tyrrell Though intense and hard-fought, thing other than his jab in the first kept Weber from going on the Sullivan from getting a rhythm When Brawer dropped his neither fighter could dominate the round due to Marra's strong right offensive for most of the second going. defenses, Tyrrell capitalized and other. Defense was thrown by the hooks and uppercuts. Marra's round. Weber started landing his landed some good head shots in wayside in the brutal third round superior reach helped him in the jab in the third round, but Tommy "One Two Three" Forr the first round. Brawer returned that featured landed punch after second round, allowing him to Hartstein's combinations were too def. Paul Mower with solid body shots. Brawer took landed puneh. keep Bruen at a distance. Bruen much for him. Twice Hartstein Mower proteeted his head well . over in the seeond round, landing started to land some shots in the forced Weber against the ropes during the first round, only allow­multiple rights to Tyrrell's face. Bret "The Mail Never Stops" third round, using his jab to open and landed multiple combina­ing Forr to throw body shots. Forr Brawer combined his right with Shapot def. Nate Barbera the door for his right hand. It tions. was able to land some strong his jab in the third round, eventu­Both fighters were cautious in would not be enough, however. right hands in the second r!'lund. ally landing a strong right that the first round, which was intense Marra came back and peppered Michael Johnston def. Nate Dyer Forr's strong right set up many made Tyrrell woozy and foreed but featured no decisive hits. Bruen, putting him on defense for Both fighters were quick and combinations that allowed him to the referee to stop the light. Shapot had the advantage in the the rest of the fight. ac~urate and landed a good por­control the fight. The third round second round, landing a hard left 
tion of their punches in· the first was more of the same, with the Andrew McGill def. Brian hook that foreed the referee to Paul "Squints" Oddy def. Mike round of an equally fought bout. referee pausing the fight twice Donoghue stop the fight a few seconds into Howard The second round was also fou­after big hits from Forr. MeGill dominated the first the round. 
The fight started fairly evenly, ght to a stalemate, with round, dodging Donoghue's but Oddy's right cross took over Johnston's body shots and jabs Alex "Speedy" Gonzalez def. Dan attempts and landing straight Walkovers later in the first round. Oddy countered by Dyer's combinations. McGowen shots as well as hooks. MeGill did Chris "Cougar" Cugliari and struck first, landing a powerful The intensity increased in the Gonzalez was too quiek for a good job of dodging or bloeking Chris "The Grizz" Lee defeated right that sent Howard to the mat. third round, with Johnston land­McGowen in the first round, keep­anything Donoghue threw and Rick Ward and Brian DeSplinter, Oddy would land another strong ing more jabs and Dyer on ing McGowen on the defensive for countered with hard, fast eombi­respeetively, in walkovers. right at the end of the first round, defense. Some of Dyer's shots con­the entire round. It was more of nations. In the second round, and yet another right set up a nected, but it was not enough to the same in the second round, McGill forced Donoghue into the Contact Bill Brink at barrage of punches. The referee win. with MeGowen unable to throw corner after repeated body shots wbrink@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day fi-om 8 a.m. lO 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents.per character per 

CLASSIFIEDS 
day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Dear Demetrius, 
bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. Do not go it alone. Hermia and Lysander have stolen FoR SALE FoR RENT $600/Bed/mo. 574·360-2569. PERSONAL If you or someone you love needs unto the wood. 
confidential support or assistance, Lv,. BETIER HOMES, PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, Helena House available for 2007-2008. BETIER AREAS, ONE WHO IS? at 1-7819. 
2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR-Very Large, BETIER DEALS. You do not have to be alone. For more information, Happy early birthday Vieth! 
QUIS LS. Close to Campus, BlueGoldRentals.com We want to help. visit our web site at 
4-DOOR. Just Renovated. Contact Call our 24 hour confidential hotline http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· Have a very merry unbirthday Pat 
EXCELLENT CONDITION. 51,000 MacSwain@ gmail.com Now leasing for 2007/8. at 1·800-No-ABORT nant.shtml Brown! 
MILES. ONE OWNER.$6,500. Great houses close to campus. or visit our website at or see our bi-weekly ad in The 
CALL 243-5454. andersonNDrentals.com Anlanproperties@comcast.net www.lifecall.org Observer. It's not that big of a deal. 





OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, February 27, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 13 
Men's Basketball Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Ohio State  26·3  1786  
2  UCLA  25·3  1129  
3  Kansas  25·4  1580  
4  Wisconsin  26·4  1503  
5  florida  25·4  1488  
6  Memphis  25·3  1422  
7  TexasA&M  24·4  1408  
8  North Carolina  24·5  1381  
9  Georgetown  22·5  1225  
10  Nevada  26·2  1160  
11  Southern Illinois  25·5  1057  
12  Pittsburgh  24·5  984  
13  Washington State  23·5  974  
14  Duke  22·7  n5  
15  Texas  21·7  708  
16  Louisville  21·7  653  
17  Oregon  22·7  466  
18  Butler  26·5  457  
19  Vanderbilt  19·9  317  
20  Marquette  22·8  299  
21  Virginia Tech  20·8  293  
22  NOTRE DAME  22·6  279  
23  usc  21·8  254  
24  Maryland  22·7  247  
25  Air Force  23·6  236  

Men's Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 26 
team record points 
1 Ohio State 26·3 772 2 UCLA 25·3 742 3 Kansas 25·4 680 4 Florida 25·4 646 5 Wisconsin 26·4 628 6 TexasA&M 24·4 608 7 Memphis 25·3 603 8 North Carolina 24-5 584 9 Nevada 26·2 526 10 Georgetown 22-5 515 11 Southern Illinois 25-5 451 12 Pittsburgh 24·5 447 13 Washington State 23·5 412 14 Duke 22·7 303 15 Tens 21-7 272 16 Bil1fer 26,5 222 17 NDTHE DAME 22~6 217 18 Oregon 22-7 181 
.. 21~7
19 Louisville 170 20 ··· Air Foree >23·6 141 21 Marquette 22·8 137 21 Virginia Tech 2o~8 137 23 Vanderbilt 19"9 100 24 usc 21·8 90 25 Virginia 19·8 86 
Women's Basketball 
Big East Standings 
Big East overall 
team 
record record 
1 Connecticut 16·0 
27·2 
2 Marquette 12·4 
24·5 
3 Rutgers 12-4 
19·8 
4 West Virginia 11·5 
20·9 
5 NOTRE DAME 10·5 
19·9 
6 Louisville 10·6 
24·6 
7 Pittsburgh 10·6 
22·7 
8 South Florlda 9·7 19·10 
9 Seton Hall 9·7 18·10 
10 DePaul 7·8 
17-11 
11 Cincinnati 6·10 
15·13 
12 S.LJohn's 4·12 
8·19 
13 Georgetown 3·13 
13·16 
14 Providence 3·13 
13·16 
15 Syracuse 3·13 
9·20 16 Villanova 2·14 
8·21 

around the dial 

TENNIS 

Associated Press 
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates -Roger Federer struggled to a first-round victory at the Dubai Open on Monday, the day he broke Jimmy Connors' streak of "consecutive weeks at No. 1. 
Federer, who broke Connors' 30-year-old mark with his 161st week at the top of the ATP rankings, defeated Kristian Pless 7-6 (2), 3-6, 6-3 in his first match since taking a month off after winning the Australian Open. 
Federer's reign began more than three years ago, when he took over No. 1 on Feb. 2, 2004, after win· ning his second career Grand Slam title at the Australian Open. Federer said defeating Andy Roddick in the 2004 Wimbledon final was "a huge moment for me." 
"Looking back, maybe that was the most impor­tant match for staying at No. 1," the Swiss star said during a conference call. "If he would have won that, I think he might have gotten it back." 
Connors set his record from July 1974 to August 1977. Connors won eight Grand Slam titles in his 20-year career. . "I haven't heard any· thing from Jimmy," Federer said, laughing. "I 
IN BRIEF 
Islanders strengthen roster 
for playoff run 
NEW YORK -The New York Islanders bolstered their offense on Monday, acquiring winger Hichard Zednik from the Washington Capitals for a second-round draft pick in 2007. 
The Islanders entered Monday tied with Montreal for the eighth and final playoff spot in the East, although both teams were only six points behind third-place Ottawa. 
Zednik has six goals and 12 assists in 32 games for the Capitals this sea­son. He missed 31 games with wrist and groin injuries. 
"Richard is a proven offensive tal· ent," Islanders general manager Garth Snow said. "When you can add don't know if he's going to talk about it. It's a great record to break, he's had it so long." 
Connors now coaches Roddick, who won the first set against Federer in Shanghai in November and had three match points in the second set before falling 4-6, 7-6 (8), 6-4. 
"That actually guaran· teed me to break the record today," he said. 
Federer has another connection to Connors. 
When Federer was growing up in Switzerland, he was presented with a watch by Connors during a ceremony recognizing Federer as the best under· 14 player in Basel, his hometown. Federer had been a ballboy for an exhi· bition between Connors and Mansour Bahrami. 
"I walked on court, had a picture taken with both of them, and then walked off," Federer recalled. "I was so nervous. Whoever would have thought I would have broke the record? Looking back, it is quite an amazing story." 
To commemorate the milestone, a Roger Federer stamp will be issued April 10 in his hometown. 
Federer needed time to get up to speed against the 86th-ranked Pless, but extended his career-high winning streak to 37 matches. 
Bad~ers lose Butch in loss to Obio State 
MADISON -Wisconsin forward Brian Butch is expected to be out at least four weeks after dislocat­ing his right elbow in the Badgers' loss to Ohio State. 
The team's leading rebounder had a dislocation and an associated fracture, and his anticipated recov­ery time is four to six weeks, the team said Monday. 
The injury occurred when Butch crashed to the floor while battling under the basket in the first half of the Badgers' one-point loss Sunday to the Buckeyes in Columbus. He watched the second half from the bench with his arm in a sling. 
Boston's Matsuzaka faces 
Ortiz in Spring Training 
FORT MYERS -When Boston slugger David Ortiz stepped in against pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka on Monday, hundreds of spectators pressed up against the fence and dozens of cameras clicked to capture the moment. 
Ortiz, who led the AL in homers and RBis last season, is confident about one thing: ''I'm pretty sure he's going to do well." 
Ortiz faced 12 of the 54 pitches, all from the stretch, in Matsuzaka's sec­ond batting practice session of spring training. He let nine of them go by, fouled one into the batting cage, hit a grounder to first base 
a player with his skill and competitive­At the time, Ohio State was that might have gone for a hit and ness for a playoff push at a fair cost, ranked No. 2 and the Badgers No. bunted foul on the 12th pitch. you do it. We believe Richard will fit in 1 in The Associated Press Top 25. "He's got good stuff, but we haven't
NCAA BASKETBALL 

well with our team." The B~ckeyes won 49-48 to played yet," Ortiz said, but "he 
Florida vs. Tennessee 

The acquisition of Zednik could give clinch the conference title and then knows how to pitch. He stays in the 
9:00 p.m., ESPN the Islanders leeway to move forward got the No. 1 spot in this week's strike zone. That's all you need to Jason Blake. poll. survive in the big leagues." 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 27, 2007 
DePaul 
continued from page 20 
second half. 
Fouls played an important role in the game. Two quick ' fouls on Allen limited her
'­
' playing time in the first half and limited her to just four points in the half. She fin­ished with 10 on the night. "When your best scorer is on the bench, it makes it a little more difficult to get in a rhythm offensively," McGraw said. The game was physical. DePaul committed 12 fouls in the second half, while Notre 
Dame committed 10. 
"It wasn't any more physical than we expect­ed," McGraw said. 
Guard Tulyah Gaines left the game with a shoulder injury early in the sec­ond half, and Allen left later in the half with problem. 
"[Gaines] got hit with a really hard screen and she hurt her shoulder," McGraw said. 
Both Gaines and Allen returned later in the game. 
Ashley Barlow Hubino and Mitidiero. 
In the beginning of the sec­ond half, successive turnovers allowed DePau I to score 12 of the first 16 points of the half and take a 4R-39 
lead. The Blue 

led the Irish Demons scored
"When your best 
Monday, sinking 19 points off of 
scorer is on the
three 3-pointers turnovers to on her way to bench, it makes it a Notre Dame's scoring 21 10.
little more difficult
points. Guard Free throws 
to get in a rhythm
Breona Gray by Gaines and a had 15 points offensively. " jumper by guard and also made Melissa three 3-point­Lechlitner
Muffet McGraw 
ers. Gaines brought Notre 
Irish coach 
ended with 14 Dame to within 
points. The Irish were out­
"They're a really good shooting team and we're a really poor defensive team from the three-point line." 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 

rebounded 44­33 and out­scored 18-10 in the paint. 
Notre Dame kept the game close in the first half, leading by seven with 5:52 remaining. The Blue Demons went on an 11-3 run to take the lead 34-33 with 
an ankle 3:02 remaining in the half, led by 3-pointers from 
five points with 
15:37 remaining. The Irish would again pull to within five after Allen converted a layup, and then a jumper, with 12:57 left. At this point, Smith took over as the Blue Demons pulled away. 
The loss dropped Notre Dame to the No. 7 seed in the Big East tournament. The Irish will face No. 10 seed DePaul again Saturday at 6 
p.m. in the first round of the Big East tournament. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
really fighting for." 
With a bye in the first round, the lrish will most likely face Syracuse, No. 20/21 Marquette or West Virginia in the second round depending on how the final week of the season plays out. 

Notre Dame defeated the Golden Eagles Saturday, the Mountaineers 61-58 Jan. 9 and the Orange 103-91 Jan. 30. 
That means if Notre Dame fin­ishes with the same record as any of the above teams, the Irish will get the higher seed. 
Marquette, West Virginia and Syracuse are within one game of each other in the standings, and any of them could end up in fifth place in the conference during the final week of play. 
Since the Big East tournament has 12 teams -with the top four getting a first-round bye ­the No. 5 team plays the No. 12 team in the first round. The win­ner of that game then plays the No. 4 seed in the seeond round. 
A<> of now, Syracuse would play St. John's in the first round, with the winner earning a date with the Irish. 
The Hed Storm defeated Notre Dame 71-68 Jan. 23 in New York. 
But Bn~y said there is one team in particular he does not want to face in Madison Square Garden. 
After Notre Dame's 66-63 vie­tory Jan. 27 against Villanova, Brey said he was happy his team did not have to face the Wildcats for a third time in Big East play. 
'Tm glad we're done with them," Brey said in his press conference after the game. "We don't play them a third time. We'll probably see them in the· !Big East] tournament knowing my luck." 
As things stand right now, Brey's luck does not look that bad. 
The Wildcats, who currently sit in eighth place in the confer­ence standings, will have to wait until the semifinals for a possi­ble third meeting with the Irish. 
Villanova would have to win its first-round game against either DePaul or Providence, then a second-round game against Pittsburgh or Georgetown before facing the Irish in the semifinals. 
Should the Irish make it to the semifinals and fmals, they will most likely face the Panthers or the Hoyas. Georgetown defeated the Irish 66-48 Jan. 6 in Notre Dame's worst oll'ensive output of the season, while the Irish did not have to face Pittsburgh dur­ing the regular season. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


hat's the Future of this elationship? lVhat's rtt:xtfor our relationsh-ip {~:fter grtuiuation? lVIu1t are the cha.lleuges in'oofr.,ed in long distance dat-ing? TtV11at's inz;olved in uta.king healthy decisions about a relationship? Please join tlS for an opportunity of refletion and discussion designed for senior-year d;.t!l.ng..~.Q..l~ples who arc discerning the next stage of a rt.•lationship commitment. .. H·e will meet ·with t'mtple...; on an indil•idual or group basis as demand dictatl~s. For Information: John and Sylvia J)illon Directors of l\1arriage Preparation Dillon.IS@nd.edu; 631-7163  
Turtle Creek Apartinent Hoines Hey, Hey What's NEW? New Management Company! New Staff To Serve You Better! New Easier & Faster Leasing Process! New Look (Especially our NEW OUTDOOR POOL!) New Flexible Leasing Programs! New Saturday & Sunday Hours! Now leasing for 2007-08! Don't Delay, Stop ln & See Usl 1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637EQUAL HOI!51NG OPPORTUNITY Ph 57 4-272-8124 Open Monday thru Friday 9-7 Saturday 10-4 Sunday 12-4  

Tuesday, February 27, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
At the end of the second round, several combinations in each of Lorenz drove his opponent into a the first two rounds.
Frisch 
corner with a flurry of punches, Cunningham, however, took over but Stypula was able to pin in the fmal round. Several power
continued from page 20 
Lorenz against the ropes with punches left Kaiser bloodied and fighters were tentative for much several combinations of his own. helped Cunningham get the deci­of the bout, but the lefty Frisch As the crowd roared, Stypula sion. was able to land more punches landed a variety of punches and in each round. Frisch and Lough carried the momentum into the Geoff Spiess def. Matthew danced around each other for decisive third round. Bono much of the fight, with Frisch Spiess overpowered Bono with closing the gap several times to Karl Kadon def. Spencer Feran a series of one-two combinations land quick combinations. Kadon took the early advan­in the third round, forcing the 
tage and never relented, working referee to stop the fight. Both John Sultis def. Tom Digan Feran's body and forcing him to fighters displayed good offensive 
Sultis' endurance allowed him drop his hands as the fight wore technique but neither blocked to triumph over Digan in a split on. Kadon was able to land a many of the other's punches. decision. Digan seemed to hold a variety of punches and scored Ultimately, Spiess was able to slight edge after a first round in enough points to record the punch out of any trouble he which both fighters came out unanimous victory. encountered and was aggressive swinging aggressively. But Sultis enough to beat Bono. had more energy as the fight Pat Burns def. Tim Rippinger drew to a close. He landed sever­Burns knocked Rippinger to Cole Davis def. Eric Retter al powerful punches late in the the canvas with a series of Davis was the split-decision final round to help him notch the aggressive combinations in the winner over Retter in a closely victory. third round, and recorded the contested fight. Early on, Retter 
knockout victory. Burns seemed was able to "batter Davis's body, Leo Rubinkowski def. Rafael tentative for much of the first two but Davis landed many power Diaz rounds against the southpaw punches to Retter's face. The 
Rubinkowski, a southpaw, was Rippinger, but the freshman was third round was sloppy as the the unanimous winner over Diaz. able to land a series of punches fighters tired, but Davis launched Rubinkowski held a significant in the final round to overpower several good combinations on his height advantage and was able to the lefty. opponent. connect often while keeping Diaz at a considerable distance. Chris Nanovic def. Joe Siler Patrick Mcinerney def. Joe Rubinkowski landed mostly stiff Nanovic proved to be the more Vittoria jabs to Diaz's face and bloodied technical and aggressive fighter The two fighters used the him before the conclusion of the against the slower Siler. Nanovic entire ring throughout their first round. Diaz did not give in repeatedly landed powerful com­matchup and displayed a lot despite bleeding throughout the binations and Siler turned his movement. Mcinerney, who had fight, but Rubinkowski's reach back at several points during the 'a height advantage over his ultimately gave him the edge. fight. During the second round, opponent, landed enough punch­
Siler was clearly rattled by a shot es early in the match to over­Stu Stypula def. Andrew Lorenz to the face and could never come Vittoria's aggressive third 
Stypula edged Lorenz in an recover. round. Mcinerney was the unani­offense-dominated fight. The mous winner as he circled away boxers used the entire ring and Tony Ctmningham def. Michael from Vittoria and effectively used connected frequently with each Kaiser his jab to maintain the distance other from the outset of the bout. Cunningham prevailed unani­between the two fighters. Lorenz attempted to overpower mously over Kaiser in a matchup Stypula, but Stypula was the in which no fighter took a clear Contact Fran Tolan at more technically sound fighter. advantage early. Both landed ftolan@nd.edu 
NBA 

Nene sinks 27 points as Nuggets end skid 
Associated Press on him, he had his way with 
them," Barone said. "Their 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -Carmelo inside game, along with us Anthony and Allen Iverson got missing a few key free throws their points and a win, too, down the stretch, were the thanks to Nene. main reasons we lost." 
Anthony, the league's lead­The Grizzlies were attempt­ing scorer, had 33 points and ingto win back-to-back games Iverson added 25 to help the for the first time this season, Denver Nuggets to a 111-107 but were denied, mostly by victory over the Memphis Nene. Grizzlies on Monday night, "We will be going to Nene snapping a four-game losing more," Nuggets coach George streak. Karl said. "He really delivered 
The Nuggets improved to 3-a great game." 7 with Iverson and Anthony in Anthony, averaging 30.5 the lineup, but it was the play points per game, delivered as of Nene, the Nuggets' 6-foot-he has throughout the season. 11, 260-pound forward, that He connected on a deep 3­Grizzlies' coach Tony Barone pointer to end the third quar­said was the difference. ter and trimmed the lead to· 
"I thought the key to the 83-82. In the fourth quarter, game was their ability to get he added several key baskets, the ball inside," Barone said. including two free throws with "They got the ball inside on us 3:18 to go to gave the Nuggets at will. Nene destroyed us a 105-103lead. inside." Denver never trailed again. 
Nene, averaging 16.4 points Iverson also had nine and 6.6 rebounds since his assists, five rebounds and two return Feb. 1 from a right steals. knee contusion, tied his Mike Miller and Gasol career high with 27 points. He scored 21 points apiece ttl was 10-of-16 from the field lead the Grizzlies. and added nine rebounds. Miller had given the 
Several Grizzlies -includ­Grizzlies their largest lead of ing Pau Gasol and Lawrence the game midway through the Roberts -tried to stop the third quarter during a five­fourth-year pro from Brazil, minute stretch in which he but Nene repeatedly used his scored 13 points. Miller's 3­quickness inside for dunks pointer off an in-bounds play and left-handed hooks. with 2:45 to go gave Memphis 
"It didn't matter who we put a 77-71lead. 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Its a whole new place! New local ownership & management -Newly remodeled for 2007 -2008 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
424 N. Frances Street 

• 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 

• 
Off-Street Parking 

• 
Washer and Dryer 

• 
Dishwasher 

• 
Central Air 


• 
Security System 


Renting fast -call today for 2007 -2008 
Contact Kramer at (574) 315-5032 or (574) 234-2436 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, February 27, 2007 
I 
f f I f f f f f 
I 
f 
I I I
I ­I 
f f f f f I f I 
I f I f 
I 


BROADMOOR PLAZA 
291·4000 
Tuesday, February 27, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
use his reach to his advantage, Raupp. the start of the third, but Klein the fight. Carrier, a junior but Marek trapped him in the Kelly took an early advan­took back the advantage when from Fisher, took another
Bouts 
tage in the first, grinding away Parry tired near the match's round of hard rights from Lee, at Raupp with his aggressive finish. leading to the referee stopping style. Raupp, a freshman from the fight. Knott, was forced onto the Joe "Joe-Pacalypse" defensive again for most of the Hagmann def. Craig "The Mike Cimino def. Colin "The second round. Raupp fought Fire Sermon" Woelfel Flavor Station" Dougherty his best round in a very Hagmann defeated Woelfel Cimino defeated Dougherty, aggressive third, but was by split decision for the victo­a law student, by unanimous unable to make up enough ry. decision. · ground to steal the win. Hagmann, a junior from Dougherty took a slight 
Stanford, appeared to win a advantage in the first round Michael Smith def. Matt very aggressive first round. over Cimino, a junior from "Furry Fury" Walz The second round featured Keough. The second round 
Smith defeated Walz, a more of the same, as featured a wilder fight, with freshman from Alumni, by Hagmann used his reach each fighter taking a beating. unanimous decision. advantage to keep Woelfel at a The referee stopped the fight 
Smith, an off-campus sopho­safe distance. Woelfel, an off­near the end of the second as more, appeared to take the campus graduate student, blood began pouring from first round after landing multi­peppered Hagmann with Dougherty's nose. Cimino con­ple strong punches to Walz's punches and jabs to the face tinued to take control through head. Smith kept control in the in the third, showing his the beginning of the third, second, holding his opponent endurance and knocking down continuing to target on defense. Walz came out Hagmann near the middle of Dougherty's nose and earning strong to start the third, but the round. Despite Woelfel's the win. Smith countered with strong strong third round perform­jabs to ensure his victory ance, Hagmann held on for the Greg "Busta" Brown def. 
victory. John Williams Steve "Ogie" Hansen def. Brown, an off-campus sen­Matthew Hopke Conor Mclaughlin def. Ryan ior, defeated Williams after 
Hansen took the win over Simmons Williams was forced to bow Hopke by unanimous decision. McLaughlin defeated out early in the first. 
Hansen, an off-campus sen­Simmons by unanimous deci­Williams, a junior from ior, and Hopke both traded sion. Fisher, took a hard shot to the punches in a very strong open­McLaughlin and Simmons, nose, appearing to suffer a ing round. Hopke, a freshman both Keough sophomores, break. Williams reeled after from Alumni, appeared the fought a very close and techni­taking the hit, and immediate­take a slight advantage near cal first round, with ly conceded the match. the end of the second, but the McLaughlin appearing to hold bout remained close. Hansen a slight edge. The second Andrew "Rage" Massari def. came out strong in the third, round also appeared to go to Brian "The Candy Man" aggressively attacking Hopke McLaughlin, who connected Kantor to seal the close win. with a few hard hooks to Massari defeated Kantor, a 
Simmons' head. The third sophomore from Keough, by Stephen Klein def. Jon round featured another strong unanimous decision. "Trash Can!" Parry performance from McLaughlin Massari, a sophomore from 
Klein defeated Parry, a soph­to wrap up the win. Alumni, and Kantor fought a omore from Keough, by unani­very clean and even first mous decision. Mike "Double Fist" Lee def. round. In a much more 
Both fighters appeared to Kevin "Aircraft" Carrier aggressive second round, feel out each other's style in a Lee took a huge victory over Massari appeared to gain the very clean and even first Carrier, defeating Carrier just upper hand. Massari kept on round. Klein, a senior from 1:05 into the first round. the offensive in the third, Morrissey, took the role of the Lee, a sophomore from holding back Kantor to ensure aggressor in the second, pep­Alumni, showed his strength the win. pering Parry with jabs to the from the beginning of the first head area. Parry came out round, nailing Lee and forcing Contact Michael Bryan at strong to even up the match at the referee to temporarily stop mbryan@nd.edn 
Con~.e and Listen Co:n~.e and Read Co:n~.e and Play Lectio@Eieven 
A Late-Night Cabaret for the Soul 
11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
February 27 featuring: Music by The East Washington Project Reading: Plato in Dialogue
"the Cl\MPUS 51 IOPPE.S Plazn 
(wt!l• Sl11dr 1?"'!1d~ ond Hrh•·r.c" lhr Hull) 

Angel Nails Spa 
t-lo"r;;.: ···.·,·...·/ :·::· ·· }./><ii '''. 
Mond~y-~rd4y1?2~tJmS"nday 12Ji~~.5pmw';;~.;·t <····· 

Limited time offers for students: $5 off a Delux Pedicure & $5 off a Full Set of Nails 
Lectio@Eleven brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! 
We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser atjcouser@nd.edu or call 631-3923. 
Sponsored by First Year of Studies 
continued from page 20 
Smith coming out slightly ahead for the win. 
Joseph "Money" Meares def. Terry "Don't Blink" Howell 
Meares won in a split deci­sion over Howell after three grueling rounds. 
Meares, a freshman from St. Edward's, appeared to take the first round, pinning Howell in the corners and shutting down Howell's quick feet. The fight turned into a brawl in the second, with Howell, a fresh­man from Knott, exchanging hooks with Meares. Each fight­er took his turn taking the advantage and pounding away. Howell and Meares each con­nected with strong punches in the third in a match that came down to the final bell. 
Hunter "The Wonder" Land def. Nicholas Ponzio 
Land, an O'Neill junior, won in a unanimous decision over Ponzio. 
Land seized control in the opening round, forcing Ponzio to box defensively for the majority of the first. Ponzio, a freshman from Keenan, was able to regain some ground at the end of the second, but Land still had the advantage going into the third round. Land displayed his toughness in the third, showing few signs of fatigue in a strong finish. 
Parfait Mwez def. John "The 
Highlighter" O'Connell 
Mwez defeated O'Connell, a sophomore from Fisher, by unanimous decision. 
Mwez, a Zahm senior, and O'Connell each chose their spots carefully in a very clean first round. Mwez took the upper hand in the second, fighting more aggressively and connecting with a few solid blows. O'Connell countered with some hard jabs in the third, but Mwez was able to hold on for the win. 
Chris "Camp the People's Champ" Calderone def. James "Turkey" Creighton 
Calderone won over Creighton in a unanimous decision. 
Calderone connected with a huge right in the first, tem­porarily stopping the fight and knocking Creighton's mouth guard out of the ring. The fight was much more even in the second, but Calderone, an off-campus senior, still held the advantage. Neither fighter faded in the third, but Creighton, a sophomore from Fisher, took several strong right hooks that bloodied his nose. 
Bryan "Kielbasa" Marek def. 
Matt Kernan 
Marek, a senior from Knott, defeated Kernan by unani­mous decision. 
Kernan and Marek fought a very even first round, with the two fighters trading punches. In the second Kernan, a soph­omore from Alumni, began to corner to finish the round on a strong note. Marek came out aggressively to begin the third, bloodying Kernan's nose to stop the fight temporarily and earn the win down the stretch. 
Nazur "Naz Tee Nasty" Ahmed def. Matt Gimlett 
Ahmed defeated Gimlett by split-decision in a very tight contest. 
Gimlett was able to effective­ly counter Ahmed's rushes in the first, and appeared to take the round by a narrow margin. Ahmed, a sophomore from Alumni, was successfully able to blitz Gimlett at the begin­ning of the second, but Gimlett's agility kept him out of too much trouble. Gimlett, an O'Neill freshman, battered Ahmed at the beginning of the third, but Ahmed was able to recover well, continuing his aggressive style to seize the victory. 
Alex "Spider Monkey" Duffy def. Patrick "The Chicago Drago" Salvi 
Duffy defeated Salvi, an off­campus law student, by unani­mous decision. 
Duffy, a sophomore from Dillon, and Salvi traded blows in an even first round. The match continued to be close until near the end of the sec­ond, when Duffy knocked down Salvi with a huge right hook. In the third, Duffy proved too strong defensively for Salvi to make up any ground. 
Preston "Punch Throwin' Idahoan" Carter def. Jeff 
"Delaware Destroyer" Skorup 
Carter, an off-campus senior, defeated Skorup by unanimous decision. 
Carter controlled the first round, using his footwork and agility to attack and duck out of range of Skorup's blows. Skorup, a freshman from Knott, was more aggressive in the second, but failed to solid­ly connect with any punches. Carter maintained his control in the third, finishing up a very clean and dominant per­formance. 
Matt "I'm Gonna" Decker def. Joe "The Red Rocker" Langenfeld 
Decker took the win over Langenfeld by unanimous decision. 
Both Langenfeld and Decker, a Keough junior, came out with offensive mentalities in the first. Decker broke through towards the end of the first to knock Langenfeld down with a hard right hand. Langenfeld, a sophomore from Morrissey, failed to make up much ground in the second, held off by many of Decker's left jabs. Decker finished strong in the third, connecting with a flurry Qf punches near the end of the round to clinch the win. 
John "Duck" Kelly def. Joe Raupp 
Kelly, an off-campus senior, won by split-decision over 
page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, February 27, 2007 
Library Users Speak Up! 
I
ws1~: 


-~ You told us-we are listening. 
LibQUAL+'" Our response to the '06 LibQUAL+ survey: 

Students want more comfortable, attractive study space and more quiet study areas. 
• 
We recognize the need to update an aging facility; however, plans to renovate the main floors of Hesburgh Library are dependent on significant funding. 

• 
We are currently renovating the Graduate Study Area of the 1oth floor. 

• 
With the OIT, we will be relocating the Computer Cluster to the 1st floor and adding higher quality furniture, equipment and services. 

• 
Quiet study space can usually be found in the Lower.Level, the NE corner of the 2nd floor, and on tower floors. 


!Users have difficulty using our web site to find articles.! 
• 
We have stepped up our efforts regarding user-centered design, usability studies, log file analysis, and other processes of continuing improvement. 

• 
To make it easier to find articles, a redesigned interface called "Find Articles" is now available from the Libraries' home page. 


Faculty and students alike want stronger enforcement of the Libraries' recall policy. 
• The Libraries have introduced a new recall policy that went into effect at the beginning of the 2006/2007 academic year. 
Stay tuned for more results .... 
! . ~ 
I I 
I 
UNIVERSITY ' OF NOTRE DAME
I 
UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES 
I I ~ 
Tuesday, February 27, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 ­
ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

LIAMMORAN
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
Super Heavyweight-One who propels a boot by means of oars 
Bleeder -Someone who has been. cut Combos -Cheddar chee;ze pretzel very deeply by someone they ti)O\ight snacks manufactured by Mars they co~ld trust, but in the e\i(j tfley Incorporated were betrayed ond they cried oot iii 
anguish · 
Wraps -Food products consisting of meat. lettuce or other sandwich fillings Jack Johnson-Hawaii-barn singer­wrapped in a pita or soft flour tortilla songwriter who has <l<:hieved success 
si11ce his debut album. Brushfire George Foreman-A popular indoor Fairytales grill that can make wraps 
Block -The means by w~1~l:~~~~~IJ ~t i ?l~~~f~~i~
Heavyweight -Asteerer of o·rocing individual prevents the s 1 shell who usually directs rhe rowers. of ailothe~by ·word or----............... 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 39 Flub 67 Chimes player 
1 Aide: Abbr. 40 Celebration that 68 Bog,~rt's "Key may involve the
5 Leaves rolling in people in 20-,
the aisles 69 Palmist, e.g.

42-and 10 Bill stamp 56-Across DOWN
14 Followers of so 41 Time piece? 
1 Samuel af the Supreme Court 

15 "M*A*S*H" 42 See 35-Across 
setting 44 "No problemo" 2 Nobel-winning 16 Grooving on 45 Tennessee poet Nelly 17 Pic to click footballer 3 Baby bird? 

18 Where "Happy 46 Moore of "G. I. 
4 Musical
Anniversary!" Jane" liabilitiesmay be written 48 Five Nations 5 Nordic gear 

19 Sue of "Lolita" tribe 6 Collections of
20 Chekhov play, 52 Open wide points in mathwith "The" 56 2005 Mark 7 Come up
23 Herr Schindler Wahlberg movie 8 Gender-bending 
59 Give a razzing24 "Hamlet'' setting Streisand film 

62 1986 Indy28 Try for a role 9 Wise old headswinner Bobby31 Mexican money 10 Pale lager63 Pull a sulky, say32 Nurses at a bar 11 "__ takers?"

64 Natural soother 35 With 42-Across, 
Puzzle by Dave Mackey
12 Robert of65 Make amends

Leslea Newman "Quincy" 36 Singer DiFranco 47 Wrestling locale 55 Perfume book 66 Busy place compound13 "S.N.L." 37 Lashed (up) 49 Hearing-related announcer 57 Sounded a bell
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS P-UZZLE 38 Stockings

58 Margarine40 Sonata ending,21 Bard's before 
often 59 Slugger's target 
22 Mature 51 Hate 
43 Mann of 60 Ransom Olds's25 Actor Milo 1960's pop 53 Home on high middle name 26 Surf sounds 
44 Pizza slices, 54 Conclusively 61 Seemingly 27 Blue-book filler usually show forever 
29 Attention-getter 

30 "Te _" (hymn) For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
32 Melee 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday33 Steve the late crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Crocodile 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000Hunter 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 34 Prefix with Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young -plasm solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
LYRYD 
j 

I CI I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TABEA 

I ( J (] MALEYS ± 
WHE:N SHE: MOD­E:L-E:D THE: SKIMPY BE:AC.HWE:AR, SHE: WAS--­
www.jumble.com 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.  
Yesterday's  I  Jumbles: Answer:  (Answers tomorrow} BLAZE ELDER GRUBBY INVENT What the delivery man turned into on his wedding day-A "BELLE" RINGER  

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Taylor Dooley, 13: Erykah Badu, 35: Mark Dacascos, 42: Michael Bolton, 52 
Happy Birthday: Don't question yourself l;r hold back because someone doesn't agree with what you want to do. Satisfy your own needs in order to find happiness. Life isn't about passing the time away --it's about doing something rewarding that you can be proud of. Your numbers arc 10, 17, 28, 34, 39,45 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Mingle and network today--an opportunity will take you by surprise. Let others know your aspirations and how you plan to get what you want. Your involvement in active groups will allow you to demonstrate your talents. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Partners may cause you to lose sleep, money or both. Cover yourself from unpredictable offenses. Do not sign contracts unless you are sure of what you are getting. Someone will use it against you if you are open about personal problems. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be more relaxed and find it easier to take care of matters that relate to projects you want to pursue. A problem with an acquaintance or pru1ner may leave you wondering if you need to make a change. Begin to enhance your physical strength with exercise. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't take what others think or say to heart. Holding back or not following through with your goals because of someone else would be a mistake. Take a chance on yourself and your abilities and you won't be disappointed*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stop second-guessing what to do or who to do things with. Make a commitment. Pleasure trips will turn out to be better than anticipated. You can catch up on your correspondence and reading and pick up valuable information. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A relationship is likely to cause you some concern today. Consider if this person is worth all the aggravation. If you are single or wanting to move on with your life, now is a great time to get out and meet people who interest you. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be careful how you handle friends and family today. You may give the wrong impression if you are too friendly or not friendly enough. You will walk a fine line so maintain balance and you will probably end up pleasing everyone. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't take on too many responsihilities. Getting involved in the personal lives of others will lead to double-trouble. Protect yourself from those who would like to meddle. Be careful what you say to whom. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A little time spent with friends or traveling about visiting will do you some good. The information you acquire will help you make a personal decision. Someone in your family is likely to divulge information about your past you were trying to forget. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Talk about your plans and gather all the feedback you can. The more information you gather, the better equipped you will be to make the right decision. You can make extra cash with small investment opportunities.*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Family issues and personal matters will surface. Don't let your emotions run wild or you will make a mistake that can't be rectified. Assess your situation without overreacting or blaming others. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Using force or emotional manipulation isn't likely to get you very far today. You will have to tell it like it is and suffer whatever consequences come your way. Being insincere or skirting issues will only make matters worse. *** ­Birthday Baby: You have a very vivid imagination and the ability to envision the impossible and tum it into reality. You are creative, innovative and very pushy when you want to get things done. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fim, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
..• 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, February 27, 2007 
page 20 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Fight Night: Round Two 
By FRAN TOLAN Spons Writer 
Senior Dan Ward unleashed a flurry of punches on Joshua Hammack late in the third round, before the fight was called by the referee Monday in the quarterfinals. Ward landed jab after jab in the opening round to set the tone for a fight he would later dominate. In the second, he unleashed several power punches on Hammack and the stage was set for the knockout. 
Adam Frisch def. Alex Lough 
Frisch, a senior, was the unan­imous winner over the freshman Lough. The taller Frisch used his reach to keep Lough away from him throughout the match. Both 
see FRISCH/page 15 


ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 
At left, William Brown, right, lands a hook against Kris Perez during Perez's quarterfinal win Monday. Right, Brown stands next to the referee after a Perez punch sent him to the mat for five minutes. 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 

Ryan "Seoul Man" Smith defeated James "Cupcake" Devereaux by split-decision in one of the closest matches of the night Monday. 
Smith, an off-campus senior, and Devereaux chose their spots in the first round, with neither seizing a sizable advantage. In a back-and­forth second round, Smith started aggressively and appeared to have the edge. 
Devereaux, a sophomore from Morrissey, rebounded quickly, taking control of the end of the second with a series of strong lefts. Both fighters took a beating in a very even third round, with 
see BOUTS/page 17 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish lose second straight, fall to seventh in conference 
Again down by just one at Smith was one of four Blue the Irish perimeter defense numbers in the second half,
DePaul uses threes to 
half in Monday's game against Demons to score in double fig­before, and did so again last shooting 53 percent from 
pull away from ND DePaul, the Irish were ures, along with guard Jenna night. field-goitl range and 8 2 per­outscored 51-38 in the second Rubino (17). guard Allie "They're a really good shoot­cent from the line. Notre half of an 87-73 loss to the Quigley (15) and guard Missy ing team, and we're a really Dame, in contrast, hit 48 per­
By BILL BRINK 
Blue Demons. The Irish lost Mitidiero (15). poor defensive team from the cent of its field goals and 78 Sports Writer 
76-60 to Rutgers Saturday The Blue Demons sank 11-three-point line," McGraw percent of its free throws in after having a similar deficit of-22 three-point attempts and said. "Have been all year." the first half, but made only 
Twice in three days, Notre at halftime. prevented the Irish (19-1 0, I 0-DePaul (18-11, 8-8 Big East) 40 percent from field-goal Dame trailed by one point at DePaul forward Caprice 6 Big East) from staging a shot 38 percent from field­range and hit just 56 percent halftime. And twice in three Smith scored 22 points and comeback. Notre Dame coach goal range and 71 percent of free-throw attempts in the days, the Irish lost by double grabbed eight rebounds to Muffet McGraw had stressed from the free-throw line in the figures. lead the Blue Demon effort. the need for improvement of first half, but increased those see DEPAUL!page 14 
MEN'S BASKETBALL COMMENTARY 
Notre Dame not looking past Big East tourney 
Not only is Mike Brey Notre Dame's head basketball coach, but he also acts as the team's press secretary. 
Brey jokingly sidestepped questions after No. 17/22 Notre Dame's 85-73 win over Marquette Saturday about his team's chances of earning its frrst NCAA Tournament berth in four seasons. 
"We are playing for Big East seeding," Brey said. He also won't let his players 

Chris Hine 
Sports Writer 

speculate past the Big East tour­nament. 
"I'm glad you tried !asking the players]. Ilopefully, you didn't break anybody in the locker room. I threatened them," Brey said. "Certainly I'll say this, our profile is very solid, but we're trying to chase a bye down." 
The Irish have a couple days off before their final confernnce matchup iigainst Rutgers. A win Saturday in New Jersey would clincl! a bye in the first round of the Big East tournament. 
"We feel like we were lighting for a spot, for a first-round bye in the Big East tournament," Irish guard Tory Jackson said after Notre Dame's win over Marquette. "That's what we're 
see BIG EAST/page 14 

tiBA 


BENGAL BOUTS
NCAA BASKETBAll 
MLB 

Sophomore Matt
Roger Federer defeats 
The Islanders acquire 

Wisconsin forward 
Red Sox pitcher
Nuggets 111 

Daisuke Matsuzaka 
Gelchion dominates the
Kristian Pless 7-6 (2), 3­
winger Richard Zednik 

Brian Butch is out for at
Grizzlies 107 

first two rounds in his
6, 3-6 at the Dubai 
from the Capitals in 

least four weeks after 
faces off against DH
Denver center Nene 

David Ortiz in spring 
win over freshman
Open. He has spent a 
order to strengthen their 

dislocating his elbow in
ties a career-high with 

record 161 weeks 
roster in hopes of a 

the Badgers' 49-48 loss 
training in Fort Myers, 
Michael Sayles in the
27 points to end a three­
quarterfinals.

ranked No. 1 in the ATP 
playoff berth. 

to Ohio State Saturday. 
Fla.
game losing streak for 
rankings.
the Nuggets. 

page 13 
page 13
page 15 

page 13
page 13 

page .12 
< •. 
' .. ~ • I 
' A ' 

L_----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------­





