
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Peer advocates give pre-hearing advice 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
Following the University's deci­sion to suspend star basketball player Kyle McAlarney, the Notre Dame community has reignited an oft-inflamed debate over dis­cipline. Fueling the fire is wide­spread confusion about Notre Dame's policy-confusion which a group of 10 students known as Peer Advocates can straighten out. 
Unfortunately, most on campus don't know they exist. 
Dating back to the 1970s, the Peer Advocacy Program provides a student facing charges from the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH) with a student advocate to counsel him as he prepares to defend himself. While advocates are available for basic meetings (termed "confer­ences"), students most often employ them when they've com­mitted more serious infractions and are facing a hearing-com­plete with two ORLH representa­tives, a rector and witnesses. McAlarney, for example, under­went a hearing before his sus­pension. 
Under the watch of Judicial Council President James Leito and Vice President of Peer Advocacy John Trippi last year, the program strove to bring itself more attention. Twelve advocates were hired and a publicity push drew many more cases than the year before, said Gina Dolan, who took the reins of the pro­gram this year. 
"[Leito, Trippi and I] kind of looked at this program and real­ized it was an untapped resource," Dolan said. "We real­ized there was a lot of influence and power a group of students could have on our student body." 
Despite last year's efforts, most students remain in the dark about the Peer Advocacy Program -and the program's leaders are quick to explain why. 
First, although 90 percent of ORLH cases result in the minor conferences, said Judicial Council President Liz Kozlow, ORLH only sends information about the Peer Advocacy Program to students facing the more-serious hearings. 
A second reason, Dolan sug­gested, could be that students receive a referral to the Peer Advocacy Program from ORLH itself -meaning they associate it with the disciplinary heavy hand. 
"Sometimes, then, they're hesi­tant to get involved with us, in terms of not trusting us, or think­ing we're biased or not on their level," Dolan said, noting that some of this year's advocates have themselves been disciplined by ORLH. "We want to make 
see PEER/ page 4 


Jenkins encourages truth, holiness 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
The importance of seeking both spiritual and intellectual satisfaction was the main theme of the homily University President Father John Jenkins delivered Monday at the annual Mass in celebration of the feast of St. Thomas Aquinas. 
"Many universities speak about their goal being truth, but our goal is love," Jenkins said. 
More than a hundred people filled the Basilica of the Sacred Heart to commemo­rate the feast day of Aquinas, the patron saint of Catholic universities and students. 
Jenkins asked the University community to remember "while we seek the truth, we also seek to be holy." 
"At this Catholic university, let us be reminded that we are oriented toward truth in our faith, truth that we should witness in our lives," he said. 
Jenkins drew from his back­ground as a philosophy pro­fessor, explaining that he studied Aquinas for many years because the writing was "simple, but powerful." 
"He pursued truth, but through faith and hope," Jenkins said. 
Recalling the words of Pope Benedict XVI in the encyclical "God is Love," Jenkins said the teachings of Aquinas draw students to "a deeper faith." 
"We are reminded that we are called to the pursuit of truth," he said, "not just to inspire the mind, but to love God and one another." 
Junior Jarrod Waugh said 
see MASS/page 6 


Return hard for abroad students 
Reverse culture shock affects some as they re-adjust to campus life 
By JENNIFER METZ News Writer 
For students who study abroad, returning to the famil­iar c;ampuses of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's means seeing old friends and professors and walking familiar paths to old classroom buildings. But for some students, returning from abroad can cause a reverse culture shock and lead to feel­ings of alienation and frustra­tion rather than comfort. 
To help students deal with the stress of returning to school, the University Counseling Center offers counseling ses­sions for returnees, said Staff Psychologist Dr. Wendy Settle. 
"Many times readjustment 
see ABROAD/page 6 


. NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
London Program to be updated 
Popular abroad spot will see changes 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 
The London Program, Notre Dame's oldest and largest under­graduate study abroad opportu­nity, will undergo significant changes beginning in fall 2007. 
Director of the London Program Paul Bradshaw said in an e-mail he recognized the need to make certain changes, specifi­cally, modifying the current scheduling system, enhancing residence life and increasing internship opportunities. 
In the past, there have been problems coordinating breaks and start dates that correspond to those at Notre Dame, he said. 
"The principal motivation behind ]these changes] is to bring [the program] more in line with the dates of the semesters on campus," he said. "In the future, we shall begin and end our classes each semester within a few days of the beginning and end of classes on [the main] campus." 
The mid-semester break in London will shift to the same time as fall break in South Bend, "opening up the possibility of London students meeting up with students from campus and traveling together through the United Kingdom and Europe," Bradshaw said. 
These calendar changes, he said, will also provide advan­tages to the British faculty teach-
see LONDON/page 3 


Essay contest held on Pope's 'God is Love' 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
The Office of the President aims to spur discussion of Pope Benedict XVI's encyclical "God is Love" with an essay competition and a student conference in the spring to discuss the work. 
The encyclical was chosen because it addresses issues that face not only the church, but the world as a whole, said Sabine MacCormack, the Rev. Theodore Ilesburgh C.S.C. Professor of Arts and Letters. MacCormack is the faculty advisor for the competition and the committee that will run the conference. 
"It's the first encyclical of this papacy," MacCormack 
said. "It is on a topic that is a very broad concern not just in the church, but I would say in the world in that it has two parts. The first part is theo­retical, philosophical, theolog­ical and the second part is practical." 
The essay contest will award prizes for essays submitted by students in three categories ­freshmen and sophomores, juniors and seniors and grad­uate students. The guidelines for the contest are open-ended so students can consider the encyclical in a way that suits their interests, MacCormack said. 
"Basically, students are encouraged to think about the encyclical in the context of the 
see ESSAY/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, January 30, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Dear Selena Roberts, 
A few weeks ago, you boldly stated that 'the 
vibe out ofNotre Dame was that Charlie Weis 
was surprised by the demands ofthe job and 
that he wants to leave. 

I'd venture to guess that the nation's most rep­
utable paper doesn't · 
encourage its writers look-Ken Fowler 
ing like clueless fools. You 
must have missed the 

Sports Editor 
memo. 
On Sunday, you, a New 

York Times reporter, wrote a piece about how 
black coaches aren't getting opportunities to 
prove their worth and bashed Notre Dame for 
the Ty Willingham situation. 

Funny story, Selena. Notre Dame gave 
Willingham a shot so many other black coaches 
are denied. But he failed. 

The problem I have with you're argument 
stems from my velrement support for the notion 
that seven black head coaches at 119 schools is 
pathetic. But you do more harm than good to the 
cause by complaining about a school that indeed 
gave a black head coach a chance. 

Willingham got his first head coachingjob at 
Stanford after being only a position coach for the 
VIkings. He had no coordinator position experi­
ence. Of all the people to reference about minori­
ty hirings, it's not him. He didn't earn it as much 
as a guy like Ron Prinee at Kansas State, and it 
shows in the fact that Washington is struggling. 
Roberts should have talked to Prince, who 
earned the Kansas State head job a year ago 
thanks to an impressive interview. He did his 
homework and pitched a business-like presenta­
tion to the school. I Ie got the job after serving for 
three years as VIrginia's offensive coordinator ­
an assi<>tant position Willingham never got. 
Hoberts claims in her column that 

"Willingham wa<> forced out ofNotre Dame in 
2004, not by the president or the athletic direc­
tor, but by four-leaf boosters and trustees who, 
deep down, craved one oftheir own." 

Imagine ifevery school in the country could 
expect talking heads and faceless columnists to 
ba<>h them ifthey had the audacity to fire a black 
head coach who in three years lost more games 
by 30 points than any other coach in the school's 
history. 

Guys like Prince wouldn't have a job-not for 
fear ofdiversity, but for fear for the school's 
image in case they failed. 
On to Willingham. 

"It's access to power," Willingham said in the 
article. "It's about asking, 'Is my access to power 
diminished because ofdiversity?"' 

No, Ty. It's about asking, 'Is my head coach 
spending two hours perfecting the back nine at a 
golf course or spending two hours solidifYing his 
front five at a combine?' 

That's the sad part about Willingham. The guy 
who's gotten more opportunities than anyone is 
the one who doesn't have the fire to try hard. 
Guys like Ron Prince do. Willingham doesn't. 
Example No. 1: "When you don't meet your 
own expectations, you won't meet the expecta­
tions ofothers"-Willingham after his firing at 
NO. 

Actually, people who succeed in life have high­
er standards for themselves than others do for 
them. ifyour bosses' expectations for you are 
higher than your own, then you're unprepared 
and unqualified for your job. 

Example No.2: Washington just lost a recruit 
because no one from the football stafftalked to 
him for two months. That's just lazy. 

Willingham bashed Notre Dame on ABC last 
year to John Saunders. Now he did it again to 
Roberts in the Times. The association of 'classy' 
with 'Ty Willingham' has been replaced with ·'bitter.' 
He couldn't get the job done at Notre Dame 
and was rightfully fired for that. Now he com­
plains about his treatment. That's the sad part. 
A lot ofguys who deserve to get their feet in 
the door don't. He ha<> gotten the opportunity 
others would die for. And now he complains to 
others when he fail<>. and threatens the opening 
ofthe door with every slander. 

Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to an editing error, theJan. 26 article "Hodges, Payne to lead SMC students" stared that Ferreira and Anronelli did nor rerum Observer phone calls. They did, in fu.a, return calls, but the edited article was nor put in the paper. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH DORM, OTHER THAN YOUR OWN, IS YOUR FAVORITE? WHY? 





Beth Daley  Christie Hjerpe  Emily Brunner  Emily Popoff  Maria Petnuch  Theresa Bea  
freshman Welsh Family  freshman Lyons  junior Walsh  junior Walsh  freshman Lyons  freshman Welsh Family  
"Lyons, because that's what everyone else  "We only like Lyons!"  "Dillon, because I spend all my time there. ,  "Is there any other dorm besides Walsh?"  "Morrissey, because it's as close to Lyons as you can  "Lyons, because Maria and Christie live there!"  

said." 
OFFBEAT 

Mysterious ice chunk smashes car 
TAMPA, Fla. -Raymond Rodriguez was changing a tire when an 18-ineh chunk of ice plummeted from the sky with a piercing whistle, then a metallic crunch. The ice chunk crushed the roof of a nearby Ford Mustang on Sunday morning. No one was hurt. 
"I was seared," Rodriguez said, who wa<> only feet away. "It's crazy, man." 
The Federal Aviation Administration is reviewing flight schedules to see if the ice fell off a plane. The ice did not have a blue tint that would indicate it ccvne from a Hichard Grant, executive director of the Howell Conference and Nature Center, told the Detroit Free Press. 

Grant said groundhogs eat a lot before the winter, but don't consume much during the colder months. 
So, on Friday, if Woody comes out of her home, eats any of the food placed in front of her, such as bananas and 
· peanuts, and stays out for at least 30 seconds, then spring is coming soon. If not, we're in for another six weeks of win­ter. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
plane's lavatory. 

Woody breaks groundhog gender barrier 
HOWELL, Mich. -Woody has something the nation's other prognosticating ground­hogs don't. Female intuition. Gen. Beauregard Lee in Georgia, Sir Walter Wally in North Carolina and, ofcourse, Punxsutawney Phil in Pennsylvania might be more established, but Woody from Howell has a pretty good track record. 
She has correctly predicted when spring would arrive six out ofeight years. 
Why is she so suecessful? 
She relies on her stomach, 
TODAY TONIGHT · WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 


J)
3: 
..... 
c:( 
.. 
(,) 


0 

get." 
IN BRIEF 

Naunihal Singh, assistant professor of political science and Kellogg Institute Faculty Fellow, will speak about "Military Weakness and Civil Wars in Africa," a Work in Progress Seminar, today from 12:30 p.m. to 2 in room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center. A box lunch will be served following the seminar. 
Gwendolyn Oxenham, the 2006 Sparks Prize Winner, will read from her nonfiction work "Essence Game" in the Hospitality Room of Reekers today from 7:30 p.m. to 9. The event is sponsored by the Creative Writing Program. 
Tenor Mark Beudert per­forms a faculty recital with mezzo-soprano Karen Lykes and pianist Timothy Cheek at Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center this Wednesday at 8 
p.m. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents. 
The Winter Career and Internship Fair will be held Thursday from 4 p.m. to 8 in the Joyce Center Field House. 
The student group, Pasquerilla East Musical Company {PEMCO), proudly presents "Ragtime" on Friday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. "Ragtime" will also be playing Feb. 3, 9 and 10. Tickets available at LaFortune box office and are $6 for seniors and $8 for adults. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 18 HIGH 8 HIGH 23 HIGH 20 HIGH 15 HIGH
..J 12 LOW 5 LOW -5 LOW 15 LOW 8 LOW 6 LOW 
0 

Atlanta 47 I 26 Boston 28 I 16 Chicago 19 I 12 Denver 25 I 8 Houston 51 I 46 Los Angeles 62 I 51 Minneapolis 19 I 7 New York 35 I 22 Philadelphia 36 I 22 Phoenix 62 I 49 Seattle 51 I 28 St. Louis 24 I 18 Tampa 61 I 34 Washington 38 I 20 
Tuesday, January 30, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Podcasts transform education 
Professors integrate iPod technology with lesson plans and projects 
By LAURA WILCZEK News Writer 

The iPod has changed the way people think about music and videos, and now it's altering how Notre Dame students plan course projects. 
Last semester, professor Christopher Clark, an associate professional specialist in the Kaneb Center, had students in his Applied Multimedia Technology course cre­ate podcasts for one of their five projects. 
Podcasts are portable audio files that students may play with an MP3 player and are similar to tele­vision or radio broadcasts, but uti­lize a different channel. 
Their popularity gave Clark the idea to have his students make "Snitecasts" about an artwork in the University's Snite Museum, a project meant to challenge students and keep them up to date in the growing world of technology. 
The popularity of podcasts prompted Clark to challenge his students with a project that would keep them up to date in the grow­ing world of technology. 
"The objective [of the project] was for students to gain experience using audio editing in a practical project," Clark said. 
Students began their podcast projects with just the title of the artwork and a short description. 
"The next step for students was to formulate a review about the piece of artwork as well as set their pod cast to music," said Ann Knoll, associate director of the Snite Museum. 
For senior Erik Flores -whose podcast discussed traditional Japanese masks known as Okames -writing the review was the most difficult part of the project, not fig­uring out how to record the pod­cast and use the equipment. 
"[The project] took about four hours to complete [and theJ actual recording took about half an hour," Flores said. 
A grant from Notre Dame's Center for Creative Computing allowed students to use high-tech digital audio recording equipment to create quality three to five minute-long podcasts. 
The grant is awarded each year to faculty, groups of faculty mem­bers or faculty-student teams with the intention of "supporting new and innovative initiatives with digi­tal technologies that contribute to the integration of new media into the research or teaching environ­ment," according to the Center for Creative Computing Web site. 
The high-end technological equipment did not intimidate stu­dents in Clark's class, who said they found it rather simple to use. 
"It wasn't really difficult at all," junior Zach Labrecque said. "Professor Clark arranged for us to use portable recording equipment and we edited the sound files using software called Audacity. We were also required to add back­ground music from garageband.com or a similar free­domain site." 
Labrecque's project was on Chakaia Booker's free standing rubber sculpture titled "Latent 
Emissions." 
The Snite Museum is likely to continue support of such projects in the future, Knoll said, and plans to upload the "Snitecasts" to the museum's Web site. 
Clark said he is also pleased with the success of the podcast projects and plans to incorporate podcasts in future projects. Next year, he said he is considering a series ·of podcasts about sculptures on cam­pus. 
"In the end, people could down­load them and take a walking tour," Oark said. 
Students in the class said they are excited their work will be avail­able on the Snite Museum's Web site and that Clark will continue to assign podcasts as a project in the future. 
"I would gladly participate in a similar project in the future because I think that using technolo­gy to support the arts is something that could be very beneficial to today's tech-savvy society," Labrecque said. 
In the meantime, students may listen to their peers' podcasts for free through the iTunes Web site. 
The term "podcast" -coined by Apple Computer, Inc. -was derived from the combination of the words iPod and broadcast. In 2006, an estimated nine million people listened to at least one of more than 40,000 available pod­casts, according to the Snite Museum Web site. $80 million was spent on podcast-based advertising. 
Contact Laura Wtlczek at lwilczek@nd.edu 


London 

continued from page 1 
ing at the Notre Dame Centre in London. 
"British universities typi­cally do not begin their autumn terms until some­time in September, and so to ask British academics to start teaching for us in mid­August has sometimes been something of a problem, as that is the height of the sum­mer for them," Bradshaw said. 
About 130 Notre Dame students travel to London each semester to focus on more than 20 different fields of study, and Bradshaw said many of those students want to travel before beginning classes. 
"If students still want to come earlier and travel around before the semester begins, we will now be able to make arrangements to store their luggage for them in London," he said. 
Notre Dame's London accommodations are also under consideration. Students currently live in a block of apartments in cen­tral London, about 45 min­utes walking distance from the Centre. Students from other non-Notre Dame pro­grams and professionals who live in London year-round also share the building. 
"It would be more desir­able to have just Notre Dame students [in the residence)," said Geraldine Meehan, associate director for recruit­ing for the London Undergraduate Program. 
Notre Dame's lease will expire in spring 2008, mak­ing change not just a possi­bility, but potentially a neces­sity. 
"We're anticipating the possibility that !the resi­dence] will no longer be available and we are looking into other options," Meehan said. 
Another major change to the program primarily affects business students. Starting next fall, business students will be able to go to London for either semester, Meehan said. Until now, those students have been confmed to the spring semes­ter. 
More internship opportuni­ties will also be available for London-bound students. In the past, some of the most popular and prestigious internships have been with members of Parliament, Meehan said. Recently, the program has added intern­ships in the areas of Catholic Social Teaching and social justice. 
"That's the major unique feature of the London pro­gram -the variety of intern­ships and the number acquired," Meehan said. "Over the years, we've devel­oped internships in business. However, the newest intern­ship opportunity will be in an art gallery starting in the fall. There's a certain group of students that are very inter­ested." 
"Maybe by the fall, we'll have even more [internship opportunities)," she said. 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 30, 2007 
Does he have an alibi? Has he notes -but no more. it's kind of not open for discussion -court system," she continued. shown initiative by taking an alco­"We're not lawyers who go to a ... My understanding is that it's "This is a private institution and
Peer 
continued from page 1 
sure they know we're not out to get them. We're on their side; we're there to give them support. There's no harm or risk in seeking out advice." 
So far this year, seven students have sought out that advice (though, Dolan noted, they have received countless questions via e-mail and telephone that aren't filed as official cases). Infractions have ranged from alcohol viola­tions to breaking parietals to pos­session of marijuana and/or more serious drugs, she said. 
When a student receives ORLH's letter informing him of the date for his hearing, he has just five days to prepare -so when a stu­dent requests an advocate, a meeting is quickly arranged. At that meeting, Kozlow explained, the advocate clarifies the rule that's been broken and urges the student to go into ORLH to exam­ine his case report, a documenta­tion of all evidence that will be presented against the student, which ORLH makes available for students facing hearings. According to Kozlow and Dolan, from there, advocates set the pre­hearing wheels in motion. 
Does the student have his wit­nesses ready-and do they have evidence, like pictures, prepared? 

Essay 
continued from page 1 
professional qualifications they may be getting or hoping to get -like law, business, medicine -or in the context of one of the humanistic disci­plines, or in the context of any one of the social or natural sciences," MacCormack said. 
An example of a practical application of the encyclical would be the discussion of charitable works. MacCormack said. 
"[The encyclical] talks about the work of Catholic charities, but it also talks about charita­ble activities broadly speak­ing," MacCormack said. "The pope emphasizes that it's important to live the faith by one's actions as well as speak­ing [the faith] in one's words. You can call that a practical application." 
Students who are not Catholic can also explore the meaning of the encyclical, MacCormack said. 
"For those people who are not Catholics or Christians, we thought the document of the encyclical could be a basis for dialogue on a number of vital issues -like war and peace, poverty" MacCormack said. 
She added that students can also submit short stories. 
"It would be difficult to think of anything that would­n't be welcome," she said. 
The first place winner in each group will receive a $1,000 prize and the runner up in each group will receive $500, MacCormack said, for a total of six prizes in all. 
There has also been some discussion of awarding addi­tional prizes in the arts. MacCormack said, although she said she was not sure how this would happen at this time. 
A student conference will also be held April 27-28 in the Hesburgh Center, MacCormack said by e-mail. 
"A group of students is organizing a conference where they will present 

hol assessment? Has he proven himse.lf community-oriented by discussing the case with his rector and parents? Is his Facebook account clean? 
While specific punishments for specific transgressions are not laid out in du Lac, peer advocates can predict a punishment "based on severity and past cases," Dolan said. 
As the number of cases on file grows, Dolan said predicting a punishment is becoming easier ­students can compare their own cases with past ones. So while Kyle McAlarney's mother Janice McAlarney and others said they were surprised at Kyle McAlarney's punishment, Dolan -who has served as an advocate for other athletes -certainly wasn't. 
"A lot of students expect ath­letes to get off easier than other people. But this was an example of our school being considerate and applying rules equally to ath­letes and students," she said. "For marijuana possession, the stan­dard protocol is suspension. It's not surprising it was two because he was driving, and the University takes that very seriously. 
"I think a two-semester suspen­sion is very on par with what you'd expect at Notre Dame." 
Come the hearing, the peer advocate may be present and take 
papers [about the encyclical] and they are right now work­ing on inviting a couple of keynote speakers," MacCormack said. 
As far as MacCormack knows, holding essay contests with high monetary prizes is a new practice at Notre Dame. 
"It's certainly new in the experience of any student who is at Notre Dame now," she said. "They might have done it ten years ago, but I'm not aware of it." 
Individuals have not yet been appointed to judge con­test submissions. 
"The essays will be judged by a faculty committee and that hasn't been appointed yet," MacCormack said. ''I'm going to try and get as widely representative a group as pos­sible in that there is somebody from the humanities, some­body from the social sciences, somebody from law and busi­ness and somebody from the natural sciences." 
MacCormack said she could­n't make a good guess about how many students would submit entries for the contest. 
"I've had questions from maybe a total of fifty or sixty students who are interested, but it's hard to say whether they will actually get around to writing an essay and sub­mitting it," MacCormack said. 
She said she suggested to some students that they dis­cuss the contest with profes­sors to see if they could get class credit for contest sub­missions. 
"Obviously it would be nice if lots of people get interest­ed," MacCormack said. 
Winning essays and essays written by runners-up may be published in a booklet. 
"I think the booklet will either be given out free or 
sold  at  a  nominal  price,"  
MacCormack said.  
The deadline for  contest  

entries is May 4. MacCormack said contest winners will be announced either at or before commencement. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edciscol@nd.edu 
case and argue our way out of really between the student and this is how we do it. It's not a big something, like in a court system. the school. We're here to help judiciary process, and lawyers Which can be frustrating," Dolan them, but the responsibility is on can't get involved." said, noting that having a speak­the student to explain [himself1 ing role during hearings is one of and justify [his own] behavior. Contact Eileen Duffy at the group's ultimate goals. "But "This is not a legal system, or a eduffyl@nd.edu 
Co~ne and Listen Co~ne .and Read Co~ne and Play Lectio@Eieven A Late-Night Caba..et fo.. the Soul 11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's January 30 featuring: Music by d'Oscar Readings from Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice Mark Twain, Innocents Abroad Goethe, Maxims and Reflections Lectio@Eleven brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser at jcouser(lljnd.edu or call631-3923. Sponsored by First Year of Studies  
Attention: JUNIORS and SENIORS interested in applying for a RHODES SCHOLARSHIP (for two yearx rifxtucfy at O:xjOrd) MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIP (for two yearx rifxtucfy in the United Kingdom) MITCHELL SCHOLARSHIP (for oneyear rifxtucfy in Ireland) Come to an information meeting on Wednesday, January 31 at 7pm in 117 DeBartolo or Tuesday, February 6 at 5:30pm in 118 DeBartolo If you cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships Office 1OS O'Shaughnessy fellows@nd.edu  








ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, January 30, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Warlord to face war crimes court 
THE HAGUE, Netherlands -The International Criminal Court on Monday ordered an alleged Congolese warlord to be tried on charges he recruited child soldiers and sent them into battle, making him the first suspect to stand trial at the permanent war crimes court. 
The evidence against Thomas Lubanga was strong enough to "establish substantial grounds to believe" that he was responsible "for war crimes consisting of enlisting and conscripting children under the age of 15,"said presiding judge Claude Jorda of France. 
The children were forced to take part in armed conflicts, the three-judge panel found, issuing its findings from a prelimi­nary hearing in November. 
Lubanga faces three charges of recruiting and deploying child soldiers in the bloody conflict in the lturi region of eastern Congo in 2002-03. If convicted, he faces a maxi­mum life sentence. 
U.S.-backed Iraqi troops target cult 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Iraqi officials said Monday that U.S.-backed Iraqi troops had tar­geted a messianic cult called "Soldiers of Heaven" in a weekend battle that left 200 fight­ers dead, including the group's leader, near the Shiite holy city of Najaf. A military commander said hundreds of gunmen planned to disguise themselves as pilgrims and kill clerics on the holiest day of the Shiite calendar. Authorities blamed the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, better known as the FARC. At least 10 police officers were missing and four civil­ians wounded, said Jairo Lopez, the top securi­ty official for Cordoba state, where the attack occurred. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Hubble Space Telescope camera fails 
BALTIMORE -The primary camera on the Hubble Space Telescope has shut down and is likely to be only marginally restored, NASA said Monday, a collapse one astronomer called "a great loss." 
While other scientific work can still be done by the aging observatory, the unit that failed, the Advanced Camera for Surveys, is the one most scientists depend upon. NASA scientists say they expect to be able to restore just one­third of its observation ability, probably by mid-February. 
"We're not optimistic at all" about returning it to full function, said Dave Leckrone, a sen­ior scientist on the Hubble at Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt. 

Fleischer: libby knew about Wilson 
WASHINGTON -Former White House press secretary Ari Fleischer testified Jan. 29 that then-colleague I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby told him over lunch that the wife of a prominent war critic worked at the CIA. 
Fleischer said the conversation happened July 7, 2003, days before Libby told investigators he was surprised to learn about the CIA operative from a reporter. That discrepancy is at the heart of Libby's perjury and obstruction trial. 
Fleischer, who was the chief White House spokesman for the first 2 1/2 years of President Bush's first term, said Libby invited him to lunch to discuss Fleischer's planned departure from the White House. He said it was the first time he and Libby had eaten lunch together. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana House approves ISTEP bill 
INDIANAPOLIS -Students wondering how to prepare for the statewide ISTEP exams could get some answers under a bill a House commit­tee approv~d Monday. 
The legislation would require the Department of Education to give schools a study guide of sorts -information about what academic standards are included on the test, and how many questions will be asked about each standard. "It is now time for me to join David Long and work together as a team to achieve the goals that I had originally set out for me and our caucus," Weatherwax said, quoting from his letter. 
FRANCE 


Scientists to assess global warming 
Report expected to confirm temperature changes, raise environmental concerns 
Associated Press 
PARIS -Scientists 
from around the world 
gathered Monday in Paris 
to finalize a long-await­
ed, authoritative report 
on climate change, 
expected to give a grim 
warning of rising temper­
atures and sea levels 
worldwide. 
The Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change 
is to unveil its latest 
assessment of the envi­
ronmental threat posed 
by global warming on 
Friday. 
As the panel meets, the 
planet is the warmest it 
has been in thousands of 
years -if not more ­
and international concern 
over what to do about it 
is at an all-time high. 
"At no time in the past 
has there been such a 
global appetite" for reli­
able information on glob­
al warming, the panel's 
chairman, Rajendra 
Pachauri of India, told 
the conference. 
Scientists are keeping 
quiet about the contents 
of the report, but say it is 
both more specific and 
more sweeping than the 
panel's previous efforts. 

Early drafts of the doc­expected this year. arguing that not enough Saudi Arabia. ument give a rosier pic­"We're hoping that it was known about global Pachauri, director-gen­ture than that of the last will convince people that warming to do anything eral of the Tata Energy report, in 2001, foresee­climate change is real about it. Research Institute in ing smaller sea level rises and' that we have a The panel, created by India who has served as than previously predict­responsibility for much of the United Nations in an adviser to India's ed. But many top scien­it, and that we really do 1988, releases its assess­prime minister, said the tists reject the new fig­have to make changes in ments every five or six report would make "sig­ures as not new enough: how we live," said years -although scien­nificant advances" over They do not include the Kenneth Denman, one of tists have been observing the 2001 report, address­recent melting of big ice the report's authors and climate change since as ing gaps in that docu­sheets in two crucial senior scientist at the far back as the 1960s. ment, reducing uncer­locations -Greenland Canadian Centre for While critics call the tainties and adding new and Antarctica. Climate Modelling and panel overly alarmist, it knowledge about past
That debate may be Analysis. is by nature relatively changes in climate. central at this week's It has been an unusual­cautious because it relies The early versions of meetings at the UNESCO ly warm winter in some on input from hundreds the new report predictheadquarters in Paris. parts of the world, and of scientists, including that by 2100 the sea level After four days of closed­awareness of the conse­skeptics and industry would rise between 5 and door, word-by-word edit­quences of climate researchers. And its 23 inches. That is far ing involving more than change is growing. reports must be unani­lower than the 20 to 55 500 experts, they will Last week, President mous, approved by 154 inches forecast by 2100 release the first of four Bush referred to global governments -including in a study published in major global warming warming as an estab­the United States and oil­the peer-review journal reports by the IPCC lished fact, after years of rich countries such as Science this month. 



Pelosi keeps bloggers in mind 
were given special accommodations too important to ignore. .
Associated Press 
at the Capitol to cover the event, and "They've gone from an initial writ­

WASHINGTON -Shortly after her fed lunch. ing blogs off. then moving to skepti­swearing-in as the first female House It's all evidence of the newfound cism, then moving to, 'OK, maybe we speaker, Rep. Nancy Pelosi took time attention bloggers from left-leaning can find a way of working with these to field questions from a few dozen Web sites are commanding on guys,"' said John Aravosis, who runs Internet bloggers on a conference Democratic-run Capitol Hill, especial­Americablog.com. call that was off limits to mainstream ly from the new speaker, a San "It's a power base and it's influen­media. Franciscan with an appreciation for tial and it's an opportunity. And you 
Last week, Pelosi's aides arranged the power of the Internet and grass­know what? It exists," Aravosis 
for bloggers to question two roots activism. added: Democratic House leaders on anoth­Schooled by evidence of what "It should only scare you if you're er conference call shortly before Internet-driven politics can accom­on their bad side." President Bush's State of the Union plish -from fueling Howard Dean's Blogs also are a way for Pelosi and 
speech. presidential campaign in 2004 to others to communicate directly with 
Pelosi also hired a full-time staff propelling Ned Lamont to victory a politically engaged audience, with­member this month dedicated to over Joseph Lieberman in out filtering by traditional media. She blogger outreach, and is making Connecticut's Democratic Senate pri­promoted the Democrats' agenda for plans to launch a blog of her own. mary last year -Pelosi and other their first 100 legislative hours in a The day she was sworn in, bloggers politicians have realized bloggers are posting on Huffingtonpost.com. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 30, 2007 
culture shock, but said she frustration upon return could education experience rather didn't experience culture be the students' residence than letting it be sort of a
Abroad 

Mass

shock to begin with in Spain. situation. Some returning surreal memory in a vacuum "I had an amazing experi­students aren't able to return for students, and are inter­
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 

ence, but it's very comfort­to their dorms and either ested in starting such cours­can be even more challeng­able to be back on campus," switch to a different dorm or es," Meyer-Lee said. 
he found Jenkins' remarks ing that the initial culture Howard said. move off campus. The Center for Women's 
about the mission of a shock when studying abroad, Notre Dame junior Erin Howard did not have a InterCultural Leadership has 
Catholic university inspir­because it can take you by O'Shea studied in London in problem in securing a room presented on this course 
ing. Waugh is a theology surprise," Settle said. the fall. She said she attend­in Cavanaugh Hall upon her nationally and written a 
major, a seminarian in the Re-entry shock begins with ed a London reunion. return, but knew people in chapter on it in a book on 
Old College Program and disengagement as the mind "It was nice to see people. her program who had to study abroad curricular inte­
president of the Notre Dame shifts toward home, then It wasn't a formal reception, switch dorms or move off gration. The College is also 
branch of the Knights of turns into euphoria as the just a tea party," she said. campus. starting a list serve for inter­
Columbus, a Catholic frater­student gets more excited Dr. Elaine Meyer-Lee, The Notre Dame Office of active discussions of key 
nal organization. about going home, Settle director of the Center for Residential Life and Housing issues for this course. 
"It's amazing that, while said. The student may feel Women's InterCultural did not respond to Observer 
we're trying to be a great frustrated and alienated Leadership at Saint Mary's phone calls on this issue. Spirituality after study 
academic university, we also from his peers but can then said most students do experi­At Saint Mary's, all stu­abroad 
have a president that can begin a gradual readjustment ence "at least a little bit of dents who wish to live on Tho Basilica of the Sacred 
consecrate the Eucharist, and start to feel less unset­reverse culture shock upon campus for spring semester Heart held a welcome-back 
something that most other tled by his surroundings. returning to [the College]." have guaranteed housing, liturgy last Tuesday for all 
universities would find Claudia Kselman, director She strongly encouraged said Meyer-Lee. those returning from abroad. 
ridiculous," Waugh said. 
O'Shea, a member of the Folkof the Office of International returning students to take "We at Saint Mary's do 

"That's what makes Notre Studies (OIS) at Notre Dame advantage of the opportuni­everything we can to make Choir, found it very helpful. 
Dame and its mission said students should consult ties the College provides to the logistical aspects of their "IThe liturgy] was just 
unique."
another way for abroad stu­

the Counseling Center if they process their experience transition smooth and wel­The Notre Dame Liturgical 
experience severe reverse because many feel a little coming," she said. dents to get back into their 
Choir conducted the Music culture shock that impedes disconnected from their old Studimts who study abroad spiritual core here," she 
and prayers in the Mass their normal daily functions. friends who have not studied in the fall have the opportu­said. "The sermon spoke well 
almost entirely in Latin -a "Otherwise, they should eat abroad. nity to pick their own rooms to the different emotions you 
standard practice at Notre and sleep well, exercise, get "A very few find it deeply in advance during the spring feel when coming back. 
Dame, said Liturgical Choir involved with campus activi­stressful emotionally, and housing process and those It has been hard for her to 
director Gail Walton. ties and get together with these we refer to our coun­studying abroad in the spring be away from close friends 
"We try to use as many of their friends from the pro­seling center, who have skills are able to participate in the for so long, but O'Shea 
the four hymns St. Thomas gram and others," Kselman in supporting these students process for next year via believes her time abroad was 
Aquinas composed in Latin said. and collaborate with us in proxy, Meyer-Lee said. a worthwhile experience ­
as we can for this Mass," one she recommends to all.
Kselman also advised stu­doing so," she said. 
she said. 

dents to come to OIS Saint Mary's offers a range Academic opportunities "There's a different 
This marked only the sec­
For students who want an dynamic on campus now ...

returnee sessions organized of programming to support 
ond occasion this Mass was 
by program, where they can students' re-entry once they academic opportunity to you have to find your place 
celebrated in the Basilica,reflect in-depth on and artic­again ... it was definitely a
talk about their transition are back. There was a gener­
Walton said. 

back to campus as well as al returnee event to welcome ulate their learning while transition," O'Shea said. "I 
"This Mass was celebrated 
their semester abroad. all those returning to campus abroad, and how it relates to don't recognize some of the 
in the Alumni Hall chapel, 
and help them make their their education and intercul­faces [on campus!. But I see
"The staff of [OIS] is happy 

but when Father Jenkins 
tural experience, Saint [new] faces, my friends from
to talk with returnees indi­transition from abroad. 
became president, he decid­
Further get-togethers will be Mary's offers a re-entry abroad. ... You can't expect
vidually as well," Kselman ed that it should be cele­

said. facilitated as desired, Meyer­course entitled "Analysis of things to." 
brated with the entire Notre 
Lee said. Study Abroad Learning."
Junior Liz Howard returned 

Dame community," she said. 
"Many schools have real­
this semester from the Notre 

Readjusting to campus life ized recently the importance 
Contact John-Paul Witt atDame Toledo program. She Contact Jennifer Metz at 
One reason for feelings of of integrating this powerful 
jwittl@nd.edudidn't experience reverse jmetz@nd.edu 




Notre Dame Investment Club 
First Meeting: January 31, Wednesday DeBartolo 138 7:30pm 
*Free pizza* 

CAT BA DIS MCD GS JNJ LVS MSFT AAPL 
59.51 87.20 35.30 44.83 212.84 66.58 104.84 30.75 85.77 
,-----------------,-------------c-----­
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, January 30, 2007 
page 7 

Dow }ones  12,490.78  +3.76  
up:  Same: Down:  Composite Volume.  
I ,886  148  1,372  2,628.664,370  
AM£>{. ......  ,••,  ·················.··.,,~l;\illmil:t6i•1~111Iil!l;!lll~~~~::  

NASDAQ 2 441.09 +5.60 NYSE ...·;~lffiilli1ii;i•········· ..·•·· Illl;ll'll!l!lillt\1111~111:
S&PSOO 1,420.62 -1.56 
NIKKEI(Tol<yo)··· .···11~~~~.~iill'll.iiillill FTSE IOO(London) 6,239.90 + 11.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +0.09  +0.04  43.61  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +1.75  +0.36  20.89  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS(SPY)  -0.08  -0.1 I  142.05  
ISHARE RUS 2000 (IWM)  +0.87  +0.68  78.75  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.27  +0.0 13  4.892  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  4.995  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.04  +0.002  4.982  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.27  +0.0 I 3  4.880  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.41  54.0 I  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -1.60  649.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.65  98.10  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  121.6400  
EURO  0.7720  
POUND  0.5097  
CANADIAN$  1.1823  


IN BRIEF 
Verizon adds 2.3 million customers 
NEW YORK -Verizon Wireless added 2.3 million customers, most of them prized monthly subscribers, to put a shine on a fourth quarter when Verizon Communications Inc.'s profit was cut by restructuring costs. 
In reporting the 38 percent drop in quar­terly profit Monday, Verizon also emphasized that growth in its DSL and new high-capacity fiber-optic Internet businesses has outpaced the loss of traditional telephone customers. 
In the final three months of 2006, Verizon earned $1.03 billion, or 35 cents per share, down from $1.66 billion, or 59 cents per share, in the fourth quarter 2005. 
The latest figures reflect a charge of $541 million, or 19 cents per share, for taxes trig­gered by the sale of Verizon's operations in the Dominican Republic. It also included 3 cents of costs related to the spinoff of the company's phone book and online directories business, as well 5 cents in charges for sev­erance, pension, merger and headquarters relocation expenses. Excluding those charges, Verizon earned 62 cents per share, edging past the average forecast of 61 cents among industry analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial. 
McDonald's chooses healthier oil 
CHICAGO -McDonald's Corp. has finally s"elected a new trans-fat-free oil for cook­ing its famous french fries after years of testing, the fast-food chain said Monday. 
While it has developed a healthier new oil, the company is still not saying when it will be used in all 13,700 U.S. restaurants. It already trails competitors in committing to a zero-trans fat oil. 
Spokesman Walt Riker said the oil is cur­rently in more than 1,200 U.S. restaurants after extensive testing. but declined to pro­vide details on timing or locations. 
The choice of a new oil comes as McDonald's and others face a July 1 dead­line to begin complying with an ordinance passed by New York City last month making it the first U.S. city to ban all restaurants from using artificial· trans fats.for the con­victions to be overturned, saying there was a lack of evidence. But the judge disagreed. 
Windows Vista makes debut 

Microsoft Corporation unveils 'launching point' offuture gaming systems 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Acrobatics, 

blaring music and plenty of 
hype accompanied Microsoft 
Corp.'s long-delayed debut of its 
new Windows Vista operating 
system. 
Hours before the software 
went on sale in New York, 
dancers dad in Microsoft colors 
dangled from ropes high above 
street level Monday and 
unfurled flags to form the red, 
green, blue and yellow 
Wmdows logo against a build­
ing wall. 
At a swank midtown eatery, 
speakers pumped out a hit 
from hip-hop hotshot Snoop 
Dogg before Steve Ballmer, 
Microsoft's chief executive offi­
cer, took to stage to proclaim, 
'V!bia is the center, the launch­
ing point for the next genera­
tion of connected entertainment 
in the home.'' 
Later, two explosively loud, 
percussion-heavy rock bands 
shook the walls and riled up a 
crowd of early Vista test users, 
PC and chip-maker employees 
and others amid flashing lights 
at the Nokia Theatre -tem­
porarily renamed the Wmdows 
Vista Theatre -in Times 
Square. 

Vista was set to go on sale in 70 countries Tuesday, along with new versions of Microsoft Exchange e-mail software and the flagship Office business suite, which includes Word, Excel and PowerPoint. Several retailers had even scheduled that route will be relatively a slick 3-D graphical user inter­gateway to the Internet. midnight openings. rarely taken -Ballmer face and document icons that "When people think about 
But unlike the recent launch­acknowledged that, as in the give at-a-glance previews. their PC, they think about es of next-generation game past, most consumers will Gates said the next wow comes Wmdows even more than who machines like Sony Corp.'s switch to Vista only when they when people start using a sys­the manufacturer is. That PlayStation 3, customers buy new computers. tem-wide search program that determines how it looks, how haven't been camping out for More than five years in the Microsoft's engineers built into you navigate, what the applica­days. making, VISta was released for both the operating system and tions are that are available," 
"When I look at Windows businesses Nov. 30, but the new versions of Office. Gates told The Associated VISta, I see a technology that is unveiling for consumers of the Vista comes as changing Press. interesting, that is relevant, but latest edition of Windows -dynamics of computing -And in this case, Vista has to some extent is evolutionary," which runs more than 90 per­notably the ri<>e of open-source folded in programs that users said Al Gillen, an analyst at the cent of the world's PCs -only software and Web-based serv­once bought separately ­technology research group IDC. came Tuesday. Vista retails for ices that replicate what tradi­including automated backup "I do not believe it will create a $100 to $400, depending on the tionally could be done only on a systems and some spyware lot of motivation for people to version and whether the user is desktop computer -are protections. rush out and get a new operat­upgrading from Wmdows XP. threatening Microsoft's domi­Microsoft built Vista so that ing system." The Redmond, Wash.-based nance in the industry. different layers could be 
In an interview, Microsoft software maker contends that But Gates contended that the upgraded separately, so it's pos­chairman Bill Gates said the VL<>ta is such a huge improve­operating system has a higher sible that this is the last mas­company actually wasn't push­ment over previous computing profile than ever before, as the sive, all-in-one update for ing midnight sales events -platforms that users inevitably PC has morphed from a Windows. No matter how after all, the software will be say 'Wow" when they see it. souped-up typewriter to a net­Microsoft chooses to roll out available as a download over Gates ticked off some exam­worked entertainment center, VISta's successor, Ballmer said the Web for the first time. Even ples, such as how VISta presents personal media library and there's still work to be done. 


Survey shows directors' ignorance 
Associated Press which culled responses of more than who are pushing their own agendas. 1,300 directors at U.S. companies. Its The list of such behavior runs long.
NEW YORK -Shareholders wor­
bottom line: Directors still don't have As the housing market swooned, the 
ried about runaway executive pay 
as much control over corporate deal­board at mortgage lender 
are likely to be stunned by the find­
ings that many believe is needed to Countrywide Financial Corp. gave
ings of a new study that shows many 
curb super-sized compensation. the CEO $10 million in retirement 
board directors still have no idea 
This truly is shocking. Directors' pay even though he wasn't retiring.
how much their CEOs would collect if 
primary duty is to represent the Directors at Caremark Hx Inc. 
they retire, are tired or bought out. 
interests of shareholders, and it's fair approved a takeover by CVS Corp.
Board members also acknowledge 
and logical to expect them to take that will give them job security and they are struggling to rein in bloated charge more directly following the provide some with severance pay­
executive compensation, but are 
rash of corporate scandals in recent outs. Boards have rubber-stampedcounting on investors to lead the years. incentive pay for executives even 
cause to knock it down. 

But the dynamic in the boardroom when stock or earnings performanceThose conclusions aren't a decade 
is far from perfect. While more has lagged.

old, but are part of a recent survey 
boards are independent of manage­Shareholders are often left won­
from the consulting firm 
ment, there are still plenty of cases dering how such things could go on. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers and the 
of directors using flawed judgment or This new study gives some tellingCorporate Board Member magazine, 
kowtowing to demar:tding executives insight. 

.....----------------­
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 
Tuesday, January 30, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Choose, don't force fair trade 
P.O. Box 779, Notte Dame, IN 46556 02~ Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Ooxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTIIATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTIIATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574} 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574} 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574} 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574} 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qrmtiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is pubHslwd Monday through Friday accpt dunng =m and ncuion pcriods. A subscription to 'the Ohscrvcr is: $100 for one. acrdcmic ycrr; $55 lOr unc st"mestct. 
The Obsc:rver is published at.: POSTMASTER 024 $oqth Dining Hall Send addres5 corrections m: Notre Dame, IN 46556..0779 The Obscrvtt Periodi.taf postage paid at Nou·e Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 Somh Dining Han 
Nom: Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is .1. member ufthe Associated Pr~. All reproduction righu aie n==l. 
Over the last semester, Amnesty International's fair trade coffee campaign has made great progress on campus, most notably through the Student Senate's Oct. 18 resolution, which demanded that only fair trade cofl'ee be served on campus and that students be educatP.d about the value of fair trade products. I had the privilege of attending Amnesty IntP.rnational's meet­ing at the CSC Cofl'ee House last week, and I was moved by the group's genlline com-Forward the mitment to improving Revolution human rights and the condition of fellow men. According to the group's Web site, its push for fair trade cofl'ee on campus is driven by Pope Benedict's encyclical "God is Love," as well as the American Conference of Catholic Bishops' endorsement of fair trade purchases "as an effective and easy way for the faithful to demonstrate their charity." 
Fair trade organizations demonstrate an innovative approach to charitable giv­ing through the use of business to raise money for their beneficiaries/producers. Ten Thousand Villages, a retailer of hand­made crafts that follows fair trade princi­ples, is a great example of what fair trade can provide to the world's disadvantaged people. Ten Thousand Villages uses the proceeds from its sales to pay the produc­ers of its goods a good wage and provide them with technical and financial train­ing. The artisans who supply Ten Thousand Villages are often able to then attain the capital and knowledge needed to start their own independent businesses. Purchasing crafts and other handmade items from fair trade organizations is in most cases an easy and fun way not only to get a first-rate product, but also to help people in the developing world become independent and free from poverty. There are few charitable organizations operating that use the free market so effectively to help those in need as Ten Thousand Villages, and we should cer­tainly make a concerted effort to educate ourselves and others about the value of such organizations and their products. 


The reasoning fi:>r fair trade coffee is slightly difi'erent than that for handmade items. According to the Society for the Advancement of Education, in 2003 15.5 billion pounds of co flee were produced while only 12 billion pounds were con­sumed. A'i a result, eoll'ee prices are lower than the cost of production and many eom~e farmers are sullcring. The root cause of low eofloe prices is oversup­ply in the market, and without enr.ourag­ing farmers to diversify their crop produc­tion bnyond eoiTee, there will be no long­term improvement. Unfortunately, I could lind no mention of diversification among the materials provided to me by Amnesty International or on tho Web sites of our campus fair trado eollce suppliers. Pura Vida, which gives away all of its profits (unlike other fair trade suppliers), is dearly committed to helping farmers but it must do mom to address eomlll over­supply. We have the ability to all'ect change most by voluntarily drinking Pura Vida, and there is no need for the University to make that decision fi)r us. 
Most Notre Dame students are dndicat­ed to doing the right thing, and our University's commitment to service and faith is part of what makes Notrn Dame special. Unfortunately, the fair trade cof­fee campaign shares two assumptions that weaken many proposals for change. First, the lack of focus on the market­based reason for low coffee prices demon­strates a belief that capitalism and com­petition are somehow inherently unjust. Second, the insistence on removing coffee options rather than expanding them reveals an underlying belief that mean­ingful change cannot be accomplished through i~dividual choices, but only through forcing everyone to act in a par­ticular manner. 
Global economic competition is a tremendous force that has raised wages, improved standards of living, cultural exchange and created bonds of peace. Though CNN's Lou Dobbs may throw a daily tantrum about his perceived "out­sourcing of America," the non-partisan Congressional Hesearch Service reported that the US actually experienced a net gain of 1.9 million jobs from outsourcing from 1977-2001 and that the presumed global "race to the bottom" in wages has never begun. A'i workers are empowered in emerging economies through free and litir trade, they earn higher pay and rnceive improvements in working condi­tions. Well-intentioned but irresponsible proposals, such as congressional efforts to obstruct new fren trade agreement<; and ClAP's living wage, only serve to delay global economic development and distort the connection between productivity and earnings. This only harms the intended beneficiaries of such policies. 
There are certainly problems within the system, including the problems of exploitative regimes (which lack competi­tive or open markets) and unbalanced negotiations between producers and buy­ers, but capitalism is what we make it and cannot coerce us to do anything. Like the mirror which serves as "the heart of the Wai-Mart" in South Park, we determine what companies do through our purchas­es-for good or evil. Whether we boycott Wal-Mart because of labor standards, refuse to shop at Target because they say "I Iappy Holidays" instead of "Merry Christmas" or purchase crarts from Ten Thousand Villages, our individual deci­sions shape the face of the capitalist sys­tem. That force for change is closed when the opportunity to choose other products is removed as the Student Senate resolu­tion demands or through protectionism. Instead of blaming capitalism and restricting choices, we should fight for more open markets and make wiser choices that form a more -compassionate economy. 
Jonathan Klingler is a senior manage­ment consulting major and the president ofthe Notre Dame College Republicans. He currently resides in Keenan Hall and enjoys Tolstoy and Matlock. He can be contacted via e-mail atjklingle@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe ObserlJer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY

Kaitlynn Riely Eric Retter Katie Kohler Greg Arbogast 
Did the University handle Kyle
Sonia Rao Michael Bryan 


1Submit aLetter 1
Viewpoint Scene McAlarney's case fairly? 

"In three words I can sum up everything
Bethany Analise Lipari 

I've learned about life: it goes on. " Whitfield 
l 

tothe EdiiOr at : 
Robert Frost

$. . . .. .. . ....... ·. . ... .. .. .. t
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Graphics 
poet
Matt Hudson at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

~1 www.ndsmcobserver.com ~ 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, January 30, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Women's basketball deserves more support 
Women need crowds as well 
While it is wonderful to see the enthusiastic crowds at the men's bas­ketball games and hear about high ticket sales, I'm disappointed in the lack of support in general given to the women's basketball team. The point was made that supportive crowds create a homecourt advan­tage and help teams win. I think the women could use and deserve the same support. 
Tara Pillai freshman Pasquerilla East 


Students called to attend more games 

As a long-time ND fan and additionally, a women's bas­ketball fan, it's truly disappointing to witness the lack of student body support for this year's women's team. These ladies are representing your university and they deserve your support. 
The local community shows up, game in and game out, to cheer our ND teams and they certainly appreciate our ladies on the court. These women work out, practice and travel countless hours in addition to their studies. Can't you give up a few hours once every week or two to cheer them on? Other than our loyal, enthusiastic band mem­bers and a handful of students who sit directly in front of them, there really is no student section to speak of. 
Contrast that to the men's games and it's a sad compari­son. These ladies truly know how to play basketball too! They work hard, they sweat, they dive and they get injured. All to wear the Blue and Gold. 
Please come out and let them know that you appreciate their efforts. Home court advantage can make a difference and you can help make that happen, but only if you're in the stands, cheering and making your presence known. Because these women are your friends, classmates and fellow students and some of you know these ladies. And if you don't, you should! They are fine representatives of our University and our athletic programs. So bundle up and get over to the JACC. I challenge you to come out to the next women's home game and prove that "We (truly) are ND!" Go Irish! 
Debbie Blasko senior staff assistant Law School Dean's Office Jan. 24 


What about a student Catholic fil111 festival? 
For anyone who happened to miss the 2007 Notre Dame Student Film Festival: I hate to tell you, but you missed an amazing show. This was my first year attending the film festival and I was truly impressed with the quality and creativity of the 13 student productions. 
My sincere complements and con­gratulations to the student directors, actors, production teams and profes­sors for the pleasant mix of great humor, captivating dramas, insightful documentaries and provocatively chal­lenging student productions. Thanks to the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center for showing the films. My hats off to all for the countless hours of hard work that definitely shined through in these short films. These film projects are a great testament to the students and the Film, Television and Theatre program here on campus. 
With all the talk at Notre Dame in recent years about "Catholic identity," I wonder if there might be a way to truly inspire such student talent and amaz­ing creativity to share the beauty, blessings and spirit of our Catholic faith. Now don't get me wrong, but I loved the 2007 student productions. I am especially grateful for the thought­provoking discussions I have been deeply engaged in thanks to the provocative, challenging, and enter­taining student films. 
As Notre Dame continues to promote openness to a multiplicity of opinions, diversity, student creativity, dialogue and academic achievement, I hope that we can also find respectful ways to authentically and creatively share our Catholic faith as well. I would love to find a way to inspire these talented and gifted students to share our Catholic faith in a way that more authentically speaks to college student today. How can we support and encourage these inspiring directors, actors and artists to seek out our Catholic faith and creatively express the beauty and mystery of faith for example through films on the life and faith of our NOMOI partners in Uganda, of student volunteer work, of Notre Dame peace and justice efforts to bring about the reign of God, of faith-filled stories of hope or joy-filled experiences of God's love in the reality of our lives today. 

The Notre Dame FTT students, with their amazing gifts and talents, will find their own unique, awe-inspiring and creative ways to expres~ and cele­brate the mystery of God working in our lives and the richness of our Catholic identity. And Notre Dame can likewise find authentic ways to contin­ue to support these student produc­tions while more actively encouraging creative expression of faith. 
Marty Roers graduate srudent offcampus Jan. 28 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

~

r-----------------­


THE 0BSERVE.R 



CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, January 30, 2007 
CD REVIEW 

Band releases landmark retrospective album 
ByJAMES RUDY 
Scene Writer 
Oasis has been a rock icon for nearly a decade, headlining the world stage with a comfortable and cocky attitude. On Nov. 20, 2006, the clo.cks stopped to ref1ect upon the tremendous contribution that Oasis has made and continues to make to rock and roll. Often incorporating release dates directly into its albums, Oasis marked the day as time to celebrate its first ever retrospective collection, pulling together the years of multi-platinum albums. number one singles and ­unique to Oasis -instantly familiar B­sides into one 18-track double album, "Stop the Clocks." 
Oasis vowed on multiple occasions it would never release a greatest hits album unless the band was about to split, so "Stop the Clocks" created immediate ­and understandable -concern among the band's fans. To address the specula­tion, Oasis issued a press release at the same time as the album, affirming that they are merely taking a well-earned sab­batical following the end of its recording contract with Sony BMG Music Entertainment before starting work on new material. 
"Stop the Clocks" focuses on Oasis' most popular albums. "Definitely Maybe" (1994) and "(What's the Story) Morning Glory?" (1995) are represented with five tracks each, including "Supersonic," the band's debut single, "Wonderwall" and "Champagne Supernova." Also a major contribution is the band's platinum B-side album, 1998's "The Masterplan." Four songs are taken from "The Masterplan," including "Acquiesce," arguably the great­est B-side ever. Oasis' most recent album, 2005's "Don't Believe the Truth." only received two nods, while "Standing on the Shoulder of Giants" (2000) and "lleathen Chemistry" (2002) contributed ono track each. 
Not surprisingly, the only album not represented is "Be Here Now" (1997), which failed to live up to massive expec­tations at the height of Oasis' popularity. 
It also created mixed feelings among 
the band members 


when it became the fastest selling

Oasis 
album in chart his­tory, se IIi ng 

Stop the Clocks 
500,000 copies on the first day.
Sony BMG Lead guitarist and lead song­writer Noel Gallagher, who co­anchors the band with his brother
Recommended tracks: 'Wonderwall,"Songbird,' and fellow vocalist 

'Champagne Supernova' and 'Supersonic' and songwriter '------------------------------' Liam Gallagher, 
chose all of the tracks for "Stop the Clocks." Arguments about the track listing sprung up in typieal Gallagher fashion, but in tho ond Noel cast the deciding opin­ion. 
Noel Gallagher also told Billboard Magazine he was approached about including previously unreleased songs, but saw their addition as taking the focus away from the band's intention of releas­ing a retrospoetive album. 
In an exdusive Hadio 1 interview, Limn Gallagher said he was happy with the selections, although he would have liked to include "Hockin' Chair" and "))'You Know What I Mean?" Noel Gallagher wrote all of the tracks featured on "Stop the Clocks" except for "Songbird," which was written by Liam. 
To further celebrate the release of this dream set list, Oasis began to unveil its first full-length lilm. "Lord Don't Slow Me Down," shot during its last world tour for "Don't Believe the Truth" in 2005 and 2006. The lilm is set to be released in 2007, but until then, the band continues to showcase it at private screenings around the world to winners of fan competitions. 
With "Stop the Clocks," the members of Oasis continue to use what has made them the "kings of Britpop" to fmd similar levels of success around the world. 
Contact James Rudy at jrudy@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 



Oasis joins classic ranks with 'rockumentary' 
By JAMES RUDY 
Scene Writer 
With the successful release of its ret­rospective collection, "Stop the Clocks," Oasis has begun to define the eoncept of longevity for both '90s groups and current acts. Like other international bands before, Oasis has wrapped up its sound and continues to package it over and over again without missing a beat. With the release of its full-
Japan, including head banging in the streets, birthday parties and backstage dancing during the May 2005 to March 2006 "Don't Believe the Truth" world tour. Director Baillie Walsh shot most. of the film in black and white. londing it a timolessly artistic feel that renders the band as dassic and contemporary. 
Another reason for fans to be excited is that the film features a new song, also called "Lord Don't Slow Me Down," written by Noel Gallagher and 
recorded during the "Don't 
length documentary, "Lord Believe the Truth" ses­
Oasis has wrapped
Don't Slow Me Down," sions. The song was left off 
up its sound and
Oasis joins the ranks of of "Don't Believe the The Holling Stones, The continues to Truth" because Noel said Who and the Sex Pistols -he would be singing ·too
package it over 
all of whom it cites as key many of the album's songs
and over again
influences -in supple­if it was included. menting its music with film without missing a Amusingly enough, he documentation of life on also told reporters that
beat. 
tour. 
"Lord Don't Slow Me Down" captures over a year's worth of music and music-related moments from Oasis' most popular venues in the United Kingdom, United States and 


his girlfriend thinks "Lord 
Don't Slow Me Down" is the only Oasis song to which people can dance. 
Unveiled to coincide with the release of Oasis' best-of album, "Lord Don't 
Slow Me Down" premiered in the 
U.K. on Channel 4 on Nov. 19, 2006 at 11:50 p.m.-10 minutes before "Stop the Clocks" was released. Various fans-only private screenings took place in 2006, and a future DVD release has yet to be settled. However, the band said it would be in 2007. Other bands that can be seen in the film include Jet and Kasabian -two groups that took part in the "Don't Believe the Truth tour" -as well as Girls Aloud, a new British pop group that appears in a cameo. 


The best-of album and full-length "rockumentary" both mark an epic moment in Oasis history, but whether the band can become any bigger than what it has already been remains to be seen. Oasis will receive the prestigious BRIT Award for Outstanding Contribution to Music, with the impres­sive list of previous winners including The Beatles, John Lennon, U2 and The Who. But while the award is an honor, it's also a sign that the band's populari­ty could stay grounded in the U.K. For whatever reason, the U.S. has been reluctant to crown Oasis as the next Beatles, even though the group's pres­ent drummer happens to be Zak Starkey, son of Beatles drummer Ringo Starr. 
Fans who c,ontinue to indulge in Oasis' musie will be more than con­soled by this well made and fascinating documentary, despite what "Stop the Clocks" lacks in fresh material. The outstanding "Lord Don't Slow Me Down" reaches heights of intimacy and power with its source material, giving audiences both phenomenal concert viewing rrs well as a rare glimpse behind the curtain. 
Contact James Rudy at jrudy@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Tuesday, January 30, 2007 
page 11 

Commercials take center stage at Super Bowl 
Every first Sunday in February, mil­lions of Americans and others from around the world tune in to see the best that the National Football League has to offer. Staggering linemen, swift tailbacks and rocket-arm quar­terbacks amaze and awe every man, woman and child who watches the epic clash of football's best. 
However, there is that little part of the Super Bowl that everyone tunes in for beside the brilliant displays of courage on the gridiron: the com­mercials. The most expensive advertising time of the year often inspires the best marketing minds to cre­ate a mere 30 seconds of fame for their company. 
Some companies have become Super Bowl commercial staples by bringing their A-games every year. Beer corpora­tions like Miller and Budweiser are often among this class of commercials, airing spots that inevitably become future clas­sics. Other companies have.had "one-hit­wonder" Super Bowl ads, such as Apple's famous "1984" piece and the '90s-era McDonald's ads starring Larry Bird and Michael Jordan. 
These commercials are, for some peo­ple, the exclusive reason to watch the Super Bowl. As this year's game of cham­pions approaches, it's worthwhile to look back at where the Super Bowl commer-

Marty Schroeder 
Assistant Scene Editor 
cial came from, and where it might be going. 
1984: Apple Computers 
One of-if not the most -famous commercials in history is the Apple Computers advertisement during the 1984 Super Bowl. Directed by famed filmmaker Ridley Scott, the commercial depicted a large "Big Brother" -type character directing masses of grey­garbed workers from a large television screen. A lone woman runs in, dressed in colorful clothing, and throws a ham­mer at the huge screen to destroy Big Brother and free the masses. 
The "Big Brother" character was meant to represent IBM, one of Apple's main competitors during the early years of the home computer. With the ending line, "On Jan. 24, Apple will introduce Macintosh. And you'll see why 1984 wont be like '1984,"' Apple's statement was clear. The literary reference and the cinematic nature of the commercial make it one of the most memorable in Super Bowl history. 
1993: McDonald's 
This commercial features Larry Bird and Michael Jordan having a competition to see who can make the most difficult shots. At first the contest seems normal, but then they start adding outlandish shots such as "around the nioon," "off the Space Shuttle" and "nothing but net." Bird's usual on-court rival, Magic Johnson, had retired from basketball at this point, so current superstar Jordan was brought in for the ad. 
Before fast food and healthy eating were at all connected, it was interesting to see super-athletes advertising for one of the companies at the center of the American obesity debate. Also curious was the fact that Bird had retired a year earlier and was now working as an assis­tant in the front office for the Boston Celtics. As something of a "passing of the torch," it must have been exciting to see the star of old and the star of new play­ing.on the same court. 


Others in the Super Bowl's history have been just as memorable, such as the "Bud. Weis. Errr" ad. featuring the Budweiser frogs and chameleons in 1995. "Terry Tate: Office Linebacker" also terrorized offices for Reebok in 2003, back when the Raiders were actu­ally good. 
Hopefully this year's Super Bowl will be a great game on the field. Even more importantly for some people, the com­mercials had better be up to snuff. Like last year's "magic fridge" that gave everyone an ice-cold Budweiser, this year does not seem like it will disappoint. Enjoy the game and enjoy watching the commercials on YouTube afterward. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroe 1 @nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
DVD REVIEW 
Cheesiness, horror reign in 'Snakes on a Plane' 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Edi ror 
"Snakes on a Plane" wasn't quite the blockbuster hit that New Line Cinema was hoping for, but -like most cult classics -its reputation could grow with the home release version. The DVD edi­tion of the movie that's so bad it's good isn't fancy or loaded with extras, but like Samuel L. Jackson's character in the film, it gets the job done. 
The plot follows Agent Neville Flynn (Samuel L. Jackson) as he works to pro­tect Sean Jones (Nathan Phillips), a surfer dude who witnesses murder at the hands of crime boss Eddie Kim (Byron Lawson). Flynn accompanies Jones on an overnight flight from Hawaii to California, but little do they know that Kim has released poisonous snakes onto the plane in order to prevent Jones from testifying against him. 
Sound silly? It is. Actually, though, "Snakes on a Plane" really isn't as bad as it might appear to be. In fact, as a 

to imagine snake attacks that aren't
Snakes on a Plane 
gruesome, some viewers will wish that they weren't so
New Line Home Video 
explicit. 
The DVD is pretty much what could be expected. A movie like "Snakes on Plane" doesn't need a slew of pure thriller, it's quite a bit better than a lot of films that take themselves too seri­ously ("Speed," anyone?). "Snakes on a Plane" may be a bit kitschy, yes, but it never feels forced. The actors, especially Jackson, play it with a straight face, though there's the slightest hint of a wink behind Flynn's scowling facade. The plot's semblance of logic works for the most part, and the characters have the good sense to question it when it doesn't. 


In reality, though, the plot is jut an excuse to get Jackson on a plane with snakes. Sure, it's goofy, but it's also fun, an element that's missing in a lot of modern action movies. Director David R. Ellis' previous work was mostly as a stunt coordinator, and he puts that expe­rience to good use. The film has a nice blend of action and humor, and several of the action set pieces are surprisingly well done. 
The film is also surprisingly violent, with several memorable death scenes and a few particularly graphic sequences. Some of the violence is 
excessive, and 
although it's hard 


fancy special features as long as the image and sound quality are acceptable, and New Line's DVD edition is better than decent. The 6.1 DTS track is sur­prisingly immersive, with strong use of surround and deep bass. The special features include a commentary, a dis­pensable "making-of' featurette, deleted scenes, music videos and a blooper reel. None of the features are particularly outstanding and most are for "Snakes on a Plane" enthusiasts only. It's hard to imagine that a film like this requires a "special edition" DVD, so the current edition should be more than adequate for most casual fans. 
"Snakes on a Plane" is by no means a great (or even a good) film, but it obvi­ously doesn't want to be. Like a thrill ride, it's cheap, fun and expendable. It's self-aware enough to know it shouldn't be taken seriously, but it's not self-con­scious to the point of distraction. "Snakes on a Plane" does what it does very well, and in that regard, it should be taken on its own terms. Besides, what's really more fun than watching Samuel L. Jackson ward off poisonous snakes with a spork? 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
------.-----, 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 30, 2007 
NBA 

Garnett helps T-wolves snap Suns' win streak 
Rockets dish out season-high 31 assists and hold third straight opponent under 85 points in easy win over Sixers 
Associated Press making them have to deal with for most of his seven years in me. I will continue to take that the league, hit a fallaway 
MINNEAPOLIS -The hard­approach." jumper just outside the lane to driving Phoenix Suns had been Raja Bell scored 26 points and cap an 8-0 run, then gave blowing through the NBA in Steve Nash had 20 points and Minnesota a 112-107 lead with January, piling up points, high­18 assists for the Suns, who 3:38 to play after he scooped up lights and victories at break­were looking to tie for the a rebound and laid it in. neck speed. fourth-longest winning streak in Garnett followed with a twist­
They finished the month just NBA history. ing, turning fadeaway on the one win away from perfection But one night after downipg baseline that brought the crowd after crashing into a 6-foot-11 LeBron James and the to its feet. road block named Kevin Cleveland Cavaliers for No. 17 Yet the Suns handled their Garnett. in a row, the Suns couldn't find first loss since a 101-99 defeat 
Garnett almost single-handed­an answer for Garnett and at Dallas on Dec. 28 much the ly snapped the Suns' 17-game uncharacteristically lost their way they handled the 17 wins winning streak, scoring 44 offensive mojo in the fourth that preceded it -with a col­points and grabbing 11 quarter. lective shrug and "aw shucks." rebounds in Minnesota's 121-After scoring 95 points in the "It was cool while it lasted," 112 victory on Monday night. first three quarters, Phoenix Bell said. 
"People who say he can't managed just 19 in the fourth carry the load, take a look at and looked a little stagnant. Houston 105, Philadelphia 84 this game film," new Nash dissected the Wolves' The Houston Rockets have Timberwolves coach Randy defense for the first three quar­relied mostly on their stingy Wittman said. ters, piling up assists at a near­defense since Yao Ming broke 
The All-Star forward, some­record pace. But he scored just his right leg last month. times criticized for not coming three points on 1-of-6 shooting They added some sharp pass­up big in the clutch, was every­and had just one assist in a final ing on Monday night and routed where in the final period period that belonged to Garnett. the Philadelphia 76ers. against the Suns, dropping "Better to lose that way than Tracy McGrady scored 2 5 turnaround jumper after turn­to lose when we beat our­points before sitting out the around jumper to give Phoenix selves," Nash said. "Kevin was fourth quarter and Rafer Alston its first loss of 2007. sensational. We just didn't had nine of Houston's season­
He scored 15 points in the make shots at the end at the high 31 assists in the Rockets' fourth, including a looping fall­clip Kevin was making them." victory. away from the baseline that The Suns were in deep trou­"We were moving the ball and gave Minnesota a 118-109 lead ble midway through the fourth getting everybody involved," with 1:55 to play, and put quarter thanks to three big said McGrady, who also had five Wittman on the way to a win in shots by Garnett and some dirty assists. "When you get out to a his home debut. work on the boards by Mark great lead like that, it's fun to 
"It's just about being a pres­Madsen. just sit back and watch." 

ence," Garnett said. "It's about Madsen, an offensive liability Juwan Howard added 20 they got easy shots all night," lot of double-and triple-teams. points, 10 rebounds and six Philadelphia coach Maurice Tonight he was able to beat a assists as the Rockets held an Cheeks said. "They played very lot of them." opponent to 85 points or fewer good defense and our defense Woodson said the Hawks hope for the third straight game. wasn't where we wanted it. to have point guard Speedy Houston, which leads the "Everything we did didn't Claxton return to practice league in scoring defense, beat work and everything they did Tuesday. Claxton, who was Portland 99-69 on Friday night. worked." expected to be the team's 
The Rockets are 12-6 since starter, has missed 10 straight Yao's injury. Yao is expected to Atlanta 93, Orlando 83 games with a sore left knee. return in late February. Joe Johnson's 13th 30-point Overall, he has missed 15 
"We're working on being a game, and third in three wins games with sore knees this sea­great team," Alston said. "When this season against Orlando, left son. Yao Ming gets back, that could Atlanta coach Mike Woodson Meanwhile, backup point tell it all, how good we are and wondering how good his lead­guard Tyronn Lue played in his are we going to go from good to ing scorer would be if he played fourth game since missing 16 of great." with the same point guard all 17 games with a groin injury. 
Houston smothered the 76ers the time. Lue started and played 26 min­after Philadelphia hit 10 of 20 Johnson scored 32 of his 34 utes Monday night "and that's shots in the first quarter. The points in the second half to help too many for him," Woodson 76ers went 24-for-68 (35 per­the Hawks answer a third-quar­said. cent) the rest of the way and ter challenge and beat the Woodson said the team may were outrebounded 48-39 in Magic on Monday night. have to look for help at the the game. Orlando lost its third straight, position because Johnson often 
Samuel Dalembert had 13 including two to Atlanta in four has to fill in as the point guard. points and 11 rebounds and days. The Magic have lost eight "We've got to probably start Andre Iguodala scored 19 of its last nine. thinking about another point points for Philadelphia, which The Hawks won the season guard," Woodson said. had won three of its previous series against Orlando 3-1. Johnson said he doesn't four games. Johnson scored 31, 39 and 34 change his play against 
The Sixers trailed by 24 at points in the three wins and Orlando. halftime and by 38 after three only 16 points in the one loss. ''I'm just taking what the quarters before Houston coach "That makes life easy -if he defense gives me," Johnson Jeff Van Gundy mercifully can do it every night," Woodson said. "It's not that I'm coming pulled his starters. said. "He's our go-to guy and out thinking about them. I just 
"We didn't move the ball and they key on him and he gets a come out to play." 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
CASHIERS NEEDED. APPLY IN 
PERSON. UNIVERSITY MARATHON, 405 933N IN ROSE­LAND. HOURS WILL VARY AND NO CALLS. 
Local family looking for a babysitter. Preferably looking for a freshman or sophomore. References required. Experience a must! Transportation necessary. Call (574) 247-9213. 
FoR RENT 
House available for 2007-2008. Very Large, Close to Campus, Just Renovated. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 
Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5 bdrm, 3 bath homes, frpls, 2-car garages. Call 574-232-4527 or 269­683-5038. 
andersonNDrentals.com 
Newly remodeled 3 and 4 bdrm houses available for sale/rent. Contact Meredith Allsop, Milligan Real Estate 220-9817. 
Luxury town home, walk to NO. 3or4 bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. $600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569. 
Furn home avail. 2/15 to 8/15. Walk to Univ. Call 561-596-0194. 
BETIER HOMES,BETIER AREAS,BETIER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 

2 bdrm condo JPW & Grad wknds. 1 mi to NO. 614-985-5003. 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.$245/PER­SON/M0.574-329-0308 
FoR SALE 
2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR­QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE OWNER, $6,500. CALL 243-5454. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Ballin' "Prison gates won't open up for me On these hands and knees I'm crawl in'. Oh, I reach for you. Well I'm terrified of these four walls These iron bars can't hold my soul. All I need is you. Come please I'm callin'. And oh I scream for you Hurry I'm fallin', I'm fallin' Show me what it's like To be the last one standing And teach me wrong from right And I'll show you what I can be Say it for me Say it to me And l'llleave this life behind me Say it if it's worth saving me" 
-Chris Gill 





OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, January 30, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 13 
AP Jockey Edgar Prado rides Barbaro to victory in the 2006 Kentucky Derby. Barbaro was put down Monday, eight months after breaking a leg in the Preakness. 
Barbaro euthanized after leg -worsens 
Men's Basketball. Associated Press Top 26 
team retof.d {ioiiits 

1 Florida (45) 19·2 . '''1773 2 Wisconsin (24) 214 • ',,1134 3 North Carolina (3) 1g:;2 1672 4 Ohio State 18·3 1545 5 UClA 18-Z 1482 6 Kansas 18·3 1414 7 Pittsburgh 1H 1330 a Duke 18·3 1211.' 
9 Oregon 19-2 1209 10 TexasA&M 17-3 1197 11 Memphis 17-3 1086. 12 Oklahoma State 18·3 1923 13 Butler 19-2 933> 14 Marquette 19·4 903 15 Nevada 19-2 7~6 16 Virginia Tech 16•5 .608 17 Air Force 19;3 506 18 Washington State 17-4 483 19 Alabama 1H 305 20 Arizona 14-6 282: 21 NOTRE DAME 1H··· 236 22 Texas 15·5 209 23 Stanlord 14'S 208 24 Vanderbilt 15-'i 200 25 Clemson 18~4 188 
Men's Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team 

1 Florida (26) 2 Wisconsin (4) 3 North Carolina {1 ) 4 Ohio State 5 UCLA 6 Kansas 1 Pittsburgh 8 Te•asA&M 9 Oregon 10 Duke 11 Butler 12 Memphis 13 Nevada 14 Oklalloina state 15 Marquette 16 Air Force 17 Washiligton State 18 Virginia Teell 19 NOTRE DAME 20 Alabama 21 Clemson 22 Arizona 23 Texas 24 Kentucky 25 Indiana 
team 

1 Pittsburgh 8-1 2 Marquette 6'-2 3 Geprgetown $'2 4 louisville $'2 5 NOTRE DAME s.~a 6 West Virginia 5-3 7 Syracuse 4-3 8 Providence 4-3 9 Villanova 3d) 10 Seton Hall 3-5 11 St. John's 3c5 12 DePaul 3-5 13 Connecticut H 14 Snuth Florida 2-6 15 Rutgers 2-6 16 Cincinnati 1-5 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Michigan State at Illinois 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 
Nashville at Colorado 8 p.m., Versus 
HORSE RACING 


Associated Press 
KENNETT SQUARE, Pa. -So many people felt a stake in Barbaro's recov­ery. They imagined his pain, grimaced each time he faltered, took heart as each day passed and he was still alive, making painfully slow progress. 
The 2006 Kentucky Derby winner's fight for survival was their fight, a symbol of strength, courage and comfort ­and, more than anything else, a source of inspira­tion. 
He was, after all, win­ner of the world's most famous race, in a sport desperate for a superstar. 
IN BRIEF 
Bonds finalizes one-year deal 
with Giants 
SAN FRANCISCO -Barry Bonds and the San Francisco Giants com­pleted a $15.8 million, one-year con­tract Monday night after the slugger spent hours at the ballpark being examined by team doctors. 
A baseball official confirmed the deal, speaking on condition of anonymity because the Giants had not yet announced it. 
The contract was finalized nearly two months after the sides reached agreement on fmancial terms Dec. 7, the final day of baseball's winter meetings. Bonds had to pass a physi­cal, and the parties had to work out complicated language regarding Bonds' behavior and what would hap­pen if the slugger were to be indicted. 
A federal grand jury is investigating whether Bonds perjured himself when he testified in 2003 in the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative steroid distribution case.. 

For months he seemed, remarkably, to take everything that came at him: good and bad. 
Finally, it was too much. 
Barbaro was eutha­nized Monday after com­plications from his grue­some breakdown at last year~ Preakness, ending an eight-month ordeal that made him even more of a hero than he was as a champion on the track. 
"Certainly, grief is the price we all pay for love," co-owner Gretchen Jackson said. 
A series of ailments ­including laminitis in the left rear hoof, an abscess in the right rear hoof, as 
Army football coach Ross 
retires after three seasons 
WEST POINT, N.Y. -Bobby Ross retired Monday as Army's football coach, and without a victory over Navy in his three seasons with the Black Knights. 
The former NFL coach, who had a 9-25 record at Army, will be succeed­ed by offensive line coach Stan Brock. 
"I think there's a point in time when you feel like it's your time to retire, and I think I've reached that time," the 70-year-old Ross said in a state­ment. "I think there is an issue of having a certain degree of energy, which I feel is very important for any­one leading a college football pro­gram. I feel that I was lacking in that area." 
Army athletic director Kevin Anderson said Ross told him of his decision on Thursday night. 
"He came back from a recruiting trip and had to go home because he was ill," Anderson said. 
well as new laminitis in both front feet -proved too much for the gallant colt. Barbaro was given a heavy dose of a tranquil­izer and an overdose of an anesthetic and put down at 10:30 a.m. 
"I really didn't think it was appropriate to con­tinue treatment because the probability of getting better was so poor," said Dr. Dean Richardson, chief of surgery at the New Bolton Center. 
Richardson, fighting back tears, added: "Barbaro had many, many good days." 
The bay colt underwent nearly two dozen surger­ies and other procedures, 

Raiders hire Knapp as 
offensive coordinator 
ALAMEDA, Calif. -The Raiders hired former Atlanta offensive coordi­nator Greg Knapp to fill the same job in Oakland, giving first-year coach Lane Kiffm an experienced coordina­tor to ease his transition from college to the NFL. 
Knapp spent the previous three sea­sons with the Falcons before being let go when coach Jim Mora was fired after the season and replaced by Bobby Petrino. Knapp ran a West Coast offense in Atlanta that struggled at times to work with quarterback Michael Vick. 
"I've been familiar with his success coaching in this league for some time now," Kiffin said in a statement. "He shares the same vision and passion for what it will take to bring an explosive offense back to the Raider Nation." 
Kiffm said at his introductory news conference that he would call the plays in Oakland. 
including cast changes under anesthesia. He spent time in a sling to ease pressure on his legs, had pins inserted and was fitted at the end with an external brace ­extraordinary measures for injuries that most horses never survive. 
Weeks of positive reports turned into months. Barbaro was eyeing the mares, nicker­ing, gobbling up his feed and trying to walk out of his stall. But Richardson warned there still could be trouble, and by mid­July, his greatest fear became reality -lamini­tis struck Barbaro's left hind leg. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 30, 2007 
SOCCER 

Great Expectations: A tale of two Ronaldos 
World Cup champion and two-time Fifa player of the year Ronalda reportedly headed to AC Milan for 7 million euros 
Associated Press 17. club hasn't won a title in three The teenager would collect seasons. Ronaldo's expected 
LONDON -They share the passes from 30 yards out, glide departure to Milan follows that of same name and are famous for past two or three defenders and Luis Figo, Zinedine Zidane and, bamboozling defenders and scor­then sidestep the goalkeeper eventually, David Beckham out of ing memorable goals. before rolling the ball into an Madrid. 
In one case, make that "was" empty net. With goals like that, Milan manager Carlo Ancelotti famous. Ronaldo helped Brazil get to the is determined to make some use of 
While the fast, sleek, free-scor­final of the 1998 World Cup in Ronaldo and isn't worried about ing Cristiano Ronaldo is expected France. But a mystery illness the striker's extra weight. to become the world's best player, made him a virtual spectator as "Ronaldo is not fat," he said. the more famous Ronaldo is over­the team lost to France 3-0. "He is a very robust player. I think weight and struggling to keep his Although a serious knee injury his problem is the fact that in career going. sidelined him for almost two recent times, he has not had much 
Cristiano Ronaldo's 13 goals for years, he returned to play a lead­motivation. From a physical point Manchester United have helped ing part in Brazil's fifth World Cup of view, he hasn't trained much the Red Devils move six points triwnph in Japan in 2002. His two because he has been excluded ahead of defending champion goals in the final against Germany from Real Madrid's team and he Chelsea in the English Premier took his leading tally for the World has lost motivation in training. League. After being jeered for his Cup 2002 to eight. "But he remains a gTeat player. part in Wayne Rooney's red card When he returned four years In the last five years at Real, he when Portugal beat England in later, Ronaldo added three more has scored almost 100 goals. No the World Cup quarterfinals, even to set a World Cup record with 15 one in the world has done that." rival fans now accept that the goals. But the 2006 World Cup While one Ronaldo leaves winger, who turns 21 next showed that Ronaldo had slowed Madrid, the other could be on the Monday, has the potential to fol­and was losing the deft touches way. low his namesake as a soccer that made him a star. Brazil went Cristiano Ronaldo is a transfer superstar. out in the quarterfinals and he target for the Spanish club, player had been shown a red replacement for Beckham, lauds 
At 30, the Brazilian Ronaldo is hasn't played for the national although Manchester United val­card, Ronaldo winked at his him for defying the jeers and beat­almost Gone-aldo. team since. ues him highly. But before the sea­bench. ing defenders again and again. Ronaldo, on the verge of going Brazil coach Dunga doesn't see son started, it looked as if he was Now Cristiano Ronaldo is a tar­"I hope they carry on booing 
to six-time European champion Ronaldo as fit or sharp enough to on the way out at Old Tratlord. get for the opposition fans who him," Ferguson said. "He is such a AC Milan, has lost his touch and add anything to his team, and the Rooney was sent off at the blame him for Rooney's red card. danger to defenders because he speed and has been slowed by an striker's poor form and succession World Cup for stomping on the But that only seems to spur him. doesn't just beat men, he has the expanding waistline. ofinjuries has also kept him out of groin of Portugal defender Hicardo "There's only one Ronaldo," sing desire and drive not to give in 
After more than 10 years at the the Real Madrid lineup. Carvalho during a challenge for the Red Devils fans. And United when they foul him. No one enjoys top, the two-time FIFA player of Although he was on a star-stud­the ball. Ronaldo ran over to com­manager Alex Ferguson, who playing against someone like that. the year is a shadow of the star ded lineup nicknamed "galacticos" plain to the referee about Rooney's bought the winger from Sporting I am sure Cristiano is already one who burst onto the soccer scene at by Ma-drid, the famous Spanish challenge and, after the England Lisbon three years ago as a of the best players in the world." 


The Observer is currently accepting applications for the 2007-08 term for the following positions: 
Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor 
News Editor, Sports Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Scene Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, Graphics Editor, Advertising Manager, Ad Design Manager, Controller, Web Administrator AND Systems Manager. 
APPLICANTS FOR MANAGING EDITOR AND ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR SHOULD DEMONSTRATE STRONG JOURNALISTIC AND··MANAGEMENT SKILLS .• A.NJN·DEPTH UNDERSTANDING OF NEWSPAPER PRODUCTION, INCLUDING SKILLS IN MICROSOFT WORD, QUARK XPRESS AND PHOTOSHOP,.IS REQUIRED EXPERIENCE WITH MACINTOSH COMPUTERS IS HELPFUL. 
APPLICATIONS FOR MANAGING EDITOR AND ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR SHOULD BE I 2 PAGES AND SHOULD EXPLAIN THE APPLICANT'S QUALIFICATIONS AND GOALS. APPLICATIONS FOR ALL OTHER POS~TIONS SHOULD BE AT LEAST FIVE PAGES. 
MANAGING EDlTORANDASSISTANTMANAGING EDITOR APPLICATIONS ARE DUE BY 5 P.M. FRIDAY, FEB. 2, WHILE APPLICATIONS FOR OTHER POSITIONS ARE DUE BY 5 P.M. SUNDAY, FEB. 4· ALL APPLICATIONS SHOULD BE SUBMITTED TO MADDIE HANNA IN THR0BSERVER OFFICE, LOCATED IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL BASEMENT. 
PLEASE DIRECT QUESTIONS ABOUT THESE POSITIONS ORTHE APPLICATION PROCEDURE TO MADDIE HANNA AT 63I· 
454TAND MIKE GrtLOON AT63r·4542. 


~ ~----------­
Tuesday, January 30, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Pittsburgh tops 'Nova to reach 20-win mark 
Cambell, Green lead way for Butler, allow starters some rest in Bulldogs' win over Illinois-Chicago 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -With its inside game stifled, Pitt got its transition offense going just in time. 
Levance Fields scored 20 points and Aaron Gray had 14 points and 10 rebounds, leading No. 7 Pittsburgh over Villanova 65-59 on Monday night. 
Antonio Graves had 13 points, including a clutch 3-pointer in the closing minutes, to help the Panthers {20-3, 8-1 in Big East) win for the 1Oth time in 11 games. Pitt set a school record by reaching the 20-win mark for the sixth consecutive sea­son. 
"It was great to make some adjustments," Pitt coach Jamie Dixon said. "We were playing stationary. We got better move­ment and more penetration in the second half." 
Curtis Sumpter scored 21 points for Villanova {14-7, 3-5). The Wildcats were seeking their third victory over a ranked opponent this month. 
Fields' fastbreak layup broke a 4 7 -all tie with 6:03 left and Pitt led the rest of the way. Another layup by Fields follow­ing a turnover made it 51-4 7. 
Mike Nardi's layup cut it to 54-51. After a turnover, Nardi banked one in just before the shot clock expired to cut the deficit to 54-53. 
But Graves hit a 3-pointer and Fields added another 3 to give Pitt a 60-55 lead with 51 sec­onds remaining. 
The 7 -foot Gray then blocked Sumpter's shot and Graves iced it with a pair of free throws. 
FOR GAY & LESBIAN 


Core Council at the Green Room_·.··· 
For Gay, Lesbian. Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesdays, Jan. 30, Feb. 13, 20 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. Green Room, 2nd Floor LaFortune 
The Core Council invites you to drop in for conversation and good company. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
"We had great defensive pos­sessions there," Villanova coach Jay Wright said. "A couple times they were stuck, but they just kicked it out and those two (Fields and Graves) bit big shots that were contested." 
Villanova beat then-No. 21 Notre Dame on Jan. 17 and defeated then No. 21 Texas three days later. The Wildcats used a matchup zone most of the game, and trapped quite effectively in the first half. 
But Pitt turned to its little man -Fields -in the second half instead of relying on Gray. 
Gray credited the backcourt for making tough shots at cru­cial times. 
"We're not a team of just Aaron Gray," he said. "They should get a lot of attention. I would never underestimate them." 
Pitt took its first lead since before the midpoint of the first half when Keith Benjamin hit a 3-pointer to make it 38-37 with 12:21left. 
Benjamin sank another 3 to extend the lead to 43-37 a few minutes later. Nardi finally ended Pitt's 12-0 run with a 3­pointer, and Scottie Reynolds' driving layup tied it at 45. 
Villanova turned the ball over on five of seven possessions during Pitt's run. 
"A couple breakdowns here or there is the difference," Nardi said. "They never stopped playing." 
Butler 71, Illinois-Chicago 45 
Getting its starters some needed rest was Butler's moti­vation and its reward. 
ORE CO NCIL 


Pete Campbell scored 17 points, Mike Green added 16 and the No. 13 Bulldogs, play­ing the third of four games in a seven-day stretch, routed Illinois-Chicago on Monday night. 
"That was pretty important," Campbell, the Bulldogs' top reserve and a 3-point specialist, said of the shared playing time in which all 12 players saw action. "It kind of feels like we're in the NBA now. You get an understanding how those guys feel playing a game every other night. 
"But enough of us did our jobs so the starters could get some rest. It was just a good team effort," Campbell said. 
The Bulldogs (20-2, 8-1 Horizon League), reaching 20 victories in the fewest number of games in school history, fin­ish their busy stretch Wednesday night at Youngstown State. Butler beat Youngstown 67-39 two weeks ago. 
Against UIC, the Bulldogs hit their first five field goals, 3­pointers by five different play­ers, took a 39-16 lead at half­time, built it to as many as 33 points in the second half and coasted the rest of the way, eas­ily avenging their only confer­ence loss of the season. 
Nobody played more than 29 minutes for Butler. 
"I hope that's the case," coach Todd Lickliter said of the benefit of being able to rest his players. "That's the way we saw it at the time. We thought it would be a good thing. There's been a lot of travel." 
Kansas 76, Nebraska 56 
Nebraska fans were urged to show up early and make Monday night's game against sixth-ranked Kansas a "red out." 
It turned out to be a blowout. 

The Jayhawks held Nebraska scoreless for almost 14 minutes in the first half, using a 27-0 run to fuel a victory. 
Kansas owns the record for most lopsided win by a Nebraska opponent -102-46 in 1958 -and it looked as if the Jayhawks would threaten that 56-point margin after going up 39-6. 
As the game got further out of hand, fans began to sarcasti­cally cheer Kansas' missed shots and Nebraska's rebounds. When Jay-R Strawbridge's layup ended a scoring drought that lasted nearly 14 minutes, much of the crowd rose to cheer the occasion. 
"We didn't plan to come and blow them out," said Brandon Rush, who led the Jayhawks with 20 points. "They weren't making no shots, and our shots were falling. The first 17 min­utes the crowd was quiet. They were happy when they made a shot at the end. It was kind of funny." 
The Jayhawks (19-3, 6-1 Big 

12) won for the 13th time in 14 games. Their 16th win in 17 meetings with Nebraska gave them a half-game lead over Texas A&M and Texas in the conference. The Huskers (12-8, 1-5) lost their third straight. 
Nebraska's first appearance in 11 years on ESPN's "Big Monday" had fans in a partying mood. The school's athletic marketing department encour­aged them to show up early and to wear their red. 
The Jayhawks took the crowd right out of the game. 
Julian Wright, who had 13 of his 17 points in the first half, scored the first eight for Kansas. Then Rush hit two quick 3s to break open a 12-6 game and start the decisive run. 
"That's about as well as you can execute," KU coach Bill Self said. "That's about the best 17 minutes a team can play. We didn't play as well after the first 17-18 minutes. We kind of lost focus." 
Ryan Anderson made six 3­pointers and led Nebraska with 19 points. There were no other highlights for the Huskers, who managed only one offensive rebound and were outrebound­ed47-21. .. 
"I thought we were ready to play someone like that. The fact of the matter is, we were scared," first-year Nebraska coach Doc Sadler said. "I've never had a team that was scared. I don't know if it was because it was on TV or what it was." 
Nebraska played KU on even terms much of the second half. The Huskers, who trailed by 35 points in the first half, got the deficit down to 20 in the final minute. 
Aleks Marie, Nebraska's sea­son scoring leader, missed his only two shots of the first half and was held to nine points. 
"We wanted to take them out early," Rush said. "We wanted to take the head off by attack­ing Aleks, which we did." 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 30, 2007 
SuPER BowL 
Tested Grossman at ease 
Bear's up-and-down quarterback under Manning's bright spotlight 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Rex Grossman's base­ball cap was on backwards and there was some beard stubble on his face. Less than a week before the Super Bowl, the Chicago Bears quarterback was relaxed and at ease. 
''I'm having a blast," he said Monday. · 
Grossman was thoughtful as he answered questions during a press conference. After all, there's prac­tically nothing he hasn't been asked this season. He's absorbed criticism, heard the calls to bench him and then did enough to help the Bears get to the NFL title game. 
"When I was drafted, one of the first things that people told me was that the backup quarterback was the most popular player in town," he joked. 
Despite Grossman's up-and­games, but I'm happy where I'm down season -excellent at times, at. I'm at the Super Bowl." abysmal at others -the Bears still Grossman's season bottomed out won 15 games and earned a date in the fmale against the Packers with the Indianapolis Colts on when he had a quarterback rating Sunday. That's where he'll really of 0.0 and then admitted after the be in the spotlight, playing the 26-7loss he didn't prepare as well same position as Peyton Manning. as he should have. 
"I would love to play more con­He regrouped to pass for 282 sistent so that they know what to yards in a victory over Seattle in expect, everyone knows what to the Bears' first playoff game. And expect. I know I can do that," he was just good enough in the Grossman said. NFC championship game against 
"In my first full season I've had the Saints, hitting four straight about 12 games, including the passes during a key second-half playoffs, I'm really proud of. And scoring drive as the Bears made about six -five or six -that I'm the Super Bowl for the first time in really not proud of. They were 21 years. . bad. I need to work on those six Grossman was the NFC offensive 
NASCAR 

player of the month for September and the Bears rushed to a quick start. Some even whispered he was on the path to an MVP season with the offense looking so potent. 
But in a Monday night outing at Arizona -the Bears' sixth game -Grossman threw four intercep­tions before Chicago rallied to win 24-23. He also had shaky games in losses against the Dolphins and Patriots, and another weak one against the VIkings, when his QB rating was 1.3. 
Despite the boos raining down at Soldier Field and cries for backup Brian Griese increasing, Bears coach Lovie Smith stuck with Grossman. 

Montoya proves multi-talented 
Columbian Formula One star grabs first-ever NASCAR victory 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-When Juan Pablo Montoya grabbed his first major victory since fleeing Formula One, it solidified just what a special talent the Cololilbian is. 
But the win Sunday by his Chip Ganassi Racing team in the Rolex 24 at Daytona -the most presti­gious sports car event in North America -also raised questions about what reasonable expecta­tions there should be on Montoya during his first full season in NASCAR. 
Maybe he won't struggle nearly as much as everyone expects. Perhaps the switch to stock cars will be fairly seamless. 
And maybe, just maybe, Montoya will be pretty darned good. 
Slow down just a little bit, car OWIJer Chip Ganassi warned Monday, and don't start engraving Montoya's name on the Nextel Cup trophy just yet. 
"In terms of his stock -car career, we are still in the bottom of the second inning," Ganassi said. "That's just being realistic of where we are at." 
Give Ganassi credit for refusing to get sucked into the Montoya hype, which was ratcheted up after the Rolex win tied Montoya with Mario Andretti as the only drivers to win the Indianapolis 500, a CART title, a Formula One race and the Daytona sports car endurance event. 
And as the racing world debated just what this victory actually proves, Ganassi matter-of-factly rebuked any notion that it will translate into a blazing start to the NASCAR season. 
"This was a big win, no doubt, a huge feather in his cap," Ganassi said. "And maybe this shows that he's a fast learner. But I really don't think there's much of a con­nection between the Rolex and Cup. He's still learning a new craft and he's still got a long way to go." 
That tempering of expectations has been limited to the Ganassi camp in the six months since Montoya made the radical deci­sion to leave F1 for NASCAR, which is widely ridiculed in the European racing circles that made Montoya both rich and famous. 
After all, going round and round in circles can't really be that diffi­cult, right? At least that's the atti­tude seven-time world champion Michael Schumacher took when asked about Montoya's move. 
"Personally, I wouldn't do it," Schumacher told the New York Times. "What do you do in NASCAR? What is exciting there? I can't see that, running around on ovals." 
If it's as easy as Schumacher believes, then Montoya should be an instant success. But Montoya has tried to put the brakes on that notion. 
"People don't understand what a big challenge this style of racing is," he said. "It's not an easy tran­sition." 
No, it isn't. Which is why anyone who truly understands racing realizes that Montoya will have his ups and downs in NASCAR, and winning a road course event at Daytona will have little carryover into the season-opening Daytona 500. 
To be successful in the 500, Montoya will have to master the intricacies of restrictor-plate rac­ing, understand the draft and learn the dangerous art of bump­drafting -something only a handful of NASCAR drivers are truly adept at. 
Assuming he can figure all of that out, Montoya still must con­vince his fellow competitors that he has not· only grasped it, but that he won't screw it up over the 500-mile event. If he can't do that, and no other driver trusts him enough to work with him on the track, then Montoya won't stand a chance at Daytona. 
Jeff Gordon, a three-time Daytona 500 winner, smartly tried to gauge Montoya's skill during preseason practice there earlier this month. Although he thinks Montoya understands it, Gordon said the verdict will be out until Speedweeks. 


2 Days Left!!! Hurry!!
Enroll in January and get FREE extra prep! 
/' MCAT .,\ LSAT' \
r--'"··-·-......,,,,.... ,...,-.........,.....1 '''''''' ,, ....,......,1 
! Double your MCAT 
Two free hou~s of 
I 

! prep for FREE-up to a l pnvate tutonng i $1749value!' i -a $250 value!' 
kaptesLrom/mr.at 

, ......... ka~te~tc~~/ls~t __ ./; 
GMAT 
GRE 
Free GMAT Quiz Bank 

free GRE Quiz Bank ... a $199 value!' 
.... a $199 value!' 
kaptest.com/gmat 
kaptest.com/gre 
Enroll in a Kaplan course before January 31" 
Higher test scores 
to take advantage of these special offers! 
guaranteed or your 
money back:·
1·800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com 

'1fl~t rt!tma~ orll Mg:~.tttrllrl t!a<H!m:;rk l)flht!tr r~~~w~ llWIIfl!'S tM~~ ttrrml: in IJ!I M<:~l: Gl:tf:, GMAl or I.S.t.T ('.,l:;woom, Cia~ +5, Extrema. Mll!m;;ed Cours.e, Prtomcum Oni1ne CcuroJe. ::,r Hi·, 2$.. o.-.3S..houtll.!l·:·nng program in the Un:ted <:;;ate!>, Pue>1c· R~. or Cam;da t>etween January ~ aM Jan~,:sry 3:. 2007 Fr~ LSATTu1.Ctlt1ll musl btl' 10daemed tsv April1 1001 MCAT M.OI~<'!g stuear.ls ma'jt"ePf;lfltt!:"' ChlSS~uom ~I.H¥-l only. Ca:"'ncl ~ w:~ts;ne!] w~h auy nti:ar ffifllf, r<Wa!N d!~:»;.otm!. o: fJtnmchort ·~CtmdiCfY.IS 9ll1t: r~!'.tr:ctlfJ~ ar.pty FN (':(l!r!p:ffl"a gU<tlantea allgihll~t)' !mJ;,Il!mllt!rrl.s YI:Sit ~apta,.;;.1. U'!l:;,lhlig. 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 6 PM CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
for more information about the Peace Corps, visit www.peacecorps.gov or call312.353.4990 
Tuesday, January 30, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
turn to freshman point guard Tory Jackson and senior

Orange 
guard Russell Carter to drive 

continued from page 20 into the lane to disrupt the zone and allow the Irish offense to flow. Carter is aver­
Also important for the Irish aging 18.4 points per game will be Notre Dame's ability to this season, second in the Big shoot over the Syracuse zone. East. Without suspended point Brey said Jackson, who has guard Kyle shot just 15.6 McAlarney, most percent from of the long range "It's important that behind the arc, duties will fall to will especially
Tory [Jackson] gets 

senior guard need to pene­
in the lane and

Colin Falls. trate. 
Fails scored 2 3 makes a play. " "Our team points against changed from a Villanova and is shooting point
Mike Brey 

averaging 13.3 guard to a driv­
Irish coach 

points per game ing point guard despite being lim-when we went ited at times this from McAlarney season by a stomach virus to Jackson," Brey said. "It's and foot injury. important that Tory gets in "l-Ie's due to get in a rhythm the lane and makes a play." now," Brey said of Falls. The Orange (15-6, 4-3 Big "Between his foot and the East) are coming off a 76-71 virus, he's had some things loss to Louisville Saturday that have set him back. But and have dropped two he's due for a hot streak straight games in conference. now." A loss could drop them as low 
Additional out­as sixth in the side shooting Big East after may come from being alone in
"[Falls is] due to

sophomore Ryan second on Jan. Ayers, Brey said get in a rhythm 20. Saturday. Ayers now. Syracuse is led is averaging just by forward 
2.5 points per Demetris Nichols, game, but he hit Mike Brey who is averaging a key 3-pointer Irish coach ' a Big East-lead­Saturday late in ing 18.5 points the game. per game, and 
"[Ayers] really guard Eric has shot well in practice, but Devendorf, who adds 13.5 of he hadn't shot well in games," his own. Brey said. "But to hit that Tonight's game will be tele­three ... hopefully that was a vised by ESPNU. coming out party." 
If the outside shots aren't Contact Chris Khorey at falling, the Irish will likely ckhorey@nd.edu 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
wins alone. They have separat­
ed themselves as one of the 
truly legitimate teams that have 
the ingredients necessary to 
make a run for the national title 
game, with their suffocating 
defense, well-rounded forward · lines and Hobey Baker gem, 
goalie Dave Brown. 
Ever since the Irish drop­
kicked No.1 Boston College into 
Boston Harbor with a 7-1 
trouncing in their third game of 
the year, the team has steadily 
ground up each traditional 
hockey powerhouse it encoun­
tered -both at home and on 
the road. The only hiccup came 
in a 2-0 road loss to top-1 0 
Michigan State -hardly a rea­
son to jump ship. 

And on Saturday night with an 
Indiana snowstorm swirling out­
side the Joyce, the Irish forced 
last year's regular season cham­
pion RedHawks to glumly wade 
through post-game chats with 
family and friends before board­
ing the bus for what must have 
been a never-ending drive back 
to Oxford, Ohio. 
The game that night ended in 
a 2-2 tie and was everything 
that Friday's thrilling 4-1 win 
wasn't-slow, uninspired and 
boring -but the fact that it 
ended in a draw at all is reason 
enough to throw some money 
down on the Irish to make it to 
the Frozen Four in St. Louis. 
It just shouldn't have hap­
pened. 
Miami played well enough to 
take advantage of a sloppy Irish 
turnover for a goal in the first 
period, and then pressured 
offensively until right wing Brian Kaufman broke through -or life -to even score one for the 2-0 lead late in the sec­goal, let alone get two and near­ond period. The Irish were lost ly score in the ensuing overtime well into the third period and period. But it did. The Irish couldn't get anything past goalie clawed out of the grave and won Jeff Zatkoff. Even several five­a game they had no business 

on-three advan­tages resulted in nothing more 
The fact that 
than a mad grab 
[Saturday's] game 
for the puck in the Miami zone. ended in a draw at Fifty-three 
all is reason 
minutes of lack­
enough to throw
adaisical Irish play muted a some money down 
Joyce crowd on the Irish to 
that just the 
make it to the
night before had 
been raucous, Frozen Four in St. and it brought Louis. 
back memories of the 2004-05 season. The electrical buzz of the Coke machine on press row battled the falling snow for noise dominance. 
In short, everything about the night was deader than Knute Rockne's ghost. 
Then Irish center Mark Van Guilder redirected a shot from defenseman Wes O'Neill past Zatkoff, and suddenly the Irish thrust a hand through the coffm and began to dig past six feet of dirt. Freshman center Kevin Deeth, who only minutes before had been benched by Irish coach .Jeff Jackson for poor play, made amends for a night of missed passes and lost chances, burying a rebound for the tying goal with just over two minutes left to play. The Irish Frankenstein had been zapped back into the world of the living on a stormy winter night. 
Nothing about the previous two and a half plus periods would have given any indication that Notre Dame had any shot winning, and they have done it all year. 
They have rou­tinely won games over veteran teams with hockey tradi­tions thicker than a law textbook. 
And the most telling part of it all? 
A majority of those ranked teams that fell hard to the Irish have remained firmly entrenched in the 

national rankings, months of play against the rest of the nation has affrrmed that Notre Dame did not benefit from a front-loaded schedule by playing over-hyped teams early. Boston College, Michigan, Michigan State, Miami and Lake Superior State are, barring a major slump, almost all guaranteed a berth in the 16-team NCAA Tournament come March ­along with their Irish masters. 
Saturday may have been as ugly to the Irish as the mug of Frankenstein's monster, but the comeback proved that no mat­ter how pretty or nasty Notre Dame plays its opponents, those teams have learned that nothing that emerges from the North Dome is ever safe to poke a stick at -even if it looks dead. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

CHARISMATIC RENEWAL AT NOTRE DAME 
The story, personal witness. papal teaching 
Wednesday, Jan. 31 7:00 PM 116 DeBartolo 

• 
TIM SULLIVAN!The Obse<Ver 

Sheeva Parbhu winds up for a shot during Notre Dame's match against Indiana Monday. The 

Irish blanked the Hoosiers 7-0. 
Shutout 
continued from page 20 

bles point at hand," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
Bass took a 6-3, 7-6 (1) win at first singles, but had to put in a fight to knock off No. 48 Bubenick. Bass was able to regain composure and win a decisive tiebreaker after hav­ing his serve broken at 5-3 in the second set. 
Parbhu had an easier time of getting past Dara McLoughlin, and he eventual­ly won 6-3, 6-4. Parbhu fell behind 3-2 in the opening set but bounced back to take three of the final four games of the set enroute to a match victory. 
Junior Andrew Roth put in the toughest fight for the Irish at number six singles against Peter Antons. Roth dropped the first set 3-6 but came back to win the second and third sets 6-2, 7-5, respectively. 
"In all of those matches we had to overcome some adver­sity and that's a good thing for us," Bayliss said. 
The Irish kept the pressure on after jumping out to the early advantage -an accom­plishment Bayliss was espe­cially proud of. 
"I think they ability to finish off a pretty tough opponent when we had them down is a great sign for us," Bayliss said. "We've had some trou­ble in the past when we have a team down putting them away but today we handled that job very well." 
The win over the Hoosiers improves Notre Dame's record to 2-1 for the season and 1-0 at home. The Irish will look to stay on the winning streak at home. The team takes on No. 15 Florida State and No. 7 Duke starting Friday at home and will look to walk away 3­0 at home. 
"Our goal is to try to be undefeated at home and we have several top-10 teams here that we would have to beat in order to be able to ful­fill that goal so I guess it starts this weekend," Bayliss said. "Winning the first one was a good start." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 30, 2007 
CLUB SPORTS 



No. 10 men's volleyball falls in five set match 
Men Is and women Is bowling host annual Blue and Gold Classic 
Special to The Observer 
Saturday, No. 10 Notre Dame ventured north to St. Joseph's, Mich. to challenge powerhouse Michigan State. The annual exhibition game, dubbed "The Battle in The House of Noise", serves as a fundraiser for Lake Michigan Catholic High School. 
The Sparta,ns ultimately prevailed in a hard-fought contest, 25-20, 19-25, 25-22, 23-25, 15-9. 
In the first game, the Irish quickly fell behind 6-1. Despite strong play from sen­ior Drew Williams, the slow start proved to be too much to overcome, as Notre Dame lost 25-20. 
After switching sides and resetting the score, the Irish looked like a different team. 
They formed an early rally of their own, shifting the momentum towards them­selves. Junior James Ward led the way with a long string of serves before having to roll the ball under the net. Never trailing in the set, the Irish closed it with a win, 25-19. 
For the first three games, starting middle blocker Joe O'Connell provided firepower at the net, keeping the Spartans on their toes, prior to his night-ending knee injury suffered during the third game. 
The team, however, didn't miss a beat as Tim Goldsmith jumped in to keep the set close. Untimely errors even­tually caused the game to slip away for the Irish, resulting in a 25-22 loss. 
With the Spartans one set away from sealing the match, the Irish held their ground. 

The set was tied at its mid­way point until the Spartans made a surge forward and the Irish found themselves in a four-point hole. 
Freshman Alex Lewis entered the game and provid­ed the spark for Notre Dame, leading the Irish on an 8-2 run, that resulted in a 25-23 win for the Irish. 
Just as the previous year, The Battle in The House of Noise went into a fifth and decisive set to 15. Behind the attacking of outside hitter Dan Zibton, the Irish jumped to an early lead. 
However, the lead quickly faded as the Spartans rattled off eight consecutive points. Though the Irish picked up their play and ended the rally, it was too little, too. late as the Irish lost the final set, 9­15. 
Bowling 

Notre Dame hosted the 
annual Blue and Gold Classic at Beacon Bowl this weekend. The event is one of the largest national collegiate tournaments, with sixty-eight teams participating. Of those teams, 44 are men's and 22 are women's squads. 
The tournament featured the defending NCAA National Men's Champion Saginaw Valley State, and defending Women's National Champion, Lindenwood, as well as many other top teams in the coun­try. 
The men's event was won by Saginaw Valley State. The entire Saginaw Valley State team averaged over 200 for nine games. Lindenwood, Purdue, Wichita State, and Morehead State rounded out the men's top five. 
High game scores for the men's event included games of 286, 284, and 278. 
Wichita State captured the women's championship, with 
their top bowler averaging 201. 
Lindenwood, Newman, Morehead State and Purdue completed the women's top five. 
Jim Talamo paced the Irish with a 184.9 average, a 208 high game, and a 1664 total for nine games. This was good for 69th place in a field of 296 in the men's competi­tion. 
Pavan Sadarangani rolled five games for a 166.6 aver­age, and posted the high game score for the Irish, at 
224. Kim Lavigne averaged 
164.6 with a 211 high game, while Nick Manieri totaled 1237 for eight games, a 154.6 average. Adam Lacock was just behind with a 152.2 aver­age. 
James Breen rolled an 819 total for six games, and fresh­man Ryan Pantanges chipped in with a 470 total in his four games. 
Peters 
continued from page 20 
pens I think their best bet is to probably just hold on to those they already have." 
National Signing Day is Feb. 7, at which time players can sign binding letters of intent. 
Defenders with current offers from Notre Dame include cornerback Ronald Johnson of Michigan, safety Major Wright of Florida and safety Michael MeN eil of Alabama. 
Notre Dame's best chance at a late pickup may be in Wright, who attends the high school of current Irish fresh­men offensive linemen Dan Wenger and Sam Young. 
But stealing a prospect from another school might be even easier. Frank said Notre Dame offered a scholarship to Brian Smith, a 6-foot-2 linebacker from Kansas who committed to Iowa in December. Smith's father, Chris, played at Notre Dame. 
"He's always wanted to go to Notre Dame, and whether that happens or not, we'll still find out," Frank said. "I think that they've got a shot to get him." 
Frank said the Irish are also hoping to take Ohio kicker Brandon Walker away from Louisville. Walker is expected to visit Notre Dame this week­end. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


un eas 
your otentia 



... we have. GE's Evolution Series locomotive generates 16 cylinders' worth of power with only 12 cylinders. cutting emissions up to 40 percent as compared to our prior models. In addition, it wa? the first locomotive that met the new U.S. Environmental Protection Agency emissions standards. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to unleash your ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance. manufacturing. sales and marketing, human resources, or information technology. 
Come learn about GE•s leadership programs and internship opportunities for business. IT and engineering majors. 
Winter Career & Internship Fair February 1, 2007 Joyce Center Field House -North Dome 4 PM-8 PM 
ecom 91* 

to learn more visit us at gecareers.com 
an equal opportunity employer 


imagination at work 

Tuesday, January 30, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJl!JOOffi~JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
RELEC 
± 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~~~-l () 
DORFIL ± 
WHE:RE: THE: TOUR GROUP WE:NT TO VIE:W THE: SE:A 
www.jumble.com 

MAMMAL-S.tMYDIAS 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J rJ I I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: THE 

"r I I I I J" rI I I ] 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's Jumbles: BIPED GULCH SUBMIT TURNIP 
Answer: What the former artist did when he returned to the easel -"BRUSHED" UP 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jonny Lang. 26; Andrew Keegan, 28: Sara Gilbert, 32; Oprah Winfrey 53 
Happy Birthday: This can turn into a year of transformation once you make the changes in your life that will move you in a new direction. You can improve the way you look and feel and be one step closer to a new you and a new beginning. The support you get from a loved one will help. Your numbers are 9, 13, 27, 31, 33, 40 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Just when you think you've paid your dues and everything is about to fall into place, you will be asked to do more. Don't Jet this rattle your cage--instead. apply your talent. You are a ie:!der and you will come out on top. 
**** 

TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Proceed quietly in the direction you feel good about but don't tell everyone around you your plans or opposition will hold you back. Someone may ask for a favor that is unreasonable. Learn to say "no."*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't get emotiona' or all worked up over nothing. You will accomplish far more by staying focused and ignoring what other people think or do. This is a perfect day to reassess your financial situation. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): A change with regard to your status will occur if you make a decision or a change. This is not the time to wait for others to do things. It's up to you to make suggestions as to how situations can be improved. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make some moves regarding your llnancial situation and your personal and professional partnerships. If something isn't working out. now is not the time to let it ride. Act now and you will leave plenty of time for achievement. 
**** 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may need to shake things up in your life today. If you aren't totally happy with the way things have been going, be willing to take half the blame and make adjustments from your side. A challenge will clarify things for you. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let the little things bother. Networking will bring great results and may even spark a new business partnership. A chance meeting with someone from your past will allow you to readdress old ideas. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Pick and choose your words carefully when dealing with family and close friends, especially if money is an issue. A change in your social circle will help spark your imagination and inspire you to get back to your creative dreams.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Personal opportunities are apparent if you are quick to take action and move forward with a relationship that excites you. A neighbor or friend will be able to shed some light on a personal situation you face. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Aggressive action will be required to get what you want today. Don't be afraid to take an unorthodox approach. In this case, shock technique will influence the outcome of a decision being made by someone in authority. 
*** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can make some unbelievable personal changes 
that will not only surprise and delight the people who care about you but will also 
bring you added respect and advancement. Don't think about what you can do --·make 
it happen. ***** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may have to watch how you approach delicate 
situations at home or with people you have an emotional tie to. Feel out the situation 
before making allegations. Overreacting at work or at home will not bring you the 
results you are hoping for. ** 

Birthday Baby: You are adventurous and difficult to keep up with. You are a team player when it counts. You are versatile, intellectual and inspiring. 
Eugenia's Web siJes: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

CROISSANTWORLD 
Now \ 1-\oPE. 'fOU .,-""RE.E.. 
L.E.ARNE.l::> AN I"""RTAN"\ 
LE.SS()t-1 A.Sou.,-iA):..Ir-lll" 
C ~I<. E. of" ANI MA\..S -rn.DA'f 
BLACK DoG 
I 
L£,b.li?..I'-IE.b 11-\ p....,­~I MA\..0::. All-.£-A 
SIW\ RE."SPONSIS.IUT'j. 
ANI':> "'/OU Sr\OU\..1::> 
C..ARE. FUU.'\ <:oN 
If' A PE-1 IS R\61-\T f""oR 'jOU 2-E.FoRE. Pu~~-t A.Str-1 (T. 


KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
The Office of the President is sponsoring an essay competition: "God is Love"... winner gets a thousand bucks. Dude, think of what we could buy with that kind of money... 

LIAMMORAN 
WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Sarah Keller 
35 Pigeon-_ 44 Field marshal 51 Los Angeles Rommel and Sparks' org. 
38 Polish-born others
author Sholem 52 Neighbor of 46 Gives the go­Tenn.
40 Supermodel ahead
Heidi 53 Bell-ringing
47 Open, as a 
company41 Greaseless 
toothpaste tube 

54 Breast implant 42 Old-fashioned 48 Prefix with materials
music halls fluoride 55 Comics dog 
43 Fixes, as a 49 Bit of shattered report glass 59 One-spot 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 It's put in an 1 Dogie catcher env. 6 What a tout 38 Prefix with may tout space 
1 o Cheese in a 39 Wonderment mousetrap, e.g. 40 Bow with a 14 Road runners price tag? 15 Uncommon 44 Secretly run off 16 Domini together 17 Rage 45 Sent to the 18 Fedora feature 
canvas 19 James of TV's 46 Defeat in a "Las Vegas" footrace 20 Racehorse, 49 Brother of Cain slangily and Abel 21 Sweater 50 Was familiar selection? with a 24 Versifier 
summertime allergen?

25 Mal de mer symptom 53 "Many years 
26 Shrek's lady, 
e.g. 56 It follows a 29 Exams for 
curtain's rise 

would-be attys. 57 Ancient Andean 
31 Feudal tribunal? 58 No longer dirt 
33 Tennis umpire's 60 Ball in a sewing 
call room 
36 Aids in storming 61 Beam with a castle gates goo bend 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
62 Bacteria in an 
outbreak 
63 Healthful resorts 
64 Cloth measure 
65 Taste or touch 
DOWN 1 Homeowner's pride 2 Distinctive 
atmosphere 3 Guys-only 4 Boozer 5 Wisconsin city 
on Lake Winnebago 6 All the way around 7 Feathered 
missile 8 What icicles do 9 Advanced study group 
10 Jim of "Gilligan's Island" 11 Diarist Nin 12 Cockamamie 13 Island nation 
east of Fiji 22 Home of straw, maybe 23 Women's suffrage leader Carrie Chapman_ 
24 Coatrack parts 
26 Gumbo vegetable 27 Bite like a beaver 28 Frost 

. ..,. 
30 Catch waves -::ct-:::t-:-t:-;-1 32 Hoofbeat 
33 Faucet fault 
Stanley Gardner 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, January 30, 2007 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

On the road, again 
Irish looking for first win at Syracuse in over two seasons 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sporrs Ediror 
Nos. 19/21 Notre Dame has­n't won a true road game this season. It hasn't won at Syracuse since 2004, and hasn't won two games in a row in two weeks. 
Coach Mike Brey's squad will try to break all those streaks tonight when it takes on the Orange in the Carrier Dome at 7 p.m. 
Notre Dame (17-4, 5-3 Big East) moved into a tie for fourth in the conference with a 66-63 win over Villanova Saturday. Brey said the low­scoring, physical game with the Wildcats will help the young Irish against Syracuse and its aggressive 2-3 zone defense. 
"It was important to us to muck one out like that," Brey said. "It's a step forward for this group." 
see ORANGE/page 17 


HOCKEY COMMENTARY 
leers at top of sport's elite tean1.s 
Only a Brady Quinn pass over Juniper Road away from where one Irish team struggles to win big games, another Notre Dame 
team has cre­ated a cock­tail so strong it crushes top opponents flatter than a Tie Domi roundhouse -and it's on the rocks. 


The Irish 
Kyle Cassily hockey team ______ -elevated to Sports Writer No. 2 in the 
country when 
the polls were released Monday -defeated its sixth ranked team of the year this weekend with a win and tie at home against No. 8 Miami and improved its record to 9-1-1 against the country's elite. 
But the history and tradition­bereft Irish icers haven't become this season's 'Where the hell did they come from?' storyline on 
see HOCKEY/page 17 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Notre Dame loses battle for recruit 
By KEN FOWLER Sporrs Ediror 
Four days after star defen­sive end Justin Trattou de­committed to Notre Dame and announced he would instead play football at Florida, the Irish saw another defensive line prospect go elsewhere. 
The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported Monday that 6-foot-3, 255-pound defensive end Jason Peters of Baton Rouge committed to coach Chan Gailey and Georgia Tech. Peters visited Louisiana State, Oklahoma and Florida this weekend before deciding 9n the Yellow Jackets, the Journal­Constitution reported. 
Peters was one of the few remaining targets on Notre Dame's board. although nab­bing thfl Catholic Junior High School product from the South seemed unlikely. 
"He was a guy that they 
recruited for a while and seemed like he was interest­ed," said Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for Irisheyes.com, a member of the Scout.com network. "But for whatever reason, he didn't seem to have an inter­est in visiting here.... They came on a little late for him." 
Notre Dame has offered scholarships to several other players, but it is believed that Peters was the last defensive lineman with such an offer ­though Irish coach Charlie Weis could make last-minute offers. 
''I'm not sure they'll go after another defflnsive end, to be honest with you," Frank said. "I think they'll just kind of stick with what they've got. You just can't overcome not having a relationship with guys. 
"I think tlwy'll probably just wait it out and see what hap-
see PETERS/page 18 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish perfect against the Hoosiers 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 

Monday's match against Indiana was a night of' comebacks. 
Notre Dame jumped out early and never slowed down, blanking the visiting Hoosiers 7-0. 
Notre Dame took the early 1-0 lead by sweeping doubles play 3-0. Doubles team Sheeva Parbhu and Hyan Keckley lost its first set to fall behind by one but quickly rallied to a 3-1 lead and finished with an 8-3 win. Senior Barry King and sophomore Brett Helgeson had no trouble defeating Indiana's David Bubenick and Thomas Hickter 8-5. Stephen Bass and Andn1w Both f'ollowed with an 8-4 win at third singles. 
The Irish came out of doubles play with a 1-0 lead and continund to chal­lenge tho Hoosiers in sin­gles play. 
"It really helps to open up singles play with the dou­
see SHUTOUT/page 1-7 

SUPER BOWL 
NASCAR SOCCER 

NBA
NCAA MEN'S HOOPS 
NBA 
LLI 
Formula One's Juan Brazil's Ronalda is on
c.,) Rex Grossman stays 

Pittsburgh 65 
. Timberwolves 121 
Hawks 93 

< 
z calm before the Super 
Pablo Montoya wins his his last legs while 

Villanova 59 
Suns 112 
Magic 83 
Bowl despite his show-
first NASCAR race. Cristiano Ronaldo 

Panthers reach 20
::5 
becomes a star. 
down with Peyton 

wins with win over 
Forward Kevin Garnett 
Joe Johnson scores 34
~ 
Manning. 

Wildcats. 
scores 44 as Minnesota 
points to lead Atlanta in 
Cl: 

snaps Phoenix's winning 
win. 
streak.
ti page 16 
page 16 page 14 
page 15 

page 12 
page 12 









