
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 127 FRIDAY. APRIL 27.2007 
Nobel prize winner speaks at SMC 
Iranian activist, lawyer speaks to community on democracy, women's fight for equality 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
Internationally renowned activist and author Shirin Ebadi spoke to an audience of more than 400 students, professors, trustees, members of the media and local residents in Angela Athletic Facility at Saint Mary's Thursday. 
Ebadi served as the keynote speaker in the three-day Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership (CWIL) conference -"Women as Intercultural Leaders: Collaboration at the Crossroads" -that began Thursday. 
In its first year of hosting the National CWIL Conference, Saint Mary's attracted Ebadi as the keynote speaker with fman­cial aid from the Lilly Endowment Inc., which funded the visit. 
"We chose Dr. Ebadi because of her heroic advocacy on behalf of human rights, and especially the rights of women and children make her an amazing role model of women's intercultural leadership for our students," said Elaine Meyer­Lee, director of CWIL. "Her 
see NOBEL/page 4 



At 35, women's sports still growing 
Chronology of Women's Sports at Notre Dame 
197 2 Fencmg oecomes first 7;omer.·s sport as a c;•~i:l 
1976 Fenc:ng and teruus br.come first ;-.·omens 7azs:!y ~ea.rr..s 
1977 "l'lomen's basketba!: becomes a varsHy spvrt 
197 8 Field hockey becomes a 'larsl~Y sport 
1980 Volleyball becomes a varslty spon 
1981 Women's svnmming becomes a varsHy spcrt 
1986 Women's cross-coun1ry be-:-omes a •,r:;u;;1~1 sport: F1eld Hockey program dJ..S<:ontn;:~ed 1988 Soccer and golf become varsity spor: 1989 Softball becom"s a variiity sport 1991 Women's track and held becor.ces a vars:ly spcn 1996 Women's lacrosse becomes;;. va.rsny sport 1998 Rowing becomes a varsHy spor: 
By KEN FOWLER News Writer 
Editor's note: This is the first in a four· part series looking at Notre Dame's athletic depart­ment under the direction of Kevin White as he enters his eighth year at the school. 
Notre Dame celebrates 35 years of women's athletics tonight, Saturday and Sunday with the University's biggest­ever festivities for female ath­letes at the school. 
More than 100 former Irish women's athletes are sched­uled to attend the weekend events, which begin tonight 
with a dinner at the home of Athletic Director Kevin White. 
"We wanted to giv'e people a reason to come back," said Meg Henican, an intern wfth the athletic department whose major responsibility has been organizing the events. "Being that these are all former ath­letes, we thought that some type of sporting acti\;'ities would be fun." 
Henican said the idea initial­ly was to celebrate 30 years of women's varsity sports. But, she said, the athletic depart­ment wanted to include stu­dent-athletes who participated on club teams starting in 1972, 
see ATHLETES/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Encyclical discussion planned 
Liaison says Jenkins moved by Benedict's 'Deus Caristas Est' 
By KEN FOWLER News Writer 

Nine students will present papers on Pope Benedict XVI's papal encyclical "Deus Caritas Est" ("God is Love") tonight and Saturday during a two-day conference, which. will exam­ine the work and its relevance to the Notre Dame community and the University's mission. 
The conference has been a . major focus ol' University President Father John Jenkins. although students have been the main organizers, said Micki Kidder, who has served as a liaison. between Jenkins' office and the student commit­tee that has prepared the events. 
Last year, Jenkins asked his­tory professor Sabine MacCormack to chair a faculty committee that would study the encyclical and find possible ways to "bring the encyclical into the classroom and create awareness," Kidder said. Late in the fall semester, MacCormack formed the stu­dent committee that became the main force behind the con­ference. 
MacCormack, Kidder and a group of about 15 students 
see ENCYCLICAL/page 6 



Officials work to curb dangerous drinking 
University strives to decrease alcohol-related hospitalizations, address dorm dis-orientations 
races, power hours and the clas­
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
sic drink-until-you-throw-up 21st 
Associate News Editor 
birthday celebrations. While students will undoubted­
Editor's note: This is the third ly continue to make their own story in a three-part series exam­choices with alcohol, University ining the use and abuse of alco­officials said these reckless activi­hol at Notre Dame, the ties can be contained. University's attempts to solve alcohol-related problems and the Disoriented freshmen future of the campus' drinking Dis-orientation -the antithesis culture. of the University's traditional 
freshman orientation -pitches 
Though alcohol use and abuse the first-year students to the are present on almost any college upperclassmen to let them pour campus -or any place that the rookie college students drinks houses hundreds of young people all night or until they become at the same time -University intoxicated -and consequently, officials said they can, and will, inducted to the college life. Carroll Hall. have significant social depend­redflagged it. continue to work to reduce the This practice, however, is not "Disorientation never was ence on alcohol." "Things such as Dis-0 create a possibility of losing students' lives really a service seniors are offer­about 'welcoming' first-year stu­Senior Bill Andrichik, the for­dangerous situation for incoming to high-risk drinking. ing freshmen, but rather a pre­dents," Lewis said. "Do moderate mer student body vice president students, many of whom are not 
These situations include fresh­text to host a bacchanalia, said or low-risk drinkers host disori­and chair of the Campus Life accustomed to alcohol and don't man disorientations, athletic Father Jim Lewis, OADE assess­entation? At the least, it is an Council's Conduct Awareness task team initiations, PigTostals, case ment counselor and rector of event perpetuated by those who force, also noted the trend and see ALCOHOL/page 4 page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Bridges and vvedlock 
At Saint Mary's. Lake Marion is a \\'1'11-known aspPd of tlw campus. It's a V<'ry pr!'tty part of the cam­pus, it sits in bntwP<'n LPMans Hall and MadalPva and din~ctlv in front of Hagar Hall. · There's a foun­
Mandi Stirone 
tain that spouts 
out of it. and in 
the winter, there 

Wire Editor 
is usually a giant 
ice block around 

the fountain from all the water freezing overnight. 
Compared to Notre Dame's two enormous lakes, it appears pretty small and really fake. Well, it is fake. You can see the concrete on the bottom and all along the "shores." It's also disgustingly gross, though there are fish in it. I'm just not sure how they survive living in it. 
Something passers-by will notice about Lake Marion is the island in the middle. This island is so big that it takes up most of the lake. There are a few trees, some wooden benches, a small fountain and a statue of the Virgin Mary. 
To get onto this island, you have to cross a bridge. Under the bridge live two or three geese, the most famous of these had its disappear­ance printed in The Observer. This is all pretty inconsequential stuff, I'm sure, but the important part of that bridge is the superstition that surrounds it. 
One of the more noticeable things about the bridge is that you rarely see a girl walk over the bridge with a guy. According to popular campus legend, girls are not supposed to walk over the bridge with a boy. It doesn't matter who he is; you're just not supposed to. I have watched many girls force the guy they're with to walk over the bridge by himself before they cross it. There's a pretty good reason too. No, it's not like the tradition of not walking up the steps of the Main Building-a Saint Mary's girl who crosses the bridge with a guy is still going to-graduate, and no one is going to die from walking over, either. 
The reason you're not supposed to walk over the bridge with a guy is pretty simple: If you do, you'll marry him, or at least the first him. According to the legend, the first boy you walk over the bridge on Lake Marion with is the one you're going to marry. 
As far as I know, Saint Mary's girls aren't afraid of marriage; we just don't want to marry that first someone who we walk over a bridge with. It just doesn't seem like a good reason to marry someone. I don't really think many people would want to base their marriages on a legend about a bridge. 
I have to admit; I'm one of those girls who has made a guy walk over the bridge before her. I don't really think there's anything wrong with it. It is, of course, centered on mar­riage, which is a little stereotypical, but God only knows how old it is. 
It's a pretty silly tradition, but it's our tradition. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, April 27, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE CREEPIEST THING YOU'VE EVER DONE? 






Robbie Bernadin 
sophomore S'iegfried 
"/ had my entire "My brother and "/caress "/grope every "My roommmate quadfacebook­I spied on our random people's guy I see in woke up to me friend Crystal neighbor from weenises ... Zahm." sitting on the 
/!,T·win at the same our roofwith Coogle it." 
time two days after we hung a huge poster ofher on her door ... She lives down the hall. " binoculars dressed in all black for camou­flage ... She called the police. " 

floor staring at her." 
IN BRIEF 

University President Father John Jenkins will preside over the opening Mass for the confer­ence on the "God is Love" Encyclical today at 4 p.m. in the Alumni Hall Chapel. 
The reception for the confer­ence on the "God is Love" Encyclical will begin today at 5:15p.m. in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for Jnternational Studies. 
The keynote speaker for the conference on the "God is Love" Encyclical, Mary Brosnahan, director of the Coalition for the Homeless in New York City, will deliver her speech in the ·Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies tonight at 
6:30. A panel discussion will fol­low. 
Notre Dame men's soccer will play the Mexican U-20 National team tonight at 7 at Alumni Field. Tickets are $5 for adults and $2 for kids 18 and under. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band will perform tonight at 7:30 in Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. For tickets, call 631­2800. 
End the 40th Annual Antostal week with a big hilarious laugh! Renowned comedian Greg Giraldo will perform at Legends Saturday at 10 p.m. 
Visitation for Corporal Nick Polizzotto, a South Bend Police officer killed in the line of duty, will take place from 3:30 p.m. to 
9:30 Sunday in the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 80 HIGH 77 LOW 60 LOW 62 

Grandma finds condom in McDonald's Happy Meal 
WELLINGTON, New Zealand -A grandmother was alarmed to lind a con­dom in a happy meal gift pack bought for her 7­year-old granddaughter at a McDonald's restaurant in New Zealand, local media reported Thursday. 
The condom was discov­ered Tuesday night in a bag that came with Maia Whitaker's meal, which her grandparents bought at a McDonald's outlet in the eity of Wellington. 
Grandpa Rowan lluteh told The Dominion Post newspaper it was lucky his wife was first to look inside the small sports bag that came with the meal. 
She was aghast when she found the green condom and its packet inside the bag, he said. 
Woman: Suspect is wear­ing my T-shirt 
GREENSBOHO, N.C. -It took one glance for Sandra Howells to recognize the man she said broke into her home, offered her $500 to hido him and lled wear­ing some of her clothing. Howells, 70, said police asked her if Jahmell Kareem, 33, of Winston­Salem was tho right sus­pect. 
"Yeah, 'causo that's my shirt he's got on," Howells said she told police. "It made me mad because my daughter had just sent me that T-shirt from Florida." 
Police said Kareem crashed a car near Howells' home Tuesday after leading police on a high-speed chase along Interstate 85 that reached speeds of 130 mph. Howells said she woke up from a nap when Kareem forced open her locked kitchen screen door. 
"I'm like, you can have this house, buddy, I'm out of here," Howells said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
c:: 
1.&.1 :::J: 
!;: 
1.&.1 
J)
3: 
~
.....
cr: 
(.) 

0 HIGH 57 HIGH 52 HIGH 68 HIGH 73
...I LOW 45 LOW 40 LOW 50 LOW 55 
Atlanta 73 I 58 Boston 63 I 43 Chicago 54 I 45 Denver 56 I 38 Houston 80 I 59 Los Angeles 80 I 56 Minneapolis 73 I 46 New York 63 I 47 Philadelphia 71 I 50 Phoenix 95 I 74 Seattle 64 I 46 St. Louis 64 I 48 Tampa 84 I 70 Washington 72 154 

Friday, April27, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

This Sunday, May 6. the following candidates will con1plete their initiation into the Catholic Church by receiving the Sacrmnent of Confirmation at the 11:45 a.m. Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Please keep then1 in your prayers and join us in congratulating them. 

AnTostal events come to close 
Salsa party, Battle of the Bands, quarter-dog eating contest planned 
a famed band with an after­noon salsa party and a battle of "We are reallythe bands 
trying to get
tonight. 

SUB officials people outside 
said they hope and to get pumped they made this 
for Battle of
week as laid­

the Bands.,, 
back and fun as possible, giving students a Meghan Kelly 
breather before 

SUB cultural arts
the tension of 

programmer
finals begins next 
week. 
"We are really trying to get peo­ple outside and to get pumped for Battle of the Bands," jun­ior Meghan Kelly, SUB cultur­al arts programmer, said, referring to the square off Friday among student bands. 
In addition to Battle of the Bands, SUB also organized T­shirt and donut giveaways outside O'Shaughnessy Hall Monday and a quarter dog­eating contest at LaFortune Student Center that night. The winner shocked everyone with 

audiences at Legends with its highly anticipated perform­ance. 
The Battle of the Bands will be held tonight at 8 at Legends, followed by Late Night Karaoke at Reekers from 1 to 3 a.m. SUB sched­uled a performance to be held by comedian Greg Geraldo at Legends Saturday, with open­ing stand-up routines from two student performers. 
Although this year's 
tained students with a movie watch of the hor­ror classic "Jaws" on North Quad, complete with a grill that served free food to students. 
SUB's carnival on South Quad Wednesday was moved to the Stepan Center because of rain. On Thursday, famed Irish rock group Flogging Molly graced 

AnTostal has been Irish­themed, SUB has also organ­ized a Latin-themed salsa dance party in addition to today's festivities. The event will be held on the Fieldhouse Mall between 11:30 and 1:30 
p.m. today. 

"There will be lots of good music, a lot like at Latin Expressions," Kelly said. 
In addition to good music, students will also enjoy free Mexican cuisine from South Bend's La Esperanza restau­rant. SUB plans to attract stu­dents with La Esperanza's flautas and quesadillas, Kelly said. 
"People come in droves for free food," said Kelly, antici­pating a good turnout this afternoon. 
Kelly said she hopes people come and dance, but they are also welcome to just stop by and grab some free food and socialize on their way to classes. 
"I think it sounds like fun," freshman Mary Kusek said. "I want to stop by before I head to classes for the day." 
SUB had no set goals or spe­cific aims for this week. But in light of AnTostal's 40th anniversary, Kelly said, organizers knew they wanted the celebration to be "bigger and better than ever." 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

Caribbean festival to feature food, lllusic 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 

Students seeking a taste of the exotic should look no fur­ther than the Jordan Hall of Science Saturday from 8:30 
p.m. to midnight, when the Caribbean Students Organization (CSOUND) hosts its Caribbean Festival. 
The free event will showcase live entertainment as well as examples of Caribbean cuisine prepared by a local chef. 
CSOUND began the festival last year in an effort to create a "place where students of Caribbean background feel comfortable and can teach others about what the Caribbean has to offer," CSOUND president Hava Bourne said. 
Bourne said she sees the fes­tival as a way to expand the knowledge of the Caribbean on campus. 
"Most Americans tend to 
think Caribbean culture is just Jamaican culture," Bourne said. "And while it's great that Jamaica is well known, our goal is to teach people that the Caribbean has more to offer. It's a lifestyle and a heritage that goes unnoticed." 
Students will also have an opportunity to sample cuisine that features "staples of the Caribbean" -like jerk chick­en, beef patties and pies, sweet yams and plantains. 
Music will be provided by a OJ and Roots Rock Society, a Chicago band that plays Caribbean and Soca-style music. Soca, or soul calypso, is dance music that originated in the island of Trinidad. 
At Notre Dame, this event is "one of the few expressions of Caribbean culture on campus that you'll see at all," CSOUND vice president John Henry said. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 

University of Notre Dame Seth Michael Carmack Elianne Angela Castaneda Viviana Joan Castro Brendan Crowley Natalie Cuevas Jennifer Rosalia D'Amzelo 
C· 

Emily Catherine Dore 
MaryJo Alix Espinoza Kenneth Raphael Hamilton Janet Maria Han 
Anne Hanson 
Tyler Augustine Hulett Emily Helen Kane Kevin Francis Ludwig Dustin Madden Kathryn Marie Marvin 
Christopher Merino Candace Briel Montgomery Ashley Sophia O'Keefe Sophia Marian Park Kristen Ploetze Gian1uca Gabriele Puliti Michael 1ude Reyes Jessica Mary Magdalene Tannenbaum Adam David Wuellner Mollie Elizabeth Zubek 
RCIA­University of Notre Dame Derek Francis Bailey Christian Luke Chan Thomas Deering Adria Kateri Helmich Evelyn Teresa Rivera 
Holy Cross College Thomas Florian Griffin Arrin Bridget Lemos 
St. Mary's College Mary Elizabeth Campbell McKayela Cecilia Collins Amanda Bernadette David Kristen Elizabeth Forney Laura Elizabeth Kaminsky Justine Leslie Mullen 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
The 40th annual celebration of AnTostal -a Student Union Board (SUB) event that means "festival" in Gaelic ­will wrap up a week of quar­ter-dog eating, comedians and his ability to shove down a hot dog in an impressive 8. 7 sec­onds, Kelly said. 

The SUB also brought come­dian Kenan Thompson, a "Saturday Night Live" cast member and former child star, to speak to students in DeBartolo Hall Monday. 
On Tuesday, SUB enter­
....·I 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April27, 2007 

Nobel 
continued from page 1 
work promoting peaceful, demo­cratic solutions to serious prob­lems in society is in keeping with the mission of the Sisters of the Holy Cross 'to reflect on the signs of the times, discern needs and respond."' 
Ebadi opened her speech by highlighting the importance of students in Iran and the U.S.. Her lecture, entitled "The Role of umphs of women in "progressive countries" when they are trying to make a point in their own homeland. But even in progres­sive countries, she said, women face discrimination. 
"Just look at America," she said. "You have had no woman president. More women are gov­ernment secretaries than men. There is no discrimination with the laws, but men and women are still now equal." 
The problems with Islamic countries, she said, are the com­
mon double stan­
dards between 

Women in World Peace," was delivered in her native language  "The best relationship between the United States and Iran is  the two genders, which vary from country to coun­try in the Middle  
-Farsi-and translated into English and sign language.  cultural and fortunately, there is a future for that."  East. "In Saudi Arabia, women don't even have  
"Students and  an  ID  card  or  
professors are cultural ambas­sadors to us,"  Shirin Ebadi Nobel prize winner  birth certificate.. In Kuwait, women are sec- 
she said. "The  ond-class  citi­ 
best relationship  zens.  In  other  

between the United States and countries, there is still polygamy Iran is cultural and fortunately, and women aren't even called by there is a future for that." their own names," she said. "The 
Diplomacy, she said, is the most important question is: Is it Islam important aspect the countries that created this situation? In must keep in mind for the future. other words, can religion accept 
"I hope that this relationship the equality of men and women?" between our two countries is There are other Islamic coun­expanded and political issues do tries, however, that are more not get in the way," she said, win­advanced than even some in ning the applause of her audi­Europe, she said. She pointed to ence. Pakistan, Indonesia and 
While diplomacy and human Bangladesh -where women rights are important, the rights of have served as president or women remain at the forefront prime ministers -as evidence for Ebadi and her cause. She said that the problem is not Islamic at women's leaders point to the tri-its crux. She blamed patriarchal woman -35 years after gaining racy," she said. "Victory in the full lawyer status. real meaning is removing dis­
Though more than 65 percent of university stu­dents in Iran are  "Let's notforget democracy is not a gift to be brought to a  sations." Victory, for Ebadi, is extend­ing democracy to  
women, and suf­frage was made universal five decades ago,  nation. It is not an incident that happens overnight."  her country and all of its citizens. "This is impos­sible if women  
Ebadi said she is  don't have full  
still not permit­ted to testify in court without the  Shirin Ebadi Nobel prize winner  and equal rights. The victory of the feminist move- 
presence  of  a  ment will open  
man or another  doors for democ­ 

"But the janitor in my office, criminatory law for all." even illiterate, can go to court Democracy is a lofty goal for and have his testimony heard," Iran, but Ebadi said she has she said. "These examples prove hopes for the future. than laws in Iran do not comply "Let's not forget democracy is with the situation of our women." not a gift to be brought to a 
Ebadi is one of the leading nation. It is not an incident that women in the strong feminist happens overnight. But the victo­movement in Iran today. ry of women can shorten this 
Presently, Ebadi and her sup­process," she said. "You ... all of porters have launched a cam­you women, have a responsibility paign to get a million Iranian sig­to make a difference." natures -male or female -in Elaine Meyer-Lee, director of support of ending discriminatory CWIL, opened Thursday's lecture laws in Iran. But the government by introducing College President of the Islamic Republic is lighting Carol Ann Mooney, who recog­the campaign by taking women nized the importance of CWIL. to court and even imprisoning a Mana Derakhshani, a French few. professor and coordinator of the 
"I am an attorney for these French program, was the final introductory speaker. Derakhshani, who is Iranian­American, reflected on Ebadi receiving the Nobel Peace Prize four years ago. 
"I was filled with pride as an Iranian-American," she said. "For such an honor to be not only the first Iranian honored in the prize's history, but to be a woman .... That is such an honor." 
Although Derakhshani was not aware of Ebadi's accomplish­ments before the prize, she quickly learned about her cause. 
"Her efforts to facilitate dia­logue between world leaders and religions promotes new thinking and passion for rights," Derakhshani said. "I was struck by her unconditional commit­ment to justice and human rights." 
The conference planning com­mittee chose Ebadi from a long list of potential speakers, Meyer­Lee said. The other speaker most seriously considered was Wangari Maathai, an environ­mental and political activist from Kenya who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2004. 
Additional activities through the remainder of the conference include "Rain Away" dance per­formance this morning from 10 
a.m. to 11:30, 30 sessions with presenters from 22 different states and four countries and a closing panel Sunday moderated by Caryn McTighe Musil, senior vice president at the Association of American Colleges and Universities. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO1@saintmarys.edu 

societies for many of the prob­lems plaguing women today. 
"I am not lighting masculinity, but what I mean is that it is the culture that deprives women of their rights," she said. "But we can't forget, men are raised by their mothers." 
In Iran, however, the political and social status of women is more complicat­ed than that. 

Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
know their body's limits," Andrichik said. "The peer pres­sure in these situations is unique compared to typical drinking situ­ations and has historically led to high-risk drinking." 
He said the committee spoke to hall rectors, resident assistants and students and determined "the University policy does address the issues, but that implementation of the policy has not fully eliminated the high-risk components of these activities," he said. "It appears the Office of Student Affairs at least shares some of these senti­ments as our report was well received and will be consulted by the newly formed rector task force on disorientations." 
In previous Campus Life Council meetings, Andrichik had urged the Office of Student Affairs to create an ad-hoc com­mittee to create an informational program for first-year students. 
Pushing the BAC 
The OADE says it hopes to reduce the number of hospitaliza­tions due to alcohol poisoning by pushing the blood-alcohol content (BAC) campaign beyond what many students dismiss as a sanc­timonious platitude. 
"Yeah, I guess BAC cards are a good way to track how drunk you are," junior A.J. Ong said. "But come on, I don't want to whip out my BAC card in the middle of a drink or if I'm flirting with a cute guy. It's not practical to expect students to be willing to do that." 
The BAC cards, however, may be the only way to monitor a per­son's alcohol abuse -especially if the student drinks often and in large amounts. 
Lewis said a high alcohol toler­ance can mask the damaging effects of over-consumption of alcohol in a way that can allow some students to "hide in plain aspect is, naturally, the hot-but­sight." ton issue for some." 
OADE assessment counselor The disciplinary side of the Annie Eaton said "one of the equation is what often paints the scariest" cases she has encoun­University as the students' enemy tered is a male student who came rather than a concerned friend, to her oflice seeking counseling, Ongsaid. on his own, after his 21st birth­"I understand the University day because he had a six-hour has to act like a parent to keep its blackout. rules enforced and punish stu­
"He wasn't ResLifed, nobody dents if they break them," she knew about it," she said. "When said. "But if that's how things are he and I figured where his BAC going to be, the University cannot was that night, he was at 0.6 and expect us to be all happy and people die at a 0.2, you know. super excited about its anti-alco­Alcoholism ran in his family too, hol fairs and its BAC pamphlets. so he inherently had a high toler­It may be immature, but kids are ance and could take those large that way. If you ResLife them and volumes of alcohol." fine them for every bottle of rum 
The following year, Eaton said, they have, they won't like you as the student was arrested for driv­much the next day." ing with a 0.38 BAC. 
"They took him to jail instead of "There's only so much you can the hospital because he was still do to help" functioning at 0.38. That's scary," Ong said students will not turn she said. to the OADE unless they are real­
She said heavy drinkers think ly convinced they are alcoholics they'll be safer, assuming their and desperately need a psycholo­
experience  gist,  which  
means they can  prompts  the  
maintain a lower BAC when, in fact, the BAC  "High tolerance, which some look at as  question: How much can the University help  
increases for rookie and mature drinkers at the same rate  a badge ofhonor, is actually a sign of progression.  its students if they're not look­ing for help? "If students are  
-but the latter  not receptive to  
may not show it.  Father Jim Lewis  the  programs  
"Two students who are the same size reach  OADE assessment counselor  and the services the University offers them, then  
a  high  BAC  by  they won't bene­ 
consuming  the  fit from them. It's  

same amount of alcohol over the as simple as that," senior Alexa same period of time. One may be Recio said. "And there are some visibly intoxicated while the other students that really should get one may seem to be 'OK,"' Lewis professional help and they don't said. "High tolerance, which do it because they don't even rec­some look at as a badge of honor, ognize they have a drinking prob­is actually a sign of progression." lem." 
While these warnings may fall Eaton said many students don't on deaf ears, Eaton and Lewis think the two beers they may said the OADE will continue to try drink during Monday Night to raise awareness among stu­Football qualify as "drinking" in dents. the same way that beers at a bar 
"Safety and education are the on a Friday night qualify as hallmarks of our efforts," Lewis "drinking" -and they may said, "though the disciplinary develop alcoholic tendencies 
women," she said. "They have been accused of having taken steps against national security. But if my women oppose polygamy or want custody of their children, how does that threaten our national security? How does that danger our board­ers? In reality, the government cannot respond to our requests and comes up with false accu­
without knowing it. the near future, but he said part 
The OADE, however, can't help of his work for Student Affairs them unless they recognize the consists of continuously making office's recommendations are jus­improvements that may help save tified and they are willing to take lives. actions to reduce their alcohol "We continuously evaluate poli­intake, Eaton said. cies and practices related to alco­
"Students need to understand hol. We consult among the senior in advance the ramifications of staff of Student Affairs, the vari­the decisions they make, to the ous Student Affairs department extent that the University has directors and their staffs, along rules and regulations we bring with rectors and residence hall attention to, but ultimately, the staffs," Poorman said. "We are decision to drink is theirs," unlikely to make any broad deci­Associate Vice President for sions without wide consultation." Residence Life Bill Kirk said. He said with these consultants' 
On Nov. 10, 2006, senior Caitlin cooperation, his office would con­Brann, 22, was killed in a acci­tinue to address the drinking dent after her rear passenger­issue by expanding programs and side tire blew out, causing her launching initiatives in four dif­car to roll numer-ferent areas: ous times. behavioral guide­Though police lines, therapeutic called the acci­"We continuously resources, edu­dent a "non-sur­cation and social
evaluate policies and
vivable type of alternatives. 
crash," they practices related to Lewis echoed noted alcohol alcohol." Poorman's may have also words, saying played a role in there is room for

Father Mark Poorman
the tragedy. improvement in 

vice president
Brann's BAC at the University's the time of her Student Affairs programs for death was 0.249, recovering alco­three times the holics that may 
0.08 Indiana limit relapse during for drivers. their treatment. 
Vice President for Student "In conjunction with current Affairs Father Mark Poorman services, I would hope that some said "Caitlin's death was tragic combination of professionals on and we grieve the loss of her life." campus could develop a relapse 
He said he recognized the prevention program for students University can't monitor students who are in recovery," Lewis said. all the time and protect them "Being on campus and in recov­from every accident that may ery is a tough combination." befall them -or keep them from Poorman, however, continued getting behind the wheel after a to stress the need for the stu­night at the bar -but he said dents' cooperation to make "sound policies can help us strides in Notre Dame's efforts to address alcohol use and abuse on reduce alcohol abuse permanent­the campus." ly. 
"I also believe students are "All of us -students, faculty, responsible for making good staff and administrators -must choices with regard to their own work together to create a healthi­safety," Poorman said. er campus climate with regard to 
alcohol use," he said. 

The administrative intervention 
Poorman said there will be no Contact Marcela Berrios at revisions to the alcohol policy in aberrios@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Friday, April27, 2007 CotvtPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Algerian al-Qaida No 2 killed 
ALGIERS, Algeria-The No. 2 al-Qaida offi­cial in Algeria was killed Thursday in a clash with an army patrol, the country's official APS news agency said, citing security officials. 
Samir Moussaab, whose real name was Samir Saioud, was killed near the village of Si Moustapha about 25 miles east of the capital, Algiers, the radio reported. 
It said Moussaab's body was identified by former members of the Salafist Group for Call and Combat, an insurgent group that changed its name to al-Qaida in Islamic North Africa when it announced its alliance with al-Qaida in January. 
The group was built on the foundations of an Algerian insurgency to topple Algeria's sec­ular government that erupted in 1992 after the army canceled elections that a Muslim fundamentalist party was set to win. 
Up to 200,000 people -militants, security forces and civilians -have been killed. 
Militants push limits, Israel says 
JERUSALEM -Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip fired two rockets toward Israel on Thursday, the army said, and Israeli officials warned they were losing patience as rising tensions threatened a five-month cease-fire. 
One rocket landed in the Mediterranean Sea and the second in an open area in south­ern Israel, the army said. There were no injuries. 
"Israel will not be restrained forever," said Miri Eisin, spokeswoman for Prime Minister Ehud Olmert. "We will defend our citizens and choose the time and place to respond." 
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas said Thursday that calm had returned to Gaza and he appealed for Israel to refrain from carry­ing out raids in the area. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Violence will get worse before better 
WASHINGTON -The U.S. military com­mander in Iraq says the war effort may well get harder before it gets easier and American casualties are likely to continue to climb. 
Speaking as the Senate was passing leg­islation to start bringing home U.S. forces in October, Gen. David Petraeus said the war will require "an enormous commit­ment" by the United States. 
And he said that while some sectarian killings have dropped by two-thirds in recent months, the overall level of vio­lence in Iraq has remained largely the same. 

Candidate's son arrested in airport 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -David Huckabee, a son of Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee, was arrested at an Arkansas airport Thursday after a federal X-ray technician detected a loaded Glock pistol in his carry-on luggage. 
"I removed the bag and asked Mr. Huckabee if he knew what he had in the bag," Little Rock police officer Arthur Nugent wrote in a report after being sum­moned to a security checkpoint. "He replied he did now." 
Huckabee, 26, later pleaded guilty in Little Rock District Court after being charged with a misdemeanor count of pos­sessing a weapon in a prohibited place. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Teacher transferred over column 
WOODBURN -A high school teacher who faced termination over a student newspaper column advocating tolerance of gays reached a settlement with school officials Thursday that allows her to con­tinue teaching. although at another school. 
Under the settlement with East Allen County Schools, Amy Sorrell, 30, agreed to be transferred from Woodlan Junior­Senior High School in Woodburn to Heritage Junior-Senior High School in Monroeville, said her attorney, Patrick Proctor. 


RUSSIA 
Putin: U.S. destabilizes Europeanregion 
Russian president threatens to withdraw from Conventional Forces Treaty 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW --President  
Vladimir Putin threatened  
on Thursday to suspend  
participation in a key  
European arms control  
treaty, accusing the United  
States and NATO of desta­ 
bilizing the region with  
plans to install parts of an  
American missile shield in  
central Europe.  
U.S. Secretary of State  
Condoleezza Rice dis­ 
missed the concern as  
"ludicrous," and said  
Moscow should live up to  
its obligations under the  
treaty, which limits the  
number and locations of  
military aircraft, tanks and  
other non-nuclear heavy  
weapons around Europe.  
"Our partners are  
behaving incorrectly, to  
say the least," Putin said  
during his annual state-of­ 
the-nation address. "In  
case no progress is made  
during negotiations, I pro­ 
pose to discuss the possi­ 
bility to end our obliga­ 
tions."  
Withdrawal from the  
Conventional Forces in  
Europe Treaty between  
Russia and NATO mem­ 
bers would allow Moscow  
to build up forces near its Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov addresses the media Thursday after the NATo.Russia  
borders, and Putin's threat Council. Russian President Putin spoke about withdrawing from the Conventional Forces in  
provoked "grave concern" Europe treaty.  
among NATO members,  Iogue with our foreign  amended version, but the  nuclear program and long­ 
Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, the  partners, we hope that we  United States and other  range missiles.  
alliance's secretary-gener­ will get a positive reaction  NATO members have  "It is high time that our  
al, said at a foreign minis­ from them," Kremlin  refused to do so until  partners proved their com­ 
ters' meeting in Oslo,  spokesman Dmitry Peskov  Russia completely with­ mitment to arms reduc­ 
Norway.  told The Associated Press.  draws.  tions not by words but by  
A Kremlin spokesman  If no progress is made,  In his speech to parlia­ deeds," Putin said. "I con­ 
said later, however-, that  Russian lawyers would  ment and government offi­ sider it worthwhile to  
Russia would not pull out  begin working out a mech­ cials, Putin accused NATO  declare a moratorium until  
if it could reach accommo­ anism of formally impos­ members of taking advan­ all NATO countries ratify  
dation with the West. And  ing the moratorium, he  tage of the situation to  (the treaty) ... and begin to  
Russian military experts  added.  build military bases near  strictly abide by it."  
suggested the threat was a  The Conventional Forces  Russia's borders, and said  He added that Russia  
symbolic raising of the  in Europe Treaty was  plans to install interceptor  already was taking steps  
ante in the missile shield  signed in 1990 and  missiles and radar systems  to withdraw its forces from  
showdown more than a  amended in 1999 to reflect  in the Czech Republic and  Moldova and Georgia.  
sign of impeding military  changes since the breakup  Poland were undermining  Speaking to reporters  
escalation. Russia has no  of the Soviet Union, adding  the balance of military  before talks with Russia's  
actual interest in a buildup  the requirement that  power in Europe.  foreign minister, Rice  
of forces because it faces  Moscow withdraw troops  The United States says  repeated U.S. assertions  
no real military threat and  from the former Soviet  its missile shield system is -that any defense system in  
has no plans to launch any  republics of Moldova and  to counter the threat of  Europe would be useless  
attack, they said.  Georgia.  attack by countries such as  against Russia's enormous  
"When we begin dia- Russia has ratified the  Iran, which is pursuing a  missile arsenal.  

Pullout bill expected to be vetoed 
veto. and Democrats alike already were
Associated Press 
Democrats marked Thursday's maneuvering for position on a fol­
WASHINGTON -Call it mission final passage with a news conference low-up bill. accomplished for the new during which they repeatedly urged Senate Republican leader Mitch Democratic-controlled Congress Bush to reconsider his veto threat. McConnell dismissed the just-passed after 113 days in power. "This bill for the first time gives the legislation as "political posturing" by 
In a bold wartime challenge to president of the United States an exit Democrats that deserves the veto it President Bush, Congress cleared strategy" from Iraq, said Rep. David will receive. "The solution is simple: legislation Thursday to begin with­Obey of Wisconsin. Take out the surrender date, take drawal of U.S. troops from Iraq by The legislation is "in keeping with out the pork and get the funds to our Oct. 1 with a goal of a complete pull­what the American people want," troops," he said. out six months later. added Senate Majority Leader Harry The bill would provide $124.2 bil­
The White· House dismissed the Reid of Nevada. lion, more than $90 billion of which legislation as "dead before arrival.". The White House was unmoved. would go for the wars in Iraq and 
The 51-46 Senate vote was largely "The president's determined to win Afghanistan. Democrats added bil­along party lines, and like House in Iraq. I think the bill that they sent lions more for domestic programs, passage a day earlier it underscored us today is mission defeated," said and while most of the debate focused that the war's congressional oppo­deputy press secretary Dana Perino. on the troop withdrawal issue, some nents are far short of the two-thirds "This bill is dead before arrival." of the extra spending also has drawn majority needed to override a Bush Given that standoff, Republicans Bush's criticism. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 27, 2007 
derful," Cahill said, also noting the student committee that Catholic teaching in the second judged in an essay contest. The Kidder and MacCormack's organized the conference, part," Cahill said, referring to contest has three categories ­
Encyclical 
work. "We just have a really Cahill said students studying Anderson in the former and one for freshmen and sopho-· 
strong group of people who 
believe in the relevance of met occasionally for planning Church teaching to academ­and discussion purposes since ics." the beginning of the spring Kidder said Jenkins has sup­term. ported the conference and the 
"We have been meeting peri­students studying it not odically and on a variety of dif­because it was the first such ferent content," Kidder said of work from Benedict XVI, but the committee. "Sometimes we rather because of its content. would discuss and study parts "Father Jenkins was very of the encyclical. Some meet­much impacted by this encycli­ings we would specifically cal," she said. "He has 
continued from page 1 
focus on the conference, though, and planning." 
Students have been presenting parts of their papers during committee meetings for the last few months, Kidder said, with the goal of getting feedback and stimulating dis­cussion on how different topics in the encycli­
expressed to me that it's an
"He has expressed to intellectually me that it's an interesting text because of its
intellectually 
diverse nature
interesting text 
because it can because ofits diverse impact people from various
nature because it can 
states, various
impact people from 
walks of life. So 
various states, various I think he saw this encyclical
walks oflife." 
particularly to have such an Micki Kidder effect on all conference orga·nizer constituencies across campus because of its 
cal could be addressed in the diverse reach." conference and their relevance Kidder said Jenkins believes at Notre Dame. the document can have a "sig­
Kidder said the students had nificant impact" on anyone almost full control over the who reads it. content but were supported by Jenkins will attend all of Jenkins' office. today's events, which will begin 
"Father John has obviously when he presides over the been very involved in sponsor­opening Mass at 4 p.m. in the ing it and encouraging and Alumni Hall chapel. Kidder them to increase awareness said Jenkins may miss some of across campus," she said. Saturday's events due to a 
Sam Cahill, a graduate stu­scheduling conflict. dent of English, agreed. Cahill said one of the best 
"Father Jenkins has been parts about the conference is very supportive of our whole the interdisciplinary nature of endeavor, and that's been won-the papers. A driving force of English, political science, Brosnahan in the latter. architecture and other pro­"We consciously wanted the grams incorporated different two to complement each fields of study into their other," Cahill said. "Of course, papers. they're not polarized. ... 
Cahill's paper examines the There's supposed to be this use of the "pilgrimage" intimate connection between metaphor in Benedict XVI's theory and practice.·" "Deus Caritas Est" and the The nine papers being pre­work of Jane Barker, a 17th sented and about six more century writer and Catholic papers, written by students convert. who couldn't present, will be 
"I think it's important to remember that we're all pil­grims on Earth," she said. "We have to look at what we go through in life -our suffering, our happiness, everything -in an eternal perspective. And that really comes out in 'Deus mores, one for juniors and sen­iors and one for graduate stu­dents. The winner in each divi­sion will be awarded $1,000, and the runner-up will receive $500. 
Students can submit essays to Kidder until May 4. Essay win­ners will be announced May 18. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Caritas Est."' 
Mary Brosnahan, the director of the Coalition for the Homeless in New York City, will deliver the first of two keynote addresses tonight at 6:30 in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, where the entire con­ference is taking place. 
Brosnahan ~ a 1983 gradu­ate of Notre Dame and has been director of the Coalition for the Homeless since 1990. She won the Alumni Association's Dr. Thomas A. Dooley Award in 2002. 
Father Philip Anderson, prior of Our Lady of the Annunciation of Clear Creek Monastery in northeastern Oklahoma, will deliver the sec­ond kBynote address at 9;45 
a.m. Saturday. 
"We consciously chose them to reflect both aspects of the encyclical -the philosophical thinking in part one and the practical application of 
On Campus Graduation Weekend Special May19-23, 2007 
Come early, stay late, same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $100.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. For reservations call 574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 

ATTENTION: STUDY ABROAD STUDENTSII! NOW OFFERING HALF· YEAR LEASES!! 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
• 4 and 5 Bedroom fovvnhomes 
• 6 Bloc k5 from c~mpu $ 
• 2 Bd th rooms 
It's a whole new placel 
New local o·.wJership e~ rnana·gtnent Ne"tvlv rernode.red for 2007,2008 
www.kramerhouses.com 
Renting fast· call today for 2007· 2008 

Contact Kran1er at l574J 315-5032 or f574J 234-2436 
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS
. Friday, April27, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow 


13,105.50 +15.61
}ones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,50 I 164 I, 706 3,213,833,474 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +0.52  +0.24  46.55  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.75  -0. i 7  22.09  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.38  -0.02  5.25  
MICROSOFr CP (MSFr)  +0.38  +0.11  29.10  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  + 1.49  +0.25  16.98  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.82  +0.038  4.684  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.41  -0.02  4.80  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.79  +0.038  4.868  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.99  +0.045  4.585  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.78  65.06  
GOLD ($fTroy oz.)  -9.40  678.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.85  103.15  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  119.5750  
EURO  0.7353  
POUND  0.5023  
CANADIAN$  1.1226  

IN BRIEF 

Comcast profits soar after first quarter 
PHILADELPHIA -Comcast Corp., the nation's largest cable television operator, on Thursday reported that first-quarter profits surged by 80 percent, in part helped by a one­time gain resulting from the dissolution of a joint venture with Time Warner Cable. 
The Philadelphia-based company posted a net income of $837 million, or 26 cents per share, in the quarter compared with $466 mil­lion, or 15 cents per share, in the same period a year ago. 
The most recent quarter includes a $500 million gain related to ending a cable partner­ship owned by Comcast and Time Warner serving Kansas City, Mo., southern Texas and Houston. The venture's end resulted in Comcast getting Houston, effective in January, and Time Warner taking the rest. 
Excluding the gain, Comcast would have reported 17 cents per share in profits, which is in line with expectations of analysts sur­veyed by Thomson Financial. 
Exxon Mobil sees rise in profits 
NEW YORK -Oil giant Exxon Mobil Corp. kicked off 2007 with a 10 percent rise in prof­its, its best-ever first quarter, as higher mar­gins on refining and chemical operations off­set lower prices for crude oil and natural gas. 
Exxon Mobil, the world's largest publicly traded oil company, said Thursday it earned $9.3 billion in the January-March period, beating Wall Street expectations, even as rev­enue slipped and fell well short of analysts' forecasts. 
The Irving, Texas-based company was the third major oil company to report earnings in as many days. BP PLC, Europe's second­largest oil company, on Tuesday reported a 17 percent drop in first-quarter earnings on lower oil prices and declining production. On Wednesday, ConocoPhillips said its first-quar­ter profit rose 7.7 percent as a result of asset sales that offset lower year-over-year com­modity prices. · 
Also Thursday, Valero Energy Corp., the nation's largest independent oil refiner, said its first-quarter profit jumped 35 percent on the back of stronger gasoline and distillate margins. 
VENEZUELA 


Oil giants cede control to Caracas 
ConocoPhillips last corporation to not surrender private project in oil-rich country 
Associated Press 
CARACAS -Four major oil companies on Wednesday agreed to cede control of Venezuela's last remaining privately run oil projects to President Hugo Chavez's govern­ment, but ConocoPhillips resisted, prompting warn­ings that its fields could be taken over outright. 
Markets have waited to 
see if the companies, 
which pump and process 
heavy oil in the Orinoco 
River basin, would remain 
as minority partners after 
Chavez decreed last 
month that their fields be 
nationalized. on May l. 
The four projects are con­
sidered Venezuela's most 
lucrative. 
Officials from Chevron, BP PLC, France's Total SA and Norway's Statoil ASA signed memorandums of understanding Wednesday agreeing to give state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA a majority stake in three of the proj­ects. Exxon Mobil Corp. signed earlier in private, officials said. 
"ConocoPhillips has not signed," Venezuelan Energy Minister Rafael Ramirez said at the cere­mony. 
Houston-base d. 
ConocoPhillips is the most spokesman Charlie shore oil field, where it percent stake that he will 
exposed: it is involved in Rowton told The has partnered with send soldiers with govern­
two of the four projects, Associated Press that dis­ConocoPhillips. Eni had ment officials to take con­
Ameriven and Petrozuata, cussions were ongoing. another oil field seized by trol of the projects on May 
and has the single largest Wednesday's signing Venezuela last year. 1. 
stake of any company -a ceremony also included The companies in the "It's going to be a day of 
50.1 percent interest in agreements giving the Orinoco have until June celebration," Ramirez Petrozuata. state control over some 26 to negotiate terms of said after the signing cer­
Ramirez said if smaller projects outside of the takeover, including emony. ConocoPhillips does not the Orinoco: Exxon compensation, their new Ramirez said the agree­sign by May 1, the state Mobil's La Ceiba oil field stakes and operational ments are key to moving will take control of its two and the Gulf of Paria East control for the projects, toward a nationalized oil projects, but added that offshore oil field that which they have run inde­industry. Chavez's govern­Venezuela remains open Chinese company Sinopec pendently until now. The • ment has made clear that to dialogue. plans to develop. companies have more it still welcomes private 
"I think (ConocoPhillips) Ramirez said Italian oil than $1 7 billion in invest­investment in oil projects, is willing" to sign eventu­company Eni SpA also did ments and loans in the and until now most oil ally, Ramirez told not sign, which raises projects. companies have appeared reporters. questions about plans to Chavez has said PDVSA willing to adjust to the 
ConocoPhillips develop the Corocoro off-will take a minimum 60 new, tougher terms. 

Investors cheer Dow Jones upswing 
Associated Press The broader market shared in the investors. He believes the Dow will 
rally Wednesday. The Standard & continue to drift higher this year, but 
NEW YORK -With the Dow Jones Poor's 500 index rose to a 6 1/2-year that the market doesn't have any­industrial average moving past the high, while the technology-dominated where near the exuberance or reasons 13,000 mark for the first time, Nasdaq composite index hit a six-year to keep climbing like it did during the investors will likely be searching for a high. dot-com boom. catalyst to send the markets higher. After the day's gains, a phrase often "The higher you go, the case has to 
A string of stronger-than-expected bandied about on Wall Street, "sell in be that much more compelling to con­corporate profits, helped by robust May and go away," might appear pre­tinue to carry the risk and take more overseas economies, have given scient in the eyes of some investors. risk," Strazzullo said. "You have to ask investors reason to cheer in recent In the coming weeks, economic fig­yourself, we're across the board at sessions. However, with the U.S. econ­ures pointing to unsteadiness in the multiyear highs, what's the catalyst to omy still expected to slow, investors economy could unnerve investors and take us that much higher?" will be looking for reassurance that halt the Dow's advance toward its next It took the Dow just 129 trading their bets on stocks were not made in benchmark: 14,000. In the meantime, days, since Oct. 18, to make the trek haste. investors likely will be looking to see from 12,000 to 13,000, far less than 
On Wednesday, the Dow industrials what happens to the S&P 500; which the 7 1/2 years the blue chips took to went as high as 13,107.45 before clos­is nearing the record of 1,527 A6 it hit go from 11,000 to 12,000. The swift­ing at 13,089.89. The Dow rose in 18 in March 2000 as the dot-com boom ness of this latest trip does recall the of the past 20 sessions and gained began to fray. days of the dot-com boom, when the more than 78Q points in that time; Bill Strazzullo, a strategist at Bell major indexes were soaring and it Wednesday marked the Dow's 35th Curve Trading, said there is a certain took the Dow a men=~ 24 days to barrel record close since the start of October. amount of nonchalance am,ong from 10,000 to 11,000. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April27, 2007 
last 35 years, and I feel very honored and lucky to have had
Athletes 
Expenditures on Men's and Women's Sports at Notre Dame, 2002-2006 
such a wonderful experience continued from page 1 as a Notre Dame athlete." 
Events continue Saturday five years before the first with a nine-hole golf outing at women's varsity squads were the Warren Golf Course and a formed. five-kilometer run set for the 
"People are excited, excited morning and sport-specific to get recognition," Henican events scheduled for late after­said. "Particularly the women noon. The celebration con­from the early years, the sort cludes with Mass and a brunch of pioneers and the ones who in the Joyce Center Sunday started things and had it .rough morning. and kind of paved the way for [female] student-athletes Title IX today." And while Notre Dame cele­
She said the celebration brates 35 years of women's comes at the perfect time, as sports, supporters of women's 
the Monogram  athletics  
Club's  first  nationwide this  
female presi­dent, Julie Pierson Doyle,  "Notre Dame athletics has provided many  June will cele­brate the same anniversary or  
finishes her two-year term in June. Henican,  women with great opportunities over the last 35 years, and I feel  the landmark signing of Title IX. President  
who played volleyball for four years before she  very honored ... to have had such a wonderful experience  Nixon signed the bill into law on June 23, 1972 the  
graduated in  as a Notre Dame  same  summer  
2006 and took the position in  athlete."  that Dame  Notre was  
the athletic department,  Jennifer Hall O'Dell  preparing to admit its first  

said many for­Class of 1999 class of female mer athletes undergradu­
former ND tennis player 
Year  Football  Men's Basketball  Women's Basketball  Men's Total  Women·s Total  Women's share of sum. sans t(>otball  Women·s share of sum. including football  
02-03  II ,203,796  2,735.637  1,790,882  19.491 450  8.197,632  49%  ::l0°'o  
03-04  li.3<J3,367  3.055,454  2,213.647  20,<J73.!24  9,563321  so•,.  .H%  
04-05  15,092.475  2M2.041  2334,872  25.()20,755  10,460.419  5I~o  29°'o  
05-06  17.973,0::l7  2.786,073  2,286,940  28,760.194  l0.906J08  so•-.  28°·0  

,,

Source: Umver$IIy of Notre Dame Higher hducatton Act Rcportmg documents, relevant years *All figures tlrc in dollars 
Expenditures on Men's and Women's Sports, 2005-06 
School  Football  Men's Baskcthall  Women's Basketball  Mcn·s Total  Women's Total  Women as percent of student hodv  Women's share of sum. sans football  Women's ,;hare of sum. including football  
Stan  12.533,439  3,024,785  2,259.166  23.271,578  13,%4.551  48 11 ~  57•;,  38"··  
ND  17.973,037  2.786 073  2 286.940  28.760,194  10,906308  47°•u.  50%  28°·o  
BC  15.071.270  4.753 745  2.445.432  .24.845.216  9.723.527  52°/o  so•·o  28~;,  
usc  17,219,167  3,629,811  2.000,305  26,828,489  9,710,849  SJ•,.  50"'•  27•;,  
UCLA  13,458.173  5,154.796  1.556,291  23,747,373  9~158.026  56%  48°/o  28"o j  

., .,

. ~ ~·
Source: Oll!cc of Postsecondary blucalwn. U.S. l.kpartmcnt ofbiucatwn *All figures are in dollars 
are looking forward to interacting with current athletes and see­ing how far the women's sports program has come. 
The official Web site for the athletic department listed more than a dozen responses to the invitations from former stu­dent-athletes. 
"I think this is a great cele­bration for women's athletics," wrote Jennifer Hall O'Dell, a 1999 alumna who played ten­nis. "Notre Dame athletics has provided many women with great opportunities over the 
Sdtutddy 
Moy5 
11:00 -5:00 


11 Galleries 
<..olt.ax Avenue and lincoln Way West Arh(ortidon Downtown South ~nd 
ates. 
Title IX incor­

porated specific language about education into the landmark 1964 Civil Rights Act, and the majority of the amendment was focused on the prohibition of discrimination based on sex in "any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance." 
In fact, Notre Dame fell under an exception to Title IX for schools in the process of accepting students of both sexes for the first time. The clause allowed the University six years after the bill's enact­ment to comply with t_pe legis­lation. although Notre Dame immediately began a women's athletics program, with fencing becoming the first sport at Notre Dame to field a women's club team, in the fall of 1972. 
Though largely seen as a 

symbol of achievement for women's sports today, Title IX makes no explieit reference to athletics, despite the implica­tions for athletics that became part of judicial rulings in the years following its passage. 
In 1979, the Carter adminis­tration handed down a three­prong test to determine if an institution was in compliance with the act. Aside from a six­year period during the Reagan administration, the test has held that a college must demonstrate any one of the fol­lowing three characteristics in athletics to be eligible for any federal funding, including stu­dent aid: 
+ 
Roster spots filled by ath­letes of each gender are in rel­ative proportion to the student body as a whole 

+ 
The college demonstrates of continued oxpansion of the women's program 

+ 
The program fully meets the athletic needs of the under­represented gender 


"With those three tests. insti­tutions are kind of held to a standard, and it's amazing just how far we've come from, if you look at my data from my dissertation, from the late 70s, early 80s until 2007," White said. "We're not quite there yet, but we're getting there." 
But, White said, it took some administrators in higher edu­cation nearly a decade after Nixon's signing and years after the announcement of Carter's three-part test to begin to fully implement the legislation. Nonetheless, the NCAA saw a change immediately. According to NCAA statistics published in a 1979 federal report, women participating in varsity athlet­ics jumped from approximately 30,000 in 1972 to 62,886 in 1976. 
"It was an amazing time for women in sport in that particu­lar moment in history if you just look at the growth that had transpired in a short time frame," White said. 
At Notre Dame, the changos were fast-paced. After tennis ahd fencing became the inau­gural women's varsity sports in 1976. basketball joined in the fall of 1977. Field hockey fol­lowed suit a year later before the athletic department discon­tinued the sport in 1986, citing. declining interest. 
But the initial years ol' 
women's sports did not fall under the scope of the NCAA. That body only began sponsor­ing championships in 1982, which prompted the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW) to disband the following year. 
Notre Dame was initially a part of' the AIAW in women's sports but transitioned to the NCAA when it began sponsor­ing women's teams. Indeed, women's tennis was an AIAW program from 1976-82 and th1m went to NCAA Division II until 1986, before it jumpod to Division I. At the time, NCAA divisions were separated by scholarship numbers, which led to a different timeline in each sport for ascension to Division I. 
White and women's athletics 
For Whito, issues of gender equity in athletic opportunities and coaching compensation hit home. lie and his wife, Jane, were coachos and teachers while they worked toward 
h i g h e r d e g .r e c s . White earned 
his Ph.D. in e ducat ion f r o m S o ut h e r n 
I I I i n o i s un i v e r sit y 
and published his disserta­tion in 1983. 
The subject was simple, even if' the 
analysis was not _ "An appraisal of the women's intcrcollogiateathletic pro­grams, and the relation­

"/ dfi · h ing to put in 
t starte or me tnt e place athletic 
early '7os when my wife teams, create and I were high school opportunities, teachers and coaches, hire full time 
coaches, and and I coached a number again it was on the boys side ofthe starting to ledger at that level in move. But that 
was a dramati­the secondary school cally different and my wife coached a intercollegiate good number ofsports ex peri en c e 
than had exist-

on the girls' side." ed 1o years earlier," White Kevin White said. athletic director "Fast· for-
ship to men's athletics, at Big Ton Intercollegiate Athletic Conference institutions before and aft1)r Title IX implementa­tion." 
"It started for me in the early '70s when my wife and I were high school teachers and coaches, and I coached a num­ber on the boys side of the ledger at that level in the sec­ondary school and my wife coached a good number of sports on the girls' side," White said. "And I would actually be ~:ompensated two or three times more than she was per 
: 
TOM HANCULAKI Observer Graphic 

sport." 
The Whites moved to Central Michigan University in 1976 ­the year women's fencing and women's tennis beeame the first varsity sports for women at Notre Dame and the four 
U.S. military academies opened their doors to women. There, both would serve as track and field coaches -where Notre Dame's now-athletic director would be compensated "about twico as much as Jane" for "commensurate" work, he said. 
"So we understood Title IX right down to the family check­book," White said. "And I had a huge interest in women's ath­letics because my life partner had Ia vocation] for coaching, and I understood it in ways I don't think I would have had, had I not had that experience -having a spouse coaeh dur­ing that particular era." 
Nationwide, the 1980s were a turbulent and dynamic time for women's sports. 
"We got to '82, and still not a 
lot ol' activity had occurred. But schools were just start-
ward to 2007. and 1982 looks like we weren't 

even out of the box yet," he said, "when you look at the growth in financial advance­ment and just general commit­ment. And today, we're not exactly where we need to be, but we're a heck of a lot bet­ter." 
• In fact, 1982 was a crucial year in the life of Title IX. In the University of Richmond v. Bell, The Supreme Court held that the Department of Edueation could not investigate claims of discrimination in ath­letic programs if the athletic department in question did not 
Friday, April27, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
receive federal funds. Thus, every part of an institution was exempted from Title IX's scope if it did not receive federal sub­sidies, and colleges could con­tinue to receive federal support for some areas even if they did not meet Title IX's require­ments in other departments. 
That ruling held until 1988, when Congress overrode a veto by President H.eagan to expand the scope of Title IX to the entire institution in the Civil H.ights H.estoration Act. 
Notre Dame women's basket­ball coach Moffet McGraw, whose first season with the Irish was the 1987-88 cam­paign, credited White and for­mer Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal. 
"He really pushed the limits with women's sports to get more to a national level," McGraw said of Rosenthal. "That kind of got things start­ed, and then when Kevin White came in, there was an even bigger push." 
McGraw said White's combi­nation of emotional support, along with financial increases for the women's teams, has been instrumental in continu­ing Notre Dame's rise in women's athletics. 
"If you look at where we were then, where we are now, we have achieved progress," McGraw said. 
Mentioning the comparable budgets for men's and women's basketball and the similar trav­el and lodging accommodations for the teams when they are on 


watch, Notre Dame has won four national championships: McGraw's women's basketball squad in 2001, women's soccer in 2004 and the men's and women's combined fencing teams in 2003 and 2005 each captured those titles. 

Spending disparities 
Since White arrived at Notre Dame, the athletic department has added 6 7.3 scholarships ­known as grants-in-aid (GIAs) -to students, with 38 of those for women's teams. Most of the increases were part of an ini­tiative, developed within the first 12 months of White's tenure at Notre Dame, to fund to NCAA maximums the num­ber of scholarships offered, Associate Athletic Director Tom Nevala said in an e-mail to The Observer. 
Nevala said a four-year pro­gram to fully fund the GIAs began in the 2001-02 school year an.d concluded in 2004­
05. During that time, rowing saw the largest increase in GIAs on the women's side ­from zero to 20 -while lacrosse was the biggest bene­factor on the men's side, going from zero to 12.6 GIAs. 
Since the conclusion of the four-year program, the NCAA increased the maximum for women's soccer from 12 to 14, which prompted Notre Dame to add two scholarships for the squad to continue the philoso­phy of fully funding all its sports, Nevala said. 
McGraw said the full funding of GIAs is a benefit for every sport as it recruits, because it shows the school's commitment to the entire field of teams, not just the profit-producing ones. 

In the 2005-06 school year, Notre Dame filled a total of 863 roster spots on 26 varsity teams. The squads were split equally between men's and women's teams, with males accounting for 496 spots and females for 367. If two and 
three-sport  athletes  were  
counted  only  
once,  there  

GIAs, the 
University 
awarded $5,625,442 in GIAs to male athletes and $3,755,215 to female athletes, a 60-40 pro­portion. 
In the most recent filing, the dollar disparity was slightly greater, though the percentage difference decreased a small amount. Notre Dame awarded $7,455,598 (59.3 percent) in GIAs to men in the 2005-06 school year and $5,126,072 
(41.7 percent) to women. 
Nonetheless, the current lev­els contrast starkly with the percentages 20 years ago. According to University records, the money spent on GIAs for women athletes was 19 percent of the total athletic GIA budget in 1988. That num­ber was up from years prior, but nowhere near the 42-per­cent ratio the University com­mits to women's GIAs today. 
The GIAs are a large part, though not the largest, of budgets for athletic depart­ments across the country. 
Most Division I institutions currently spend a percentage of their total athletic budget ­aside from football -on women's sports that is relative­ly close to the percentage of women as part of the overall student body. 
And in that category, Notre Dame ranks slightly ahead of many in its "cohort group" ­the schools to which White likes to compare his athletic department. Of Boston College, Southern California, UCLA and Stanford, only Stanford spends a higher percent of its athletic budget on women's sports. 
Stanford and Notre Dame rank at the bottom of that list in terms of females as a per­centage of the student body, but each spends a higher per­centage of its athletic budget on women's programs than the percentage of women in the student body. 
But return on investment is a different story. 
According to records pub­lished by the University in accordance with federal laws, Notre Dame's game-day costs were $6,666,660 for men's teams and $2,306,665 for women's teams from July 2005 through June 2006. Excluding football, the only sport to bring in profit during the tiine span, the athletic department spent $261,943 more on 12 men's sports than it did on 13 women's sports. That differ­ence, which equates to a five­percent disparity, though dis­counting football, was slightly less than the difference in overall student enrollment by gender. 
In the 2002-03 school year, Notre Dame spent $177,056 on recruiting for the 12 women's teams other than basketball. That figure was 20 percent of the University's total expendi­ture for recruiting. Four years later, the money spent on recruiting for those 12 teams has risen to $199,199, but the share has dropped to 13.2 per­cent of the overall total. (The biggest increase during the time span has been in football recruiting, which spent $323,825 from 2002-03 and $748,763 in the 2005-06 year.) 

Other challenges 
In revenue streams, the men's squads, led by football, promote interest," White said. 
Still, White has been encour­aged by what he calls an ever­growing increase in attention given to women's sports. 
"It's amazing to me how much interest there is in atten­dance. At Notre Dame, we're constantly a top-10 women's basketball program in terms of attendance. The media interest in the women's basketball tour­nament, the Final Four -these are marquee events today ­and even in the Big East con­ference ... We're beginning to see more competitions tele­vised," White said. "Those are indicators -I think pretty strong indicators -that there is a growing societal interest in women's sport, beyond the par­ticipant. That there is a whole spectator element that's grow­ing. 
"And so is it where the men's program is today in 2007? No, it isn't. Not quite. But it's a lot closer than it's ever been, and my sense is that gap will con­tinue to close." 
For the 2001-02 school year, the annual survey given to stu­dent athletes included a ques­tion about gender equity for the 

far outpace women. first time. The question gave Including football, which student-athletes the chance to 
brought in $61,463,627 from write at length about issues of 
2005-06, men's sports earned gender that have affected them 
$65,472,262 in revenue. at Notre Dame. Though those 
Women's sports, meanwhile, records aren't released, White 
pulled in $1,361,139, or 
2.04 percent of 

':4t Notre Dame, 
the total. 

we're constantly a
(Revenue totals include money top-I o women's 
earned from tick­basketball program 
et sales, contribu­

in terms of
tions from alum­ni, postseason attendance." compensation, concession sales, 
Kevin White
radio and televi­


athletic director 
sion contracts, program advertis­ing and sales, 
said in general athletes in sports with less fan and media attention didn't seem to show resentment toward those in the higher-pro­file sports ­something, he said, that cross­es the gender line. 
"I don't know ... that I could cite a particular 

sponsorships, royalties and challenge that would be ger­sports camps.) mane [only] to women's sports. 
In fact, while the NCAA We're constantly looking for requires schools to list specific innovative ways to improve the revenue and expenditure data Olympic sports program," for football and men's and White said. "I don't see any dis­women's basketball -all con­tinguishing characteristics [of sidered "revenue" sports -women's sports] that I could Notre Dame only made a profit point to. I would say we treat on the football squad. Men's -I like to think -we feel as basketball spent $19,053 more committed to a women's soft­than it brought in while ball or lacrosse player as we do women's basketball spent to any male athlete in any $1,908,949 more than it made. sport." 
Outside Notre Dame's con­For White, working toward tract with NBC for football and that goal of demonstrating its stake in Big East basketball commitment to every athlete in television deals, most revenue every sport means inherently comes from ticket sales -enhancing the women's pro­though baseball, women's soc­gram at Notre Dame. cer, men's soccer and hockey are among the relatively small The second part of this series group of teams with paid will run Monday and look at admission for games. Kevin White's path to Notre 
"We're constantly looking for Dame. innovative ways to drive and to drive attendance and to raise Contact Ken Fowler at the level of awareness and kfowler1@nd.edu 
the road, McGraw would have been
"Ifyou look at
said the 389 men and 287
where we were
University has women playing taken tremen­then, where we are at least one var­dous strides to sity sport in the
now, we have
achieve gender 12-month period.
achieved progress. " 
equity, and that In 2002-03, "a lot of that has while Notre to do with Kevin Dame was still in White." the process of 
Muffet McGraw 

women's basketball
Under White's fully funding its
coach 
as et a 
~~·~---------·~~101~~]
·~.&"'ll ~m~~•u...............~.~~A~ac•~~fi~ 

occer ii'..JW.l::J4 

·~r!l·mllni~':P..J(;)[;!I.I I§Wi.ui.uU.GE.i.tt~IJ~Iil'itr:••••••·tf:I;J(:l:Jt 
~mR..............E·t~DI*~ ~-l';*milil-------·t[ti:)I{."fC] 

m;r;;:rm------··:rtc.Jri[:l;) 
~·~-------·[~,,~~ 

Operating 


Expenses for Women's Sports 
TOM HANCULAK!ObserverGraphic 

THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, April 27, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDIIDR BusiNFSS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara · 
AssT. MANAGING EDIIDR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS; Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MAJty's EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gron!i CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
ElliTOR IN CIIIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 

Effectiveness of awareness 
weeks questioned 
This past week, a group representing the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) hosted an awareness week on campus. 
The task force has achieved some admirable goals, espe­cially raising money for bed nets to prevent malaria in Africa, but some of its methods this week -especially the large electric construction sign outside DeBartolo -showed once again the problem with many similar weeks at Notre 
Dame. 
The trend lately for students who want to drum up support for a cause, raise money for charity or point out an injustice in the world has been to host a week worth of speakers, events and, sometimes, protests. 
But unfortunately for the organizers of awareness weeks, the reaction from many stu-
O 
Th 
dents is not one of empathy or support, but rather one of disinterest or even annoyance -even for causes with no opponents, like AIDS research or sexual assault prevention. Weeks that are not well organized don't make an impact. Weeks that flood students with information don't succeed in conveying one clear point. Weeks that immediately follow other awareness weeks don't find as broad an audience and risk confusing their cause with one of another group. 
What do organizers need to do better to buck this trend? 
First, students need to see that when they participate in an awareness week, they are somehow contributing to the cause. "Awareness" is all well and good, but it is simply a first step. While it's necessary in order to make future progress, it's not yet a direct benefit to the cause. 
The easiest way to do this is to raise money. Instead of 
oserver 

events out over a month, rather than cram­ming a weighty message into one week. 
In order for that to work, of course, the
Editorial 
handing out donuts and flyers outside DeBartolo, why don't groups sell the donuts and give the proceeds to charity? Even more effective would be T-shirts, which students could then sport throughout the week-a tactic that some organ­izations, like the MDG task force, do already. 
Another issue is the concentration of awareness weeks in the spring semester. Many groups probably want to avoid football season, which makes sense, but what if some organizers shifted their week to a different time in the year? That would prevent awareness-week burnout. A second idea would be spreading 
groups would have to work together. If organ­
izers give each other space and time to show­case their cause, everyone will benefit because students won't confuse multiple awareness weeks with each other­a legitimate problem, and a real disappointment. Instead of building momentum, many weeks seem to come and go with no real groundswell of support afterward. Increasing the time in between awareness weeks or changing to a month­long system would generate more support and allow more time to process important information. 
Students driven to work for change can greatly benefit the rest of campus by explaining and promoting their causes. The challenge is to do so in a way that's engaging, informa­tive and productive. 
That can only be achieved through greater organization and coordination, and that is how students can become forces of change, rather than simply advocates for it. 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
EDITORIAL CARTOON
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administrationofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as a~XUCately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is en<:ouraged. letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infurmation. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST 0FRCE INFORMATION 

The ~·(USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday ~t durin~ exam aml -vacation periods. A subscription to The: Observ~r Is. $100 f-Qt·.on~:: academic year.$5Sfnrnncs£mt".Srcr.. 

The observel' is.pub(ishecl ac:: POSTMASTER 024 SOUih Oining H.JI Stlnd addresl; com;crions to: Notre Dame,. IN·46556-C779 The Observer l'eriodkal postage paid ar Notre Dame P.O.Box719 and additional mailing offices. Q.24 S1mili Dining Hall 
Notre Dame.lN 46556--0779 

Col 2007-2008 
The Obscrv.cr is a member ofthe Associated Pttsi.All reproduaionrigbu:are 
r~cd. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Marcela Berrios Jay Fitzpatrick Aaron Steiner Greg Arbogast 
Do you plan to donate money to a presidential campaign? Mandi Stirone Tim LaBarge 
%of votes

Viewpoint Scene 
a. Yes 18%

Kara King Analise Lipari 
b.No 82% Graphics 

a. Tom Hanculak 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I have found power in the mysteries of thought." 
Euripides Greek dramatist 
THE.OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, April27, 2007 
page 11 
A libertine education 
Many years ago, as a new undergrad­uate student at a state university, I attP-nded fraternity parties. Much to my surprise, I noticed time and again that the residents' rooms were decorated with posters for Quentin Tarantino's James early film Matthew "Heservoir Dogs." I Wilson found it a mystery that these same The Treasonous posters --of slick Clerk suited gangsters in shades, strutting in black and white down an anonymous city street -­adorned the walls of so many young upwardly mobile undergrads. What had resonated with them in a film about a bank robbery run amuck? 
This mystery lingered, largely because I failed to connect those posters with a comment one critic made regarding "Heservoir Dogs." He had said the film was "all style, no substance." Slick cine­matography and an eccentric sound­track complemented the smooth char­acters on screen. but all three amount­{ld only to something purely aesthetic. The 111m impressed one with its surface appeal and shocked one with its insis­tence that surface and style is all there is. 
In retrospect, I was naive not to see those posters as symbols of a way of liv­ing in the world prevalent now among American college students and quite common through our society in general. Style, appearance --in some sense "beauty" --cut off from meaning, from truth and goodness, summarizes not only the film, but the lives many stu­dents attempt to live in the ostensibly boundless freedom of college campuses. The frat brothers of Psi-Psi-whatever and their coevals craved a life con­sumed by the power and satisfaction of appearances, cut off--truly ripped free --from the implications it might have for themselves and the world in which they live. Iflife and death is a matter of style, one may choose one's pleas.ures 
and pick one's poison .._with regard to the consequences only in so far as they inform that "style." 
My naivete haunts me as all the more remarkable because of a controversy in which I became involved at the time. The University administration had authorized a code of speech and behav­ior intended to eliminate "hate speech" from the classroom room and to allow the University to discipline students involved in untoward or criminal behav­ior on or away from campus. This bind­ing code at a public university sat poor­ly with many of my fellow students because it seemed to place the University "in loco parentis," in the place of the parent. We students were adults not childnm, and no institution had authority to set itself above us in paternal fashion. We oozed the lan­guage of civil liberties and when we could "ooze" no more on our own, we got funding from the ACLU to subsidize our self-righteous, indignant excres­cence. 
From my present vantage point, the correlation between the posters on the wall, the "lifestyle" of pure style, and the contrived arguments of vocal young activists seems absolute. All three are party to an effort--an old one, and one which continues --to create a public sphere, an entire society, stripp!CJd of codes of responsibility. This has proven a hard task, because those codes -­called ethics and politics, and some­times morality-have a way of inevitably emerging from our experi­ence. We often and appropriately define this emergence of codes as Natural Law: the more experience of life one has, the more firmly one detects the vast structure of laws that subtend and direct it. 
The world is always going to hell, of course. Anyone with a sense of the drama of history can discern one aspect of civilization or another sliding from bad to worse. College campuses play a particular part in the drama, however. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Police priorities fail to meet student needs 

We are seniors living off campus writ­ing to express our frustration with both the South Bend Police Department and the Indiana State Police. Six of our eight cars and both of our houses have been broken into with valuables taken, includ­ing multiple electronics, and even a porch swing. Each time we have been met with a slow, casual re-sponse. For one incident, they tried to tell us that the evidence pointed to a student burglary, and have accused us of not securing our homes and cars well enough. 
Meanwhile, this past Saturday night, five Indiana State Police squad cars arrived at our house and issued an underage drinking ticket to a Notre Dame student who was sitting calmly on our fron_t porch, with no drink in hand, and no party or noise occurring at our house. More or less, an innocent 19-year­old girl received a citation for sitting out­side talking to friends. Earlier in the day this past Saturday, hundreds of underage students were drinking in the backyard across the street from o,ur house, while the South Bend Police were doing noth­ing but regulating who came in and out of this overrated annual event. While this block party was taking place, our small gathering was forced out of our front yard when three SPBD cars arrived, ignorant to the event across the street. Their justification was that the property across the street had a permit for the occasion. We were unaware that it was possible under Indiana state law to acquire a permit to allow underage kids to consume alcohol. 
The South Bend Police as a whole seems to show no care for Notre Dame students. They seem to fight crime only in instances where no danger is present, and ignore ~he numerous robberies and shootings that happen in South Bend. In our neighborhood, one of our neighbors has been charged with 17 counts of car burglary. Each time, however, he has been released on bail. 
However, it is very comforting to know that South Bend and Indiana's finest are protecting us from the dangers of 19 and 20-year-old students drinking a beer. Because the Notre Dame residence halls have become so crowded, it is necessary that a certain number of students live off-campus. However, students should think twice before becoming a part of a crime-filled community where the law enforcers have such backwards priori­ties. Over the past four years, we have grown to love the close-knit community at Notre Dame. This year, we have grown to despise the community of South Bend. 
Matt Smith Mike Hennig seniors offcampus April25 

Because, as I say, codes of behavior inevitably arise -eventually -in everyday life, the average modern per­son lives a fairly docile, harmless exis­tence. But higher education has become such a rite of passage in America that it has come to instantiate a "green room," a strange liminal zone apart from child­hood and adulthood. 
The crossroads where the relative unaccountability of youth and the rela­tive sovereignty of age meet, the college campus may now best be understood only as a place of passage. No one remains there long enough to allow nat­ural laws to rear their dogmatic heads. A student takes a course, and when it is over, the lessons are left behind with only the inscrutable fingerprint of a grade for evidence. Students lease a dorm room or apartment and foresake it when the lease is up. Most evocatively of all, packs of students rent and destroy those towering old buildings that were once family homes, replacing the relative permanence of generations with the complete transience of a school year lived from keg to keg. 
This characterization may seem harsh, and my tone no doubt emerges from my own disgust at such a condi­tion as well as my own past culpability in its persistence. Then again, it is bet­ter to have the humility to regret the folly of one's youth than to bear that folly like a trophy through some tedious adulthood, in which the emptiness of coltege hedonism so frequently mutates into the emptiness of perpetual acquisi­tiveness. This characterization also ignores a more grave matter. What is the connection between the practices of the typical American college student and the education that, in their spare hours, they are supposed to be receiv­ing? 
A liberal education is supposed to equip a student for a life of thinking, of contemplation, and of right action. If it serves any purpose at all, it must aid those who receive it in understanding 
their experiences and in discerning and 
pursuing the meaning that emerges 
from such understanding. How liberal 
education could coexist with a mode of 
life that judges questions of truth and 
goodness anathema, seeking exclusively 
the satisfactions of "style," should strike 
one as a troubling question indeed. 
The answer is, it does not. Much edu­
cation in the humanities takes its cue 
from the evanescent libertinism of its 
students. Its curricula promise to "liber­
ate" students from the various "par­
ents" of tradition, authority, meaning 
and responsibility that so inconveniently 
intrude. Many students leave such .courses no wiser than they entered pri­
marily because the courses instruct 
they have nothing to learn, but rather 
should "unlearn" what they already­
know. unburdening themselves of the 
past and the codes it imposes. Students 
learn, that is, what they already intuited 
on any given Saturday night: the end­
less struggle for liberation must contin­
ue until one's lil'e has been stripped of 
everything but style. 
Liberal education stood once as a kind 
of elevation above the mutilating twists 
of life's passing infatuations. The 
denizens who occupy its corridors now 
have done well at demonstrating eleva­
tion is self-denial, edification ideology. 
Our syllabi of the literature of sexual 
transgression in eighteenth-century 
Ireland has saved many a student from 
dreaming there might be some more 
worthy end to human life than sex, 
transgressive, casual or otherwise. May 
more clerks turn treasonous against 
this institutional turn. 
James Matthew Wilson is a Sorin 
Research Fellow and, as a final act of 
transgression, has just murdered The 
Treasonous Clerk. For information 
about the wake, write to 
jwilson5@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column 
are those of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
Taxes a necessary part 
of American society 
I read Zach Einterz' recent column entitled "Minority blues" (April 25), and while I myself do wholehearted­ly agree with some libertarian ideals, I temper my attitudes with some cold hard facts. 
You, Zach, are free to live however you chose. You are free to do any of the things you cite in your article. You are free to pay no taxes to the federal government, just choose not to keep more than $25,000 or so of your income and the government will not ask for any. You have a choice. You can live out of your car and give all your income to save the owls, trees or whatever charity you want to. But if your choice involves being an active, profit seeking par­ticipating member of the "majori­ty's" economy, then you must pay dues to enjoy all the benefits of that society which provides such a high standard of living for those who con­tribute to it. That's a fact, not an option. 
If you want an ambulance to show up and save your life when you wreck your car, ifyou want a fire truck to show up when your house is burning, if you want smooth roads to drive on, you must pay taxes for these things; life is not a smorgas­bord where we can choose what you want to pay for and what you don't. 
Again remember, you do not have to pay for any of those things if you do not want to. Just remember the deal, if you chose to use the econo­my for your profit, you must con­tribute to it. And while I am a self­employed contractor who does not enjoy paying a portion of my hard earned money to someone else, I realize that it is a good investment. 
By the way Zach, I spent five hours today in a ditch, in the rain with a shovel in my hands digging up a broken rain conductor, and if I can contribute to our country, I think maybe you could see fit to also help out without all the whining that you only get to keep 80% of your income to spend on whatever you want. As an economics major, Zach, perhaps you should study the tax system before you make ridiculous statements like, "it's hard to deny the fact that a large portion of your paycheck is going to support the war." Well Zach, it is easy to deny that. That's most certainly not a fact, and far from the truth. In short Zach, grow up! 
Dean J. Marra 
Pittsburgh , Penn. 
April26 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Friday, April 2~, 2007 
DVD REVIEW 
'Museum' fails to exhibit humor or talent 
By MARTY SCHROEDER ·Assistant Scene Editor 
With an all-star comedic cast includ­ing Ben Stiller, Ricky Gervais (of the British "The Office" fame). Robin Williams, Owen Wilson, Dick Van Dyke, Steve Coogan and Mickey Rooney, "Night at the Museum" should have been the comedic promised land. It's too bad that director Shawn Levy ("Cheaper By the Dozen") has wasted all of these impressive talents in this disappointing and generally unfunny film. 
The script was a good original con­cept but uninteresting in its actual exe­cution, and having Chris Columbus (director of the disastrous first two "Harry Potter" films) acting as produc­er surely didn't help. While it is a fairly cute kid's movie, "Night at tho Museum" fails to be what it certainly could have been. 

Stiller plays the disillusioned Larry Daley, a· man who must find a job if he is to retain the respect of his son and ex-wife. After a series of failed busi­ness ventures and 11ack from his for­mer spouse's stock market trader hus­band, he takes a night-guard job at t.he New York museum of Natural History. 
He sees the job as his meal ticket to respectability and thinks it's easy work until he can find something better. 
Easy, sure -except for the fact that the museum exhibits, wax models and everything else come to lifn at night and terrorizn any unsuspecting person from the outside, including new night guards. 
"Night at the Museum" is a film that promised zingy one-liners, fabulous special effects and some of the best comic acting Hollywood has to offer. They get a D-minus on the first, a gen­enJUs B-plus on the second and an F­minus on thn last. It's kind of neat to look at for live minutes, but ultimately a horribly unfunny train wreck of a movie. 
This isn't to say that the acting is bad. Williams is convincing as th.e wax model of Teddy Hoosevelt and Gervais -probably the most wastnd actor in any film, ever -does a decent job (with wha·t he has to work with) as the uptight museum director. 
The problem is the lack of cohesive cast feeling. The characters are too much Stiller, Williams, Wilson and Coogan and not enough Daley. Roosevelt, cowboy or Homan general. Alongside these characters is a monkey 


Ben Stiller stars in "Night at the Museum," a recent children's flick. The film's talented but underused cast includes Ricky Gervais and Robin Williams. 
that is only good for potty jokes and cheap gags. 
"Night at the Museum" tries too hard to be an adult film and a kid's film at the same time. 
Fast forward to the DVD and buyers have the option of to buy a one-disc edition or two-disc "Special Edition." If anyone wants to buy this film for what­ever reason, the one disc would be the way to go -the extras on the two-disc se't aren't worth the overpriced cost and would only collect dust. If you must buy it, get the widescreen one­disc snt and enjoy it for the the film alone. 
Don't waste your time with extras and money that could be used on a bet­ter movie. 
"Night at the Museum" can be cute and does elicit a few muted chuckles from time to time. It's a damn shame it couldn't have been better-with a bet­ter director and script, its east could have had audiences howling with laughter. 
"Night at the Museum" deserves a place in an archive somewhere, and definitely not in the featured exhibit. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
FEMALE BRACI{ET 
The Luck of McGDMcGlinn) 


2007 REGATTA 
II

BRACI{ET 

MALE BRACI{ET 
s·1emtne · d 


Winner 
= 
Winner 
VeDjas Hoe E!m
i hti.J Foe (Zahml Roo, Roo, Roo, Your Boat (Keough) 
The Rear Admiral fSorinl Ghost Ride da Ship (Fisher.l 
II 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE

Friday, April 27, 2007 
page 13 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
The Jolly Piggot, Fisher Hall's flagship green vessel, lies in dry dock, tethered to a tree on the grass of South Quad as an announcement of the impending Fisher Regatta. The most visible of Fisher's signature events, the Regatta has become a widely renowned campus tradition in its impressive history at Notre Dame. With each dorm construct­ing its own lake-bound vessels, inter­dorm rivalries, sailing skills (or lack thereof) and an overall sense of campus spirit come together in one wet and wild afternoon. 
For our coverage of Saturday's event, the Scene Section took the option (or mistake) of conducting a tag-team inter­
DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 
view with Regatta co-commissioners 
The Jolly Piggot rests outside of Fisher Hall in honor of the Regatta, which takes 
Kevin Rabil and Will Kearney. 

place Saturday. The Fishermen enjoy a week of festivities prior to the race. 
What's different about this year's Regatta from Regattas of past years? the Regatta itself? "Well, we've got the Fisher Reg -" 
Will: Well, this is the Regatta's 21st Will: Fred and Sally 'A;:eek is Fisher That's when we lost service. birthday and, as we all know, that Hall's signature week leading up to this means we've got to celebrate like never Saturday's Regatta. Each night, What are some of the other distinct or before. Also, we are the best-looking Fishermen gather for different events, different qualities about living in commissioners in the history of Regatta, which promote dorm unity and get Fisher that separate it from the other and we feel that is key to a successful everyone excited to throw down on dorms on campus? Regatta and a successful life Saturday. On Sunday, we Will: Fisher may not look like much, in general. had a grotto Mass with but she's the flyest dorm on campus.
"This year we hope 

Pangborn, followed by a Fisher was built as a temporary dorm What's the turnout you're to get every single cookout. back in 1952, and we all know that aes­expecting for this year, person on campus, We had a guest speaker, thetically it is a scar on the face of cam­both for spectators and Assistant Athletic Director pus, but we have awesome dorm spirit
nay, the world, to

competitors? John Heisler, on Monday; and love where we are. And let's be 
come and watch

Kevin: This year we hope section wars/roommate serious, chicks dig scars. to get every single person the event." games on Tuesday; Red on campus, nay, the world, Mocks Awards on In conclusion, the dynamic duo said, to come and watch the Wednesday, where every "We hope everyone will come out and

Kevin Rabil

event. Any celebrities that Fisherman gets made fun support a great cause. We are raising

Fisher Regatta 

are in town are more than of for every embarrassing money for the Brother Andre House in welcome to get some face­co-commissioner story of the year. Arizona. The Regatta will not disappoint time on the local news. And on Thursday we rest -look forward to seeing you all there. 
All of the coolest dorms up because we need all the Also, R. Kelly may or may not be per­are competing in this year's Regatta, energy possible to rock out at the Zoo forming (odds on no, but we're still hop-with the few other dorms watching from on Friday. We also stress no homework ing)." · the shore, crying. throughout the week. Hegardless of whether or not some 
contemporary R & B artists make it out How do you expect the Fisher boat(s) When did the "We ... we are ... we are to campus for the event, the Fisher to fare in the competition? Fisher ... we are Fishermen!" chant Regatta pushes off this Saturday after­
Kevin: A<> with every year in the past, start? noon. Float or fail, the event promises to we are hoping for pure and utter domi­Kevin: A few years ago, there was a be entertaining at the very least. After nation in our signature event. This year resident in Fisher given the name all, what would the end of April be with­we realized that size doesn't always "Husky" and this was his cheer. From out the Regatta? matter, and sometimes it's the personal­then on, we have called this chant the Like the Piggot, the Fisher Hegatta is ity that gets it done. We are hoping for Husky cheer, and we can be heard up and running once again, thanks to some more flair this year and some throughout the Milky Way. the efforts of the intrepid Fishermen of more wins. Sometimes, other galaxies call us up Fisher Hall. Jolly good. 
and say, "Nice cheer, guys." And we say, What are some of the events/activi­"Thanks." Then they say, "Hey what are Contact Tae Andrews at ties going on in Fisher leading up to you doing on Saturday?" And we said, tandrew1@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April27, 2007 
MLB 
Pirates sweep Astros for second time this year 
Sosa hits two homers to set record for most major league ballparks homered in, but Rangers fall to Indians 9-4 
Associated Press ago. "There has been some dra­matic improvement, and I know 
PITTSBURGH -Phil Garner there's more to come. I know won a World Series playing for we're a better offensive team Pittsburgh and managed in the than we've shown so far." All-Star game there last sum­mer. Right now, the Houston Indians 9, Rangers 4 manager probably isn't excited Sammy Sosa is "Slammin' about returning to the city Sammy" once again. where he has enjoyed some of Sosa hit two homers to reaeh his best moments in baseball. 594 for his earner, but Paul Byrd 
Jason Bay's two-run single in and the Cleveland Indians beat the sixth inning off Wandy the Texas Rangers Thursday for Rodriguez gave the Pirates a 5-3 their fifth straight win. victory Thursday over Houston Sosa's 439-foot drive leading and their second three-game off the sixth inning against Byrd sweep of the Astros this season. (2-1) made Jacobs Field the 
Barely 12 hours after the 44th major league ballpark in Astros left 18 runners on base which he has homered. That during a 4-3, 16-inning loss to broke a tie with Ken Griffey Jr. the Pirates, they stranded 13 and Fred McGrilf for the most in and played sloppily in the field a big league career. with two errors during "It's nice to have that record, Pittsburgh's go-ahead sixth but if we had won I would have inning against Rodriguez (0-3). enjoyel:l it more," Sosa said. The Astros have lost six in a He obtained the record-setting row. including a 3-0 defeat ball by signing two baseballs for Tuesday in which they were lim­the fan who got it in the left­ited to three singles, and went lield bleachers. 3-6 during a four-city road trip. Sosa has six homers and 18 
"It's good to be going home," HBis, but he's hitting only .239 said Garner, whose team begins in 19 games since sitting out all eareer multihomer gamo. aen. a little tired, but no big deal," a six-game homestand Friday. of 2006. l-Ie said he still hasn't Byrd lef't after yielding a lead­llill pitehnd eight-plus innings, Hill said. "We really nfleded the "We just lost o1u offense. We got his timing back after the off single in the sevonth to Dmitri Young homered and the win and I wanted to give the had some good games but we long layoff. · Gerald Laird. The right-hander Nationals snapped the bullpen a rest." also had some games we didn't "The more I play, the more allowed three runs and eight Philadelphia Phillies' live-game Chad Cordero got three outs, appear to focused on." adjustments I can make," he hits, walked one and struck out winning streak with a win fanning Wes llelms with a run­
Houston pushed across two said. "If you talk about getting three. The Rangers twiee put a Thursday. ner on third to record his sec­runs in the ninth but John hot, I'm not there yet. " runner at third base with none "A terrific performance," ond save in four chances. Grabow bailed out closer Byrd was wary of pitching to out and failed to score against Washington manager Manny Coming off a complete-game, Salomon Torres by getting Sosa with or without runners on Byrd. Acta said. 15-strikeout performance at Adam Everett to ground . into a base. Texas loaded the bases in the Aaron Howand hit a solo shot Cincinnati last Saturday, Cole foreeout at second with the "You still don't want to elevate first, but left !"ielder Shin-Soo for the Phillies to extend his Harne is (2-1) had his shortest bases loaded to end the game. It a fastball to him," Byrd said. Choo caught a fly ball from career-best hitting streak to 14 outing this season. The left-han­was Grabow's first save since "On the homer, I was trying to Mark Teixeira and made a per­games. der allowed four runs and eight 2004. go inside, left it up and away fect no-hop throw to get Kenny llill (2-2) gave up two runs hits in 5 1/3 innings. 
The Pirates are 6-0 against and knew where it was headed Lofton trying to tag up from and four hits, striking out three "Coming off a phenomenal the Astros this season after as soon as he swung." third. Sosa then grounded out to in his 14th career start. The performance, it gives you confi­going 3-13 last season and have The only stadiums currently in end the threat. right-hander hasn't allowed dence," Hamels said. "I was swept successive series for the use that the 38-year-old out­"That play picked us up," Byrd more than two earned runs in feeling good for five innings, first time since 1979 -when fielder has not hit a homer in said. "Three minutes in, I've got any of his five starts this season. then I just got out of my comfort Garner was the second baseman are RFK Stadium in Washington the bases loaded and it had dis­Hill missed the 2005 season zone." on Pittsburgh's World Series­and the new Busch Stadium in aster written all over it." after having a ligament replaced The Nationals went ahead 1-0 winning team. The Pirates also St. Louis. in his elbow and was shut down in the fourth when Young hit an swept a season-opening series Sosa went deep again in the Nationals 4, Phillies 2 after only six starts last year opposite-field homer to right­in Houston from April2-4. eighth against Tom Mastny to Shawn Hill wouldn't let an because of elbow problems. He center, one pitch after left field­
"It was good to get the sweep, move closer to joining Hank injury to his non-throwing arm strained his left shoulder on a er Pat Burrell threw Ryan that's for sure," said manager Aaron, Barry Bonds, Babe Ruth keep him off the mound. It's a dive in his last start but didn't Zimmerman out at second base Jim Tracy, whose Pirates are and Willie Mays in the 600 good thing for Washington feel any ill effects on the mound. trying to stretch a single into a 10-10 after being 5-15 a year homers club. It was his 69th because llill's pitching like an "The shoulder is a little tight, double. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day fi-om 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 'i cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classitleds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Graduating? 
Not want to miss any football games this fall? 
Not ready to pay rent? 
Want your first job to be tons of fun? The La Lumiere School in La Porte, 
Indiana (30 miles West of South 
Bend) is hiring an Assistant Director of Residential Life. Help plan nightly and weekend activities for the 150 day and boarding students, concen­!rating on the 65 boarding students. Housing, utilities and meals are included in addition to a stipend. You will have plenty of free time to attend graduate school or visit with friends back in South Bend. Preference given to candidates will­ing to coach a sport. Come enjoy a great environment during your first year out of college, and help pro­vide an enjoyably productive experi­ence for the La Lumiere students. Please contact Michael Kennedy, Headmaster, La Lumiere School, 6801 N. Wilhelm Road, La Porte, IN 46530. 219-326-7450. 
kennedy@ lalumiere.org 
SUMMER WORK-$15.50 base­appt. flexible schedules, no exp.needed,customer sales/service, conditions apply,all ages 17+, posi­lions throughout the US, apply now, start after finals, 
www.workforstudents.com 
Sitter for 11-year-old girl in Granger and sometimes older sisters, 15 & 
17. Days, 30-40 hours/week now through summer. 
Reply: Linda.Harmon1 @comcast.net 
Seeking Designer for personal web­site. Call 574-631-5491 & lv. msg. 
FoR SALE 
*ND CONDOS* NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos Minutes from campus Starting in $130,000s 574-252-2427 ndcondos.com 
Reserve Yours Today! 
3 bdrrn,2 bath ranch, finished lower level, all amenities. 10 yrs. old & 1 mi to ND. $144,900. 574-277-2176. 
FoR RENT 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER • 
AREAS,BETTER DEALS. 
BlueGoldRentals.com 
3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for 07/08 school year. On line see rent-nd.com or mmmrentals.com. Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb­spot. net or phone 574-277-4759. 
Furnished 1 bdrm apt., 2 mi to ND, AC, non-smoking, no pets. $400/rno 
+ utilities, free laundry, fenced yard. 574-289-9365. 
Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli. A/C,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 + util. 630-417­8763/MCL214@ aol.com 
Very large home for rent for next school year. 1 block east of cam­pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4 huge bedrms/3 full baths/large kitchen-lam rm &laundry rrn. 3 decks overlook huge fenced yard. Very private &safe I Must see! 
239-707-2025. 
andersonNDrentals.com 

New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi,AC, 2 car gar. No pets. $1650/mo plus util. 914-232-3328. WALK TO CAMPUS!! JAMISON RESIDENTIAL 3 BDRM 2 BA LUX­URY CONDO. ACROSS B-BALL STADIUM FROM CAMPUS. SLEEPS UP TO 4 STUDENTS. EXCELLENT RENTAL FOR 2 GRAD STUDENTS OR FOR PRI­VACY. CONVERT 3RD BEDROOM TO STUDY. CAB,NET,GAS,ELEC, INCLUDED. $1600 PER MONTH BEGINNING 6/1. CALL MARK @ 310-940-9444. 
1-bdrm apts. Quiet historic neigh­borhood. Laundry &security. $575/mo. 
574-532-8718. 

Two custom built riverfront homes for sale or rent. New construction, 10 minutes to Notre Dame. First home has 4 bedrooms, 4 baths, 3500 sq. ft. Second home has 4 bedrooms, 3 baths, 3300 sq. fl. Both have a walkout lower level with sec­ond fireplace and gorgeous views. Must see! Windsor Prop.LLC 574­876-3424 
Roseland Cottages available 2 bdrm 1ba, walk to campus w/W/D. 574-272-3033 or dpaul@nd.edu 
CHICAGO AREA HOUSING OPPORTUNITY for Female ND Grad: Family in Northbrook has home-bound 17-yr-old daughter with chronic illness similar to chron­ic fatigue syndrome. Free room & board for responsible person to live in house &act as "big sister". Three blocks from Metra. Call: Dan 312-913-2130 or 
Chris 574-339-0582. 

Storage facility for rent. Close to ND. 1200 W. 6th St., Mishawaka. Video &access control security, eli­mate controlled. Summer rate for students. 2 mi north of Marian High School. 5x10 $99; 10x10 $149. Call 574-277-1878. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 

If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­BOO-No-ABORT or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
Adopt A young loving couple long to share their Hearts and home with a newborn &will provide Endless love. Expenses paid call Eileen & Ed at 1-800-718-6577 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape to learn about resources at ND and in South Bend. 
Evergreen Self Storage. Both eli­mate and non-climate controlled. Sizes from 1Ox1 0 to 1Ox20. Located in the Princess Way Industrial Park in Granger at 12575 Sandy Drive. Mention this ad and save 10% off your lease. Call574-243-4608 or 574-272-0618. 
Two-thirds of the Earth is covered by water. The other third is covered by Kerry Rhodes 
Draft Odds: JaMarcus Russell to Raiders-5:1 Brady Quinn to Browns-12:1 Adrian Peterson to Vikings -25:1 Calvin Johnson to Lions -1 :20 



OUND THE NATION 
Friday, April 27, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \¥IRE SERVICES page 15 
MLB

NCAA Men's Lacrosse 

1 2 3 4 5 6 
1 
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 -12 
team 
Cornell Albany Virginia Duke Georgetown Princeton Maryland Navy Johns Hopkins North Carolina NDTREDAME Bucknell Towson Loyola (Md.) UMBC Drexel Delaware Syracuse Fairfield Brown 
Top20  
record  pretii  
8·0  1  
8·2  2  
10·1  3  
9·2  4  
6·2  5  
6·2  7  
8·3  11  
8·2  6  
4·4  9  
7-4  10  
6·3  13  
9-2  15  
6-3  12  
5·3  8  
6·4  20  
8·3  NR'  
6·4  14  
3-5  16  
5·3  19  
6-3  NR  


NCAA Women's Lacrosse Top20 
team record preu. 

Northwestern 8-1 1 Maryland 12·1 3 North Carolina 11·2 2 Duke 10·2 4 Virginia 10·2 5 Penn 10·1 11 James Madison 9-2 6 Penn State 8·4 10 Georgetown 1·4 7 Syracuse 6·4 8 NOTRE DAME 10·3 12 Yale 10·3 15 Princeton 4·4 9 Dartmouth 7-3 16 Vanderbilt 8-4 17 Johns Hopkins 6·5 13 Denver 12·2 14 Rutgers 10·2 18 Connecticut 6-5 19 Delaware 6·4 28 
Baseball Big East Standings 
team Big East 


Rutgers 12-3 louisville 11-4 28·11. St. John's 11-4 25·12 Pittsburgh 11-6 1946 . Cincinnati 1·1 21-17 SouhiFlorida 9·9 27-15 West Virginia 6-8 23-13 NOTRE DAME 6-8 21•18 Villanova 5·10 18·18 Seton Hall 5·10 18-19 Connecticut 5·10 18-20 Georgetown 3·12 14·26 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -No paint, no ink, no ketchup. 
Nothing but Curt Schilling's blood was seep­ing through his socks in the 2004 postseason, cur­rent and former Red Sox said Thursday after a rumor resurfaced that the pitcher milked his injury for drama while helping Boston end its 86-year title drought. 
On Wednesday, Baltimore announcer Gary Thorne said during his broadcast of the Red Sox­Orioles game that Boston backup catcher Doug Mirabelli admitted it was a hoax. 
"It was painted," Thorne said. "Doug Mirabelli con­fessed up to it after. It was all for PR." 
Thorne backed off Thursday after talking to Mirabelli before the Red Sox played the Orioles. Thorne said Mirabelli had been joking. 
"He said one thing, and I heard something else. I reported what I heard and what I honestly felt was said," Thorne said. "Having talked with him today, there's no doubt in my mind that's not what he said, that's not what he meant. He explained that it was in the context of the sarcasm and the jabbing that goes on in the club-
IN BRIEF 
Colts dispel rumors about 
cornerback 
INDIANAPOLIS -Colts officials spent the last three days wrestling with what might be their most important decision of the offsea­son. 
They're still not saying anything. 
On Thursday, team president Bill Polian used his predraft news con­ference to contradict several media reports that the Colts would not match New Orleans' four-year offer sheet to cornerback Jason David, letting him leave the Super Bowl champions. 
"That's wrong because I have not opted yet, at least Tony (Dungy) and I haven't," Polian said. "We're still working through some issues and we don't have to do anything. Right now, we're still working through the last little details." 
David's agent, Cary Fabrikant, said the Colts had not informed him of their intentions. 

house. 
"I took it as something serious, and it wasn't," Thorne said. 
Mirabelli confirmed the story, saying, "He knows that 1 believe 100 percent that I thought the sock had blood on it. It never crossed my mind that there wasn't blood on that sock. If he misinterpreted some­thing said inside the club­house, it's unfortunate." 
Mirabelli said he spoke with Thorne in the Boston clubhouse about six months after the 2004 playoffs. 
"As he was walking away he asked, 'How about the bloody sock?' I said, 'Yeah, we got a lot of publicity out 
---... 

of that, and that was all he can recall me saying," Mirabelli said. "He said he assumed what I meant was that the sock was fake and that it was just a publicity stunt. That by no means is what I meant. There was never a doubt in mind there was blood on the sock." 
After an ankle injury hampered Schilling in Game 1 of the '04 AL championship series against New York, team doctors jury-rigged a ten­don in his right ankle to keep it from flopping around. With blood seep-~­ing through his sock, the pitcher came back to beat the Yankees in Game 6. 
Jeter scratched from lineup
due to bruised thigh 
NEW YORK -Derek Jeter was a late scratch from the New York Yankees' lineup Thursday night against Toronto because of a bruised left thigh. 
Miguel Cairo started at shortstop in place of Jeter and batted ninth. First baseman Doug Mientkiewicz was moved from the No. 9 spot in the line­up to Jeter's regular No. 2 hole. 
Jeter, who has a 14-game hitting streak, left tuesday night's game at Tampa Bay after being hit on the leg by Scott Kazmir's pitch in the first inning. He was in the posted lineup before Wednesday night's game against the Blue Jays was rained out, and was originally slated to play Thursday, too. 
But about an hour before the first pitch, Jeter was removed from the line­up. He and manager Joe Torre told a team spokesman that Jeter was still a little sore. He was available off the bench. 
Duquesne athlete sues school 
after being shot on campus 
PITTSBURGH -One of five Duquesne University basketball players shot on campus last year has sued the school, alleging it failed to provide adequate security at a dance. 
The lawsuit, filed late Wednesday in Allegheny County Common Pleas Court, says univer­sity officials did not take action once they knew of potential crimi­nal activity. A doorman let two armed men into the dance even after their friend asked if the men would be frisked, according to the lawsuit. 
"Rather than alerting the cam­pus police who were present inside the ballroom about (the frisking inquiry), or taking other similar reasonable steps, the doorman simply responded that they would not be frisked," and allowed the men to enter, the lawsuit states. 
around the dial 
NBA 
Raptors at Nets 
7 p.m., ESPN2 
Bulls at Heat 
8 p.m., ESPN 
NHL Rangers at Sabres 7 p.m., Versus 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 27, 2007 
NFL 

Goodell continues 
to clean up league 
Associated Press 
On the eve of the NFL draft, commissioner Roger Goodell promised to whack any team leaking confidential information about potential picks. That's not a bad idea for a league beset by enough legal trouble from cur­rent players that the face it pres­ents to the public all too often is a mug shot. 
Goodell, to his credit, has wast­ed little time since taking oflice trying to polish the NFL's image. He responded to the problem he inherited -some four dozen players being arrested in a cal­endar year -by toughening up the personal-conduct policy and threatening to hold the teams responsible for players' trans­gressions. 
Now he's telling teams not just to keep reports of draftees' bad behavior to themselves but to use that information to keep the troublemakers from finding employment in the first place. 
Good luck. 

'The definition of questionable character is always going to be different for NFL executives than it is for the average Joe," said Memphis-based agent Brian Parker, whose firm specializes in solid characters. 
'They've got every bit of back­ground information on these guys that's possible to gather, from the classroom to the weight room. And they've gotten better at how they apply that informa­tion. But every team has their own method of placing value on a prospect." 
That is a diplomatic way of saying that while teams spend upward of $1 million each to have kinesiologists, psycholo­gists, sociologists and even psy­chics measure, poke and probe the available talent, they always take the player they think will help them the most, no matter how many red tabs peek out from a prospec:t's folder. 
Or, as San Diego general man­ager A.J. Smith put it a while back, "Ultimately, every elub has to decide how short of the ideal they·~~ willing to accept to fill a need. 
We've heard countless times that drafting players is an inex­act science, but that's an insult to science. What the NFL's annual auction reminds us is that it's not about how much information you gather, but what you do with it that counts. 
Two years ago, for example, Louisville running back Eric Shelton interviewed with a few clubs and couldn't figure out why each one kept harping on char­acter. It wasn't until a visit to Carolina that he learned nearly 20 teams had received back­ground checks on him containing reports of a criminal past. The real story? The company hired to prepare the checks confused him with another Eric Shelton. 
Then there was the intelli­gence test devised by the New York Giants to supplement the standard Wonderlic exam given to every potential draftee. Their version totaled 380 questions in all -about eight times as many as the Wonderlic -with the intention of wearing down play­ers to the point where the club got real answers instead of the ones players were programmed by agents and media consultants to give. 
What impressed the players was not the test's difficulty, but its preoccupation with suicide. 
'They asked that a lot of times in a lot of different forms," Panthers receiver Steve Smith recalled. "You know, like, 'Have you ever thought the world would be better off without you?"' 
Guest performer 
Tim Richard April 26 and 27 
of New York Dance Connection 


Guest Choreographer 
Lisa Frank 
Artistic Direction 
lndi Dieckgrafe 
-f!t-
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
MoreauCenter.com .1956·2006. 
For tickets, visit the Box Office or call (574) 284-4626. 
at 7:30P.M. 
April28 at 2:30P.M. O'Laughlin 
Auditorium 
Ill
Tickets: "'~ ~ $9-Adult 0 ~ :r )>
v 
z
$8-Senior Citizen ;. z
"' 
"'<( <
$7-SMOND Staff m 
.. "' ....
$6-Student ~ z < .. l> "' "' 
NBA 




Ellis wins Most Improved Player 
"Playing in the (rookie)
Warriors second-year 

game, getting this award and standout edges Kings making the playol"fs in the 
same year, I really can'tMartin by three votes explain it," Ellis said. "I 
worked so hard this summer 
to put myself in this position
Associated Press 

to win this award, and I just 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Monta want to thank everybody Ellis felt forgotten when he around me for giving me the slipped down the draft board opportunit~ and keeping me nearly two years ago. on my toes. 
The NHA now knows all Ellis emerged as a key con­about the Golden State guard, tributor to Golden State's who won the Most Improved uptempo offense in his second Player award Thursday for season, earning his team­his transformation from an mates' trust and playing in unsung Mississippi high big situations while learning schooler to a speedy scoring to play point guard at threat for the improving Nelson's behest. Among sec­Warriors. ond-year pros, only New 
Ellis edged Sacramento's Orleans' Chris Paul averaged Kevin Martin by three points more points per game this in the closest voting in the season (17.2). award's history, Not bad for a earning 47 first-high-school star place votes and who had visions 352 points from "/think Monta is of instant star­a media panel. dom when he
just scratching the 
Martin, the joined the NBA's 
Kings' high-surface, really. ·· last prep-to-pro scoring guard, class in 2005. got 44 first­Don Nelson Ellis held a big place votes and draft-day party
Warriors coach
349 points. for himself in his Ellis averaged native Jackson, 
16.5 points, 4.1 Miss. -but most assists and 3.2 rebounds this of the guests left before he season with new coach Don was chosen by the Warriors Nelson and the revitalized with the 40th overall pick. Warriors, who returned to the "I think Monta is just playoffs after a 12-year scratching the surface, real­absence. ly," Nelson said. "I gave him 
The second-round pick's an opportunity because he improvement on his 6.8-point was one of my best players. scoring average in his rookie That he was just 20 years old season was the NBA's largest didn't matter to me, because increase this year, and he he could flat-out play." caught the nation's attention The previous closest finish with a dunk-filled 28-point in the award's balloting was performance in the Rookie in 1990-91, when Scott Skiles Challenge during All-Star of Orlando edged Boston's weekend. Kevin Gamble by four votes. 
The award has been present­ed annually since the 1985-86 season. 
Nelson immediately recog­nized Ellis' skills after taking over the Warriors late last summer, putting him in the starting lineup for 53 games and playing him in most key situations. Ellis' slashing speed works perfectly in Nelson's preferred style. 
"When we watched him come out of high school, he had a lot of things he's show­ing now," said Chris Mullin, the Warriors' top executive. "Not as refined, but as a high­school player you always have to keep working and keep improving, and he's done that. Nellie's system has been a good fit for him." 
Ellis got a standing ovation in the Warriors' locker room when Nelson announced the award Thursday. The Warriors face the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks in Game 3 of their first-round series on Friday night in Oakland's first NBA playoff game in 13 years. 

Ellis is the second Golden State player in five years to win the award, after Gilbert Arenas -another sec-ond­round pick who blossomed in Oakland before moving to the Washington Wizards -in 2003. Ellis also beat out team­mate Andris Biedrins, who finished fifth in the voting. 
Martin's scoring average went up to 20.2 points this season from 10.8 in 2005-06, but the lanky guard struggled down the stretch of the regu­lar season along with his spi­raling teammates. The Kings missed the playoffs for the first time in nine seasons, and coach Eric Musselman was fired last week. 


Lunch and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Friday, May 4 12:00 -1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 

The Cere Councrl for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay.lesb1an, and bisexual members oi the Notre Dame family, their friends. and supporters to an informal iunch at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone rs welcome and confidentralrty tS assured. 
luncli will be se1ved 

CORE COUMCll 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
------~ 

·------------------.-----------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, April27, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Vick connected with dog fighting operation 
Police find dozens of injured canines at quarterback's house 
Associated Press 
SMlTIIFlELD, Va. -Police conducting a drug investigation raided a house owned by Atlanta Falcons quarterback Michael Vick and found dozens of dogs, some injured and ema­<·iatml. 
Police also found items associ­ated with dog fighting. 
State Police Sgt. D.S. Carr said Vick's relative. Davon Boddie, 26, lives in the house·. Vick owns the property, but doesn't live there and wasn't present when a search warrant was executed in a drug investigation Wednesday night, Carr said. 
Boddie was arrested outside a nightclub by Hampton police April 20 on charges of distribu­tion of marijuana and posses­sion with intent to distribute. The search warrant was execut­ed by a multijurisdictional task force in a narcotics probe. 
More than 60 dogs were found in three buildings. Some appeared malnourished, scarred and injured, officials said. 
Wayne Pacelle, president and CEO of The Humane Society of the United States, said the group has "heard troubling reports for some time that Michael Vick has been involved in organized dog fighting, and we fear that this investigation may validate that very disturbing allegation." 
"We urge law enforcement to aggressively investigate this matter. and we further believe that anyone who harbors dogs for the purpose of fighting, deserves to be fully prosecuted for their crimes," Pacelle said in a statement. "Dog fighting is a barbaric activity that causes immense animal suffering and fosters violence in our commu­nities. Our nation should have a zero tolerance policy for any form of staged animal fighting." 
The Humane Society said dog fighting is illegal nationwide and a felony in 48 states, including both Virginia and Georgia. 
The animal rights group PETA has asked Falcons owner Arthur Blank to suspend Vick pending the investigation and "to kick him off the team if it is found that dogs on Vick's property were neglected or used for fighting." 
In a letter to Blank, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals said it was the second time it was writing to the owner about one of his players and allegations of cruelty to animals. On Feb. 23, the organization wrote to him about defensive tackle Jonathan Babineaux's felony charges in Georgia stem­ming from the fatal beating of a . dog. 
Falcons spokesman Reggie Roberts said the team still was gathering information on the report and had no immediate comment. 
A spokeswoman for Vick's foundation declined comment. Joel Segal, the quarterback's agent, and Larry Woodward, a Virginia attorney who has worked with both Vick and his younger brother, Marcus, didn't immediately return telephone messages seeking comment. 
The probe at Vick's property is the latest in a serious of embar­rassing incidents for the Atlanta quarterback. 
He was named in a sordid lawsuit that accused him of knowingly infecting a woman with a sexually transmitted dis­ease and using the alias "Ron Mexico" while seeking treat­ment. The case was settled out of court. 
Last season, Vick flashed an obscene hand gesture to heck­ling Atlanta fans as he walked off the field following a dismal loss to New Orleans. He was fined $10,000 by the NFL and donated another $10,000 to charity. 
In January, security officers at Miami International Airport seized a water bottle from Vick that they said smelled of mari­juana and had a hidden com­partment. Authorities later said there were no drugs in the bot­tle, and Vick explained that he used the secret compartment to carry jewelry. 
Just this week, Vick came under more criticism when he failed· to show for a lobbying appearance on Capitol Hill in support of increased funding for after-school programs. He missed a connecting flight in Atlanta and didn't turn up for a later flight. 


Vick and two other former Virginia Tech stars -Falcons cornerback DeAngelo Hall and former Buffalo Bills defensive end Bruce Smith -·are sched­uled to join Hokies football coach Frank Beamer and NFL commissioner Roger Goodell in a predraft ceremony in New York on Saturday to honor the victims of the recent shooting at the Blacksburg school. 
Other athletes have been linked to dog fighting. 
The NBA's Qyntel. Woods pleaded guilty in January 2005 to animal abuse and was sen­tenced to probation and com­munity service, in addition to pledging $10,000 to the Oregon Humane Society. Former NFL player LeShon Johnson has twice run afoul of the law for ties to dogfighting. 


.. 
' 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April27, 2007 



NBA 


Pistons e·asily handle Magic 
Win on Thursday has 
Detroit one win away from second round 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. -The Detroit Pistons showed they know how to close out quar­ters. Now they want to close out another series. 
Tayshaun Prince scored 23 points, Chauncey Billups added 21 and the Pistons beat Orlando 93-77 Thursday night to take a 3-0 lead in the first­round playoff series. 
The victory ended a postsea­son trend for the Pistons ­they had lost their last six Game 3s when leading 2-0 ­and left them one victory from 
advancing  to  the  second  
round.  
Game  4  is  Saturday  in  
Orlando.  

Detroit. which has made four straight Eastern Conference finals, gave the Magic plenty of chances in this one. The Pistons trailed early, let Orlando be physical and seem­ingly got flustered as they were whistled for three techni­cal fouls: Leading scorer Richard llamilton even had an off night, scoring 10 points on 2-of-11 shooting. 
But Detroit made up for it with solid 3-point shooting ­Prince, Billups and Rasheed Wallace were a combined 8-of­1 0 from behind the arc -and strong finishes to each of the first three quarters. 
"They hit shots in the course of a game that normal teams don't hit," said Jameer·Nelson, who led the Magic with 27 points. 
The Pistons seored the final six points of the first quarter, tying the game at 23. They made two baskets in the clos­ing seconds before halftime; including a 3-pointer by Billups as he was falling out of bounds. And Prince hit a 3 on the last possession of the third. 
Those 14 points essentially turned a close game into a double-digit lead. 
"Those are plays that are killers when they're against you," Detroit coach Flip Saunders said. "When they happen for you, they give you a nice cushion." 
The biggest one may have come just before halftime. 
Orlando looked like it would keep it dose heading into the locker room. maybe oven hold a lead. 
But Prince hit a 20-footer with 2.3 seconds remaining and the shot elock winding down -his second jumper in the final 45 seeonds. 
"He's the one guy on our team that people don't talk about," Saunders said. "lie's kind of a silent assassin." 
Prince then stole an errant inbound pass from Turkoglu and fed Billups, who hit a falling-down 3 just bPI'ore the limtl buzzer. 
Those two shots turned a one-point game into a 48-42 advantage for Detroit. 
NHL 

4-goal opening period leads Sens over Devils 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFOHD, N.J.­The Ottawa Senators got to Martin Brodeur and the New Jersey Devils early and often, and then avoided what could have been an embarrassing let­down. 
Jason Spezza scored 90 sec­onds into the game. and the Senators jumped to a 4-0 first­period lead before holding on for a 5-4 victory Thursday night in Game I of their Eastern Conference semifinal. 
"We made it harder than it should have been," Senators goaltender Hay Emery said after making 26 saves to help Ottawa win its fourth straight playoff game. "You know that team will rebound and they will not go down without a tight." 
The Devils certainly put a scare into Ottawa, drawing within 4-3 early in the second period. A shot off the goal post by Scott Gomez nearly tied the game later in the second. 
"We weren't as sharp after we got the lead," said Senators defenseman Wade Redden, whose third-period power-play goal gave the Senators a two­goal cushion until the elosing minute. "The start of the game, we really controlled the play. We were moving it crisp and we had guys in forechecking. I guess it's human nature to sit back a bit." 
Spezza, Joe Corvo, Dean 
MeAmmond and Dany Heatley 
all scored in the opening 16:39 
to give Ottawa the big cushion. 
"I think they were· kind of 
watching us play," Corvo said. 
"We were doing all the right 
things and we were all over 
them. We were scoring on basi­
cally every shot.~ 
Travis Zajac, Brian Gionta and 
Andy Greene cut the Ottawa 
lead to 4-3 early in the second 
period. Zach Parise made it 5-4 ·with 30 seconds left. 
"It's tough to spot a team like 
that a four-goal lead." Devils 
center John Madden said. "The 
chances are slim you are going 
to win the game. But we battled 
back and almost pulled on ofl'." 
New Jersey played without 
captain Patrik Elias, who was 
sidelined with thn effects of a 
lingering cold. 
Game 2 is Saturday at New 
Jersey. 
Coming otr an impressive first­
round win over Sydney Crosby 
and the Pittsburgh Penguins. 
the Senators came out flying in 
the first period and seemed 
intent on embarrassing Brodeur, 
who maybe could have stopped 
one of the first four goals. 
"It was a like a snowball for 
them," said Brodeur, who made 
21 saves. "They just kept on 
touching everything and putting 
it in the net." 

~R.espighi & ('Beethoven 
Sunday, April 29, 2:30p.m. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center University of Notre Dame 
Featuring Jacqueline Schmidt, piano Respighi: '1/u: <Birds Sponsored by June 1-{ Edwards Paul Johnson: '1J,c r\Vild Swans at C•ole Beethoven ':Piano Concerto SVo..5 
'Corad;z.e ~Piano Jnstitute 
Saturday, May 12, 8:00p.m. 

Morris Performing Arts Center Featuring Alexander Toradze and three generations of Plano Studio performers Sponsored by 

Gershwin: J Sol 9~ytlun, ~Wwpsrnly in 'll/"'; Copland: ':Pimw C.mccrlo Rachmaninoff ~Wwvs01~1 on 11 'Ti1eme of ~Hlj]auiui Bernstein: ::;11asq~tc Jam ..5'!qc of JUtxiely Ravel: ~Pimw Concrrlo 
Sprinf} Jamily Concert 
Sunday, May 20, 3:00 p.m. E:verest-Rohrer Auditorium, Bethel College 
"A Celebration of Youth in Music" 
featuring the Side-by-Side Orchestra and 
Young Artist Competition winners. 
Talented high school musicians from \~·¥BOSCH Northern Indiana and Southwest Michigan play alongside our own veteran Symphony musicians in what has 
Sign up for the Lectio@Eieven 



READING SLAM! 

Tuesday, May 1 
10:30 pna-Midnight Recker's 
A five-nainute public reading of any text could win you a $200 gift certificate to the Hananaes ND Bookstore! 
Musical interludes by: D'Oscar Erin Duquette 
Lectio@Eieven A Late-Night Cabaret for the Soul 
For more information or to sign up: Jonathan Couser (574) 631-3923 or jcouser@nd.edu 
Sponsored by First Year of Studies 

Friday, April27, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ROWING
ERASMUS BOOKS


storage 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books



space 
• 25,000 Hardback and 
Paperback books in stock 

• Lighted & Paved 

Top competition awaits ND
• Out-of-Print search service

• Free Lock wrttt EVery unlt 4 MortJl Speclaf Mav rnrougll 
• Appraisals large and small 
'

August For Notre Dame Students 5X10 .. $14S+ DEP 10X10 ...$199 +O£P Cali 574-247.7S05 
Between Notre oame ana Airport at the comer of Mayflower & £dis on 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 


The UPS Store 
"May Move Out" '07 NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 10am-5pm 9am-5pm -Fri, Sat, Mon 


Revive your mind before finals to make sure you study well. 

Relax your body during finals and be at peace while taking that test. 
Reward yourself after finals for a hard year's work. 
Treat yourself to a relaxing spa service at Salon Nouveau. 

20% off Spa services for students the weeks before, during and after finals (with this ad). 10% off all services for students all year-round. 
Two locations just minutes from Notre Dame on Ironwood at St Rd 23 574-277-6767 or in Heritage Square on the corner of Cleveland & Main 574-272-6767 www.salonnouveau.com 
Rowers to face No. 5 Virginia and No. 7 Princeton Saturday 
By DANIELL£ KELLER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame doesn't get any easy races. 
The No. 6 Irish face top-level competition Saturday against No. 5 Virginia, No. 7 Princeton and George Washington in Princeton, N.J. 
"Three crews, all ranked in the top seven, I think it could be a great race," Irish coach Martin Stone said. 
The No. 6. Irish then travel to Worcester, Mass., Sunday to compete in the Big East Rowing championship. Notre Dame will face a wide array of skill, com­peting against No. 18 Louisville, Cincinnati, Georgetown, West Virginia, Villanova, Connecticut, Syracuse and Rutgers. 

In their last outing, the Irish won seven out of 10 races ­including three against top-1 0 teams. Notre Dame will need to show that same speed against Princeton, the last year's cham­pion. 
"Whenever we go out of region, we race against the best," Stone said, referring to the Windermere Regatta as well as upcoming races against Virginia and Princeton. Stone also said an impressive per­formance Saturday was crucial for boosting the team's NCAA credentials. 
Although George Washington finished sixth out of nine crews in the Atlantic 10 champi­onship, it still presents a chal­lenge for the Irish. 
"All those crews have had good speed at different parts of the year. I think it's going to be pretty difficult," Stone said. 
The Irish hope that this year's Big East championship is a repeat of last year, when they finished in first or second place in all of their races. 
The remainder of the season has South/Central Regional Championships slated May 12­13 and then the NCAA Championships May 25-27. 
Contact Danielle Keller at dkeller@nd.edu 
NHL 

Sharks take ·series lead over Detroit 
San Jose scores goals 24 seconds apart to stun top seed at home 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -The San Jose Sharks silenced the fans at Joe Louis Arena while stunning the Detroit Red Wings with goals 24 seconds apart. 
Matt Carle and Mike Grier scored midway through the first period and Evgeni Nabokov made 34 saves to lead San Jose to a 2-0 victory Thursday night in Game 1 of the Western Conference semifinals. 
"We got the crowd right out of the game," said Joe Thornton, who had an assist on the first goal. "That was huge." 
Nabokov's shutout was his first this postseason and the fifth of his career in the playoffs. He was tied for second in the NHL with seven during the regular season. 
The stellar goaltender said it was important that the Sharks maintained their two-goal lead for the final 2 1/2 periods. 
"I guarantee if we would've given up one goal, they would come hard and get the momen­tum," Nabokov said. 
Dominik Hasek had to make just 17 saves because the Sharks played very conservatively after taking the lead, possessing the puck on offense and blocking shots on defense. 
"We probably could've pushed a little bit more, but we feel com­fortable with 2-0 leads," Thornton said. 
Game 2 is Saturday in Detroit. 
"You know they're going to cer­tainly bounce back and throw some new wrinkles at us and have a lot more energy in the next game," San Jose coach Ron Wilson said. 
Entering the series, home ice was regarded as perhaps the only advantage the top-seeded Red Wings had against the fifth­seeded Sharks. 
San Jose quickly took that edge away. 
Carle's goal at .9:45 of the first period was set up by a fantastic series of passes around the perimeter, ending with Thornton's cross-crease pass from the corner. 
"It was just bing, bang, boom and it was in the baek of the net," Thornton said. 


The Red Wings put San Jose's powerful power play on the ice for the first goal and lost the puck in their zone to set up the second. 
Grier was in the right place when the puck; trickled into the slot and he wheeled around and beat Hasek With a slap shot. 
"I don't think he knew what he was doing," Hasek said. "He just shot the puck and hit the post and it went in. It was maybe a lucky goal, but if you make a turnover, bad things can hap­pen." 
It was a much different start for Detroit after taking 2-0 leads midway through the first period in each of its first two games in the first round against Calgary. The Red Wings won the series in Game 6 after winning all three games at home. 
"We would've liked to have a better start, but we made a cou­ple of mistakes and the puck was in the net," Red Wings coach Mike Babeock said. 
The Sharks seemed right at home in Detroit, perhaps because they won a league-high and franchise-record 26 games on the road this season and won twice more in Nashville, includ­ing the series-winning victory in Game 5 last week. 
The Red Wings had three power plays in the second period -while San Jose didn't have one -but they took just four shots. 
San Jose's swarming defense had a lot to do with that. though Detroit did seem to miss Tomas Holmstrom standing in front of the crease to redirect and shield shots. 
"We thought they had four blocked shots on our first power play when we had people in front of the net and the puck never got through," Babcock said. 
San Jose blocked 13 shots and took 13 sho.ts through two peri­ods, and finished with 18 blocked shots. 
Holmstrom missed the game with an eye injury and the Red Wings were also without defenseman Brett Lebda because of an ankle injury and concus­sion. With stitches around his left eye, Holmstrom said he hoped to play in the series, but didn't know if he would be ready for Game 2. 
Even at full strength, however, Detroit doesn't seem to match up well with the Sharks' combina­tion of depth, size, speed and skill. That appeared to be the case Thursday night and during the regular season, when San Jose won three of four meetings. 
,..-----------~-----~----­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 27, 2007 
ND SOFTBALL 



Irish face top Big East team 
DePaul perfect against conference opponents 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame will take the field once again Sunday afternoon after rainy weather postponed Thursday's matchup with Illinois-Chicago. The Irish will travel to Chicago, but this time to take on Big East powerhouse DePaul in a doubleheader. 
The No. 11 Blue Demons cur­rently hold first place in the con­ference with a perfect 14-0 record. With only two weeks remaining until the Big East tournament, the games will have seeding implications for both teams. 
The Irish are two spots behind DePaul with a 9-5 conference record. South Florida, who beat the Irish twice this season, is nip­ping at Notre Dame's heels in the fourth spot at 7-5 in the Big East. 
"Games like the~e are always huge, but we don't want to get ahead of ourselves," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. 
The Blue Demons have won their past nine contests, dating back to a 4-3 loss to No. 17 Illinois State March 21. The last time they lost by more than one run was Feb. 24 when No. 8 Baylor beat them 4-0. 
The Blue Demons have also yet to lose in their 13 home games this season. Saturday's double­dip with the Irish presents the last real threat to their perfect mark since the only team that remains on their home schedule after this weekend is Illinois­Chicago (15-26). 


"No one thinks we are going to win, except for us," Gumpf said. "It's very important for us to stay focused and get after it." 
Pitching has been the back-· bone of DePaul's ·success this year. Senior right-hander Traci Adix leads the staff with a 13-1 record and an ERA of 0.59. She has also thrown six complete game shutouts. Fellow senior Meghan Huitnik and freshman Becca Heteniak join-Adix in the rotation. The trio has combined for an ERA of 1.38 in their first 39 games. 
Notre Dame pitchers Brittney Bargar and Kenya Fuemmeler will look to be on top of their games in order to keep the score close and give the Irish bats time to get to the DePaul pitchers. 
The Irish have struggled at the plate recently, putting up only four runs during their current five-gamo losing stroak, includ­ing two shutouts. 
"We're leaving way tilo many people on basn. Wn've had plenty of opportunitins -we just arnn't taking care of them," Gumpf said. 
Thirty-four baserumwrs have been stranded during thn losing streak, which averages out to more than one per inning. 
Notrn Dame will need to take advantage of any scoring chancos the Blue Demons give them to come away with a eou­ple of wins this weekend. The first game is scheduled to start at 1 p.m., and the second will get underway around 3 p.m. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Matchup with Hope postponed due to rain 
Davison and Kristin Amram.
By REBECCA SLINGER The pair has combined for a 
Spans Writer 
2.35 ERA and held their oppo­nents to a meager .200 batting 

Saint Mary's was forced to average. accept another delay in its face­Amram is first in the MIAA off against No. 2 Hope College with a 1.06 ERA and second in after rain canceled Thursday's the league with 130 strikeouts. game. Strong defense and a powerful 
An April 4 game against Hope offense have not been the Belles was cancelled because of the only strength this season. The threat of snow and Wednesday's team's precise play in the field game was called has kept it to a off due to rain. league-low 26 The long-suffering "The teams just errors on the sea-game has been son.
ready to go. " 
rescheduled for With 255 total today at 3:30 p.m. hits this season at Gainey Field. Erin Sullivan and 194 runs, the 
Belles head Belles coach Belles lead the 
coach Erin Sullivan said the team is ready to play Hope. 

"We:re really excited. Hope's always a good team, and we just want our chance to beat them," she said. "The tnam's just ready to go." 
The Belles have hit .353 this season, third in the league. They also have the second-best pitch­ing stall' in the MIAA behind the arms of sophomores Calli 
Flying Dutch, who 
have driven in 168 runs. The Belles are second in the league with 20 homers, including seven by sophomore catcher Ashley Fusaro. The backstop has a slugging percent­age of.702. 
Saint Mary's will play Kalamazoo Saturday at 1 p.m. ­
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

The RecSpys VOTE ONLINE APRIL 26-29 ~ http://web.t·ecsports.nd.edu/t·ecspy/index.php  
Undet·~raduate Female of the Year Mary Sullivan Walsh t-.1aureen Spring-PW Anne Parrett -Farley  Undergraduate 1\-lale of the Yeat· Carl Andersen -Morrissey Angelo Suozzi ~ Dillon Brian Fallon. Dillon  
Grad/Fac/Staff Female of the Y t>at· Courtney Giel Megrut Tierney Anna Wulfllcff  Grad/Fac/Staff 1\'lale ofthe Year TI10mas Clarke Robert Zell Nate Wiegand  
Gnme of the Yeat· O'Neill vs. Keenan (II-I Men's Soccer Championship) Farley vs. Welsh Family (Ill Women's Basketball Championship) Dillon vs. Siegfried (III Ice Hockey Championship)  
Tenm of the Year Fru·ley Basketball Dillon Ice Hockey Tall Girls Volleyball  Fans of the Year Alumni Hockey St Ed's Hockey Morrissey Football  

SMC TENNIS 


Belles prepared for MIAAtourney 
Aquinas 5-4 in the last season,
Saint Mary's travels 
the Belles fought hard and avenged the loss, defeating the
to Kalamazoo for meet 
Saints 5-4. The Belles dominat­ed in singles play, winning four 
By ELLYN MICHALAK 
of the six matches, while in Sports Writer 
doubles play, only the No. 3 duo 
of freshmen Lisa Rubino and 
After wrapping up its regular Erin Kaplan managed to obtain season with a win Monday, a victory. Saint Mary's will travel to "We are looki.ng forward to Kalamazoo, going to conference on Mich., today for Thursday," the start of the McDavitt said.
"We are going to
final tournament "We are going to of the year -the use good match use our recent MIAA conference play to build team­experience with 
tournament. Albion and
work and put forth
Earlier this Aquinas from this week, the Belles our best effort in week to get ready 
(11-12, 5-3 MIAA) the tournament." for conference fell short in their play. We are going final conference to use good match
Kelly McDavitt
match of the sea­play to build son at the Eck Belles captain teamwork and put 
Tennis Pavilion at Notre Dame. Albion dominated the Belles in both singles and do.ubles play, eventually defeating them 8-1. 
"We put forth our best effort. Unfortunately, [Albion] was very strong and consistent," senior captain Kelly McDavitt said. "We were not able to get the victory." 
The Belles hit the road last Monday, traveling to Grand Rapids, Mich., to play in a non­conference competition against Aquinas. After losing to 
forth our best effort in the tour­nament." 
The Belles entered last year's MIAA tournament as the fourth seed. At the tournament, Saint Mary's took fifth place and then earned fifth place in the final league standings. The last time the Belles won the tournament was in the 2004 season, when they entered it with a first­place seed. 
As freshman at the 2004 MIAA tournament, Grace Gordon (with then-sophomore 
Kristen Palombo) took second­place in the No. 3 doubles spot. This year, as a senior, Gordon will compete in the No. 2 dou­bles spot to vie for similar hon­ors. 
In the 2005 MlAA tourna­ment, the Belles finished in the top three spots in every singles mateh except No. 6 spot. In the 2006 MIAA tournament, then­junior Kelly McDavitt and sen­ior Calie Mulcahy took second place at the No. 1 doubles spot. But that past individual sueeess may not translate into this year's tournamnnt because of various rules changes to the event. 
"The tournament is a differ­ent format this year," Belles coach Dee Stevenson said. "This year, it is a team dual mateh tournament, while last year it was an individual com­petition.." 
The Belles will again enter the tournament this ynar in the fourth send. Despite the seeding and tough conference competi­tion, Stevenson remained confi­dent about her team's chances. 
"We never go into a match expecting to lose, so we're going into the tournament in the fourth seed with a positive attitude and expecting to win," she said. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu Friday, April 27, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 


This strategy played right into the "We couldn't dribble," Henry pretty much." of jump shots, which were set up Broskis' game plan. The Broskis' said. "We also couldn't use the The game was close early, with with excellent ball movement
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
a good job hitting the outside shot. Its strategy was to pass the ball around often until finding an open shot -a strategy that bene­fited the team due to the steadily increasing rain it played through. 
"The rain forced our strategy," O'Connell said. "But it didn't affect us too much. We still attacked spots in the zone." 
O'Connell, Henry, Tim Capecchi, Pat Lopez and Casey "Pistol" McGushin were able to draw defenders to the ball and find the open man effectively. 
2-3 zone wouldn't let SBO get inside and did a good job of forc­ing longer shots. 
The game started point-for­point, with neither team leading by more than one until SBO scored four straight to stretch the score to 10-7. At that point, light­ning forced the players under shelter near the Bookstore and torrential rain drenched the court. 
After the delay, gameplay changed significantly. The ball made a dull thud on the wet court, and bounce passes took a much different path than intend­ed. 


LAURIE HUNTffhe Observer Ryan Hornacek shoots over a defender during the Monstars' loss to My Daddy's Name is Devitt Thursday. 
&,; 
backboard." 
After the break, the Broskis scored three straight and went into the half down just one. It was in the beginning of the second half that conflict arose. 
The guards on both teams argued heatedly over fouls called -and, at times, ones not called. At one point, a Broski even began threatening a fan. The Broskis' mantra, which they repeated often to SBO players, became "don't start something you can't finish." 
"It got a little heated, a little physical," O'Connell said. "But it was just two teams working hard." 
SBO did finish, however, scor­ing eight of the last 11 points to seal the win. Along with perime­ter shooting, both SBO and the Broskis did a good job crashing the boards. Ten of SBO's last 11 points came on put-backs or short jump shots. 
Kramer Properties 21 Team ll.O 12 
The tournament's top seed proved it deserved it Thursday. Kramer Properties' entire team hit shots from three-point range. 
Chad Knapke, Brad Phillips, Scott Smith and D.R. Amato not only shot well but also locked Team 110 down on defense. Knapke said that while the team's athletic advantage may be differ­ent from other teams, it presents a formidable obstacle. 
"We're not the biggest team out here. We feel like we're a lot quicker than some other teams," Knapke said. "We try to use our quickness to our advantage on defense, get in the other man's face, make them make mistakes, both teams playing to their strengths. Kramer Properties found the open man, either in the lane or on the perimeter, for bas­kets. Team 110 sank some jump shots, with the free-throw line being the spot of choice. Kramer Properties jumped ahead 4-0, but 110 battled back and its deficit was 11-7 at the half. 

The intensity picked up in the second half. Kramer Properties started creating more turnovers, which led to fast breaks, offensive rebounds and put-back baskets. Team 110 was not done, howev­er. It scored three straight points to cut the score to 16-12, one coming on a textbook pick and roll from the right side, and another after llO's third consec­utive offensive rebound. 
Eventually, Kramer Properties took control of the game and scored five straight points for the win. The last point ended dra­matically -the rebound from Kramer Properties' shots went out of bounds twice, only to be blindly flung back inbounds and recovered. Finally, Kramer Properties sank a jumper from beyond the arc to end the game. 
Turtle Creek 21 Original Pancake House 14 
Not even the rain could stop Turtle Creek's defense Thursday against the Original Pancake House. 
In what was a fairly even matchup on the slippery Bookstore courts, Turtle Creek overcame Original Pancake House's size advantage due to its ball movement and tight defense. 
The first half started with Turtle Creek juniors Joe Marnell and Rob Heroman hitting a series around the perimeter. 
Down low, Turtle Creek looked to get juniors Matt Gibson and Matt Hamel involved as well. Original Pancake House fought back with a string of jumpers to tighten Turtle Creek's lead. 
On offense, Original Pancake House tried to go down low with its big men and an occasional outside shot. 
Turtle Creek did a great job of stepping into the passing lanes to create turnovers, and on one occasion, it led to a fast break concluding with a series of passes including a behind-the-back dish for a layup. 
Although the tempo slowed in the second half, Turtle Creek con­tinued to frustrate Original Pancake House. Tempers flared when Hamel blocked a shot, causing some shoving and trash talking. 
However, with good shooting down the stretch -including a pair of jump shots from Marnell -Turtle Creek was able to take care of Original Pancake House. 
After the game, Marnell, Gibson and Heroman spoke about their keys to victory. 
"We came out looking to rotate the ball," Marnell said. 
"Our main thing was to come out with intensity," Gibson said. "We wanted to execute good team defense, and play as a team." 
But they both attributed their success to their fan support, mainly their team dad, J .J. "Sauce" Cappa, and team mom Courtenay "Nay Nay" Moran. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu and Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 


.............................................................. 
• Mark your calendars for the 5-0-5 
.. 

• • Spring Cut-A-Thon! • •• 
• • This Sunday! • • .. • 10 a.m.-4 p.m.* ..• 
*No appointments -first-come, first served! 
•• For a minimum donation of $15, enjoy a •• • • haircut, express manicure, or massage! • • 
All proceeds benefit S-0-S of Madison Center, the Rape Crisis Center for • St. Joseph County. Help S-0-S seiVe victims ofsexual assault, rape, child • • sexual abuse, and domestic violence while treating yourself to high-quality salon • se!Vices. Your participation is very much appreciated! 
• Salon 301 • 
3 509 Grape Road •• Mishawaka, IN 46545 •• • 254-0301 • On Grape Road in Mishawaka just south of Edison Road • Across the street from Outpost Sports • 
•• • Michael & Co. 2 Salon •• •
• 2041 E. Ireland • • South Bend, IN 46614 • 291-1001 
• At the corner of Ironwood and Ireland roads in South Bend behind Speedway • 
•• • Masters Styling Salon •• • 420 W. Cleveland Road • • Granger, IN 46530 • 277-6721 • At the corner of Grape Road and Cleveland Road in Granger • Across the street from UP Mall 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April27, 2007 

Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
turn it around), but if we play our best game, not many teams can match us," he said. 
The Irish, currently tied for seventh in the conference, need to continue· to win in order to ensure they make the Big East tournament, which the top eight teams qualify for. 
If the season ended today, Notre Dame would be in as the seven-seed, but with 11 confer­ence games remaining and Villanova, Connecticut and Seton Hall all a mere one-and­a-half games behind, the Irish need to keep playing at their current level. 
"It's very important that we win this series," Pollock said. 
That won't be an easy task against the Scarlet Knights, 

Hoyas 
continued from page 24 
14 game, Notre Dame became the first team to defeat Georgetown in Big East play with the 13-8 win. The Hoyas had won 37 straight Big East contests dating back seven sea­sons, when the conference added women's lacrosse. 
While Notre Dame is the low­est seed in the tournament, Irish coach Tracy Coyne said her team is very confident. 
"We're not intimidated by anyone," Coyne said. "We've beaten Georgetown once this season and played Syracuse and Rutgers very close. We know we can play with anyone." 
The Irish will focus on con­taining Georgetown star and Big East player of the year Coco Stanwick. The senior attack ­who scored just one goal and one assist in the first Notre Dame match -led the Big East with 7 4 points on the year. 
The Hoyas' success has large­ly hinged on their defense this season, led by senior Maggie who feature five starters who Rutgers' pitching staff has are hitting over .300, including been its weak spot this season. 

Espinoza

outfielder Dave Williams, who The Scarlet Knights have just a is hitting .415. 4.82 team EHA and will be fac-continued from page 24 
Notre Dame will counter the Rutgers offense "If we do the things with pitcher 
we need to do, I 
Dan Kapala, 
don't think anyone 
who is back in the starting in the conference rotation after 
can beat us." 
sitting out last weekend's 
A.J. Pollock
series against West Virginia Irish third baseman with tendonitis. 
The other two 
ing an Irish team that is averaging 
7. 2 runs per game over its last five. 
As usual, Pollock and shortstop Brett Lilley will lead Notre Dame from the top of the line­up, but it will be up to sluggers like first baseman Mike Dury -who is looking for his ninth home she feels the she is still her main competition. 
"Yes, I'm still trying to get past the other athletes at this level," she said. "But most of what I'm trying to do is get past my marks and what I can do to improve." 
As a young· athlete, Espinoza competed in both throwing and jumping events. In fourth grade, she competed at the Junior Olympics in high 

jump, long jump and shot put. weekend's series are unclear. in. 
starters for the Irish in this run this year -to drive them 

She liked competing in multi­Junior Wade Korpi, sophomore Both Saturday's doublehead­
ple events because it gave her David Phelps, sophomore Kyle er and Sunday's single game 
the chance to see which one Weiland and freshman Eric will begin at noon. 
she liked best and in which Maust, all of whom have start­
events she performed best. ed conference games this sea­
"I guess shot put and discus son, will be available for coach Contact Chris Khorey at 
were a little above normal, so Dave Schrage. ckhorey@nd.edu 
I just stuck with it," she said. Personal-best throws drive 

Espinoza and give her motiva­tion to keep up her hard Koch, Big East defensive player cess. Junior Caitlin McKinney 
work. of the year. Georgetown led the was second on the Irish with 60 
"It helps me to continue to Big East defensively, giving up points off 39 goals and 21 
work hard just because I only 7.03 goals per game in assists, and has led the team in 
know that what I'm doing is conferenc~ play. assists all season. 
helping me to improve," she Coyne said Notre Dame has McKinney and Byers were 
said. "And when I get that 
been looking forward to this tournament for a long time. 
"We feel very ready 
"From the beginning of the and prepared going 
year, winning into the tournament." 
the Big East championship 
Tracy Coyne 
has always been one of our Irish coach 
biggest goals," Coyne said. "We feel very ready 
both named 
improvement, it just helps me 
unanimous all­
to work even harder to contin­ue to keep improving my mark." 
Espinoza will not throw the shot put this weekend-she'll compete in just the discus. This week in practice, Espinoza has focused on con­trolling her throwing motion in the ring. 
"We've just been working on getting faster in the ring, which is helping to get the dis­cus farther;" she said. "Being fast, and still keeping the technique the same." 
Although the Big East cham­pionships are looming, Espinoza said she approaches this meet the same way as any other and feels no added pres­sure. 
"Every meet is another chance to get a big throw, and that's how I look at every meet, to get a mark farther than what I have gone before," she said. "I try not to get too worried about things. I just go to the meet and try and do my best. I know I'm pretty well-matched in the Big East. [This weekend) will probably be a challenge." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Big East selec­tions, and senior defender Meaghan Fitzpatrick also was named to the first team. Seniors Kaki Orr and Lena Zentgraf were selected to the second team. 
Sophomore attack Jeff Ryan leads the team with 24 goals. 
Senior midfielder Eric O'Brien has won 127 out of 211 face-off's (.602 percent­age) for the Buckeyes. 
Junior goalie Stefan Schroder has recorded all 12 decisions for Ohio State and has registered a .564 save percentage while making 114 stops. 
"We prepared well all week to play a talented Ohio State team," Kemp said. "We have done a great job with our scout team. Our coaches have prepared us." 
The opening faceoff will be at noon at Jesse Owens Memorial Stadium. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 
and prepared going into the tournament." 
The Irish finished the regular season with 11 wins and only five losses, all to ranked teams. Facing one of the toughest schedules in the nation, Notre Dame was 6-5 against ranked opponents. 
Sophomore Jillian Byers led Notre Dame and the Big East with 55 goals on the season, and her production will be key to the Irish's tournament sue-
The winner of the Georgetown-Notre Dame game will advance to the Big East championship game to face either No. 3-seed Rutgers or No. 2-seed Syracuse. The Irish dropped contests to both teams in close matches in the regular season, falling at Syracuse 16­13 in overtime and at home against the Scarlet Knights 8-7. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


Buckeyes 
continued from page 24 
He has stopped 20-of-24 shots on goal for an impressive .833 save percentage. 
"In the last six games, we played well defensively," 
Zimmerman said. "We are a great defensive unit. We need to play within ourselves, and we will come away with the win." 
Ohio State is led by sopho­more attack Joel Dalgarno, who has a team-high 42 points. Junior midfielder Kevin Buchanan is on a 26­game point streak dating back to 2005 while leading the Buckeyes in the assists cate­gory with 20 helpers. 



. '~ .. . . 
. '. 

Friday, April 27, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page .23 

CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 


BLACK DoG 
'MICHAEL MIKUSKA 



KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
LIAMMORAN 




CROSSWORD 
Across 
1  "Same here"  
6  Journey part  
9  A.A.A. offering  

13 Backless furniture 15 Let go 16 Martini & Rossi product 17 Punish arbitrarily 18 It has its highs and lows in math 
20 Longtime TV host with a 1997 Lifetime Achievement Em my 
22 Something gotten on principal 
23 Alternate name indicator 
26 Feeling of excited anticipation 
29 Pal 30 Antique dealers' destinations 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
31 Washington capital? 33 Make a sacrifice, 
perhaps 34 Treason 42 Affairs 
43 Producer of many fragrances 45 Hirer's request: Abbr. 46 "Sense and Sensibility" sister 47 Microscopic code carrier 
51 It was on the 37­Down of Johnny Unitas and Lenny Wilkens 
54 Heavy metal 55 Like the ocean 56 Rembrandt van 
57 Complaints, informally 58 Head-turner 59 Navigation abbreviation GO Crib parts 
Down  
Exile of note  
2  Winery in  
Sonoma County  
3  Pennsylvania  
and others: Abbr.  
4  Variety of  
swallow  
5  Holy smoke?  
6  World Series  
team manager of  
1977, 1978,  
1981 and 1988  
1  Pressing  
8  River through  
Rochester  
9  Gum holders  

10 33-time Walker Cup winner 11 "Road Rules" airer 12 Quiche, e.g. 14 Some dormitory purchases 
19 The sculptures "Rigoletto" and "La Tosca," e.g. 
21 Check for a place to stay 23 Drive. at, with "to" 24 Really into. 25 Seconds: Abbr. 26 Experts sit on them 27 Strands, somehow 28 Bit 29 Some infiltrators 32 Informal states? 
35 "American Buffalo" playwright 
WILLSHORTZ 



JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
OVEBA 
j
I I r (j 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights AeseiVed. 
LUCCK 
1 








rJ lu 
AMSOUF 

I I I 

www.jumble.com
t
TIPSEC J I I (] 
Answer here: 

(ll](lliiJ 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Yesterday's  Jumbles: Answer:  LIGHT AROMA DETAIN GASKET What the pupils experienced when they failed the  
multiplication test-HARD ''TIMES"  

EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jet Li, 44: Michael Damian, 45; Bobby Rydell, 
65: Carol Burnett, 74 
Happy Birthday: The more precise you are this year. the better you will do. Emotional matters may surface but it's time for you to deal with such things, once and for all. You have to move on or make things work, instead of avoiding the inevitable. That is what has held you back in the past. Your numbers are 12, 20, 24, 32, 37,41 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't hold back when you have so much to say, offer and do. You can make things happen if you push for what you want. A change in location, job or even the way you do things will all pay off. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take another look at something you passed over a while back. It may be time to pick up a new hobby, project or contract. An emotional issue that has been plaguing you can be fixed if you set new ground rules. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone may be trying to appease you with empty promises or even lies. Judge for yourself and make decisions based on facts. A problem with a partner or loved one may take you by surp'rise. Honesty will couQt, so don't exaggerate. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can make some interesting choices that will put you in a much better position for your career, education or relationships. Let go of the past and reinvent yourself and your life. Replace what isn't working with what makes you happy. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A new business or getting involved in a hobby that will introduce you to new friends will pay off. However, don't use your own cash, be too generous or get involved in a risky venture. Do something romantic in the evening hours. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Problems at home or with something you own must be taken care of quickly before matters worsen. A love matter may get blown out of proportion. Stay calm and hear whatever complaints are being made. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may be living in a dream world today but that's OK. Love is on the rise and travel and doing things with the one you love are all good. So forget about your worries and enjoy' the moment. 3 stars · 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can make headway today, so don't let anyone push you to do things that aren't your first concern. You have to ~ork at getting your own projects off the ground. Set up appointments and you will convince others to back you. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be careful: Just when you think you have everything in place, someone is likely to pull the rug out from under you. Don't take chances while traveling and be careful what you say. Precautions must be taken. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Follow your heart and do something that excites you, instead of sticking to the same old humdrum routine. An unusual option will catch your eye. Do your research but don't rule out the possibilities. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): You can get serious about' a lot of things in your life today. Relationships, where you see yourself living and what you intend to do with the rest pf your life are all up for discussion. Good things will develop if you take action. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): It will be one step forward and two steps back, especially if you haven't been completely upfront about what you are doing and whose ideas you are using. Someone could pull the plug on what you are trying to accomplish. Be honest. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are curious, unpredictable and always original. You will try things that may appear to he impossible. You are determined, outgoing and ready to take on the world. 
Eui?enia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor co~fidential consultations 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
This 2 bedroom 2 bath is within your budget 

A GOOD WAY TO SE:C.URE: HOUSING. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Puzzle by Eric Berlin 
36 Bullies, often 
37 See 51--Across 
38 French philosopher Gilson 
39 Tien mountains in central Asia 40 "Romance de Barrio" and others 
41 Poet Thayer and others 
44 Skinny? 
47 Stuff in a locker 
48 Reporter Skeeter of Harry Potter novels 49 Jour's opposite 
50 Gremlins and Hornets 
51 Be off one's guard 
52 Brightness measures 
53 Some college Greeks 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

..-------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 









PORTS

Friday, April 27, 2007 page 24 
BASEBALL 
Notre Da111e takes tvvo-series vvin streak to Piscatavvay 
By CHRIS KHOREY SportS Editor 
Notre Dame has won its last two conference series, but its quest for a third straight will be a little tougher. 
The Irish travel to 
Piscataway, N.J., this weekend for three games in two days Saturday and Sunday against Big East leader Hutgers. 
Notre Dame (22-18, 6-8 Big East) has won five of its last seven conference games and eight of its last 10 overall. 
The Scarlet Knights (24-14, 12-3 Big East) are riding a four-game winning streak and swept South Florida (who swept Notre Dame in late March) last weekend. Hutgers is also 11-1 at home this sea­son, with its only loss coming to Seton Hall April 14. 
But Irish third baseman A.J. 

Pollock sees no reason why his team can't stop the Scarlet jug­gernaut in its tracks. 
"Everybody is very confi­dent," the freshman said. "We've built up a lot of confi­dence over the last week. If we do the things we need to do, I don't think anyone in the con-
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXVI 

Trimming the field 
Annual tournament down to eight teams 
By BILL BRINK and LORENZO REYES SportS Writers . 
And then there were eight. 
The 2007 Bookstore Basketball tournament is coming to a close. The quarterfmals will take place tonight at the Bookstore courts starting at 6, while the Final Four will be played Saturday afternoon with games at 3 and 4. Based on today's Sweet Sixteen games, the weekend is sure to be action-packed. 
South Bend Orthopaedics 21, The Legendary Broskis 17 
Both lightning and tempers flared during No. 15 South Bend Orthopaedics' victory over the Legendary Broskis. The game, which took a 45-minute break due to lightning in the area, was tough, physical and evenly matched throughout. 
SBO, led by Joe O'Connell and Matt Henry on the perimeter, did 
see BOOKSTORE/page 21 ference can beat us." 


That confidence in the club­house, Pollock said, has recent­ly emerged as the team has started to play better. 
"A couple weeks ago, most guys didn't think [we could 
see RUTGERS/page 22 

TRACK 
Split squad travels to top Ineets 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
The toughness of Notre Dame's competition will jump to a higher level this weekend. 
Some athletes will travel to Des Moines, Iowa, to compete in the Drake Helays, while oth­ers will head to llillsdalc. Mich., to compete in the Hillsdale Gina Belays. Both relays are notorious for the high level of competition. 
Freshman thrower Jaclyn Espinoza isn't fazed by the competition. Instead, she chal­lenges herself. 
"Ever since I've been throw­ing since I was young, I've always looked at it as a compe­tition against mysPlf and my marks," she said. "Even being at this higher level, I still look at this as a competition with myself." 
Although Espinoza has won an event at the college level, 
see ESPINOZA/ page 22 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
ND plays in first Big East tourney 
Hoyas await team in first-round matchup 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
For the first time in its histo­
ry, Notre Dame will play in a 
conference tournament. 
No. 12 Notre Dame enters the inaugural Big East champi­onship today, facing top-seed­ed Georgetown in the first round. The No. 4-seed Irish will look to defeat the Hoyas for the second time this season and pick up their first-ever win at the Carrier Dome in Syracuse. 
The Irish (11-5, 3-2 Big East) won the regular season match against the Hoyas (9-6, 4-1) in a historic match at Moose Krause Stadium. In the April 
see HOYAS/page 22 


MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish face OSU for conference crown 
By PAT O'BRIEN SportS Writer 
Notre Dame travels to Columbus, Ohio, Saturday to take on conference rival Ohio State in a matchup of two teams on hot streaks. The No. 10 Irish (9-3, 3-0 GWLL) have won six in a row while the No. 20 Buckeyes (8-4, 4-0) are com­ing ofT four straight victories. 
Not only are the undefeated conference records on the line, but the winner of this game also receives an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament as the GWLL champion. 
"In the back of our minds, we know it's a big game," Irish defender Hoss Zimmerman said. "[Ohio State] is a different team with a few new players in big roles. They are very physi­cal and are a good defensive team with offensive threats." 
Freshman attack Will Yeatman leads the Irish offense with team-highs in points (37) and assists (19). Sophomore attack Hyan Hoff is the team leader in goals with 30. 
Junior midfielder Taylor Clagett leads the Irish in face­ol'fs. He has won 137 out of 226 draws for a .606 percentage. 
Junior goaltender Joey Kemp mans the defensive end for Notre Dame. He has recorded all 12 decisions, making 122 saves along the way for a save percentage of. 635. Sophomore goalie Scott Hodgers, who has played more minutes recently, has seen action in five games. 
see BUCKEYES/page 22 





