-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 99 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7, 2007 
Impeachment hearing unprecedented 
Tonight's ethics case first in Senate history; Morrissey senator questions punishment 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
While Morrissey senator Greg Dworjan's impeachment is not the first decision of its kind for the Student Senate, impeachment due to ethical infractions -such as the two Dworjan committed -is unprecedented in the group's 38-year history.. 
Last year, when Stanford senator David Thaxton went abroad, the Senate was forced to officially impeach and remove him from office in his absence, simply to find a replacement. 
"That wasn't very contentious," said student body vice president Bill Andrichik. "In fact, I'm pretty sure it was unanimous." 
Dworjan's case, however -which will come before the Senate again tonight -has required a bit more thinking on student government's part. 
The senator was found guilty of vio­lating two articles in the Constitution of the Undergraduate Student Body. First, he used the LaFortune student govern­ment office's copy machine to make fly­ers urging voters to abstain in the run­off election -but the Constitution pro­hibits campaigning anywhere in LaFortune outside of the basement and 
see IMPEACH/page 8 
Constitution ofthe Undergraduate Student Body 
Alti"'C'LL> xzv JtEMJVALS,.IK'AI.U: A.1irQl •c~ 
fi«:eoat ~_,_R-.MII t. ft.,...__,.'-fbllhl!f~tliJII.IJIIIIIftiR"*"-t8cldf~'M,.._. l!llfldy~..._._ ..JWIP'Midftlb"('-'ilQo~iltdMI~a-i! 
~-a-oer.-. ...,.._...,..a-li~tllf"-.-'•01'· ~"'-"-...__...•dft ~~-~-b~'lll-S... ••Bil"..........~..,.... 1AMfli.............fttt. .............-.)«'lllltlr.NIIIIc~llllll_..
.....,_.lllfM,_..__........,.....,...,...._.._....,...cw......_,.of.., ~u-t.---fll•~-"'~......,.._.............__ c6lt,..ad11111P!trlollll'pllll-cf'hsw..tU...,~'llf-......~-..,. .re&.-...-.-....~ ........._...._df~--..... ~... O'IIIIIIM..,flf1Swtlf1Mm..........._.._,.,~~ .......... 
JEFF ALBERTfThe Observer 
Freshman competes on Jeopardy! show 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Assistant News Editor 
Friends •and classmates of freshman Courtney Smotherman gathered in LaFortune Student Center Tuesday to watch her com­pete in the nationally known trivia game Jeopardy! 
Smotherman racked up $10,400 throughout the pro­gram, answering questions about the objectives of the 
U.S. State Department in the United Nations, the Great Natchez Tornado of 1840 and the biography of novel­ist C.S. Lewis, among other topics. 
She also knew "boombox" was slang for large musical boxes -and that earned her $600 in the opening round. 
Smotherman entered the 

final Jeopardy! round in sec­ond place, but after she wagered $5,600 and incor­rectly said the most popu­lous island on the planet was Japan's Hokkaido ­not the Indonesian island of Java-she fell to third. 
Her final earnings totaled $1,000 -the stipulated award given to the third place finisher -which she said she used to buy new books earlier this semester, since Tuesday's Jeopardy! episode was taped this past January. 
Smotherman said Jeopardy! producers con­tacted her in November after she performed well in an online exam conducted last March to screen potential contestants. 
She auditioned in Chicago 
see JEOPARDY/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Jenkins announces NDForum 
Immigration will be focus offall event 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
This fall's Notre Dame Forum -the third install­ment of the now-annual event -will address the "pressing issue" of immigration, University President Father John Jenkins said Tuesday. 
Notre Dame has yet to con­firm speakers for the ~ept. 26 event, Jenkins said in a phone conversation. He would not name any potential partici­pants -last year's forum on global health brought in well: known figures like humanitar­ian Paul Farmer and econo­mist Jeffrey Sachs -but said the topic had a "salient, immediate quality'' in the U.S. and stressed its importance. 
"[Immigration] is an issue that this nation must make decisions about in the coming months and coming year," he said. 
Jenkins said he picked the topic after receiving "several" recommendations from a nine-person committee chaired by Executive Assistant to the President Frances Shavers. The Observer could not reach Shavers Tuesday. 
The first factor in choosing a forum topic, Jenkins said, is finding material "accessible to undergraduates." 
Secondly, the topic "should 
see FORUM/page 4 


Bookstore Basketball approaches 
Registration for the tournament ends Friday 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
With March Madness just around the corner, NCAA athletes are not the only ones gearing up for competition. Registration recently began for the world's largest five-on-five basketball tournament. 
Bookstore Basketball, now in its 36th year at Notre Dame, will accept teams until Friday. The first round of the tournament will begin April 2. 
So far nearly 60 teams com­prised of students, faculty and staff members from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross are scheduled to participate, head commissioner Jim Hogers said. 
Junior Chris Devitt drives through the lane in the Bookstore Basketball Championships last year. see GAMES/page 4 

Biology professor to speak before House 
years ago. He currently

Lodge will address 
leads a team of undergradu­

Great Lakes problem ates and graduate students who assist him in these endeavors. 
By ROHAN ANAND "I was contacted because News Writer h e research 
Biology professor David we do is Lodge, director of the Notre relevant to Dame Center for Aquatic thinking Conservation, is traveling to about how Washington, D.C. today to this prob­testify to the U.S. House of lem could Representatives' Subcom­be man­mittee on Water Resources aged bet-Lodge
and Environment on the ter, and impact of ship-borne inva­our re­sive species in the Great search .ean inform the Lakes. development of policy," 
Lodge, who has conducted Lodge said. research on aquatic ecosys­Additionally, keeping in tems for the past 25 years, contact with other scientists shifted his focus to damage caused by ships about seven see LODGE/page 8 

Students gather around a television at LaFortune to watch freshman Courtney Smotherman compete on Jeopardy! Tuesday. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 7, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Oosasasa, Oosasasa 
... hit Siegfried in the head with a big Kielbasa. 
With the largest population on campus, we Dillon men rarely get excited about much unless free food is involved, but showed up in droves to cheer on our undefeated hockey 
team. With more than 100 screaming fans -nine of whom braved the cold to support Stonewall on their chests -and a Big Red flag, Dillon showed up for its 


team. And it did not Jay Fitzpatrick 
disappoint. 
With about one 

minute remaining Sports Writer 
in the first overtime 
period, Dillon 
defenseman Brian 

Fallon ripped a slapshot from the point in 
for a goal to give the Big Hed a 2-1 win 
over Siegfried in the Interhall hockey 
championship. 

Even though Fallon's heroics won the game, the· goaltending of senior Joe "Stonewall" McKenna won our hearts. 
McKenna dominated opposing shoot­ers all season with an approximate 
97.598 save percentage while posting three shutouts this season in eight games this season. 
Even though he is described by a team­mate as very quiet, he made a lot of noise on the ice against the Ramblers with his pads, shutting down opponents to the delight of the Dillon cheering section. 
Even though McKenna is the most visi­ble player on the ice for Dillon, he would be nothing without his supporting cast. All of Dillon's team was crucial in the win on both the front and defensive lines. 
After winning the trophy, the guys on the team decided to share it among themselves as a communal token of their perfect season. Each player will receive the opportunity to have the trophy at some point this semester to do with it as he wishes. 
But directly after the game, Dillon cap­tain Matthew Lodwich took the trophy to the place where few dare tread -his bedroom. 
He slept with the trophy throughout the night, braving the sharp and pointy parts, because of its importance to Dillon. 
A friend of mine on the team explained to me that after the game-winning goal, everyone on the team wanted to have Fallon's babies. 
Trust me Paul-it was more than just the team. 
I, sitting in the stands with the rest of the men of Dillon, erupted after Fallon's goal because it gave Big Red sports the one thing they needed after such a long line of mediocre sporting ventures -a winner. 
Right now in the Dillon Hall display case sits a lonely bowling pin (I don't think anyone knows why) and other ran­dom awards from decades ago. But now we have something everyone can recog­nize and enjoy. 
And so now I leave you with the tri­umphant words of my forefathers in Dillon Hall: 
We are Dillon Hall, all the others suck. Dillon Hall! Dillon Hall! Rah, rah... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at ifitzpa5@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due ro a reporting error, the article "Student travel safety raps University priorities" in the March 6 edition ofThe Observer said Colleen Hipp was a sophomore and misstated the number of people on the bus. Hipp was a freshman when she died and there were 3 7 people on the bus. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE OFF-CAMPUS RESTAURANT AND WHY? 









Colleen Peabody  Bobby Polish  Kelsey Larson  Scott Andrews  Tim Anderson  Mike Mesterharm  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  
Cavanaugh  Dillon  Pangborn  Siegfried  Siegfried  O'Neill  
"In the winter,  "Anywhere that  "Chipotle.  "South Bend  "Bruno's Pizza,  "The place that  
anywhere that  serves baby  There's nothing  Chocolate  because have  lets you throw  
delivers. "  seals."  better."  Factory,  you had their  pizza because  
because it only  pizza? It's  they let you  
serves my  amazing. "  throw peanuts."  

favorite food. " 

JENNIFER KANGfThe Observer 
Pillars members sophomore Mike Cikos, left, freshman Caitlin Fleming, center, and sophomore Lauren Cummings hand out BAC cards Tuesday. Pillars is a volunteer stu­dent organization sponsored by the Notre Dame Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. 
OFFBEAT 

Unzipped fly leads officers to pot stash 
SHEBOYGAN, Wis.-Too bad nobody told him his fly was down. A 22-year-old man was arrested for drug possession after police found a marijuana pipe and drugs stashed in his under­wear. 
Police made the arrest after they found the man's car stuck in a ditch in the Town of Wilson. According to a criminal complaint, the man's pants were undone and officers asked if there was anything illegal in his clothing. They found a pipe and a small amount of mar­ijuana. 
The Sheboygan man was charged with misdemeanor possession of drug para­phernalia, felony marijuana possession and operating a vehicle after having his license revoked, police said. 
Man brandishing torch robs bank 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska ­Authorities on Tuesday were looking for a man who robbed a bank in Anchorage while swinging a flaming torch fashioned from a burning T-shirt and a yard-long metal pole. On Monday, the masked robber threatened to set fire to people, including the teller, and burn down the bank building in Fairview if his demands weren't met. 

The man stormed the Alaska USA Federal Credit Union branch at about 3:45 p.m., said FBI spokesman Eric Gonzalez. He yelled at customers to get down on the floor. 
He fled on foot with an undisclosed amount of money, authorities said. All customers managed to flee the bank, authorities said. 
Police later recovered the still smoldering shirt out­side the bank. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
c::: 



UJ ::1: 
~ 
UJ 
~ 
..... 
c( 
(.) 



0 

HIGH 31 HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 

LOW 21 LOW LOW LOW 
IN BRIEF 
Angela Ndalianis, an associ­ate professor of cinema studies at Melbourne University in Australia, will speak at 4 p.m. today in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on "Podcasts, Mobisode~. and the TV Experience." 

David Solomon, Director of the Center for Ethics and Culture, will be speaking at today's Theology on Tap at 
8:30 p.m. in Legends. The topic for the discussion is "Right to Full Life. Consistent Ethic of Life." 
Dancer and fiddler Natalie MacMaster will perform in Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7:30 p.m. Thursday. Tickets are available at the box office. 

The Angelus Film Series will begin at 7 p.m. Thursday in Browning Cinema. Films to be shown include: The Trojan Cow; Kilroy Was Here; The Queen of Cactus Cove; and Silences. The series is sponsored by the Center for Ethics and Culture. 
The film "Pan's Labyrinth" will be shown Thursday at 10 
p.m. in Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The CCHA Hockey Playoffs will be held in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse Friday at 7:35p.m. The teams have yet to be announced. Tickets are avail­able from the athletic depart­ment ticket office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 
43 

LOW 
34 

Atlanta 65 I 37 Boston 21 I 5 Chicago 24 I 14 Denver 58 I 30 Houston 69 I 37 Los Angeles 75 I 55 Minneapolis 22 I 7 New York 22 I 10 Philadelphia 27 I 17 Phoenix 81 I 52 Seattle 58 I 42 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 70 I 45 Washington 36 I 22 

Wednesday, March 7, 2007 the Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Thursday, March 8, 2007, 7:00 PM Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Ascreening of four short, award-winning films produced, written, and directed by students. Following the screening, the directors will be present to answer questions. This is a FREE but ticketed event. Call the DPAC Ticket Office at 574.631.2800 to reserve tickets. 
Family Theater Productions, of Hollywood, California, created the Angelus Awards in 1996 to showcase and award emerging filmmakers and encourage them to continue creating visionary projects that honor the fundamental dignity of the human person. 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Group presents plan for $650,000 endo.wJTient 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
Plans for a Student Union endowment containing nearly $650,000 were presented to mem­bers of the Council of Representatives (COR) Tuesday night in LaFortune. 
Student body president Lizzi Shappell said Student Senate drafted amendments that would allow for money from the carry forward account and revenues from The Shirt to be placed into an endowment used for student programming. 
The carry forward account con­tains money leftover from various groups' funds, and The Shirt Project revenues are split equally between the Student Union Budget and The Shirt Charity Fund. The charity fund is expected to contain $943,000 by the end of the term. 
Under the policy changes, the carry forward account should never exceed $100,000. Any amount of money over this cap will be invested in the Student Union endowment, Shappell said, which will produce "a very, very conservative estimate of $20,000 in revenues that could be reallo­cated by FMB [Financial Management Board] each year " 
In addition, the changes would place revenues from The Shirt exceeding $300,000 in the Student Union endowment. Shappell said she felt this amendment would not hurt The Shirt Charity Fund, which has almost $1 million in funds. 
The Student Union endowment would contain no less than $650,000 at any time, so "we would only use the revenues gen­erated from the endowment ... which are compounded quarter­ly," Shappell said. 
The Financial Management Board will study the numbers to make sure they are reasonable, particularly concerning the amount of money generated by The Shirt. 
"These numbers could change if FMB thinks it should," Student Union Board manager Patrick Vassel said. 
Student body vice president Bill Andrichik said the Senate's Oversight committee would need to approve revised versions of the amendments and will meet the Monday after spring break to do so. 
In other COR news: 
+ Junior Patrick Leimkuehler was approved as the successor to current Student Business Board manager Anna Sierra. 
"Among 30 applicants·, Patrick demonstrated to be the individual with the strongest aptitude to be the next Student Business Board administrator," Sierra said in a note to COR members. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 
Mentor program begins 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
A group of grade-school children is a rare sight on any college campus, but not Tuesday afternoons at Notre Dame. The group of 20 children, each paired with a Notre Dame student, is part of the new Notre Dame chapter of College Mentors for Kids Program (CMK). 

The program, which was established at Notre Dame last year by junior Stephanie Gargala, pairs a Notre Dame student mentor with a first through fourth grade "little buddy." Gargala, a pre-med biology major and president of Notre Dame's CMK cHapter, . took the initiative to .start the club her freshman year after much planning, organizing and recruiting. 
She got the ball rolling her sophomore year by calling the former CEO of College Mentors for Kids, Kelly Frank. Last year -its first on campus -the Notre Dame chapter of CMK hosted about 10 chil­dren. This year, it has grown to 20; and Gargala says she hopes participa­tion will reach 30 next year. 
The program is statewid~, with 19 chapters currently in Indiana, she said. Among the universi­ties that participate are Indiana, Ball State and Purdue, which presently has 80 students. 

College Mentors for Kids tries to expose children to college life to emphasize the importance of higher education. Each Tuesday, buses drive students from Holy Cross Grade School in South Bend to Notre Dame to participate in activities divided into three cate­gories: culture and diversi­ty, higher education and community service. 
Kids can participate in activities like watching Irish step dancing, touring the law school and con­ducting a mock-trial, view­ing the new planetarium at Jordan Hall, making "Welcome Home'' signs for Habitat for Humanity and keeping journals about their experiences. 
"It is important to stress that we are not tutoring the kids," Gargala said, "just exposing them to all a uni­versity has to offer." 
Gargala said the group does not.yet have official club status, but is working on acquiring it before next year. 
Currently the program operates under Domers Mentoring Kids. This pro­gram is an umbrella for five mentorship groups on campus, including Our Lady's Helpers, Bandlink, SAINTS, Elston and College Mentors for Kids. 
While the program aims 
to spark children's interest in higher education, it is not limited to students whose parents did not go to college. , 
Exposing children to uni­versity life may have a pos­itive effect. Several third graders, who are required to take the standardized ISTEP test, have shown improved scores in recent y_ears following participa­tion in the mentoring pro­gram, Gargala said. 
In addition, 71 percent of teachers reported improved literacy skills as a result of their students participating in CMK, according to col­legementors.org. Gargala said students also seem to have an overall greater interest in education as a result of their mentoring experience. 
Gargala, whose duties include taking charge of the program's budget, transportation and commu­nication, is proud of her new passion. 
"Those two hours of my week [mentoring] are such a relief when I don't have to think about work or any­thing. It's so much fun. I even learned a lot about my school," she said. 
Students interested in participating in College Mentors for Kids should visit the group's table at next year's Activities Night. 
Contact Katie Peralta at 
kperalta@nd.edu 

KILROY WAS HERE Separately, they fought for different causes in the same war. Now together, they will forge aconnection that transcends language and their cause will become one. 
SILENCES A 20 minute documentary that follows the filmmaker's journey to understand his mother's refusal to discuss the circumstances of his birth. With a silent mother, Octavio travels to San Francisco to find the one person who can complete his search for answers: his biological 
father ... // ..~ 
j~it}J!Mfrci ;;,; tlte /\;';t-fFe D.rone (Jo;ier fu,-r Etlt'L.,s tuzt!/(Jtt.fi,,n·.
J / For more informatL9/.~lease visit ethicscenter.nd.edu 
THE QUEEN OF CACTUS COVE Teenage chess champ Billie faces the prospect of defeat for the first time whea she competes against her best friend at the biggest chess tournament of her career. 
/.., 

THE TROJAN COW In 1973, two teenagers are illegally transported across the East German border inside a hollow· cow. An unexpected love story blossoms in , the midst of a dangerous situation.' 
Inspired by true events. 
/" -1 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 7, 2007 
Forunt 
continued from page 1 
draw on the moral and reli­gious framework of the Catholic university," he said. 
The other goals were to find a subject that would be inter­disciplinary and to "make perhaps some contribution to national and Church debate," Jenkins said. 
The first Notre Dame Forum took place in September 2005, an initiative directed by Jenkins that coincided with his inauguration. The focus was the role of faith in the modern world, and while last fall's forum examined the global health care crisis, cen­tering this September's con­versation on immigration doesn't represent a deliberate bent toward international issues. Jenkins said. 

"I don't think that was a conscious decision," he said, explaining that in addition to the worldwide immigration debate, the issue "has a par­ticular character in this coun­try." 
Jenkins said he was not pre­pared to address any poten­tial changes to the structure of the forum, which, for the past two years, has featured 
Ga01es 
continued from page 1 

Rogers said the tournament's goal is to have 700 teams par­ticipate. Last year's tournament saw 580 teams compete for the championship title, which went 
to "U Got a Bad Draw," a squad that featured Notre Dame foot­ball stars Brady Quinn and Chinedum Ndukwe. 
"Last year's competition was really fierce," junior Kevin Gleason said. His team, "Never Nudes," was eliminated in the seventh round with 128 teams remaining. 
While some teams compete for a love of the game, others like Gleason's take it more seri­ously, with hopes of playing in the finals. 
"Our goal this year is the championship," Gleason said. "We've been practicing some screens and doing some pene­tration drills to get ready for this year's tournament." 
The month-long event con­sists of two tournaments, the open and the women's. The open tournament ranks the top 32 teams and puts the other teams into the bracket random­ly. Teams play games up to 21 baskets with all baskets count-· ing as one point. All teams vie for a chance to play in the championship game held on April 29. 
The tournament is open to all students, including varsity ath­letes. There are rules. however, on team composition. Only one Division I basketball player can be on. a team and only one Division II or Division III partic­ipant can be on the team in addition to the Division I player. Also, only three football players several national or interna­tional experts alongside selected members of the Notre Dame community. Both forums employed a star mod­erator as well -2005's event drew former NBC News anchor Tom Brokaw, while the 2006 edition featured Gwen Ifill from "Washington Week" and "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer." 

"I think [the level of inter­est] has been good," Jenkins said. ''Obviously, we always want to improve it." 
While last September's forum on global health Jed to the University's partnership with the UN Millennium Project -an initiative led by Sachs that pairs donors and organizations with African villages to work collaborative­ly on development goals ­Jenkins said he did not choose the topic of immigra­tion with any extra University commitment in mind. 
"We don't have specific plans for any follow-up action, but last year we had no specific plans either," said Jenkins, who called Notre Dame's current involvement with a village in Uganda a "fortunate coincidence." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at 
mhannal@nd.edu 
I 

can be on the same team, and only one varsity basketball player and varsity football play­er can be on the same team. 
The entry fee is $25 per team. All proceeds go to the Jumpball Program. which began in 1995 when members of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Jamaica saw the need for more youth 


Upward Bound to host conference 
the speaker choice. exposing high sehool students By EMILY KEEBLER 
Other program alumni, to eonferenees teaehes them News Writer 
including Anthony Douglass of important networking skills. Key Bank and Damon Howell, The five student leaders also 
Notre Dame's Upward an admissions officer at designed presentations focus­Bound program will host its Wabash College, will make ing on diversity and life ehoic­fifth annual TRIO Day eonl"er­presentations. es. They will present their enee Saturday, helping low­Five student leaders -findings to peers from Notre ineome and first-sophomores, Dame Upward Bound as well generation stu­juniors and sen­as youths in programs at
"/am a true
dents and their iors from South Purdue University Calumet, parents get believer in applying Bend's John the Robinson Community ready for eollege what students learn Adams, Clay, Learning Center and Indiana with presenta­Washington and University-Purdue University
to real-life
tions in McKenna J a m e s Fort Wayne.
experiences.
Hall. Whiteomb Riley Parents will also attend the 
The Upward public high leadership eonferenee. Bound College Alyssia Coates schools "The reason parental Preparatory Upward Bound director played an inte­involvement is so important is 
Program is a U.S. gral part in that often times parents and Department of planning the students don't have time to do Education initiative that pro­eonferenee. things together," vides high school students "I am a true Coates said. "It's with resources and skills for believer in apply­a great opportu­
'The reason 
suceess in high .sehool and ing what stu­nity to have the
parental
higher edueation. Sinee 1966, dents learn to two entities the federal government has real-life experi­involvement is so together and to funded Notre Dame's Upward 'ences," Coates learn."
important is that
Bound program, making it one said. "In this Many of the
often times parents 
of the oldest in the eountry. ease, students students' par­The program is hosting experience a and students don't ents are adult "TRIO Scholars Embraeing the Iregional leader­learners, Coates
have time to do 
Future" to celebrate THIO Day, ship] eonferenee, said, so their
things together." 
a national day of reeognition learn from that presence at the for program partieipants. conference, and conference will Former Indiana Sen. Cleo come baek and Alyssia Coates help them as 
Washington will deliver the help us plan our Upward Bound director well as their 
keynote address. own conferenee." ehildren. 
Washington eurrently prae­The students Presentation tices law in Indianapolis and is ehose the conferenee theme, themes range from an alumnus of' the Notre Dame planned meals, designed T­"Information Literacy Tools: Upward Bound program. shirts and nametags and Beyond Google" to "Finaneial 
"Usually what we try to do is selected awards that other Pitfalls to Avoid in College" 
· bring in speakers who have students will receive. and "College Sports: Going for similar backgrounds to the "It gives them firsthand the Extra Point." students and have been suc­experience on how a confer­eessf'ul," Upward Bound ence is set up and planned," Contact Emily Keebler at Direetor Alyssia Coates said of Coates said, adding that ekeebler@nd.edu 
development programs in the country's capital. Kingston. 
Because basketball is a flour­ishing sport in Jamaica and is available to players of all socio­economic levels, Bookstore coordinators thought it was a good way to teach Jamaica's youth important values. 
"We donate all proceeds to Jumpball and hope to send sev­eral Bookstore Basketball staff members to Jamaica to help run the basketball clinic there this summer," Rogers said. 
The four-day clinic is the highlight of the Jumpball pro­gram. It brings U.S. collegiate coaches together with nearly 200 boys and girls to teach not only basketball fundamentals but also self-esteem, dedication and teamwork. 
"The Bookstore Basketball Tournament is one of the best traditions here at Notre Dame," Rogers said. "With so many participants, it truly demon­strates the sense of community we all enjoy on this campus. Whether you are part of a com­petitive team or not, it is a great experience and also raises money for a great cause." 
For more information on the tournament, including updated brackets, rules and registration information, visit http://nd.edu/-bkstr. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
SPRING BREAK 





BLOWOUT 

Save an additional 20°/o* on all clearance items! 

March 7-9, 1Oam-6pm 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Front Outdoor Atrium 




BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 


phone: {574) 631-6316 • www.ndcotalog.com 
0700LF030207 A 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 7, 2007 COMPILED fRO,\~ THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Street fighting greets peacekeepers 
MOGADISHU, Somalia-The first peace­keepers to arrive in Somalia's capital in more than 10 years were met with a surge of vio­lence Tuesday, as mortar rounds hit the air­port during a welcoming ceremony and a deadly gunbattle broke out on the city's crum­bling streets. 
The street battles involving masked gunmen killed three people and mortar rounds wound­ed one, all of them civilians, witnesses and police said. The violence is the latest example of the volatility peacekeepers face in a country that has seen little more than anarchy for years, and where the government backed by Ethiopian troops toppled an Islamic militia only months ago. 
The bloodshed came as about 400 Ugandan peacekeepers arrived in the capital to protect the Somali government and to allow for the withdrawal of troops from neighboring Ethiopia, which helped the administration top­ple a radical Islamic militia that controlled much of southern Somalia for six months. 
Earthquake kills 70, destroys homes 
SOLOK, Indonesia -A powerful earthquake jolted western Indonesia on Tuesday, killing at least 70 people and injuring hundreds as they fled shaking hotels, homes and hospitals. Two children were crushed by debris on a play­ground. 
The 6.3-magnitude quake struck Sumatra island just before 11 a.m. and was felt as far away as neighboring Malaysia and Singapore, where some tall buildings were evacuated. Several aftershocks followed, the strongest measuring 6.1, adding to fears of people already too nervous to return indoors. 
Many said they would sleep in front of their homes or in the hills Tuesday night. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Democrats attack Walter Reed, war 
WASHINGTON -Democrats are using the uproar over Walter Reed Army Medical Center as their latest cudgel to batter President Bush for his Iraq war policies as the administration shows signs it fears politi­cal damage from the revelations. 
Reports of patient neglect and shoddy out­patient rooms at the hospital have brought Army brass to Capitol Hill to explain and apologize. Bush's handling of the war has been widely unpopular with voters, and reports about Walter Reed come on the heels of his decision to send more troops to Iraq ­which !;las also met a negative respon!ie from the public. 

Bush touts success from Iraq surge 
WASHINGTON -President Bush said Tuesday his decision to send more troops to Baghdad is yielding "gradual but important" progress in Iraq. He portrayed himself as steadfast while Democrats squabble over strategy. 
War-weary voters put Democrats in charge of Congress, but lawmakers have not decided how or whether to restrict Bush on Iraq through legislation. Bush seized on that divide and cautioned Democrats not to inter-. fere with military missions. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man crashes plane, kills daughter 
BEDFORD -The man whose small plane slammed into his former mother-in-law's house, killing him and his 8-year-old daughter, had told his ex-wife before the crash he had the grrl "and you're not going to get her," the mother-in-law said Tuesday. 
Eric Johnson, a student pilot who had soloed before, strapped daughter Emily into the pas­senger seat of a leased, single-engine Cessna on Monday morning. Less than two hours later, offi­cials said, the plane smashed into the home of Vivian Pace, the girl's grandmother. 
Pace told reporters outside her damaged home Tuesday that Johnson called her daughter, Beth Johnson, by cell phone shortly before the crash. 

Libby guilty of perjury, obstruction 
Former chiefof staff to Cheney highest-ranking official convicted since Iran-Contra 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Once the closest adviser to Vice President Dick Cheney, I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby was convicted Tuesday of lying and obstructing a leak investigation that shook the top levels of the Bush administration. 
He is the highest-ranking White House official convict­ed in a government scandal since National Security Adviser John Poindexter in the Iran-Contra affair two decades ago. 
In the end, jurors said they did not believe Libby's main defense: that he had­n't lied but merely had a bad memory. 
The CIA leak case focused new attention on the Bush administration's much-criti­cized handling of intelli­gence reports about weapons of mass destruc­tion in the run-up to the Iraq war. The case cost Cheney his most trusted adviser, and the trial revealed Cheney's personal obsession with criticism of the war's justification. 

Trial testimony made clear that President Bush secretly declassified a por­tion of the prewar intelli­gence estimate that Cheney quietly sent Libby to leak to istration of doctoring pre­34 poster-size pages. dence Mr. Libby ultimately Judith Miller of The New war intelligence. No one will "There were good manage­will be vindicated," defense York Times in 2003 to rebut be charged with the leak -rial type people on this jury attorney Theodore Wells criticism by ex-ambassador itself, which the trial con­who took everything apart told reporters. He said that Joseph Wilson. Bush, firmed came first from and put it in the right Libby was "totally innocent Cheney and Libby were the then-Deputy Secretary of place," Collins said. "After and that he did not do any­only three people in the State Richard Armitage. that, it wasn't a matter of thing wrong." government aware of the "The results are actually opinion. It was just there." Libby did not speak to effort. sad," Fitzgerald told Libby, not only Cheney's reporters. 
More top reporters were reporters after the verdict. chief of staff but also an The president watched ordered into court -"It's sad that we had a sitl,l­assistant to Bush, was news of the verdict on tele­including Miller after 85 ation where a high-level expressionless as the ver­vision at the White House. days of resistance in jail -official person who worked dict was announced on the Deputy press secretary to testify about their confi­in the office of the vice pres­lOth day of deliberations. In Dana Perino said Bush dential sources among the ident obstructed justice and the front row, his wife, respected the jury's verdict nation's highest-ranking lied under oath. We wish Harriet Grant, choked out a but "was saddened for officials than in any other that it had not happened, sob and her head sank. Scooter Libby and his fami­trial in recent memory. but it did." Libby could face up to 25 1y." 
Special Prosecutor Patrick One juror, former years in prison when sen­In a written statement, Fitzgerald said the verdict Washington Post reporter tenced June 5, but federal Cheney called the verdict closed the nearly four-year Denis Collins, said the jury sentencing guidelines will disappointing and said he investigation into how the did not believe Libby's main probably prescribe far less, was saddened for Libby and name of Wilson's wife, defense: that he never lied perhaps one to three years. his family, too. "As I have Valerie Plame, and her clas­but just had a faulty memo­Defense attorneys said they said before, Scooter has sified job at the CIA were ry. Juror Jeff Comer agreed. would ask for a retrial and served our nation tirelessly leaked to reporters in 2003 Collins said the jurors if that fails, appeal the con­and with great distinction -just days after Wilson spent a week charting the viction. through many years of pub­publicly accused the admin-testimony and evidence on "We have every confi-lic service." 



NATO attacks Taliban stronghold 
International Security Assistance (Taliban) areas, not the other way

Associated Press 
Force. around." 
NATO hopes it can ~stablish security The offensive is NATO's largest-ever 

KABUL, Afghanistan -In its largest among a population now harboring in the country. But it involves only half offensive yet, thousands of NATO Taliban militants, foreign fighters and the number of soldiers that fought in a troops moved Tuesday into the moun­drug traffickers, and rid the region of U.S. offensive in the same region just tains of southern Afghanistan where its shadow Taliban government. That nine months ago, when some 11,000 hundreds of hardcore Taliban insur­would allow President Hamid Karzai's U .S.-led troops attacked fighters in gents hold sway -an operation in the administration to make its first move northern Helmand province during world's biggest opium-producing into a lawless region overflowing with Operation Mountain Thrust. region aimed at winning over a popu­the poppies funding the Taliban insur­Although 1,500 U.S. troops along lation long supportive of militant fight­gency. with British, Canadian and Dutch sol­ers. "What you are going to see in the diers were returning to the region, the 
Comprising 4,500 NATO and 1,000 coming weeks is the enemy reacting situation was "fundamentally differ­Afghan troops, Operation Achilles to the strategic initiative of the gov­ent" this year, and NATO had a much marks the start of NATO's major ernment of Afghanistan and the better opportunity to establish a per­spring military action, said Col. Tom (NATO) forces it's partnered with," manent presence because more Collins, spokesman for NATO's Collins said. "It is us moving into troops were in the country. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, March 7, 2007 
Jeopardy 
continued from page 1 
before receiving an invitation to compete in California. 
Though the television net­work did not cover Smotherman's airfare, it arranged a reduced hotel rate for her and her mother in Los 

watch the 
Angeles, where they met Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek. 
"He's really funny," Smotherman said. "He's got a dry sense of humor, and you can tell he's a dad because he talks 
a  lot  about  his  
son  and  his  
daughter."  

During Trebek's on-air interview segment with the contestants, he a s k e d 

"It was a lot offun for me. It was a great experience being in L.A. and meeting Alex [Trebek] while everybody else was at school here. " 
Courtney Smotherman freshman 
Jeopardy! contestant 
Club, Smotherman prepared for Jeopardy! by reading trivia magazines. 
''I'm a fan of Mentai_Floss, the trivia magazine, so I read some back issues," she said. "And of course I also watched the show every night leading up to my appearance." 
Iler family traditionally serves dinner at 7:30 p.m. to 
program, and in middle school, Smotherman said, she frequently delivered answers in tho form or questions at hor quiz bowl competi­tions. 
With years of practice and antici­pation under her belt, she ringed in an assortment of trivia categories Tuesday, including "At the movies." "It's all academic." and "Spanish places in the U.S." 
"It was a lot of 

Smotherman about her involve­fun for me," Smotherman said. ment with her high school "It was a great experience aerospace science club, where being in L.A. and meeting Alex she helped build a rocket that [Trebek) while everybody else flew 799 feet in 44.6 seconds. was at school here." 
Besides this experience and her involvement in Notre Contact Marcela Berrios at Dame's Academic Competition aberrios@nd.edu 
INDONESIA 
Jetliner catches fire in landing 
Associated Press 
JAKAHTA, Indonesia -A jetliner carrying more than 130 passengers and crew caught fire Wednesday as it landed on Indonesia's Java island, trapping a number of peoplo inside the burning plane, the airline and witness­es said. Oflieials reported at least eight deaths. 
Somo passengers escaped and rescuers battlod flames to reach those still on the Boeing 737-400, said Capt. Ari Sa pari, operations director of national carrior Garuda. 
Fire fightnrs put out the blaze after two hours. Sapari did not say how many people were trapped or provide a· numbor on survivors. 
"I saw at least eight corpses piled up at the front of the plano,'' said Capt. Yos Biantoro. who witnessed the lire at Yogyakarta airport in central Java. 
Soveral passengers told local modia that there were many survivors. Metro TV reported that a nearby hospital was treating around 60 injured. 
"It caught alight when it landed," said Sapari. lie didn't provide any other details. The cause of the accident was unelear, but at least one pas­senger said the jetliner had overshot the runway. 
BBC World television carried rootage or raging names pok­ing through sovcral windows ol' the passenger compart-ment. Witnesses said the air­craft had been guttod. 

Metro TV said that 1 :n peo­ple were listed on the plane's manifest. 
Among the passengers were Australian journalists and diplomatic staff who were in Indonesia in eonm~etion with a visit by Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer, said Australian Treasurer Peter Costello in Canberra. The foreign minister was not on the plane. 
"There appnars to have boon a signilicant loss of life," said Australian Prime Minister John lloward. "There were up to 10 Australians on board and not all of those have been accounted for." 
One passenger who survivnd told local TV station RCTI TV that "before landing I felt the plane shake strongly." 

"We overshot the runway, then I heard the sound of an explosion and ran through an emergency exit," continued passenger Muhammad Dimyati. "I believe many pas­sengers remained trapped on board." 
Another passenger described smoke in the pas­senger compartment. 
"Suddenly there was smoke inside the fuselage," said Dien Syamsudin, a local Islamic lnader. "It hit the runway and then it landed in a rice field .... I saw a foreigner. His clothes were on fire and I jumped from the emergency exit. Thank God I survived." 


Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Its a whole new place! New local ownership & management -Newly remodeled for 2007 -2008 
lafayette Square Townhomes 
424 N. Frances Street 
• 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 

• 
Off-Street Parking 

• 
Washer and Dryer 

• 
Dishwasher 

• 
Central Air 

• 
Security System 




Renting fast -call today for 2007 -2008 

Contact Kramer at (574J 315-5032 or f574J 234-2436 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS

Wednesday, March 7, 2007 page 7 

Dow 
12,207.59 +157.18

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2, 72 9 I 09 566 3,338,701,805 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +1.66  +0.70  42.85  
!SHARE RUS 2000 (IWM)  +2.53  +1.90  77.07  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +1.52  +0.29  19.40  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  + 1.71  +2.35  139.70  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.22  +0.0 I 0  4.528  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.30  -0.0 15  4.975  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.02  +0.00 I  4.655  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.43  +0.0 19  4.478  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.62  60.69  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +7.00  646.20  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.63  104.58  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  116.3950  
EURO  0.7618  
POUND  0.5181  
CANADIAN$  1.1762  

IN BRIEF 
Wall Street rebounds, Dow up 150 
NEW YORK -Wall Street rebounded Tuesday as investors were encouraged by a recovery on world markets and moved to recoup some of the big losses suffered in last week's sharp pullback. The Dow Jones indus­trials rose more than 150 points. 
Investors came off the sidelines to buy stocks that have languished in five turbulent sessions. The Dow made back about 26 percent of the ground it lost over the past week, and scored its highest one-day point gain since July 24. 
Despite the rebound, questions remained about whether the correction that has swept around the globe has truly run its course, U.S. investors were still contending with fundamen­tal economic issues, including a weaker than expected reading on fourth-quarter productivi­ty and the dollar's vulnerability against the yen. 
The advance Tuesday treated Wall Street traders to what had become a rare sight-the color green splashed across their computer screens that show stock prices, instead of last week's red. But, after being knocked about by erratic market shifts in recent sessions, there was still a sense this might not be the recovery everyone is waiting for. 

Thousands of defibrillators recalled 
WASHINGTON-A serious software problem with two models of automatic external defiliril­lators has led their manufacturer to recall thousands of the devices distributed world­wide. 
Defibtech LLC said problems ~ith the soft­ware in its Lifeline AED and ReviveR AED models may fail to flag a previously detected low battery during some tests. If that occurs and the battery is indeed drained, the device may not be able to deliver the defibrillation shock needed to restart a person's heart. 
"This doesn't become apparent until the bat­tery gets low for some reason," company presi­dent Gintaras Vaisnys said. "Given every bat­tery will get low someday, this is an issue." 
The Guilford, Conn. company said it was recalling 42,000 of the devices, now in use in schools, fire stations, health clubs and hotels worldwide. It notified its distributors and cus­tomers by letter on Feb. 22 of the recall, prompted by three reports of cases where the devices failed to work. Vaisnys could not pro­vide details. 


Bemanke: Regulation necessary 
Chairman urges Congress to limit debt of loan buyers Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Federal Heserve Chairman Ben Bernanke urged Congress on Tuesday to bolster regulation of mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and suggested limiting their mas­sive holdings to guard against any danger their debt poses to the overall economy. 
Bernanke has previously supported efforts to pare the two mortgage companies' huge portfolios. This time, however, he was a bit more specific and recommended that their holdings might be linked to a "measurable pub­lic purpose, such as the pro­motion of affordable hous­ing." 
The Fed chiefs suggestion was contained in remarks delivered via satellite to a bankers meeting in llawaii. 
His remarks come as wor­ries about risky mortgages are making investors jittery. Those fears contributed to last week's worldwide stock meltdown, where the Dow Jones industrials suffered a gut-wrenching 416-point plunge. Wall Street on Tuesday staged a rebound, gaining more than 150 points. 

Lenders to subprime bor­rowers -people with blem­ished credit histories -have been battered. Hising inter­est rates and weak home gages; its rival, Freddie Mac, are expected to be forged. Alabama, the top-ranking prices have made it increas­ranks as the second-largest "Legislation to strengthen Republican on the Senate ingly difficult for these bor­buyer. the regulation and supervi­Banking Committee, said he rowers -especially those Fannie Mae and Freddie sion of GSEs is highly desir­shares many of Bernanke's with adjustable-rate mort­Mac -also referred to as able, both to ensure that concerns. "We should pay gages -to keep up with government-sponsored these companies pose fewer close attention to the issues their mortgage payments. enterprises, or GSEs -were risks to the fmancial system he has identified," Shelby Delinquencies and foreclo­created by Congress to inject and to direct them toward said. sures in the subprime mort­money into the mortgage activities that provide impor­Fannie Mae's and Freddie gage market are spiking. market by buying home tant social benefits," Mac's combined portfolios 
Against this backdrop, loans from banks and other Bernanke told the banking from the end of 1990 until Bernanke said he wanted to lenders. They bundle the gathering. the end of 2003 have grown be clear that by suggesting mortgages into securities for He said the Fed would like more than tenfold -to the change in Fannie Mae's sale on Wall Street. Both to see legislation passed this $1.56 trillion, Bernanke said. and Freddie Mac's portfolio companies have been year. Besides buying mortgage­holdings, he was not advo­scarred by accounting scan­Rep. Barney Frank, D­backed securities, the mort­cating a change in the expo­dals. Mass., chairman of the gage giants purchase other sure of the mortgage giants' On Capitol Hill, various House Financial Services types of assets for their own subprime loans. · efforts over the past several Committee, is proposing leg­investment portfolios, 
Last week, Freddie Mac years to tighten the govern­islation that would give the Bernanke said. announced that it would no ment's reins on Fannie Mae regulator of Fannie Mae and Yet, less than 30 percent of longer buy certain risky, sub­and Freddie Mac have ulti­Freddie Mac the discretion to their current portfolio hold­prime mortgages. mately languished. With limit or reduce the two mort­ings are oriented toward af­
Fannie Mae is the No. 1 Democrats in control of gage companies' holdings. fordable housing, Bernanke 
U.S. buyer of home mort-Congress, renewed efforts Sen. Richard Shelby of said. 

Economy growth slow, inflation high 
Associated Press 

hour of work, rose at an annual rate of The Commerce Department reported 
WASHINGTON -The economy, is 1.6 percent in the October-December that factory orders dropped by 5.6 per­
still caught between slowing growth period last year, just about half of the cent in January, the biggest decline and stubborn inflation pressures, new original estimate. since July 2000, when the economy government reports showed Tuesday. But the cost of the labor needed to was slowing sharply in advance of an Labor costs, boosted by bonuses to produce each unit of output soared by actual recession that began in 2001. high-income workers, soared at the 6.6 percent, far higher than the 1. 7 The government said orders for big­end of last year, raising inflation wor­percent initial estimate and well above ticket durable goods plunged by 8. 7 ries, while factory orders plunged in the 3.2 percent increase Wall Street percent, even bigger than the 7.8 per­January by the biggest amount in 6 1/2 was expecting. cent drop originally reported a week years. The worry is that the combination of ago. That initial report had jolted 
The reports, analysts said, highlight­lower productivity and higher wages investors and contributed to last 
ed the difliculties the Federal Reserve would make inflation worse and keep week's 416-point one-day drop in the 
faces as it is confronted by the oppos­the Fed from cutting interest rates Dow Jones industrial averages. 
ing forces of slowing growth and rising even though certain sectors of the Wall Street, however, took the new 
inflation. economy such as housing and manu­reports in stride. Stocks rebounded as 
The Labor Department reported that facturing have been hard-hit by the investors were encouraged by a recov­
productivity, the amount of output per current economic slowdown. ery on world markets. 
page 8. The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 7, 2007 
Lodge 
continued from page I 
and policymakers from the Environmental Protection Agency as well as the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA) has helped put Lodge's studies on the map. 
original habitat is located in the Black Sea. The zebra mussel causes at least $150 million worth of industrial damage in the Great Lakes region annually. 
"The mussels which clogged up pipes caused the shutdown of the Detroit Edison Plant, and this toll doesn't include damage to fishing and native biodiversity," Lodge said. 
Lodge's trip to the nation's capi­tal puts a spot­light on one of the major proj­ects he and his students have led concerning organism trans­portation. Many ships bring organisms from other parts of the world to the Great Lakes. As part of the prac­tice, the ships 
"/hope that we,ll convince the committee that this is a problem that requires additional regulatory action.,, 
David Lodge biological sciences professor 
Zebra mussels also stimulate the proliferation of clostridium botulinum, the bacterium responsible for botulism toxin, which is a natu­ral poison pro­duced by this bacteria that could hinder muscle move­ment and breathing. 
With these 
take out vast volumes, or bal­lasts, of water to maintain the appropriate stability in the water for these organisms to travel saf.ely. 
"However, there is a major side effect," Lodge said. "During the extraction process, millions of organ­isms are taken to places where they've never been before, and this can cause problems for many species in the Great Lakes. It's a proce­dure called 'invasion."' 
One of the best known examples of an organism that has inflicted severe damage in the Great Lakes region has been the zebra mussel, whose 
dangerous health effects and the economic damage incurred by invasions, Lodge !_lopes to bring attention to the committee before he returns to Notre Dame. 
"I hope that we'll convince the committee that this is a problem that requires addi­tional regulatory action," he said. "And that Congress will pass a new law that will require ships to treat their ballast water." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 

l01peach 
continued from page I 
first floor. 

Second, he posted the flyers without the required stamps of approval from the Office of Student Activities and the Judicial Council. 
But when Andrichik discov­ered the incriminating flyers next to the copy machine and again stumbled upon them in the Hesburgh Library, he had no idea who had broken the rules. 
When he brought these alle­gations to the Executive Committee of the Judicial Council, the group determined they were not actual election violations ___: but that it was clear, from the presence of campaign materials in the stu­dent government office, that unethical behavior was going on: At that point, Dworjan came· forward to accept responsibility, and the case was sent to the Student Union Ethics Committee. 
Dealing with the case has been a foray into uncharted waters for student government -Observer archives show no history of a senator being impeached for an ethical infraction. "This is the first type of impeachment hearing procedure I've seen," said Director of Student Activities Brian Coughlin, who has been at his post for six years. 
What's more, the Ethics Committee's main purpose is usually to select a member of the Student Union to receive the Michael J. Palumbo award for service and dedication to the Student Union. As Kozlow said, "We rarely ever have hearings." 
Still, it was decided Andrichik and Dworjan would present their cases before the Ethics Committee, which they did last Tuesday. The Committee then voted 7-1 that Dworjan's use of student gov­ernment resources was a vio­lation of ethics and decided in a vote of 4-3-1 to recommend the Senate impeach Dworjan. As a testament to the newness of the event, Kozlow drafted a Bill of Impeachment. 
A majority of the Senate signed that bill last Wednesday, officially impeach­ing Dworjan. 
"A lot of people didn't know abstaining was an option that still counted as a vote. It was more an educational thing than out of spite -I didn't dislike any of the candidates personally," Dworjan said of his actions. "I didn't hide the fact that I made the posters." 
Dworjan also said that while he was familiar with most aspects of the Constitution, he probably hadn't read the entire 59-page document "cover to cover." l-Ie said he figured the part about getting certain approval to post flyers would never pertain to him. 
"But every senator, at the beginning of [his] term, swore an oath to uphold that Constitution," Andrichik said. "So ... it's probably a good idea for life in general, if you're going to swear an oath to uphold something, to be fairly familiar with the docu­ment." 
Tonight, Dworjan faces removal from office -a ver­dict that requires the support of two-thirds of the Senate's voting membership (that is, dorm senators and one off­campus senator). 
"l think the question is whether or not the violation warrants the punishment. I'm taking part in the democratic process by helping educate voters about their options, and I might get kicked out of Senate for that?" Dworjan said. "That's like having a $100 punishment for a two dollar crime. 
"It just doesn't make a lot of sense." 
In the speech he gave before the Senate last Wednesday, Dworjan lamented the group's inability to enact significant change -a concern that's persisted through Notre Dame history. 
In fact, in 1972, three years after its establishment, the Student Senate was abolished because it was considered ineffective. It was reinstated in 1981, but in 1985, then-stu­dent body president Bill Healy, his vice president Duane Lawrence and other student leaders again made a push to disband the Student Senate. 
"Student Senate doesn't do anything," Lee Broussard, manager of the Student Activities Board -the former Student J__Jnion Board -told The Observer in an Oct. 15, 1985 article. "A bunch of peo­ple debate things and they don't accomplish anything." 
The 1985 proposal ultimate­ly failed -but con·cerns about the Senate's role in student government remain. 
On Wednesday, Dworjan criticized the "overly specific" provisions of their Constitution, calling for a com­plete re-drafting of the docu­ment and proposing the cre­ation of student government laws. He also asked Senate members not to sanction those who celebrate the democratic process. 
"In this Senate, which is sometimes criticized for doing so little, I hope that our contri­bution to the Senate is that we may again find the voice of the people in this body," he said. "I invite all of you to join in the search for that voice." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffyl@nd.edu 


WE'RE ANTI-ANTIBIOTICS (BUT PRO-CHICKEN). 
That's why we're serving naturally raised chicken. 
In fact, the chicken and pork we serve in Mishawaka are free of antibiotics and added growth hormones, fed a vegetarian diet and raised humanely. We think meat raised this way, naturally, tastes better. 
I 

Serving naturally raised chicken is another step in our ongoing Food With Integrity journey -bringing you the best ingredients from the best sources. 



CLtipotle 

-SERVING NATURALLY RAISED CHICKEN IN MISHAWAKA­
MEXICAN GRILL 

MAIN & DOUGLAS 


Wednesday, March 7, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

ACLU la-wsuits allege child abuse at center 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Civil liberties and immigration advocates sued federal officials Tuesday on behalf of children confined to a former Texas prison­turned-center for immigrant families awaiting possible· deportation. 
The federal lawsuits, announced by the American Civil Liberties Union in Austin, focus on children held at the 
T. Don Hutto facility, a former prison in Taylor. 
Critics say the center inhu­manely houses adults and young children in jail-like conditions. Families held at the center have complained of 

. weight loss, subpar schooling, long waits for medical care and threats of separating chil­dren from parents. The Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children and Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services have demanded its immediate clo­sure. "There is simply no justifica­tion for imprisoning innocent children who pose no threat to anyone," said Vanita Gupta, an attorney with the ACLU's Racial Justice Program. About half of the approxi­mately 400 people held at Hutto are children, officials said. None of the children or adults there have criminal records. Many were sent there after seeking asylum in the United States and will face waits of more than 200 days. 
A spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement declined to com­ment on the lawsuit but in a statement described the facili­ty as a way "to humanely accommodate" the families. 
Officials are working with the women's commission and the Lutheran group, among others, to "identify family-spe­cific detention standards," the statement said. 
In court documents, Bahja Ibrahim, a 9-year-old Somali girl, in the facility since November described the con­ditions as difficult. She said, "It is hard to be in here because no toys no good food no clean clothes..Everything is bad here." 
The 512-bed former state prison is operated by Corrections Corporation of America under a contract with Williamson County. 
Immigration officials have described Hutto as a residenc tial, nonsecure environment that keeps families together while they seek asylum, await deportation or seek other out­comes to their immigration cases. 
Officials say the facility is meant to end the "catch and release" practice that in the past permitted families in the 
U.S. illegally to remain free while awaiting a court hear­ing. Many never showed up in court; some borrowed other people's children and posed as families to avoid detention, ICE officials say. 
Critics want immigration authorities to house minors in open settings such as shelters, foster homes or with relatives, and not in detention facilities. 


Senate backs airport screeners 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Senate voted Tuesday to give 45,000 airport screeners the same union rights as other public safety officers, despite vigorous opposition by Republicans and a veto threat from the White House. 
A broad anti-terrorism bill that would put in place unfm­ished recommendations of the Sept. 11 commission also would give airport screeners the right to bargain collective­ly. An amendment by Sen. Jim DeMint, R-S.C., that would have removed that right was defeated by a vote of 51-46. 
The Senate also failed to resolve the issue of how to divide $3 billion in homeland security grants, an issue that pits rural states against states with densely populated metro­politan areas. 
The bill nearly quadruples the total pot of money and reduces the minimum amount that each state receives from 
0.75 percent of the total dol­lars to 0.45 percent. States considered to be at high risk of a terrorist attack will receive more money. 
An amendment that would continue to guarantee each state at least 0.75 percent sur­vived an initial challenge. 
The Senate expects to com­plete work on the bill by the end of the week. 
The House last month passed a similar anti-terror­ism bill that had the same union provision for airport screeners, an indication of organized labor's strength with Democrats now running Congress. 
Republicans pledged to elim­inate the union provision when negotiators sit down to merge the two versions of the legislation that aims to tighten security for airlines and rail­roads. A White House state­ment last week threatened a veto if the labor provision remained. 
"We're not going to let big labor compromise national· security," said Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky. He noted there are not enough votes in either the House or the Senate to override a veto by President Bush. 
The conflict over labor rights is a reprise of the debate in 2002 over creating the Homeland Security Department. Sen. Max Cleland, D-Ga., voted against the bill because It did not guarantee union bargaining rights. That same year, Cleland was defeated for re­election by Republican Saxby Chambliss, who accused him of being soft on terrorism. 
Sens. Susan Collins, R­Maine, and Claire McCaskiJl, D-Mo., are trying to compro­mise with amendments that would give screeners some rights. Collins' amendment would give them whistleblow­er protection and the right to appeal management decisions, but not the right to bargain collectively. 

McCaskill's amendment would give screeners the right to bargain collectively but not for pay, and would give the Transportation Security Administration the power to "take whatever actions may be necessary" during emergen­cies. 
Labor scored an earlier vic­tory last month when the House passed legislation that would make it easier to organ­ize unions by eliminating secret-ballot elections demanded by employers. 
After his amendment was defeated, DeMint said Democrats had turned the anti-terrorism bill into a reward for organized labor, which had helped elect them in November 
"Collective bargaining will not work for our airports," DeMint said. He said strength­ening airport screeners' rights would hinder the govern­ment's flexibility to move them around in response to terrorist threats. 
"That is completely untrue and every other Department of Homeland Security employee should take personal offense," said John Gage, president of the American Federation of Government Employees. 
According to the federation, there are 53,000 workers with collective bargaining rights employed at Homeland Security, including customs, immigration and border patrol agents. 
Fired U.S. attorneys testify 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Alleging heavy-handed political pres­sure, fired U.S. prosecutors testified Tuesday they felt "leaned on" by Republican lawmakers to seek indict­ments and hushed by a Justice Department official who did not want them talk­ing about their dismissals. 
Testifying before Democratic-controlled con­gressional committees, six of eight recently ousted prosecu­tors said they were fired with­out explanation. Several described what they said was improper pressure by Republicans on pending cases. 
New Mexico's David Iglesias 
told  lawmakers  he  felt  
pressed  by  Sen.  Pete  
Domenici,  R-N .M.,  last  

October to rush indictments against Democrats before· Election Day in November. 
Arkansas' Bud Cummins wrote other fired prosecutors in an e-mail last month of a "message" conveyed by a Justice Department official that if they continued to talk with news reporters, the agency "would feel forced to somehow pull their gloves off' and fight back. 
John McKay, the fired U.S. attorney in Seattle, said he stopped a top aide to Rep. Doc Hastings, R-Wash., from ask­ing him detailed questions about an investigation into the disputed election of Washington state's Democratic Gov. Christine Gregoire in 2004. 
A Justice Department offi­cial, invited to_one of the two hearings, denied that any of the eight fired U.S. attorneys was improperly pressured or 

Former U.S. Attorneys Carol Lam, left, and David Iglesias prepare to testify on Capitol Hill in Washington on Tuesday. 
that they were ousted to make A White House spokes­room for Republican political woman, Dana Perino, said allies. Most of the firings were administration officials were inspired by performance­aware of the impending fir­related issues, he said. ings and offered no objections. 
California's Carol Lam, for Presidential adviser Karl Rove example, was let go because "wasn't involved in who was her prosecution rate for vio­going to be fired or hired." lent crime and border viola­A former Rove aide, Tim tions was insufficient, William Griffin, took over in Arkansas Moschella, an associate on an interim basis in deputy attorney general, told · December. Griffin said last a House subcommittee. month he would not seek Iglesias was fired because he Senate confirmation, saying a had delegated too much to a "partisan circus" had formed deputy. around his appointment. 
His accounting conflicts with The administration's performance reviews obtained defense took up only a few by The Associated Press that moments in the daylong give those ousted positive parade of fired federal prose­assessments. cutors across Capitol Hill, 
"This administration has where they recounted being never removed a United kicked out of their jobs, first States attorney to retaliate . to the Senate Judiciary against them. Not once," Committee and then to the Moschella said. "The depart­House Judiciary subcommit­ment stands by its decision to tee on commercial and admin­ask these U.S. attorneys to istrative law. resign." 

Ono's lawyers block Lennon film showing 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BERWICK, Maine ­The world premiere of "Three Days in the Life," a documen­tary about John Lennon, was canceled after lawyers for the slain Beatie's widow, Yoko Ono, warned that she had not authorized any public viewing of the film. 
The documentary was to have been screened Tuesday night at the Berwick Academy, a private school in southern Maine. 
Hap Ridgway, Berwick Academy's headmaster, said he went from worrying about an overflow crowd to wondering if the documentary will ever be shown at all following a flurry of calls and e-mails from Ono's lawyers Monday evening. 
"We certainly hope the two sides will get together," he said Tuesday. "What we've learned since it all broke loose is that it's a long-running dispute." 
Ray Thomas, the documen­tary's executive producer, culled raw footage that was shot inside Lennon's apartment down to a two-hour film covering a pivotal time in Lennon's career. The footage was shot by Ono's for­mer husband, Tony Cox, over a three-day period in February 1970, two months before the breakup of the Beatles. 

Thomas and his partner, John Fallon, were unable to get an artist release from Ono, whose lawyers contend has a copyright interest in the film. That's why they chose to do a free screen­ings at high schools and col­leges, starting with Berwick Academy. 
But Ono's lawyers said even that was forbidden, which led Berwick Academy to scrap the screening. 
Cox's unfinished documentary was sold in 2000 for $1 million to Fallon, Thomas and Providence businessman Bob Grenier. 
Among other things, Lennon is seen composing songs, touring his 100-acre estate and rehearsing for a BBC show in which he performed "Instant Karma" for the first time pub­licly. 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, March 7, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

The 'Forgotten Man' 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR! Kate Antonacci VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 

ADVERITSING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROllER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF . 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
· · SAINT MARY's DEsK·'' ,. 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned erlitorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expresSion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The OOOervcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i$ published MonJay through Friday except during exa.m ,md wcation period~. A.subsaipduo io Tl1c Observer f$ $1 !10 for cmc-:k.:'adetnic y(.-:ar; $55 for one ~cmcsu::r. 
The Obstrvtr is published ac POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrccdons ro: Notre Dame.. IN 46556-0n9 TheOI:«-rver r~riodical postage p<tid at Noue D.unc: P.O. Bo<779 and additional mlliling offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nom Dame, IN 46556-on9 

The Obscrvcr'is a member ofthe Associated Pr®,. All reproduaion rights ate fCS(:tved. 
In the early 1990s, the Clintons tried to socialize the United States health care system, a scheme ominously known as "Hillarycare." This plan would have put one-seventh of the U.S. economy directly under the eontrol of the federal govern­ment. It would have required every busi­ness in America to provide health care to its employees, costing thousands of jobs. The plan would have forced those who were perfectly happy with their current private care to opt out for the one-size-lits-all government program. The program would have established price controls on premiums, whieh would have inevitably led to rationing and a long waits just as in every other country with socialized medieine. Thankfully, the American public wanted no part of this. Largely due to the Hillarycare debacle, voters wisely "threw the rascals out," giving Hepublicans control of the House for the first time in 40 years. 
Unfortunately, it seems that the Ameriean public is increasingly support­ive of such a plan. Drudgercport.com, an Internet news site that often picks up stories that the major news networks simply ignore, linked a new study last Saturday showing that almost two­thirds of Americans agree that the gov­ernment should provide health care for all. Ironically, the same study also showed that only one-third believc\u that the government could do a better job than private insurance companies at actually providing medical coverage. 
Public opinion seems to largely coin­cide with those of politicians. All major Democratic presidential contenders, including Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards, favor a vast expan­sion of federal funding for health care programs, if not outright socialized 

Mark Poyar 
Actual Common Sense 
medicine. Evt;n George W. Bush got in on the action late in his first term by passing his Preseription Drug Bill, origi­nally supposed to cost $400 billion over ten years, but now estimated at $1.2 trillion. P.J. O'Hourke's quip that "if you think health care is expensive now, wait until you see what it costs when it's 
• free" clearly applies. 
Nearly all welfare programs follow the 
same progression in coming into exis-· 
tence. The supporters of such plans 
often expresses a desire to "help" some 
less fortunate group, whether that 
group is the old, the young or the poor. 
Next, they turn to the voting population 
and appeal to their sympathy and other 
heartfelt sentiments. Finally, the politi­
cians use this politieal capital to create 
or expand a program that consists of a 
forceful transfer of money from one 
group to the politically favored interest 
group. Supporters ol'ten claim that with­
out federal funding for medical care, 
these groups would be unable to get the 
aceess to medical care that they truly 
need. Thus, many commentators often 
praise the initiators and supporters of 
such legislation as humanitarians and 
compassionate philanthropists who are 
doing their best to help people. But is 
this accurate? 
William Sumner onec wrote that "the 
type and formula of most schemes of 
philanthropy or humanitarianism is 
this: A and B put their heads together to 
decide what C shall bn made to do for D. 
The radical viee of all these schemes ... 
is that C is not allowed a voice in the 
matter, and his position, character and 
interests, as well as the ultimate clfeets 
on soeicty through C's interests, arc 
entirely overlooked. I call C the 
"Forgotten Man." 
The idea that those in support of gov­nrnment funding of health care (or any other welfare program) are doing some­thing compassionate and humanitarian is absurd. By only focusing on the bene­!its that )) will receive as the supporters of government subsidized health eare programs do, they completely ignore what they are doing to C. The most basic fact of government is thus forgot­ten or willfully ignored -namely, as Sumner says, that the government "can­not get a cent for any man without (!irst) taking it from some other man, and this latter must be a man who has produced and saved it." The govern­ment will forcefully take C's money from him whether he likes it or not to pay for D's medical care. The government is, as the old saying goes, "robbing Peter to pay Paul." It is making C into a slave for 

D. Those would enable such a seheme are not compassionate friends of humanity, but its enemies. The true test of compassion and philanthropy does not lie in spending someone else's money, but rather in what a person does with his own money and what action he takes to help others. 
Someone once said that democracy is two wolves and a sheep taking a majori­ty vote on what's for supper, while in a constitutional republie the wolves are forbidden on voting on what's for sup­per. James Madison, the Father of the Constitution, once wrote in respoqse to proposed aid for French refugees flee­ing from insurrection in San Domingo to the U.S. that "1 cannot undertake to lay my finger on that article of the Constitution which granted a right to Congress of expending, on objects of benevolence, the money of their con­stituents." If our politicians and judges aetually took his words and the Constitution .seriously, America would onee again become a constitutional republic as intended by the Founders, the America of the Forgotten Man. Heturn charity to the private sector where it belongs. 
Mark Poyar is a junior finance major and vice president ofthe College Ubertarians. Their website is http://ndlibertarians. blogspot. com. He is currently studying abroad in England and can be contacted at mpoyar@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY
Katie Kohler Kate Gales Kate Antonacci Greg Arbogast 
What are you doing 
John Tierney Michael Bryan 

Submit aLetter ' 

Viewpoint Gene Noone for spring break? 
''Take calculated risks. That is quite 
Kara King Scene 
different from being rash." 
Graphics Sean Sweany 


to the Editor at 
George S. Patton

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Jeff Albert Illustrator 
U.S. general 

Robert Scully at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 7, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ltnpeached senator speaks out 
To the students of Notre Dame: 
As you know from reading Thursday's edition of The Observer, the Senate will decide the matter of my impeachment at six this evening. I am presenting my case to you, the student body, before the Senate decides whether your best interests were at hand in my actions involving the Campaign to Abstain. 
Like Alexis de Tocqueville, I believe that America is great because America is good, and that, when challenged, Americans stand up for their rights. I have not lied in saying that I hung posters for the Campaign to Abstain, because I did not believe it to be a wrongful act. My impeachment has become an argument between two sides. On the one side are those who believe that every rule must be fol­lowed to precision, and that these rules must be just. 
The other side isn't about me, but an idea-that democracy also sometimes entails disregarding rules that are unjust, especially those rules that limit the freedom of speech and political participa­tion. I am simply the most visible member of the student body who believes in that idea. I also believe that while the student body in general isn't moved to participate in the student government, when a member of our community is being persecuted for his stand for the basic freedoms we enjoy as Americans, this is something we can all view as unjust. 
Of those that voted in the run-off election, 201 voted to abstain. I also believe that if the option to abstain as a protest had been more widely publicized, this number would have been significantly higher. 
Decisions are made by those who show up. This past week, I've heard a lot of positive feedback from members of the student body, and I ask those of you who want to see the student government do more to show your support tonight. Despite this, there are those within the different levels of government here that oppose my stance, calling it spiteful, and saying that it's not the type of image we want to present. I believe that we know better than that. 
I'm a senior this year, and my only stake in this all is seeing that the right thing is done before I finish my term at the end of this month. This evening, I ask you to show your support so that you may watch the greatest democratic ideal of all in action -protecting the rights of the minority from a tyranny of the majority. 
Greg Dworjan senior Morrissey Manor March 6 
Don't silence the laughter 
For those of you who didn't make it out to see St. Edward's Hall Players' comedy, "The Oregon Trail," I am sorry. u·was a great play and I applaud the cast and crew for put­ting on a top-notch comedic perform­ance. As both an actor and a comedian, I have to say that I was offended by yesterday's Letter to the Editor ('"Oregon Trail' higly offensive", March 5) that bashed "The Oregon Trail" as offensive and anti­Catholic. It was unfair to assert that the only comedy was derived from the "crude and insensi­tive jokes." The hilari­ty of the play stemmed from the fact that it was 

I think that to suggest that this type of production should not be "allowed" goes against the very fabric of the American belief system. The concepts of freedom of speech and freedom of academics are two irreplaceable facets of the nation which we (and the University) promise to uphold. While you might feel this play showed the "moral decay" of our society, I feel that the idea of censorship shows a differ­ent level of moral decay in society. Where would academia or our Church be today without our ability to speak freely? I am an improvisa­tional comedian and I would categorize my performances under "this type of production." Should I not be allowed to 
making fun of a video game 
perform? What about stand-up 
entitled "The Oregon Trail" that many of us played as children. 
While I must admit that the play was crude at times, this is the nature of come­dy. Comedy comments on the many aspects of society and, whether or not our University or the Church agrees with it, sexuality, current science topics, and our history as a nation are three integral components of our society. At the same time, it is a joke, and it is meant to be taken as such. 

comedy? What about controversial plays and musicals? Where would you stop? 
While we all have the freedom to say what we want to, you also, luckily, have the freedom to not come to our perfo_rm­ances if they bother you so much. 
Matt Molloy freshman O'Neill Hall March6 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
.. 




All you need is love 
As a recent observer of the debates raging in the Viewpoint of late, I must say that I am encouraged by Gary Caruso's sentiments that we learn to love one another ("Praying for religious temperance and peace," Mar. 2). I applaud Caruso for raising this important point, for too often defense of dogma blinds people of the law of love, leading to actions of Pharisaical prQ­portion. In fact, in a world torn by violence and war, it seems that the Beatles got it right: "All you need is love." Yet daily practice shows that we frail humans need more than this, because we fail so often to love as we should. In this tragic human condition, where can we turn for help and guidance? 
Some might turn to a philosophy or a way of life. One may read a set of teachings, adopt a code of conduct, and lead a life according to the spirit of this philosophy. Men have grown very wise and good by following these philosophies. Yet, human experience shows that time and again man will fail. It almost seems that there is some original defect in our nature that we can't get rid of: some innate flaw that years of improvement cannot erase. In other words, it seems that we are not prima­rily in need of advice, but of a savior. A man, born without arms, drowning in the ocean doesn't need advice on how to swim; he needs a lifeguard to rescue him. 
As Caruso points out, Jesus taught many marvelous things. Yet his true mission on earth, as He, himself, tells us, was to be put to death and to rise from the dead. Somehow, in the grandest mystery of all, which man can only comprehend with the eyes of faith, the dying and rising of this God-man has opened the gates of paradise to man, offering us salvation and peace._ This Lent, let us not stop at fulfilling Jesus' command to love one another, but, trusting in his salvation, let us grow in love for both God and our neighbor. 
Iskandar Arifin 
alUllUlUS 
Class of 2006 
March 6 

''OUT,DAMNED SPOT!. OUT, ISAY!'' 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, March 7, 2007 
UNDERSTANDING OBSESSION: A CLOSER LOOK AT 'ZODIAC' 
I wasn't sure what to think of "Zodiac" at first. There were a ton of issues with it -it was too long, it was too unfocused, Gyllenhaal's character wasn't developed enough, it didn't resolve anything. But the more I thought about it, the more I couldn't stop Brian Doxtader thinking about it. 
Scene Editor 

"Zodiac" has that mark of a great fllm: the abil­ity to get under your skin and stay there, which is a sure sign of its cinematic merit. 
Not that I was ever sure what to think of director David Fincher in the first place. I like "Se7en," dislike "Fight Club," have mixed feelings on "Panic Room" and am indifferent to "The Game." It was always obvious that he is a director of great skill and talent, but I honestly felt like "Se7en" was the only film that came close to fulfill­ing his enormous potential ... until now. 
While it lacks the flashiness of typical blockbusters and requires a good deal of cinematic patience, "Zodiac" is Fincher's most rewarding work to date. Eschewing the overly-filmic technique of "Fight Club" in favor of a classic, restrained style, "Zodiac" moves leisurely, a surprising yet ultimately welcome trait in what purports to be a traditional Hollywood piece. 
"Zodiac" is a crime fllm, but only in the loosest sense of the term. There are obliga­tory scenes of detectives investigating, and police officers trying to coordinate and fig­ure out whodunit. But there's a feeling of inevitability -we seem to understand, inherently, that no matter how hard these men try, they are doomed to failure. 
"Zodiac" is a period piece, but only in its attention to detail. The San Francisco Chronicle, according to the real-life Robert Graysmith, was lovingly and accurately recreated. Yet for a iilm that takes place in the late-sixties, we hardly see any hippies or elements of counter-culture, or get much information about the turmoil that America is undergoing. Such frivolousness would detract from the film's sense of purpose. 
"Zodiac" is a film about a serial killer, but only in the loosest sense of the term. We don't get to know the killer (or even conclu­sively figure out who he really is), so we don't get any insight into his motivation­he's not Hannibal Lector or Norman Bates or even .John Doe. The chase is not a means to an end, the chase defines the picture. The killer is almost irrelevant. 
"Zodiac" is, foremost, a film about obses­sion. It's about three men who become caught up in an unsolvable case, and ulti­mately lose their lives to a serial killer, but not in a traditional (or physical) sense. Instead, they become consumed by their obsession, and lose parts of their souls in the frustration that follows. Robert Graysmith (Jake Gyllenhaal), a cartoonist for the San Francisco Chronicle, loses his wife and his job. Detective David Toschi loses his job and his reputation. And reporter Paul Avery (Robert Downey Jr.) loses himself, ending his days in a drugged­stupor on a houseboat. 
That, more than anything, is what makes "Zodiac" so disturbing, so effective and, ultimately, so powerful. By the end of the fllm's considerable 160-minute running time, we're not so sure that actually catch­ing the killer would change anything. When Gyllenhaal, near the fllm's conclusion, walks into a hardware store. we under­stand that it's the closest to a resolution that Fincher will allow us to get. "Zodiac" is not a film about resolution, because that would be contrary to its point. 
I left the theater disturbed, even haunted. What the killer had done to his victims was disturbing, and the fact that he was never caught even more so. But the truly haunt­ing part was seeing what happened to the three victims the killer never knew -the ordinary men who became swept up in an extraordinary event, and risked their lives and their souls in an obsessive search for understanding. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Brian Doxtader al bdoxtade@nd. edu 


FINCHER EXAMINES DARK FEARS IN 'ZODIAC' 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Cricic 
The deep, pervasive sense of fear that blankets the world of David Fincher's "Zodiac" hangs like a heavy fog over four men -two cops, a journalist and a c~r­toonist. Of course, the thought of an uncatchable killer loose in greater San Francisco terrorizes many more than just these four, but their lives in particular bear the harshest brunt of the murders. 
A painstakingly deliberate film, "Zodiac" tests our patience almost as much as the chilling case that inspired it, an investiga­tion that showed tantalizing promise yet was never resolved. But for those viewers able and willing to stay the course, Fincher's expertly crafted thriller is a sub­tle, but always-compelling look into what drives America's obsession with its darkest 
denizens. .. ~ · Based on the true story of a mysterious serial killer who seized the attention of the Bay Area media in the late 1960s and early '70s with his brutal slayings, the movie takes place over the better part of two decades. Following each subsequent attack, "the Zodiac" -as he identifies himself to the press -sends sadistic, coded letters and ciphers to local newspa­pers, needling them with his threats of fur­ther violence. Two San Francisco Chronicle 
employees -Paul Avery (Robert Downey Jr.), an eccentric ace reporter, and Robert Graysmith (Jake Gyllenhaal}, a quiet car­toonist with an interest in puzzles -take an active interest in the Zodiac case. The police investigation is headed by two skill­ful, devoted homicide detectives, David Toschi (Mark Ruffalo) and his partner Bill Armstrong (Anthony Edwards). 
Entranced by the case, these four men form the emotional nucleus of the film, and their careers and lives are inextricably tied to a dark obsession with the perplexing case, one full of dead ends and false trails. 
Fincher has long been one of Hollywood's most talented directors, and he already has 
two modern classics on his fil-ZODIAC His meticulous approach to mography-1995's "Se7en," ..& the Zodiac legend certainly a decadently dark thriller .,..... .. shows. A Feb. 18 New York 
obsessed with the seven dead­ly sins, and 1999's "Fight Club," an uncompromising,..disillusioned ' look at Generation X machismo. Renowned for his innovative camerawork and a flair for arresting visuals, Fincher has slowed as of late. "Zodiac" is only his second film of the decade. It's been five years since his last effort -2002's "Panic Room," an entertaining film but one that lacked the virtuosity of his earlier work. 
For fans of the director's small, but' accomplished oeuvre, "Zodiac" was to be a return to form for the 44-year-old, espe­cially given its topical similarities with "Se7en." After all, the last Fincher-helmed serial killer movie posterized its villainous John Doe -alongside Anthony Hopkins' Hannibal Lector-as one of the two most recognizable faces for the '90s serial killer picture, a particularly bloated genre. 
But those expecting "Se7en: Part II" will be disappointed, and bitterly so. Fincher has learned from his mistakes with "Panic Room," a movie that -despite its llitcheoekian undertones -disregarded its characters for a misguided focus on plot and visuals. Perhaps to atone for this, Fincher wisely decided to focus the Zodiac narrative around his four intriguing leads. 
Times artiele alleges that 
Fincher subjected Gyllenhaal and 'ttut'f'alo to over~70 taH!hif c'ef'tai'i\v scenes. Both actors turn in superb per­formances, making the most of their con­siderable screen time. Once eager to get the bad guy and full of optimism, tqcir characters are steadily leached of their vitality as the years drag on and on. We can only assume that Fincher's grueling demands played a part in this. 
The most obvious sign of his growth as a director can be seen in the languid, ever so careful movement of Fincher's camera. 
Gone are the brassy zooms and tracking shots, replaced by a withdrawn style that fits the time and place of the story being told. Fincher still allows himself the occa­sional sprinkle of style -most notably a montage sequence where the Zodiac inves­tigators drift through their Dffices, sur­rounded by computer-generated pieces of evidence that fill the walls and ceilings, reflecting their obsessed minds not unlike the IKEA-dominated world of Edward Norton's character in "Fight Club." 
Few directors take the time -or even get a chance -to learn from their mis­takes, but Fincher's work on this picture shows a newfound sense of maturity, a temperance that was almost gleefully absent in the rebellious movies of his film­making youth. 
According to the movie's sly, disguised tagline, there's more than one way to lose · ~MY life t<l"'a ldUef."B~ -the· ~ild ·o'f'"Ztidhtc·;l) ~ only two of the four men's resolve still stands, although all four have been irrevo­cably damaged by their search. 
As for Fincher, he makes sure to give us precisely what we've been promised, but not much more -leaving us with the trou­bling thought that the greater purpose remains more obscure than ever. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, March 7, 2007 
page 13 
'ALIEN' TO 'ZODIAC'-FINCHER FROM A TO Z 
S T 0 R Y 

Few Hollywood directors are able to retain their own distinct style through the course of their films while maintaining a high level of critical and commercial success. David Fincher, best known for his work on "Se7en," "Fight Club" and the recent release "Zodiac," is orie such director, who has constantly made films known for their dark, stylish portrayal of human experiences. 
The 44-year-old received his first screen credit as an assistant cameraman for "Return of the Jedi" in 1980 and went on to direct commercials and music videos for stars such as Madonna, AeTosmith and The RoUing Ston~s · before making his way into film. With the debut of "Zodiac" at the box office, we look at Fincher's cinematic body of work available on DVD. 
Alien 3 (1992) 
"Alien 3" was Fincher's debut feature and, according to Roger Ebert, is "one of the best-looking bad movies I have ever seen." 
Ebert's take sums up the mon­strosity of a film that is "Alien 3." Fincher was brought into the film's production late in the game 
. and constantly had creative issues with the studio. Since the film's release, he has completely dis­owned the theatrical version even though it has his name on it. Only with the release of the two-disc special edition and the "Alien Quadrilogy" box set were viewers fmally able to see Fincher's vision of the film. While the theatrical release, included in the special edition, is quite a sub-par film, what has been dubbed as the "Assembly Cut" is much better and actually worthy of the "Alien" mantle. Although not nearly as good as the first t\VO movies -Ridley Scott's fantastic "Alien" and James Cameron's spectacular action sequel "Aliens" -the "Alien 3" Assembly Cut is a beau­tiful film with an engaging narra­tive that showcases what would later become Fincher's highly visual and dark style. With the death of a loved char­acter and a Sigourney Weaver 


BY SCENE 
who is not as involved as in the first two films, "Aliim 3" suffers from a lack of vision due to the clash between Fincher and 20th Century Fox. On the bright side, famed British actor Peter Postlethwaite puts in a fine per­formance as the prisoner, David. 
While the Assembly Cut -not an official Director's Cut due to Fincher's disavowal of the film ­solves many of these problems, one can only imagine what the movie could have been if Fincher had been able to make the film he wanted. 
While the Special Edition DVD dews have ~ommentary. froi,:rqh,e­atrical version "editor ·''ferry· Rawlings and other crew, a com­mentary by Fincher is the most glaring omission from the DVD. This omission will probably never be rectified because of Fincher's still-troubled relationship with the studio. The extras include fea­turettes that cover pre-production, production and post-production. All are very interesting and worth­while, although Fincher looks hag­gard and angry through most of them. 
If_,you are an avid fan of the series, the "Alien Quadrilogy" box set is the way to go as it includes all four of the films along with Director's Cuts of "Alien," "Aliens" and "Alien: Resurrection." In addi­tion, it has the Assembly Cut of "Alien 3" and a plethora of extras that are well worth the time it takes to watch them. For those not willing to splurge on the box set, the two-disc version of "Alien 3" still contains the worthwhile Assembly Cut of the film. 
Se7en (1995) 

Gluttony, envy, pride, greed, lust, wrath and sloth are the seven deadly sins as recognized by Catholic church doctrine. Although not stated in Bible, the list has existed for centuries and has been used outside of the church in such works as Dante's "The Divine Comedy." Fincher's 1995 crime drama "Se7en" centers on mur­ders based on these sins. 
Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman star as detectives Mills and 

S T A F F 
Somerset who are assigned to investigate bizarre murders that are inspired by the seven deadly sins. The victims are not only guilty of the sins that they serve to represent, but they also are killed in such a fashion that uses that sin against them (for example, the gluttony victim is drowned in food). Somerset, about to retire from the force, takes it on as his last case and is accompanied by Mills, who is taking over his posi­tion. Like other films with such a partnership ("Lethal Weapon," for example), Somerset is both level­headed and wizened after a great deal of experience, which con­trasts the more hot-headed and brash behavior of Mills. As each death occurs, the detectives try to work to beat the killer before he manages to collect all seven of his victims. · 
"Se7en" is as perfect as a gritty crime drama can possibly be. The script -penned by Andrew Kevin Walker -is nothing short of excellent and it earned the film a BAFTA award. Fincher's directing does not disappoint and the film is easily regarded as one of his best. 
The cast in the film is top-notch, led by Freeman and Pitt, who both give excellent performances. Pitt's performance in particular is one that moved him from the category of "pretty boy" to being regarded as a genuinely talented actor. As usual, Freeman does not disap­point and is perfect playing the role of the older, more mature detective. They are supported with performances from actors such as Gwyneth Paltrow -as Pitt's wife who is unsure about starting a life in a gritty city -and R. Lee Ermey-the hard-nosed police captain. There is also an unforget­table performance by the actor portraying the killer, "John Doe," and the film is worth watching for that performance alone. 
The film has been released on two DVD sets, including a two-disc platinum edition released by New Line. The set comes in a quality package, inspired by the note­books that the killer is shown to be 
see FINCHER A TO Z/page 14 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, March 7, 2007 

Fincher A to Z 
continued from page 13 
keeping. The film disc comes with four amazing audio commentaries that focus on "The Stars" (with commentary by Fincher, Pitt and Fr"eeman), "The Story" (which analyzes the script and project history), "The Picture" (which talks about the filming process) and finally "The Sound" (which discusses the film's various music and sound effects). The second disc contains sup­plemental materials that include numerous deleted and extended scenes, alternate endings and DVD­ROM content (such as scripts, web sites and photo galleries). 
"Se7en" is an amazing example of a frightening crime drama, with exami­nations of the psychology that bothers serial killers, their victims and the detectives who hunt them. Although at times uncomfortable to watch, it is also gorgeous to see with its dark and gritty film-noir look. Combine all of that with the outstanding and unforgettable per­formances, and it is hard to label "Se7en" as anything but a winner. 
The Game (1997) 
Starring Michael Douglas and Sean Penn, Fincher's "The Game" is one of his most underappreciated, but it remains one of his best films. 
With one of the most unexpected end­ings in recent cinema, "The Game" is an unusual film for Fincher because it deals little with "crazy" people. "Alien 3" is full of insane prisoners on a far­flung penal colony planet, "Se7en" has a deranged murderer obsessed with the seven deadly sins, "Fight Club" has a protagonist with insomnia and Fincher's most recent, "Zodiac," is about an unhinged murderer. Only 2002's "Panic Room" has a sense of normalcy when it comes to its charac­ters, a trait that "The Game" also shares. 
Wealthy yet lonely financier Nicholas Van Orton (Michael Douglas) receives a birthday present from his younger brother Conrad (Sean Penn) that immerses him in a live-action role playing game that promises to change his life. As the game progresses, Nicholas finds himself spiraling through a Twilight Zone-esque series of encounters that confront everything he has ever believed, until an ending that leaves Nicholas and the audience floored. 
Fincher shines here in his direction of the actors and the storytelling exe­cution. "The Game" does not have his typical dark mise-en-scene a Ia "Se7en" and "Fight Club," but it does have Fincher's trademark psychologi­cal thrills. Once Nicholas' game begins, the audience can't let go until the final minutes of the film. 
The only DVD released in the United States is a bare-bones disc that has the film in both widescreen and fullscreen versions but little in the way of extras. While the film is great, more in the way of featurettes and/or commentary from Douglas, Penn and Fincher should be an essential addition to any subsequent DVD release. The film is available in 1-ID-DVD, but all this offers is a high definition version of the film and no more extras than the regular DVD. A special edition DVD is slated for release in the UK this coming May, which will include a remastered transfer of the film from the old Criterion laserdisc ­the benchmark for the film's video and audio quality. It will also include com­mentary from Fincher, Douglas and a host of other crew members, along with behind-the-scenes and location footage. Without a stateside DVD release that matches the quality of the upcoming UK version, for U.S. fans "The Game" remains a film that has not received the attention it rightfully deserves. 

Fight Club (1999) 
In 1999, audiences were instructed that the first rule of "Fight Club" is that "you do not talk about Fight Club." As it turned out, audiences did talk about "Fight Club" -quite a lot. While this Fincher film began its life as a moder­ately successful box office release, it mushroomed into one of the most pop­ular cult hits of recent memory thanks to exceedingly strong DVD sales. 
The movie stars Edward Norton as a narrator who is disenchanted with the dull, materialistic life of an office work­er. After befriending the like-minded, free-spirited soap salesman Tyler Durden (Brad Pitt), the two begin a "fight club" that allows them and oth­ers who share their sentiments to vent their societal frustrations. As the club grows larger and more prominent, Norton's character struggles to come to grips with the club's developing trend towards anarchy and the destruction of civilized life. 
"Fight Club" is one of Fincher's most unique works -and also one of his best. Savagely violent and yet also frightfully brilliant, the movie is one of the rare films that is able to entertain while also_ raising deep and relevant problems for viewers. One cannot watch "Fight Club" without asking meaningful and often difficult ques­tions about happiness (or lack thereof) and its effect on the human psyche. 
Brad Pitt makes this film, giving one of' the more twisted and psychotic per­formances of his career. His casual, grungy attitude and demeanor con­trasts in every way with Edward Norton's character, setting up the film's climactic payoff -which was famously given away on television by Rosie O'Donnell one week before the pre­miere in 1999. 
The cultish themes of the film per­haps contributed to its success in the DVD market as a massive cult hit. Several versions exist on DVD, but the most impressive is the "Two-Disc Collector's Edition" -which is designed to look like the packages of soap Durden sells in the film. The first disc contains the movie along with four commentary tracks, which are espe­cially insightful for a film like this. Disc two is entirely devoted to special fea­tures that range from discussing the philosophy of the film to showcasing the unusual promotion the studio used. Fans of the film can also spend time finding numerous Easter eggs hidden on both discs. With such plentiful extras accompanying so powerful a movie as this, the "Fight Club" DVD is not to be missed. 
Panic Room (2002) 
"Panic Room" was Fincher's hotly anticipated 2002 follow-up to "Fight Club." A suspense film about a woman and daughter trapped inside their own home, "Panic Room" solidified Fincher's status as one of Hollywood's top directors, though it didn't match the success of "Se7en" or the cult fol­lowing that surrounded "Fight Club." 
The film follows Meg Altman (Jodie Foster), a recently divorced woman who moves in with her daughter Sarah (Kristen Stewart) to a new home with an odd feature -a sealed off "panic room" tucked away from the rest of the building, complete with video monitors and a reinforced steel door. It isn't long before three thieves -Junior (Jared Leto), Burnham (Forest Whitaker) and Haoul (Dwight Yoakam) -break into the house. Meg and Sarah hide in the panic room, but it turns out that what the thieves are after is in the room with the Altmans. 
Though not quite on the same level as Fincher's best work, "Panic Hoom" is still accomplished and is certainly much better than standard suspense­movie fare. It retains the dark moodi­ness of his previous two films, but the singularity of the setting and the limit­ed time frame (the film basically takes place over the course of a single night) 
JEFF ALBERT I Observer Graphic 

lends it a genuinely 1-Iitchcockian sense of paranoia and suspense -in fact, "Panic Room" is perhaps the closest any filmmaker has come to "modern Hitchcock," with a central conceit and plot twists that the elassic director would have adored. 
"Panic Room" also has the fastest pace of any of Fincher's films, though the payoff isn't quite as rewarding as either "Se7en" or "Zodiac," perhaps owing to its relatively limited scope. Yet there are human touches through­out, and the thieves are sufficiently fleshed out that the game of cat-and­mouse has a sense of real drama. Like all of the director's films, it is anchored by strong performances, especially from leads Foster and Whitaker, with nice support from Fincher film regular Leto. 
"Panic Hoom" has come to DVD in three distinct incarnations -a simple first edition, an updated "Superbit" edition and a deluxe three-disc set. The three-disc set is definitely the way to go, as it is packed with informative special features. Perhaps the best of the features is the commentary by Fincher, who is always insightful and interesting-here, he imparts a metric ton of information about the making of the film, from pre-production through post-production. There are also several documentaries and featurettes about every aspect of the making of "Panic Room." 
Beyond Zodiac (2007-?) 
As his latest film, "Zodiac" continues Fincher's trend of creating haunting, stylized pieces that challenge and pro­voke audiences. Fincher's next picture, "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button," which is based on a novel by 
F. Scott Fitzgerald, has already begun filming in New Orleans. Fincher is reteaming with Brad Pitt for a third time 4.n this romance -a departure from his usual style -where Pitt's 50­year-old character begins to age back­wards while he falls in love with a 30­year-old woman, to be played by Cate Blanchett. 
While "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button" will have a different feel than his previous films, it will no doubt embody the usual traits of a Fincher film and be anything but a typical romance. This dark, atypical nature and willingness to ask sensitive and probing questions has made David Fincher into a respected and treasured director whose films will continue to challenge and entertain audiences for years to come. 
Contact Scene at scene@nd.edu 

Tyler Durden (Brad Pitt), right, instructs the Narrator (Edward Norton) on the Det. William Somerset (Morgan Freeman), left, hunts a lead with Det. David intricacies of making soap in "Fight Club," Fincher's anarchic 1999 cult hit. Mills (Brad Pitt) in "Se7en." Pitt frequently collaborates with Fincher. 

Wednesday, March 7, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT page 15 

DECADANC ·TMt tiRtBIRD 
FEMAlE HiP-HOP BAllET COMPANY INTERPRETS STRAViNSKY 

LAST CHANCE TO SEE THIS UNIQUE PERFORMANCE -WED, MAR 7 AT 7:30 PM 
DEClO MAINSTAGE THEATRE I TICKETS: $30, $25 FACULTY/STAFF/SENIORS, AND $15 ALL STUDENTS 
Pan's Labyrinth (2006) 
Directed by Guillermo DelToro R, 114 minutes Spanish language with English subtitles 35mm Print Thu, Mar 8 at 1 0 pm Fri, Mar 9 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm Sat, Mar 1 0, 2007, at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Angelus Film Series at Notre Dame (2007) 
NR, 11 0 minutes Sponsored by the Center 
..• ror Ethics and Culture •11·;·" ­Thu, Mar 8 at 7 pm The Angelus Student Film Festival cultivates and honors future filmmak· ers as they explore and create works that respect the dignity of the human person. 
Persona (1966) PAC Classic 1 00 
Directed by lngmar Bergman NR, 83 minutes 35mm print Sat, Mar 10 at 3 pm 

The Aura (2006) 
Directed by Fabian Bielinsky NR, 138 minutes Spanish language with English subtitles 35mm print Thu, Mar 15 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm Fri, Mar 1 6 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 

Volver (2006) 
Directed by Pedro Almodovar R, 121 minutes Spanish language with English subtitles 35mm Print Sat, Mar 1 7 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm Sat, Mar 24 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
All Quiet on the Western Front (1930) PAC Classic 1 00 
Directed by Lewis Milestone NR, 130 minutes Sat, March 17 at 3 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 7, 2007 
NBA 




Wizards outre bound Raptors 49-27 in easy win 
Lewis nails three, Marbury misses foul shot in Knicks' loss 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-With 10:07 remaining in the second quar­ter, Chris Bosh grabbed the ball after teammate Andrea Bargnani missed a 3-pointer. 
It was the only rebound the Toronto Raptors All-Star would get all game. 
The Washington Wizards beat the Raptors 129-109 Tuesday night by dominating the boards, accumulating a 33-10 advan­tage in second-chance points that essentially accounted for the margin of victory in a matchup of first-place teams. 
The Wizards finished with 49 rebounds to the Raptors' sea­son-low 27, easily negatjng Toronto's 52 percent shooting. Bosh scored 25 points, but his one rebound was a season-lo\Y and well below his 10.3 aver­age. 
"He had one rebound? Wow!" said Washington's Gilbert Arenas, who scored 25 points and had his best shooting game in weeks. "Well, we were mak­ing shots. It's hard to get rebounds when you're making shots. He had one rebound, for real?" 
Yes, really. In fact, Toronto didn't score off an offensive rebound until Kris Humphries' dunk in the final minute of the first half. By then, the Wizards had built a double-digit lead they wouldn't relinquish. 
"Sometimes they just don't come your way," Bosh said. "And if you don't block out as a team, you can't rebound. Nobody can. I can say I'm going to go and get every rebound, but if I have to get a rebound on three guys, I'm sure they have the advantage." 
Antawn Jamison also scored 25 points, and Antonio Daniels added 18 for the Wizards, who have won three straight since Jamison and Caron Butler both returned from lllJUries. Washington had lost twice this season to Toronto on the road, but now has a chance to gain a draw in the season series when the teams meet for the final time March 30. 
"From the beginning to the end, we had a real good air about us," said Washington coach Eddie Jordan, whose ros­ter is the healthiest it has been this season. "A good personality about the game, a good attitude and approach, a chemistry, a togetherness, a comfort level. That's the first time we've seen that for 48 minutes." 

Arenas broke out of a slump by making nine of 13 field goals, including five 3-pointers _ his most 3s since Jan. 30. It was best shooting game overall since a 9-for-13 performance on Dec. 26. 
Arenas attributed the turn­around to a physical therapist who treated his sore shoulder late last week. 
"Ever since they popped my shoulder back in, my shot's been feeling good," he said. 
Seattle 100, New York 99 
The Seattle SuperSonics knew Rashard Lewis' last shot was going in, and were probably a little surprised when Stephon Marbury's didn't. 
Lewis made the go-ahead 3­pointer, and Seattle beat the New York Knicks Tuesday night when Marbury missed a free throw with 0. 9 seconds left. 
Marbury kept up his torrid scoring with 40 points, but fin­ished New York's miserable night at the line when his sec­ond attempt bounce-d out after he was fouled on a drive to the hoop with the Knicks trailing by two. 
"I hate to see that happen to anybody," Seattle's Hay Allen said. "He deserved to make both of those free throws because he played a hell of a game tonight. He was definitely giving us fits all night." 
The Knicks finished 24-of-38 (63 percent) at the line, ruining their comeback attempt and any hopes they had of being in playoff position by the end of the night. 
"We had this game. Not even Steph's free throw, but my free throws, we just missed some big free throws," said center Eddy Curry, who was 5-ol'-10. "You're at the line and you miss two, or you miss one of the two, it's just like you have a feeling it's going to bite you at the end, especially in a close game like this." 
Allen scored 29 points and Lewis finished with 24, includ­ing his 3 with 4.8 seconds left for the SuperSonics, who tied a season high with their third straight victory. Earl Watson matched a career high with 23 points and added nine assists. 
"It was a big shot. Hay saw 
me wide open and when it left 
my hand I knew it was going 
in," Lewis said. "I mean that's 
big time, especially to do it 
right here in New York City in 
the Garden. That's something 
I'll always remember." 
The Knicks also were trying 
to tie a season high with a third .straight victory. They had their seven-game home winning 
streak snapped. 
Seattle won for the fourth 
time in five games. Chris Wilcox 
added 12 points despite missing 
the fourth quarter after taking 
a shot to the head. 
The Knicks entered the night 
a half-game behind Orlando 
and ~ew Jersey for the eighth 
and final playoff spot in the 
Eastern Conferenee, and know­
ing that the Nets were visiting 
league-leading Dallas. But they 
couldn't contain Seattle's 
perimeter attack in the first 
half and their rally fell short in 
the second. 
Without Jamal Crawford for 
the rest of the regular season 
and still missing top reserve 
David Lee and Nate Hobinson, 
the Knicks got 15 points from 
Curry and 12 from Quentin 
Richardson. 
Marbury did the rest, sur­
passing 30 points for the third 
straight game -though the 
Knicks needed one more point 
from him. 
"I was thinking it was good," 
Marbury said of his second 
attempt. "I missed, I've missed 
free throws before. It's just part 
of the game." 
Denver 106, New Orleans 91 have now lost four of their last he didn't know when he'd be 
Allen Iverson scored 25 five. back. He'd missed the last five 
points and Carmelo Anthony, a Denver led by as many as 23 games with the injury. 
soon-to-be father, added 21 in points with 3:20 left in the third "The knee is still sore," 
the Denver Nuggets' win over quarter. However, the Hornets Smith said before the game. 
the New Orleans Hornets on cut the deficit to 96-88 with ''I'll play when I am comfort­
Tuesday night. 4:58 remaining in the game on able to play." 
Nene finished with 15 points a jumper by Jannero Pargo. The Nuggets trailed by one 
and grabbed 14 boards and The Nuggets scored seven with 7:47 left in the second 
Steve Blake came off the bench straight points to secure the quarter, but closed the period 
to add 13 points and six assists. victory. on a 20-9 run to take a 53-43 
Anthony was on standby Marcus Camby grabbed 11 lead at halftime. 
Tuesday night as his fianeee, La rebounds and blocked six shots Denver coach George Karl 
La Vazquez, was induced. The despite playing with a sore tail­doesn't know if Anthony will 
couple are expecting their first bone. He now has 1,500 bloeks make the trip to Golden State 
ehild any hour. for his career. on Wednesday night. 
Tyson Chandler finished with Denver guard .J.It Smith was Anthony didn't know yet, 15 points and 18 rebounds for a surprise contributor when he either. his 13th straight double-double. was inserted into the lineup However, he was beaming as . It's also his 20th straight game with 1:34 remaining, his first he talked about the upcoming with double-digit rebounds. game back since tearing the birth or his son. Chris Paul had 13 points and lateral meniscus in his left knee ''I'm just waiting for it to 
14 assists while Hasual Butler against San Antonio on Feb. 20. happen," Anthony said 
contributed 11, including three He had arthroscopic surgery Monday. "The anticipation is 
3-pointers midway through the the next day. always high at this time when 
fourth quarter. The Hornets Before the game, Smith said you are going to be a father." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The ch~rge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Happy Birthday Patrick! Please do not throw up after any Wild Turkey WANTED $15.50 base-appt. flexible sched· FoR RENT Bumbaca houses offer you Do not go it alone. tonight. Also, a Long Island from 
ules, no exp.needed, customer Legends counts as just one drink. SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: sales/service, conditions apply, BIG Savings If you or someone you love needs Thanks for 22 years of your classy Make a difference in the life of a andersonN Drentals.com confidential support or assistance, behavior. child! Summer therapy camp for all ages 17+, positions in all of for 2 or 3 year lease. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­children with physical disabilities. Indiana &Michigan, 7819. For more information, visit Congratulations Andrew Duffett Located on shore of Lake Superior Visit our web site our web site at 2007 Schafer Trivia Champion in Big Bay, MI. Positions available 273-3835. BETTER HOMES, Bumbacahouses.com. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­for Counselors, Waterfront, nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Happy Birthday Lauren Bergstrand Instructors for Nature/Arts & www.workforstudents.com BETTER AREAS, Call Cosimo in The Observer. Love, 820 South Bend Ave. Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and BETTER DEALS. 574-277-1875. PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME· WANTED: Coach for senior girls' Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, ONE WHO IS? bookstore basketball team. Must be responsible, and love children. June BlueGoldRentals.com patient, knowledgeable about the 10 through August 5. Salary, room PERSONAL You do not have to be alone. We game and have a sense of humor. &board, and experience of lifetime want to help. Must be able to work with players of provided. Call or write for applica-Oakhill condo-3-4 bdm,3 full Flute, Snout, Starveling, Bottom, various skill levels, mostly "begin­tion and information. Bay Cliff baths,2 levels, large deck. Now leasing for 2007/8. Snug: Call our 24 hour confidential hotline ner." Ability to teach shooting a Health Camp, P.O. Box 310, Big at 1-800-No-ABORT or visit our must; this team was shut out 21·0 Bay, Ml 49808, (906)345-9314, e-312·.933-7234 or email Great houses close to campus. Rehearsal 2nite in woods. website at last year. Submit credentials to mail BayCiiffHC@aol.com. Visit us mstacey1 @nd.edu. kgales@nd.edu. Interviews will be at www.baycliff.org $210,000 obo. Anlanproperties@ comcast.net P. Quince www.lifecall.org held after spring break. 
FoR SALE 






OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, March 7, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE ()ssERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
Men's Basketball Associated Press top· 25­
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Connecticut at Syracuse 2 p.m., ESPN 
St. John's at Marquette 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Chicago at Miami 
7:30 p.m., Comcast 

STEROIDS INVESTIGATION 

AP Albany County District Attorney David Soares speaks about a nationwide investigation into the illegal sale of steroids Tuesday. A published report implicated additional athletes in the steroid scandal. 

Steroid trial itnplicates more athletes 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y. -Two more people linked to a nationwide investigation into the illegal sale of steroids were arraigned Tuesday on drug-related charges as a published report implicated more ath­letes, including the winner of the Ohio bodybuilding competition named for Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. 
Steven and Karen Lampert of Anti-Aging Centers in Nanuet pleaded· not guilty in an Albany County, N.Y., courtroom and were released without baiL They are charged with sub­mitting prescriptions to a Florida pharmacy -some 
IN BRIEF 
Lopez to compete on LPGA 
Tourat60 
OMAHA, Neb. -Nancy Lopez knows she might not be able to win on the LPGA Tour as a 50-year-old, but that's not going to stop her from trying. 
Lopez said she plans to play five or six LPGA Tour events this year, starting with the $2.6 million Ginn Open in Reunion, Fla., April12-15. 
She's played in only 11 tour events since 2002, and she hasn't had a top­10 finish since 1997. 
"I know I have to get in real good shape to try to compete with the young girls, but I think I still have the mental capacity to go out there and play good golf," Lopez said Tuesday at a news conference before a University of Nebraska at Omaha women's athletics fundraiser. "Let's just see if I can make it in the hole a little faster than I have the last few years." 
Lopez spent the past couple years working to improve her fitness and has lost more than 30 pounds. 
"obviously forged" ,accord­ing to the district attorney -for drugs totaling more than $50,000 for people without a medical need. 
Steven Lampert is charged with 20 counts, his wife with two. 
"It seems as though our clients have much less involvement than the oth­ers," said Jay Galland, a lawyer for Karen Lampert. 
Prosecutors describe the Lamperts as "criminal asso­ciates" of Signature Pharmacy in Orlando, Fla. Albany County District Attorney David Soares says Signature was at the center of a web of businesses and doctors that illegally wrote prescriptions for steroids. 
Kings forward Artest arrested 
after assault charges 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. Sacramento Kings forward Ron Artest slapped a woman's face and grabbed her repeatedly, causing vis­ible injuries, according to a sheriff's report made public Tuesday. 
Artest was arrested Monday after a woman inside his home in a Sacramento suburb called 911 and said she had been assaulted. In a portion of the 911 tape released by authorities, the woman described injuries to her hand and leg. 
"Victim sustained visible trauma after being repeatedly grabbed by Artest and pushed to the floor," said the Placer County Sheriff's Department report. "Artest then slapped victim's face (and) by use of force prevented victim from leav­ing." 
The report also said Artest took a phone from the woman the first time she tried to call 91 L 

The arraignments come a day after not guilty pleas were entered in Albany by 11 other defendants, includ­ing four Signature Phar­macy officials. 
Soares acknowledged that bodybuilder Victor Martinez was an "unindicted co-con­spirator" in the case and is linked to the Lamperts' Anti-Aging Centers. 
Martinez won the Arnold Classic bodybuilding compe­tition Saturday in Ohio. 
A spokesman for Schwarzenegger said he wants bodybuilders to stop using steroids. 
"He's clearly opposed to these steroids," said Aaron McLear. "And he's working with top officials in the 
Linebacker Porter agrees to 
contract with DolphinS Joey Porter wasn't unemployed for long. 
The trash-talking linebacker, cut last week by Pittsburgh to save salary cap room, agreed to a five­year, $32 million contract with Miami, giving the Dolphins a poten­tially devastating pass rushing tan­dem with Jason Taylor, the defensive player of the year. 
Porter is guaranteed $20 million in the deal, which was agreed to late Monday, aecording to a person with knowledge of the discussion who requested anonymity because Porter has not yet passed his physical and the contract may not be signed until Wednesday or Thursday. 
Porter's 60 sacks rank fourth in Steelers' history. His addition is part of what's becoming a major roster overhaul by the Dolphins, who were 6-10 last season, and new coach Cam Cameron. 
bodybuilding community to come up with a system where they rid the sport of steroids." 
Martinez told The New York Times he bought testosterone from the Lamperts after their clinic told him he had low levels of the hormone. He also said the company asked him to become a partner, but he declined. 
"I didn't trust them, and other people were warning me not to do business with them," he told the Times. 
Calls placed by The Associated Press to Jim Lorimer, a bodybuilding promoter and co-creator of the Arnold Classic, were not immediately returned. 

1 
2 
3 4 5 6 
7 
B 9 10 
11 12 
13 14 · 15 
16 17 
18 19 
20 
21 22 23 24 25 
1 2 3 
4 5 6 7 
1 
9 
10 
11 12 
13 
14 
15 16 
17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 
25 
1 
2 3 
4 5 6 7 8 9 
10 11 
12 
team 
Ohio State (70} Kansas(2l Wisconsin UCLA Memphis Florida TexasA&M North tatolina 
.-Georgetown Nevada Washirl!lton Slate Louisville Pittsburgh Southern llfinois Texas Oregon Maryland Marquette Butler NOTRE DAME Duk.e Tennessee 
.· Brigham Young Winthrop UNLV 
Men's Basketball 

ESPN/USA TodayJgp~q 
team 
Ohio State (30) Kansas.(.1) UCLA Wisconsin 75 Memphis 
.41'··········;········
FiotJda .2G•sn•••·· 629 TexasA&M 25-5 . 594 J····· 
.... 251 .... ... 557 ( .
North Carolina Georgetown 23;6 502 Nevada 27:-a \ 438 Pittsburgh 25•6 418 i£ WashingtonSiate 
241 •.. 413 ... Soutbern lllinbis 271 355 Texas 22;s 347 Louisville 
.· .. 22dl.;···i 313 NOTRE DAME Butler Oregon Marquette Maryland Duke Winthrop Brigham Young Virginia UNLV 
Softball Big East Standings 

team .pet 
Connecticut .BOO Villanova .700 DePaul .667 Providence .,667 USF .667 NOTRI; DAME .500 Louisville .385 Pittsburgh .231 Seton Hall .200·· 
Rutgers .182 ............••·•·•·••··• '>cor :••. ·• •··•••·•••• St. John's .167 Syracuse .143 
record · ·flaintS '21l3 1798·.·.
21'-4 1706 .·. 27~4 1599· 
26"4 1513 
2N 148t 21i-5 1433 25iS ••············ ..1313.. 
25·6 234k 
21~a· 
24•6 
22·8· 
25."6 
. 27~6 22~8 
23"7 
2~7> 
23·8 
·.21•5········ 23•6 22}9 22•9 
···23•7 
>·211.-4 . 
25~6 

1331 
!i:E/120!i
1o1a······ 
. 986 
.••,•••T..-.··a92 ''·· 882
178 868 662 
639 
531i 
517 
442 x· 
284 
243 186··· 162 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 7, 2007 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Pac-10 rides vvave of Dukes receive shot in arm 
itnproved competition 
As postseason arrives, coaches agree conference is among nation's best 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-The Pac-10 usually finds itself down the list when conferences are being evaluated at this time of year. 
Not this season. 

Lute Olson, completing his 24th year at Arizona, called the Pac-10 the toughest its ever been during a conference call Tuesday. 
Ernie Kent, finishing his lOth season at Oregon, added: "I think it's the No. 1 conference ~~ the co~ntry. If it's not No. 1, Its No.2. 
The Pac-1 0 tournament starts Wednesday at the Staples Center. 
Southern California's Tim Floyd said he 
that could be bypassed. 
UCLA won the Pac-1 0 regu­lar-season and tournament championships last year, and reached the finals of the NCAA tournament before losing to Florida 73-57. 
The prevailing sentiment is that UCLA is even better this season, but Floyd said he can see as many as seven teall}S winning the conference tourna­ment. 
"They're more experieneed, to begin with," Olson said about the Bruins. "The second thing is they've had another year to play in the system. The key to UCLA a year ago and this year is how they defend." 
Romar also pointed to the Bruins' ability on defense, and added: "I think Darren Collison has done a marvelous job replacing Jordan Farmar (at point guard). I thought that would be where the biggest 
dropoff would be. 
couldn't imagine a ,7 think it's the No. There hasn't been a 
better seventh­dropoff at all." place team in the I conference in the Romar said he nation than believes his team
country. !fit's not 
Washington, has to win the con­
No. I, it's No.2." 
prompting Huskies ference tournament coach Lorenzo championship to Romar to say: "I Ernie Kent earn an NCAA tour­wouldn't say I dis­nament berth. That
Oregon coach 

agree. If they had a tournament for all seventh-place teams, hopefully we would hold our own." 
And Ben Howland, coach of top-seeded UCLA, expressed the opinion that six Pac-1 0 teams are a lock to play in the. NCAA tournament, no matter what happens in the conference tour­nament. 
That's usually the mantra of the Big East, Atlantic Coast Conference and Southeastern Conference about now. 
"I was in the Big East for four years -that's a point of refer­ence for me," Howland said. 
Six Pac-10 teams have played in the NCAA tournament only once before -in 2002. Five were chosen on four occasions, most recently in 2003. Three played in 2004, and four were picked in each of the past two years. 
Seven of the league's 10 teams have at least 18 wins, and those seven went a com­bined 71-12 against non-con­ference opponents. 
"Hopefully we'll be rewarded for being a very, very tough conference," Kent said. "We've kind of beaten up on each other." ' 
Perhaps that explains why only three teams are ranked among the nation's top 25 this week -No. 4 UCLA, No. 11 Washington State and No. 16 Oregon. Each of the top seven teams were ranked at one time or another this season. 
Eighth-seeded California (14­16, 6-12 Pac-10) faces ninth­seeded Oregon State (11-20, 3­
15) and seventh-seeded Washington (18-12, 8-10) meets lOth-seeded Arizona State (8­21, 2-16) Wednesday night to begin the tournament. 
Four games will be played Thursday. The semifinals are Friday night and the finals Saturday. • 
"I feel like we should be in the (NCAA) tournament -win or lose," said Stanford's Trent Johnson, whose team appears to be the only one of the top six 
would mean win­
ning four games in four days on a neutral floor, something no team has done in the five years all 10 schools have been induded in the Pac­10 tournament. 
"Who knows what the com­mittee will do? At this point, we can't rely on anyone else," he said. "We feel like we have to go out and win four, and that's how we're approaching it. You go in, you know the next time you lose, you're probably out of the NCAA tournament." 
A team of Romar's has aecomplished such a feat. In 2000, his first season at Saint Louis, the Billikens entered the Conference USA tournament following an 84-41 loss at Cincinnati, and then had to face the Bearcats in the second­round. 


Turtle Creek Apart01ent Homes 
Join us at the Clubhouse on Wednesday, March 7th for a 
"Break B4 Break" Open House 
From 10 am to 6 pm! All Current & Future Residents are Invited to Dive into a BUFFET of 
Delicious GOODIES & Treats 
Enter Our Drawing for: 
EQUAt. HOUSING 
OPPORTUNITY 
On-campus shooting victim's resurgence motivates Duquesne 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -If the slumping Duquesne Dukes need a motivational lift going into the Atlantic 10 tourna­ment, perhaps Sam Ashaolu will provide it. 
Ashaolu's basketball future.. and his lil'e, were very much in doubt only a few months ago, but he is expected to rejoin the Dukes on the court in a few weeks. 
Ashaolu, who nearly died Sept. 17 after being one of five Dukes players shot fol­lowing an on-campus party, has been cleared to resume on-court activity despito still having the fragments of two bullets in his head. 
Once the Dukes' informal offseason workouts begin, the 6-foot-7 Ashaolu is plan­ning to scrimmage and take part in drills. 
He also expects to resume taking classes this summer, another milestone that was­n't expected nearly so soon, if it all. He needs an NCAA medical waiver to work out with the Dukes until he is re­enrolled, but that is not expected to-be aproblem considering the circum­stances. 
The former North Dakota junior college player will needs time to regain his on­court ret1exes, quickness and mobility, but it now seems likely he can practice next season. If he receives NCAA clearance for an additional season or seasons of eligibili­ty beyond the normal limit, he could play again in the 2008-09 season. 
"Just watching him is the biggest win a coach could have ever have, knowing where he was medically and the improvement he's made in five short months," Duquesne coach Bon Everhart said. "It's really amazing and truly is a mira­

$50 Gift Certificate to Houlihan's 1-Pod Shuffle $25 Gift Certificate for 1-Tunes 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Ph 574-272-8124 

ele." 

That the 24-year-old Ashaolu lived was considered remarkable by his doctors ­some did not expect him to make it through the first 24 hours after being shot in the back of the head. As he clung precariously to life for sever­al days, family members were warned he might need supervised around-the-clock care the rest of his life. 
Instead, Ashaolu not only got better very quickly, he has surprised his doctors by improving every month. 
At a Nov. 13 news confer­ence, Mercy Hospital neuro­surgeon Daniel Bursick cau­tioned that while Ashaolu's recovery was encouraging, there were "no promises, no guarantees" for the future. Other doctors warned his 
progress might  soon  level  
off.  
Last  week,  however,  

Bursick told older brother John Ashaolu that Sam could start doing whatever he wanted to do. 
"I asked the doctor, 'Do you mean, like physical contact?' and he said, 'Yeah,"' said John Ashaolu, a Duquesne graduate assistant. "He was almost nonchalant about it. Sam is healing pretty well, and he's still in the process of healing, but if he feels he's up to it, he can go ahead and do it." 
There was additional encouraging medical news last week, too -the swelling around the bullet fragments has gone down considerably. 
"I feel very optimistic that he's definitely going to play again," John Ashaolu said. "He's almost back to normal. He's regaining his form. I see him working out and I'm very encouraged by what I see." 


Wednesday, March 7, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 



-------------------------------------------· 

Better Ingredie11ts. BetterC.-Pizza* 
Raise Funds for the 2007 Senior Class of Notre Dame! 
Details: Order \Vt~(hn~sday, I\lareh 7 from Papa John's 
South Bend and Mishawaka locations and 20% of your (regular priced) pizza purchases will be donated back to your 2007 Senior Class. 
Pizza Deal: BUY ANY (regular price) LARGE PIZZA AND GET A 2ND PIZZA FOR ONLY $7 MORE (2ND pizza must be of equal or lesser value. Pan Pizza $1 extra) 
Pick Up or Delivery Available (Limited Area) 
You mus.t mention "2007 ND Senior Class" when placing your order! 
Last Name,_________ Total Number of Pizzas Ordered______ 
South Bend Ave  North Village Mall  South Ironwood Rd Mayflower Rd  Bittersweet Rd  
271-1177  271-7272  233-7272  288-7272  257-1177  
We Support ND 2007 Senior Class!  Order#_______  


The Core Council is seeking new undergraduate student members, regardless of sexual orientation. 
Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Core Council web site http: //corecouncil.nd.edu/ Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Tuesday, March 23, 2007, and can be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 
MLB 

Bonds registers first hits of year 
Giants' slugger gets comfortable at new spot in batting order 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. Although Barry Bonds is still dragging from the flu, he was strong enough· to get his first hits of spring training in what might be his new spot in the San Francisco Giants' batting order. 
Bonds went 2-for-3 with a double and two RBis in an 8-4 victory over. the Los Angeles Angels on Tuesday, the slugger's first game action since his spring debut four days ago. 
''I'm behind a little bit," said Bonds, who was winded and weary while still shaking off his illness. "I just wanted to really see pitches. I wasn't really going to swing -just actually see pitches and be out there. I was fighting (the flu), but I had fun." 
The longtime cleanup hitter batted third as the Giants' designated hitter against the him by stealing bases and caus­ing havoc for opponents -even if it also opens up more chances for fearful pitchers to add to Bonds' major league record of 645 intentional walks. 
"For me to (hit third), I need somebody who wants to run," Bonds said. "Me and Dave have got to get out on the field together first, (but) there's a lot of open doors in that situation." 
The change is still in the experimental stages -as is Bonds' evaluation of several new models of. his favorite Canadian maple bats. The seven-time NL MVP says he won't know anything for certain about the upcoming season and his chase of Hank Aaron's home run record until he gets back to full strength. 
"My legs feel a lot better," Bonds said. ''I'm still slow as hell, but my legs feel good. I just started eating again. I hadn't eaten for two days, except drinking soup." 
Bonds went 0-for-2 in the 
Giants' spring 
opener last Friday, ­
but was soon side-
Angels, and man­

'Tm behind a little lined by the flu 
ager Bruce Bochy that ravaged San said Bonds proba­bit." Francisco's roster bly will stay in that in recent weeks. spot through the He stayed home in
Barry Bonds 
spring and beyond. bed on Saturday
Giants outfielder 
Bonds, who perse­vered despite get­ting dizzy while running the bases, seems excited about his new skipper's plan. 
"That's something I'm going to do for a while here in the spring, maybe get a look at it," Bochy said. "You give him one more at-bat. You get him up definitely in the first inning, maybe allow him to get an extra at-bat later in the game, but also get him off his legs a little bit, maybe 40 or 50 innings when he hits in the eighth and I ean throw somebody out there (as a ninth-inning defensive replacement)." 
From 1995 until late June 2002, Bonds was the Giants' No. 3 hitter 900 times -roughly 86 perclmt of his appearances, ineluding most of his record 73­homer campaign in 2001. Since moving into the cleanup spot three months before· San Francisco's run to the 2002 World Series, Bonds has batted third for the Giants just 32 times -only 7 percent of his games. 
But Bonds is optimistic about the possible move, chiefly because the Giants have Dave Roberts in the leadoff spot this season. The slugger thinks San Francisco hasn't had a leadoff hitter with Roberts' speed and ability since Kenny Lofton was in uniform for that World Series run. 
Bonds thinks Roberts will help 
and Sunday, and 
returned only for a 
brief batting prac­
tice session Monday after most of his team­mates had left the Giants' train­ing complex_ for a game in Tucson. ­
Though still coughing on Tuesday morning, Bonds felt strong enough to pick up his bats. Unless he feels a whole lot worse Wednesday morning, he plans to play again at the Seattle Mariners' complex in Peoria -making a rare road trip to get his 42-year-old body closer to game shape. 
Bonds worked a full count in his first-inning at-bat against Angels starter Joe Saunders before drawing a walk. 
In the third, he hit a 2-2 fast­ball to Maicer Izturis, who was playing on the grass behind sec­ond base -but Bonds actually hustled down the line and beat Izturis' high throw for a single. Bonds advanced to second before getting doubled off base on Rich Aurilia's sharp liner to shortstop. 
Bonds' groundout in the fourth scored Frederick Lewis, who drove in two runs earlier in San Francisco's four-run inning. 
Against non-roster right-han­der Mare Gwyn in the sixth, Bonds took two called strikes before hitting a liner into left field, where Nick Gorneault got the ball in his glove, but couldn't hang on. 

rl:;t 907 E. LA SALLE AVE. 234·0363 
@~ !J)J 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 
www.womenscarecenter.org 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 7, 2007 
NHL 
Lowly Flyers stun Brodeur, Devils in overtime 
Budaj stops all 21 shots as Avalanche extend winning streak to 5 games, move closer to final playoff spot in West 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -A mix of exciting, new players and tal­ented holdovers are giving the Philadelphia Flyers hope for the future. 
Simon Gagne scored 1:47 into overtime, leading the Flyers to a 5-4 victory over the New Jersey Devils on Tuesday night. 
Scottie Upshall, Geoff Sanderson, Sami Kapanen and Mike Richards also scored as Philadelphia beat the Devils for the first time in six tries this season. 
Martin Biron, making his first start at home since the Flyers got him from Buffalo at the trade deadline, had 37 saves. Upshall, one of four players in the lineup that arrived in trades last month, has four goals in nine games with Philadelphia. 
"We're not looking up at the standings," said Upshall, who was part of the deal that sent Peter Forsberg to Nashville. "We're just playing hard, plq.y­ing in-your-face style hockey." 
-A perennial playoff partici­pant, the Flyers have the fewest points (47) in the NHL. But, they're 7-6-6 since the All­Star break and are hoping a strong finish can carry over into next season. Brad Lukowich, Zach Parise, Patrik Elias and Sergei Brylin scored for the Atlantic Division­leading Devils, who lost their third straight game. Lukowich scored the tying goal with 5:35 left in regulation after the Flyers failed to clear the puck in front. · Gagne took a pass from Randy Jones and put his own rebound past Martin Brodeur to win it. "I made a good save. It just went right back on his stick," Brodeur said. "He kind of read the play. It just bounced back on his stick. It was a goal scor­er's goal." Gagne credited Jones for his team-leading 36th goal. "I was open at the side of the net and Jonesy made a great pass," Gagne said. 
Each time the Devils went ahead in the second period, the Flyers answered quickly. Just 42 seconds after Brylin deflect­ed in a slap shot from Elias to give the Devils a 3-2 lead, Richards tied it with a shot that went between Lukowich's legs and past Brodeur. 
Upshall gave the Flyers a 4-3 lead 1:25 later. He had just two goals in 14 games for the Predators. 
Biron preserved the one-goal lead with a pad save on a point-blank shot by Scott Gomez early in the third and made an acrobatic stop during a Devils' power play midway through the period. 
While 11at on his back, Biron turned his body, kicked his right leg up and somehow stopped a slap shot by Jamie Langenbrunner, earning a standing ovation from a home crowd that's had few reasons to cheer this season. 
"When the trade was made, I was excited because I knew I liked playing in this building," Biron said. "It's a place I'm comfortable in." 
New Jersey, which is chasing Buffalo for first place ~n the Eastern Conference, missed an opportunity to gain ground on the Sabres. 
"We've just got to get back playing our game," Langenbrunner said. "Right now we're making too many mistakes, we're turning the puck over too many times and giving them way too many chances." 
Colorado 2, Boston 0 
Left for also-ran status just a week ago, the Colorado Avalanche are suddenly back in the Western Conference playoff picture. 
Peter Budaj stopped 21 shots and ·Brett Clark broke a score­less deadlock in the third peri­od to lift the Avalanche to their fourth straight win, over the Boston Bruins on Tuesday night. 
Milan Hejduk scored an empty-net goal and added an assist for the Avalanche, 3-0 on 

Castle Point Apartment$ 18011 Cleveland Road South Beoc:t, Indlana 
o.,:.,:euing 
Indoor/Outdoor frea··. Free Tanning·~ ill Heated Pool Relaxing Jacuzzi Gated Commilnity 
a season-high, live-game road trip. Colorado, ninth in the West, pulled to eight points behind Minnesota for the eighth and final playoff spot. The Wild lost to San Jose 3-0 on Tuesday. 
Colorado has gainfld six points on Minnesota during its winning streak, and will play the Wild twice more this sea­son. The Avalanche trail Calgary -which beat St. Louis 4-2 on Tuesday -by 10 points for seventh place in the confer­ence. Colorado has three games remaining against the Flames. 
"We've got to make a great run," Avalanchn coach Joel Quenneville said. "Wc'rn play­ing the teams we have to catch, so we control our own destiny. But we still have to win almost every game." 
If Budaj hops playing the way he has, that shouldn't be a probl1~m. 
Budaj, clws1m as the Nllt.'s No. 3 star f1ir last week, made seven saves in each period to record his third shutout of the season and firth of his eareer. 
He stopped Mark Mowers on a breakaway in the dosing sec­onds or the first period, then madfl a glove save on Glen Murray's one-timer early in the second to thwart Boston's two best scoring chances. 
"We just didn't ereate in the offensive zone," Boston center Patrice Bergeron said. "We stood around instead of going to the net. Tonight, we weren't crashing the net." 
Tim Thomas stopped 28 shots for the Bruins, whose two­game winning streak ended. Boston is 12th in the East, four plaees and four points behind eighth-place Carolina. 
"Tonight was an important game," Thomas said. "Four points out of the playoffs going in, it could have been two if we got the win. We had a chance to piek up some points tonight, and we didn't get the job done." 
Atlanta 4, Florida 2 
Keith Tkachuk is surprised 
the Atlanta Thrashers have had such an easy time against the Florida Panthers. 
"They have a lot of good young players over there," Tkachuk said. "They are a young team with nothing to lose." 
Tkachuk _scored his first two goals with Atlanta to help the Thrashers to their fourth straight win, over the Panthers on Tuesday night. 
Ilya Kovalehuk and Marian Bossa continued leading Atlanta's dominance of Florida. The Thrashers are 6-0 against their Southeast Division rival this season and have won 10 straight over the Panthers at home. 
"Atlanta has an All-Star line­up and taking Ia loti of penal­
574-272-8110 574.,..272-8114 FAX www.cppj,com 
Specials! 
·d Basketball 
ties against those guys is not going to work in our favor," Florida's Chris Gratton said after his team tied a season high with 10 infractions. "I don't think it was the refs' fault." 
Scoring his 35th goal with two assists, Kovalchuk has 11 points in the season series. His wrister made it 3-2 with 6:24 remaining. Tkachuk's second goal, on a power play, capped the scoring with 1:51 remain­ing. 
"When we acquired Keith, we knew he is a great player and a veteran, but he has an unbe­lievable presence at the net," Atlanta coach Bob Hartley said. "He is strong, smart and knows how to position himself." 
Rossa's 39th goal gave the Thrashers a 2-1 lead with 
16:59 remaining. Atlanta had a two-man advantage when he took Alexei Zhitnik's pass from the right circle and used a wrister to beat Ed Belfour. 
Rossa has six goals and eight points against Florida this sea­son. 
"We didn't play much even­strength," Panthers eaptain Olli Jokinen said. "Both teams were fouling hard. Some fouls weren't called. The first 20 games, they called everything. Then they go back to the old rules. That's tough." 
Juraj Kolnik scored his ninth goal 4:54 later to make it 2-2. Gratton held up Shane 1-Inidy long enough to help Kolnik move down the slot and lire the puck under Kari Lehtonen's pads. 
Tkachuk, aequired in a Feb. 25 trade with St. Louis, opened the scoring on a breakaway when he skated past Bryan Allen and beat Belfour to the glove side with a backhander 
2:41 into the game. 
"We had a lot of chances," Tkachuk said. "We had a cou­ple of five-on-threes, and you should be able to take advan­tage of those." 

.-----------------------­
Wednesday, March 7, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
-

BET 
continued from page 24 
Mike Brey said. "I think if we can keep the same frame of mind that we've had the last couple of weeks, that will certainly help us." 
Falls and Carter won't just be try­ing to buck their own history when Notre Dame takes the floor Thursday after a first round bye. In the 11 years the Irish have been in the Big East, they have won just three games. 
Falls said this time will be differ­ent. 
"This is a different year, different team," he said. "You just have to go at it like that. You have to get hot, play well and catch some breaks." 
Falls' last-second shot in 2004 gave the Irish their most recent Big East victory. Brey's only other win came in 2002, when Notre Dame earned a bye and then beat St. John's to advance to the conference semifinals before falling to Connecticut, 82-77. 
Overall, Brey is just 2-6 in Big East tournament games. Notre Dame's only other confer­
ence tournament win came in 2000, under then-coach Matt Doherty. Doherty's squad defeated Rutgers in the first round and then lost to Miami the next night. The coach before Doherty, John MacLeod, was 0-4 in the Big East tournament. 
But Brey doesn't want to live in the past. 
"You don't want to play afraid to lose," he said. "You don't want to play looking over your shoulder." 
This season, Notre Dame earned a bye with its 11-5 record and fourth-place fmish in the confer­ence. The Irish won in the quarter­finals in 2002 after earning a bye, but lost to Pittsburgh in 2001. 
Syracuse and Connecticut will square off today at 2 p.m. for the right to face the Irish Thursday at the same time. The Orange went 10-6 in the conference this year, while the Huskies. struggled to a 6­10 record. 
Waiting until 24 hours before the game to know the opponent will not faze his team, Brey said. 
"You've been through so many scouting reports and you go through so many quick adjustments [through the season]," Brey said. 
"You can go over things on film quickly, but really scouting L'> almost overrated at this point in the sea­son." 
More important for the Irish than a chance to size up their opponent is an extra day of much-needed rest, Carter said. 
"[The bye helps] maybe just a lit­tle bit as far as scouting reports, because you get to watch the game," Carter said. "Defmitely as far as stamina. We get a couple of days rest before." 
The Irish have not played Connecticut this season, but beat Syracuse 103-91 at the Carrier Dome Jan. 30. 
Brey said the win earlier this year won't matter. If the Orange get by the Huskies, they will have won seven of their last nine. 
"Once you get to New York and you get into that atmosphere, it's all even again," he said. "Its who's healthy, who's fresh, who's confi­dent, who's playing a little better. It gets very mental, I think, when you get to March." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu and Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

JEFF ALBERT/The Observer 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Brey named Big East Coach of the Year 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Irish coach Mike Brey earned Big East Coach of the 
• Year honors for the 2006-07 season Tuesday. Brey becomes the second Notre Dame coach after John MacLeod in 1997 to win the award. 
Under Brey, the Irish are 125-62 overall (60-'36 Big 
East) and have made the NCAA Tournament three times (2001, 2002, 2003), reaching the Sweet 16 in '03. 
This season, the Irish won 11 games in conference play for the first time since 2001 and won all 18 of their con­tests inside the Joyce Center. 
"There's no better coach day to day that's into it with his players on and off the court," Notre Dame guard Colin Falls said. "He just understands 18 to 21-year­old kids and that's probably his greatest strength." 
The Irish were projected to finish 11th in the Big East coming into this year, and their chances of a strong finish seemed to diminish when the university sus­pended sophomore guard Kyle McAlarney in 
ship, Notre Dame finished fourth and earned a bye in the first round of the Big East tournament. 
The Irish tip off Thursday at 2 p.m. against either Syracuse or Connecticut in the second round of the Big East tournament. 
The Notre Dame game will be televised on ESPN. 

December. Contact Chris Hine at But under Brey's leader-chine@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish seniors 111ade their own luck at ho111e 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
When Notre Dame defeated Michigan a year ago this March, head coach Bobby Bayliss never expected the team to remain undefeated on its home courts to this day. Notre Dame's 6-1 win over Washington Monday marked the 17th straight home win for the Irish. 
A key factor in the Irish suc­cess over the past two years has been the continual pres­ence of now veteran players like seniors Stephen Bass, Ryan Keckley and Barry King and juniors Sheeva Parbhu and Andrew Roth. All five players were present when Notre Dame defeated Michigan in 2005 en route to an undefeated home winning streak. 
As these key players 
matured, so too did the skill of the team and the strength of its roster. The upperclassmen led Notre Dame to victory over Ohio State Feb. 24, 2006. The 5-2 loss to the Irish was the only defeat the Buckeyes would suffer in the regular season. 
"All our guys have key match experience," Bayliss said. "And I really think our success this year is the willingness of the players to commit to each other and to buy into what it takes to be great." 
With five upperclassmen in the six singles positions, Notre Dame's experience on the courts has continued to show -especially at home. It is important to always take home court advantage into account when looking at a team's suc­cess at home, Bayliss said. The Irish defeated top-1 0 team~ Ohio State and Louisville last year, and both of those matches were won at home. 
"We've won some close matches here, and I think you tend to win more of those at home when your crowd is behind you and the guys are playing their hardest," Bayliss said. 
Playing at home means that a team not only has a crowd cheering it on but also is famil­iar with the courts and how to play the ball. 
"Our guys have matured, and I'd love to say that I have the right magic tricks, but I think that everyone plays better at home," Bayliss said. "You are familiar with the courts, you've got a supportive crowd ___: there a lot of reasons why the home team plays better." 
The Irish will begin their transition to outdoor play when they head down to Montgomery, Ala. for the Blue/Gray National Tennis Classic. Bayliss said the team will look to make the transition by focusing on the physical fac­tors that the change presents. The Irish will have to adjust to the heat, Bayliss said, and to how the wind affects not only their play but also the overall game. 
Notre Dame travels to Montgomery March 12 to begin training for the tournament after a grueling week of prac­tice and midterms. Bayliss rec­ognizes that his players have made sacrifices and stressed that they are the ones who car­ried Notre Dame to its unde­feated home streak. 
"I think they've given up some things, and they are pret­ty focused, so I think they are the ones that get the credit," he said. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Cwynar 
continued from page 24 
tackles and 17 sacks. Despite playing tackle on Marian's .... defensive line, Mike Frank mostly sees Cwynar playing at defensive end in defensive coordinator Corwin Brown's 3­4 defensive scheme. 
Cwynar agrees. 
"[Notre Dame's coaches] like me at the defensive end posi­tion in the three front," he said. ''I'm pretty versatile. I can move from the big guy, I'm pretty powerful, I can move on my feet pretty well." 
He also was named All-State and Academic All-State as a junior. 
Academics were an impor­tant contributing factor for Cwynar, who listed Notre Dame's combination of strong academics and athletics as a major factor in his decision to commit so early. 
"I just made a decision and I knew that there's no really other school, so I didn't want to waste any other school's time or waste my time so there's no reason to wait," he said. 
For Frank, Cwynar proved that Brown can be successful in bringing in new talent to run his 3-4 defense. Although recruiting coordinator Rob Ianello was most active in recruiting Cwynar, Brown was also heavily involved. 
"He sure had a lot of positive things to say about Coach Brown and I think that's a very good sign," Frank said. "Not only for recruiting pur­poses, but it seems Coach Brown is doing a really nice job of reaching out to these kids and getting them excited about Notre Dame's defense." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu and Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Irish football coach Charlie Weis' very generous thought on his son when it comes to boxing. He Zbikowski landed three big rights Hannah & Friends both received part," Weis said. knows what he is doing in there," to send his opponent staggering 
Zibby 
considerable amounts of money Zbikowski decided to include Weis said. backwards. continued from page 24 through ticket sales, raffles and the coach's foundation as a way Although there was no encore The almost completely pro­various memorabilia items auc­of thanking him for allowing him to Zbikowski's knockout debut in Zibby crowd roared, but St. 
bouts -was to raise money for tioned throughout the night. Weis, to participate in the fight. Weis Madison Square Garden, the 210-Germaine was able to quickly a number of charitable organiza­along with many members of the was concerned about his starting pounder held his own against St. regain his composure and fmish tions. football team, were on hand to safety's health, but confident in Germaine, bloodying him in the the fight well. 
The Tommy Z9 Foundation, support their defensive captain. his ability to stay out of harm's first and third rounds. The 
Zbikowski's charity that raises "The fact that [Zbikowski] way. biggest punches of the night came Contact Dan Murphy at 
money to fight cystic fibrosis, and included Hannah & Friends was a "Tommy is a very confident per--in H1e final round when dmurphy6@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 7, 2007 


... 
Fa01ily 
continued from page 24 
"I played many different sports, such as swimming, ten­nis and cross country," she said. "But my parents encour­aged me to stick with one sport, and I chose golf." 
It is fortunate for the Irish that she listened. 
Nakazaki lettered all four years in golf at Hoffman Estates High School in Hanover Park, Ill., where she served as captain her senior year. She was the cornerstone of her team, earning all-conference honors, and was recognized as the team MVP in each of her four years in high school. 

-
As soon as she set foot on campus, Nakazaki began assaulting the record books, setting two school records in her first tournament with the Irish. At the Cougar Classic, she scored a then-record 69 in the first round -the lowest in school history -and shot an unprecedented one-over par 217 for 54 holes. 
The senior continues to cement her legacy in Irish his­tory through her dominant play. She's earned two-time All-Big East selections along with many more school records. 
Nakazaki has also learned to balance the demands of being a Notre Dame student and ath­lete. She proved her success in both arenas when she was named a Big East Academic All-Star in the 2004-05 season. 

"Receiving education at an institution like the University of Notre Dame means a lot to me not only because I learned a lot about finance and the b'usiness world, but also because it prepared me to be in the real world," Nakazaki said. "Education gave me the power to make choices in my life." 
Much of her success both on the course and in the class­room can be attributed to her stringent, precise work ethic. 
"Whether it is golf or aca­demics. I always strive for the best.and perfection," Nakazaki said. 
To pinpoint where this dnter­mination and resolve comes from, Nakazaki credits lwr mother, Hitsuko Nakazaki. 
"My mother has been a role model for me," she said. "She taught me to work hard and to appreciate others." 
Although Noriko Nakazaki admits that one day she would aspire to "be on the LPGA tour and become the world's best player," she is currently focused on one goal -to golf at the NCAA regional, with hopes of advancing to the final. 
But no matter how the sea­son ends for Nakazaki, she will always have her family to thank for her involvement in the sport she loves. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

Hours: 

1813 South Bel\d ;Avenue 
Monday-Saturday Hlam-8pm 

South Bend, ::J]'J 46637 
Sunday 12pm-5pm 

(574) 271-4990 
Limited time offers for students: $S off a Deluxe Pedicure 
$5 off a Full Set of Nails 
University of Notre Dame 
March 20th & 21st 

9:00 am -4:30 pm LaFortune Student Center, Sorin Room 
Order a Graduation
• 
Visi.t us online at www.jostens.com 


• 
Order yoU( Gr~di;latlon Announcements Package and Save! 





UN IVERSriY' OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
h£tt0~MUSIQVE 

Oxford, Bodleian Library, MS l.at. lit. b.5 (15th cent.): Introit and Gradual for Lent I 
GREGORIAN CHANT FOR THE fiRST SUNDAY IN LENT 
SCHOLA MUSICORUM 
8:30 & 9:30 P.M. WEDNESDAY. MARCH 7. 2007 
REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL MARl I: I' DI:BARTOI.O CENT!· I\ roR I' HE I'ERFURMING ARTS 
FRU: t\NO Ol'fN W TI-H. f'UiiUC
lJNIVERSITYOF 

_TICKETS $J ODE BARTOLO
NOTRE DAME 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER

OEPARTMENT OF MUSTC I'IIONf-574-i>.ll 2800 FOR liCf..flS 


r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------... ----------------------------, 
Wednesday, March 7, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
that will please the people around you. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Promote some of your original ideas. An opportunity is apparent but get what you want in writing. You are ready to make a commitment to someone youCROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ want to work with or get into a relationship with. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Handle your money wisely and you will make a profit You can buy and sell property or take a course to get into the real estate market in a more intenseACROSS 33 Sesame Street 66 Team's burden 
manner. There is money to be made. 3 stars denizen
1 Mecca trek 67 Sets, as a price 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make some fabulous personal changes that will help 5 Easy mark, in 37 Provocative pic 68 Masculine side you look great, feel great and, in the end, do great. Start a diet, get your hair styled or shop for a new wardrobe. Be a trendsetter. 3 stars 
cards 42 Actress DeVito of "Modern SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If things aren't running smoothly at home, consider making 
9 Pale hue DOWN
Love" changes that will compensate. You may be faced with a difficult decision regarding the 13 Like the verb 1 In the groove future. Speak up and talk things through. Being secretive or quiet won't get you anywhere. 
43 Thumbs-down 3 stars '1o be": Abbr. 
2 "Exodus" hero
44 Jersey call ­
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your fast response in the past may have helped you 
15 Story starter 
3 Rap's Dr._ 
out initially but long-term there will be a price to pay. If you haven't been upfront or fair, 16 Done for you should make things right before you end up ruining your reputation. 4 stars 
45 Credit of a sort 

4 Elly May's TV
50 June17 Pittsburgh cousin CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep your emotions out of the equation if you want to 
commemoration 

tum a profit or make a good decision today. You can bring about favorable change but, if 52 Obstacles you allow someone to hold you back for selfish reasons, you will end up being sorry. 2 
Hall-of-Fame 5 Four-time Indy 
third baseman winner 
stars
53 Bill's partner

19 Old platter 6 Night spot 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can accomplish anything you set your mind to. Money 
player 54 California river 
7 Looks down on is heading your way and a deal that can help you earn some extra cash is evident. Someone 20 Number before named for a you meet along the way will have an offer you can't refuse. 5 stars 
8 Contractualcommon sightneuf 

adverb PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Over-analyzing past mistakes or situations you are currently
in it 

facing will be a waste of time and will lead to anxiety and bad feelings. Let go and move
21 Bylaw, briefly 
9 Workable wood 23 Perfect rating remote 10 "Indubitably!" 
55 Button on a on in every aspect of your life. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are swift, outgoing and spontaneous. You have great ideas and plenty 24 Let go 56 Book ascribed 11 Starving of solutions. You are a great friend and stand behind your beliefs and the people you love. 
to Luke

27Wild 12 Blood-related 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenia/ast.comfor confidential consultations 
58 Make light of

29 The man from 14 Fare for Oliver 
U.N.C.L.E. 63 Spouse Twist 
31 Bermuda hrs. 64 salad 18 With 53-Down, officer's helper
32 Turn-of-the-65 Dashboard 38 Site of a notable 47 Bewhiskered 55 Degs. for century year feature 22 Lively round exile beast curators
dance 39 Beetle Bailey's 48 Fizzle, with 57 Be in a bee
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 24 Chips, maybe tormentor "out" 
59 Pen filler

25 Turkish V.I.P. of 49 Arrow words
60 TV's Mrs. 

-shek
26 More likely -50 The "I" in Morgenstern !-number
27 Like some close 41 Real looker 61 Pewter likenesses 51 Numbers game ingredient
46 Folk singer from
28 Dance violently 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with aliners 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 35 Make up Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 36 1976 best seller 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
that opens '1our Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 days upriver past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). from the coast Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
of The Gambia" solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 
(:;. VE 1-'\E.  BA<-~  \  C;xO-r  MoN'I:.  Se:AUS€.  1'-\AN ,  \I  \"5>  t>Ef'INI-ro....'j  
i"HE  \...le.AAl<'-'1 SecK  H €.  1lOE.SN-f­ v-tE.E~.  
0~  11t.L  C..'-ll  '/0'-l.  AN'JTHtr-ltf  

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
ra,~s :scn.WOLrtHm::Vio I:Y<Mb 

·.-~· .mtJ! 
t~· •"lfW.I' A!YHftil ¥•1 M>kc f<Jt>-f>}11

u ........ ., ·•· ..
i!}ftj

~#i$<.-hi©o<:, ti).;'*l) bJ< ,hlnnt"' ~ lfi!hy l!! JliY.:Il Mlloh¥{•. t.<) 1\W"l\ :lt)li!' Ort.bt~H't i;ti(lt$$ 




DRAMOR 
FlARTE 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Eli Marienthal. 21; Shaquille O'Neal, 35; D.L Hughley, 44; Rob Reiner. 60 
-

Happy Birthday: Avoid overextending yourself in any way this year. Keep things simple and stick to original plans. If you can't back up what you have promised. you will end up where you started. Honesty, integrity and fair play will lead you to the winner's circle. Your numbers are 13, 16, 19. 28, 33,37 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Make this an action-packed day. Romance is on the rise. Contact someone from your past if want to reconnect Be powerful in your actions and take back what's yours. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Watch out--someone will give you a hard time. The more secretive you are about your personal, financial and professional concerns, the better. Someone you have an interest in will cause emotional upset 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A gift, winning, settlement or inheritance is heading your way. You can make a move geographically that will help initiate a better professional position. You will be reminded of or connect with a past partner. Be careful not to make abrupt changes. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take a fresh look at an old idea. This may not be the best time to try to fix personal or emotional matters. However, It's a great time to do something 

THE ()BSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, March 7, 2007 page 24 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Illi.nois defensive line111an co111111its for Class of 2012 
Marian Central star draws comparisons to former DT Landri 
By JAY FITZPATRICK and 
KEN FOWLER 
Sports Wrirers 

Notre Dame landed its fourth verbal commitment -and third lineman -for the Class of 2012 Tuesday when defen­sive tackle Sean Cwynar 0 f 
Woodstock, Ill., said he would play for Irish· c o a c h Charlie Weis. Cwynar, a 

junior at Cwynar Marian Central Catholic High School, 
is listed at 6-foot-4 and 283 pounds. Players cannot sign binding letters of intent until next February. 
One of the reasons Cwynar decided to commit early to the Irish was because he wanted to be active in recruiting other players to play for Notre Dame. 
"If I commit now maybe I can have some other commits jump in the boat and help make something special," he said. 
Cwynar had offers from Iowa, Michigan State, Purdue and Wisconsin, among others. 
Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for lrishEyes.com, said Cwynar received so many offers this early because of great poten­tial in the college game. Frank also said Cwynar plays a lot like another Irish defensive standout. 
"He reminds me a lot of Derek Landri, but a guy who's bigger and stronger than Landri coming, out of high school," Frank said. "He shows the same kind of quickness and the same kind of tenacity that you'll see from Derek Landri when he plays on the field." 
Cwynar was the defensive player of the year in the Suburban Catholic athletic conference, registering 102 
see CWYNAR/page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Beasts of the East 
Fourth-seeded Irish look to s~ake Big East tournament demons 

.... 
By CHRIS KHOREY and CHRIS HINE Sports Wrirers 

Four years ago, Colin Falls hit a· three to beat West VIrginia in the first round of the Big East tourna­ment. 
Little did the then-freshman know that he would lose his See Also next three Big 
"Brey named

East tourna­ment games Big East and, along with 
Coach of the 

fellow fourth­
Year"

year player Russell Carter, page 21 would still be looking for that elusive secDnd win as a senior. 
"I think that's one thing our sen­iors have talked about-getting better in New York -but we still have to go and do it," Irish coach 
see BET/page 21 

-

WOMEN'S GOLF 

Family inspires Nakazaki 
Golfer credits family 
influences for success 
on the course, in class 
By LORENZO REYES Sporrs Wri rer 
Spirited competition and sib­ling rivalries ar.e what sparked 
·Noriko Nakazaki's drive and passion to play golf for the Irish. 
The senior co-captain of the women's golf team first became interested in the sport at age 11, thanks to her two older brothers. Playing the role of the young, t:urious sis­ter who watched her brothers compete, Nakazaki was drawn to the game. 
Nakazaki's parents asked her to focus on just one of hnr many athletic interests. 
see FAMILY/page 22 


FOOTBALL 

Zibby headlines local exhibition 111atchup 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 

At approximately 10:30 Tuesday night, Irish safety Tom Zbikowski finished a three­round exhibition mateh at the Century Center in South Bend. .lust 12 hours earli­e r , Zbikowski didn't have medics, a ring or an opponent. 
Zbikowski, tho headlin­er of the 12­bout event, was originally slated to take on heavyweight fighter Kevin Murphy. However, Murphy was recently susprmdfld after testing positive for unspecified illegal substances. Ed Zbikowski, Tom's manager and father, scrambled to find a new oppo­nent with less than 24 hours notice. 

"We don't know what to expect, but this is the way Tommy lives his whole life," Zbikowski said shortly before the bout began. 
IIn was able to add Ryan St. Germaine, a 25-year-old fighter out of Goshen, Ind., to tho card earlier that afternoon. St. Gnrmaine began his profession­al mreer a month ago and has gone 1-1 in his two lights since. 
No winnnr was declared in Tuesday's fight bneause judges only keep scoring during offi­cial, non-exhibition matches. Ilowever, the focus of the night -which included night ama­teur and three professional 
see ZIBBY/page 21 
ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer 

Left, Notre Dame forward Rob Kurz pulls up a jump shot against Blue Demons forward Wilson Chandler at DePaul Feb. 8. Right, guard Colin Falls shoots from behind the 3-point arc over DePaul guard Sammy Mejia. The Irish lost to the Blue Demons 67-66. 









