
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 89 WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 21.2007 
Men to box in Bouts for Bangladesh 

By MEG HAN WONS News Writer 
The tradition of strong bod­ies fighting "that weak bodies may be nourished" continues tonight with the first punches thrown in Notre Dame's famous Bengal Bouts. 
"Guys who are fighting tomorrow want to come in to work up a little bit of a sweat," senior captain and Notre Dame Boxing Club president Andrew McGill said at an informal practice Tuesday. 
Working up a little sweat is well worth the nearly $80,000 the more than 200 men -a record number -hope to donate to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh this 
Senior Nate "The Closer" Barbera, left, practices with senior Chris year. 
Nanovic in preparation for Bengal Bouts, which begins today. By Tuesday afternoon, McGill 
Donnelly shares vie-ws on election, Congress 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
For Democratic Congressman Joseph Donnelly, representing the citizens of Indiana's 2nd District is "the privilege of a life­time." 
Speaking to professor Robert Schmuhl's American Political Life class Tuesday, Donnelly highlighted his experiences blazing the campaign trail to his recent election as congressman, beating out incumbent Republican Chris Chocola. 
But since taking office, Donnelly's focus has shifted from gaining votes to giving his vote. He recently backed the non-binding resolution that the House of Representatives passed in opposition to President Bush's plan to deploy additional troops in Iraq. 
Donnelly said he gave a lot of thought to the decision by talk­ing to war veterans, meeting with the Michiana Peace and Justice Coalition and attending a White House briefing on the war in Iraq. 
"At some point the Iraqis have to stand up ... and decide that they don't want any more death and destruction. There is a solu­tion to Iraq -it will be tricky to get there," Donnelly said. "The Iraqis have to want their coun­try to succeed." 
And one thing that helps Donnelly succeed is Notre Dame, his alma mater. 
Each day, the philosophy he 
see DONNELLY/page 4 

University prepares for Lent -with Masses 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 
Tuesday's Mardi Gras festiv­ities will die down today as the campus welcomes the solemnity of Ash Wednesday, the first day of the season of Lent. For Notre Dame's Catholic students, this her­alds a time of penance and reflection, preparing the University community to cele­brate the Easter season. 
Today many students, like senior Terence Merritt, choose to attend Mass and receive ashes on their fore­head with their closest friends -members of their dorms. 
'Til go to Mass in Siegfried because I enjoy celebrating my faith in community with my friends," Merritt-said. 
Members of Notre Dame's Protestant and non-Christian communities are also wel­come to participate in the Lenten season and to attend services in community with Catholic students. 
"Although I'm not Catholic, I'll attend dorm Mass on Ash Wednesday so I can be in community with my brothers in the dorm," sophomore Jonathan Poelhuis said. 
However, students like jun­ior Mike Kasalo find the University's focus on Lent, and the signs posted in dorms reminding students that today is a "day of fasting and absti­nence," unnecessary. 
"I plan to skip Mass and go out drinking," Kasalo said. "I 
see LENT/page 6 said, approximately $100,560 had already been raised from tickets, advertising and mer­chandise -a very promising figure, but one that does not reflect any deductions taken for expenses. He said last year's expenses were approxi­mately $42,000. 

At practice Tuesday after­noon, the steady beat of songs like "Air Force One" echoed the sounds of fists hitting the punching bags. The boxers rotated in and out of a practice ring, some jumping rope while others hit the floor for pushups and sit ups. 
Senior and third-year Boxing Club member Nate "The Closer" Barbera was keeping loose at practice Tuesday arid will enter the ring for his first 
see BOUTS/page 6 


Indiana Congressman Joseph Donnelly speaks to an American Studies class on political life in O'Shaughnessy Tuesday. 
STUDENT GOVERNMENTS 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
NDASK applauds report 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Assistant News Editor 
The American Bar Association's (ABA) release of a report calling for Indiana to impose a moratorium on execu­tions less than six months after the creation of Notre Dame Against State Killing (NDASK) might be "divine providence," said co-organizer Will McAuliffe. 
The student group formed last fall to impose a moratorium on the death penalty in Indiana ­and on Tuesday it came a step closer to that goal. The ABA released its report urging the state to halt executions until changes can be made to improve the administration of death penalty cases. 
McAuliffe, who is also an Observer columnist, called the findings of the report a "step­ping stone" to ending use of the death penalty. 
The Indiana Death Penalty Assessment Team, a panel working under the guidance of the ABA, reviewed Indiana's death penalty system for nearly two years. Indiana is the fifth state to be assessed under ABA's Death Penalty Moratorium Implementation Project. 
The seven members of the panel -including former Indiana Gov. Joe Kernan, an adjunct professor in Notre Dame's political science depart­ment, and Indiana Sen. John 
see NDASK/page 4 



BOG, COR build relationships 
By KATIE KOHLER and 
SONIARAO 
News Writers 
In a meeting more symbol­ic than groundbreaking, two prominent student legisla­tive groups -Notre Dame's Council of Representatives (COR) and Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) -met Tuesday at Saint Mary's in a meeting sched­uled by student body presi­dents Lizzi Shappell and Susan Mcllduff a few months ago. 
Leaders from both schools brought up the Feb. 13 Viewpoint column by Jonathan Klingler that criti­
see MEETING/page 8 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 21, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU GIVING UP FOR LENT?
INSIDE COLUMN 

On Lent and Britney's sons 
Lent starts today, and that's fantastic. Lent marks the end of the ordinary time and sets the stage for Holy Week. Lent reminds us of Christ's ability to resist temptation in the desert. Lent encourages us to follow His lead and be resolute in Marcela our faith and our Berrios commitment to righteousness. Lent 
Assistant 
is important. Lent is 

News Editor 
sublime. Lent is my great failure as a Catholic. 

Yes, my friends and readers, I admit in public in my 21 years on this planet I have never given up anything for Lent­and what's even worse, I'm not freaking out about it. 
Maybe I'm just telling myself what I want to hear, but I think I really do believe there have to be better ways to prove my devotion than renouncing candy, booze or Facebook. 
As a mere formality, though, every year I have vowed to give something up only to break my promise within the first week. One year it was Coke, another one it was anything that had chocolate in it and my freshman year here it was Facebook ­and keep in mind this was Facebook before you could create albums. IfI tried that little stunt today, I doubt I would make it through Ash Wednesday Mass before checking who's on my "Recently Updated" profiles list. 
A friend who shall remained anony­mous tried giving up sex with her boyfriend one year -but they indulged on Sundays since technically they're not included in the 40-day count. They really indulged on Sundays. It was everything but sublime. 
At any rate, I don't think I've learned much from my attempts to give up any­thing, and my faith certainly didn't grow from hearing my friend's stories every Monday. I really don't see how I will become a better Catholic these days ifone day I do succeed in renouncing something I like. 
The closest I came was the year I tried giving up on chocolate bars -although not chocolate cookies or chocolate cake or hot chocolate. But then I realized my new motivation to stay away from the candy was the realization that I was los­ing weight, so I broke my promise because I didn't think it was true to the Lenten purpose anymore anyway-and because I went to the movies and I felt like eating some Reese's instead of pop­corn. 
Call me weak ifyou want. Call me cyni­cal even, because I do think Christ has more important things to deal with than my snack selection. There are wars rag­ing and hungry children and neglected old people and a bald Britney Spears in this world-and I think our mission as Catholics is to help them. So let me just throw this out there. This Lenten season, do something nice for someone, and ifit's somebody you don't like, even better. That's way more Christian than treating sweets and Facebook like they're the anti-Christ. Ask the ugly girl out to the SYR or look into adopting the Spears­Federline boys. Spread the love. That's what Jesus would do. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reporting error in the Feb. 21 edition ofThe Observer, the sports article "Golic, Jr. commits to 2012 class" incorrectly listed Northwest Catholic High School as being in West H"artford, Conn. It is actually in New Haven, Conn. The Observer regrets this error. 





Andy Houser 
senior Alumni 
"Killing terrorists. , 

Charlotte Low John Strong 
junior junior 
Walsh Alumni 
"Thumper ... "Getting PSYCH!" misquoted by The Observer. " 
Neb. woman accused of window smashing 
LINCOLN, Neb.-Lincoln police said a 50-year-old woman was charged Tuesday with child abuse and criminal mischief after having her 12-year-old granddaughter drive her to her niece's house, where the grandma broke five windows. 
A neighbor told police that Vickie Britton picked up a chair from the front yard of a duplex Monday night and used it to smash five windows, causing about $400 in damage, said Lincoln Police spokes­woman Katherine Finnell. 
Finnell said police arrest­ed Britton when she came back to the neighborhood more than an hour later. Police found Britton drunk and belligerent in the ear with the 12-year-old behind the wheel, Finnell said. . 
Police have referred the granddaughter to the Lancaster County Attorney's office to deter­mine whether any juvenile charges will bo l'iled for driving without a license. 
Man sues IBM over adult chat room firing 
WHITE PLAINS, N.Y.-A man who was fired by IBM for visiting an adult chat room at work is suing the company for $5 million, claiming he is an Internet addict who deserves treat­ment and sympathy rather than dismissal. 
James Pacenza, 58, of Montgomery, says he visits chat rooms to treat trau­matic stress incurred in 1969 when he saw his best friend killed during an Army patrol in Vietnam. 
In papers filed in federal court in White Plains, Pacenza said the stress caused him to become "a sex addict, and with the development of the Internet, an Internet addict." lie claimed protec­tion under the American with Disabilities Act. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
LIJ 
:::1: 
!;;: 
LIJ 
3: 
..... 
<C 
u 





32 25 
0 

HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH 37
-I 

LOW LOW LOW LOW 32 
25 18 
35 22 




Krystie Traudt Michael Lutkus 
sophomore junior Welsh Family O'Neill 
"Things that "''m giving up soda.,,
are unhealthy: ice cream, candy, boys." 
IN BRIEF 
Today marks the beginning of the Lenten season for Christians. Mass will be cele­brated at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15p.m. 
As part of the Foreign Film Series, "Milagros: Made in Mexico" will be shown tonight at 7 in the 1-Iesburgh Center Auditorium. The film is reced­ed by a reception with Mexican e'uisine at 6 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Great Hall. 
The movie "Heading South" will be shown Thursday at 7 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. The showing is sponsored by the Haiti Working Group as part of Haiti Awareness Week. 
The Career Center is holding an informational session about careers in writing or media communications Thursday at 
6:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
Stations of the Cross will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 7:15 p.m. Friday. Stations will be held at the Basilica each Friday during Lent. 
The Fenians, an Irish band, will perform at Legends Friday at 10 p.m. to celebrate an early St. Patrick's Day. 
Notre Dame men's ice hock­ey will play Ferris State at 
7:35 p.m. Friday and at 7:05 
p.m. Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 66 I 51 Boston 41 I 32 Chica·go 39 I 23 Denver 50 I 24 Houston 76 I 58 Los Angeles 66 I 51 Minneapolis 42 I 24 New York 46 I 34 Philadelphia 46 I 34 Phoenix 73 I 47 Seattle 46 I 36 St. Louis 56 I 33 Tampa 76 I 57 Washington 51 I 36 
Wednesday, February 21, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

College nallled School of the Year for residences 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
With the tagline "I want S'more SMC," 10 Saint Mary's students presented a 17-page bid to the Indiana Residence Hall Organization to win the IHHO School of the Year award this past weekend at Ball State University. 
"It's a pretty cool 
prize," Residence "It compliments all all-school formal, Hall Association Saint Mary's which sold out all (RHA) president Amy 800 tickets within a
students because 
Dardinger said. "It's week and a half ­a [recognition] of it shows how well one of the major everything we've the Saint Mary's ways students par­done [this past year] ticipated in campus
community works 
like selling out the all events. school formal, creat­together." "People were ing Dance Marathon almost scalping tick­and winning a Amy Dardinger ets," Dardinger said national award [for jokingly.
RHA president
Dance Marathon]." 
The IRHO is com­prised of 12 Indiana colleges and helps facilitate the communica­tion of ideas between schools around the state. · 
Saint Mary's was the only school to apply for the award this year, but all 12 IRHO schools were eligible to apply. 
"They only give [awards] to schools that deserve them," Dardinger said. "If only one school applies and they don't deserve it [or they get disqualified for not following the rules of the organization] they just won't hand it out that year." 
The award, while given out by an organization that Saint Mary's RHA works with, is not limited to recognizing those on RHA, Dardinger said. 
"It compliments all Saint Mary's students because it shows how well the Saint Mary's community works together," she said. "[RI-IA] is successful because students want to participate." 
She cited the suc­
cess of this year's 
Saint Mary's has 

been involved in the IRHO for more than 10 years. The last time it won an award -also for School of the Year -was dur­ing the 2003-2004 school year. 
While many students were not aware of the award on Tuesday, they were excited to hear the good news. 
"That's really cool," sophomore Angela Siler said. "I feel that we deserved the recognition, and I'm glad that they saw fit to give it to us." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


SMC to drop landlines 
Students to rely on cell phones, calling cards, officials say 
ByAMANDA SHROPSHIRE 
News Writer 
Students returning to campus next fall will have to find other ways to call family and friends due to a decision that administrators say is an effort to make College spending more effi­cient -no more landline phones in 
College. 

"Saint Mary's is respond­ing to the behavior of stu­dents. Saint Mary's used to turn a profit on long dis­tance phone calls years ago and now that revenue-is like 300,000 dollars every year in the red," McDonald said. "So that tells you that people aren't using the phones in their rooms for 
long distance 
dorm rooms. As of June  ''I've never used a  calls." Since  stu­ 
15,  Saint  landline phone. In  dents  aren't  
Mary's will remove all phones from student rooms  fact, when teachers ask for my number, I give them my  making those phone calls, she said, there is no revenue.  
and  will  cell."  But  the  
instead offer  College's deci­ 
other phone services to  Jeanie Clement  sion isn't revo­lutionary,  
students  on  junior  McDonald  
campus.  said. With the  
The student  increase in cell  

body was notified of the phone usage, many other 
changes by e-mail Monday. colleges and universities ­Vice President for Student Notre Dame included ­Affairs Karen Johnson have successfully made this wrote that the change change without overly stems from two years of impacting the students. research, which shows However, news of the usage of residence hall switch generated mixed phones has declined to­feelings among students. nearly nothing. Sophomore Katherine 
The decline in usage has Bernest said she uses her put a financial drain on room phone everyday to Saint Mary's, and the deci­talk to her mother in order sion should have minimal to save cell phone minutes. impact on students, said ''I'm against [removing Melanie McDonald, director the landlines] but I can of media relations at the understand why the College is doing it," Bernest said. "However, it will still be an inconvenience." 
For those students with­out cell phones, the College will keep landline phones on each floor of the resi­dence halls and at the hall front desks. 
For those who have cell phones, the removal is less of an issue. 
"I've never used my land­line phone. In fact, when teachers ask for my num­ber, I give them my cell," junior Jeanie Clement said. 
The College will also offer long distance phone cards in the campus bookstore and will work with service providers to ensure excel­lent reception throughout campus. 
For other students with cell phones, the number will be required to be regis­tered with the College. 
McDonald said she has not yet received any com­plaints about the switch and emphasized that the decision was made based on student behavior. 
"The impact will be mini­mal -if it was going to be a big impact that would affect the students nega­tively then the College wouldn't make the deci­sion," McDonald said. 
Contact Amanda Shropshire at ashropOl@saintmarys.edu 


Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Its a whole new place! New local ownership &management -Newly remodeled for 2007 -2008 
lafayette Square Townhomes 
424 N. Frances Street 

• 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 

• 
Off-Street Parking 

• 
Washer and Dryer 

• 
Dishwasher 

• 
Central Air 

• 
Security System 




Renting fast -call today for 2007 -2008 

Contact l<ramer at (574J 315-5032 or (574J 234-2436 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 21, 2007 

NDASK 
continued from page 1 
Broden, D-South Bend -listed 12 changes Indiana should make to its death penalty sys­tem to make it fair and accu­rate. 
The changes, which NDASK endorsed, included requiring law enforcement agencies to ·record all interrogations, ban­ning the execution of defendants with severe mental illnesses and requiring that biological evi­dence is preserved the entire time the defendant is impris­oned. 
NDASK co-organizer Andrea Laidman said the debate about the use of death penalty is just starting to take place nationally and is now taking root in the Midwest, specifically Indiana. 
"I think the reason that we started NDASK was because no one was talking about the issue on campus and across the state as a whole," Laidman said. 
But with the speaker series NDASK sponsored in the fall ­which included Kernan and Broden -and now with the release of this report, Laidman and McAuliffe hope people will start talking about the death penalty. 
"I think one of the biggest things to come out of this is it adds a lot to the discussion in terms or resources, in terms of numbers and in terms of policy recommendation," McAuliffe 
Donnelly 

continued from page 1 
follows is not about politics or campaigning or voting -it's "God. Country. Notre Dame," he said. 
After graduating from the University in 1977 with a bache­lor's degree in government and then from the Law School in 1981, Donnelly said he never planned on a career in politics. 
"I helped on various cam­paigns at different times and had not envisioned running for the U.S. House," he said. 
But once he decided to run, Donnelly took a "grassroots" approach to his campaign, meaning he put a lot of attention into securing votes from people in his district -something he did by meeting as many 2nd District citizens as possible. 
"It was about looking people in the eye and asking them for their vote," he said. 
But one area that was not so fun for Donnelly was raising finances, which is a huge focus in running for political office. 
"The money involved in cam­paign finance is destroying this country. My best re-election technique is to do my job right," he said. 
And his job is one he fought hard for. In what he called a "grueling endeavor," Donnelly worked from 6 a.m. to midnight, six to seven days a week up until the last possible moment in the election. 
"The polls closed at six o'clo~k ... and I stayed until 6:30 p.m. shaking people's hands because I didn't want to think later that I should have worked harder," Donnelly said. "Don't ever underestimate persistence." 
While persistence may have been one factor contributing to Donnelly's election, he noted the change in "political climate" as another. 
He said many Republicans in Indiana were unhappy with the war in Iraq during his cam-said. "Now there's this one big, overarching resource of over 300 pages for people in the state of Indiana to use in discussion." 
But the ABA report is only a recommendation, not an actual policy. The next step in the process, McAuliffe said, is either for Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels to order a moratorium or for the legislature to pass one. 
A recent statewide survey con­ducted for the ABA makes those two options seem hopeful, McAuliffe said. The survey showed a majority of voters favor a temporary halt to execu­tions in Indiana while the sys­tem is studied. 
"When you have 61 percent of people supporting a moratorium like that -it's a very political topic," he said. 
And so it makes sense for the governor or the legislature to impose a moratorium, McAulifTe said, since a clear majority backs it. 
"Worst case scenario -for us at least -is after two years of looking at it, they say well, actu­ally it does work and here's why ... and then they resume the death penalty," he said. 
But McAulifTe said he is confi­dent that once people study death penalty cases in which mistakes have been made, they will oppose it. Americans don't want a judicial system that puts people to death unfairly, he said. 
"We think that people who take a step back ... and aren't under the ticking clock a "specif­ic case provides, are able to 
paign. Another help, he said, was the string of negative cam­paign commercials started by Chocola actually proved helpful to Donnelly's campaign. 
"Those commercials got peo­ple to recognize me. In a strange way [Chocola'sl com­mercials were helping my cam­paign -he was spending money on commercials that were help­ing me," Donnelly said. 
On election day, after all the work, Donnelly defeated his opponent by just eight points. Now that he's an insider, Donnelly said he's learned most people in Congress are just "try­ing to help their constituents and their country." 
"The great thing about Washington is that there are about twenty crazy people on the Republican and Democratic sides, and the other ... people are just trying to work together to get things done," Donnelly said. 
Though the media often focus­es on "the loudest people in Congress," Donnelly said there are many people "in the middle" working hard every day who are not portrayed nearly as often. 
Whether or not he is in the spotlight, Donnelly said he believes in a moderate national budget and strong defense as part of the "Blue Dog Democrats" group, a moderate to conservative group of Democrats in Congress. 
Donnelly works on· three dif­ferent committees in Congress addressing financial services, veterans' afTairs and agricultur­al issues. 
But sticking to his Indiana roots, Donnelly is also working on a farming bill -nearly SO percent of his district, after all, is agricultural land. 
"We're working elosely with farmers on a riew farm bill to make sure that it works for farmers in the Midwest," he said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
really look at I the death penalty I "layer of legitimacy" to NDASK's reach committee and coordinat­and see that it doesn't work," work this year, Laidman said. ing an academic conference in McAulifTe said. The group's plans for the rest April with experts on the death 
McAuliffe and Laidman said of spring semester include penalty from across the country. they hope the report will bring building a statewide network to more media coverage to this address the death penalty issue, Contact Kaitlynn Riely at issue. The report also adds a starting a victim's families out-kriely@nd.edu 

LOYOLA 
I SUMMER SESSIONS 
UNIVERSITY CHICAGO 




YOUR CHICAGO SUMMER CLASSROOM: 
Get ahead or try something new! 
• 
Spend this summer in Chicago and study at Loyola, ranked a top national university by U.S. News & World Report. 

• 
Get your degree faster! Earn general education, major or elective credit. 

• 
Choose from more than 250 courses offered in four convenient sessions. 

• 
Access nearby Chicago internships, beaches, ballparks, festivals and more. 

• 
Tell high-school sophomores and juniors they can earn college credit early with Loyola's new Pre-collegiate Summer Scholars program. LOYOLA 


UNIVERSITY CHICAGO 

Apply today. Courses fill up fast! 


www.luc.edu/summer Preparing people to lead extraordinary lives 
Loyola is an equal opportunity employer and educator.l:l2007 Loyola Universtty Chicago. 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates n1ust be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to. Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a notnination form, please visit our website 'at: 
http:IIosa.nd.edu 
Nonzinations are due by Friday, March 2, 2007. 









ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 21, 2007 CoMP!LH) FROM "fHE tJBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran willing to negotiate on nukes 
VIENNA, Austria -Iran's chief nuclear envoy 
• said Tuesday his country wants to negotiate over its uranium enrichment program, on the eve of a 
U.N. Security Council deadline that carries the threat of harsher sanctions. But the country's hard-line president said Iran will halt enrich­ment only ifWestern nations do the same. 
Sanctions could be triggered by a report from Mohamed El Baradei, the head of the Vienna­based International Atomic Energy Agency, to his agency's 35 board-member nations, expect­ed Wednesday. That report is expected to say Iran has expanded emichment ac~ivities instead of freezing them. 
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, speaking to a crowd of thousands in Iran, said his country was ready to stop its emichment program, but only if Western nations do the same -some­thing the United States and others with similar programs are unlikely to even consider. 
Train explosion threatens security 
NEW DELHI -Two men were allowed to jump from a Pakistan-bound train shortly before it erupted in flames and killed 68 people, offi­cials said Tuesday, releasing sketches of the men and raising questions about security along the India-Pakistan raillinlc 
The search for suspects came as Pakistan's foreign minister arrived in India saying the attack made peace talks between the longtime rivals even more urgent. 
The two suspects, whose identities were not known, boarded the train when it left New Delhi on Sunday but quickly began arguing with the conductor, insisting they were on the wrong train. They were allowed to jump from the train as it slowed down about 15 minutes before the crude bombs detonated, setting ofT the fires, said Sharad Kumar, a senior police official. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

New Orleans celebrates Mardi Gras 
NEW ORLEANS -Thousands of hurricane­weary residents joined with rowdy visitors for Fat Tuesday, taking a break from rebuilding New Orleans to put on wild costumes and cele­brate the second Mardi Gras since Katrina. 
John Ferguson, who is still rebuilding his house almost 18 months after the storm, said of the celebration: "We never needed it more. 
"I work all day at my job, then I work all night and all weekend on my house. I just want to eat, drink and have fun today," Ferguson said. 
Many spectators spent the day along the parade routes or in the French Quarter, where the first Mardi Gras parade of the day was staged by the 1,250-member Zulu Social Aid and Pleasure Club, a predominantly black group that wears grass skirts and blackface makeup in par­ody of stereotypes from the early 1900s, when it was founded. 

Bush: Spy system must still improve 
WASHINGTON -President Bush instructed the nation's new spy chief to focus on fmding more recruits with the language skills and cul­tural background to collect information on al­Qaida and other terrorist groups. 
During a swearing-in ceremony Tuesday at Bolling Air Force. Base outside Washington for retired Vice Adm. Mike McConnell as the second director of national intelligence, Bush said the intelligence community still needs significant improvements more than five years after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Long-lost painting found at museum 
GARY -A painting discovered at an Indianapolis museum is among scores of art works once owned by the city and its schools that have disappeared, including some by Monet and Rembrandt, officials say. 
A resident who has worked for years trying to find out what happened to the lost art said he hopes the recovery of "Landing the Fish Boat" by Frank V Dudley helps solve the mystery. 
The painting was donated to the city in 1957 shortly after Dudley's death, according to a newspaper photograph published that year. But the city no longer has the painting. 
IRAQ 


Crackdown not halting bombings 
Iraqi death toll since Sunday climbs above 100 after gas tanker, funeral attacked 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -A hidden bomb ripped through a tanker earrying chlorine gas Tuesday. killing nine people and filling hospital beds with more than 150 wheezing and frightened villagers after noxious plumes covered homes and schools north of Baghdad. 
The attack was part of a string of blast<> -including a suicide bomber who killed seven mourners at a funeral -that further rattled offi­cials marking the first week of a major security crack­down seeking to calm the blood-soaked city. U.S. forces, meanwhile, called in airstrikes during intense dashes against insurgent<> in strongholds northwest of Baghdad. 
With the death toll in the Baghdad area climbing above 100 -since Sunday, Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki tried to court some rare upbeat publicity with an even rarer event -leaving his heavily guarded quarters for a visit to the city's streets and markets. 
The fanfare of the security plan's launch Feb. 14 has been swept aside by a steady roll of attacks, most blamed on Sunni extremists target­ing the majority Shiites. Many Sunnis believe they are being sidelined by al-Maliki's after several hours and there sives tore through a line of ern Baghdad. The attacker, government and under was no apparent life-threat­vehicles at a gas station in wearing a belt packed with growing threat from Shiite ening cases, hospital officials the Sadiyah district in south­explosives, also left 15 people militias, which the prime said. western Baghdad. At least wounded. minister refuses to confront. Chlorine gas in low expo­six people were killed and 14 Outside Baghdad, U.S. 
The bombing of the tanker sure irritates the respiratory wounded, police said. The forces pressed attacks took place near Taji, 12 miles system, eyes and skin. neighborhood is mixed against suspected Sunni northwest of Baghdad. A mil­Higher levels can lead to between Shiites and a Sunni insurgents. itary spokesman, Brig. Gen. accumulation of fluid in the minority. Helicopter gunships were Qassim Moussawi, said a lungs and other symptoms, Later, a suicide attacker called in during fierce battles bomb was planted under the and death is possible with drove a bomb-laden car into around Ramadi, about 70 tanker, but it was not known heavy exposure, according to a vegetable market near a miles west of Baghdad, whether it had a timer or the U.S. Centers for Disease Shiite enclave in southern police and witnesses said. was remotely detonated. His Control and Prevention. Baghdad. At least five people In areas around Buhriz, remarks contradicted earlier Authorities were left ques­were killed and seven about 35 miles northeast of reports that a roadside bomb tioning whether the bombing injured, police said. The Baghdad, U.S. warplanes blew up the truck. could signal a new tactic by same market in the mostly strafed a neighborhood and 
Hospitals were soon flood­militants to try to spread Sunni Dora district was tar­leveled a palm tree grove ed with terrified people -greater panic with chemical geted last month by threH car during a daylong battle with including many children -fallout. bombs that killed 10 people. Sunni factions firing mortars complaining of breathing The attacks in the capital The suicide blast at the and rocket-propelled gren­problems, vomiting and began during the busy morn­funeral came after the ades, according to an stinging eyes. Most of the ing rush for goods and fuel. mourners filled a tent in a Associated Press reporter people treated were released A car rigged with explo-mostly Shiite district of east-traveling with the unit. 

Guantanamo detainees can't file suit 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -In a victory for President Bush, a divided federal appeals court ruled Tuesday that Guantanamo Bay detainees cannot use the U.S. court system to challenge their indefinite imprisonment. A Supreme Court appeal was promised. 
The 2-1 decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit dis­misses hundreds of cases filed by for­eign-born detainees in federal court and also threatens to strip away court access to millions of lawful perma­nent residents currently in the United States. 
It upholds a key provision of the Military Commissions Act, which Bush pushed through Congress last year to set up a Defense Department system to prosecute terrorism sus­pects. Now, detainees must prove to three-officer military panels that they don't pose a terror threat. 
Democrats newly in charge of Congress promised legislation aimed at giving detainees legal rights. Attorneys for detainees said they would appeal Tuesday's ruling to the Supreme Court. 
"We're disappointed," said Shayana Kadidal of the Center for Constitutional Rights. "The bottom line is that according to two of the federal judges, the president can do whatever he wants without any legal limitations as long as he does it off­shore." 
The two judges voting with the White House -Judge A. Raymond Randolph and Judge David B. Sentelle -were appointed by Republicans. Reagan appointed Sentelle, and the first President Bush appointed Randolph. The dissenter, Judge Judith W. Rogers, was appointed by Clinton. 
White House deputy press secretary Dana Perino called the decision "a significant win" for the administration and said the Military Commissions Act provides "sufficient and fair access to courts for these detainees." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 21, 2007 
Catholic institution, [the Uni-versity has] the right
Lent 
not to serve meat," junior continued from page 1 Shannon Morrison said. -------------"When people decide to 
don't think this [season] should cut into my college experience." 
Healthy Catholics are instructed to abstain from eating meat on Ash Wednesday and all Fridays of Lent, as well to limit themselves to only one full meal and two 
"Although I'm not
small snaeks on Ash Catholic, I'll attend Wednesday 
dorm Mass on Ash 
and Good 
Wednesday so I can
Friday. As a result, be in community 
both dining with my brothers in 
halls do not 
the dorm." 
serve meat on days when it is prohibit­Jonathan Poelhuis ed by the sophomore
Catholic Church, although campus restaurants will serve meat. 
Many Catholic and non­Catholic students complain about the lack of options in the dining hall on Ash Wednesday and the Fridays of Lent. 
"It's absurd that the din­ing halls only serve fish, especially because [the fish] doesn't seem any dif­ferent or better than what they normally serve," jun­ior Matthew Detwiler said. 
Still, other students find comfort in the fact that Notre Dame works hard to support Catholic practices. 
"Since Notre Dame is a 

come to Notre Dame, they should realize that Catholic beliefs will even affect things like the dining hall menus." 
One Notre Dame student group, the Knights of Columbus, plans to provide 
an alternative to dining hall dinners on. Fridays. The Knights will sponsor a soup and bread dinner at the Knights' building on South Quad after Stations of the Cross in the Basilica at 
7:15 p.m. during the 

Fridays of Lent. 
In addition to dorm Masses today, there are Masses in the Basilica at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15p.m. There will also be a distri­bution of ashes at 12:20 
p.m. and 6 p.m. and a Mass at 9 p.m. in Hegina Chapel at Saint Mary's. 
Mass will be held at 
12:30 p.m. in the chapel of the Mendoza College of Business. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 

Bouts 
continued from page 1 
Bengal Bol)ts fight tonight. 
"I feel like I'm pretty ready; I · feel like I've prepared myself as well as I could have," Barbera said. "I wrestled in high school and it's a lot like wrestling­you push yourself in boxing and wrestling more than any other sport I've every played." 
Such "pushing" began at Notre Dame in 1920, when box­ing was nrst brought to the University by legendary football coach Knute Hockne, aceording to the Bengal Bouts Web site. Bengal Bouts was not estab­lished, however, until19:{1 when Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano decided to give his boxers something really worth fighting for -the missions in Bangladesh. 
Since Napolitano established Bengal Bouts as a fundraisor for the Holy Cross Missions, "the Bouts have become the largest contributor" to this cause, McGill said. 
McGill said the work the lloly Cross brothers have done in Bangladesh includes running a university and several elemen­tary and secondary schools, providing shelter and care for low-income families and build­
ing an orphanage, a  hospital  
and  a  shelter  for  abused  
women.  

"The Holy Cross Brothers are a huge presence in Bangladesh, and it's incredible how far the money we donate goes over· there," McGill said. 
The Bengal Bouts mission has been emphasized to tho boxers this year, MeGill said. 

r---------------------------------------.. respeet for Johnson, Suddes and 
all of the volunteer coaches and would love to stay involved with the Bouts and work with future presidents and captains after he graduates. 

McGill is one of six senior cap-
finance I /fccol.(nlin9 

"I think we've been really suc­cessful f'undraising because we really talked to the boxers about the lloly Cross Missions and what the Brothers do -we encouraged everyone to get involved," he said. "We told thorn that granted, you're down Iin the gym I every day boxing, working hard and making some of your best friends ... but the real hnart and soul of the pro­gram, it's a charity event." 
That spirit of charity is evi­dent in every aspect of the Bengal Bouts, from the money donated to the Missions to the eountless voluntenrs who make the Bouts possibln. 
Two men, whom McGill deseribed as the "heart and soul of the Bouts," are volunteer coaehos Terry Johnson and Tom Suddes -both former boxers at Notre Dame. 
MeGill said Johnson, a Chicago attorney, is "basically the brains of' the Bouts; he has run them for about 39 years." lie said that Johnson eomes up with the fundraising, works closely with the captains and is instrumental in organizing and shaping the Bouts. 
"Suddes has been with the program for about 35 years," McGill said. "He eomes to over­see practiees and to the boxers. lie's the f'aee of Bengal Bouts." 
Suddes, from Dublin, Ohio, commutes every week either just to show up for a praetice or will bring his work with him and stay in South Bend for a few days so he can run several praetices and work with the boxers, McGill said. 
"Suddes leads one infamous practice where we do 1,000 pushups -and he does every one," McGill said. 
McGill said he has a profound 
1\ 

GET YOUR CAREER STARTED IN INDY 
The OIT now provides telephone support for 
campus computer users until 10:00 p.m. Monday 
through Thursday and between 3:00p.m. and 
8:00p.m. on Sundays. 

Phone 574-63.1-8111 or visit the Help Desk website at http://oit.nd.edu/helpdesk. 
The new hours will remain in effect during the regular academic year when classes are in session. 
. 3 p.m.-8 p.rn.
Sun. 

(NEW Telephone support only) ·
Union Federal Bank of Indianapolis 
8 a.m ·· 10 p.rn. (NEW telephone
KeyBankiilll'! · 
Mon. -Thurs. 

support only 5 p.m.-10 p.m.) 
(Closed Wed.12 p.m. -1:30 p.m.) 
Friday 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Mike Sanders at Tim Ryan at l®!nQi!t!l!JUJ·::m···tl· msanders@saintmarys.edu Itpryan @hcc-nd.edu 
•Saint Mary'$ Students: Holy Cross Students: 
Saturday Closed 

r;:::t;JUN lVERSITY OF 
WNOTRE DAME . 
Office of lnfonnation Technologies 
~ 2007, Un•ve,.i1y of Notre Dame http://oit. nd.edu 
tains this year. Steve Hansen, Stu Stypula, Dan Ward, Mike Hennig and Chris Calderone are the other five, chosen by last year's senior captains. 
The three junior captains are Lawrence Sullivan, Hunter Land and Jesse Brawer. 
"At the end of every year, the captains get together and look at who has the character to lead 200 guys in practice, to be role models for the novices but also · to instruct them in their boxing and help them develop their skills," McGill said of the eap­tain selection process. 
This year's 200-some partici­pants are more than the largest group in history, however. With eight returning champions and a number of returning finalists and semi-finalists, McGill said "it will probably-be the most skill-filled boxing tournament" he's been a part of. 
Freshman Jason Miller, whom McGill said has shown great dedication to the team, is par­ticipating tonight in his first light. Although boxing is "kind of out of character" for him, he said, he heard a lot of students talking about it at the activity fair in the fall and thought it sounded like fun. 
"I actually don't feel nervous at all," Miller said. "I feel really well prepared and I'm exeited to get in the ring." 
The preliminary rounds of the Bengal Bouts will be held tonight and tomorrow in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse begin­ning at 6:30. They are free and open to the public. 
The quarterfinals will be held on Monday in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse at 6:30 p.m. The semifinals will be Feb. 28 in the Fieldhouse at 7:30 p.m and the finals will be Mar. 3 in the Joyce Center Arena at 8 p.m. Tickets for the quarterfinals, semifinals and finals can be purchased at the door. 
· Contact Meghan Woos at mwons@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Wednesday, February 21, 2007 
page 7 

Dow 

12,786.64 +19.07
jones 

Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: 2,0 IS 140 1,267 2,368,125,440 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -0.07  -0,03  44.68  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  +0.31  +0.31  146.04  
SUN MICRO INC (SUNW)  +1.43  +0.09  6.38  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.31  +0.09  28.83  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.21  -0.0 I 0  4.680  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.1 0  +0.005  5.035  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.17  -0.008  4.780  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.24  -0.0 I I  4.665  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.32  58.07  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -11.80  661.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.55  I 0 1 .. 50  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  119.9400  
EURO  0.7605  
POUND  0.5114  
CANADIAN$  1.1707  

IN BRIEF 

FCC licenses prohibit radio merger 
WASHINGTON -When the Federal Communications Commission auctioned off two exclusive licenses to create the satellite radio industry 10 years ago, it did not mince words on whether the competing providers could merge. 
The agency said that one licensee will "not be permitted to acquire control" of the other. The clause was inserted to ensure "sufficient continuing competition" in the new business, it said. 
But when dealing with the FCC, one should never say never. 
"The FCC can undo anything it does," said Andrew Schwartzman, president and CEO of the Media Access Project, a public interest law firm in Washington. "However, when you change course, you need a good reason to do it." 
On Monday, Washington D.C.-based XM Satellite Radio Inc. and New York City-based Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. announced a $13 bil­lion merger, not including debt. 
The companies will have to gain approval from the Justice Department as well as the FCC. Justice typically goes first in satellite mergers. If it blocks the deal, it's game over. But Schwartzman said that is unlikely to hap­pen. 

JetBlue focuses on customer rights 
NEW YORK -JetBlue Airways introduced a customer bill of rights on Tuesday that promis­es vouchers to fliers who experience delays, hoping the move wins back passengers after an operational meltdown damaged its brand and stock price. 
Founder and chief executive David Neeleman described the crisis as "a huge bump in the road" but said JetBlue would move past it. He said he had no intention of resigning in the wake of the worst corporate mess in the air­line's 7-year history. JetBlue's shares fell 66 cents, or 4.87 percent, to close at $12.90 on the Nasdaq Stock Market Tuesday. 
"I think I'm uniquely qualified to deal with these issues," Neeleman said. 
JetBlue said the first step in getting peo­ple to fly on the airline again was its intro­duction of a new customer bill of rights. 


Tobacco death award dismissed 
Supreme Court rules widow has no right to compensation for husband's death 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-The 
Supremo Court threw out 
a $79.5 million award that 
a jury had ordered a ciga­
rette maker to pay to a 
smoker's widow. a ruling 
that could bode well for 
other businesses seeking 
stricter limits on big-dol­
lar verdicts. 

The 5-4 decision Tues­
day was a victory for 
Altria Group Inc.'s Philip 
Morris USA, which con­
tested an Oregon Supreme 
Court decision upholding 
the jury's verdict. 
Yet the decision did not 
address a key argument 
made by Philip Morris and 
its supporters across a 
wide range of businesses· 
-that the size of the 
award was unconstitution­
ally large. They had hoped 
the court would limit the 
amount that can be 
awarded in punitive dam­
age cases. 

Instead, Justice Stephen 
Breyer wrote in his major­
ity opinion that the award 
to Mayola Williams could 
not stand because a jury 
may punish a defendant 
only for the harm done to 
the person who is suing, 
not to others whose cases 
were not before it. 
"To permit punishment 
for injuring a nonparty 
victim would add a near 
standardless dimension to Tuesday's ruling made damages of $800,000 and tion. 
the punitive damages punitive damages law punitive damages of $79.5 Lawyers who defend 
question," Breyer said. even more confusing. million -97 times the companies against prod­
The company had Jesse Williams died of compensatory damages -uct-liability claims said 
argued that the jury was lung cancer in 1997 at the in the fraud lawsuit she Tuesday's ruling would 
encouraged to punish age of 67. He had smoked filed against Philip Morris. help curtail large jury 
Philip MiJrris for health two packs a day of Philip A state court previously awards. 
problems suffered by Morris-made Marlboros cut the compensatory A jury will have to be 
every Oregonian who for 45 years. award to $500,000, which told "that it cannot punish 
smoked its cigarettes. His widow argued that is unaffected by Tuesday's for conduct that may be 
Chief Justice John the jury award was appro­ruling. directed to others. That's 
Roberts and Justices priate because it punished The case now goes back really the crucial part of 
Samuel Alito, Anthony Philip Morris for a to the Oregon high court, this decision," said Sheila 
Kennedy and David decades-long "massive which could order a new Birnbaum, who won a 
Souter, joined with Breyer. market-directed fraud" trial, reduce the award or punitive damages case in 
Dissenting were Justices that misled people. into reinstate its decision. 2003 when the Supreme 
Ruth Bader Ginsburg, thinking cigarettes were Punitive damages are Court struck down a $145 
Antonin Scalia, John Paul not dangerous or addic­money intended to punish million verdict against 
Stevens and Clarence tive. a defendant for bad State Farm Mutual 
Thomas. Ginsburg said She won compensatory behavior and deter repeti-Automobile Insurance Co. 

Merck ends lobby for HPV vaccine 
Associated Press school attendance usually are for strains that cause most genital 
diseases easily spread through warts. 
TRENTON -Merck & Co., bow­casual contact, such as measles Sales totaled $235 million ing to pressure from parents and and mumps. through the end of 2006, according medical groups, is immediately sus­"Our goal is about cervical cancer to Merck. pending its lobbying campaign to prevention and we want to reach as Last month, the AP reported that persuade state legislatures to man­many females as possible with Merck was channeling money for date that adolescent girls get the Gardasil," Dr. Richard M. Haupt, its state-mandate campaign company's new vaccine against cer­Merck's medical director for vac­through Women in Government, an vical cancer as a requirement for cines, told The Associated Press. advocacy group made up of female school attendance. "We're concerned that our role in state legislators across the country. 
The drug maker, which supporting school requirements is a Conservative groups opposed the 
announced the change Tuesday, distraction from that goal, and as campaign, saying it would encour­
had been criticized for quietly such have suspended our lobbying age premarital sex, and parents' 
funding the campaign, via a third efforts," Haupt said, adding the rights groups said it interfered with 
party, to require 11-and 12-year­company will continue providing their control over their children. 
old girls get the three-dose vaccine information about the vaccine if Even two of the prominent med­
in arder to attend school. requested by government officials. ical groups that supported broad 
Some had objected because the Merck launched Gardasil, the use of the vaccine, the American 
vaccine protects against asexually first vaccine to prevent cervical Academy of Pediatricians and the 
transmitted disease, human papil­cancer, in June. It protects against American Academy of Family 
loma virus, which causes cervical the two virus strains that cause 70 Practitioners, questioned Merck's 
cancer. Vaccines mandated for percent of cervical cancer and two timing, Haupt said Tuesday. 


page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 21 , 2007 

010 YOU HEAR THE ONE ABOUT THE CHICKEN? 

(NATURALLY RAISEO, ANTIBlOTI.C-FREE) 
That's why we're serving naturally raised chicken. 
In fact, the chicken and pork we serve in South Bend are free of antibiotics and added growth hormones, fed a vegetarian diet and raised humanely. We think meat raised this way, naturally, tastes better. 
Serving naturally raised chicken is another step in our ongoing Food With Integrity journey -bringing you the best ingredients from the best sources. 
C~ipotle 

-SERVING NATURAlLY RAISED CHICKEN IN SOUTH BEND ­
MAIN & DOUGLAS 



Meeting 
continued from page 1 
cized the relationship between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame but quickly ended the discussion of the topic. 
Shappell said the Student Senate University Relations committee at Notre Dame is now addressing the issue. Notre Dame senior Aly Baumgartner, the commit­tee's chair, did not speak on the topic Tuesday. 
Instead, the groups focused on describing the place of each group on its respective campus and in the larger pic­ture of student government. 
"COR is a microcosm of the larger Student Union consist­ing of presidents from all student organizations," Shappell said. 
The meeting was informal and was used as a "meet and greet" to get to know how each other's systems work,­Mcllduff said. 
"We are the main policy­making board on campus representing every major area of campus and campus groups," she said. 
Saint Mary's student Alanna Cheifari, the tri-cam­pus commissioner who sits on both COR and BOG on a weekly basis, directed the informal discussion and encouraged attendees to use one another as a resource. 
"We hope we can bounce ideas off each other about student government and learn from one other," she 
said. 
The meeting was mandato­ry for BOG members, who had a strong showing with nearly all members present. Due to scheduling eonl'liets and other commitments, only eight representatives from COR attended the meeting. 
Holy Cross student Deirdre O'Toole represented the third branch of the tri-eampus relationship. She was tho on Iy II oly Cross represen ta­tive present. 
Saint Mary's junior Amy Dardinger, Residenc11 Ilall Assoeiation president, led an ieebreaker activity to intro­ducP members from 11ach sehool. 
Members from COH and BOG then paired with a coun­terpart from the other sehool. They were given the chai1ce to discuss their posi­tions at their school and compare their roles. 
There were no serious implications of the meeting, but each student body presi­dent hopes to continue the tradition in the future. 
Prior to the joint meeting, BOG met at 5:30 p.m. as part of its weekly schedule. 
The group discussed the recent approval of the six­semester residency program. The program will begin with the freshman class of 2011 and requires them to live on campus through their junior year. 
"We market ourselves as a residential college," Vice President of Student Affairs Karen Johnson said. "Most of our peer schools require eight semesters; we decided to only require six," Thnre will be certain exc11ptions for local residents, transfers and abroad students which havn not ynt been finalized. 
BOG also invited Laurie Stickolrnaier, the Collngo's vice president of financ11 and administration, to discuss workers at Saint Mary's and­tho living wagn -an issue discussed at last w11nk's mn11ting. 
Stickelmainr said Saint Mary's is working to improvn wagns for its workers, but it is an ong:oing proenss. 
"Wn are paying our work­ers as rnueh as wn can right now as an institution," shn said. 
Stickelmaier said thn College has a thrne-yoar plan for college nmploynns, which was already brought lwforn tho Board of Trustees and will "hopefully" appear on the budget in April. 
"We arn set to address tho shortfall or wages at this time," she said. "It will take us three ynars, but to get our workers within ... 10 pnrcent lofl median market wagns in St. Joseph County, it will take us $1 million." 
Stiekelmaier is confident that the Trustees will eventu­ally approve this pending issue. 
"The Board n1eognizes that this is an important issue and I feel strongly that the Board will approve this first phase of thn three-year program." 
Saint Mary's inability to pay its workers tho mndian mar­ket wages stems from Notre Dame, Stickelmaier said. 
"Notre Dame drives the 
market," she said. "They have a mueh larger endow­mont than we do, so instead of f'oeusing on getting our workers in the 50th per­centile of wages, we have to foeus on trying to get them in the 40th right now." 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
Little Sibs Weekend will take plaee this weekend. Hegistration will take place from 2 p.m. to 4 Friday in the Student Cnnter. 

+ 
Tho Diverse Students Leadership Confnrence will be held from March 1 to 3. All are welcome to attend. Students ean register in the 


atrium of the Student Center during dinner. 
+ 
On Mar. 24, the whole­sehoul dance will be held from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. All proeeeds will go to Hiley Children's Hospital. 

+ 
Dance Marathon regis­tration packets are now available in residence halls. The eost is $12 and includes a T-shirt, three meals, snacks and a small donation to Riley Hospital. The marathon will take place on Apr. 20. 


Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 
Launcl?-es tlzis _Ash VVednesda
>)))))))) 



www.rtd ercast.or C-M 
Campus Ministry 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, February 21, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
EGYPT 

Nevv ton1bs discovered 
Associated Press 
SAQQARA -Archaeo-logists unveiled the tombs Tuesday of a pharaonic butler and a scribe that have been buried for more than 3,000 years -proof, they say, that Egypt's sands still have secrets to reveal. 

Although archaeologists have been exploring Egypt intensive­ly for more than 150 years, some estimate only one-third of what lies underground in Saqqara, site of the country's most ancient pyramid and bur­ial site of kings, has been uncovered. 
"The sands of Saqqara reveal lots of secrets," said Egypt's antiquities chief, Zahi Hawass, as he showed reporters a 4,000­year-old mud brick tomb that belonged to a scribe of divine records, Ka-Hay, and his wife. 
The tomb, along with the but­ler's 3,350-year-old limestone grave and two painted coffins, were discovered earlier this year near the famous Step Pyramid of King Djoser -the oldest of Egypt's more than 90 pyramids. 
Hawass said the three discov­eries are just the tip of what remains undiscovered at Saqqara, which was the burial grounds for Memphis, the capi­tal of Egypt's Old Kingdom. 

In December, archaeologists in Saqqara discovered the mummified remains of a doctor who was buried along with sur­gical tools more than 4,000 years ago. Two months earlier, the graves of three royal den­tists were discovered in Saqqara after the arrest of tomb raiders led archaeologists to the site. 
Hawass said the mud brick tomb unveiled Tuesday, which also featured wooden statues and a door with intricate hiero­glyphic carvings, "could enrich our knowledge about the people who actually su-rrounded the kings of Saqqara." 
"It doesn't look great because it was built from mud brick and not built of limestone, but I real­ly believe that this tomb is very important," said Hawass, who donned his signature Indiana Jones-style hat. 
Three wooden statues also were found in the tomb. Two of them, each about 3 feet tall and depicting the scribe, were laid out on pieces of foam on the ground. One was missing a left arm. The third was not shown because it was in poor condi­tion. 
After Hawass presented the tomb, workers picked up the ancient statues, pla<:ed them in the back of a pickup truck ­while tourists, surprised at the media commotion, quickly snapped photographs -and drove them to another building in the complex. 
On the other side of the Step Pyramid, archaeologists then unveiled the second tomb, which belonged to a butler who died some 3,350 years ago. 




Miracle baby stays in hospital 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -A girl born after just under 22 weeks in the womb -among the shortest gestation periods known for a live birth -will remain in a hospital a few extra days as a precaution, officials said Tuesday. 
Amillia Sonja Taylor, born Oct. 24 after just under 22 weeks in the womb, had been expected to be sent home from Bap tis t Children's Hospital on Tuesday. 
However, routine tests indi­cated she was vulnerable to infection, said Dr. Paul Fassbach, who· has cared for the baby since shor.tly after she was born. 
"She has been fine," Fassbach said, but doctors are being extra cautious "now that she's going into the world." 
Doctors say Amillia is 

among the few babies known to have survived after a gesta­tion of fewer than 22 weeks. She was just 9 1/2 inches long and weighed less than 10 ounces when she was deliv­ered by Caesarean section. Full-term births come after 37 to 40 weeks. 
Amillia, the first child for Eddie and Sonja Taylor of Homestead. now weighs 4 1/2 pounds and is just over 15 112 inches long. 
She has suffered respiratory and digestive problems, as well as a mild brain hemor­rhage, but doctors believe the health concerns will not have major long-term effects. 
Amillia was conceived in vitro and has been in an incu­bator since birth. She will continue to receive a small amount of supplemental oxy­gen even after she goes home. 
She was delivered because her mother was suffering 
from complications. Fassbach said that if doctors had known Amillia's real gestational age, they might not have inter­vened. He said he thought she was at .least 23 weeks, and doctors were shocked when the Taylors' fertility specialist pinpointed the exact date of fertilization. 
Fassbach cautioned against rushing to redefine the med­ical standards for fetus viabil­ity. 
"We just don't know which 21-to 22-weekers are going to do well and which are not going to do well," he said. "I don't think we should change what we do, but it shows us we need to do more research and find out where our edge of viability is going to go." 
Preterm births occur in about 12 percent of all preg­nancies in the U.S., according to the National Institute of Health. 
ENGLAND 
Blair vvill announce Iraq tillletable 
FACULTY/STUDENTS. Brand New Dublin Village Townhomes for Rent Across from St. Mary's -behind Perkins 3 or 4 BR units available, 3 1/2 baths, 2-car attatched garage call Linda @ 708-460-5500  
LSAT GMAT GRE MCAT DAT OAT PCAr Take a FREE practice test at this event and you'll receive a detailed score analysis and exclusive strategies to help you prepare for Test Day! On Saturday February 24th at Saint Mary's College MCAT, LSAT, GRE & GMAT Register Today!!! Sign up today! Catll-800-KAP-TEST I(A PLAN\ or visit kaptest.com/practice. ~ TEST PREP AND •Test names are registered trademarks of their respective owners. ADMISSIONS  

Associated Press 
LONDON -Prime Minister Tony Blair will announce on Wednesday a new timetable for the withdrawal of British troops from Iraq, with 1,500 to return home in several weeks, the BBC reported. 
Blair will also tell the House of Commons during his regular weekly appearance that a total of about 3,000 British soldiers will have left southern Iraq by the end of 2007, if the security there is sufficient, the British Broadcasting Corp. said, quoting government officials who weren't further identified. 
The announcement comes even as President Bush imple­ments an increase of 21,000 more troops for Iraq. 
But Blair said Sunday that Washington had not put pres­sure on London to maintain its troop numbers. The BBC said Blair was not expected to say when the rest of Britain's forces would leave Iraq. Britain cur­rently has about 7,100 soldiers there. 
Blair's Downing Street office refused to comment on the BBC report. 
Blair and Bush talked by secure video link Tuesday morn­ing, and Bush said Britain's troop cutbacks were "a sign of success" in Iraq. 
"The president is grateful for the support of the British Forces in the past and into the future," 
U.S. National Security Council spokesman Gordon Johndroe said in Washington. "While the United Kingdom is maintaining a robust "force in southern Iraq, we're pleased that conditions in Basra have improved sufficiently that they are able to transition more control to the Iraqis." 
"The United States shares the same goal of turning responsibil­ity over to the Iraqi Security Forces and reducing the number of American troops in Iraq," Johndroe said. "President Bush sees this as a sign of success and what is possible for us once we help the Iraqis deal with the sec­tarian violence in Baghdad." 
"We want to bring our troops homes as well," Johndroe said. "It's the model we want to emu­late, to turn over more responsi­bilities to Iraqis and bring our troops home. That's the goal and always has been." 
Blair said last month that he would report to lawmakers on his future strategy in Iraq follow­ing the completion of Operation Sinbad, a joint British and Iraqi mission targeting police corrup­tion and militia influence in the southern city of Basra. 

On Sunday, Blair told the BBC that the operation was complet­ed. 
Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said in January that Operation Sinbad offered the prospect of a "turning point for Iraq. hopefully in the near future." 
Treasury chief Gordon Brown, who is likely to succeed Blair by September, has said he hoped several thousand British soldiers would be withdrawn by December. 
As recently as late last month, Blair rejected opposition calls to withdrawal British troops by October, calling such a plan irre­sponsible. 
"That would send the most dis­astrous signal to the people that we are fighting in Iraq. It's a pol­icy that, whatever its superficial attractions may be, is actually deeply irresponsible," Blair said on Jan. 24 in the House of Commons. 


Megachurches break barriers 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Mass.-Sundays at the evangelical Grace Chapel megachurch look like the American ideal of race relations: African­American, Haitian, white, Chinese and Korean families sing along with a white, guitar-playing pastor. 
U.S. churches rarely have this kind of ethnic mix. But that's chang­ing. Researchers who study race and religion say Grace Chapel is among a vanguard of megachurch­es that are breaking down racial barriers in American Christianity, altering the long-segregated land­scape of Sunday worship. 
"Megachurches as a whole are significantly better than other con­gregations at holding together mul­tiracial, multiethnic congregations," said Scott Thumma, an expert on megachurches and a professor at Hartford Seminary in Connecticut. "It's absolutely dear." 
A study by Thumma and the 

Leadership Network, a Dallas 
group that works with pioneering 
churches, found that minorities 
make up 20 percent or more of 
worshippers in nearly one-third of 
the nation's 1,200 megachurches. 
More than half of the megachurch­
es say they are intentionally work­
ing to attract different ethnic 
groups, according to the 2005 
study, part of a book that Thumma 
and network executive Dave Travis 
will publish in July. 
The question now is whether the 

new diversity is just a fad or a per­
manent shift. 
Although megachurches each 

draw at least 2,000 worshippers a 
week, they are a small percentage 
of the estimated 350,000 congrega­
tions across the United States. And 
leaders at Grace Chapel and other 
megachurches where whites 
remain the majority acknowledge 
enormous challenges in making 
minorities feel included so they'll . stay for the long term. 
Still, megachurches are trendset­ters, and the change they've made is startling considering nearly all other American churches serve one ethnic group. Even churches with a large number of immigrants gener­ally have separate English and non­English services. For black and white Christians, pre-Civil War church support for slavery and the general absence of white evangeli­cals from the civil rights movement continue to drive the two groups apart. 
Most megachurches don't carry that historical burden; nearly all have been built since the 1970s and play down any ties to a denomina­tion. 
But that's not the main attraction. 

Researchers have found that whites and nonwhites join megachurches for the same rea­sons: great guitar-and-drum wor­ship bands, strong programs for kids and a message of Bible-based self-betterment. 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, February 21, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Abolish the BIA 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griftln 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDimR: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHom EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The: C>IJ:..Iervcr (USPS 5<Jt) 24000) is pUblished Mnndayrhrough Friday ~;:.;ccpt during exam and Yacarion ~rinds. A subscription to The OhS<:rvcr fs :S l UO for om: acadcmk year: $~5 fm one semn[er. 
The Oh$C'rver is published .a~ POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send addte.s.s corrr:tdon..~ w: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556·0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at None Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining HaU 
Nom: Dam~.:. IN 465S6-0n9 

The Observer i.~ a member ofthe Aswciated Press. All reprnductit)ll rights Me tc:scrved. 
..Let me be a .free f(lan, 
.free to travel, .free to stop. 
.free to work . .free to trade where I 
choose, 
.free to choose my own teachers . .free 
to .follow the religion 
o.f my.fathers. Zach Einterz .free to talk. think 
Bullet Proof 
and act .for myself 
Ideas
-and I will obey 
every law or submit 
to the penalty." 
-Chief' Joseph ol' lhn Nez Peree 
Thanksgiving is not uniqun to America. Traditional celebrations of' tlw autumnal harvest are celehralnd in many cultures and countries. llowovnr. in Amnriea, Thanksgiving takns on a spneial meaning as we remember somn of the first cele­brants oi'Thanksgiving in the Now World, the Pilgrims. Facing religious per­secution in their homnland, the Pilgrims fled England and a tyrannical King James for the promise of the Nnw World. Thus, Thanksgiving is not just a cnlebra­tion of the year's harvest. but also a reminder of the promisn of fmedom in America. 
At the same time that most Amnricans will be celebrating Thanksgiving, there will be a small group of citizens protest­ing at Plymouth Hock. Every year since 1970, American Indians and their sup­porters have been gathering at Plymouth Rock to observe their "National Day of Mourning." Thflse Indians are lhn other half of the Thanksgiving story. While the European colonizers prospered freely and built our great country, the Indians suffered and dind, oftnn at the hands of our own government. I should not need to give a detailed history of American Indian abusns perpntualnd by the United States people and its government. We all know the story. llowevnr, as if past atroc­ities were not enough, the federal gov­ernment continues today to persecute Native Americans undnr tho Bureau ol' Indian Affairs (BIA). 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Tho BIA was croatnd (indeod all exist­ing govornmonl bureaucracies were cre­alndl bncauso politicians in Washington believed that they knew what was bnst for a group of individuals. Originally organizod undnr tho War Department, tho BIA was responsible for mmoving Indians from their homelands and plac­ing them on unproduetivn reservations. Then the BIA cmatnd govornment sdwols whon~ they sent Indian childrnn to bn "eivilizod." Civilized in this case moans llwy worn abused, l'orbiddon to spnak their nalivn longue, separated from family and purged of any native nlllural oducation. Tlum tho BIA over­looked traditional Indian vinws of eom­munal propnrty and divided resnrvalion lands into individual plots. This was all purported lo bn in tho Indians' best intnrnst. bocaus11 il would allow llwm lo assimilatn faslor into tho European way of lifo. The BIA continuos to this day to unlawfully mnddle in the all'airs of American Indians. ll gives fedora! recog­nition and gaming rights to somn tribns while spurning others. ll intorvnnes in the all'airs of tribal governanco and die­latns tribal polieios. It administnrs health and education programs which arn woo­fully inadnquato. 
As with any govornmont agency, tho BIA is prono to r~orruption and misman­agonwnt. Al'lor tho allotmnnl of reserva­tion lands to individual Indians, many Indians placml lhoir lands in a trust. The BIA was in charge on managing this land trust, eontrading out mineral and resource rights to private companies. Many of lhoso conlraets heavily favored tho corporations al the expense of the American Indian landowners. Furtlwrmorn, tho funds from the sale of those rights havn bmm incredibly mis­managed. In I 996, American Indian rights groups sum! the Department of the Interior and the BIA. The ease, Cobol! vs. Kmnpt.horne, daims that the BIA owns morn than 1:~ billion dollars to the Indian trusts funds. Aceording to Judgn Hoyco Lamberth, "The actions of Intnrior and Secrntary Norton in this instance again dnmonstrate why the court continues to bnlieve that Interior sets the gold stan­dard for mismanagement ol' a govern­mont agnncy." The BIA is also a breeding ground for corruption. It was the compe­tition for lucrative Indian gaming eon­lrads that started Jaek Abramofl' on his road to infamy. 
So what has the American Indian gainnd from the corruption, mismanage­nwnl and "in-your-best-interest" govern­mnnt programs? American lndia1i sui­cide rates are 1.5 times tho national avnrage. Hates of poverty and unemploy­mnnl am more than twice tho national average. It is just a coincidence that poornst people in our nation are also subjneted to the most government ovnr­sighl'! Certainly not. Frnedom breeds prosperity. Rather than lifting American Indians out of poverty, the BIA has fos­lnrnd it through years of corruption, mis­management, and patronization. 
As we commemorate Native American llislory Month next November, let us rnmmnher that the struggle liJr Amnrkan Indian sovereignty is not over. Critks of the BIA are not few and far belwmm, and many American Indians have called for the abolishment or the BIA. As long as there exists a Burnau of Indian All'airs, American Indians will remain poor, broken and without free­dom. ll is lime to let Amerkan Indians rule themselves. Restore their property, their rights, and their sovereignty. Let them deeide for themselves what is best li>r their poople, their culture and their prosperity. 
Zach Hinterz is a junior majoring in economics and environmental sciences. lie has turned to politics after giving up on an unsuccessful sports career. Contact Zach at zeinterz@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those o.fthe author and not necessarily those (if The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL

Kate Antonacci Tim Dougherty Jennifer Metz Chris Khoreu John Tierney Fran Tolan How will you observe Lent? 
Viewpoint Lorenzo Heyes Kara King Scene 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

Graphics Brian Doxtader 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com
Jeff Albert 

Submit aLetter 

to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The best (~{us must sometimes eat our words." 
J.K. Rowling children's author 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 21, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Loyal Daughters': More than a play 
Editor's note: The Observer respects the wishes ofthis letter writer to remain anonymous. As a policy, The Observer does not name victims ofsexual assault. 
In response to Jon Buttaci's Letter to the Editor ("Loyal Daughters' humor detracts from true dialogue," Feb. 20) and the ongoing dialogue about sexual assault on the Notre Dame campus, I would like to first and foremost ask Mr. Buttaci when was the last time he was personal­ly sexually assaulted. Though I know that males can be victims of sexual assault just as women can be, I am going to jump out on a limb and assume that he hasn't been. 
But I have. 
It wasn't really something I was going to throw out there to the whole campus, but I think my story is impor­tant to this dialogue. 
Last November I went to see "Loyal Daughters" with a large group of girls from my dorm, Breen-Phillips Hall. When I got into rny seat and began looking at my pro­gram I immediately noticed a page which said something to the extent of "ifthis play brings up any painful memo­ries that you need help dealing with there are people located all throughout the theater to help" and then it listed many ways sexual assault victims can get help on the Notre Dame campus. When I saw this disclaimer I knew that "Loyal Daughters" was going to be more than just a fun night at the theater for me. 
During the show I was able to laugh and cry, but most importantly I was able to see myself in each scene in some way. After the play, a smaller group of girls includ­ing our two ARs and my RA went to Starbucks to discuss the play. During our conversation I began to tell my story for the very first time since it happened. I was able to actually talk about it. I was finally able to admit to myself that it had really happened. I'd spent four years pretend­ing it hadn't. 
"Loyal Daughters" was able to put me at ease through its humor while still being serious enough to help me come to an emotional and intellectual breakthrough in my life. Finally my mind and my heart could understand one another on this issue. I haven't seen 'The Vagina Monologues" in full, but the parts I have seen made me intensely uncomfortable; I'm not sure that I could cope with an entire viewing of such a graphic play. But pre­cisely because "Loyal Daughters" employs humor, I was able to relax enough to get the real points it was trying to make. 
"Loyal Daughters" helped me to change my life. I was finally able to talk to people about what had happened to me. I called some of my friends from home, who knew me at the time it happened, and broke a four year silence. They were shocked that) had been unable to tell them such an important thing, but glad they were finally able to offer me the support I'd needed for so long. Last week I interviewed with "Loyal Daughters and Sons" in an effort to contribute to the play which helped me so much. I offered my story to "Loyal Daughter and Sons" in hopes that I might in a small way be able to help someone like myself. 
Yesterday, Monday, I went to my first counseling ses­sion at the esc to discuss the deep issues in my life as a result of the violence against me, a step that I'd never have been able to take before "Loyal Daughters." These things may not seem monumental, but for me,. they are all huge steps in the right direction. 
Mr. Buttaci's insinuation that "Loyal Daughters" is use­less tore me apart. Useless? For me it was the most use­ful play I've ever seen. Sexual assault victims struggle with the way their ability to choose was taken away from them. "Loyal Daughters" gave me my choice back. I choose to see "Loyal Daughters" and to offer it my full support. Mr. Buttaci is free to exercise his right to choose not to see the play, and his right to choose to aid the problem of sexual assault in any way he wants. I'll be sure to attend his play, or whatever venture he sponsors to advance the issue of sexual assault awareness. In fact, I look forward to it, but I won't hold my breath waiting for him to step up and actually do something. 
Anonymous sophomore Breen-Phillips Hall Feb. 20 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Dry Bones THE NEW 
THEOLOGY 



THOU 
SHA~T NOT Klta~. 
DryBonesBiog.com 


In 'Loyal Daughters,' humor effective, necessary 
In his Feb. 20 Letter to the Editor ('"Loyal Daughters' humor detracts from true dialogue") Jon Buttaci argues that the play "Loyal Daughters" is "danger­ous" because it uses humor to keep students from actually thinking about the ideas it presents. The first flaw in Buttaci's argument is that anyone who actu­ally saw "Loyal Daughters" is aware that for ninety percent of the play, there was nothing to laugh about. The performance dealt seriously with heavy issues of sexual assault on Notre Dame's campus. 
That said, let's go ahead and talk about that lighter 10 percent. Clearly, Buttaci seems to feel that we, as Notre Dame students, are sheep, incapable of laughing and thinking at the same time, and therefore we should not be allowed to view anything that may lead us astray by requiring individual thought. Buttaci's argument also denies the important power of humor to convey ideas in a thought-provoking manner. Humor, it would seem, can only be propaganda. 
Contrary to Buttaci's narrow definition of the function of humor, playwrights and other authors throughout history have been using humor to pose serious questions and demand critical thought from their audiences. I will give one sig­nificant example: playwright Luigi Pirandello defined humor not as something that merely makes an audience laugh, but rather as something that evokes what he called a "sentimento del contrario," or a feeling that something is con­trary to what it should be. The audience may laugh for a minute, but will then be forced to ponder whatever it is that is out of place. Something that is humor­ous, according to Pirandello, can actually be quite serious, even sad. The mono­logue that Buttaci discusses, called "Logic," is not only laugh-out-loud humor­ous. Sure, the audience laughed when actor Patrick Tighe stormed on to the stage waving Du Lac around. However, as a member of the "Loyal Daughters" cast, I can honestly say that I never once saw an audience that was still laugh­ing when Tighe delivered his final line, in the form of a question, to the audi­ence. So, with respect to Buttaci's argument, I challenge the thoughtful reader to take up the same question that Tighe posed to those who saw the perform­ance: "Is this valid? Anyone?" 
Mary Migliozzi "senior Pangborn Hall Feb. 20 


Qlassics, 'Monologues' bring diversity 
In Mary Elizabeth Walter's Letter to the Editor ("Dialogue is not dead," Feb. 20) she says that presenting material pertaining to subjects such as that, which is discussed in the Qlassics film festival and "The Vagina Monologues", is not necessary to facilitate discussions. I disagree with this claim. 
Qlassics and the "Monologues" are necessary because they present alternative views from a point of view unbiased from the Catholic Church and it is necessary for stu­dents to understand these views. To oppose events such as Qlassics or the "Monologues" is to deny the fact that any alternative opinions exist on the subjects that these events attempt to address, which is a naive approach to the world. Yes, we go to a Catholic university, which promotes the teaching of the Church, but when we leave the "bubble" of Notre Dame, we will enter a world that contains and acknowl­edges many alternative views. The "Monologues" is an opportunity for people to com­municate their alternative views. It is an effort to make people aware, especially in an environment like Notre Dame, that there is more than one answer to a question. People who believe in alternative views to the Church's teachings define truth differ­ently. 
The "Monologues" are performed because they provide insight into the personal experiences of real women, a point of view that cannot be discussed in an academic forum where no one has experienced first-hand the experiences being debated. We are so quick to form opinions today that we sometimes forget that we do not know everything. How can we debate a topic when we have no understanding of the sub­ject? 
When people go and attend the "Monologues," they are not going to be "sitting in a plush theatre," rather they are acknowledging that they may be able to understand alternative view to their own by listening to someone else's opinions. Whether these truths have validity, we must acknowledge their presence within our world, and this is their importance in facilitating the dialogue Walter claims already exists on campus. 
College is a time in our lives to define who we are. We form our opinions independ­ent from our parents for the first time and we begin to learn about different points of view. It seems nowadays that people are quick to form a opinion but they have no sup­port to back it up. I challenge Walter and every other student on campus, regardless of your political, religious, or moral views to explore and learn from people who hold opposite opinions to your own because you might fmd that you could learn something from simply listening instead of always saying how you feel. 
Ellen Rolfes freshman Pasquerilla East Hall Feb. 20 


Tl·l E OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, February 21, 2007 
The 79th Animal Academy Awards feature the most wide-open Best Picture race in years. In a pack that doesn't yet have a clear-cut front-runner, only "The Departed" and "Babel" have separated themselves enough to be considered favorites. In fact, the most­nominated film, "Dreamgirls" (with eight nominations), failed to even receive a Best Picture nom, despite having won the Golden Globe for Best Musical or Comedy. 
The acting awards, however, are the polar opposite. All of them are essentially locked up, with heavy favorites in each of the four major categories. 
The biggest storyline revolves around direc­tor Martin Scorsese, who has never won a Best Director statuette. His film, "The Departed," has a legitimate chance of winning Best Picture, which bodes well for the cinema legend. The Oscars are always an entertaining show, but this year promises to have more surprises and drama than usual. 
Best Actress 

Who will win: Helen Mirren, "The Queen" 
Why she'll win: Mirren is one of the few locks in this 

performance as singer Effie
All of[the acting awards] 
year's Oscar race. Iler Melody White went over pitch-perfect performance are essentially locked up, extremely well with critics and as Elizabeth II was the with heavy favorites in audiences, and she will likely driving force behind one of be rewarded for her effort.
each ofthe four major 
the best-reviewed films of Who should win: Abigail the year. If she were to categories. Breslin, "Little Miss Sunshine" 
lose, it would be nothing less than a stunning, almost inconceivable upset. 
Who should win: Helen Mirren, "The Queen" 
Why she should win: The Best Actress race is an odd mixture of old favorites (Meryl Streep? Judi Dench? Again?) and younger talent like Penelope Cruz and Kate Winslet.. Both Streep and Judi Dench have already won, and it seems like Winslet and Cruz will have to wait until they are matched with bet­ter material. Mirren's performance is genuine­ly the best of the bunch, which makes her a shoo-in for the award. 
Best Actor 

Who will win: Forest Whitaker, "The Last King of Scotland" 
Why he'll win: Another lock. It seems highly unlikely that Whitaker will lose, despite the fact that he's in a very deep and talented pool of actors. Surprisingly, this is Whitaker's first career nomination, and his brutal take on Ugandan dictator Idi Amin in "The Last King of Scotland" earned positive eritical notices ­it is generally considered Whitaker's best per­formance in an already long and distinguished career. 
Who should win: Leonardo DiCaprio, "Blood 
ODDS courtest of bodog.com 
RY By 

Diamond" 
Why he should win: A few years ago I picked DiCaprio as my choice for Best Actor for "The Aviator," which was a pretty unpopu­lar piek considering the actor's pedigree and resume. 
Two years later, nobody's laughing. 
DiCaprio gave a pair of fantastic perform­anees this year, and while his paranoid turn in "The Departed" may have actually been the stronger of the two, he brings a lot of depth to "Blood Diamond." Unlike "The Departed," "Blood Diamond" is fully DiCaprio's movie, and he dominates every scene. We are wit­nessing the emergence of one of the great actors of our time. 
Best Supporting Actress 
Who will win: Jennifer Hudson, "Dreamgirls" 
Why she'll win: Hudson already won the Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actress, and it seems that acting awards are going to be the consolation prizes for "Dreamgirls" (since the lilm itself failed to garner a Best Picture 
nomination).. Hudson's brash 
Why she should win: Breslin's sweet-natured, yet surprisingly mature performance is the heart and soul of "Little Miss Sunshine." All of 10 years old, Breslin is one of the youngest nominees ever, but her age belies the fact that she really is good in this year's Oscar sleeper. 
Adriana Barraza was also fantastic as housekeeper Amelie in "Babel," and her per­formance deserves its accolades, but it's unlikely that anyone will be able to wrest the award away from Hudson. 
Best Supporting Actor 
Who will win: Eddie Murphy, "Dreamgirls" 
Why he'll win: You've got to wonder if the backlash of "Norbit" will come back to haunt Murphy on Oscar night. Murphy's perform­ance in "Dreamgirls" earned a ton of positive notices, including a Best Supporting Actor Golden Globe, and seemed to indicate that the SNL alum is ready to come into his own as a dramatic actor. 
The Aeademy has definitely taken notice, despite ill-advised projects like "Norbit," which makes Murphy the frontrunner for the award. 
Who should win: Mark Wahlberg, "The Departed" Why he should win: Man, who would've 
guessed that Marky great actor. Proving 01 matic turns in "J "Invincible" were no arguably the best ' Departed" -no sma he's surrounded b Nicholson, Martin Sh and Alec Baldwin. 
As the acidic St~ Wahlberg gets many and delivers them wW 
Best Adapted Scree~ 
What will win: "Ch Cuar6n, Timothy J. SE Fergus and Hawk Ostl 
Why it will win: Co prize for the criminal Alfonso Cuar6n's bril cautionary tale. Tara! once quipped that screenplay award i~ consolation prize for "cool" film that can't the big one, and w "Children of Men" do quite fall into that cw ry, it's nonetheless a 1 film that benefits fn written script. 
"Children of Men" through visuals than t fact that the film is e one of its greatest stn 
What should win: ' Monahan 
Why it should wi1 chance that Monah1 award, which woul( screenplay for "The profane and deep a while maintaining its great dialogue that a and it adapts "Infern effortlessly trq,nslatin! undertones. 
Best Original Screen1 
What will win: "Bab 
Why it will win: "E long line of films ­year's Best Picture wit "Traffic" -that de through a twisting Arriaga's acute, sma the storylines quite WE ness and linguistic d place in four different ety of languages) rna the clear favorite. 
What should win: " Iris Yamashita 
Letters From I 
TliE 0HSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, February 21, 2007 
page 13 

DOXTADER 

ark would become a and for all that dra­gie Nights" and 
es, Wahlberg gives rformance in "The feat considering that 
the likes of Jack , Leonardo DiCaprio 
Sergeant Dignam, the film's best lines, 
•noe>rta.-t sardonic wit. 
r it the consolation of nominations for 
For perhaps the first time 
to his name ... and no Best ever, every single film that Director Oscar. This is the director who
has been nominated (for Best 
wasn't nominated for "Taxi
Picture] has a legitimate 
Driver" (1976) and lost for chance ofwinning. "Raging Bull" (1980), "The 
Why it should win: It's extremely difficult to write a good war film. Developed from a story by Yamashita and Paul Haggis (who was nom­inated for "Million Dollar Baby" in 2004 and won for "Crash" in 2005), "Letters from Iwo Jima" is an elegant, elegiac look at the Japanese who fought and died in one of the Pacific Theater's bloodiest battles. The screenplay's nomination alone is justified by one scene, in which General Kuribayashi (Ken Watanabe) quietly listens to a radio transmis­sion from the mainland. 
Best Director 

Who will win: Martin Scorsese, "The Departed" 
Why he'll win: Is this the year Scorsese gets it done? Endlessly shafted, rarely rewarded, the 64-year-old director is nothing less than an American treasure, with a handful of stone-cold classics 
and well-

ells more of its story dialogue, but the underwritten is 
There's a very real will take home this be a great sign. The eparted" is as funny, Mamet or Tarantino, n identity. It's got that just love to chew, Affairs" with aplomb, setting and cultural 
Guillermo Arriaga 
" is the latest in a list that includes last er "Crash" and 2000's l with social issues interwoven script. t screenplay balances l, and his social aware­rsity (the film takes countries, with a vari­his script for "Babel" 
From lwo Jima," 
Last Temptation of Christ" 
(1987), "Goodfellas" (1990), "Gangs of New York" (2002) and "The Aviator" (2004). You might've heard of a couple of those films. 
It seems almost inconceivable that Mr. Martin Scorsese, possibly the greatest living director and no doubt one of the greatest of all time, will lose this year ....unless Clint Eastwood beats him again. 
Who should win: Martin Scorsese, "The Departed" 
Why he should win: There's something oddly comforting about the fact that Scorsese's never won. It makes for a long-run­ning joke, and puts him in good company ­Charlie Chaplin, Stanley Kubrick and Alfred Hitchcock never won for directing either. 
Yet it seems pretty improbable that Scorsese will lose this year and rightfully so, since "The Departed" is an amazing picture. Scorsese has rarely directed with such verve and energy, which for him is saying a lot. 
So take notice because this is the year, Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences -you wouldn't just be throwing Scorsese a bone, you'd be rewarding him for his out­standing work on the year's best film. 
Best Picture 

What will win: "Babel" 
Why it'll win: When was the last time that there was an Oscar race this wide-open? "Babel" is the default pick, if only because it won the Golden Giobe for Best Picture. Yet, for perhaps the first time ever, every single film that has been nominated ha~ a legitimate chance of winning, including dark horse nomi­nee "Little Miss Sunshine." 
The race is essentially coming down to "Babel" vs. "The Departed," but the possibility of a split vote means any of the other three films could take home the top prize. "Babel" might win, but it will certainly be close enough to cause a lot of debate. 
What should win: "The Departed" 
Why it should win: Simply put, "The Departed" is an instant classic, shooting into the upper echelons of Scorsese's best work. As See Also thrillingly entertaining as it is cinematically accom­"Academy Awards plished, "The Departed" .is 
Have Long, Rich 
among the year's most 

History"
unpretentious and engag­ing works. • and "The Departed" doesn't 
"Oscar Oark Horses
have the aura of self­importance that surround­Could Take Lead" ed films like "Babel" and 
page 14
"Dreamgirls." Therefore, it didn't make its mark and legitimize itself as an awards contender through marketing and snob appeal -it did it by being really good. 
Oscar Oversights

+ 
Despite leading the pack in total nomina­tions with eight, "Dreamgirls" did not receive a Best Picture nod. 

+ 
Ken Watanabe failed to receive a nomina­tion for his brilliant, compe.lling turn as General Kuribayashi in Clint Eastwood's "The Departed."

+ 
Jack Nicholson, the most-nominated actor in Oscar history, failed to garner a nom for his work as Boston mobster Frank Costello in Martin Scorsese's "The Departed." 

+ 
Alfonso Cuar6n's "Children of Men" received no major nominations outside of screenplay. Notable omissions were Cuar6n for directing, Clive Owen for acting and a Best Picture nomination. 

+ 
"Casino Royale," the "reboot" of the James Bond franchise, received no major nominations, despite being a critical and com­mercial smash. Daniel Craig's fierce, charis­matic performance went un-nominated. 

+ 
Neither of the 9/11 themed films (Paul Greengrass' "United 93" and Oliver Stone's "World Trade Center") received any major nominations. 

+ 
Sacha Baron Cohen, who won the Golden Globe for Best Actor, did not receive a nomi­nation for "Borat!" 

+ 
Mel Gibson's "Apocalypto" received no major nominations. 


Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
-
-~~;

.ic ". 
-
-
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, February 21, 2007 

ACADEMY AWARDS HAVE LONG, RICH HISTORY 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
This year marks the 79th time the Academy of Motion I'icture Arts and Sciences will gather together to hand out the Academy Award of Merit -the iconic statuette given for Academy Awards, or Oscars. 
This night of glitz and glam has its share of history and interesting trivia. For example, the 1941 Orson Welles epic that has come to be known as one of the greatest films ever made, "Citizen Kane," only won one Oscar ­and for Best Screenplay at that. It lost out on the Best Motion Picture Oscar to a little-known film directed by John Ford-"How Green Was My Valley." 
Needless to say, the Academy doesn't get it right every time, but its awards have come to be known as the apex of achievement for those involved in the motion picture industry. 
But what about the star of the cere­mony himself -Oscar himself? Where does he come from, and why has he been dubbed Oscar? 
The sword wielding art-deco crusad­er was designed by Cedric Gibbons, sculpted in clay by George Stanley and then cast in tin and copper and plated in gold by Alex Smith. This is the chronicle of his birth and he has changed little except for the base of the statuette, which has been streamlined in recent years. 
His name is something more of a mystery. Some claim Bette Davis named Oscar after her husband Harmon Oscar Nelson. Others say that the Academy's Executive Secretary, Margaret Herrick, after seeing the stat­ue in 1931, said it reminded her of her uncle Oscar. 
Whatever the actual story, the golden knight standing on the reel of film is one of the most highly prized awards in the entertainment industry. 
Though Oscar himself stands in gold­en perfection, the awards ceremony ­and the voting of the Academy mem­bers -is far from perfect. Many times the Academy voters have made deci­sions that seems correct at the time but do not seem right years down the road -like choosing "Shakespeare in Love" over "Saving Private Ryan" in 1998. 

Some of the more infamous gaffes have come in recent years. The 1992 award for Best Supporting Actress went to Marisa Tomei for her role in "My Cousin Vinny." Urban legend claims that presenter Jack Palance actually read the wrong name because Tomei was considered a long shot against the other four nominees. 
Whatever the case, this example shows that not everyone is a lock, no matter what what the critics and so­called experts say. 
Another incident involving accept­ance speeches occurred in 2000 when Julia Roberts won her Best Actress Oscar for her role in '"Erin Brockovieh." When she got up to the microphone she seemed to thank everyone and their dog -forgetting, however, the real-life Erin Broekovich. This snub will go down as a lesson to 
JEFF ALBERT/Observer Graphic 
anyone composing an acceptance speech. 
The Academy Awards are not quite the perfect dream that many budding actors and filmmakers might expect. In fact, there are a lot of politics and a lot of commercialism involved. Some movie studios push their films harder than others to get votes, which ulti­mately equals dollar signs (such as the infamous over-saturating market strat­egy known as the "Miramax Machine"). 
What can be counted on, however, is a night equally exciting for those obsessed with celebrity gossip and fashion as for those that just love movies ... despite the occasional gaffe in etiquette. 
After all, nothing said "the classiest night on Earth" like playing the theme from "The Terminator" right after cine­matographer Robert Richardson dedi­cated his Oscar for "The Aviator" to his recently deceased mother. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
-OscAR's DARK HoRsEs CouLD TAKE THE LEAD 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Scene Writer 
The Academy Awards are notorious for the inscrutability of their nomination process. 
Somewhere between the 6,000 unnamed members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences receiv­ing a ballot and a winner receiving a golden statuette, a list of nominees is formed and a winner chosen. But every year, there is a nomination that no one actually believes will win, no matter its cinematic worth -the dark horse. 
Dark horse nominations are the movies and performances that, though excellent examples of filmmaking, don't seem to quite fit the typecast of an Oscar contender, and are a long shot to win. 
Of course, the official qualifications to be nominated are deceptively simple. Best Picture nominees simply have to fulfill such requirements as have a run­ning time over 40 minutes and be released in a commercial theatre for paid admission. But there is an unde­fined standard which nominees are expected to fill to have a chance to win. 
Dark horse candidates are fairly com­mon. "Seabiscuit" for the 2003 Best Picture was one, as it stood up to movies such as "The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King" and "Mystic River." So were "Babe" in 1995 -against "Apollo 13," "The Postman (II Postino)," and "Braveheart" -and "Quiz Show" in 1994 -against "Forrest Gump," "The Shawshank Redemption" and "Pulp Fiction." 
None of the films were undeserving nominations, but they were unlikely to be Oscar winners. Generally, they didn't have the "seriousness" or the chance for historical longevity associated with Oscar Best Pictures. 
The likelihood of there being a non­standard best picture nominee was high this year because so many contenders were still left in the running right before the nominations were announced. 
Everything from "Apocalypto" to "Bobby" to "Pan's Labyrinth" was still considered a possibility. Even "Babel," which is now considered to have a shot, was not a sure thing. 

. The odds increased when "Dream­girls" was left out of the best picture race, leaving an open spot behind it. Now, several of the other acclaimed nominees, such as "The Queen" and "The Departed," have a shot at the top prize. 
The dark horse candidate for best pic­ture this year is "Little Miss Sunshine," which has received considerable critical acclaim, gathering four Oscar nomina­tions and two Golden Globe nods. It has gained popular support, managing to· rank in the top three weekly box office winners, despite being an independent film with a relatively low $8 million budget. 
Still, it does not fit the typical Oscar persona. 
While "Little Miss Sunshine" has dra­matic elements, it is considered comedic satire, a genre that has never fared well at the Academy Awards. It is also the first feature film of Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris, so it cannot be car­ried by director prestige. Despite all of its merit, "Little Miss Sunshine" will probably never shed its film-festival roots. 
Another dark horse for this year's Academy Awards is Ryan Gosling for best actor. Gosling was nominated for his portrayal of gifted high school teacher and cocaine addict Dan Dunne in "HalfNelson." 
Since the film itself has not received much attention -in fact, it is Gosling's performance that has mostly put it on the radar -it will not carry him. Neither will Gosling's acting history; he is most known for "The Notebook" and "Remember the Titans," neither of which are Oscar-type movies. 
Finally, up against names like Peter O'Toole, Forest Whitaker, and even Leonardo DiCaprio and Will Smith, Gosling does not have much of a chance. Despite his strong performance, Gosling is not actually seen as a contender this year. 
As the 79th Academy Awards draw near, there aren't as many sure bets as in years past. Maybe this is the year that one of the dark horses will take the lead. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 


-
-
Wednesday, February 21, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
PERLMAN SCHMIDT BAILEY 
BEETHOVEN I SHOSTAKOVICH I SCHUBERT 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23 AT 8 PM LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
$30, $25 FACULTY/STAFF/SENIORS, AND $15 ALL STUDENTS ASK ABOUT THE LEGENDS OF NOTRE DAME DINNER PACKAGE WHEN ORDERING YOUR TICKETS 
FEMALE HIP·HOP BALLET COMPANY INTERPRETS STRAVINSKY 
TUESDAY, MARCH 7 AT 7:30 PM WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7 AT 7:30 PM 
DEClO MAINSTAGE THEATRE I STUDENT TICKETS: $15 
BROWNING 

CINEMA 
Yoyes (2000) Nanovic Film Series Directed by Helena Taberna NR, 104 minutes Spanish Language with English subtitles 35mm print courtesy of the Spanish Embassy, Washington D.C. Thu, Feb 22 at 7 pm and 10 pm 
13 Tzameti (2006) Director Gela Babluani is scheduled to be present Directed by Gela Babluani NR, 86 minutes French language with English subtitles 35mm Print Fri, Feb 23 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Eugene Onegin The Metropolitan Opera Goes to the Movies Conducted by Valery Gergiev Sung in Russian with MET titles in English Sat, Feb 24 at 1 :30 pm 
Andy Warhol: A Documentary Film (2006) Directed by Ric Burns NR, 240 minutes complete (parts 1 and 2 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm respectively) Sat, Feb 24 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Greed (1924) 
_PAC Classic 1 00 Directed by Erich von Stroheim NR, 239 minutes 35mm print Sun, Feb 25 at 2 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
Watch The Final Cut 
An original movie review show, Wednesday nights at 11 pm on NDtv Channel 53 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 21, 2007 
NBA 

Detroit holds off a late Milwaukee run to win 
against Garnett and grabbed
Arenas scores 38 in 

12 rebounds, Washington'swin despite shooting DeShawn Stevenson scored a season-high 23 points, a mediocre 12-for-24 Minnesota's Hicky Davis scored 15 of his 24 points in the sec­
Associated Press 

ond half. and rookie Handy 
MILWAUKEE -Chauncey Foye led a run that cut a 16­Billups scored 19 as the Detroit point lead to four in the third Pistons held on to beat the quarter. Milwaukee Bucks 84-83 on Arenas restored the double­Tuesday night. digit lead at the start of the 
Milwaukee's Charlie Bell fourth quarter with his best scored on a driving layup to cut back-to-back shots of the night: the Detroit lead to 1 with 30.9 his only made 3-pointer and a seconds remaining. Rasheed tough turnaround fadeaway. Wallace then missed an off-bal­Otherwise, Agent Zero adjusted ance jumper with the shot his game and driving to the clock running out, giving the basket, at one point passing up Bucks a shot at the victory with a jumper for a slalom-like drive 
7.1 seconds remaining. through the paint for a layup. 
Mo Williams inbounded the The Timberwolves later had ball to Andrew Bogut. He gave an 8-0 to cut the deficit to six it back to Williams, who drove with less than four minutes to the lane and missed a layup. play, but Stevenson drove for a 
Detroit spoiled the return of layup and made a tough fade­Milwaukee star Michael Redd, away to help the Wizards hold who played for the first time on. since straining the patellar ten­don in his left knee Jan. 5. Charlotte 104 Redd scored 17 in limited min­New Orleans 100 utes for Milwaukee, shooting 7-Haymond Felton had 21 for-18 from the field. Bell led points and 11 assists and out­Milwaukee with 22, and Ruben played Chris Paul in a battle of Patterson added 18. second-year point guards to 
Wallace scored 16 and added lead the Charlotte Bobcats to a 11 rebounds for Detroit. win over the New Orleans 
With the victory, the Pistons Hornets on Tuesday night. are 16-9 on the road this sea­Felton, the fifth pick in the son -making them the only 2005 draft, scored nine points team in the Eastern Conference in the fourth quarter when the team with a winning road Bobcats pulled away in a bruis­Hornets have returned to the lield. record. ing game that included a shov­Charlotte since they loft for Salim Stoudamire gave the San Antonio 95, Denver 80 
The Pistons led by double ing match and five technical New Orleans in 2002 after a Hawks their lirst basket, or the Tony Parker scored 17 points digits for most of the first half, fouls. bitter dispute over a new second half on a three-point to lead the San Antonio Spurs
-but Milwaukee went on a 9-0 Paul, the fourth pick in the arona. With a complete play with 10:34 loft in the to a win over the Denver run to cut their lead to 4 7-41 at draft and a forme~ college turnover of tho roster and game. Nuggets on Tuesday night. halftime. opponent of Felton, had 20 coaching starr. only a handful Kirk Ilinrich and Luol Deng Not even the return of Allen points and seven assists, but of support starr members and added 16 points each for the Iverson could boost Denver. Washington 112 the llornets lost for only the broadcasters remain from the Bulls, who won for just the sec­Iverson missed nine of the Minnesota 100 fourth time in 13 games. Charlotte team. And there was ond time in seven games. Nuggets' last 10 games before Trying his best to shoot him­The Ilornets led by one going little buzz in the crowd over Leading 48-43 at the half, the the All-Star break with a right self out of a slump, Gilbert into the fourth quarter, when the Hornets' return until a Bulls opened the third quarter ankle sprain. lie scored nine Arenas launched a few bricks Felton scored five quick points mini-skirmish midway through by outseoring Atlanta 20-3. points on Tuesday. and rattled a few home to put the Bobcats ahead. Matt the third quarter. llinrich made a 3 and Duhon's Manu Ginobili added 14 Tuesday night on his way to 38 Carroll's 3-pointer.. with just Jake Voskuhl routed Paul on a free throw put Chicago up 67-points and Tim Duncan had 12 points as the Washington under 6 minutes left made it drive to tho basket and kept 46 with 4:17 left in the third during the Spurs' first home Wizards beat the Minnesota 89-84. Paul's arm pinned to his side. quarter. game since they went on a road Timberwolves. Just over a minute later, Paul lungod at Voskuhl. then The Bulls playod much of the trip, where they split their Arenas, who has struggled Felton blew by Paul and fed reached around and threw the third quarter without Ben eight games. with his jump shot all month, Gerald Wallace for a layup to ball at Voskuhl's shoulder. Gordon who suf!'ered a left Carmelo Anthony led Denver relied on layups and free complete a 7-0 run and put Chandler came over and thigh bruise when ho was with 15 points, Nene had 13 throws for most of his points. Charlotte ahead 98-90. pushed Voskuhl. and then fouled by Hoyal lvey early in and DerMarr Johnson had 11. He went 12-for-24 from the Jannero Pargo's 3-pointer. Mason and Wallace started the quarter. Gordon neveT After trailing for most of the field and 13-for-15 from the with 31 seconds left cut the shoving. Adam Morrison and returned and finished with six first, the Spurs took a 25-21 line but made only 1 of 8 from lead to 102-100, but Derek West ran into the serum before points. lead into the second quarter. 3-point range -including an Anderson, in his first game the officials separated every-· Joe Johnson. who came in Parker helped them extend the air ball -and is 10-for-57 back from an ankle injury, hit one. the game averaging 25.1 points lead scoring 10 of his points in behind the arc over his last two free throws with 6 seconds for the Hawks was hold to nine the quarter. San Antonio led seven games. left to put it away. Chicago 106, Atlanta 81 points on 2-of-12 shooting. 49-38 at the break. Kevin Garnett led the Wallace had 21 points and Chris Duhon scored 1 7 points Josh Childress scored 16 The Spurs broke the game Timberwolves with 26 points Emeka Okafor added 16 points and the Chicago Bulls held the points to load the Ilawks, who open in the third quarter on 8-for-17 shooting and had and 15 rebounds for the Atlanta Hawks without a field shot 35.6 percnnt from the outscoring the Nuggets 30-10. 13 rebounds. Bobcats, who won their second goal in the third quarter in a field. Anthony and Iverson were just 
The Wizards led from start to straight game. victory Tuesday night. Ilinrieh had 11 of his 16 a combined 1-for-1 0 in the finish in a game that had a Desmond Mason scored 17 It was the lirst time the Bulls points in the first half and Deng quarter as Denver had nine low-energy first half, as if both points, David West scored 16 held a team without a lield goal added 10. turnovers. teams were still recovering and Tyson Chandler had 16 in a quarter. They had held the P.J. Brown finished the game The Nuggets rallied in the from All-Star weekend. The points and 20 rebounds for the Knicks to one basket in 1999. with 11 points and nine fourth, but it was too late as supporting casts had their Hornets, who lost despite a 4 7-Atlanta was outscorod 28-8 rebounds for Chicago and the Spurs improved to 36-18 on moments: Second-year player 36 rebounding edge. in the third quarter and l'in­Malik Allen added 12 points off the season while Denver fell to Andray Blatche held his own It marked the third time the ished the period 0-for-16 from tho bench. .500 (26-26). 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

BEITER HOMES.BETIER PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME· Dear Oberon, 
AREAS,BETIER DEALS. ONE WHO IS? r dissention is leading 2 a progeny 
BlueGoldRentals.com You do not have to be alone. of evils. 
WANTED foR SALE PERSONAL 
We want to help. 2 bad. Condo For Sale in SB 2 bdrm House available for 2007·2008. Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Call our 24 hour confidential hotline Lv, twnhse great condition & neighbor-Very Large, Close to Campus, Just bdrm,3 bath homes,frpls,2-car at 1-800-No-ABORT Tytania. hood new sunroom call 269-445· Renovated. Contact garages. Call574·232·4527 or 269-Do not go it alone. If you or some· or visit our website at 2765. $93,000 MacSwain@ gmail.com 683-5038. one you love needs confidential www.lifecall.org Ooo I wanna take you down to 
support or assistance, please call Kokomo 2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR-andersonNDrentals.com Room for rent in huge home 1 block Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. Going abroad next fall? QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLE:NT east of campus. Want to live off campus in the We'll get there fast CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4 For more information, visit our web spring? And then we'll take it slow ONE OWNER,$6,500. bed/3.5 bath. 07 ·08,08·09. Very clean, safe & private. site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart-Call for 2nd semester lease That's where we wanna go 
$600/Bed/mo. ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi-860-202-2463 CALL 243-5454. 574-360-2569. Great student price. 239-707-2025. weekly ad in The Observer. Ask for Dan Way down to Kokomo 




OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, February 21, 2007 Cotv\PILED FROtv\ T!-!E ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pls. last 10 
-New Jersey 36-17·6 78 6·3·1 Pittsburgh 32-18·9 73 8-1-1 NY Islanders 29-23·8 66 6·2·2 NY Rangers 29-25-5 63 5-4·1 Philadelphia 16·35·8 40 4·3·3 
Eastern Conference, Northest Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Buffalo 39-15·5 83 6-3-1 Onawa 34·22·3 71 7-2-1 Montreal 36-25-6 66 2·7·1 Toronto 29-22-8 66 H·2 Boston 28-26-4 60 6c4·0 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Tampa Bay 33-24·3 69 7·2·1 Atlanta 30-22-9 69 2·7-1 Carolina 30-24·7 67 4-5-1 Florida 23·26-11 57 5·4·1 Washington 2a.27·9 55 3·5·2 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. last IO 
Nashville 40-18-3 83 4-6-0 Detroit 38-16·6 82 8-2-0 St. Louis 25-26-9 59 5-4-1 Chicago 22-28-8 53 5-3·2 Columbus 23-31-5 51 4·6·0 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. last IO 
Vancouver 34-21·4 72 7-2-1 Calgary 31·20·8 70 5-3-2 Minnesota 32·23·5 69 6-3-1 Edmonton 28·26·5 61 5-4-1 Colorado 28-27·4 60 4-6-0 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team  record  pts,~  _  Jq$'t to  
Anaheim  35·16·9  79  5·4-1  
San Jose  36·22·1  73  3-6·1  
Dallas  35·21-2  72  6·3·1  
Phoneix  25-32·3  53  2+1  
Los Angeles  20•31-10  50  _3·3-4  

NCAA Men's Tennis-ITA Rankings 

team points prev. 
1 Georgia 
2 Ohio Sial 
3 Virginia 
4 Ole Miss 
5 Baylor 
6 UCLA 
7 Illinois 8 Florida 9 NOTRE DAME 10 Pepperdine 11 Duke 
12 Florida Sial 
13 usc 
14 Oklahoma State 
15 Washingtnn 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Boston College vs. Virginia Tech 7 p.m., ESPN 
St. John's vs. Louisville 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
Heat vs. Rockets 9 p.m., ESPN 
BOXING 


Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -It was Oscar De La Hoya's turn to take the podium, and he could hardly get a word in. 
Floyd Mayweather Jr. was busy yelling back at rowdy fans, posing for pic­tures and doing everything he could to annoy De La Hoya. 
It's The Golden Boy against the Pretty Boy, and, boy, what a scene it was. 
"This guy has been under my skin for a while," De La Hoya said Tuesday at the Waldorf­Astoria. It was the first stop of an 11-city promo­tiona! tour in advance of their highly anticipated super welterweight title fight on May 5 in Las Vegas. 

"He's a little brat," De La Hoya added with a smile. ''I'm going to teach him a lesson." 
The trash talk flew, mostly from Mayweather's camp, throughout the press conference, which was marked by the type of lavish production music, lights and videos that's expected to accompany a fight with the slogan, "The World Awaits." 
When De La Hoya (38-4, 30 knockouts) and Mayweather (37 -0, 24 KOs) square off at the MGM Grand for De La Hoya's title, the fight is expected to set pay-per­view records and be shown in a record 176 countries. It also sold out in three hours. 
With a crowd of close to 200 media and several hundred more fans in attendance, a digital countdown board was dis­played outside the press conference and huge pro­motional posters lined the walls. 
Mayweather, looking to win a title in his fifth weight class, was the first to enter the huge ballroom to Queen's "Another One Bites The Dust." He strolled down the red car­
.... 
pet that led to the podium, stopping frequently to shake hands and pose for pictures soaking in the cheers and jeers. 
He took off his brightly colored warmup jacket when he reached the podi­um, revealing a dark T­shirt. A few moments later, De La Hoya made his way in, wearing a sharp, black suit but not for long. 
As soon as De La Hoya started walking, Mayweather whipped off his shirt and flexed for the crowd. When De La Hoya reached the podium, he took off his suit jacket and pulled his dress shirt out of his pants to expose his abs. 
IN BRIEF 
Gonza!!a's Heytvelt charged
with fefony driig possession 
SPOKANE, Wash. -Suspended Gonzaga center Josh Heytvelt is being charged with felony possession of a controlled substance following his Feb. 9 arrest, when police said they found hallucinogenic mushrooms in his car. 
According to court documents released Tuesday, police found 33.2 grams -just over an ounce -of mushrooms inside a plastic ziplock bag in the back of the Chevrolet Blazer that Heytvelt was driving. Possession of any amount of illegal mushrooms is a Class C felony. 
Heytvelt, 20, and teammate Theo Davis, 21, were arrested in Cheney on Feb. 9 and booked into Spokane County Jail. They were released the next day on their own recognizance. 
Davis, a redshirt freshman who has not played because of injuries, will be referred to Cheney municipal court on a misdemeanor charge of marijuana possession. 

Robredo, I.Jubicic advance to 
second round in ABN Amro 
ROTIEJ;IDAM, Netherlands -Second­seeded Tommy Robredo and third-seeded Ivan Ljubicic advanced to the second round ofthe ABN Amro on Tuesday. 
Fourth-seeded lorna<> Berdych, howev­er, was knocked out after losing to Mikhail Youzhny of Russia 6-4, 6-7 (5), 6-1. 
Robredo beat Simone Bolelli of Italy 6­
. 2, 6-2, while Ljubicic downed doubles partner Thiemo de Bakker of the Netherlands 7-5, 6-3. Berdych became the first seeded player ousted from the tournament as Youzhny raced to a 5-0 lead in the third set. Sixth-seeded David Ferrer of Spain overpowered Christophe Rochus of Belgium 6-3, 6-0, finding all comers of the court with strong shol<>. Kristof Vliegen, who helped Belgium defeat Australia last week in the Davis Cup, beat Jarkko Nieminen of Finland 6­1, 6-4, and Florian Mayer of Germany beat Dominik Hrbaty of Slovenia 7-6 (5), 2-6,7-5. 
Cubs' Zambrano si@s $12.4 
million, one-year deal 
MESA, Ariz. -Carlos Zambrano and the Chicago Cubs agreed to a $12.4 million, one-year contract Tuesday, avoiding salary arbitra­tion by striking the deal just before their scheduled hearing. 
Zambrano earned $6.5 million last season while going 16-7 with a 
3.41 ERA and 210 strikeouts. He asked for $15.5 million in arbitra­tion, while the Cubs countered at $11,025,000 more than any player had been awarded. 
-
Now, the sides can focus on try­ing to work out a multiyear con­tract, which would likely be in the five-year range. 
Zambrano told WGN-TV last week that he would leave as a free 
-
agent after the season if the Cubs did not sign him to a long-term deal by opening day but he backed off those comments a few days later. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 21, 2007 
MLB 

Jeter denies rift with teammate Rodriguez 
Yankee captain does not discuss pair's off-field relationship 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Derek Jeter wouldn't discuss his off-the­field relationship with Alex Rodriguez. A-Rod, however, felt relieved to speak his mind. 
As 64 New York Yankees players assembled on the field for the first time this year, the focus was on the withered friendship of their two biggest stars. 
"I don't have a rift with Alex," Jeter said Tuesday, a day after Hodriguez finally acknowledged they no longer are the best of friends. "We go out there. We work together. This is our fourth year to be playing together. It's annoying to hear about it all the time." 
Shortly after arriving at spring training on Monday, Rodriguez said it was time for him to stop pretending that his relationship with Jeter was as close as it was in the 1990s. The pair have drifted apart since Hodriguez made critical remarks in a 2001 Esquire article. 
"That's as honest as I've been here since I've been here, the four years, and that part of it felt good," Hodriguez said Tuesday as he left Legends Field. 
A-Rod's psyche has been subject to analysis by fans since he joined the Yankees before the 2004 season. While he's a two-time AL MVP, Jeter has four World Series rings. 
Hodriguez felt a need to con­form during his first three sea­sons in New York. He appears to be taking a different tack this year. 
"I just found myself trying to say always the right things and trying not to screw up," he said. "And I think that came across for some people as very disingenuous and phony per­haps -those are the things you hear. If you're going to get chopped up into pieces, you might as well be as honest as you can and get ripped for it." 
He thinks he'll be more at ease going forward. 
"You get a little gun-shy, that's all," he said. "It all comes down to being your­self." 
Sitting in virtually the same spot in the first-base dugout at Legends Field that Rodriguez occupied a day earlier, Jeter appeared uncomfortable dis­cussing the topic. 
"I don't see the relevance of it," he said. "It has no bearing on us playing baseball." 
He doesn't comprehend the focus on their relationship. 
"They see us on the field, if one person gives another one a look, it's a story," Jeter said. "If we're at opposite ends of the bench, people say it's a story." 
Jeter spoke with Rodriguez

-in the clubhouse. He played catch with him on the field as they warmed up. But he refused to say how close he and Rodriguez are away from the ballpark. "How would I characterize it? I would characterize it as it doesn't make a difference," Jeter said. "What we do away from the field, how much time we spend together, really 
makes no difference when we're playing." 
Coming up through the Yankees' organization and becoming a key component of the unit that won four World Series titles from 1996-2000, Jeter has worked hard to avoid discussing his private lil'e. 
"I understand my job is pub­lic, but your personal life is your personal life. Once you open that door, it doesn't stop," he said. "Away from the f'ip,Jd, peoplP want to kBep tabs on how many times we go out to eat, things like that. That has no bBaring on what we're trying to do." 
Jeter was criticized by some last year for not voicing suffi­cient support for Rodriguez, who struggled at times during the regular season and was booed at Yankee Stadium. 
"From Day 1 I've said I sup­port Alex," he said. "The only l.hing I'm not going to do is tell the fans what to do.... I don't 
7 pm TONIGHT! Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Cosponsored by the Institute For Latino Studies, the Gigot Center for Entreprenurial Studies MicroVenturing Certificate Program, and the Economic Justice for All 
think it's my job to tell fans to boo or not to boo." 
Yankees manager Joe Torre thought it was good for Hodriguez to air his issues early in spring training. 
"Evidently, what Alex was talking about yesterday sort of made him feel bettor," Torre said. "Evidently, Alex said what he needod to say." 
Bernie Williams was not among those who worked out. Torre has tried to persuade him to accept a minor league contract and called Williams again Sunday night, but Williams didn't return thn eall. 
"Evidently, what I've said to him hasn't bnen enough for him," Torre said. "I know he was down when I talked to him." 
Sinee winning their third straight World Series in 2000, tho Yankeos havn fallen short oaeh year. Tlwy wnrn eliminat­ed in the first round of the playoffs by Detroit last season. 


·eA.A.nvLKa 

SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO CONTINUE FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE SUMMER. 
Grants are designed to cover only a portion of program costs. 
For details and application forms, go to: 
http://www.nd..edu/-sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies-(154 Hurley Building-Ph 1-5203) 
application deadline: Friday, MARCH 2, 2007 

Sponsored by the Office of International Studies, the College of Arts and Letters, the Nanovic Institute for European Studies & the Mendoza College of Business · 
Foreign Film Series 
...~ .. 


Milagros: Made in Mexico 
Spanish with English subtitles 
Campaign of the Center for Social Concerns. 
kellogg.nd.edu/ events 
-~-----­

Wednesday, February 21, 2007 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 

SMC BASKETBALL 


Belles headed to semifinals 
Hoopsters are one win from championship with win over Alma 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's made history Tuesday night, defeating Alma 66-54 to advance to the MIAA semifinals for the first time since joining the confer­ence in 1998. 
The third-seeded Belles and the sixth­
seeded Scots 'Tonight was a great played a very night with a lot of 
close first half 
firsts.,,

in the first round of the M I A A Jennifer Henley 
Tournament, Belles coach 
with neither team getting more than a seven-point advantage. The Belles closed the first half on a 14-7 run to take a 30-29 lead into the locker room. 
Saint Mary's slowly began building that lead in the sec-. ond half, pushing to 50-45 with 10:32 remaining. Alma was unable to make up the deficit, and the Belles pulled away for the 12-point victory. 
"It's been great to make it to the semifinals for the first time," Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. "Tonight was a great night with a lot of firsts." 
In addition to the team's record-breaking trip to the 
Mary's single season scoring record. Kessler's 484 points so far this season surpassed the 12-year-old record of 476 set by Jennie Taubenheim. 
Alma forward Ashley Matuzak led all scorers with 21 points, and junior Megan Hoblet added 15 points in the losing effort. 
semifinals,  sev­ The Belles will travel to  
eral  Saint  face second-seeded Hope in  
Mary's players  Holland, Mich. in the semifi­ 
broke individ­ nals Thursday night. Saint  
ual records. in  Mary's faced Hope twice this  
the victory.  season,  struggling  on  the  
Sophomore  road in a  67-42 loss Nov. 28  
forward  Erin  but  playing  the  Flying  
Newsom pulled  Dutchmen closer in  a  79-71  
down an MIAA  home loss Saturday. Hope is  
Tournament­ currently ranked fifth in the  
record  21  nation among·Div. III schools  
rebounds to go  and is the defending MIAA  
along with 14  champion.  
points,  her  "I think this win will give us  


5 BEDROOM HOUSEAVAILABLEJUNE 1 
Great Neighborhood, Prime Location, Close to Campus 
105 Marquette Ave. South Bend, IN Just offAngela and US 31 This house has been leased to Notre Dame Students for over 30 years by the same owner, who is a local resident. Please call our office at 
574-232-6964 

Is God Calling You? 
Come Explore the Congregation of Holy Cross Priests and Brothers With an evening of prayer and conversation with Holy Cross religious and other dis-cerning men 
Blessed Brother Andre, C.S.C: 
Dinners 
5:30-7:30pm 
Begins at Log Chapel, Dinner to Follow 
Friday February 23rd 
Holy Cross Charism and Mission wirth Fr. Jim King, esc and Fr. Ausitn Collins, esc 
?

Friday March 2nd 
• 

Discerning a Vocation with Fr. Mark Poorman, esc and Den. Pete McCormick, esc 
(574) 631-6385 
vocation.l@nd.edu vocation.nd.edu 
MLB 
Chicago ace Zambrano inks deal vvith Cubs 

AP Cubs pitcher Carlos Zambrano throws a pitch during a spring training workout at the team's practice facility Monday. 
Associated Press 
MESA, Ariz. Carlos Zambrano and the Chicago Cubs agreed to a $12.4 million, one-year contract Tuesday, avoiding salary arbitration by striking the deal just before the scheduled hearing. 
He would also earn bonuses for finishing among the top five in Cy Young Award voting, being named MVP of the World Series and League Championship Series, making the All-Star game, winning the Gold Glove and the Silver Slugger award. 
Zambrano earned $6.5 mil­lion last season while going 16­7 with a 3.41 ERA and 210 strikeouts. He asked for $15.5 million in arbitration, while the Cubs countered at $11,025,000 -more than any player has been awarded. 
"I feel good, ready to go," Zambrano said. ''I'm ready to lead this team to the champi­onship, to win in this city. The fans deserve us to go to the playoffs and to win for the city of Chicago. I'm here for that." 
The Cubs have not been to the playoffs since 2003, when they were within five outs of reach­ing the World Series. Their last arbitration hearing was with Mark Grace in 1993. 
"Our track record is in order," general manager Jim Hendry said. 
Barely. 
"There was no other case on the dockets at all like this," Hendry said. "From Day 1, when the filing numbers went in, it was like, 'Wow, this is a tough one."' 
The sides reached an agree­ment as they were walking to the room at the Phoenix hotel where the hearing was to be held. Now, they can focus on trying to work out a multiyear contract, which would likely be in the five-year range. 
Zambrano told WGN-TV last week that he would leave as a free age.nt after the season if the Cubs didn't sign him to a long-term deal by opening day -but he backed off a few days later. lie did, however. reiterate that he won't negotiate during the season and wants to be paid on the level of left-bander Barry Zito, who got a $126 million, seven-year contract with San Francisco this offseason. 
"I don't want to have a dis­traction during the season," Zambrano said. "But if some­thing ean happen after the sea­son, why not?" 
Hendry said, ''lie's always told me he wants to be here ­first preference and probably second preference. Why would (1), as a general manager, not want him on the ballclub. I don't think we'II be working on it tonight at dinner, but we're happy. 
"''ve known him since he was a kid and he's grown into a heck of a man." 
A native of Venezuela, Zambrano signed with the Cubs as a non-drafted free agent in July 1997 and made his major league debut in 2001. The two­time All-Star is 64-42 with a 
3.29 ERA. 
"This is a good relationship between Jim Hendry and me," Zambrano said. "I think every­body's happy, as well." 
Zambrano said Monday he was "85 to 90 percent" sure a deal would get done before the hearing. 
Cubs manager Lou Piniella predicted there would be an agreement, too. 
"I don't think the club needs that, and neither does the play­er," Piniella said Tuesday after­noon. 
Piniella said he attended one hearing -when he was the New York Yankees' general manager in the late 1980s and third baseman Mike Pagliarulo went to arbitration -and it was a "rough process." Piniella didn't present any arguments; he just listened. But he did offer a compromise after the hear­ing. 
"After it was over, I told him, 'We'll split this thing before the awards are made because I think you're n'Ot going to be pleased with the outcome,"' Piniella recalled. "He chose not to, and I was right. I felt a little uncomfortable in there, to be honest." 
Hendry said there was "never any animosity" during negotia­tions and there wasn't going to be any because of the hearing. 
"There wasn't going to be any tearing down of Carlos Zambrano because, first of all, he's our best pitcher," he said. ''I've got nothing bad to say to him. All I want him to do is win more games than he won last year.... The person who was going to present our case had been told by me that was the way it was going to be." 
The Cubs committed nearly $300 million to retain and bring in free agents before reaching an agreement with Zambrano. They re-signed third baseman Aramis Ramirez for $75 million over five years, and signed out­fielder Alfonso Soriano to an eight-year, $136 million deal. They also brought in starting pitchers Ted Lilly and Jason Marquis. 
sixth double-double of the season. 
Senior Bridget Lipke also set an MIAA Tournament record, dishing out 11 assists in an incredible performance. 
Junior Alison Kessler led the Belles with 20 points, and in doing so set the Saint 
some momentum," Henley said. "We showed we could play with them last game, and we hope to go on the road and get it done this time." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 21, 2007 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Illinois guard charged with drunk driving 
Police say sophomore Jamar Smith had a .17 BAC when he crashed 
Associated Press 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. -University of Illinois basketball player Jamar Smith charged Tuesday with drunk driving and leaving the scene of an accident -apparently believed the teammate in the passenger seat of his car had died. authorities said. 

·-
Smith, a sophomore guard. was driving a 1996 Lexus last Monday night when it struck a tree in heavy snow. He then drove the car a little more than a mile to the apartment com­
plex where he lived. 
Bystanders called 911 after seeing the badly damaged car in the parking lot. with Smith's passenger, teammate Brian Carlwell, still inside, Champaign County State's Attorney Julia Rietz said·. A number of other team members were gathered at the apartment, Bietz said. 
"It appears that Smith was distraught, as he believed Carlwell had died in the crash," Rietz said in a written state­ment. 

Smith's blood-alcohol level was .176 after the crash, morn than twice the legal limit of .08, Rietz said. 
Hietz said univnrsity polien investigating the aceid<mt found that Smith and Carlwnll had been drinking tequila and boor with others at an apartmnnt in his complex, and left just artnr 11 p.m. 
Smith lost control of the Lexus -registered to his grandpar­ents-which hit the tren on the passenger side, authorities said. 
Carlwell, ·19, sul'f'ernd a sovere concussion and spent four days at Carle Foundation Hospital Urbana before being releasod last Friday. 
lie was well enough to sit on thn bnnch at Sunday's gamn against Northwnstern at Assembly Hall, and could play in tho postseason, coach Bruen Wobnr has said. 
Smith, a sophomorn guard. was taken to tho same hospital by unidentified coaches and university policn, Rintz said. Ilo was trPated for a minor conrus­sion and released early the next morning. 
Witnesses reported seeing the Lexus pull into the apartmp,nt parking lot, tlwn saw a tall man wearing University ol' Illinois sweat pants lnavn the car and nntor the apartment building, leaving an unconscious Carlwnll in the car, Bintz said. Shortly artorward, tlw tall man rnturnod with a second man, thtm lnl't and went bat:k in the building, sho said. 
Smith was not in custody Tuesday, Hintz said. Shn said lw is expncted to appnar in court at a datn to bn snt. 
Smith's attorney, Mark Lipton, was in court Ttwsday and not a v a i I a b I e l'o r eo mm n n t. his ol'lkn said. 
Weber criticizt'd his player in a written statenwnt but said lw is still part ol' the school's bas­kotball program. 
"This was a case of nxtrnnwly poor judgment by Jamar," Weber said. "lin rmnains a part ol' our family and rwnds us now morn than ovnr." 
Aggravated driving under the inlluence is a Class 4 l'nlony thai. carrios a sentnn(:n ol' up to 12 years in prison. Leaving the st:onn is a Class ;{ l'tdony and earries a sentPncn ol' up to five years in prison, Hintz said. Someone convicted of eithor 

MLB 


Bonds challenges U.S. grand jury 
Slugger also hits five home runs in first batting practice 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Barry Bonds had a pointed message for the grand jury: Go ahead, investigate me. 
After arriving at spring train­ing Tuesday, more fit than in recent years following a pro­ductive winter of conditioning, the slugger insisted he's unfazed by all his off-the-field issues and is ready to resume his pursuit of the home run record. 
"Let them investigate. Let them, they've been doing it this long," Bonds said Tuesday after his first workout this year with the San Francisco Giants. "It doesn't weigh on me at all-at all. It's just you guys talking. It's just media conversation." 
When Bonds showed up, he waved twice to the swarm of people waiting to see him make his entrance, then quickly head­ed into Scottsdale Stadium to get to work. 
Noticeably absent wer_e his two personal trainers, Greg Oliver and Harvey Shields, who no longer can be with the slug­ger at the ballpark. Bonds, who spent the weekend in Las Vegas for the NBA All-Star game, was f1anked by his two publicists and a Major League Baseball security guard assigned to him. 
He joked with new teammate Barry lito in their corner space of the clubhouse, then the 42­year-old Bonds made his way through the room and greeted outfielder Jason Ellison, infield­er Rich Aufilia and pitcher Matt Morris. Clubhouse staff soon came his way with new under­shorts and hats. 
Bonds took part in a team meeting before walking to the field for the Giants' l'irst full­squad workout -and he took a big bow for the horde of cam­eras. IIe re-emerged latnr in the morning to start his routine and waved his batting helmet to fans in the bleachers, carrying two bats in his right hand. 

He shagged lly balls and hit five home runs in batting prac­tice, including a shot to the berm in right-center on a fast­ball from No. 2 starter Matt Cain. That was enough to impress new skipper Bruce Bochy, who saw Bonds do his share of damage against his old team, the Padres. Bonds has hit morn homers against San Diego than any other team. 
"lie's an incredible talent," Bochy said. "I le showed it today on the first day." 
Bonds was mostly business ­with a little fun mixed in ­once he got on the lield. 
lie still could be indicted if a federal grand jury determines that he perjured himself whim testifying in 2003 in the BALCO steroid distribution ease that hf1 hadn't knowingly taken por­formance-enhaneing drugs. Bonds, who has long denied ever using steroids, said his level of concern about the investigation is "none." 
Last month. the New York Daily News reported that Bonds fail(~d an amphetamin11s test last season and then attributed it to a substance he took from teammate Mark Swoonny's lock­er. Bonds publicly apologized to Sweeney at tho time, then stretched alongside him and Ray Durham on the first day ol' workouts. 
"I did not blame Mark Sweeney," Bonds said Tuesday, noting he apologized only "because you guys just started talking about it and I just thought it was unfair l'or him to be accused ol' something that wasn't true." 
Asked if he had failed an 
amphetaminos lost, Bonds dnc.lined to commtmt. Also, ho denied reports that he wasn't always availablo to pinch-hit last season. 
"That's not truo at all," said Bonds. who has language about behavior in his new contract. ''I'm always availablP. I'm in unil'orrn, so I'm always avail­able." 
As l'ar as Bonds is coneerned, all that is ovor with. "I don't nnnd to say anything to anybody," he said. 
Bonds quiekly nndnd his 12­minute interview in tho dugout when the questions turned l'rom baseball to his problems away from the field. 
lie begins his 22nd major league season, and 15th with San Francisco, nnnding only 22 homo runs to break Hank Aaron's earner rneord of 755. Bonds isn't about to makn pro­dictions, but said hn won't stop once he catches llammerin' Hank. 
"I said I'm playing till I'm 100 
-you guys gnt used to  mn,"  
Bonds said.  
Bonds and Zito had  a  littln  

fun, corning out of tho club­house at orw point in matt:hing black T-shirts with this orange writing on thn back: "DON'T ASK ME ... ASK BAHHY." each with an arrow that pointed at the other Barry. Zito, who threw to Bonds t.his wintnr at UCLA, stood on tlw lnll with his arrow aimed at Bonds. 
"llny, ya'll don't want to miss this," Bonds said to get nvnry­onn's attention. 
Nnw r.nnter litddnr and lnadoiT man Dave Hobnrts knelt noxt to Bonds' folding chair to ehat with tho rnsting slugger between rounds ol' BP. 
"It's going to ho intornsling to son how this shakos out," Hobnrts said about tho hype. "We'd be naive not to think he's going to be a big part of this team." 
ehargn, though, could be placed on probation, shn added. 
Smith's only prnvious tral'l'ie infraetion was a 2004 citation for failurn to stop or signal a turn, according to tlw Illinois Sncrntary ol' Statn's oflir.e. 
Wober said last week that 
Smith would sit out the rest of the season, ealling it a mutual agrcenwnt that would allow Smith to "for.us all of his atten­tion on thn physical, emotional, aeademie and othnr relatnd issues hn will l'aee in the coming weeks." 
T rht 907 E. LA SALLE AVE. 234·0363 ~{jjt..J 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 www.womenscarecenter.org 
_'7/rsl On<p'naf:71zza .in 7oa•n! 
Since 1951 
$2 off Any Size Pizza* 
Eat-In Only 
Expires March 30, 2007 
Limit one per group 
537 North St. Louis • South Bend, IN 
574-233-2464 
Proprietors Warren & Linda 

Wednesday, February 21, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
juror fell ill. One said he did on, saying a mistrial "would be Dailey said he thought the Mone said Weis wanted to not know if he could put the terribly unfair to these doc­case was going well. move forward with the case,
Weis 
continued from page 24 
ening internal bleeding and infection after his surgery. The trial, which featured testimony from Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, was entering its second week. 
Spurlock consulted with both sets of lawyers and spoke indi­vidually to jurors after the incident out of his mind in his deliberations. 
"The fact that the doctors helped this juror and that the fact the other jurors saw them do that is something that would have to be in their minds," Mone said outside the courtroom. 
But William Dailey Jr., the lawyer for the doctors, said in court he wanted the trial to go 


Hanson 
continued from page 24 
old] on a road trip with one of my amateur teams when one of the dads popped it in," Hanson said. "I was flabber­gasted to see my dad like that -he is normally such a quiet guy around the house." 
Hanson's father, Dave, is most famous for playing the feisty and outspoken Jack Hanson in the film. Jack and his two misfit brothers ­Steve and Jeff-come to the struggling Charleston Chiefs and turn the team around using their legendary unorthodox methods. 
The character is based on the elder Hanson's profes­sional career, which included time with the Detroit Red Wings, Minnesota North Stars and the WHA's Minnesota Fighting Saints. During his 10 years in the pros, Dave Hanson spent nearly as much time in the penalty box as on the ice. He collected more than 2,000 penalty minutes in his career. 
"He actually had bonuses in his contract where if he led the team with penalty minutes he would get more money," Christian Hanson said. 
The younger Hanson, who plays more of a balanced role for the Irish. has only racked up 18 penalty min­utes so far this season. Although he may not exactly be a chip off the old block, Hanson did learn some irre­placeable lessons from his childhood spent in hockey locker rooms. 
"I think I picked up the love of the game from always being around it," Hanson said. 
After his fighting days were over, Dave Hanson became the general manager of the AHL's Albany River Rats, a position he held throughout Christian's upbringing. 
The 6-foot-4 sophomore was raised on stories of his dad's career -like the time he fought Bobby Hull, arguably the greatest left winger to ever lace up skates. While exchanging blows, the older Hanson got a hold of Hull's helmet and tore it off -taking his toupee with it. 
"He threw it in the stands and the next year he got death threats from the fans in Winnipeg," Christian Hanson said. 
Although he respects his father's style of play, Christian considers himself a two-way player -responsi­ble for shutting down oppo­nents and buryi.ng a few goals of his own. The sopho­more had one goal and two assists in his rookie cam­paign and netted five more in the first half of this season. 
He was sidelined for more than a month this season by mononucleosis. He missed eight games with the infec­tion and returned to the Irish lineup last weekend for the CCHA-clinching win over Alaska. Prior to the trip to Fairbanks, the last game the younger Hanson skated in was Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Lake Superior State Jan. 13. 
"It felt great to finally be back in the lineup," he said. "To be able to help the team. out again felt great." 
Hanson and his linemates wasted no time getting back in the swing of things. The trio put one past Nanook goaltender Wylie Rogers ov their very first shift. The goal was eventually disal­lowed, but Hanson had his legs back under him. 
His return was a welcome sight for head coach Jeff Jackson and the rest of the Notre Dame team. Just as the fictional Hanson brothers' arrival lifted the Chiefs to the top of their sport, the Irish hope the return of their own Hanson will help them keep their nine-game unbeaten streak alive against Ferris State in the last two games of the season this weekend. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
tors." "We were confident and which could take months to 
"They responded the way were very optimistic there.was reschedule. they were trained to do," he going to be a good result and "Mr. Weis is committed for said. "They simply stood up that there would be no negli­this case to be tried to a con­and tried to help." gence found," he said. clusion," the lawyer said. 
,-, 

YOUR MONEY WILL THANK You. 
Enjoy a special 5.50%APY* on a Premier Share Draft Checking Account. 
Plus, you'll enjoy FREE Internet Hom.e Banking, FREE Online Check Imaging, a FREE Visa@ Check Card, and much more! 
Stop in to open yours today! 
r4 NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
021 La Fortune Student Center 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 


Announcing the Year 2007 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert RaYarino family. the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2007 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in ammmts not to exceed $3,000, and will not nonnally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program ofsummer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year ofllalian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will invoh·e the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include. but arc not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa. Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students arc encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages. 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students arc invited to submit a letter which should include: 
I)  an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals;  
3)  a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow:  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved:  
5)  two letters of recommendation  
6)  a transcript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list of other sources of funding (being sought or confirmed) for the same project  
(i.e. Office oflnternational Studies, Nanovic Institute, etc.)  
Application Deadline: Friday, February 23, 2007  
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University of Notre Dame  

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 21, 2007 




Revenge 
continued from page 24 
"We were pissed," said .Falls, who scored 19 points Tuesday. "I don't know how else to say it. That was our motivation." 
The win was Notre Dame's school-record 17th straight at home this season. A win against Marquette Saturday at the Joyce Center would close out an unde­feated home campaign for the Irish. 
"This group deserves that," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "Hopefully we can get one more on Saturday." 
DePaul shot just 34 percent for the game, including 2-for-19 from behind the three-point arc. 
"We haven't played that good on defense in a while," Klirz said. 
Notre Dame, on the other hand, shot 49 percent from the field and hit half of its 18 three-pointers. 
The Irish jumped out to an early 8-1 lead, keyed by five points from Falls. The Blue Demons' first field goal came on a runner by Sammy Mejia with 
16:40 left in the first half. 
DePaul (16-12, 7-7) climbed back into the game, getting to within two at 8-6. but a 10-2 Irish run -including six points from senior guard Russell Carter ­stretched Notre Dame's lead to 18-8 with 13:09left in the game. 
The Irish continued to build their lead, holding the Blue Demons scoreless for a six­minute period and going up 27­12 with six minutes remaining in 

Hoyas 
continued from page 24 
from the inside." 
Notre Dame will attempt to offset Georgetown's post play with center Melissa D'Amico, who averaged 13 points in her last t}VO games after scoring only two total points in 

the three previ­"You're letting people last win came in 
ous games. know that you're one the final seeonds ''I'm really against
ofthe top four teams
pleased with Mel. Villanova on I didn't start her in the league. " Feb. 3. because of the The Iloyas are small lineup at last in thB Big
Muffet McGraw 
Villanova, and East in defen­
Irish coach 
she responded really well," McGraw said. 
D'Amico came off the bench and scored 15 points, then I went on to score 11 against
I I I Providence. McGraw also 
I noted that D'Amico's opportu­
I 
I nities were limited. I· "I think the thing about Mel
I 
is we're throwing her the ballI a little bit more, and that's
I 
I 
I 
' 
the half. 
Notre Dame went on a four­minute scoreless streak of its own, but DePaul could only cut the lead by two points during the stretch. 
"We defended well," Falls said. "Our defense won us this ball game." 
A four-point play by Falls broke the funk and gave the Irish a 40­22 lead at the half. 
After the half, DePaul switched to a full court press and cut the lead to 12 at 45-33, but an 11-2 Notre Dame run keyed by six points from freshman point guard Tory Jackson put the Irish up by 21 with 11 minutes to play. From there, Notre Dame cruised to an easy victory. 
Jackson scored 13 points-11 of them in the second half-and added six assists. He also led the team in rebounds with nine. 
"He attaeked and drove and got everybody confident again," Brey said. 
Tuesday's victory moved the Irish into a tie with Marquette for fourth place in the conference. The top four teams get a bye in the Big East tournament. 
The Irish and Marquette Golden Eagles got some help from Providence, which knocked off West Virginia 64-61 Tuesday night. The Mountaineers had been tied with Notre Dame and Marquette lor fourth place. 
Syracuse is currently a hall' game back at 8-5 in the Big East and plays the Friars Saturday. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
been our problem all year, she said. "We just haven't looked to the post enough and used our post game as much as we could have." 
Freshmen Erica Williamson will be another roadblock slowing the lloyas' post play. She recorded 10 points, seven rebounds, a block and a steal against Providence. Georgetown's 
sive rebounding, 
with 23.5 per 

game, and are second to last in points scored per game, at 58.3 per game. Notre Dame, by contrast, leads the Big East in free throw percentage, at 77 per­cent, and in steals, with 11.2 per game. They are second in the league with a +4.15 turnovers per game margin. 

Jackson 
continued from page 24 
The Bl un Dnmons, on a 7-0 run, eut Notre Dame's lead to 45-33 with 15:04 remain­ing and applied fu II eou rt pressure looking for a steal. 
The pressure did not fazo J aekson. lie took the inbound pass, dribbled through the defonso and laid in two of his 13 points. lin thnn scored on Notre Dame's next two possessions and grabbed a rebound on defense that resulted in a Zaeh Hillesland jump shot to bump the Irish lead to 18. 
"I think that stretch whnre he scored six points in a row sealed the game," Irish guard Colin Falls said. "They were fighting back and hn made plays. That's a fresh­man growing up." 
Jackson finished with six assists and -despite his 5­foot-1 0 frame -a team-high nine rebounds. 
But if Jackson looked more motivated than usual on the floor, there was good re-ason. On the opposing bench sat Will Walker, whom Michigan chose to recruit instead of Jackson. Even though Walker chose DePaul over the Wolverines, Jackson car­ried the memory of someone saying he was not good enough into Tuesday night. 
"We were recruited by Michigan and Michigan ditehed me for him but he ditched 
Michigan "/ think that stretch where the year, for DePaul," he scored six points in a Jackson 
Jackson came ol'f the
row sealed the game . ...
said after bench to 
the game. "I That's a freshman growing provide a took it to up. defensive of'fens·e, but spark. But 
you know, after
Colin Falls 
things hap­McAlarney's pen. Like all Irish senior guard suspension, 
summer, I played against Will Walker during the summer circuit and a lot of people thought he was better than me. 
"I came in here with an attitude.... Oncn ho got in I just felt that I knew I was a lot bigger than him so I got aggressive and took it to the rack a lot." 
Jaekson's progression this season shows he ean play with the best in the Big East, 
Notre Damn sits by itself in fourth place in the Big East, in position for a bye in tho Big East tournament. McGraw sees positivns in both getting the bye and playing a l'irst­round game. 
"I think you want to, just for the sake of tho NCAA Tournament," she said. "You're letting peo pII) know that you're one of the top l'our teams in the lnagun. But you have a chanen to maybn get an extra win if you don't get thn bye." 
Last January Notrn Damn edged past Georgetown 54-52 when lloya sonior guard Katn Carlin's three-point shot l'nll short. 
"They gave us a lot of prob­lems last ynar. We had a vnry difficult game with them out there," McGraw said. "We had a little bit of' a lead and they had a shot to win it at the end of the game. It's a team that we arc very foe used on right now." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

without a doubt. 
llis biggest impact has come on the defensive side of the ball. 
When guard Kyle McAlarney was starting earlier in 
Jackson had 
to sharpen his game on the other side of the ball and become the gen­eral of the offense. 
llis confidence in the face of dnfensivo pressure is unwavering, and throughout the course of the season, he has grown more self-assured with his ability to put the ball in the basket. 
Sure, he's missed layups and made a couple of turnovers, and he still needs to work on his jumper, but these are growing pains. The confidence is there, the raw ability is there, and Tuesday night was a big step in refin­ing that talent. 
Even with Jackson's offen­sive responsibilities, Irish coach Mike Brey asked the point guard to shut down some of the best offensive players in the conference. Jackson answered the call and was especially effective against Villanova guard Scottie Heynolds in Notre Dame's 66-63 win Jan. 27, holding him to just 5-for-14 from the field. 
With his talent for lock­down defense and ever­improving offense, Jackson will be one of the marquee players in the Big East in a few years. 

Michigan should be kicking itself right now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris /line at chine@nd. edu. 

72 Largest lake in  
Australia  
DOWN  
1 AK-47 relative  
2Zip  
3 "Way," literally  
4 Behind the  
times  
5 Run wild  
6 Die, for example  
7 Food thickener  
8 West Indies  
capital  
9 Bud holders?  
10 Sitcom station  
11 Inundated  
12 Vacationer's  
rental  
13 Cat-_-tails  
21 Sun, moon, etc.  
22 Hook up  41 Symbols of  51 "Sense and  58 Get checkmatec  
23 Surgeon's target 24 When doubled,  crowd psychology  Sensibility" director  59 One of the Waltons  
a former National Zoo panda 27 Green stone 28 Compact, e.g. 29 Home of the Rubber Bowl  44 Famous Amos 46 Noble element 49 Home of Lafayette College 50 Put in stitches  52 Random House imprint 53 Ingrid Bergman's last film "A Woman Called 54 The turf in "surf and turf"  60 A round of golf, informally 64 Acne treatment brand 65 Charon's tool 66 Tussaud's title: Abbr.  
30 Summer  
Games org.  

Wednesday, February 21, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 
WE  CAN  ONUf  IMACIINE  "'fl..\E. 't'-.R.oc..  ~Ac-E­ 
WHAI  i<..tN!>  oF'  UPI't.OAR..  'NSI,,..u..,-e: ...  
Wll...l..  oc..c..uR. WI-IE:r-l  WE  
~1\.Ac.£.  1'\-lE  RE.S'T  ol=  ""'11-ll':.  
1'Jl,NON1N.O US 8UII....PtN(:r  fi!aw"  
IN\'"'fl-\ Su\l...DIN~S  of'  
PuRPt>~E..  

BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

LIAMMORAN
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHATARE YOU GIVING UP FOR LENT? (CONTINUED) 
Britney Spears  Fr. Brian McRichard  Carrol Burke  
NIA offcampus  administrator ORL&H  priest Corby  junior Breen-Phillips  
"Alcohol above 14% by volume. as always! (I need to not get so blackout)"  "Celibacy ... NOT!!!"  "Nothing. Laft year I gave it up steady for 40 days and 40 nights and the a**hole broke up with me on Good Friday. "  


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Beer blast garb, maybe

1 Plottihg 37 Quip, part 2 
5 Some hospital procedures 39 "The Fog of War" director
1 o 1993 standoff Morris
site 42 Quip, part 3 
14 Gung-ho feeling 43 Grain bane
15 Pull on 45 Speaking freely
16 Skater Michelle 47 Versatile
17 Product with wheels, for short
earbuds 48 Quip, part 4 
18 Put down 52 Metric wts.
19 Hindu royal 55 Writer Santha 
20 Speaker of the 
Rama

quip starting at 27-Across 56 Hustler's game 
57 End of the quip Twyla 61 Common 25 Suffix with 
23 Choreographer spread 
meth-62 Shroud locale 26 Tee follower? 63 It has a warp 27 Quip, part 1 67 Some palmtops, 
for short

31 Parisian pal 68 Circular seal
32 Mount Rushmore's 69 Reason for an state: Abbr. all-nighter 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
WILLSHORTZ 
70 Like a flea­market Gucci, probably 
71 Barcelona babes J-:--,;--+--+-+-­
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a34 Ill-fed credit card, 1-800-814-5554.35 ''The Sopranos" Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundayrestaurateur crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
36 Appear to be 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,00038 Director past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Browning 
Share tips: nytimes.com/pu:z;zleforum. Crosswords for young 40 Not req. solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, • • to form four ordinary words. 
UNSEE 

j




rJ r 

©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
KALNF 

j 
1 
ri 
TIFELL 

(J t] 
www.jumble.com 

t RAYPER j
J I r I I 
Answerhere: 


rI I J"( I I I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

--_.. 
I 
Jumbles: FEINT MINCE GAMBOL LARYNX
Yesterday's 

Answer: Why Mom agreed to appear in the movie crowd scene-FOR "EXTRA" MONEY 
FEBRUARY 21, 2007 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Brian Littrell, 31; Andrew Shue, 3' Cindy Crawford, 40;French Stewart, 42 
Happ)· Birthday: Do what you feel passionate about. A change may be tiightenir but it can be the way you turn things around in your life. Not taking action will t what comes back to haunt you in the end. A promise made to you in the past wi now be worth collecting. Your numbers are 5, 19, 24, 27, 33, 4 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your financial future should be your concern. Chec 
your bankbook and make sure that everything is in order. Start a new savings piE 
or put your cash into a high reward investment.*** 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Be attentive and affectionate. Ifyou are neglectfi 
or too busy to notice what the people in your life are up to, it will cause a chai 
reaction of personal problems. A lack of patience will be your downfall.** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make some worthwhile career moves ifyc 
position yourself to network or set up interviews today. The changes taking pia( 
will be positive. Be professional and add a little extra detail to everything you ~ 
and your income should improve. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Work hard to develop a talent you enjoy and yc 
can make extra cash. Travel or attending a seminar that interests you will enhan' 
your own awareness and introduce you to people heading in the same directio1 
New relationships are likely. ***** LEO (,July 23-Aug. 22): You will have to be on your toes today. One mistake ar 
you may be doing unnecessary backtracking. Don't let anyone talk you into doir 
something that doesn't suit you. Follow your own path even if it does mean facir 
opposition. ** 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Spend time with people who will encourage you I 
follow through with your plans. Someone you meet will make a difference to tt 
choices you make. Being receptive will lead to a partnership. Be open-minded.*** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't hesitate to make a financial or career mov· 
Money matters will improve if you are happy with what you are doing. End tt 
cycle that has been causing you grief. Only you can stop the meny-go-round. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will feel pressured to change your directic 
and now is a perfect time to do so. The outcome of the alteration you make is lor 
overdue. Take a moment to enjoy spending time with people who can offer you 
new slant on life. *** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It's time for a complete overhaul both at horr 
and at work. Make your surroundings more comfortable and you will become fi 
more productive. You are likely to be called upon to take care of an older frier 
or a relative's problems. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Partnerships will turn out to be a greater benet 
than you imagined. Listen to what others have to say --make your conclusions ar 
take action. You are I ikely to have a captive audience because of your insightfi 
ways.**** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make your point and get on with things. Someor 
may lead you in the wrong direction or misinterpret what you are trying to conve: 
so be precise. Concentrate on what you can do alone. A clear mindset will lead I 
victory.** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be receptive to new ideas so take time to tal 
to people who are in the know. Wasted opportunities will result in frustration ar 
depression. Follow your heart when it comes to decisions that must be made.**** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, creative and impetuous. You are productive b1 need to learn your own limits. You think in big terms and are open and recepti\ to new methods and concepts. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fon, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultati01 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT HE SAW WHEN HE VISITED THE PRINT SHOP. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

THE OBSERVER 








PORTS
Wednesday, February 21, 2007 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Sweet revenge 
Five score in double figures as Irish avenge Feb. 8 loss to DePaul 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
All five starters scored in dou­ble figures as Notre Dame earned its third win in six days with a 78-54 victory over DePaul Tuesday at the Joyce Center. 
"We had so many guys play really well," Irish junior forward Rob Kurz said. "I think it was definitely one of our better efforts." 
With the win, Notre Dame (21­6, 9-5 Big East) avenged its 67-66 last-second loss to the Blue Demons Feb. 8, a defeat senior guard Colin Falls called "the worst of[his] career." 
see REVENGE/page 22 


Point guard Jackson growing up as team improves around him 
If Irish point guard Tory Jackson's performance in Notre Dame's 78-54 victory over DePaul is indicative of the future, then Irish fans 


have something to look forward to the next three years. 
Just when the Blue Demons were getting back in 
Chris Hine the game -----Tuesday, Sports "Action" Writer Jackson took over and ended DePaul's hopes of a come­back. 

Irish sophomore forward Zach Hillesland looks to drive In Notre Dame's 78-54 win over DePaul Tuesday. The win was the third straight for the Irish, who remain tied for fourth in the Big East. see JACKSON/page 22 
fOOTBALL 
Judge declares mistrial in Weis medicaln1alpractice lawsuit 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -A judge declared 

a mistrial Tuesday in Notre 
Dame coach Charlie Weis' 
medical malpractice lawsuit 
after a juror collapsed and 
several doctors -including 
the two defendants -rushed 
to his aid. 
The juror, an older man, began moaning as he listened :to an expert testifying in 
defense of Massachusetts General Hospital surgeons Charles Ferguson and Richard Hodin. Weis claims they botched his care after gastric bypass surgery in June 2002. 
The judge immediately ordered the other jurors out of the courtroom, but some saw Ferguson, Hodin and other doctors who were in the court­room rush to the collapsed juror's aid. 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hoyas limp into JACC to face streaking Irish 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Riding a five-game win streak, Notre D.ame welcomes struggling Georgetown ­which has lost nine of its last 10 games -to the Joyce Center tonight at 7 p.m. 
Notre Dame (18-8, 9-4 Big East) is 13-1 this season at home and faces a Georgetown team (12-14, 2-11 Big East) that is 1-6 in conference road games and second to last in the conference overall. 
The biggest challenge for the Irish will be the inside play of the Hoyas and junior forward Kieraah Marlow, who leads the team with 16.2 points and 6.8 rebounds per game. 
"Our game plan is still kind of undecided about how we're going to attack them," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said in her bi-monthly conference call. "But we certainly know they can shoot the ball from the perimeter as well as score 
see HOYAS/page 22 

An attorney for Weis said it was with "great reluctance" that he ask for the mistrial in the case that was expected to go to the jury Wednesday. 
"I cannot think of an instance there would be more reason than when a juror has this kind of incident," attorney Michael Mone said. 
A lawyer for the doctors said a mistrial would be unfair to the surgeons, who had 
HOCKEY 

rearranged their schedules to accommodate Weis, who is in the offseason for football. 
Judge Charles Spurlock, however, agreed to grant a mistrial. 
"The integrity of the court is more important than sched­ules," Spurlock said. 
The juror collapsed while lis­tening to the testimony of Dr. David Brooks, an expert who was saying the doctors acted responsibly in their treatment ofWeis. 
Spectators were ordered out of the courtroom shortly after the man fell ill. He was taken away in an ambulance; his condition and identity were not immediately known. 
Weis accuses Ferguson and Hodin of acting negligently by failing to recognize life-threat­
see WEIS/page 21 

Hanson lives up to name 
Irish center's father starred in 'Slap Shot' 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 

Any hockey player worth his weight in tin foil remembers the l'irst time he watched George Roy Hill's "Slap Shot." For Irish center Christian Hanson, the moment was a little more significant than most. 
"I was about 11 !years 
see HANSON/page 21 


I\1CAA BASKETBALl 
SMC BASKETBAll 

NBA NBA
MlB 

MI.B 
LLI c.,:) 

Pistons 84 Bobcats 104
Saint Mary's 66 

Carlos Zambrano and
z Barry Bonds chal-Illinois guard Jamar 
Hornets 100Bucks 83Alma 54 

..... 
the Cubs agree to a one­lenges the grand jury to 
Smith is charged with Raymond Felton
The Belles advance to 

Chauncey Billups
::5 

scores 21 points and reports to spring train-
year, $12.4 million con-drunk driving and leav­
= investigate him as he 
the MIAA semifinals for 

scores 19 as Detroit adds 11 assists in
tract.
ing the scene of an acci­
holds off late
the first time. 
cc 
Charlotte win. 

dent.
ing. 

Milwaukee run. 
,. 
.' tc 
page 20 page 19page 20 page 19 page 16 page 16 





