

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 110 FRIDAY. MARCH 30.2007 
Activism methods evolve with time 
Campus hosts prospects 
Event meant to attract talented minorities 
By ROHAN ANAND 
News Writer 
In its ongoing effort to attract a higher number of incoming stu­dents from diverse ethnic back­grounds, the Office of Admissions is hosting a select group of appli­cants from underrepresented groups for the annual Spring Visitation Weekend, commonly known as "Spring VIz." 
The Admissions office invited 150 high school seniors of Asian, African, Latino and Native American descent to visit from Thursday through Sunday as part of the event. 
A program -and recruitment tool-for attracting more under­represented minority students to Notre Dame, Spring Visitation has been held for almost 20 years and is directed by a team within the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. 
"We bring in ... the best and brightest minority students from all over the country to show them what Notre Dame is all about," Assistant Director of Admissions Son Nguyen said. "They stay with student hosts, see the dorm life, attend classes and explore all of the various clubs and organiza­tions avaiJable on campus." 
In addition to Nguyen, a stu­dent-led team of five members ­including junior Jesse Carrillo, senior Krystal Hardy, senior Covington Doan, sophomore Jaime Luna and sophomore Kellen Lewis -have helped coordinate the recruitment process, which began in September. The team has been contacting high school seniors 
see VISITATION/page 4 

Shappell, Andrichik end term 
Student government leaders deem administration a success 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Assistant News Editor 
Student body president Lizzi Shappell and vice president Bill Andrichik are willing to contest anyone who claims student govern­ment doesn't do anything. 
But their accomplish­ments, they said, speak for themselves. 
"Over the past four years I've heard -I can't even count how many times ­that student government doesn't do anything," Andrichik said. "After this year, I would challenge someone to look at what we've done and still be able to say that." 
Sitting in Shappell's office beside a box of Observer clippings on their activities, 
see TERM/page 6 

Starbucks founder speaks on ethics 
will do better in the long runBy KATE McCLELLAND than companies simply out to

News Writer 
make an immediate profit. Schultz, the former chief

Starb~cks founder and 
executive officer ofchairman :Howard Schultz, Starbucks, received thewho visited Notre Dame 

eighth annual Theodore M.

Thursday, told an audience Hesburgh C.S.C. Award foron campus that "success is 
Ethics in Business for his

not an entitlement -it must 
superior commitment to

be earned." 
earning respect and success

Schultz discussed his busi­
within the business world

ness practices and passed on while maintaining the highestlessons he has learned from 
ethical standards in all of

leading Starbucks in a talk 
Starbucks' business prac­

titled. "Entrepreneurship and tices.
Ethics" in Mendoza's Jordan 
Starbucks -listed as No.

Auditorium. 
16 on Fortune's list of BestHe emphasized the impor­Companies to Work For ­tance of striking a "balance has made a commitment to

between profitability and its employees by offering
social consciousness," he said, because companies that are authentic and ethical see SCHULTZ/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Colllputers rellloved frollllabs 
OIT tests design for more group work 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Assistant News Editor 
With the goal of creating 
more flexible work space, the 
Office of Information 
Technologies {OIT) has 
removed half the computers 
from the cluster in the base­
ment of the Mendoza College 
of Business and plans to sub­
stantially reduce the number 
of computers in the Hesburgh 
Library computing lab over the 
summer. 
James Cope, OIT organiza­
tional communications analyst, 
said OIT is trying to find "the 
right configuration for stu­
dents today." 
Cope said research conduct­
ed by the OIT indicated that 
students want "the flexibility 
of more space." And creating 
that space, he said, sometimes 
means removing some com­
puters. 
Before spring break, the lab 
in rooms L004 of Mendoza 
contained 30 computers for 
student use. Fifteen of these 
computers were removed, so 
half remain. 
In the Library's computing 
cluster, there are currently 63 
computers. The Library and 
OIT plan to move the cluster to 
the first floor near the refer­
ence desk in the early summer. 
In this planned cluster, there 
will be 13 personal computers, 
eight Macintosh computers 
and 10 laptops available for ·checkout. One of the reasons for the 
see CLUSTERS/page 4 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
Assistant News Editor 
Editor's Note: This is the third article in a three-part series examining activism at Notre Dame: its current role on campus, how that role has changed and what those changes mean for the future. 
From the 1960s -when students took those first tentative steps out on the quad, pickets in hand -to now, when activism has cemented its role at Notre Dame, the list of issues has­n't changed much: 
War, international human­itarian crises, women's rights, gay rights, racism, abortion, the death penalty and workers' rights have continually tugged at the consciences of Notre Dame students over the years. What has changed, however, is the method of protest. 
Rare are the students who want to sit cross-legged defiantly in front of admin­istrators' offices or torch buildings. 
"The students of the 1960s tended to believe that almost anything and any structure could be changed, 
see ACTIVISM/page 3 
THE 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, March 30, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 


On Peeps and eggs 
So you may not be a fan of pari­etals, single-sex dorms, or any of the other conservative policies enforced by a traditional Catholic university ­but I certainly hope you don't forget the benefits when they come. Aaron Steiner 
That is, in 
example, an News Production actual Easter Editor break. That extra Friday and Monday right in the midst of tests, projects and papers-it's a well-valued break. 
OK, you may think two extra days off doesn't make up for the some of the restrictions of a Catholic commu­nity you take issue with. But I have been celebrating the opportunity by rubbing it in all my friends' faces back home. Those friends at state schools who constantly remind me of the freedoms they enjoy outside Notre Dame have been getting a little taste of their own medicine. (You should have heard the responses. "What? Are you serious? Two days off?") 
Admittedly, I don't have any special plans for the weekend other than sleeping and, naturally, participating in the annual Easter Mass-brunch­family egg hunt extravaganza. 
I still participate in the Easter egg hunt? Absolutely. The bunny better find some good spots, however, because as the years have gone by I've learned where all the good hiding spots are. 
Let's talk about the food. Thanksgiving is turkey, Christmas is usually steak at our house, and Easter is ham. And who are we kid­ding, Easter ham by far and away wins. Plus it comes with Grandma's famous "hashbrown supreme." You haven't lived until you've tasted some of that. 
Of course, I'll also have my share of Peeps and spring colored M&M's, whether or not they come in plastic eggs. 
Speaking of Peeps, I will probably take the opportunity to blow a few up in the microwave, another regular custom, thanks to the ever-fascinated little brother. They never cease to amaze. 
Also included with the weekend will probably be the mandatory watching of "It's the Easter Bunny, Charlie Brown" and "Here Comes Peter Cottontail." 

Easter egg painting died out for me several years ago. Painting, drawing, whatever you want to call it was never my strength, and trying to do that on a fragile spherical surface is something I'll leave up to more talent­ed (and patient) people. 
So, yes, I enjoy Easter. It's a holiday with free candy, good food and relax­ation -not to mention the fact that most Christians can celebrate their salvation. 
I think you're supposed to feel blessed on Easter. And you better believe I'll be feeling blessed next Thursday on my way home when I think of my friends who are sitting back at school and getting ready for another day of classes and another weekend hanging around the dorm. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD WIN IN A FIGHT BETWEEN MAX/MUS AND LEONIDAS, AND WHv? 



Mark Weber Mike Kelly 
sophomore sophomore Keenan Zahm 
"Leonidas "Zidane." 
because only Spartan women give birth to real men. , 
Mom allegedly tells girls to steal dog 
ANTIOCH, Calif. -A woman who allegedly instructed her two young daughters to steal a neigh­bor's dog was arrested on charges of contributing to the delinquency of a minor and grand theft. 
Nora Vasquez' arrest Wednesday came a week after her daughters, ages 7 and 9, told their elemen­tary school principal they snatched the missing mutt on their mother's orders. 
A witness to the daylight dog-napping earlier this month told investigators that he saw two girls jump out of an SUV and grab the 

Kelly Collins 
sophomore Lewis 

"Maxim us because Russell Crowe always 
wins. 


The female victim and 
several prisoners at the 
Hamilton County Jail were 
among those surprised to 
discover that the person 
booked in the case as 
Alexander David Cross is a 
woman also known as 
Elaine Ann Cross. 

Cross had been in jail awaiting a court appear­ance Wednesday, where she pleaded guilty to an aggravated statutory rape charge as part of a deal · with prosecutors. The charge stems from a sexual relationship with a 15-year­
old girl. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
MARY KATE MAN NIX/The Observer 
From left to right, Luke Herrin, professor Bill Goodwine, Michele Hoefer and Annie Legault talk during Engineering Majors Night at the Coleman Morse Center Thursday. Faculty members from each engineering discipline met freshman students to help them choose a career path. 
OFFBEAT 
pooch from a neighbor's porch while a woman shouted at them to hurry. 
"We wonder why our children wind up the way they do," said Antioch Police Lt. Pat Welch. "It's unbelievable someone would take a 7-and 9-year­old and encourage them to do that and think it's appropriate behavior." 
Revealing jail shower turns case around 
ACHATTANOOGA, Tenn. -A statutory rape case against a 42-year-old charged as a man took on a different look after a jail shower revealed the defen­dant is actually a woman. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY a: 
1.&.1 
::::1: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
....I 
<C 
(,) 



..... 0 HIGH 62 HIGH HIGH HIGH 55 LOW 45 LOW LOW LOW 47 



Charlie Jain 
freshman Zahm 
"House." 
IN BRIEF 

General Richard B. Myers, for­mer Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff will deliver the lecture "Up Front on the Future of Global Security" at the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business today at 
10:40 a.m. as part of the Ten Years Hence lecture series. 
Ewa Plonowska Ziarek, a pro­fessor of comparative literature at New York State University will deliver the lecture '"Bare Life': On Hunger Strike" today at 3 p.m. 
La Alianza presents Metropo Latino, Latin Expressions 2007. The celebration of Latino culture at the ()'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College will begin tonight at 7. 
Grammy-nominated Tiempo Libre, will perform its timba -a mix of high-voltage Latin jazz and the seductive rhythms of son tonight at 8 at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Black Cultural Arts Council will present its "I Love Hip-Hop" fashion show Saturday at 8 at the Century Center in downtown South Bend. Free shuttle transportation will be provided at the Library Circle every 15 minutes starting at 6:15 p.m. 
Internationally renowned pianist Warren Jones, the Principal Pianist for the Camerata Pacifica, will perform with the Department of Music vocal professor, Georgine Resick, Sunday at 2 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 65 HIGH LOW 55 LOW 

Atlanta 67 I 51 Boston 58 I 33 Chicago 62 I 44 Denver 42 I 20 Houston 77 I 66 Los Angeles 76 I 51 Minneapolis 61 I 45 New York 64 I 34 Philadelphia 63 I 36 Phoenix 77 I 48 Seattle 53 I 43 St. Louis 76 I 60 Tampa 83 I 63 Washington 67 I 35 
Friday, March 30, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Latin Expressions explores urbanity in culture 
Event sponsored by La Alianza invites students of all backgrounds to celebrate customs of Latin American countries 
By LUISA CABRERA News Writer  incorporate an unprecedented amount of traditional, folkloric dances from all over Latin  ter of ceremonies for the event, says La Alianza doesn't "play the race card."  in this year's Latin Expressions would be a good way to get to know more  period, when natives would make fun of the fancy clothes of the Spaniards and copy  
America ­ not simply Mexico,  Mas said this same  theme  about my peers from different  their styles in the form of this  
Latin Expressions, one of the  as  has been  seen  in years  applies to the actual show.  backgrounds and to express  flirtatious  dance.  Sanchez  
longest-running  cultural  past," Huerta said.  There is not a sense of compe­ my  appreciation for  Latin  brought her costume from  
shows at Notre Dame, will combine modern and tradi­ Junior Edianys Deynes, the current secretary for La  tition between the participat­ing Latin American countries,  American culture." Macarena Ivanissevich, a  Bolivia, where the dance is very popular among all social  
tional entertainment to give the University community a taste of Latin flavor tonight at 7 in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium, and the main change this year will be open­ing the production to Latin cultures other than those native to Mexico.  Alianza, who first danced in the show at age 10, said the show successfully "fuses tradi­tional styles with the growing trend of urbanization to form a metropolitan style all its own." Some members of La Alianza expressed concern that the  Mas said, but instead an junior from Argentina, said understanding that each coun­she believed the show tri­try equally rep­umphs in its resents Latin illustration of American cul­the recent boom ture. "As a Latina, I feel of the urban Junior Erin Latino lifestyle,that we should try toDuquette is one which has been of the non­introduce our growing for  classes and is usually danced at Carnaval and in special cel­ebrations for the Virgin Mary. "I think that the focus of Latin Expressions is to show a little of all the different types of dances in the region, with the combination of typical dances and modern dances  
The event, sponsored by La Alianza, allows students from different backgrounds to come together to celebrate both the diversity and similarities of  show was losing its traditional values, but Huerta disagreed with these perspectives. "Every year the show is evolving ... the traditional  minority stu­dents participat­ing in the event. Though she ini­tially felt that  culture as being modern and more than just folkore. "  years now, but has just recently entered into the mainstream. "As a Latina, I  portraying what Latin America is today," Sanchez said. For junior Mauricio Ormachea, who is performing  
their cultures. This year's theme is "MetropoLatino," and the show will focus on convey­ing an understanding of mod­ern urbanity through a combi­nation of folklore, pop culture and high culture. Senior Yadira Huerta, the show's director, said this year's show will feature per­ value of the show has proven to be rooted in the spirit of inclusion," Huerta said. "What better way to carry forth La Alianza's mission of educating the Notre Dame campus about Latino culture than by inviting them to be directly involved, to share in and to experience a small part of it?"  participation in feel that weMacarena lvanissevich events like La should try tojuniorAlianza was lim­introduce our ited to minori­culture as being ties, Duquette modern and decided to more than just become a part of it and said folklore," lvanissevich said. she feels honored to take part The show also includes tra­in the 2007 show. ditional dances from Bolivia, "I spent last semester Peru and Mexico.  in a rock band ensemble, the opportunity to perform is the most valuable aspect of this production. "I've been playing music since I was a kid, and the chance to do it in front of thousands, to communicate a message of pride, is quite thrilling," he said.  
formances  of dances from  The show invites partici­ abroad in Mexico and fell in  Junior Carla Sanchez will be  
throughout Latin America. "This year marks the first Latin Expressions ever to  pants of all ethnicities to take part in the acts. Junior Michelle Mas, a mas- love with many aspects of the rich Latino culture," Duquette said. "I thought participating  dancing in the Caporales, a typical Bolivian dance that dates back to the colonial  Contact Luisa Cabrera at lcabrera@nd.edu  


live in concert whh special guestsThe Hush Sound & New Atlantic 

SATURDAY, 3/31· 9PM 
@FEN~T~ l'JoPM~ 
NO Cover 1 ND, SMC, HCC ID Req'd 1 All Ages Welcome 1 legends.nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 30, 2007 
around campus. He said some said. money on the upkeep of the assistance in both the comput­students do and asserted the That configuration worked at computers and the cost of new ing environment and the infor­
Cluster 

changes will accommodate the time of the initial report of software and hardware. mation resources environment, 
continued from page I 
reductions in Mendoza was because of relatively low usage levels, Student Computing Services supervisor Karen Renkiewicz said. Renkiewicz said that unlike the DeBartolo computing cluster, the Mendoza one is sel­dom full. 
ter
Classroom and 

"The configurations 
nity. Students groups on course assignments.
cluster services 

for the labs and the as well as fac­Students in the business school 
manager Brian 
ulty and staff spent 22.73 percent of their

Burchett said OIT's number of members time in the clusters working in data shows that 63 
computers are 
were surveyed groups on assignments, com­percent of the time, always going to be on their tech­pared to 18.91 percent of time 

the usage of the 

adjustedfor student nology prefer­spent working alone on course
Mendoza comput­
ences. In the assignments.

ing lab was at less need.,, 
Academic Risto said she agreed that
than 25 percent. 
Information Mendoza is frequently used forThe lab is at 75 to 

Brian Burchett Technology group project use but said
99 percent capacity 

less than one per­classroom and cluster Assessment many individuals work in the report, sur­lab as well. And when all the
cent of the time. services manager 
"So there might be periods of time when all those computers were in use, but there certainly were long periods of time when most of those computers were going unused," Burchett said. 
But Delphine Risto, a junior who is a cluster consultant for the Mendoza and DeBartolo clusters, said during the eight hours a week she works the Mendoza lab is always busy. 
"Ever since they took out the computers, it's been crazy," Risto said. "Computers are always full and people are coming in and complaining because there aren't enough computers. They show no sup­port of the change." 
Burchett said he is not sur­prised that a cluster worker observes the cluster is busy when she is working. 
"We try to staff the clusters when they are busy.... So it wouldn't surprise me that a student on duty would see these numbers," Burchett said. 
Risto estimated that the lab is at about 75 percent capacity or higher during the times that she works. Students have com­plained about the lower num­ber of computers available, she said. 
Burchett said OIT is trying out the new configurations to see if they better serve student needs. But, he said, if students are unhappy with the new setups or the lower number of computers, they can "absolute­ly" complain. 
"The configurations for the labs and the number of com­puters are always going to be adjusted for student need," Burchett said. 
He said OIT's primary goal is not to reduce the number of computers available, but to find the right ratio for students who use the computer clusters for multiple reasons. 
"If we find that students want to have more [comput­ers], we can order more and have them installed in a couple of weeks," he said. 
New trends in laptop owner­ship and cluster use 
The trend OIT has observed, Burchett said, is that students more and more have their own laptops. A recent survey showed that 93 percent of freshmen said they owned their own laptop. 
Risto said not everyone has a laptop and not all students want to carry them around to do work away from their rooms. 
"It was not thought out prop­erly," she said. 
Burchett said OIT realized that many students don't want to carry their own laptops 
both types of students. 1987, but now, Burchett said, 
The redesigning initiatives students indicate they want stemmed from feedback orr more collaborative space to collected from students who work. used the labs. "Keeping things exactly the 
In early 2004, OIT Chief same way as they were 15 Information Officer Gordon years ago probably isn't going Wishon created an OIT project to be helpful for the students," team to conduct an assessment Burchett said. to find the information technol-Surveys conducted of 2,711 
ogy needs of students showed that 15.36 the Notre percent of the time in the clus­Dame commu­they spent working in 
veys and computers are taken, these 
research con­individuals are frustrated. cluded there was a desire to ''I've had about two or three redesign campus computer kids come up and ask me clusters. about the change and a num­
"When the clusters were ber of students have come in originally conceived ... student and mumbled about how stu­ownership of personal comput­pid it is and stormed out," she ers was substantially lower said. than today, driving the need for long rows of single-comput­New cluster configurations er stations -to get as many Risto suggested that the rea­computers as possible into the son OIT is removing computers allocated spaces," the report and reconfiguring was to save 
Burchett said the decision was not motivated by cost con­siderations. 
"That might be a side effect, but it's not really the primary motivation," he said. 
Burchett said the University adequately funds OIT to replace computers. 
"I don't think this is about reducing the amount of money we spend on the computing labs," he said. "I think it's about spending it in different ways because the configuration is changing." 
And with the cost of the new configuration of the Hesburgh Library computer cluster, there may be few overall savings, he said. Burchett estimated the project of moving the cluster to the first floor and the cost of the new furniture could total $200,000. 
The decision to change the location and look of the Library cluster was a "meeting of minds" between OIT and the Library, who thought the clus­ter was in a "tucked-away position," said Associate Director for User Services at the Hesburgh Library Nigel Butterwick. 
With the new location on the first floor, the cluster becomes "a more obvious environment," Butterwick said. 
"It also allows us to offer 

PPE 
basically from the same spot," Butterwick said. 
The Library has not yet determined what it will use the current cluster space for. 
Burchett called the new library cluster configuration a "pilot" program to see how stu­dents respond. 
The new furniture for the cluster, according to current blueprints, will accommodate 76 people. The current cluster can seat 67. 
The new space will also con­tain a self-contained presenta­tion area to allow students to practice with group members, Butterwick said. 
If the 10 laptops available for students to borrow from the Library prove to be inade­quate, Butterwick said, OIT can order more to fit the demonstrated student need. 
OIT intends to survey stu­dents to see how they like the new Library cluster, Burchett said. 
But Cope said OIT has not removed computers from any other OIT-supported computer clusters beside Mendoza and soon Hesburgh, and it will not make any changes to them until it gets student feedback from the two changed labs. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

THE :MINOR IN 
PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONO:MICS 
The PPE n-:tinor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the inter areas or political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about I 6 motivated and talented students are adtnitted to PPE. Check it out to see iritis ror you. M our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and econon-:tics. 
lryou are looking ror  
(l)  an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requiren'lents or a tnajor, and  sec  
(2)  an intellectual comtnunity or f-aculty and students who share your interests, then PPE wants you!  

FOR MORE INFORMATION Proressor John Roos, Political Science Departrnent, 424 1-7556, Roos. l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, sitnply send a request to Proressor Roos. The applio deadline is noon on Tuesday, April 10. Late applications will be accepted only iropenin! still available. 
PPE INFORM:ATION :MEETING Tuesday April 3, 5 PM', 118 De Bartol(] 








ORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 30, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Suicide bombers hit marketplaces 
BAGHDAD -Five suicide bombers struck Shiite marketplaces in northeast Baghdad and a town north of the capital at nightfall Thursday, killing at least 122 people and wounding more than 150 in one oflraq's deadliest days in years. 
At least 178 people were killed or found dead Thursday, which marked the end of the seventh week of the latest U.S.-lraqi military drive to curtail violence in Baghdad and surrounding regions. 
The suicide bombers hit markets in the Shiite town of Khalis and the Shaab neighborhood in Baghdad during the busiest time of the day, tim­ing that has become a trademark of what are believed to be Sunni insurgent or al-Qaida sui­cide attackers. 
Three suicide vehicle bombs, including an explosives-packed ambulance, detonated in a market in Khalis, 50 miles north of the capital, which was especially crowded because govern­ment flour rations had just arrived for the first time in six months, local television stations reported. 
At least 43 people were killed and 86 wound­ed, police said. 
Police attack high school protesters 
SANTIAGO. Chile-Police on Thursday used tear gas and water cannons to disperse hun­dreds of rock-throwing high school students who repeatedly blocked traffic on Santiago's main avenue. 
The government said 159 students had been detained. 
The demonstrations came on a date often marked by violence by far-left groups commem­orating what they call "The Day of the Young Combatant," honoring two young brothers killed by police in a 1985 protest of the 1973-90 dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Four people killed in spring storm 
HOLLY, Colo. -A massive spring storm spawned dozens of tornadoes from the Rockies to the Plains, killing at least four peo­ple in three states, including a woman who was flung into a tree by a twister as wide as two football fields. 
Sixty-five tornadoes were reported late Wednesday in Oklahoma, Texas, Kansas, Colorado and Nebraska, the National Weather Service said. By early Thursday, the storm system stretched from South Dakota to Texas. 

Plan unveiled to jumpstart recovery 
NEW ORLEANS -The leader of the city's effort to recover from Hurricane Katrina unveiled a $1.1 billion plan Thursday aimed at jump-starting the sluggish revitalization work. 
The plan focuses on 17 zones throughout the city, from busy Canal Street to the hard­hit Lower 9th Ward, city recovery director Ed Blakely said. 
Mayor Ray Nagin called it part of "Phase One" of the city's recovery from Katrina, which devastated the city 19 months ago. 
The money would be used to give develop­ers loans and incentives for building in areas that the city has identified as key to its recov­ery. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Woman killed retrieving newspaper 
ELWOOD, IN -A 69-year-old woman died after she was struck by a sport utility vehicle while retrieving her newspaper, police said. 
Sharon Lum of Alexandria was stuck by an SUV driven by Randall K. Hoggard, 40, when she crossed Indiana 28 east of Elwood to retrieve her newspaper about 
8:45 a.m. Wednesday, according to the Madison County sheriff's department. Lum was pronounced dead at the scene, Sheriff Ron Richardson said. 
Sheriff's deputies were still investigating the fatal crash about 40 miles north of Indianapolis. Hoggard, who was not injured, was not taken into custody. 

House Democrats pass budget plan 
Republicans argue that plan would lead to unprecedented tax increases in 2012 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -House Democrats pushed their budget blueprint to passage Thursday, promising a big surplus in five years by allowing tax cuts passed in President Bush's first term to expire. 
The plan would award spending increases next year to both the Pentagon and domestic programs, but defers difficult deci­sions about unsustainable growth in federal benefit programs such as Medicare. 
The 216-210 vote sets up negotiations with the Senate, which last week passed a budget blueprint with spending increases similar to the House plan. The Senate plan would not generate surpluses since it assumes lawmakers will renew the most popular of the tax cuts due to expire at the end of 2010. 
Twelve Democrats, most­ly from GOP-leaning states such as Indiana, opposed the budget plan. 

Democrats said the $2.9 trillion plan for next year would point the way to a surplus after years of red ink under Bush and a GOP­controlled Congress. Republicans countered that that time. Republicans said subsequent bills affecting to $389 billion after a $153 billion surplus in increased spending now taxes and benefit programs accounting for extending 2012 would appear only if would put renewal of the such as Medicare, as well other tax cuts and adjust­tax cuts passed in 2001 and tax cuts at a disadvantage as the annual appropria­ing the alternative mini­2003 expire in four years when they are considered. tions bills. mum tax so it does not 
amounting to the Republicans had hoped In most years, Congress ensnare over 20 million "largest tax increase in for permanent tax cuts leaves alone difficult budg­more middle class taxpay­American history." when originally fashioning et issues and simply focuses ers. 
The measure reflects a them in 2001, but an on the 12 annual bills fund­Democratic leaders view choice by Democrats to obscure Senate rule pre­ing the budgets of Cabinet passing a congressional increase spending on vented that. They never agencies such as Defense, budget plan as a key test of domestic programs funded held subsequent votes to Education and Agriculture. their ability to govern. The each year by appropria­make all of them perma­This year is likely to be GOP-controlled Congress tions bills -including edu­nent, despite Bush's annual such a stand-pat year. failed to pass a budget last cation, health research, calls to do so. The House plan would year, which fouled up pas­environmental protection The 2001 and 2003 tax award domestic agencies, sage of the annual spend­and grants to local govern­cut laws lowered rates on on average, budget increas­ing bills lawmakers need to ments -while forestalling income, investments and es of 6 percent over current pass each year. binding decisions on what large estates, and con­levels, far the less than the "This is a balanced budg­to do when tax cuts expire. tained tax breaks for mar­under 1 percent increases et with balanced priorities," 
As a practical matter, the ried couples and people Bush recommended. said Budget Committee future of the Bush tax cuts with children, among oth­Increases under the com­Chairman John Spratt Jr., will likely be decided after ers. panion Senate measure are 0-S.C. "It shows that the 2008 presidential elec­Congress' annual debate about 4 percent. Democrats are fiscally tion, with their fate on the budget is guided by Extending the 2001 and responsible, and can budg­depending on the balance an arcane process in which 2003 tax cuts would cost et, and that we are chart­of power after the election a nonbinding budget reso­about $250 billion in 2012 ing a new course for and on the fiscal outlook at lution sets the stage for alone, which would balloon America." 

CUBA 
Castro ready for return to public life 
Associated Press other food stocks in developing nations, diplomat in Havana from 1979 to 1982. putting the lives of 3 billion people at risk "My own take is that this does not worldwide. presage some early return to power,"
HAVANA, -Fidel Castro signaled "There are many other issues to be Smith ·said. "Rather, it is a matter ofThursday he is itching for a return to 
dealt with," Castro added at the end of Castro wanting to get his two cents inpublic life after eight months of illness the editorial, apparently promising more about a subject he cares much about." 
that has kept him out of sight, lambasting 
such missives. Castro's future role has been theU.S. biofuel policies in a front-page news­Unlike several other written messages source of much speculation, especially in paper editorial. 
signed by Castro since he fell ill, this one the last few months amid increasinglyBut Castro's scathing attack in the did not seem aimed at dispelling rumors optimistic reports about his recoveryCommunist Party daily left unanswered about his health and didn't even mention from senior Cuban officials and familywhat role he will play in politics and gov­
he has been sick. members. 
ernment, and when he might appear 
"This shows a more aware_and lucid Castro's condition and exact ailmentagain in public. 
Castro than that suggested by the wan remain a state secret, but he is widely In his article, the 80-year-old revolu­pictures we've seen over the past few believed to suffer from diverticular dis­tionary asserted that President Bush's months," said Cuba specialist Wayne ease, a weakening of the walls of the 
support for using crops to produce 
Smith, who served as America's top colon that can cause sustained bleeding. 
ethanol for cars could deplete com and 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 30, 2007 

Kaneb Center technology fair to showcase options 
BySONIARAO 
News Writer 
A new version of WebCT VIsta will be unveiled today at the John A. Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning's "Technology in the Classroom" fair in the Jordan Hall of Science. 
Faculty members and teaching assistants who attend the exhibition will see examples of using technology in the classroom, with displays rang­ing from traditional PowerPoints to the more vanguard blogs and "Wilds." 
"The idea is to help faculty under­stand what kinds of technologies are available to help improve learning in the classroom," Assistant Director of the Kaneb Center Chris Clark said. "It's a showcase of the different tech­nologies that people might use." 
Though some professors and teach­ing assistants remain loyal to the tra­ditional chalkboard instead of a lap­top, Clark said the event is to promote technology only when it is relevant to the class. 
"Our purpose is not to use technolo­gy for the sake of technology," he said. "It's to integrate objectives.... If it would be useful for [faculty] to use a PowerPoint with images and videos and they're not doing that, then we would suggest it to them." 
He also noted that faculty members dealing with a visual subject matter could benefit greatly from the use of technology. 
"Taking slides and putting them on a computer makes things more effective for someone teaching something like Art History," he said. "It's the idea of having 100,000 slides on a laptop ver­sus 80 on a slide tray." 

Though visually inclined subjects could benefit from technology for obvi­ous reasons, Clark said there is not any one subject that benefits from the use of technology more than others. 
On the other hand, large classes tend to find WebCT useful for distrib­uting grades, which "helps students get feedback quickly," he said. 
Faculty members responsible for those large classes will notice that WebCT has had a makeover. Course Management Systems Administrator Laura Gekeler said the course man­agement system is getting an upgrade. 
"Pretty much the look and feel is changing," she said. "That includes navigations, so things are easier to use." 
Gekeler said faculty members will probably notice more changes than students, but everyone can notice that the system name will be changed from "WebCT" to "Concourse" on May 17. 
"We wanted to brand our course management system as being Notre Dame's course management system so the name won't be tied to the vendor as much," she said. Currently, Notre Dame's course management system reflects the vendor, WebCT. A demon­stration of Concourse will be part of the "Technology in the Classroom" event. 
The technology fair will take place at the north end of Jordan Hall's main atrium from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 



Students walk for Darfur 
Dozens march toward Main Building to say prayers, sing 
By JENNIFER METZ 
News Writer 
About 60 students silently marched to the Main Building as the sun set Thursday night to raise awareness about the genocide occurring in Darfur. 
The march, coordinated by the Student Senate Social Concerns committee as part of Darfur Week, included prayers and readings led by anthropology professor Father Patrick Gaffney and songs sung by members of the Glee Club. 
The students were somber in their walk and struggled against the wind to keep their candles lit to serve as symbols of their effort and solidarity. 
Chris Meister, a freshman involved with the Social Concerns committee, was one of the organizers of the event. After he took a seminar on religious violence last semes­ter, Meister said he felt com­pelled to somehow get involved in ending genocide. He said a film shown in his seminar, "Hotel Rwanda," inspired him to participate in these efforts. 
'Til never forget ... in the movie they said, 'Once the Americans see the tragedy, they'll be sure to act.' And they didn't," Meister said. "The genocide is now in its f.tfth year and there's nothing being done. Something needs 

to get started ... this week · can help get things going 
here." 

The United Nations estimat­
ed March 13 that "200,000 
people have been killed and 
at least 2 million others 
forced from their homes since 
2003." 

The goal of the march, 
Meister said, was to raise 
awareness by incorporating 
what he called an important 
element in the stoppage of 
genocide -prayer. 
"We need to pray for these 
people to have the strength to 
go on," he said. "[Prayer] is a 
powerful message of aware­
ness." 

The participants held can­
dles and marched the straight 
path from Main Circle to the 
Main Building, where they 
formed a circle in front of the 
statue of Jesus. Meister said 
the candles were a visible 
symbol of the effort to stop 
the genocide in Darfur. 
Freshman Mary Daly 
marched for Darfur to sup­
port Meister, but also because 
of her involvement in Notre 
Dame Right to Life. 
"It is important to take into 
account all aspects of life ... 
to recognize the sanctity of 
life in all forms and places," 
Daly said. 

Gaflhey began the ceremo­
ny, calling the gathering "a 
gesture of solidarity" meant 
to recognize the suffering and 
mourning experienced daily by the millions affected by the Darfur genocide. 
"We need to try to stop this intractable problem and we express our solidarity by join­ing our minds and hearts together," Gaflhey said. 
Gaffney read aloud from Bible readings and also read a prayer from a Darfuri woman and a reading from Isaiah, which he said should remind listeners to think of the messages of Holy Week, which commences Sunday. 
Gaffney joined in the serv­ice because he said he has personally experienced these "sadly familiar problems" after living and working in Africa. 
"We hope to make others aware and give others the opportunity to help ... to show their concern, their anxiety about the situation and to show their hope for the future," Gaffney said. 
The circle of prayer gained members as the sun contin­ued to set and the voices grew louder in song. The Glee Club led participants in "Make Me a Channel of Your Peace" and "We Are Called." The club sang the closing song, "Prayer for the Children," which was fol­lowed by a recitation of the Lord's Prayer, during which participants held hands. 
Contact Jennifer Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

ATTENTION: STUDY ABROAD STUDENTS!!! NOW OFFERING HALF-YEAR LEASES!! 
lafayette Square Townhomes 
.• 4 and 5 Bedroom T':ll\t~ill!iomes 
• 
6 Sl ocks from Campus, 

• 
2 SCI throoms 



It's a whole new place! 
.r··iew !ocai ownership ~~ managrnerli Newlv renJCJdeled for 2001,2'008' 
www.kramerhouses.com 

Renting fast· call today for 2007· 2008 

Contact Kran1er at f574J 315-5032 or 1574) 234-2436 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Friday, March 30, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
12,348.75 +13.85
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,046 115 1,213 2,896,861,911 

PRICE 43.52 
141.97 2.26 5.96 
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.26  +0.0 12  4.632  
13-WEEK BILL  -0. I 0  -0.005  4.905  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.04  -0.002  4.829  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.67  +0.03  4.520  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +1.95  66.03  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -5.30  667.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.18  101.03  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  118.0450  
EURO  0.7506  
POUND  0.5096  
CANADIAN$  1.1590  

IN BRIEF 
U.S. awards largest telecom contract 
WASHINGTON -Dealing a significant blow to Sprint Nextel, the government on Thursday awarded the largest-ever federal telecommunica­tions contract-a 10-year deal worth up to $48 billion -to its rivals AT&T, Qwest Communications and Verizon. 
The three contract winners will split $525 mil­lion, but beyond that they will have to compete with each other for the business of dozens of fed­eral agencies needing to enhance the quality and security of voice, video and data technologies, the General Services Administration announced. 
Among the products federal agencies will choose from are Internet-based voice and video systems, wireless and satellite communications services and updated network infrastructure. 
Several major departments, including Homeland Security and Treasury, have already signed onto the contract, though no specific deals are anticipated before summer. 
While AT&T Inc., Qwest Communications International Inc. and Verizon Inc. gained an important and deep-pocketed client, the announcement was a serious loss to Sprint Nextel Corp., analysts said, not least because the Reston, Va.-based company has been providing telecom services to the federal government for nearly 20 years. 
Economy expected to remain slow 
WASHINGTON -After ending 2006 lethargi­cally, the economy is expected to remain sluggish most of this year as businesses and consumers cope with fallout from the painful housing slump. 
The broadest barometer of the country's eco­nomic health, gross domestic product, grew at a 
2.5 percent annual rate in the final three months of last year, the Commerce Department reported Thursday. 
It was a small improvement from the 2.2 per­cent pace previously estimated for the fourth quarter and a 2 percent growth rate logged in the third quarter. However, the new reading still marked a lackluster showing that reinforced economists' predictions for similarly listless activ­ity in the coming quarters. 
According to various projections, GDP growth will remain mediocre, hovering at around the 2 percent to 2.5 percent pace in the first haJJ of this year. In contrast, the economy's average, or trend, growth rate is closer to 3.25 percent. 
Stocks close higher but shakily 
Investors weigh strong GDP report and oil surge against tension in Iran 
Associated Press  
NEW  YORK  - Stocks  
ended higher in volatile  
trading  Thursday  as  
investors weighed fears  
about mounting tension in  
Iran against a report that  
indicated  better-than­ 
expected U.S. economic  
growth.  
The  major  indexes  
bounced around, and spent  
most of the session looking  
for  direction  as  crude  
prices surged to  a  six­ 
month  high.  Investors  
remain nervous about the  
West's response to British  
sailors held captive in Iran,  
and oil prices crossed the  
$66 mark.  
This offset the Commerce  
Department's final meas­ 
ure of fourth-quarter gross  
domestic product, which  
showed growth of 2.5 per­ 
cent. That could help quell  
concerns the economy is  
slowing too quickly. At the  
same time, strong econom­ 
ic growth could make it  
harder for the inflation­ 
wary Federal Reserve to  
cut short-term interest  
rates.  
Investors also bought­ 
and-sold stocks to window  
dress their portfolio ahead  
of Saturday's end of the  
first quarter. The modest  
advance snapped a three­A woman looks at a store display in Denver on March 23. On Thursday, the  
day losing streak for the Department of Commerce released a strong GOP report causing stock prices to rise.  
Dow Jones industrials.  
"The market is at a piv­ 4.62  percent  late  Wall Street got little feed­ Labor  Department  
otal  point,"  said  Scott  Wednesday. The dollar fell  back from policymakers  released  a  report  that  
Fullman, director of invest­ against other major cur­ after a number of Fed offi­ showed  the  number  of  
ment strategy for Israel A.  rencies, while gold prices  cials  gave  speeches.  newly  laid-off workers  
Englander & Co. "The mar­ tumbled.  Federal Reserve Bank of  signing up for unemploy­ 
ket  has  become  more  Oil prices extended their  Minneapolis  President  ment benefits last week  
volatile, and more sensi­ gains Thursday after set­ Gary Stern  was  upbeat  declined. This suggests the  
tive, to news items."  tling at their highest level  about the U.S. economy,  job market is still in good  
The Dow rose 48.39, or  since mid-September on  but refrained from  con­ shape even as the economy  
0.39 percent, to 12,348.75.  Wednesday amid political  necting that outlook to the  goes through a  sluggish  
The index climbed as high  tensions  in  the  Middle  future path of monetary  spell.  
as  12,381.91 during the  East. Declining U.S. sup­ policy.  In corporate news, U.S.  
morning session.  plies amid high demand  Richmond Fed President  Steel Inc. announced it will  
Broader stock indicators  also drove up prices. Light,  Jeffrey  Lacker  did  not  acquire  Lone  Star  
also finished higher. The  sweet crude rose $1.95 to  address the economy in his  Technologies Inc. for $2.1  
Standard & Poor's  500  settle at $66.03 a barrel on  remarks to  a  community  billion, which represents a  
index rose  5.30, or 0.37  the New York Mercantile  affairs research conference  39 percent premium. U.S.  
percent, to 1,422.53, and  Exchange, after rising as  in Washington. He instead  Steel rose  $3.61, or 3.7  
the  Nasdaq  composite  high as $66.50.  spoke about the recent rise  percent, to $101.22, while  
index edged up 0. 78,  or  The recent rise in oil  in consumer credit defaults  Lone Star surged $17.66,  
0.03 percent, to 2,417.88.  prices generally poses a  being caused by borrow­ or 36.5 percent, to $65.11.  
Bonds slipped, with the  concern as increased ener­ er's mistakes and prob­ The Russell 2000 index  
yield on the benchmark  gy costs could curb con­ lems  with  lender  risk  of smaller companies rose  
10-year Treasury note ris­ sumer spending and add to  assessments.  1.54, or 0.19 percent, at  
ing to 4.64 percent from  inflationary pressures.  Earlier in the session, the  798.94.  

Apple hopes to increase album sales 
Associated Press 

rest of the album for $7.02. hope it helps us sell more songs ulti­
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Apple Inc., the Previously, users who bought singles mately, and from the customer point company that popularized selling and later opted to buy the album had of the view, we think it's the right songs online for 99 cents apiece, now to pay the full price of the album and thing to do." hopes to buoy interest in albums, giv­ended up with duplicates of those About 45 percent of the nearly 2.5 ing customers credit for purchases of songs. billion songs sold on iTunes were pur­full albums from which they have The album price reduction is good chased as albums, Cue said. bought individual tracks. for only 180 days after the initial pur­For a limited period of 90 days, 
Apple introduced the "Complete My chase of individual tracks. Apple said it will make the "Complete Album" feature Thursday on its Eddy Cue, Apple's vice president of My Album" offer retroactive to users iTunes Store. It now gives a full credit iTunes, said the new feature should who purchased tracks dating back to of 99 cents for every track the user help eliminate the resistance that cus­the launch of the iTunes Store four previously purchased and applies it tomers, including himself, may have years ago. toward the purchase of the complete felt in buying an album after they had Apple dominates the online music album. already bought a single from it. market and is a leading music retailer 
For instance, most albums on iTunes "Once we bought a song, we won­worldwide behind only Wal-Mart cost $9.99 so a customer who already dered why we had to buy it again if Stores Inc., Best Buy Co. and Target bought three tracks can download the we wanted.the album," Cue said. "We Corp. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 30, 2007 
Ter01 
continued from page 1 

the two described how they have pushed for tangible results this year for the student body -results that they said disprove the stereotype of a do­nothing government. 
Shappell and Andrichik told The Observer in August they felt they came into the school year with a momentum that helped them start achieving goals immediately, including initiatives like adding more choices to Grab and Go and starting the College Readership Program to give students access to three major newspa­pers. 
And Shappell said that momentum -jumpstarted by their combined experience in student government -contin­ued throughout the school year. Of the 35 items on their platform, their administration achieved 32, Shappell said. 
"We've joked about it being a checklist," she said. "For us, that's really what it was." 
Their most important accom­plishment, they said, was the Student Union endowment they helped to create, which Shappell announced to the Senate Wednesday. The endow­ment -a fund composed of money from The Shirt project royalty fund and from student government's carry-forward account -will provide funding for future student bodies, Shappell said. She estimated more than $600,000 would be returned to the overall Student Union budget every year through the endowment fund. 
"We think this is the most fis­cally responsible thing to do 
administration the "golden year" of student government, a remark made at the Board's Student Affairs committee meeting in February. 
Last year, the Baron-Shappell platform sometimes had to "take a backseat" to emerging problems like the controversial ordinance amendment and the academic freedom-Catholic character debate. This year, Shappell said, she and Andrichik were fortunate that they could devote most of their time to achieving their plat­form's goals. 
But Shappell and Andrichik don't attribute their successes just to the lack of controversy. Everyone in the administration worked hard, Shappell said. 
For Shappell and Andrichik, that workload will be greatly diminished once president­elect Liz Brown and vice presi­dent-elect Maris Braun take over on Sunday. 
Forging strong relationships 
Shappell said the experience of leading the Student Union has been both "challenging and rewarding." 
"It's a very demanding posi­tion and it can be very chal­lenging at times ... but at the same time, I think you realize that's what you're signing up for and I wouldn't trade it," she said. 
One part of the job both lead­ers said they have enjoyed is the relationships they have forged with administrators like University President Father John Jenkins and Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman. 
"It's really welcoming that it's more of a collegial relationship rather than students and administrators and sort of an assumed tension," Andrichik said. "I don't think there is an assumed tension in a lot of our interactions." 
Shappell and Andrichik, for­mer co-ree football teammates, said their relationship has grown during their tenure. Andrichik said his friendship with Shappell is the strongest bond he has made with some­one during his four years in student government. Shappell had similar sentiments. 
"It's been a pleasure to work with Bill and a lot of fun," Shappell said. "We've worked very hard, but it's been a great time." 
Shappell's and Andrichik's leadership duties won't end completely on Sunday. They will help Brown and Braun with transition and continue to lead the Campus Life Council until the end of the academic year, as well as present their spring report to the Board of Trustees. 
They won't be in the student government offices in LaFortune nearly as much, however. 
"The concept of free time, with no formal position, has been something alien to me in the last two or three years," Shappell said. "It's going to be nice to just relax and enjoy my few weeks before graduation." 
After graduation, Shappell is undecided about whether she will do service in Africa or take a job in Washington, D.C. Andrichik is confident his next step is law school and is still choosing where to go, with his 
top  three  choices  being  
Michigan,  Duke  or  Notre  
Dame.  

Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 



Visitation 
continued from page 1 

with prom1smg academic achievements and encouraging them to take a look at the oppor­tunities Notre Dame has to offer them. 
"Of course, we're known for our Catholic identity, top tier aca­demics and athletics," Hardy said. "But Spring Viz -rather than show just the academic side of our University -gives these stu­dents a roundabout portrayal of the life here." 
This year's Spring VIsitation has brought promising students from across the country. And their backgrounds add an interesting dimension the Admissions com­mittee said could be a positive addition to the student body here. 
"Many are ... first-generation college students who ordinarily could not have the opportunity to travel to visit Notre Dame on their own," Carrillo said. "They come from all sorts of socioeconomic, multicultural and religious set­tings." 
As a result, the Undergraduate Admissions Committee sponsors with the money," Shappell said. 
Previous administrations have discussed creating this fund, and Shappell said she is proud her administration was able to carry it through. 
Current students may not benefit from the effects of 
this m e  endow­n t ,  "! think members of  ed, including his work with the  
Andrichik said,  this administration  Career Center,  
but in 10 years students will see the benefit  were dedicated to serving the student  the Development Office and the Alumni  
when the cam­pus can host larger concerts and clubs can  body in every way and the first ofthat is achieving everything  Association to give seniors access to a wider alumni  
receive  extra  we wanted to  contact network.  
funding. "I think that  achieve.,,  The first-ever Community  
might not look  Summit, held in  
like our largest  Lizzi Shappell  early  March,  
accomplish­ment now, but  student body president  was source  another of pride  
that's  one  of  for the outgoing  
the things that  president  and  

I can almost assure will still be vice president. around and still have a great "It was the first time that all impact when this year's fresh­the area schools and all the men are long gone from cam­area officials and agencies just pus," Andrichik said. sat down and talked," 
Their administration has Andrichik said. "That's huge made other changes that cur­for opening up future conver­rent students can notice, sation." including an Eating Disorders South Bend's amended disor­Conference, a Community derly house ordinance sparked Summit and more chances for debate in fall 2005 and raised student interaction with alum-questions of evictions. Shappell ni. said that fallout, which she 
tackled as vice president with A 'determined' administration last year's president Dave 
Reflecting on the past year, Baron, put student government Shappell said she would use in a reactive position. The the word "determined" to Community Summit and the describe her administration. first freshman tour of South 
"I think members of this Bend last August have let stu­administration were dedicated dent government take a more to serving the student body in proactive stance, she said. every way and the first of that That difference led a Trustee is achieving everything we to joke that Shappell and wanted to achieve," she said. Andrichik could consider their 
each trip for the invitees ­including transportation from home -to help them get a feel for the University. Typically, two opportunities for Spring VIsitation are held each year. The first occurs in late February, which is much smaller and designated pri­marily for minority students admitted under the University's non-binding Early Action pro­gram. 
This weekend's event not only is much larger but also features many prospects who have not received official acceptance let­ters to the University yet. 
"We merely congratulate them on their academic qualifications in the invitation letters they receive to attend Spring Viz," Carrillo said. 
After arriving on campus Thursday, the prospects attended a brief introduction session and meet their student hosts. They will be greeted today by Dan Saracino, assistant provost for enrollment, to congratulate them on their qualifications within the highly competitive applicant pool for admissions. 
Afterwards, Hugh Page, dean of the First Year of Studies, will pro­vide information about the aca-

Schultz 
continued from page 1 

them superior health care and stock options, even for those who well less than 40 hours a week. 
Schultz said his dedication to his company's employees grew out of his early childhood expe­riences. 
While Schultz was growing up in a housing project in Brooklyn, New York, his family suffered when his father was injured on the job and received no benefits or workers' com­pensation. Schultz said these memories made him committed to providing health care to his employees. 
He encouraged the audience to take an active role in trying to change government policy, saying the nation's status with 47 million Americans unin­sured is "fracturing the humanity of America." 
He also reminded future entrepreneurs of what he believes to be the most impor­tant discipline in any business 
"The corresponding part of that is by continuing to listen to students and trying to serve their interests and represent them." 
Andrichik said he felt a 
"sense of accomplishment" from the initia­tives they start­
demic environment at Notre Dame. Students will then have the opportunity to attend a facul­ty-staff luncheon to acquaint themselves with representatives from the academic departments that interest them. 
A false impression of diversity? 
Weekend activities will also be abundant for the prospects, with the opening of La Alianza's Latin Expressions today and the Fashion Show from the Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC) Saturday. 
The variety of on-campus events will provide a packed weekend for these prospects. But some have criticized Spring VIsitation recently for displaying a false impression of diversity at Notre Dame by hosting these stu­dents on a weekend when there simply happens to be cultural events on campus. 
In a column that appeared in the Viewpoint section of The Observer Feb. 26, senior Will McAuliffe, an Observer columnist, expressed this view regarding his impressions after leaving a Voices of Faith concert when he was a prospect. 
"Once the doors opened, the reality of Notre Dame set back in," McAuliffe wrote. "Despite the genuine efforts of the administra­tion, this University is not diverse." 
In response to this allegation, the Admissions team -though they acknowledged that multicul­tural events like Latin Expressions don't occur every weekend -said they are not using these shows to deceive prospects. 
"Rather, they are showcases ­not just for our prospects but for our community as a whole," Carrillo said. "Part of the hosting process is honest, and the stu­dents will experience for them­selves what Notre Dame is really about-good or bad." 
The undergraduate Admissions committee neither sponsors nor produces these shows, but simply encourages the prospects to attend. 
"This weekend is no different from any other weekend," Hardy said. "We're aware that the BCAC Fashion Show is not every week­end, just like the Keenan Revue isn't every weekend, either. And students who apply here are aware that we are a predomi­nantly white institution, but we're not trying to hide that." 
First impressions 

The prospects, who arrived Thursday, said they were impressed by other factors that they hadn't considered. For Tsz Wong, a senior from Brooklyn, New York, the chance to escape the city was "incredible." 
"The first thing I noticed was the Golden Dome, which wasn't surrounded by clusters of apart­ment complexes," she said. "The campus is so beautiful." 
The opportunity to visit the campus may make Notre Dame a higher contender on the prospect's list of college choices. Since it is a free ride, some sen­iors choose to capitalize on this opportunity to learn more about the institution. 
"My family and I were so excit­ed about the visitation and now Notre Dame has definitely become one of my top choices," said Brandi Rodriguez, a senior from San Antonio. "Still, it's all up to financial aid, but I can't wait to see what else to explore here." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 

-huma,n resources. While human resources is usually the last division of a company to be funded, it is important that "people feel as if they are a part of something larger than themselves," Schultz said, adding that human resources is the easiest way to connect them. 
The second most important discipline after human resources, Schultz said, is cor­porate social responsibility ­and not simply making charita­ble donations as a marketing gimmick, but also having an entire program devoted to a company's ethical practices. 
More and more consumers are asking serious questions of companies about how they treat the people overseas who manufacture goods or sell com­panies raw materials, Schultz said. He said Starbucks is com­mitted to improving the quality of life of the farmers from whom they buy their coffee beans. 
He said Starbucks purchases more Fair Trade coffee than any other company and consis­tently pays above market value for their beans. Schultz admit­ted that doing the right thing for the company's employees has been difficult at times. But he said he would rather see a slight loss in the short-term and maintain Starbucks' ethi­cal commitment to its partners. 
He finished his speech with a reminder to young entrepre­neurs never to forsake their dreams, saying his own success could not have been predicted based on his early life. 
Contact Kate McClelland at mmcclell@nd.edu 
Friday, March 30, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Couple tackles sexuality, spirituality 
Married Loyola University scholars address emotional, social maturation 
humanity." exuberance that accompanies 
By BRIGID FENLON At this point, Evelyn childhood, and while maturity 
News Writer Whitehead offered her working is integral to development, "it 
definitions of sex, sexuality and puts eros at risk," she said. 
Saint Mary's Center for eros. Sex, she said, "refers to "Maturity leads to socially Spirituality welcomed theolo­reproductive organs, genital conditioned norms that domes­gian and professor James and behaviors." ticate our tendencies and tame Whitehead and his wife, psy­Sexuality, she continued, our enthusiasm," she said. chologist and professor Evelyn "includes the realm of sex, But she thinks restoration of Whitehead, to Carroll reproductive organs and geni­eros is possible. Auditorium Thursday night to tal behavior, but moves beyond "Psychologists suggest that discuss spirituality and sexuali­biology towards social expecta­we can tap into our sensuality ty. tion and cultural ideals that and emotions in order to recov­
Their presentation covered a shape our sense of self." er eros and mature in our sexu­variety of theories on the signif­In western traditions, she ality," Evelyn Whitehead said. icant and integral role that they said eros is defined as sexual Furthermore, both speakers believe spirituality and sexuali­desire and passion. highlighted the idea that eros is ty play in everyone's life. "However, ancient intuitions not restricted to sexual passion, 
James Whitehead defined describe eros as 'born of but includes passions and ener­spirituality and sexuality as chaos,' which names an under­gies in all areas of life. Evelyn "our desire and longing for our lying vitality that is at play in Whitehead noted the beauty life in the hope that our lives every arena in life," she said. and pleasure that can come can become more generous and Evelyn Whitehead said she from simple pleasures. fruitful." wanted to restore the word "Eros motivates our choices, 
He said Jesus wants people to eros to its earliest meaning and deepens our commitments, prosper and to achieve true fundamental vitality. The goal, attracts us to each other and happiness. she said, is for people to once opens us to suffering and beau­
"Jesus wants us not just to again associate "art and desire, ty of the world," she said. "To survive, but thrive, flourish and passion and pleasure but mature sexually is to become to live with life in abundance," empathy and compassion as confidant and comfortable with James Whitehead said. well" with the idea of eros. At the ways that sex, sexuality and 
In order to attain fulfillment, the heart of eros is the idea eros are a part of our lives." people must cultivate and nour­that our sexual inclinations Both James and Evelyn ish their spiritual and sexual "join us in fruitful engagement" Whitehead said they thought selves, he said. In doing so, rather than cause shame and eros was all-inclusive and could they will mature and grow, ulti­lead to secrecy, she said. be found in a variety of mately developing eros, which From our earliest years of lifestyles. Maturity is important James defined as "our desire to infancy, Evelyn Whitehead said to every lifestyle, they said. be more fully alive, and to eros is at work in our lives. She "This maturity causes sexual reach the pinnacle of our emphasized the energy and experiences to become more 



Summit promotes peace 
Kroc conference to encourage diplomatic negotiations, dialogue 
By KATIE PERALTA News Writer 

The goal of this week­end's 15th annual Student Peace Conference is to reach peace through understanding, the event co-organizers said. 
Senior Claire McArdle, a peace studies major who co-organized the event with fellow senior peace studies major Katie Mounts, said the goal of this conference is to "focus on the other." 
"We create our identi­ties by saying what we are not," she said. 
This abstract concept centralizes around the idea of understanding, which McArdle and Mounts said they believe leads directly to conflict resolution. 
The conference, spon­sored and funded by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and organized by undergraduate peace studies students, hopes to attract not only peace studies majors but also undergraduate students from other areas of study as well as members of the South Bend community to focus on conflict resolu­tion and understanding. 
In a world filled with conflict and disagree­ment, McArdle and Mounts said they believe peaceful negotiation often gets pushed to the back burner and that nations turn to war as a means of solving problems. The goal of this conference and others like it, they said, is to explore the con­cept of understanding, a more peaceful and rea­sonable means of resolv­ing issues. 
Organizers said that societies around the world are divided socially, politi­cally, geographically and religiously, and people tend to define themselves by what they're not. 
For example, the differ­ences between Muslim and Christian religions are further accentuated by the lack of knowledge and understanding of members of each respec­tive group. These differ­ences, McArdle said, are not necessarily caused by racism, but more by a lack of understanding, so that bridging the cultural gap is a lot harder. 
"Understanding leads to dialogue," McArdle said. Dialogue is conducive to peace, she said, which is key in conflict resolution. 
Organizers of the con­ference have put together a variety of presentations and activities for the weekend. Tonight, confer­ence participants can experience an African dinner, a traditional Kenyan storytelling and a performance by the Notre Dame Irish Dance troupe. 
On Saturday, keynote speaker Jill Sternberg will discuss her work in con­flict resolution and nonvi­olence. Sternberg, a mem­ber of one of the first classes to earn a Masters in peace studies from the Kroc Institute, has been facilitating the election process in East Timor and will speak of her experi­ence there as well. 
Several panel discus­sions and peace-building workshops will follow Sternberg's speech. 
Both Mounts and McArdle were involved in the in conference previous years, and Mounts said she was excited to be an organizer. 
"It is a great way to get involved with the work of the Kroc Institute, which has recently risen nation­ally and internationally," she said. "It's also a great way to interact with facul­ty outside of the class­room." 
McArdle echoed this enthusiasm, calling the conference "a great way to get to know other peace studies majors and share with our peers things going on outside of the classroom." 
Mounts and McArdle expect around 150 partic­ipants this year, which includes both internation­al and Notre Dame stu­dents. Although registra­tion for meals closed March 23, anyone inter­ested in the conference can still show up for activities tonight and Saturday night. More information is available on the conference Web s i t e , http://kroc.nd.edu/peace­con07. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

Theologian James Whitehead and wife Evelyn Whitehead, a psychologist, discuss sex, sexuality and spirituality at the Carroll Auditorium in Saint Mary's Thursday. 
personal, more reflective of ty. In these and many other who we want to be, and more ways we are moved. As we intentional,'' Evelyn Whitehead mature, eros becomes more said. "In other words, a mature generous and patient." adult is not aroused by every In addition to their work as potential competent sexual professors at both Loyola partner." University in Chicago and 
James Whitehead said it is Fudan University in Shanghai, important that eros and grace the pair has co-authored a are combined. number of books, including the 
"Though the physical pleas­recent "Christian Spirituality ure involved in sex is brief, Today: Eros, Justice and from it stems respect, grace, Grace." affection and fidelity," he said. "Eros is, ultimately, a well­Contact Brigid Fenlon at spring of our wonder and beau-bfenlon@nd.edu 
Students run, vvalk to aid Young Life organization 
The run/walk is to help individual By MANDl STIRONE campers afford camp, Krivda said. 
News Writer 
"Some of these kids have never been 
to a summer camp in their lives so this 
Students from Notre Dame, Saint is going to be a once in a lifetime Mary's and Bethel College as well as opportunity for them," she said. members of the South Bend communi­As for the run, Krivda hopes to sell ty will participate in a SK walk/run all 200 T-shirts. Krivda said partici­
this Saturday to benefit Young Life, a local non­denominational youth organization. 
Members of Young Life will also be participating in the walk, said organiz­er Rocky Krivda. 
Krivda, a Saint Mary's junior, has been involved in Young Life since her freshman year. 
"Young Life is so unique because we go into public high schools and we talk to kids who really need help -kids who don't necessarily get the opportunity to hear about ministry," Krivda said. 
The organization has clubs at nine high schools in the South 
Bend area including Adams, Clay, Penn and Riley High Schools, she said. 
The walk is being organized to send inner city South Bend teens, mostly members of the "Westside Club," to the summer camp coordinated by Young Life. 
"We basically become their big brother or big sister," Krivda said. "We meet their needs. And right now we're trying to send them to camp." 
"Young Life is so unique because we go into public schools and we talk to kids who really need help -kids who don't necessarily get the opportunity to hear about ministry. ,, 
Rocky Krivda Saint Mary's junior Young Life walk/run organizer 
pants need to come to the Sorin room of LaFortune between 9:45 
a.m. and 10:20 a.m. on Saturday to register. The fee to run or walk is $7, she said. 
"Even showing up and buying a T-shirt will make a world of differ­ence in these kids lives," she said. 
Krivda is the main organizer but said Notre Dame sophomore Robbie Bernardin has also played a large part. 
"Rocky did most of the work,'' Bernadin said. ''I'm just keeping time." 
Bernardin, who has been involved with Young Life for a year, will be at the finish line 
taking down the times of the runners and walkers. He won't be able to attend summer camp this year, but hopes to go next summer. For him, Young Life is about hanging out with the high school students and being a friend. 
"It's a great thing," he said. 

Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

page 10 The Observer + NEWS Friday, March 30, 2007 
ActivisDI 
continued from page 1 

and that individuals made a difference in those changes," said professor George Lopez of the Notre Dame Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, pointing out that the world, from Second Vatican Council to the Civil Rights Movement, was in con­stant flux -Notre Dame stu­dents included. 
Those fervent protests and strikes in America even attracted the attention of stu­dents across the ocean, most notably French ones, in 1968. 
"The American protests were really a point of refer­ence for many student move­ments in France, especially for the anti-racism, anti-femi­nist movements," said Olivier Morel, an adjunct French instructor who was born in France and lived there until 18 months ago. 
Despite the influence of young Americans in the late 1960s and early 1970s, Lopez thinks they were a bit "big­headed." 
"The truth is," he said, "that individuals probably made less of a difference than they thought they did. I think this current generation has a more balanced and maybe realistic view of how much change individuals can bring." 
For Notre Dame students now, he said, the war in Iraq seems like an inaccessible conflict. Far fewer Notre Dame students have connec­tions to those serving in Iraq 
than at other local institu­tions like Ball State University and Indiana University, he said, where many students join the National Guard and serve time in order to finance their educations. 
"The days of turning 600,000 people out for marches on Washington and campuses that are protesting -that doesn't go anymore. Those days are gone," he said. "I have some friends who think you can recreate that, or that the war will end once we recreate that. But I don't think that's the direc­tion among college students." 
Rather, Lopez said, students are turning to local charity efforts in a "think globally, act locally" mindset. 
"They look for a strategic situation where they can actually have an effect," he said. 
But Michael Shaughnessy, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1971 and was active in the Vietnam War protests on campus, thinks older methods can still be effective for the war in Iraq. Shaughnessy, a high school theology teacher in San Francisco, participates in marches, sit-ins and letter­writing campaigns in town. He's worried about Notre Dame students. 
"Oftentimes working for jus­tice is controversial," he said, "and I think many students at Notre Dame [in the late '60s and early '70s], and from what I read, now, too, are more concerned about job resumes than changing the world." 
Aaron Kreider agrees that Notre Dame students can do 
more when it comes to activism. He felt so strongly about that as a graduate stu­dent here in 1998 that he founded the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA), which earned official club status from the University that same year. Since earning his mas­ter's degree in sociology in 2002, he has founded a Web site called campusactivism.org -a mas­sive networking site for activists that he compared to myspace.com and friendster.com. 
While Shaughnessy laments the lack of student action in international issues, Kreider identifies problems right on campus that Notre Dame stu­
dents  should  address.  He  
wrote  a  handbook entitled  
"The  Notre  Dame  

Disorientation Manual: A Guide to What's Really Going On," targeting issues from heterosexism to militarism to the heavy influence corpora­tions hold over Notre Dame, especially its Board of Trustees. The manual is linked to eampusactivism.org. 
"Activism should be strong on a college campus because it's a community. It's impor­tant for all communities to have people who believe in progressive soeial change, in making their community a better place, a place that is more just and more loving," Kreider said. "At Notre Dame, activism is weaker than at your typical nationally ranked top university." 
But groups like Students for Environmental Action, Circle K, PSA, Amnesty International, CLAP, the Africa Faith and Justice 

Coogle reverts to old satellite maps 
Search engine displays images ofpre-Hurricane Katrina New Orleans 
Associated Press Lower 9th. So, too, is the historic doing right now is smoke and mir­lighthouse on Lake Pontchartrain. rors because tourism is so off," 
NEW ORLEANS-Google's pop­But in the Lower 9th Ward, the Gerica said. "It might be some­ular map portal has replaced post­truth isn't as pretty, 19 months body's weird spin on things look­Hurricane Katrina satellite after Katrina. ing better." imagery with pictures taken "Everything is missing. The peo­Henry also wondered whether before the storm, leaving locals ple are missing. Nobody is there," Google's motives might be less feeling like they're in a time loop Henry said. than pure. and even fueling suspicions of a After Katrina, Google's satellite "Is Google part of the conspira­conspiracy. images were in high demand cy?" he said. "Why these images 
Scroll across the city and the among exiles and hurricane vic­of pre-Katrina? Seems mighty 

Mississippi Gulf Coast, and every­thing is back to normal: Marinas are filled with boats, bridges are intaet and parks are filled with healthy, full-bodied trees. 
"Come on," said an incredulous Ruston Henry, president of the economic development association in New Orleans' devastated Lower 9th Ward. "Just put in big bold this: 'Google, don't pull the wool over the world's eyes. Let the truth shine."' 
Chikai Ohazama, a Google Inc. product manager for satellite imagery, said the maps now avail­able are the best the company can offer. Numerous factors decide what goes into the databases, "everything from resolution, to quality, to when the actual imagery was acquired." 
He said he was not sure when the current images replaced views of the city taken after Katrina struck Aug. 29, 2005, flooding an estimated 80 percent of New Orleans. 
In the images available Thursday, the cranes working to fix the breach of the 17th Street Canal are gone. Blue tarps that covered roofless homes are replaced by shingles. Homes wiped off their foundations are miraculously back in place in the tims anxious to see whether their homes were damaged. 
The new, virtual Potemkin vil­lage is fueling the imagination of locals frustrated with the slow pace of recovery and what they see as attempts by political lead­ers to paint a rosier picture. 
Pete Gerica, a fisherman who lives in eastern New Orleans, said he printed pictures of his water­side homestead from Google to use in his arguments with insur­ance adjusters. 
curious." 

Ceeon Quiett, spokeswoman for Mayor Ray Nagin, said that as far as she knew, the city did not request the map change. 
"My first reaction was, that's a bit problematic," she said. 
Ohazama, the Google product manager, said he "personally" was not asked by city or state official<; to change the im'agery, but he added that Google gets many requests from users and govern­ments to update and change its 
Network and Right to Life beg to differ. Recently, it's been off-campus groups unaffiliat­ed with the University -like Soulforce and the Midwest Catholic Workers -who have been attracting attention for activism at Notre Dame. 
Do members of Notre Dame groups need to get arrested in LaFortune for people to believe they're making a dif­ference on campus and in the world? Or do their actions 
speak for themselves? 

"I don't see [today's stu­dents] as any less active than prior generations of Notre Dame students, or students who mobilized protests in the last big war, like the Vietnam War," Lopez said. "People are more levelheaded, and may be more judicious about the use of their own time." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 

ATRIA SALON2 
Specializing in color 
271.8804 
Thinking blonde? So are we. 
Highlights & Cut............ $79.00 Color, Highlights, Cut...$79.00 
Promotion starts March 21sLApril 1oth, 2007 
MUST PRESENT AD TO RECEPTIONIST BEFORE SERVICES ARE PERFORMED. 
"Certain restrictions apply. 
Official Goldwell Salon: Atria Salon2 2039 South Bend Ave., South Bend, IN 46637 • 271.8804 



SUNDAY,APRIL 1,'2000 7:30PM AUDITORIUM, HEsBURGH CENTER fORINTERNATIONALSTUDIES, UNIVERSITY Of 
NOTRE DAME 
GENERAl. ADMISSION $10; FREE fOR ALL STUDENTS. FURTiiER !NfOR!v!A TION: MRS. VIDULA AG'TEY 
'Ul-2'250 
Friday, March 30, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 


Former state senator accused of ·corruption 
Associated Press 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -A former state senator and three other people were charged with corruption Thursday in a highly politi­cized case that a former fed­eral prosecutor told Congress he believes led to his firing. 
A federal grand jury accused former New Mexico Senate President Pro Tern Manny Aragon and the others of conspiring to skim $4.2 million in public funds meant for construction of a county courthouse. 
David Iglesias, one of eight 

U.S. attorneys fired late last year, told Congress this month that he rejected what he believed to be pressure from U.S. Sen. Pete Domenici and U.S. Rep. Heather Wilson, New Mexico Republicans, to rush the indictments, which would have hurt Democrats in the November elections. 
Spokesmen for Domenici and Wilson, who was in a hotly contested race at the time, said Thursday they would have no comment on the indictments. 
The firing of Iglesias and the other prosecutors has blown up into a scandal that has spawned calls for the res­ignation of U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathon Gerson in Albuquerque said the 26­count indictment handed up Thursday stemmed from an investigation that has lasted more than a year. 
"We handled this as we would have handled any other case," Gerson said. "We han­died this matter professional­ly without attention being paid to outside influence." 
Charged with conspiracy, mail fraud and money laun­dering Thursday were Aragon; former metro court administrator Toby Martinez; Raul Parra, a partner in Albuquerque engineering firm P2RS; and software con­sultant Sandra Mata Martinez, Toby Martinez's wife. 
Architect Marc Schiff; for­mer Albuquerque Mayor Ken Schultz, who was a lobbyist for Schiff's firm; and subcon­tractor Manuel Guara have pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy and one count of mail fraud. Their plea agree­
ments were  unsealed  
Thursday.  
Aragon,  Parra and  the  

Martinezes conspired to sub­mit and approve false invoic­es for payment and to make excessive requests for pay­ment, the grand jury alleged. The Martinezes received about $2 million and Aragon $700,000 from the fraud, the indictment said. 
Aragon did not immediately return a message seeking comment. Messages also were left for attorneys representing Parra and the Martinezes. 
Prosecutors allege Schultz took cash payments from Schiff and passed some of the money to Toby Martinez, who approved inflated invoices. Schultz's attorney, Peter Schoenburg, noted that his client has cooperated with investigators. 
"I think he regrets his actions very much," Schoenburg said. 



PETA calls for food recall 
Animal rights organization says dry food causes pet illn~sses 
Associated Press 

RICHMOND, Va. -Animal rights advocates are calling on federal food safety regulators and pet food companies to expand a nationwide recall of dog and cat food to include dry varieties, claiming it makes pets sick. 
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration said Thursday it had no plans to suggest a wider recall to pet food compa­nies, and veterinarians said they have not seen a trend of animals becoming ill after eat­ing dry pet food. 
The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals plans to make the appeal Friday in Washington after it said it received complaints from pet owners who claim their ani­mals suffered kidney failure after eating dry pet food. 
Norfolk, Va.-based PETA wants the FDA and the compa­nies to extend the recall to foods that have received com­plaints, chemically test it and perform necropsies on the ani­mals involved. It also wants companies prosecuted if the FDA's probe turns up wrongdo­ing. 
FDA spokeswoman Julie Zawisza said she did not know how many of the more than 7,000 complaints the agency has received have concerned dry pet food. The FDA plans to release preliminary results from its investigation into the recall Friday. 
Officials at Ontario, Canada­based Menu Foods, which made the recalled pet food, did not immediately return a call seeking comment. 
Nearly 100 brands of pet food were recalled after ani­mals suffered kidney failure. The recall involved "cuts and gravy" style dog and cat food. The recall covered products carrying names of major brands including lams, Nutro and Eukanuba. 
New York state's food labora­tory last week identified aminopterin as the likely cul­prit in the recall. Aminopterin is a derivative of folic acid that was once used to induce abor­tions and is now banned as a rodent poison in the United States. It can cause kidney damage in dogs and cats. 
Veterinarians aren't seeing a trend of pets getting sick off dry food, said Paul Pion, founder of the Veterinarian Information Network. He said since so many people use dry food, you would expect to see many more ill pets if the food was tainted. 
Catholic diocese seeks to settle 
San Diego division of Church bankrupt from sexual abuse cases 
Associated Press bankruptcy proceedings. 
The diocese abruptly filed 
SAN DIEGO -The Roman for bankruptcy protection Catholic Diocese of San Diego Feb. 27, just hours before the is offering $95 million to set­first civil trial was to begin in tle more than 140 claims of San Diego Superior Court and sexual abuse by priests, after a last-ditch round of according to financial docu­negotiations with plaintiffs' ments. attorneys. 
The diocese would offer Under the proposed bank­143 individuals anywhere ruptcy reor­from $10,000 to $800,000, ganization depending on the degree of plan, a $3 
lion -which would be a record amount for such a case -based on payouts made in other dioceses, including the $100 million by the Diocese of Orange County, Calif., to 87 accusers in 2005. 
"This is outrageous; it's five 
steps backward," said Ray Boucher, the lead plaintiff­s'attorney. "It's 
abuse and other factors, million fund "It's clear with this clear with this according to documents filed would also plan that they're plan that they're Wednesday in the church's be created throwing down
throwing down the
to settle any the gauntlet. additional gauntlet. This will be This will be a abuse claims a long and expensive long and expen­that have sive battle."
battle."
not yet been Diocese offi­formally cials defended made. Ray Boucher the plan. 
The plan lead plaintiff's attorney "We recognize 

$1,000 winner and $500 runner-up 
•n 

THE CUSHWA CENTER
.::::::::! -FOR THE STUDY OF
$1,000 winner and $500 runner-up 
-u

~ AIVIEmc~;;_;;:;,_;::oucisl'Vi
$1,000 winner and $500 runner-up Freshman/sophomore: Junior/senior: Graduate students: 
has to go through steps includ­ing the approval of a credi­tors' panel containing some of the claimants and a hear­ing before a bankruptcy judge. 
Attorneys representing the plaintiffs said they thought the offer was too low. They have estimated a fair settle­ment to be around $200 mil-
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 



OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
that we have to 
do something for 
the victims, but we have to balance that against our responsibilities to our parishioners," said dio­cese counsel Micheal Webb. 
With nearly 1 million Catholics and holdings throughout San Diego County, the diocese here is by far the largest and, by all accounts, the wealthiest of the five U.S. dioceses to have filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy under the shadow of civil claims over sexual abuse. 
The other dioceses that have filed for bankruptcy protection are Davenport, Iowa; Portland, Ore.; Spokane, Wash.; and Tucson, Ariz. Tucson has emerged from bankruptcy protection, while proposed settlements are awaiting final approval in Portland and Spokane. 
Sen'l:ii'&.a.r iia A•••erican
For additional information regarding the conference and call for papers please visit: 
K-ing Tiger: The Religiou..3' f/isi.:~n q/'B_c__.((:,~,..~" ~--~':?z!g;?,. 
Tib!".!::f!l!'K (New i'Vlexico, 2005)
www.nd.edu/encyclical. For questions email: godislove@nd.edu or call631-6526. 
By Rudy !}y_:;;l_<;>, U:t:Ii·vcrsi1:~y orC~alif(:)r:nia .. Sa:n1:a Barbara 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
9 a. n·t. -· noon
WNOTREDAME 
...'l-:Lc.Kenna J-fall <~eneer ..fi.:~r <7onrintting Educaeion 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, March 30, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDimR BusiNESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDimR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAG~ R: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 6,31-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
{574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infurmation. 
Questions regarding ObserverpolicieJ should be directed til Editor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
1'he ~{USPS 599 2-4000)-i~ published Monday rhrough Friday a:ccpt dwing: -exam and vacation pa:iod5. A ~oiprinn ro The Obl>erver i.$: .$100 f.or one academic year, $55 fur-Qru:~ma;r.er~ 
'I'lw Observer is published ac POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hail &od address OOfre(tlons (c: Noue D;une,. IN 465-56-01,79 ln. Obsernf P-eriodical postage paid ar Notre Dame P.O.Ilox 779 and additional mailing Qffi(:es.. 024 Soo.dl Dining Hair 
Notrt' Dame, IN 46-5-56-0n9 
The Ohservu 1s: a member ofthe Mociat«i Pres5. All :reproduaion rights are r-eserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Chris Hine 

Marcela Berrios Rebecca Slinger Eva Binda Danielle Keller Viewpoint Scene Kara King Brian Doxtader 
Graphics Erin McGinn Tom Hanculak 

For clusters, downsizing complex 
The line at the LaFortune computer cluster usually goes across campus. out the door during the middle of almost every day and most Both the DeBartolo and LaFortune computer clusters teem nights. The cluster in DeBartolo often fares better in the with students daily because of their convenient locations and afternoon but worse earlier in the day. Students stay for productive atmospheres. That few enough students were hours at a time at both, doing projects, papers and presenta­using the Mendoza and Library clusters is strong evidence to tions on fast-running IBMs and user-friendly Macs. change the format of those areas -not any others. 
It's with this in mind that the Office of Information And it's also crucial that OIT realize the introduction of Technologies (OIT} must move cautiously with printers into dorms does not, for most stu­
O Jhe
its pilot program of downsizing computers in dents, eliminate the need for computer clus­
userver 
the Mendoza College of Business and the sec­ters. ond floor of the Hesburgh Library. The computers there have programs like The plan at the Library could be a successful Adobe Photoshop and Apple's Final Cut Pro,
Editorial 
new initiative. A handful of available laptops for students to rent while doing research in the stacks may represent a significant stride for the University. And the removal of excess computers in Mendoza, if indeed an excess exists, is fine. 
However, at no point in time should OIT assume that suc­cess in this project indicates evidence for or support of any further reductions in the numbers of computers in clusters 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
it\~ Clllc 1-\A~ g,'ASof\J 1'o ~~~--~~v~ 
fo~I'\IC~ 
caglecartoons.com 

Submit a Letter to the Editor or Guest Column to viewpoint.l @nd.edu or online at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
Letters to  length. Guest  
• ·.include a byline  
with name, year,  

the author's name and contact phone number. 
OBSERVER POLL 
What is your take on activism at Notre Dame? 
a. 
About the same level as other universites 

b. 
About the same level as other universities, bnt predominantly focused on Catholic issues 

c. 
More intense than other universities 

d. 
Less intense than other universities 


This poll is based on the re~ult of 429 
votes at http://www.nd.smcobserver.com/ 

%of votes #of votes 10% 42 
22% 94 15% 65 53% 228 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"'f you hate a person, you hate something in him that is part ofyourself. What isn't part ofourselves doesn't disturb us. " 
Herman Hesse German author 

which would be expensive purchases for stu­dents whose classes require them. The accessibility of those programs is one of the great assets of the University's infor­mation technology department, and losing that would be a significant disservice to students. 
If OIT keeps these considerations in mind, then the change in the computer clusters -including the downsizing of just these two-will be a positive step for Notre Dame. 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Friday, March 30, 2007 page 13 
The life of Catholic culture 
Any hack may write of the death of Catholic culture in a newspaper col­umn, because it is in the papers that obituaries appear. It is more difficult and embarrassing to speak of the life of something still liv­ing. Death is for the James broadsheets, life for Matthew the narrow intimacy Wilson of the confessional. 
The Treasonous

In our climate, 
Clerk

people confess end­lessly, but nobody goes to Confession. We divulge our sor­did affairs in public, conforming our­selves to the form of spectacle, whereas the only justinable reason to recount one's history is if one can form it into a story, giving it a structure that leads to edification and change. With some reluctance, I wish to recount part of my own life in the tentative twilight of a Catholic culture and then offer a few lessons derived from it. 
Like many children born into a Catholic family during the last decades, I was raised in a prosperous suburb and attended Catholic elementary school. Before school each morning, all students attended Mass. The statue of the Virgin Mary, trampling the serpent under her bare foot, stood in every classroom. She arrested my imagina­tion, because she seemed the most beautiful woman in the world, and because the crushing of the serpent seemed such a dramatic symbol of the conflict of Good against Evil. 
The moral dilemmas of privileged children run -or at least ran -along fairly simple lines, and I had no difficul­ty interpreting the world through the basic catechesis we received in religion class. Everyone I knew was Catholic, except for the kids in my neighborhood; I recall being puzzled by my best friend and neighbor's Lutheranism. Once, after learning about the Reformation 
and the anti-Catholicism pervasive in American history, I sat in Mass day­dreaming of becoming a Crusader to protect St. Thomas Aquinas Parish from the invasions of the ... Puritans? 
My parents were active in the Parish and exemplified the practices of devo­tion to the Church in myriad ways, from my dad's visiting the inmates of a nurs­ing home every Sunday, to my mom's running the inevitable "religious goods" shop in the coffee bar at Church. So long as I was in Catholic school, their actions reinforced what I learned in the classroom, and what I studied in school articulated -often in awe-striking for­mulae -the atmosphere through which I moved. 
After the fifth-grade, I transferred to public school. There, the behavior of the students shocked my sensibility, and at first I had no difficulty critiquing their acts and language in light of the moral formation I had already received. My parents' examples of devotion and charity did not necessarily wane, but since they did not actively explain the meaning of their actions, they became in a sense unintelligible to me. In the meantime, the deeds of my classmates became perfectly comprehensible, and I was soon fluent in the vocabulary of juvenile venery and of that adolescent concept of rights, freedom, and indul­gence taught not in schools, but during the afternoon hours of 3 to 6 in the latch-key world of broken homes. 
Near the end of my high school years, I recall walking home past St. Thomas one autumn afternoon. I thought, "What I do and what is right is between me and God, and it's not for anyone to judge." Desire for a God in which I had once believed lingered, though I more or less believed the world a chaos of objects and options that I might choose without consequence. I had reconfig­ured that desire so it would not stand in 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Catholic Workers' protest justified 
Many ask if the Catholic Worker movement have the right to speak out against the injustices of our world? The movement is more than an organization that "does good work with the poor and oppressed" but participates in "needless and unproductive protests," such as the prayerful demonstration that occurred Monday. 
The Catholic Worker movement was founded by Dorothy Day, who spent portions of her life impris­oned for her radical call for love in the world. Can we claim the Catholic Workers violated their "appropriate place within the Church" when Day, the most influ­ential person for the Catholic Workers, protested and even criti­cized the Church at times? 
Notre Dame has an influential voice for the Church in America. It is important that Notre Dame's stat­ed Catholic values agree with the programs they support. The pres­ence of an ROTC program on cam­pus, although may not directly sup­port "any war that the United States enters into," does support war by providing the military with well-trained leaders. 
John Kenneth Galbraith claims, "There remains the need to counter the presumption by the military power that war is an inevitable aspect of human existence." Simply because war is the easiest solution does not mean it is innate to human existence. Peace takes courage and love of enemies, both ideals Notre Dame upholds. 
The Catholic Workers have a right and duty to protest at Notre Dame. Unlike many, they care about others whether or not "they are affected at all by there being an ROTC program here." The Workers' concern for others implies a radical love about issues that do not directly affect them because their radical mission is to love their enemies. 
The Catholic Workers, although not always favored by the Church, have been a voice of Jesus' mes­sage to love our enemies. The Catholic Workers have every right to remind Notre Dame of their duty to not support ROTC, which sup­ports war. 
Was the Catholic Workers' demonstration "needless and unproductive?" We may say that their prayer and demonstration may never change anything, but when has anything but a small group of committed individuals ever changed anything? 
Alicia Quiros freshman Lyons Hall March28 

the way of those choices. 
Nothing contested that configuration until I encountered two things in col­lege. First, I intuited that the student culture in Ann Arbor was at once liber­tine and careerist, an amoral desire for success confirming an amoral hedonis­tic nocturne. Second, for some reason, I signed up for a class on Dante. Reading the "Divine Comedy" brought me into a world at once familiar and foreign. More importantly, what was "foreign" about the poem seemed as if it should be native to me, as if it were not just another world, but a worldview to which I belonged. 
I loved the Catholic world of Dante but could not believe in it at the expense of the college world of hedo­nism. One Sunday, suspecting at last I had become an atheist, I decided to test the hypothesis by going to Mass at St. Thomas the Apostle (Doubting Thomas) Church. At Communion, I approached the altar, prepared to receive my unbe­lief like a seal. When the bread and wine touched my tongue, I received rather my belief as a sacrament. 
From that moment, I was once again a Catholic in mind and heart, but also in isolation. My life in the Church entailed solitude at Mass and the pri­vate devouring of theology and devo­tional books in my bedroom. It was life in the "upper room" not "on the mount." 
What conclusions have I drawn from experience? Mostly obvious ones, I am afraid. We must reverse at whatever cost the waning of Catholic schools. Every priest at the pulpit and every half-devoted Catholic should feel obliged to exhort parents to enroll their children in a school where they will learn the meaning of the sacraments. 
There is much bad theology in the Church and it flows more easily into the lives of relatively unschooled Christians than the good, because it resembles more closely the pagan culture in which we live. The pious and the intellectual should feel obliged not only to support Catholics schools financially and to enroll their children, but also to work or volunteer there. Even if one has no children, one has at present this responsibility. 
Following John Paul II, parents must learn to make intelligible the meaning of Catholic doctrine and practice to children whose everyday lives may not have a vocabulary to express the divine, or any self-transcendence save that of consumer gluttony. We all must do this -without bowdlerizing that .practice into the alternative consumerism of "spirituality." 
Catholicism is an inherently commu­nal religion, meant to extend as wide as civilization itself. And so Catholics will always struggle when they constitute a minority religion in a pagan society. And yet struggle we must, for the time being, to be a mark of contradiction. Even those of us consigned to the sub­urbs must strive against the individual­ist insularity they encourage. On this score, we will perhaps have succeeded when Saints' feast day festivals fill our suburban streets as they once did the ethnic neighborhoods of our cities, and when we once more chart our calendar not in terms of wage-slave weekdays and weekends, but in terms of the feasts of those martyrs who suffered that our everyday lives might be as filled with symbol and meaning as their own deaths. 
James Matthew Wilson is a Sorin Research Fellow who always looks on the bright side of life. He can be martyred at jwilson5@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Greater complexity to 1 honorable' Moses 
After reading the response to "First Down Moses underlies negative attitudes about other religions" by Xavier Lebac ("Moses was an honorable man," March 29) by Nick Bloom, it seems to me that Bloom did a fan­tastic job of proving Lebac's point that per­haps the roots of the Judea-Christian tradi­tion are not as peaceful and understanding as many claim. 
I believe that the stories of conquest and genocide in the Bible are deeply troubling for modern readers. Any narrative in which every man, woman, and child of a population is systematically exterminated, such as the account of the "sacred ban" in Jericho, can­not be anything but disturbing to contempo­rary readers who have no other knowledge about the Bible. These stories also may seem confusing and contradictory to modern read­ers who have read the Decalogue, where it clearly states that killing is forbidden. 
Still, even with the historical background and knowledge of the authors' purpose for writing their narratives, the fact that mass killing is praised and glorified appears to be counterintuitive to a just and forgiving God and highly reflective of a "jealous" deity. 
In addition, Bloom's assertion that it would be "incredibly foolish" to assume that any god would condone the worship of other gods is completely misguided and indeed ethno­centric. Primarily his strong doubt that the "god" of Buddhism would condone the wor­ship of Jesus is incredibly ludicrous consider­ing the fact that Buddhism is a non-theistic religion, meaning it does not have a deity. This indictment shows the lack of under­standing and ignorance that perpetuates such violent acts "in the name of God." Also, I can think of several religions including Taoism, Hinduism, Buddhism, and yes-even mod­ern-day Catholicism that do not condemn the worship by other religions. In the Second Vatican Council, it was written that "the Catholic Church rejects nothing of what is true and holy in [other] religions. She has a high regard for the manner of life and con­duct, the precepts and doctrines which, although differing in many ways from her own teaching, nevertheless often reflect a ray of that truth which enlightens all men." 
In light of this holy new way of thought, why do we have on the Notre Dame campus a testament to the abolishment of other reli­gions? How can we not draw parallels between the Crusades and modern Islamic Jihad? Those religions that are founded in Old Testament scripture (Judaism, Islam, Christianity) all believe in some form of "just violence." Our ideals are founded in the same literature of those who attack us. I believe what Lebec was trying to assert was the fact that even though we pride ourselves on being "civilized" and "reasonable," our religion too at one time has shed innocent blood in the name of the Almighty. Even though the Church has shifted to a new way of thinking (Vatican Two), many are stuck in the dark ages. 
Mark Flanagan freshman Keough Hall March 29 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Friday, March 30, 2007 
DVD REVIEWS 

Italian Stallion back for final round on DVD 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Senior Scene Writer 

"Rocky Balboa" is supposed to be the end of the line for the Italian Stallion, but it's easy to get the sense that the movie gives writer-director Sylvester Stallone a new beginning -after all, he can now follow it up with "Rocky Balboa II," which sounds a lot less geriatric than "Rocky VII." 
Actually. though, critical reception to 
. "Rocky Balboa" was surprisingly warm, but that's probably because the film isn't a complete disaster. Shot with lip service to the grittiness and charm of the original, "Rocky Balboa" is a superfluous sequel. While it does get things back on track after the proverbial train wreck that was "Rocky V," it doesn't really stand on its own as a film. 
Stallone's latest is essentially a glorified "thank you" to the legions of Rocky fans who stood by the Italian Stallion as he got married, became the heavyweight champ, had a kid, fought Mr. T, lost Mickey, trained with Apollo, lost Apollo, went to Russia, got brain damage and trained Tommy Gunn. At least half these things are thrown by the 
Rocky Balboa 
MGM 



wayside in "Rocky Balboa," a film that revisits several old set pieces, including the skating rink from the first picture. 
The film is about Rocky Balboa, former heavyweight champion turned restaurant owner, who comes out of retirement to engage in an exhibition match against cur­rent champ Mason "The line" Dixon. While this might sound like the stuff of parody, Stallone reaches deep into his sentimental pockets and pulls out a picture that isn't nearly as cloying or coldly calculating as it could be -in fact, there are scenes of gen­uine warmth, even without the presence of girlfriend/wife Adrian, who was often the convenient emotional anchor for previous "Rocky" pies. 
"Rocky Balboa" is well shot and well directed, though Stallone chews a lot of scenery. Balboa was always talkative, but he was never this loquacious. "Rocky Balboa" might have more words than any other "Rocky" film, but never before have they added up to less, and all of the long­winded monologues are enough to make audiences long for the days of, "Adrian, I never asked you to stop being a woman. Don't ask me to stop being a man." 
The DVD is passable, though not nearly the quality of MGM's two-disc special edi­tion for the original film. It includes an audio commentary by Stallone, who is always intelligent and well spoken (he did, after all, write all of the "Rocky" films). There are also deleted scenes that include an alternate ending, though the ending that was ultimately ehosen seems to be the most appropriate. 


finally. there are three documentaries ­"Skill vs. Will: The Making of Rocky Balboa," "Heality in the Ring: Filming Hocky's Final Fight" and "Virtual Champion: Creating the Computer Fight." Of these, only the first is really substantial, and the third, which talks about an in-film computer fight depicting an ESPN special featuring Balboa vs. Dixon, is rather fluffy. 
There was never a need for "Rocky Balboa," but if Stallone was intent on mak­ing it, he could've done a lot worse. There is quite a bit to admire, and. for "Rocky" enthusiasts, a lot to love. Comparing "Rocky Balboa" to the original "Hocky" shows just how far the franchise has strayed from its humble beginnings; but this latest (and hopefully last} sequel brings back some of the 1976 Best Picture Winner's charm. 
Best of all, it's enough to make viewers forget about "Rocky V," which is itself a minor miracle and something to be thank­ful for. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Animated musical a spectacle of light and sound 
time sentiment. If you listen carefully, you can catch snippets of songs both old and new from a slew different genres. All the jumping, jiving and wailing of the tuxedo­clad penguins milling around brings to mind the chaotic choreography of a Broadway musical. 
The vocal cast of "Happy Feet" is just awesome. Old pro Robin Williams is hilari­ous in his three narrator roles. He's also hilarious as Ramon, the leader of a pack of smaller (and apparently Mexican} tail-chas­ing penguins who befriend young Mumble. He also excels as Lovelace, a wisened pen­guin guru who doubles as a minister of soul and a penguin pimp, replete with his own brothel of lovely flippered ladies. 
Hugh Jackman stars as Memphis, Mumble's somewhat-less-than proud papa. Much like Donner, the reindeer father of Rudolph, Memphis is ashamed of his son's unique talents and wants him to blend into the status quo. Delivering his lines with an Elvis drawl, Jackman is perfect at adding flavor to his character. 
It should also be mentioned that Brittany Murphy scintillates as Gloria, Mumble's love interest. At times sexy and sweet, Murphy brings a lot to the role and show­cases some genuine pipes during the film's frequent and endearing musical numbers. 
"Happy Feet" has elements of Al Gore's film "An Inconvenient Truth," only wrapped up in an adorable bunch of baby penguin fur. The message? Stop polluting and warming the globe so you don't destroy the habitat for these cud­dly little creatures. Oh, and do remember to 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 

This emperor penguin marches to his own tune. "Happy Feet" follows the story of Mumble (voiced by Elijah Wood}, a tap­happy tike in a tuxedo suit. After his father Memphis (Hugh Jackman} drops him as an egg, Mumble emerges from his shell as a bouncing baby penguin with a snazzy spring to his step. 
Bitten by the jitterbug at birth, Mumble can dance circles around the other baby penguins. Unfortunately for Mumble, all that fancy footwork is of no use as he searches to find his own Heartsong to express himself and vie for the affections of the lovely Gloria (Brittany Murphy}. Not only can young Mumble not carry a tune ­his voice sounds like the noise of a dying giraffe. His off-key crooning makes it hard for Mumble to harmonize with the rest of the Emperor penguin clan. As a result, Mumble strikes out on his own in order to make his voice heard. 
Basically, "Happy Feet" is a jazzed-up version of "March of the Penguins," or maybe "March of the Penguins: The Musical." The film's many rimsical num­bers combine a modern flair with a show-cut the plastic linings of six-packs so you don't choke any harmless penguins. 


Like the best animated films, "Happy Feet" has something for everyone. As fun family fare, the film pairs kid gags with jokes designed to sail clear over the heads of the children in the audience and land squarely on the adults' sense of humor, such as a series of thinly veiled mating ref­erences. 
If you haven't seen "Happy Feet" yet, know this: imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. In fact, the film's popularity spawned a popular YouTube video of "Happy Feet," in which the penguins boogey down and "walk it out" to the bumping beats of OJ Unk's hip-hop beat by the same name. 
Splendidly rendered, the animation of "Happy Feet" is nothing short of breathtak­ing as the camera leaps, zooms and soars over the gorgeous CCI landscape of Antarctica. The musical numbers and med­leys are also some of the best animated pieces done in a while. 
"Happy Feet" is a spectacle of light, sound and, most importantly, story. With great characters, comedy and a whole lot of penguins, the movie is a resounding hit. That's no small feat. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 

TI--IE OBSERVER 




CENE
Friday, March 30, 2007 
page 15 
are becoming  But really, I think my preference  the Darlings left  
increasingly realistic, to the point where it's nearly picture­ for animatedfilms comes down to quality. So often movies today are just not good. For every  behind Nana, the benevolent nanny­dog. (Don't hate, my dog had just died  
real. If the anima­tion studios can convince me  "Departed" there are 10 "Norbits." But every single animated movie I've seen in probably the last 10  and it was a hard time for an 8-year­old). But really, I think  
that animals and actors on  years has been really good.  my preference for animated films  
the screen are  comes down to quali­ 

at least nearly real, then why not? It ty. So often movies today are just not seems often times the plots of these ani­good. For every "Departed" there are mated movies are better than half the 10 "Norbits." But every single animated stuff the mega-movie factories churn movie I've seen in probably the past 10 
DVD REVIEW 
'Green Mile' shines in deluxe special edition 
Michael Clarke Duncan (center) stars with Tom Hank (left) in Frank Darabont's "The Green Mile," which has been released in a special edition. 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Senior Staff Writer 
Director Frank Darabont has made not one, but two great Stephen King prison dra­mas. His first, "The Shawshank Redemption," was the proverbial little movie that could. The novella that inspired the 1994 film was far more slender than King's usual work -one that was light on pages but big on heart. 
When the film adaptation was released, it opened softly and exited the Oscars without a peep, failing to win on any of its seven nomi­nations, including Best Picture. Today, it ranks as one of our fondest memories of 1990s cinema, a wonderfully humanistic film with a legend that has grown from its grass­roots beginnings to epic proportions. 
Darabont's second effort, "The Green Mile," debuted six years later with far greater fanfare and a stellar cast anchored by Tom Hanks. This time, Darabont, who wrote the screenplay for both films, whittled King's mammoth 400-page tome down until he ended with a 188-minute picture. It seemed tailor-made for Oscar gold, and again it was nominated for Best Picture. 

movie looks and sounds great, while leaving more room for the won­derful collection of spe­cial features. 
The movie is accom­panied by an audio commentary from Darabont, an essential feature absent from the previous DVD. On the Once more, it failed to win. To some, this may be a disappointment. But more than seven years after its Dec. 10, 1999 release, it remains an instant classic. 

Set in 1935, the film drops us down at the Cold Mountain Correctional Facility. We spend much of the film indoors with the prison guards and their wards, all inmates on death row for vicious, often murderous, crimes. The guards are led by Paul Edgecomb (Hanks). He is a kind but firm man who treats the inmates with respect, and expects the same in return. But the arrival of John Coffey (Michael Clarke Duncan), a seemingly gentle giant accused of a heinous crime, irrevocably changes the lives of Edgecomb and the other convicts. 
Warner Bros. has done the film a great service with the recent release of a bountiful two-disc special edition. It comes on the heels of a similarly expansive two-disc edi­tion of "The Shawshank Redemption." Both DVDs far outstrip the bare one-disc editions that sat on store shelves for far too long. 
The wisest choice made by the DVD pro­ducers was splitting the film over two discs. By not squishing more than three hours of film onto one disc, this DVD improves upon the first release's solid but unspectacular 
video transfer. Here, the 
courtesy 

Animated features like Disney's "The Emperor's New Groove" are part of a trend of excellent films, which includes such modem classics as "Shrek" and "Happy Feet." 
years has been really good -"Shrek" this rule -that movie is awesome.) (both I and II), "The Emperor's New Really, it's not that I don't like the nor­Groove," "Happy Feet," "Toy Story" (I mal films, and my favorite movie and II), just to name a few. This consis­("Good Will Hunting") is one of them, tency of good movies has me more but I really just wish the studios would amped for animated movies that come step up their game. In the mean time, out than half of the "normal" flicks. I'm perfectly content with my animated 
It seems to me that maybe the live films. action folks should take a clue from the animated studios. Develop a plot. Be Contact Chris McGrady at fresh and original. Make jokes that are cmcgradl@nd. edu actually funny and not just based off The uiews expressed in this column crude and/or stupid humor. (Yes, are those of the author and not neces­"Dumb and Dumber" is exempt from sarily those of The Obseruer. 

track, Darabont gingerly admits his reluc­tance to record commentaries for his films, saying it keeps the "magic of the movies" intact with such discretion. Fortunately, he doesn't hold back here and delivers a won­derful commentary that touches upon all aspects of the film's production. Tidbits include how the crew made Duncan appear a foot taller than anyone else in the film and the special effects used to aid Mr. Jingles in his efforts. 
Additionally, the second disc houses an excellent six-part documentary called "Miracles and Mystery: Creating The Green Mile." Clocking in at over 90 minutes, it digs even deeper into the film's cinematography, casting, sets, costumes and virtually every part of its production. 
Alive with deep, soulful characters, "The Green Mile" ambles through its considerable runtime with care and grace. Warm, affec­tionate, poignant and moving, it is a worthy spiritual sequel to "Shawshank." Like a younger sibling, it seems content to live in the shadow of the earlier film. But "Green Mile" once again proved that Darabont is one of the few filmmakers with the patience, com­petence and vision to bring King's richly detailed worlds to life. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
I'm not afraid to admit it -I like Disney movies. I mean, really like Disney movies. In fact, not just Disney, but animated movies in general appeal to me more than any live-action movies I have seen in years. Pixar, Dreamworks and even Warner Bros. ventures such as "Happy Feet" tick­le me in a way that has me saying, "Oh yeah, that's nice." 
It's not really that I dislike seeing real people acting on camera. I liked "The Departed" as much as the next guy. That one scene where Leo totally works that guy over in the convenience store is just awesome, but I digress. The truth of the matter is that animated films out. Plus, the hidden "adult" jokes in these primarily children's flicks strikes me as particularly funny. 


However, it isn't really a recent devel­opment that has drawn me into being an animation aficionado. I was raised on a steady diet of "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles," 7 a.m. cartoon network vie wings and Disney's "Peter Pan." Perhaps my affection for these cartoon­ish creations extends further than just a personal preference, but maybe it is something that has been ingrained in me during my childhood. In the debate over nature versus nurture, I have a sneaking suspicion my propensity toward animated flicks is from being a product of my environment. 
Steeped in these childhood cartoon memories is a lot of emotion. I remem­ber laughing during "1 01 Dalmatians," imitating the antics of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles in my pajamas, 
and crying during 
"Peter Pan" when 

I sciJ\&mRoI Animated pictures warm the heart and soul 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 30, 2007 
NHL 
Crosby assists Pens in clinching division title 
Associated Press Penguins won their fourth con­Therrien said. "This was a tough 
secutive game and ninth out of game to play because we played 
BOSTON -One game after 11. Pittsburgh is second in the against a team that's out of the clinching a playoff berth, the conference only to the Buffalo playoffs. I'm sure Saturday will be Pittsburgh Penguins reached Sabres. a totally different game. The another milestone. With the loss, the Bruins were Maple Leafs will be fighting for 
Sidney Crosby had three assists eliminated from playoff con­their lives." in a 4-2 victory over the Boston tention. The Penguins made it 4-2 with Bruins on Thursday night, raising "It's obviously a tough position, 8:30 left when Michel Ouellet dug his NHL-leading point total to 116 being officially out," said defense­the puck out and from behind the 
and helping the Penguins reach man Zdeno Chara, who was sup­goal line passed it across the 1 00 points and sole possession of posed to be the free-agent catch crease to Evgeni Malkin. It was first place in the Atlantic Division. that would turn Boston around. Malkin's 33rd goal of tne season "It's a nice little milestone to hit "We were in the hunt for a while, and flfth against Boston, but just 
for us," Crosby said. "After the but it's disappointing and we have his second in the last 10 games. year we had last year, you don't to move on." want to stop there. But it's a nice Phil Kessel and Brandon Thrashers 3, Maple Leafs 2 ( OT) 
accomplishment." Bochenski each had a goal and an ATLANTA-Slava Kozlov 
Crosby had 39 goals and 63 assist for Boston, which took a 1-scored two goals, including the assists as a rookie last season, but 0 lead just 45 seconds into the game-winner on the power play the Penguins managed just 58 game but fell behind 2-1 before with 46.4 seconds remaining in points as they missed the playoffs the midpoint of the first period. overtime, to help Atlanta end a for the fourth time since their Tim Thomas stopped 22 shots for three-game losing streak with a appearance in 2000-01. While his flfth consecutive loss and the victory ov·er the Toronto Maple he's improved a bit this season, Bruins lost for the sixth time in Leafs on Thursday night. his team has had a complete seven games. Marian Hossa made it 1-0 early turnaround. Kessel tied it at 2 with 10:56 in the flrst with his 42nd goal for 
"We're happy with that," coach gone in the game when he· came Atlanta, which increased its lead Michel Therrien said of being from behind the net, flipped the over idle second-place Tampa Bay alone in first place, two points puck into the air and then batted to five points in the Southeast ahead of the idle New Jersey it past Fleury. But Pittsburgh took Division. Devils. "As long as we concen­the lead for good 31 seconds later Kozlov gave the Thrashers a 2­trate on winning our games, we'll when Crosby fed Christensen as 1 lead 2:15 into the third period 
be fine." he streaked down the left side; he with a tip-in of Andy Sutton's slap 
Erik Christensen had two goals wristed a shot through Thomas' shot from the left circle. and an assist, and Marc-Andre pads. Hal Gill made it 2-all with 13:20 Fleury stopped 31 shots as the "Emotionally, it wasn't there," remaining for Toronto, which had 

AP Pittsburgh forward Sidney Crosby, left, and goalie Marc-Andre Fleury celebrate their 4-2 victory against Boston Thursday. Crosby had three assists in the contest. 
won three of four to begin the night two points out of the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. 
Losers of five straight on the road, the Maple Leafs still earned their 85th point, one better than the New York Islanders and Carolina Hurricanes. 
John Pohl tied it at 1-1 in the first with his 12th goal. 
Kozlov, who scored two goals for a career-high 75 points in a 3­2 overtime loss at Florida on Wednesday night, was in the bot­tom of the left circle when he swept the puck past the right side of goaltender Andrew Raycroft for his 27th goal. 
Nik Antropov's hooking penalty led to Atlanta's man advantage in OT and helped the Thrashers improve to 7-1 in their last eight home games. 
Johan Hedberg improved to 8­4-2, winning his second straight start as coach Bob Hartley gave Kari Lehtonen the night off. Despite stopping 27 of 29 shots, Hedberg was leaning far to his left when Gill beat him with a wide-open shot from the left cir­cle. 
Hedberg was so focused on the crowd in front of him that he apparently failed to see Antropov control a rebound and make a backhanded pass across the slot to Gill. 
Pohl's wrister from the left cir­cle beat Hedberg under the pads. 
In their last seven road games, the Maple Leafs have earned just two points. 
I-Iossa, who had scored just one goal in the last seven games, was skating down the right side of the slut when Keith Tkachuk's back­handed pass from the bottom of the left circle hit him in stride. Bossa lifted a wrister over Raycroft's glove side 3:24 into the first. 
Kozlov had four goals and flve assists in the season series against Toronto, which Atlanta won 3-1. 
Ducks 5, Blue Jackets 2 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Teemu Selanne scored a goal and assist­ed on three third-period power­play goals, and the Anaheim Ducks beat the Columbus Blue Jackets Thursday night to set a franchise record for road wins with 20. 
Chris Pronger had two goals and an assist for Anaheim, who are chasing their first division title since entering the league in 1993 and the President's Trophy for the most regular season points. 
Ryan Getzlaf and Francois Beauchemin each added a goal and an assist. 
The Ducks, who won 3-1 in Chicago on Wednesday, entered with a four-point edge over Dallas in the Pacific Division. They won their 46th game and now have 104 points, extending their fran­chise records. 
Aaron Johnson and Sergei Fedorov scored for Columbus, which had a 2-1 lead early in the third period but had its four-game winning streak snapped. 
Down in the third period, the Ducks scored four goals, includ­ing two on the power player 3:50 apart to take the lead. 
Moments after the Ducks had a goal waived off, Selanne fed for­mer Blue Jackets defenseman Beauchemin at the back post to make it 2-2 at 3:48. 
Selanne then sent a pass to Getzlaf, who stepped from the left end line and let go a shot at 7:38 that hit off the leg of Columbus defenseman Ron Hainsey and past goaltender Fredrick Norrena, who was stellar the first two periods. 
Pronger scored his 13th with a slap shot from the right circle at 
14:53 to make it 4-2 with another power play goal. Selanne scored into an empty net with 2 seconds remaining. 
During a scoreless first period, Norrena made two superb saves during the second half of the peri­od on point blank chances by Anaheim's Andy McDonald and Chris Kunitz on odd-man rushes. Norrena finished with 26 saves. 
Ducks goalie Jean-Sebastien Giguere then stood strong, flash­ing his glove to stop David Vyborny's snap shot minutes into the second period. He made 23 stops. 
Columbus broke through on a fluky goal at 6:40 to make it 1-0. 
Jody Shelley smacked a slap shot from the left circle that Giguere kicked aside into traffic. Johnson was credited with the rebound goal, which withstood video review after it appeared to hit the skate of defenseman Kent Huskins and quickly bounce off the net. 
With Ole-Kristian Tollefsen and Kunitz in the penalty box for roughing late in the period, Pronger's shot from the left boards deflected off Columbus defenseman Anders Eriksson and past Norrena at 19:20 to tie it. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli. not go it alone. If you or someone WANTED AIC,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 + you love needs confidential support
FoR SALE FoR RENT PERSONAL 
util. 630-417-or assistance, please call Sr. Sue IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. andersonNDrentals.com 3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for 8763/MCL214@ aol.com Flute, Snout, Starveling, Snug, Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more 
$15.50 base-appt. flexible sched-07/08 school year. On line see rent-Quince: information, visit our web site at ules, no exp.needed, BETTER HOMES, nd.com or mmmrentals.com. Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9. Do not make an ass of me! http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­customer sales/service, conditions BETTER AREAS, Contact Gary at Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. Bot. nant.shtml or see our bi weekly ad apply, all ages 17+, positions in all BETTER DEALS. Grooms@ourwebspot.net or phone Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896. in The Observer. of Indiana & Michigan, 273-3835. BlueGoldRentals.com 574-277-4759. PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­www. workforstudents.com Very large home for rent for next ONE WHO IS? Katy Morgan loves Raven Symone. 
Now leasing for 2007/8. Large 2-bdrm condos, 18027 & school year. 1 block east of cam-You do not have to be alone. Love, Your bestie Becky NEED A SUMMER JOB? Great houses 18041 Bulla Rd. Call574-233-4590. pus. Walk to class/food/shops. We want to help. Camp Tannadoonah is hiring 2007 close to campus. 4 huge bedrms/3 full baths/large Call our 24 hour confidential hotline Steph & Mo, We know you stole camp staff. Have the best summer Anlanproperties @comcast.net RENTLIKEACHAMPION 3-5 kitchen-lam rm & laundry rm. 3 at 1-800-No-ABORT that cake. Love, DH Lady of your life! Visit www.tannadoon-bdrms avail for 07-08.$250/bdrm. decks overlook huge fenced yard. or visit our website at ah.org OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. Call312-545-5123 or Very private & safe! www.lifecall.org The AKC has ruled Rugby G.B. is 
Bumbaca houses offer you email mitchell.58@nd.edu Must see! 239-707-2025. officially the cutest dog ever. 
*ND CONDOS* NEW BIG Savings Adopt: A young loving couple long 2/3 BR,2 bath condos for 2 or 3 year lease. 1 bdrm apts available summer & fall 5 rooms for rent, summer 2007. to share their Hearts and home with Christine,! know you have a presi-Minutes from campus Visit our web site 07. 1 mi to ND i 741 Eddy. Very close, available a newborn & will provide Endless dent's poster across from your bed. Starting in $130,000s Bumbacahouses.com. n quiet historic neighborhood. NOW if necessary. $300/mo per love. 574-252-2427 ndcondos.com Call Cosimo $575/mo. Laundry/Security. person. (913)481-1918. Expenses paid Mary H. fell off her bike on south Reserve Yours Today! 574-277-1875. Call574-532-8718. acrutchf@ nd.edu call Eileen & Ed at 1-800-718-6577 quad, remember? 
Friday,March 30, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
-
Spring Visitation Weekend Prospects Arrive on Campus 
OUND THE NATION 
Friday, March 30, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE ()ssE RVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 

NHL Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record points /1;1,Stlo 
New Jersey 45-24-8 98 5-5·0 Pittsburgh 44-23-10 98 8·2·0 NY Rangers 39-29-9 87 6-H NY lsianders 36-28-12 84 3·5•2 Philadelphia 2H4-11 53 3-7·0 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record points last 10 
Buffalo 49·20·7 105 5·3·2 Ottawa 45·24·8 98 7-1·2 Montreal 43·31·6 86 7·3·0 Toronto 37-29·10 84 6·3·1 Boston 35-35·6 76 3·6·1 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record points last zo 
Atlanta 39·27-11 89 5-4-1 Tampa Bay 41-32·4 86 4-6-0 Carolina 38·31·8 84 5·4-1 Florida 33·30·14 80 6·3-1 Washington 26·38·13 65 2·7·1 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record points last 10 
Nashville 49·21-7 105 5·3·2 Oetriot 46·19-11 103 5·3·2 St. louis 31·33·12 7 4 3·5· 2 Columbus 32·37-7 71 6·4·0 Chicago 27-40·9 63 3·7·0 
Western Conference, Northwest DMsion 
team record points last 10 
Vancouver 46·23·7 99 1-1-2 Minnesota 45-24·8 98 9-D-1 Calgary 41-25-10 92 54-1 Colorado 39-30-7 85 1-1-2 Edmonton 31-39-7 69 1-8-1 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record points last zo 
Anaheim 45-20·12 102 6-3-1 Dallas 46·24-& 98 8-1-1 San Jose 47·26-4 98 7-1-2 Los Angeles 26-37·14 66 4-3-3 Phoenix 29-42·5 63 2-6-2 
NCAA Women's Tennis ITA Top 20 
team points 

1 Stanford 91.92 2 NOTRE DAME 89.42 3 University of Florida 86.86 4 Univ. of Southern California 84.42 5 University of Georgia 82.07 6 California 81.64 7 Georgia Tech 79.63 8 Clemson University 79.63 9 Univ. of Miami (Aorida) 78.55 10 Northwestern University 75.61 11 UCLA 64.83 12 College of William and Mary 64.81 13 North Carolina 60.48 14 Texas A&M University 58.93 15 Fresno University 54.92 16 Baylor University 53.49 17 Wake Forest University 52 18 Florida State University 51.55 19 Arizona State University 48.81 20 Duke University 47.96 
around the dial 
NBA 
Pacers at Magic 
8:00 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 
White Sox at Braves 
7:00 p.m., Comcast 
TENNIS Sony Ericsson Open 7:00 p.m., ESPN2 
SWIMMING 


AP 

American Michael Phelps swims during his record-breaking 200-meter Individual Medley final at the World Swimming Championships in Melbourne, Thursday. It marked Phelps' third world record of the day and fourth gold medal. 
Phelps gets four golds, three records 
Associated Press medley at Rod Laver Arena. with four golds to his name. in a really strong racing 
MELBOURNE, Australia -Six weeks ago, Michael Phelps showed up for a swim meet in America's heartland, sporting a goatee and unkempt hair that barely fit under his skincap. 
Then, he went out and set a world record. Hmmm, this might be good. 
"Right then and there, I thought something special could happen this year," Phelps said Thursday. 
Boy, was he on the mark. Phelps set his third world record in many days at the world swimming champi­onships, wiping out the field in the 200-meter individual 

Phelps came home in 1 minute, 54.98 seconds, easi­ly bettering his own mark of 
1:55.84 set last August at the Pan Pacific champi­onships. Just as he did in the other record-breaking swims, he jumped out to a quick lead and snuffed out all hope for those who dove in the pool with him. 
"Why stop something that works?" Phelps said, not requiring an answer. 
The 21-year-old phenom­enon -or "mutant," as teammate Tara Kirk referred to him -is still on course to go eight-for-eight at these championships, reaching the midway point of his grueling schedule 
IN BRIEF 
Tigers' Rogers to miss first 
start of regutar season 
LAKELAND, Fla. -Kenny Rogers was placed on the 15-day disabled list Thursday with a tired arm, a move that makes Chad Durbin the Detroit Tigers' fifth starter. 
The move, retroactive to Sunday, sends Rogers to the DL for the first time since 2001. Manager Jim Leyland said Rogers will miss only one start. 
"Number one, you're concerned about Kenny Rogers and make sure he's OK. The other part will take care of itself. We'll march on and hopefully this won't be a very long period of time," Leyland said before Detroit's 3-1 win over the Houston Astros. 
"This is part of it. I don't want to downplay the significance of his contributions and how good he is. At the same time, we have to go on. Our concern is about Kenny's wel­fare." 
"There is nobody out there like him," said Jon Urbanchek, a longtime American coach. "Right now, Michael stands by him­self." 
C'mon, surely he com­pares with another athlete of this era. Tiger Woods surely comes to mind. Or maybe Roger Federer. 
"He's more like Michael Jordan," Urbanchek said. "He's way out there." 
Phelps' personal coach, Bob Bowman, began to sense last month that his star pupil was on the verge of a landmark accomplish­ment Down Under. 
At an off-the-radar meet in Missouri, Phelps was "not state" for the 200 fly. This was a warmup, pure and simple, a chance to hone some techniques for Melbourne. Heck, he didn't even bother shaving down in true swimmer fashion. 

And still, he broke his own world record. 
"That was unexpected. That wasn't part of the script," Urbanchek said. "When he put that swim in, everyone knew the big one was coming here." 
Did it ever. 
Phelps led off a gold­medal showing the 400 free relay with a time that would have been good enough to win individually in the 100 free Thursday night. 
Ochoa close to claiming No. 1 
spotoverSorensbun 
RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif.-Lorena Ochoa took the first step toward over­taking Annika Sorenstam at No. 1 in the world. 
Even though her putting wasn't up to her standards, Ochoa hit it close enough Thursday at the Kraft Nabisco Championship to make five birdies and open with a 3-under 69 in tough conditions, leaving her one shot behind Shi Hyun Ahn in the first major of the year. 
"I feel good. I'm ready to go," said Ochoa, who can move to No. 1 with a victory. 
Tough conditions at Mission Hills kept Ochoa and everyone else from going anywhere too quick. Unlike a year ago, when Ochoa tied an LPGA major record with a 62, the greens were too firm and the rough too thick to allow for that kind of scoring. 
Karrie Webb couldn't repeat her 18th hole magic. 
Urbina sentenced to 14 years 
for attempted murder 
CARACAS, Venezuela-Former Major League baseball pitcher Ugueth Urbina was sentenced to 14 years in prison for the attempted murder of five workers on his fami­ly's ranch, the Attorney General's Office announced Wednesday. 
Urbina, a former pitcher with the Montreal Expos, Boston Red Sox, Texas Rangers, Florida Marlins, Detroit Tigers and Philadelphia Phillies, was also found guilty of ille­gal deprivation of liberty and violat­ing a prohibition against taking jus­tice into his own hands during a dis­pute over a gun on Oct. 16, 2005, according to a statement from the Attorney General's Office. 
The .32-year-old free agent was accused of joining a group of men in attacking and injuring workers with machetes and pouring gasoline on them at his family's ranch, located about 25 miles south of Caracas. 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, March 30, 2007
-
NBA
ND TRACK 

Irish split up teatn for two tourneys 
Wallace posts 19 
NCAAs at some point. This while Needham hopes to bet­By BILL BRINK 
rebounds in game
will make sure they get a ter his record time of 15.55
Sports Writer really good early-season seconds from the same meet. time." Of the athletes competing, Notre Dame will split up About 30 athletes, mostly Piane believes Quick has a this weekend and send ath­throwers, will travel to West good chance of scoring or letes both across the country Lafayette. But that qualifying. to the Stanford Invitational in group will not The athletes Stanford, Calif., and just a include most of the began taper­few hours south to the Mike athletes that com­ing earlier this Poehlein Invitational in West peted last weekend "There's no kind of week. Piane Lafayette, Ind. at the Arizona State said there was
secret play to get

The Stanford Invitational is Clif Bar no special
ready."

geared towards the middle­Invitational. method to distance and distance events, "It's not uncom-preparing for Irish coach Joe mon to a meet.
Joe Piane 

Piane said. give them "There's no
Irish coach

"That's all a week-kind of secret we're sending," end rest," play to get
"I want to see
he said. P i a n e ready," Piane 
AP

Seniors Molly what Espinoza said. said. "You do 
Bulls forward P.J. Brown blocks Pistons guard Chauncey Billups' 
Huddle and Amy Junior drills specific
can do.'' 

shot in Chicago Thursday in the Bulls' 83-81 victory. 
Kohlmeier will thrower Kyle Annen to event, drills specific to run the 5,000 and senior thrower sprinting, enduran ce drills meters, as will Joe Piane Garet Koxlien will and lifting. These are things 
Associated Press After a 20-second timeout, sophomore Irish coach both compete, as you do on a weekly basis." 
Prince caught the inbounds pass Patrick Smyth. well freshman The qualification system for 
CHICAGO -Kirk Hinrich hit and launched a short pull-up Junior John thrower Jaclyn the NCAA Championships in 
two of three free throws with 2.8 jumper over Luol Deng as time Cavanaugh will Espinoza. outdoor track and field differs 
seconds left, and the Chicago expired. compete in the 800 meters, "I want to see what from that of the indoor com­
Bulls clinched their third straight It was the fourth straight win and junior Jake Watson will Espinoza can do," Piane said. petitions. In the outdoor sea­
playoff berth, pulling out an 83-for the Bulls and their 11th in 14 run the 1,500 meters. Senior Freshmen Eric Quick will son, athletes qualify for the 
81 victory over the Detroit games. Chicago trails Eastern Todd Ptacek rounds out the compete in the long jump and regional competitions. The 
Pistons after blowing a 12-point Conference leader Detroit by Irish competitors there, run­sophomore Blair Majcina will top five from each of the four 
lead in the fourth quarter on three games and second-place ning the 3,000-meter steeple­compete in the high jump. regionals advance, setting a 
Thursday night. Cleveland by a half game, with chase. Ptacek's best time in Sophomore Patrick Needham field of 20 athletes. After 
After Tayshaun Prince tied it the Cavaliers visiting the United the event came at last year's will run hurdles, and sopho­that, four to eight more may 
with a put-back with 9.8 seconds Center on Saturday. Stanford Invitational, when more Billy Buzaid will run the be taken from a list in 
left, Hinrich caught a pass at the Ben Gordon led the Bulls with he finished in 8:58.05. 400-meter dash. descending order of time or 
top of the key and got fouled by 25 points, and Ben Wallace "They're all national-class Buzaid will look to match or score. 
Carlos Delfino on a 3-point grabbed 19 rebounds against his kids," Piane said. "They've beat his personal best time of 
attempt. former team. trained exceptionally hard, 49.30 seconds, set at the Contact Bill Brink at 
Hinrich missed the first free Prince scored 26 points for and all have qualified for the 2006 Hillsdale Gina Relays, wbrink@nd.edu 
throw but hit the next two. Detroit. 

Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Adrnissions staff, the counselor is expected.,Jo make an important
' 

contribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing ~lations ·with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned· .~eo graphic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and communication within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions. 
' 

There are currently three counselor positions available on our staff for 2007-2008. ., 
Among our candidates, -vve ·will seek a Latino Recruitment Coordinator. (Fluency in Spanish ·will be strongly preferred.) We \vill also seek an Asian Recruitment Coordinator. Additional responsibilities \Vill be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity '\Vith all aspects of student life at 
Notre Darne. Essential qualities include strong comn'lunication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the \Villingness to work long hours, including rnany evenings and Saturday rnornings. 
Please Note: Interviews will be scheduled after Easter. Preferred start date is July 1, 2007. Please complete the on-line application at http://jobs.nd.edu to be 
considered. Requisition # 020070065 


120 W. McKinlev Ave. •MISHAWAKA 
514-256-5421
SUBARU. 

GurlevleepSubaru.com 
Jmpreza Sign & Drive payments based on $0 cash down, 42 months, 10,000 miles per year plus tax. Forester lease payments based on $1,999 due at signing, 24 months, 10,000 miles per year plus ta~. $0 security deposit. With approved credit. 
Friday, March 30, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 




By REBECCA SLINGER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will look to con­tinue its five-game winning streak this weekend when the Belles travel to face Alma College Saturday and Manchester College Sunday. 
Alma (11-7) will be the first MIAA game for the Belles (11-.1) this season. 
Saint Mary's coach Erin Sullivan said the first league game is very important to the team. 
actually help the Belles. 
"You have less pressure when you're away," she said. "When you're home you're supposed to win." 
Sunday, the Belles will face off against Manchester (5-5) of the Heartland Collegiate Athletic Conference. Last Sunday, the Belles swept HCAC second­place Rose-Hulman in a double header, winning 10-1 and 5-0. 
Manchester has consistent hitting -seven of its players are batting .300 or above -so the Belles will look to their 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Nominations for the 
Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April 9, 2007 
"It sets the tone for the rest of tough pitching duo, sophomores our season," Sullivan said. "It's Calli Davison and Kristin against one of the best teams in Amram, to stay consistent with our conference traditionally ... their past performances this so we want to jump ahead." season. The Belles have a total 
The Belles already lead Alma ERA of 1.29. Offensively, slug­in many of the league stand­gers such as Miesle, Fusaro and ings. Alma has a team batting Davison will try to beat Alma average of .283 in 20 games (1.66 ERA) and Manchester's while Saint Mary's is hitting (3.09) strong pitching. .367 in 12 contests. Senior "If we play the same game shortstop Sarah Miesle leads we've been playing for the last the league in runs scored (20), 12 games, we're going to be and sophomore catcher Ashley successful," Sullivan said. Fusaro is fourth in the league "[Alma] always has great pitch­with 14 runs. ers and they always have great 
Alma has played nearly twice hitters. But we've played three as many games as the Belles or four teams already like that this season, but Sullivan and we've come out on top." believes her squad will not struggle. She said playing the Contact Rebecca Slinger at first conference game away will rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

RecSports has student employment openings for this Summer and the 2007-2008 academic year. 
Become a part of the RecSports Family and share in the joy of helping others attain their recreational goals. 
Applications are available on line@ recsports.nd.edu or by visiting the RSRC. First consideration will be given to those applying by April 21, 2007 Questions call 1-6100 
..------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 30, 2007 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles to face 2 tough teams 

2006, the Belles' went 1·1 in the invitational, losing to the top­ranked Thunder and defeating the Tigers. 
"This year we expect to give 
Wheaton a better match," Belles coach Dee Stevenson said. 
All-American sophomore Jordan Hook and sophomore Brittney Dunn-and an undefeated dou­bles duo of Dunn and junior Shannon Hale. Still, Stevenson expects his team to perform well and plans to approach the match with a positive disposition. 
"You can never go into any­thing with a negative attitude because then you are always beat before you start," he said. 
Olivet Nazarene also owns a strong fall record of 10-1. Entering the spring season ranked No. 21 in the National Association of Intercollegiate Atheletics Poll, the team has yet to play because of weather con­ditions postponing its matches. 
Stevenson plans to play his normal lineup with senior cap­tain Kelly McDavitt in the No. 1 singles spot and freshman Camille Gebert playing in the No. 2 spot. Together the unde­feated duo will compete in No. 1 doubles position. 
"It should be good match-play experience," McDavitt said of the Wheaton Invitational. "We are going to learn a lot because they are both good teams. We are planning to work on our skills this weekend and get ready for our next conference match." 
The Belles' first match of the invitational will be tonight at 7, while the second match will start Saturday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 


By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 

After winning its second con­ference match Monday against Calvin to stay unde­feated in the MIAA, 
Saint Mary's will "Wheaton is pret­
'This year we
compete this week­ty good so we will end against two expect to give definitely have to quality teams in the Wheaton a better play up to our Wheaton potential."
match."

Invitational. Wheaton went 
The Belles will undefeated in the travel today to Dee Stevenson fall at the Wheaton, Ill., to head coach Division III level first face the and has yet to Wheaton College lose a match this Thunder. The following day the spring. Belles will vie for a win against The Thunder also boast two the Olivet Nazarene Tigers. In undefeated singles players ­
Keynote Speaker 
Shirin Ebadi, 
Nobel Peace Prize-Winning Iranian Activist/Lawyer 

An Iranian lawyer and human rights activist, Ebadi was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2003 for her significant and pioneering efforts in democracy and human rights, especially for the rights of women and children. She is the first Iranian and the first Muslim woman to receive the prize. 
Thursday, April 26, 7:00 P.M. Angela Athletic Facility Free and open to the public 
MEN'S GOLF 

Greens on Irish minds in Georgia 
Sandman and freshman DougBy FRAN TOLAN Fortner onto the links in the 54­Sports Writer 
hole event. 
"I think we're all playing 

The Irish will have their work pretty well," Isban said. cut out for them this weekend The Irish have faced 12 of the as they head to the Administaff 17 other teams in this week­
Augusta State Invitational in Evans, Ga., along with 10 of "The field is one of the nation's top-
the best we've 
50 teams. 

faced."
Notre Dame senior co-captain Cole lsban said Cole lsban his team must 
Irish senior 
focus on its short game in order to be competitive with such strong competition. 
"The field is one of the best we've faced," said Isban. "If we don't putt well, we're going to be left in the dust." 
The No. 54 Irish played a practice round at the Champions Retreat Golf Course Thursday, and Isban noted that the greens had an unusual pace. 
"The greens were just changed, and they were pretty slow," lsban said. "That's some­thing we're going to have to adjust to." 
Along with lsban, the Irish will send senior co-captain Adam Gifford, junior Eddie Peckels, sophomore Josh end's field but have gone just 4­12-1 in those match ups. 
"We faced a pretty good field at Sawgrass [Country Club in the John Hayt Invitational) but this might be the best one we've seen," Isban said. 
Isban emphasized his team's efficiency on the greens this weekend. 
"It's going to come down to whether we can make our putts," he said. 
This year marks the fourth in a row in which the Irish have competed in the Administaff Invitational, which was held at Forest Hills Golf Club until 2006. The teams expect near­optimal conditions for the weekend. 
"It's a little bit cooler than we expected but we have no com­plaints," Isban said. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Friday, March 30, 2007 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

C-M 
Campus Ministry 

BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
HOLY 
EEK 
1?.'.4IA.J!J.; ~ITNPA¥ Q:Lf' TJ11]1~ LQRJQ'~ Jl?.:>~~-~~Q~, APRI~.l 5:00pm (Saturday) Vigil Mass 
9:45 am Solemn Mass 
12:00 noon Sunday Mass Special Mass times for Pahn Sunday only 
~UE§:Q~Y, APli!IL.JJ 7:00pm Campus-wide Stations of the Cross (Procession departs from the Grotto) 
9:15 pm Opportunity for individual confession follows Stations in the Basilica 
1I:._,Tf"Jl.lL'l.J1d'!>.L~.,... T· . JKlJlD)&;!D·. ~ll.,A~ A : : 
,JI. :·.!1. ..l-N.~: ..,...,.R..IL Q])g
~-· 

9:00 am Morning Prayer 5:00pm Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper *6:30pm Adoration in the Lady Chapel 
11 :00 pm Tenebrae *Basilica of the Sacred Heart will remain open tron1 6:30 ptn until12:30 atn 
((VOOD FRIDAY .APRIL 6
...................................................................................................................9....................................................................... 
9:00am Morning Prayer 
12:00 noon-3:00pm Silent Hours ofPrayer 3:00pm Celebration of the Lord's Passion 7:15pm Stations ofthe Cross 
HOLY §ATlJR.DAY APRIL PI
............................................................................................................................................9....................................................................... 
9:00 am Morning Prayer 9:00pm The Paschal Vigil 
F.-A§TER SlJNDAY AJ1:l>JR.lill... §
........................................................................................................................................9.................................................................. 
8:00 am Easter Sunday Mass 
10:00 am Solen1n Mass 
12:00 noon Easter Sunday Mass 
7:15pm Solemn Easter Vespers Special Mass tin1es for Easter Sunday only 
CONJ:o"ESSI.ON§ llllJl(l.IN(i 1-IOLY"'VVEE.K. Monday 11:00 an1, 4:45pm, 7:00pm Tuesday 11 :00 am, 4:45 ptn, 7:00 ptn, 9:15 pn1 Wednesday 11:00 atn, 4:45 pn1, 7:00 pn1 Holy Thursday 11:00 am to 12:00 noon, 7:00 ptn to 8:00 ptn Good Friday 11:00 am to 2:00pm, 7:00 ptn to 8:00 pn1 Holy Saturday 12:00 noon to 1:00pm, 3:00 ptn to 5:00 ptn 
~ 

I 
~ I 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 30, 2007 
ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish take on pair of foes at hon1e 
No. 20 Connecticut and Duquesne roll into town to battle laxers 
This season the Huskies are led By MICHAEL BRYAN by junior Shannon Burke, whose Sports Writer 39 goals as a sophomore made 
her a first-team All-Big East 
Notre Dame hopes to continue selection. The attacker leads its strong defensive play over the Connecticut with 45 points ­weekend with home matches double the number of any of her against No. 20 Connecticut and teammates. Duquesne. Burke will be the biggest chal-
The No. 12 Irish  lenge to a stingy  
(7-2, 1-1 Big East)  Irish defense com­ 
will face off against  "We've had  ing off an 11-1 win  
the Huskies (5-2, 0-1) tonight at 7. Notre Dame, who  dominant offensive games and really  over Loyola. Goalkeeper Erin Goodman and the  
defeated Connecticut 13-9 last season, will face a much  good defensive games, but we're still waiting to put  defense set a Notre Dame record in that game for fewest goals  
improved team from last year's 5­11 squad that went winless in the Big  everything together and have the perfect game. ''  allowed. Goodman, in her first season as starting goalkeep­ 
East.  er.  has elevated  
The Huskies' only two losses this  Tracy Coyne Irish coach  her play after giv­ing up 18 goals  

season have come to ranked oppo­nents, and the team has posted wins over Harvard, Stanford and California. Connecticut's last match was a heartbreaking loss to No. 11 Syracuse, falling 18-16 in double overtime. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne said she wasn't surprised by the Huskies' success this season. 
"We scrimmaged them in the fall, and knew they had the talent and ability," Coyne said. "Last season things just didn't go their way, and this year they've started strong." 
against defending 

NCAA champion Northwestern. Since that loss the sophomore is 5-1 with an 8.33 goals against average and a .550 save percentage. 
"The defense is playing with a lot of confidence right now," Coyne said. "We've put up defen­sive pressure and forced oppo­nents to take low percentage shots, and when they've gotten good shots off Erin has been amazing." 
After the Big East showdown on Friday, the Irish will host another match Sunday at 1 against non-conference foe Duquesne~ The Dukes (4-3) bring a high powered offense that comes into thn game averaging 
13.3 goals pnr oontest. 

Duquesn11 will play Dnnver today before !wading to South Bnnd to face thn Irish Sunday. The Dukns will try and imitatn the play from thnir last match, an 18-4 thumping of Howard im thn road. 
Sophomore Kathle1~n McNish leads Duquesnn with :~x points on 19 goals and 19 assists. 
Freshman goalie Caitlin Carducci has struggled to start her career, letting up an avnragn of 11.46 goals per game. However, the freshman has learned from experience. improv­ing her goals against avnrage to eight per game over the last three matches. 
"I think Duquesne will come out aggressively and try to chal­lenge us -they're on the road and looking to make a state­ment," Coyne said. 
While Notre Dame has put up impressive showings on both oll"ense and defense this season, Coyne said she is still waiting for the team to dominate on both ends. 
"We've had dominant ollfmsive games and really good defensive games, but we're still waiting to put everything together and have the perfect game," she said. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Bargar 
continued from page 28 
another two games. 
The Irish are currently undefeated in Big East play. After a sluggish start with the bats earlier on in the month, Notre Dame has turned it on, and as a result, the victories are pouring in. 
Pittsburgh is currently in fourth place in the Big East with a 2-1 confnronce record, tallying a 14-19 mark overall. Syracuse is right below the Irish in the Big East standings at third with a 3-1 record. Overall. Syracuse's record is sufTnring due to a 10-20 mark. 
The Irish pitching has benn impeccable during the team's impressive streak. Bargar has led the way with a 10-7 n~cord, posting a stifling 2.23 EHA along with 14 complete games and 116 strikeouts. 
Senior Kenya Fuemmeler will also need to be on her game to find success this 
weekend -and so far this season, she has. The Irish pitcher has a 5-5 record with a solid 2.90 ERA and 49 strikeouts. 
While its pitchers have enjoyed excellent production during the streak, Notre Dame's bats have also deliv­ered. Senior Stephanie Brown has accumulated a .408 batting average, giving the Irish many chances to score by getting on base. 
The HBI production has come mainly from freshman Ileather Jackson, who has taken advantage of her opportunities with 18 RBis. Sophomore Linda Kohan and Laing have put in 13 and 11 runs, respectively. 
If the Irish keep winning this weekend, they will con­tinue to dominate Big East play. This will only help headed into the champi­onships later on in May with the higher goal of the College World Series waiting after that. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
GETS THE ADRENALI YOURS AND WH 
,~,@,I,,T ON 

Did you know that Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors and entering Grad students .can join Army ROTC and receive afull scholarship? Did you know that Army ROTC only requires about 5 hours of your time per week? Did you know that ROTC scholarships cover full tuition, fees, $900 per year for books and pays a monthly stipend? Get the facts; contact Captain Kelley Osborne at (574) 631-4656 or eosborne@nd.edu. 
Friday, March 30, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 

Injuries 
continued from page 28 
ing a total of three games in the singles matches on their way to victory. Louderback was forced to juggle the lineup against Wisconsin, and he hopes that 
his players will "All ofour kids haven't played a continue to have been playing whole lot of match­respond well to the es," Louderback
really well, playing 
changes. said. "We've just "We moved a few with a lot of drilled a lot and of our doubles confidence, so I feel worked on strokes, 
teams around a lit­just not playing
pretty good 
tle bit with Buck quite as much as
about it.,, 

out and we've got a we usually do aP.d couple new dou­it was good because bles teams that [Wednesday] was
Jay Louderback 
we're going to play the first day we've
Irish coach

this weekend so we'll see how they do," he said. 
Notre Dame's opponent, No. 28 Wichita State, has an impressive 15-1 overall and will be riding a four match­winning streak when the teams meet today. 
Louderback realizes that this matchup will probably not be easy. 
"It should be good," he said. "Wichita State has only lost one match. They've got mostly international kids and they've got a lot of young kids that have just come in, so it's hard to tell how good they are. They lost 4-3 to Ohio State and that's 
Sluinp 
continued from page 28 
both teams on March 20. 
Despite the solid result against Bellarmine, consis­tency has been a problem for Notre Dame so far this sea­son. After winning their first two games -including a 9-7 
victory over then No. 11 Loyola ­the Irish dropped three of four with close losses to Cornell, North Carolina, and Dartmouth sandwiched around a 16-5 drubbing of Drexel. 
"We know what team we want to play like, 
but it's just been a matter of what team shows up for us," junior goalie Joey Kemp said. "We played great against Drexel and lackadaisical against teams like Dartmouth 
and North Carolina. I think it's something we've overcome, and it's just something we need to show on the field now." 
A prepared Bears squad will await Notre Dame in Providence this weekend. Brown enters the match with a record of 5-2. coming off 
attack David

"We know what team 
Madiera, who 

we want to play like, 
leads the team in but it's just been a both points (20) and goals (18).
matter ofwhat team 
Another key ele­

shows up for us.,, 
ment for the 

Bears' improved Joey Kemp play has been the Irish goalie performance of 
"We played great and it just gives against Drexel and the team a lot of 
confidence."

lackadaisical 
Notre Dame 

against teams like counters Burke Dartmouth and with an equally impressive net­
North Carolina.,, 
minder in Kemp, a 

preseason honor­Joey Kemp able mention All­Irish goalie America selection 
an easy 13-4 victory over Vermont Tuesday. 
The meeting Saturday will be the second all-time between the two schools, with the Irish winning the only other contest 11-5 last season at Moose-Krause Stadium. But this Brown team will be different than the one Notre Dame defeated last season. The Bears have already more than doubled last year's win really been the only tight match they've had." 
The Irish, who will be com­peting for the first time in over a week, have slightly shifted their focus during practice this week as they continue their stretch of outdoor matches. 
"We had the weekend off so 
the kids had a little 
bit of rest and we 
been indoors so we 

were able to get outside Monday and Tuesday, which is key for us right now." 
In addition to playing Wichita State today, Notre Dame will wrap up the weekend when it battles No. 37 Tulsa in Oklahoma Sunday. With his team on a roll, Louderback likes his chances over the weekend. 
"All of our kids have been playing really well, playing with a lot of confidence, so I feel pretty good about it," he said. 
Contact Dan Maloof at dmaloof@nd.edn 
total of two. 
"They're playing with a new attitude this season," Kemp said. "They have a new coach, and they basically had open tryouts before the sea­son. A lot of old guys were cut, and a lot of the new guys are still trying to prove them­selves." 
Beyond the new attitude, a big reason for Brown's turn­
around has been 
the play of senior 
sophomore goalie Jordan Burke. Burke leads the 

Ivy League with 12.40 saves per game and is ranked. fourth nationally with a save percentage of .683. 
"He's been a very large part 
of their success," Kemp said. "Teams always play better when your goalie is hot, 
by Inside Lacrosse. Kemp was named the GWLL Player of the Week for the second time this season for his nine save performance in Notre Dame's win over Bellarmine last week. Kemp enters Saturday's game carrying a 
7.64 goals-against average and a .584 save percentage, which rank No. 14 and No. 16 nationally, respectively. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogast@nd.edu 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 30, 2007 
Panthers 
continued from page 28 
[the improvement] will con­tinue." 
Schrage said earlier this week that he expects the bullpen issues to correct themselves. Notre Dame's relief pitchers had been a strength until the South Florida series. Even given the rough stretch over the past week, relief pitchers junior Joey Williamson and fresh­man Eric Maust have ERAs under 3.2. 
As for the lack of clutch hit­ting, shortstop Brett Lilley said he is optimistic that it will improve. 
"Sometimes it's bad luck," Lilley said. "A lot of our guys have hit the ball hard with runners on base. We just haven't gotten that lucky. Hitting is contagious. Once one person gets a clutch hit, they just keep on rolling." 
As Notre Dame's leadoff hit­ter, Lilley and his .505 on­base percentage have been the main victim of runner­stranding. But he said that he is guilty of poor clutch hitting as well. 
"I get frustrated when I'm up [with runners on base] and I don't get the hit," Lilley said. "I also get out when runners are on base." 
Schrage said Trees Field in Pittsburgh, home of an Astroturf infield which does­n't slow down ground balls as much as grass, may help Notre Dame's timely hitting. 
"Pittsburgh's ballpark is a hitter's ball park, so hopeful­ly we can continue to hit well out there," Schrage said. 
Pittsburgh comes into the three-game series 9-12 and 3-3 in the Big East. It took two of three from Cincinnati last weekend but, like the Irish, dropped two out of its three games against South Florida. 
The Panthers' best hitters are Gary Bucuren, who is hit­ting .333 this year with three home runs and 16 RBis, and Jordan Herr, who is hitting .327 with three more homers and 11 RBis. 
Tonight's game will begin at 6, Saturday's game will begin at 3, and Sunday's game will begin at noon. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Top 10 
continued from page 28 
25 Bryan Koniecko, No. 34 Devin Mullings and No. 75 Chris Klingemann in singles play. 
"[Moneke] has terrific ground strokes," Bayliss said. "He's very consistent, and he just never beats himself. He gets stronger the longer the point goes on and you have to hurt him to beat him." 
But singles action is not the Buckeyes' only strength on the courts. The No. 7 Irish duo of Sheeva Parbhu and Ryan Keckley are likely to face off against No. 16 Mullings and Klingemann. No. 82 Koniecko and Moneke will challenge Irish sophomore Brett Helgeson and senior Barry King at the No. 2 position. 
"The Ohio State match is cer­tainly one that's been on both teams' calendars the whole year," Bayliss said. 
There is a long history between the two teams. They last faced off last February when then-No. 26 Notre Dame defeated the previ­ously undefeated Buckeyes 5-2. Bass knocked off Mullings at No.1 singles and Parbhu clinched the upset for the Irish with a win over Koniecko. 
"We know their people well and there is a lot of mutual respect between both programs," Bayliss said. 
Both the Irish and the Buckeyes enter the match after blanking their most recent opponents. Notre Dame cruised past Michigan State Wednesday and Ohio State polished off No. 23 Minnesota Sunday. 
Notre Dame heads back to South Bend after tonight's match to take on Illinois. 
Notre Dame understands the challenges Illinois, the 2003 NCAA Champions, will present. Bayliss noted that the top five players for the Fighting Illini are all strong and powerful servers. No. 6 Kevin Anderson will likely challenge Bass at the No. 1 position. 
"[Anderson] is a big strong guy with a huge serve and big groundstrokes," Bayliss said. "He doesn't have a lot of weaknesses." 
Despite the challenges ahead, Bayliss said the team plans on sticking to the game it has been playing all season long en route to 17-3 record. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 


COME SEE WHAT'S NEW AT TURTLE CREEK!! 
We're Renovating AGAIN! New POOL-HEATED!! New LANDSCAPING New BASKETBALL COURT 
574-272-8124 
Office Hours: M-F9AM-7PM SAT 10 AM-4 PM SUN 12 PM-4 PM 
®
fOUA.l HOUSING OP'li'OIUONUV 



This Weekend in Irish Athletics 
Friday, March 30 Sunday, April 1 7:00pm 1:00pm 
Women s acRossc 
Free T-Shirts to the First 100 Fans! Free NO Crocs to the First 100 Fans! 
Free free food from McDonald's for early arriving fans! 

Saturday, March 31 Sunday, April 1 12:00pm & 2:00pm 12:00pm & 2:00pm vs. Pittsburgh vs. Syracuse 
Free mousepad to first 150 fans! Free NO Wiffle Bat to first 150 fans! 
Sunday, April l
#Sc~
Nore a e 
1:00pm 
vs. Illinois
M Q nis 


Admission is FREE to all the events above. www. notred amepromotions.com 
Friday, March 30, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 ­
CROISSANTWORLD 
BLACK DoG 
i'IUSIPE.t.JT, "THE ATTD~NE.Y 6-&J~L t'>EEN UtJt>E!t. i'lt.E~'> URE. TD lt.£'>16~ T A.U.E<rA"'lDIH DF WfU>I6l=uL-­(,-~ IN HIS "FFit:.E.. WHAT l>D Yov 
HAVE. To SA.Y "S'"'T THE. MATTE~? 
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
16. is BY FAR the most 

2. Something you wear on your head 
nded by water on all 3. A castrated dude and named after an ink-4. Silent but 
6. She had a very nice endoplasmic ___ 
9. Marky Mark and the 

1. "You can run. you can Funky __ 
ide, but you can't escape my 10. Do you prefer Finny's or Fever? 
12. A good place to drive a boat is near the country of __. 
WH~ "THE HE-LL \S 

'JOUfZ... r~S\.-E. t-\? \f" NDSP \S t>OIN(:J rl~e A LAR.M -rf;s~ lo S.E.E.. 
::'>LOW Cou£{::o £ 
(;rE-T IJP 

AND ou,-OF TI--\E.H~. Po~M A 1-Art-, 1'L'-Gr•va 'fCM A 1-ltr...tr: PF-E..--rcy PA.MN Sl--OW. 
54 Classic 1894 swashbuckler, with "The" 
56 Bound 

57 Satisfied customer's request 
58 Send another invitation 
59 Sharp 

DOWN 
1 Relatively smart 
2 George's mother on "Seinfeld" and others 
3 HBO showing of 1975 
4 1937 Oscar role for Luise Rainer 
5 Less likely to lose it 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
'\ EA.\-\ 1 'jou'~€. PI~.:E.."'f SMU.I;:i N:>W ~ID, Su-r S£ 'T\-\A N'tc:.JrJu u-s w 

~€.-r\.-1 l!"ll:! H.A'PPENS T~:> 
'-fOU AND we: WFt.\\E W\-\AI HAPPE.NE.C> 'PoWN ,O.NC> 
C.0\.-0~€.() 
{'o'5f IT 


MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
WHAT I J'1eAN7" To $)1'( lS I F-LILL'( SurroJZ.T 'R.v~M"(. 

LIAMMORAN 
WILLSHORTZ 

HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJl!JMffirhJE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 


one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
INFIS 

1 ±
rJ 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DANGL 

WHAT DAD FAC.E=D WHEN HE BOUGHT
IJ I t J 
A BALLOON.
www.jumble.cam 
NAITAT 

r. 'l I p c:q Now arrange the circled lettersl ..A l ..A to form the surprise answer, asL-.-.J,_..._._ _.__ __.__...L::.....,~ suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: riiiiiiiiJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: WHEAT LATHE INSIST GARISH Answer: What the opera singer did when she took the ocean voyage -HIT THE HIGH "SEAS" 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Hideaki Takizawa, 25: Lucy Lawless, 39: Ell< Macpherson, 44; M.C. Hammer, 45 
Happy Birthday: The past can now he brought into the future if you update old ideas am reunite with people who have the talent to help you pull off what you want to achieve thi year. Strategy. organization and timing will be key. The result will be success. Listen, lool and lunge forward. Your numbers are 13. 16, 21, 28, 36.44 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Make sure you have proper documentation if you are traveling. Mix business with pleasure and network all you can. Your knowledge and you dynamic way of presenting will lead to something big. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't let your insecurities surface today, especially in a social setting. Show an interest in what others are doing and you will take the pressure of talking too much about what you are up to. Be a bit mysterious. 2 stars 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20}: Partner with someone who can complement what you are trying to achieve. Two hands are better than one and, in this case, you stand a much bette chance of being successful if you move swiftly and efficiently. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your curiosity will get the better of you today. Follow an instinct or try something a little unusual. Your memory won't Jet you down. allowing ym to revisit someone or something from the past that needs to be resolved. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may be in dreamland today especially with relationships an< money. Pull yourself together and call the shots instead of giving in to what others want. Initially you may suffer setbacks but, in the end, you will win. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone will be keeping information from you. If it influence the way you do a job, it could lead to trouble. Protect yourself from takers. Invest in yourself, your outlook and your looks. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Use your power of persuasion to get what you want and maneuver yourself into an excellent position. You can manipulate situations and influenc• what others do. You are capable of doing something extraordinary. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If you enjoy what you are doing, that's all that counts. Ym can't sell out when you are so close to achieving what you have worked so hard for. Don' let anyone undermine you. Focus, position yourself and give it your aiL 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be moving into unfamiliar territory and, 
although you thrive on adventure and excitement, this may not be what you are really 
looking for. Delays due to a problem with an authority figure may end up costing you. 
Exaggerating will lead to trouble. 2 stars 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make vocational changes, go for interviews, try your hand at something altogether different or start your own business today. As long as you feel good about your choices and your direction, you will do welL It's time to breath• a sigh of relief. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone may call in a favor but don't feel obligated to follow through if it goes against your beliefs. Free yourself of the bad habits you've had 
--~ 
in the past. There is no room for mistakes not even if someone needs your help. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't make the mistake of thinking you can do more thar is humanly possible. You will face some controversy with people you work with or for. Keep things simple. This is not the time to embellish. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a fabulous storyteller and know how to hold someone's interest and persuade them to see things your way. You are original, difficult to please and alway looking to be bigger, better, bolder. 
F:uvPn.ia',-.; WPh .'litn;: nstmndvire.rnm fnr fun. PI1PP.ninlnst.rnm fnr..rnnfidpntinl rnnsu1tntinn 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Bristly 
7 Sports anchor's offering 
12 Henry Clay's estate in Lexington, Ky. 
14 1997 Michael Douglas film 
16 Unexplained phenomena 
18 Quai d'Orsay setting 
19 Possible sentence in the slammer 
20 Unfriendly 
21 Whom Pocahontas married 
23 U.K. award 
24" and Louis" (1956 duet album) 
26 It doesn't stay in for long 30 Like silhouettes, typically 
32 Subject to debate 
33 1950's-90's singer called ''The High Priestess of Soul" 
34 Ones forging 
36 Congregation location 
37 Finish a hole 
39 There are no plans for this 
43 18-Across feeder 
44 "Of course!" 
45 Footballer Haynes 
47 Former state: Abbr. 
48 Some misses 
52 On the other hand 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

6 College dept. 7 Torn 8 Kellogg's brand 9 Epic 
achievement? 10 Blob 11 Put down 13 Let down 14 Carroll 
creatures 15 Scoot 17 Some PC 
image files 22 Conjectures 25 Two-time A.L. 
home run champ Tony 
27 Exempt 28" can't be!"-­ 38 Threefold 39 The "blood" in  49 Cub bearers, in Spain  
29 Stevie Wonder's Have You"  bloodstone 40 Brian of  50 Swing alternative  
31 Something often fallen out of 34 Supporter  "Juarez," 1939 41 Full 42 Bridge piece  51 Glass finish 53 "The Cotton Club" star  
35 Falls off  46 Close cutter  55 Put paper into  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. · 
-

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, March 30, 2007 
page 28 

BASEBALL 

Packing for Pittsburgh 

Irish want to pick up play against Panthers 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Notre Dame ended its three-game losing streak Wednesday against struggling Chicago State, but the real test of whether the Irish have corrected the problems that led to the skid will come this weekend when they travel to Pittsburgh to play the Panthers in a three-game Big East series. 
Over the last four games ­which include two losses to South Florida, a defeat to Central Michigan and the win over the Cougars -the Irish have stranded 49 runners per contest, and their bullpen has given up a total of 22 runs. 
Irish coach Dave Schrage said he hoped the problems were fixed after the Chicago State victory, but he will not know for sure until the con­ference series against Pittsburgh. 
"With one game its tough to tell," he said. "But hopefully [the improvement] will con-
see PANTHERS/page 26 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

No. 2 netters battle injuries on road hip 
I 

Irish freshman Kali Krisik made her singles debut last Thursday against Wisconsin. Krisik won 6-0, 6-0 against Kim Roberts. 
By DAN MALOOF Sports Writer 
After soundly defeating Wisconsin 7-0 last week, Notre Dame moved up to No. 2 in the ITA rankings and will seek its 12th straight victory today when the Irish travel to Arkansas City, Kan., to take on 

' No. 28 Wichita State. 
I.I The Irish, who boast a 16-1 overall record, will most likely be shorthanded again this weekend, according to Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback. 
"Yeah we're still struggling [with injuries]," Louderback said. "We'll probably have two out. The same two, [Brook] Buck and [Colleen] Rielley, will probably miss this weekend and we're hoping they're going to be back next week." 
The injury bug certainly did not seem to faze the Irish last Thursday in Madison where they handled the Badgers, los­
see INJURIES/page 25 

TOM HANCULAK/ OBSERVER GRAPHIC 
ND SOFrBALL 

Bargar ends ga111e with ho111e run 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 

Brittany Bargar certainly picked the right time to get her first career hit. 
The sophomore hurler hit the game winning home run in the bottom of the seventh in Notre Dame's 4-1 victory over Toledo Thursday. 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Laxers hope to stop slump 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

After struggling to find some consistency in its young season, Notre Dame will try to start a winning streak when it travels to Providence, H.l., to take on 
No.  20  Brown  at  noon  
Saturday  at  Brown  
Stadium.  

The Irish, ranked No. 17 in the Nike/Inside Lacrosse media poll despite losing three of their last five, are coming ol"f an 11-3 win over Bell arm ine in the Greater Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) opener for 
see SLUMP/page 25 

Bargar also picked up the win on the mound, allowing just three hits and tallying seven strikeouts. 
The Irish were behind 1-0 headed into the final frame when an RBI single by sopho­more Erin Glasco scored jun­ior Katie Laing to tie the score at one. Sophomore Beth Northway then picked up a pinch-hit single off 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Tough task on tap for weekend 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has its plate full this weekend. 
The Irish are slated to take on No. 2 Ohio State today in Columbus and No. 8 Illinois at home Sunday. 
Notre Dame travels to Columbus well aware of the com­petition that awaits, Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
Ohio State's strength is in num­bers. Four of the siX singles play­ers for Ohio State are ranked in the top 7 5 nationally, and the team boasts two ranked doubles teams, as well. 
Irish senior Stephen Bass likely will take on national No. 10 Steven Moneke. 
Moneke is no stranger to the Irish. Moneke defeated Bass 7-5, 6-3 in the ITA National Indoor semifinals in November. The sophomore Buckeye had defeated Bass in the ITA Midwest Regional Championships just two weeks prior. 
Notre Dame will also face No. 
see TOP 10/page 26 
Toledo reliever Hannah Rockland before Bargar's home run. 
The victory marked Notre Dame's sixth straight headed into a set of doubleheaders beginning Saturday against Pittsburgh at Ivy Field. Sunday, Syracuse will make its way to South Bend for 
see BARGAR/ page 24 



THE 


The Independent Newspaper Mocking Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
University bans vaginas; men rejoice 
Zahm applauds ND's decision to eliminate women from campus 
By I-LEAN BACK 
and TIMMY DOUGHBOY 
News Writers 
Under a banner reading "X­pel the X Chromosome," University President Father Jim Junkins announced in a press conference at the football stadi­um Thursday that all vaginas are to be removed from campus within the next week. Notre Dame is also revoking all acceptance letters it issued to vagina-bearing applicants for the class of 2011. 
The dictum is the latest event in Junkins' "X-pel the X Chromosome" campaign, which forced "The Vagina Monologues" to a classroom last year and to an off-campus location this year. 
"It was the next logical step," Junkins said. "First we got rid of the 'Vagina Monologues.' But then I realized my folly -vagi­na dialogues are twice the vagi­nas! We just couldn't risk our holy men of faith succumbing to the temptation to converse with -or, worse yet, ejaculate in the presence of -vaginas. I mean, it's in the good book.'' 
Junkins later clarified that by ''good book" he meant 
see NO GIRLZ/page 4 

Prez: Saint Mary's to be rena111ed 'Santa Maria' 
change would begin to ter­minate the College's "stale ancestry, and foster a renewed sense of diversity on this North Face wearing­Vera Bradley bag carrying campus." 
"The College, which was recently named one of the top 100 institutions for Hispanics, has not really been able to fully display how diverse we really are," Gooney said. "That is why this name change is ideal." 
College spokeswoman Ima Nottelling revealed that this decision was also made to make the College more unit­ed with its brother school ­Notre Dame. 
"We have been living in the shadow of the dome for 
see DIVERSITY/page 3 

By SMELLY SMICKER Klingler's girlfriend 
In an ongoing effort to reshape and advance the College's image, Saint Mary's administration announced Thursday that as of April 1 the institution will be officially recognized as "Universidad de Santa Maria." 
During an exclusive inter­view with The Absurder, College President Merrill Gooney said this executive decision was made without student consideration after the administration reviewed results from its "Identity Initiative" -the institu­tion's quest to define the ever-illusive "SMC Chick.'' 
Gooney said the name 

Senatorsopen dialogue, 
denounce cookie caper 
by Sharrelle when she dropped
By NOTTAMAN DUH 
into her office for an afternoon 
News Writer 
snack. Crumbs, along with pho­tocopies of-among other things Members of the Student Senate -Dwarhead's face were found 
debated the possibility of opening 
scattered around the copy 
a dialogue about perhaps dis­machine. 
cussing an 

"This is an outrage -a moral impeachment outrage that undermines every­
hearing for 
thing this organization stands rogue senator for," Sharrelle said. "It's a slip­G r o g pery slope, if we let such blatant 
Dwarhead, 
insubordination go unpunished.
who allegedly We have to talk about this." 
stole a cookie When asked to clarify whatfrom student exactly "this organization stands 
body presi­
~.........__-..:::._____J 

for," Sharrelle referred to Open
dent Frizzi Sharrelle 
Dialogue Panel #58, held last 
Sharrelle's 
December, during which 
executive cookie jar. 
Sharrelle, student body vice pres­
The alleged theft allegedly 
ident Brillo Woodchuck and a 
occurred sometime Monday 
portrait of former student bodymorning, as the alleged cookie was allegedly discovered missing 
see FRIZZI/page 4 

NDSMCABSURDE . 
Junkins adopts Ugandan 
By JEREMY PORTERHOUSE 
Griffin 

After a recent trip to Uganda, University President Father Jim Junkins returned with more than just memories. 
Upon his arrival at South Bend regional airport, an ador­ing crowd saw Junkins de­plane with the newest member of the campus community -a young Ugandan orphan boy. 
"He's adorable, isn't he?" Junkins asked, gazing at the yet-unnamed child. 
Most of the crowd, however, couldn't see much more than the boy's scalp, as Junkins' spe­cial order orphan-protective Coach carrying bag did not meet the president's exacting specifications. 
Junkins said he and his part­ner on the trip, Ben Affleck­Maves, chose the boy, who is between 4 and 7 years old, as a symbolic humanitarian gesture. 
"It is a way to show our soli­darity with our host nation and friends," Junkins said. 
Junkins and Affleck-Maves selected the child after a rigor­ous "American Idol"-style search process. 
Hundreds of young contest­ants sang pop classics for the pair, and Junkins was delighted with the boy's rendition of Lionel Richie's "Hello," which the University president said "enraptured him." The boy later cemented Junkins' affec­
see AFRI CNpage 3 

Christ! Jesus named speaker 
Alito out, DaVinci Code in at SMC 
By R. KELLY RAPPIN' 
Cuz lmma Flirt 

In an effort to squelch cam­pus uproar over the adminis­trations' choices for the 2007 commencement speakers, both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have chosen new pop­ular figures to send off their seniors. 
After many questioned the identity of the University's original speaker, General Electric CEO I.M. Loaded, the University decided to pull some strings and invite Jesus Christ himself to address the 
see JESUS/page 4 


page 2 The Absurder+ PAGINA DOS Sunday, April 1, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
This one goes out to ••• 

I know at least one person who has whined multiple times about not get­ting an inside column. So okay, here you go Erin, but to keep my pride it's going in The Absurder. 
But it seemed creepy to write 500 words about one of my room­mates, April Fool's or not. So I start­ed to consider all the other people who I did not write an inside column about. So far, I've written about lazy people, beer (and non­beer) drinkers, Eagles fans, Cavanaugh foot­ball players, my dad and townies, among other topics. Ironically, Erin fits into at least three of the above categories. But she still complains about never getting the 500 words of fame that are an inside column. 
So Erin, this one's for you. But there are some other issues which have never made it into print. Here are a few of the things that I feel strongly about, because this is The Absurder and you care. A lot. 
Firstly, I would like to acknowledge the really good omelet guy at North Dining Hall. He is middle-aged, has white hair and makes significantly better omelets than anyone else in the entire world. Seriously, I have had omelets at really nice places, and I would take this wonderful NDH culi­nary creation anytime. I will wait in any length of line to get this man to make me an omelet. Seriously, no matter what else is going on in my life, this brings more joy to me than is socially acceptable. 
Secondly, what is with taking away the $1 Long Islands at Finnys? The $6 pitchers do not even remotely com­pare. This was by far the best deal in town. I could spend the change in the cupholder in my car and have a truly excellent time. Now, everytime I order a drink I feel cheated. I know that's not fair. But giving me a $1 Long Island and then taking it away, with no warning? I'm not okay with that. 
Thirdly, Jeff Bergstrand, finance professor. This man is on a postcard, which automatically makes him important. I would take graduate level finance classes in order to get a seat in this man's class. Obviously I can't do that, but I definitely would. 
Fourth, Club 23. Where did all the tacos go? Although it's practically next door, I don't really count myself as a huge Club 23 fan. This is because, in the early 90's, Club 23 used to have all-you-can-eat tacos for $1. I realize that Mondays at 23 also coincides with Fajita Rita Monday (in itself an excellent idea), but I am real­ly intrigued by the idea of food at a bar. I think I would be a much bigger fan of 23 if the tacos came back. 
To conclude this article, I apparent­ly feel strongly about my roommate complaining about a lack of coverage in campus journalism, an NDH employee, two bars and a finance professor. Sounds like senior year to me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of The Absurder, and have nothing to do with logic or coherent thought. 

CORRECTIONS 
We never make mistakes. Ever. And ifwe do, we really don't want to hear about them. Especially from little twerps like you. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: NEVER HAVE I EVER ••• 



Barley Cheis  Ty  Barney Fife  The Shark  BP Babe  Donald Malley  
Chubby  Mediocre  NDSP  Cubby  Chubbier  Blue Hen  
"Read  "Bogeyed the  "Let a student  "Liked the Sox."  "Turned down a  "Been caught."  
NDNation. "  16th at  on campus.  nice hot plate of  
Warren. "  baked beans!"  

Mirror petitions for restraining order 
GUG -Irish sex sym­bol/safety Ninedum Chindukwe will have to pop his collar alone for the next six months. 
A South Bend judge has responded to a request from the football player's bathroom mirror for a restraining order. 
"I never had any time to myself," said the mirror. "In the morning, at lunchtime, after practice. ... He was always staring at me." 
Chindukwe was disap­pointed with the decision, but wouldn't let one mirror 
9:07A.M. 



JAMARCUS/Sucks 

Talk about truth in advertising. Judging by what we've seen at Rolfs, more than a few NO girls guzzled down the pounds in Nawlins over New Years. 
BEATOFF 

"Next week, I might even color code my Excel file," McWhite said. 
Roof collapses on Men non 
JACC -In a cruel twist of fate, a storm caused the roof to collapse on pep rally king Duck Mennon. 
The fiery Irish athletic supporter was the only person in attendance at a fencing pep rally when the roof caved in. 
Mennon sustained only minor bruises and valiant­ly returned to the rally just minutes later. 
"Let's hear it for Coach Willingham!" Mennon said. 
get in the way of his primping. 
"It's really no problem," Chindukwe said. "Shambrose Wooden will let me use his mirror while he's at Abercrombie buy­ing pastel polos." 
Business major breaks rank, eschews tie 
MENDOZA-In a stun­ning move, accounting major Stuffy McWhite wore a sweatshirt during a recent class presentation. 
Normal class protocol encourages students to "dress up like pricks" while giving talks on stocks and bonds. 
11:49 A.M. 1:24 P.M. 4:20P.M. 



IN BOXERS 
The College of Engineering will hold its annual formal this Saturday at 6 p.m. Tickets go on sale today at noon in LaFun. They are $10 if you bring your date. Only $5 if you bring your model rocket. 
University auditor Bill Kindalikesgucci will hold a planning meeting tonight for a faculty fraternity at 9 p.m. in Grace Hall. Any Notre Dame employee bored with his desk job and looking for a little debauchery is encouraged to attend. 
Pornography will be broad­cast tonight on computers in every room of every male resi­dence hall. All positions will be shown. The event is free, but closed to the public. 
Local watering hole Finnegabraryarney Stone will introduce a new song into its set list Friday. Owners will have ambulances on hand in the event of fainting. 
Former University spokesman Boston Sorin faces journalism prof Johnny "The Jet" Coldwell in a game of water pong today at high noon in O'Shag. Gallivanting czar Bob Mule will officiate. 
A freshman will eat a handful of Reese's pieces straight from the candy section of LaFun today at 9:4 7 p.m. 
Tonight at 11, NDSP will cane parking ticket offenders outside its palace near the power plant. All members of the Notre Dame family are invited to watch and join in the festivities. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Absurder, well, we really don't care. 
7:11P.M. 11:59 P.M. 

78 -20 
..... 
ct 
(.) 



0 

89 54 23
.... 


Da Region 56 I 32 Cleveland 69 I 69 Hell 895 I 57 Lancaster 88 I 31 Litchfield 43 I 27 Navarre 65 I 23 Arlington Heights 59 I 38 Omaha 79 I 52 The Bend 75 I 65 Emile St. 57 I 41 The Backer 102 I 37 
Sunday, April 1, 2007 The Absurder+ NEWS page 3 
Freshman Malibu Drinker indeed we are a College com­"Honestly, I think it is a tes­it is the underclass women 
said she skipped her nightly prised of conservative timony to the progress we've who will be most affected by
Diversity 
continued from page 1 
centuries," she said. "This was Santa Maria's time to show it too can add a foreign flair to its name." 
The name change, however, did not sit well amongst Saint Mary's students -most notably the College Republicans who began a pro­Alito/anti-Santa Maria petition in the student center Thursday. 
8:30 dinner trip  Catholics  who  
to South Dining Hall -where  "This was Santa  enjoy crossing route 933."  
she  usually  Maria's time to  As  bookstore  
awaits the arrival of notable ND athletes -to man the petition  show it too can add a foreign flair to its , name.  employees worked diligently to recall all "Saint Mary's  
table.  College"  para­ 
"I just think it is important that we maintain our  lma Nottelling College spokeswoman  phernalia, senior and bookstore employee Ivanna  

heritage and tra­dition,'' she said, "and not lose sight of the fact that 

BRANGELINA!The Absurder Having crossed Uganda off his list, Father Junkins will now head to New Jersey in search of more orphans. 
Ringbyspring said she was not too fazed by the decision. 
Africa 
continued from page 1 
tions by again slaying a Lionel Richie verse, this time in the group finale of "We are the World." 
Opponents have criticized Junkins for exploiting the eco­nomic situation on the African continent, .allegations the new surrogate father vehemently denies. 
"A voice like that should be heard by the world," he said. 
While the child may indeed prove to be a music star, it is unlikely Junkins fused a branch onto his family tree for a poten­tial music deal. 
Sources close to the situation have confirmed that Junkins ­made at Santa Maria," Ringbyspring said. "I remem­ber last year's freshman class only had one minority, and this year there are ten. If there has ever been a reason to change your name, this is clearly one." 

While Ringbyspring said she did not think many seniors were not saddened by the decision because they spent their nights at Club Blackout and their days at random off campus v-enues, she believes 
who monitors tmz.com and 
Access Hollywood daily for 
examples of American immoral­
ity -has grown tired of the 
media attention showered upon 
the adoption of foreign orphans 
by movie stars. 
"A Beverly Hills mansion isn't 
the place for a foreign child 
with no knowledge of the 
English language to grow up," 
Junkins said. 
Junkins is especially per­
turbed about the growing kid 
collection of Brad Pitt and 
Angelina Jolie, whom he calls 
"the modern day embodiments 
of Sodom and Gomorrah if 
Sodom and Gomorrah were 
people and not cities." 
Junkins hoped his actions will 
inspire more high-profile 
Catholic leaders to follow his 
lead and save the world's 
the  change  - a  thought  
echoed  by  Drinker,  who  
yearns for  a  name  restora­ 
tion.  

"I think the saddest part is that the administration did not ask students what they thought," she said. "I think that this is just going to drive us further into our ongoing identity crisis." 
Contact Smelly Smicker at pigtostal@saintpetest.com 
orphans from the horrors of Hollywood. 
"Just because these people play good parents on television and in movies doesn't mean they are anything other than crazy, drug-using scientolo­gists," Junkins said. 
However, with Jolie, Pitt and their cohorts showing no indi­cation of slowing down, Junkins said that he must ratchet up the intensity of his own efforts if he is to make third-world adoption a part of Catholic character. 
Junkins already has plans to travel to Djibouti, Bolivia and 
northern  New  Jersey  to  
increase  his  child-saving  
efforts.  

Contact Jeremy Porterhouse at bengalbouter@sweaty.com 
Date a Chris. Call 631-4543. 
Never been laid? Celebrate Goldwater's birthday? Enjoy stealing Observer photos? The Irish Fascist is currently accepting applications for editors and reporters! 
E-mail your resume today to Bob $. Capitalist at partylikearepublican@boring.com 
page 4 The Absurder+ NEWS Sunday, April 1, 2007 
come on, just vote to have us were tasty, but only a "sometimes renamed 'Zahm House."' food."
Frizzi 
The group collectively groaned, "That said, I don't think this is as one of the 20 senators who an actual violation of the Student 
continued from page 1 
have never spoken before, and Union Constitution," she said. president Duve LeBaron dia­therefore are not important to "There's really nothing in here logued about the issue. The Absurder, told Napp to just about eating someone else's food 
"Raising awareness of our mis­give it up. without asking, even if it is a dick 
sion, I think, is at the heart of our "Like the University pays atten­move." · mission," Sharrelle told The tion to anything we say anyway," Sharrelle then quietly con­Absurder in an interview after said the unnamable senator, ferred with Woodchuck before the December panel, glancing before taking a swig from his hip producing copies of what she desperately at LeBaron, who flask. called the "correct version" of the remained unchar-Dwarhead then Constitution. acteristically silent. stood up to speak "As you can clearly see, in Woodchuck, it "Like the in his own defense. Section 23q, a violation of the 
"Look, I didn't Executive Cookie Jar is one of the 
appeared at the University pays
time, dodged out of take that cookie, gravest ethieal violations a sena­
attention to

the interview, but but if I had, I tor can eommit," she said smugly. was later discov­anything we say would have done it As Causeway began to point ered to be standing anyway. to make a state­out that the section in question behind Sharrelle. ment about the was handwritten in the margins, 
With the question democratic another unnamed senator jerked successfully unnamed senator process," he said. awake, realized the meeting had dodged, Sharrelle irrelevant "The wealth of a gone on for an unprecedented 20 asked the senators nation should not minutes, and motioned to for their input on solely belong to its adjourn. the alleged cookie theft. leader. Cookies for all! Students Unopposed, the motion passed. 
"Zahm is clearly superior to of Notre Dame, unite!" The debate is expected to con­every dorm on campus, and Judicial Council president Biz tinue for the next four Senate we're willing to do things that Causeway gently explained to meetings. everyone else finds completely Dwarhead the difference disgusting and juvenile," said between communism and Contact Nottaman Duh at Zahm senator Cat Napp. "So democracy, and that cookies yesiveheardthatjokebefore@nd.edu 


Spirits, cheer and good ol' fashioned brotherhood enveloped Hahm Zouse at the news that vaginas had been banned from ND. 
No Girlz 
continued from page 1 

luDac(rous): A Guide to Student Life, not the divinely inspired Holy Bible, or any of its four gospels that preach tolerance and inclusion. 
Through "X-pel the X Chromosome," Notre Dame is reclaiming its roots, Junkins said. He pointed out that the University was founded in 1842 by seven lonely priests who grew nervous and stuttered around members of the opposite sex. 
All women unwilling to leave cam­pus. 

But Jack Dick, member of campus activist group CLAP, announced the organization would protest the move. 
"We are very interested in vaginas," he said. "After all, our organization is named after gonorrhea -only catehi­er." 
Junkins has presented resi­dence hall Hahm Zouse as a guide for other male dorms struggling with the adjustment. 
"Look at those men. They've refused to let anything remote­ly resembling a vagina to enter 
their doors for 
the last 70 
years," he said. 

vagina-He also encour­
"We are very
bearing students, aged other faculty, staff -interested in dorms to adopt including the din­vaginas. Hahm's late­ing hall workers night male-bond­and the cranky ing rituals that
Jack Dick 
Burger King lady weakened male 
CLAP
will be desires to inti-
removed in "X­pel the X Chromosome." 

'Those vaginas always talked about things that don't go on here anyway, like sex, mastur­bation and sexual assault. It was pointless having them around," Junkins said. 
Student reaction to the cam­paign has been mixed. 
Some, like Observer comic Miam Loran, have offered their full-fledged support for Junkins' announcement. Moran has donated a dozen gremlin nets to help NDSP catch mately associate 
with women. 

To celebrate the dismissal of vaginas, Junkins has organized a day­long "Take Back the Penis" event for tomorrow. From 9-11 a.m., South Dining Hall will serve Jimmy Dean sausages for breakfast, and boys will play "Pin the Penis on the Donkey" at Rolfs. The entirety of every March Madness basketball game will be reshown on South Quad in the afternoon, and an all-school Nintendo Wii tourna­ment will be staged in LaFortune at night. A quarter dog-eating and burping contest will begin promptly at mid­night. 
"Do you think a vagina could eat as many hot dogs or burp as loudly as Son Jullivan or Barley Cheis?" he asked.· 
Glaneing around slyly, he took a big swig of the 7 -Up on his desk and carefully emitted a tiny belch. Then he giggled. "Oh boy, vaginas could never do that. Hey, look! Notice the expression: 'oh boy,' NOT 'oh girl:' ~aybe we should all take ahmt. 
In an unrelated move, Director of Undergraduate Admission Ron Sorrycino has announced changes to the application for admission to Notre Dame. 
Prospective students will now be required to list their favorite bands and actresses. 
"We admit students on a sex­ual orientation-blind basis. We have no way of knowing," he said. "Still, if we see male applicants who prefer Cher to Pearl Jam or Barbara Streisand to Ange-lina Jolie, well ... it's pretty obvious. Homo -er, I mean, people who like Cher and Barbara Streisand -are just like vagi­nas. They don't really belong here." 
Contact 1-Lean Back at frenchie@evanston.com and TlffiiDy Doughboy at cincys­finest@cws.com 
did not think the 2005 ND-USC twice removed of both Thursday. Although he was not found game was worthy of His pres­Jonathan Klinger and the ever­"I am not sure whom I could guilty of that crime, Lotta weed 
Jesus 
ence, we thought we could feared White-Powers Jockular invite to speak at commence­said she found those two 
continued from page 1 make up for it by cordially duo. ment that would appeal to issues are least in line with the inviting him to the May cere­To appease campus-wide everyone," she said, and she College's mission statement, mony." disgust College then went on to suggest NFL­which reads, "Bitch a lot.
2007 grads. 
"Who else but the Lord can Saint Mary's, on President Merrill hopeful Brady Quinn or Lilith Drink a lot. Look for a man? really sum up the value of a the other hand, "We usually only G o o n e y Fair leading ladies the Indigo Go lesbo." Notre Dame education," was initially over­pull the 'Jesus announced that Girls. Junkins too was puzzled by University President Father whelmed by the New York Times With approximately 99-per­the College's choice, and said
card' during dire 

popularity of its best selling cent of the campus practicing there would be an "obvious
Jim Junkins said. 
While many seemed shocked original com­situations. " author Dan Catholics, and an additional showdown between the two that Jesus would descend sim­mencement Brown would 30-percent of students consid­speakers." ply for a commencement cere­speaker Supreme address the grads ering answering the higher "Yet again," he said, "we see
Father Jim Junkins 

mony, Junkins said it was not Court Justice -an announce­call to become a nun, Brown unparalleled standards dis­
el presldente 

right to question the connec­Samuel Alito. ment that sent was obviously a controversial played by both schools. tions made simply by becom­It only took the shock waves choice. However, this time I think we ing part of the Notre Dame feisty females of the College through the campus. "I am boycotting for sure," could have a problem." 
one day to find reason to com­After leaving an administra­said senior Ismoka Lottaweed.
family. 
plain -Alito did not respect tive post at Notre Dame for the "Brown said that Jesus had a
"We usually only pull the 'Jesus card' during dire situa­and appreciate their feminist Saint Mary's presidency, wife and child. This is horren­Contact R. Kelly Rappin' at
tions," he said, "and since we ideals and it was discovered Gooney said she reconsidered dous. Oh, and didn't he com­flirty@jerseychaser.com
that he is the third cousin that decision for the first time mit plagiarism?" 
-----------~~~-----­
Sunday, April 1, 2007 The Absurder+ PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENT page 5 

SOAR LIKE AN EAGLE/ 
TRANSFER TfJ BACKUP COLLEGE/
~!!/ 

i;· 
FOR OVER 150 YEARSr·20UR SOGIALIST-CAltiOLIC VALUES HAVE FOSTERED AN INFERIORITY COMPLEX: UNRIVALED 
IN :TION. 


SOME OF OUR MORt! NOTABLE ALUMS INCLUDE..• PRESIDENTIAL ALSO-RAN,·;JOHN KERRY NFL ·HUMANITARIAN BILL RQMANOWSKJ,,,/.
•,... t'' ,·,· .. · ,·. :''' 
AND MIKE LUPICA! 
~.I·; 

SO, WHAT JtRE YOU WAfTIR&'FOR? TRANSFER TO BACKUP COLLEGE TODAYAND ··· · · SE TO NO.··... ... ..... .. ME

BACKUPCOLL 

I .-I 
page 6 The Absurder+ SPORTS Sunday, April 1, 2007 


Hotties 
continued from page 1 
hockey and knew a lot about the sport. Second, there were girls who wanted to date the guys on the team. Granted, sometimes they were reason­ably good-looking. But some­times -let's just say it wasn't always a pretty sight." 
Regular fans 

Jerry Hoops, who lives next door to the off-campus hock­ey players, said the difference in girls visiting the house is noticeable. 
"At the beginning of the year, we'd sit outside in the porch swing and watch the girls go by," he said. "Usually the really hot ones would go to the soccer house, which is one block east. But now, if you go outside for a smoke, you'll see babes 
spent the season "It's the jerseys in stilettos and 
battling tall push-up bras
all the way. " 

blondes and making their buxom brunettes way next door, to who had sudden­Jimmy John the hockey play­ly become the ers. They never
sophomore
hockey team's biggest fans. 
"Sure, it's not always easy to deal with these chicks," said Jimmy John, a sophomore from Keough. "They're always leaning over and being like, 'what was that whistle for? Why is he allowed to smash that guy against the wall?' And during the good parts, like the fights, they scream. · It's really loud and girly." 
But isn't fan support a good thing? 
"It's always a good thing, yeah," John said. "The main problem is, the really good­looking girls aren't interested in the guys in the stands. It's the jerseys all the way." 
One player, speaking on condition of anonymity, called it a chicken-and-the-egg situ­ation. 
"I play better when there's beauties watching, eh?" he said. "And they like to come watch when we're No. 1. I don't know if we got good 'cause they're hot or if they're hot 'cause we're good. But I'll take it, eh?" 
Sports? 
continued from page 1 
become CEOs and doctors and Supreme Court justices, or would you rather the pam­pered athletes already here win 15 games instead of 10? It's one or the other, we can't have both." 
Mooney also expressed con­cerns about what she has seen happen when schools develop cults of personality around stop at our 
house -even 

though we could be a varsity-level beer pong team." 
Success has long been a way for Olympic sports to gain attention from top-tier women in the greater South Bend area. While dating a fencing champion still doesn't have the social cachet of casually hooking up with a second-string football player, sports like hockey, soccer and lacrosse can become more credible in the eyes of legiti­mately hot women by docu­mented on-the-field suecess. 
Baseball coach Shave Drage called the hockey team's suc­cess "inspiring." 
"This just goes to show what a determined group of guys can accomplish," he said. ''I'm definitely going to have the baseball team doing inspirational sprints past the hockey house in the off-sea­son." 
Contact Thumbs Up at cavanaughty@booze.com 
basketball coaches. 
"At first everyone is happy because the team is winning titles, but then the coach gets out of control and all of a sud­den Bobby Knight is choking his players," she said. "Let me make one thing clear: Bobby Knight will not be choking a single SMC chick. Ever. So help me God." 
The process of firing coaches after successful MIAA seasons began last year, when Saint Mary's did not renew head coach Johnnie Fender's con­tract after a year that helped 
Phisbin 
continued from page 1 

suspended in January after being charged with possession of marijuana. 
And like Myarmy's case, the University took its sweet time coming to a decision. Office of Residence Life and Housing official Bill Jirk can't comment 
Paulson 
continued from page 1 

really ~bought Timmy would be another ND eover boy. But the minute I saw that hair, I knew we'd never get him into Tiger Beat.... I just wish Barley would have told us about Timmy's aesthetic issues before he signed him." 
"Don't place all the blame on me," Cheis retorted. "When I recruited Timmy, he was always on the field wearing his helmet. I never saw his face." 
But according to sources close to The Absurder, Cheis attended one of Paulson's high school games last fall when his face was allegedly exposed. With his team leading 72-3 in the first quarter, Paulson was pulled and he spent the rest of the game on the sidelines with­out a helmet. 
Several thousand fans glimpsed Paulson sans helmet, but Cheis was not around. 
"I was down the road at the Golden Corral," Cheis said. "It was $2.99 rib night." 
With Paulson relegated to a role as backup hockey goalie, the search for Greg Brady's successor continues. Rubbersoul has contacted sev­eral modeling agencies, and has scouted American Idol. 
''I'd love for Barley to sign Sanjaya," Rubbersoul said. "He's gorgeous." 
Contact Blackjack Heisman at natty@ lightweight.com 
revitalize interest in Belles' basketball. 
Gooney, however, said her short-term decision wasn't in place then. 
"He was a man," she said. "This is a women's campus and, obviously, men are pigs. Don't be ridiculous." 
As part of her plan to restore the integrity of Saint Mary's athletics and cripple what she calls the "athlete mentality," Saint Mary's will feature a new guest head coach each month beginning next season. Tryouts are free and open to the pub-
on specific cases, but he was overheard in a bathroom stall making the following com­ments. 
"I really don't know why people are reacting this way," Jirk was heard saying. "If any­one reads du Lac, they will see that possession of various sub­stances can mean suspension." 
Apparently, listening to Phish -a popular jam band from Vermont with a wide­
spread following -now con­stitutes being in possession of a controlled substance. 
It's still undetermined whether or not the University will extend this policy to other things -like eating peanut butter sandwiches. 
Contact John Daly at bighitter@nd.edu 


lie, and Gooney said she wants to evaluate the ranks of high school head coaches, college assistant coaches and people who she meets at the UP Mall food court. 
"We are providing a unique opportunity to those with a passion for basketball," Gooney said. 
Sources indicated that, as a symbol of her new policy, Gooney herself would coach the first month, but talks staled after Gooney decided she was "too busy for that crap." 
Those close to the program have also speculated that in order to increase game atten­dance, Saint Mary's will give one lucky fan at select home games the opportunity to become the head coach, begin­ning at halftime of that very game. Still, Gooney was non­committal. 
"This is a serious plan," she said. "We don't want to turn the position into a joke." 
Contact Whoo Needshair at hairy@toogoodforbeer.com 
THE ABSURDER 

OINTLESS
Sunday, April 1, 2007 
page 7 

And the Belle tolls ... Parasite? Who, me? 
Im writing in response to that BiG JeRk extra early for class so we don't slip on the ice Johnny Clinger's story. Listen up, you. in our high heels. Plus that business section 
Did you know SMC are ranked Number One scares us. Hel-LO, that's for our future hus­All-Women's College in the city of South Bend? bands to read!!!! The average class size of 15 makes us (almost) We're even considering acknowledging the never want to take classes at the college fact that we go there on facebook.com!!! So across the street. watch out, Clinger. 
We are extremely proud of our athletic teams. I know it seems odd that we get foot­Smicker ball tickets and ND grad students (people who Regina Hall actually go to your school) don't, but c'mon ... junior those football players are soOoOoO cute. March 31 
By the way, we are looking into having our own newspaper. Yourses is not even worth our P.S. If you still want to come over tonight, important issues, like how we have to leave that's fine :-)Just IM me at NDirishgurl08! 
Sit down. Shutup. 
What are these football fans coming to? Last Saturday some anarchist in front of me had the audacity to ... gasp ... stand up during the game. Not only that, but he also kept yelling when the other team had the ball ­like he was some kind of cheerleader with a personal interest in the outcome of the game. I pay good money to sit in those yellow cushy seats right on the 50 yard line-a criti­cal place where one's voice can be heard from end zone to end zone (how obnoxious!)-and I have the right to rest my pampered patoot whenever I want. 
When I kindly asked the whippersnapper to please sit down. he ignored me. "Sorry I'm just trying to cheer on my Irish defense .... oh, you're rooting for Notre Dame too? Maybe you should join me." 
To think I would stoop to that level! I already financed the buildings these players study in, and now they want me to yell and stand, too? I mean that's just an ulcer and a broken coccyx waiting to happen. I prove my loyalty with my checkbook. Only poor people actually display their love with displays of audible approval. 
Thank you to the usher, who agreed with me. He kicked the ruffian out, revoked his season tickets and taped his 
eyes open before flinging quarter-filled marshmallows into 
his exposed eye sockets. He got off light if you ask me -I 
ate that regiment for breakfast back in Catholic school. 
Pre-Vatican II-oh the good ol' days. That monster said he was just being a "fan." More like anti-Christ, I say. I swear if it wasn't for our wise ushers and fearless, undergrad­busting reconnaissance tailgating cops, I'd have to start spending my weekends playing (more) pinochle. The road we're headed down, 
we're going to turn into some savage Big Ten school that actually cares about providing a home field advantage and a crowd that enjoys watching competitive football in 
January. Who needs that when I can go sailing to the Tropic of Cancer on my yacht in those bitter winter months? Take a stand for chauffeurs, retirement plans and slip-resistant Velcro shoes. Sit down for football games. 
Viagra Popper class of 1932 Del Boca Vista, Fla. March 31 
Sweat+ 
Boys 
E ' 
• 

As an 18-year-old young woman, I thought I had made a wise decision. This decision was to spend the next four years of my life in a testos­terone free environment. Free from the hassles of classroom flirtation, the worry of brushing my hair or even wearing real pants for a whole week. 
Aside from my occasional Star bucks run to LaFun or a weekend dorm party romp, my life has generally been male-free ... until recently. 
My estrogen driven world has been turned upside-down by the egotistically driven males who think they have the right to work out in Angela Athletic Facility-the clown-like gym with three functioning treadmills that SMC women have come to call our workout haven. 
No, men of Notre Dame and Holy Cross (and, by the looks of things, St. Joe High School), you cannot impress us with your cut-off t-shirts as you do sets of pull-ups, bust a sweat by racing around the indoor track of our over-heated facil­ity or by handing us a gym-wipe after our work­out. 
Your immature (and amateur) workout regime has not only put a damper on our sacred single­sex environment, but it has also made it manda­tory to display three forms of I.D. when entering the facility -making it more difficult for a stu­dent to access Angela than it is for a minor to enter Feve. 
If you think the gym is the right place to scope us out, let alone attempt to pick us up, you are wrong. We don't appreciate men who unexpect­edly show up in our strictly female environment. 
We see you from the time you walk in the door -always in at least a pack of five. You approach the equipment area, looking for short­short<; and sports bras, before you choose your workout zone. 
Gyms might be prime zones for co-ed interac­tion in the real world, but in this gender­strained environment your machismo might be more appreciated during alcohol induced inter­action. 
So, gentlemen, take your athletic (and sexual) urges elsewhere, and stay out of our gym. 
Angelic-Lee Athletic Le Mans Hall sophomore March 31 

Like Chauncey and Footbaw Bob, Frey needs to go 
In light of Notre Dame's most recent disappointing first­Let's not even discuss Sorin Frances. Frances, a dog Irish were overmatched. The team looked and played round loss to Winthrop in the NCAA Tournament, it's McDonald's All-American recruit, never panned out like it had never been to the NCAA Tournament! time the University fired head basketball coach Fred because Frey can't develop players. Who cares that by Replacing coaches in major Division I athletics is easy. Frey. Simply put, Frey hasn't lived up to Notre Dame the end of his college career, Frances' back injuries left Just look at the situation right now in Kentucky -every­standards and it's time to go in a different direction. him as athletic as my arthritic grandmother? one wants to replace Tubby Smith! Or what about when 
Let's start by looking at the results. In Frey's seven sea­This is Frey's fault. Boob Davie was fired? Everyone wanted the Notre Dame sons in South Bend, he has but four 20-win seasons. He's People have cited the recent development of Hustle football job! only led the Irish to four NCAA Tournaments and only Karter, Bob Kurtz and Duke Harrybody as examples of So seriously, let's open our eyes and get rid of Fred once (this season) has he been named Big East Coach of those who have grown under Frey. Fine, but what about Frey. And while we're at it, let's fire that hockey coach, the Year. Lyle Myarmey? Nice job Fred-you should have known Jack Jeffson. It's clear he can't win the big game, either. 
Now let's look at his player development. he liked Phish. 
Chris Thomas was a first-round draft pick after his This of course could have been overlooked if Notre Never Shotaball freshman year, but after two knee surgeries he wasn't Dame got a win in this year's NCAA Tourney after being class of '82 drafted after his senior season. left out of the dance the three previous seasons. But in a NDNation 
That's Frey's fault-he should have kept him healthy. game against an experienced Winthrop team the under-March 31 
TODAY'S STAFF 
Gilloonytoons 
Gate Kales Smelly Smicker John Daly I-LeanBack DoughBoy Sweater Retter Amanduh 

ABSURDER POLL 
What dorm are you in? What's your major? Where are you from? 

Vote at www.ndsmcabsurder.com/froshOsucks by 5 p.m. today. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Another rowing joke?" 
Kaleidoscope McDonald's reader incredulous 
THE ABSURDER 
PORTS
Sunday, April I, 2007 
page 8 
Paulson not as hot as Brady 
Facing pressure from NBC execs, Cheis cuts homely frosh 
By BLACKJACK HEISMAN 
One Lucky Guy 

The Timmy Paulson era is over before it ever started. 
Earlier today, Irish head coach Barley Cheis announced that Paulson -the blue chip freshman signal-caller -will not be allowed to play for Notre Dame. 
"Greg Brady left a legacy of Abercrombie style and chiseled good looks at this school," Cheis said. "Sadly, I don't think Timmy has the jaw line to live up to it." 
Cheis acknowledged that Paulson has all the athletic tools to lead the Irish to at least six national champi­onships. But, after consulting with NBC producers and University marketing execu­tives, the decision to take Hummer out of the quarter­back race was made. 
"We just can't envision Timmy playing a leading role for us," said Richard Rubbersoul, producer of NBC's The Notre Dame Saturday Afternoon Football Extravaganza Presented by AFLAC. "The funny thing is, I 
see PAULSON/page 4 

Phish? Harrybody not swimming in laughter 
ByJOHN DALY Pissed Off 

Notre Dame basketball play­er Duke Harrybody was sus­pended for the remainder of the spring semester Wednesday and is currently on his way home to Bloomington, Ind., the freshman said in a phone interview with The Absurder. 
Harrybody -a freshman who was found with three Phish CDs in his car on Feb. 2 -said he was not dismissed from the University. 
But the news of a suspension surprised him given that lis­tening to Phish CDs isn't a felony or misdemeanor in St. Joseph's County. 
"Honestly, this is ridiculous," Harrybody said. "I have friends at colleges all over the country who listen to Phish regularly. When I first heard 
about the suspension, thought they were joking." 
Senior Associate Athletics Director Jack Meisler told The Absurder Tuesday he was unable to comment. Notre Dame sports information director Barney Catenelli said she could not comment due to privacy laws. 
Notre Dame basketball coach Fred Frey cannot com­ment on the situation either, Catenelli said, before adding that he was currently on a plane to Lexington, Ky . to meet with the University of Kentucky's athletic office. 
Harrybody, who was pulled over during a routine traffic stop near campus early in the morning on Feb. 2, is the sec­ond Notre Dame basketball player to be suspended this year. 
Teammate Lyle Myarmy was 
see JAMMIN/page 6 


Dozenis better than 1for Belles 
By WHOO NEEDSHAIR 
Sweaty 
In what has become a stan­dard move, Saint Mary's dis­missed basketball coach Jane Manly at the end of the sea­son. Manly guided the Belles to a 12-13 record last season, a record that Saint Mary's president Merrill Gooney called "unacceptable." 
Gooney later clarified that the firing had nothing to with Manly's performance, noting that the coach was "good at what she does," but more of a cultural decision that she has made for the College. 
"It is unacceptable that any coach should be tenured for basketball for that long at Saint Mary's," she said. "It is absolutely unconscionable." 
Gooney expressed fears that, with a good, long-term coach. Saint Mary's would go from being a community of women with a focus on academic excellence to a powerhouse athletic program with a repu­tation for academic abuses in the name of winning. 
"It's a question of priorities," she said. "Would you rather the daughters of Saint Mary's 
see SPORTS?/page 6 

Hockey chicks steatn up the ice 
By THUMBS UP 
Big Talker 

Lighting the big "#1" on top of Planner Hall means more than pride. performance and playing on the field. 
It can have a big effect on how athletes play the field ­the dating field, that is. 
After ascending to the No. 1 ranking, the hockey team's groupies "became significantly more attractive," said coach Jack Jeffson. "The correlation between on-ice success and what the guys call 'smoking hottness' in the stands is proven yet again." 
Others around campus have noticed that hockey games not only draw more fans, but that the female fans are significant­ly better looking than in years past. 
"Hockey games used to draw two types of girls," Jeffson explained. "First, there were girls who used to play ice 
see HOTTIES/page 6 

en 
KICKIN BACK 
HOOKUPS
RESLIFE 

BEERSKETBALL 
WINE 
DRINKING RANKINGS 

t: " loU 
Gioia removes 

'We Were 300' 
Franzia 1 
Clover Rid~ 521

North suad 57 
z name from draft 

South uad 49 
Turtle Cree 346 

still best team 
Patrick 0 
Poorman retains 

ever 
No. 1 spot for 
::5 
He's no Nick Setta, 
No matter how you 
The former kegger 

You win, boxed 
15th consecutive 
but our favorite clumsy 

spin it, these quads 
hot-spot falls to new-

Despite a terrible 
season

wine... you always do. 
kicker is still a really 

really do have more 
comer Clover Ridge, 

draw, "We Were 300" 
fun. 
== 
nice guy. 
partly due to the pool. 

inspired legions of fans 
A.=: 
everywhere. 
page 40 oz.

en page wide right 
page -8 
page 2 a.m 

page 330 
page 300 




