
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Campus debates new Iraq policy 
Professors and students consider President Bush's plan from wide range of perspectives 

By MARCELA BERRIOS and AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writers 
On Jan. 10, President George W Bush gave one of the most antici­pated and controversial addresses 
. of his presidency, admitting in primetime the mistakes and fail­ures of the American strategy in Iraq while ordering. a 20,000­strong troop surge into the war­torn country. 
While the President has remained firm in his decision, say­ing the U.S. needed to "increase support at this crucial moment to help the Iraqis break the current cycle of violence," the announce­ment sparked nationwide debate, from Capitol Hill to the classrooms at Notre Dame. 
Saturday marked the deadliest day for American forces in the last two years, as 20 troops were killed in Iraq. 
Notre Dame political science professor Dan lindley said with instability in Iraq mounting and the possibility of a civil war erup­tion .only increasing, the U.S. will need at least 20 troops for every 1,000 Iraqis to maintain order in the region -a scenario that isn't anywhere close to the current ratio. 
Past estimates said there were approximately six troops per thou­sand Iraqis, and the President's recent troop increase will not increase that figure substantially. 
"The Iraq war is lost unless the military force on the ground is tripled," lindley said. "As this will not happen, and because the Iraqi forces being trained are as much or more sectarian fighters than 
see IRAQ/page 4 

ND graduates etnbrace ACE opportunities 
Students use undergraduate skills to teach underprivileged students across the country 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
When Sarah Greene was accepted to Notre Dame''s Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) program during her sen­ior year at Notre Dame, she expected to spend two years on assignment in Mobile, Ala. teaching high school freshmen about famous works of literature and developing their writing skills. After five months in the program, she says she's experi­enced that, and much more. 
Greene moved to Mobile on Aug. 1 to begin teaching fresh­man English at McGill-Tool en Catholic High School, the only Catholic high school in Mobile. 
"I think that people have a different idea of what teaching is until they get into it," she said. 
For Greene, an English major, ideas about 'what teaching is' go beyond going over the material in lesson plans, she said. 
"Teaching encompasses so much more than I ever imag­ined. I chose ACE because I felt a call to teach," Greene said. "I love discussing literature with my students and reading their writing." 
"However, I realize now that I am called to teach them more than English." 
Greene said 'teaching more 
see ACE/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM  
Driver in  
car crash  
identified  
Man arrested for  
Breathalyzer refusal  
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor  
The man who struck six cars in a parking lot in the Castle Point Apartment complex early Sunday morning was arrested for DUI refusal, police said Monday. Carlos Q. Cedillo, 23, of South Bend has not been officially charged, St. Joseph County Police spokesperson Jaimee Thirion said in an e-mail Monday. The preliminary charge, declining a Breathalyzer test -which Cedillo did after driving his car into six unoccupied, legally parked vehicles early Sunday -is a misdemeanor offense. Cedillo is listed as a student in Holy Cross College's 2006-07 telephone directory. In the 2005-06 telephone directory, Cedillo's address is listed as Basil Residence Hall. Since Thirion provided infor­mation by e-mail and was unable for further comment, The Observer was unable to ask follow-up questions regarding Cedillo's back­ground. Holy Cross Director of Marketing and Public Relations Sara Kassen declined to com­ment on whether Cedillo was a student at the College. Holy Cross issued a statement regarding the incident: "We have not received· any report of an accident over the weekend involving any of our students. Holy Cross College  ' I ' ' l I .l l ; I  
see CRASH/page 4  



Right to Life attends tnarch in Washington 
By BECKY HOGAN 
NewsWrite.r 
Students from Notre Dame/St. Mary's Right to Life Club marched along Constitution Avenue in Washington, D.C. Monday with other pro-life advocates in the 34th March for Life, an annual event that memorializes Roe v. Wade, the 1973 Supreme Court decision on abortion. 
Approximately 120 Notre Dame students marched from the United States Capitol building to the steps of the Supreme Court building carrying a Notre Dame banner and a U.S. flag, said Notre Dame Right to Life secretary Victor Saenz. 
"The enthusiasm and support of all the people [at the march] made us feel like we were making a dif­ference," Saenz said. 

The group arrived in Washington, D.C. on Saturday in three .charter buses. Another charter bus arrived on Sunday. 
While at the march, students heard from various senatorial candidates on pro-life issues and were also accompanied by Holy Cross priests and seminarians, who led them in the rosary. 
"People could tell Notre Dame. cared for the pro-life message," Saenz said. 
Many of the traveling group members attended the 2007 Rally for Life and the Youth Mass spon­sored by the Archdiocese of 
see LIFE/ page 4 


MSA students relish trips abroad 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
Assistant News Editor 

When Bridget Meacham 
• checked her e-mail last fall and learned there were three spots available for Notre Dame Master of Science in Accountancy (MSA) students to travel to Asia -and they'd simply be granted to the first three people to apply -she didn't hesitate. Meacham joined a group of 34 graduate business students on a two-week trip to Suzhou and Shanghai, China, an experience she called "absolutely phenome­nal. " 
"Right now, China is the center of innovation. It's revolutionizing manufacturing. It has an impact on so many sectors that are either 
see ABROAD/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, January 23, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 


A house 
divided 

With the recent NFL playoff excite­ment, I find myself thinking this year's Super Bowl situation is win­win. Since my home team -the Eagles -fell short for another year, it may as well be the Colts and the 
Katie Kohler 
Bears -the only two other teams in the NFL that I News even remotely fol­Production low. Editor 
The reason I fol­low these teams is that my mom is from Indianapolis and my dad is from Chicago. 
Every time either team is playing, we, as a family, root for the Colts or Bears, which works out because they do not usually play each other ... until now. 
On Super Bowl Sunday, my parents will not trade their loyalties to favor one team as a family. It will be full­out war. 
My parents spent at least 20 years in their hometowns. before getting married and moving to Philadelphia. Naturally, each of them was brought up cheering for their home team and no one else. 
Because of my split football · upbringing since I was born in Chicago, but spent most of my life in Philadelphia, this Super Bowl will be nothing more than an excuse to get together with friends and watch funny commercials with a football game on the side. 
At home, however, I can only imag­ine what state my house will be like during those four hours of football. Hopefully, my parents will leave my little sisters to decide for themselves who they want to win, even though they may be indifferent. 
My e-mail inbox has already been flooded with hype from aunts and uncles rooting for the Colts with the instant rebuttal from my dad, one of the few in-laws from Chicago. 
For example, this is a verbatim e­mail from my dad: 
"Accordingly, Maddie and Clare (my younger sisters) may opt to root for the nine-time world champion Chicago Bears because they are the best team, but Emily and Katie (older sister and me) must join their father in rooting for their birth team: Da Bears." 
This year, the Super Bowl is a ques­tion of hometown pride atmy house, and time will only tell if football will be a strong enough force to make my house divided. 
Living in South Bend also presents an interesting scenario. There are so many students from the Chicago area as well as Indy. Having an all Midwest Super Bowl is unique and I am sure roommates will be at odds for brag­ging rights on Feb. 4. 
I just hope students, as well as my parents, realize that the Super Bowl is just a game and they are able to reconcile after a few hours of well­deserved gloating. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Jan. 18 edition ofThe Observer, in the article "NO joins ranks ofColumbia with African efforr," a statement by Father Bob Dowd was paraphrased to say that Notre Dame's Catholic character "was not a driving force in determining the University's involvement" in the Millennium Village Project. To clarify, Notre Dame's Catholic character was a major reason for Notre Dame's choice to enter the Project, but it does not directly influence the specific activities workers are undertaking in Uganda. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: PARIS HILTON HOT OR Nor? WHY? 



Mark Skylling Ben Schultz Tim Rodts 
sophomore sophomore senior Keenan off-campus Sorin 
"Not. Because "Not. Because "Not. She's a 
.

she's not as she has a HUGE trashball. " pretty as Emily nose, and it's Voge. " just not attractive. " 

Kyle Lee Andrews Erin Gutbrod Meghan McDonough 
sophomore junior junior off-campus off-campus Pasquerilla West 
"Not. She's "Not-too "Hot. But please 

over-exposed in more way than one. 




Tourist loses himself in the Big Apple 
NEW YORK -A new­comer to the city became hopelessly lost for five days after going for a walk. Damon Mootoo was staying at his brother's house in South Jamaica, Queens, when he decided to go for the stroll last Wednesday, 12 hours after arriving in New York for the first time, the Daily News reported Monday. 
The 32-year-old man quickly got disoriented by the confusing streets of Queens. 
On Sunday night, after a good Samaritan came to his aid, he was recovering at Jamaica Hospital from dehydration and frostbite. 
Mootoo, who is hard of hearing but can communi­cate in English, said he didn't ask for directions because he was afraid he'd be deported and because he had heard many scary stories about New York. He recently had received his perma­nent resident card. 
Dog terrifies mail carriers 

CASPER, Wyo. -So far, he's all bark and no bite. But mail carriers aren't taking any chances_. 

They've stopped deliver­ing mail to around 24 homes on Navarre Road because of Butch, a shep­herd/chow mix. 
Casper Postmaster Susan Gray said Butch has chased carriers eight times since 2002, with the latest incident occurring Jan. 8. 
"This dog is very aggressive," Gray said. "Five different carriers have said the dog will come down the road to come get them." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
D:: 
1.&.1 
:::1: 
~ 
1.&.1 
==..... 
<C 
(.) 



15 
5 


28 
·10 

15 8 
0 

HIGH 25
..... 

LOW 20 
skinny. " don't publish that." 
IN BRIEF 

A reading of Homer's Iliad will take place today in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall at 6:10p.m. 
RecSports is sponsoring a blood drive today and Thursday from 9 a.m. to 3:30 
p.m. and Wednesday from-11 
a.m. to 5:30 p.m. at Rolfs. Registration is required. 
John French, associate professor of history at Duke University and Kellogg Institute Visiting Fellow, is speaking today at the Work in Progress Seminar: "Brazil's President as Working Class Raposa: Understanding Lula as Politician" from 12:30 -2:00 
p.m. in Hesburgh Center Room C-103. 
Wednesday is the last day to make changes to class schedules for the semester on InsideND. 
The Academic Council Meeting is taking place Wednesday in the McKenna Hall auditorium from 3 -5 
p.m. Attendance is by invita­tion only. 
The 18th annual ND Student Film Festival will take place Thursday through Saturday at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The festival features 13 short films made as class projects during the past year. Tickets are $6 for general admission, $5 for faculty/staff and $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

13 10 


HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 52133 Boston 31 1.25 Chicago 30 I 20 Denver 42 I 13 Houston 48 I 40 Los Angeles 71 I 44 Minneapolis 27 I 11 New York 40 I 29 Philadelphia 39 I 29 Phoenix 58 I 38 Seattle 48 I 40 St. Louis 38 I 22 Tampa 71 I 63 Washington 41 I 29 
Tuesday, January 23, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Students pass Native Am.erican resolution 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL News Writer 
The Campus Life Council (CLC) unanimously passed a resolution to enhance student life for Native Americans during its first meeting of the semester Monday in LaFortune. 
The body resolved that the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs "be strongly urged" to work with the Office of the President to appoint a permanent member of the faculty or administration to serve as an official advisor to Native American students. 
Members debated the wording of this particular line, as Dr. G. David Moss, assistant vice president for stu­dent affairs, said Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman was already "very sensitive to these issues" and urged care in making such strong demands. 
No amendments were made, how­ever, since student body president Lizzi Shappell agreed to include in her cover letter to Father Poorman an explanation that CLC and the Senate feel strongly about the issue but did not wish to be demanding of its benefi­ciary. 
The resolution also included collabo­ration with University departments to "render an overall sensitivity and respect for the Native Americans pre­viously inhabiting the University area" in describing the history of Notre Dame. 
The Student Senate Multicultural Affairs committee's original resolution passed unanimously at a Nov. 2 Senate meeting, but the CLC decided at a Nov. 
14 meeting to create an ad hoc com­mittee to revise it. 
Revision committee chair and Welsh Family hall rector Candace Carson said the committee took the basic res­olution and worked alongside Kellen Lewis, president of the Native American Student Association of Notre Dame, to clarify areas in which the body wished further inquiry at the Nov. 14 meeting. 
In other CLC news: 
+Chair Liz Brown said the Student Voice and Input task force is prepared to place the application for the University committees online as soon as the student government Web site is up and running. 
+The resolution for the Domer Dollar swipe card system is ready for presentation to Senate on Wednesday, Student Concerns task force chair Danny Smith said, and pending pas­sage it will return for CLC approval at the next meeting. 
+The ad hoc Student Safety task force will present the information put together for the freshman Contemporary Topics book at the next CLC meeting, chair Katie Cordelli said. 
+Student body vice president and chair of the Conduct Awareness task force Bill Andrichik said his task force is finalizing its report about freshmen "disorientations" following general student conception, hall staff and rec­tor research. Gambling in the dorms is the next topic which the task force looks to address. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
BoARD oF GovERNANCE 



Marketing ideas pitched 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 

Saint Mary's Vice President of College Relations Sharon Rodriguez visited the Board of Governance (BQG) to dis­cuss the progress of the Saint Mary's identity initia­tive at their meeting on Monday night: 
The identity initiative is an ongoing process that strives to better understand what image Saint Mary's needs to present in the college mar­ketplace to gain the atten­tion of prospective students and parents. 
The initiative began researching last spring by sending surveys to current students, faculty, staff and alumnae to gather informa­tion on what these groups found most important to convey to prospective stu­dents. 
"As students, as faculty and staff and as alumnae, we are saying things that we find important that are dif­ferent than what prospective students and· parents [think are important when choos­ing a college]," Rodriguez said. 
"Prospective students want to hear about the faculty ... and the majors [at the col­lege's they are looking at]." 
Three brand creatives ­the visual and verbal ways a brand is presented to the public -were presented to the board. Rodriguez asked for input on how each of the creatives display the infor­mation that prospective stu­dents want. 
The first brand creative presented was the break­through creative. 
"By using the theme breakthrough we're trying to show how the Saint Mary's experience allows students to achieve critical thought, intellectual thought, social justice and spiritual break­throughs," Rodriguez said. 
The second brand creative presented the Saint Mary's experience as a conversa­tion. "Collaboration is key [in this creative]," Rodriguez said. "Everything we show here would be two or more people." 
Finally, Rodriguez present­ed a "She's Saint Mary's" themed brand creative. 
"What we want to show here is the individual," she said. "[We want to show] the well-rounded individual and bring out the character of the individual Saint Mary's woman." 
Some headlines that could be included in the "She's Saint Mary's" theme would be "She's committed to social justice, she's Saint Mary's" and "She's well-rounded, she's Saint Mary's." 
After the presentation, Rodriguez asked BOG mem­bers for feedback. Many members felt that prospec­tive students would better receive the conversation and the "She's Saint Mary's" brands. 
"I like [the She's Saint Mary's theme] because in my experience ... parents and students want to know what is going to happen to them as an individual [when they go to college]," admissions commissioner Annie Davis said. 
Some members felt the "She's Saint Mary's" theme would not resonate well with prospective parents even if it would be the best received by students. 
"I think that the break­through [theme] would be more appealing to parents. It is a kind of a more holistic view of where their daughter could go [in college and after graduation]," Student Diversity Board president Angeline Johnson said. 
After receiving the board's feedback, Rodriguez invited the members to email her if they had any other ideas on the brand creatives. 
In other BOG news: 

+All school formal tickets can be purchased through Thursday in the lobby of LeMans Hall from 7-10 p.m. There are only 800 tickets available and 408 have already been sold, residence hall association president Amy Dardinger said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

The Nanovic Institute for European Studies offers the following Undergraduate Travel Grants and Internship Support for Summer 2007 
Application deadline: February 16, 2007 
1. Research and Travel Grants to Europe for undergraduate students up to $4,000. 
2. The Nanovic Institute for European Studies with the Office of International Studies awards stipends up to $3,500 for internships in Europe. 


For tttore ittfortttatiott ealll-525~ or go to www.ttd.edurttattovie 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 23, 2007 
Life 
continued from page 1 

ing on practical life issues," Saenz said. "His talk really helped us to realize why we were marching." 
Sunday night, Notre Dame 
--------------Rightto life also celebrated mass Washington, D.C. At the rally, at the Basilica of the National attendees received the sacrament Shrine of the Immaculate of confession, participated in mass Conception. "The church was a and enjoyed entertainment by beautiful place of worship, and we 
Catholic recording  got to participate  
artist<;.  in a huge mass,"  
During the week­end before the march, Notre Dame students took advan­ "People could tell Notre Dame cared for the pro-life  Saenz said. Senior Monica Querciagrossa, a member of the  
tage of their time in D.C. to visit monu­ message.  Notre Dame Right to life, organized  
ments and museums. Touring sites  Victor Saenz  the trip to Washington, D.C.  
throughout the D.C.  secretary  Students who  
area gave students  ND Right to Life  arrived Saturday  

the opportunity to interact with both the secular and religious aspects of the abortion issue, Saenz said. 
The group also visited the John Paul II Cultural Ceriter located near the Catholic University of America. 
Cardinal Francis Eugene George, Archbishop of Chicago, delivered a talk to the students in Washington, D.C. on Sunday before the march. 
"I thought his insight was amaz-

Crash 
continued from page 1 

always follows up on any knowledge of or any concerns regarding the student safety or violation of a student code. Any violation of state, local or fed­eral law constitutes a violation of our student code and Holy Cross does exercise off campus jurisdiction." 
Tory Mitchell, who took over this year as director of Basil Residence Hall at Holy Cross, said Cedillo was never a resi­dent under his direction. He said, however, he had heard the name before. 
"I believe he was a student here, or is," Mitchell said. 
The Observer was unable to confirm whether Cedillo cur­rently lives in Castle Point. His local address is not listed in the Holy Cross directory, and Judy Logan, manager of Castle Point Apartments, declined to com­ment on the incident. 
On Sunday morning, Cedillo "was driving his Lincoln Navigator west in the Castle Point Apartment Complex near paid a $75 fee to 
cover the cost of transportation for the trip and those that got in Sunday paid $50. Saenz said the club also received funding for the trip from donors who support the pro-life message. 
Saenz said that the trip to D.C. helped the club members "begin to realize the reality of the impor­tance ofhuman life." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
1309 Coachmans Trail when he drove off to the north part of the lot and struck six vehicles," Thirion said. 
At least three of the cars belonged to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Rachel Davis, 26, a Castle Point resident who witnessed the incident, said Sunday she woke up between 4:20 a.m. and 
4:30 to the sound of Cedillo's car crashing into her car and five other cars in the lot. · 
Davis called the police and said they arrived within two minutes. She said three St. Joseph County Police cars and one Roseland police car were at the scene. 
The police at the scene told her the man in the car was intoxicated, Davis said. They also told her he lived in the Enchanted Forest section of Castle Point, she said, but she did not recognize him. 
Thirion said Cedillo was released from the St. Joseph County Jail on a $500 cash bond and is due to appear in court on Feb. 12. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Iraq 
continued .from page 1 

they are supporters of the central 
government, the war is likely 
already lost." 

Lindley dismissed Bush's plan, 
saying that a 21,500-troop surge 
cannot prevent a Shiite-Sunni war 
or stabilize Iraq. 

The prolongation of U.S. efforts ~here -far from finalizing the 
conflict -will only temporarily 
delay an inevitable civil war at the 
cost of more American lives, he 
said. 

"How fast we leave and what 
we do with our remaining influ­
ence are the relevant issues," 
Lindley said. "Winning is not an 
option." 

However, politicians and profes­
sors agree the future of Iraq must 
be considered as well. 

In the Jan. 10 speech, the 
President said "to step back now 
would force a collapse of the Iraqi 
government, tear that country 
apart and result in ma..'is killings 
on an imaginable scale." 

The Iraq Study Group agreed. 
The congressional bipartisan 
panel, charged with the evalua­
tion of the Iraq crisis, released its 
conclusions in December. 

Though it agreed that "a pre­mature American departure from Iraq would almost certainly pro­duce greater sectarian violence and further deterioration of con­ditions" in the region, it also said medium-sized manpower incre­ments to the Coalition forces ­such as the 20,000-troop increase -would not be enough to allevi­ate the fundamental causes of the Sunni-Shiite conflict. 
To make the decision to stay or 
withdraw even more difficult, the­
ology professor Michael Baxter 
threw the Christian viewpoint into 
the equation. 

Baxter argued in favor of with­
drawal from Iraq, considering the 
war theologically unjust due to 
inconsistent purposes and erro­
neous information. 

"At first it wa..<; about destroying weapons of mass destruction, but then it became about hunting down al-Qaeda and finally it was about freeing the Iraqis," Baxter said. "Under thesfl circumstances, any Christian who is involved in the war should refuse to partici­pate any further -and plenty of them are already doing that." 
Christians have not been the only ones to question the American presence in the Middle East. 
Last year, The Washington Post reported that approximately 80 percent of the Iraqi population favored an immediate pullout of American forces -but experts predict the President will remain optimistic about his new strategy in tonight's State of the Union address. 
The White House said the President will focus hi'i speech on energy conservation and domestic policy, but his continued support for the troop increase will likely cause the most heated debate. 
Supporters of the President's new Iraq proposals, including potential presidential candidate Senator John McCain, will also have to withstand criticism as the former's approval ratings have sunk to a dismal 33 percent, said the ABC News/Washington Post poll. 
Political science professor Peri Arnold said McCain's future in American politics depends largely on the outcome, down the road, of Bush's decision -which will have two years to unfold before the next presidential elections. 
"If this turns out badly, McCain will be harmed by his identifica­tion with a losing cause and bad decision," Arnold said. 
While Arnold called McCain1s endorsement of the new Bush strategy is "politically very risky," he noted that the senator is mere­ly remaining consistent with his earlier positions concerning troop increases for Iraq. 
Bush's strategy announcement has generated debate among stu­dents, who see the impact they 

·!porls 
1\ 

GET YOUR CAREER STARTED IN INDY 
have on this generation's future -especially for those who know someone fighting the war, or may help fight it themselves. 
Senior history major Phil Mauro, who is al'io a member of the Army ROTC. said he was "happy" to hear of the troop increase, "but even happier to hear about the new effort being put in to reconstruction, as well as the removal of the political barri­ers which seem often to hinder the effectiveness of coalition forces." 
·Mauro, who will be going into the Active Duty Army directly fol­lowing graduation, may see com­bat in Iraq one day-and he will­ingly embraces this call to service. 
"I am looking forward to the opporturiity to help the people of Iraq rebuild their country, as well as the challenge of combat lead­ership in the contemporary oper­ating environment," he said. 
Mauro noted that the troop surge does not necessarily increase the chances of recent graduates going to Iraq, and will more likely mean the quicker deployment of units already set to depart and extensions ofthe tours of duty for those already there. 
Speaking as a private citizen and not a representative of the military, Mauro said many of his friends have reacted positively to Bush's announcement of a troop surge, and he knows several recent Army ROTC graduates and ROTC instructors who have been deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
"I think I have benefited greatly from being able to learn from their experiences [in Iraq]," he said, "And in my opinion, the quality of the ROTC instruction has improved as we have gained more cadre [instructors] who have more recent wartime expe­rience." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu and Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
.. 
' 
January 27, 2007 • 7:30 P.M. • O'Laughlin Auditorium 


For tickets visit the Saint Mary's College Box Office or call (574) 284-4626. ----------f!i­
112 adults, s1 0senior citizens, SAINT '9 SMGND staff, and 18student~ MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
:-JOTRE DAME, IN

MoreauCenter.com 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, January 23, 2007 CoMPlLED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran denies 38 inspectors entrance 
TEHRAN, Iran -Iran has barred 38 nuclear inspectors on a United Nations list from entering the country, the foreign minis­ter said Monday in what appeared to be retal­iation for the U.N. sanctions imposed last month. 
The rejected officials are on a list of poten­tial inspectors drawn up by the International Atomic Energy Agency to visit and monitor Iran's nuclear facilities. 
"The act of rejecting some inspectors is legal and in accordance with the agency's reg­ulations,"Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki told the official Islamic Republic News Agency. He said others on the U.N. nuclear watchdog's list remain eligible, but did not explain how Iran decided which inspectors to bar. 
The IAEA "submits a long list of inspectors to member countries and the countries have the right to oppose the visit by some inspec­tors," Mottaki said. 
Last month, the U.N. Security Council imposed limited trade sanctions on Iran over its refusal to cease uranium enrichment, a process that can produce the material for nuclear energy or bombs. Alps to be glacier-less by 2050 
VIENNA, Austria -Glaciers will all but dis­appear from the Alps by 2050, scientists warned Monday, basing their bleak outlook on mounting evidence of slow but steady melting of the continental ice sheets. 
In western Austria's Alpine province of Tyrol, glaciers have been shrinking by about 3 percent a year, said Roland Psenner of the University oflnnsbruck's Institute for Ecology. And 2050 is a conservative estimate, he said: If they keep melting at that rate, most glaciers could vanish by 2037. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Republicans speak against Iraq 
surge 
WASHINGTON -Congressional Republicans pushed back Monday against President Bush's decision to increase troop strength in Iraq, some voicing opposition while others urged holding the administration and Iraqi govern­ment more accountable for the war effort. 
"We've had four other surges since we frrst went into Iraq," said Sen. Susan Collins, refer­ring to the administration's plan for an addi­tional 21,500 troops. "None of them produced a long-lasting change in the situation on the ground. 
"So I am very skeptical that this surge would produce the desired outcome," said the Maine Rel!,ublican. u.~. diplomat receives year in pnson sentence 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -A former top State Department official was sentenced to a year in prison Monday for mishandling classified doc­uments and concealing his relationship with a female intelligence officer from Taiwan. 
Donald W. Keyser, 63, of Fairfax, had been the second-ranking official in the State Department's Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs before retiring in 2004. 
Prosecutors at one point considered bring­ing espionage-related charges against Keyser but eventually settled on a plea bargain involving lesser counts -making false official statements and unlawful removal of classified documents from the State Department. 
LOCAL NEWS 

School-board member bribes voters 
GARY, Ind. -A school board member faces criticism for using $422 in school money to buy meals for teenage voters on the day they cast absentee ballots in primary races that included the district in which he was seeking re-election. 
Two state officials question whether Michael Scott may have used the taxpayer funds to influ­ence political votes by buying the meals at a Ponderosa restaurant. 
Scott has characterized the lunches as part of a Lew Wallace High School field trip in which the teens were taken to the Lake County Government Center to cast ballol<> for the May primary. 

U.S. plans military defense base 
Missile system in Eastern Europe aims to protect U.S. and allies from attacks 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland -The United States has entered a decisive phase in a plan to set up missile defense sites in Eastern Europe ­a system Washington says is aimed at protecting itself and its allies against potential attacks from the Middle East. 
But the prospect of sophisticated U.S. radar and interceptor systems in formerly communist Eastern Europe has led Russian military leaders to warn of a new arms race. The system "would create a clear threat for Russia. "Col. Gen. Vladimir Popovkin, the chief of Russia's Space Forces, warned Monday. 
The United States told Polish leaders it wants to open furmal negotiations on the possibility of locat­ing ground-based intercep­tor missiles in their coun­try as part of a larger mis­sile defense system, a U.S. Embassy spokesman in Warsaw said Monday. 
Poland's Defense Minister Radek Sikorski indicated a willingness_ to talk with "our most impor­tant ally" on the issue, but said nothing had been decided. 
The request comes after two years of exploratory talks and after the neigh­boring Czech Republic's prime minister said Saturday that Washington had asked to base a radar station in his country as another part of the system. 
Washington has repeat­edly sought to reassure Russia it has nothing to fear from the system -a message Andrew Schilling, a spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Warsaw, echoed Monday. He told The Associated Press a 
U.S. missile defense system in Europe would be solely aimed at countering "the evolving Middle Eastern ballistic missile threat." 
Some experts single out Iran as the motivator behind the U.S. push to develop the system, meant to act as a protective umbrella over most of con­tinental Europe with sensi­tive radars able to detect ballistic missiles and inter­ceptors that could shoot them down. 


"This is completely driv­en by the threat from Iran," said Riki Ellison, president of the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance, a non-govern­mental group that pro­motes missile defense in the belief it increases world security. 
"As Iranians continue to grow both their nuclear capabilities and their bal­listic missile capabilities, this site in central Europe is needed," Ellison argued. "Not only for Europe and the troops that the United States has stationed in Europe ... but also for sec­ondary protection of the United States." 
Schilling said the request to Polish officials was first made Friday and a "formal diplomatic note" would fol­low. The U.S. hopes talks on the plan will begin "in the course of the next sev­eral months," he added. 
Agreement is not guar­anteed. Both the Czech and Polish parliaments would have to first approve the plan. Although their governments expressed their support, they are weak and face broad public opposition to the plan. Many fear it will raise the risk of attacks on their countries. 
"The current govern­ments are in favor because both of them are right-of­center and Euro-skeptic and they think that as far as security is concerned, they have to maintain very close ties with the United States," said Jiri Pehe, a Czech political analyst and director of New York University in Prague. 
By supporting U.S. mis­sile defense, the two European Union members are showing they do not trust the EU to guarantee their security _ and are perhaps even trying to prevent the formation of a unified EU defense policy, Pehe said. 
In past months, Russian military leaders have occa­sionally threatened that an expansion of the U.S. sys­tem so close to its borders could provoke a new arms race. 
But Pehe, the Czech ana­lyst, said Russian threats should be taken with a grain of salt. 
"Russians in the past have threatened to do all kinds of things_ for exam­ple when NATO was enlarged," Pehe said. "I think they are aware that this particular system, if it's ever built, isn't aimed against them. I would see this more as pressure _ and a bit of bluffing." Shelters were open throughout the region. By late afternoon more than 540 people had taken refuge at Miami­Dade County shelters, but there were only 10 at a shelter near Fort Lauderdale and only 30 at four shelters in Monroe County. 
"I'm not surprised, because it's only a tropical storm. Most people are not going to leave their homes for a tropical storm," said Greg Artman, spokesman for Monroe County's emer­gency management office. 
Damage from 2005 and 2004 hurricanes continues to plague many residents, with thousands still await­ing roof repairs. 


New passport rules start Tuesday 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -When Antonio Hernandez Jr. planned a trip to Mexico with his parents. he was sure to get the passports two weeks ahead of time. 
Hernandez wanted to be certain the three were ready to comply with new travel rules that take effect Tuesday requiring Americans flying to neighboring countries to show a passport to get back into the United States. 
"This is a way to protect ourselves and give many who travel another form of ID," Hernandez said Monday at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. Travelers had to pack passports for trips to Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean. 
Only about a quarter of U.S. citi­zens hold valid passports, and most are accustomed to traveling to neigh­boring countries with just a driver's license or birth certificate, which have long been sufficient to get through airport customs on the trip home. 
The new regulations requiring passports were adopted by Congress in 2004 to secure the borders against terrorists. 
Travelers in Atlanta and other air­ports said they had no complaints about the requirement. 
''I'd rather be going through a security check, than possibly being blown out of the air because of lack of security measures," John Golden of Columbus, Ga., who was headed to Cancun, Mexico. 
Starting Tuesday, Canadian, Mexican and Bermudan air travelers, as well as U.S. citizens flying home from those countries or the Caribbean, must display their pass­ports to enter the United States. 
The only valid substitutes for a passport will be a NEXUS Air card, used by some American and Canadian frequent fliers; identifica­tion as a U.S. Coast Guard merchant mariner; and the green card carried by legal permanent residents. Active members of the U.S. military are exempt. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 23, 2007 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
rising or declining," she said. "To understand what's going on in the business world right now, it's cru­cial to understand what's going on in China." 
Meacham is one of the many graduate students in the Mendoza College of Business who choose to study abroad in one of three locations each year: Brussels and Paris, Suzhou and Shanghai, and Santiago, Chile. 
For Notre Dame's graduate stu­dents of business, each semester is divided into two seven-week modules (as they're termed), with a two-week break in-between. While the Brussels/Paris and China trips take place during the break, the Chile program lasts for an entire seven-week module. 
Dating to 2001, Chile is the old­est international study opportuni­ty in the Graduate School of Business. and is offered only in module two of the fall. The Brussels/Paris and China pro­grams are in their second years. And while students may travel to China in either semester, the Brussels/Paris trip only occurs in the spring. 
Graduate study abroad is clear­ly not as extensive -both in duration and in variety of locales -as undergraduate, but any kind of international study is viewed as an invaluable resource for young professionals in what is becoming an increasingly global economy. 
Mendoza Assistant Dean Samuel Gaglio, who directs International Programs for grad­uate business students, thinks that when it comes to landing a job, a candidate who has studied 
Sunday, January 28, 230 pm 
DeBortoio P11forming Arts Cent~~ 
Univtrsity of Notre DomE 
Zol~ Gklshauser -SBSO Concertmaster 
Gobr~ ScNaHer -SBSO Principal Violo 




abroad is "more complete, more marketable." 
"You can't get enough experi­ence in the international market," he said. "When making decisions in the business world, the more knowledge about how other com­panies and other economies oper­ate, the more valuable you'll be." 
Notre Dame's business gradu­ate students are taking advantage of the abroad opportunities ­over 70 percent of a graduating class participates in one of the international programs offered. 
So while other schools like Yale University have recently moved to require their MBA students to study abroad, Gaglio doesn't think that's necessary at Notre Dame. 
"I would prefer to send stu­dents who are interested," he said, "rather than students who are required." 
While Meacham acknowledges the positive impact her China experience has had on her, she also fears mandatory study abroad could damage Mendoza's appeal. 
"Just the sheer economic bur­den it could put on some people ... I think that would be a limiting factor for some people and make them choose a different MBA pro­gram," she said. "A lot of MBA students walk away from jobs, have families. It's a sacrifice "for some of them to go on this trip." 
But for students who are inter­ested and qualified, there's no need to worry -Gaglio admitted that currently, the programs admit all applicants in good standing. 
China is the most popular pro­gram, with 7 4 students scheduled to travel to the Far East this spring. Gaglio thinks one of the finest parts of the program is the opportunity for participants to see the "new China." 
"We have this perspective of what communist China is about," he said. "New China is exciting. It's like ... the Wild West of econo­my. [The Chinese areJ exploring; they're entrepreneurs; they're having a great time. It's not the China we all think we know." 
For Meacham, spending time conversing with Chinese peers was the highlight of the trip (she still keeps in touch with some she met). They wanted to put their country's best face forward to the Amerieans, but unfortunately, Meacham noted, behind that front hid a few problems. 
"They were bragging about Suzhou. They were showing us all this great new construction, like apartments, and talking about how expensive they were," she said. "But when we went on the canal tour there, we saw abject poverty, by our standards -that was the normal standard of living. We felt awkward looking at these people." 
She was also distressed about the lack of concern for the envi­ronment she saw, and with rapid expansion of industrialization and skyrocketing motor vehicle sales, she's worried it's going to get worse. 
In any ease, Meacham's study abroad experience taught her that perhaps her homeland isn't the center of the world -which is especially crucial fbr her, since the company she'll be starting at in August, FTI Consulting, just bought a branch in China. 
"I would say the most impor­tant thing was kind of opening my eyes to see that ten, sixteen years down the road, the United States may not be the leader in world economics," she said. " ... For the Chinese, a lot of their interactions are about appearance. If you don't know the correct way to greet or address someone, you're not going to be able to survive in the everyday business environ­ment." 
Gaglio said he and his col­leagues are looking into more locations for graduate business students to study abroad, and India will likely be the next pro­gram established. 
Contact Eileen DuffY at edufl)r I @nd.edu 

ACE· 
continued from page 1 
than English' requires being a positive role model and a wit­ness to the Christian faith. It also includes helping students who, according to Greene, "are yearn­ing for support and guidance." 
"It's the times in which a stu­dent says something like, 'My grandpa just passed away; can you pray for him?' or a student stops me in the hall to ask my adviee on a problem," Greene said. "Those moments are very rewarding." 
Greene is one of the 1 7 4 cur­rent ACE teachers -college graduates who spend two years in the University's service pro­gram teaching in under­resourced Catholic schools across the country. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni account for 94 of the program's eurrent participants. 
ACE participants spend two summers during the program taking what ACE Assistant Director Chris Kowalski called a graduate program in education. At the completion of the two­year assignment, participants earn their Master of Education degree from Notre Dame. 
Ten days after her college graduation, Greene began preparation on campus for her first year of teaching. 
Greene said the support from ACE staff and faculty allowed her to transform from someone with little classroom experience into a full-time teacher. 
"The rigor of the summer pre­pares us for the rigor of teach-· ing," she said. 
"The challenges come from people who understand the diffi­culty of teaching. They know that ACE is a challenging experi­ence and that your first year teaehing is a challenge," Greene said. "They welcome it as a chal­lenge ... and I, too, was ready to grow in a chalilmging way." 


Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 


Assistant Rector 
for University Residences 
Wednesday, January 24, 7:30-8:30 p.m. 
Fischer Community Center (at Fischer O'Hara Grace Graduate Residences) 
Light refreshments served 
For further information visit http://osa.nd.edu/ 
For Greene, the choice to pur­sue post-undergraduate service was one she made early on in her education. 
"I knew I wanted to go into either ministry or education," Greene said. 
Experiences at Notre Dame, including time as a resident assistant in Lyons Hall, helped develop her passion for both faith and education. 
Greene applied to the ACE program hoping to teach and fulfill a desire to live and work in a faith-based community. The 'three pillars' of ACE -teach­ing, community and spirituality -greatly appealed to Greene and her ideals. 
"The way that ACE balances those three [pillars] -that's something that I really wanted to have in my service experience." 
In addition to teaching, Green leads a women's prayer group at the school, which meets once a week to pray and discuss differ­ent issues. 
Whether the group discusses the way the media portrays women or a student asks Greene how she has dealt with specific moral problems of her own, Greene said these young women dig into deep issues and are in need of guidance. 
While ACE strives to aid under-resourced Catholic schools, Greene stated that under-resourced does not neces­sarily mean under-funded. The primary need of these schools is not always financial, but is often a shortage of positive role mod­els for students growing in the Catholic faith. 
Kowalski also said that ACE teachers serve a variety of needs in the schools where they work. 
"I would say most schools do benefit financially from having ACE teachers," Greene said. "However, there are some schools, if not all, that also bene­fit more from positive role mod­els in the Christian faith to serve their students." 

"Many ACE teachers go above and beyond their eall to serve. and are willing to help out in whatever way they feel they can make a difference." 
For Greene, making a differ­ence in her students' lives has resulted in changes in her own life. The challenges of teaching have led to her own growth, she said. 
A self-described "perfectionist" as a former student, Greene said her work in Mobile has been less than perfect. The difficulties she faces day-to-day cause her to look introspectively and evaluate each day. 
"At the end of every day, I look back at what went well and what didn't really go well," she said. 
"I look for ways to improve and help my students to better succeed." 
Her own self-evaluation has eemented what she has learned about herself in the past five months. 
"My time as an ACE teacher has already taught me valuable life lessons about balance, respect, commitment and responsibility," she said. 
Greene said she Will likely remain active in the field of Catholic education. 
"I imagine that I'll always be involved in Catholic education," she said. Whether that is in teaching, administration or else­where, ACE has affirmed her passion for the Catholic commu­nity. 
"There's no better organiza­tion for this -they're really on fire about Catholie education," she said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, January 23, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 



12,477.16 -28.38

}ones 
up: Some: Down: Composite Volume 2,273 130 1,002 2,780,647,230 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -1.09  -0.48  43.69  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.35  -0.02  5.75  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.14  -0.03  20.79  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -0.64  -0.17  26.53  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.29  -0.0 14  4.759  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.20  -0.0 I 0  4.9990  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.27  -0.0 13  4.847  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.23  -0.0 I I  4.766  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.86  51.13  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -2.30  634.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.33  95.88  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  121.7150  
EURO  0.7727  
POUND  0.5056  
IN BRIEF  

Gap CEO resigns after a poor quarter 
SAN FRANCISCO -Gap Inc. Chief Executive Officer Paul Pressler resigned Monday following a miserable holiday shopping season that hurt the retail chain's fourth quarter profit 
The announcement after the markets· closed carne amid speculation that the struggling retailer was close to a takeover after hiring investment firm Goldman Sachs to consider offers or other dramatic changes 
Under the terms of his contract, Pressler will receive a severance package totaling about $14 million in salary, bonuses and stock options, according to company officials. 
Robert J. Fisher, chairman of Gap's board of directors, will serve as interim CEO and compa­ny president as the board searches for a perma­nent replacement. 
Tech concerns affect investm~nts 
NEW YORK -Wall Street stumbled lower Monday as growing concerns over technology companies led jittery investors to pull money out of the market ahead of this week's earnings reports. 
The market has been vulnerable to erratic trad­ing lately, with investors cautious about the direc­tion of the economy and companies' results. The tech sector so far has been knocked down the· most, after Apple Inc.'s and Intel Corp.'s outlooks last week fell below the Street's expectations. 
With industry leaders like Qualcornrn Inc. and Microsoft Corp. releasing their financial results later this week, many investors are bracing for dis­appointing reports. 
"The market is nervous," said Joe Ranieri, man­aging director in equity trading at Canaccord Adams. "We've had a few good quarters in a row in tech land. The problem with.having good quar­ters is, it gets harder and harder to impress." 
Blue chip stocks were also dragged down by a Wachovia analyst's downgrade of Boeing Co.; the analyst cited possible aircraft order delays from the jet maker. 
Overall, earnings reports and economic data this year have signaled growth that's cooling, but not so quickly that it is squeezing corporate prof­its. This would normally be good news for the stock market, but investors have been retreating -wisely, many market watchers say -on signs they may have gotten ahead of themselves late last year, when the Dow began racing into record territory. 



Pfizer Inc. to cut 10,000 jobs 
World's largest drug company suffers under pressure from competing markets 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Pfizer Inc., struggling with fierce corn­petition from makers· of generic drugs, announced Monday it will cut 10,000 jobs and close at least five facilities as part of an effort to slash its annual costs by up to $2 billion by next year. 
The drastic measures by the world's largest drug maker highlight the chal­lenges faced by many pharrnaceutic;;tl companies recently. In addition to patent expirations, big drug companies are facing a business climate where insurers and other large purchasers of medicines are demanding lower prices and more evidence of products' worth. 
Although big rounds of job cuts typically boost a company's stock prize, shares of Pfizer fell 27 cents, or 1 percent, to close Monday at $26.95 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

It's the second time in two years the maker of Viagra and Lipitor has announced a major cost­reduction plan to combat the loss of about $14 billion in revenues this year due to expiring patents. The company is at risk of losing 41 percent of its sales to generic competition between 2010 and 2012. announced late last year. performance. Two happen now." including the revenue from The company said Monday research areas are being Pfizer reiterated that its its top seller Lipitor, it would cut 20 percent of abandoned while other revenue would be flat this according to Prudential its European sales force research and development year and next, but it analyst Tim Anderson but didn't say how many efforts are being consoli­expects earnings to jump 
The latest cuts come on jobs that will be. dated. between 6 percent and 9 top of a previously Pfizer will close three Pfizer also pledged to percent in both 2007 and announced plan to slash research sites in Michigan interact more with poten­2008. costs by $4 billion a year and two manufacturing tial customers such as Analysts are skeptical by 2008. On Monday, Pfizer plants in New York and insurers to make sure it is about whether Pfizer's cur­said it would cut an addi­Nebraska. It may also sell developing medicines they rent and pipeline drugs tional $500 million to $1 another manufacturing site deem worthy of purchas­can generate enough sales billion in costs. However, it in Germany and close ing. to compensate for revenue said some of the savings research sites in Japan and "I believe we must trans­it stands to lose. Pfizer said would be redeployed into France. form the way we've done it intends to buy or collabo­the company so the total Aside from outlining cuts, business in the past in rate witH other companies savings would be between Pfizer also detailed how it order to be more success­to bolster its product port­$1.5 billion and $2 billion. would restructure its busi­ful in the future," said folio as it attempts to 
The 10,000 layoffs ness in an effort to become Jeffrey Kindler, who improve its own research. amount to about 10 per­more nimble and flexible. became Pfizer's CEO last Pfizer reiterated it will cent of the company's glob­The U.S. commercial busi­summer and chairman last introduce six new products al work force and include ness will be divided into month. "Incremental evo­a year beginning in 2011, the elimination of 2,200 five distinct units, each lution is not enough. four from its own research jobs from the U.S. sales with a general manager Fundamental change is and two from collabora­force, which Pfizer responsible for that group's imperative -and it must tions. 


Prosecution focuses on Coke worker 
Associated Press to a meeting between Williams and a Cola and an undercover FBI investi­
co-defendant. gation was launched. 

ATLANTA -A former Coca-Cola Williams faces up to 10 years in Williams was fired from her job as secretary spearheaded a conspiracy prison if convicted of the single fed­an administrative assistant to Coca­to steal trade secrets from the bever­eral conspiracy charge against her. Cola's global brand director after the 
age giant in a case about "greed and She has pleaded not guilty. Williams allegations carne to light. poor choices," a prosecutor said remains free on bond pending the Among the key evidence against Monday during opening statements outcome of the trial. Two co-defen­Williams, according to Chartash: a in the woman's trial. dants have pleaded guilty to conspir­$4,000 deposit Williams made into 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Randy acy, and at least one is expected to her bank account, voicernail mes­Chartash told jurors that J oya testify against her. sages between Williams and the co­Williams was the one who first Williams, Edmund Duhaney and defendants and surveillance video of 
approached two co-defendants in the Ibrahim Dirnson were indicted in Williams at her desk at Coca-Cola 
case in late 2005 about selling Coca­July, accused of stealing new prod­headquarters. 
Cola documents and samples of uct samples and confidential docu­Chartash showed jurors during his 
products that hadn't been launched ments from The Coca-Cola Co. and opening statement some of that sur­to rival Pepsi. trying to sell them to Purchase, N.Y.­veillance video, on which Williams is "She says the documents are based PepsiCo Inc. seen stuffing documents in a bagworth something to a The alleged plans were foiled after and taking a bottle with a liquid in 
cornpetitor,"Chartash said, referring Pepsi warned Atlanta-based Coca-it. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, January 23, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Abortion and the March for Life 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDrroru Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EDrroru Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Menndla 
GRAFHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYsTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OffiCE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574}631-7471fAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631·4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574} 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNo~re Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accura~dy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe ' Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ohsecve!-(USPS 599-2-4000} is published Monday through fr.ida;y ~pr durin~ CXlm and vacation periods. A subscription to Tbe-Obse-rver Is $100 for one actdemic year; $55 fur one semester. 
The Obs:c:rver is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 Soueh Dining Hall Send .address corrections t-o: 
Notte Dame, IN 46556..0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid ar Noue Dan1~ PO. Box779 
and ~dditiQ"mU m.uling offices. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Norre Dame, lN 46-556-0779 
The: Observer is a member ofthe Associated Ptes;. All .ttp.toduction rights ar-e 
t~cd. 
TooAv's STAFF 
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Kate Gales 
Katie Kohler Greg Arbogast Sonia Rao Dan Cooper Vie'YJ)oint Scene 
Bethany Analise Liparf Whitfield Graphics 
. Matt Hudson 
The seats, about 250, on the buses were sold out almost immediately. The riders subjected themselves to a 10-hour trip each way. In between, they had to sleep on a gym floor, spend long hours out in the cold and do 
what they could for food, etc. Where were they going? A con­cert? The Motor City Bowl? Not quite. They are Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents going to the March for Life in 

Washington. It Charles Rice marked the 34th anniversary of Roe v. 
Right or 
Wade on Jan. 22. 
Wrong?
A reasonable observer might ask, "Why bother?" Maybe students just don't have enough to do. The reality, however, is that those students are doing something real and important. 
For most readers of these words, Roe 
v. Wade is ancient history. Since that ruling in 1973, more than 42 million unborn children have been legally exe­cuted by surgical abortion through 2002. That is the last year for which the Alan Guttmacher Institute, the source of the most complete statistics, has report­ed. Since the early 1990s the totals have leveled out and declined some­what. In 2002, the total was about 1.29 million. Those figures do not include the uncountable but increasing number of early abortions by chemicals, intrauterine devices and other means. The legalized execution of unborn c,hil­dren is a fixed reality in our law and culture. Victims from the first decade of Roe would have already attended, had they lived, their tenth college reunions. 
You have rights under the Constitution 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

because you are a person. In any civi­lized society where personhood is the condition for possessing rights, every innoceqt human being should be entitled 
. to be treated as a person. The theory of Roe is simple. The Court declined to decide whether the unborn child is a liv­ing human being. The Court held instead that, whether or not he is such, he is not a person. The ruling is the same in effect as a ruling that an acknowledged human being is a nonper­son and therefore has no rights. That depersonalization principle of Roe is the principle that underlay both the Nazi extermination of the Jews and the depersonalization of slaves in the Dred Scott case of 1857. 
If the students in the March seek to accomplish a restoration of legal rights to the unborn child they are embarked on an exercise in futility. The most the Court will do is to let the states decide whether to allow or prohibit abortion. That would confirm the nonpersonhood of the unborn child, because if an inno­cent human being is subject to being executed whenever a legislature author­izes it, he is a nonperson. 
The Court will soon rule on the federal prohibition of partial-birth abortion. That case, however, is a sideshow. The 
· issue there is not whether innocent human beings may be legally executed and not even which ones may be so killed, but rather how the killing is to be done. In any event, the restoration of legal rights to that child will not happen because early-abortion technology is irrevocably moving abortion beyond the effective reach of the law. 
For these reasons, abortion is now essentially not a legal problem but one that is cultural and -dare we say it? ­religious. Here is where the March for Life becomes a big deal and the students are doing something real and important. 
The students from ND/SMC Right to Life are joining other thousands at the March for Life in giving witness not only to justice but also to peace. In his mes­sage for the World Day of Peace, Jan. 1, 2006, Benedict XVI said "[t]he right to life ... is not subject to the power of man. Peace requires ... a clear bound­ary between what is at man's disposal and what is not .... As far as the rightto life is concerned, we must denounce its widespread violation .... Alongside the victims of armed conflicts, terrorism and the different forms of violence, there are the silent deaths caused by hunger, abortion, experimentation on human embryos and euthanasia. How can we fail to see in all this an attack on peace?" Benedict described abortion and embryonic experimentation as "a direct denial of that attitude of accept­ance of others that is indispensable for ... peace." The evils named by Benedict prevent peace because they deny what he called "the requirements of the nature bestowed on man by the Creator." Legalized abortion is part of a bigger picture. 
Benedict entrusted his prayer for peace to "the Queen of Peace" who is, of course, Notre Dame. As Right to Life chairman Mary Elizabeth Walter described it, the journey to the March for Life is "not so much a demonstration but a prayer." Those students embody Notre Dame at its best. They have their act together, evidently more than some faculty. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. He can be reached at 
(574) 633-4415 or at rice.l@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
BULleT~ '?!I ·

OBSERVER POLL 
If the Democratic primary were held today, who would you vote for? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m . at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Do not wait for the last judgment. It takes place everyday. " 
Albert Camus writer and philosopher 


Tuesday, January 23, 2007 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

ND should push living w-age 
I do hope the ND students will continue their mission to get the University to pay the employees at least a living wage, which would be about $12/hour now. 
I know some people that are employed think it is adequate now, but they are not raising a family on one income. Also for a Catholic organization advocating multi-children fami­lies, I hear from some employees that the department heads are not very tolerant when their workers need time off for emergency family problems. 
Just as your former classmates were able to stop ND merchandise from being made by near slave labor and their former classmates were able to pursuade their leaders to divest the University of its African gold during the apartheid era, I know that this generation of students will be able to get the University lead­ers to also do the right thing.. 
Louis C. Myers South Bend resident Jan. 11 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT 
page 9 
Ethics and morals not synonymous 
This bit was written as a result of, but not a direct response to Eleanore Stong's letter ("Contraceptive society morally harmful," Jan. 22). As she states in the article, "God is the creator of humanity, thus God has written the manual for its optimal functioning in the world." 
This is a widely held belief of many Catholics. Something similar was stated in the Catholic political guide that I picked up last semester in my dorm chapel. It seems to me that the argument in its most basic form goes something like, 'Since the Catholic (or Christian) moral law is best for society, ethical law should be completely in sync.' So ethics and morals should be synonymous, right? 
For all of those nodding their head right now, maybe you should think twice. Contradicting evidence to your basic premise would alter that statement to, 'Since moral law is not always best for society, ethics should not be synonymous with morals.' 
And here's my anticipated example: Matthew states that we should forgive not seven but 77 times. It is our moral duty to forgive our trespassers, just like those Amish families forgave Charles Roberts. The legal term for 1forgive' is 'exonerate'. Would it be best for society to ethically forgive those who trespass us? Clearly the answer is no. Our judicial system was installed tokeep order, among other things. Without ethical implications our country would virtu­ally be in a state of anarchy. So, clearly, moral law is not always best for this country. 
My point is that morals cannot and should not ever be used to justify ethics. That's not to say that they can't be equivalent in most cases. This is true for me personally.. Just let me present for you the origin of my frustration with this issue. I am from southern Georiga, and most of my good friends at home are conservative. When we would discuss the issue of gay marriage, the only justification for their opinion was that it is immoral. 
Do you not see the problem with that? If that is · your justification, then you have to, in order to have a sound argument, also attest that all moral law should be actual law. Plus, we are not a theocracy; have we forgotten that this country was not founded on the freedom of (andfrom) religion. 
This is not meant be a discussion about the legal issues of gay marriage, and I'in not advocating a side. It's just a good example. All I ask is that when you formulate you arguments, whatever side you're on, realize that you can have separate moral and ethics stances. 
James Welle 
sophomore 
Knott Hall 
Jan. 22 
U-WIRE 
Did you know that the University of Cambridge denied Edward A. Irving a doc­torate because the work he submitted on continental drift was "not familiar enough"? 
If you were a Andrew Swift Wikipediajunkie,you would. The Daily 
The free encyclope­Iowan dia is the new World Wide Web information king. It is truly unri­valed in its breadth of knowledge. 
Google is so 2004. 

Many around the world still delude themselves into thinking the best approach to finding random information on the Internet is the popular search engine. This belief is utterly false. Recent daily Wikipedia articles delivered directly to my e-mail-admittedly, a Gmail accoun"t ­included the English progressive rock band Genesis and Pharaoh Ahmose I of Ancient 
Just 'Wiki' it 
Egypt. Who knew Genesis has sold 150 million albums worldwide or that Ahmose I was Ofthe 18th The ban Dynasty? 
The Internet is designed to speed the flow of information. Books are still neces­sary, but print encyclopedias are cumber­some. Wikipedia understands this perfect­ly. 
College students who argue they've never used Wikipedia for class help are blatant liars. It is hard to find a better source for general informatiop. Need to know when Constantinople was taken by the Ottoman Empire? Wondering about the origin of the word "society"? Trying to fig­ure out who's the longest serving chairman of the Federal Reserve? Wikipedia's got it all. · 
Of course, Wikipedia is not a scholarly resource, and anyone who tries to use it as such is idiotic. IfWikipedia is listed in your footnotes or bibliography, you've stooped to new lows. I hope most college students have heard enough warnings from profes­sors: Wikipedia is for play, not for work. 

While winning Google wars was previ­ously one of the most satisfying uses of the Internet, there is perhaps no greater aspi­ration in life than to have one's own Wikipedia entry. Google retains some advantages -but these are mostly in areas Wikipedia has not ventured. Indeed, comparing the two increasingly seems akin to comparing apples to oranges. Gmail is by far the best e-mail provider, Google image search is a quick source for irrever­ent Facebook pictures, and Google Earth is the greatest online toy of all time. It would be silly for Wikipedia to enter these mar­kets. 
A famous Albert Einstein quote, "The only thing that interferes with my learning is my education," is close to the truth. Perhaps ifEinstein had seen the future, he would have phrased it "The only thing that interferes with my learning is my lack of Wikipedia." 
It is obvious American education needs desperate reform. But simply throwing more money at the problem -or even redistributing funds -will simply mask 
· the larger problem. People learn in sundry manners -policymakers, bureaucrats, and local administrators and educators need to radically change how the youth of American intake knowledge. While Wikipedia is probably not a panacea, it's closer to the solution than most would imagine. 
This article first appeared in The Daily Iowan, the daily paper ofthe University of Iowa, on Jan. 22. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
If you read an article in this newspaper saying that scientists had discovered amazing new health benefits of juice, would you believe it? 
After all, you can't argue with science, right? Well, sometimes you Lillie can. Kilburn 
Industries love to use science to help pro­Arizona Daily mote their products, Wildcat because science carries such credibility. That's why our world is full of bad science: miracle weight-loss drugs promising science-based quick fixes, corporations' representatives mak­ing statements as ifthey were independ­ent scientific researchers and research studies that are funded by an industry and therefore biased toward that industry. 
For example, that juice study you read about in the newspaper: Researchers in Boston looked at studies about milk, soda and juice, and their findings were not cheerful. Twenty-two percent of studies they looked at were entirely funded by industry -and of those, not a single one found a conclusion that was unfavorable to its industry. 
This wasn't necessarily intentional. It 

Fighting science with science 
might simply have been due to the conflict of interest: Let's please the people who give us money. 
Either way, perhaps you might not want to stock up on O.J. after all. 
Of course, ifwe're going to talk about bad science that misleads the public, we can't go without mentioning Big Tobacco's 50-year crusade of misinformation about the science and health effects of its ciga­rettes. As the federal judge who last year found it guilty of racketeering said, Big Tobacco "suppressed research, they destroyed documents .... They distorted the truth." 
Exxon Mobil Corp. has done much the same thing over the years since the Kyoto Protocol. As a scientific watchdog report­ed in December, Exxon Mobil Corp. has spent $16 million to make it seem as though the scientific community is divided about the existence of global warming. 
According to the Union of Concerned Scientists, Exxon Mobil Corp. distorted the findings of real scientific studies and paid their own "scientific spokespeople" to cre­ate the illusion of doubt about global warming. 
It seems science isn't so infallible, after all. 

And it's obvious that our lack of under­
standing about science is really hurting us 
-fmancially, health-wise and environ­
mentally. 

Yet, it's natural for companies to try to use science for their own benefit. It would be nearly impossible to stop them doing so, and in a way their liberty to do so is, well, a liberty. 
· Therefore, the best thing we can do is 
become smarter about science ourselves 
-although the unfortunate truth is that 
the current trend is going in the opposite 
direction. U.S. Department of Education 
test scores in 2005 showed that science 
proficiency is continuing to fall among 
high school seniors. 
Distressingly, almost half of high school seniors did not have a "basic" level of understanding about science -"basic" being defined as "partial mastery of pre­requisite knowledge and skills that ate fundamental for proficient work at each grade." 
If that's the case, how can half our citi­zens hope to distmguish good scientific research from claims made by a corpora­tion, research that might be biased from research that probably isn't or even a bril­liant new scientific gadget from a piece of · junk that won't work? 
If we as a nation want to be able to make smart decisions about our own lives, we have to understand science. 
To interpret health findings claiming that trans fats are bad for us, we have to know what trans fats are. We have to know the basic science behind what we do every day to see that the active ingredient in this expensive face cream and that cheap one are the same. 
Most importantly, we have to learn what it means to look at the world scientifically. That doesn't mean losing our beliefs. It means looking at science with skepticism -and knowing that something can only be disproven, never proven -and recog­nizing that science can't provide the absolute truth, only clues to it. 
Science isn't just for chemistry majors; it's what the universe is made of, and it's something we have to understand to be smart consumers and citizens. 
This article first appeared in the Arizona Daily Wildcat, the daily paper of the University ofArizona, on Jan. 22. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, January 23, 2007 
CD REVIEWS 
Latest U2 collection includes hits and misses 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
U2 already has a pair of greatest hits albums, "Best of 1980 -1990" and "Best of 1990-2000," so "U2:18" might seem like a cheap cash-in on previously released material. Unfortunately, it is. The band doesn't really need another compilation, and "U2:18" doesn't pro­vide anything new or revelatory about the most popular band in the world. 
U2, led by singer Bono and guitarist The Edge, started out as an above-aver­age post-punk outfit before finding its footing as a socially-conscious band with a penchant for sweeping anthems. Driven by the rhythm section of Larry Mullen Jr. and Adam Clayton (the two members of the band that actually have names), U2 married eclectic experimen­talism with simple rock beats, a combi­nation that proved to be both artistical­ly and commercially successful. On 1991's "Achtung Baby," it reinvented itself as an electronic/dance band. 
U2 continued along this path for the decade until re-reinventing itself as a neo-classicist pop band, which was evi­dent on its most recent two albums, 2000's "All That You Can't Leave Behind" and 2004's "How to Dismantle an Atomic Bomb." 
Sadly, despite this history, there's a lot wrong with "U2:18." It isn't arranged chronologically, so it's nearly impossible to get a feel for the band's considerable artistic growth. This problem is com­pounded by the complete absence of several key U2 albums, including 1981's "Boy" (the band's debut), 1982's "October," and 1993's "Zooropa." 
The music that is included is general­ly great, though it relies a bit too heavi­ly on U2's later renaissance. Songs like "I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For·" and "New Year's Day" have a timeless, anthem-type quality to them, while love songs like "One" and "With or Without You" hint at the band's depth. The best song on the compila­tion (still one of the defining songs of the 1980s) is U2's tribute to Martin Luther King Jr., the fiery "Pride (In the Name of the Love)," which features fan­



7788~~~~ tastic guitar work
by The Edge.U2 The two new songs on the album are
18 Singles 
respectable, but not nearly as good
Umvdlmport 
as the rest of the collection's mate­rial. A cover of The Skids' "The Saints are Coming" features Green Day, while 

Recommended tracks: 'New Year's Day/ 'Pride (In 
the Name of Love)' and 'With or Without You' 
"Window in the 


Skies" is a U2-by-numbers anthem that showcases a fine vocal performance by Bono despite an excess of strings. 
Still, for a collection that purports to be a collection of singles, it's disap­pointing just how many of the band's biggest singles have been forgotten ­"I Will Follow," "Gloria," "Bad," "Stay (Faraway So Close!)" and "Even Better Than the Real Thing" among them. "U2:18" is also disappointing because it omits unreleased album tracks, so the breadth and depth of U2 is lost in the commerciality of the singles. It also fails to include anything from any of U2's side projects, which means that "Miss Sarajevo" (featuring Luciano Pavarotti), one of its best songs from the 1990s, is also missing. 
In the end, it's hard to see the point of a compilation like "U2:18." Faithful fans will most likely own most of the album's material, and wouldn't feel compelled to buy the disc simply for a few new songs. Those unfamiliar with U2 would be better off buying one of its previously released "Best Of" collec­tions, or better yet, picking up 1987's "The Joshua Tree" and 1991's "Achtung Baby." There's no arguing with the greatness of the music included on the disc. However, it's hard not to wish for more of it. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
Director Coppola blends puilk rock, 18th century 
By ANALISE LIPARI Assistant Scene Editor 
With her 2006 release "Marie Antoinette," director Sofia Coppola took a unique approach to creating a soundtrack for the project. Unlike most modern peri­od films, the majority of the music fea­tured in the movie is not a recently com­posed mishmash of strings and generic orchestration. In an approach not unchar­acteristic of .the film's quirky director, the music of "Marie Antoinette" derives not from an orchestra pit, but more likely from a garage or dingy nightclub. 
Coppola has filled the film with New Wave, post-punk and modern rock songs, creating a surprisingly fresh and youthful atmosphere for such a history-based film. The soundtrack itself comes with two discs, the first highlighting more well known songs and the second featuring most of the film's instrumental tracks. 
The first disc thunders open with "Hong Kong Garden," a fervent post-punk track by eighties underground hipsters Siouxsie and the Banshees. Showcased during a daring masked ball in the film, ."Hong Kong Garden" creates an aura of clashing sound and exotic lyrics that seems fitting given the film's storyline. · 
Marie Antoinette, an Austrian by blood, was herself something of a misfit in the ornate and regimented world of Versailles, and her enclosure within and figurative escape from that strange world ties in closely with the colorful atmos­phere that "Hong Kong Garden" describes. 
The subsequent tracks on the first disk are each well chosen and unique. One standout song is "Melody of a Fallen Tree" by Texas band Windsor for the Derby. One of the lengthier songs included, the "Melody" has a quiet, peaceful feel to it, contrasting sharply with the guitar-heavy tracks that make up the majority of the album. Strong vocals and a pulsating rhythm characterize "Kings of the Wild Frontier" by Adam and the Ants, a New Wave band whose powerful drums help anchor the song's place on the album. 
Other highlights include the addition of more modern bands, such as "What Even Happened" by the Strokes; the appear­

~------=-------::------:----;;;;;::::=====::::;;;;;;;;::::;;;;;;J
"'T.arJ•OUS Artt•StS
Y ~ 

L-----------------------------~ 

ances of both the now-ubiquitous "I
Want Candy" and the lesser known "Aphrodisiac" by Bow Wow Wow; and the bass-heavy vintage New Order hit "Ceremony." 
The choice to highlight key moments in a peri­od film with rela­tively contempo­rary music would normally seem curious to the average listener. With "Marie Antoinette," however, the choice makes thematic sense. To Coppola, Marie Antoinette is essentially a lost young girl searching for meaning as she is increas­ingly overwhelmed by pressures beyond her control. The struggle for individuality and personal happiness are well-worn ideas to any teenage listener of the music Coppola has chosen. The connection between the two time periods, then, is intriguingly obvious. 


The second disc features instrumental tracks by both modern and more classical artists. Both the techno-influenced Aphex Twin and eighties alternative icons the Cure make appearances, with the Cure closing off the album with the disc's fmal track, "All Cat's Are Grey." The disc's most energetic track is Bow Wow Wow's joyous "Fools Rush In," heard in the fllm after the young queen meets her future lover, Count Fersen (Jamie Dornan). 
Seeing the film further enriches the experience of listening to this fantastic compilation, but unlike most movie sound­tracks, the album stands very well on its own. Any eighties rock aficionado or French Revolution scholar can appreciate the diversity and strength of the songs included, vindicating Coppola's off-kilter and ultimately fascinating collection of music for "Marie Antoinette." 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, January 23, 2007 
page 11 

Football entertains from Grossman to gridiron 
Once my favorite NFL team has been eliminated from contention, all I ask for the remainder of the playoffs is that I'm enter­tained. So as I watched this past weekend's conference championship games, unable to rattle ofl' my signature J-E-T-S chant in sup­port of Gang Green, my challenge to the the football gods was this: entertain me. 
To their credit, the football gods answered my prayers. The first game, featuring the New Orleans Saints at the Chicago Bears, had it all: a bleak, blustery day at Soldier Field, a howling den ofblood­thirsty Bears fans and a voracious Chicago defense, pawing and clawing at the Saints and forcing them to cough up three fumbles. 
Reggie Bush did his part, slipping and sliding on the frozen tundra before ulti­mately taking it to the house on an electric 88-yard catch, but unfortunately for the Saints, they had a tough time marching against the Bears' defense. Although they weren't quite the "Aints," they did look quaint (and buttery of fingers) at times, and in the end, their Super Bowl hopes were faint against a dominating defense. 
On the other side ofthe ball, the Bears trotted out the worst quarterback to be in the Super Bowl since Trent Dilfer. Fortunately, he's hilarious. Rex Grossman's name sounds like a combination ofa porn star alter ego and something one Illini dorm monkey would say to the other after yet another disgusting/horrible throw, as in, "That's gross, man." 

Is it just me or should the Bears organi­zation run a promotion where they offer all male fans free coconut bras and grass skirts so they can hula hip-shimmy and serenade opposing teams with chants of, "Daaaaaaaaa Bears Da Bears Da Bears Da Bears Da Bears " ad nauseam? Chris Farley, where have you gone? 
After watching the Bears reign supreme, it was on to the Patriots at the Colts. I always love this somewhat perennial matchup for two reasons. Firstly, for the Patriots, playing the Colts is a lot like beat­ing up your little brother. For a year, all you hear about is how much better the "new and improved" Colts are, then you come homefrom school and powerbomb the upstart little man into the family sofa for half an hour until he admits defeat or your mom yells at you. Sure, you might toy with the young fella a little bit, make him think he has a watermelon Jolly Rancher slushy's chance in hell ofbeating you, but ultimately the outcome is never in doubt. 
The other reason I love watching Pats­Colts is the annual tradition of Peyton Manning crumpling like a piece oftoilet paper, and the accompanying crinkling of his features into facial expressions of frus­tration, pain and general cowardice. 
Sure enough, it looked like business as usual in the first half, as the Patriots gener­ally put on a clinic in football hustle and flow, slapping the Colts around in their own home as all of Indiana winced and pre­pared for the inevitable. Peyton Manning was doing his part, throwing picks and shrugging his shoulders in his typical look of, "Well, what do you want from me?" 


But lo and behold, the little brother grew up, and Manning's Colts pulled off a Tom Brady and the Patriots-esque comeback, finally tearing the monkey off their backs, slaying their dragon and all other fantasy­related sports m~taphors about defeating people you normally can't. 
Even better, Patriots coach Bill Belichick, replete with his customary sweatshirt-cut­off-at-the-elbows outfit, looked as though someone had peed in his cereal. Talk about sour grapes. I've never seen a worse sore loser. I also loved the "agony of defeat" shot ofTom Brady, looking stunned after the Patriot loss. What'll he do in the offseason? Well, he'll probably go somewhere exotic and play golf with his consolation prize, stunning supermodel girlfriend Giselle Biindchen. As for the rest of us? Well, we get to tune in to the Super Bowl in.Miami. 
Fortunately, this year the Steelers aren't in it, so the rest of us won't have to deal with the stupid towel-flapping of a year ago. Even ifthe Super Bowl is a bust, at least for the time being, I have one thing to say to the NFL: Thank you. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tan drew 1 @nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'The Painted Veil' inspires emotions, senses 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Scene Writer 
'The Painted Veil" is one of the few films I've seen recently whose mood has man­aged to linger beyond the theater doors. The majestic and peaceful cinematography, scenery and score capture the senses and provide a striking overlay to the character's humanity and the story's themes of punish­ment, forgiveness and the difficulty of unit­ing two worlds, whether they are England and China or man and wife. 
Set in 1925 and based on the book by W. Somerset Maugham, "The Painted Veil" tells the story of a young bacteriologist, Walter Fane (Edward Norton), and his wife Kitty (Naomi Watts). Kitty, a shallow socialite, marries Walter to escape her mother and the embarrassment of a late marriage, but she has no love for him. He takes her to Shanghai where she quickly becomes bored and 
The film is founded on its tensions, whether they are political, sexual or moral. The film does not forget its setting and reveals many of the conflicts arising in early 20th century China as it convulses through British imperialism. As one of the characters notes, " ... if the cholera doesn't get us, the nationalists might." From the outset it explores the dynamic between various political groups, including ~he British, Chinese nationalists, regional war­lords and the local Chinese peasants. 
Unlike many current films, "The Painted Veil" portrays sexuality as something hon­est in its timidity and roughness, rather than in confidence and practiced sensuality. Kitty's encounters with Townsend may be pleasurable and those with Walter may be awkward, but ultimately meaning is found in the latter. 
But the film's main focus is on discover­ing to what extent people will punish themselves and others in the struggle to 
forgive. Walter and 

has an affair with Kitty do not easily for­
The Painted Veil

English Vice Council 
give and forget, and, in Charlie Townsend doing, so they make (Live Schreiber). their journey that Walter later discovers much harder. their indiscretion and The film's characters
Director: John Curran

takes his revenge by are complex and
Writers: Ron Nyswaner and W.

offering Kitty a diffi-. flawed, making their
Somerset Maugham (novel)

cult choice -she growth all the more
Starring: Edward Norton, Naomi 

must either convince important, as their
Watts, Liev Schreiber and Toby Jones 

Townsend to divorce redemption is uncer­his own wife and tain. Walter Fane may marry her, or accompany Walter to the vil­be self-sacrificing, risking his life to enter a lage ofMei-Tan-Fu, which is suffering from cholera epidemic, but he can also be cruel, a cholera outbreak. They travel into rural threatening to strangle his wife ifshe inter-China, where they find a set of people . rupts him in anger. Kitty Fane can be shal­whose lives are also being pulled apart. low and deeply honest. Together their refusal to forgive easily is very human. 

Even the secondary characters maintain an impressive level of depth. Deputy Commissioner Waddington (Toby Jones) at first appears to be the typical, disgruntled Englishman abroad, but his loyalty to his Manchurian mistress and "gone native" mentality are slowly revealed. Colonel Yu (Anthony Wong Chau-Sang) balances pre­cariously between doubting Norton's English doctor and aiding him. None of the characters are standard heroes, and each makes mistakes and finds acceptance. 
The score and cinematography of "The Painted Veil" are some of the film's most beautiful aspects. One of very few movies permitted to be filmed in China in recent years, the film takes full advantage of the country's natural beauty. The Golden Globe winning score, composed by Alexandre Desplat and featuring pianist Lang Lang, pulses and flows through the mm. It is majestic but not overpowering, reflecting the romantic nature ofthe story. 
"The Painted Veil" is more than a period piece or a romance. It is a commentary on how people push themselves into deeper troubles, and how heroically and naturally they struggle to fix them. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
r-
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 23, 2007 · 
NBA 

Hill, Howard help Magic end losing streak 
five assists and Troy Murphy
Associated Press 
had seven points and eight 
CLEVELAND -Grant Hill rebounds in his first start for 
scored 22 points, Dwight . Indiana. 
Howard added 18 with 13 Danny Granger scored 19 
rebounds and the Orlando points and Marquis Daniels 
Magic snapped a five-game added 12 for the Pacers, who 
losing streak by beating the had lost three games during 
listless Cleveland Cavaliers 90-the·ir losing streak by three 
79. points or less. 
Hill, who missed Orlando's 
previous game with a dislocat­Raptors 105, Bobcats 84 
ed pinky, only scored two Chris Bosh scored 20 points 
points and played less than six and Jose Calderon had a sea­
minutes of the fourth quarter. son-high 19 points and 11 
But he did enough in his first assists to lead the Toronto 
27 minutes on the floor to give Raptors to a victory over the 
the Magic an 11-point lead Charlotte Bobcats. 
entering the period. Andrea Bargnani added 14 
Jameer Nelson had 11 points for the Raptors, who 
points, Keith Bogans made played without starting point 
three 3-pointers and Darko guard T.J. Ford (sore right 
Milicic added nine rebounds ankle). Calderon, Toronto's 
for Orlando, which ended a backup point guard, has 
six-game skid in Cleveland. played well with Ford hobbled 
LeBron James had 18 points in recent games. 
for the weary Cavaliers, who Toronto allowed Charlotte to 
just completed a seven-game shoot 58 percent in the first: 
trip out West and were playing half, but the Raptors stifled 
their fifth game in seven Charlotte's offense with a zone 
nights. defense in the third quarter. 
Larry Hughes and Damon The Raptors outscored the 
Jones had 16 points apiece for Bobcats 21-8 in the third, 
Cleveland, which after losing when Charlotte shot just 4-for­
for the fourth time in five 18. 
games, reached the midway Gerald Wallace had 19 points 
point of the season at 24-17 -and nine rebounds for the 
the same record it had last Bobcats, who had won five of 
season. their previous seven. Raymond 
Leading 71-60 after three, Felton had 19 points and eight 
the Magic pushed their lead to assists after missing two 
80-64 following a 3-pointer by games with an ankle injury. 
Keyon Dooling and Milicic's Bargnani, the No. 1 pick in 

basket inside. Bogans' third 3 the draft, finished 5-for-1 0 lead the San Antonio Spurs to West's jumper from just Shaq, but the NBA's not going 
made it 83-68 with 7:19 left, from the field. Adam Morrison, a victory. inside the 3-point line pulled to give us a break." 
and the Cavaliers didn't have the third pick, went 1-for-6 for Manu Ginobili and Tony Boston to 91-89 with 8.7 sec­The Knicks cut the deficit to 
the legs to get back in it. just three points. Parker each scored 15 points ·onds left, but Finley made two 15 points by halftime and 
Hill and Howard finished a Toronto's Pape Sow received and Michael Finley had 12 for free throws with 3.2 seconds briefly to six in the fourth 
combined 15-of-22 from the a loud ovation when he the Spurs, who have won 18 left to ice it. quarter. Williams sank a pair 
field. entered the game in the fourth straight against the Celtics and of 26-footers late to prevent a 
quarter. Sow played his first nine in a row in Boston. The Heat 101, Knicks 83 collapse by Miami. 
Pacers 98, Bulls 91 game since havihg neck sur­Celtics last beat the Spurs on Playing without their two Jason Kapono fueled the 
Jermaine O'Neal had 22 gery to repair a fractured ver­Jan. 8, 1997' the season All-Stars, the Miami Heat Heat's early run and scored 22 
points and 10 rebounds points tebrae after falling and hitting before Duncan entered the scored a franchise-record 27 points. Udonis Haslem added 
as the Indiana Pacers beat the another player during practice NBA. consecutive points and beat 19 points and 10 rebounds. 
Chicago Bulls on Monday night in the Las Vegas summer Duncan shot 7-of-17 from the New York Knicks. Gary Payton had 13 as~ists, his 
to snap a four-game losing league. . the field and 7 -of-7 from the Dwyane Wade and Shaquille highest total since joining the 
streak and win for the first Toronto is 2-1 on a five­free throw line as the Spurs O'Neal watched from the Heat in 2005. 
time since making an eight­game homestand that finish won their third straight and bench as Miami raced to a 29-Eddy Curry scored 26 points 
player trade last week. with Boston and New Orleans. eighth in 10 games. His 10 3 lead after 8 1/2 minutes. The and Jamal Crawford 23 for the 
Darrell Armstrong had 16 Calderon's 3-pointer and second-quarter points helped Knicks missed 10 consecutive Knicks, who trailed by 28 after 
points, 10 assists and eight Bosh's jumper made it 90-68 San Antonio outscore Boston shots as their 3-2 lead became one quarter -the second­
rebounds for the Pacers. The with 5:27 left in the fourth. · 30-14 after falling behind 24-a 26-point deficit, while the largest such deficit in fran­
38-year-old point guard was Calderon added another 3-20 through one. Heat started 13-for-19 and chise history. 
making his second start of the pointer, giving Toronto a 97-71 Delonte West led Boston with outscored New York 14-0 in New York's Stephon Marbury 
season in place of the injured lead with 3:30 remaining. 27 points, while AI Jefferson the paint at the outset. sat out the second half 
Jamaal Tinsley. Bargnani had nine points in added 26 and Ryan Gomes had Miami did it with a makeshift because of a sore left knee. 
Ben Gordon scored 21 of his Toronto's 37-point first quar­20. The Celtics have lost eight lineup. Wade decided shortly The Knicks' past three 
31 points in the second half for ter -its highest-scoring open­straight and are 2-14 without before the game to rest the left games had been decided at the Chicago. Luol Deng had 18 ing period this season. Wallace star guard Paul Pierce, who ankle he sprained Sunday in a finish, but not this one. points and eight rebounds and had 11 of his 15 first-half has been out since Dec. 22 loss to Dallas, and O'Neal Kapono's third 3-pointer of the ·Kirk Hinrich had 14 points points in the second quarter, with a stress reaction in his missed his 35th consecutive opening period put them before fouling out late in the cutting the lead to three by left foot. game as he nears a return behind 21-3, and Haslem 's game. halftime. The Spurs led by as many as from knee surgery. short jumper made it 29-3 
Two of the newcomers 23 in the third quarter and 77-"We just wanted to come out before Curry's layup ended the acquired from Golden State, Spurs 93, Celtics 89 63 after the period. But after and try to get as many easy Heat run. Mike Dunleavy and Troy Tim Duncan remained the teams traded baskets for shots ·as we could," said The crowd offered a mock Murphy, made solid contribu­unbeaten against the Boston much of the fourth quarter, Miami's Jason Williams, who cheer for New York's first bas­tions. Mike Dunleavy had 15 Celtics, finishing with 21 Boston used a late 13-0 run to scored 20 points. "It's always ket in more than eight min­points, seven rebounds and points and nine rebounds to make it close. tough without D-Wade and utes. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5  Luxury townhome,walk to ND.  
WANTED  FoR SALE  FoR RENT  bdrm, 3 bath homes, frpls, 2-car garages. Call 574-232-4!527 or 269­ 3or4 bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09.  PERSONAL  
683-5038.  $600/Bed/mo.  
CASHIERS NEEDEIJ.  2001 Mercury Grand Marquis LS.  House available for 2007-2008.  574-360-2569.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
4-door. Excellent condition. 51,000  Very Large, Close to Campus, Just  Newly remodeled 3 and 4 bdrm  
APPLY IN PERSON.  miles. One owner. $6,500. Call 243­ Renovated. Contact  houses available for sale/rent.  Fum home avail. 2/15 to 8/15.  Do not go it alone. If you or some- 

 MacSwain@ gmail.com  Contact Mf!redith Allsop, Milligan  one you love needs confidential  
UNIVERSITY MARATHON,  Real Estate 220-9817-.  Walk to Univ.  support or assistance, please call  
TICKETS  Studio Apt. Stove, Refrig, Heat,  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For  
405 933N IN ROSELAND.  Water, Sewage and Trash service  Houses for rent, 3 to 6 bedrooms,  Call 561-596-0194.  more information, visit our web site  
Incl. $350/mo. 2Q Min. to ND.  walking distance,  at  
HOURS WILL VARY  WANTED -3 tix ND hockey Sat.  269-684-2268.  mrnmrentals@aol.com.  BETIER HOMES,BETIER  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg- 
Jan 27.  AREAS,BETIER DEALS.  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  
AND NO CALLS.  Call 703-585-8663.  andersonNDrentals.com  Call Gary 574-993-2208.  BlueGoldRentals.com  in The Observer.  

Tuesday, January 23, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
NHL 
All-Star festivities feature 111any young players 
Brodeur, Shanahan travel as familiar faces 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Martin Brodeur is used to coming to All-Star games to catch up with friends, guys he knows from Team Canada and previous midseason gatherings. 
On Monday, he might as well have worn one of those "Hello, my name is ... " badges. 
The All-Star fl:l_stivities fea­ture so many new players that the days leading up to Wednesday night's game are more get-to-know-you ses­sions than reunions -even if first-timers Sidney Crosby and Alex Ovechkin need no intro­duction to anyone who has followed the post-lockout NHL. 
"A lot of young players are a big part of the league, so for us older guys it's kind of nice to get to know them, talk to them and see how they are," Brodeur said. "Really, they're the future of our game." 
The past has been amazing­ly swept away by this new wave of talent. 
Consider this: Brodeur and East teammate Brendan Shanahan have played a com­bined 15 All-Star games;. the rest of their teammates have played a combined 11. 
On the West squad, Joe Sakic, Teemu Selanne and Nicklas Lidstrom hold a 28-15 experience advantage over their teammates. 
"The young guys today are a lot more talented than when we broke in," said Sakic, the Colorado forward who is a 12­time All-Star and the West's captain. "There are so many of them, and that's what is so great about this game right now. They're going to be the leaders of this league, and the league is going in the right direction with them." 
Not that it's so terrible being invited back as one of the old guys. 
"You've still got to be doing 
some right to be selected," he said. "This is just a differ­ent feeling for a veteran. Early in your career, you're really nervous. But the more times you're here, the easi­er it gets. You just come here, relax and have a good time." 
The fun began Monday evening with a 
The light workout was most noted for seeing players skate in sleek new uniforms created for this event with materials that will be used for every team next season. The differ­ence was easily evident ­players looking as if they were hardly wearing any pads. 
The YoungStars game and the skills competition come Tuesday night. 
A big reason for all the fresh faces at the event: There hasn't been one since 
"A lot ofyoung players are a big part of the league, so for us older guys it's kind of nice to get to know them, talk to them and see how they are. Really, they're the future ofour team." 
Martin Brodeur Devils goalie 
2004. The last two were scut­tled because of the lockout and the Olympics, help­ing build some enthusiasm this time among players who might oth­erwise want a few days off. 
"You get excited to come back after the Olympics last year, and you the reality is that a scorefest could break out at any moment. 

"I think it's important for us as coaches to put the people together to showcase the skills that are here," said West coach Randy Carlyle of Anaheim, another All-Star rookie. "What we're really looking to do is allow the players, A, to go out and show the skills; B, to have some fun; and, C, we want to win the game, too." 
Second-time All-Star Dany Heatley laughed at being called a grizzled veteran. But he qualifies because he's among only four former MVPs of this exhibition game mak­ing it back, joining Sakic, Selanne and Bill Guerin. 
Sakic was the MVP of the last All-Star game. Only 13 of the 42 players from the 2004 event are back this time. 
"For the young guys, it's good because now they're going to start knowing other coaches, other players," Brodeur said. "I know I gained a lot of experience by playing these All-Star games. A lot of people you don't see often, you have more time to talk to people. I think it's a great experience for them." 
Crosby was the leading vote-getter and is leading the NHL in scoring, a terrific feat if he were 29, but sheer Gretzky-like at 19. Ovechkin topped Crosby for rookie of the year honors last season and is tied for third in scor­ing; his 29 goals are one off the league lead. 
NFL 
Vicknot charged In crime. 
Associated Press 
Atlanta Falcons quarterback Michael Vick wasn't carrying marijuana when stopped by security last week at Miami International Airport, ESPN reported Sunday. 
Citing anonymous NFL sources, ESPN's Chris Mortensen reported Vick wasn't carrying marijuana or any other illegal substance. The ESPN report also cited an anonymous Falcons source, who said the team expects to hear something formal by Monday. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello wouldn't comment on the report. He told The Associated Press the league had received no information on the issue. 
Falcons team spokesman Reggie Roberts told the AP the team had not heard anything and did not know the origin of the ESPN report. 
Vick did not return a call. 
Last Wednesday, Vick reluc­tantly surrendered a water bot­tle to security at the Miami air­port. He was not arrested and was allowed to board an AirTran flight to Atlanta. 
The bottle was found to have a compartment that contained "a small amount of dark particu­late and a pungent aroma close­ly associated with marijuana," the police report said. 
ceremony outside the arena honoring Dallas' 1999 Stanley Cup championship team. Mike Modano, Brett Hull, Joe Nieuwendyk, Ed Belfour and Canadiens coach Guy Carbonneau were among 13 attendees, as was the Cup itself. Then came an on-ice celebration of 11 former NHL superstars, followed by a practice featuring the real squads. 
get excited to see all of the players again," San Jose for­ward Joe Thornton said. "It's fun seeing ex-teammates like Brian Rolston or guys that you used to play with. I get excit­ed. It's a good couple days for us.... You never know if it's going to be your last, so you get excited and have as much fun as you can." 
While there's talk of trying to put on a competitive game, 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
No.6 Sooners top Texas Tech in double overtime 

Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. -Backup point guard Kendra Moore scored 13 of her career-high 20 points in extra time to help No. 6 Oklahoma hold on and beat Texas Tech 86-81 in double over­time on Monday night. 
Courtney Paris recorded her 45th straight double-double, fm­ishing with 22 points and 17 rebounds for Oklahoma (16-1, 6­0 Big 12). which extended its winning streak against confer­ence opponents to 25 games. 
But during the overtimes, Moore became the Sooners' go-to player. With the game tied 81-8-1, it was Paris handing the ball off to Moore on a pick-and-roll and Moore slicing through the lane for a layup with 34.4 seconds left. 
At the other end, Oklahoma's starting point guard, Britney Brown, stole the basketball from Texas Tech's Jordan Murphree as she rose to shoot. Brown hit two free throws with 11 seconds left -her first points of the game ­and added another free throw in the final second to seal the win. 
Five players scored in double figures for Texas Tech (12-8, 3­3), led by Alesha Robertson, who finished with 20. Six-foot-6 Patrice Edwards added 12 points and 10 rebounds for the Lady Raiders. 
It was Oklahoma's first double­overtime game since Dec. 21, 2000, when the Sooners beat San Diego. Texas Tech played its last two-overtime game on Feb. 23, 2000, a win over Texas. 
Oklahoma struggled with turnovers for much of the game, fmishing with 21, and never led by more than eight points. Paris went just 9-of-24 from the field, sitting out nine minutes of the second half. She did not score in the game's final 14 minutes and missed five shot<> in the overtime periods. 
The Sooners led by six with three minutes left in regulation, but Texas Tech rallied to go ahead 67-63 with 44.2 seconds left, and Oklahoma needed a 3­pointer by Erin !Iiggins with 7.6 seconds left to forge a 68-68 tie. 
Texas Tech's Chesley Dabbs, who scored 13 points, missed a 10-footer at the buzzer. 
The Lady Raiders fell behind by three points early in the first overtime but took a 75-73 lead on a 16-foot jumper by Dabbs with 1:16 left. Moore tied it sec­onds later on a drive at the other end. 
After a Paris miss, Texas Tech had another chance to win, but she altered a jumper by Dabbs and the ball went out of bounds with eight-tenths of a second left. Paris stole the ensuing inbounds pass and her heave from 70 feet hit the rim and bounced away. 
Oklahoma outrebounded Texas Tech 49-35. Welch added 15 points for the Sooners, while Ashley Paris had 10. 
I 
I 
I OUND THE NATION 
page 14 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, January 23, 2007 


women's··Basl<et6~11··· 
ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
2 North Caronna 
3. Maryland. 4 Tennessee 5 Ohio State 6 Connectleut 7 Okhlhllma 8 LSU 9 Stanford ·· 11J Arizona State 11 George Washington 12 Purdue 13 Baylor 14 Vanderbilt 15 Louisville • • 16 Georgia 17 Texas A&M 18 Bowfing Green . 19 Marquette 28 Mtddte Tenn~ ~. 21 CaJifomia 
22 Texas ... :.·•r:·•••·•··•···•····················· 
23 
Michigan state ' · 
13-.4 
NFL 


19·0 · 18·1 16·1 15·1 144 12•1 16-2 · 14·3 
16·2 
174.• 
14.4 
12,3. .14.2 ·16"2 
15·3 13·4 
13~4 
1212 
1128 
1122 
1005 1000 972 
873 
'856 
16~2 
766 14·2 673 1&-;3 671 14·3 636 
633 $03 . 
485... 
444 367 359
:<::·:': 
.•·•Z68 


around the 
NBA 
Atlanta at Chicago 
8:30 p.m., Comcast 
TENNIS Austratlian Open 10 p.m., ESPN2 
Associated Press  
IRVING, Texas Parcells ·could returned to the  -Bill have Dallas  

Cowboys for one more shot at becoming the first coach to lead three teams into the Super Bowl. 
He could have come back to try ending the longest playoff drought in the fran­chise's proud history. Or he could have come back to finish what he started in developing quarterback Tony Homo and a 3-4 defense. 
Instead, 15 days after a gut-wrenching playoff loss in Seattle, Parcells decided Monday to call it a career, ending a four-year run in Dallas and a 19-year tenure in the NFL that included three Super Bowls and two championships. 

"I am retiring from coaching football," Parcells said in a statement. "I want to thank Jerry Jones and Stephen Jones for their tremendous support over the last four years. Also, the players, my coaching staff and others in the support group who have done so much to help. Dallas is a great city and the Cowhoys are an inte­gral part of it. I am hopeful that they are able to go for­ward from here." 
Known for a gruff demeanor and colorful quotes, Parcells leaves with 
IN BRIEF 
Nadal advances to quarterfinal 
ofAustralian Open 
Rafael Nadal finally got to see how he holds up against a guy who can also beat Roger Federer. 
And when his night's work was done -well past midnight -he understood what he had accom­plished against Andy Murray. 
"It was a very, very, very important match for me, very tough," Nadal said. "Andy was playing at an unbe­lievable level. He's very smart on court, for sure." 
For four sets there was little to separate the two. But Nadal outlast­ed the 19-year-old Scotsman, twice rallying from a set down to win 6-7 (3), 6-4, 4-6, 6-3, 6-1 and reach the Australian Open quarterfinals. 
After crunching a backhand pass on his second match point, Nadal dropped to his stomach and stretched face down. He got up and bowed to the crowd. It was 1:50 a.m.. Tuesday. and time to get some rest. 

the ninth-most wins in NFL history and a career record of 183-138-1. He was 34­32 in Dallas, counting two playoff losses. He had one year left at more than $5 million on a· contract extension signed last January. 
"I am in good health and feel lucky to have been able to coach in the NFL for an extended period of time," the 65-year-old coach said. 
Although he failed to make the Cowboys champi­ons again, Parcells leaves the Cowboys better than he found it. The club went from three straight 5-11 seasons before he arrived to making the playoffs twice in four years. 
"His contributions to the game of football and to the NFL are immeasurable," team owner Jerry Jones said in a statement. "We will always be grateful for his dedicated effort and commitment to the Dallas Cowboys." 
Parcells expected big things in 2006 and, thanks to the emergence of Homo, Dallas had a two-game division lead in December. Then the Cowboys lost four of their final five games, including the last three. The capper came against the Seahawks after Homo bungled the hold of a short field goal with a little more than a minute left. 
Nascar changes points 
race system 
Kasey Kahne won a series-high five races during NASCAR's regular season, yet barely qualified for the championship chase because of a points system that has long reward­ed consistency over winning. 
But under a series of adjustments announced Monday, the emphasis has been shifted to winning. In doing so, NASCAR might also have ensured that its biggest stars will almost always qualify for the Chase for the championship. 
Beginning this season, the Chase will have 12 drivers -up from 10 -and the field will be seeded based on "regular-season" victo­ries. 
"We believe the Chase accom­plished the original goal -it made racing more competitive, made every race ... mean more and creat­ed more excitement," NASCAR chairman Brian France said. 
N.C. State coach returns 
after bout with cancer Two months after cancer forced 
· her away from basketball, North Car.olina State coach Kay Yow still fights a disease that won't let her rest. · 
The Hall of Farner showed little sign of backing down Mon.day as she announced she'd return to the team -even as she adapts to what her body will and won't let her do. · 
"Of course, I'm always anxious to get back with the team but I have to be realistic about it," Yow said. 
"I told myself that .1 don't want to get back with the team and it be a hindrance. I have to be able to make a contribution. I wanted to get back, but I wanted to be sure I could do that before I came back." 
The 64-year-old coach plans to resume her duties Tuesday, with her first game l-ikely coming Thursday against Atlantic Coast Conference rival Virginia. 
Tuesday, January 23, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Manning scheduled for X-rays on thu111b 
Colts QB is probable for Super Bowl play 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Colts quarterback Peyton Manning was scheduled to have X­rays on his injured right thumb Monday, although Indianapolis doesn't believe it will affect his status for the Super Bowl has started 156 consecutive games, including playoffs, in his nine-year career. 
In fact, Manning has only missed one play because of injury -in a 2001 game against Miami. 
Dolphins defensive end Lorenzo Bromell hit Manning with his helmet under the chin strap, frac­turing Manning's jaw and drawing blood. Backup Mark Rypien 

against Chicago "From everything I replaced on Feb. 4. Manning,
hear, it's going to
Manning hit botched the
be O.K."

the thumb on his handoff on the throwing hand ensuing play on the helmet of Tony Dungy and the left tackle Tarik Dolphins
Colts coach 

Glenn late in the Colts' 38-34 vic­tory over New England in the AFC champi­onship Sunday night. 
Coach Tony Dungy said the thumb was discolored after the game and that Manning was hurting. 
"But from everything I hear, it's going to be OK," Dungy said. 
Manning ranks second on the NFL's consecutive starts list, behind Brett Favre. He 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Abby Waner scored 24 points and top-ranked Duke remained undefeated after storming out to a 19-0 lead and holding on to beat No. 4 Tennessee 7 4-70 on Monday night. 
The Blue Devils started the year 20-0 for the second straight season and got victo­ry No. 20 by handing Tennessee only its 17th loss in Thompson-Boling Arena, which opened in 1987. 
Early on it looked as if could be the worst loss ever for the Lady Vols in their home arena, but Tennessee (17 -2) rallied from as many as 21 points down in the first half to tie it at 48 with 10:48 remaining. 
Duke then ran its lead back to nine, but Tennessee kept chipping away and made the final minutes tense for both sides, especially the large and raucous orange-clad crowd. 
Lindsey Harding scored on a drive with 1:37 left to put Duke ahead 70-63, but Tennessee went 2-of-4 at the foul line and Candace Parker scored to cut it to 70-67. 
The· Lady Vols' last chance came after Alberta Auguste hit a 3 with 6.1 seconds left to cut it to 72-70, and they immediately fouled Harding. She made both free throws to ice it. 
Duke is one of only nine teams to win in Thompson­Boling and only the fifth of those to win more than once. 
Harding added 21 for Duke while Wanisha Smith had 15. The Blue Devils were 14-of­15 from the foul line. Tennessee was only 8-of-17. 
Candace Parker led the 
returned the 
fumble for a 
touchdown. Bromell was later fined $15,500 for the helmet-to­helmet hit. 
Manning's backup now is Jim Sorgi, a third-year play­er out of Wisconsin. 
On Monday, Dungy was more concerned about cor­nerback Nick Harper's sprained left ankle than Manning's injury. 
Harper left during the first 


NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Duke holds onto early lead, tops Vols 

Lady Vols with 22 points and 10 rebounds, but was 1-for-7 from the foul line. Alexis Hornbuckle added 19 points and Sidney Spencer had 13. 
Duke came into the game with the top field-goal defense in the country, hold­ing teams to 30.3 percent. Tennessee shot 29.7 percent in the first half and finished at 36 percent. 
The Blue Devils improved to 7-0 against ranked teams this season. They took over No. 1 in the rankings after beating then-No. 1 Maryland 81-62 at home on Jan. 13. 
The win tied Duke with No. 2 North Carolina with the longest nonconference victory streak at 33. The Blue Devils and the Tar Heels are the only remaining unbeaten teams in Division I. 
Duke's dominance spoiled a special atmosphere in the arena. Coach Pat Summitt and her players took unprece­dented efforts to encourage students and other fans to attend the game. They made announcements in the cam­pus cafeteria and Summitt made her plea in TV commer­cials. 

Duke has won three straight over Tennessee, including last year's 75-53 win in Durham. 
NCAA RECRUITING 
Recruiting evolution explored 
High school coaches protest technology's new role for prep stars 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -College recruiting in the high-tech world presents its share of new challenges for high school coach Bill McGregor. 
"You have a boy sitting in class," McGregor said. "And the next thing you know he's getting distracted because he's getting a text message from a college recruiter." 
McGregor, coach at perenni­al powerhouse DeMatha High School in Hyattsville, Md., also could do without the pro­liferation of recruiting servic­es, combines and Internet sites that doggedly track play­ers' performances. 
"Right now I have a player who's rated as the seventh best junior in the country," McGregor said. "Who in the world ever designated him as the seventh best junior in the country? And now, does he have to live up to that reputa­tion? Does he have to pretend that he is the seventh best junior in the country? What happens when he drops a pass next year? What hap­pens when he doesn't make a 40-yard run in every ball game? I think what's happen­ing is the pressure is being unduly transferred to the boys in a situation where they don't need it." 
McGregor spoke Monday at a meeting of the Knight Commission, a group that promotes reform in college sports. McGregor said it was "ludicrous" that college coaches -whose phone calls 
and  in-person  visits  are  
strictly limited  - are allowed  
to text recruits  as  often  as  

they want. A proposal to restrict text messages was defeated at the NCAA conven­tion this month, although there are plans to introduce a new measure that would ban all electronic communications except e-mail and fax. 
"In the old days, I would control the recruiting," said McGregor, who has been at DeMatha for 25 years. "All the correspondence came through DeMatha." 
Banning text messages can be done with a vote and a stroke of the pen, but another challenge raised Monday would be more difficult to solve. The Internet has unleashed an explosion of both over-promotion and harsh critical analysis of high school prospects -and not everything posted is accurate. 
The industry has grown to the point that the most influ­ential recruiting Web site, Rivals.com, is expecting 75 million page views this year, according to Bobby Burton, who runs the site. Burton has more than 85 employees, including 25 solely devoted to gathering information on high school football players. 
"I didn't start the ranking system," Burton said. 
half of the AFC champi­onship game and didn't return. Dungy said he was uncertain whether it was a high ankle sprain or a bas-

ketball-variety sprain he sustained by rolling the ankle. If it's a high ankle sprain, it could take four to six weeks to recover. 
~-,-..------:--­
~­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 23, 2007 
NFL 

Pittsburgh hires Minnesota coordinator Tomlin 
black head coach.
Associated Press 
''I'm still coming to grips with 
PITTSBURGH -Mike Tomlin what that means," Tomlin said. didn't realistically expect to For those who wonder if he become the Pittsburgh Steelers' might have used a few more coach so early in his career, years as a coordinator before with so little experience as an becoming a head coach, Tomlin NFL coordinator and at such a said: "I can't worry about con­young age. cerns other people might have. 
He knew it, too, although the I've been hired to do a job here 34-year-old Vikings defensive and I intend to do it at a high coordinator was excited when level." the Steelers called two weeks Not many Steelers fans knew ago and offered an interview. In much about Tomlin before Tomlin's mind, jobs like this go Cowher resigned Jan. 5 -and, to Hall of Fame-caliber coach­in a rare bit of candor by team es, the kind of men he has president Art Rooney II, the looked up to since he became a Steelers say they didn't, either. coach 12 years ago. But Tomlin quickly convinced 
''I'm somewhat of a football them during a pair of three­historian, and I've got a great hour interviews he was ready deal of respect for those who for the job. came before me," Tomlin said During those interviews, Monday after being hired for Rooney couldn't help but be the job formerly held by Bill reminded how another 34-year­Cowher and, before him, Chuck old coordinator with similarly Noll. thin experience convinced the 

''I'm going to try my best to Steelers in 1992 he was ready provide a shoulder for those to be an NFL head coach. favorites when the search for "He's an impressive young "He was born to coach," said who come after me to stand "I hate to make comparisons only the third Steelers coach in man. Get to spend some time Stewart, now the quarterbacks on," he said. with Bill Cowher, but there 38 years began, but that with Mike, and you come away coach and special teams coor­
That calm self-assurance, were some similarities," changed when Tomlin began feeling like this is a special per­dinator at West Virginia. "He is strong personality, and a pref­Rooney said. "It's fair to say interviewing. Whisenhunt was son." going to be a great, great, great erence for Steelers-style basics that when we looked at a guy hired by Arizona without wait­The man who gave Tomlin his coach in the NFL." -a strong running game and a who was 34, we said that this ing to see if the Steelers would first coaching job, former VMI Tomlin and the Steelers nasty defense -persuaded guy is down our list. He was choose him. coach Bill Stewart, was con­wouldn't seem to be a good fit. Pittsburgh to offer him a four­probably a long shot when we "The one thing that set him vinced of that when he per­The Steelers have been the year contract worth about $2.5 began the discussions." apart was his character, his suaded the former William & NFL's strongest advocate of the million annually. Tomlin is the Not for long. Steelers assis­personality -the more we Mary wide receiver to join his 3-4 defense since Noll installed 16th coach in the franchise's tants Ken Whisenhunt and Russ talked with him the more com­staff the year Tomlin graduated it in 1983, and they draft play­74-year history and its first Grimm were seen as the clear fortable we got," Rooney said. from college. ers to suit that scheme. 
free haircuts. free haircuts. free haircuts.free haircuts. free haircuts. free haircuts.free haircuts. free haircuts 
Atria salon 2 
~ Specializing in Color ~ CLUB SPORTS 
'iii 271.8804 iii 
~ Help us celebrate the New Year. i ~ We are giving away 1 00 complimentary haircuts to students ; 

Hockey, bowling have key matches 
·~ of Notre Dame & St. Mary's. This is our way of saying thank ·~ i you for all of your support for the past 1 0 years. This is a lim-i ~ ited promotion and certain restrictions apply. Please call the ~ dropped the series opener


Women's team splits
~ salon to schedule your complimentary haircut and mention ~ Saturday evening, 3-2, as they ran into an outstanding
1 this ad to the receptionist at the time of booking your 1 with Northwestern 

Wildcat goalie. Down 2-0 
~ appointment. ~ 

after the first period, the
e e Special to The Observer 
·~ -~ 

Irish's Lauren Beuke scoredi Please present this ad to the receptionist before services are i Notre Dame's women's ice the only goal of the second hockey club closed its Joyce period, despite the team play­
i ~~~~-i 

Center action for the season ing shorthanded through five
·~ Atria salon 2 ·~ · 

this weekend by earning a penalties. Ashley Bozell knot­
1~ Expires February 14th, 2007 1~ 

split with Northwestern ted the score at 2-2, with an 
I ' 

free haircuts. free haircuts. free haircuts.free haircuts. free haircuts. free haircuts.free haircuts. free haircuts Sunday morning. The Irish assist from Margaret 

*Renovated apartments  *Carports available  
*24-hour laundry facilities-BRAND NEW!  *Closest to campus  
*Sparkling pool with sun deck  *Patios/balconJes  
*Fun-filled volleyball court  *Walk-in closets  

Turtle creek was voted Sportsll!ustrated.com's BE ST PLACE TO 
Knoedler in the third, but the Cats responded and closed the game with a strong defen­sive effort. 
On Sunday the Irish pep­pered the Northwestern goal throughout the first period, but the score remained 0-0 heading into the second peri­od. Beuke again put the Irish on the board, assisted by Katie Burns and Sarah Williams. The scored held up until the final 1:46, when Northwestern tied the game. However, with 27 seconds left in regulation, Burns found the back of the net on an assist from Annie Tilton. 
Bowling 

Seeking a break from the cold, Notre Dame's bowling club journeyed to the Las Vegas Shootout, finishing 33rd among 40 teams. Jim Talamo paced the club with a 
182.5 average for his five games, while Van Koppersmith rolled a 205 and a 202 on the tournament oiled alleys, the lone Irish bowler to break 200 twice. 
Dan Martin, Nick Manieri, Kim LaVigne and Allison Klein rounded out the Irish squad in the field of 267 entries from across the coun­try. Talamo finished 68th and Koppersmith 82nd in individ­ual standings. 
TAILGATE! Come join the fun and LIVE AMONG THE LEGENDS! 
call our professional and friendly staff to schedule your tour today! Leasing Hours: M~f 10w6, Sat. 10~5 Phone: 574~272~8124 
SPRING BREAK/ GRADUATION RENTAL IN HILTON HEAD, S.C. GOLF, TENNIS, BEACH, HEATED POOL CHECK IT OUT AT WWW.VRBO.COM/3147 

Tuesday, January 23, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
one road win under their belts against Seton Hall. But overall 
this season, the Irish have struggled out­side of Indiana, with their only other road win coming with a 60-59 victory at Valparaiso. 
"I think it will be a nice change for us to go on the road, have a chance to get a road win," McGraw said. "I think that'll 
help our NCAA Tournament resume, but they are three very, very good teams." 
But going into the AI McGuire Center and coming out with a win has been diffi­cult this season. The Golden Eagles are a perfect 8-0 in front of the home crowd, scor­ing 75.5 points per game. 
"It's a hostile environment. We just want to stick together as 
But Marquette is not the only team on the court with a productive guard. Charel Allen -recently named Big East Player of the Week ­averages 15.4 points per game overall, and over 20 against conference opponents. 
"I think it will be a nice chage for us to go on the road, have a ·chance to get a road win. I think that'll help our NCAA Tournament resume, but they are three very good teams." 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
In the front court, Quaye and Kamm lead the Golden Eagles on the glass, averaging 6.4 and 5. 7 rebounds per game, respec­tively. This pair out-rebounds opponents by 
6.4 boards per game and has 58 blocked shots this sea­son. 
"Their inside player Quaye ­she's a really tough matchup because she can run the floor and shoot threes but she can also score on the block, shoot a little quicker than our posts and runs the floor a bit better," McGraw said. 
The Irish have not prepared specifically for Marquette, choosing rather to tweak poten­tial shortcomings in their own game, 

a team and play "It's a hostile mainly on the our game," Allen defensive end. The
environment. We

said. "We don't main defensive 
want to feed into just want to stick focuses remain the fans -their together and play defending the fans -we just three-point shot
our game. 

want to go out and team rebound­there and play ing, according to together and Charel Allen McGraw. have each Irish guard Despite facing a 
other's back." 
The Golden Eagles are led offensively by a trio of players averaging dou­ble figures -guard Krystal Ellis with 19.3 points per game, forward Christina Quaye with 15.7 and forward Danielle Kamm with 10.6. 
Ellis has caused McGraw the most thought -the sopho­more shoots 4 7.1 percent from the floor and 38.2 per­cent from beyond the arc. 
"Krystal Ellis is their best player," McGraw said. "She's really improved from last year, she's playing really well, she's a good shooter she can drive the ball, and she's just an all-around really good player." 
much stronger 
opponent on paper, McGraw is confident about her team's chances tonight. With a strong start to its Big East schedule, Notre Dame has already exceeded preseason expectations of an 11th place Big East finish. 
"We're peaking right now," McGraw said. "We're right where we want to be, right where we need to be. We're in great shape. We're now back to the underdog role; we haven't really had that in a while because we've been playing some teams we thought we should beat." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
you have the ..... 
SPRING TRYOUTS· WEDNESDAY, JANUAR 24TH AT 5PM IN THE LOFTUS SPORTS CENTER. 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! DRESS TO ROW. 
St. John's 
continued from page 20 
want it to. We know we'll get there eventually." 
The last two times the Irish played o·n the road, against Georgetown Jan. 6 and against Villanova Wednesday, Notre Dame fell behind early. Against the Hoyas at the Verizon Center in Washington, D.C., the Irish found themselves down 29-9 in the first half. 
The Wildcats didn't quite display that kind of domi­nance, but they did lead by as many as 13 in the first half. 
"We haven't d'one a good job of matching the home teams' intensity when we're on the road," Irish forward Rob Kurz said. 
Guard Colin Falls said Notre Dame can't afford an early deficit against the Red Storm. 
"We're going t.o have to play hard right from the first tip." he said. 
Irish coach Mike Brey rejected the idea that Notre Dame's struggles have to do with playing on the road. He gave credit to Villanova and Georgetown. 
"They're NCAA Tournament level teams and they beat us in two areas ­transition defense and the offensive boards," Brey said. 
Brey predicted that getting back on defense and boxing out will continue to be important areas for the Irish against the Red Storm. 
St. John's is just 2-4 in con­ference so far this season, but it comes into Tuesday's game having defeated Syracuse 64-60 Sunday. 
The Red Storm are led by senior forward Lamont 


DAN COOPER!The Observer 

Irish forward Luke Harangody goes to the rim over Alabama center Yamene Coleman on Dec. 5. Notre Dame won the game 99-85. 
Hamilton (13 points per game) and junior guard Avery Patterson (12 .1 points per game). 
In addition to the two-game road losing streak, the Irish will also look to end a three­game losing streak at the Garden, all in Big East tour­nament games. The Irish haven't met St. John's in New York since the 2003-04 sea­son. 
The last Irish win in Madison Square Garden was a 65-64 win ove·r West Virginia in the first round of the 2004 Big East tourna­ment. Then a freshman, Falls hit a 3-pointer with 15 sec­onds left to give Notre Dame the victory. 
Despite the lack of recent success, playing in New York has a special feel for the Irish, Falls said. 
"The Garden, that's the basketball Mecca of the world," Falls said. "I wish I could play every game there. It's just a lot of fun, knowing how many people played there before you and just the people that have been in there. 
"There's definitely a mys­tique about the building that's really fun to play in." 
Tonight's game will tip off at 7:30 p.m., and it will be shown on ESPN regionally. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, January 23 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends. and supporters to an informal lunch at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and conffilenhalny is asSilred. ~ 

CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
Allen 
·continued from page 20 
Player of the Week. "In high school, maybe [I had a better week than this]," Allen 


said after Saturday's game. ''I'm feeling really confident and my shots are falling." 
Those shots will need to continue falling if Notre Dame (13-5, 4-1 Big East) hopes to put together another 2-0 week as it pre­
"We want her to continue being aggressive in shooting the ball. She's really stepped up her game. " 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
pares for road games against No. 17 Marquette and No. 7 Connecticut -the only teams ahead of the third-place Irish in the Big East -tonight and Saturday, respectively. 
"We want her to continue being aggressive in shooting the ball," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "She's really just stepped up her game." 
Despite her recent brilliance, it isn't likely Allen will be forced to put the team on her back to give the Irish a chance. McGraw has been pleased with the improvements of her squad as a whole in recent weeks, and is confident with the how the Irish have been playing. 
"I feel like we really have somebody different step up every game and we have some­one who's going to do it [again]," she said. 
ior Melissa D'Amico and fresh­man Erica Williamson. 
"When you combine their scores and rebounds it's about a double­double every game," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame's play as of late and its current place in the Big East stands in stark contrast to how the Irish were predicted to play given also added a career-high 18 points and pulled down six rebounds. 
McGraw went on to commend senior point guard Tulyah Gaines and freshman guard Ashley Barlow for their play last week, as well the platoon at center of jun-Purdue and in a 78-54 loss at No. 4 Tennessee Dec. 30. 
McGraw believes Notre Dame still has something to prove heading into this week. 
"I think any time you play a team where you are the underdog, you have a chance to gain some respect, and that's what we're thinking about," she said. 

In each of the last two games, Notre Dame put together a complete and domi­nant performance. However, in each of the last two games, Notre Dame also played an inferior opponent -Syracuse is 2-5 in the Big East and 8-12 overall, while St. John's is 1-5 in the conference and 5-12 overall. 
As a result, tonight's game against Marquette and Saturday's matchup at Connecticut will show if Notre 
"In high school, maybe I had a better week than this. I'm feeling really confident and my shots are falling. " 
Charel Allen Notre Dame guard 

Dame can put a complete game together against a good team they way it did against Syracuse and St. John's. 
"We are playing with a lot of confi­dence, but you don't get any points for com­ing close," McGraw said. 
Last week, Hughes commits to Notre Dame, Wilson may reconsider

Hughes 

his commitment to Illinois and continued from page 20 give the Irish one more shot. Notre Dame currently has 
18 verbal commitments for mitted to Irish coach Charlie the Class of 2011, including Weis at the three who have beginning of enrolled early ­December, and Allen, quarter­
"As far as which
the addition of back Jimmy Hughes would way he's going to Clausen of give Notre Dame Westlake Village,
go, I really don't 
its second­Calif. and cor­
know. He's been 
straight two­nerback Gary deep running really quiet and Gray from back recruiting Columbia, S.C.
hasn't talked to 
class. In 2006, "There's still a 
many people."
the Irish signed number of very current fresh-good players out men James Mike Frank there that Notre Aldridge and Dame is recruit­
lrisheyes.com 
For instance, last week, freshman point guard Melissa Lechlitner recorded 14 assists without turning the ball over once, which McGraw joked was "certainly a record for Notre Dame point guards" Saturday. In Saturday's game, Lechlitner Munir Prince. Aldridge had 37 rushes in seven games last season for a 3.8 yards-per­carry average. Prince saw action in 10 games but had only 15 attempts for 21 yards. 

Hughes would be a good complement for Allen because the two have different statures and running styles, Frank said. 
"I think Robert would be a big pickup for this class," Frank said. "They got the smaller, speedier back in Armando Allen ... but Robert brings a little more pack and power to it." 
Frank said Hughes reminds some scouts of LenDale White, the former Southern California running back who split carries with the Trojans' ing," Frank said. 
1-leisman  Trophy  winner  
Heggie Bush.  
And  Frank  said  that  if  

"Whether they get them is another question. 
The athletic department at Hubbard High School did not return calls from The Observer Monday. 
Notes: 

+ Frank said members of the Notre Dame coaching staff likely would meet with Ransey, N.J., defensive end Justin Trattou within the next few days after the highly­ranked lineman visited Florida last week. Ttattou committed to Notre Dame in June, but Frank said the Irish coaching staff may be worried that the 6-foot-4, 250-pounder would rescind his commit­ment and join the Gators instead. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
their preseason rank. Still, the Irish will be playing the role of underdog in back-to-hack games, something they have only done twice this season, in a 67-58 Dec. 6 win over No. 12 the Irish started to reach their potential. This week, they will show how good they really are. 

Contact Eric Retter at 
eretter@nd.edu 


Tuesday, January 23, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 
SUT W'"'A\ ~E.A\..'-'\ Pu:~\-\E..t> 0\1 t:.~ 11--\'E. 'E.!X:r€. ~-~ CsA""E WAS. 'll-\ll>\T 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
b~· \!!111!1'1 !4~1<:! ~"¢ M!1!11 "'miN!'! 
~· iUfMll* lM<1t drdoo leootl.l. lo brm \00 t.urnr~ ams>ll'eO?. aa ~u~r.li!d i:1f th:! aoo.~ canmn. 

(J\nmterr; tsmorrcw! 'f%1 d · i JiM!Jbk:!ii: ClRIM't' UNCLE Lt.,YDFF BFUot.E · sl!:lf eyll Anmtm: ;#tlal tho hi:!!illl!ill ll'liPQrien:.W whun ll« r:<~k~t ·~;~;t "'mwt = -" "CFUMeY DAY' 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Robyn Richards, 20; Willa Ford, 26; Diane Lane, 42; Linda Blair, 48 
Happy Birthday: Realign yourself with people who will keep you on the straight and narrow. Replenish your circle with people who can contribute to your plans and intentions for the future. A great deal can be accomplished this year if you stand tall and realize how far you've come already. The future looks bright. Your numbers are 12, 15,22,27,31,43 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Do what you can to help someone who has something 
•to offer you in return. This could be the beginning of a very special partnership. Don't be fooled into thinking you have to practice anyone else's life beliefs in order for things to work out. *** TAURUS (April20-May 20): You will be pulled in different directions. A problem regarding money, people you have to answer to or your health is apparent. Don't give in to peer pressure. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take on a challenge and you will get ahead today. Your advancement will be due to your extremely original way of presenting things and your ability to multitask. Prepare to outmaneuver the competition. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take the most obscure route and you will receive acknowledgement for your approach as well as your talent. Take an active role in whatever partnerships you are involved in so that you don't get taken advantage of. You should set the rules.***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put travel plans off until you can really justify the time spent or the cost involved. You can have just as good a time if you hustle around town getting to meet people who may be of help to you in the future. Network and build relationships. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Exaggeration will confuse everyone around you. It's time to back up and explain yourself and your actions with truthfulness if you want the same in return. *** LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stay calm and everything you've been working so hard to achieve will be yours. Use your charisma and pizzazz to draw attention and get out in the public eye by starting a blog or getting involved in a group you believe in.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may find it difficult to be around people you have an emotional tie to--like family. Get out with friends who will understand you and your problems and will help you make the right choices for your personal life. A big decision that has to be made cannot be put off much longer. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Skip the emotional melodrama going on around you and you will do fine. You can make some interesting evaluations based on the response to your ideas you get from others. A trip will pay off. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep your distance from anyone who is the least bit aggressive or trying to push you in a direction you aren't sure you want to go. Check out something that interests you that could tum into a viable business enterprise. A change in direction will catch the very people you want to surprise off guard. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your ability to push persistently toward your goal will enable you to get what you want. You may lose out, however, in affairs of the heart if you haven't been totally fair with the one who means the most to you.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): There may be a great deal that you don't know about a situation so, before you try to make adjustments, find out exactly what's going on. Get your facts straight and avoid getting involved in rumors or gossip. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are inquisitive, sensitive and adaptable. You are a free-spirited, creative individual who will surprise everyone with your choices and comments. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
BLAcK DoG 
C.OLL.El.11A1€. BU"t."LWO~t> AWA'?S>" Fof1,. ZOO(o. L.E"t"S ~'--"' \o 11-\E MAN 
f>E.\4 INP rl, F A.\"\-\E.R. "JE.N'o<:.u-IS. FATI-\E.tr...! How PID '/OU ,L\C.I-\IE.VE. 11-\\~ '? 
WEl-L, 1'\ WAS A lEAl-\ 
E.Ff'o~-r. we:. <:to\" ofF--ro A S""fRONcr '1:."'1/J\.~\ WI~ "A<A~E:.I-\\<.. 'Ffl,.t..Et>OI-\.'' 
WOU\..t>N!r Le-T Uf 


LIAMMORAN
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

-:-+-:+:-:+:::; 30 Certain medical symptoms 
31 Reveals 59 Like biremes 60 From Z 61 Certain sorority 
women 62 Parry 63 Ukr., once, e.g. 64 Proceeded 
through a traffic jam, e.g. 65 Astound 
DOWN 1 Thistle, e.g. 2 Janis's partner 
in the comics 3 Been in bed 4 Milkmaids' aids 5 Cape Province 
native of old 6 Fine 7 Calendario unit aInternational 
arrangements 9 Michael Jackson once pitched it 10 Quite stylish, in 
a European way 11 Pour 12 Nile critter 13 Staffer 19 One might buy 
a bargain for this 21 Perfect 25 Italian grandfather 26 Shine 27 German 
greeting 29 Stocking . material 

WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Dave Tuller 
32 Bow part 44 Discontinue a 52 Loud speaker connection
34 Old deprecatory 54 River of
45 David, "the
term of address Tuscany
sweet psalmist 36 Wearer of kamik of " 55 Like N.Y.C.'s boots Rockefeller
47 Supports Center

37 Serene 48 Strike 56 Linda of "Jekyll
50 Ones working
38 Part of a &Hyde"
with books
driver's license procedure 51 Wild 58 Topper 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
, crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Coach Bill who won three Super Bowls 6 Expert 11 Purchaser of the Victor Talking Machine Co., 1929 14 Subject of Filippino Lippi's "Allegory of Music" 15 Winter coat 
feature 16 Shapiro of NPR 17 "Murder in the 
Cathedral" 
playwright 

18 Interval between stimulation and response 
20 "Stay out!" 
22 Gist 
23 Winemaking 
city of California 

24 Sets (on) 
25 Savings account 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
28 George who co-founded the N.F.L. 
32 Cured salmon 33 Madame_, 1950's-60's Vietnamese figure 34 Ingredient in ceramics 35 Saw about 
caution 39 "Hold on ... " 40 Abbr. on some 
sheet music 41 _ Moulins, Quebec 42 Lively dance in 
duple meter 43 Sissies 46 Medical suffix 49 _ Ski Valley 50 Study of the 
evolution of the universe 53 Sophomore 57 Einstein's workplace, once 


'. 
' 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, January 23, 2007 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Taking it to the streets 
ND prepares itself Allen to play major for 3-game road trip role for Irish this week 
By JAY FITZPATRICK By ERIC RETTER 
Sports Writer Associate Sports Editor 

When Irish guard Charel Allen was asked Tuesday Charel Allen needs to bring about the difficult stretch her best game this week. quickly approaching, coach Not that she doesn't already Muffet McGraw reminded the have it. The Irish junior had 
.... ­
junior that "Marquette is the her two most next game." productive 
McGraw has kept her team games of the focused on the task at and as _ season last Notre Dame (13-5, 4-1 Big week, scor­East) travels to Milwaukee ing a career­today to face off against the high 31 ....; No. 19 Golden Eagles (17-2, 5-points and 
1) tonight at 7 p.m. adding six 
Following the game at assists Jan. Marquette, the Irish will con­16 in an 83-Eric Retter tinue the road trip to No. 5 65 win over Connecticut and No. 25 St. John's Associate Pittsburgh. and following Sports Editor 
The Irish have played well it with a 25­so far in the Big East -with point, 10­only one loss to South Florida rebound game in Notre Dame's in overtime -but will face 83-55 win over Syracuse their first real test against the Saturday. In the two games, Golden Eagles. So far in Big Allen was 25-of-39 from the East games, the Irish have floor, including a 14-of-19 per­won three games at the Joyce formance against St. John's. Center against Cincinnati, St. Because of these performanc­John's and Syracuse and have es, she was named the Big East 
see BIG EAST/page 17 see ALLEN /page 18 


FOOTBALL 
Star recruit ready to 
decide on Notre Dame 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Star Chicago running back Robert Hughes is expected to announce his college choice today, and Notre Dame is hop­ing to pick up another premier tailback. 
Hughes is a 5-foot-11, 228­pound bruiser and is listed as running the 40-yard dash in 4.6 seconds. After delaying his decision from earlier this month, Hughes is expected to choose either Notre Dame or 
Illinois  at  a  6  p.m.  CST  
announcem ent  at  his  high  
school.  

The Illini, under second-year coach Ron Zook, have made significant progress in recruit­ing this year, nabbing several big names despite their 2-10 record. Zook has beaten Notre Dame for two high-profile recruits already this year ­Washington, D.C., wide receiver Arrelious Benn and Chicago defensive end Martez Wilson. 
Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for Irisheyes~com, a member of the Scout.com network, said he is not sure which school Hughes will select. 
"As far as which way he's going to go, I really don't know," Frank said. "He's been really quiet and hasn't talked to many people." 
The product of Hubbard High School played in the U.S. Army High School All-American game in San Antonio Jan. 6 and was an All-State tailback as a ju~ior. He eclipsed 1,000 yards in his first three seasons at Hubbard, located on Chicago's South Side. 
Miami-area prospect Armando Allen verbally com-
see HUGHES/page 18 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish aim to end road woes 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame has accom­plished a Jot this season. But so far, it hasn't won a true road game. 
Although the No. 21/22 Irish are 14-0 at home this season, they are just 2-4 away from the Joyce Center and have yet to win on an opponent's home floor. 
Notre Dame (16-3, 4-2 Big East) will try to change that tonight when it faces St. John's (11-8, 2-4 Big East) at Madison Square Garden in New York City. 
"We're looking forward to getting our first true road win," Irish sophomore forward Zach Hillesland said. "We're going to come out and attack even if it doesn't start the way we 
see ST. JOHN'S/page 17 


NH
WOME1'41SHOCKEY 

Nfl 
SPORT
BOWLING 

Nfl 
w 
Steelers name former 

Colts quarterback 
Falcons quarterback
~ Notre Dame played 
The Irish travel to 
Heat 101 
Vikings defensive coor-

Peyton Manning will 
Michael Vick was found
z its last two home 
the desert and finish 
Knicks 83 
dinator Mike Tomlin the 

have X-rays on the 
not to have been carry-
games this past week­
33rd out of 40 teams 

Miami scores a fran­
:3 

thumb he injured 
ing marijuana last week 
youngest coach in the
end, splitting them 
in the Las Vegas 

chise-record 27 consecu­
c:s 
NFL. 

against the Patriots. 
when he was stopped in 
with Northwestern. 
Shootout. 

tive points in easy win 
=: cc 

a Miami airport. 
over New York. 
page 16 
page 15 

page 13
page 16 
page 16 

page 12 






