
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
STUDENT SENATE ~0-Q~'\ 
Senators vote to amend Constitution 
Student body president n1ust brief representatives on meetings; 'abstain' vote debated 

By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate passed an amendment to the Student Body Constitution Wednesday that formally requires the pres­ident to share certain informa­tion with representatives, but failed to pass a sec6nd constitu­tional amendment as senators debated the role of the vote to abstain. 
The Senate unanimously passed a resolution describing the role of the student body prnsident in his or her interac­tions with the Community/Campus Advisory Coalition (CCACJ. The CCAC was created by the South Bend Common Council to bring together city, resident, student and college representatives from South Bend.. 
The CCAC's goal is to help the Council identify neighborhood concerns related to the local colleges, to propose solutions, and to develop long-term strategies regarding community relations. It was created as a final amendment to the party permit ordinance passed by the Common Council on Sept. 24. 
Siegfried senator Jim Lockwood proposed an amend­
. ment Nov. 7 that spelled out the responsibilities of the student body president regarding his or her interactions with the CCAC. 
see SENATE/page 4 
New FedEx Kinko's draws business 
Students, staff compare service, prices of LaFortune location to old Copy Shop 

The FedEx Kinko's LaFortune location, which opened on Oct. 29, is the second shop on campus. 
Senate Oversight chair lan Secviar reads from Robert's Rules of Order during Wednesday's Student Senate meeting. 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
Business has been strong for the new FcdEx Kinko's in the LaFortune Student Center, said Director of Administrative Services and Business Operations Dan Skendzel. 
The new location, which is the second on campus, opened Oct. 
29. The first FedEx Kinko's opened in Grace Hall in 2005. 
FedEx Kinko's replaced The Copy Shop, a privately owned business under Copy Services, Inc., which operated in the LaFortune basement for 18 
Aidan Project expects high turnout 
Students to make blankets, buy T-shirts to help chemotherapy patients 
By MEG MIRSHAK News Writer 
The Aidan Project, a blanket­making drive now in its second ynar, will take plaen this Saturday. Organizers are promis­ing morn studm1t involvmnent the second time around. 
Cirrle-K's annual Blanket Bash, where students made fleece blankets for chemotherapy patients, was renamed and rl~or­ganized al'ter Notre Dame stu­dent Aidan Fitzgerald was diag­nosed with testicular cancer in 2006. 
Chris Esber, Fitzgerald's room­mate at the time of his diagnosis, wanted to do something to sup­port his friend in a time of need. 
see BLANKETS/page 4 years. The business dosed after a nearly two-year-long legal bat­tle.· 


Compared to The Copy Shop, Skendzel said FedEx Kinko's priees are "much more competi­tive" than the rates at The Copy Shop. 
Pricing for black and white copies is $.04, down from The Copy Shop's charge of $.08 per black and white copy. 
Saint Mary's sophomore Catherine Germer paid $6.70 for 70 black and white flyers for the Equestrian Club of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
see KINKO'S/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Students n1entor children 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters recruitingfor next year 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
Senior Alex Melecki has been busy studying like many Notre Dame students -but his study partner is a filth grader and the subject is spelling. 
Melecki is president of the Big Brothers/Big Sisters program of Notre Dame and is one of nearly 100 Notre Dame students who spend time every week mentoring children in St. Joseph County. 
The program is recruiting new volunteers, especially males, Melecki said. 
"My work with Big Brothen¥Big Sisters has been the most reward­ing thing I have done during my time here at Notre Dame," he said. 
The Notre Dame Big Brothers/Big Sisters program works closely with the St. Joseph County branch of the Big Brothers/Big Sisters organization, which began in 1969. 
The mission of the Big Brothers/Big Sisters organization, according to its Web site, is to pro­vide children who laek sufficient adult support with the opportunity and skills necessary to develop positive personal growth. 
"A lot of young people today do not get much of an opportunity to be friends with adults, especially ones who are going listen to them and act as a positive role model," said senior Devin Ea..'>ter, vice pres­ident for the Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Notre Dame. 
Statistics show that the Big 
see MENTORS/page 4 


World AIDS Week offers free testing 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Write~ 
A tree wrapped with 8,500 ribbons to represent the number of people who din every day from AIDS stands outside of DeBartolo Hall as one part of a weeklong proj­ect "to raise money for and awareness of the worldwide AIDS epidemic. 
The Center for Social Concerns is behind the proj­ect, which ends with World AIDS Day on Dec. 1. 
Senior Teresa Hancock, who co-chaired the project with senior Erin Greenberg, hopes to "raise awareness and get [students] to really 
think about the issues and relate them to their own lives and their own situa­tions." 
The week began with the sale of red shirts in the din­ing halls to create unity among students. 
"The. main incentive has been our theme: 'Live soli­darity, keep the promise,"' Hancock said. "We are trying to push solidarity and inspire students to show support by wearing the shirts." 
The sale from the shirts sponsors a children's choir from Watoto, a village in Uganda with 1,500 children who have been orphaned 
see AIDS/page 4 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Talking to Tebovv 
With only nirw days remaining in the 
race f(w tlw most pn~stigious award in 
f(Jotball, Florida quarterback '11m Tebow 
hopns to bncomn tho first sophomore to 
win tho llnL<>m<m Trophy. Along with 
Chris Leak. 
dual-tlmmt Meghan McMahon 
'l(lbow lnd tho 
Florida c;ators 5'ports Writer 
to a National 
<:tuunpionship 
last snm;on. In addition to his suecnssful 
c:arner in fhotball. Tnbow L<> a dcwout 
Christian. 
So what L'i 'lim doing to prepare fi1r hL'i 
trip to IJw Big Appln'? Talking to thn 
rnndia. giving iniNviclWS to Observer 
mporl.llrs and. as always, drinking hL<; 
(;atorade (his l~tvoritn flavors am grapn 
and orange-strawberry). 
I had thn privilc~gn of talking to Tim, and 
was pln<L<>antly surprised at how fiiendly, 
down-to-n;U'th <md (most importantly) sin­
gle lw was. llnn~·s what Tnbow had to say. 
MM: What role h<L'> your Christianity 
played in your atl1lntie carnnr and your 
lifil, and how h<L'> it bonn tnstnd in eollnge'? 
'IT: My Iilith h<L'i playnd a hugo roln. It's 
tl1e No. I thing in my life. abovn school 
and f(JOtball. Bning a ChrL<>ti<m totally 
changes your perspec:tivn on lifo, priori­
ties. and how you trnat pnoph Hnally, it's 
a ~-,ruiddinn fi1r how you live your lifi1. nvnn 
in f(Jotball and sc:hool. It dons got tnstnd 
cwclry day with stun· at c:ollnge, but grow­
ing up in a strong Christian family and 
having positive inflwmc:ns lm<> ma.lly 
hnlpnd me stay ).,'Toundnd. 
MM: Your (;ators arc~ IOth in the eoun­
try, but only finnth in tlw St•:C. I low would 
you dPserihP thP c:ompntition in the 
nation's bPst confi~rnnc:e. and do you think 
it has hdpml or hurt your tnam this ynar'? 
'IT: Tlw c:ompPtition in the SEC is <L'> 
good or bl'ttPr tlmn anywhnre in tlw 
rountry. and tlmt's cme or tlw rmL<>ons I 
c:hosn to go to Florida. Evnry wonk you 
play in a c:hampionship typn atmosphnre 
in ama.;rjng stadiums witl1 players who 
will soon be playing in t11n NFL. The pa'i­
sion fi1r fiJotba.ll is unbdicwabln. ThL<> ynar 
I'd say it hurt us having to play suc:h great 
tnams. but at the same timn it's made us a 
bnttnr tnam. I wouldn't tradn tlw expnri­
cmc:ns fiw <mything. 
MM: You've alrcmdy won a national 
championship, brokcm school <md SEC 
roeords. and you 'ro the first pnrson in 
NCAA history to rush and p<L'>S f(Jr 20 
touchdowns in a sna'ion. Am you eonsid­
nring going to the NFL? 
'IT: H.ight now. I'm not considering it. 
l.atc~r. surn, butllovn bning at the 
Univnrsity of' Florida. I love bning a Gator, 
<md I want to get my ndueation. 
Profilssiona.l football is not something I'm 
fiJc:usrld on right now. Staying here f(Jr 
fi1ur years L'i a goal I went to ac:c:omplish. 
Plus. I'm having too good of' a time to 
loave early. 
MM: Hight now, you'rn tim top candi­
date fi1r thc> llnisman Trophy. I low dons it 
fhPI knowing tlmt in a littln over a week 
you c:ould bn tlw first sophomorn to ever 
win this award? 
'IT: Wdl. it's <U1 honor just to be men­
tionnd witl1 thl' IIPisnum Trophy, tim prns­
tigious award you dream about when 
you'rn youngPr. Just to be mentioned with 
hTLIYS likn Danny Wwlrflill ('% llnisman 
winnnr, Florida quaru~rbac:k) is a privilege 
in gmwral. not just specific:ally because 
I'm a sophomorP. Win or lose, it's some­
thing I'll rc'membtlr J(Jr the rest of' my fif(). 
The l'iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of'/1w Observer. 
Contact Meghan McMahon at m rru:malw2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication anJ strives fi>r the highest srandarJs of journalism at all rimes. Wt· do, however, rccogriize that we will make mistakes. If we have maJe a misrakt•, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, November 29, 2007 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ITEM DO YOU WISH THE BOOKSTORE WOULD SELL AND WHY? 







Pat Moran  Michelle Nguyen  Brendan Geisler  Paul Pokaski  Jennie Weller  
freshman Keenan  sophomore Farley  sophomore Keenan  sophomore Keenan  freshman Welsh Family  
"Cheaper  "Rea/life clones  "Salsa con  "Call ofDuty 4·"  "Those green  

course packets. " offootball queso. players. " 
Lottery winner wasn't sup­posed to gamble 
BOSTON -The winner of a $1 million lottery scratch ticket may not be so lucky after all: He's a convicted bank robber who isn't sup­posed to gamble. Timothy Elliott faces a Dec. 7 court hearing over whether he vio­lated his probation when he bought the $10 ticket for the $800 Million Spectacular game at a supermarket in Hyannis. 
Elliott was placed on live years' probation after plead­ing guilty in Octobor 2006 to unarmed robbery for a January 2006 heist at a bank on Cape Cod. Under terms of his probation, he "may not gamble, purchase lottery tickets or visit an establish­ment where gaming is con­ducted, including restau­rants where Keno may be played." 
Elliott, 55, has colleeted the first of 20 annual $50,000 cheeks from the Massachusetts lottery com­mission. A picture of Elliott, holding his first check, was posted on the lottery's Web site Monday, though it was removed by Wodnesday. 
Poem headstone uncovered at courthouse 
BANGOH, Maine Workers on a courthouse renovation projeet have made an eerie discovery in the basement, the headstone of a man who died in 1874. 

County Administrator Bill Collins said no one knows why the headstone was kept in the basement of the court­house, but he guesses it may have been evidence in a ease. The front bears the name Isaac Cobb, who was 72 when he died. 
Adding to the mystery is the poem scrawled on the baek of the 3-foot high grave marker. 
The ditty on the nip side appears to have been painted in blaek paint, by jail inmates. It's titled "Prntty Boy Floyd Hedmond" and tells the story of' someone who carne to town to "do or die." 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

...J 
<C 
(.) 



0 

HIGH 35 HIGH 30 HIGH 37
..J 

LOW 25 LOW 18 LOW 22 

35 25 
and navy fleeces that the athletes wear. " 
IN BRIEF 
Mass will be enlebrated in the Alumni Hall Chapel at 5 p.m. Friday fhr the Fea<>i of St. Andrew. The Gregorian Sehola will sing Gregori<m ehant. 
Carroll llall will host "A Carroll Chirsl.tmL'i" Friday at 7 p.m. It will fimtum a trnn lighting eermnony, a perfi1rmance by the Undertones and karaoke. Ugly Christmas sweaters are nnr~JUragnd. 
The Notrn I>amn Chorale and Chamber Ordwstra will prnsent llru1del's Messiah Friday at 8 p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall, DeBm1olo Perli1nning Arts Center. Ticket<> c:an lw ordernd by calling ticket oflic'{! at (574) 631-28(X). 
As part of' the Solidarity lilm series. there will bn a screc~ning of' the film "We are Together" in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Friday at 10 p.m. The film focuses on the story of the chil­dren of the Agapn Orphanage as they overeorne the adversity of growing up among Africa's 12 million AIDS orphans. 
The Voic.cs of Faith Gospel Choir will perform their fall coneert, "Come Baek to Your First Love" Saturday at 7 p.m. in Washington 
Hall. 
Habitat for Humanity will host "A Home for the Holidays" Sunday from 3:30 p.m. to 8 in the Stepan Center. Groups of student'> c:an reg­i<rter onlinn to build a gingerbw.ad house. The eost of registration ranges from $30 to $50 per group, depending on size of' the house. There will also bn performances, entertainment and food to raise rnorwy fbr the organi:t.ation. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obsen•er. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews<!!lndedu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 33 HIGH 28 LOW 18 LOW 15 

IAN GAVLICK!fhe Observer 
Tutu Alicante, a lawyer born in Equatorial Guinea, speaks Wednesday about the oil­rich nation's government during a lecture titled "Poverty, Petroleum and Politics" in the Montgomery Auditorium in Lafortune Student Center. 
OFFBEAT 

Thursday, November 29, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Board holds glasses drive to help needy 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY News Writer 
As part of Disabilities Week, the Student Diversity Board (SDB) at Saint Mary's is spon­soring an eyeglasses drive to benefit the poor in Africa and Latin America who cannot afford new lenses. 
J ana Blake, disabilities rep­resentative for SDB, is in charge of the drive, which began on Monday. 
"This year the Board decid­ed to take a proactive step in actually helping the segment of the world's population who struggles with visual impair­ments by collecting glasses," she said. 
Students are asked to donate any pair of prescrip­
tion  reading glasses  or sun­ 
glasses  to  the  drive.  
Collection boxes  are  located  

in all Saint Mary's residence halls at the front desk. 
This year, the Board worked with New Eyes For The Needy, a group that has helped more than 6.5 million people since its founding in 1932. New Eyes For The Needy sends donated eye­glasses to countries in Latin America and Africa. where the price of eyeglasses can sometimes be more than the average annual household income, Blake said. 
"It is probably unfath­omable to many of the stu­dents here that there are peo­ple in the world who cannot afford something as simple as a pair of glasses," Blake said. "I think this drive is an excel­lent opportunity for Saint Mary's students to share some of the many luxuries we, as Americans, have that many people throughout the world do not." 
When Americans get new frames, they tend to leave their old ones lying around, and through the drive, these old glasses can go to good use, she said. 
The prescription lenses will be sent to people who work in schools, Blake said. Sunglasses that are donated will be sent to areas near the equator to protect people's eyes from UV rays. 
The Board is also showing the movie, "Emmanuel's Gift," during Disabilities Week. It will be today in Vander Vennet Theater at 6:30 p.m. 
Popcorn  and  pop  will  be  
served.  
Disabilities  Week  is  an  

annual event. Each year, the Board chooses a different dis­ability as its focus. This is the first time the SDB decided to hold an eyeglasses drive. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
''Th 

Coins hidden for treasure hunt 
American Airlines offers discounts, free flight as prizes for winners 
been placed all over campus
By AMBER TRAVIS 
in various locations, possibly
News Writer 
including residence halls, recreational facilities and the The Sophomore Class DeBartolo Performing Arts Council and American Airlines Center. Putting the coins all are sponsoring a campus-wide over campus allows all stu­treasure hunt that begins at 8 dents to be involved in the 
a.m. today as part of a nationwide. event that includes 40 colleges and universities. 
Prizes range 
f r o m 
American 
Airlines dis­
counts from 
$10 to $50, as 
well as one 
-free roundtrip ticket that can be used any­where in the U.S., said 
treasure hunt, he said. 
"The airline sees this The coins can 
be redeemed 
as an opportunity to 
for golden serve students in a envelopes in the Dooley Room of
way that will build a 
LaFortune
loyal relationship in 
Student Center 
the future." between 1:30 and 4 p.m. today, and stu­
Scott Andrews 
dent IDs are

sophomore 
needed, 
American Airlines Schmidt said. campus representative Each student can only turn in 
one coin. All Notre 
"So many of the events on campus are dorm related, class related, or tied to specif­ic events or causes, and we are trying to bring all of that together," Schmidt said. 
The prizes were made possi­ble by a donation from American Airlines. 
"The airline sees this as an opportunity to serve students in a way that will build a loyal relationship in the future," said sophomore Scott Andrews, campus representa­tive for American Airlines. "American Airlines believes that it is very important to invest in students." 
Schmidt said the best part of the treasure hunt is its con­venience. 
"This isn't an event that requires attendance. You don't have to change your sched­ule," he said. "I could be walk­ing to Theology at 9 a.m., and I happen to see a gold coin, which makes me a part of it." 
Contact Amber Travis at atravis@nd.edu 

sophomore class president Grant Schmidt. 
Schmidt said 221 gold coins labeled with "treasure hunt" and "American Airlines" have Dame undergraduate and graduate students are eligible to participate in the treasure hunt, a choice made by the Sophomore Class Council. 



Kinko's 
continued from page 1 
"I thought the prieing was really reasonable," Germer said while picking up her copies. 
Bridg11tt Kent. an administrative a'>sistant f(Jr thn University Writing Prohrram, agre11d. 
"I like that the prices are a Jut less," she said. "But I lik11d The Copy Shop more on serviee." 
Kent mntra<;tPd the new FedEx braneh with the f(Jrmer campus­h<L'ind Copy Shop. 
"I think a lot of people liknd that The Copy Shop wa<; campus peo­ple s11rving campus people, which you don't have when there's a eor­porate business in there," Kent said. "But then again, you're pay­ing Jess." 
Sknndznl notnd the benefits of having a corporate copy center. "With the nnw FndEx Kinko's, 
y1~u IH~vn acc~1ss t~~ thn m~ltit~.de of Kmko s snrvu~ns, hn s<ud. I hosn serviens inelude online ordering and shipping. Also, the cheapnr Notrn I>ame ratns apply to tim 24­hour FndEx Kinko's Statn Hoad 2:~ location with a studnnt I.D. card. 
The legal battle ovnr the The Copy Shop's LaFortune location lmgan in August 2005, when the University liled a suit in the St. Joseph Circuit Court in Mishawaka against Copy Snrviens, Inc. The 


Mentors 
continued from page 1 
Brothers/Big Sisters program makns a dilli1rm1cn. Little Brothnrs and Sisters wern 52 percent less likely to skip a day of school, 46 percent lnss likely to start using drugs, 27 percent less likely to start drinking and 33 percent less likoly to hit someone, aecording to the organization's Web site. Also, they arn generally more trusting of their parent<; or guardians. 
Through the program, student<; are matched with childrnn ages 6­16, often from single-parent homes or other living situations in which tlwy would be in need of an additional positive role model, Melm:ki said. 
Tlw St. Joseph organization ofl'ers two ways for Notre Dame memlwrs to volunteer: the Community Mentor Program or th11 School Mentor Pro~-,rrmn. 
"Tho Community Mentor Program is what people generally <L'>Sodatn with the Big Brothnrs!Big Sistnrs program," Melecki said. "Community Mentors meet with thnir 'Littles' once every week or two on their own time for a fi1w hours." 
The time Bigs and Ijttles spend in tho Community Mentor Program dons not require a spn­dal oceasion or expensive activi­ties. 
Junior Patrick Sweeney, who participates in the Community Mentor Prohrram. said he and his l.ittle will eithnr grab a bite to eat University asked the court for immndiate possession of the The Copy Shop's property in the base­ment of the student center. 

The Copy Shop argued that its lease contained an "option to renew" which would allow it to stay in thP LaFortune location until the owner decided he or she no Jongnr wanted the space, or until they violatnd a rule of the lease. 
The case went to the Indiana Court of Appeals, which ruled against Thn Copy Shop. 
In March 2007, Thn Copy Shop closed its doors, dting the cost of the lawsuit with the University a<> the prinmry rnason tiJr its closing. 
In a letter to customers, Tim Wright, owner of The Copy Shop and 1963 Notre Dame graduate, wrote that the Univnrsity intended to "terminate our campus lease and, in elloct, sell our business to Kinko's." 
FedEx Kinko's first came to Notre Dame in 2005 after a campus committee researched ways to provide more efl1cient copy services to the University, at the request of Executive Vice President John Aflleck-Graves. 
Skendznl said there are no plans to add additional FedEx Kinko's to campus. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
,, tJ II

As ,ou Wish --'i:::J"'





I mports,.'i'' 
or play basketball or pool. 
"We have plans to check out the College Football Hall of Fame soon," he said. 
The School Mentor Program requires participant<; to go directly to their Uttle's school where they help the student witl1 their home­work. Six area schools and youth centers participate in the program. 
"[The School Mentor Program] is better for volunteers who don't have cars, because carpooling to schools is possible," Mclecki said. 
While time commitment is often a concern for potential volunteers. Melecki said, the program does not set specific hours for volun­teers. 
"The best part is that as a Big Brother or Big Sister you can set your own schedule, working directly with your Uttle's caretak­ers to lind times that work for both ofyou," he said. 
Melecki said the program tries to match college student<; and dill­dren with similar interests. 
"The St. Joseph organization goes to great lengths to make sure tlmt you and your little share inter­ests and personality types," he said. "Whether you're a sports nut or a chess grandmaster, the pro­gram will work to lind a child whom you will be able to relate." 
All students arc eligible to par­ticipate in the program; however, they must be able to commit at least one year. Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 

'r:\ 
SfERLING-SILVER!!! 
TAPESTRY WALL HANIHN~S! UNIQUE SEAUEU JEW1l~Y! Purses•Scarves I eift ltetM~. 

Lafortutte ­Sorit1 Jtoottt (1st FIJ 
Nov. 26 -Uec. 1CSatl 
11-5 Pttt 

Mon. ~ Fri. eves 7:50-1 Opttt 
r~ ~ India loltw~c! Pvu I --------Ittc r e dibIe pric e s ! l'mccc<is ~"'"' the ••le· ..rjewelry ruar;mtcc ,he 
hands of (Juatumlllan fumrlles J ttmcs thetr ltve-ragc
ut1 ique christtMas ~ifts! 

salary, as well as funds for !heir education. Spo••~on·d hv Student Activics Oflkc 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
The original version of the 
amendment called for the stu­
dent body president to attend all 
CCAC meetings and compelled 
the president to give "any and 
all documentation" from the 
meetings to the Senate at the 
next regular meeting. 
During discussions of Lockwood's proposed amend­ment at the Nov. 7 meeting, sev­eral senators, as well as student body president Liz Brown, voiced opposition to the wording of the amendment, whieh they said was too stringent. 
The amendment was sent to the Senate Oversight committee for revisions. The resolution was on the agenda Nov. 21, but the Senate failed to reach quo­rum and could not discuss the new version of the amendment until Wednesday. 
Lockwood was not present at the Senate meeting, but Senate Oversight chair Ian Sncviar pre­sented the revised resolution. 
He read aloud a statement in support of the resolution from Brown, who was not present at the meeting. In her message, Brown said she believed the revised amendment "strikes a balance" between giving the president flexibility and acknowledging his or her responsibility to keep the Senate and the student body informed. 
"I encourage you to vote in favor of the amendment as we continue to explore ways to improve community relations in the years to come," Brown said in the statement. 
Secviar thanked senators for providing feedback and called Wednesday's version "a much better amendment." 
The approved amendment states that the student body president -or a "qualified designee" -will attend all CCAC meetings, then brief the 

Student Senate at its next regu­
lar meeting. 

The amendment was passed 
without further discussion 
among the senators. The second 
resolution, which Secviar also 
presented, was more divisive. 
The resolution addressed the abstain vote, which is a vote senators may make instead of yay or nay when the Student Senate considers a resolution. Secviar's amendment states that, except when noted other­wise in the Constitution and it<> bylaws, "all votes taken in the Senate shall be taken from those senators casting a vote, provided there is a quorum, and not necessarily from the entire voting membership of the Senate or the voting member­ship present at a given meet­ing." 
With the way voting currently takes place in the Senate, Secviar said, a vote to abstain negatively afl'ects the outcome of the voting. lie gave a sc1mario to illustrate the intended effect of' the resolution. 
"If we have all 28 senators present, and we have 12 mem­bers voting in favor, 6 members voting against and 10 members abstaining, [the bill] would need 2/3, and that bill would fail," he said. 
The amendment would change the meaning of the abstain vote, so senators who voted to abstain would excuse themselves from the vote, and the bill would pass 12 to 6. 
Senate Academic AJTairs chair Carol Hendrickson asked what would happen in a situation where 20 people abstained, seven voted yay and one voted nay. 
The bill would pass in that sit­uation, Secviar said. 
Chief executive assistant Sheena Plamoottil said she was concerned about the possible effect of the amendment. 
"The reason we have, in my opinion, the abstention, is so that you really have to get the 
majority of' the senators," she 
said. "You don't want seven 
people to have the ability to 
change the constitution, some­
thing that is supposnd to be fair­
ly rigid." 

Seeviar darilind that the pro­
posed amendment would not 
affect constitutional amend­
ments, whieh always require 
two-thirds of all senators pms­
ent at the meeting. 

Zahm senator Nick McCollum 
voiced support f(Jr the proposed 
amendment. 

"Hight now, abstention and voting against have the same efl'eet," he said. "There's no dif­ference." 
But Pangborn senator D1mis11 Baron said she opposed the amendment, saying voting down the amendment with nays sends the message that the subject is closed, but voting it down through abstentions can mean senators feel there is more work to be done on the resolution befim1 it can bn passed. 
McCollum said the amend­ment corrects the system already in placn to pass resolu­tions. 
"It creates a definite purpose to each option, and I see no rna­son to vote against this," he said. 
The resolution failed to meet the two-thirds majority required for it to pass, with 16 senators voting for it, 7 against and 2 abstaining. 
In other Senate news: 

+ 
Hesidence Life chair Mariana Montes said Notre Dame Security/Police has approved three new locations for emergency 1:all stations: in the D6 parking lot, behind Lewis Hall and next to McKenna Hall. 

+ 
University Affairs chair Callie Pogge said her committen is considering launching an environmental campaign next semester. 


Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 



Rejoice! Mass 

December 2, 9p.m. 
Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother Coleman Morse Center 
Mass in the African-Anlerican Tradition Pizza to follow! 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

For infonnation. contact Judy Madden 631 ~8508 or jmaddcn2@ncl.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 29, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THr: OssrRVER'S wrRr SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Refugees return to Iraq from Syria 
BAGHDAD -About 20 buses carrying hun­dreds of Iraqi n~l'ugees returned to Baghdad from Syria latP Wednesday, a move the government hailed as a sign of growing public confidence that Iraq was finally on the road to stability. 
The convoy was the Iirst from an Iraqi-funded efi(Jrt to speed the return of families that fled the country's violence. The buses rolled into a central Baghdad bus station about midnight. 
National Security Minister Sherwan al-Waili, who met the convoy, said Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki would give each returning family $750 to get started rebuilding thPir lives. 
"The returning home of displaced families is considered as a gnmt victory lor law enforcement and national reconciliation," military spokesman Brig. Gen Qassim al-Moussawi said. ''We didn't ask any family about his sect or ethnicity. Such things were created by terrorism and will disap­pear along with terrorism." 
Chavez cuts off contact with Colombia 
CAHACAS -Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez said Wedm~sday he was cutting off all con­tact<; with the Colombian government, but left it unclear whether he was announcing an end to diplomatic relations between the two countries. 
Chavez's announcement came after a series of sharp exehanges with President Alvaro Uribe set oil' when the Colombian leader last week abruptly ended the Venezuelan's mediation between Colombia's government and leftist rebels. 
"While President Uribe is president of Colombia I will have no type of relationship with him or with thr. government in Colombia," Chavez said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Federal workers to get smaller raises 
WASIIINGTON -Federal workers living in morn r.xpr.nsive rr.gions of the country will get much smaller pay raises than seheduled under an order from President Bush. who said Wednesday that the proposed raises were unacceptably high. 
Ordering a lower adjustment is not unusual. Prr.sidenL'i routinely override the pay formula and <L'isign figures deemed more reasonable. 
Current law provides that federal civilian work­ers will get a 2.5 percent aeross-the-board raise in January. That will not change under Bush's order. 
The law also gives an extra pay bump to some federal employees based on a formula that ineor­porates eost of living and comparable private-sec­tor pay. 
On average, workers who live in such metro are<L'i were due to receive an additional raise of 
12.5 percent. Bush is eutting that added bump to 
0.5 pereent. 
Two deputies killed by patrol car 
PAHOKEE. Fla. -Two Palm Beach County sherifl"s deputies who had tried to stop a stolen vehicle on a rural road in the Everglades were kill1~d when they were struek by a fellow deputy's patrol car early Wednesday. The driver of the patrol ear wa'i injurnd, authorities said. 
Scores of ollicers eombnd the region looking liJr two suspects in the ear thnft. and later said they arrnstPCl one man. 
Ttw deputies, dnscribml as close friends, had put spikes on a road that punctured the stolen ear's tires. But when they ran to remove the spikns from the road they were struck at about 
I:45 a.m. by a canine patrol vehicle that was pur­suing the ear thieves, Sheri IT' Hie Bradshaw said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Zoo fire blamed on armadillo, lamp 
INDIANAPOLIS -A lire at the Indianapolis Zoo is being blamed on an armadillo that appar­nntly pushed combustible material or bedding too dose to a heat lamp. 
Zoo ollieials said Wednesday that a lire investi­gator's wport found no indication that the lamp fell or malfunetionnd. The lamp had been dou­ble-chained mom than two feet above the floor in tho armadillo arna at the Zoo's Critter Corner exhibit. 
The armadillo, thme turtles, two birds, a snake and othnr small animals died in the Novembnr I 0 lin~. 
Zoo Prnsident Michael Crowther estimatr.s damages at about $120,000 and says the build­ing should reopf~n in :m to 60 clays. 
IRAQ 


6,000 Sunnis sign pact with U.S. 
Alliance with tribal militia considered acritical step in blocking escape routes for extremists 
Associated Press 
HAWIJA -Nearly 6,000 Sunni Arab residents joined a security pact with American forces Wednesday in what U.S. officers described as a critical step in plugging the remaining escape routes for extremists flushed from former strong­holds. 
The new alliance -ealled the single largest single vol­unteer mobilization since the war began -covers the "last gateway" for groups such as al-Qaida in Iraq seeking new havens in northern Iraq, U.S. military officials said. 
U.S. commanders have tried to build a ring around insurgenL'i who fled military offensives launched earlier this year in the western Anbar province and later into Baghdad and surround­ing areas. In many plaees, the U.S.-led battles were given key help from tribal militias -mainly Sunnis ­that had turned again al­Qaida and other groups. 
Extremists have sought new footholds in northern areas once loyal to Saddam Hussein's Baath party as the U.S.-led gains have mounted across central regions. But their ability to strike near the capital remains. 

A woman wearing an explosive-rigged belt blew about 200 security check­compared with 38 in With the help of the new herself up near an points beginning Dec. 7, October. In June, 101 U.S. Sunni allies, "the Hawija American patrol near supplementing hundreds of soldiers died in Iraq. area will be an obstacle to Baqouba, about 35 miles Iraqi forces already in the Village mayors and others militants, rather than a northeast of Baghdad, the area. who signed Wednesday's pathway for them," said military announced About 77,000 Iraqis agreement say about 200 Maj. Sean Wilson, with the Wednesday. The blast on nationwide, mostly Sunnis, militants have sought refuge Army's 1st Brigade, 1Oth Tuesday -a rare attack by have broken with the insur­in the area, about 30 miles Mountain Division. "They're a female suicide bomber -gents and joined U.S.­southwest of Kirkuk on the another set of eyes that we wounded seven U.S. troops backed self-defense groups. edge of northern Iraq's needed in this critical area." and five Iraqis, the state­Those· groups have played semi-autonomous Kurdish By defeating militants in ment said. a major role in the lull in region. Hawija is a predomi­Hawija, U.S. and Iraqi lead­
The ceremony to pledge violenee: 648 Iraqi eivilians nantly Sunni Arab cluster of ers hope to keep them away the 6,000 new fighters was have been killed or found villages which has long been from Kirkuk, an ethnically presided over by dozen dead in November to date, an insurgent flash point. diverse city that is also the sheiks -each draped in according to figures com­The recently arrived mili­hub of Iraq's northern oil black robes trimmed with piled by The Associated tants have waged a cam­fields. gold braiding -who signed Press. This compares with paign of killing and intimi­"They want to go north the eontract on behalf of 2,155 in May as the so­dation to try to establish a into Kirkuk and wreak tribesmen at a small U.S. ealled "surge" of nearly new base, said Sheikh havoc there, and that's outpost in north-central 30,000 additional American Khalaf Ali Issa, mayor of exaetly what we're trying to Iraq. troops gained momentum. Zaab village. avoid," Army Maj. Gen. 
For about $275 a month U.S. troop deaths in Iraq "They killed 476 of my cit­Mark P. llertling, the top -nearly the salary for the have also dropped sharply. izens, and I will not let them U.S. commander in northern typical Iraqi policeman -So far this month, the mili­continue their killing," Issa Iraq, told The Associated the tribesmen will man tary has reported 34 deaths, said. Press this week. 

States sue for information on toxic chetnicals 
improves the Toxies Release storing or releasing 500 to 4,999
Associated Press Inventory law and eases require­pounds of toxins would have to file an ments only on companies that ean abbreviated form, said Katherine ALBANY, N.Y.-Twelve states sued certify they have no releases of toxins Kennedy, New York's special deputy the Bush administration Wednesday to the environment. attorney general for environmental to force greater disclosure of data on The EPA this year rolled back a protection. toxic ehemicals that eompanies store, regulation on the law signed by The lawsuit filed in U.S. District use and release into the environment. President Heagan after the deadly Court in New York City seeks to inval­The state officials oppose new fed­Bhopal toxic ehemical catastrophe in idate the EPA's revised regulations. eral Environmental Protection India in 1984, according to the states "The EPA's new regulations rob Agency rules that allow thousands of involved in the lawsuit. That law New Yorkers -and people across the companies to limit the information required eompanies to provide a country -of their right to know they diselose to the publ~c about toxic long, detailed report whenever they about toxic dangers in their own chemicals, aecording to New York store or emit 500 pounds of specific backyards," Cuomo said. "Along with Attorney General Andrew Cuomo, the toxins. 11 other states throughout tho lead attorney general in the lawsuit. The new rule adopted this year nation, we will restore the public's The change lets 100 pollut1)rs off requires that long aeeounting only for right to information about chemkal the hook in New York alone, he said. companies storing or releasing 5,000 hazards, despite the Bush adminis­The EPA. however, said the change pounds of toxins or more. Companies tration's best attempts to hide it." 

Blankets 
continued from page 1 
A'i the Viee Prnsident of' Service 
f(Jr Cirde-K. the largest organizer 
of' servien opportunities on cam­
pus, Esbnr pn~snntl~d the iclea of' 
a snrviee project to raise caneer 
awarnnnss. 
l.ast December, The Aidan Projeet brought 250 students togetlwr to make mon~ than 100 blanknL'i. 
Cirele-K is encouraging stu­dmJts to give whatever time they can to The Aidan Project. an open-house-type event. Making blankeL'i requires no sewing and instructions will bn provided, Cirde-K President Katie Tdtgnn said. 
The event will indudn ref'resh­nwnL'> and musical entertainment by Pat McKillen, a Knott rnsidnnt and friend of' Fitzg~~rald. 
The completed blankeL'i will be donatml to the Indiana Canem'­l'avilion at Indiana University Medil:al Center, when~ Fitzgerald underwent trnatnwnt last ynar. Tnitgen hopes a largP turnout at tlw evnnt will make 150 blankeL'i, which would surpass the amount f'rom last year's event. 
Cirde-K is also sPIIing '!'-shirts this we1~k to support The Aidan Project and to f'urtlwr cancer awarnnnss on ~~ampus. 
"PeopiP don't always realize that a hPalthy nirwtnen-ynar-old like Aidan can have cancer." T1~itgnn said. 
l.ast year, tlw morwy raised by T-shirt salns was donatnd to tlw HilPy Childn•n's Hospital in lndianapcllis. 
J•:arly dntnction is the key to ~~anenr survival and peopln should Pmbraen eaneer aware­ness, said Fitzgerald, who is back at Notre Dame this semester after undergoing treatment last fall. 

"I hope [The Aidan Project! increases knowledge that caneer is a disease of our generation," Fitzgerald said. "Caneer is a big part of my life and I am looking forward to seeing people at The Aidan Projeet excited about ean­cnr awanmess." 
When Fitzgerald, a Knott n~si­dent, appeared to be injured playing a game of football last fall, he never imagined how the nnxt 24 hours would impact his 
lifi~. 

A CAT sean administered to diagnose Fitzgerald's football injury revealed a more serious problem. llis rather, a doetor at Indiana University, viewed the x­ray and was startled to lind evi­dence of' caneer. 
Fitzgerald immediately left Notre Dame for his home in Indianapolis. He was diagnosed with stage II testicular cancer the liJIIowing moming. 
After nvaluating his options, Fitzgerald lnlt Notm Dame lilr the smnestnr to be treated at Indiana University. llis cancer was not terminal. but complications from treatment lim:ed him to take the entire ymtr oil' from sd10ol. 
"You don't expect it to happen to someorw you see walking down the hall every day," said Mike Sullivan, who lives in Knott llall. 
Cirele-K. Knott llall. and the Class of' 2001) are co-sponsoring Tlw Aidan Project, which will be held Saturday in tlw LaForturw Center Ballroom f'rom 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Contact Meg Mirshak at mmirshak@nd.edu 

AIDS 
continued from page 1 
because of AIDS. A select number of ehildren in the vil­lage are able to form a ehoir and tour for six months. 
They gave a concert at 
Notre Dame Wednesday and collected 
"J hope the Notre 
donations. 
"The dona-Dame students will tions and 
realize that there are 
shirt sales 
things we can do to 
goes toward a 
program in fight AIDS. " Uganda that houses the 
Teresa Hancock 
orphans, and 
senior
gives them food and an education," Ilaneock said. "These are kids that eome from nothing, and our goal is to raise $2,500 to send back with the choir." 
While it addresses the glob­al AIDS problem, World AIDS Week also approaches the AIDS epidemic on a more local seale. 
"AIDS affects young people from the ages of 18-24 in huge numbers more than 
getting because there is such a stigma about testing. People think, why do we need it here? But the reality is that 
some  are  at  
risk.  It  does  
affe.?t  evc:ry­ 

one, she sard. 
AIDS Ministry and AIDS Assist of South Bend, a 
non-profit organization that helps peopln with AIDS, will provide free testing today from 6 p.m to R in the Health Center, Saint Liam Hall. 
The week ends Saturday with a panel discussion between two South Bend res­idents with IIIV and two Notre Damn students who have workPd closoly with AII>S. 
"This is to show how dose­
ly it hits home," Ilaneock said. 
llaneock said the wonk has already inspired responses, "both positive and rwgative," 
f'rom  the Notre Dame  com­ 
munity.  
"We  had  a  really  good  

response tonight at the con­cert, and we had a good response at the testing !Tuesday], but people still feel uncomfortable coming," she said. 
llancock said she lwlieves AIDS is "the modern day lep­rosy." 
"The thing that separates it f'rom something like cancer is that people blame the vic­tims, and thercf'orn they suf­fer on both ends," she said. "They have no support and they are physically suffer­ing." 
llownver, II an cock's goal this week is to change that attitude. 
"I hope the Notre Dame students will realize that there are things we can do to fight AIDS," she said. "There are treatments, hut no cure, and the numbers are increas­ing. No one is immunn." 

Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

~re of lv'e.leoMe This Sunday at. the 11:45 am M_ass in the Basi1!ca oft_h_e Sacred Heart; we will_ recognize those members ofthe Notre Dame commumty who are seekmg to become tully 1mtwted mto the Cathohc tmth community in the Rite of Welcome. These women and men have met together over the past several months to explore their faith and the Catholic Church more deeply through the RCIA process. Catechumens seek full initiation through the sacraments ofBaptism, Eucharist, and Confirmation; Candidates are already baptized and seek to be received into FuJI Communion with the Catholic Church through the sacraments ofthe Eucharist and Confirmation. The Rite of Welcome gives all of us an opportunity to encourage these men and women as they continue their joun1ey of initiation in the months ahead. 
Candidates and their Sponsors Matthew Belton/Dan Allen Brian Bodnar/Katie Dugan Emma Brizius/Kelly Levis Brook Buck/Maria Jourdan Jimmy Buffi/Heather Keane Stewart Carlin/Megan Carlin Josh Cook/Mandy Lewis Ryan Fischer/Bethany Fischer William Hayman/John Kyler Blake .Jones/Christina McCool Sara Loveless/Agata Michalaski Jessica Martinez/ ~ Allison Muscolino Joe McNamara/Jake Greiner Christian Minella/Chery] Sieve 
ever," Hancock said. "That's our age. It really does affect everyone. It doesn't discrimi­nate." 
Ilaneoek, along with her task force, enabled f'rne IliV testing on campus for the first time. 
"This is something I have been really passionate about 

Catechutnen and their Godparents Amber Collins-Chris Wittman Dan Kissel-Fr. Tom Gaughan, CSC Sharon Lam/Katie Keyser Jessica Lau/Eiizabeth Staten Thomas Lee/Victor Saenz Erica Shuls/Annie Scully Xue Ying Wang/Sandra Chavez 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, November 29, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,289.45 +331.01
Jones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,284 74 1,098 28,166,039 
AMEX 2,353.94 57.50 NASDAQ 2,662.91 +82.11 NYSE 9.791.05 +269.29 S&P 500 I ,469.02 +40.79 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,495.81 +342.09 FTSE 100 (London) 6,306.20 +165.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +3.20 +4.56 147.13 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +3.04 +1.52 51.48 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +5.97 +1.72 30.52 CITIGROUP INC (C) +6.50 +1.97 32.29 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.05 +0.081 4.025 13-WEEK BILL -3.73 -0.115 2.960 30-YEAR BOND +1.19 +0.052 4.407 5-YEAR NOTE +3.51 +0.118 3.48 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -3.80 90.62 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -14.00 821.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.15 91.48 
, Exchange Rates YEN 110.1250 EURO 0.6748 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9889 BRITISH POUND 0.4817 




IN BRIEF 

Ford settles Explorer safety lawsuits 
SACHAMENTO -Ford Motor Co. on Wednesday agreed to settle class-action law­suits covering plaintiffs in four states who elaimed its Explorer sport utility vehicles were prone to rollovers, the company and an attor­ney for the plaintiffs said. 
The settlement applies to about 1 million people in California, Connecticut, Hlinois and Texas, said Kevin P. Hoddy, a New Jersey attorney and co-counsel for the SUV owners who brought the lawsuit. 
lie said the settlement will be filed later Wednesday in Sacramento County Superior Court. 
It will allow vehicle owners to apply for $500 vouehers to buy new Explorers or $300 vouch­ers to buy other Ford or Lincoln Mercury products, Hoddy told The Associated Press. 
The settlements apply to Explorers in model years 1991 through 2001, he said. 
Consumers will be able to apply for the vouchers through a Web site starting Monday if a Sacramento judge gives preliminary approval to the settlement. The parties plan to ask Superior Court Judge David De Alba to give final approval during a hearing in April, after those covered by the settlement have had time to apply for the vouchers, Hoddy said. 

Hennessey named top economic adviser 
WASHINGTON -President Bush announced on Wednesday that Keith Hennessey will become director of the National Economic Council. replacing Alllubbard, who is joining a growing linn of top presidnntial advisers exit­ing the White House as the Bush administra­tion heads into its lined year. 
llennnssny, who came to the White I louse in 2002. is llubbard's deputy and has bn1m deputy to two previous directors of the council. IIn served as a top budget aide to Sen. Tr~nt l.ott, H-Miss .. and worked for the Senate Budgnt Cornrnittne. 
"Keith has been an important member of my White I louse team for more than five years," Bush said in a statemnnt. "lin has served as the deputy to three directors of the National Economic Council. and has worknd on a broad range of eeonomie policy issues." 
Dow on rise as Fed hints at rate cuts 
Investors pleased that companies hit by mortgage crisis have raised extra cash 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street barreled higher Wednesday for the second day in a row, giving the Dow Jones indus­trial average its biggest two­day point gain in five years after a Federal Heserve ofli­cial hinted that the central bank may lower interest rates again. 
Investors' renewed hopes for a rate eut added to their relief that companies that made losing bets on sub­prime mortgages, such as Citigroup Inc. and Freddie Mac, are coming up with ways to raise cash. The market was clearly opti­mistic that at least some of the damage from the months-long credit crisis was !inally being mitigated. 
However, Wall Street has been fickle in recent months, with the Dow often rising and falling by triple digits, and no one is betting that the mortgage crisis that tripped up the nation's financial industry this year is over or that the market's huge gains so far this week will stick. Despite its spec­tacular advance, the Dow remains more than 6 per­cent below its Oct. 9 record dose over 14,000, having plunged due to worries that the housing market's slump will lead to further losses for businesses. lie said tight Plunging oil and gold 2002, and largest two-day banks, and that the Fed financial conditions may prices also lifted investors~ percentage gain since Nov. can't keep slashing rates. merit "offsetting" policy hopes for a rate cut -if 21, 2002. 
"The market's perception from the central bank. inflation is in control, policy Wednesday's jump was of whether the Fed cuts or The possibility for lower makers have less reason to also the biggest one-day not really changes by the rates seemed more com­keep rates high. The Fed's percentage gain for the Dow day," said Michael Sheldon, pelling to investors than Beige Book of economic since April 2, 2003. chief market strategist at persistent concerns about a activity around the country The broader Standard & Spencer Clarke LLC. "We slowdown in economic said with the economy Poor's 500 index climbed still have more data to growth. The Fed has expanding at a reduced 40.79, or 2.86 percent, to come." already reduced rates at its pace, most core prices are 1,469.02, logging its best 
Early Wednesday, Fed last two meetings, and con­stable or down slightly. two-day point gain since Vice Chairman Donald Kohn tinues to inject billions of The Dow soared 331.01, April19, 2001. told the Council on Foreign dollars into the fillancial sys­or 2.55 percent, to The Nasdaq composite Helations that recent finan­tem through repurchase 13,289.45, adding to the index shot up 82.11, or 3.18 cial turbulence has reversnd agreements to help calm the blue chip index's 215 point percent, to 2,662.91, giving some of the improvement shaky markets. The central gain on Tuesday and giving the technology-dominated seen in markets in previous bank will hold its final rate­the market's best known index its largest two-day weeks. and could squeeze setting meeting of the year indicator its largest two-day point gain since March 4, credit for households and Dec. 11. point gain since Oct. 11, 2002. 


Spending, economic growth slow down 
expecting a slow holiday season, with leagues meet on Dee. 11 to decide their 
Associated Press 
only small gains in sales volumes com­next move on interest rates. Investors 
pared with last year," the Fed added. and some economists believe the Fed 
WASHINGTON -The economy grew Spending by consumers and busi­report, along with recent turbulence on at a slower pace in the late fall as shop­nesses is the lifeblood of the country's Wall Street, would justify another rate pers watched their pennies heading economic activity. The big worry for reduction. into the busy holiday season. economists is that consumers and busi­"The Fed realizes markets are frag­
The Federal Reserve's new snapshot, nesses will cut back on spending and ile, and the ongoing dislocations we released Wednesday, suggested the investing, dealing a blow to economic expect will lead the (Fed) to ease on strains from a severe housing slump growth. The odds of a recession have Dec. 11," said T.J. Marta, !ixed income and a painful credit crunch are affect­grown this year. Still, Fed. officials and strategist at HBC Capital Markets. ing the behavior of individuals and many other economists remain hopeful Fed Governor Donald Kohn, in a businesses alike -making them some­the country will weather the fmancial speech Wednesday, warned that if the what more cautious. storm without falling into recession. financial turmoil seen in recent weeks 
Yet. the hope that the Federal The Fed report found the national were to persist, it could further crimp Heserve will eut a key interest rate for a economy continued to grow during the the flow of credit to people and busi­third time this year to energize the survey pAriod of October through mid­nesses, raising risks to economic economy sent stocks soaring on Wall November but at a "reduced pace." Of growth. Street. The Dow Jones industrials the 12 Fed regions surveyed. seven Kohn, the No. 2 ollkial at the Fed. jumped for the second day in a row, reported a slower pace of economic said the recent gyrations on Wall Street gaining 331.01 points to close at activity, while the rmnainder generally "partly reversed some of the improve­13,289.45. It marked the index's pointed to "modest expansion or mixed ment in market functioning" seen in biggest two-day point gain in live years. conditions." the Fed said. late September and in October. The 
"Heports on retail spending were The findings will figure prominently credit crunch had taken a turn for the downbeat in general," the Fed survey into discussions when Federal Reserve worse in August, causing stocks to said. "Most retailers said that they were Chairman Ben Bernanke and his col-nosedive. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 29, 2007 
Illegal in1n1igrant rescues child 
Migrant abandons walk to the U.S. to save boy stranded in desert 
Associated Press 

I'IIOENIX -An illegal immigrant who gave up his long walk into the U.S. to lwlp a boy whoso mother was killod in a van crash in the desert said Wndn1~sday that he rwv1~r thought of l!~aving the child. 
"I am a father of four chil­the crash. 
dren.  For  that.  I stayed,"  
Manuel  Jesus  Cordova  
Sobnrarws said  
in Spanish from  

In a telephone interview with The Associated Press from his home in Magdalena de Kino, Cordova said Christopher had scrapes on his leg and was dressed in shorts despite the desert cold. 
The boy had his dog with him and was holding a side mirror from the wrecked van. 
Neither Cordova nor Christopher spoke the other's 
language, but 
the boy took the 
his home in the "/felt frustrated and migrant to the Mexican state edge of a canyon
sad because I 
of Sonora. "I and showed him never could couldn't do anything the accident site. have ldt him. for the mother. " Authorities Nevor." said Christopher Authorities and his mother,
Manuel Jesus
said Cordova 45-year-old
Cordova Soberanes
may have saved Dawn Alice the lifo of 9-Immigrant rescuer Tomko, had 
year-old Christopher B u zllw itrw r. whose mother was killed wh1m their van ran off a cliff in a remote area north of the Mexican border on Thanksgiving Day. 
A spokeswoman for the Mnxiean consulate in Nogal1~s said thn office is working to obtain a short-term visa for Cordova so lw can como to Arizona and be recognized for his actions. 
Tho 26-year-old bricklayp,r was two days into his walk and about 50 miles from Tucson when he saw the boy, who had walked away from been in the area 
camping. Tomko was driving on a U.S. Forest Service road when she lost control of the van, which landed 300 feet from the road. 
By the looks of the mangled van down below, Cordova said, it was obvious the boy's mother had died. The child was distraught but did not cry. 
"I fell frustrated and sad because I couldn't do anything for the mother," Cordova said. "And I didn't know how to console the boy, so I just sat next to him." 
Cordova gave the boy the sweater he was wearing, climbed down to the van, and found chocolate and cookies to feed him. 
lie then built a bonfire, and the two hunkered down. The boy slept most of the night; Cordova kept watch and tend­ed the fire. 
Fourteen hours later, a group of hunters found the pair and called for help. U.S. Border Patrol agents took Cordova into eustody, and Christopher was flown to a hospital in Tucson. 
Christopher was reunited with family over the weekend; a message left with his uncle was not immediately returned Wednesday. 
Santa Cruz County Sheriff Tony Estrada said Cordova is "very, very speeial and <:om­passionate" and may have saved the boy's life. 
Adriana Hoyos Rodriguez, the mayor of Magdalena de Kino, called Cordova a hero. "lie left everything to save that boy," she said. 
Cordova said he wanted to come to the United States to earn money to feed his four ehildren, who live with their mother, and help support his girlfriend's three children. "I have two families, many mouths to feed," he said. 
He said that even though his trip was thwarted, he is glad to be baek horne and wishes Christopher the best. 
Kansas student, porn star missing 
Associated Press 

EL DORADO, Kan. -A miss­ing Kansas eollege student believed to be the victim of foul play apparently led a dou­ble life as an Internet porn star by the name of Zoey Zane. 
Nude photos of 18-year-old Emily Sander appeared on a Zoey Zane Web site before she vanished, and investigators are looking into whether her modeling had anything to do with her disappearanee last Friday. 
"She enjoyed it. She is a young teenage girl and she wanted to be in the movies and enjoyed movies. She need­ed the extra money," Nikki Watson, a elose friend of Sander's at Butler Community College, told The Associated Press on Wednesday. "Nobody in El Dorado knew besides her close friends." 
Sander's brother, Jacob Sander, confirmed that the nude woman pietured on the site is his sistf'r. 
El Dorado Poliee Chief Tom Boren said FBI and state experts on Internet crime have been ealled in. 
"Investigators are aware that Miss Sander was appar­ently involved in a Web site sit­uation," he said. "Allegations that this may factor into her disappearance are being thor­oughly investigated." 
Sander was last seen leaving a bar in El Dorado, about 30 miles from Wichita, with a man identified as Israel Mireles, 24, authorities said. Sander and MirPles had met that night at the bar, aecording to Watson. 
After Mireles did not show up Saturday at his job at an Italian restaurant, his mnploy­er went to the motel room where he was staying. 
"His motel room was found to appear in great disarray and a large quantity of blood was found in the room," Boren said. "Bed elothing was found to be missing. The police were called." 
A nationwide manhunt was under way for Mireles and his 16-year-old girlfrilmd. A rental car he had been driving turned up Tuesday in Texas, where he had family. On Tuesday, authorities released a photo of a white bedspread with a flo­ral design and asked for the publie's help in loeating it. 
"Our hopes kind of diminish each day we don't hear from her," the poliee ehief said Wednesday. 
Sander rP.eently signed a eontraet for the pornographic work on the Web site, and told her parents about it on Thanksgiving, Watson said. ller boyfriend broke up with her because he did not approve, Watson said. 



GURLEY LEEP SUBARU 
$298PER MONTH LEASE! 36 MONTHS 
$2.597.00 Down Payment $0Security Deposit $0 Acquisition Fee $298 First Month's Lease Payment 
$2,895 Total Due at Lease Signing 
--------· :~~·~·!f~~~---·-·-----····---··· 

• 
IIHS Highest possible crash test ratings 

• 
All.Wheel Drive standard 

•173-hp 
Subaru Boxer engine 

•
4-wheel disc brakes with ABS 


$199 PER MONTH LEASE/ 36MONTHS 
$1,501 Dowo Pnyment 
$0 s~eurity De-po$it $0 Acqli,lition Fee $199 Fw1t Mor.th'1 Le.ne Payment 
$1.700 Total Out-at Le.ue S1gruf'lg 

2008 SUBARU 
TRIBECA 
:, "N'S t~CH' 
·IIHS Top Safety Pick' 

•
All-Wheel Drive standard 


•
Vehicle Dynamics Control (VDC) with Traction Control 


• 256-hp 3.6-liter Subaru Boxer engine 

................-----------·-­
OlJ'TBACK 
•5-Star hig!testgovernment crash 
test rating' 
•
All-Wheel Drive standard ~ 6 slalldard airbdgs 

•
4-wheel disc brakes with AB$ 


$219 PER MONTH LEASE: 36MONTHS 
$1)66 Down PayrnP.nt $0 Security Deposit 
$0 Acquisition Fee $219 First Month's le61Se Payment 
$1,985 Toto! Due nt L!ase Stgning 
:''. :.dHD/'-i 


Thursday, November 29, 2007 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
The University of Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture announces its 8th annual fall conference: 





DIALOG U E~;C ULTU RES 
November 29-December 1 
Keynote Address 
The Role ofReligions in Promoting Dialogue 
Elias Chacour 
Mel kite Archbishop of Galilee 
McKenna Hall Auditorium Thursday, November 29, 7:30PM 
NETHERLANDS 
Nazi archives opened· for first titne 
Docunzents could provide new infonnation on inner workings ofpersecution 
Associated Press 
AMSTEHDAM -After more than 60 years, Nazi documents stored in a vast warehouse in Germany were unsealed Wednesday. opening a rich rosource for I lolocaust historians andlbr survivors to dolvn into their own torment11d past. 
The trnasun• of doeumenl'i could open new avenues of' study into the inner workings of' Nazi persecution from the exploitation of' slave labor to the conduct of medical experi­ments. The archive's managers plann1~d a conf(~rence of scholars next year to map out its unex­plornd r·.ontent'i. 
The files entrusted to the lntnrnational Tracing Service, an arm of the International Committee of the Red Cross, have been used until now to help find missing per­sons or document atrocities to sup­port compensation daims. The U.S. government also has referred to the ITS for back!-,'Totmd checks on immigrants it suspected of lying about their past. 
Inquiries were handled by the archive's 400 staiT members in the German spa town of Bad Arolsen. Few out'iiders were allowed to see the actual document'>. which num­ber more than 50 million pages and cover 16 linear miles of gray metal filing cabinel'i and cardboard binders spread over six buildings. 
On Wednesday, the Red Cross and the German government announcnd that the last of the 11 countries that govern the archive had ratiliPd a 2006 agreement to open the files to the public for the first time. 
"We are there. The doors are open," said ITS director Reto Meister, speaking by telephone from the Buchenwald concentra­tion camp where he was visiting with a delegation of U.S. congres­sional stall' members. 
Survivors have pressed for decades to open the archive, unhappy with the minimal responses -usually in form letters -from the Red Cross officials responding to request<; for informa­tion about relatives. 
"We are very anxious," said David Mermelstein, 78, an activist for survivors' causes in Miami, Fla., who wants to scour the files for traces of his two older brothers whom he last saw as he passed through a series of concentration camps. 
"Now I hope we will be able to get some information. We have been waiting, and time is not on our side," said the retired business­man. 
The U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington and the Yael Vashem Memorial in Jerusalem began receiving digital copies of the entire archive in August, allowing survivors and his­torians more access points. 
Izzy Arbeiter, 82, the head of a survivor's organization in the area of Boston, Mass., said he hoped to go to the museum next month to browse the files. 
"My goodness, I don't know where I would start, there are so many things I am interested in," he said. 'The history of my family, of course. My parents. One of my brothers is missing. We never knew what happened to him." 
Yael Vashem said the opening of the archive was "a brnakthrough" for survivors and others. 
"Our understandi1ig and knowl­edge of the personal story of the I loloeaust will be deepened," said Yael Vashem's chairman Avner Shalev. 
The records are unlikely to change the general story of the I lolocaust and the Nazi era, proba­bly the most intensely researched 12-year period of the 20th century. 
But its depth of detc1il and origi­nal documentation will add texture to history's worst genocide, and is likely to fuel a revival of academic interest in the Holocaust. 
Among its files, seen by The Associated Press during repeated visits to Bad Arolsen in the last year, are the list of deportees from the Netherlands to Auschwitz on which Anne Frank's name appears, the list of employees of Oskar Schindler's factory who were sheltered from death, medical records showing the number of lice on the heads of prisoners, the list of inmates evacuated by the Nazis from the Neuengamme labor camp who later died on prisoner boats mistakenly bombed by the British air force. 
SUDAN 



Teacher charged with inciting hate 
Associated Press 
KHARTOUM -Sudan charged a British teacher WPdnesday with inciting religious hatred -a crime punishable by 40 lashes ­because she allowed her students to name a teddy bear Muhammad as part of a diL'iS prqject. 
The cmmtry's top Muslim clerics pressed tl1e govemment to ensure that the teacher, Gillian Gibbons, is punished, comparing her action to author Salman Rushdie's "blas­phemies" against the Prophet Muhammad. 
The charges against Gibbons angered the British government, which urgently summoned the Sudanese ambassador to discuss the case. British and American Muslim groups also criticized the decision. 
Gibbons, 54, was arrested at her home in Khartoum on Sunday after some parents of her student'> accused her of naming the bear after Islam's prophet. Muhammad is a common name among Muslim men, but the parents saw applying it to a toy animal as an insult. 
Officials in Sudan's Foreign Ministry have tried to play down the case, calling it an isolated inci­dent and predicting Tuesday that Gibbons could be released with­out charge. 
But hard-liners have consider­able weight in the government of President Omar al-Bashir. which came to power in a 1989 military coup that touted itself as creating an Islamic state. 
The north of the cow1try bases its legal code on Islamic Sharia law, and al-Bashir often seeks to burnish his mligious credentials. 
Last year, he vowed to lead a jihad, or holy war. against U.N. peacekeepers if they deployed in the Darfur region of western Sudan. lie relented this year to allow a U.N.-African Union three there -but this month said he would bar Scandinavian peace­keepers from participating because newspapers in their countries ran caricatures of Prophet Muhammad last year. 
Streets were calm Wednesday in Khartoum, but a pickup truck drove through the capital with loudspeakers blaring calls for Muslims to protest Friday after prayers and not to let their reli­gion be insulted. 
Sudanese Prosecutor-General Salah Eddin Abu Zaid said Gibbons was charged with incit­ing religious hatred and her case would be referred to courts Thursday. 
If convicted, she faces up to 40 lashes, six months in jail and a fine, said Abdui-Daem Zumrawi, an undersecretary at the Justice Ministry. The verdict and any sen­tence are up to "the discretionary power of the judge," he said. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture 
To register on-line or view the complete conference schedule, visit http://ethicscenter.nd.edu 
-----------------. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, November 29, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Mysterious admissions standards 
--~-­

P.O. Box 779, Notre [);unc, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie I Janna 

MANAGING EOI'I'OR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
A~s·1; MANAtaNG EDITOR: Kyle Cassity 

A~s·1; MANA!;JNG EDITOR: Mary Kare Malone 
NEws EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT Ellll'Oil: Joey King 

SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy 
Chris Hinc 
SCENE EDITOR: 'Etc Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EmTOR: Katie Kohler 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nie' 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: )t•s.ica Cortez 
All DF.~IGN MANA<;ER: Kelly t ;ronli 

CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 6.1 l -6900 obst•rvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 nbsme~llnd.t·du 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinc.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene. I @nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right 10 refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of rhe Ediwr in Chiet; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the F.diror musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Qwstio11S t?garding Oburvrr po!icii!S should bt dirrct~d to Editor in C:hiifMtuldir HanlliJ. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'l11e Oh~rvrr (USI'S "i99 2-4000) is publiShed Momlay rhwugh l'rid.ly CXl.'t'J'f durmg rum amiiiJ,.;uion period•. A•ul.cnpt1UI1IOThc OI"K:fYt'f i1 SIOO for (lflC ac.adcmk ycar.S'.iSfuruncscmotcr 
lht O~rvcr •• published .u I'O~TMASnR OH !)c1uth Dimns Hill\ 
Norte D.uuc. IN ~6S'5M>n9 ThcOb~~trvcr 
Perindu:,t1 postJgc p••d ~~ Notre D.une 1~0 HnKn9 

and lldclirwnJI m.1ihng vffaca. 024 StJUth Dining H.dl 
Norrc Dame, IN 4Cr'i~6.0n9 
ll1t' ()I"IJI('rv.,:r 11 .1 member uf the: AucKI.&te,l PR:L~. All reprudm:uun ri"lus 1Uc: rnci'YC."~I. 
In a few months, we will ruin thou­sands of kids' lives. 
And most people around here will hope that nnxt time, we get to ruin more lives than we do this time around. 
Last year, 14,500 high school seniors applied to Notre Dame-and only 3,300 were admitted. So, yes, we told more than 


I0,000 kids, "No, Andrew Nesi we profer some­one else." And Spicy Sea this year, if pro­Nuggets jections are right, wn'll deny fwen more. (Full disclosure: I work in the admissions ofliee as a student e­mail responder. I have no influence, though, in making admissions deei­sions or on the decisions I discuss bnlow.) 
No doubt, some of these 10,000-plus kids had no place at Notre Dame. But the overwhelming majority of' denied applieants, Admissions Director Dan Saracino told The Observer last year. "could do the work at Notre Dame." So why weren't they admitted? 
Because some other applicant­well, more than 3,000 other appli­cants -had stronger profiles. Something tipped the admissions scales in their favor: their SAT scores and grades were higher, they were football stars, they seemed particular­ly involved in high school, etc. Some fit the class better -bringing a unique talent that other applicants simply could not. And then there are what I'd call "dirty strengths"­"dirty" not because their strengths are actually less valuable, but because nobody seems to like to talk about them too frankly: their parents went to Notre Dame, they are an eth­nic minority, there is a building on­campus named after their great­uncle, their mom or dad is a well­respected scholar in Science, or Engineering, or Arts and Crafts. 
And when we reject kids, I'm willing to guess that at least some of them don't immediately think, "You know what, I bet I just wasn't as smart or involved as those other kids." 
They blame the Black Bogeyman ­the amorphous "af'l'irmative action­admit" who, no doubt, took their spot in the elass. 
They are convinced that if it weren't for the "dirty strength" admitted stu­dents, they'd get to go to Notre Dame. And at a certain point. some of them are right: There are kids, each year. who would have gotten in had we not grantnd substantial preference to eth­nic minorities. 
But this isn't a column about af'l'ir­mative action based on race -in fact, I happen to believe that it is jus­til'ied. It is a column about the way we "sell" those preferences and how we nngage thos11 who feel slighted by these preferences. 
If' we truly want to advanre the cause of diversity, we need to eon­front those who blame affirmative action for their rejections. We need to demystify the Black Bogeyman. 
llow'? Much the same way that we share general prof'iles of admitted students each year, we should share prol'iles of different types of admitted students in our pool: We should offer a general profile of our admitted stu­dents who are legacies. a general pro­l'ile of our admitted students who are ethnic minorities, and a general pro­file of our other admitted students. 
Why'? For one, sharing these num­bers means that rejected students will no longer be able to blame an amor­phous concept. We won't look like we're operating in secrecy, like we're hiding something from prospective students, about the true meaning of affirmative action on the basis of race or legacy status. 
More importantly, by frankly admit­ting the practical implications of dif­ferent forms of affirmative action, we will facilitate a more honest and pragmatic discussion of its merits. Yes, we'd be inviting controversy, but we should have the strength in our 
own convietions to face that contro­
versy lwad-on. 
By not rei nasi ng tlwse profilns, wn s11nd thn wrong nH~ssagn. We suggest that WP have some reason to keep these numbers to oursnlves; whether wn moan to or not, wo imply that the disparity is embarrassingly large. We suggest that tlw public oul!~ry over sening them would dnrail our divnrsi­ty of'forts. 
Sharing tlwse prolilns would open up tho debate in rna! terms. We eould discuss not only wlwtlwr prl'f'Pnmco is appropriate in tlw abstract, but also how much preferonco is aecept­abln. It would onrich tho debate about af'f'irmativo action, and tlw debate would beconw morn meaningful and practical. 
And if' you, as a ~~ollege admissions ofTice, boliovo in af'f'irmativo action ­whethnr for IPgacy status, or race, or both -this sort of disdosun~ will ultimately hnlp your cause. With full disdosurn, you can nfTnetivnly engagn and dd1mt t.lw ignoranco that the cur­rent vagunnnss f'ostnrs. 
And it's the only way to address the ultimatn goal of' af'l'irmative action: greatnr nthnic diversity. Without acknowledging tho gap and its magni­tude, it's easy to deny the need for diversity and preferenee. But the fact that an achinvement gap still exists so prominnntly underlies the need for aflirmative action programs -a need that many people eannot appre­ciate when considered only in abstractions. 
Dismantle the "Black Bogeyman" and extend a bit of Notre Dame edu­cation to everyone -even those 10,000+ to whom we say, "no thanks." 
Andrew Nesi is a junior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. He has his own "dirty strengths." if you know what he means. He can be reached at anesi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  QUOTES OF THE DAY  
Jenn Metz  Cassie Belek  
Joseph McMahon  Viewpoint  
John Tierney Graphics Matt Hudson Sports Fran Tolan Ellyn Michalak Alex Barker  Jordan Gamble  "Just the other day I sent the girlfriend a huge pzle ofsnow. 7rang her up and said,'Did you get my drift?'" Peter Kay English comedian  "I was, Christmas shopping and ran znto a guy on tlie street. I noticed hzs watch and said that it runs slow. He said,'So does the guy I stole it from.'" David Letterman talk show host  

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 29, 2007 page 11 
Hit me with your best shot 
I've noticed that the Viewpoint sec­tion has gotten rather stale lately. I yearn for the glory days when we debated so vigorously lyric changes and hypothetical reactions to unlikely football victories. 
Unfortunately, it's John Everett a little too early for the annual spring 
Kids These 
dust-ups, the 
Days
unholy trinity of Vagina Monologues, meatless Fridays, and how the Keenan Revue is oh my God the most offensive thing ever. Did you hear they made fun of Saint Mary's? 
Let's work together to break this dull, plodding train of unoriginal objections. My part in this is simple, over the next 700 words or so I plan to take all manner of debatable posi­tions on ridiculous issues. I will occasionally, as is my privilege as a columnist, use questionable logic and I reserve the right to resort to dema­goguery. 
Where do you come in, gentle read­ers? Why you must respond with equal vitriol, and even less reliance on logic, of course! I want you to flood the inbox of my editor with strongly worded pleas for reason, while demonstrating none yourself. If you think my positions too absurd for discussion on the editorial page, just remember this: There's a freshman out there somewhere composing a letter stating that her class should be referred to as "freshpeople" in order to be more inclusive. 
There is something in here for everyone to argue about: music­lovers, sports fans, and people of all majors. I swear that I strongly believe in at least half of these state­ments, and that I am willing to fake it on the rest. Do your worst, Notre Dame! 
I believe that Robert Louis Stevenson's "The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde" is beyond ques­tion the greatest of all 19th-century British epistolary horror novels. "Dracula" and "Frankenstein" back­ers, I welcome your disdain. 
The biggest fault to be found with Charlie Weis isn't arrogance, foul lan­guage or occasionally questionable play-calling. It is his taste in music. I'm about as New Jersey as they come, but I can't stand Bon Jovi, and the next time I respect someone after hearing that they love "Living on a Prayer" will be the first. 
"Mickey's Christmas Carol" is the best version ever made of the Dickens story. Scrooge McDuck is much more convincing in the Ebenezer role than Alastair Sim. 
Leibniz invented the calculus. And people who are truly refined only refer to it as "the calculus." 
"Family Guy" is the most extensive work of plagiarism since Joe Biden's law school career. 
Typing "plagiarism" into Wikipedia in order to make a moderately obscure reference is completely acceptable. 
I removed a joke about Ron Paul from this column because I don't want to give Libertarians anything else to whine about. 
People who complain about the low quality of American television but don't watch "30 Rock" are empty­headed pedants who do not have to be taken seriously. 
Bacon, ham and pork are all wildly overrated meats. I eat so few pig products that I'm afraid I'll wind up on a government watch list. 
It shames me to admit this after so many years of arguing for the positive aspects of the Hayes presidency, but Tilden really should have won in 1876. 
Your favorite beer is swill. All beer is swill. ResLife, you know where to mail my check. 
The worst result of the Cola Wars was that R.C. Cola got left in the dust because it was unable to lure Max Headroom or Michael Jackson to be its spokesman. 
The best way to cure doubts of one's sanity is to spend 90 seconds in conversation with a Chicago sports fan. 
The Cubs are not lovable. Your Rex Grossman jokes are not funny. You're not a Bulls fan if you can't name more than five post-Jordan players. Go away and try to figure out if Luc Longley or Bill Wennington is still playing. 
I am as yet unsatisfied that Fermat's Last Theorem has been proved. 
George Harrison had the best solo career of any of the Beatles. Anyone who cites "Imagine" while making the case for John Lennon is deafer than Beethoven. 
It is okay to make deaf jokes about Beethoven because he's been dead for 180 years. The fact that he couldn't hear them anyway is only an ancillary consideration. 
If your car leaked oil onto an easel, you wouldn't be able to tell the differ­ence between that and a Jackson Pollock original. 
I certainly understand that colonial­ism was oppressive and exploitative, and that it is the right of every free people to name their own country. I just happen to think Rhodesia sounds better, and I don't think you have to so rudely correct me. 
The same goes for Ceylon and British Honduras. 
This column is an inane, irrelevant, and poorly thought out piece of tripe written at the last minute by a hack writer too ill-informed or lazy to form a cogent argument on one topic over 800 words. 
Alright, get going on your respons­es, although you better not disagree with that last one. I happen to know it for a fact. 
John Everett is a senior English major. He is thought to be somewhere between 21 and 45 years of age. He is armed only with a sharp wit and is considered cantankerous. lfyou have any information regarding his whereabouts, please contact jeverett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

This season of longing 
The title promises a story about this football season, so I should come clean up front-this is the weekly Faithpoint article. 
As we approach the season of Advent -it begins this Saturday night -we do so,
surely, with  Father Lou DeiFra  
many wants.  
We want the  
semester to be  Kids These Days  
over.  Or we want  
a paper to write  

itself while we sleep. We want the Irish in a Bowl game, in a warm and fun place, and, please God, we want to win it. We want more time with our friends, preferably without study obli­gations. We want a job. We want Christmas break. We want our fami­ly's Christmas traditions, even (and, secretly, maybe especially) the cheesy ones. If we have lost a loved one recently, we will feel over these holi­days that we want them back with us. We want to be close to our families. Or, if there is division in our family, we want our family to be at peace for the holidays. We want joy to over­whelm our sorrow. 
As we look inside ourselves, we find -what we always find -that we are teeming with wants and longings. 
Those of you who study marketing need no convincing of this. It is one of the primary motivations we have for buying things -a gnawing sense of our incompleteness. Every sidebar ad that pops up on our computer screens makes some attempt at reminding us of what we don't have-but could, if we click this flashing box. Incompleteness, and unfulfilled desire, is an inescapable human reality. And it rarely lies dormant... · 
Our faith teaches us that there is a reason for our longing. Deep in the heart of our Judea-Christian spiritual­ity is the realization that we humans have a deep emptiness at the center of our being. And this emptiness longs to be filled. This is our foundational story as the People of God. That once upon a time, in Eden, we had lives of perfect contentment and union with our Creator. A snake and an apple later, however, we had been cast out of the Garden. And ever since, we have carried within us an incessant ache to return home, to that place where our deepest contentment beck­ons. 
The stories of our Scriptures are filled with this human reality of long­ing for something more. Abraham and Sarah are lured away from their home to wander after a Promised Land. Moses and the Israelites in Egypt flee, in the middle of the night, on a desert journey, because they long for freedom and a land to call their home. All the prophets we will hear from in these next four weeks of Advent -none more aware of the sheer depth of his longing than Isaiah -kindle and rekindle the flame of our desire: "You want, you need, you long-and One is coming." Finally, John the Baptist, tipped off in Elizabeth's womb that the One has taken flesh, grows up breathless and breathing fire. He can no longer con­tain his longing, and, as we hear in the Advent Gospels, begins to shout, almost maniacally, "Turn and see, the Kingdom of God is at hand!" John is the personification ofAdvent-this season of our longing. 
Through the sacraments and liturgi­cal seasons -like this season of Advent -the Church takes existential realities that are always and every­where occurring, so much so that we can almost forget them, and lifts up and celebrates them in specific times and particular places. So, for exam­ple, we believe that it is always and everywhere the case that God is nour­ishing and sustaining our lives. This is so much the case -as true as our knowledge that oxygen in the air we breathe is constantly keeping us alive -that if we didn't stop to celebrate that reality, we would be in danger of forgetting it. (For, we must admit, it is not often we say thanks to God for the gift of oxygen.) So, at 10:30 p.m. in Dillon Hall every Sunday, or at what­ever specific time in whatever particu­lar place, we celebrate the Eucharist, and are fed by the life of God. 
The Season of Advent might helpful­ly be understood in a similar way. It is always and everywhere the case that we humans are incomplete, and there­fore in a constant state of longing. This is so much the case that it would be inhuman, indeed dangerous, not to acknowledge this longing explicitly for a specific time. That is, if we don't somewhere and sometime explicitly acknowledge that we are a people longing for nothing less than union with God, we run the risk of seeking fulfillment, consciously or uncon­sciously, in all kinds of ways that ulti­mately frustrate our hearts' deepest desire. 
Here we see the gift of these four weeks of Advent -our season of long­ing. Contemplate St. Augustine's most famous words: "Our hearts are rest­less, 0 Lord, our hearts are restless, until they rest in you." Gaze upon Bernini's statue of the Ecstasy of St. Teresa of Avila, as she experiences union with Christ her spouse. (You can Google Image it.) These are examples of why the Season of Advent is such a powerful season for us. Advent is the season where we acknowledge our deepest longing -and set our hopes of fulfillment on the One who alone can complete us. 
Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, is the director ofCampus Bible Studies in the office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Thursday, November 29, 2007 

i. ­
In Defense of the Genre 
Say Anything Label: J Records Recommended Tracks: "Skinny Mean Man" and "Spores" 


For the most part, though, the pop­rock found on "In Defense of the Genre" is a half-dee<mt listen. The lyrics are oecasionally cringe-worthy, sonwtimes hilarious (in a good way) and always honest. It's obvious they !:ome l'rom the heart. The ovnrarch i ng story of the ly-rics pertains to Bemis' struggles with love, drugs and his bipolar disorder. An alternate title could have been "l~verything You Ever Wanted to Know About Max." Say Anything might technically be a full band, but it's really all about Bemis horn. 
Unfortunately, Bemis isn't entirely succnssful in pulling his sonic experi­
ments ofT. A myriad of guest singers changes things up a little, hut often they just distract and annoy. 
One of' the f'irst memo­rabin songs is "That is Why," a bizarrn cabaret piece, whieh is not really good or bad, but just strange. It fea turns some of the funniPst lyrics on the reeord, sueh as: "Though on!~P I was emot­ing/and Bono lyrie quot­ing." 
"Baby Girl. I'm A Blur" is the danceable first single featuring an eloetron ie beat, sure to make diehard fans ery f'oul. 
With 27 songs, some of them are sure to be fairly horrid. "Hangover Song" on disc two is one of the album's worst songs. (A sample of someone vomiting isn't really that attractive, not to mnntion completely unnecessary.) Also unnecessary is the song "DiPd A Jew", whieh has some lyrics so awful they shouldn't even be dignified with an ex.amplc here. As with most double albums. a lot of the songs could be cut out, or should have been. 
Filler is a serious problem on this album. especially on the sneond disc. Aside from thn couple of duds already nH•ntioned, a lot of tho songs just aren't noteworthy. They are not neces­sarily bad or good, but eompletnly for­gettable. This CD would have been mueh better as a tight. less-bloated single disc. 
The best songs are usually ihn angri­er ones, such as "Skinny Mean Man," "Surgieally Hemoving tho Traeking D1wice" and "Pnopln Like You Are Why People Like Mn Exist." Thoro arn some good quiet songs as well, sueh as "Spores" on thn second disc. 
If you have the patience to sift through the flllnr. there are some real gPms here. Max Bemis is certainly a 
courtesy of lalin1esb>logs>.lalil 

"In Defense of the Genre Anything's third studio album .. 
eapable songwriter. lin puts his Bntin~ self onto paper in a way that never seems forc~nd or rhnosy. Whiln a solid ehunk of tlw songs are not nwmorablP, few are awful. Tlw J'irst half of thP album is better than thn sneond. 
Tlw album is dnf'initnly not for ewry­mw, and tlw only people who will truly enjoy it are dinhard Say Anything fans. 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edu 
By MARK WITTE S<-cnr Wriln 
"No Country for Old Men" is a movie about 1wil. It is a movie about murder and it is a movie about uncertainty. It may bn tlw Conn Brothers' ("Fargo," "Tho Big Lnbowksi") finest work. 
Basod ofT of author Cormac McCarthy's novnl of' tho same name, "No Country for Old Mnn" begins its nwrdl1~ss brutality with Anton Chigurh (.Javier Bardnm). Chigurh is a man who spnaks softly and carries a big tank of 1~ompressnd air. which he usns to punch holns in thn lwads of his victims. Thn killing bngir1s wlwn hn strangles a 
By RYAN RAFFIN 
Sl·l'llt' Wrirer 
CorH'PPI albums arc notoriously hit or miss. DouhlP albums an~ infamous l'or tlwir sPIJ'-indulgnnt f'illnr. So it's pretty Pasy to be apprPiwnsive about the nnw 27-song nlTort by L.A.'s Say Anything, tit!Pd "In [)dense of the (;en n•." Till' hype surrounding the album and the band is enormous. i<ronlman and band IPader Max Bmnis has lwPn lwraldPd as "tlw new Bob Dylan" as ol'tPn as tho New England Patriots gPt railed "tlH~ best team in thP Nl;l.." 

seem~ with a jug of water.
No Country for Old Men but his charitable aetion quickly puts his life in 
Director: Ethan and Joel Coen 
dangnr. He returns to find the man dead, the drugs
Starring: Tommy Lee Jones, Javier Bardem 
gone, and an angry truek­
and Josh Brolin 

load of Mexicans who Hat­ten his truck's tires before chasing him into a nearby river. 
Chigurh soon arrives at the sennc with a couple of well-dressed Americans and. upon l'inding 
policn officer, brnaking out of jail. Thn movie then f'ollows thn path of destrue­tion he leaves in his wake. But for the most part, his motive for killing falls upon the unfortunate head of Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin), a poor Vietnam vet­eran living in a trailer with his wife Carla Jean (Kelly MacDonald) down in Texas near the Moxican border. 
Llewelyn's trouble starts when, while deer hunting one day, he unexpectedly comes upon the aftermath of a bloody shootout, involving a slew of dead bod­ies, a truck-bed of drugs, a dying Mexican pleading for "agua" and a suitcase of cash. Llewelyn deeidcs to take the money and return homo. Later that night, against his wife's pleading, 
he roturns to tho bloody 
Llewelyn's trw~k and a transponder for tracking the briefease, he promptly nxecutcs his companions. lie then spnnds the rest of the film hunting down Llewelyn and the money. 
There is another part to this tale as well, seen through the eyes of an aging Sheriff Ed Tom Bell (Tommy Lee Jones). Bell opens the film with a nar­ration in whieh he recalls sending a boy to the eleetric ehair for killing his young teenage girlfriend: "The papers said it was a erime of passion, but he tolt me there weren't nothin' passion­ate about it. Said he'd been lixin' to kill someone for as long as he could remember. Said if I let him out of there, he'd kill somebody again. Said he was goin' to hell. Heckoned he'd be there in about 15 minutes." 
Bell continues, saying, "I don't know what to make of that, I really don't." 
Tho ineomprehension of sueh evil lies at the heart of this film and none of the characters understand it. Bell sp!mds most of the film in Chigurh and Llewelyns's footsteps, hopelessly trying to eateh up. Bell never once judges the deeision Llewelyn made in taking the money, and the film doesn't either. Instead it focuses on dealing with what comes next. 
Carson Wells (Woody Harrelson) is a 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

witty, fast-talking hitman hirnd to track down Chigurh, and hn provides some comic relief in the mostly-serious film. 
On tho wholP, tho movie move$ at a slow pace. llowevnr, tluwe's something fascinating about the way the Conn Brothers' film their charaetnr. It's hard not to be eaptivatml by thnir struggles. 
The Conn Brotlwrs ereatn suspense through thn actions of their aetors. From the sound of Chigurh's boots, to the heavy breathing of Llewelyn. down to the cocking of a gun, a serious sus­pense pervades the film. 
Tho story's desert sotti ng is barren. not only in landscape, but in people. too. There aren't many extras in this film and the onns who arn in it din quiekly. Tho barron backdrop makes for quite a few shots in which only one charaeter appears in tho frame. You'll feel Llnwelyn's lonoliness and his fnar as Chigurh chases him through empty streets. 
Thn Conn Brothers' film was nomi­nated for the prestigious Palme d'Or at Cannes Film Festival this year. 
The film never once descends into elidH1, and sticks to a serious plot. Tho f'ilm won't. rile your emotions, but it will make you think. 
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, November 29, 2007 
page 13 

Out" or "Superman." Instead, as Jay-Z pro­daims on the song  The rapper's first concept album, which follows the  after the track titled, "Success," "Fallin" examines the juxta­ 
"No Hook," he simply dons not need one. lin also does not need to be backed by  storyline ofRidley Scott's recently released film bearing the same title,  position of success and failure. Alluring his listeners with a sort of intimacy  
contrived  hip-hop  breathes fresh air into a  detailing  his  own  
controversy (think Kanye and 50 Cent). .lay-Z is able to stand  hip-hop industry that reeks ofbanality .  "rise and fall," Jay-Z reminds us why he continues to rise and  
on  his own  and show  rise again.  
why he continues to  +"Hello  

bn relevant in the music industry. Brooklyn." With an infectious beat and Hevisiling many themes explored on Lil' Wayne's magnetism, this track is past albums, "American Gangster" guaranteed to be a club favorite. The rnvnals an updated and more refined song is a sort of ode to the state of New Shawn Carter. A few tracks stand out York and its influence on Jay-Z as an as tlw brightest of the bunch. artist. One of the more upbeat tracks 
+"Party Life." While performing this on the album, "Hello Brooklyn," exudes song on Vh 1 's "Storytellers," llov energy. Personifying Brooklyn, the duo n~qu1~sted red lighting -and justifi­recognizes the importance of the city to ably so. This song is hot. Transporting hip-hop. While Lil' Wayne's verse is not us '"ROs babies" into the Super Fly era, his best, both he and Jay prove why this tr<H~k is the definition of swagger, they are considered rap royalty. 
+"Blue Magic." Surprisingly not featured on the soundtrack to the
American Gangster 
film, "Blue Magic" outlines 
Jay-Z 

one of the major themes of the movie and album ­
Label: Rock-A-Fella 
the hustle. Hova teams up with Pharrell Williams on this track to reiterate the 
Recommended Tracks: "Party Life," "Roc 
Boys," "Hello Brooklyn" and "Blue Magic" 
power of the collabora­

tion. 
Contact Brittny Flint at bflint@nd.edu and Amelia Thompson at atomps6@nd.edu 



It's a 


Spice World 
aga1n Girl Power is back in 2007 The World Tour 
All five girls ore bock for the world tour thot kicks off Dec. 2in Vancouver. The pop stars come to Chicago Feb. 15-16. 
The Greotist Hits Album 
;The album, featuring 
•·· new single, "Headlines ~···(Friendship Never ~Ends)," is now ovoilobl r exclusively ot Victoria's 
Secret. 
with the Stars 
Melanie "Scary Spice" Brown wos declared runner-up on the hit reality series on Tuesdoy. 
Victoria Beckhm hos 
·-·•· token over oirwoves on NBC's "Victoria Beckham: Coming to America" ond in the Nov. 8episode of "Ugly Betty." 
By BRITTNY FLINT and AMELIA THOMPSON Scene Writers 
Our favorite retired rapper is back. 
Again. 
Following his supposed retreat from the music world, Jay-Z proves once morn why he deserves the self-pro­claimed title, "The Best Happer Alive" with the release of his latest, "American Gangster." The rapper's lirst concept album, which follows the storyline of Ridley Scott's recently released film bearing the same title, breathes fresh air into a hip-hop indus­try that reeks of banality. Smart and innovative. "American Gangster" does not claim to "Walk it 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

Combining sultry vocals with Jay-Z's undeniable cool, "Party Life" makes you want to do just that. 
+"Roc Boys." This track is sure to have us all throwing up the Hoc. As declared in Beyonce's "DeJa Vu," "Hoc Boys" proves that Jay runs the bass, high hat and the snare. Termed "black superhero music" this song has an element of blithe. From the moment the horns start, it's impossible to not invoke the gods of funk. With brilliant instrumentation and lyrical content, this song is sure to be a Roc-A-Fella anth.em and classic. 
+"Fallin." Laced with Bilal's vocals, "Fallin" is introspective and thought­provoking. Both the lyrics and the beat have an element of sadness. 
Strategically placed 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 29, 2007 
NBA 

Bucks unable to stop Johnson, lose second straight 
76ers late push not enough as Jazz close out win; fanzes sprains finger in second quarter ofPistons win over Cavaliers 
Michael Hedd had 24 points attacking," said Bucks coach Associated Pr.,ss and Mo Williams added 23, but Larry Krystkowiak. "We had a Andrew Bogut, who had 18 hard time keeping the ball in ATLANTA -Atlanta's bench points and 11 rebounds, was front of us, because they broke provided the spark the llawks Milwaukee's only other scorer us down ofT the dribble consis­needed to beat Milwaukee 96-in double ligures. tently. It was the type of attack SO. Mario West, a late fill-in we expected, we just weren't 
With naeh team playing for starter for injured Marvin ready to move our feet." the second straight night, Williams, set the high energy depth was crueial as Atlanta pace for Atlanta in the first Jazz 106, 76ers 95 pulled away late and beat the quarter. Carlos Boozer is developing Bucks on Wednesday night, West, an undral'ted rookie quite a reputation. including a dominant 4:~-7 from Georgia Tech, had not Despite tweaking his right advantagn in bench scoring. played more than 8 minutes in ankle before halftime, he had 
"Our bench was great," a game, but he had 4 points, 2 it re-taped and scored 12 of Hawks coach Mike Woodson rebounds and a steal in the his 26 points in the fourth said. first 7 minutes. quarter to lead the Utah Jazz 
The Hawks recovered from a "Mario West was a big key to a victory over the disappointing 90-78 loss at for us," said rookie AI IIorford, Philadelphia 76ers on Chicago on Tuesday night in who had 12 points. "lie really Wednesday night. which they were outrebounded got that energy going early in Honnie Brewer added 19 60-:H. Atlanta outrebounded the game." points and Mehmet Okur had Milwaukne 38-34. The Hawks broke open a 16. Deron Williams had 15 
"To come out and play the close game with a 13-2 run points and 15 assists for the way we did tonight I think is a midway through the fourth Jazz (11-5), who rebounded great sign of maturity," said quarter, including six points by after a 113-109 loss at New .Joe Johnson, who led Atlanta Childress. Atlanta outscored York two nights earlier. with 21 points. Milwaukee 23-14 in the final Boozer entered the game 
"It was good to see every­quarter. ranked fourth in the NBA in body get involved and make "In the second, third and scoring (25.3) behind LeBron plays.. on both ends of the fourth quarters our defense James, Kobe Bryant and Tracy court. really settled in," Woodson McGrady. Boozer was 12-for­
01' Atlanta's six players to said. "I thought we were as 17 from the field and it was score in double figures, three good defensively as we've been only the fourth time this sea­were backups: Zaza Pachulia, all year." son that Boozer didn't register 14; .Josh Childress, 12 and The Bucks lost for the sec­a double-double. about eliminating layups and team, but they've still got five Tyronn l.ue, 11. The 43 points ond straight night following a "I think he's (Boozer) defi­they (Jazz) had 20-plus guys with an NBA jersey on by the bench set a season high live-game winning streak. nitely an MVP candidate," layups," Sixers coach Maurice the court." for Atlanta. "Atlanta did a nice job Williams said of Boozer. "A lot Cheeks said. "That's something The Cavs said James' X-rays 
of games he has put us on his I'm trying to stop." were negative, adding he back. He does everything well Utah surged ahead to a 14-would be evaluated again and he?s tough." point lead, 6 7-53, on a basket Thursday. 
Boozer simply said his team by Williams with 5:25 left in "I think he's day to day," needed him. the third quarter. Cleveland coach Mike Brown 
"I told Paul (Millsap), 'I can?t Philadelphia got within five, said. "We'll see how he is elevate so you get every 89-84, on a driving layup by tomorrow before we worry rebound and I'll score," Boozer Williams with 6:46 remaining. about anything beyond that." said. "I couldn't jump. I could­But the 76ers could get no James returned to n't box out like I wanted to. I closer. Cleveland's bench late in the knew I could score." The Jazz jumped out to a third quarter, sporting a suit 
Boozer is 44-of-62 from the quick 13-2 lead, but the Sixers and turtleneck, with tape field (71 percent) over the past quickly rallied and the lead wrapped around· his index and four games. wound up changing hands six middle fingers on his non­
"We're executing our times in the first half. shooting hand. Late in the half, offense," Boozer said. "Deron Utah shot 54 percent from ice was packed and wrapped Williams is doing a great job of the field and led 49-44 at half­briefly over his left hand. running the offense and get­time. James did not respond to a ting us good shots on pick­few questions as he walked to and-rolls." Pistons 109, Cavaliers 74 the team bus after the game 
The Jazz shot 55 percent LeBron James was grounded carrying a pizza. from the field and finished at The Palace after lifting his He appeared to be injured with 32 assists on 39 made game to rarified air in his pre­with 4:41 left in the first half, field goals. vious visit. when Detroit center Nazr 
"We're a very confident James sprained his left index Mohammed fouled him. team," Williams said. "When finger in the second quarter "I didn't hit him that hard, we execute, we'll get a lot of Wednesday night, and did not but it's easy to sprain a linger," assists and convert easy bas­return, and the Detroit Pistons Mohammed said. "I'm sure kets." went on to beat the Cleveland he'll be OK." 
Andre Iguodala led the Cavaliers Wednesday night. James made both free Sixers with 20 points while The Pistons insistnd the vic­throws and stayed in the Andre Miller added 16. Lou tory didn't mean any less to game. Williams chipped in with 13 them even though it came He had 15 points and three while Willie Green and Samuel against a team missing its assists in the first half, Dalembert had 11 each. first, second and third option accounting for more than one­
It was a frustrating night for on offense. third of the Cavs' points, in a the Sixers ( 4-1 0), who picked "A win is a win," said rematch of the Eastern up a win at Milwaukee 114-99 Richard Hamilton, who led Conference finals. on Tuesday. Detroit with 18 points. Cleveland was lost without 
"We talked before the game "LeBron is a big part of their him. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES WANTED FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester If you or someone sale. $200 P/S just off campus you care about has been sexually "alumniowned" .Biuegoldrentals.com PERSONAL assaulted, 
visit 2-6 BDRM HOMES.$295.PER­WINTER BREAK WORK Blue & Gold Homes now showing ROOMMATE DRIVING YOU UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. SON/MO.GILLISRENTALS.COM.2 $16.25 base-appt., 08-09 & 09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com NUTS? WANT OUT OF THE not go it alone. shtml 72-6306 flexible, no experience needed, DORMS? If you or someone you love needs 
customer sales/service. conditions Walk to campus! Good neighbor­GREAT house for rent available confidential support or assistance, PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­apply, ages 18+, hood. 3 bedroom 1 bath. January 1st! 4 bed, please call Sr. Sue Dunn. ONE WHO IS? FoR SALE call now, Washer/dryer in basement. 1 bath, 2 mi from ND & near new OP, at 1-7819. For more informa­You do not have to be alone. 
start after finals, may continue dur­Landlord does the yardwork. jogging trail, garage, central AIC, tion, visit our website We want to help. 3 bdrm/2 bath home for sale ing the spring, positions through the $750/mo. No pets. No Section 8. basement, at: Call our 24 hour confidential hotline $95,000/for rent $900. US, Credit check and criminal back­NICE! $11 00/mo. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web 706 N. St. Louis. Contact Brad 574 574-273-3835, ground check required. 574-250-503-757-8125 or visit domer­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad site at 220-8666. www.winterbreakwork.com 1266. homes.wetpaint.com for info & pies. in THE OBSERVER. www.lifecall.org 





OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, November 29, 2007 
NBA 
Atlantic Division 

team  record perc. home  
Boston  11-2 .846 7-0  
Toronto  7-7 .500 3-4  
New Jersey  7-8 .467 3-6  
Philadelphia  4-9 .308 2-4  
New York  4-9 .308 4-3  
Central Division  
team  record perc. home  
Detroit  8-5 .615 4-1  
Cleveland  9-6 .600 4-3  
Milwaukee  7-5 .583 6-1  
Indiana  7-8 .467 4-5  
Chicago  3·10 .231 2·3  
Southeast Division  
team  record perc. home  
Orlando  13-3 .813 5·2  
Washington  7-7 .500 3-3  
Charlotte  6·8 .429 5-4  
Atlanta  5·8 .385 3-3  
Miami  4-10 .286 2-5  
Northwest Division  
team  record perc. home  
Utah  10·5 .667 6-1  
Denver  9-6 .600 6-2  
Portland  5·9 .357 5-2  
Minnesota  2-10 .167 1-6  
Seattle  2-13 .133 0-6  
Pacific Division  
team  record perc . home  
Phoenix  11-3 .786 5-1  
LA Lakers  8-6 .571 5-3  
Golden State  6·7 .462 2-4  
LA Clippers  6-7 .462 4-4  
Sacramento  5-9 .357 5-2  
Southwest Division  
team  record perc. lwme  
San Antonio  12-3 .800 8·0  
Dallas  9-5 .643 6-1  
New Orleans  10-6 .625 3~4  
Houston  8-7 .533 4~3  
Memphis  5-9 .357 3-4  

road 
4-2 4-3 4-2 2-5 0-6 
road 
4·2 4-3 4·2 2·5 0-6 
road 
8-1 4-4 1·4 2-5 2-5 
road 
4-4 3-4 0·7 1-4 2-7 
road 
6c2 3·3 4·3 2-3 0,7 
roal;(.,,4;,,,,. 
4"3 
H 
'··!\~~§;.:,'···', 
2·5 

NSCAA/adidas Women's Soccer Top 25 
team record previQu,s 
1 UCLA 14-1-2 1 2 TexasA&M 16-2-1 2 3 Portland 13·3-0 3 4 North Carolina 15-3-0 4 5 Stanford 13-2-3 5 6 Penn State 15-3-1 7 7 Virginia 11-3-4 6 8 Purdue 16·2·2 8 9 SoulhemCal 13-2-2 11 10 Texas 13-3-3 12 11 NOTRE DAME 14-4-1 13 12 West Virginia 14-4-1 14 13 Georgia 15-2-2 17 14 Rorlda Slate 11-4-3 15 15 Tennessee 13-3-2 9 16 Santa Clara 11-5-3 16 17 Boston College 11-4·3 10 18 Wake Forest 11-5-3 18 19 California 12-5-0 19 20 San Diego 14-2-3 20 21 Rorlda 13-4-2 22 22 Oklahoma Slate 12-5-2 25 23 Missouri 12-6-0 21 24 Connecticut 12·5·1 23. 25 BYU 14-3-2 24 
around the dial 
NFL 

Green Bay at Dallas 8:15p.m., NFL Network 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVERS WIRE SERVICES 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss.­Mississippi athletic director Pete Boone thinks he's finally found his man. He had to pay dearly to land Houston Nutt, though. 
Nutt will make $1.7 mil­lion to start and $2 million in the fourth year of his contract, plus incentives. Former coach Ed Orgeron made just $900,000, among the lowest salaries in the Southeastern Conference. 
"The price of poker's gone up," Boone said. 
Nutt will be introduced as Ole Miss' coach at a news conference Wednesday in Oxford. He resigned from Arkansas on Monday after 10 years and accepted an offer from Boone less than four hours later. 

He will get an immediate raise of about $500,000 for coming to Ole Miss and could make as much as $2.3 million if he picks up each of three one-year options after his four-year contract ends. 
Boone said a recent salary survey showed Southeastern Conference coaches average about $2 million per year and he felt he had to be competitive to land Nutt, the 2006 SEC coach of the year. 
Officials at Arkansas said they offered Nutt a one­year extension and an unspecified raise, but he turned them down to move to Oxford. 
"In looking at these (salaries), they're high but they're reasonable num­bers for the market as is," Boone said. 
IN BRIEF Cardinals' La Rossa pleads
guilty to DUI charges 

WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -St. Louis Carclinals manager Tony La Russa pleaded guilty to driving under the influence Wednesday, eight months after police found him asleep inside his running sport utility vehicle at a stop light and smelling of alcohol. 
La Russa said he had decided to plead guilty to the misdemeanor because it was in the best interest of all concerned. 
"I accept full responsibility for my conduct, and assure everyone that I have learned a very valuable lesson and that this will never occur again," La Russa said in a statement released by his attorney, David Roth. La Russa did not appear in court to plead guilty. 
As part of his plea agreement, La Russa will serve at least six months' probation, pay a $678.50 fine, complete DUI school and any recommended treatment and complete 50 hours of community service, accorcling to state prosecutors. 
Alabama's Nick Saban is the highest-paid college coach in the nation with an average of $4 million a year over the life of his eight-year contract. 
Boone would have pre­ferred to pay a lower base salary and load the new coach's contract with incentives. But he said the initial outlay was worth it to bring in a proven coach, one of football's rarest commodities. 
"I think it's important to have a person like Houston Nutt, a proven success," Boone said. "This time we have to get it right, and so when (his resignation) came about we just had to move fast." · 
"He's going to fit in not only at Oxford, but Ole Miss, as well as anybody." 
Mississippi was without a 
New Judg~ app_ointed in 
Bond s pelJury trial 
SAN FRANCISCO -The perjury case against former San Francisco Giants slugger Barry Bonds will be heard by the same federal judge who presided over cases against others linked to a steroids ring centered at a Bay Area lab. 
Court documents released Tuesday show the case has been transferred to 
U.S. District Judge Susan Illston. The move comes at the request of federal prosecutors, who said having Illston preside over the case would be more efficient. 
Illston is also presiding over the cases against Tammy Thomas, a cyclist, and Trevor Graham, the coach for dis­graced Olympic sprinter Marion Jones. 
Both face federal charges they lied either to federal agents or to the grand jury investigating a performance­enhancing drug ring centered at the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative, or BALCO. 
page 15 
coach for less than three days. Orgeron was fired Saturday after three losing seasons and a 10-25 record. 
Boone wiped away worry that he fired Orgeron a year too early with the hire. 
Nutt led Arkansas to an 8-4 record and a likely Cotton Bowl berth before resigning. The 50-year-old is 111-70 in 15 years as a head coach at Arkansas, Boise State and Murray State, and he's been a win­ner in the SEC. 
The Little Rock, Ark., native revived the Arkansas program, going 75-48 since he replaced Danny Ford in 1997. Nutt was 42-38 in conference with one of his biggest wins coming last week when the Razorbacks beat then-No. 1 LSU 50-48 in triple overtime. 

Alexander _expected to play
Sunday against Eagles 
KIRKLAND, Wash. -Shaun Alexander was back practicing Wednesday afternoon for the first time since he sprained his ankle three and a half weeks ago. 
Alexander looked rested and lively while getting most of the running back plays with the offense, his first work since he sprained his left knee Nov. 4 in a loss at Cleveland. 
"Everyone kept saying 'Man, it looked like you're fresh," Alexander said. 
"This is the best I've felt since the second week of the season." 
So does all freah mean all healed? 
"Uh, no," the 2005 league MVP dead­panned. "This is football. Nothing's healed. But it's defmitely something I can play with." 
Alexander said he will play Sunday when the Seahawks take their two­game lead in the NFC West to Philadelphia. 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 29, 2007 Thursday, November 29, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 


NFL 
Simpson enters not guilty plea in court 
O.f.faces charges ofanned robbery and kidnapping 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS-O.J. Simpson stood before a judge Wednesday and firmly spoke a phrase he has uttered in other courtrooms in the past: "Not guilty." 
This time the former football star was arraigned, along with two other men, on suspicion of kidnapping and armed robbery of sports memorabilia dealers in a strange case that has bal­looned to 12 charges that could send Simpson and the others to prison for life. 
Simpson's notoriety, gained from past trials on charges of murder and road rage, looms in the background of the Las Vegas episode. His lawyer said jury selection would be an "onerous" task that would probably last longer than the trial itsell'. 
"I am very concerned that we get 12 people on the jury that can listen to the evidence that occurs in the courtroom," attorney Yale Galanter said on the courthouse steps. "People are going to have opinions." 
Simpson's co-defendants, Charles "Charlie" Ehrlich, 53, and Clarence "C.J." Stewart, 53, also entered not guilty pleas, and Clark County District Judge Jackie Glass set trial for all three men on April 
7. 
Ehrlich's lawyer, John Moran Jr., said he would challenge the most rncent charging docu­ment as vague and a list of potential witnesses as violating his client's Firth Amendment rights. 
District Attorney David Hoger listed ?H potential witnesses, inducting Ehrlieh and Stewart, an odd choice since prosecu­tors may not compel defen­dants to testify. 
Moran said it would be impermissible for the prosecu­tor to call them "if this tor­tured process dons proceed to trial." 
Glass appeared impatient with Moran's argument and said she would consider writ­ten motions when they are filed. She moved quickly through the arraignments, requiring Simpson and the oth­ers to state their ages, educa­tion and that they could under­stand English. 
Simpson appeared relaxed and clwnrful bnfore court con­vened, chatting with his 
lawyers and a few friends in the courtroom. He did not com­ you love nee.:ls help  
ment about the case and con­tined his remarks to small talk.  J.Jense ~.  
"Mr. Simpson is glad that the  
arraignment is over with. He's glad that he doesn't have to  c.,.nj;.Jn~.tial ~,'it .r.D.!J ~~.r.moe:  
come back to Vegas April," Galanter said.  until  .,;w.njr!a.Us ast N.,.ne: v~  
While the lawyer said he would be pleased to have the  • ~ Jo«.JJll.toJII!it 0~, $tw.ule:~~.t Aib:h~ 1-~40~  
cas~:) resolved without a trial, he said that seemed unlikely  D-..,OF, ~1.-.t A~, 1-~19  
unless prosecutors dismissed  
all charges. A plea bargain, he  
suggested,  was  not  on  the  ...........-..Cmii.J''IIItt Ivh:t~1-~63  
table.  
"I don't know what my client  ~ ~P~,Co~ht Ce:~~.tn·,1-436s  
did wrong," Galanter said.  
"And that's why it would be  
difficult for us to enter into any  
kind of a plea agreement. It  
wasn't a trespass because he  
was invited into the  room.  It  
wasn't a  robbery because it  
wasn't the unlawful taking of  
someone else's property."  
The prosecutor declined to  
comment outside court.  
Simpson landed in court after  
leading an odd raiding party in  
a  Sept. 13 hotel  room  con­ 
frontation  with  two  sports  
memorabilia dealers to take  
collectibles and family heir­ 
looms he claimed were his.  
Best Value 1n ToJ:.vn  
Colile See Whv.',..,  
=-­ Indoor/ Outcloor Tennis a:..n d Basketball  
=-­ Free Ta:.nning  
=-­ Heated Pool  
=-- Helazing Jacuzzi  
=-­ Gated C'o.m.m unit:y  
=-­ C'o.m.m unit:y Business C'enter  
=-­ No Application Fees for Students  
=-­ Close to ever:yt.hing_ __ far fro.m ortlinar:y!  

astle1'oint
1._801._1._ C.Ieve.I.a:.nd Rd_ South Bend, IN 46637 
..4pllt•fIlleIJt.'t 
PhoRe: (574) 272-81._1._0 Fax: (574) 272-81._1._4 'FIFIIT _ cpp j _com­
•FREE Pizza for Students 
.rriJO!,vrAttMllt., 

(while supplies last!) f;TT\\ 
~ 
.~. 

'.,, .;...··' 
' .....
··~"· 

1 

MLB 

Hunter to sign with Angels 
L.A. acquires seven-time Gold Glove center fielder from White Sox 
llunter. who hit .21J7 with 2H Torii lluntnr was something wn
Associated Press 

honwrs and 107 HBis for wanted to make an investment 
ANAIII(IM-Torii llunter had Minnesota this year. was in." a rwws roni'PrPIWP with tlw Los obtained two days al'ter the llunter acknowledged he AngniPs AngPis nven1 bnforc\ AngPls dealt Gold Glove short­always admired the Angels from rompiPting his contract. slop Orlando Cabrera to Chieago afar -especially since they 
llunlnr was introducnd for Garland. But ownnr Arte beat his Twins in the 2002 AL WPdrwsday along with starting Moreno denied the team championship series en route to pitdwr .Jon (;arland. arquin\d acquired llunlnr as insuranen in the club's only World Series this month in a lradn with llw ease\ incumbent center fielder title. lie hammed it up Chicago White Sox. A seven­(;ary Matthews Jr. gnts caught Wednesday with a rally monkey time Cold ( ;lovo cnnte\1' lieldnr. up in baseball's investigation given to him by an Angels lluntnr rnachPd a prnlirninary into performance-enhancing staffer. keeping the stuffed ani­agrnnml'nt Nov. 21 on a $90 drugs. mal on his shoulder as he mill ion. livn-ynar contract with "That newer malty entered our answered questions. t hn AngPis but has ynt to linalizP minds. to be honnst," Moreno "I told myself years ago that if t.hP dPal. said. "I think it's a Pandora's I ewr become a free agent, I'm 
"Wp'rp just working out the hox. I don't know what's going going over here with the final dntails ol' Torii's contract to happen here. Obviously wn've Angels," llunter said. "But at and that should hn donP nda­spemt time with Gary, and we're tho time of my free agency, they tivPiy quickly,'' now Angels gen­pretty sure Gary's been clean had a center fielder already, so I e\ral managPr Tony Hnagins for thnw years. We've had eorn­kind of threw them on the back said. "lin hasn't orticially writ­munieation with the commis­burner and looked at other Lnn his nanw. but wn'vn agrond sionnr's oflke, but to be able to teams -and then they came to all llw LPrms." gnt an athlete and a person like out of nowhere. 
The Community of Sant'Egidio Co-Sponsored By NDASK 


NOVEMBER 29, 2007 NOTRE DAME joins Cities for Life 
Cities for Life-Cities Against the Death Penalty 
VIGIL AT NOTRE DAME GROTTO FOLLOWED BY PRAYER FOR LIFE ON 
DEATH ROW AT NOTRE DAME LOG CHAPEL 
7:00 p.m. Thursday November 29, 2007 
Throughout the world, more than 500 CITIES FOR LIFE are joining the largest ever mobilization AGAINST THE DEATH PENALTY, and affirm their participation in the initiative NO JUSTICE WITHOUT LIFE to stop all executions in the world. 
The World Day "Cities for Life-Cities against the Death Penalty" celebrates the anniversary of the first abolition of the death penalty by the law of a European state. the Great Duchy of Tuscany in 1786. Many cities of all continents will light up their symbolic monuments-from the Colosseum in Rome to the Plaza de Santa Ana in Madrid, from the Central Obelisque in Buenos Aires to the Moneda Palace in Santiago -making a worldwide moral alliance to ask to stop all the capital executions. Participating cities include Rome. Bruxelles. Madrid, Ottawa, Mexico City, Berlin. Barcelona, Florence, Venice. Buenos Aires. Austin, Dallas, Antwerp, Vienna, Naples, Paris. Copenhagen. Stockholm, Reggio Emilia. Bogota, Santiago de Chile and about 400 others. This year many US cities will be participating including New York City, Minneapolis, Washington, D.C., and Boston. The initiative is promoted by the Community of Sant'Egidio and supported by international human rights organizations, gathered in the World Coalition Against the Death Penalty. They join in the effort to have a higher level of justice, justice without revenge, restorative justice that never denies life. 
"Cities for Life -Cities Against the Death Penalty"! 
For more mformabon contact Mchael Driessen at mdriesse@hotmail.com or Richard LaSalvia at richard_lasalvla@sbcglobal.net 


THIS WEEK IN 
Thursday, November 29, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SWIMMING 
Coughlin advances to national championships 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Have suit and goggles. will travel. 
That's NataliA Coughlin's motto as she goes just about anywhere in pursuit or compe­tition: Singapore, South Africa, Brazil. 
Starting Thursday, the five­time Olympic medalist will hit the water, along with Michael Phnlps, at the U.S. short-course national championships, a ment contested in yards instead or Olympic meters. 
Pholps will test his surgically repaired right wrist for the lirst time in competition since ht~ hurt himself getting into a car in October. 
'Tve been doing a lot of turns full-speed on it. I've been able to get a lot of pressure put on it to see how it's all going to han­dle," he said. "It feels fine. The first few times it hurt a little bit because I hadn't done those motions before in a while." 
It's another chance for Coughlin and Phelps to fine­tune their starts, turns and strokes in the year's last major meet before the Olympic year begins. 
''I'm just here for the racing experience," said Coughlin, who jetted into Atlanta from Brazil. where she won three races at a World Cup meet last Sunday. "Regardless of what happens this weekend, I'm pretty happy with where I am physically. My World Cups are all just off my best times, if not my best times." 
Coughlin trains with the women's team at California. But having completed her col­lege eligibility in 2005, the 25­year-old swimmer can't com­pete with her teammates in meets. 
"That's half the reason I trav­el so far," she said. "Frankly, it's hard to find meets when you're older and it's a good excuse to go to Brazil and Singapore and South Africa." 
And she loves the dry-land 



a.m. In Beijing, linals will be in the morning and preliminaries at night for the first time in several Olympics. 
"It's going to affect everyone exactly the same," she said. "It's the Olympics. People are not going to be tired and slug­gish in the morning." 
Coughlin is considering swimming six events in Beijing, one more than she swam at the 2004 Athens Olympics when she won five medals, including three in relays. 
"No way am I going to try and swim more events if it hin­ders my performance," she said. "''m not going to try to bP. an ironwoman just to be one." 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies provides financial support for undergraduate summer research, study, and internships. 
RESEARCH AND TRAVEL GRANTS UP TO $4,000 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 8, 2008 
EUROPEAN INTERNSHIP STIPENDS UP TO$ 3,500 
APPLICATION DEADliNE: FEBRUARY 16, 2008 
benefits. 
"Singapore was incredible," she said, smiling at the memo­ry. "Great shopping -I got a new camera there. Great food. I had a very nice week in Singapore." 
Besides the new stamps in her passport, Coughlin has honed her ability to travel across multiple time zones, get off a plane and dive in the water. 
"It's a really great skill for athletes to have," she said. "A lot of people kind of freak out about time changes and morn­ing finals." 
In Brazil. Coughlin competed in finals that began at 9:30 

The 35th Annual Saint MaiJI s College 
;ffladrigal 
((hristmas 1!\inners 
Fri. and Sat., Nov. 30 and Dec. 1 at 7 P.M. Sat. and Sun., Dec. 1 and Dec. 2 at 2 P.M. in Regina North Lounge 
l'v1adrigal singers from Saint Mary's College, along with period instruments, jugglers, jesters and a Master of the House entertain. rovallv 
during a feast fit for a king or queer;! " 
Adult tickets are $30 and $35, and $12 for children 12 and under. 
-·--tit­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, fN 
For tickets call (574) 284-4626. MoreauCenter.com 

Thafl#::.~~vi"5 +o-tlo fi~+: 1· W,~fc)J +he-paradc­
2. ~..t +wk..e.~ 
) Take-nap 4--Wovk. ~n <;U1ool app~ 5". ~roll 111 tee;+ prep! 
Enroll in November and save S125! 
We're celebrating the Thanksgiving season by offering you S125 off our comprehensive courses for the GMAT, GRE, LSAT. MCAT, OAT, OAT, or PCAT.' Just enroll between November 19th and November 30"'! 
Only 1 Day Left to Take Advantage of This Offer! 
Don't miss this chance to prep for less! Calll-800-KAP-TEST or visit kaptest.com to learn more. 
1-800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com I{ A p l A N J TEST PREP AND 
~ ADMISSIONS 
··(,..':'1! ..;··~···· ,,_....,..;t...,.,........,.;·.-.,:,.._w:/'1 ~...::'t.«-•-~*.,...>tr""-.wot_.,.,.,_,.,.....,_,....,...,.,_""....,.Oo/-~·,,~ ........:-··-··..,..c ;,I~~Y~J(• , • ..,.f '' '>", ........,.:":oo<.. f-"'-•>O.....,.,...M,""'w-:-•.•,..__~--L••._..,...~...,.~-'*'.-> --.. ..... _. •.-_......••• :,..._,..,.,,, :,"""""' ""~<M> ....:Iot<•foO<!>",__, 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

Former Houston coach Briles moves to Baylor 
Bears to replace Morriss after long stay in Big 12 cellar 
Associated Press 

FO 11'1' WO HT II. Tnxas ­Houston coach Art Briles is next to take on tho task of pulling Baylor out of the Big 12 basement. 
Brilns eonfirrned he was 11~1tving in a nPws eonl'orence Wednesday at Houston after meeting with his players. 
Baylor spokesman Nick .Joos said a news conl'orenee was sdwdulnd later in the day on tho Wa1:o campus to announce the school's now l'ootball coach. 
Briles led Ilouston to four bowls in his five seasons. lie was offnn~d tlw job Wed nosday, a day after meet­ing with Baylor athletic direc-
THIS WEEK IN 

tor Ian McCaw in Dallas. 
"Life is full of decisions. Sometimes, you have to look at things from a professional, personal standpoint," Briles said. "Professionally, (llouston) ... is great universi­ty with a situation I'm proud to be a part of. Personally, the move allows a person of my nature a little more security. When you're getting up in my age, that's an important factor in life." 
The Houston Chronicle reported on its Web site that Briles will get a seven-year contract for about $1.8 million per season. Briles, who turns 52 Monday, had four years left on his Houston eontract with a basn salary of $900,000 annu­ally. 
Brilns replaces Guy Morriss. who was fired Nov. 18 after five seasons. Morriss' firing came the day after the Bears (3-9) completed their 12th straight losing season with their 12th consecutive Big 12 loss, 45-14 to Oklahoma State. 
Houston (8-4) has already accepted an invitation to play in the Texas Bowl on Dec. 28 in Houston against an unde­termined opponent. The Cougars won the Conference USAtitle last season. 
Briles was 34-28 in five sea­sons at Houston with only one losing season. Before his arrival, the Cougars had only two winning seasons in the previous 12 years. 
Before going to Houston, where he was a four-year let­terman as a receiver and played in the 1976 Cotton Bowl, Briles spent three sea­sons as running backs coach at Texas Tech. llis previous head coaching job had been at Stephenville High School, where in 12 seasons he was 136-29-2 and won four Texas state championships. 
Morriss was 18-40 overall, 7-33 in conference games. The Bears were 0-8 in the Big 12 this season. 
The leading candidate ini­tially was Mike Singletary, the assistant head coach for the San Francisco 49ers. But the Pro Football Hall of Fame line­backer and Baylor icon took his name out of consideration after a lengthy meeting with McCaw last week in California. 
Briles was also on Baylor's short list, along with Houston Nutt, who resigned at Arkansas on Monday and was hired by Mississippi on Tuesday. 
Baylor's 12 consecutive los-ing seasons have eome under the four coaches since Grant Teal'f' left in 1992 al'ter 128 victories and eight bowl appearances in 21 seasons. 

The Bears aro the only Big 12 team without a bowl appearance since the confnr­ence's incnption in 1996. Only two teams from Bowl Championship Series confer­ences have gone longer with­out a bowl, but Indiana ( 7-5) is expected to play its first postseason game in 14 years. Vanderbilt (5-7) lost its season finale to miss making its first bowl in 25 years. 


Thursday, November 29, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Taylor shooter is unknown 
Associated Press 
ASHBUHN, Va. -Sean Taylor's father urged the Washington Hedskins to make a playoff push, while Miami police asked for the public's help to solve the safety's death in what they suspect was a random bur­glary. 
Miami-Dade police director Hobert Parker said Wednesday there were no indications the slain 24-year-old was targeted or knew his assailant. 
"There's nothing that indicates thus far that there's some kind of involvement on the victim's part," said Parker, adding it was "more like a random event." 
Police have no suspects in the fatal shooting. 
"We have no reason to think this was anything other than a burglary or a robbery involving an intruder," Parker said. 
Police are still investigating, however, a possible link to a Nov. 17 break-in at Taylor's home, in which police said someone pried open a front window, rifled through drawers and left a kitchen knife on a bed. 
Evidence at Taylor's home indi­cates one or more intruders barged into the house early Monday in an attempted burgla­ry, Parker said. After a con­frontation inside the home, Taylor was shot once in the upper leg and died early Tuesday after losing a tremendous amount of blood. 
Taylor's family has scheduled a funeral service for 11 a.m. Monday at Pharmed Arena at Florida International University in Miami. Redskins owner Dan Snyder is arranging for the entire football organization to attend. 
At Hedskins Park on Wednesday, Taylor's family and teammates came together to pri­vately share tears and memories. 
"Many of these guys were won­dering, 'How in the world am I going to go out and do this on Sunday?"' said Brett Fuller, the team chaplain. "And when Mr. Taylor stood up and said go out and win these next five and make it to the playoffs, we felt a surge in the room, that he almost gave us permission to play well." 
Fuller said Pedro Taylor's 10­minute speech was followed by 10 minutes of "hugs and thank yous." 
Sean Taylor's brother, sister and uncle were also in atten­dance, in addition to his girl­friend, Jackie Garcia, who also addressed the team. 
"Both of them, they kind of echoed Sean's passion for things," coach Joe Gibbs said. "And the way he cared about things." 
The team then began to attempt to focus on its prepara­tions for Sunday's home game against the Buffalo Bills. Players went to· their game-planning meetings -which were shorter than normal -and later held a quieter-than-usual afternoon practice. 
"Nothing was normal about today," linebacker London Fletcher said. "We had the meet­ings, but it wasn't the normal type of meetings. Practice, it was practice, but it just wasn't the same type of feeling, so to speak. We tried to make it feel the same, but I found myself thinking about Sean and imagining him out on the football field playing free safety for us." 
Taylor's locker remained untouched, but the Redskins made the uncomfortably neces­sary move of dropping him from the official roster as part of a series of personnel moves. 
Defensive lineman Andre Carter was having to cope with the loss of a teammate for the second time in three years. He played for the San Francisco 49ers when offensive lineman Thomas Herrion died of a heart attack after a preseason game,in September 2005. 
''I've experienced the death of two teammates," Carter said. "No person wants to say that." 
Carter said he was drawing on his experiences in San Francisco to help him through the week. Also, Gibbs received a call from 49ers coach Mike Nolan, who offered advice. 
Players found it difficult to stay focused on Xs and Os in the meetings, while the physical nature of the practice was some­what therapeutic. Even so, many players did not wish to speak to reporters, including Clinton Portis and Santana Moss, Taylor's closest friends on the team. 
"The mentality of it all is you really want to do nothing," Carter said. "You just have these moments of sadness.... The focus level is tough. But your teammates up in the sky looking down on you, they would want you to keep on pushing, keep on moving forward." 
The Redskins are 5-6 and remain in contention for a playoff berth despite three straight loss­es. Fuller said Taylor's father didn't explicitly say the team should win and make the play­offs for his son, but many of the players took the field with that feeling. 
"Win for Sean," Carter said. "But win for us." 

• • they're only Fina.lsl 
Relieve the stress & tension that the end of the semester can bring, with a relaxing facial. Clear your mind & your schedule; it's time you come in for a European facial. 
Peggy is a licensed aesthetician specializing in facials and La Roche-Posay skin care products. Our South Bend location is just minutes from campus on North Michigan Street. So before you start studying, get a facial and get stress FREE! 
So before, during or after finals -get relaxed, refreshed and revitalized! 
574.282..2020 
Belt 
continued from page 24 
Hanson brothers in the movie Slapshot. 
The Irish hold a shootout after every Thursday practice before home games -a tra­dition that is thought to have started in 1995 under former coach Dave Poulin and that is also a staple on college rinks across the country. 
The competition is simple: Every player skates down from center ice and takes on the Irish goalie one-on-one. If a player scores, he moves to the next round. If he doesn't, he takes the skate of shame to the loser's side of the ice. The snipers then battle in the second round to score again, but if no one does, then the goalies win. 
The winner gets more than a little locker room cred ­he receives a large leather title belt for the week with WSF (World Shootout Federation) Champion let­tered on a nameplate riveted into the belt. Gilbert designed the belt years ago and cut out two monogram ND patches from the jerseys to frame the WSF logo on each side. 
"It's like a World Wrestling Federation belt. You're the champ for the week," said Irish right wing, and occa­sional champ, Erik Condra. 
Condra also said he could never imagine Hanson win­ning the belt in his four years at Notre Dame. 
"I haven't seen Hanson's dad shoot a puck in a while, but I think anybody out there who has a stick in their hands can beat Hanson in a shootout," he said. 
Hanson may not be able to score a goal on a shootout even if the net were empty, but the Irish tradition has seen a number of talented shooters take home the title in the last decade. Associate Athletic Director Tom Nevala said Yan Stastny, who left Notre Dame after two years in 2003 and now plays for the St. Louis Blues, was a shootout star. 
You never knew what move Stastny would pull, Nevala said, but he always used a wood stick with a blade so big, it was just a "paddle." 
Hanson has his own go-to move in the shootout, but chances are he didn't learn it from Stastny. 
"I go down. I do a little head fake, goalie doesn't bite. I go to my backhand, goalie doesn't bite," Hanson 
said. "So at that point, I usu­ally dump it into the corner and skate hard back to the end of the line." 
The shootout battle extends beyond the ice and into the stands. The team's staff, including Gilbert, Lockert, Nevala and Director of Hockey Operations Brad Aldrich, each pick the player they think will take the belt that day. The Gilbert-man­dated rules say no players can be chosen twice and goalies can't be picked. 
Lockert said he tries to mix his picks up, but it's kind of like the lottery. Aldrich has more of a system. 
"I always stay with the younger guys," said Aldrich, who won for the first time this year when he picked freshman Ben Ryan last week. "I don't like to go with the upperclassmen. [The underclassmen] are a lot more loose, and they don't take it as seriously, usually those are the guys that score." 
Aldrich didn't go out on a limb when he chose Ryan, because the freshman had won two straight shootouts before Aldrich called the third victory. 
"I think it's fixed. I think people feel bad for him," Hanson joked. "Benny's hands are unbelievable. He comes down, and it's serious­ly like he has a wand in his hand. The stuff he does with a puck, I can't even dream of." 
Lockert said he unfortu­nately picked Hanson to win last week, but only because Hanson begs to be chosen every week. 
"I think those are sad pup­pies who want to pick [Hanson]," Condra said. 
Hanson has no problem that no one thinks he can win a shootout. 
"Because deep down at the bottom of my heart, I know no matter how bad I am at shootouts, when I look in the mirror I will never be as ugly as [Irish forward] Justin White," he said. 
Hanson admits it would be easier for him to win a CCHA championship than it is for him to capture the belt. 
"I do believe his first year in the [NHL], Sidney Crosby went 2-for-13 on shootouts, so you can't be great in every aspect of the game," Hanson said. "I figure I'll just sacri­fice one thing -Thursday practice shootouts is it." 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 

EntHI"fH"iSH Ren1···A--C..:n· would tik~~ 1o thank the~ foHowing surnrner ~ntern for their boundless energy, enthusiasn1 and efforts. 
University or Notre D.aft'l:e 
Mary Edvv<:u·ds 
===·=:n~:-m::::w 
;::;;:~~;;,~;:;;;;;;:::) 

Apply online at; enterprise.com/careers Or contact: Jafni.e Serrnersheirn, Recru~ting Supervisor phone: (260) 482--3651 e-·rnail: jarnie.l.serrnersheirn(@erac.c.-om EOE/fv1FDV 
Depth 
continued from page 24 
points pnr game, followed by Charnl Allen with 13.0 and Lindsay Sehrader with 12.3. 
The multi-pronged attaek was most evident during Tuesday's 93-47 win over Canisius. The Irish played all 11 players on the roster, and when senior guard Amanda Tsipis nailed a free throw with 3:03 to play, all of them had managed to score. By the final buzzer. everyone but center Melissa D'Amieo had an assist. and everyone but point guard Melissa Leehlitner had a rebound. 
Because nveryone in Notre Damn's lineup can shoot, pass and rebound, opposing eoaehes have had trouble figuring out which players to foeus on. Golden Griffins eoach Terry Zeh said even though he wanted Notre Dame to foree the ball in to the post, he still could not managn to find good matehups against Notre Dame's guards. 
"They present matchup problnms for a lot of pnople, evnn in the Big East. With thnir spread offensive sys­tem. their PrinePlon system, I think, that's one of tlw best passing basketball teams I've seen in a while," Zoh said. "And with ever"ybody moving tho ball and tlwir con l'i de rH~n k n oc king those shots down. they are a really good tnam." 
Zeh said on~1 of the best aspeets of Notrn Damn's play -at least against his team -was its ability to pass the ball eiTeetively. The Irish fin­ishnd with a 25-16 assist-to­turnovnr margin even though the team leader (Barlow) only had six dishes 
Morrow 
continued from page 24 
Five minutes into the eontest. 

tlw sophomore midlinlder beat 
two dolimdnrs down the left 
llank and got on· a vidous shot 
that was saved by Clark. 
Eighteen minutes later, Morrow 
boat Oakland dnfnnder Logan 
Lyon outside the box, forcing 
Lyon to foul him with the 
rnsulting fren kiek nearly end­
ing in a goal for follow Irish 
midlidder MiehaPI Thomas. 
In tho 84th minut<\ Morrow 

boat a delimder down the left 
llank and thnmdnd a through­
ball that was inches away from 
putting forward Joseph Lapira · onn-on-onn with the knepnr. 
Tho rost of tlw night, Morrow's 
galloping runs down the loft 
sidnline rnsultnd in several dan­
gmous crosses that nearly 
oxtnndod Notre Damn's hmd. 
"Wn talked to him," senior 

midlinldor Alex Yoshinaga said. 
"Wn said, 'It's posL'ieason. We 
nnnd you to step up, to play 
big.' And obviously he did 
I tonight!." 
What's most important about 

Morrow's pnrlimnarH~f~ against 
Oakland. hownver, doesn't eon­
corn last night's game. Despite 
tlw oll"ensive ehancns ematod 
by Morrow, ho didn't actually 
play a part in any of the goals 
that put tho Irish through to tho 
NCAA Hound of 16. 
Thn notnworthy part of 

Morrow's play against tho 
Crizzlins is what it mnans going 
li1rwanl for Notre Dame. 
Tho Irish will have to travel 

to California in their noxt game in the triumph. 
One of the most important results of the squad's depth has been the decreased pressure on some of the top Irish scorers from last sea­son. Even though Allen fin­ished last season with 17.0 points per game and Barlow had 10.3 in her freshman campaign, both players feel less pressure to make shots because they can rely on teammates. 
"We have a lot of depth so I feel confident in my team that I can make the extra pass and they can knock down the shot," Allen said. 
Barlow said she has been getting more open looks because defenses cannot focus on shutting down one Irish player like many opposing coaches tried to do to Allen last season. 
"They're going to have to go one-on-one with us," Barlow said. "They can't stop us, they can't double team one person and hope to stop our team. We have multiple threats, and that's a good thing." 
But despite the production, the teamwork and the wins, McGraw is still not satisfied with her team's present position. 
"I just think we can exe­cute better," McGraw said. "Teams are going to take away our transition, and we have to got points in the half eourt." 
The early success has not prevented McGraw from looking for areas to improve. 
"I think we haven't seratehed the surfaee of our potential yet and we really ean be a really formidable team when we have every­body going on all cylinders," she said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
to take on No. 7 seed Santa Clara and its miserly defense, which has allowed only 0.62 goals per game this season. Should the Irish advance to the Elitn 8, No. 2 seed Wake Forest and its even stingier defense 
(0.55 goals allowed per game) will likely be waiting to greet thnm. 
Against such stout defensive opponents, the Irish will need more on offense than just long balls played into Lapira's path. To ereatn good ofl"ensive ehances, Notre Dame will need players to penetrate and break down the opposing defenses. That's exactly what Morrow can givn the Irish. 
"!Morrow] ean go at defend­ors and take people on." Irish eoaeh Bobby Clark said. "It's great to have people that can go at players. There's nothing that unsettles a defense more than someone that can take the ball and run past you." 
Ali this brings us back to Wednesday night's game. 
Morrow's confidence in hL'> ability to beat defenders was unmistakable, and that eonfi­dnnce surely grew each time he blew past an Oakland defender. Givnn the way the Irish will need Morrow to play in the upcoming days, he couldn't havn picked a better time to bn attacking with eonfidence. 
llopnfully for Morrow and the Irish, nnxt game, it will result in a goal or two. 
The views in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofthe Observer. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd. edu 
Oakland 
continued from page 24 
the shot and fed a streaking Alex Yoshinaga at the post. Yoshinaga tapped the cross in to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
"I knew I was getting a [substitution] soon, so I knew I had one more run to make," Yoshinaga said. "I just took off, and the guy that was on me was watching the ball, and I got behind him." 
Oakland struggled to con­trol the ball for the rest of the half as strong winds killed every ball the visitors sent down the field. The Irish were able to maintain offen­sive pressure for the remain­der of the half. 
"!Oakland] is a very direct team. The way they play, playing with the wind is a big advantage for them," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
Ten minutes into the sec­ond half, Lapira added an insurance goal for the Irish. Fifth-year senior Hyan Miller crossed the ball and Lapira 
timed the play perfectly, sneaking behind his defender for a sliding tap-in. 
"The timing to get in front of your man at the near post like that, that was a thing of beauty there," Clark said. 
Lapira, a 5-foot-1 0 senior, holds the record for career NCAA Tournament goals at Notre Dame -five -and has a habit of heating up at the right time of the season. 
"Coach always preaches about getting to the near post. I kind of made a habit of it last year, but this year I haven't been doing it as a much." Lapira said. 
Oakland turned up the pressure after the second Irish goal, switching to a 3-4­3 formation and pushing the ball deep into Notre Dame territory. 
Grizzlies forward Endre Osnes cut the deficit to one with an unassisted goal with just under 25 minutes remaining in the game. Osnes collected a loose ball inside the penalty area, spun and beat senior keeper Chris Cahill in the lower left cor­ner. The goal was the third of 
Northwestern with a time of 2:01.15, and junior Christa
Husky 
Higgins, who continued from page 24 recorded a sec­the year for Osnes. 
Oakland continued to pour on the pressurr~ with good scoring chances in the 70th and 73rd minutes. At one point, senior Sebastian Harris got loose and fired a rocket to the near post, but Cahill was in position and swatted the ball away with both hands. 
"Cahill did very well han­dling high balls into the box tonight. That was always a threat," Clark said. 
Like Cahill, all three Notre Dame players that notched points are experienced veter­ans playing in their final NCAA Tournament. 
"This group of seniors real­ly wants it," Clark said. "From the minute we lost last year, they have worked tremendously hard. This is the culmination of their work and hopefully we can push this thing a little bit further." 
Notre Dame will travel to California Saturday to take on UC-Santa Clara in the NCAA Hound of 16. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
senior Laura Hings have been 
key contributors to the squad. Stitt holds the team's season­

ond-plaee fin­"What is important is bests in both Maxwell finished with a time of ish of 51.15 the one-meter
getting fast times to 
1:03.31 in the 100-yard breast­seconds in the and three-
qualify for the 
stroke and a 2:15.65 mark in 100-yard meter, with the 200-yard breaststroke. freestyle in that championships. " seores of Both finishes were personal same event. 275.40 and bests for her and season-bests The divers, 294.55,
Carrie Nixon 
for the Irish. Miller finished just who will attend respectively.
Irish coach 
behind her teammate with a the Ohio State The Irish had 
1:05.46 in the 100-yard breast­Invitational, Thanksgiving stroke. have been eon-week off after 
Other bright spots for the sistent performers all season. five straight weeks of eompeti­Irish have been freshman The field in Columbus will con­tion. Lauren Parisi, who finished sist of 11 teams, including third in the 200-yard back­Minnesota and Purdue. Contact Jared Jedick at stroke against Wisconsin and Sophomore Natalie Stitt and jjedick@nd.edu 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students Seeks New Undergraduate Student Members For 2008-2009 

We welcome both "allies" and gay, lesbian or bi-sexual students. 
Applications are available on the Core Council Web Site: 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu 
or can be picked up from: The Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building Bam to 5pm Monday-Friday 
Completed Applications are due Monday, December 3 by Spm in the Office of Student Affairs 
Your participation in this Council will: 
• 
Assist with identifying the ongoing needs ofgay, lesbian andbi-sexual students 

• 
Assistin implementing campus-wide educational programming on gay andlesbian issues 


Please visit our web site for more information: http://corecouncil.nd.edu 
...-------------------------------------------------­Thursday, November 29, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLAcK DoG 
DEUCES MANOR 
I had this p1m to donate money to needy citizens, 

I""-"""""'"--'---,. but since ourlast 2 didn't get printed I won't have enough money. 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

CROSSWORD 
Across 38 Hilarious ... or a Lady abroad 
hint to this puzzle's theme 

5 With 50-Down, steak go-with 42 Brown. in ads 
10 With 68-Across, 43 Passed fish fillet go-with 
44 See 33-Across 14 Wedding 
47 Closed tight 

parties?: Abbr. 
51 White-knuckle 

15 Water, for one 54 Make a ship16 Tel 
stop by facing 17 Psyche 
the wind components 
55 Newscast lead 

18 Fix, as a hitch 59 Drift 19 Unnerve 60 Airline rarity,20 "Yep" negator nowadays
21 Behind closed 63 "May ...... yourdoors order?" 
23 Drug-free 64 Bob Dylan's first 25 Well-founded 
wife and the title 29 He-man 
of a song about 33 With 44-Across, her hot sandwich go­
65 Makeover 

with 66 Stinky 34 Like waves on a 67 Dirty magazines shoreline and such
37 It's on the St. Lawrence River: 
68 See 1 0-Across 

Abbr. 69 See 1-Down 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
seen on it 
informally, with

of joint 
52 Spruce (up) 
41 "The very _!" 
"the"

Soviet'U.S. 
42 The Rams of the 53 Perfume 

space satellites 
61 Underwater cave
Atlantic 1 0 Coni. ingredient

27 Dragged out dweller 
45 2003 #2 hit for 56 1955 Oscar 

28 Suffix with 62 Oral health org. 
Lil Jon and the nominee for "Mr. 
absorb 
East Side Boyz Hulot's Holiday" 64 Draft org. 
30 Shake, in a way 

WlLLSHORTZ 

70 Neither good nor bad 
Down With 69-Across, 
burger go-with 2 Treat splendidly 3 One saying "I 
do" 4 Letters before Liberty or 
Constitution 5 Sprung (from) 6 x, y and z 7 Toy sometimes 
seen on a beach 8 Order 9 Big name in 
balers 10 Unisex dress 11 Female gametes 12 1995 showbiz 
biography by C. David Heymann 13 December 31, e.g. 21 Harden 
39 Fred Astaire's 46_-Cat 57 Tex's neighbor to This a the north
22 Musician Brian 48 Go-getter 
Lovely Day" 58 Some wines 

24 Breezed through 49Womb
40 The Beeb is 60 Partner, 

26 One of a series 50 See 5-Across 

31 Cable inits. since For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute: or, with a1979 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 32 Albino in 'The 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of SundayDa Vinci Code" 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 35 Police target 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 36 Jazzy James past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 38 Something to Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young take in a car solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

~  THAT SCRAMBLED \IIfORD GAME o~· Hijnri At>1old ;md Mtk'i.l Arg•non  
Ut<ill::.rambl•J lhet><.J rout .Jumbles, one letter to each !!quare.  

!o funn lour <:>tdi0ary woros. 

~E~O~ I() 
Print answer here: A 

(Ans,.,·ers tomorrow.! y~-'>ler(l,ay's IJvmble:a MOUTH ROBIN TAMPER DEMURE Answer: When the class go! rowdyo the math teacher dd a -"NUMHf.R'' ON THE'M 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITffiS BORN ON THIS DAY: Scarlett Pomers, 19; Jon Stewart, 45; Ed Harris, 57; Paul Shaffer, 58 
Happy Birthday: If you expect too much or overspend, overindulge or overdo this year, your plans will backfire. Choosing the right partners, friends and col­leagues will make a huge difference to the outcome. Make sure there is some­thing substantial for you to work wilh before going ahead. Your numbers are 5, 21,25,29,42,47 
ARffiS (March 21-April 19): Get involved in activities or events that will expand your knowledge of different cultures or will introduce you to someone ­who can teach you something unique. Dance, laugh, love and be merry. 5 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A stubborn attitude will not help you find out the 
truth. You need to compromise and listen to what others have to say. Talk face­to-face if you want to resolve issues without doubt. An added burden may cause you some worry. 2 stars GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): Do things a little differently and you will be recog­nized for your uniqueness. Whether it is at work, school or play, being a leader not a follower will set a standard that others will admire and try to mimic. A close friend or relative will give you the go-ahead for something you want to do. 4 stars CANCER (June 21-Joly 22): You will be able to make changes that are overdue and will contribute to your advancement. More responsibility is heading your 
way but with it will come higher status and respect. Aggressiveness on your part 
will pay off. 3 stars 

LEO (July 23-Ang. 22): You can't waste time spinning your wheels when there is so much to do and so much to gain. You will be the one with the ideas, solu­tions and the spark that ignites everyone else. Love is def'mitely present and a fai­rytale romance can develop today. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep things together, regardless of what others say or do. You have to give your best to something you believe in. Working for a worthy cause will help you differentiate yourself from others. 4 stars LIBRA {Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't trust what others are offering or promising. Get 
what you want in writing. Someone you thought you knew well will prove other­wise. Don't be alarmed but do prepare to move on. 2 stars SCORPIO {Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can't stop now when you are so close to having everything you want. Changes can be made that will set you apart from the crowd. Have the confidence to sell your talent. Love, live and be happy. 5 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You've got a whole Jot of issues to deal with 
and, if you keep ignoring what needs to be done, you will continue to stand still. 
Set your mind on ending old conditions and letting go of what you no longer 
need. Revamp. reconcile or release. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN {Dee. 22-Jan. 19): You have to put your money on the table, check out good investments and refuse to let emotions. love or personal situations 
distract you. A change in direction, career or the use of your talents will lead to 
advancement and new connections. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll be emotional, up for whatever comes your 
way and ready to expand your horizons. Your openness will lead to intrigue, 
better relationships and probably more money if you put your talent to work for 
you. Love is in the stars. 3 stars 

PISCES {Feb_ 19-Marcb 20): Be careful with whom you deal. Choosing the 
right person or people to do things with will be the difficult task. Focus on what 
will bring the highest returns fmancially. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are dedicated to your beliefs, friendships and fatnily tradi­
tions but are curious about everything that is unfamiliar. You are impulsive, pas­sionate and playful. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, November 29, 2007 
page 24 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish defeat Oakland 2-1, advance to NCAA round of 16 
By DAN MURPHY Associa[l' Spor[s EJiwr 

No. 10 Notre Damn sur­vivod a late flurry of Oakland shots to advance to the NCAA round of 16 with a 2-1 
victory  at  Alumni  Finld  
Wedrwsday night.  
W i t h  tim  w i n d  at  the i r  

hacks, tlw Irish dominatnd thn first 45 minutes of play, outshooting the c;rizzlies S-2 in tho rirst haiL They also had a 5-I advantage in cor­nnr kicks in tlw half. 
Crizzlies goalkonpnr Steve Clark managed to keep the gamo scorelnss until the :~5th minutn when senior for;ward .Joseph l.apira beat his defonder to a pass nnar the goalmouth. l.apira passed up 
see OAKLAND/page 22 
Moving on 

Morrow directs Irish attack from midfield 
If you were looking at the box seore from Wednesday's game, Justin Morrow's name would not be the one that catches your eye. 
In 68 minutes, the sophomon~ mid fielder 
· t d Greg Arbogast 
regrs ere three shots, one of Sports Writer which forced a save by Oakland konpnr Steve Clark. Thoso statistics, though, don't do justice to the rnlevance of Morrow's pnrformancn Wednesday night. 
From the opening whistle, Morrow was the most active player on the field for the Irish. eonstantly demanding the ball from his wide lel't midfield posi­tion. Nearly every time he received the ball, Morrow imme­diately looked to itttack the Grizzlies defense, and he often succeeded. 
see MORROW/page 22 

NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Svvin1n1ers travel to Washington for Husky Invitational 
with hopes of earning qualify­This is Notre Dame's first win so far this season was at The field at thn II usky
Divers leave for Ohio 
ing time for the NCAA appearance in the Husky the Dennis Stark Helays earlier Invitational consists of I 0 State Invitational in Championships at the end of Invitational, which will take this year. But Nixon said the squads, induding USC, who the tlw season. The diving l.f~am, place today through Saturday. record is not indicative of her Irish lost to narlinr this snason.
Columbus thLs weekend mnanwhiln. will !wad to the ThP evnnt follows the same for­team's progress this yPar. Freshm1m Sam Maxwell and Ohio State Invitational in mat as the NCAA "The regular season is more Amywren Millnr have been koy Columbus. Ohio. Championships, providing the for race practice and d()(is not eompPtitors for thn Irish. pro­
By JARED JEDICK "Our main focus out in team with some much-needed affect the lina! outeonw," Nixon viding thn tnam with high

Spons Writer 
Washington this week will he to practice for the style and pace said. "It is great for team hopes for the future. swim fast timos so WI~ can get of that meet. morale to win a meet, but what Two weeks ago, against 
Notr1• llamP tntvPis to till' morn girls quaiified for the The Irish eome into the week­is important is getting fast Wisconsin and Northwnstl~rn, 5Xth annual !Iusky Invitational NCAA Championship in March," end with a disappointing 1-5 times to qualify for the champi­in 1-'i~dPral Way, Wash., today head coach Carrie Nixon said. dual-meet record. Their only onships." see HUSKY/page 22 
HocKEY 
Shootout belt eludes Hanson 
Practice tradition important part of icers' weekly routine 
By KYLE CASSILY Spons Writl'r 
Notre DamP hockny nquip­nwnt managPr llave Cilbnrt put thn odds or enntnr Christian llanson winning a shootout at a trillion to orw. 
AII d i II t lw Ill i n d s () r t h n tPam and starr. that's no nxaggoration. 
"lin thinks lw's got skills. llis dad has morn skills­nv1~n now." Irish hockey radio announcnr Mike l.oeknrt said. rni'Prring to Dave II anson, a I0-year pro hockey player known for his legnndary role as orw of tlw 
see BELT/page 21 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tean1's depth has left 
opponents confused 
Irish boast ten players in regular rotation 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
After recording its third straight win of 30 points or more Tuesday. Notre Dame is proving it should be consid­ered one of the top teams in the country. 
The Irish have been getting production on both ends of the court from 10 players this season. The depth has enabled Irish eoach Muffet McGraw to run a variety of offensive and defensive sets, 
often allowing the Irish  to  
confuse opponents.  
"When the other team  is  

looking at their scouting 
report, I'm not sure who 
. they're going to try not to guard," McGraw said. "It's just great. I was worried about it in the beginning of the year, but tlw depth has boon the thing that has bonn making us good because it's competitive and there's just so many people who ean gl't in and do something good." 
McGraw has run thren-and four-guard sots nffnctivPly. mixing and matching from among Notre Dame's deep tal­ent pool in the baekeourt. This system has hnlpnd spark the Irish offensivnly, with three guards averaging dou­ble figures in points this sea­son. 
Sophomore Ashley Barlow leads the team with 13.7 
see DEPTH/page 22 





