

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

OLUME 42: ISSUE 41 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1. 2007 
Study abro~d program options grow 
ND ranked No. 6among U.S. research universities 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
Students looking to study abroad next year have new cities to consider -Hong Kong, China, Cambridge, England, and, for those in Old College, Leuven, Belgium. 
The deadline for 2008-2009 study abroad applications is Nov. 15, and the Office of International Studies (OIS) is expecting large numbers of students to apply. 
Notre Dame is ranked sixth among American research universities in the percent­age of students who study abroad, according to the most recent International Education annual report, titled "Open Doors." 
The report, released last year, compiled data from 2004 and 2005 and found· that about 58 percent of Notre Dame students study abroad at some point during their academic careers. That percentage is expected to remain consistent in the next report, OIS director Claudia 
Kselman said.  
Notre  Dame  offers  35  
semester  and  year-long  

abroad locations. 
"We are very excited about our Hong Kong program," Kselman said. "We're really hoping it will expand and become bigger." 
The Hong Kong program is open to all junior students; although Chinese language study is encouraged, it is not required. The program is a bilateral exchange with the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). a leading research university with 18,500 undergraduate and postgraduate students. 
"The Hong Kong program is a result of a general initia­tive on the part of Notre Dame to move to the Far East," Kselman said. She said an important aspect of the Hong Kong program is that students may choose to take courses taught in English. 
The Leuven program is only open to junior undergraduate students enrolled in the Old 
see ABROAD/page 4 
STUDENT SENATE 
Course packet costs stir further debate 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
The convPrsation about high course packet prices contin­und at the Student Senate mnnting Wednesday, as sena­tors failed to pass a resolution that Pncouragml professors to choose electronic reserves over course packets as the primary nwans of disseminat­ing readings. 
Though the resolution did not pass, it will be discussed 
within the Senate Academic Affairs committee and may be reintroduced in a future Senate meeting. 
The Senate has been dis­cussing the issue of course packet prices for the past sev­eral weeks. 
At their Oct. 17 meeting, senators passed a resolution recommending that course packets no longer be sold exclusively through the Hammes Notre Dame 
see SENATE/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

large bags allowed in dining hall 
Belongings could be subject to searches 
By KATIE KOHLER Saiin Mary's Editor 

Saint Mary's students are now able to bring large bags, like backpacks and computer bags, into the Noble Family dining hall -but the belong­ings will be subject to search­es if there is "reasonable sus­picion" that items have been stolen. 
Director of Dining Services Barry Bowels said this new policy is strictly under a trial run and contingent on student cooperation. 
The policy change was made as a result of student requests to bring larger bags into the dining hall . 
"In order to accommodate the requests of the students, we decided to implement it," Vice President for Student Affairs Karen Johnson said. "There has been a lot of dis­cussion about wanting to use books, laptops, etc. while din­
ing, so we  agreed to give it a  
try."  
Bowles,  the  Board  of  

Governance, Student Affairs and the administration have reached an accord concerning the parameters of the new "bring-in bag policy." 
In an e-mail to students on Oct. 25, Johnson explained the new bag check policy. 
"Any and all members of the Food Services staff will be allowed to make random package inspections at meal periods if there is a reason­able suspicion of items being removed from the dining hall (other then those items cur-
see BAGS/page 6 


Building TotnorrolV raises money for Ugandan school 
Organization works with local governments to provide education 
ByJENN METZ Assistant News Editor 
Tlw Notre Dame chapter of Building Tomorrow is raising monny to build a school for :{50 Ugandan children. 
Tho Primary Education For All sector of the ND-R Millennium Developmont Initiatives dub is working with Building Tomorrow, a national non-prol"it organiza­tion, this year. Sophomores Jonna Knapp, Erin Jelm and Barbara llo arc among com­mittee lead•~rs working on 
events to raise "a tangible goal" of $35,000, Jelm said. 
"To break it down. if each N"otre Dame student donated $3.02, we would raise the funds to build a brand new school and give hope for the future to 350 impoverished kids," Jelm said. 
Last spring, George Srour, the founder of Building Tomorrow, spoke during NO­S's Millennium Development Goals Week, Jelm said. 
"George talked to us about Building Tomorrow's mission and work as well as the movement to get college cam­puses across the nation involved in fundraising," she said. 
According to the Building Tomorrow Web site, 46 mil­lion children in sub-Saharan Africa have no school to attend. 
"Education is the founda­tion of change. and with an education these childrf'n will have more of the resources necessary to betl,.er their lives and the lives of their chil­dren," Jelm said. 
In what Ho calls a "collabo­
see ND-8/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, November 1, 2007 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Dear business 
• 

A letter to Saint Mary's Business 
Majors: 
I write this to you bofore I oncn 
again spend six hours, in an Opus 
study room, slaving over B-Policy. I 
cannot believe 
tho papnr, Samantha Leonard which compiles almost nvnry­Sports Wire 

thing I have ever Editor studiod during my college carenr is dun in four very short days. I wonder how we will ever get it done, and how four girls with insane­ly busy lives will ever get together to meet. 
On top of this, I also eannot believe 
I am missing out on the last 
llalloween of' my college earner. My 
non-business major friends are all 

getting ready for costume parties 
galorn, and alii can think about is 
which strategy will be the best to 

choosn to inernase our profit margin. 
I rnmember thinking how stressed I was during different times through out my past throe years. 
It sooms now nothing will eompare 
to tho stress you and I will faee in the 
next six weoks. 

From Alex the accounting system to dotailed Powt~rpoints on Saint Mary's identity, we thought those projeets would just never end. 
Wo now f'aen a projnct that makes 

thosn look like a eakowalk. 
I know it snnms impossible. Just when you think you have finished a matrix or found the porf'ect strategy, somnthing comes along that changes your whole train of thought. I also must say I never thought I would grow to despise words such as matri­ces and stratngins. 
As tlw frustration mounds in these 

next f'ow days here are some things to 
keep in mind. 
It is also most over! Just six weeks loft of' this semester and one little presentation in front of' a friendly group ol'judges and, hey, you are donn! So as you staro for hours at the numerous pages of research you have done all semester, please try to keep that in mind. 
Also, I know it sounds incredibly ridiculous, but try to have some fun and release some stress while you are in your group. I laugh as I say this, and I find it insanely difl1cult to do this myself. I mean. there has to be something f'un about a senior compre­hensive. Tlwre must be something, right'? 
Then there is the whole survival thing that we must remember. You need to eat and even try to sleep a lit­tle! Not eating and sleeping will just makn you more irritated and possibly sick. Wtl have bnen preparing for this monster for three years, and in just four days the hardest and largest part will be complete. It will be put behind us for the rest of our college career and wn ean once again breathe. 
So grab your bowl of left-over Jlallowenn tn~ats and that dreaded ease book and try to remember what I said. Good luek! 
11w 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact .')amantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTION 
I )uc rn a reponing error, Parsy McGarry was misqumcd in rhe Oc1. 18 arricle "!'and discusses religion in Ireland." In rhe panel. he quored the Irish 'E10iseach Bertie Ahern who had criticized whar he described as "a form ofaggressive secularism which would have rhe Stare and Srate institurions ignore the imporrance of rhis religious dimension." McGarry did not make the claim on his own. The Observer regrets rhe error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE WOULD YOU STUDY ABROAD IF YOU COULD STUDY ANYWHERE AND WHY? 


Ryan Pantages 
sophomore Keough 
"Dublin­gotta stay true to the Irish heritage (and the awesome accent, of course)." 

Kelly Levis 
sophomore Walsh 
"Siberia, because I could go snowboarding everyday after class." 

Dave Costanzo 
junior offcampus 

"Probably somewhere in South America, because I've never been out of the country before, and that seems like a good place to start." 

Vulgar tattoo equals $50 and some probation 
WEST CHESTER, Pa. -A man accused of kicking an argument with his neighbor up a notch by removing his shirt to reveal a two-word expletive tattoo faces 90 days probation and a $50 fine. 
Jason Kaminski pleaded guilty on Tuesday to a sum­mary charge of disorderly conduct. 
Neighbor Chris Carr said he asked Kaminski if he could keep the noise down following a noisy party. Carr said Kaminski cursed, bared the expletive tattoo on his chest, kicked Carr's vehicle and motioned as though to break off his rear view mir­ror. 
Judge: Speeding not 'as bad' in miles 
DUBLIN, Ireland-When police caught driver David Clarke flying down a road at 180 kilometers per hour this month, he looked likely to lose his license. 
But a country judge reduced the charge and let the 31-year-old information technology worker stay on the road after concluding the speed did not look as bad when converted into miles, or 112 mph. 
"I am not excusing his 
driving. He should not have been traveling at that speed," District Court Judge Denis McLoughlin said in his verdict, delivered Tunsday in County Donegal, northwest Ireland. 
McLoughlin suggested it was relatively safe to have shattered the legal road limit at the time, citing good weather, light traflic and the road's unusual straightness. 
McLoughlin was quoted as saying the speed seemed "very excessive," but did not look "as bad" when convert­ed into miles. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 



Kate Gardner  Cynthia Weber  
freshman PW  freshman P.W  
"Cancun -for ·obvious reasons.  "/ would go to Rome to see my friend Benedict."  

IN BRIEF 
A collection of Douglas Kinsey paintings is on display in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy Hall through Nov. 29. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will have an exhibition game against Southern Indiana today at 7 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
The hockey team will play Lake Superior State today at 7::{5 p.m. at tho Joyce Center. 
As part of the Boardroom Insights lecture series, Brenda Barnes, CEO of' the Sara Lee Corporation will speak Friday at 10:40 a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
The Black Cultural Arts Council is holding it.<; annual tal­ent show, "Black Images: Through the Seasons," Saturday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Student tick­et.<; are $5. 
A'i part of the Military History speaker series, author David Bell will om~r a presentation on hi<> nnw book, "The First Total War," which focuses on the Napoleonic Wars, Monday at 
4:30 p.m. in room 116, DeBartolo Hall. 
Gillian Sorensen, senior advi­sor to the United Nations Foundation, will deliver lecture titled "The State of Women Internationally: Where Are We and Where Are We Going?" Tuesday at 6 p.m. in the Hcsburgh Center auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@ndedu 


TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY SUNDAY MONDAY 






....I c:( 
(.) 
0 

HIGH 48 HIGH 55 HIGH 58 HIGH
..J 
LOW 30 LOW 38 LOW 43 LOW 
40 
22 

HIGH LOW 
HIGH 52 LOW 39 
47 27 

Atlanta 75 I 52 Bos~on 64 I ?2 Chicago 50 I ~7 Denver 61 I 30 Houston 80 I 55 Los Angeles 78 157 Minneapolis 52 131 New York 66 I 54 Phlladelphta 68 I 50 Phoemx 87 I 62 Seattle 53 I 39 St. Louis 60 138 Tampa 83 170 Washington 72 150 
Thursday, November 1, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

ND, South Bend build together 


U.N. adviser to 
Partnership plans to develop industry complex south of campus 
speak on women 
aging research, taking innova­
Associated Press 
tive ideas to the marketplace, 
The University. the City of creating industry-university South Bend and the regional relationships, and for spurring economic development organi­economic growth." zation Project future have The city has made a $1 mil­joined forces to develop a tech­lion commitment to the project, nology incubator on a site using resources returned from 
immediately  the Business  
south of the  Development  
campus between Eddy Street  "When this park is completed, it will have  Corp., accord­ing to Mayor Steve Luecke.  
and State Route 23. D a v i d  significant long-term benefits that will continue to  ''I'm espe­cially excited about the  
Brenner. an  percolate and send  entrepreneur­ 
entrepre­neurial exec­utive with some 30  ripples through the community's economy."  ial creativity that will emerge from this place, as  
years  of  researchers  
experience, has been appointed director of  Patrick McMahon executive director Project Future  from different disciplines interact and dream,"  

the project, which will be c a I I e d Innovation Park at Notre Dame, and construction of the first building is expected to begin in the spring and be completed by the summer of 2009. 
"Hiring Dave Brenner and the development of a plan to build Innovation Park have truly resulted from a team approach which has involved the private sector, city and state government. and the University," said Thomas G. Burish, Notre Dame's provost. "We are optimistic that our partnership will result in a successful effort. Similar parks associated with other universi­ties in the state and around the country have proven to be wonderful means for encour-
Luecke said. 
"South Bend 
has a strong heritage of innovation -from Studebaker and Bendix to Crowe Chizek, Press Ganey and the South Bend Chocolate Co. ­and Innovation Park will con­tinue to build on that great entrepreneurial spirit."Project Future has had the develop­ment of a technology park in the region among its priorities for several years, according to executive director Patrick M. McMahon. 
Project Future has assisted with organizing and advancing the discussion of the park with­in the community and provided funds for development of the business and architectural plans. It also will help under­write the staffing expenses associated with Innovation Park's early operations he said. 

"When this park is complet­ed, it will have significant long­term benefits that will continue to percolate and send ripples through the community's econ­omy," McMahon said. 
Like similar ventures nation­wide, Innovation Park will pro­vide space for Notre Dame fac­ulty and students, as well as others from higher education and the private sector, to develop and commercialize start-up business enterprises ­many but not all related to the sciences, engineering and tech­nology. The proximity to cam­pus will allow for easy access to University laboratories, technology, libraries and other resources. Faculty and staff associated with the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies at Notre Dame also plan to take an active role in moving ideas forward. 
Financial and operational details are still to be finalized, though projects with potential have been identified as early occupants of the park. 
Angels, a network of Notre Dame alumni and friends who are experienced in entrepre­neurial endeavors and interest­ed in supporting new venture development. 
"With nearly 30 years of experience in leading success­ful start-up companies, acqui­sitions, partnerships and divestitures, Dave brings pre­cisely the kind of background and energy necessary to take this new initiative and turn it into reality," Burish said. "I could not be more pleased that he has accepted our offer to lead Innovation Park at Notre Dame." 
Special to the Observer 
Gillian Sorensen, senior advis­er to the United Nations Foundation, will deliver a lec­ture titled "The State of Women Internationally: Where Are We and Where Are We Going?" at 6 
p.m. Nov. 6 in the Hesburgh Center auditorium at the University. 
The talk, which is free and open to the public, is sponsored by Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute for International Studies, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Gender Studies Program and Department of Political Science. 
A national advocate on mat­
ters related to the United 
Nations and the United States­
United Nations relationship, 
Sorensen served from 1997 to 
2003 as the U.N. assistant sec­
retary-general for external rela­
tions. In that position, she was 
responsible for outreach to non­
governmental organizations 
and was the contact point for 
the secretary-general with par­
liamentarians, the academic 
world, religious leaders and 
other groups committed to 
peace, justice, development and 
human rights. 
From 1993 to 1996, Sorensen served as special adviser for public policy, where her duties included directing the U.N.'s 50th anniversary observances in 1995. She led the planning of conferences, debates, documen­taries, concerts and exhibits; the preparation of books and curricular materials; and the coordination of the UN50 Summit at which 180 presidents and prime ministers participat­ed. 
Sorensen worked from 1978 to 1990 as New York City com­missioner for the United Nations and consular corps, serving as the city's liaison with the world's largest diplomatic community. Her responsibilities included matters related to diplomatic security and immunity, housing and education, and other cul­tural and business contacts and more than 30,000 diplomats. She secured federal reimburse­ment to New York for the costs of diplomatic protection, which continues to this day. During this time., she was described as "the diplomat's diplomat" by the New York Times. 
Sorensen is a graduate of Smith College and studied at the Sorbonne. In the fall of 2002, on leave from the U.N., she was a fellow at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. She is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a fellow at the University of Southern California Center on Public Diplomacy. Previously, she served as a board member of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. 

Catholic Digest honors ND professor for work 
Special to The Observer 
Kristin Shrader-Frechette, F.J. and H.M. O'Neill Professor of Philosophy and concurrent pro­fessor of biological sciences at Notre Dame, has been selected by Catholic Digest magazine as one of 12 "heroes for America" -laypeople living or working in the United States who are performing exemplary work in the spirit of the Catholic faith. 
The magazine cited her work on behalf of environmental justice. 
Shrader­Frechette and the other hon­orees are pro-. filed in the 
"We simply try to black, Latino, provide some scientific Native­
American, and

help so that people are · 
Appalachian

able to protect communities," 
themselves. " she said. "We simply try to 
other universi­ty professor 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 

selected as a
Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP. 1-5550, or Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Baustista.5@nd.edu 
Catholic Hero is Paul Farmer, the Harvard University physi­
Office of Campus Ministry 

cian and medical anthropologist 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources 
who is the cofounder of 
in 304 Co-Mo: discussion and support) 

Partners in Health and who was 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 the recipient of an honorary Notre Dame degree last May. "The environment is not nec­
University Counseling Center 

essarily a social justice issue, 
(Individual counseling) 

but environmental effects of
Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 

pollution are social justice issues," Shrader-Frechette said 
Visit our web site at 
in an interview accompanying the Catholic Digest feature. "Environmental injustice-and by that I mean disproportionate pollution forced on children, poor people, minorities and workers -is a social justice 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

issue, because unfair pollution burdens take away not only poor people's money, but some­thing that's even more impor­
tant:  their lives  and  their  
health."  
The  magazine  also  cited  

Shrader-Frechette for involving students in the fight against environmental injustice. 
"My students and I (in the Center for Environmental Justice and Children's Health at Notre Dame) work mainly with poor, 

October issue provide some
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
Kristin Shrader-Frechette scientific help
of the maga­zine. The only philosophy professor so that the peo­
ple are able to protect them­selves, espe­cially their children. We can do maybe 30 projects a year, pro­bono. That's a lot, but only because the Notre Dame stu­dents are so generous, so bril­liant, and so committed to social justice. They're just wonderful." 
Although cancer annually kills 600,000 Americans, Shrader-Frechette says many of these premature deaths are preventable by avoiding scien­tific errors in impact assess­ment and by enforcing pollution laws. Government and U.N. groups agree, noting that up to 90 percent of cancers are "envi­ronmentally induced and theo­retically preventable." 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November I, 2007 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
Bookstore. but rather from copy centers around campus. In past years. course packets have been sold from copy cen­ters, such as those in Deeio and O'Shaughnessy Halls. This y•~ar, all course packets were sold from the Bookstore, whieh added a markup for profit. 
At the Oct. 17 meeting, Carol llendriekson, the chair of the Senate Academic Affairs committee, presented the results of a survey, which found a majority of students unhappy with the increased costs of course packets. 
Tlw senators unanimously passed a resolution two weeks ago that encouraged the University to revert to the for­mnr method of selling packets from various copy centers, ratlwr than the Bookstore. The Oct. 17 course packP.t rnsolution was "unofficially handed" to tlw Collegn of Arts and Letters after it was passed. Hendrickson said. 

"It looks like !the College of Arts and LettPrs isl going to make the 'not selling the course packets from the Bookstore' recommendation to the University," she said. 
The Senators were less recP.ptive to Wednesday's res­olution, which said that most of the student body is "very dissatisfied" with the higher costs of the course packets and that a majority of stu­dents are "somewhat to very supportive" of switching from the course packets to elec­tronic reserves as the primary way to access course materi­als. 
The senators, after some debate, failed to gather the two-thirds vote needed to pass the resolution, with nine voting for it and six against. Eight senators abstained. 
Fisher senator Stephen Bant, who gave a Powerpoint presentation about the course packet survey with Hendrickson at the last Senate meeting, said he sup­portnd the resolution's objec­tivn t.o encourage professors to increase use of thn elec­tronie resource, known as "e-
The overall objective, some senators said. should be to decrease costs for studnnts. 
"I think the ideal is really to go back to the old way, the way it was done before it got put to the Bookstoro," said Sorin senator George Chamberlain. 
At the end of the meeting, Siegfried senator Jim Lockwood presented a resolu­tion proposing an amendment to the Undergraduate Student Body Constitution. 
The proposed amendment requires the student body president to attend all meet­ings or the Community/Campus Advisory Coalition (CCACJ. a group crn­ated by the South Bend Common Council and designed to facilitate dialogue between city. university, college and student represnntatives. 
The proposed amendment requires the student body president to then brief the Senate on the CCAC meeting and provide any and all docu~ mentation from the meeting to 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

reserves." 
"E-reserves, we kind of look at it as the future coming," he said. "A lot of things are going 
electronic." 
The resolution states that the University Library is "will­ing and able" to put. course materials on electronic reserves, and that it is also "willing and able" to cover current and future copyright costs for the materials. 
Tho resolution says a switch to with the idea that e-reserves would be more environmen­tally-friendly, giving anecdotal evidence that many students print articles from the 

Internet to read the hard copy. 
Bant defend­ed the resolu­tion's stance. 
"Not everyone is going to print ofT every single article, so in the end it should be less paper use," he said. 
Other sena­tors argued that increasing use of e­reserves would 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
College seminary program. Studnnts will live at the American College of the Im m <ll~ u Ia t e Co n c e p t i o n , which was established by Amnriean cler­
",C.,'tudy abroad is an

gy in 1R57 to look at tran­train fu tu rP. essential part ofan scripts, but we prinsts and will not do so
undergraduate

bishops. until fall
education. " 

Classes for grades are thn Leuven posted." program are Claudia Kselman Students who taught at thn would like to
015 director
Katholinkn Univorsitnit Lnuvnn (KULJ, one of the oldest Catholic universities in the world. 
Tlw Cambridge program was a rnsult of faculty oneouragemnnt. Kselman said. It will join London and Oxford as anothnr abroad program in I:ngland. 
Dublin and London are thn most popular study abroad locations at Notre Dame, Kselman said. 
Ksnlman attributed their popularity to their long his­tory with tho OIS and the fact that English is spoken in both locations. 
After the OIS receives 

every application by Nov. 15, it will evaluate the candi­dates and notify students midway through the spring semester of their decision. 
"We look at everything." Kselman said. "The state­ment of interest is very important along with recom­mendations. One thing we always do is 
study ahroad 
in thn summer 

have until Mareh 1 to apply for seven of the nine locations. The London summer program operates on a rolling admis­sions basis w hi I e t 1111 Kampala. Uganda program deadline is seheduled for Nov. 15. 
"Study abroad is an essen­tial part of an undergradu­ate education," Kselman said. ''We want to encourage all sophomores to apply and will accommodate as many students as possible." 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
"/ think the ideal is really to go back to the old way, the way it was done before it got put' to the Bookstore. " 
George Chamberlain Sorin senator 
e-reserves would be more en vi ron men tally-friendly, since it would cut down on paper usage. 
"More than anything else, tho other benefit of e-reserves is that. it's more environmen­tally-friendly, because we don't have the paper waste of thousands of course packets," Bant said. -Some senators disagreed 
mean students would have to increase their print quota. which allots $100 for printing at the beginning of the school year. 
The Academic Affairs Committee is preparing a res­olution to suggest that stu­dents be allowed to incn~ase print quota online in the same way that Domer Dollars can be added. Hendrickson said. 

For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 6 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council invites gay, lesbian. and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, the1r friends, and supporters to an informal gathenng at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone IS welcome and confident1ahty IS assured 
CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 1, 2007 CoMPILED FROlv\ THE OBSERVER'S WlRF SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bus bomb kills 8, injures 60 in Russia 
MOSCOW -A strong bomb shredded a pas­senger bus Wednesday, killing eight people and injuring more than 60 in a central Russian city known for gang violence. 
One official speculated the blast in Togliatti was a terrorist attack. but others said that was only one possibility. They said investigators were also looking into whether it resulted from a turf battle between criminals or even the care­less handling of explosives. 
Police in the Volga Hiver city also weren't immediately sure whether the bomb was hidden inside or beneath the bus or carried on by a passenger, ollicials said. 
With parliamentary elections coming up in December, the blast raised fears of another round of violence like that which has occurred bnl'orc past elections. 
Mghan civilians flee as Taliban invades 
AHGIIANDAB-Afghan civilians piled belong­ings onto trucks Wednnsday and lled two vil­lages infiltrated by hundreds of Taliban mili­tants outside Afghanistan's second-largest city. 
U.S.. Canadian and Afghan troops had about 250 of tlw insurgPnts surrounded. 
Tlw troops killPCl 50 militants in three days of lighting 15 milns north of Kandahar eity, the provindal policn chief said. Three policemen and one Afghan soldier also died. 
"Tiw peopln arP lleeing because the Taliban an~ taking over dvilian homes," Sayed Agha Saqib said. "Thern have been no airstrikes. We are trying our best to attack those areas where there arn no civilians, only Tali ban." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
NASA postpones space station repairs 
CAI'Ii CANAVERAL -NASA canceled Thursday's spacewalk to inspnct a snarled joint liw a set of solar panels and instead instructed its orbiting astronauts to go out a day later to try to fix a torn solar wing. 
The newly rippnd wing is now the more press­ing of the two problems at the international space station. both of which involve the crucial power system and threaten to disrupt future construction work. 
NASA fears the damage could worsen and the wing could lose all power-collecting capability and become unstable. If that happened, the wing would have to be junked, said NASA's space station program manager, Mike Sull'redini. 
"We've made it a priority to go repair it," Sull'redini said Wednesday. 
No c.hargffi for Katrina bridge blockaders 
GRETNA -A grand jury will not charge any­one in a police blockade that kept hundreds of evacuees from crossing a Mississippi River bridge on foot after llurricane Katrina flooded New Orleans. authorities said Wednesday. 
Several hundred people claimed police from suburban Gretna blocked them as they tried to flee New Orleans on Sept. 1. three days after the storm hit. 
Many evacuees, who had been stranded at the New Orleans convention center without food and water, said they were told to cross the bridge to be evacuated from the city, only to be forced to turn around upon reaching the other side. 
Police latflr said they blocked the evacuees because there were no supplies or services for them on the other side. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Fire sprinklers damage 20,000 books 
MISIIAWAK!\ -A smoky !in~ set off sprinklers that damaged thousands of books stored in a Mishawaka warehouse. 
About a dozen employees evacuated Better World Books when firelighters arrived as thick black smoke Iiiled the wan1house in thn city east of South Bond. 
Company co-founder Kreece Fuchs says about 20,000 to 50,000 books out of the 1.8 million books in the di<>tribution center received water damage. 
Firelighters are investigating the cause of the fire, but employees said it may have been electrical in nature. No injuries were reported. 
The company colleclc; donated textbooks from schooL'> and libraries and uses the profile; from sales to promote literacy programs. 
IRAQ 
Soldier, civilian deaths on decline 
Fall in death count shows Bush's troop 'surge' working better than expected, some say 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Violent deaths of U.S. troops and Iraqi civilians appear to have fallen sharply in Iraq in October, according to the lat­est Ac;sociated Press tally. 
The AP's figures mirror other reports that the levels of bloodshed are falling here. But the meaning of these sta­tistics is disputed, and experts generally agree that the struggle for security and stability is far from over. 
The number of Iraqi civil­ians killed fell from at lnast 1,023 in September to at least 875 in OetobPr, accord­ing to the AP count. 
That's the lowest monthly toll for civilian casualties in the past year, and is down sharply from the 1,216 recorded in October 2006. The numbers are based on daily reports from police, hospital officials, morgue workers and verifiable wit­ness accounlc;. 
The count is considered a minimum based on AP reporting; the actual number is likely higher, as many killings go unreported. 
The drop in deaths among 
U.S. military personnel in Iraq was even more striking. according to AP's records ­down from 65 in September to at least 36 in October. The October figure is by far the lowest in the last year, and is "I assume it's happening is declining, because they And he warned that that sharply lower than the 106 because the surge is working, don't paint a full picture of revolt against al-Qaida was in deaths recorded in October and working even better than the conflict. jeopardy unless Sunni lead­2006. those who advocated it envi­The statistics don't reflect ers get more support from 
The relative period of calm sioned," said Boot, who was attacks that result in injuries, the Shiite-dominated govern­-if that's what it is -came an advocate of expanding the he pointed out. Nor is there ment in Baghdad. during the Muslim fast of deployment of U.S. troops reliable reporting of civilian "Does focus on one set of Ramadan, a time when mili­here. "This is pretty dramat­deaths outside of Baghdad. numbers tell you that the tants have in the past escalat­ic." "I don't question that the country is moving toward sta­ed their attacks on U.S. But Anthony Cordesman, level of violence has gone bility, security and political forces. an expert on the Middle East down in Baghdad and accommodation?" 
Max Boot, a senior fellow at and military affairs with the Anbar," he said. "But what is Cordesman said. "The the Council on Foreign Center for Strategic and not clear at all is that you answer is no." Relations and former editori­International Studies, said have reduced the level of ten­There may be other, grim­al editor for The Wall Street the numbers he's seen so far sion between Kurd and Arab, mer reasons the civilian Journal, said the apparent mostly reflect a decline in the that the level of Shiite-on­death toll has receded. decline in deaths reflected level of lethal violence against Shiite violence is down, that Sunnis have been driven out the success of the buildup in U.S. troops in Baghdad and the level of ethnic cleansing is of Shiite neighborhoods, Iraq of U.S. military person­Anbar province. down." Shiites from Sunni areas and nel, who now number Data collected by the The reduction in U.S. loss­Christians out of both. 170,000. They have also General Accounting Office, he es, he said, is mostly a result Many Iraqis have fled their moved increasingly out of said, don't justify the conclu­of the revolt of the Sunni trib­country, or seldom venture massive forward operating sion that the overall level of al leaders in Anbar against out of their communities, bases into violence-plagued fighting has fallen off, or that al-Qaida in Iraq, and not the offering fewer targets for sui­areas. the number of civilian deaths U.S. military buildup. cide bombers or kidnappers. 

Jury acquits prosecutor in terrorism_ 
after the verdict was read. tal, even though Convertino had such
Associated Press 
The jury reached its decision after photos, and Smith knew the photos 
less than a day of deliberations. It also existed. 
DETROIT-A former federal prose­acquitted Harry Smith III, a former Government lawyer Daniel cutor was acquitted Wednesday of State Department investigator. Schwager said prosecutors "believe in withholding evidence from the Convertino, 46, was accused of with­the case and the importance to the defense during the nation's first major holding photos of a Jordanian hospital system and respect the jury's verdict." terrorism trial after the Sept. 11 from defense attorneys. Prosecutors The defense said the government attacks. alleged the photographs could have didn't prove that Convertino intention­
The government said Richard helped the defense at the 2003 trial ally withheld the photos and insisted Convertino wanted so badly to win undermine a government argument no conspiracy existed. convictions in the case that he broke about how well a surveillance sketch Convertino said the way the govern­the law. But Convertino's lawyers of the hospital matched reality. The ment pursued charges against him insisted he did nothing wrong and had sketch was found in an apartment could have a chilling effect on current no reason to hide evidence against used by part of the suspected Detroit federal prosecutors engaged in the four North African men accused of cell. Justice Department's anti-terrorism operating a "sleeper" terrorist cell. Prosecutors said Convertino also efforts. 
"It's a just end to a politically moti­allowed Smith to testify that it would ''I'm hearing that it's having a sti­vated prosecution," Convertino said be difficult to get photos of the hospi-fling effect," Convertino said. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 1, 2007 
The first fundraisnr this 
yl'ar was called "Brick by
ND-8 

Brick," and took placn continued from page 1 bl'l"orP fall brPak. Club 
lllPmbnrs sold papnr bricks ra tivn PITorL ... r.haptPrs of for $5 in LaFortunn. Building Tomorrow work "ThPy wern sym bolie with tlw lol'al govnrnmPnt bril'ks," llo said. and thP l'ommunitins in tlw The bricks said ''I'm build-
Wak iso  dis­ ing tomorrow  
trid  of  for  ... ,"  and  
Uganda. whnrn thn Sl'hools will  "Building Tomorrow is set apart -al  studnnts were encouraged to writn the  
hn built. Tlwy  least in my mind -­ name  of  
also  work  .from other.non-projit  SOillPOnC who  
with World  tlw Food  organizations  reminded them how  
Program. Tlw  because ofthe direct  important  
$:~5.000  involvement that  education is,"  
raisnd chaptPrs  by at  those who donate  Ho said. Thn  first  
univnrsitins  have with the  fundraiser  
likn  NotrP  communities in  was  planned  
Damn covnrs only 75 pnr­ Uganda."  in conjunction with The  
r n II t  0 f  tIll'  Promise  
cost  of  thP  Erin Jelm  Banrwr. where  
sdwol. Knapp  ND-8 Building Tomorrow  students  put  
said.  "Tho  hand prints on  
lol'al l'ommu­ a  banrwr sym­ 

nity I'OntributPs tlw rnmain­bolizing "thnir promise to i n g 2 5 pI' r eIHI t t h r o u g h help." flo said. swPat Pquity and construc­Projnrt Frnsh pnrformed tion costs." during The Promisn Banner 
"Building Tomorrow is set signing and the Brick by apart -at lmtst in my mind Briek sale, llo said. -from othPr non-prol"it "This is a uniting for with­organizations bl'eausn of tlw in Notre Dame," llo said. d i r n ct i n v o I v n nw n t t h a t "We are all working for one thosn who donatn havn with goal." the eommunities in Brick by Brick raised Uganda," .lt>lrn said. $10,830 for the organiza­
The school will havn 10 tion. she said. rooms. including seven Building Tomorrow is classrooms raising aware-and an out-ness and door soccer funds, llo finld. The "We're grateful.for all said. On Nov. World Food 6, the group
those who have 

Program will will hold a
helped us thus.far

providn stu­dinner and dents with and hope that people lecture at daily lunches South Dining
will continue to 

and the gov­Hall with
support this effort. " 

ernment will speakers sustain teach-Srour and ers' salaries. Jenna Knapp Joseph Kalisa, "One of the the country
ND-8 Building Tomorrow 

really neat director of things is onen Building the kids are Tomorrow there, they wear the colors who works in Uganda. of thn school that built it," The club is raising aware­flo said. "So the students at ness "so people know what our school will be wearing they're supporting," Ho said. bl Ul~ and gold." "We're grateful for all 
Building Tomorrow is sell­those who have helped us ing T-shirts for $10 this thus far and hope that peo­w1~ek in South Dining Hall pln will continue to support and LaFortune Student this effort," Knapp said. Center and next week in Building Tomorrow also LaFortune. It is their second offers opportunities for stu­fundraiser this ymu·. dent delegates to go to 
All proceed.s from T-shirt Uganda, and a trip is being sales will go to the organi­organized for January 2008, zation. llo said. Paul flo said. Johnson. a father of a Notre Damn student. donated the Contact Jenn Metz at T-shirts for tho fundraiser. jmetz@nd.edu 

THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF 
---u presents 


1 

.. lrish Blood, Brain, and Brawn': The Campaign to Highlight the Irish contribution to American History, 1880-1920." 
Edward O'Donnell College of the Holy Cross 
Frid,~r. November 2, 2007 -1:00 p.m. Ilesburxh Ce111er Auditorium 
looking at thn long-term Dining hall workPrs likn effects of thnft. Dianna llolland havP notkPd
Bags 
continued from page I 
rently permitted for removal)." 
.Johnson describPd "n~ason­able suspicion" as "sening somnone taking items, or an overloaded backpack or bag. 
If a random bag cheek reveals stol!m items. a three­strike mPthod will be enforced. A first offense is a $50 fine and the second is a $100 11ne and 10 hours of community service. The third strike results in the termination of a meal plan without rel'und for the rnmainder of the semester. 
If a faculty or staff member is found removing items from the dining hall, his or her namn will be forwarded to their supervisor, Johnson said. 
Some students were skopti­cal of the penalties. However, Bowles justified the l'ines by 
"Yes. a stolen cup becomes a studPnts taking nwrn than the 
very nxponsive  one  itPm  they  
cup and stolen  are  allotted  to  
bagels becomn  t.ake  from  the  
equally ~~xpen­sive," lw said. "There must bn  "What do they think we're going to do,  dining hall at ead1 nwal. "Studnnts  
serious ramifi­ steal economy sized  have a tendency  
cations if we are going to allow  { .r f?"Jags oJ cere a ..  to take advan­tage," she said.  
this  policy  at  Bowles said  
all."  Andrea Zettler  the  new  policy  
Junior Andrea  Saint Mary's junior  will be perma­ 
Zettler supports  nnn t  only  if  
the ehangns, but  inventories  
thinks  the  rnmain consis­ 

penalties are too severn. tent. 
"What do they think we're "I cannot allow the policy to going to do, steal economy continue if more things are sized bags of cereal?" she being stolen," h11 said. said. 
Bowles said stealing food is Kristen Hdelen contributed to not the only problem. this report. 
"Cups, plates, silverware, salt and pepper shakPrs disap­Contact Katie Kohler at pear, like, nveryday," he said. kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

MAKE 
EVERY 
PLAY
COUNT 


Thursday, November 1, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,930.01 +137.54
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

1,255 120 2,059 3,239,849,403 
AMEX 2,530.38 +41.60 NASDAQ 2,X59.12 +42.41 NYSE 10.311.61 +146.64 S&P 500 I ,549.3X +18.3<) NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16.844.57 +106.94 FTSE 100 (London) 6.721.60 +62.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +1.04 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +3.49 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.42 ISHARE RUS 2000 INDX (IWM) +1.29 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.10 13-WEEK BILL -0.78 30-YEAR BOND +1.67 5-YEAR NOTE +2.81 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 
EURO 
CANADIAN DOLLAR 
BRITISH POUND 
+1.59  35.57  
+1.24  153.06  
+0.77  54.26  
+1.05  3.29  
+0.092  4.475  
-0.030  3.820  
+0.078  4.751  
+0.114  4.167  
-3.15  90.38  
-4.80  787.80  
-1.05  83.05  

115.4650 0.6907 0.9464 0.4805 

IN BRIEF 
Economy grew fast, despite credit woes 
WASIIINGTON -The economy picked up speed in the summer, growing at a brisk 3.9 pnrcent pace, the fastest in 1 1/2 years and an impressive performance even as a credit crunch plunged the housing market deeper into tur­moil. 
The latest snapshot of the country's economic health, released by the Commerce Department on Wednesday, suggested the economy is prov­ing resilient and holding up well despite strains in the housing and credit markets. Those prob­lems intensified during the third quarter and rocked Wall Street. 
A second report from the department showed construction spending rose 0.3 percent in Snptember. the best showing in four months. All-time high spending in both commercial con­struction by private builders and government projects more than offset weakness in home building. 
For the entire July through September period, individuals increasml spending. U.S. businesses sold moro goods abroad and boosted somo investment at honw. Those were main factors holping to push up overall economic activity during that period. 
Government workers endorse Clinton 
WASIIIN<;TON -llillary Hodham Clinton won tho presidential nndorsemont of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employoes on Wednesday, an important union boost for tlw Dmnocratic front-runner. 
Tho union is tho largest for workers in the public service sector with 1.4 million members nationwide. AFSCME rflprosents government and privatn workers including nurses, bus driv­nrs. child care providers. custodians and librari­ans. 
The New York senator will ollicially accept the ondorsmnent later Wednesday. 
"I am honored to receive the support of AFSCME," Clinton said in a statement. "In my administration, America's working families will again haw a partner in the White House." 
(;erald McEntee. presidmt of the union, said Clinton "will help rnbuild America's middle class and make sure evnryone shares in our country's prosperity." 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Fed cuts funds interest rate to 4.5°/o 
Second reduction in six weeks designed to boost spending after credit crunch 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Federal Heserve sliced an important intf1rest rate Wednesday -its second reduction in the last six weeks-to help the econ­omy survive the strains of a deepening housing slump that is likely to crimp growth in coming months. 
Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and all but one of his eolleaguns agreed to lower the federal funds rate by one-quarter per­centage point to 4.50 per­cent at the end of a two­day meeting. 
"The pace of economic expansion will likely slow in the near term, partly reflecting the intensifica­tion of the housing cor­rection." the Fed acknowledged in a state­ment explaining its action. 
The funds rate affects many other internst ratPs eharged to millions of individuals and business­os and is the Fed's most potent tool for influencing economic activity. 
In response, commercial banks. including Bank of America, Wells Fargo and KeyCorp., announced that they were cutting their prime lending rate -for certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans -by a corre­sponding amount, to 7.50 percent. 
The rationale behind the cuts is that the lower borrowing costs will induce people and busi­nesses to boost spending, energizing economic activity. 
Wall Street was cheered by the Fed action. The Dow Jones industrials jumped 137.54 points to close at 13,930.01. 
The Fed policymakers supporting Wednesday's 

rate cut said the action ­along with a rate reduc­tion in September -was needed to "forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy" that might arise from the housing and credit trou­bles that have wreaked havoc on Wall Street over the past few months. 
Fed policymakers indi­cated the two rate cuts ordered so far may be sufficient to help the economy make its way safely through the trouble spots. 
They said the risks to the economy from infla­tion "roughly balance," or are equal to, the risks of a serious downturn in eco­nomic growth. Previously, the risks of a recession were seen as more of a threat to the country's economic health. 
"The message: They are now done for the time being," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group. "They have taken out a signifi­cant insurance policy and now they believe they are fully covered against a recession risk -at least for the near term," she said. 
For now, Reaser and other economists think the Fed probably will leave the funds rate alone when its meets next on Dec. 11, the last session of the year. 
The 9-1 decision to cut rates on Wednesday was opposed by Thomas Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. He preferred no change in the funds rate. 
So far, the economy has shown amazing resilience to the housing and credit strains. 

Stocks on the rise as credit crisis eases 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Wall Street bounded higher Wednesday after the Federal Heserve assuaged some of investors' fears about a sinking economy, stating that risks to the financial markets from the summer's credit crises have eased. The Dow Jones industrial aver­age gained more than 130 points on the day. 
Stocks initially zigzagged after the Fed lowered interest rates as expected because some investors balked at the notion that the Fed might not lower rates again at its December meeting. However, investors eventually appeared relieved that the Fed's com­ments about the inflation -a peren­nial concern -signaled the central bank was able to return to somewhat more parochial worries and focus less about upheaval in the credit markets than when it met last month. 
Wall Street was heartened by the fact that investors, businesses and consumers alike will be getting cheap­er access to cash because of the wide­ly anticipated quarter-point rate cut. The fed funds rate now stands at 4.50 percent. Last month, the Fed sur­prised the market with a larger-than­expected half-point cut in the funds rate -the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans. 
Arter months of agonizing over an anemic credit market, investors appeared to take some solace that the Fed found room to ofl'er a less accom­modative statement than some had expected. 
"A rather stingy Fed suggests that they see an economy that is in pretty good shape," said Bruce McCain, head of the investment strategy team for Key Private Bank. 
"They're saying now we can turn baek to the issue of inflation and implicit in that is that the economy is getting back on track," he said. 
The Dow, which had dipped briefly into negative territory after the deci­sion, rose 137.54, or 1 percent, to 13,930.01. 
Broader stock indicators also advanced. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 18.36, or 1.20 percent, to 1,549.38, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 42.41, or 1.51 percent, to 2,859.12. 
The Bussell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 11.87, or 1.45 per­cent, to 828.02. 
Treasury bond prices fell after the Fed's decision. The yield on the 10­year Treasury note, which moves inversely to its price, rosP to 4.47 per­cent from 4.39 percent late Tuesday. 
In comments following its two-day meeting, central bank policymakors said rflcflnt spikes in energy and com­modity prices are among the forces that could be adding to inflation pres­sures and that with its latest move "the upside risks to inflation roughly balance the downside risks to growth." 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
r--------------------------------------­
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November I, 2007 
SPAIN 
Suspects in terror 
attack convicted 
Associated Press 
MADHID -Spain's National Court convicted the three main suspoets in thn Madrid corn­Ill utnr train bombings of mass rnurdor Wednesday and sen­tnncnd thnrn to tens of thou­sands of years in prison for Europe's worst Islamic terror attack. 
But tlw verdict was a mixed bag for prosecutors. who saw four other key dd'endants con­victed of lessor offenses and an accused ringleader acquitted altogether. 
With much of the case resting on circumstantial nvidence, the three judges may have boen wary artnr a number of high­profile Spanish terror cases worn overturned on appnal. 
Spain's prime minister said the verdict still upheld justice. But victims of the attack, which killed I1) I people and wounded morn than I,HOO when bombs explod­ed on four 
trains on Mard1 "The verdict seems so Youssef Brdhadj, 
I I. 2004. soft to us. " Hassan el llaski, expressed Abdulmajid shock and sad­Bouchar and
Pilar Manjon 

IH~ss ovPr the Hafa Zouhicr ­court's dndsion. mother of victim were acquitted of Osman. an Egyptian already convicted and jailed in Italy for the Madrid bombings. 
Italian authorities said Osman bragged in tapped Arabic-language phone conver­sations that he was the brains behind the Madrid plot. But translations of the taped con­versations by two sets of Spanish translators indicated his comments were more nuancp,d and did not amount to a confession. 
The Spanish verdict came just two days after an Italian appeals court upheld Osman's conviction there, but shaved two years off his prison term, sentencing him to eight years. 
Osman watched the Spanish proecedings on a vidnoconfer­ence link from the Justice Palace in Milan. The Europa Press news agency reported 
that he broke down in  tears  
and  shouted:  "I've  been  
absolved!  I've  

bnen absolved!" Four other top suspects 
"Tho verdict seems soft to us," said Pilar Manjon. who lost her 20-ycar­old son in tho attack and has bncomn a leader of a victims association. "I don't like it that murderers arn going frne." 
Throe load suspects -Jamal Zougarn and Othman (;naoui of Morocr· o and Em iIi o Sua r o z Trashorras of Spain -wp,rn 
r: 0 n viet(l d 0 f murder and attnmptml murder and rocoivnd prison snntoncns ranging from :~4.000 to 4:~.000 years. Under Spanish law, the most they will spnnd in jail is 40 ynars. Spain has no death penalty or life im prisonnwnt. 
Zougam was convicted of placing at least one bomb on a train and Cnaoui of bning a right-hand man of thn plot's opnrational chief. Trashorras, who once worknd as a miner, was found guilty of supplying the nxplosiVI'S used in tlw bombs. 
One of tlw biggest surprises was tlw acquittal of Habni murdnr but con­
vided of other 
charges that included belonging to a terror­ist organization. They received snntences of 10 to 18 years in prison. 
Fourteen other defendants wern found guilty of lesser crimes and six others were acquitted. 
Much of the nvidnnce in thn 57-session. live-month trial was circumstantial. Bouchar, for instance, was SIHm on one of the bombed trains shortly bef'orn the attack, but at trial no one could dnlinitively identi­fy him and there wern no fin­gerprints or other fonmsie evi­dence placing him at the scene. 
A srmior court offkial privy to thn deeision-making told The Associated Press after the vnr­diet that tlw case against Osman was "flimsy," and that tlwrn was "no hard evidence" that B11lhadj or llaski werP mastPrminds. The official agreNI to discuss the verdict only if not quoted by name. 
1111 A 

deeply funny chronicle of male adolescence." 
-Entertainment Weekly 
South Africa's # 1 fastest and bestselling book! 
"Hilarious." 
-Best Life 
"South Africa's 
Catcher in the Rye!" 
-Alexander McCall Smith, author of The No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency 


"Seett~s like 
wherever I ao. !Madness is"'t far behind." -Joho ·opud" Milton 

On sale now 
Razorbili Books A division of Penguin Young Readers Group www.razorbillbooks.com 



NORTH KOREA 
Nation strengthens foreign ties 
Success in nuclear standoff sparks new diplomatic missions 
Associated Press 
SEOUL Buoyed by progress in its nuclear stand­off, reclusive North Korea has begun reaching out to the world beyond its closed bor­ders, forging formal relations with a series of countries and sending high-level delegations overseas. 
The communist nation has opened or restored relations with five countries since July. Senior ol'fi­cials have vis-focus on diplomacy with other countries because it is no longer preoccupied with fears that the" U.S. is attempting to topple the regime, Kim said. 
Pyongyang shut down its sole functioning nuclear reactor in July, and a team of U.S. nuclear experts is set to visit the North this week to start disabling the facility by year­end. 
"By broadening its external relations, the North also wants 
to show the U.S. 
the look of a nor­
ited Hussia, mal country," he
"By broadening its 
southeast said. "The idea is
external relations, 
Asia, Africa that: 'We've been and the the North also wants so dosed because Middle East of you, but if you
to show the US. the 
a rare go easy on us like
look ofa normal
burst of inter­this, we ean also national country." act like other activity move ordinary coun­by one of the tries."'
Kim Yong-hyun 
world's most In September,
North Korea expert
isolated North Korea nations. Dongguk University established diplo­Analysts say matic relations the main rea-with the United son for the drive is that. Arab Emirates, Swaziland, the Pyongyang -branded as part Dominican Hepublic and of an "axis of evil" by Guatemala. Pyongyang also President Bush -wants to has opened tics with show Washington it can Montenegro and in recent behave like a "normal" coun­months restored relations with try. Myanmar and Nicaragua. "North Korea had judged The North still does not have that the U.S. was squeezing its relations with the U.S., throat. But now. confidence is although it docs with the other building as efforts to resolve permanent members of the the nuclear issue speed up," U.N. Security Council ­said Kim Yong-hyun, a North Britain, China, France and Korea expert at Seoul's Hussia. 
Dongguk University. On Monday, the North's main Progress in the nudRar issue state-controlled Hodong has enab)p,d Pyongyang to Sinmun newspaper toutp,d the 
expanding relations as a "great diplomatic success" and said the country wants to develop rp,lations with any friendly countries that respect it. 
"It has become an irresistible trend of the times that the international interest in the (North) is growing deep day by day and many countries wish to improve and develop their relations with" the North, the paper said. 
The communist country has also sent several high-level delegations to foreign coun­tries. 
In July, the country's No. 2 leader, Kim Yong Nam, visited Mongolia, Bussia, Algeria, Egypt. Singapore and Ethiopia. Since last week, the country's premier, Kim Yong II, has been to Vintnam, Malaysia, Cambodia and Laos. 
Although North Korea has diplomatic relations with 160 countries, it is still considered one of tlw world's most isolat­ed nations, as most of its ties remain nominal and include only minimal trade and exchanges. 
China is the only major ally of Pyongyang, and the North's trade with its neighbor accounts for morn than half its total fornign trade. 
The North's recent diplomat­ic rush may bn aimed at silenc­ing criticism from hard-line 
U.S. oflicials opposed to taking Pyongyang otT Washington's blacklist of nations sponsoring terrorism, said Yang Moo-jin, a professor at Seoul's University of North Korean Studies. 

Rejoice! Mass 

November 4., 9p.m. 
Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother Coleman Morse Center 
All are welcome! Pizza to follow! 
C-M 

Campus Ministry 
For infonnation, contact Judy Madden 631-8508 or jmadden2@nd.edu 

Thursday, November 1, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Handicapped ~onfront obstacles 
Physically disabled sue large citiesfor accessibility to subway stations 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -For handi­capped New Yorkers, a trip aboard the city's subway sys­tem means confronting a series of obstacles -and indignities. 
First, they must be at a sta­tion with an elevator that descends to tho platform. In places, it's so narrow that a wheelchair rolls just inches from the edge of electrified tracks. And once the train arrives, the wheelchair often gets stuck while crossing the gap between the platform and the subway car. 
Navigating the nation's largest mass transit system by wheelchair "takes a certain kind of emotional stamina," said Michael Harris, an advo­cate for the disabled who us.es a wheelchair himself. "It's physically and emotionally draining." 
l)isabled passengers report the same difficulties in several other large cities, and some have sued transit agencies for improvements. 
Because of a lawsuit, Chicago officials installed devices that make it easier for wheelchair users to get on and off trains. In Boston, disabled train and bus riders sued over broken elevators and inacces­sible stations, leading the city's transit agency to spend more than $300 million on improve­ments. 
"It's not something that hap­pens overnight, but they're moving ahead diligently," said Bill Henning, director of the Boston Center for Independent Living. lie said the transit sys­tem was now "dedicated to improvements and trying to change the culture of an entity that hadn't given this the high­est priority or quite under­stood how to be handicap accessible." 
In New York, only about 60 of the city's 486 stations are accessible to wheelchairs, and about 40 more are under con­struction to become accessible. 
"We're more than 100 years old, and we're trying to retro­fit stations with elevators and ramps. Space constraints are a big factor," said James Anyansi, a spokesman for New York City Transit, acknowledg­ing that Harris is probably right in describing New York's system as the worst in the country for handicap-accessi­bility. 
Harris, 23, recently demon­strated the pitfalls of an underground ride by wheel­chair. 
He left his lower Manhattan office near ·City Hall, heading uptown to Herald Square at West 34th Street -a trip that normally takes about 10 min­utes on one subway line from the station across the street. But the station is not wheel­chair-accessible. 
So Harris powered up his motorized wheelchair and rolled to a different station, where he caught an uptown train to· Grand Central Terminal. From there, he rolled down the sidewalk to another station and boarded a train for his destination. 
Instead of 10 minutes, the trip lasted about 40. 
When there are problems with access, Anyansi said, transit officials post informa­tion on station signs and on a Web site, and they update a hot line four times a day. Transit employees are also supposed to be available to answer questions. 
In addition, a van can be reserved ahead of time to pick up a passenger at a specified address -at $2 a shared ride. 

Free DelivefY On Campus 
Min irru m Order M..oo for DeJivety 
Uml~l time~-Frl0!!5, thx, (ie:ll•.oery hre.~5 & cl-...rge:; IYM)' 'JM)' 1:-_.o IOCIIIIOI\ EXdU(ie:5 01ler ~5 Good h t l;..•.r-t!dphtlll9IOChtl01l5 Oil I)'. 
SOUTH BEND 
52750 IN 933 (N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
(Set"'li ng ~Jotre Da rre & St. Ma rfs) 
574-243-1122 
Choose From 
• 
Italian 

• 
Steak & Cheese 

• 
Ham & Cheese 

• 
Chicken Club 

• 
Veggie 

• 
Pizza Melt 


Polygamist leader: I am not a prophet 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY -Sitting in jail awaiting trial, the leader of a polygamous sect renounced his role as a prophet and said he had been "immoral" with a sister and daughter decades ago, newly unsealed documents show. 
Warren Jeffs' attorneys includ­ed those statements in docu­ments they filed in July as they sought to keep jail recordings out of his September trial in the arranged marriage of a 14-year­old to her 19-year-old cousin. 
Fifth District Judge James Shumate agreed that the record­ings could bias jurors against Jeffs and ordered the documents sealed. He unsealed them Tuesday. 
Jeffs, 51, was convicted on two counts of rape as an accomplice. He is to be sentenced Nov. 20 and could get up to life in prison. 
Jeffs also faces criminal charges in Arizona and 
in Utah's federal "What the community had no knowledge court. of allegations of
may regard as
In telephone inappropriate
immoral conduct is 
calls Jan. 24, behavior with a Jeffs told family not necessarily what sister. The half­that he "had brothers are no
the outside world 
been immoral longer close. 
would consider 
with a sister and Defense attor­a daughter" immoral conduct." ney Wally Bugden when he was 20, said the judge according to the released the doc­
Ken Driggs
documents. He uments without
polygamy expert
goes on to his knowledge. 
renounce his role as the church prophet and says the Lord had "revealed to him that he was a wicked man." 
It is not clear who Jeffs is speaking about, and Jeffs does not elaborate on the conduct. Some listeners responded by telling Jeffs he is the prophet and was being tested, according to the documents. 
The court filings also recount a videotaped Jan. 25 visit to the Washington County jail by a brother, Nephi Jeffs. 
Warren Jeffs said he had been fasting for three days and had been awake through the night. He began to dictate a religious message to followers but fell silent in mid-sentence and didn't speak again for 13 minutes. 
Again, he renounced his posi­tion as head of the church. His brother tried to encourage him and said he should see a doctor. 
Jeffs was taken to a hospital three days later and was given medication for depression. Court documents say he lost 30 pounds, was dehydrated and suf­fering from sleep deprivation. 
In February, when his health had improved, he abandoned his statements about not being a prophet and said he had "experi­enced a great spiritual test," according to the documents. 
Among FLDS members, who cover their bodies from neck to ankle, even small physical ges­tures would be considered inap­propriate, said Ken Driggs, a Georgia lawyer and polygamy expert. As for Jeffs' "immoral" conduct, "I wouldn't read too much into it," Driggs said. 
"What that community may regard as immoral conduct is not necessarily what the outside world would consider immoral conduct. lie could be talking about thoughts, or some affec­tionate or physical conduct," Driggs said. 
A half-brother, Ward Jeffs, said he doesn't believe Warren Jeffs was married or had children at age 20. Warren Jeffs was a teacher at a private FLDS school in Salt Lake City in 1976. 
Ward Jeffs, who 
has left the FLDS 
church, said he 
"I had no idea," 
Bugden told The Salt Lake Tribune. "There are significant due process issues for Mr. Jeffs as it relates to future cases in Arizona and there are significant privacy issues that we believe are protected." 
In his order, Shumate did not explain his reasoning for unseal­ing the documents, and Nancy Volmer, a spokeswoman for the state courts system, said she did not know why the judge made the decision when he did. A court hearing was planned for Nov. 6 on a request by news media and a private investigator to release them as well as oth­ers. 
Jeffs has led the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints since 2002, taking over from his father. Faithful members hold polygamy as a central tenet of their religion. 
The mainstrea-m Mormon church, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, renounced polygamy more than a century ago, excommunicates members who engage in the practice, and disavows any con­nection to the FLDS church. 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 10 
Thursday, November 1, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

The widening racial divide 
P.O. Box 779, None Dame, IN 46556 024 South Oining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CtuF.F Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken fowler Kyle West 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen L111glcy 
VmwrmNT EmTOR: Joey King 
SroRTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey 
Chris Hinc 
SCENE EDITOR: Tac Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: .Jessica Conez 
An Dl,~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTI'MS AUMINISTRAI'OR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(S74) 631-6900 ohs,•rvad@ud.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ohsmc(a)nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574} 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.J @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Marys College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refi1se advcrt~mcnts based on content. 
The nt-ws is reported as accurately and objecrivcly as possible. Unsign<-d editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observt·r. 
Vk-wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Qucrioll.f l7gllnii11g 0bfn7Jt'T'po!ici6 should b~ 
dirmed to Editor in CbiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

11w 0\tcf'Y('f {lJ.~PS ~')"') 2---4000) b. publllhnl MmHiay rhrouJh f:riday ~'l;f1 d•.mng cx11.m •nrl ~'Arh.m pen•"*-A ~~&~bow:nprM•n tn ·nu· Oltjll:ivtf I• $100 fur mlf aadrtni~ yur: ss~ furnt~l('ln('JICt'r 
n1c Oh•rver h. publi1hcJ u: PO~JMA..J,1'Ell 
02~ Suuth L>inin& Hall Send .lddrt$lJ cnrt«tions tl,): 
Nm:r~ t:l.mC', tN 4M~(,...0779 'rht Oblll!rvtt 
l'cnncliod JK·I~( plid It Nl)ff't' O.lmt ro Bl))l 779 
~nd addilioru.l mo~iling offko., OH South Dimng H.lll 
Num [).am~. IN 46556--0779 

n,... OI'Niel'vcr It 11 manher uf rhc Assoc1o~rtd l'ra..~. All r<producciun ngl.m uc t~rved. 
This is a column about black Americans. 
It's not political; it's not prescriptive. I don't know what to do about the facts I present below, nor do I know how to answer the ques­tions they pose. But I'm certain they matter. If' nothing else, they illuminate the American racial division that too many of us still deny. 
It's almost embarrassing to have to write a column that observes some­thing so obvious. But, unfortunately, columns that argue the truth of' racial distinction in America are still necessary. 
I. According to lilmmaker Hache! Grady and Ileidi Ewin 's doeumentary, "The Boys of' Baraka," 7(, percent of black tennagn males will not graduate high sehool. 
2. 
Author Jawanza Kunjul'u has said that approximately 32 percent of black families today have a father in the home. 

3. 
And it's not just Baltimore-a 2001 Manhattan Institute study reports that less than half of black teenagers in Georgia's DeKalb County graduate from high school, whereas 77 percent of white teenagers do so. (Latino teenagers graduate at a jaw-dropping­ly low rate of only 29 percent in DeKalb County). 

4. 
Even those who graduate high school fall behind white citizens. As DeWayne Wickham noted at a Democratic debate earlier this year, "According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in 2006 the unemployment rate of blaek high school graduates ... was 33 percent higher than the unem­ployment rate for white high school dropouts." You read that right. The unemployment rate for black gradu-



LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
ates was higher than that of white drop-outs. 
5. 
In 2006, the National Urban Institute's annual "State of Black America" report found that the median net worth of black households was 1/10 of the median net worth of white households ($6, 166 versus $67,000). 

6. 
According to a 2003 study by the Department of' Justice, 32.2 percent of black males born in 2001 ''an~ expect­ed to go to prison during their lifetime, if current incarceration rates remain unchanged." 

7. 
Wickham again: "According to FBI data, blacks were roughly 29 percent of persons arrested in this country between 1996 and 2005 ... Yet at thn end of this 1 0-ynar period ... blacks were approximately 38 percent lof those in prison 1." 

8. 
According to one study in 2000, black seventh-and eighth-graders were three times more likely than their white counterparts to have had sexual intercourse (:17 percent versus 11 per­cent). By 12th grade, meanwhile, 67 percent of black teenagers had engaged in intnrcourse, compan~d to 46 percent of white teenagers. 

9. 
In a presidential debate at Howard University, John Edwards observed: "African-American women are 25 times as likely to be infected with AIDS today in America than white women." In the same debate, llillary Clinton noted that HIV/AIDS is the leading cause of death among black women ages 25 through 34. 

10. 
Zero: the number of black profes­sors I have had at Notre Dame. Zero: the number of black males in my sec­tion in my dorm. Zero: the number of black undergraduates in three of my four classes. 


We shouldn't need Jena, Louisiana, or Hurricane Katrina to remind us that racial difference still plagues our coun­try. As Leonard Pitts, Jr., a columnist for the Miami Herald, recently observed, "It feels as if in recent years we the people have backward traveled from even the pretense of believing our loftiest ideals. It has become fashion­able to decry excessive 'political cor­rectness,' deride 'diversity,' 'sneer at the 'protected classes."' We, too, easily become passive about raeial disparity -even deny that it exists -when it doesn't glare at us in the form of explieit legal discrimination. 
As I wrote at thfl start, I don't know what to do about statistics like this. A good start, though, is to incrnasc awarnrwss. By "incwasing awareness," though, I don't mean holding a trite "Awaren1~ss Week" that involves table tents in thfl dining halls and multicul­tural dinners that inelude etlmic food and perlimnances by ethnic: dance groups. I don't mean selling .lena 6 T­shirts or planting signs aeross campus or even writing columns acknowledg­ing the importance of these statistics. I mean that day-to-day intnraetion about race has to change: People eannot get away with saying that opportunity in America is equal aeross raeial lines. 
Morn importantly, tho above statisties mean that people cannot dismiss radal distinction as based solnly on rlass dif­ferences, rather than racial discrimi­nation. When whitn high school dropouts are nmployed at 1:n percent the ratn of black high school gradu­atns, there is an explicitly racial prob­lem. When I can spend a full day in my dorms and my classes without seeing a black student, there is an explicitly racial problem. 
The political ramifications of this glaring problem are a question for another column. But just because we sometimes Jack spectacular examples like Jena or Katrina, we can't continue to deny that the problem exists. 
Andrew Nesi is a junior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. As you read this, he is probably on his way to Walt Disney World for a research trip. No, seriously, he is. He can be reached at anesi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Scalia's visit deserved publicity 
Surely the sponsors of the recent Notre Dame Law School conferenee addressing what one conference organ­izer called "fundamental questions of American constitutional governance" can appreciate the irony in their deci­sion not to inform the public that U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonio Scalia was a featured speaker ("Scalia spoke at ND law conference," Oct. 30). 
Defending their decision, a spokesper­son for the law school was quoted as saying that had Scalia's visit been publi­cized, "it would have been a mob scene." That is one way to characterize it. Another is to say that citizens of a democracy, had they known of Scalia's presence, might have chosen to exercise their constitutional rights to organize and dissent. Justice Scalia is often cele­brated as one of the most intellectually vigorous members of the Supreme Court. He has been both lauded and reviled for his controversial decisions ­decisions that affect the lives of all U.S. citizens. When the justice comes to our campus, then, he should not be smug­gled in and out of Notre Dame like con­traband. Rather, his visit should be made public so that ordinary citizens can express their opinions about the kind of nation that Justice Scalia seeks to create. 
While such expressions may not be welcome to Justice Scalia, who reported­ly requested that his presence not be made public, or to the conference organ­izers, they would nonetheless be evi­dence of a vibrant-and fundamental -democratic impulse. 
John Duffy 
English professor 
Oct. 30 

Editor's note: In an e-mail to The Observer Tuesday, Law School spokesperson Melanie McDonald modi­fied her earlier remarks and said the decision not to publicize Scalia's appear­ance was conference organizer A.J. Bellia 's preference, not Scalia's. The jus­tice's visit "went unpublicized because it was meant to be a purely educational endeavor at the Law School, and wide­spread publicity may have taken focus offofthat objective, " she wrote. 
TODAY's STAFF News Graphics QUOTES OF THE DAY 
Jenn Metz  Jared Wafer  
Joseph McMahon  Scene  
John Tierney Sports Dan Murphy Greg Arbogast  Cassie Belek Viewpoint Jordan Gamble  "It's amazing that the amount ofnews that happens in the worlil every day always jyst exactly fits the newspaper.  
Kevin Henry  Jerry Seinfeld comedian and actor  

"Sometimes /lie awake at night, and I ask. 'Where have I gone wrong?' Then a voice says to me. 'This is going to lake more than one night.'" 
Charles M. Schulz cartoonist 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 1, 2007 
Certainly you can remember times when you've heard people say of someone heroic, or who has endured great suffering with patience and grace, "She's a saint!" or "lie's a saint!" Perhaps you've even heard it said of one of your own parents (surely 
Kate Barrett

not because raising you caused them suf­fering). Though we FaithPoint most often think of the big names like Francis, Therese or Augustine when we hear "saint," the Church from its beginnings used the term saint to mean any baptized Christian. On this feast of All Saints, then, which we celebrate today, we ought to give thanks lor the folks we know and those we'll never know whose lives have allowed others to see God at work in the world a lit­tle more clearly. 
Contrary to criticisms that we worship the saint<; lavishly with our statues and feast days and prayers, the Church teaches us to honor the saints. Just as we would honor people who excel in the sciences, lit­erature, peacemaking or the arts with 
We can all be saints 
Nobel or Pulitzer Prizes or Laetare Medals, why wouldn't we hold in especially high esteem people who, by their courageous faith in God, lived (and often died) to bring the world around them closer to the Kingdom of God? We can best honor a saint, however, whether a well-known or anonymous holy man or woman, not with medals or prizes, but by imitating Christ in our lives, by being the kind of disciples who can speak out about God's love. 
Our culture holds up an almost constant stream of men and women who have achieved fame for their accomplishments in sport'>, film, music, or simply for being widely-photographed celebrities. Most of them, if we're honest with ourselves, arc not people whose lives we truly wish to emulate. What a great idea, then, for our faith to celebrate saints' feast days: To remind ourselves throughout the year of people we really would like to imitate, and the many and various ways a person can serve God. Have an urge for world travel? St. Frances Xavier Cabrini spent her whole life on the move, from Italy to the United States to Nicaragua and Panama and Peru and back. Long to serve the poor? St. Martin de Porres begged on the street for money he used for poor families in Lima. Want to get the rich to help the poor? St. Vincent de Paul was a master at it. Today we honor not one particular saint, howev­er; but all who are saints, and especially the ones most of us have never heard of. 
Christianity proclaims God's uncondition­allove, and some people just have a special capacity to disclose this love of God to the world. Think about it. If your faith in Jesus Christ, your belief in God, is alive and well today, it's because God called you through the example or witness of another person -or probably many people. And those people grew in their faith because of the example and love of others before them. Our faith has been handed on to us from generation to generation, and the people who have done the handing on are saints, whether publicly recognized by jhe Church or quietly known in a family or small com­munity of believers. 
So here we are. Iffuture generations will experience the joy of the Christian life, it will be because we allow God to work 
page 11 

through us to proclaim it. Who will show, by word and example, the saving love of Jesus Christ to your children and grand­children, nieces and great-nephews? Who will bring the truths of Scripture and the sacramental life to corners of the world who have never known God? Who will seek out those most in need and tend to their hunger and thirst? If you're looking around for other folks to raise their hands, quit looking and raise your own. Today, of all days, should remind us to answer, "me," to the above questions. God can work through each of us ifwe let him. We honor the saints by the way we live our lives, stand­ing on the foundation of an innumerable communion of saints who have offered us the saving love and example of Jesus Christ. 
Kate Barrett is the director of Resources and Special Projects in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Inclusion and exclusion in Victory March 
While we're at it ... 
DPar Caity and Erin Schneeman, 

We think that's a great idea for the fight song and should be promptly added into the Notre Dame repertoire. While we're at it, there's a few more "gender issues" that could be addressed in our school songs. 
"Hally sons and daughters of Notre Dame, 
Sing her glory and sound her fame ... 
Cheer. cheer lor old Notre Dame ... 

While her loyal sons and daughters march onward to victory!" 
Or how about "Hike"? Forget the fact that it's writtfln for football. a sport predomi­nantly played by men. 
"I like, hike, hike, the march is on, 
No brain or brawn ... 

For Notre Dame men and women are winning When Notre Dame hears hike, hike, hike. lllKE!" 
Or even "Irish Backs": 

"And when the Irish backs go marching by, The cheering thousands shout their battle cry, For Notre Dame men and women are marching into the game, 
Fighting the light for you, Notre Dame ... 

When Notre Dame men and women fight for gold and blue. Then Notre Dame men and women will win tlw game." 
While we're at it, we can make "Notre Dame" non-gendered, and insist on refer­ring to the University as "her/him." 
We are all in favor for forgetting the fact that thHse songs were written during a peri­od when Notre Dame was an all-male school, that these songs were written to cheer on a male dominated sport (i.e. foot­ball) and that this University is a university full of tradition. a tradition that is marked by these songs that have endured from their composition. 
We fully support changing all of these lyrics to foster an inclusive, politically cor­reet atmosphere here at Notre Dame so that the ladies in the stadium cheering on the football team won't feel belittled beeause we have to punch the air at "her" instead of "daughters". 
Caitlin Lambert junior Pasquerilla East Hall 
Christine Morris Junior Walsh Hall Ocr. 31 

Original version cherished 
At this point, I've grown accustomed to biting my lip and grimacing at certain times when Notre Dame students, faculty and alumni try to instill their opinions, view­points and beliefs into others. This has held true until I recently read Caity and Erin Schneeman's letter to the editor, "Reconsidering the Victory March" (Oct. 30). 
While few people would refer to me as "old fashioned," I am still a firm believer that certain traditions should remain unscathed-above all, the "Notre Dame Victory March." I'm a proponent for equal rights, yet I can't help but ask myself the question: Can anything be left sacred any­more? The reason that most Notre Dame fans are fans is because of the traditions and pedigree associated with the University. 
While people are on such a kick to appease the minority by making every tra­dition as politically correct as possible, they isolate the majority and forget about what most people care about. I've witnessed many great Notre Dame traditions die since I started as a student and the very mention of changing the lyrics to the "Victory March" fills me with the same sadness and rage I usually associate with watching Tyrone Willingham coach a football game. 
What's next? Should we start redrafting the Declaration of Independence because it doesn't state that "all men and women are created equal"? Words might just be words but like the Declaration of Independence, the "Victory March" has meant a great deal to a number of people and to change it now would be an injustice to every person who has walked the steps beneath the Golden Dome. 
The thing that you must remember, Caity and Erin, is that this University was found­ed in 1842, not 1972. So, while I find Caity and Erin's family traditions to be "interest­ing" and "cute," I, along with the rest of the Notre Dame family, will continue to sing the original and real version of the fight song written by the 0' Shea Brothers in the early 1900s. 
Honestly, if Caity and Erin feel oppressed or shorted in any way by reading my opin­ion, then I would like to remind them that the beautiful gates of Saint Mary's College are always open. Last time I checked, there was no discussion of incorporating a male presence into its fight song. 
Matthew Wrablik Class of2006 Los Angeles, Cali£ Oct. 30 

Substitution can keep tradition 
I read with interest the letter from Caity Schneeman and her mother, Erin Burns Schneeman, "Reconsidering the Victory March" (Oct. 30). I am in total agreement with these two ladies. Women have been attending the University for decades now, and it's about.time to do away with the gender specific "sons" and use a different pronoun. I sug­gest using the term "ones." Since we refer to those we love as "loved ones," it seems a perfect term to use in this situation. 
If the gentlemen at Notre Dame want to continue their proud tra­dition of shouting out, "sons," when they sing the "Victory March," then, fine, allow them to do so. But, also, allow the ladies to be included by shouting out, too. If the lyric change is made to "ones," then even if some or most of the male students con­tinue to sing, "sons," the two words will mesh together so well that they will seem almost indis­tinguishable to those listening. I think it would be preferable for everyone to sing, "ones," but it would work either way. 
Don't leave anyone out 
This is in response to the letter entitled "Reconsidering the Victory March" (Oct. 30). We feel the aforementioned letter includ­ed some good points; but it was still slightly exclusive in its mes­sage. 
Even small exclusions breed both sadness and Viewpoint arti­cles. As The Observer's Viewpoint section has taught us, it should be everyone's goal, in every aspect of life, to never mildly offend any­one, ever. Therefore, we deem it necessary to alter an age-old tra­dition to achieve the maximum degree of political correctness. 
Like Caity and her understand­ably concerned mother, we also sang a different version of our University's beloved fight song at the USC game. We were appalled when the people sitting around us sang a less inclusive tune. While the student body ended the song 
It is unfair, as well as an act of discrimination, to continue to exclude women by not changing the term, "sons," to something which includes both genders. Please allow women to feel a greater part of this wonderful university. Exlusion is never a pleasant thing for anyone. Both male and female students should feel "equal" at this university in every way. After all. this is a Christian university, which reveres a woman: the Virgin Mary. I would think it only right to ·change the wording to give female students a better feeling and sense of belonging. 
By the way, I am a mother, too, and I have a son (class of 2003). I have no daughtHrs, so I am not writing this with any personal agenda in mind. I'm writing it on behalf of women, as well as everyone, who have ever felt dis­criminated against, unwanted, or rejected, through no action of their own -just because of "who" they are. 
Holly Miller Mead, Wash. Oct. 31 
with the ignorant and insensitive phrase "while her loyal sons are marching onward to victory," we sang proudly "while Her loyal sons and daughters and her­maphrodites march onward to victory." 
It is an injustice rivaling comic strips about fat chicks that males get to raise their hands on "sons," females get to raise their hands on "her," and hermaphrodites don't get a chance to raise their hands at all. We fully expect a response to point out the obvious weakness in our argument: Our version of the Fight Song techni­cally allows hermaphrodites to raise their hands three times. God bless. 
Steve Simeonidis Claude LeRose juniors Keough Hall Oct. 30 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, November 1, 2007 
==================================================================================== 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Scent· Writt·r 
Owen Smith, a 1995 Notrn Dame grad­uate and stand-up com<1dian, will per­form his one-hour special, "Anonymous," at the Century Center in downtown South Bend at 7:30 and 10 tonight. 
This is Smith's first taped comedy spe­cial. 
Comedian Terry Crews, who plays Chris' f'atlwr, Julius. on the CW comedy "1\verybody llatns Chris," will be open­ing for Smith. 
Smith has rncm1tly gained distinction through his work as a writer for "1\verybody llates Chris" and his upcom­ing ;mimated conwdy on BI\T, "BUFU," which was eo-ereatPd by comedian­actor Orlando Jones. Smith also appearml on a McDonald's commercial featuring the "Cha-Cha Slide" that aired during the NFI. Season Opener game. Smith's movie, "Unhitched," is currently in the pro-production stages. 
"It's like the opposite of' IWill Smith's 2005 <:onwdyl 'llitehed,"' Smith said. "and.. I'll be tlw guy breaking up cou­ples. 
Sm.ith. originally from Maryland, said he has known hn wanted to do comedy since lw was nirw years old. lie drew inspiration from one of' his favorite comedians, 1\ddie Murphy, whose come­dy show, "Delirious." thrilled Smith as a boy hut shocked some of' his religious babysittnrs. 
"Wlwn I would watch it they would change tlw ehannnl whon he cursed," Owen said, "but change back to see what he would say next." 
Later, in high school, Smith sold candy bars as regularly as the drug dealers did their business on the other side of town. Smith's candy-selling business was mak­ing between $200 to $300 per week. His aptitude for money dealing prompted Smith to major in finance when he went to Notre Dame. lie lived in Grace Hall. 
"College is the best time of your life," said Smith. who said his experience at Notre Dame was beautiful. He said he is thankful for the positive encouragement he received at the University. 
Smith. who once got caught breaking parietals in Grace, scored the game win­ning point of the final game in Bookstore Basketball to win the tournament during his senior year. "People were so serious about that stuIT," said Smith. "I would go around and pants the guy on the other team." 
After college, Smith went on to work at Prudential Prnferred Financial Services selling life insurance. After 11 unfulfill­ing months, he quit the job to pursue comedy. Inspired by big names like Bill Cosby, Eddie Murphy and Richard Pryor, Smith headed to Los Angeles. 
Smith tries to make his comedy a per­sonal expression to which his audience can relate. he said. He never talks down to college students as "you kids" as some other comedians might do, he said. Hather, he loves talking about his college experience. 
!lis three main points during his rou­tine are polities, race and relationships. "I don't just mean to make jokes about black and white," said Smith. 
Comedian Owen Smith performs tonight at 7:30 and 10 at the Century 120 S. St. Joseph St. Smith is a 1995 Notre Dame graduate. 
Instead, he focuses on his encounters with a variety of races in his Maryland hometown, and contrasts it with the relative homogeneity of Notre Dame in the 1990s. 
'"Any man who curses can't think of anything else to say,"' Smith said, quot­ing Bill Cosby. He emulates this theory in his routines now, but uses the occasional expletive only when necessary. When he came to Notre Dame last April, an advis­er told Smith that his routine "crossed the line." 
Smith said sophomore Cedric Joint approached him after the show and declared, "Yeah, you definitely crossed the line. And I loved every minute of it." 
Joint, who kept in contact with Smith and went out to Los Angeles this past summer to work with him, has worked tirelessly on production for Thursday's show. 
Tickets for Smith's show are on sale for $5 online, at the LaFortune box office, and at the door of the Century Center. Doors for the Jirst show open at 
6:30 p.m. for the lirst show and at 9 p.m. for the second. Free rides will be provid­ed from McKenna Hall and Library Cirele starting at 6 p.m. 
"I just want everybody to come out," Smith said. "Even if you don't have a ticket. Just hop on the bus and we'll Jig­ure something out." 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
Affleck brothers show brilliance on both sides of camera 
cheap laughs or stunts to lighten the  the kidnapper. Distressed, Amanda's aunt  
By JAMES COSTA  mood. From the first frame, it starts hard  goes to a  private investigator (Casey  
Assistant Seem· Ediwr  and  only  gets  harder  and  darker.  Affleck) and seeks his help. There isn't  
Functioning as drama without gimmicks,  much more to say without giving away  
When I lirst !ward that Bm1 Allleck was  it succends in delivering the viewer deep  secret. However, it is a plotline that only  
directing a movie, I folt a little sorry for  into a world of' broken lives, drug addic­ thickens in complexity beforn the dramat­ 
tho guy. i\fter starring in a series of epic  tion, violence and corruption. The lilm  ic and classic climax between Afileck and  
flops, it sennwd impossible that he could  centers on the idealistic ways in which  the kidnapper.  
step behind the <:amera and make some­ man views the world and then falls from  Beyond the details of the plot, the film  
thing truly spncial happen. Yet, my lirst  these perceptions after experiencing the  truly succeeds in exposing a world that  
f'nnlings wm·n wrong. Hather than make a  cruelty of lifo. only to hopefully regain the  most of us know little about. It is a world  
nwdio('rn lilm. or nwn a good lilrn, Aflleck  idealism that has been lost along the way.  of ugly lives ­ thrown away and forgotten  
has risen higlwr than thn critics and the  The !ilm is based on the novel, "(;one  because of criminality, drug use and com­ 
skeptics. In his lirst nll'ort as a dirnetor, he  Baby Gone" by Dennis Lnhane, the author  placent despair. Helene (Amy Hyan), the  
has constructPd  a  deeply moving and  of "Mystic Hivnr," which Clint Eastwood  mother of kidnapped Amanda, most ably  
pownrl'ullilm, "(;one Baby Gone," that will  adapted to tlw screen. From the very  portrays this world. A disastrously rough  
compnl tlw viewer to contemplate tho vnry  beginning of "Gone," it almost feels as if  and beaten woman, she is the epitome of'  
•~ssnnce of' what is right and wrong.  we're watching "Mystic Hiver II." This is  the snarled mother from the underclass.  
Tlw movin is a drama, purn and simple.  not  because  Affleck  is  ripping  off  She is a druggie, a user, a villain to herself  
It has no comic n~linf.  no funny man, no  Eastwood. It's simply that Affleck also  and her family, and yet there is also an  
understands the South Boston  element of sad hope and love for her child  
world in which Lehane writes and  that makes her impossible to hate.  
Gone Baby Gone Miramax Films  masterfully captures its essence on the semen. While the film is still young and  Casey Affleck delivers a powerful and commanding performance. It is clear from the start that he has ingrained himself  
Directed by: Ben Affleck  the jury is still out on its future appeal, it is quite possible that  deep into the subtlnties of his character. There is something laying beneath the  
Starring: Casey Affleck, Michelle Monaghan and Morgan Freeman  Aflleck has created in "Gone" a film as powerful an insight into the the good and evil spheres of  veneer of the character that adds an addi­tional element of tension to the already nail-biting storyline.  


human consciousness as Eastwood The film is extraordinarily compelling. It created in "Mystic Hiver." contains a remarkable sensitivity to the 
The story is complex. Amanda struggles people face and the difficulties in McCready, a cute four-year-old doing what is right when there is already from South Boston, is abducted so very much wrong. frorn her home. A few days go by and no progress is made in finding Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 


.-----------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, November r, 2007 
page 13 
-~ ---~--~ 

"We are just about 140 nautical miles out of Chicago O'Hare." While this may seem likP a pleasant update, it's really just nonsense. Note what follows: "llope you're enjoying your !light." Now back to that first comment. Let's Jess Shaffer play "one or these things is not like the Scene Writer other." If you guessed that the word "nautical" makes no contextual sense when you're miles above any water mass, you're 100 percent cor­rect. 
This is just one or the many oddities that pervade air travel. It seems that even the often repeated phrase, "pleas­ant trip" is a contradiction in terms. I mean, what's really fun about cram­ming into a tin can that is about 20 yards long, but only 15 feet wide? And moreover, what's fun about being in this cramped space with 100 other people? What's appealing about com­pany like that guy who dozes off on your shoulder or the inevitably scream­ing child who's kicking your seat? 
Okay maybe air travel isn't all that bad. Thorn's a romantic nostalgia asso­ciated with f1ight. Put on Frank Sinatra's "Come Fly with Me," and I'd probably be persuaded to repeat my combined 27 hours of fall break travel. I'm sticking with Frank when I insist that there is a charm in seeing towns dissolve into what looks like a distant monopoly board. 
But, with that said, this little slice of sky heaven is enveloped in an environ­nwnt ridiculously akin to what I imag­ine hell is like. After enduring traffic and getting rid of your burdensome luggage, the daunting obstacle of secu­rity looms. ~omehow, I'm almost always thn one pulled out of line for an extra-thorough check. I thought there was a limit to how many times I could be frisked by airport security in a sin­gle year. Apparently not. 
In those mundane lines of "remove your laptops" and "no liquids exceed­ing four ounces," I just can't seem to do anything right. Case and point: I aecidentally forgot to remove my cen­timeter-thin flip 11ops, and was forced to repeat the entire process. I was additionally subjected to the glares and jostles from the irritated people behind me. I guess my threadbare (trash­bound) sandals are actually incognito weapons. They were so well disguised that even I, their owner, couldn't pick them out as dangerous. Good thing I 
have airport security to protect me from myself. It's probably for the best 
that I couldn't harness my shoes' nun­chucking potential or else that guy who kept coughing his infectious germs onto me would definitely not have had such a "pleasant trip." 
You'd think that waiting at the departing gate would be unexciting and therefore not irritating. Time at the gate is intended for sipping your morning latte before you endure a claustrophobic's nightmare. But regrettably the gates, once havens from airport anarehy, have now become locales for positioning yourself for optimal boarding capacity. Using totes, backpacks, and briefcases as weapons to defend their turf, passen­gers prepare to charge the gate. Those soccer moms pack a hard punch with their kid's Dora the Explorer backpack. And once your row number is called, chaos breaks out with a rush to be the first to board. 
Attention passengers: This is not an Olympic speed walking race. 
My enjoyable traveling experience has been reduced to absently glancing at the scenery while pondering the odd smell of the guy who is sitting way too close to me. 
I even once had fondness for flight attendants. They hand out drinks and peanuts with a freakishly glued on smile. Or, at least, that used to be their job. Now it seems that they feel obligat­ed to baby-sit their customers. I missed the "no more electronics" announce­ment, and instead of getting a friendly reminder, the flight attendant stood over me to check to make sure that I switched off my iPod. Fascist state much? It was an honest mistake, not an intentional sacrifice of safety proto­col. What happened to the sexist gen­eralization of stewardess Barbie? I bet she would have fulfilled her duties with class and style, instead of just a glare. 
And then suddenly you're landing and there is a grand push to get out of the plane. There is a charge to be the 

Unfortunately, friendly smiles don't always greet us when we fly. 

first one out of your seat-an all con­suming desire to be one of the few who get to stand at full height in the center aisle. And while the rest crouch under the overhead compartments, the vicious carry-on luggage rains down from the sky, attacking at random with a roller bag to the head. The Dora the Explorer backpack comes out of nowhere, again! 
At least baggage claim is out in the open; it gives more space for bag fling­ing. But unfortunately, here you are subjected to the little boys and old men's delusions of strength. Inevitably you always get an only half-retrieved bag thumped onto your foot. That last yank of your bag off the belt is about all any sane person can take. It's enough to send anybody straight to bed as remedy for exhaustive irritation. 
I'm considering not leaving my bed until Christmas so that I can start recouping for my next flying disaster. Sorry, Frank, it's disappointing for me, too. 
The views expressed in Scene and 
Heard are those ofthe author and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer atjshaffel@nd.edu 
This popular cartoon character may look sweet, but her 01' Blue Eyes adds whimsy to flying in "Come Fly Me, merchandise could distract and injure you on flights. but real-life traveling experiences are never so romantic. 
Burritos fill bellies of ND students 
By CHRIS McGRADY Assistant Scene Ediror 
Students have been caught up in the craze for Chipotle -the bur­geoning empire of burrito restau­rants built on the backs of organic meat, beans, and guacamole. Chipotle, a Colorado-based Fresh­Mex chain, has hit the Michiana area with all the force of, well, a three­pound burrito. 
Chipotle opened on Main Street in Mishawaka a little more than a year ago. The restaurant was popular ini­tially, but mostly with those students who had been to Chipotle in other cities. But as time went on, the phrase, "Wanna go to Chipotle?" became as much a campus mainstay as, "What did you think of the game?" Now, if you head to Chipotle at 6 p.m. on any given day, expect the line to reach the door. 
Chipotle's secret is simplicity. Its menu only has a few options: burri­tos, tacos (hard or soft shell), burrito bowls (a burrito minus the tortilla) and a salad. But the possibilities within these choices are endless. Four different kinds of meat, four kinds of salsa, two types of beans and, oh, would you like sour cream and cheese on that? These ingredi­ents ultimately become the real weapon behind their success ­taste. 
So often lost in the restaurant atmosphere-battle (see also, the "how much stuff can we put on our walls" battle) is, ironically, good food. Chipotle founder Steve Ells is a cook at heart, and it shows. The adobo rubbed steak is delicious, the chunky guacamole is flavorful, and the tomatillo salsa is spicy and robust. Chipotle boils its menu down to a few things and does them very well, rather than having dozens of mediocre choices. The recipe works. 
Many area students enjoy Chipotle on a regular basis. Interestingly enough, some don't choose Chipotle for its taste or convenience. Rather, they choose the restaurant for its morals. 
Chipotle is dedicated to what they call, "food with integrity." The restaurant uses free-range and humanely-raised meats and vegeta­bles from sustainable farms. The sour cream is made from milk that doesn't use RGII, a hormone used to increase dairy production. Even the restaurant buildings are made from recycled materials. Talk about com­mitment. 
Other students are jumping on the bandwagon as well, and not just because of the company's ethieal motto. A burrito is big enough for a whole meal, and costs less than $6. With students' limited budgets, a $6 meal isn't half bad. 
But students aren't the only ones afflicted with the Fresh-Mex mad­ness. In its second quarter press release, Chipotle noted an increase in net income earnings of 72 percent during the previous six months. The . restaurant opened 32 new restau­rants and its stock is now worth more than $110 per share. Chipotle's popularity is booming across the country, not just at Notre Dame. 
With tasty options, reasonable prices, and a penchant for morality, why not join the craze? 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 1, 2007 
NBA 

Nets' big three pace squad in win over Bulls 
Hornets open season with win in front of home crowd; Lewis' debut a success in Orlando's win over Milwaukee 
added 29 points and 10 assists, while Peja Stojakovic
Associated Press 

mbounds as the Nets won their showed some of his All-Star 
EAST HUTIII-:HFOHD. N.J. 12th straight against the Bulls form of old with 19 points to Antoirw Wright has learned to in New Jersey. Vince Carter had help the Hornets beat the deal with n~jection very well. 24 points and a big steal late Sacramento Kings on 
Told by tlw NPw Jnrsey Nets and Jason Kidd handed out 13 Wednesday night. last woek that they won't be assists. Tyson Chandler, fresh of a picking up tlw option on his Kidd was impressed with stint playing for the U.S. contract next year, Wright Wright, whose provious high national team, had 15 points started his walk year by mak­was 16 points last season. and 13 rebounds for New ing a statement. "I think it gives him eonfi­Orleans, while David West 
Wright scored 14 of his dence and puts him on the showed no signs of a recent earner-high 21 points in the radar," Kidd said. "I11~ played ankle sprain in scoring 17. fourth quarter and overtime to extremely well." Newly acquired shooting lead the Nets to a 112-1 o:~ vie­The Bulls struggled at times guard Morris Peterson chipped tory over the distracted in the season opener, the possi­in with 13, including three 3­Chicago Bulls on Wednesday ble vietims of rumors of a pointers. night. major trade with the Lakers for Stojakovic missed all but 13 
"I am a little exeited," Wright Kobe Bryant. games last season because of said. "I am looking at this as an Ben Gordon had 27 points back surgery. New Orleans will opportunity to show people I and Luol Deng added 22 points need him to stay healthy this ean be eonsistent and play and I I rebounds for the Bulls, season, and he looked fine every night. At the end of the who rallied from a 17-point against his former team, play­year, hopefully everything will second-half delieit to force the ing 31 minutes and hitting four take care of itself." ovfwtime. 3-pointers. 
Wright spent $25,000 this "There's never a deadline Defensively, Sacramento summer to work out three when it comes to trades," Deng missed Hon Artest, who is serv­times daily on his overall game said. "I guess -I have to learn to ing a seven-game suspension at a eamp in Las Vegas, and it expect that for the rest of my after pleading no contest to a certainly paid oil'. career. There's always someone charge related to domestic vio­
"For him to have a game like who wants you. I didn't think it lence. With Mike Bibby out at this on opening night to save really bothered us." least eight weeks after surgery us, I'm just happy for him," to repair a torn ligament in his Frank said. "It's niee to see him Hornets 104, Kings 90 left thumb, the Kings' offensive have a big game like this and Chris Paul and the rest of the firepower was diminished as Shinn standing nearby. "Thank draft pick from China, had nine h<~P';.fully, he'll have more like Hornets' starting live got their well. you to George Shinn and to the points in 25 minutes on 4-of-5 thrs. team's full-time return to New Kevin Martin led the Kings Hornets, who are committed to shooting. He sat several 
Hiehard Jefferson, who bat­Orleans off to a promising start. with 26 points, while John being part of the rebuilding of stretehes after getting his third tled injuries in reeent years, Paul had 22 points and 12 Salmons scored 22, Francisco New Orleans. The NBA is com­and fourth fouls, but showed Garcia 17 and Brad Miller 12. mitted to this in a way we think the same impressive range that 
The Hornets took a double­is going to have a significant has made Lewis so valuablll. digit lead in the first half and contribution to the rebuilding Not bad for a guy that three maintained it for most of the effort." months ago never looked like game. Then Stern handed the he'd play for Milwaukee. 
NBA commissioner David microphone to Shinn, whose "If I can control the fouls. I Stern was in New Orleans to decision to leave behind big can play much better," Yi said. announce a season-long, crowds in Oklahoma City and Lewis probably couldn't have. league-wide community service return to New Orleans has been The 6-foot-1 0 forward scored initiat.ive in New Orleans that questioned by a number of pro from all over the floor, leading will inelude a day of service by basketball observers. a Magie 3-point barrage that players, coaches, team Amploy­''I'm tired of people criticizing buried Milwaukee in the third ees and their families two days us and pulling us down," Shinn quarter. As Orlando hoped, he before the NBA All-Star game said. "We believe in New stretched halfeourt sets to open here on Feb. 17. Orleans." up the paint for Dwight 
He also attended the game, Howard. and viee versa. the first of 41 regular-season Magic 102, Bucks 83 "lie obviously makes it easier contests the Hornets will play Rashard Lewis came out for us because he draws so here in their first full season in decidedly on top in a matchup mueh attention down low," New Orleans since llurricann of two frontcourt debuts. Yi Lewis said. "And when we're Katrina s'truck on Aug. 29, Jianlian provlld he eould be knocking down 3s, he's left 2005. Thfl team spent most of dangerous with a little more with his man one-on-one." the past two seasons in experillnee. Orlando, one of Uw league's Oklahoma City, playing only Lewis, the former Seattle All­worst 3-point teams by nine regular-season games in Star who landed a $11S million attempts last season. shot bet­the Big Easy during that time. offseason payday, scored 26 ter from 3-point range (54 per­
"Thank you, New Orleans, for points on 9-of-13 shooting cent) than the l'ield (44 per­having us back," Stern said to Wednesday night to help the cent). Besides Lewis, lledo the crowd in brief comments Orlando Magie beat the Turkoglu keyed the effort with shortly before tipoff, with Milwaukee Bucks. 24 points on 3-for-5 shooting Hornets majority owner George Jianlian, the No. 6 overall from behind the arc. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3\>.m. at the Notre Dame ofllce, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for contem without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Granger family seeking babysitter for two boys. Once per week, either Tues or Thurs afternoons. 
Call 247-1194. 
Secretary help. Computer savvy, typing, organizing, light cleaning. 
CaiJ Terry 360-4192. Pays welL 
TICKETS 
WANTED-ND FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 

FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TJX. ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232,0964. www.victorytickets.com 
ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 
57 4-288-2726. 
FoR RENT 

Cozy 3 bedroom house, walk to campus, washer/dryer, landlord does the yardwork. $750/month. No pets. No section 8. 574-250-1266. 
Charming home now available for Navy,AF &Duke. Reserve now for JPW and Commencement! Great reviews, wonderful place &reason­able rates! 
574-286-9995. 

Large house available for 2009­2010. Full renovations completed this year. Great location on E Marion. Large common areas, 5 bathrooms. Also available: 5bdrm 2 bath and 3bdrm 2 bath for 2008­2009. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 
Blue &Gold Homes now showing 08-09 &09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com Blue &Gold Hornes 2nd semester sale. $200 P/S just off campus "alumni owned". Bluegoldrentals.com 
FoR SALE 
1990 Volvo Station Wagon. Only 103k. Good shape, Reliable, Cheap. Classic! Asking $1950. Dan Lindley (Fac.) 574-631-3226. 
Moving on with my life Moving in with yours. Lake St. George is your new home With an almost view of the dome Sleep in one of three suites Taste the city water. It is sweet New. New Everything You can have it for some bling Not too bad for $345 thousand CaiJ Jan Lazzara on her band 57 4-233-6141. FSB0-6.2 miles to NO-Colonial 2story home 4bdr 2-1/2 baths close to schools county tax many xtrs. 574-291-2899 
PERSONAL 
Adopt: a young loving couple long to share their hearts and home with a newborn. Will provide endless love. Expenses paid. CaJI Eileen and Ed 1-800-718-6577. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go il alone. If you or someone you Jove needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. 
For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnantshtml or see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? 
You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
superproofer.com 
Do you need childcare? 

Lena s Little Angels has 1 opening. I specialize in infants; 2 blocks soulh of campus. 
$110/week. 
261-5435 Angelena 
j willys bar and grille www.jwillys.com Monday: 35 cent wings Tuesday: $1 tacos Thursday: happy hour buffet 5-7pm. 
Now hiring servers 
Q: What do you call a hotdog that has had its insides rernoved? 
A haiJoweenie 



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, November 1, 2007 CoMPILED FR01>vt Tt-IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
AP Boston pitcher Curt Schilling celebrates the Red Sox's second World Series win in four years during the team's victory parade in Boston Tuesday. The veteran hurler is a free agent sorting through his options. 
Schilling considering other listed teatns 
25 Clemson 6·2 
College Football USA Today Poll 
team record 

1 Ohio Stale (56) 9·0 2 Boston College (3} 8·0 3 LSU 7·1 4 Oregon (1) 7·1 5 Oklahoma 7·1 6 Arizona State 8·0 7 West Virginia 7·1 8 Kansas 8·0 9 Missouri 7~1 10 Georgia &.2 11 Hawaii 3*0 12 Texas 7~2 13 Virginia Tech &,2 14 Michigan l·2 15 usc 6·2 16 Auburn t;;;3 11 Florida 5-3 18 Alabama t;;;2 19 Wisconsin 7.,2 20 Connecticut 7~1 > 21 South Florida t;;;2 22 Boise State H 23 Kentucky t;;;3 24 Cl.emson t;;;2 25 South Carolina t;;;3 
College Football. BCS Standings 
team 

1 Ohio State 9·0 
o~m:;,; ¥w:;w.

2 Boston College 8-0 .9559 
.8879 )·····

3 LSU 7·1 4 Arizona Slate 8-0 ;8493·.·. 5 Oregon 74 .8390 6 Oklahoma 7·1 .7920 7 West Virginia 7c-1 .7169 8 Kansas 8·0 .•7723 9 Missouri 7·1 .6100 10 Georgia 6-2 ,5820 
around the dial 
NCAA fOOTBALL Virginia Tech at Georgia Tech 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLS PLAYOFFS Chicago Fire at D.C. United 7:30p.m., ESPN2 
146 
votes 

MLB 

Associated Press 
BOSTON -Although his first choice remains Boston, Red Sox pitcher Curt Schilling said on his blog that he would con­sider a dozen other teams for a "last year" based on quality of life and a chance to make it back to the playoffs. 
Schilling previously said he would only rule out the rival New York Yankees. 
On Tuesday evening, he posted on his blog, 38pitches.com, the fol· lowing list: "Cleveland, Detroit, Anaheim, New York Mets, Philadelphia, Atlanta, L.A., S.D., Arizona, Chicago Cubs, 
IN BRIEF Slumfer Adam Dunn becomes 
higfiest paid Reds player 
CINCINNATI -Adam Dunn became the Cincinnati Reds' high· est-paid player Wednesday when the team picked up his contract option for $13 million next sea­son. 
The Reds answered their most expensive offseason question by keeping their top power hitter, the only one in franchise history to have 40 homers in four consec­utive seasons. Dunn wanted to stay with the team that drafted and developed him. 
Owner Bob Castellini was con­sulted about the decision. Earlier this month, Castellini said he wanted Dunn to stay, even if it cost $13 million. 
Anytime you have a deal of this magnitude, ownership deserves to be part of the process," general manager Wayne Krivsky said. 
St. Louis, Milwaukee." 
"Teams we didn't include aren't for any one reason," he wrote. "There are a million little things that go into this from stadiums to school districts to travel to spring training to etc. etc. etc. but the list rep­resents the teams after Boston that have some of the off the field things that are big to us, plus the potential to go into October next year." 
Only the Red Sox can sign the right-hander, who turns 41 this month, until Nov. 13; other teams can express an interest but not negotiate over money. 
Schilling, who isn't rep-
Mike Cameron suspended
25 games for stimulant use 
SAN DIEGO -Mike Cameron, the Padres' Gold Glove center fielder, was suspended for the first 25 games of next season on Wednesday after testing positive a second time for a banned stimu­lant. 
Cameron, who plans to file for free agency, said he believes he took a tainted supplement. 
"The one thing I wanted to make sure was explained is, no steroids," Cameron told AM 1090, the Padres' flagship radio station. "I never took nothing like that before in my life. That would be 50 games, and that would affect me a whole lot more." 
Cameron issued a statement through his agent, saying doctors for the players' association helped him narrow down what triggered the positive test. 
resented by an agent, said he called the base· ball players' association and told them he wanted to file for free agency. 
"Weird," Schilling wrote. "Something that can be so life altering was pretty much a 48· second phone call." 
Catchers Jason Varitek and Doug Mirabelli stopped by the Red Sox clubhouse to box up their belongings on Wednesday morning after being hon­ored at the Massachusetts Statehouse. Varitek took care to label and pre· serve the bats he used during the World Series. 
The two lockers next to the catcher, which had 
Lisa Leslie back after a year
off and a newborn baby 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. -It would have been easy for lisa Leslie to walk away from playing basketball and begin a broadcasting career. 
The three-time Olympic gold medal· ist had just become a mom in June with the birth of daughter Lauren and had nothing left to prove. 
But the 36-year-old star still yearned to play. 
"Honestly, I didn't know if I was going to be able to play or not," Leslie said. "Being back out on the floor, I just love basketball, and regardless of whatever my age is, as long as I'm keeping up and able to contribute, I'll play. 
"And when I can't do that anymore, I have no problems hanging up the shoes and going over and getting behind the mike and talking about the game. But I think right now I'm still effective enough to help the team win." 
been used by Schilling, were cleared of any per­sonal items and name tags. 
Varitek repeated his hope that Schilling is able to finish up his career in Boston, but said he wouldn't be run· ning to his teammate's blog to keep up on his status. 
"I haven't checked a blog, so I'm probably not going to start now," he said. "I may call him now and then to see what's going on." 
Varitek said he was one 
of  the  players  who  
received  a  note  from  
Schilling.  

"It's something I'll keep," the catcher said. 

1 
2 3 
4 5 
6 
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
17 Alabama 18 Florida 
19  Auburn  
20  South Florida  
21  Wake Forest  
21  Boise State  
23  South Carolina  
24  Tennessee  

College Football AP Poll 
team 
Ohio State (59) Boston College (1) LSU (3) Oregon Oklahoma Arizona Slate (2) West Virginia Kansas Missouri Georgia Virginia Tech Hawaii usc Texas Michigan Connecticut 
record 

9·0 1,615 8·0 1,501 7·1 1,478 7·1 1,417 7·1 1,365 8·0 1,310 7·1 1;286 8·0 1,164 7·1 1,121 6·2 949 6·2 823 8·0 776 6·2 742 7·2 728 7·2 726 7·1 555 6·2 547 5-3 532 6·3 530 6·2 392 6·2 259 7·1 259 6·3 196 5·3 165 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November I, 2007 
MLB 

Torre leads candidate pool for Dodgers job 
L.A. GM Colletti admits he has spoken with former Yankees skipper, no deal has been reached between the two sides 
Associated Press 
LOS 1\NGI:I.I·:S-General 
managor Nod Collotti acknowl­
odgnd WndnPsday he had spo­
kon with Jon Torro about man­
aging thP Los /\ngPI1~S 
Dodgors. 
Whilo Colldti insistod they 
had not agrnPd on a contract, 
he indicatod the formnr New 
York Yankoos managor was 
tlw loading candidate to 
roplace Grady Litt.lo, who 
rnsigrwd on Tunsday. 
"We've had some r.onversa­
tions with him very reeently," 
Coll1~tti said. "Certainly as you 
look at his n~sume and what 
ho's done and thn market he's 
done it in. you've certainly got 
to start thern." 
Ilaving said that, Colletti was quick to point out that other candidates were also being eonsidnred. 
"We're talking about a num­ber of people," Colletti said. "We're crossing ofT names. It may be a w~ry short list." 
Colletti said lw was aware of baseball's directive regarding minorities being interviewed for opPn managerial jobs, but wouldn't say whether the Dodg1~rs would honor the rnq uost. 
"We're taking it into eonsid­~~ralion. We'll see how things go," he said. ''I'd rathnr look at what we've done. What we've donn speaks well. I think it's prntty indicative of a thorough thought process." 
By any reasonable gauge, Torre's name is at the top of the Dodgers' list. However, when asked whether the par­ties had discussed money and if thoy wnn~ dose to a deal, Colletti retreated. 
"We have interest," he said. "It may be mutual, that's really a question for the other side. 
"I don't categorize anything as dose, far. It's either done or it's not done. We're still trying to learn about eaeh other. Then~·s been some light dis­cussions to try and get a feel. I'm not going to get into where t.he negotiations are. It's still narly in tlw proeess in some ways." 
Torn~·s agent, Maury Gostfrand. deelined eomment Wednosday. 
Soon af'ter Little resigned Ttwsday, published reports said Torn~ and tho Dodgers had already roaehed a deal, sonw daiming he had agreed in principlo to a three-year contrad worth $14.5 million. 
''l'vo watdwd stuff in tlw last 72 hours that I r:an't bnlieve I'm watching," Collotti said. "I 

can tell you W!~ do not have an 
agrenrnent. I've seen more 
inaccuracy than I ean ever 
remember." 
Still. it would be a surprise 
at this stage if Torre doesn't 
follow in tlw footsteps of Hall 
of Famers Waller Alston and 
Torn Lasorda in what would 
likely be the final chapter of 
his own !!all of Fame career. 
Colletti acknowledged the 
buzz surrounding Torre might 
cause other potential eandi­
dates to decline to be inter­
viewed. 

"That's certainly a faetor," 
Colletti said. "I believe it will 
play a role." 
The 67-year-old Torre, who managed the Yankees to four World Series titles and 12 playoff appearances in 12 sea­sons, completed a $19.2 mil­lion, three-year contract this year. lie ranks eighth on base­ball's career list with 2,067 victories and has won a record 76 postseason games. 
On Oct. 18, Torre rejected a $5 million, one-year offer from the Yankees with an additional $3 million in performanee bonuses. lie earned $7.5 mil­lion this season, by far the most of any manager. 
Colletti said he sensed Little was leaning toward stepping down, so he began discussing the job recently with potential replacements. One of those eandidates, the GM aeknowl­edged, was Joe Girardi, hired by the Yankees as Torre's suc­cessor earlier Tuesday. 
The Dodgers entered this season as the elear-cut favorite to win the NL West. They had the league's best record in mid-July, but lost 11 of their last 14 games to fade out of eontention, finishing at 82-80. 
Once one of baseball's glam­our franchises, the Dodgers have struggled in recent years, failing to win a single playoff series since winning the 1988 World Series. In fact, they've won only one playoff game sinee winning their sixth Series championship. 
Since Lasorda stepped down during the 1996 season after suffering a heart attaek, the Dodgers are 1-9 in postseason action. The lone victory came three years ago, when they lost to St. Louis 3-1 in an NL division series. 
The Dodgers won the NL wild card in 2006, Little's first year as their manager, but were swept by the New York M11ts in the first round of the playoffs. 
Torre and his former bench coach, Don Mattingly, have dis­eussed the possibility of joining the Dodgers together, accord­ing to a person with knowl­edge of those talks. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because the manag­er's position in Los Angeles was vacant. 
"Wo don't have a coaching staff in mind, we haven't got­ten there," Colletti said. "We've discussed it to some extent. I think whoever the manager is, there will have to be a eomfort level on his part and my part." 
Colletti said he hadn't spo­ken directly with potential managerial candidates other than Girardi and Torre person­ally, but added there have been eonversations with others "in a secondary way, not dir~.ctly, through other peo­ple. 
''I'm not going to get into the numbers," he said. 

AP Former Yankees manager Joe Torre, left, watches a spring training game with new Yankees manager Joe Girardi on March 1, 2005. 
you love needs help please call. 
Confidential support and assistance available at Notre Dame: 
• Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF, Student Affairs, 1-7 407 OP, Student Affairs, 1-7819 Campus Ministry, 1-7163 
,.,,.,,u...,.u, Counselin~ Center, 1-4365 
Health Services, 1-8286 
Bend Community Resources: 
'sCare Center: 234-0363 
· Charities: 234-3111 
clepartments/pregnant.sl1tml 
..-----------------------------­
Thursday, November 1, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FooTBALL 
LSU fans look for payback on Saban Saturday 
Tiger faithful haven't forgiven Alabama coach for jumping ship to NFL, returning to coach rival SEC school 
Associated Press 
Nothing gets college football fans more riled up than a coach who bolts for a big-money con­tract in the NFL. 
Wait, there's one thing that's even worse: When that same coach returns to the same con­ference to lead a rival school. 
That's why Nick Saban is so reviled in Cajun country, this week more than ever as his for­mer team. No. 3 LSU, gets set to play his current team, No. 17 Alabama. 
At least Saban has the good fortune of playing Saturday's game in Tuscaloosa, where he'll be in the safe confines of ador­ing fans who have already anointed him the second coming of Bear Bryant. 
Just imagine if he had to go to Death Valley this weekend. "They may have had to add a little something extra to the 
police force," Saban quipped Wednesday. 
Otherwise, he insists this matchup is nothing personal. It will be decided by the players on the field, Saban said, not the guys on the sidelines or the peo­ple in the stands. 
"Look, I had a lot of great relationships with a lot of peo­ple at LSU," Saban said, offering up his version of a truce. ''I'm sure some of those people are anxious for this game. Anytime you know somebody and have relationships with people, it cre­ates a tremendous opportunity when you compete against them. You don't really have to hate somebody to compete against them." 
Maybe not, but there are plen­ty of folks in Louisiana who despise Saban for abandoning the Tigers after the 2004 sea­son. then returning just three years later to lead a team that's in the same division as LSU and standing in the way of a possi­ble run at the national champi­onship. 
Saban's successor, Les Miles, chose his words carefully when asked if there was a different feeling about this game. 
"I probably got more ticket requests from boosters than I normally do," he said. "Knowing the opponent's coach as well as they do around here has cer­tainly made it a little bit more interesting." 
The Web was buzzing with plenty of talk about Saban fac­ing his former team. For instance, a chat room run by The Times-Picayune of New Orleans allowed people to vent behind the anonymity of the Internet. 
"When you talk, you don't know what to believe," one blogger wrote. "He always says he is happy where he is and 

wants his family to stay there, Shula after a disappointing sea­and then denies entertaining job son. offers and then before you know Back at LSU, there was an it he is gone. We just want angry outcry against Saban, someone who is upfront and whose name was accompanied honest." by words such as "betrayal" 
"I don't hate him," another and "turncoat." Everyone in LSU fan chimed in, "but let's flip purple and gold circled one it around. Truthfully, think of date on their calendars-Nov. any former UA coach (you have 3. a few to choose from). When "l don't think it surprised any­Barna was to play them, would­one that he returned to college n't you want Barna to win just a football," said Herb Vincent, little more so as to remind him who serves as a liaison between what he left behind? That's how LSU's athletic department and 
I  feel  about  its fundraising  
Saban.  He's  a  group.  "He  
good coach, but I  always  talked  
want LSU to beat  about how much  
him pretty good."  "This game is more  he  enjoyed  
Make no mis­take, Tiger fans  than coach Saban."  coaching college players. What  
appreciate  the  took everybody  
job  Saban  did  Kirston Pittman  by surprise was  
during his time  LSU defensive end  that he would  
in Baton Rouge.  come  back  to  
LSU stumbled  not  only  the  
through  the  SEC, but right  
1990s with more  into  our  divi­ 

coaches (four) than winning sion. That adds a little bit of an seasons (three). Saban arrived edge to this game." in 2000 and immediately turned A little bit of an edge'? That's things around, taking advantage an understatement. of the state's enormous high When LSU started taking school talent base and shutting orders for the 7,000 tickets it off other teams from swooping was allotted for Saturday's in to take the best players. game, it was bombarded with 
In Saban's second year, the 33,000 requests. Tigers won their first "That exceeds most bowl game Southeastern Conference cham­requests," Vincent said. "That in pionship since 1988. That was itself shows the anticipation for only a prelude to the 2003 sea­this game. J"m sure a lot of our son. when LSU defeated fans are going just to go, even Oklahoma in the BCS title game tho~gh they may not have tick­to claim a share of the national ets. championship. Saban recruited most of LSU's 
At that point, Saban was so starters, but the players have popular he probably could have largely gone along with the com­been elected governor of pany line. Yes, this is a very Louisiana. Instead, he hung important game. No, it has noth­around just one more season ing to do with the guy coaching before taking a lucrative offer the other team. to coach the NFL's Miami "This gamf\ is more than coach Dolphins. Saban," senior defensive end 
While the money was good, Kirston Pittman said. "It's about Saban wasn't a good fit for the winning the SEC West. I have a pro game. He yearned for lot of respect for coach Saban. another college job and, after He brought a lot of lire to the vehement denials that he was table. He nxpected excellence. He leaving, he took a $4-million-a­didn't expoet you to make a mis­year offer from the Crimson take. He would get in your face if Tide, which had fired Mike you did make a mistake." 
Need ~-\. Suit? 
You need one for inten.ri ews. You need one for work You need one for special occasions. Sometimes "business casual" just doesn't cut it. 
How Much Do You Know About Buying One? 
Yon m :ay knm\· less than ;>on thmk. 
I bought a suit for medical school inten.ri ews, but I didn't know what I was doing and ended up making a bad decision. Nothing looks worse than a bad suit. 
Don't m"ke the same mist:aklO's I m:adlO'. 
I have put together an informational session for students Leam everything you need to know. 
Adn1is sion is free, but space is limited to 20 people. Contact me at SBSmdufo@yahoo (Om for details. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November I, 2007 
NFL 

Kitna proves to be prophetic 



QB's prediction of 10 wins for Lions appears possible after 7games 
Associa1ed Press 
ALLEN I'AHK. Mich. -Jon Kitna subjPCLPd himself to ridicuiP, saying bPforP tho Sim­son lw would lw disappointPCI if tlw f>Ptroit Lions didn't win at IPast I0 ganws. 
No onP is laughing at f>ntroit's quartnrhack any­morP. 
Tlw Lions aro !i-2, the lorw NJiC North tPam without a loss in tlw division and only one in tlw eoni"Pri'JH"«' undt•fnatPd at honw. DPtroit's strong start ­and startling turnaround ­gavo Kitna Pnough eonlideneo to say s1wrial things are possi­biP. 
Such as'! 
"I don't play this ganw for any otlwr rPason but to win a Supnr Bowl," Kitna said with conviction and a stenly glarl' as lw grabbPd a rnportpr's rocordnr. "I'm 

not trying to go to tlw playoffs.  "/ don 'l play this game .for any other  they've given up -and taking  
I'm not trying to win 10 games. I'm not  reason but to win a .'iuper /Jowl."  advantagn ol' tlwm. Tlwy lead the  
trying  to  do  NFL  with  20  
moral virtoriPs.  Jon Kitna  takPaways,  1:~  
"I'm trying to win in a Supnr  Lions quarterback  in tnrceptions and (,9 points ofT  
Bowl."  turnovnrs.  At  
On  tlw  OVP  or  this  point  last  

training camp, Lions coach year, Detroit was 1-6 afttH Hod Marinnlli insistml hn did­f"ordng 11 turnovers, inducting n't havn a problnm with just thn1o interceptions. Kitna's bravado. "The l'irst thing you look at 
As tho tnam prnpares to hit is their turnover ratio," its midway point of' the season Denver coach Mike Shanahan tho l'inal quartnr with elutrh plays by all thrnn units. 
Detroit was routnd 56-21 at l'hiladelphia and 34-3 at Washington. but bounced bark to win the last two games. Suddnnly, peopln outside the locknr room an1 hnlieving in tlw franchise eoming off one ol' tho worst six-season stretches in NFL history. 
The former laughingstock ol' tlw !Pague is slowly gaining rnspnct, but Marinelli insists hn donsn't carP. 
"It donsn't nwan anything," Marinelli said. "II" it lwlpnd us win. I'd care. 
"It enrtainly donsn't nwan anything as we prPparn to play l>nnver this WPnk." 
II" Dntroit bnats the Broncos, it. will double last season's win totaI: match thn most virtories from tlw Matt. Millon era; and roach six wins halfway through thP snason l'or tho lirst time sinen 1991), the last snason it madn thn playoffs. 
Thn Lions are vastly improved ehinfly because 
they're creating 
turnovnrs -live 
morn than 

eidenee the "Tampa Two" dn!'nnse is being implemented mueh better than it was last year because of Barry. 
"It's everything," Marinelli said. 
Barry leanH~d the popular system as an assistant in Tampa Bay under eoad1 Tony Dungy and coordinator Monte Kil'fin. 
"When I hired him people wPrn like, 'Well, that's your son-in-law,' but hn's lHlre htH~ausP he knows this system as wnll as anyonn in the lnague," Marinelli said. "Coach Dungy hired both Mike Tomlin and Jon, then he trairwd under Mont.n Kif'f'in, onn of' tho elite eoordinators ever." 
Marinelli fired def"nnsive eoordinator (lonnie llendnrson, replacing him with Barry. 
"With Donnie, that was my fault I00 percPnt." Marinelli said. 
Marinelli also got rid of sonw players who didn't fit his system, or did not scH1lll will­ing to practice hard with pads after going through lighter workouts under fornwr eoac·h­ns Stove Mariuc~ei and Marty Mornhinweg. 
DPtroit reshapod its roster in part by trading eornorbaek Dre' Bly to Denvor. dtd'nnsive nnd James llall to St.. Louis and choosing not to rn-sign saf"nty Terrence llolt."lle broke the whips out last year and demanded attitudes change," defensive tackle Cory Hedding said. "lie said, 'We're not rebuilding this year. We're going out to win.' 
"It wasn't personal when he got guys out or here. It was business." 
at horne against Denver, Marinelli wasn't bothered by thn latest bold statement from his quarterback. 
"Every team in this league has a vision of what they want to bo," Marinolli said after Wednnsday's practice. "Hut in roality. it's the day-by-day preparation." 
The Lions have embraced Marinelli's one-snap-at-a-time mantra, and it has appeared to hnlp tlwm win five times in said. "Anytime you win the turnover battle, you've got an exeellnnt chance to win foot­ball games. 

"It's also another year of the dnfensive and oi'J'ensivn system under their belt." 
While Marinelli and offen­sive coordinator Mike Martz are in their second season with the Lions, defensive coor­dinator Joe Barry, Marinelli's son-in-law, is in his 11rst. 
Marinelli said it's not a coin-
CAREER & INTERNSHIP CONNECTION (CIC) CAREER FAIRS 
Seniors, Juniors, Sophomores & First Years, nct\·vnrk and interview with select employers in NYC, Washington D.C., Boston, Chicago and San Francisco over winter break! 
To learn more, attend one ofthe following inf{>rmation sessions: • November lst-4:30-5:00 PM, 114 Flanner Hall 
• November 2nd-11:30-12:00 PM, 114 Flanner Hall 
• November 8th-4:30-5:00 PM, 114 Flanner Hall 
The deadline to register, upload and submit resumes for ALL dties: Noven1ber 26, 2007 http:/ /www.rochestcr.edu/careerccnter/studcnts/cic/indcx.html 
Dates of the rairs: Chicago-January 3rd, 2008 D.C. -January 4th, 2008 Roston ·· January 7th, 2008 New York City-January 9th, 2008 San Francisco -January 11th, 2008 Career Fields include adwrtising, hiotechnologv, engineering, hcalthcare, hanking, consulting,,;;.,., public rcbtions, publishing <HHI more! 
248 Hannvr IIall D 631 ·5200 D n<kps(LVnd .<·du 
lhc Career <;enter + 



Thursday, November 1, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

NFL 
Flexible Vrabel a dual threat 
Patriots linebacker comfortable catching quarterbacks and TDs 
Associated Press 
FOXBOHOUGH, Mass. ­Quarterbacks should keep their eyes on Mike Vrabel, whether he's trying to tackle them or gntting open to catch a touch­down pass. 
Defenders should do the same when the Patriots linebacker !inns up at tight end. 
The Hedskins loft Vrabel unguarded last Sunday when he caught a 2-yard scoring pass from Tom Brady that gave New England a 14-0 lead in thnir 52­7 rout. That was his 1Oth recep­tion in his 11 NFL seasons, ovory onn a touchdown, but nono longer than 2 yards. 
By now, you'd think oppo­nents would pay attention to him nnar the goal line. 
"Somntimes they do and sometimes they don't," he said Wndnesday. "When they do, I don't gnt the ball, and when they don't cover me, I get the ball. You can only stop so much down there." 
If a player covers him there would be more room for the Patriots to run the ball. That also would divert a defender from more dangerous threats: wide receivers Randy Moss, Wes Welker and Donte' Stallworth. 
"I would always cover Randy before me," Vrabel said with a smile. ''I'm not running out there every time thinking I'm going to score." 
When he does get into the pass pattern, Brady has confi­dence. 
"He's very good at evading defenders and getting off the line of scrimmage," Brady said. "He's very quick. He uses his hands well." 
Vrabel is the only player in NFL history who has scored on all of his regular-season catch­es, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. He's 8-for-8 not count­ing playoffs. 
Of players with at least five touchdown catches, tight end Mike Bartrum, at 6-for-11, has the second-highest percentage. Bartrum had two touchdowns with New England and four with Philadelphia. 
On his latest touchdown, Vrabel was open in the end zone after going in motion from left to right and faking a block on a linebacker who anticipated a run. 
But his primary mission is to tackle ofl'ensive players. On Sunday, those would be Peyton Manning, Joseph Addai, Heggio 
THIS WEEKI 
Wayne and other Indianapolis Colts in a matchup of unbeaten teams. 
The Patriots improved to 8-0 when they beat Washington. Vrabel had 13 tackles. He had three sacks of Jason Campbell, forcing a fumble on each one. Rosevelt Colvin returned the last one 11 yards for a touch­down. Ty Warren recovered the other two. 
"It was like I was out there Easter egg hunting or picking up a golden egg," Warren said. "You just have to continue to play and sometimes the ball might literally bounce in your direction." 
The 6-foot-4, 241-pound Vrabel has a combination of speed, strength and smarts that make him a threat on both sides of the ball. 
"You can be out there in the game and he'll say, 'Watch out for this or be looking for that. It may be a screen or a draw,' just calling out the plays," defensive end Richard Seymour said. "We always joke at the end of the game. He says, 'Hey, Sey, at the end of the game I'm going to hand them back their play­book,' because he's so in tune." 
The Patriots first saw that when he was a rookie with Pittsburgh in 1997. Like he did against Campbell, he sacked New England's Drew Bledsoe, forcing a fumble in the final minutes of a second-round play­off game. The Steelers held on for a 7-6 win. 
lie has 7? sacks this season, firth in the NFL and first among linebackers. Just two more and he'll match his career high set in 2003. 
His three sacks last Sunday led to 17 points. 
The first came midway through the second quarter on the fourth play after his touch­down and set up Stephen Gostkowski's 36-yard field goal. He got the second with 1:49 left in the half, setting up Brady's 6­yard scoring pass to Moss. 
Then, on the Redskins third play of the third quarter, Vrabel sacked Campbell again and Colvin scooped up the ball and ran it in. Vrabel had lined up at left end and got a free shot at the quarterback when the right tackle and running back both tried to block Junior Seau com­ing up the middle. 
"Any time that somebody makes a play, more times than not other (defensive) guys are involved," Vrabel said. "Probably the worst ball securi­ty guy on the field is the quar­terback. When he's looking to try to make a play and if you have some awareness, you can usually get it out." 
Vrabel didn't force Manning to fumble, but did sack him with 
10:43 left in last season's AFC championship game. The Colts punted two plays later and the Patriots followed with a field 
goal for  a  31-28 lead.  But  
Indianapolis won 38-34.  
"I  think  we  certainly  are  

aware of it," Vrabel said of the season-ending loss. "It's not going to have any bearing on this week's game." 
NHL 
Ovvner vvor ks to keep Predators in Nashville 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. Predators owner Craig Leipold decided Wednesday to give more time to the local investors trying to buy the NHL team and keep it in town. 
The local investors put down $10 million as a deposit in August for the $193 million purchase and faced a midnight deadline Wednesday to fmalize the sale or lose exclusive negotiating rights. 
They have been working with Metro Nashville officials to revise the team's arena lease to give them a better chance of making rather than losing money. Leipold is selling because he estimated he has lost $70 million in his 10 years of ownership. 
Leipold said in a statement released by the team late Wednesday afternoon that he had met with Mayor Karl Dean for an update on where the city is in the lease negotiations with the group led by David Freeman. Leipold also met with Freeman for an update on the group's progress toward finalizing this deal. 
Leipold didn't say how much more time he is giving them to finish the deal but said he looks forward to completing the sale. 
"We understand how complex this transaction is and how much time and effort David, his group, the Mayor's office and others have invested into the process all with a goal of keeping the Predators in Nashville and mak­ing the franchise viable for the long-term," Leipold said. 
"Based on the progress being made, I am convinced all parties will benefit from extra time to 

OF THE BLUES WORLDWIDE
B.B. KING
AND THE B.B. KING BLUES BAND 
1 _.MP.niTHURSDAY JANUARY 31 at 7:30PM 
1-MORRIS PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
SOUTH BEND, IN 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE MORRIS BOX OFFICE & SUPER SOUNDS in GOSHEN BY PHONE (574} 235-9190 www.MORRISCENTER.org. 
complete this transaction so we will extend the purchase agree-­ment with David's group with a goal of completing the sale as soon as possible." 
The investors declined to com­ment after Leipold announced the extension. But the group does have a new partner. Doug Bergeron is a businessman and friend of California venture capi­talist William "Boots" Del Biaggio -who had been the only non­Nashville investor. 
Freeman said in a statement that nothing is changing in the ownership group. 
"Boots is simply diversifYing or diluting his personal interest and bringing another very bright, high quality, hockey-loving investor into his group. We are very happy that Mr. Bergeron will be part of our ownership group," Freeman said. 
Leipold didn't say much more himself. 
"We do not plan to comment further on the sale status until there is significant and definitive news," Leipold said. 
Leipold originally announced a deal to sell his team in May to Canadian billionaire Jim Balsillie for $220 million. But the deal fell through in June when the co-CEO of Blackberry makers Research in Motion Ltd. started taking season ticket deposits in Hamilton, Ontario. 
He remains interested in pur­chasing the team. Balsillie retained a local attorney who shared a letter with the Nashville Sports Authority recently in which he called Nashville a great hockey mar­ket. 


jjji'
./.~,P
~; ....:-;OS-...,.... 
lSl1 


page 20 The Obmver + SPORTS Thursday, November 1, 2007 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish finish fall season with tourney in Virginia 


NE:W STUDY ABROAD OPPORTUNITY at chinese Universit~ of 
Hong Kong 
Arts Medicine Business Science Engineering Social Science 
Learn about the possibilities on Monda_y, NOVE:ME>E:R 5 at 5:~0 PM 117 DE:.5ARTOLO 
No Chinese language reC)uired 
the early part of thn s1mson. 
Parbhu and Helgeson 
"The doublns teams had a look to continue good disappointing showing this past wneknnd Iat thn ITAplay in Williamsburg Midwest Championships!." Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "They have had a rough time 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
this fall. We are still workingSports Writer 
on moving together and we 
will try to get tlwm ready for 
Notrn l>arnn travels to the spring season." Virginia this wnnktlnd hoping Notre Dame has managed to to put an nxdarnation point on stay afloat with strong individ­tho end or an alrPady strong ual el'l'orts from the top or tlwir rail snason. lirwup. SPnior captain Sheeva 
The Irish playnd well at the Parbhu and junior Brott Olympia FiPid 's Invitational in llelgeson havn led tlw way for Chicago So pt. I]-16, swooping Notrn Dame in singlos. all six matchns against last "llolgoson played world-class spring's national runnnr-up t~~ n n is t h is past w n n ken d , " Illinois. Notro Bayliss said. Damn thPn "It was the sig­wPn t on to win "1/elgeson played naturP twent or 
27 singlos his carnnr to
world-class tennis this 

matdws whiiP datn. lin did a 
hosting thP past weekend. It was much bettor Tom Fallon the s(qnature eoent r~{ job of manag­Invitational in ing his on
his career to dale."

South BPnd court anxi-SPpt. 2H-:W. ntins. lin 
Thn Irish Bobby Bayliss always gives will look to Irish coach I 00 P«' n:m1 t on rloSP tho rail court, but snason with wn'rn trying to tlw sanw sucrPss at the got him to ndax." William and Mary Invitational, llelgnson upnndnd Steve whkh starts this morning in Morwke of Ohio Stall\ tho sec­Virginia. ond-sended player in the 
Whilo tho singlPs players nation. llnlgnson wo11 the tight havo OXI~I'lll'd SO rar, thll dou­match in thrnn sets, 6-2. 1-6, IJ(os teams havP boon a weak f>-4. spot ror tlw Irish throughout "llnlgnson prnparnd well," 
Bayliss said. "He did pull an abdominal muscle in the match which hindered his serving abilities in his semifi­nal match." 
Helgeson lost his semifinal match to Ryan Howe of Illinois 6-1, 6-4. With the win, he would have earned an auto­matic bid into this weekend's ITA National Intercollegiate Tennis Champion ships. Instead. Helgeson will go with the rest of the Irish to the William and Mary Invitational. 
"Parbhu also played well this past WtH1kend," Bayliss said. "lin playnd the tournament winner in the Hound of 16 and didn't quite play well enough to win." 
Parbhu and 2007 graduate Stephen Bass reached the National Championships last snason. 
Freshman David Anderson also had a promising perform­a n c n a t t lu~ Ias t wn e k e n d 's tournanwnt. lin won his first round match over Marquette's Nick Boulieris, but lost a dose match in tho next round to JPrPmy Sonkin of Wisconsin. 
Senior And rnw Hoth has rPboundNI well artor spraining his ankln in the Olympia Field's Invitational. 
"Hoth has done well for us after he sprained his ankle," Bayliss said. "lie had a con­vineing win in round one, but fnll in the round of 32 against 
TIM 

Irish junior Brett Helgeson lines up a forehand shot during Notre Dame's match with Indiana on Nov. 26, 2006 in the Eck Center. 
Austen Childs of' Louisville." among this team is great, and 
This weekend's tournamnnt thny all push naeh other. Tlwy marks the end of the fall soa­will go home on Christmas son. Bayliss said the team will bn~ak and come back train individually during the refreshnd to start the spring winter months. season." 
"The players want to contin­ue to improve," Bayliss said. Contact Katelyn Grabarek at "Thn amount of competition kgrabaO I @saintmarys.edu 
Tip off 
continued from page 24 
Mallory, was ranked 11th in the nation by Blue Star Basknthall. Notre Dame has now had a top-25 recruiting class for I 1 consneutivn sea­sons. 
The team lost only two play­nrs to graduation, Crystal l~rwin and Breona Gray. The pair averaged 12.2 points per gamn between them. SehradN, who averaged 10.5 points pnr game as a fresh­man, wi II con tnnd for Gray's 
spot. 
Irish coach MufTt~t Md~raw plans to usn a four-guard ofTnnsn this snason, in part to improve tlw team's pnrimcter dnl'nnsn. Opponents shot from tho outside oft11n and effec­tively against Notre Damn last season -tnams madn 40 per­cnnt or morn of' their three­point attempts I0 times last snason. 
"It fits our team. This is the ofTensn for our team," Sehrader said at the Women's Baskntball Media Day on Oct. 10. 
The Scrnaming Eagles fin­islwd last snason with a 16­12 (I 0-1) Cn•at Lakes Valley Conl'nrnnen) record and reetdvnd votns in this year's liSA Today/ESPN Division II Top 25 PrnstHtson Coaches Poll. Senior forward Jasmine Bainos, who avnragnd 11 points pnr ganw last season, is tho loam's top returning scorer. Tonight's gamn will be tlw first preseason game for Soutlwrn Indiana as well. 
Senior AII-AnH~riea guard Charel Allnn was named as a preseason eandidate for the John ll. Wooden Women's Award. given to thn top play­er who bnst represents the 
term "studnnt-athletn." Allnn the eonrnrence's coaches, led the Irish in scoring and behind Connecticut, Hutgers, rebounding (17 West Virginia points per and Pittsburgh. game, 6.2 The Irish fin­
"It fits our team. This 
reboundsl last ished fifth in the
is the offense 
season. conference last 
She is for our team. " season after expected to be being picked to the leader or end their season
Lindsey Schrader 
McGraw's new in 11th place at
junior guard
four-guard the beginning of offense and the 2006 earn-continue to put paign. up big numbers for the Irish Tip-off is set for 7:00 in her final season in South tonight. Bend. 
The Irish were picked to Contact Bill Brink at finish f'if'th in the Big East by wbrink@nd.edu 
~ ~--~J NOVEMBER 18, 2007 
/ / 

An ExcejJtional Event [01' Brides. 
~ 

'''!'"" '! [:'. 10:30 a.m,-I2 noon 12 noon-5 p.m. The Mort"itt Bistro PalaiF. Ro~·alc Ral1room ~11 N. Michig-o~n St., South 8t"nd 105 W. ColfaA A~o·e., South B~nd Bella Bridul Brunchji:uture< udelicious 71~e Bd/u Bridal[,.,, and S!~l" Sl1m" offm 
chompagne brunch anJ 11 preL11tll· ofwedding t!ve~-plhingfor_)¥Jur spt>dul J,!)' ind111lmg ~piP 
must~ hat,.luoks and trend< for the .«ason. ,hme; at 1,30 p.m. cmd 3,30 !'·'"·· .f<wd 
Ticket>for this ewnt also include the ancll>evrragc· lusting one/ the lute>t 
Bmlal hrnl &: S.f>l•' Shou•. in wetldmg sty/e. 
1ic*et; $30 in uduuncc only ~Y No1•embcr 18. Ticket< $5 in oJdooncc. $10 atthr cloor 
Purchase tick·etl at the Morris Box Office 57-J.-2~J5-9190 or online al 
www. bellabridalevent.com 
-----------------------------------. 
Thursday, November 1, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
sometime next week. off, Harangody will most likely In the meantime, Harangody wear a soft cast or glove to
Luke 
has been trying to work out protect and support his hand and practice with the team as during games.
continued from page 24 
best he can without full use of ''I'll probably have to have to went backwards," the sopho­his right hand. wear something on it," more said. "It's been tough, but there's Harangody said. "I'll probably 
;\t the time, the prognosis only one more week, so I can wear like a leather sort of was that wait I guess," glove or something." llarangody Harangody Harangody said while the would be out said. "It could injury is not likely to affect his for three to six ''I've only been working have been a play, he could continue to have weeks. At this with my left hand and lot worse." pain throughout the season. point, the for­Harangody "The doctor warned me
I've been in the gym all 

ward will miss has used the about it maybe being a recur­
the time." 

both of the injury as an rence," he said. "But I can't team's exhibi-opportunity to worry about that. I just have tion games­Luke Harangody improve his to play." Friday against ball handling
sophomore forward

St. Ambrose with his left Note: a n d hand, some­+ Irish junior forward Luke Wednesday thing the big Zeller missed yesterday's against St. Edward's -but forward felt he needed to practice and was limited today will certainly be back when improve on anyway. with an ankle injury. Brey said the Irish travel to the Paradise "''ve only been working with he is expected to be at full .Jam tournament in the Virgin my left hand and I've been in speed tomorrow and will play Islands Nov. 16. the gym all the time," he said. Friday against St. Ambrose. 
Brey said a decision will be "I almost feel more comfort­
Weber
made on Harangody's status able with my left hand now." Contact Chris Khorey at for the Long Island game Once he gets the hard cast ckhorey@nd.edu 
continued from page 24 
"As a defense, we've definite­ly improved," Weber said. "We've had time to play together now and that allowed us to play some really good games." 


DUBLIN, IRELAND 
A Y 2008-2009 
Trinity College 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Thursday, Nov. 1, 2007 
6:30 pm 201 De Bartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2007 FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 2008-2009 
APPLICATION A V AlLABLE: WWW.ND.EDU/.--QIS 

With the defense leading the way, Notre Dame went 11-1 in Big East play and enters the conference tournament as the top seed. 
Weber's offensive pedigree has allowed her to be an impact player on both sides of the field. She is tied for fourth on the team with 10 points, and she stands alone in second place with six assists. 
Once she got comfortable on the back line, Weber said she became more apt to get involved in the attack. 
"It took a little while to get used to it but I've just been aggressive as far as going for­ward and playing offense," Weber said. 
According to Waldrum, that aggressiveness has paid off for Weber -and the rest of the Irish. 
"She might be the best out­side attacking back [Notre Dame has] ever had and that's a long list," Waldrum said. "As a coach, I couldn't be more proud of her and what she's done this season." 
Weber isn't done yet. She and the rest of her teammates will start the Big East postsea­son tournament this Saturday with a game at Alumni Field. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 1, 2007 
of poor conditioning, .Jackson said. but the team has not yet
Practice 
learned to "value the puck" to tho level that Jackson expects.
continued from page 24 . 
The team tries to do too mueh on tho ice -you actually per­with the puck and turns it over, form on the il:e. Most hockey which has led to the late goals. players a.~n not visual or audibiP It happens in every period, but learners. has tended to lead to goals more 
Notre Damn has been forced in the third period than any to do a lot of' on-ice learning other, he said. during games, whkh it will have Tho playp,rs who were a large to do again tonight wlwn it hosts part of last season's conference Lakn Superior championship Statn (1-2-1) at and run to the .Joyce Cnnter. national No. 1
"We're not doing

llownver, it's not have put so an excuse for enough in and much pressure the team's play, around the net to 
on themselves to .Jackson said, do better than
be successful."

and tho young last year that Irish are work­each one has put ing on fixing Jeff Jackson the rnsponsibility thnir many prob­Irish coach of generating lmns. ofl'ense on them-
One of those selves. This has holes that only led to valuing the rneently developed is in the puck much less than Jackson power play. Prior to last week, would like to see. when the Irish dPI'eatml Bowling "It was the biggest fear I had Groen in a midweek game and going into the season and it's split with Ferris State over the actually happening," .Jackson weekend, they had scored at said. "That's the pressure of least one power play goal in high expectations -not just each of their live games. In the team expectations -but per­last three games, the Irish went sonal expedations." 1-f'or-24 and allowed a short­Irish goalie Jordan Pearce, handed goal. who has started every ganw and 
"We're not doing enough in been the only goalie to see any and around the net to be suc­action, will start in net tonight cessful," .Jackson said. "We're as well. Earlier in the season getting opportunities, if you see Jackson said he wanted to work some of' the goalies Tom scoring chance O'Brien and Brad that wo had in Phillips into the
"That's the pressure 

Ferris State on mix, but Pearce
ofhigh expectations 

the power play. now leads the We're not fin­-not just team nation in minutes ishing." played with just
expectations ­

The pnrsomwl over 416.
but personal 

on the power Pearce has been play has expectations. " sharper between changed l're­the pipes than he qtwntly, which was expectnd to
Jeff Jackson 

.Jackson said bn, Jackson said.
Irish coach

may be happen­But he will not ing a littJp, too play every game, mueh. But it will continup, to and O'Brien and Phillips will get shift until the right chemistry is a shot in the near future. It will found on the unit. only happen, however, when 
Notre Dame has had troubiP. Jackson has full confidence in in tho third period as well, giv­the younger goalins. ing up I 0 of' its 17 goals allowed "Just when I'm about ready to in that frumP.. Against Wisconsin pull the trigger, they have a bad in the season opener, the Irish praetice or they don't look good. surrendered three third-period I need to see consistency in goals after the game was lied 1-them," Jackson said. "A coach 
1. The same thing happened always deals with his confidence against 1>1mver, when they let up level and who he's putting on a latP. goal to blow a tie and the iee." then an mnpty-netler to put the game out of' reach. Contact Kyle Cassily at 
The late goals arnn't because kcassily@lnd.edu 
Take your 

OFFICE to LUNCHI 
Treat your Mabb to lunch at North or South Dining Hall... w 
."'.:i:i~ :; 

NORTH DINING HALL This location offers all you care to eat rnade ..to-order pizzas, pasta, and stir-fry; an extensive soup & salad bar, fresh grilled features, traditional t10me·style fare, healthy selections, and more. 
SOUTH DINING HALL This progressive food market showcases display cooking featuring favorites like pan-American foods. carved meats to order. fresh tJakecl pizza & subs. stir-fry, home-style treats. soup & salad bars, and more. 
NsjTRTH 
FOOD COURT 




University of Notre Dame's Study Abroad Pt4 ogram in 
Angers, France 
"'Should I stay or should I goT'' 
INFORMATION MEETING 
FINAJ... INFO SESSION BEFORE APPLICATION I)EADLINE 
\Vith i\.ngers" Progra1n Coordinator and returnees of the progt·ant ·-··..-·--·-·--------·· ...._.........._,___..............,_,____.., ............._._____________, 
Thursday, Novcn1bcr l, 2007 5:30-6:45 PI\-1 ~....!...~....:!:~.~Ha~tolo_ Cl_~~~rO()IU Buil~..i..~~·g· 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2007 For Acadernic Year 2008-2009 Fall 2008 and Spring 2009 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~ois/ 


Thursday, November 1, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 
... guT IF IT COMg t:>t>W"-1 TO IT, I WILl DRINK MY OWN VIU .... E. 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
61 Some personal data: Abbr. 
62 A Stooge 63 Many a D.C. org. 
Down 
Peloponnesian War participant 2 Part of a Three 
Stooges shtick 3 Dr. Skoda of 

"Law & Order" 4 Happy-go-lucky 5 Elvis's "Hound 
Dog" and "Anyway You Want Me" 
6 Some chain hotels 7 Gave up one's hand 8 Suffix with two 9 Morsel 10 3-Down's profession 

11 German poet who wrote "Don't send a poet to London" 
12 Presses 13 

Flow out 21 Formerly known as 
22 Animal on the backs of three state quarters 
24 Surgical aid 25 Mala 26 Faux cough 27 Author_ 

Neale Hurston 28 Fesses (up to) 29 Part of un jardin 31 Badly rnade 32 End of a fly? ... 
or the start of one? 33 All the 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Alex Boisvert 

34 'The Swiss 43 Oscar winner for 50 Old Testament Family "Yankee Doodle book Robinson" Dandy" 
51 Thorn shoesauthor Johann 
44 Baseball datum 
52 Layers of eggs 36 Rouses oneself 

450dd jobs 
weighing more 37 South American 46 Buckles than a poundmonkey 
47 Ingredient in 53 Move to first 
38 Politician who some potato class, e.g.wrote the book chips "Leadership" 55 Boombox button 
48 Old nightclub ~42 Rears employee 56 Evian or Perrier 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
-----~~~~~~~~---------------------. 
page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJ1JJM&IbrR 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles. one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
PLEEO 

± 
@2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HUGAL j 
,,,> ~-·' 
('~ 
I 
<

(] [ I I 
His honor "'' outweighs him~/ 
.11 
by 100 pounds II
TUG ELL 
T WHAT THE= MAYOR 
USt=D TO WIN THE:
1 

rJ (] 
www.jumble.com 
PICNIC TUG-oF-WAJ<. 


tNOOSAL I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J [J I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: (IIIJOF" (II I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: DANDY BUSHY POSTAL LOUNGE 
Answer: When expenses were computed, the owners 
were -"NON-PLUSSED" 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Adam Horovitz, 41; Peter Jackson, 46; Larry Mullen Jr., 46; Jane Pauley, 57 
Happy Birthday: You must not allow your emotional outlook to hold you back. Count on your determination and drive to help you reach your goals. You will at­tract unusual people who can offer you information, inspiration and help. Cast your fate to the wind and enjoy the ride. Your numbers are 7, 21, 23, 31, 35,49 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Work from home if you feel you will get more ac­complished. Letting others distract you or take up your time will not pay the bills or allow you to advance. Today is about finishing what you start. 2 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can help those less fortunate and, at the same time, make others think more of you. Your ability to bring about reform will lead you to a position of power. Follow through with your beliefs and ideas. 4 stars GEMINI (May 21-Jooe 20): Money will be the issue today. You can make a professional change or start your own small business if you are willing to put time and effort into earning more money. A partnership can make a difference to your financial futore. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): Emotional issues may be difficult to discuss but, if you take action and do things to improve your home environment, you will be able to make a difference to the ones you love and to yourself. Change is good today. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Today, it will be your contributions that enable you to reach out to those who can help you exceL Home improvements will be surpris­ingly satisfying and functional .. Follow through with your dreams, hopes and wishes. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take action. If you are prepared to finish what you start, do what you say and take a serious approach to what you believe is re­quired, you won't let anyone down, including yourself. Don't overreact or pontifi­cate. 4 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0et. 22): Don't let your emotions and anger cross over or you will make a mistake that is hard to reverse. This is not the time to bum bridges. Consider your options and do what is best for yourself and those influenced by your actions. 2 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Make changes at home to help you pave the way 
___;,
to a better future. Fix any wrongs and you will help to bring the people you love closer. Now is the time to solve problems not create more. Love issues can be re­solved. 5 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be tempted to get involved in an unusual moneymaking scheme. Think twice before you trust your money to someone else. You have to be careful not to be too trusting, generous or frivo­lous. Don't donate, lend or borrow. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may be tom between what someone you think highly of wants you to do and what you want to do. Weigh the pros and cons. If you anger someone with your choices, you can offer your help in other, more suitable ways. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Apply yourself to work and projects that have the potential to bring in extra cash. Good ideas may appear to be unusual but someone will see the possibilities. Put love and passionate plans into play. 3 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your way of dealing with others will win approval and impress someone who is considering you to head up a new project. Laugh, love and be happy and you will make the people you care about feel good. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are quick to respond and eager to get to the bottom of things. You don't waste time but can be a spendthrift with the ones you love. You are accommodating, caring and strong-minded. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

CROSSWORD 
Across 

"Wait !" 5 Terrif 10 Andrew of 
"Melrose Place" 14 Longtime Vicki Lawrence 
character 15 Burn slowly 16 One of the 
Munsters 17 Popular 
depilatory 18 Static 19 Baryshnikov's 
birthplace 20 "Jolly good!" 22 Pioneer in 1.0. 
testing 23 Honoraria 24 Takeout choice 26 Home of Sao 
Miguel Island 29 Lab container 
30 British general in the American Revolution 
31 Light-colored stogie 
32 Dallas-to-Austin dir. 
35 Author of a 1952 novel published in full in Life 
magazine 
39"No !" 
40 Occupy 
41 Nutritionist Paul who founded a pet food company 
42 Pear-shaped instrument 43 Rodeo sights 45 "!"-opening experience? 48 Throw out water 49 Ticks off 50 Accessory for many a game 54 Winnebago owner 55 Amber. e.g. 57 Height 58 Like llamas 59 Truck stop sign 60 Unpleasant feeling 







THE OBSERVER 
PORTSThursday, November I, 2007 --~---
HocKEY 

Talkin' about practice 
Notre Dame prepares for LSS U in another short week of practice 
By KYLE CASSILY 
Sports Writer 
Notrn Dame worked on 
pulling its goalie mid-play f'or 
tho lirsl limn this season during 
Wmlnnsday's practice. 
Tho run-through was their 
last bnf'orn taking on Lake 

Supnrior State tonight at 7:35 in 
tlw Joyee Cnntnr. 
Tho drill. which was eonduct­
nd ovnr lhrnn weeks since on­
ice praetkes startml, wont over 

a vnry small portion of' a hockey 
game, but its timing is a sign or 
tlw struggles the Irish have had 
with tlwir schNiule so f'ar this 

ynar. 
Tlw No.1:~ Irish (4-3, 2-1 

CCIIAJ have played several mid­
wenk ganws in order to avoid 
conflicts with thn home football 
sdwduln, a decision that has 
snvnrely limitnd thnir number or 
practices. And whnn they do 
praeticn, the s1~ssions are short­

Pr so thn tnam is not fatigued 
f'or games. 
"Wo'n~ trying to teach by film now," Irish coach Jpf'f' Jackson said. "Most hockey players are what you call kirwsthetie learn­ers. Tlwy havP to loarn by 
ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 
doing. You walk them through 
Freshman defenseman Ian Cole looks up ice during Notre Dame's 4-3 win over Denver on Oct. 18. Cole see PRACTICE/page 22 and the six other freshmen have had little practice time to work with their new teammates. 

page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Big lllan's cast vvill collle off 
Sophomore forward could play in season opener against LIU 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
The hard east on Notre Dame forward Luke Harangody's thumb will be remov1~d next week, and he might play in the team's regu­lar season opener against Long Island UniviHsity on Nov. 12. Irish coach Mike Brey s a i d 
.'l' ' 
Wednesday. 
'Tm hold­ing out hope that he's able to play in our first game," Brey said. "We'll take a really good look at it next Tuesday when the cast comes ofT." 
Harangody injured his thumb during a pick-up game in prac­tice on Oct. 15. 
"I came ofT of' a ball screen and my hand got against some­one's hip, and my thumb just 
Harangody 
see LUKE/page 21 
• 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish tip off season tonight 
Strong freshman class makes Joyce Center debut in exhibition 
By BILL BRINK Sport; Writt·r 

Nolrn Damn welcomes Southnrn Indiana to thn Joycn Cnntnr tonight f'or its prnsnason opnnnr, its l'irst gamn sinn~ a sncond-round 1~xit in tl11• 2007 NCAA tour­namnnt. 
Tlw last contPst. a (J{)-51 loss to No. I North Carolina that was elos1~r than thn sron~ indiratnd, displayed thP tnam's abi Iity to play with anyorw whPn they rhosn to, a tht>nw of' tlw 2006-07. snason. 
Thl' Irish put togPllwr win­ning strnaks of' f'our and six garnns last SPason, but also lost thrnn straight on thn road against Big l~ast oppo­rH·nt.s and thrt>P straight to Plld thl' I'PgUJar Sl'aSOil. Their lossl's in thn f'inal ganw of' tlw rngular season and in t.lw first round of' tlw Bi g 1·: a s t Io u r n a nll' n t bo t h came at thl' hands of' lkl'aul. 
Notrn l>aml' linislwd 20-12 (I 0-l> Big t·:ast) last SIHtson, hut thn Irish had an imprns­sivn rnrord at homo. Notre Damn was 14-2 al tlw Joyce Cnntl'r and won ninn straight honw ganws bnf'orl' losing to Butgnrs on Feb. 24. 
With a highly toutnd f'rl~sh­man elass, a numbnr of' rl'turning starters and junior guard Lindsay Srhradnr back 
al'tPr missing last season Iwcause of a torn ACI .. the Irish have quitn tlw array of' weapons for 2007-OS 
The fn~shrnpn rlass. com­posnd of forwards Becca Bruszewski and Devereaux PPlers and guard Brittany 
see TIP OFF/page 20 

NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Weber adds spark to offensive attack 
Junior transfer has boosted Irish defense 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

After Elise Weber committed to Wisconsin as a senior in high sehool, Irish coach Handy Waldrum assumod he would not get many opportunities to see the 
mid fielder play again. 
"We don't p I a y Wisconsin wgularly­just every three or four years," 


W a I d r u m Elise Weber 
said. "I kind or lost track of' her." 
But Weber transfnrrnd to Notre Dame this summer and her play this season has madn it extremnly diff'icult f'or Waldrum -and opposing teams-to lose track of' lwr. 
Now a junior dnl'ender for· the Irish, Webnr has boconw a regular fixturo on the Big East 
weekly honor roll. Waldrum said there an) 1'1\W playnrs at her position that impact a game as mueh as she dons. 
"We haven't snnn a better attacking back this season," Waldrum said. "Not only are her slats great but she's just so dangerous in the attack." 
Weber has raeknd up two goals and six assists f'rom her defensive position this snason, though she had played a pri­marily offensive roln in hnr two years with thn Badgers. 
Weber only played three or four games as a dnf'nnder at Wisconsin, shn said, but when she dncidnd to transfer to Notrn Dame, Waldrum know he eould find a spot for lwr. 
"Onen she got Iwr ndnase and faxed it over, we worn a little surprised, but I know slw was a good player," Waldrum said. 
After moving into lwr spot on tlw Irish bark linn and sufTPr­ing sonw early-snason growing pa i n s , Wn bn r has lw Ip"d anchor a def'nnse that surTPn­derod just six goals in its 12 Big East rPgular sPason games. 
sec WEBER/page 21 




