
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 20 MONDAY. SEPTEMBER24. 2007 
ND looks to move past ordinance 
Common Council members ask University to control student partying off campus 
the University administration they are legitimate," fled version that would createBy MADDIE HANNA to "step up to the plate" to University President Father a coalition of leaders from the 
News Writer 
address actions of its students John Jenkins told The city and local colleges, includ­off campus. Observer. "I think there are ing Notre Dame and Saint 
When the South Bend But University leaders have instances where Notre Dame Mary's. Common Council votes tonight said the students have not behaved as While the current version of on an ordinance intended to present sit­
they should, and people feel the ordinance still contains curtail raucous student parties uation is a that the quality of their life rules for party registration,in neighborhoods near Notre chance to has been not as good because they would not be implement­Dame, it will make a state­collaborate ofthat.... ed unless the Council voted to ment about the historically with stu­"I believe we can find a way do so in the future -an action complex relationship between dents and to work constructively on it that city officials say could be the University and the dty. city offi­without ordinances." necessary if students continue 
University leaders have said cials. In its earlier form, the pro­to host too-rowdy parties off they do not think an ordinance "I believe posed ordinance required campus.requiring students to pre-reg­there's cur-Jenkins houses with two or more It would not be the first time ister off-campus parties is the rently an unrelated residents to apply the behavior of Notre Dame best way to solve a problem opportunity for us to work for a permit 10 days in students_ off campus spurredthey acknowledge exists. constructively with the local advance before hosting a party action by South Bend residents 
Since he introduced the ordi­community and the city to with 25 or more guests with and officials." nance in July, Council member improve the legitimate con­access to alcohol. Now, the Buddy Kirsits has called for cerns that people have -and Council is considering a modi-see HISTORY/page 6 


University Club closes after 49 years 
for many years.
By JENN METZ and 
"We have sentimental feel­
MEGMIRSHAK 
ings [toward the Club]," she 
News Writers 
said. "I hope that it will reopen soon." 
Last spring, when the For the Johnsons, the University announced the University Club was both an upcoming construction of a on-campus restaurant and a $69.4 million engineering comfortable place with a per­building in the exact location sonal touch. of the University Club, mem­"We knew the people who bers and employees worked there and they knew expressed their discontent. our family," she said. 
Now that plans have been The Club building, next to finalized, the Club, which McKenna Hall along Notre was founded in 1958, is say­Dame Ave., was donated by ing goodbye to its on-campus former Indiana governor 
location. and its future Robert Gore and designed by remains unclear. Robert Schultz, a former 
Joanne Johnson, whose architect with the School of husband is on the University Architecture. The private, faculty, moved to South Bend not-for-profit organization in 1993. Her family went to the University Club for lunch see CLUB/page 4 

Students prompt recycling efforts 
Tailgaters encouraged to dispose ofgameday waste at new stations 
By JOSEPH McMAHON News Writer 
While many of their peers tail­gated or slept in before the Michigan State game Saturday, a number of Notre Dame students spent their pre-game hours set­ting up recycling stations around campus. 
The 65 volunteers handed out blue recycling bags and manned recycling stations to collect any recyclables from the tailgates and r,oncession stands that litter cam­pus. Their efforts, which involved working shifts from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., were part of the University "It's easy bein' green at ND" envi­ronmental campaign. 
see RECYCLING/page 9 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Energy events proinoted 
October week will address environment 
By BRIAN McKENZIE 
News Writer 
Responding to an advocacy group's report card that graded the University poorly for its sus­tainable policies, Notre Dame is aggressively promoting the upcoming Energy Week, which begins Oct. 7. 
In February, the Sustainable Environmental Institute gave Notre Dame a D-minus -the lowest grade of 100 schools meas­ured -for the University's green­ing and endowment policies. 
The Student Senate on Sept. 19 voted 24-0 to endorse a commit­ment to promote carbon neutrali­ty and reduce greenhouse gas emissions on campus. The meas­ure was a "strong gesture to work towards [those goals]," Stanford senator Ryan Brellenthin said. 
"The first step to improvement is to measure carbon emissions," he said. 
Doing so would be an "eye­opener" that would encourage students to take small steps to reduce their environmental impact, such as using more effi­cient light-bulbs and turning off electronic appliances when they are not in use, he said. Brellenthin also said that the University's off­campus efforts, such as planting trees in Uganda, would move Notre Dame towards carbon neu­trality. 
Frank Incropera, former dean of the College of Engineering, will promote ecological awareness by leading a discussion on Thursday. 
see ENERGY/page 9 




Expert: Irish language 
on verge of extinction 
By PUJA PARIKH 
News Writer 
The Irish language is in danger of dying in part because no well-established body had led the fight to revive it, a historian said Friday. 
"[The Irish] language appears to be on the brink of extinction," said Gear6id 6 Tuathaigh, professor of histo­ry at the National University of Ireland, Galway. "No sus­tained organization has made a stand against the abandon­ment of the language until recent times." 
The talk, part of the annual "Why Irish?" lecture, was sponsored by the Department of Irish Language and Literature to discuss this "language problem" in Ireland the conflict between having both the Irish and English language as a large part of Irish culture. 
"English has become the language of power from the 17th century," 6 Tuathaigh said in his speech, which was titled "Language Change, the State and National Identity in Ireland Since the Great Famine." 
"In the 18th century, 45 percent of Ireland was Irish speaking. In the mid-19th century, that percentage dropped to 30. In the late 1800s, learning the Irish Ian-
see IRISH/page 4 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Andrevv, we need to talk 
Andrew, please know that we l>omers 
may or may not fiJllow current ovrmL<> in 
the shiny !{oldm1 bubble-world that is 
Notre Dame, and that not everyone 
rnading this knows your harrowing tale. 
Ihwe's what happened: Andrew Meyer, 
who is a student 

at the University Coleman Collins 
of Florida, got 
70,000 volls in 

the chest during a Photographer 
Q & A session 
with John Knrry 

fi11lowing a spem:h Kerry madfl to a 
largo number of UF studenL<>. 

Andrnw, you deserved every last volt. 
PIP.ase. don't get me wrong. Getting tased is probably one of the least pleas­urable experienees ever. I wouldn't adivoly wish it upon anyone, but look at the situation horn. 
Did you really think that after making a scone to get to the front of a linn just to make fi1w cockamamie allegations about disenfranchised black voters, John Kerry winning the '04 election and Kerry's potential involvmnent with tlw Skull & Bones sodety, your supposed peers in tlw audience would think "Wow! You just changed my whole per­spective, man!" 
l>id you rnally think tho police, who fiJllowed you up from tlw back of' the line as you pushnd people aside to get your accusations out to the world, would hnar you out and thnn go "Wow! That W<L'> enlightening and worthwhi!P. l'le<L<>e know wn're sorry we wondnred why you werP rushing menacingly toward a high-profiln govnrnrnnnt ofli­dal'!" 
Let's suppose that getting ejedod and potm1tially UL'>Ild W<L'> not your primary ol~jectivo. Lnt's suppos11 that you just wanted to teach some unenlightened UF studenL<> about the injustices that the Bush administration has imparted to tl1e populous. I won't even a<>k why you tried to do this with made-up injus­tices, rather than the plethora of' real ones. You must have realized the possi­bility of being l<L<>ed. Was it worth it to you'! 
Look, Andy-is it okay if I call you Andy'?-you chanced messing with thH bull that is tiie overprotective security f'orees surrounding a high-profile otTI­dal. You got tho horns. And because of tiiis, you're a martyr for free speech? 
Wait a minute. I low is this about free speech at all'! Free speech means a<>k­ing questions-even iftiiey are unf'oundnd and accusatory -but it does not mean pushing up to tiie front of the line and causing a massive scene to a<>k thnse qw~stions. It does not mean causing an even greater scene when a mp, aftnr allowing you to rant for a lit­tle bit, deeides tiiat you are causing too much of a scene and tiiat it is now time for you to leave. It docs not mean con­tinuing to flail, fight and yell even after a cop has said "If you continue, you will be l<L<>ed." 
Give us a break. You're trying to milk your 15 minutes and make yourself into a martyr because you were out of hand and some cops were doing their jobs. I doubt it wa..<; fun getting 70,000 volts in tiiH chest, but Andy, it was your own damn fault. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Coleman Collins at ccollin6@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strivc=s lor the highc=st standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, rerognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 6J1-4541 so we CjiQQ>rrt-ct our enor. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 24, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD HAVE ONE WISH GRANTED, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 






"For everyone "A win." "More wishes." "Browns to win in this world, the Super myselfand my Bowl." loved ones to be happy." 

Members of the 1947 national championship football team were introduced during the first quarter of the Michigan State game Saturday. 
OFFBEAT 

Man beheads tame duck 
behind hotel 

ST. PAUL, Minn. -A man was in custody Sunday after police said he ripped the head off a tame duck that lived in a hotel lobby's orna­mental pond. 
Scott D. Clark, a guest at the Embassy Suites Hotel in St. Paul, cornered the duck early Saturday morning, grabbed the bird and ripped its head from its body while a hotel security guard and others watched, police said. 
Clark then turned to onlookers and said: ''I'm hungry. I'm gonna eat it," St. Paul police Sgt. John Wuorinen said. 
TODAY a:: 

"He was allegedly drunk," Wuorinen said. 
Clark, 26, of Denver, was detained by hotel security guards until police came to arrest him. 
He remained jailed Sunday on suspicion of felony animal cruelty and was scheduled to appear in court Monday to be charged. 
A phone message left for Clark at the jail was not returned Sunday. 
'God' gets attomey In lawsuit 
LINCOLN, Neb. -The mystery of one response to a lawsuit against God has been solved. Eric Perkins, an attorney in Corpus Christi, Texas, said Friday he filed a response to the lawsuit from Nebraska State Sen. Ernie Chambers. "It's kind of a turn on 'What would Jesus do?"'Perkins said. "I thought to myself, 'what would God say?"' 
"Defendant denies that this or any court has juris­diction ... over Him any more than the court has jurisdiction over the wind or rain, sunlight or darkness," 
according  to  Perkins'  
response.  
Information  compiled  

from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
Jacob Nelson 
sophomore O'Neill 
"Erena." 

IN BRIEF 
A panel forum called "Confidence in Journalism: Regaining Public Trust" will take place today at 3p.m. in 

104 McKenna  Hall.  The  
forum  is  hosted  by  the  
Gallivan  Program  in  
Journalism,  Ethics  and  

Dmnoeraey. The event is free and open to the public. 
"Between Figurative and Abstract," will feature paint­ings by Gao Xingjian. The exhibit will run from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in O'Shaughnessy Galleries West in the Suite Museum Tuesday. The exhibit will end Nov. 11. 
"Solid Flame: Fundamentals and Applications" seminar will be held Tuesday at 3:30 p.m. in 129 DeBartolo Hall. Alex S. Mukasyan, research professor in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, will speak about the fundamentals and appli­cations of solid flame (SF). 
The rosary will be said Tuesday night at 6:45 at the Grotto. The rosary is said daily. 
There is a Post Graduate Service Fair Wednesday from 5 p.m. to 8 at the Joyce Center. Representatives from over 70 service programs will be present for students who wish to commit to a year or more of full-time service after graduation. The event is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

85 HIGH 80 67 LOW 58 
1,&,1 
::t: 
~ 
1,&,1 
~ 
.... 
cs: 
(,) 


0 

..... HIGH 88 HIGH 78 HIGH 79 
LOW 60 LOW 50 LOW 57 

.,~<'l'J 
___ :):?:.:,,~ 
~ ~ 
-~\~----~· 

Vfllt~ 
HIGH 80 LOW 63 

Atlanta 83 I 66 Boston 70 I 63 Chicago 88 I 64 Denver 85 I 53 Houston 93 I 67 Los Angeles 68 I 58 Minneapolis 81 I 66 New York 81 I 67 Philadelphia 85 I 63 Phoenix 94 {74 Seattle 65 I 51 St. Louis 93 I 67 Tampa 88/75 Washington 82 I 64 
Monday, September 24, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Scholar studies immigrants 

Migration center director seeks to promote cultural understanding 
Special to the Observer 
Migration is a global econom­ic process, not a new problem, according to anthropologist Karen Richman, director of the year-old Center for Migration and Border Studies at Notre Dame's lnstitutfl for Latino Studies (ILS) and fellow of the Kellogg Institute. 
Migrants, a source of cheap labor. always will gravitate to areas where the cost of living is higher. It was true of Irish and Polish immigrants in the 19th century, just as it's true of Mexican, Haitian and Salvadoran immigrants today. 
"Mexico is not always going to be a migrant-sending coun­try," Richman said. "Another will take its place. It's a process that transcends national poli­cies." 
The challenge, she says, is to help people understand that, rather than making immigrants scapp,goats. 
U.S. workers, Richman points out, have not done well since the 1970s. Since the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) came into effect in 1994, she said, many jobs have left the U.S., while American workers have stayed in place. 
"Combine that with migrants on the corner, and you get anti­immigrant sentiment," she said. 
But immigration has already fundamentally altered the face of America, Richman said. "The children of immigrants arc Americans," she noted. "They're here to stay." 

As a cultural anthropologist, Richman's expertise is in explaining the human experi­ence of migration. Her 2005 book, "Migration and Vodou," told the story of how and why Haitian peasants, descendents of the only successful slave rev­olution in the New World, were transformed into U.S. migrant workers. Her researeh detailed the ways the migrants main­tained religious traditions and family connections to loved ones in Haiti through the use of technology such as cassette tapes. Nowadays, she says, video and cell phones help fam­ilies stay in touch. 
Richman's current research project focuses on a woman named Elena, a member of a Mexiean trans-national migrant family. 
"In 1984, she crawled through rat-infested water pipes and ran through fields being shot at, and chased by dogs, to come to the United States," Richman said. 
A legal resident since 1986, Elena raised her family clean­ing houses -it's how the two met. "She cleaned my house," Richman says. 
Richman was drawn to Elena by her wit. "She.'s a tremendously elo­
quent woman," she said, adding that she attended the "University of Life." 
"What I've been doing over the past year and a half is interviewing her and writing her story." 
Elena has strong views on the subject of immigration reform. Richman says, quoting her: "We clean their floors, and take care of their children so they can do other jobs. Why are they picking on us?" 
Elena came to the U.S. as an undoeumented immigrant. Today she is a successful American citizen. The third annual Notre Dame Forum on Oct. 8 will examine the ques­tion: 12 million undoeumented workers reside in the U.S. Should the government ignore them, help them, or deport them ...or offer a pathway to citizenship? 
Richman's views are dear. "Offer a path to citizenship," she said. "The government poli­cies are a failure. There need to be sensible policies, based on a rational understanding of how migration fits into our economy, and our society." 
Current policies, Riehman argued, have the perverse effect of forcing migrants to stay in the U.S. longer than they intended, and forcing them to bring their families along, because of the difficul­ties of going back and forth to visit. 
ND Press publishes Latino poetry winner 
Special to the Observer 

The University of Notre Dame Press has published "The Outer Bands," a first book of poetry by Gabriel Gomez, winner of the 2006 Andres Montoya Poetry Prize awarded by Notre Dame's Institute for Latino Studies (ILS). 
An expansive examination of language and landscape, voice and memory, where experimentation and tradi­tion coexist, the book fea­tures poems that realize a dialogue between two worlds that employ an equally paradoxical imagery of the American Southwest and the marshes of southern Louisiana. 
"The Outer Bands" con­cludes with its namesake poem, a 28-day chronicle of the period of time between Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which together deci­mated the Gulf Coast region in 2005. It is a re-contex­tualization of images, news stories and political rheto­ric that Gomez completed during a two-month emer­gency residency at the Santa Fe (N.M.) Art Institute after his home in New Orleans was destroyed. 
Also a playwright and music journalist, Gomez, who now Jives in Santa Fe, has taught English at the University of New Orleans, Tulane University, College of Santa Fe and the Institute of American Indian Arts. 
The Montoya Poetry Prize, which is the first of its kind in the United States, recog­nizes a full-length manu­script by a Latino/a poet who has yet to publish a book. It honors the late Andres Montoya, the author of the award-winning col­lection "The Ice Worker Sings" and the son of the renowned Chicano artist Malaquias Montoya, who was one of the first ILS fel­lows. 


The beacon in multi-million dollar investment decisions 
BainCapital is one of the world's leading private investment firms, managing more than $50 billion of leveraged buyout, public equity and credit funds. Sankaty Advisors, the credit affiliate of Bain Capital, is one of the nation's leading private managers of high yield debt obligations. With approximately $22 billion in committed capital, Sankaty is a world­class team of over 65 investment professionals with extensive experience analyzing and managing high yield investments. 
Representatives from Sankaty Advisors will be visiting campus throughout the year, speaking with undergraduate students about internships and full-time positions that will put your education to work on global, multi­million dollar investment decisions. 
Please look for us on campus in the coming months to learn more about the great opportunities we offer in Boston and London. 
Resume Deadline: Tuesday, September 25th 
1st Round Interviews: Friday, October 5th 
For more information, visit us at www.sankaty.com. 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 24, 2007 
--=======­


Club 
continued from page I 

serves faculty, alumni, com­munity mnmhPrs and staff who pay a lllPmbPrship fne. Its dining room contains a unique display of tlw steins and tankards of the (;ore Collnl:tion 
The strugglP to pn~snrvn tlw University Club has been going on for many ynars. According to tlw Club's Wnb site, in 2004. University President Hmeritus Father l~dward Malloy appointed a committee to determine tlw future of the Club. Members were notifiPd of the University's intent to use thn Club's lo<:ation for its expan­sion at that time. 
Thn Club then formed people that
"!The University/ just
the Committen used the Club for tho Future won't have a
said, 'We're going to of thn put a bigger and better place on cam­
University pus anymore,"
building here'-I
Club, which he said. 
gathernd mon~ guess that's their Poupore than 400 sig­right." said the Club natures to put out a petition newsletter to
Dr. Kevin Poupore
against the its members relocation of that contained
University Club member 
the club, including that of University President Father Theodore llesburgh. 
Now. the Club's efforts Sflem wasted for disappointed members like alum Jack Sekula, Class of 1972, who goes to the Club once or twice a year when he gets a chance to visit campus. 
"It's a nice welcoming place to eo me to," he said Friday during lunch at the Club. "People have a lot of memo­ries here. This is a place that holds those memories for alumni, benefactors .... We nend to hold onto the old." 
Dr. Kevin l'oupore, Class of 1975, is onn of the Club membnrs upset by the clos-

Irish 
continued from page 1 
guagn beeamn more grudging than tol11ration," <) Tuathaigh said. 
In ordnr to discuss thn problnm within Ireland, d Tuathaigh has focused his roln as a historian and gath­!lr evidmu~e to build his ease. In doing so, hn has written "Ireland Before thr. 
"In the 18th century, 
Famine," "Thomas 45 percent ofIreland Drummond 
was Irish speaking. 
and thn Irish 
In the mid-19th century, 
Administration 1S35-1S41." that percentage "Community 
dropped to 30."
Culture and Cont'lict in 
Gear61d 6 Tuathalgh
Ireland." "(~irf Amaeh: 17 1JH history professor 
in Eirfnn," and 
T h e l>evelopmnnt of thn Gaeltaeht as a Bilingual Entity." In addition, d Tuathaigh is the eo-author of two books: "Thn Age of de Valnra" and "Irish Studies: A General Introduction." 
d Tuathaigh is a fellow of the Hoyal llistorical Society, former mnmber of the USA­Ireland Fulbright Commission, visiting profes­ing. lin said he was told the Michigan State home week­PHd was the last game for 
whieh  the  Club  would  be  
opPn.  
"It was  kind of nice  to  be  

ablP to go in there and nat dinnPr after the game ... it was kind of a luxury," he said. 
lie only eats at the Club once or twice a year -for example, after this year's honw opPner against Georgia Tech-but he said the rnem­lwrs who use it every wnek an' the most affected by tlw closing. 
"ITiw University] just said, ·w,~·rn going to put a bigger and bolter building there' ­I guess that's their right. They really haven't said they were going to build a new 
club on cam­pus in the future, so the 
articles about 
the Club's 
questionable future as a part of the Univnrsity campus. 
"There were letters and protests, but they didn't real­ly give mueh credence to the group of people that fre­quently use the Club," he said. 
When he was a student here, Poupore recalls meet­ing professors for lunch at the Club to talk about elass. 
"It's too bad we're losing this place so full of memo­rins," Sekula said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu and Meg Mirshak at mmirshak@nd.edu 
sor at the Universi"ty of Toronto, University of Cambridge and New York University. 
(> Tuathaigh said the Gaelic Loague attempted to train teachers throughout Ireland who can teach young Irish children the language. The Gaelic League has sponsored the recruitment and training of these teachers. 
Freshman Rachel Witty attended the lecture and 
found d Tuathaigh's conclusions disturbing. 
"I didn't realize that there was a language problem in Ireland to b e g i n w i t h ' " Witty said. "But it's clear that there is a conflict of culture 
within Ireland. 
"It seems very hard for the Irish to find a proper balance between preserving their cul­ture and adapting to a mod­ern way of life." 
Contact Puja Parikh at pparikh@nd.edu 



.. 1 ROOM 330 CoMo 
;!t!mr 
····:.w.: 
COME To: LEARN MORE AND SIGN UP FOR ONE OF 
"0 i4 

Oij~;FALL SEMESTER GROUPS. .FOR MORE INFORMATION: EMAIL FR. LOU AT DELFRA.2@ND.EDU 


Putting 1Study1 in Study Abroad 
The place of international studies in a liberal arts education. 
6:00 p.m. Tuesday, September 25, 2007 
Hospitality Room-South Dining Hall 
Speaker: Tony Messina, Associate Professor Political Science 
Contact information: Office of Undergraduate Studies, 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
.... 


Please recycle The Observer.' 
--------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 







ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 24, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Monks lead march for democracy 
YANGON, Myanmar -The Buddhist monks and nuns gathered at a golden hilltop pagoda to lead 20,000 people in Myanmar's biggest anti-government protest in two decades. Plainclothes police trailed behind without intervening. 
But when a small crowd of about 400 peo­ple split off and headed for the house of pro­democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi, security forces deployed in force to block them. 
The march raised both expectations of pos­sible political change and fear that the mili­tary might try to crush the demonstrations with violence, as it did in 1988 when thou­sands of pro-democracy protesters were killed nationwide. 
On Saturday, more than 500 monks and sympathizers were allowed past barricades to walk to the house where Suu Kyi is detained. The Nobel Peace laureate greeted them from her gate in her first public appearance in more than four years -a meeting that symbolically linked the current protests to her struggle for democracy. 
Israel releases Palestinian prisoners 
JERUSALEM -The Israeli Cabinet voted overwhelmingly on Sunday to release 90 Palestinian prisoners in an effort to shore up the moderate Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, in his power struggle with Islamic Hamas militants. 
But the size of the release disappointed the Palestinians at a time when the two sides are feverishly trying to move peace talks into high gear. 
A government spokeswoman said the pris­oners could be freed by Tuesday evening. 
Israel holds roughly 11,000 Palestinian prisoners, many imprisoned in the past seven years of conflict. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Emancipation Proclamation tours LITTLE ROCK -As she looked at the Emancipation Proclamation, Catherine Jewell-Gill recalled her days of picking cot­ton in Arkansas as a child and later becom­ing a teacher and principal. 
Jewell-Gill was among more than 2,100 people who filed through the Clinton Library on Saturday to see the three-page document that declared the end to slavery. Jewell-Gill, 72, said having the document in Little Rock during the 50th anniversary of the desegregation of Central High School pulls history together. 
"I think it coincides beautifully," she said. 
More than 10,000 people are expected to file past the proclamation during its four­day stay in the city, a rare trip outside the National Archive. 
AIDS vaccine fails international test 
TRENTON -In a disappointing setback, a promising experimental AIDS vaccine failed to work in a large international test, leading the developer to halt the study. 
Merck & Co. said Friday that it is ending enrollment and vaccination of volunteers in the study, which was partly funded by the National Institutes of Health. 
It was a high-profile failure in the daunting quest to develop a vaccine to prevent AIDS. Merck's vaccine was the farthest along, con­sidered the most promising and was closely watched by experts in the field. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man killed in Chrysler plant 
KOKOMO, Ind. -A 48-year-old man was crushed to death by a machine at a Chrysler casting plant. 
The Howard County coroner said John Kelly Wright, of Logansport, died instantly Saturday around 5:30 a.m. 
The company could not comment on specifics of the death because it is being investigated, said Michelle Tinson, a spokeswoman for Chrysler LLC. 
"It's very unfortunate," she said Saturday. "We express our condolences to the employee's family." 
CoMPILED FROA,1 TliE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Blackwater tensions mount at U.N. 
Rice, al-Maliki refuse to discuss security firm's shootout in Baghdad at meeting 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki kept a polite distance Saturday as they attended a group meeting and avoided dis­cussion of a deadly Baghdad shootout involv­ing guards from a U.S. company protecting American diplomats. 
The two greeted each other before the meeting, but in a brief exchange of pleasantries, the issue of the shootout didn't come up, deputy State Department spokesman Tom Casey said. 
With tensions soaring over the Sept. 16 incident, Rice and al-Maliki chose not to speak about it at a United Nations gathering at which they were among senior diplomats and officials from Iraq's neighbors, including Iran and Syria, weighing future assistance to Iraq. 
Earlier, the State Department's Iraq coordi­nator, David Satterfield, said the two did not have any one-on-one contact. Satterfield testily told reporters that the issue of the incident was not on the agenda. He told reporters after the meet­ing that Rice had already spoken by phone with al­Maliki about the matter. 
The U.N. meeting came as a senior Iraqi official in Baghdad said Iraqi inves­tigators have a videotape that shows employees of Blackwater USA opening fire against civilians with­out provocation on Sept. 16. 
At the same time, Iraq's Interior Ministry said it had expanded its investi­gation of the shooting to include six other incidents involving Blackwater guards over the past seven months . 
The developments added to rising U.S.-Iraqi tensions, which shot up following last Sunday's shooting that killed at least 11 Iraqis, including civilians. 

Despite that, al-Maliki said before the session that he believed security was improving in Iraq and urged the United Nations to boost its presence in his country. 
"The security situation ... has begun to develop tremendously, and the Baghdad of today is dif­ferent from the Baghdad of yesterday," he said after a solo meeting with Ban. 
The presence of Rice and al-Maliki at the same meeting here was the closest high-level encounter between the governments since the incident and since Rice on Friday announced a full review of State Department security in Iraq. 
They precede a meeting between al-Maliki and President Bush next week on the sidelines of the annual U.N. General Assembly. 
The security review that Rice announced will examine the rules of engagement followed by security contractors as well as rules and regula­tions that govern their operations. That includes the jurisdiction in which contractors should be cov­ered and the immunity from prosecution by Iraqi and U.S. military courts that they now enjoy. 
A joint U.S.-Iraqi com­mission is also beginning to look at widely conflict­ing accounts of last week­end's incident; the first session was planned for Sunday. 
American witnesses have said the security guards were responding to an attack. Many Iraqi witnesses have told inves­tigators the shooting was unprovoked. The prime minister has called the incident a "crime" and his government has suggest­ed that the U.S. no longer use Blackwater for securi­ty. 
But the State Department relies heavily on private contractors to protect U.S. diplomats and other civilian U.S. government personnel in Iraq because it lacks the means to do so itself. 

CUBA 

Photo of Castro released in youth paper 
Associated Press 
HAVANA -Cuba published a photo Sunday of a standing, smiling Fidel Castro looking heavier but still gaunt as he met with Angola's president, the first head of state to see the ailing 81-year-old since June. 
The picture, which appeared on the front page of Communist Party youth newspaper Juventud Rebelde, shows Castro in a track suit, athletic pants and tennis shoes. The Cuban leader appears to have gained weight and wears a warm half-smile as he shakes hands with Angolan President Jose Eduardo Dos Santos, who was in Cuba since Thursday on an official visit. 
The image was released two days after Castro gave a surprise hour­long interview on state television, during which he answered rumors about his death that have swirled recently in the United States by say­ing simply, "well, here I am." 
Sunday's photo was the first time Castro has been seen standing in months. He stayed seated during the interview, which aired Friday evening just hours after officials said it was taped. 
Held in an undisclosed location, the meeting between Castro and Dos Santos reportedly took place Saturday afternoon and lasted an hour and 45 minutes. 
"I could see him recuperating," Dos Santos told Cuba's state news agency, Prensa Latina. "He's strong, with good enthusiasm." 
Castro has not appeared in public since announcing on July 31, 2006, that emergency intestinal surgery was forcing him to step down in favor of a provisional government headed by his 76-year-old brother, Raul. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 24, 2007 
• 
History 
continued from page I 
'Occasional crises' 
"You know, universities are not quiet places," said Father Theodore Ilesburgh, who served as University president for 3!i years. "Every so often, students get carried away, gen­erally due to too much drink­ing. And that causes a erisis when it happens." 
llesburgh oversaw the University 

said. "That's a long tim!l. And as South Bend has grown over the yp,ars, we've grown with it. That's been a concurrent growth. but it's not unrelated. ... South Bend, if you took Notre Dam!l out of thB picture, you wouldn't know much about it." 
The Notre Dam!l and South Bend communities necessarily overlap, former University president Father Edward Malloy said. 
"Any university, we can't live in isolation," said Malloy, who served as president for 18 years. "We're not a fortress on a moun­
through sional  occa­but  "You've got to remember,  taintop. It's not a castle  
rt~peatnd  eom­ we have been here since  wher!l  you  
plaints South  from Bend  1841. That's a long time."  can pull the moats up.  
residents frus- The  quality  
trated  with  Father Theodore Hesburgh  of  life  on  
t h n i r u n r u I y stud1mt neigh- University president emeritus  campus going  is to  
bors  - like in  always  be  
IIJH6, when 6!i  impacted by  
people from the  the quality of  

area south of campus signed a life of' the surrounding neigh­petition protesting ofT-cam pus borhoods.... It's self-evidently parties. dear." 
"On nurrwrous occasions the Malloy noted that tensions South Bend Police Department between students and local has been called to disperse residents are widespr!lad in large and sometimes unruly eollege towns. crowds whieh have assembled "These issues are not pecu­for the sole purpose of getting liar to Notre Dame," he said. drunk," tlw petition rnad. "Tim "If you went down to UnivPrsity dons not allow this Bloomington, if you go to kind of behavior on campus, Evanston -just name all the why should it allow it in our places where there are cam­neighborhood?" puses with large numbers of 
Those "occasional crises," und!lrgraduate students ­llnsburgh said, "come and go, and you're going to find this is but they're not important." going to be an ongoing 
"You've got to remember, we debate." have been hnrn since 1841 ," he The debat!l continues 
through tonight's vote -and it's largely because Council members say student parties have grown louder and messier in recent years. 
Associate Vice President for Hesidence Life Bill Kirk said the University has "consistently enforced" Notre Dame's stu­dent handbook, duLac, when violations happen off campus. 
"What has changed is the frequency of it," he said. 
But while Residence Life has received ''more reports" of incidents involving students off campus during the past few years, "there is some behavior that may not amount to a viola­tion of the law," Kirk said. 
Those problems, he said, are "dillicult for us to address if no police action" was taken. 
Though Notre Dame asks its students to be good neighbors off campus, Jenkins said, the University is limited in its con­trol. 
"There are expectations for students' behavior, it's pretty clear. I don't think any of our students are unsure about that," Jenkins said. "We can­not, obviously, police their behavior 24 hours a day, wher­ever they go. But we can work with others in a cooperative effort to address this situation, and I'm optimistic this is an opportunity to do so." 
A relationship in progress 
Council members said they were also optimistic about the chance to develop a closer relationship with Notre Dame. But they said the city needs continued input from University administrators. 
"Obviously, when people at the level of [Vice President for Student Affairs] Father [Mark[ nance, said Notre Dame Poorman and [Vice President administrators have taken a and General Counsell Carol more active role in the debate. Kaesebier are involved ... I "I've setm the University step think that indicates a positive forward more than they have and proactive movement before," Kirsits said at the toward the end," said Council Common Council meeting last member Tim Rouse, who co­Monday. "[In past years!. they 
sponsored the  would say if  
ordinance. "I  it's off cam­ 
think with any  pus, it's not  
organization, there's always room for increased  ''I've seen the University step forward more often than they have before. tin  our prob­lem." Like House and Kirsits,  
communica­tions." Council members  past years], they would say ifit's offcampus, it's not our problem. "  Council member Ann Puzzello spoke to a  
questioned the  "greater  
University's oversight of its off-campus  AI "Buddy" Klrslts Common Council member  level of dia­l o g u e " between the  
students  two  Council and  
years  ago,  t  h  e  

when the city amended its dis­University. orderly house ordinance to But as a resident of the crack down on noise violations. neighborhood just south of The measure resulted in six campus, she said she experi­student evictions. ences problems caused by 
In February 2006, when stu­"drunken students" on a regu­dent government representa­lar basis. tives asked Common Council "I wish thai (University members to rethink their administrators I understood the changes to the disorderly situation much better than they house ordinance -which the do," she said. " ... It's impor­city had passed during the tant to us that Notre Dame, if summer, while few students they're going to work with stu­were in South Bend -House dents concerning problems, praised then-student body that we have some idea what president Dave Baron for his they're doing, that it's useful presentation. and helpful -because in the 
But he critieized the past it just hasn't seemed help­University's handling of the sit­ful." uation, citing "reluctance from the [Notre Dame] administra­Karen l.angley contributed to tion to assume its msponsibility this report. both in the area of students and the neighborhood." 
Last week, Kirsits, the other Contact Maddie Hanna at sponsor of the current ordi-mhannal@nd.edu 



Uganda Information Session 
2 .JJJjj 


Morot~ 


Mali.* 

Fort..Jlortal 

• Kampal

,. En Mbarara* 



Information Session.' 
u Interested in Africa? 
Interested in challenges and 
issues of developing nations? 
u Interested in Holy Cross work in East Africa? 
Don't miss this study abroad opportunity through the School for International Training (SIT)! 
Semester and Summer Options. 

Wednesday, September 26, 2007 Room 215 DeBartolo 5:30PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR ALL PROG-RAMS IS NOVEMBER 15, 2007 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, September 24, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 13,820.19 +53.49

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,010 10 1,210 3,682,279,784 

AMEX NASDAQ 2,671.22 +16.93 NYSE 9,98ll83~4s:36 S&P 500 1,525375 +7.00 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,312.61 -101.18 FTSE 100 (London) 6,456.70 +27.70 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.27 +0.41 151.97 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.41 -0.14 50.03 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.87 0.36 28.42 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +0.41 +0.14 34.72 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.86 -0.04 4.632 13-WEEK BILL -1.36 -0.05 3.620 30-YEAR BOND -1.07 -1.07 4.891 5-YEAR NOTE -0.74 -0.032 4.302 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.16 81.62 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.00 738390 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.08 86.70 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 115.1500 EURO 0.7086 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9989 BRmSH POUND 0.4935 
IN BRIEF 
EnS!land fears food disease outbreak 
LONDON-A new case of foot-and-mouth disease was confirmed in Britain Friday, the sixth such case in recent weeks, environment officials said. 
As a precaution, authorities had already begun slaughtering around 40 cows on the farm, which was inside a 2-mile protection zone set up around the latest reported cases in Surrey, south of London, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said. 
"Positive test results for foot-and-mouth dis­ease have now been confirmed at the site where it was decided that cattle should be slaughtered on suspicion earlier this evening," a spokeswoman said on condition of anonymity in line with department policy. 
Two new cases were detected in Surrey last week and government vets confirmed the dis­ease was the same strain found at three other locations where a foot-and-mouth outbreak began Aug. 3. 
Deal to buyout Harman cancelled 
WASHINGTON -Two private equity firms on Friday backed out of their $8 billion buy­out of upscale audio equipment maker Harman International Industries Inc., mark­ing the latest such deal to sour amid tighten­ing global credit conditions. 
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s private equity unit told the company they are under no obligation to complete the merger because "a material adverse change" in its business had occurred, Harman said in a statement. 
Harman, whose audio equipment brands include Infinity, JBL and Harman Kardon, said it disagreed, but did not make clear what action, if any, it would take. 
Investors punished the stock all day long as word dripped out that KKR and GS Capital Partners were attempting to nullify the deal. By the end of the day, Harman shares had plummeted by more than 24 per­cent. 
GERMANY 

Women from old East go west 
Youth leave eastern Germany to go to school, find work elsewhere in the country 
Associated Press 
WITTSTOCK -Silke 
Gawenda's hometown has 
its charms -ramparts and 
timbered houses from the 
Middle Ages, and quiet 
streets lined with linden 
trees. 
A little too quiet for the bright 18-year-old, who is counting the days until high school graduation so she can leave Wittstock for col­lege in the more prosperou.<; west -joining an unprece­dented exodus of young women from what used to be communist East Germany. 
"Wittstock is so dull, I just want to get out of here," said the 18-year-old with a blond ponytail and blue eyes, who wants to study graphic design. "There's no future here for me -no jobs, no night life and no way to get a good educa-· tion." 
More than 60 towns in the 
east with populations above 
5,000 have fewer than 80 
women per 100 men, 
according to a study 
released this summer by the 
Berlin Institute for 
Population and 
Development. That com­
pares to a ratio of 51.1 per­
cent women to 48.9 percent 
men for all of Germany. 

Why women? That's a raised by single moms." German phenomenon -the Wall came down in 1989 ­topic of intense discussion. Helga Berger, who works shortage of women is palpa­most of them to the former Steffen Kroehnert, the soci­for the town's youth services ble. West Germany. In the early ologist who did the report, office, said she finds The mayor of the small days more men left, but that points to female-headed Wittstock's young men pas­eastern town of Freital, near changed quickly after households and a lack of sive. "The guys in rural East Dresden, is offering $2,800 German unification. Since male role models in educa­Germany are real mama's and help finding a job and then, two-thirds of those tion. boys," she said. "If they an apartment for any leaving were female, 
"Young men in eastern don't have a strong alpha woman aged 18 to 39 who according to Kroehnert. Germany don't have any animal to tell them what to moves there. And the town The government recently male role models and are do, they won't do anything of Strehla had only one con­promised a $5.5 million not encouraged to strive for -the girls here are just so testant this year for the title emergency program includ­a better education," much more flexible and of Strehla Nixe, or Mermaid ing improved libraries, pub­Kroehnert said. "Much open-minded." -the town's tourism lic transport and medical more than in the West, most While the explanations ambassador. treatment to stem the flow, kindergarten and school are open to question-sin­More than 1.5 million peo­but critics say what's need­teachers are female and gle mothers and female ple have left eastern ed is long-term investment more often families are teachers are hardly just a Germany since the Berlin to create new jobs. 


GM close to concluding negotiations 
Associated Press this is the end game," said Harley Talks resumed Sunday morning 
Shaiken, a professor at the after negotiators recessed Saturday 
DETROIT -Negotiators for University of California at Berkeley evening, GM spokesman rom General Motors Corp. and the United who specializes in labor issues and Wickham said. Sunday marked the Auto Workers were close to finalizing has been closely following the talks. ninth day since GM's contract with the details of a new contract Sunday "They may be approaching a resolu­the UAW had been scheduled to after 20 straight days of talks, tion, but if that's in the next two expire. The contract has been according to a local union official hours or the next two days, it's hard renewed on an hour-by-hour basis who is being briefed on the discus­to say. There are a lot of complex since then. sions. issues yet to be resolved." A message seeking comment was 
The two sides have wrapped up The health care fund -known as left for UAW spokesman Roger work on most issues and were down a Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Kerson. to determining how much money GM Association, or VEBA -would be a Several local union officials said must put into a trust fund for retiree groundbreaking change for the auto they had heard little about the nego­health care that will be managed by industry and has been the major tiations as of Sunday afternoon and the UAW, said the official, who spoke issue in this year's negotiations. GM hadn't been told when the UAW will on the condition of anonymity has around $51 billion in unfunded tell them about the deal. Once a ten­because the talks are private. The retiree health care costs, but the tative agreement is reached, local oflicial expected a final deal could be company isn't required to put the full union leaders will meet for a briefing reached as early as Sunday evening, amount into the VEBA. The UAW and and then will present the deal to although others said it could take GM have been wrangling over how their members. Any agreement will longer. much GM should put in and how have to be ratified by a majority of 
"My sense is they are close. I think much can be paid in cash or in stock. GM's 73,000 UAW members. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 24, 2007 
The Woman Changed the F 


of the Hemisp 
A Bilingual Presentati Fr. Eduardo ChAvez, postulator of the cause of Saint 
_.•~.e~K NIGHTS ··~·oF COLUMBUS 
C 8 T I 
OF FAITH IN ACTION 
1882-2007 
Monday, September 24th af7. ·•· 
Hesburgh Libra 
A d•t ·
. . .~;+vc

u 1 ortum,··Ar/l'.·. University of No···· 


Monday, September 24, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 


Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture's Catholic Culture Series 
Shakespeare a n d" Cat hoIicis m 
11 Cracking the Shakespeare Code 11 
Peter Holland 
President of the Shakespeare Association of America and Professor at the University of Notre Dame 
Tuesday, September 25 DeBartolo Hall Room 155 8:00 PM 
Also Coming 

Tuesday, October 2, 2007 11 The Audacity of Shakespeare's Non-Recusant Catholicism 11 
John Finnis, Professor of La"v and Legal Philosophy, University of Notre Dame Law School 
Tuesday, October 9, 2007 11 Shakespeare's Dark Matter 11 
Clare Asquith, Author of Shadowplay: The Hidden Beliefs and Coded Politics of William Shakespeare 

Energy 
continued from page 1 
The event, "Charting a Sustainable Energy Future," will focus on the world's dependence on nonrenewable "fossil fuels" and the effects of projected decreases in the output of oil and natural gas. It will also discuss the evolv­ing role of nudear energy and coal and whether shifting to a hydro­gen-based economy is possible. 
Energy Week will feature sever­al eontesL<; and events designed by the Energy Club's student advisory board to create ecological aware­ness on campus -including ener­gy quizzes published in The Observer that will award cash 
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Presentation and Information Session Thursday,, September 27, 2007 6:00-7:00 p.m. Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
All students interested in learning more about the actuarial profession are welcome to attend. 

You're in good hands.

Refreshments will be served. 
prizes. 

Students will also have the opportunity to win cash prizes in a video competition. Glen Water, the video contest coordinator, said the best 30 second and two-minute submissions that "motivate and inform viewers" about environ­mentalism will win at least $100, though he hopes to raise enough money to offer $500 prizes. 
Water said the main obstacles to environmental goals on campus are that students do not know what they could do to help the enviromnent -or even why they should. 
"I was inspired by a seminar offered by the Center for Social Concerns over spring break, Energy and the Enviromnent," he said. 
Water called the course, which had only 12 students, "life-chang­ing" and hoped that the video competition would offer the same experience to a campus-wide audience. 
Junior Jon Poelhuis said that he might be interested in watching some of the videos, particularly if they were funny. 
He said that An Inconvenient Truth, AI Gore's Oscar-winning documentary, "got people talking" about environmental issues. An Inconvenient Truth will be one of the enviromnentally themed films screened on campus during Energy Week. 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 
panied by fliers detailing what could be recycled, were handed



Recycle 
out to all tailgaters in the library continued from page 1 parking lot. ------------"Contamination [or the mixing 
"The fact that 65 students of recyelables with non-reey­were willing to wake up early clables] was our major fear," and give up their time on a Kelly said. "But most of the tail­game day really shows the kind gaters were very friendly and of dedication students have to willing to help." this issue," said Colleen Kelly, Both Long and Kelly had con­one of the project's coordinators. cerns that tailgaters would sim-
A proposal for the program ply ignore the recycling bins, but was submitted the frrst week of this proved unfounded. August, and the University "The response from tailgaters responded to the idea. The pro-was positive and cooperative," gram was a combination of stu-Long said. "They followed the dent and University efforts, with fliers and were just genuinely activities coordinated by the happy that this issue was being Energy and Environmental stu-addressed at Notre Dame. dent task force and the Actually, because of them, the Recycling Center and Business program has been recommend-Operations office. ed for expansion." 
Amy Amoni, director of Past student environmental Project Management for groups have tried to organize Business, and Patrick O'Hara, similar projects only to receive manager of Warehouse Service, lackluster University support worked with the students and hostility from many of the throughout the Saturday efforts, tailgaters. making sure they had all neces-"This time, the number of stu­sary supplies. The students were dents organized, in addition to recruited through Notre Dame's the support we received from various environmental groups Amy [Amoni] and Pat [O'Hara], and dorm environmental com-really helped legitimize the proj­missioners. ect," Long said. 
Junior Lourdes Long, a stu-When they meet today, the dent leader of the program, said program's organizers will ana­the recycling efforts set a new lyze the data collected and try to standard for University environ-decide how to best expand the mentalism. program for Notre Dame's next 
"This weekend's effort was the home game. first time the University and stu-"Saturday's effort was really dents have come together to just a test to see how people implement such an ambitious would respond and whether or environmental strategy," she not this program would be feasi­said. "Four dorms [Siegfried, ble," Kelly said. "Based on the Pangborn, Dillon and Welsh preliminary data, we hope to Family] even implemented recy-eventually expand the program cling stations at their concession across the campus." stands at various spots on earn­pus." Contact Joseph McMahon at 
In addition, blue bags accom-jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
A II Lectures are held at 8:00 PM 1• n DeBartolo 155 
For more nformat on go to ethicscenter.nd.edu 


.---------------------------------------------­THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINTpage 10 Monday, September 24, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
1'0. Box n<J, Notre D•me, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
El>ITOR IN CHIEI' Maddie IIanna 
MANAGING EorroR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken fowler Kyle West 
A.~sT. MANAGING El>ITOR: Kyle Cassily A.~s·r: MANA<aNG EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
N!:.WS EDITOR: Karen l.111gley 
VU:WI'OINT El>ITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hinc SCF.Nf. EmTOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO El>ITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVEffllSING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
An DF.~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(174) 631-6')27 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1 @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK smc. I @nd.cdu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The ( >bserwr is the independenr, daily newspaper puhlishcd in prinr .111d online hy the students of tlw Uniwrsiry of Norr~ Dame du L1c and Sainr Mary's Collt-g<'. hlitorial content, including adverriscmmts, is not gowrnt·d by polici~s of the administration of either instinuion. The Observer reserves the right to refia.se advcrriscrncnts has«.! on content. 
Tlw m·ws is reponed as accurately and objectively as pos.-.ihlc. Unsigned edimrials represent the opinion of the majority of the F.diror in Chief; Managing Editor, Ao;siswll Managing Edirors and tk•partmmt cdirors. Commcntark·s, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor nt-ccssatily those ofThe ( )hserwr. 
Viewpoint space is availabk· to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lcrrcrs is encouraged. Letters 10 tnt· Ediror must be signed and must indude contact intOrmarion. 
Qumiom rrgarding Obsavn-polici~s should b~ dirtcud to Editor itz CbiifMaddie IIanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'IlK lll~Wrvcr (USI,S '199 2-4(KIO) n puhh1hC1I Munday rlunutth f!n~l.ay ero::pr durmg rum 111tl v-.u.:•riuu •Knud. A IUhw;nplinn ruTitt"\J~I'Vt'f i• $101'1 fru (lilt" a~.hlt"mk 
VC.lt; $S5 filrniW:k'lllCArr 
llu: ot~nler "puhl.~cd .u­
u.}A SutUh Dimng ll.all Sttld Jtldr~ corm:rinm w: Nl)trt o~mc. IN -1"15,1)..0779 'll1cllhsctvt'r PtriudicalJ)UIII"Af f'HUd o11 Nouc Do~mc I!O.Bm,n9 .md .Muinll.ll m01iling otf11.n. 021 Sourh Dlninp; ~hJJ 
Num Dame, IN <1{,'5'56·0n9 
11&1! Ohcr~r /,a member &.t ~~~.. tal PrN. All rt'prudw • .:uun n~u .uc rncrve.t. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Karen Langley Jay Fitzpatrick Brian McKenzie Lorenzo Reyes Allen Murphy Andy Henner 
Graphics Scene Jared Wafer Analise Lipari 
Viewpoint Lianna Brauweiler 

lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hate is hate, 
no matter 




what color 

I was deeply disheartened to read that Liz Brown openly supports the Jena Six protests this Thursday. For our student government to openly support the brutal, racially-motivated beating of a high school student is inexcusable. Don't get me wrong. The three whitP students who hung threP nooses under the "white tree" at .Jena High School engaged in despicable and cowardly behavior, and ought to have been punished to the fullest extent of' the law. There is no excuse for racial hatred. especially when it is displayed in a threatening manner. Americans should be working to promote racial equality and fair treatment for all, both in the legal system and in society at large. 
But since when do African-Americans get a pass on promoting good race relations'! When six black students jump a white student and beat him so badly he ends up in the emergency room, isn't that crime also racially motivated and cowardly? If it went unpunished, wouldn't white students feel threatened? 
Whether racial violence is perpetrated by white people or by black people, it ought to be punished as harshly as possible. Hate is still hate, no matter what the color of your skin. The Jena Six deserve to go to prison for what they did, but I'm all for a protest to prosecute the noose-incident perpetra­tors. 
Dan Toler senior Dillon Hall Sept. 20 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 
What restaurant would you most like to see on campus? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Don't ignore environment 
The lack of eon cern for the environment at this university is disgusting. We are among the top universities in this country, yet we are embarrass­ingly behind the times when it comes to such a serious subject as reey­ding. This is even more surprising given the fact that we an~ a prominent Catholic symbol. 
Along with a Catholic identity should come a levd of' respnct for all of God's creation. We allrwod to consider how our actions inlluence our relationships with each other, with future generations, and with God. This includes a level of respect for the environment. We were not granted absolutt) power and discretion to do whatever we want with what God gave us. Hather. we were entrusted to cultivate and watch over all of cn~­ation, including the natural world. (GEN 2:15-16). 
This being said, there aro many ways to take action on campus. First, we need to revamp our Pxtremnly inadequat1~ recyding system. The nasi­1-lSt way would be to simply place rneyding containers next to every trash reeeptade around campus. Easy access to rncyding is needed at cam­pus-wide events and on game days as well. during which large numbers of people throw things away. 
Initiatives for dorms to recycle should also be considerod, due to the abundance of aluminum cans that end up in the garbago evory weekend. 
A serious efl'ort to take advantage of green archite<:tun• on campus must also be made. Grm1n arehiteeturn is dostined to become a very prof­itable industry in the corning years. Why not savn the world and gnt rich at the same time? Not only should this field of study bn taknn seriously within our amazing ArchitneturP program. but every new structurP that is built on campus should b11 constructed using gronn architoeturn stan­dards. 
Plenty more action can and should be taken on this campus to get up to date with the changing world and tmact our moral obligations as rt~spon­sible Catholics. We need to start by changing our mindset as a university and by realizing that all of our actions have consequences within God's Kingdom. 
Daniel Collins sophomore Alumni Hall Sept. 20 
caglecartoons.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Advertising may be described as the sczence ofarrestingthe human in{elligence long enough to g~t money from it. 
Stephen Leacock educator 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT 
page 11 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Debate over role of University's Catholicism. continues 
Notre Dame more than just Catholic 
Lately there has been a lot of talk about just how Catholic Notre Dame is and what constitutes being OK in the realms of the mis­sion of Notre Dame (i.e. the debates over the CIA and Haytheon, and Greg Yatarola's arti­cle ["ND's Catholic-don't be surprised," Sept. 18)). I think that it's good to have differ­ing opinions about different things, but I also think that it's pretty clear what Notre Dame stands for. 
Notre Dame always has been and will be Catholic: From our founders to the recent goals of our current president, you can easily soe that the Catholic tradition will always be a part of Notre Dame. Notre Dame has grown from its days in 1842, and is now a great uni­versity filled with students from varying reli­gious and cultural backgrounds. 
Notre Dame isn't just Catholic. If you dido 't catch the word "varying" when I talked about the students here, let me reiterate: The religious and cultural diversity here is essen­tial for the university's growth. It helps open all our eyes to dill'erent ideas and perspec­tives. Therefore, you will find people who will bn for and against many different issues fac-
Use moral values to analyze society 
God, Country, Notre Dame. When Nic Ponzio ("Keep the career fair unrestricted," Sept. 20) writes of that phrase as an ideal "embedded into our minds," he fails to really consider its implications. Notre Dame is a university dedicated to the pursuit of knowl­edge and truth in the world. Notre Dame is a Catholic university and thus brings into this search a dimension of faith -faith in God, human dignity and justice. 
In his autobiography, 'God, Country, Notre Dame,' Father Ted Hesburgh, clearly shows that the purpose of this university is to criti­cally engage the great questions in society. In doing so, we are to apply our knowledge in service beyond Notre Dame. This sense of principle is behind that tripartite phrase, with the word "country" not meaning a blind support of U.S. policies, but rather a respon­sibility for the greater society, extending beyond our nation and across the world. 
ing the University. 
From Mr. Angulo to Mr. Ponzio and Mr. Clary about the CIA and Raytheon debate, there are pints of merit which each of them brings up. Then, between Mr. Yatarola and Miss Williams there are valid points about Catholicism at the University. But I don't think any singular idea is completely right. What they all do is bring more to the table of these debates, and ifthe University pays attention to these Viewpoint articles and let­ters, I think they would have to at least rethink some of the things that each person points out as there are many people passion­ate about these ideas. 
However, I think that the character here at Notre Dame goes beyond all of these extreme ideas. Yes, it is Catholic, but it's about being more than just Catholic or just conservative -it's about being a family and opening our eyes and arms to the different ideas each of us has and are a part of who each of us are. 
Amanda Bell junior McGlinn Hall Sept. 23 

We fail as students if we accept information without critically evaluating it in light of our values. We cannot, as Mr. Ponzio does, equate criticizing unjust government policies with failing to support our troops. To ques­tion whether actions of the CIA and Raytheon are morally objectionable enough to discon­tinue their presence at the career fair is exactly what students should do. We should question. If we fail to use our intellect and values to critically engage society's problems, we are not living the university's purpose. I have asked myself these difficult questions, and as a concerned student, I do think we should consider any university affiliation with agencies and corporations in light of their actions. 
Brennan Bollman junior Lewis Hall Sept. 20 

Understand, don't dismiss 
I must admit being a little puz­zled by Stacey Williams's Letter to the Editor ("Catholic character more complex," Sept. 20). She seemed to posit that Notre Dame's Catholicity is unknow­able, irrelevant and damaging all at the same time -quite an accomplishment for nothing more than the subject of a "tired debate." But the letter only demonstrates that its writer doesn't understand Catholicism, not that the rest of us can't or shouldn't. 
The Jetter's closing exhortation to "make Notre Dame a better place, Catholic or not," demon­strates a complete lack of under­standing not only of the Church, but of the dictates of reason. English author G.K. Chesterton once observed, "The difficulty of explaining why I am a Catholic, is that there are 10,000 reasons all amounting to one reason: That Catholicism is true." This is what Catholics have always believed about the Church, put into colloquial terms. Of course, you can accept or reject this assertion, or perhaps claim an inadequate basis for assessment, but it defies reason to say that you are ambivalent about it. If you work to improve something, you must as a matter of course do so in a manner that reflects and attempts to conform to the truth, to reality. Saying otherwise is akin to arguing that parents should help their children stay healthy by lacing their dinners with arsenic. The action simply doesn't comport with the reali­ties governing the situation. 
So maybe Catholicism is true, and maybe it is false -but does it have anything to do with a uni­versity? History and reason tend to suggest it does: The Church invented universities, and Catholicism has great impact on the way one seeks and utilizes knowledge. This last observation makes the question of Catholicism relevant regardless of whether you regard it as true or false. On the one hand, it rep­resents a necessary component to the work of education; on the other, it should be extirpated as an impediment to intellectual activity (unless it is somehow possible to improve academic endeavors by framing them with­in the context of a very big lie). 
It also does not suffice to argue that Catholicism is simply unknowable or amorphously unquantifiable. No, the magis­terium doesn't speak authorita­tively on how to structure a Board of Trustees. If you regard this silence as making Catholicism irrelevant, you're probably misconstruing Catholicism as an ideology rather than a way of life. Ideologies answer little problems; Catholicism answers big prob­lems in a way that allows us to reason through (and sometimes disagree over) many small ones. It is the stable that contains the entire universe. 
So if we are going to disagree, that's fine -this is a university. But let's first be honest about the nature and terms of the debate, because standing up to say that the whole question doesn't mat­ter boils down to little more than a thinly veiled attempt to stave off criticism of one's own posi­tion. And you don't have to be Catholic to recognize that as intellectually dishonest. 
Paul Krog graduate student Fischer Graduate Residences Sept. 20 

U-WIRE 

Growing up within a com.fortable reality 
My Monday morning began like most in my college career. I woke to my alarm, showered and sat down at my computer while waiting to eat breakfast. I opened up Gmail and noticed another pesky "Inside Clemson" e-mail cluttering my inbox. Deciding it couldn't hurt to read the thing for a change, I double­
Kevin
clicked, read a line or two and felt 
Niehaus
my jaw drop. Although it was already nine o'clock in the morning, I 
Clemson 
still found myself having trouble 
University
believing what I was reading. A girl 
Tiger
had been kidnapped on campus, forced to drive to an ATM and with­draw hundreds of dollars and driven back to a location on campus where her assailer could find time to escape. The man ran and was eventually caught after CUPD had time to search the area. 
To me, this horrible event represents something that I'm finding more and more frequent as I grow older: That horrible kidnapping and strong-arm robbery rep­resent yet another brush with the uncomfortable reality of being an adult. Now, before you begin thinking that I spend most of my time hopped up on LSD in an alter­nate dimension, I'd like to clear up this concept of reali­ty. To be honest, I still view myself and my friends as a bunch of kids having a good time, and I still expect that my parents will be able to take care of the big problems I have in my life. However, it seems I somewhere made the passage to manhood without even noticing. 
In the grand scheme of things, I'd never really thought of myself as an adult. I figured when I became an adult, it would be marked with fanfare, celebration and a cake in my honor. Instead, I've discovered that the passage to adulthood is marked not with momentous events but instead little, itty-bitty reminders of your age. The steps are small. They begin with simple things, such as an allowance that you get as a 5-year-old for doing chores. You vacuum the living room and mop the kitchen floor, and your parents reward you with five dollars and a pat on the back. 
As you grow older, the steps grow larger. You get a cell phone, your driver's license, and you probably find yourself facing the daunting task of applying for college. Eventually you might find yourself in a serious relation­ship, talking about politics over coffee and wondering where the time went. Unfortunately, this passage to adulthood isn't marked with something that I think many people in this world could do with (myself includ­ed I'm sure). The passage into adulthood, in my opinion, should be marked with a maturity test. Personally, I think a lot of problems in this world could be fiXed with a simple test. In my mind, the test would be nothing more than a series of situations designed to determine whether you can handle living in the real world with the rest of us. 
The first, easiest and most important test of all would be designed to test patterns of abuse. In this test, you have a cute, fuzzy puppy placed before you. If you pet or play with the puppy, you pass the test. If you kick, eat, or in other ways mutilate the puppy, you don't. It's sim­ple. 
The second test would be designed to test morality. We set up a situation where an old lady drops twenty bucks and a pack of gum. Ifyou return the money and the gum, you're deemed relatively competent to subsist in normal society. If not, well, perhaps we can just stick you in prison for a few years and let you sort things out. 
The final test is a bit more complicated. The test is designed to measure your ability to act appropriately in social situations. A stand-in spouse steps before you. The spouse is told to make a mistake, and observers watch closely as you are forced to deal with the mis­take. If you scream at, beat, or in other ways abuse the stand-in spouse, you are not permitted back to society with the rest of us. 
OK. so in all honesty, the idea of a maturity test is as ridiculous as these problems seem. How could anyone in their right mind possibly abuse a spouse, hit a child or steal another person's money? Why do people feel such strong feelings of hate that they decide to kill another person? While we can't possibly give this test and hope for it to yield any real results, the simple fact that these problems exist is enough for us to search for a solution. While we can't possibly crack down on all of these problems, we as college students are still given a burden to bear. 
It is important to find new means of counseling that help these people turn from their abusive and destruc­tive ways. It is important to learn to recognize when problems are coming. Most importantly, however, we must realize that the comfortable reality we live on inside the campus dorms or apartments is something that the real world doesn't care about. We must grow up; we must become adults; we must find a way of deal­ing with this very real, very scary reality we have creat­ed. 
This column originally appeared in the September 21 edition ofThe Tiger, the daily publication at Clemson University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Monday, September 24, 2007 

By ELLEN COSTA 
Scene Wrirer 
Perez Hilton. Haven't heard of him? Well, then you probably haven't heard of Erie Hutchinson, either. 
Perez Hilton, arguably the most famous of bloggers today, writes a gos­sip hlog (www.perezhilton.com) that receives over thme million unique visi­tors each day. Though we may not be quick to admit, quite a few of us can be counted among those three million. 
So what do<~s any of this have to with 
Sounds Like This 

Eric Hutchinson Released by: no label; released on iTunes Recommended Tracks: "You Don't Have 
to Believe Me" and "Rock & Roll" 

By NICOLE EGGENBERGER 
Scene Writer 
"The O.C." has ollicially moved to New York. The high-scale drama, hot east, fresh rnusi<~ and racy storyli1ws arn back in the C. W. series "Gossip Girl." 
The first of 13 episodes of "Gossip Cirl" premiered Wednesday night at 9, and the series is already being touted as the best new show of the fall. The show's motto -"You're nobody until you'w talked about"-is true to its rat­ings. Based on the hit series of young­adult novnls by Cndly von Ziegesar and created hy tlw producers of "Tiw O.C.," "(;ossip c;irl" promised to he tlw nnw 
Gossip Girl 
The C.W. Airing: Wednesday at 9 p.m. 


Starring: Blake Lively, Leighton Meester, Chace Crawford and Kristen Bell 
. 

Eric Hutchinson? 
Quite a lot, aetually. Earlier this month, Hilton posted a link and some fervent commentary on his site about Hutchinson's album, "Sounds Like This." It seems like Hilton's readers agree with his opinion -within days, Hutchinson had reached No. 5 on the iTunes best-sellers chart without even having a record label. Surprisingly, the instantaneous success was well deserved. 
"Sounds Like This," released a little under a month ago, boasts a great col­lection of well-learned music. While 
Hutchinson's sound is a new and modern mix of pop and soul, his musi­cal influences -the prime of pop's days gone by -are quite evident. The melodies are easy to pick up. sticking with listeners long past the end of each track. Hutchinson's lyrics catch you by surprise, though, at every changing line. 
The songs "Hock & Holl" and "Food Chain" are Hutchinson's best example of this. At first they seem innocent, in a 

guilty pleasure for teens. 
Drama swarms the lives of pristine prep-school teens on Upper East Side, and all of the inside dirt is revealed through the all-knowing narrator of the show. Gossip Girl (Kristen Bell). Gossip (;irl's identity is unknown, but she blogs thn latnst news on her Web site and texts vital information to the student body, keeping all the characters in the show connected. Gossiping, shopping and partying arn what the young heart­throbs do best, giving past "O.C." fans nxartly what tlwy've been longing for. 
Black l.ivdy plays tlw main character, Sernna van der Woodson. In the pre­miern, Sen~na returns to Manhattan from boarding school aftnr exiling hnr­
snlf from hnr fri<mds for unknown reasons -a movn that crnated chaos in thn otlwrwisn privi­lngnd hottins' livns. Snrnna's "best friend," Blair Waldorf ( Lnighton M<H'sterl. hates that Snrena has rnturnod, and tries everything shn can to keep lwr dis­tance. Part or her angnr comns from the faet that hnr studly longtime boyfriend, Natn (Chace Crawford I. has an obvi-Jason Mraz-type way, but the songs' meanings are much more pleasurable than banana pancakes His lyrics are well thought out and meticulously placed, and they are packed with Hutchinson's personal sarcasm and wit. Once his listeners realize this, they instantly feel a c'onnection to Hutchinson. More than just feeling his passion for music, they can get to know his personality and sense of humor. 

Though "soul" might best describe Hutchinson's style, "Sounds Like This" works for anyone, anywhere -it is a great on-the-go track list. This is a rare occurrence for any artist's first full­length album, but Hutchinson pulls it off with the strong emotion of his tracks. 
Even more than the emotion, though, Hutchinson is bringing something new to the scene. Not just another singer­songwriter in his twenties strumming his guitar and banking on his green eyes, Hutchinson shines because of his strong, soulful influences. "You Don't Have to Believe Me" particularly echoes classic 1970s soul music. Hutchinson's simple melodies and cleverly catchy lyrics, though, are what really make this album stand out among the multitude of other talented artists. 
Hutchinson mixes guitar, piano, other vocals and more to aehieve a diverse 
ous attraction for and a secret past with Serena. 
Adding to the complex circle is the "bad boy" of tho bunch, Nate's friend Chuck (Ed Westwick). who scams on girls with his wealth and power and pushes Nate to do the same. The softer characters of the show are Dan (Penn Badgleyl and his younger sister Jenny (Taylor sound. This makes the tracks layered and much more exdting to list because they don't get repetitive too quickly. Somfl describe Hutchinson's style as "intelligent pop," and while this is lov­able pop music, the instruments and vocals are layered and the music attains a certain depth that fnw pop artists achieve. 
The album starts off with thfl sugar­coated "Ok, It's Alright With Me," an instant pick-me-up tune filled with anec­dotes of silly Jove and everyday occur­renees. Just as Hutchinson gives listen­ers a taste of his humor within his lyrics, each of the tracks tells some personal story. 
While each song is unique and lovable, the last two traeks of tho album become a bit tedious. They slow the album's pace, causing listeners to start losing the interest that the liveliness of earlier traeks held. But, given that "Sounds Like This" is Hutchinson's first album, some blips and errors arfl almost expected. 
Craving celebrity gossip and erude yet hilarious comments? Go visit Perez Hilton. Craving a refreshing mix of funky folk rock with wonderfully clever lyrics that leave you feeling great? Eric Hutchinson's your guy. 
Contact Ellen Costa at ecostal@nd.edu 
Not unlike a music video, the stars are dressed in sexy school uniforms and extravagant party drP.sses and suits. The complex world of the wealthy Upper East Siders demands high fash­ion, glamorous teens with perfeet com­plexions and superrnodnl bodies. 
Of course "Gossip Girl," like "Th<~ 
O.C.," has unrealistie 
qualities that frustratn 
Momsen), middle-class The show's motto -somn viewers. One slight outsiders who only problem is that the high
"You're nobody until 
attend the prep sehool school prep studnnts arn dun to their father you're talked shown at bars drinking Hufus's (Matthew Settle) about "-is true to martinis. Tlw point of tlw insistenee on a high-class soap opera-likn show,
its ratings. 
education. though, is to nntnrtain. 
~~1eping th~ ~<~me .sty!? ... as The O.C., <Jossip (drl mdudes tlw scandalous storylines of thn pan~nts. Hufus has a history with Snrena's mom, Lily (K<dly Rutherford), potnntialfy com­plicating the growing friendship bntween Sernna and Dan. If the drama-packed plots aren't enough to entertain, tlw catchy, elub­lik<~ music and high fashion wardrobn arP enough to ket>p fans talking. Sonw of the musie airing in tlw lirst episodP indudnd: "What Goes Around ... Comes Around" by Justin Timbnrlakn. "Tiw Way I Arn" by Timbaland. "Jiang nw up 
t.o Dry" by Cold War Kids, "If It's Lovin' That You Want" by Hihanna and others. 
and giving Serena a slight drinking problem does just that. Hnrn, n~ality is not nearly as nxdting as fanta­sy. 
The gobs of gossip revnalnd in PpisodP one of "Gossip Girl" !naves many ques­tions unanswnrnd. Why did Sernna rnturn to from boarding sdwol? Why did slw lnavo in t.lw first placn'? Will Blair gnt wvnnge on Serena for having a past with NatP? Will SNPIHL choos<' Dan. or will Nato got in thn way? 
"You know you love nw. XOXO. Gossip c;irl." 
Contact Nicole Eggenberger at neggenbe@nd.edu 





NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, September 24, 2007 BSERVER Michigan State 31, Notre Dame 17 

-


Michigan State defeats Notre Dame 31-17; Irish fall to 0-4 for first time ever 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's anemic offense showed some signs of life, but its defense crumbled late, Michigan State won 31-14 and the Irish fell to 0-4 for the first time in program history. 
The Notre Dame running back tandem of sophomore James Aldridge and freshman Robert Hughes ran for a combined 144 yards, but Michigan State coun­tered with a more formidable two-headed rushing monster of its own and downed the Irish 31-14 at Notre Dame Stadium Saturday. 
The loss sent the woeful Irish, who scored their first two offen­sive touchdowns of the season, to 0-4 for the first time in pro­gram history, 
Michigan State quarterback Brian !Ioyer threw four touch­downs, but it was the Spartans' running game that allowed them to control the contest. Spartans junior running back Javon Hinger ran for 148 yards on 26 carries, while fifth-year senior running back Jehuu Caulcrick added 83 yards. 
"This is something that we are going to enjoy for the rest of the night on the bus ride, and we will probably still feel good about it in the morning," Ringer said. 
The Irish trailed 17-14 at half­time, but Michigan State came are excited about it." marched down the field and ball over. because there was some sem­out firing in the second half. The Notre Dame coach Charlie scored on a seven-yard recep­After junior receiver David blance of a running game," Weis Spartans scored on the first pos­Weis, meanwhile, said that his tion by junior receiver Devin Grimes made a diving catch on said. "And I think that that's, session of the third quarter, line has to work on establishing Thomas, who had caught a 25-third and seven to give the team you know, that's a start." manufacturing a nine-play drive better protection for the quar­yard pass just three plays earli­a first down, senior defensive The score remained the same that culminated with a 30-yard, terback. er. end Jonal Saint-Die sacked for the rest of the first half but fourth-down pass from Hoyer to "The bad news is I still think "Thomas keeps coming Clausen. As the quarterback fell the Irish would not draw any freshman wide receiver Mark we had some problems, some through," Dantonio said. "He to the ground, Saint-Die ripped closer. Dell for a touchdown. On the fundamental problems in blitz had a good catch, good protec­the ball from Clausen to give "We were ahead 17-14 at the scoring play, Boyer fumbled the pickup, which discouraged me tion and Brian put it on the Michigan State possession. half, very close game, we came snap but recovered the ball to because they weren't outnum­money." The Spartans took over on the out, scored immediately, made it hit Dell, who had managed to bered situations," Weis said. The Spartans took the lead for Irish 14-yard line and scored on 24-14 and our players took over get behind the Irish secondary. The game began auspiciously · good at the end of the first quar­a field goal by sophomore kicker from there defensively," 
The Spartans never looked for the Irish, who scored on ter. A 26-yard scurry by Ringer Brett Swenson to make it 17-7. Dantonio said. back after the score, racking up their second possession of the set up a three-yard play-action The Irish scored on the next Clausen was 7 -of-13 passing 354 yards of total offense in the contest. After Boyer fumbled on touchdown pass from Boyer to drive, their most efficient of the for 53 yards but was replaced by contest, while the defense never the exchange with junior center senior tight end Kellen Davis. season. It took the team only five the more experienced Sharpley, allowed Notre Dame to get into Joel Nitchman and Irish senior For Davis, it was the first of two plays in 1:38 to march 80 yards. who completed 4-of-7 attempts. a rhythm. The Spartans tallied defensive end Trevor Laws fell receiving touchdowns in the Sophomore receiver George "I think Jimmy was playing so­four sacks and constantly pres­on the ball on the Michigan game. West caught a 14-yard pass so," Weis said. "I didn't think he sured Irish freshman quarter­State nine-yard line, Hughes "They are running the ball so before Aldridge broke out for a was bad. I didn't think he was back Jimmy Clausen and junior scampered for eight yards to the effectively that play action pass 43-yard run to the Michigan good. You know, because we signal-caller Evan Sharpley, who one. On the next play, senior ends up being almost a slam State 23. The next play, a carry [were] about ready to go into a replaced Clausen on Notre running back Travis Thomas dunk," Weis said. "You're selling by Hughes, put the Irish on the different type of mode in a game Dame's first possession of the carried it into the left side of the out to try to stop the run and six-yard line and they used two that he has not had as much fourth quarter. end zone for Notre Dame's first next thing you know, there's a more rushing plays to score and repetition ... I didn't think he 
"Our scheme is built around offensive touchdown of the sea­guy wide open in the end zone." cut the Spartan lead to 1 7-14. would have enough familiarity pressure, so we pressure a lot," son. And when the Irish appeared "If I want to pick one bright in doing that at that time." Michigan State coach Mark But the Irish lead was short­to build some momentum on spot in the game, that would Dantonio said. "You know, our lived. On Michigan State's next their next drive and began to definitely have been the play of Contact Fran Tolan at guys are active right now. They possession, the Spartans move the chains, they turned the the running backs in the game ftolan@nd.edu 

players of the game 

Javon Ringer and Jehuu Caulcrick 
Michigan State's running backs combined for 227 yards on 46 carries and killed any chances the Irish had ofcoming back in the second half. 
stat of the game 
219 
Rushing yards for Michigan State. The ground game allowed the Spartans to control the clock and put the game out ofreach. 
play of the game 
Devin Thomas' 19-yard reception on third-and-17 from Notre Dame's 40. 
The game was 17-14, but Thomas' catch led to a Spartans touchdown and hampered Notre Dame's chances ofwinning. 
quote of the game 
"/just think our performance in the second halfwasn 't nearly as good as our performance in the first half." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 24, 2007 
report card 

C-
quarterbacks: Clausnn fumblod tho ball dnnp in Notre Dame territory. held 
onto thn ball too long, again. and did 
nothing to distinguish himsnll'. 

B+ 
running backs: Janws Aldridgn had a eanH~r day, rushing for 104 yards on 18 carries. Hobnrt llughes addnd :B yards 
on six carries, but in kny short yardagn 
situations, the Irish could not eonvnrt. 

C-
receivers: Tho wido outs had trouble gotting open, again, which did not help 
Claus•~n. Carlson was a non-f~tctor in tlw passing garw~. 
D 
offensive line: The lim~ improvml over last wenk and lwlpnd Notm Dam1~ d1wnlop a running game, but the 
Spartans still got pressure without 
blitzing. 

D 
defensive line: Miehigan State ran at will against the Irish. Evon when Notre Damn appeared to haVf~ the Spartans 
stoppnd up the middle, Caukriek or Hinger pushed the pile for nxtra yards. 

D 
+ 
linebackers: When Michigan State ran outside. the linebackers were slow to 
stop them and could not bring down 

c 
F 
C­
rumwrs on the first hit. 
defensive backs: lloynr only throw f(Jr 135 yards and a piek to David Bruton, but he also throw fi1r four tow~hdowns and burned the secondary on Michigan St.ate's first scroing drive. 
special teams: Price had an inconsis­
tent day punting-including an 11­
yard boot in the third quarter. Travis 
Thomas, the special teams eaptain, 
committnd another crucial penalty. 
coaching: The Irish looked much better this week, and Weis' simplified game­plan yielded good rnsult'i on the ground, but the Irish still have a lot to do on both sides of the ball bel(lre they win. 

1.75 overall: '11m Irish fimnd a niehe on offnm;n, but wem still ovemmtched and outplayed by Michig<m State in nvery othnr fat~lt ofthe 1,:ra.me. 
adding up the numbers 

Consecutive games Michigan State has won 
6 

at Notre Dame Stadium. 
4 
Third downs Notre Dame converted on 15 
attempts. 

Average starting yard line, in their own 2 5 territory, for Notre Dame. 
43 
Average starting yard line, in their own ter­
ritory, for the Spartans. Michigan State 
began five drives in Notre Dame territory. 

Passing touchdowns Notre Dame has allowed 
7 

the past two weeks. 
27 
Sacks allowed by the Notre Dame offensive 
line this season. Michigan State sacked 
Clausen three times and Sharpley once. 

Average punting yards from Geoff 36 6 
Price on his six punts. • 
2 
Interceptions thrown by Notre Dame starting 
quarterback Jimmy Clausen in three starts 
this season. Clausen threw none Saturday. 

When a team is 0-4, usually there are a lot of problems. 
That isn't the case here. 
Notre Dame has talented running backs, a serviceable freshman quar­terback, a big 
offensive line and receivers with good hands. 
It also has ath­letic defensive backs, lineback­ers with a nose for the ball, and 


hard-nosed 
Chris Khorey

defensive line­men. 
Sports Editor 

So why are the Irish 0-4'! 
It's very sim­ple. Almost every time a Notre Dame player is in a one-on-one physical situation, be it a block or a tackle, the Irish player loses. Notre Dame is getting pushed around. 
Michigan State ran for 219 yards Saturday, but it was­n't because the 
Spartans were gash­What really seems to especially in open ing huge holes on space (like pulling 
be the underlying 

every play. What hap­guards and fullbacks 
issue is the lack of
pened was the Irish leading running front seven struggled hitting in Irish plays), tend to bump to get oil' blocks and into defenders or
practices.

then when they did hit Spartan running 
backs Jehuu Caulerick or Javon 
Hinger, they were driven backwards for an extra three yards. 
"It wasn't so much their athletic ability as we didn't do our job," Irish nose guard Pat Kuntz said. 
Notre Dame managed 117 yards on the ground, a major improvement over previous games, but on multiple occasions the Irish had third or fourth-and-one and could not pick up the first down. On one possession, they had two plays to get less than a yard and couldn't do it. 
Why is this happening? Every member of the offensive line was a highly regarded recruit, and while the defensive linemen weren't quite as sought after, they still have talent. 
The problem doesn't seem to be the defenders. effort. The players are clearly going Similarly, the defense has been all-out on the field, and they seeni very efl'ective at stringing outside 
upset when they lose  stretch plays this  
-but why can't they block and tackle?  The simple fact is  year. But it doesn't matter if there's no  
Partially the issue may be scheme relat­ed. Coach Charlie Weis likes to confuse  that Irish players know who to block and know where they  apparent hole, all the back has to do is charge at the first tiny opening he sees,  
opposing defenses,  need to be to make a  knowing the Irish  
but right now the offensive line looks  tackle, but when they  defender will try to arm tackle him and  
confused about who  get there -they  the play will gain  
to block. On defense,  can't make a play.  solid yardage.  

the Irish defensive line is undersized and not quick enough on the outside to run the 3-4. 
But those schemes can both work and will work once the current play­ers get older and next year's recruit­ing class comes in -they can't be blamed for the lack of fundamental physicality. 
Notre Dame also has problems 
with technique. Tacklers hit too high and get driven back­wards. Blockers, 
push them, rather 
than engaging and 
driving them back­
wards. 
What really seems to be the under­lying issue is the lack of hitting in Irish practices. Weis has started to correct this in the past week, but the fact that the team didn't hit in fall camp has set Notre Dame back weeks -and possibly years. 
It's clear the Irish know their play­book well. Take for instance screen passes. Almost every time Notre Dame has run one this year, the defensive line has been fooled and a back -usually Armando Allen -has caught the ball with more blockers than tacklers in front of him. 
But those plays are rarely getting more than five yards because the blockers in front don't actually block Even special teams 
has been hurt by this lack of physicality. On returns, wedges set up beautifully, then col­lapse. On coverage, returners are hemmed in, then suddenly find a way upfield. 
The simple fact is that Irish players know who to block and know where they need to bn to make a tackle, but when they get there-they can't make the play. 
Fortunately, Weis knows the only way to fix this is to practice blocking and tackling. And basnd on the Michigan State game, there has been improvement since Notre Dame went "back to training camp." 
After the loss to the Spartans, ofl'ensive taekle Sam Young said the Irish were "on their way" to the proper bloeking and tackling. 
"We want to be thern as fast as possible," he said. 
The problem is that the Irish should have "been there" before Georgia Tech. But 0-4 is the reality they have to live with, and it's time to start hitting people like a Division l team should. 
Sometimes, football really isn't that complicated. Winning is all about blocking and tackling. 
Notre Dame isn't doing those things right now. And until they do, they won't start winning. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd. edu 

------~­
Monday, September 24, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

of the day around the left end to put The freshman rushed six times for 33
Aldridge has 108 yards to lead six on the scoreboard early. yards. Sophomore James Aldridge received "I wanted to get [Hughes] into the
resurgent running attack 
his first career start and piled up a mix, he brings an even bigger body career high 104 yards on 18 carries as than [Aldridge]," Weis said. "If you'reBy MICHAEL BRYAN his combination of speed and power going to try and play a slug-it-out men-
Sports Writer 
tore though the Michigan tality, you better have a 
Running back Travis Thomas burst  State defense. Aldridge said he knew  "If I wanted to pick  couple of big bruising bodies who can handle  
around left end and freshman Robert Hughes pounded the ball up the gut to score Notre Dame's first offensive touchdowns of the year and give the Irish one bright spot in an otherwise lopsided 31-14 loss. The Irish entered the game against  he would see the ball more against Michigan State and capitalized on the situation. "I tried my best to respond," Aldridge said. "Coach calls my number,  one bright spot, that definitely would have been the play of the running backs in the game."  that." Aldridge and the run­ning game still provided a spark in the second half. Aldridge took toss plays for gains of 14 and 18 yards and first  
the Spartans with a running game that was nonexistent, churning up a grand  that's when I go in. I got my number called today,  Charlie Weis  downs in the third quar­ter before a 17-point  
total of -14 yards in its first three  and I did my best to take  Irish coach  deficit  forced  Notre  
games.  While  advantage of  Dame to switch its focus  
yardage lost on sacks  it."  to the passing game.  

was partially respon­"Coach calls my The running game also Weis said he was encouraged by the sible for the grisly powered the second Irish production of the running game behind
number, that's when I 

numbers, so was touchdown, accounting for an improved but still shaky offensive 
go in. I got my number

Notre Dame's inabili­most of the yardage on the line. ty to run behind a called today, and I did S-play, 80-yard drive in "If I wanted to pick one bright spot, porous offensive line. my best to take the second quarter. After that definitely would have been the 
"We went into this freshman Jimmy Clausen play of the running backs in the game,"
advantage ofit." 

game saying regard­completed a 14-yard pass he said. less of what was to sophomore George Freshman Armando Allen also had a going to happen in James Aldridge West, Aldridge broke positive impact in his short stints of this game, we were through the Spartan sec­playing time, rushing three times for
Irish running back 

going to try to run ondary with a 43-yard run. 14 yards and catching a pass for a five­the ball and run the Hughes followed up the yard gain. ball with some power," Irish coach run with another big gain, rumbling 17 While Notre Dame had its best game Charlie Weis said. yards around the left side before being running the ball so far this season, 
The power running game led the pushed out of bounds at the Michigan Aldridge said there is still room for Irish offense into the end zone for the State six. Aldridge powered ahead once improvement. first time this season in the opening again with a three-yard carry on first "It's good to have a good game, but quarter. capitalizing on an early and goal, and Hughes finished off the it's not good enough," Aldridge said. Michigan State fumble. Freshman drive with his first career touchdown "We've got to do more, so we're going Robert Hughes took the first carry from three yards out. to go back to practice tomorrow and eight yards on second and goal before After seeing playing time but not hopefully get better, plugging away." being tackled just short of the goal receiving any carries in the first three line. One play later senior captain games, Hughes emerged as a tough Contact Michael Bryan at Travis Thomas bounced his only carry inside runner against the Spartans. mbryan@nd.edu 
Michigan State wins sixth straight at ND 
Scoring drought Old rivals 194th consecutive sellout inIrish and Michigan The Irish have scored 27 Saturday's matchup marked Notre Dame Stadium. points through four games. the 71st meeting betweenState square offfor This total is the third-fewest Notre Dame and Michigan Getting lucky ever in school history. State. The Irish have a 44-26-1 The Irish won the coin toss
their 71st meeting 
record against the Spartans. and elected to receive. Notre 
Mrs. Parseghian honored Only Navy, Purdue and USC Dame has won three of the 
By FRAN TOLAN and Katie Parseghian, wife of have faced Notre Dame more four coin tosses this season 
CHRIS HINE former Irish coach Ara times than Michigan State. and has received to start 
Sports Writers Parseghian, was presented each game. 
with an honorary monogram Bruton gets his first pick 
Michigan State became the by the Notre Dame Junior free safety David Maust gets some work first opponent to win six Monogram Club. Bruton intercepted the first Sophomore punter Eric games in a row at Notre The presentation was pass of his career Saturday. Maust came in for Geoff Dame Stadium. made by Monogram Club Bruton picked off Michigan Price at various times in the 
president Mark Kelly in the State quarterback Brian game. Maust had punts of Infamous record Monogram Room of the Hoyer in Notre Dame's end 41, 38 and 50 yards. 
Notre Dame is now 0-4. the Joyce Center at the conclu­zone in the second quarter. first time the team has ever sion of Mass that was part of Contact Fran Tolan at dropped its first four con­the dedication of a statue of Selling out ftolan@nd.edu and Chris Hine tests. Ara. Saturday's game was the at chine@nd.edu 
•
scoring suininary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Michigan St.  14  3  14  0  31  
Notre Dame  7  7  0  0  14  

First quarter Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 0 
Travis Thomas 1-yard run with 10:01 remaining (Brandon Walker kick). Drive: 3 plays, 9 yards, 0:54 elapsed. 
Michigan State 7, Notre Dame 7 
Devin Thomas 7-yard reception from Brian Hoyer with 7:05 remaining. (Brett Swenson kick). Drive: 8 plays, 67 yards, 2:56 elapsed. 
Michigan State 14, Notre Dame 7 
Kellen Davis 3-yard reception from Brian Hoyer with 0:22 remaining (Swenson kick). 
Second quarter Michigan State 17, Notre Dame 7 
Swenson 27-yard field goal with 12:19 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 5 yards, 1:24 elapsed. 
Michigan State 17, Notre Dame 14 
Robert Hughes 3-yard touchdown run with 
10:41 remaining. (Walker kick). Drive: 5 plays, 80 yards, 1:38 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Michigan State 24, Notre Dame 14 
Mark Dell16-yard reception from Brian Hoyer with 12:05 remaining (Swenson kick). Drive: 8 plays, 45 yards, 2:55 elapsed. 
Michigan State 31, Notre Dame 14 
Kellen Davis 30-yard reception from Brian Hoyer with 2:45 remaining (Swenson kick). Drive: 10 plays, 67 yards, 4:15 elapsed. 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

return yards 

time of possession 


S. 
passing 
Clausen 7-13-0 Hoyer 11-24-1 Sharpley 4-7-0 
rushing page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 24, 2007 
Aldridge  18-104  Ringer  26-144  
Hughes  1-13  Caul crick  20-83  
Allen  3-13  
Thomas  1-1  
receiving  

West  3-25  Thomas  4-55  
Grimes  3-24  Davis  2-33  
Carlson  1-16  Hawken  2-14  
Kamara  1-9  Dell  1-16  
tackling  

Crum  16  Wiley  6  
Bruton  15  Thornhill  6  
laws  9  Key  6  
Brockington  7  Gordon  5  
Zbikowski  5  Baldwin  5  
Smith, T.  4  Adams  5  
Williams, I.  4  Saint-Die  4  
Hand  3  Davis-Clark  4  
Kuntz  3  Kershaw  4  




DAN COOPER!The Observer 
Af'tm last week's demoralizing :{S-0 loss to Michigan, coach 
Charli!1 Weis said he failed to t:rnatn a "niche" for his offense. The Irish wern able to gain 117 total yards rushing Saturday against Michigan State. but were outplayed in every other aspect of the gamn. Tho Spartans ran inside and outside Notre Dame's 3-4 per­somwl sclwmn at will. and Spartans quarterback Bryan Hoyer threw for four touchdowns to lead the Spartans to a 31-14 win­their sixth straight in Notre Dame Stadium. Michigan State's pass rush was able to generate pressure even without sending extra rushers. while the special teams did little to help Notre Dame win tho battle for field position. There were positive signs in Saturday's loss, but they cannot conceal the fact that Notre Dame is 0-4 for the first time in sehool history. Next wnek, Notre Dame hits the road to take on Purdue (4-0). 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, September 24, 2007 
page 13 

By DAMON JASON Scene Wrirer 
"Superman: Doomsday" is DC Comics' entry into a recent series of animated films based on some of the comic book industry's most popular characters and stories. 
This particular film is based loosely on a number of storylines collectively known as "The Death and Return of 
after taking out the entire Justice League. Superman goes to face Doomsday and a lengthy battle ensues. In the end, Superman fights until his dying breath, but not before killing Doomsday first. 
The subsequent storyline, "Funeral for a Friend," deals with the world's reaction to losing the most powerful superhero ever. In their post-Superman world, four indi­viduals attempt to step up and take the mantra of the "new" Superman. 
As with many comics, 
Superman." While production through various machi­values obviously aren't as In the end, Superman nations, DC does not high as last year's "Superman allow its hero to stay
fights until his dying 
Returns," the film does a solid dead for too long. These
breath, but not 

job at creating its own identi­events conclude with the ty. before killing eventual and triumphant In an attempt to boost sales return of the original
Doomsday first. 

in the lagging comic book Superman. industry in the 1990s, DC "Superman: crafted the "Death of Superman" story Doomsday" is an interpretation that fuses arc. In this storyline, an unstoppable alien together pieces of these various storylines. named Doomsday terrorizes Metropolis The film is good -viewers can 
approach "Superman: Doomsday" with no previ­ous knowledge of
Superman: Doomsday 

Superman lore and have a satisfying movie experi­ence. The fight scenes are 
Warner Home Video I DC Comics 

Directed by: Lauren Montgomery, Bruce 
great, especially the final 
Timm and Brandon Vietti 
battle between Superman and Doomsday. Adam
Starring: Adam Baldwin and Anne Heche 
Baldwin ("Full Metal 

Jacket") and Anne Heche ("Nip!fuck") provide solid vocal acting for Clark Kent/Superman and Lois Lane. 
The only complaint with the presentation of the film is the animation. Something about the character models feels slightly off. but viewers can't expect everything in a direct-to-video film to be perfect. 

The main problem with this movie is its targeting strategy. 
It's rated PG-13 and has some very mature themes. Logic would lead one to believe that this movie would be targeted at a more mature audience -an audi­ence, like college students, that read the comics growing up. 
There are, however, too many discrep­ancies between the comic's original story­line and the film adaptation. It simply tries to accomplish too much in its 75 minute running time. 
The film does a great job of creating an intelligible storyline that can be approached by all. However, this is not a 
Harry Potter debate pron1pts raised wands on can1pus 
Dear Hover, You're welcome, Rover. mind so much; it's just that this is 
First ofl'. I'd like to say thanks for get­(You'll notice that in my generosity, I America and we speak English here, and ting back to me. Your biweekly publica­haven't charged you a commission for so it pains me when you butcher my tion took so long to respond that I wasn't spiking record new numbers in your cir­native tongue. sure if you guys even existed any more, or culation. Consider this an act of goodwill.) But in the words of brave King Leonidas if general apathy and widespread igno­As I sat in the dining hall on Friday, I from the hit film "300" as he and his sol­rance of your publication caused you to read your Cheers and Jeers section and, diers go about the business of fmishing off give up the crusade. I'm glad to hear as expected, I noticed your spirited, if wounded enemy soldiers, "there's no rea­you're still around and kicking, however weak, counter fire. However, as I contin­son we can't be civilized." feebly. ued perusing your paper, sifting through In fact, as disturbing as this thought is, 
Unfortunately, some the layouts and pixilated graphics, what we may actually share something in com­of those wayward Tae Andrews did my wandering eye spy but a full-page mon. Apparently we both harbor a love kicks have been tar-piece on none other than Harry Potter, for Harry Potter, although yours is more geted at my section. Scene Editor the very topic which incurred your wrath of a secret closet love, as you spend your Like the Auror Mad-and my subsequent return-fire in the first free time playing make-believe with your Eye Moody, I believe place. Apparently if you add a picture of wands in the privacy of intimate friends. in a personal motto of constant vigilance. a unicorn and toss in some "Harry Potter As for myself, my love for Potter lore is I leave no shot unanswered, especially is Jesus" discussion of Christ-like well known and well documented, to the when said shot is aimed at the most elec­metaphors in HP it's okay, but otherwise, point where I have engaged roommates tric and beloved section of the nation's, if it's not. and friends in mock duels in public. not thn world's, hottest eollcgiate news­Hypocrisy, thy name is Rover. However, as you entitled your piece papnr. And so I responded in kind. A<> you writo in your m~wspaper mast­"Let's Lower Our Wands," you're right; launching a spActacular salvo which head, it behooves a good watchdog to perhaps we should just bury the hatchet, rained destruction and despair on your bark. but it behooves a bad, toothless lit­instead of having me tomahawk it into papPr. tle dog!,'}' to stop barking. roll over and your collective face time and time again. 
Unfortunately, while I had intended to play nice. Or perhaps play dead. Down, It just feels unsporting, like ehallenging a blast your lamP-duck out of the watf'r. in Hover. Bad dog. dyslexic to a fnw-style rap battle. A<> r<~ality my comments had tlw oppositf~ Also, it might behoove you to notice that such. I accept your surrender plea. ell'!wt: impassioned readers, curious as to the word "Snptnmber" is traditionally Thanks again for writing, Hover. I look thn rnmarks you had made, ended up spelled with one letter b and not two as forward to hearing from you in two florking to pick up co pins of the Hover you had it printed on the cover of your weeks. gatlwring dust in tlw Dining Halls. I inad­papnr. (And by the way. if you're going to vnrtPntly creatPd massivP lnvPis of nnw insult our awesome football writnrs The views expressed in Scene and Hovnr readership. doubling and perhaps please use proper grammar and refer to /Ieard are those ofthe author and not oven tripling your subscribnrs to tho point the four of them as "gentlemen." It would necessarily those of The Obseruer. whnn~ tlwy now numbnr in the double make you look cowardly. instead of both Contact Tae Andrews at digits. dim-witted and cowardly.) It's not that I tandrewl@nd.edu 
summer blockbuster like "Superman Returns," so "Superman: Doomsday" is unlikely to attract a lot of casual fans. 
The DVD has excellent special features. There is the standard director's commen­tary, which is well done, as well as the standard "behind the scenes" look at the voice actors. 
Perhaps the best extra feature is a vignette called "Requiem and Rebirth: How the DC Comics Team Decided Superman's Fate." The short highlights various members of the Superman cre­ative team, giving viewers a sense of the passion and emotion that went into creat­ing "The Death and Return of Superman." It makes the DVD a must-have for any hardcore Superman fan. 
Contact Damon Jason at djason@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 24, 2007 
NFL 

McNabb throws four TDs in Eagles blowout 
Arizona's comeback falls short with Stover's game-winning kick; Addai runs for two TDs in Colts win at Houston 
balls in practice and that rolled formance. McNabb completed 18 
Associated Press 

over." consecutive passes at one point, 
PIIILADELPIIIA-Donovan Jon Kitna threw for a fran­and finished 21-for-26. McNabb, Brian Westbrook and chise-reeord 446 yards and two Kevin Curtis treated Detroit's TI>s and Hoy Williams had nine Ravens 26, Cardinals 23 defense likfl a scout team. catches for 204 yards, including Steve McNair was ailing. Matt 
McNabb threw for 381 yards a (J1-yard TD for Detroit (2-1). Leinart was awful. So Kurt and four touchdown passes, Just six days ago, the Eagles Warner and Kyle Boller engaged Curtis had 221 yards receiving were booed off the field after los­in an unexpected fourth-quarter and three scores and the ing 20-12 to Washington on duel that wasn't decided until the Philadelphia Eagles beat the Monday night. A day later, it got game's final play. Lions 56-21 on Sunday for their uglier when McNabb said on After Warner rallied the first win. IIBO that black quarterbacks Arizona Cardinals from a 17­
In a stunning offensive display, face greater scrutiny than their point deficit, Boller moved the tho 1\aglns ( 1-2) scored touch­whitn counterparts. Havens into position for a 46­downs on their first live posses­McNabb spent a lot of time this yard field goal by Matt Stover as sions and had a l'ranchise-rm:ord wonk answering questions about time expired, giving Baltimore a 42 poinL-; in the first half. It was his eomment he made in August victory Sunday. their most points scored since a that aired Tuesday. lie came The Havens (2-1) led 20-3 at 56-17 victory at the Chicago under heavy criticism for his halftime and 23-6 entering the Cardinals in 1953. statement and heard a mixture fourth quarter, but wilted in the 
Brian Westbrook had I I 0 of' boos in pregame introduc­final 15 minutes in a second yards rushing, Ill more rneeiv­tions. straight game. Although the New ing and seornd three TDs bnli1re It didn't help that the five-time York Jets never did pull even one leaving in the third quarter with Pro Bowl quarterback played week earlier, Warner rallied the injured ribs. X-rays were nega­poorly in his first two games Cardinals (1-2) to a tie at 23 with tive. since tearing a knee ligament in 1:50 left. 
''I'm not surprised by what we Week 11 last year. Some were Leinart was sacked only once were able to do," Westbrook calling for rookie Kevin Kolb or but received pressure on almost said. "It's a mattclr of guys con­bac:kup A.J. Feeley to replace every throw. The second-year tinuing to connect. We're an him. quarterback went 9-for-20 for 53 explosive offense when things Kolb made his NFL debut in yards before being replaced for work out the way we want. We the fourth quarter, while McNabb good by the 36-year-old Warner, didn't havn too many incomplete rested after an outstanding per-who also made a brief appear­
ance in the first half. 

The Cardinals had used Warner in no-huddle situations in practice, and first-year coach Ken Whisenhunt decided the vet­launched into him, and he had a Houston (2-l) entered the eran was the best man to engi­blow above the shoulders into game without star receiver neer the comeback. the head area," referee Jerome Andm .Johnson, who sprained his 
"We were down three scores Boger said. knee last week, and lost running and we knew that was the best back Ahman Green to a knee way to move the ball quickly," Colts 30, Texans 24 injury on the first series of' the Whisenhunt said. "It wasn't a sit­The Indianapolis Colts lost all second quarter. Backup Bon uation where Matt lost a job. It three AFC South road games last Dayne was inactive because of was Kurt did better with this season. bruised ribs, so the Texans had package." So winning two straight this to rely on third-stringer Samkon 
Boller entered in the fourth year is encouraging, even if they Gado for the rest of the gamn. quarter for an ailing Steve didn't play as well as they'd like Hookie Jacoby Jonns, who McNair. After the Cardinals on Sunday. started for .Johnson, left in the pulled even, Boller went 5-for-5 Joseph Addai ran for two third quarter with a separatnd for 32 yards to get the Havens in touchdowns and Adam Vinatieri shouldcH, and center Steve position for Stover's winning addnd three field goals to lead McKinney tell with a knee sprain kick. the Colts (3-0) to a win over the in the fimrth quarter. 
"You just try and put your injury-ravaged and mistake­And defensive tackle Cedric mind in a place where hey, it's prone Texans to remain unde­Killings was taken ofT the field on showtime," Boller said. ''I'm feated after beating Tennessee a stmtcher after a headfirst colli­warm, the body is warm. Just go last week. sion with Indianapolis receiver through it and take one play at a "As long as we're getting the Hoy llall. The 310-pound time." wins, we can still correct that Killings, playing special teams, 
The Havens benefited from a kind of stuff," receiver Dallas hit Hall on a block as Jerome questionable personal foul call Clark said. "We'll take advantage Mathis was returning a kickofl' in on safety Adrian Wilson, who of it down the road. That shows the second quarter. The Texans was called for a high hit on Todd you what kind of team we have said Killings suffered a neck !leap at the end of a first-down here. We haven't played great­injury and coach Gary Kubiak pass. it's always been something here said he was moving his arms and 
"We had an airborne receiver and there -but we're still find­legs and talking on the field. hit by a defender, who we called ing ways to win." Killings was taken to a hospital. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3\J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

2bdrm house w/basement, wash-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do er/dryer. Corby at Eddy 574-232-not go it alone. If you or someone 
WANTED FoR SALE FoR RENT 9084. TICKETS you love needs confidential support 
STUDENT WORK $12.75 base· Awesome riverfront new construe­appt. Flexible schedules, no experi-lion 12 min. to ND. 4 bdr,4bath,mar­ence needed. customer sales/serv-ble,ceramics,h/w floors. ice, conditions apply, all ages 18+, Jacuzzi,deck,pier. 574-273-3835. www.workforstu· 574-217·1557 dents.com Tatiana 
SCHOOL BUS SUBSTITUTE DR I· Brick ranch w/walkout LL,gourmet VER NEEDED. Responsible, kitchen, vaulted ceilings. Park-like dependable, safety conscious grad street. student sought to drive a school Close to ND. bus for a private south-side SB 574-217-1557 school. Must be available when Tatiana 
LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcoun­trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
Homes for 08-09. 4·6 bedrooms. Walk to ND. 574­876-7341. For Football weekends, call574· 532·1408. 
3 bdrm house. Walk to ND. Washer & dryer. $750/mo. Good neighbor· hood. Landlord does yard work. No Pets. No Section 8. Call574-250­1266. 
HOUSE FOR RENT CLOSE TO CAMPUS (North Shore Triangle neighborhood) 3 bedrooms, 1 bath, AJC, dishwasher, washer/dryer, rent $750 per month plus utilities. Available immediately. Call 243­7763. Email cventer@nd.edu 
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more PLEASE HELPI information, visit our website at: 574-251-1570 http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­
nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. in THE OBSERVER. 
ALL HOME GAMES. 57 4-232-0964. This is my new haircut. 
www. victorytickets.com 
Yeah I take steroids. ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. I eat that for breakfast, lunch and 57 4-288-2726. dinner. 
Muscle Milk Buying BC/USC tix. HGH 

needed (flexible) from 7 a.m. to 574-277-1659. Protein 8:15a.m., and 3:15p.m. to 4:30 Call me for a list of properties near FOOTBALL HOUSE • 3 bedroom B&B-style lodging in a log cabin in Power bars 
p.m. Each trip pays $33. Need a ND. 574·217-1557Tatiana home, 5 blocks from campus for the woods 20 min, from campus. Commercial Driver License -will rent on football weekends, JPW, $250 for weekend. 269·362-0300. PERSONAL Jagerbomb train around your schedule and pay Remodeled ranch near ND with all Graduation. Operated as a week-tor your COL training, but must appliances included! 1446 sq.ft.,3 end rental. Great alternative to stu-HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2008-If you or someone you care about Not now chief. I'm in the zone have residency in Indiana. For BR, 1 Bath and x-large 2-car pid hotel prices on those weekends. 09: 3·9 BEDROOM HOMES. has been sexually assaulted, visit application/interview call574-291-garage. $104,000. www.notredameliving.com or call CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Bill574-http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. Wittesans, Baby Panda, Lennie, 4200. 574-340·1651. Alex 212-418-6937. 532-1896. shtml Big T, Hardcore, Whackem, Casper 

OUND THE NATION 
Monday, September 24, 2007 CoMPILED rRoJv1 Tnr: OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 15 
MLB 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 Rankings 

team  record  
1  usc  3-0  
2  LSU  4-0  
3  Oklahoma  4-0  
4  Florida  4-0  
5  West Virginia  4-0  
6  Clilornia  4-0  
7  Texas  4·0  
8  Ohio State  4·0  
9  Wisconsin  4-0  
10  Rutgers  3·0  
11  Oregon  4·0  
12  Boston College  4·0  
13  Clemson  4·0  
14  Kentucky  4-0  
15  Georgia  3·1  
16  South Carolina  3·1  
17  Virginia Tech  3·1  
18  South Florida  3·0  
19  Hawaii  4-0  
20  Missouri  4·0  
21  Penn Slate  3-1  
22  Alabama  3·1  
23  Arizona Slate  4·0  
24  Cincinnati  4·0  
25  Nebraska  3·1  

NCAA Football USA Today Poll 
team record 

1 usc 3-0 2 LSU 4·0 3 Florida 4-0 4 Oklahoma 4·0 5 West Virginia 4-0 6 Cllfornia 4-0 7 Texas 4·0 8 Ohio State 4·0 9 Wisconsin 4·0 10 Rutgers 3-fJ 11 Boston College 4·0 12 Oregon 4·0 13 Clemson 4-0 14 Virginia Tech 3·1 15 Kentucky 4-0 16 Georgia 3·1 17 Hawaii 4-0 18 South Florida 3-0 19 Penn State 3-1 20 Missouri 4·0 21 South Carolina 3·1 22 Nebraska 3·1 23 Michigan Slate 4·0 24 Alabama 3·1 25 Arizona State 4-0 25 Purdue 4-0 
NCAA Men's Soccer NSCAA/adidas Poll 
team record 
Wake Forest 

2 UConn 6-0-0 3 Virginia 4-1-0 4 3-1-1 
1 5-0-0 
NOTRE DAME 5 West Virginia 4-1-0 6 5-0·1
Northwestern 7 Creighton 3-0-2 8 Santa Clara 3-1-2 9 Harvard 6-0-0 10 Indiana 3-2-1 . 
11 2·2·1
SMU 12 Duke 3-2-0 
previous 
1 2 4 3 5 6 7 8 9 11 13 14 15 21 22 12 17 23 19 25 10 16 
NR NR 
24 
previous 
1 2 3 4 5 8 6 8 7 11 12 13 14 17 23 21 18 24 10 25 14 22 
NR 
20 
NR NR 
previous 
1 4 6 9 13 10 16 8 15 2 3 5 

around the dial 
NFL Tennessee at New Orleans 8:30p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -From shoveling snow to spraying champagne. 
The Cleveland Indians, who slipped and slid around April's home open­er during a freakish spring storm, capped an unforget­table season at Jacobs Field on Sunday with a sun-soaked championship. 
Jake Westbrook struck out a career-high nine and Grady Sizemore had four hits as the Indians, fourth­place finishers a year ago, elinched their first AL Central title. since 2001 with a 6-2 win over the Oakland Athletics. 
The Indians became the second team in the majors to clinch. The Boston Red Sox assured themselves of at least the AL wild-card spot Saturday night. 
When reliever Rafael Betancourt struck out Oakland's Mark Ellis for the final out and his second save, the crowd of 40,250 erupted as one and the right-han·der jumped into catcher Victor Martinez's arms as the Indians poured onto the infield to cele­brate. 
Moments latnr, led by ace 
C.C. Sabathia, the club walked to center field and watched as a 2007 champi­onship banner was hoisted atop the center-field score­board. 
IN BRIEF 
Melee erupts over victory
celebration 
GREENSBORO, N.C. -Moments after North Carolina Central claimed victory over rival North Carolina A&T, the Eagle players decided on a celebra­tion that would lead to a bench-clear­ing, helmet-swinging brawl. 
The fight so enraged A&T athletics director DeLores "Dee" Todd that she said the two schools likely would take a "cooling-off period" from continuing the series. 
''I'm disgusted. It's very disgusting," Todd told The News & Observer of Raleigh after seeing the Eagles players jump on the Aggies' midfield logo. "It's a game, why do that?" 
The fight lasted several minutes and left dozens of players lying on the field. Police from both schools ran in after several minutes and broke up the fight using pepper spray. An NCCU player lay on the ground outside of the locker room vomiting after the fight as train­ers worked feverishly to wash his eyes. 
Overlooked as a con­tender in one of baseball's toughest divisions, the Indians overcame a strange start and recaptured a crown they won six times in seven years from 1995­2001. 
But for these Indians, lit­tle went as planned. 
Their first homestand in April was postponed by snow, forGing the club to play three "home" games in Milwaukee's Miller Park against the Los Angeles Angels. Three other games against Seattle were made up at the Jake. 
Technically, Cleveland still has one "home" game remaining on Wednesday, 2,000 miles 
Landis stripped of Tour de 
France title 
MONTREAL -Floyd Landis' defense that his drug tests weren't handled properly doesn't negatf) the findings, World Anti-Doping Agency chairman Dick Pound said Sunday. 
Pound said that despite Landis' contention that the test procedures were less than perfect, there was no escaping the fact that banned sub­stances were found. 
By a 2-1 decision Thursday, an arbitration panel upheld Landis' pos­itive doping test from the 2006 Tour de France. The decision means Landis is no longer the race champi­on and faces a two-year ban from cycling, retroactive to Jan. 30. 
In its 84-page decision, the majori­ty found the initial screening test to measure Landis' testosterone levels -the testosterone-to-epitestos­terone test -was not done accord­ing to World Anti-Doping Agency rules. 
away at Seattle's Safeco Field as part of a double­header with the Mariners. 
The Indians, who finished 18 games behind Detroit last year, began 2007 with question marks around the diamond. They moved into first place on Aug. 15, stayed there by going 27-9 and running away from the defending AL champion Tigers, and now have a chance to finish with the best record in the majors. 
And while much of their lineup looks as it did in April, the Indians made some major changes to snap them out of a midsea­son slump that threatened to spoil a season filled with thrilling comebacks. 
Roddick leads U.S. to Davis 
Cup finals 
GOTEBORG, Sweden -Jimmy Connors and John McEnroe couldn't beat Sweden in the Davis Cup in this city 23 years ago. Andy Roddick delivered this weekend. 
Behind a roaring serve, Roddick defeated Jonas Bjorkman 6-2, 7-6 (3), 6-4 Sunday in a clinching vic­tory over Sweden that carried the United States into the finals. 
The U.S. will play defending champion Russia for the title Nov. 30-Dec. 3, with the Americans hosting the finals for the first time since 1992. Russia defeated Germany 3-2 in the other semifi­nal in Moscow. 
Roddick didn't drop serve in two singles matches, winning both in straight sets as the Americans ended a three-match losing streak against the Swedes dating to 1984. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 24, 2007 
MLB-NL 
Bradley hurts knee in Padres loss to Rockies 
Carn~tt Atkins' inside-the-park
Brewers fall to Braves, 
home run. Mets eke past Marlins As Bradley walked to the 
plate in the eighth inning, he 
and umpire Brian Bunge talked 
Associated Press 
for about 25 seconds. 
SAN I>IEC;o-A wild-card Bradlny singled, then said race that was already wild sonwthing to Wintnrs. Later on turrwd absolutPiy bizarre in Knvin Kouzmanoll"s at-bat, it Sunday. and Milton Bradley was escalated into an argument, right in tlw middle of it for tlw with Bradley going toward San Dit~go Padres. Wintnrs. First base coach Bobby 
Bradley was njeeted and then Meacham bt~gan to restrain hurt his right knnP when Padres Bradley and Black came run­manager Bud Black spun him to ning out. Bradley got away l'rorn the ground in an attnmpt to Meacham. but Black grabbed k(Wp him from going al'tnr an him by the jnrsey. umpire. Bradley was attempting to get 
The Padrns wen~ livid, elaim­f'nw and. after a few seconds, ing that first base umpire Mike Black spun Bradley around and Winters baited Hradley in the the player collapsed. Bradley eighth inning, leading to a (:on­immediately grabbed his right frontation that overshadowed knee and eventually had to be the surging Colorado Hockies' lwlpnd ofT the field. 7-:~ win and an impressive "I was trying to pull Milton three-ganw sweep of the wild away from the argument," card-leading Padres. Black said. 
Bradley, whose volatile tem­Bunge said that af'tnr Bradley per has overshadowed his tal­struck out looking to end the ent during his career, called it fifth. he "flipped the bat about "the most unprofessional and 5-10 feet in front of me." most ridiculous thing I've ever umpire Chris Guccione. Corky Miller gave the Braves' game, knock another day off the seen." Braves 7, Brewers 4 Yost argued that call and was 1-0 lead with an HBI single in schedule and just get back 
"It's terrible. And now. After manager Ned Yost lost tossed. lie then gestured and the second. horne," Randolph said. "We're b11cause of him. my knee's his cool. the Milwaukee appeared to vent anger at first­looking forward to it. We get a hurt," said Hradley, a second­Brewers lost more ground in base umpire .Jerry Layne, who Mets 7, Marlins 6 chance to hopefully celebrate half catalyst for the Padres who the NL Central. made the call on Teixeira's First baseman Carlos Delgado with our fans." was in his third game back Yost was ejected during infield hit. secured the final out and Delgado's three-run homer from an injury that sidelined Atlanta's four-run rally in the Yost focused his postgame pumped his fist. Players watch­highlighted a four-run eighth him for nearly two weeks. "If stwenth inning. and the Braves comments on what he said was ing on TV inside the New York that gave New York a 6-3 lead, this costs me my season sent the wobbling Brewers to poor umpiring throughout the Mets' clubhouse leaped from but Florida rallied against because of that. he needs to be their fourth loss in five games, series. their chairs, and even manager Aaron Heilman and closer Billy reprimanded. I'm taking some on Sunday. "With games of the implica­Willie Handolph couldn't help Wagner to force extra innings. action. I'm not going to stand The Brewers dropped 3.5 tion of this right here, and we but talk about celebrating soon Dan Uggla's long leadoff pat and accept this because I games behind division-leading get this kind of effort," Yost with fans at Shea Stadium. homer against Wagner in the didn't do nothing wrong." Chicago. The Cubs beat said. "It's been the whole series. "This was a big one," Moises ninth tied it at 6, the latest late­
Asked about his knee, Bradley Pittsburgh 8-0. There's been a number of calls. Alou said. season flop for New York's over­said: ''I've got to get an MHI. It's Atlanta won for the seventh Not one call has gone our way." Sure was. worked and ineffective bullpen. killing me, though." time in eight games in a late Francoeur thought that It was far from pretty, but the But the Mets regrouped. Jose 
The punchless Padres playoll' push. The Braves moved Guccione made the right call. Mets got everything they hoped Reyes drew a leadoff walk in retained their half-game lead within 3? games of San Diego in "He had a great angle," for Sunday. David Wright sin­the 11th from llarvey Garcia {0­over Philadelphia, which lost 5-the wild-card race and Francoeur said. "He was right gled home the decisive run in 1) and went to second on Luis 3 to Washington, while the remained 5? games in back of there in front. I slipped my the 11th inning to help New Castillo's single before scoring Hockies pulled within 1? games Nnw York in th e NL East. hand in there. The throw defi­York pull out a win over the on Wright's single to center. by winning their season-high The Brewers took a 4-1 lead nitely beat me. I made· a little Florida Marlins, pushing them a New York failed to tack on, eighth straight. into the seventh. Edgar juke move with my hand." giant step closer to the playoffs. though, and still needed three 
San Dingo stayed 2? games Henteria doubled and scored on Matt Diaz hit a tying single The NL East leaders moved outs from shaky relievers Aaron bnhind first-place Arizona in a two-out wild pitch by Claudio that finished Vargas, and pinch­2? games ahead of second­Sele and Scott Schoeneweis to the NL West with seven to play. Vargas (11-5). hitter Martin Prado's RBI single place Philadelphia, which lost close it out. Colorado is four back of the Mark Teixeira barely beat out on· Hay King put Atlanta ahead. 5-3 at Washington. The Mets They came through. Diamondbacks with six games an infinld hit, .Jeff' Francoeur "I wasn't trying to get a big now return horne for their last Sele got the first two outs and remaining. walked and Andruw .Jones hit. I was just trying to get a seven games of the regular sea­Schoeneweis earned his second 
An inning bnforn Bradlny was blooped an HBl single that good at-bat," Prado said. son, with a magic number of' save. Each has an EHA above hurt, tlw Padres lost eentnr rnadn it 4-3. Francoeur rounded Teixeira addnd a two-run five for clinching their second 5.00, but they needed only live fielder Mike Canwron al'tnr second base, made a headfirst double in the eighth. consncutive division title. pitches to combine for a perfect Bradlny stepped on his right dive back into the bag and was The Braves' rally ruined a "The way we've battlf~d is 11th in a game that lasted 3 hand whiiP the two pursund called safn by second base chance for Brewers starter very pleasing, to piek up a hours, 59 minutes. 


Chris Capuano to end his fran­chise-record streak of 12 straight losses. 
Capuano gave up one run in five innings while filling in for ace Ben Sheets, who is recover­ing from a hamstring injury. Capuano began the season 5-0 with a 2.20 ERA. 
"I felt good out there throwing the ball. I've been working on stuff lately. I've been having problems all year missing spots and keeping the ball up, so I've been using my time in the bullpen to try and kind of get my mechanics going good," Capuano said. "I feel like I made a little progress." 
Bookie Manny Acosta (1-1} pitched a scoreless seventh for his first win in the majors. Hafael Soriano, the sixth pitcher used by Atlanta. worked the ninth to earn his ninth save in 12 chances. 
Ryan Braun hit his 32nd horne run in the fourth. In the sixth, he chased starter .Jo-.Jo Reyes with an HBI single. 
Hoyce lUng replaced Heyes and walked Prince Fielder. Heliever Peter Moylan gave up 


I 
! 
Interested in Law? 

Attend the 2007 ND Law Fair 
September 25, 2007 McKenna Hall 11:00-3:00 

Representatives from over 70 law schools will be avail'able in an informal setting to answer questions and provide information to students about their law schools. 
Rockies catcher Yorvlt Torrealba knocks an RBI single In the Corey Hart's HBI grounder that fourth Inning of Colorado's 7-3 win Sunday at San Diego. made it 4-1. 
Monday, September 24, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
GOLDEN IS HER FAME 

DAN COOPER/The Observer From left, Irish running backs Junior Jabbie and James Aldridge and Irish offensive lineman Jeff Tisak sing the alma mater after Notre Dame's 31-14 loss Saturday to Michigan State. 

5TUDY IN 5EIJING or 5Hf\NGH/\I 
Information: 



MLB 
Washington plays final game at RFK 
Associated Press 
WASJIINGTON -It was a day for a bit of nostalgia at the ol' ballpark. Well, for some people, anyway. 
The fans sure turned out Sunday to say goodbye for the season to the Washington Nationals and goodbye forever­when it comes to baseball, at least -to RFK Stadium, with an attendance of 40,519 making it the team's largest crowd of 2007. 
And when D.C. Mayor Adrian Fenty, backed by a group of city council members, called for a pregame round of applause for the stadium, the spectators obliged, loudly. 
The players, however, did not. They're thrilled to be going from a leaking, creaking place that opened in 1961 to a new stadium slated to open in 2008. 
''I'm not going to say we're going to miss it, because we won't," third baseman Ryan Zimmerman said before Washington beat the Philadelphia Phillies 5-3 in the Nationals' last home game of the season. "But it's been a great place for baseball to come back to. They did a great job with what they had here to make it, I guess, as good as they could for three years." 
This was a day to say farewell to the park originally called D.C. Stadium, then renamed in 1969 to honor the late Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy. A multipurpose stadium, it hosted baseball's Senators until 1971 and football's Hedskins until 1996. 
And it was the first home of the Nationals. who brought baseball back to Washington in 2005, sharing the place with Major League Soccer's D.C. United, which will continue to play at HFK. 
The Nationals went 122-121 at home the past three seasons, and lirst baseman Hobert Fiek called Sunday's victory "some kind of going away gift or something that Ifans] can take with them." 
Indeed, whatever complaints players or spectators might have 
Live, learn, and work in the nation's capital 
during the fall or spring semester with the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
WASH"'IN.GT R G.RAM... .. 
< f l,/· •' ~>''~ 0 :' ' .·. n ,,:, ~· ''' .:·% ',~:,: > N < >''< • W • • l ''~ :," ,.. ·. ,,',,, j' 'l< 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Monday, September 24, 2007 231 Hayes-Healy, 4:30 p.m. 
With special guest Dan Lel)uc, l)eputy Editor of The r~~lShington Post, and Notre Da1ne \Vashington Program Faculty l\1ember 
Deadline to apply for Fall2008 or Spring 2009 is November 15, 2007. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@.nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; www.nd.edu/-wp 
about the stadium, it was a site for sore eyes when the ex-Expos moved from Montreal. Nationals rookie manager Manny Acta, who was given a model replica of RFK by one of the team's owners, won't forget the place, either. 
"It's always going to be a spe­cial place for me," Acta said, "because regardless of whatever I do or how long I'm going to stay on this earth, this was my first big league managing home." 
He and players noticed and appreciated the larger-than­usual crowd. The Nationals aver­aged 24,217 fans this year, down from 33,728 in Year 1, and 26,581 in Year 2. 
"I really, really wanted to win bad today," Acta said. 
Did he sense that a farewell victory Sunday matters to the fans? 
"It does. I could tell," he said. "Because all these people didn't show up to every game. Today was a very special day for them." 
Seven former Senators took part in pregame festivities, walk­ing out on the field alongside Nationals. The loudest ovation was for Frank Howard, the face of the Senators, who walked out to third base alongside Zimmerman, the face of the Nationals. 
Standing on the infield dirt, Howard took a mock swing, drawing even bigger cheers. He was the slugger responsible for hitting balls so far that seats were painted white in the upper deck to mark where his homers landed. Zimmerman put one up in that section, too, and the stair his shot hit was recently painted red. 
The past and present of D.C. baseball talked shop for a bit. 
"He's a big guy. You don't really realize how big he is," Zimmerman said. "Now I can kind of believe those white seats a little bit more." 
Zimmerman knows what RFK meant to loeal baseball fans, and what it meant to players who were with the Expos when they played before sparse crowds in Montreal and were forced to travel to Puerto Hico for "home" games. 
He also is well aware what Nationals Park-or whatever it will be called once naming rights are sold -will mean. · 
"Not only is it going to be bet­ter for us, but it is going to be better for the fans. That's the bottom line. It's going to take our organization to the next level," said Zimmerman, who has visit­ed the still-in-progress new place. "Everything's so much nicer. So we're going from, well, l don't know if this is the worst in the majors, but it's pretty bad, to one of the best." 
On Sept. 30, 1971, when the Senators played their last game at RFK before leaving for Texas, spectators stormed the field dur­ing the ninth inning to rip out chunks of grass or bases. The game was declared a forfeit. 
No such problems this time, although Bob Short, the owner of those Senators, was not forgotten Sunday: Someone unfurled thrf)e long banners that read, "Short Still Stinks." And there was prop­erty removed again, although this time it was supposed to go: Acta helped Nationals owner Ted Lerner dig out home plate, which will be moved to the new ball­park. 




page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 24, 2007 
MLB-AL EAST 

Joba saves Yankees win, New York 1.5 games back 
Wakefield struggles in loss to Tampa Bay 
Associated l'ress 
NEW YOHK -Joba Hules 
were made to be broken. 
Toronto was threatening in the 
eighth inning, pulling within two 
runs and putting two men on. 
Even though Yankees manager 
Jon Torre had said Joba 
Chamberlain was unavailable, 
the sellout crowd of 54,983 
started chanting "We Want 
.loba!" ' 
Chamberlain jogged in from 
the bullpen on his 22nd birth­
day, threw five nasty sliders to 
strike out Adam Lind, then fol­
lowed with a perfeet ninth 
inning. With his first major 
league save, the rookie sensa­
tion preserved New York's 7-5 
victory over the Blue Jays and 
Mike Mussina's 250th big league 
win. 
llarlan Chamberlain, the relieVf1r's polio-stricken father, watched from his motorized scooter and remembored back to his newborn son's bassinet at Saint Elizabeth Hegional Medical Center in Lincoln. Neb. 
"Twenty-two years ago today, I put a glow1 with a Velero ball in the palm of the glove," he said. "If that glove could have spelled out the futun1 and said 22 years from today, you'll be in Yankee Stadium, I would have thought that was the furthHst thing that could ever happen," he said. 

New York, close to clinching its 13th consecutive playoff appearance, pulled within 1.5 games of AL East-leading Boston with a week remaining in the regular season. The Yankees overcame a 3-0 deficit and reached 90 wins for the seventh straight year, the third-longest streak in major league history behind thf1 194 7-58 Yankees and 1904-12 Chicago Cubs, accord­ing to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
Mussina (11-10) won his thi'rd straight start since rejoining the rotation; backup catcher Jose Molina had three hits, three HBis, a key tag play and a big pickoff; and Melky Cabrera thww out a runner at the plate for the second straight day, rais­ing his assists total for the sea­son to 16 -including a major league-leading 14 as a center fielder. 
But the electricity was provid­ed by Chamberlain, who has allowed one earned run in 16 appearances since coming up from the minors in early August. 
With a 100 mph fastball and a 92 mph slider that drops at the plate like an Olympic diver, he's been unhittable most days. The Yankees have babied him -the Joba Hules stated he could only enter at tho start of innings, he could warm up only once and that he would get at least one day ol'f for every inning he threw. It was as if New York had an nlixir it didn't want to dis­pensn too frequently. 
lie had gone two innings and 30 pitches Friday night. But before Sunday's game, Torre spoke with general manager Brian Cashman and pitching instructor Nardi Contreras to clarify the amendments they all discussed during a conference call Friday. 
Devil Rays 5, Red Sox 4 

Tim Wakefield is still strug­gling, and the AL East race is up for grabs with a week remaining in the regular season. 
Wakefield gave up a two-run homer to Delmon Young and Boston lost to the Tampa Bay Devil Hays on Sunday, cutting its division lead to 1.5 games over the New York Yankees. 
"It couldn't have come at a worse time," Wakefield said about his first defeat at Tropicana Field. "We're in the postseason, but our main goal is try to win the division." 
The Bed Sox clinched at least the wild-card spot Saturday, but they're having a hard time hold­ing oil' New York despite build­ing a 14?-game cushion early in the season. The Yankees beat Toronto 7-5 on Sunday. 
Boston is off Monday before playing its final six games of the season at home, two against Oakland and four against Minnesota. 
New York hosts the Blue Jays again Monday before finishing up with six road games, three at Tampa Bay and three against Baltimore. 
The Yankees, who trail Boston by one in the loss column, are close to clinching at least the wild card as well. If the teams finish with the same record and both qualify for the playoffs, New York will win the division because it won the season series 10-8. 
The Hed Sox are looking for their first AL East title since 1995. The Yankees have won nine consecutive division crowns, beginning in 1998. 
Wakelield (16-12) entered 9-0 at Tropicana Field and 19-2 overall against the Devil Rays, but the knuc~leballer gave up four runs and seven hits in five innings. 
"I felt fine today," Wakefield said. "llad good movement on my pitches. l just made one mis­take to Delman Young. Other than that, they did a good job of scraping some hits together in the holes." 
In his past four starts, the right-hander has allowed 21 runs over 17 2-3 innings. The four outings have come after he missed a start with a sore back. 
"I thought his ball was bounc­ing, moving," Hed Sox manager Terry Francona said. "I thought he limited damage. A lot of pitches for live innings, but he pitched pretty good." 
Wakefield threw 95 pitches. 

Young put the Devil Hays up 2­0 with his horner in the second. The rookin right fielder, who had been 1-for-14 against Wakefield, has 13 homers and 93 HBis this season. 
No ordinary salon, No ordinary color 
Atria Salon 2 
Specializing in color 

574.271.8804  
-Highlights, Cut & Style:  $79.00 reg. $125.+  
-Haircut, conditioner treatment & Style  $29.00 reg. $68.  
-Lowlight your Blonde & Haircut & Style  $69.00 reg. $125.+  
-Color, few Foils & Haircut & Style  $79.00 reg. $112.+  

EXPIRES October 1st, 2007 Must present ad to receptionist before services are performed. 
2039 south bend ave south bend in 46637 t.271.8804 
'*Certain restrictions apply. www.AtriaSalonl.com 
Cairo Information Session 
• 
Study Arabic, Middle East Politics, Egyptology, Business, Engineering, Science, etc. in the heart of the Arabic world 

• 
Academic year and semester options 

• 
Study at the American University in Cairo · Make contacts in the modern capital of the Middle East · Experience modern life in the desert 




Tuesday, Sept. 25 
Walk, talk, and 5:30PM live like an Egyptian
120 DeBartolo Hall 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2007 
-----~----~­
Monday, September 24, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
A bit of Ireland in your own backyard. 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lbts ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nighto.; a week, too. 
(Waterfurd f..states Lod,3e has hotel rooms atreasonable rates fur upc--oming NDfuotball weekends.) 
Recycle The Ollserver. 
WoMEN's WoRLD CuP 
Brazil, United States square off in sentifinals 

Associated Press 
TIANJIN, China-U.S. coach Greg Ryan is bracing for Brazil. He knows the semifinal will be rough, smoothed a bit by the artistry of Marta, the game's best female player. 
Brazil won its quarterfinal Sunday at the Women's World Cup, defeating Australia 3-2 on Cristiane's goal in the 75th minute, a rising drive from 20 yards off rapid-fire passes from Marta and Daniela. 
The Americans have ambi­tions for a third World Cup title, following ones in 1991 and '99. Brazil is in the semifi­nals for the second time, matching its run in 1999. 
"I believe finally we will add one more star on our jersey," Daniela said, a reference to the men's team, which has won a record five World Cups. "We will finally get the World Cup." 
The Americans. top-ranked and undefeated in 51 games, advanced Saturday by beating England 3-0 on goals by Abby Wambach, Shannon Boxx and captain Kristine Lilly. 
Germany defeated North Korea 3-0 that day, putting the defending champions into a Wednesday semifinal with Norway in Beijing's neighbor­ing city of Tianjin. Three for­mer champions will be playing in the final four. 
Norway defeated host China 1-0 on Sunday in Wuhan before a crowd of 52,000 that stayed until the end, waving flags and lighting flares as the Chinese made a last offensive push. 
Brazil figures to be quick and tricky Thursday when it meets the Americans in Hangzhou, the last step to the final Sunday in Shanghai. 
The U.S. defeated Brazil 2-0 three months ago in New York, a physical game played with­out Marta. The Americans also defeated Brazil in the 2004 Olympic final -2-1 in extra time -and 2-0 in a group game in the Olympics. 
"Brazil's primary tactic was fouling us to break our rhythm." Ryan said, referring to the game three months ago. "We had more of the ball, and their response to that was just to foul. Brazil has tried to break our rhythm by chopping our players down." 
"The last time we played Brazil, they didn't even try to play football -they just kicked us from behind," Ryan added. 
Still, Ryan is fully aware that Brazil can play. The women, in some respects, mirror the style of the famed men's teams led over the years by Rivaldo, Ronaldo and Ronaldinho. They also go by a single name, fash­ioning goals by duping defend­ers with backheel passes and start-and-stop fakes while hov­ering over the ball. 
'Tm going to do whatever I can to request that we get a referee who understands the difference between a reckless foul and a hard challenge," Ryan said, a former defender himself in the now-defunct NASL. 
Marta is the 2006 women's world player of the year, and the rest of the lineup isn't far behind with striker Cristiane and other up-front players like Daniela, Formiga and Maycon. 
"They are all very creative," said U.S. defender Stephanie Lopez, who played against Brazil in New York. "Sometimes it's not very tradi­tional, but it's very effective. Their offense is very special." 
The Americans' best result of the tournament came against an England team that might have been weaker than any of the other squads in the U.S. group -North Korea, Sweden and Nigeria. The game turned on three goals in 12 minutes early in the second half. 
"I think we've got another gear," Ryan said. "The concern isn't peaking; the concern is winning the next game. I think they can play even better but whether we see it or not just depends on the game, our opponent." 
The United States is unde­feated in 51 games, winning mostly in this tournament with defense, set plays and four goals from striker Abby Wambach. 
"Every game we've been ris­ing and rising," Boxx said. "We've defended so well in this tournament and now the pos­session part is coming." 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 24, 2007 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 

Hanks 
continued from page 24 
Cinatli's m;sist leaves her one shy of' bemming the 12th Irish player with 30 goals and 30 assist'>. 
Penn State junior forward A'>hley Myers tied the game in the 55th minute with a curving left­footed shot that slipped past KanL<t' hands. 
The Irish kept the ball in their ol'l'ensive third l'or the final 20 minutes of the game and put pres­sure on the Nittany Lions, but wnm not abh~ to scorn with their linal 17 shot'i. Tlwir best opportu­nity came on a llanks corner kick WlL'i rndin~etPd in l'ront of the goal and had all but found the upper right corner of the goal before Nanhnr made a diving save to knep the Irish from tying the game. Cina.lli put two quick shot<; wide or the net. llanks headed junior defender Elise Weber's aoss high over the net. 
The game became more physi­cal ncar the end. Hanks, visibly frustrated, put her mark to the ground twice wlwn chasing down deep pa<;ses. Dew recnived a yel­low card lilr hitting Naeher as she played a shot. In the final minute, !tanks and Naehnr collided while chasing a cross, and both fnll to the ground after appearing to bump heads. 
Waldrum said llanks wa<t shak­en up but should be OK. 
"They're very athletic as a team," Waldrum said of Penn State. "But they're a good team, and they're the kind of team that c<~n puni~h you when you make mistakes. 
Despite the loss, Notre Dame played up to the level of its oppo­nents. Most of its passes were crisp and on-target, and the Irish had mom pati1mee when creating ollfmsive possessions. Waldrum saw improvement but was still unhappy with their perlorm<mce. 
"I thought today we had periods of being good, but it's the same things that caught up to us in the second half," he said. "It's the same mistakes that we've been making." 
Notre Dame 4, DePaul 0 
The Irish extended their unbeat­en streak at home against Big Ea<tt opponent<; to 73 games with their win over the Blue Demons 
Jainboree 
continued from page 24 
small groups, which I feel did help them mentally," Bauters said. "Almost evf1ryone dropped a minute off their times from the beginning of' Septnmbnr when we raced thorn-<moth11r great sign." 
Thn MIAA season concludes Friday. I tanks operwd the scoring in the eighth minutn when Cinalli played a cross from the right cor­ner into the middle of the box. llanks headed the ball ofT the crossbar and into the center of the net. 

"She's been fantastic," Waldrum said. "If we had all the other older players on the team living up to that standard, we'd be linn." 
Jlanks scored her seeond goal on a penalty kick in the 62nd minute after DnPaul senior mid­liPlder Jennifer Dyer lilUlnd senior forward Susan Pinnick in the penalty box. Hanks took the kick and put the ball past Kelsey lloinkns, DePaul's freshman goal­knnpn~. in the upper right-hand corner of the goal. 
Five minutes later, DePaul freshman defender Janina Loea<;do committed an intentional handball in the penalty box. By rule, she received an automatic red card and the Irish got another pnnalty kick. Hanks put the ball in the same place she had earlier, and as before, Hoinkes had no idea where the ball wa<t going. 
Senior defender Ashley Jones seored Notre Dame's final goal in the 70th minute. Jones and fresh­man forward Erica lantorno broke through the defense and created a two-on-one situation against Hoinkes. When Hoinkes committed to lantorno, lantorno sent the ball to~Jones, who tapped it for the goal. 
Waldrum was pleased with his team's play against DePaul. 
"We were better overall defen­sively," Waldrum said. "I thought we were good all of Friday." 
Waldrum said freshman Lauren Fowlkes, who usually plays mid­field but played center back this weekend, helped strengthen the unit. 
"I think we were a little more stable over the weekend with that lineup," Waldrum said. "It's prob­ably the best we've been defen­sively since early in the season. It's one of those things that we've got to keep working with it now, because she's new back there." 
Cinalli was pleased with the team's play at the beginning of its eonference schedule. 
"That was a great way to start offour conference play," she said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
with the championship meet on Oct. 27. 
"I really believe we can come within striking distance in October," Bauters said. "We still have a long way to go before then, and the girls are not nearly peaking yet -so we have a lot to look forward to." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles rally to beat K'zoo 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Writer 

Facing a 2-1 deficit against Kalamazoo Friday, Saint Mary's battled back with a hard-fought fourth game win featuring three ties and lead changes. 
Saint Mary's took the fifth game easily to defeat the Hornets 3-2. 
The Belles split the first two games of the match 28­30 and 30-22. In game three, the Hornets were in control of the match, stinging the Belles with a 20-30 win. 
The Belles (6-7, 3-3 MIAA) would not give up in the fourth game, whieh they won, 30-26. 
A kill by freshman outside hitter Jacee Watson gave the Belles their first lead in the fifth game at 3-2, and they didn't trail the rest of the way as they knocked off ferent players post a double­second game in a row that Kalamazoo. double in the win over the the Belles had four players 
The win is Hornets. with double-doubles. the Belles' Sophomore out­"It is so nice to have such
"Our experience at
fifth consec­side hitter Lorna balanee in my starters," utive victory Albion was very fresh Slupczynski had Schroeder-Biek said. over the a match-high 22 "Everyone of my front line
in our minds, and we 
Hornets. kills and 11 digs. attackers was in double dig­
did not want a repeat
The Belles Junior middle its in kills and all of the were deter­ofthat night. " blocker Kaela attackers that play all the mined to Hellman posted way around Lorna win, coming a team-best 25 [Slupczynski[, Kaela
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
off a painful digs in addition [Hellman[ and Andrea
Belles coach 
I o s s to her 11 kills. [Sasgenl were also double­Wednesday Freshman mid­doubles in kills and digs ­to last-place Albion. dle blocker Andrea Sasgen that shows you how well 
"Our experience at Albion posted 12 kills and 15 digs to Amanda David balances our was very fresh in our minds, follow in the effort. attack and how effective all and we did not want a repeat Senior setter Amanda of our attackers are." of that night," Belles coach David was the leader of the Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "A offense with 64 assists and win is worth the fight." contributed to the defense Contact Samantha Leonard at 
Saint Mary's had four dif-with 12 digs. This was the sleonal@saintmarys.edu 


University of Notre Dame's Study Abroad Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 

With Angers' Program Coordinator and returnees of the program 
Tuesday, September 25, 2007 5:30PM 125 DeBartolo Classroom Building 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2007 Academic Year 2008-2009 Fall 2008 Spring 2009 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~ois/ 
Monday, September 24, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Stasiuk helps lead Irish to weekend series split 

Senior libero now fifth place in career digs in Notre Dame's history 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame lost its Big East opener Saturday against Pittsburgh in four tough games but rebounded to beat West Virginia the next day in Morgantown. 
The Irish forced every losing game against the Panthers into extra points in the 3-1 (33-31, 32-30, 23-30, 42-40) loss. 
The fourth game included 27 
ties and 15 lead changes ­ and  
82  points between the  two  
teams.  

Irish senior Adrianna Stasiuk, starting the game at the libero position, tied her season best with 21 digs to go along with 14 kills. Freshman middle blocker Kellie Sciacca and sophomore outside hitter Serinity Phillips also added 14 kills each. Senior setter Ashley Tarutis paced the Irish with 45 assists and sopho­more setter Jamel Nicholas added 21 helpers of her own. 
Junior outside hitter Kelly Campbell's 30 kills led the Panthers offense. Senior outside hitter Diana Andreyko also played a major role in Pittsburgh's win, with 21 kills and 19 digs. Junior setter Nicole Taurence paced the Panthers with 4 7 assists; she also added nine digs. 
The Irish (5-7, 1-1) beat West Virginia 3-1 (30-19, 23-30, 30­27, 30-27) Sunday. 
The game against the Mountaineers saw Stasiuk climb to fifth in career digs in Notre Dame history. She recorded 17 in another start at libero to put her total at 1 ,268. 
But Phillips and Tarutis were the stars in the match. Phillips recorded a career-high and 23 kills and 11 digs, while Tarutis aided the effort with 44 assists, 13 digs and six kills. Sophomore outside hitter Megan Fesl added seven kills and nine digs of her own. Junior middle blocker Justine Stremick and Sciacca notched 8 kills each while Stasiuk also had nine. 
West Virginia (9-4, 1-1) was led by the stellar play of senior outside hitter Abby Tevis who recorded 18 kills and 21 digs. Senior setter Kailee Goold also played well with 43 assists, 16 digs and 6 kills while freshman libero Bonnie West added 16 digs. 
Notre Dame continues its Big East schedule at home Sept. 29 versus Seton Hall and Sept. 30 against Villanova. 
Contact Pat O'brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 

Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information Meeting with program returnees to hear about. .. 

Brazil 

Mexico Chile Spain 


Tuesday,Sept.25,2007 s:oo pm 102 DeBartolo Hall 

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2007 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 24, 2007 

Shutouts 
continued from page 27 
Matt VanOekel to put the Irish on the scoreboard. 
MilicH added a goal of his own 30 minutes later. lie rnceived a pass from senior forward Joseph Lapira on the right side, beat one of' the Scarlet Knight dei'Pnders, and then snuck a low shot into the far corner for his first strike of the season. 
"I le is one of' the best players in the country," Clark said. "lie has pace, he has ability, and he is dangerous." 
The entire Irish offense looked dangerous Friday night in Piscataway, N.J. Notre Dame outshot the Scarlet Knights 22­1 0 in the game and 12-1 in the first hall'. The tnam was able to keep constant pressure on Hutgers that led to a relatively easy night in net for Cahill. The senior had four saves in the game, whieh was shown on Fox Soccnr Channel. 
"I think we've built up a great reputation of being a very good team and everywhere we go we will play in front of a full house," Clark said. 
Notre Dame 1, VIllanova 0 
The Irish ended the Wildcats' six-game winning streak Sunday in Philadelphia. 
Notre Dame once again domi­nated the opening 45 minutes, holding a 14-3 advantage in shots on goal, but failed to score. 
"We totally dominated both teams in the first hall'," Clark said. "We didn't do quite as well in the second half. We have to sit down with the video and come up with some answers for that." 
The Irish scored their lone goal in the 51st minute when sophomore Jeb Brovsky took advantage of a chanee sparked by Lapira. 
Lapira pushed the ball for­ward to Donohue on the left side. Donohue passc~d up a shot of' his own and fed the open Brovsky on tho far side. The sophomore took his time then drilled a low shot past Wildcat keeper Jason Friel. 
Brovsky saw a lot of aetion in thc1 second half because senior forward Kurt Martin was nurs­ing an injury from the Hutgers game. The team's depth has becm clutch on many occasions so far this season. 
"Key guys are out but the great part is that the younger guys have all been prepared to step up," Clark said. 
Martin is expeeted to return to action next weekend when Notre Dame comes home to l'aee Cincinnati at Alumni Field Friday night. The Irish will also play Sunday against another Big East opponent, Louisville. 
T lw only two games Notre Dame has not won this snason have eome on Sundays after playing earlier in the weekend. Clark hopes that the Irish put an end to that eurse after Sunday's win over Villanova. 


"I think it might be psycho­logieal more than anything nlse," he said. "Now we have broken that barrier and hope­fully we should be fine from hnre on out." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 24 

on goal, and the Hornets with seven. 
"It was a bettor seeond half with some positive adjustments that holped get goaL.,," MacKenzie said. "There was some miscommunica­tion on the defbnse in the first hall', but Amy responded well, with huge, timely saves." 
Kalamazoo was physical and did their best to tire the Belles out in the seeond half, but they weren't able to get the ball pa.'it the Saint Mary's defense. 
"We had a solid defense," MacKenzie said. "It was a huge game. [Sophomore defensemanl Katy Durkin had a great second half." 
MaeKenize said Higgins, a def(mseman, played strong on both sides of the ball. 
"Justine plays defense for us, but she created all kinds of havoc for them, and they had no response for her," she said. "I am so proud that she had the game-winning goal." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Information Meeting 
Perth, Australia 

Monday_, Sel!tember 24, 2007 Room 126 DeBartolo Hall 5:30PM 
For ALPP College of Science & College of Engineering Students 
Application Deadline is November 15, 2007 Apply online: www.nd.edu/-·ois 
Monday, September 24, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

DEUCES MANOR 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
. -\II good songs stmt with a few good 'Uh huh, Uh huh's or 'Yealilihh uh huh's. ,-\!so, be sure to include child frienclly IFics that are masked by a "Bad Before anyone c:m realize that you've ripped off countless other songs and how bad yom musi.-actually is, I recconnnend retiring to a life of a.-ting as e\'e!yone's favorite black man. 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Missions, for "Woe is me!" short 5 With 72-Across, 37 Venus the end of 20-, 40 Puppyish 37-, 44-or 59­
42 Gullible Across 
43 Suffix with cigar

1 0 Scribbles 
44 Place to do 

14 Hiker's snack 
business in the 15 Els of the links Old West 
16 Stuntmaster 47 Use a SingerKnievel 
48 Take _ at (try)17Et_(and 
49 Mile., in Madrid

others) 
50 Luau souvenir

18 Prices 
51 Goddess of the

19 Like a Playmate 
dawn

of the Month 
54 Lick of fire

20 1951 
59 1987 Prince

Montgomery 
song and album

Clift/Eiizabeth Taylorfilm, with 64 Milliners' output "A" 66 Scott who wrote 23 English county "Presumed on the North Innocent" Sea 67 Dog that's a little 24 Buckeyes' sch. of this, a little of that
25 Place to wrestle 28 Kindergarten 
68 Cotton swab learning 691n unison 32Whinny 70 ''That's clear" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

71 Anatomical pouches 72 See 5-Across 73" of the D'Urbervilles" 
Down Wide open, as 
the mouth 2 Lazes 3 Operatic solos 4 Cinnamon or 
cloves 5 Tenth: Prefix 6 Elvis's middle 
name 7 Part of M.I.T.: Abbr. 8 Many an art print, for short 9 Affirmatives 10 Bach's "_,Joy of Man's Desiring" 11 Hand protectors for bakers 12 It's between La. 
and N.M. 13 Using trickery 21 What a student 
crams for 22 Like lyrics 26 Playing marble 27 Passed 29 East Berlin's 
counterpart during the cold war 
30 Rugged rock formation 31 Sounds in a barbershop 33 Opposite of WNW 34 In base eight 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Andrew Ales 
35 Total prize 46 President before 58_ Park, Colo. money Wilson 
60 AOL and Road 36 Earned run 52 Not in bottles, as Runner: Abbr. average, e.g. beer 
61 Too much: Fr. 53 Man of many

38 Actor/composer 62 Fine-tune
marches

Novello 63 Still-life object 
55 Maximum or

39 Hatchling's site 
minimum 

64 Mil. command 41 Author LeShan 56 Make laugh bases 
45"_ to differ'' 57 Doles (out) 650ne time 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J [] t] 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: 
"l I I I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Jumbles: CARGO YACHT LAWFUL DEBTORSaturday's Answer: 

What the couple learned when they took singing lessons-HOW TO "DUET' 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Juan Pablo Montoya, 32; Gary Cole, 51; Sophia Loren. 73: Anne Meara. 78 
Happy Birthday: You'll get a better handle on what needs to be done this year. Put 
your emotions aside and don't look hack. It's a new phase in your life. so get on with 
it. Your numhe" are 6. 19. 25. 27. 42. 4(, 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Don't let your emotional ups and downs block you 
from doing what needs to be done. A shol1trip will prove beneficial. Someone you 
thought you might be able to work with will prohahly not he a good fit. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You have everything to gain and nothing to lose if 
you arc ready and willing to make a move. Don't let emotions or a love interest stop 
you from doing what's best for you. Tmsl in your own judgment. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A little time and effort put into your surroundings or your own personal appearance will pay tlff. Love is in the picture: If you are singk. get out and meet people and. if you aren't, plan something romantic. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll be emotionally caught up in the moment. It will take courage to make your point but. when you do. you will get results. A change at home or to the way you live will help you see things differently. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A change to your cunent position will bring greater ben­efits in the end. Oon't be taken in by someone's bold talk. Read between the lines and recognize your talents. Your Leo charm will help you win any challenge. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Look past others' faults and you will be able to deal with whoever gets in your way. Make positive changes in your personal life so you can get back to business and making money. 5 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It's your home environment that must be avoided today. Travel, shopping and educational pursuits are all in a high cycle, along with creative dreams and expressing your ideas. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A change in plans will put you in a much better posi­tion and enable you to make some important alterations of your own. A lover or family member is likely to cause you some trouble because he or she is not honest. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may have to venture away from your 
usual playground to get things done. A lesson will enable you to move forward once 
again if you are willing to admit you may have been wrong on some counts. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your time into important documentation. 
making money and settling differences. You have to put the past behind you. It may 
be emotional but now is a great time to do it. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do something good for someone else and you will 
feel good. Be honest about the way you feel. Don't make unrealistic promises. Plan 
your actions and execute them with precision. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Go the distance, meet otlters halfway or push yourself to the limit in order to achieve your goals. This is a good day to turn things around and to forgive and forget. It's time to make amends. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a dreamer who can 111m your dreants into a reality. You will work hard and push for what you want. Success is your goal and relentless courage your engine. 
Eugenia's Web sires: asrroad~·ice.comfor fun. eugenialast.comfor confidential con:mltalions 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
OYLED 
I I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AU Rights Reserved. 
FLYIM 
I [ J 
STYJUL 
I [ J b
www.jumb1e.com
tSPYNAP I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
HOW THE: HUNT!:R STAL-Ki:D HIS PRE:Y WH!:N Hi: L-OST HIS RIFL-1: SC.OP!:. 


P-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~--­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, September 24, 2007 
page 24 
NO WoMEN's SoccER 

The Lions' roar 

By BILL BRINK Sports Wrirt·r 

Aftnr winning a conference match Friday with l>nPaul. NotrP l>anw lost il'i limrth ganw of the sea~ son Sunday to PPnn Stato at Alumni Field. 
The Irish hung tough wit-h the Nittany Lions li1r most of tlw rnall'h, but mental mistakes cost them the match in a 2-1 loss. 
Sophomorn forward MichP.ln Wnissenhoi"P.r and sophomorn dnli~nder llaley Ford missed both games hneause of injuri!~s. 
Penn State 2, Notre Dame 1 

The Nittany Lions avengml last season's loss to Nolrn I>anw in tlw NCAA Tournanwnt quarterfinals thanks to sophomore midfieldPr Mnlissa llayes' penalty kick to t.lw right of Irish senior goalke11per l.aunm Karas in tlw !iHlh minute . 
.Junior dPiimdPr Carrie l>nw attmnptml to pass the ball back to Karas but struck it wnakly. Karas came out of tlw box to play the ball and upnndnd sopho­rnorn lin-ward Katie Schoopli~r. l1\ading to tho pnnal­ty. 
"I think the p<L'>S back should have bnnn harder," Irish !wad mach Handy Waldrum said. "IDt~w isl as mueh at fault a<> KanL<>." 
Notrn Damn seornd first in the 21st minute when s11nior forward Amanda Cinalli li)d a t:ross !rom the Inl'l corner to junior forward Kerri llanks in the box. Hanks controlled the ball, turned right, dribbled around her defender and put a shot on tho ground past Pmm Slate sophomore keepnr Alyssa Naeher into the right side of the net. 
"I just got a ball in and played it one-touch to Kerri and she made a beautiful touch in the box behind the dnlimder and slotted it plL'it the keeper," Cinalli said. 
The goal was llanks' sixth of the season, and 
see HANKS/page 20 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sporrs Writer 
Saint Mary's frnshman mid!inldnr Julia (;ragtmans nnlnn~d the game in the seventh minutn to !ill in lhr the Bolles' injurnd loading seornr mul 70 minutns Ialor a.rend the cor­ner kick that allowed the BPlles to tit~ and evnntually beat Kalamazoo 2-1 on Saturday. 
{;ragtrnans placed tho ball in front of' the nnt for sophomore Bridget Hormyrw to put in f()r Uw I­I tin, aflt~r Uw frnshrmm spelled lop scon~r l.aun·n I linton, who ldl thn garnn wiU1 an ankll• iqjury tlmt had sidnlirwd lwr li1r the prnvious throe gmnns. 

A minutn later, senior .lustinn !Iiggins raced the ball down the right sidn of the liPid and smmd the Belles sncond, and winning, goal. The llorrwls tried. but couldn't mnm bac.k to hl~at out Saint Mary's in Um rmnaining 10 minutes. 
".Julia had a h'l'nat gamn in tenns of' energy," Saint Mary's coach Caryn MaeKnn:tin said. 

The Bnllns had a tough first half moving the ball f(,rward, m1d lailnd to finish whnn they moved it up. Kalamazoo had only thrm~ shots on goal U11~ first half, but managed to get one past senior goalie Amy Mahom~y al27:55. 
Thn sncond half showed a dillhr­ent story for both teams. Saint Mary's t:<mw back wiU1 eight shots 
see BELLES/page 21 

WU VUE/The Observer Irish forward Kerr! Hanks dribbles past a DePaul defender in a 4-0 win over the Blue Demons at Alumni Field Friday. 

By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's entered Saturday's MIAA Jamboree with dreams of making this season the best in school histo­ry. It left with its goal one­third accomplished. 
The fourth-place finish was the Belles' best in their nine years in the MIAA, and because the Jamboree deter­mines a third of the conference championship standings, the Belles are on the fast track to beating the program's best­ever fifth-plaee finish from a season ago. 
"[Saturday] was amazing," third-year coach Jackie Bauters said. "I think it was especially rewarding for our returners who understand how huge it was to see that jump in the rankings." 
Senior Megan Gray, an all­conference runner, paced the Belles and finished sixth over­all with a 20:00 time for the 5K course. She was the first runner not from Calvin -who swept the meet with the race's 
KATE FENLONFrhe Observer five fastest times -to cross 
Belles defender Justine Higgins controls the ball against the finish line. 
Calvin In a scoreless draw Sept. 12. The Belles had two other 
MEN's SoccER 

Irish clai111 pair of road shutouts 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Ediror 

No. 3 Notre Dame improved to 3-0 in the Big East with a pair of' shutouts over Hutgers and Villanova on the road this weekend. 
Irish goalkeepers Chris Cahill and Andrew <2uinn have allowed only onn goal since a 3-0 loss to Maryland at tlw adi­das!IU Credit Union Classic on Sept. 2. Notre Dame (!i-1-1) has yet to give up a goal in conl'ernnce play. 
"You ean't really ask l'or a lot more than that," Irish eoaeh Bobby Clark said. "That is a perfect way to start." 
Notre Dame 2, Rutgers 0 

Fif'th-year senior Hyan Miller picked up a career-high three points to lead Notre Dame past Hutgers Friday night in front of 6,309 fans. 
Miller got things started 35 minutes in to the game when he crossed the ball to sopho­more midfielder Dave Donohue. Donohue dove through the air and headed the ball past Hutgers goalkeeper 
see SHUTOUTS/page 22 
SMC SoccER 

SMC CRoss CouNTRY 
Pair of late goals beats Kala111azoo 
Belles place fourth 
at MIAA Jamboree 
runners finish in the lop 20 ­sophomore Megan MeClowry (17th place, 21:10) and fresh­man Sam Wieczorek (20th, 21 :23). Freshman Catie Salyer (25th, 21:55) and senior Olenka Bilyk (29th, 22:13) rounded out the seoring. 
After Calvin's 15 points, llope (70) took second and Albion (71) captured third. Saint Mary's 97 points were far dear of fifth-place Kalamazoo, whieh finished with 168 points. 
"I'm thrilled that we were able to run as well as we did and accomplish our goal of fin­ishing fourth," Bautnrs said. "After the meet, we did talk about how we ean try to dose the gap at our next conference meet." 
After opening its season on the same course -in Angola, Mich., at Tri-State UnivPrsity -on Sept. 1 by winning the Tri-State Invitational, Bauters was confident her tnam's familiarity with the lraek would be an advantage. The Belles hoped to use a team strategy of packing together to overtake its competitors. 
"Many of the girls ran in 
see JAMBOREE/page 21 


