-~--------------------------------------------------..., 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 53 MONDAY. NOVEMBER 19.2007 
Kramer hires off-campus security 
South Bend landlord takes measures in hopes to curb theft, break-ins over holidays 
ByJENNMETZ Assistant News Editor 
South Bend landlord Mark Kramer hired a private security company Friday to patrol his more than 150 properties after recent car break-ins. 
"We've had some car break­ins and one is too many as far as I'm concerned," he said. "I just haven't had much cooperation with the police department when we've had problems.... Safety is very important, so I made the decision to hire a pri­vate company." 
Kramer said the recent break­ins that prompted him to hire the company took place at his properties on Corby Street and on North St. Peter's Street, near Washington Street. He said he could not give a number of break-ins. 
"I don't know exactly how many there have been," he said. "I don't necessarily hear of them right away." 
The security company, Majestic Security, Inc., is based in South Bend. Security detail will patrol Kramer properties between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. every day -"peak crime hours," Kramer said. 
"With breaks coming up and the students being gone, we're concerned about safety," he said. "We try to patrol [the properties] ourselves, but it's not easy for 
see KRAMER/ page 6 


Seniors celebrate last home victory 
Marshmallow tradition continues as students remember the highs and lows offour seasons 
overall in the BCS last year,By JOSEPH McMAHON 
many seniors were disappointed
News Writer 

\\<ith the team's current record. "We had two really good 
Saturday's game against Duke years our sophomore and junior was the last time the Class of years and then had a very 2008 would crowd into Notre rough rebuilding year. I was Dame Stadium as students and hoping for at least four victo­cheer on the football team. ries," Bak said. 
"It was good to see a victory, Senior Nick Ransom echoed but it was rough that it took Bak's sentiments. "It was very until Duke to see it," senior disappointing considering our Brian Bak said. freshman year, where in our 
Buoyed by the successes of first home game ever we years past, including upsetting stormed the field because we Michigan freshman year, com­upset third-ranked Michigan, ing within seconds of beating and our sophomore and junior USC sophomore year and start­ing the season ranked second see VICTORY/page 4 

Community protests Iraq conflict 
Sophomores' ad 
Over 40 students, residents gather in an,ti-violence demonstration 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Professors address poverty 
SMC faculty panel discusses globalization 
By KATLYN SMITH News Writer 
Saint Mary's professors examined the impact of globalization on poverty through four angles Friday at the College. 
Mathematics professor Fozia Qazi moderated the panel, titled "Overcoming global poverty: Is globalization the problem or the solution?" The discussion ended International Week at the College. 
Jerry McElroy, professor of busi­ness administration and economies, focused on trade and migration. 
McElroy said the speed of the Internet and the cross-border movement of goods and capital have contributed to globalization, although the World Bank has not researched a clear convergence. 
Globalization, he said, means workers increasingly emigrate from rural regions. 
"As a result of these labor move­ments, the overall productivity diminishes in underdeveloped countries, especially Latin America," McElroy said. 
The influx of Mexican laborers to the U.S. tran..c;lates into low Mexican wages, McElroy said. In the U.S., however, the increasing supply of laborers, productivity and demand preserve high wages. 
"We are seeing this persistent wage inequality on a global scale," Mcf<Jroy said. 
Political science department chair Marc Belanger said he recently wit-
see PANEL/page 4 

By A. MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
A group of about 40 students and South Bend residents gath­nred Friday at the University main gate on Notre Dame Avenue to protest the continued war in Iraq, as wnll as any form of armed conf1ict around the globe. 
Sophomore Beck Hoan said he organized the demonstration during the last football week­end of the season to take advantage of the increased alumni presence on campus and "spread the message to as many people as possible." 
"There are so many of us here at Notre Dame that are anti-war." Hoan said. "There is dearly a focus on the war in Iraq, but really, we are opposed 
see PROTEST/page 4 


appears on NBC 

By AMBER TRAVIS 
News Writer 

Notre Dame sophomores Cristina Bufalino, Maria Bufalino and Mandy Miller won an NBC-sponsored cam­pus-wide commercial contest Friday. 
The commercial "But on Saturday ... " debuted Saturday afternoon during halftime of the football game against Duke. 
"I was really proud of our commercial being on televi­sion. That was the coolest part of it all," Maria Bufalino said. 
The commercial focused on game-day traditions, Bufalino said -"tailgating, 
Students and South Bend residents display signs at the anti-violence 
the band and the student 
protest Friday along the Notre Dame Avenue entrance to campus. section." 
The sound of a snare drum and cymbals played through­out the commercial, which was produced and directed 
by  sophomores  Brandon  
Drenon  and  Danielle  
Sclafani.  

"It was uniquely created and really made the viewer feel as if you were a part of the Notre Dame game day experience," said Lindsay Fitz, project manager of communications and mar­keting for NBC Sports. "It really gets the viewers involved." 
The "Notre Dame Student Promotional Challenge" was the first contest of its kind for NBC. Fitz said the net­work wanted to work with 
see CONTEST/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, November 19, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Sunday night 
Sunday is a day of' many inter­ests-t.lw day of rnst for tho rnli­gious, N F I. football for the sports fans. and of color comics in the newspapnr. It's the day banks and othnr govorn­
Dustin Mennella
rnnnt buildings 
aro frustrating­
ly closed, and 

Photo Editor 
tho day playing 
Dominoes is 

forbidd1~n in Alabama (at least 
aceording to Wikipedia). 

Up until college, Sunday was just another day for me, perhaps a chance to do some last minute homowork for some elass or other, hut nothing special, besides it boing the weekend still. But all that changed whnn I moved into Keough four years ago -since that timn. Sundays have become for me (and hopnfully shall ever bn) movin night. 
As thn name implins, aftnr dorm mass nvery Sunday my friends and I would congrngate in our quad and take an hour or two to watch a movie. Ilowever busy our com­ing week looked, we stuck to our ritual, through good movies and bad. Sonwtimes the bad ones wnre just as nntertaining, with clnvnr and sarcastic comments inernasing at each instance of bad acting. 
I ronwmbor an especially horri­bln Halloween movie. Doer Woman, about a murdnrous half­denr, half-woman who would hide hor hoovns and lure unsuspecting mains into privatn bnf'ore tram­piing tlwm to dnath. 
Since moving ofT campus my senior year, the Sunday night movie tradition has been harder to knop alivP. My roornmatns and I havn signnd up for Blockbuster Onlinn, so acquiring movins has bnconw nasinr, but where in the dorm wn could easily get eight or more people just by walking down the halls, it's now usually just my roommatos and I. 
The method used in choosing movins so far has bePn rather haphazard. In the dorms, our choices wern limitnd to the movies one of us owned, though it helped that one of the guys living down the hall had the largest movie col­lection of' anyone I've over met. 
Usually the movin was deter­mined by popular vote, but if' sorneonn felt they had a particu­larly good movie they could nomi­nate that movie at their own risk -moaning if' th(~ movio ended up not making the eut that was one strike against the nominator. 
No one fwer accumulated enough strikes to permanently bar thorn from suggesting future movies, but I think of' my friends I got the rlosest. being bannnd tem­porarily on a couple weekends I can remmn ber. 
But in the end. it doesn't matter wlwthnr I choose thn movie or not, or even if' it's good or bad-just spending that time with friends is always a relaxing and enjoyable nxporinnce I ean look forward to hdore tlw hectie week. 
The fJiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those (~{The Observer. 
Contact /Justin Mennella at dmenneff@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publicati<>n and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, plea.•e contacr us at 631-4 541 so we can correcr our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT THANKSGIVING FOOD WOULD MAKE THE BEST PROJECTILE? 





Aaron Pierre  Matt Panhans  Nicole Crnich  Szymon Ryzner  Tanya Barrios  Valerie Allen  
sophomore O'Neill  sophomore Knott  senior Pangborn  junior Morrissey  freshman Lyons  junior Lewis  
"Mashed potatoes embedded with peas.  "Sweet potatoes because I don't eat them anyway.  "Stuffing. I haven't tried it, but it seems like it would be kind  "Kielbasa, because it's very aerodynamic. ..  "Peas because they're small and can go pretty far with  "Jello because it:c; gooey."  

ofbouncy." 

JENNIFER KANGfThe Observer Senior Mary Beugelsdijk plays the trumpet during the final home football game of the season Saturday. 
OFFBEAT 
Cattle disturb peace in western Pa. town 
STOYSTOWN. Pa. ­Cattle roundups are mostly a thing of the past, and this is western Pennsylvania, not the Wild West. 
None of that mattered Thursday, when a resident called to report a herd of cattle stampeding through her yard. 
Mayor Bill Boyd was first on the scene, honking his horn at the nine bulls, cows and calves that were plod­ding along, barely 100 yards from Main Street in tho borough of just over 400 people about 80 miles southeast of Pittsburgh. 
"Two of them had pretty good horns on them," Boyd told the Johnstown Tribune-Democrat. "It's the first time I've known a mayor to get involved in cattle wrangling." 

Mystery Fla. animal likely a fox squirrel 
MACCLENNY, Fla. -An animal sneaking around Baker County is not an orangutan as originally thought but likely a fox squirrel, state wildlife offi­cials said Friday. Officers with the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission laid doughnuts at a base of a tree after res­idents reported seeing a "big orange ball of fur." 
The animal was probably an orange phase fox squir­rei, Fish and Wildlife inves­tigator Ken Holmes told The Florida Times-Union. The red-orange animals can grow to be about 2 feet tall and can climb in trees. 
''I'll be astonished if it's an orangutan," Holmes said. "I can quite confident­ly say it's probably not an orangutan. 
He said the animal's eat­ing habits did not match with the patterns of a pri­mate. 
''I'm not discounting any­thing," Holmes said. "However, this creature, whatever it may be, simply isn't acting like a primate." 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT MONDAY TUESDAY 
a:: 
LLI :::z::: 
. \\!\:) 


·... \ '\j' \ /tj
'" \. 'v ,,
~ 
•~Vi--·-< ~· . 
§Y~-, /'

"y \::.,..-­
LLI 
...:::: \~­
,_;.,\ !_.. 
.~\ I~
~ 
._...,\ l•\?"'1-:­

• ~ t 6
" " 
~)Jf~~·
...J 
~ITf\~ 
,. : \ '·\

• 6 ••
ct 
CJ 

..... 0 HIGH 45 HIGH 35 HIGH 46 HIGH 45 LOW 30 LOW 20 LOW 31 LOW 33 
a spoon. 
IN BRIEF 
The first lncturn in the Nieuwland series in biological sciences: "Bee Aware: Are honey bees in trouble?" will be held today at 4 p.m. in 101 Jordan Hall of Science. Dr. May Bercnbaum will present. 
The rosary will be said tonight at 6:45 at the Grotto. The rosary is said daily. 
Notre Dame hockey will play Bowling Green tomorrow at 7:35 p.m. at the Joyec Center. 
There will be a general dis­cussion about the history of the Miami Nation of lndianas in Indiana tonight at 8 p.m. in the Pasquerilla West Hall lounge. The guest speaker will be Erin Dunnagan Oliver of the Miami Nation of Indians in Indiana, public relations direc­tor and '05 ND alumna. 
There will b•~ a panel discus­sion titled: "The Evolution of Microfinance: One Tool to Address Global Poverty" tomorrow at 12::10 p.m. in C­100 Hesburgh Center auditori­um. Maria Otero, President & CEO, ACCION International and Recipient of the 2007 Notre Dame Prize for Distinguished Public Service in Latin America and Tara Kenney, Managing Director, Deutsche Asset Management, Inc. will speak. 
Craig Cramer will deliver a faculty organ recital tomor­row at 8 p.m. in Heyes Organ and Choral Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Student tickets are $:1. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

HIGH 55 HIGH 53 LOW 40 LOW 42 
Atlanta 54 I 32 Boston 43 I 42 Chicago 45 I 27 Denver 62 I 32 Houston 71 I 41 Los Angeles 75 I 55 Minneapolis 46 I 27 New York 49 I 37 Philadelphia 49 I 36 Phoenix 84 I 61 Seattle 53/ 46 St. Louis 55 I 30 Tampa 66 I 50 Washington 51 I 35 
----~------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Monday, November 19, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Students gather for Divali 
India Association sponsors annual Hindu festival Sunday night 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
The India Association of Notre Dame sponsored a campus-wide celebration of the Ilindu festival known w; Divali Sunday night in IA.tFortune Ballroom. 
Physics professor Umesh Garg led a cultural presentation and prayer to infilfln more than 100 people about the signifkance of this li1stival. 
Divali is traditionally celebrated m1ar the Pnd of Oetober or bngin­ning of November and commemo­ratPs thP triumph of good over nvil. 
"It's like a c~ombination of Christmas, New Year's. Thanksgiving, and Fourth of July all rolled up into one for the Indian people." Garg said. "Indian fami­lies like to celebrate it onee mon­soon season l'inishes. and do things likn dean up the house. fill it with sweet.<; and potpourri, and deeorate poojas [worship rooms li>r Indian deities! and cnlebrate with music. dancing and friends." 
The story of Divali bngan 15 days after thP mythologieal figure Hama, son of the King of Ayodhya Haja Dasharatha, was sent into exiln to dnlimt Havana, the reprn­snntation of evil and tPmptation in Sri I1mka. f{ama wa<; thnn joined by his wife, Sita, and his close brotlwr, l1tkshman. 
Hama's army built a bridge bntwmm Sri Lanka and the main­land. and after defeating all of Havana's lim~es, the battle finally canw down to single combat betwecm Havana and Hama. 
Using a special weapon that he. had received from the saint Aga'>tya, Hama shot Havana in the bc1lly and killed him. symbolizing thn "Dusshnra" or "defeat." 

However, 14 years had passed after the Dusshera before the peo­ple in Ayodha began to worry that Rama, Sita and Lakshman would not find their way back, so it became crucial to guide the heroes' home by lighting up the eity with fireworks and lamps. Divali, therefore, celebrates the journey home thanks to the guid­ing lights. 
"Hama represents the ideal human bning-as a son, a king, a warrior, and a husband," Garg said. "It's something we celebrate with gusto, but we also likfl to clean our houses, hold poqja cere­monies, and cook food because we believe we are formally inviting Lakhshman and Sita into our warm homes through these ritu­als." 
Divali also represents the new fiscal year tiw Indian businesses. 
In the pa<;t, the India Association used to celebrate Divali on a smaller scale at Garg's house, but this year it decided to have a larg­er event open to more student.'>. 
"We were pleased to see that there an~ a lot of non-Indian stu­dent.'> here celebrating Divali with us and wanted to be part of the event," said lAND co-president Chandan Mozumder, a third-year graduate student. 
After Garg's presentation, stu­dent.'> were invited to worship and pray in a pm~ja that lAND had set up in the ballroom. Afterwards there was a eatered dinner fol­
·lowed by music and daneing ­
known as dandia raas -or stick 
dancing in line formations. 
"Of course, no Indian festival celebration is complete without musie and dancing," said senior Divya Mahadevia. who helped coordinate the evening. "So we fig­ured that teaching people the rela­tively easy-to-learn movement.<; of dandia raas would be easier than Bollywood karaoke -since that wouldn't work out so well with people who aren't Indian." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 



TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2007 
8:00 PM, REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
TICKETS: $10, $8 FACULTY/STAFF, $6 SENIORS, $3 STUDENTS CALL 574-631-2800 OR VISIT HTTP://PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
THE EIGHTH IN A SERIES OF NINE CONCERTS DEVOTED TO THE COMPLETE ORGAN WORKS OF DIETERICH BUXTEHUDE (CA. 1637·1707). 
r±.ltJN!VERSI.TY Of. 
WNOTREDAME ~&)DEBARTOLO 
~ PF.RFORM:NG ARTS CENTER 

Department of Music 
Pieronek distinguished by engineering society 
Special to the Observer 
Catherine F. Pieronek, director of academic affairs and the Women's Engineering Program in the College of Engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has received the first ever Outstanding Faculty Adviser Award from the Society of Women Engineers (SWE). 
The inaugural award, honoring a SWE leader who has made out­standing eontributions to a colle­giate section as an adviser, was presented during the society's national conference in Nashville, Tenn., last month. Pieronek was eited for her "dedieation to female undergraduates through support of the Notre Dame Collegiate Section, developing it into a pre­mier organization in the College of Engineering, and for implement­ing programs that have dramati­cally improved the retention of female engineering students." 
Pieronek joined the College of Engineering in 2002 in order to establish the women's engineer­ing program and address the low retention rate of women from the first through sophomore years. 
"In her first semester, Cathy mobilized and energized a group of women who quickly established SWE as the most prominent and effective student organization in the College of Engineering," says Frank P.. Incropera, dean emeritus and the Clifford and Evelyn Brosey Professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering. "Whether the activity involved reeruitment of prospective women engineering students, out­reach programs for high school and grade school students in the community or assuming major responsibilities for the college's Industry Career Day, the out­comes have been spectacular." 

Pieronek's initial program and initiatives led to a 25 percent improvement in the retention rate of female students, placing it on par with male engineering stu­dents. The number of admitted engineering women choosing to attend the University also increased by more than 20 per­cent. In addition, membership in the SWE Notre Dame Collegiate Section increased from a handful of women to more than 75 active members. 
During Pieronek's tenure as section advisor, SWE-ND hac; host­ed a successful Hegion H Conference and won thn society's Outstanding Collegiate Section Award for a medium-sized section for 2006 and 2007. It also has been recogniznd for its outstand­ing success on campus, including club of the year in 2003, and out­standing program of the year in 2005. 
A senior member of SWE, Pieronek also is a senior member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), as well as a member of the American Society for Engineering Edueation (ASEE) and Women Engineering Program Advoeates Network (WEPAN). Her focus on engineering education, partieularly issues that affect the retention of women in engineer­ing, has led to the publication of numerous papers and presenta­tions at conferences sponsored by SWE, AIAA, ASEE, WEPAN and Frontiers in Education. 

ND professor awarded tvvo AHA book prizes 
Special to the Observer , 
Sabine G. MacCormack, Theodore M. llesburgh, C.S.C., Professor of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Dame, has been awarded two American Historical A'lsociation (AHA) book prizes for "On the Wings of Time: Home, the Incas, Spain and Peru." published last year by Princeton University Press. 
MacCormack is the recipient of the 2007 James A. Rawley Prize in Atlantic history, which recog­nizes outstanding historical writ­ing that explores aspects of inte­gration of Atlantic worlds before the 20th century, and the John E. Fagg Prize honoring the best pub­lication in the history of Spain, Portugal or Latin America. 
"These prestigious book awards reinforce Sabine's standing as one of the world's most eminent scholars of both classical antiqui­ty and colonial Latin America," said Mark Roche, Notre Dame's 
I.A. O'Shaughnessy Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Challenging long-held assump­tions about the cultural impact of the Spanish conquest of Peru, "On the Wings of Time" provides a more sophisticated understanding of Latin America, both in a histor­ical and contemporary context. 
Among historians, it long has been taken for granted that the Spanish imposed their culture and religion on the indigenous populations during the 16th and 17th centuries. Using original sources, MaeCormack asserts that civil society was born of the intellectual endeavors that com­menced with the invasion itself, as the invaders sought to under­stand an array ofcultures. 

"The book shows that European and Spanish culture was much less monolithic than is usually supposed," MacCormack said. 'The intellectual and cul­tural experience of engaging with the Mediterranean ancient world conditioned those Spanish who were interested in Andean cul­tures to think of cultural multi­plicities. 
They did not assume that their own political and cultural tradi­tions were the only possible or even the best ones. In compar­ing the Inca empire to that of Rome, Spaniards recognized Inca political and cultural achieve­ments as exemplary and high­lighted aspects of governance, includfng communications and the management of natural catas­trophes, where the Incas had been infinitely more successful than their European contempo­raries." 
An internationally-renowned scholar of ancient Home and the Spanish empire, MacCormack specializes in late antiquity and colonial Latin Ameriea. Her scholarly publications include "The Shadows of Poetry: Vergil in the Mind of Augustine," "Heligion in the Andes: Vision and Imagination in Early Colonial Peru," and "Art and Ceremony in Late Antiquity." 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 19, 2007 
small-seale agriculture also have a tiona! non-profit organization com­its importance in lesser developed In 2000, announdng its role in a )-,treater olfeet on GNP and poverty. mitted to relilwing global hunger countries, especially on women. new global era, the United Nations
Panel 

IIowevnr, "the credit  and  poverty,  "Globalization is a word one hears  dedared globalization must provide  
continued from page I  and inlrastructum is not prosent lilr small  "Globalization is a  and its strides in aiding finan­ in even the remotest African vil­lages," she said.  benefits lilr all, Miguda said. Sociology professor Mary Ann  
nessed the Pll"ed of globalization when he took a group of student'> to llondUr<L'>.  producers to get their goods to market," Bni<mger said.  word one hears in even the remotest African  cially depend­ent families around the  In Tanzania, tor example, Hussian aircrall<> take Lake Victorian li<>h to U.S. markets. Not only does that ere­ Kanieski spoke about the ellect of globalization on family lili~. "The current fonn of globali:t.ation  
BdangPr dnseribl~d the capital city Togueigalpa as an "urban night­ lie said the World Bank must advocate  villages. ,  world. Although not  ate an environmental hazard, Miguda said, but it forces women to  perceives the l~unily a<; a personal, optional responsibility, not a ba<>ic  
maw" and said unehneknd ~-,rrowth h<L'i IPd to urb<UJ viohmee and over­ investment in public goods, such as elec­ Edith Miguda  a rapid process, "the  search for remaining scraps for their children and destitute house­ right," she said. "The career takes pnw.edenee over the t~ily."  
crowding.  tric and water grids  history professor  emphasis on  holds.  Kanieski also discussed labor  
To rndum labor movnmnnl<>, "wn  to  provide  easier  an  economic  Women make use of global oppor­ movement.:; and the separation of  
must rnthink agricultural policy to  transport of goods.  asset to pro­ tunities in female-run trade shops  families over large distances. Few  
bendit tho world's poor." Bebmger  He abo said the World Bank must  duce income provides a sustainable,  that feature goods from Oilim, U.S.  family protections and increased  
said.  look at the poor through a more  stable future for the poor," Belanger  and London, Miguda said.  employment of mothers  have  
Agriculture providns a  more  humane and environmental view­ said.  "The UN mu.o:;t facilitate <md sup­ impoveri'ihed l~ily life, she said.  
viable option fi>r the poor and an  point.  Edith Miguda, a history professor  port women's initiatives to minimize  
alternativ1~ to dislocation, Belanger  Bnl<mger discu.<;..•;ed the role of the  at  the  College,  expanded  on  the negative social effect of global­ Contact Katlyn Smith at  
said. Economically, middle and  !Ieifer Project, which io:; an intema­ Belanger's ideas of globali7.ation and  i7.ation," she said.  ksmithO 1@saintmarys.edu  



KraDier 
continued from page I 

my stall' to be at all places at all 
timns.... This is the most nconom­
ieal and sensible way to do it." 

During thn spndlind time p1~riod, mteh house will be vi'iited a mini­mum of s1wen times, with sm:urity personnel exiting their vehicles p1~riodieally. The personnel will bn arnwd and authoriznd to appn~­hend any suspieious persons, Kramer said. and will immediately rail thn police to mak1~ an arrost. 
Tlwre will bn no additional cost 
to tnnanl<>. 

Kramer said the security com­pany began to patrol Lafayette Square Friday night. 
"Wn wi II get detail on all the pl'opnrties Monday," he said. "I wanted to make sure thny were in place befilre Thanksgiving." 
Car break-ins are a eitywide issue, Kramer said, and hiring the security company is "taking a proactive approach to it." 
Kramer said he initially eontact­ed the South Bend Police Department and talked to oll'-duty police ofTieers who ollered a serv­ice tilr a cost, "but they wern not able to patrol for the length of time I thought was necessary." 
"Burglary and larceny have been an issue up in the student areas for ao:; long ao:; Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have livnd on· campus," said Capt. Phil Trent, publie information ollicer for the South Bend Police Department. "UntiJrtunately, it is abundantly clear to criminals whm1 students are going to be in town and out of town." 
Burglaries tend to spike when student<> go away from their prop­erty for any length of time, he said. 
"Our dnpartment goes to )-,treat lengths to edueatn about leaving valuables in your rl'sidnnel~ ... just gmwral rl'imn prPvlmtion nlliwb," Tnmt said. "Vnhidn bn~ak-ins arn not just a Notre Dame thing. t.IH~y·m a community thing .... If you're going to l1~aw you!' vnhidn, lnavn it <L'> stnriln <L'> possible." 
Knunnr said lw hin•d Majest.ie S1wurity lwcausl' lw h<L'> smm eon­
sistent service and protection ellect change on crime rates. "It will send a clear message," he said. 
Trent said he found it ditlicult to 
imagine a situation "where 
because there's private security 
presence there's not going to be 
any crime." 
"It's nice to have an extra set of 
eyes out there, but you can't erad­
ieate in 100 percent. In the sense 
of an apartment complex, or 
nmtal homes all in a row, if there's 
security there, they think they're 
not going to be burglarized if 
there's a presence," he said. 
"There needs to be a constant 
prnsenee. That's not going to hap­
pen. There are still going to be 
crimes." 
Though the use of a security eompany is not a "foolproof solu­tion," Kramer said he thinks its presence will help deter crime on his properties. 
"These criminals -whatever you want to call them, they might be kids -obviously are going to notice there's patrols going on. It will push them away from my houses. They're going to stay away," he said. 
Kramer will be posting signs on all of his properties to "make it apparent that there's patrols going on," he said. 
He said he thinks it is still safe to live off campus, regardless of break-ins. 
"In the 15 years that I've been involved in ofl'-campus housing, I've never had any of the students harmed in any way. There've been break-ins, but in terms of violence I've not have that experience, and I'm going to thank God for that. We just need to take additional precautions to make sure its safe," Kramer said. 
In addition to the presence of security personnel, Kramer said his properties are lighted ade­quately and are equipped with alarm systems. I Iowever, the stu­dmlts living in the properties must also take the initiative to keep themselves safn. he said. 
"They've got to put the alarms on, lnave lights on over break, when they park they've got to make sure their belongings are secure and their ears are not temptations," he said. "It Lo:; a dual Street. She said she was con­students who have dealt with effort between myself and my ten­cerned by recent car break-ins. break-ins during the day," she ant<>." "My roommate's car was broken said. 
Kramer owns or manages 90 into during the day last Sunday," Histo said home security sys­houses, 30 town houses at she said. "I am happy that Kramer tems alone are sometimes not l.alayette, 44 apartment'> at Notre has decided to hire a security good enough. Dame Apartments and six condos guard to patrol the neighborhoods "Hopefully the new seeurity at Ea<>t Race Condominiums. because it could possibly deter patrol will help," she said. "but I 
He said the feedback he's future break-ins." guess we will just have to wait and received from tenants has been She still worries about crime in see." thankful and positive. her neighborhood, however. 
Senior Delphine Histo lives in a "The patrol will only be during Contact Jenn Metz at Kramer house on Washington the night, which won't help the jmetz@nd.edu 


A bit ofIreland in 




your own backyard. 
' s 
Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all the games. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Wat.erford Estates Lodge has hotel rooms at reasonable rate.s fur upcoming ND fOothall we.ekends.) 



ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 19, 2007 CoMPILED fROlv1 TI··lE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Taliban militants torture policemen 
KANDAHAR, Afghanistan -Taliban mili­tants tortured five abducted policemen in southern Afghanistan and then hung their mutilated bodies from trees in a warning to villagers against working with the govern­ment, oflicials said Sunday. 
The discovery of the bodies came as oflicials said that recent violence and clashes had left at least 63 other people dead across Afghanistan. 
The officers had been abducted two months ago from their checkpoint in southern Uruzgan province, said Juma Gul Himat, the provincial police chief. The Taliban slashed their hands and legs and hung the bodies on trees Saturday in Gazak village of Derawud district, he said. 
Japan hunts whales despite protest 
SI-IIMONOSEKI-A defiant Japan embarked on its largest whaling expedition in decades Sunday, targeting protected humpbacks for the first time since the 1960s despite interna­tional opposition. An anti-whaling protest boat awaited the fleet offshore. 
Bid farewell in a festive ceremony in the southern port of Shimonoseki, four ships head­ed for the waters ofT Antarctica, resuming a hunt that was cut short by a deadly tire last FPbruary that crippiPd the fleet's mother ship. 
Families waved little flags emblazoned with smiling whales and the crew raised a toast with cans of beer, while a brass band played "Popeye the Sailor Man." Officials told the crowd that Japan should not give into militant activists and preserve its whale-eating culture. 
"They're violent environmental terrorists," mission leader Hajime Ishikawa told the cere­mony. "Their violence is unforgivable ... we must light against their hypocrisy and lies." 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Clinton brings plants to library roof 
LITTLE HOCK, Ark. -Bill Clinton likes to brag about his presidential library being an eco­liiendly building. 
Now even the roof is going green. 
Over the past two weeks, workers have been hoisting 90 species of plants and more than four truckloads of soil atop the William J. Clinton Presidential Library and Museum to create a garden on an area surrounding Clinton's pent­house apartment. 
Instead of bare concrete, the glass and steel building will be topped with strawberries, ferns, switch gra<>s, roses and other greenery. 
"This is just an area he can come and relax in and just enjoy the view," Clinton Foundation Facilities and Operations Director Debbie Shock said in a recent interview on the roof. 
Babies found near dead mother 
OLATHE, Kan. -Authorities responding to a report of a foul odor found malnour­ished 3-week-old twins under a bed in an apartment containing their mother's decomposing remains. 
Both infants werp, taken to a hospital Friday, where one, a girl, later died. Her twin brother was in critical condition Saturday. Authorities said their 36-year-old mother, Virginia Wanjiru Njoroge, appp,ared to have been dead for several days. 
An autopsy found no evidence that foul play contributed to her death, police said. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Indiana trees have unusual foliage 
BLOOMINGTON -Indiana's unseasonably mild autumn has produced an unusual late display of colorful foliage, with many trees still hanging onto their leaves in late November. 
Leaves typically turn early after years with a hot, dry summer, said Sam Carman, educa­tion director for the Indiana Department of Natural Besources' Division of Forestry 
But the opposite happened after this year's summer-long drought. 
"This has bp,en a very, very unusual year in terms of color," Carman said. "Trees should be pretty wflll bare by now." 
UKRAINE 

Methane blast in coal mine kills 63 
Relatives criticize government, mine director for lack of attention to safety; 37 still trapped 
Associated Press 

DONETSK -A methane blast ripped through a coal mine in eastern Ukraine early Sunday, killing at least 63 miners in the ex-Soviet nation's worst mining acci­dent in years, emergency officials said. 
More than 360 miners were rescued but 37 others remained trapped inside the mine -one of Ukraine's largest and deepest -with a raging fire hampering efforts to save them, officials said. 
The explosion occurred around 3 a.m. more than 3,300 feet deep inside the Zasyadko mine in the regional capital Donetsk, the heart of the country's coal mining industry, the Emergency Situations Ministry said. 
Authorities evacuated 36 7 miners. Twenty-eight were hospitalized, the ministry said. 
Vitaliy Kvitkovsky, a miner in his thirties, was among those evacuated. He said he had to walk over the bodies of his dead colleagues in order to climb to the sur­face. 
"The temperature increased sharply and there was so much dust that I couldn't see anything," Kvitkovsky said in footage headquarters in Donetsk explosion at the Barakova 1,640 to 1,970 feet. broadcast on Ukraine's waiting for news on their mine in the eastern Luhansk Methane is a natural Channel 5 television. "So I loved ones. As grim-faced region killed 81 miners in byproduct of mining, and its was moving by touch over officials emerged to March 2000. concentration increases dead bodies along the rail announce the names of the Prime Minister Viktor with depth. More than 75 track." workers found dead, the rel­Yanukovych, a native of the percent of Ukraine's some 
The accident -the worst atives broke into sobs and mining region, visited the 200 coal mines are classi­in Ukraine in seven years -cries, some fainted. site about 450 miles south­fied as dangerous due to highlighted the lack of Natalia Piskun, a middle­east of Kiev, pledging to help high methane concentra­attention to safety in a coun­aged woman, who waited victims' families. tions. try with some of the world's for news on her husband Yanukovych said a safety Mines must be ventilated most dangerous mines. believed trapped inside the watchdog had reported that to prevent explosions, but 
President Viktor mine, said she would never miners were working in some rely on outdated venti­Yushchenko blamed his forgive the mine's director, if accordance with norms. lation equipment, officials Cabinet for not doing her husband was found "This accident has proven said. Safety violations and enough to reform coal min­killed. once again that a human is negligence add to the prob­ing and ordered an official "If, God forbid, he is lost, I powerless before the lem. panel to investigate the acci­promise I will, ifI manage, I nature," he said. Last year, a blast at the dent and bring those will bite this fat beast on his Experts say Ukraine's mine killed 13 workers. In responsible to account. leg! I promise, I swear to mines are dangerous largely 2002, an explosion killed 20 
Local authorities declared you," Piskun, her face dis­because they are so deep, and 54 died in a similar three days of mourning for torted by anger and pain, typically running more than explosion in 2001. In May the dead miners. told AP Television News. 3,280 feet underground. In 1999, 50 miners were killed 
Dozens of teary-eyed rela­It was the deadliest mine comparison, most European in a methane and coal dust tives gathered at the mine's accident in Ukraine since an coal beds lie at a depth of blast there. 



Parents vaccinate children after threat 
Associated Press 

UPPER MARLBOHO, Md. -The threat of jail time injected a little motivation into scores of parents who lined up around the court­house Saturday to get their chil­dren vaccinated on the spot or prove they've already had the shots. 
It was one of the strongest efforts yet by a U.S. school system to ensure that youngsters are immu­nized, upsetting some parents who grumbled that Prince George's County officials went too far and irking opponents of mass vaccina­tions, who demonstrated outside. 
Two months into the school year, officials in the suburban Washington county realized that more than 2,000 students still did­n't have the vaccinations required to attend class. So Circuit Court Judge C. Philip Nichols ordered parents in a letter to appear at the courthouse Saturday or risk as many as 10 days in jail. 
"It was very intimidating," said Territa Wooden of Largo. She said she presented the paperwork at the courthouse and resolved the matter. 
By about 8:30 a.m., the line of parents stretched outside the courthouse in the county on the east side of Washington. 
"I could be home asleep. My son had his shots," said Vein ell Dickens of Upper Marlboro, who said the school system had misplaced the records. 
Aloma Martin of Fort Washington took her children, Delontay and Taron, in 1Oth and 6th grade, for their hepatitis shots. She said she had been trying to get the vaccina­tions for more than a month, since the school system sent a warning letter. She had an appointment for Monday, but came to the court­house to be safe. 
"It was very heavy handed," she said of the county's action. "From that letter, it sounded like they were going to start putting us in jail." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November I9, 2007 
Victory 
continued from page 1 
ynars whore we wern pretty good." 
This year has also been a shock li1r the frnshmen, who arn experi­nneing Notre Dame football for the first time. 
"I think it was gnmt to finally gnt a homn win, but I think it would have bm~n even better if it had happmwd earlinr in the sea­son and against a better opponent than Duke," freshman Chris Gattis said. "You come to Notre Dame expecting a great football season and when you don't get to experience a home win until the very last game when nobody is that much into the team anymore, that's kind of disappointing." 
llowever, senior Brittany Baron chose to look at the positives of the season. 
'The tradition of Notre Dame is just really special in general bneause even though we're 2 and 9, all the students, especially the seniors, still went to all the games," Baron said. 

During halftime Saturday, the entire senior section engaged in a massive marshmallow fight, a tradition banned by the stadium's security team because some stu­dents were putting coins and other hard objects in the marsh­mallows. Against Duke, the marshmallow throwing escalated. 
"We weren't that worried about getting kicked out considering it was our last game," Bak said. 
Although there is a disciplinary risk for throwing marshmallows, many seniors overlooked that to revert back to tradition. 
"I enjoy the marshmallow tradi­tion and it's defmitely a huge part of being a senior. This year, even more so because nobody really cared about the game that much," Hansom said. 
After the game, the seniors stayed long after the Alma Mater. For many, it was an opportunity to reflect on their four years of football. 
"We stayed in the Stadium until all the ushers eame and physical­ly started pushing us out," Ransom said. "We wanted to savor it. I went down to the bot­tom benches just for a little bit and just took it all in. When you're in the student section cheering for Notre Dame, you all cheer for the same things. It just brings everyone a lot closer together." 
Contact Joe McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


Protest 
continued from page I 
to all kinds of armed conflict." 
Holding a full-scale banner with thn peace sign but no writing, Hoan said he thought thern was a need on campus li1r an event where people like him, who don't support vio­lence and occupation, could nxpress their opinions. 
The Studnnt Activities Ollice authorized Hoan 's proposal for a demonstration -evnn if it wasn't oflieially sponsored by any student dub or organiza­tion on campus -under the condition the event remained student-run throughout, Hoan said. 
lie encouraged students to participate with a Facebook invitation and by informing dubs and groups that would be interestnd, including the Progressive Student Alliance. Hoan also invited city residents through thn Michiana Coalition for Peace and Justice, since the organization holds a weekly protest against the war in Iraq in downtown South Bend. 
Steve Francis, a 1987 Notre Damn graduate and a member of the Coalition, took Hoan up on his invitation and brought about six other Coalition mem­bers to hold up "Honk for peace" posters as cars drove by thn University main gate Friday. 
"We'vn lwnn getting lots and lots of honks today. I'll tell you. Including one from a firn truck." Francis said. ''l'vn bonn activo against thn war Iin Iraq I sim:e it lwgan and I rmnmnbPr we wouldn't get tlwsn many honks hack tlwn." 
Frands said hn has noticed in thn last thn~n years "a turn in how tlw gnnnral puhlie feels about Iraq." 
"Now things are at a point where almost every car that drives by is honking. It's deaf­ening how many people want this war to end already," Franeis said. 
There were a few cars that drove by and yelled out profan­ities to him and the other demonstrators, but Francis said he remained optimistic about the overall success of Friday's protest in promoting peace and the end of occupa­tion in Iraq. 
"Just look at the great turnout we got," he said. "And it's a cold Friday evening." 
Hoan said he was pleased with the amount of students that showed up with banners and posters, saying the num­bers exceeded his expecta­tions. 
Sophomore Guru Velasco said he heard about the protest from different friends and deeided to participate because he's personally opposed to armed conflicts, as "violence breeds more violence." 
lie believes demonstrations like Friday's are effective in showing the rest of the country and its leaders how many peo­ple share this pacifist view. 
"Hopefully we can make peo­ple stop and really think about what the war lin Iraq] implies, and we can create awareness about that and spread the mes­sage to more and more people. And maybe it'll eventually rt~aeh the people who have the powHr to end it," Velasco said. 
Sophomore Bridget Mahoney said she decided to join the dnmonstrators becausn she wants the American troops abroad to return to their homes. She said she knows "someone who did two tours in Afghanistan." 
"lin has four children and I 

know it was really hard on his 
family while he  was gone,"  
Mahoney said.  
She  said  she  hopes  the  

troops still stationed abroad share her friend's luck and return to the country safely. But the Associated Press reported Sunday that at least 850 soldiers have died in Iraq in 2007, making it the dead­liest year since the war began in 2003. 
So new foreign policies that can stop the bleeding are in order. protesters said. 
Sophomore Caroline Hawes said she joined Friday's demonstrators to "protest both the continued war in Iraq and the policies that haven't shown any sign of working." 
Hawes and senior Heather Frost both said they were happy with Friday's turnout, even though many of the stu­dents usually involved in anti­war movements on campus were unable to attend Roan's protest because they were in Georgia for another protest. 
"Many of the kids that would normally be here went to the School of the Americas vigil," Frost said. "That's why it's all the more amazing how many people came out [Friday] to support the cause." 
Contact A. Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

Contest 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame beeause of the relationship between Notre Dame and NBC. 
"It provided a unique oppor­tunity for the students of the University," Fitz said. 
The rules of the contest, Fitz said, were pretty basic. 
The contest 
an exciting process, the sopho­mores said. 
"I enjoyed it all," Drenon said. "As far as the process of putting everything together, everything went kind of smoothly. 
"It was my first major pro­duction that had the potential to be played on television, so I was extremely exeitnd. It was a good feeling to know that mil­lions of people saw what I cre­
ated. There was a 
was open to all current Notre  "It provided a  good and  sense of' pride accomplish­ 
Dame students. The commer­cials also had to fill a 30-sec­ unique opportunity for the students of the University. "  ment." Bufalino said she and the others involved in the com­ 
ond time slot.  mercial were grate­ 
The winners w e r e announced on  Lindsay Fltz NBC Sports  ful to everyone who took part in their success.  
NBC.com  and  project manager  "Everyone  has  
given  the  been very  helpful  
opportunity to  and  supportive,"  

meet with NBC producers. Bufalino said. 
The winners successfully fol­The Notre Dame student lowed all of the necessary rules body played a major part in the and won due to the popularity decision to create the contest, of the commercial, Fitz said. Fitz said. 
The writers of the commer­"They're the ones that con­cial are not Film, Television tribute to the pride and her­and Theatre majors, so they itage of Notre Dame, and this is expressed their appreciation why we really wanted to pro­for Drenon and Sclafani's work. mote the commercial," she 
"We couldn't have done any said. of it without them," Bufalino said. Contact Amber Travis at 
Making the commercial was atravis@nd.edu 
Relieve the stress & tension that the end of the semester can bring, with a relaxing facial. Clear your mind & your schedule; it's time you come in for a European facial. 
Peggy is a licensed aesthetician specializing in facials and La Roche-Posay skin care products. 
Our South Bend location is just minutes from campus on North Michigan Street. So before you start studying, get a facial and get stress FREE! 


25% Off 
your 1st Facial when you mention this ad! 

Monday, November 19, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,176.79 +66.74
Jones 
Up: 1,478  Same: 99  Down: 1,793  Composite Volume: 4,171,045,935  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500  2,405.41 2,637.24 9,701.38 1,458.74  +24.91 +18.73 +48;86 +7.59  

NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,200.44 +45.83 FTSE 100 'London~ 61291.20 -68.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  +0.92  
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  +0.17  
E*TRADE RNL CORP (ETFC)  -0.37  
CITIGROUP INC (C)  -1.68  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.22 13-WEEK BILL +3.13 30-YEAR BOND -0.24 5-YEAR NOTE -0.68 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 

Exchange Rates 

YEN EURO CANADIAN DOLLAR BRITISH POUND 
+0.46 50.28 +0.25 145.79 -0.02 5.44 -0.58 34.00 

-0.009 4.150 +0.100 3.290 -0.011 4.523 -0.025 3.676 
+1.67 95.10 -0.30 787.00 -0.58 90.68 
110.44 0.6843 0.9865 0.4889 

IN BRIEF 

Product recalled after infant's death 
WASIIINGTON, D.C. -Jetmax International Ltd. is recalling about 36,000 boy's and girl's storage racks with canvas totes after an 8­month-old boy died when he pulled on the stor­age rack and the top rail landed on the infant's neck, a government safety group says. 
Young children are at risk of injury when the storage rack can tip over, posing an entrapment and suiTocation hazard to them, the Consumer Product Safety Commission said Friday. 
The Irving, Texas, company sold the storage racks, made in China, under the brand "Home Trend Kids 9 Canvas Bin Boy's and Girl's Organizers," at Wal-Mart stores nationwide from August 2004 through July 2005 and at Ollie's stores nationwide from July 2006 through June this year. 
The storage rack is wooden with three levels and nine removable canvas totes. The boy's stor­age rack, in a natural wood color, has red, yel­low, green and navy canvas totes. The girl's stor­age rack is white-colored wood with pink, yellow, lime and purple canvas totes. 

Senate extends law to aid insurance 
WASIIINGTON, D.C. -The Senate voted Friday to extend for seven years a post-Sept. 11 law guaranteeing federal help for the insurance industry in the event of a catastrophic terrorist attack. 
The Senate measure, approved by voice vote, differs considerably from a House version passed in September, and the two chambers have until the end of the year, when the current Terrorism Risk Insurance Act expires. to work out their diiTnrences. 
The program. known as THIA, was created in 2002 after the private insurance market for devPlopers collapsed in the wake of the Sept. 
11. 200 I. attaeks. "Without this program. ter­rorism insurance will become unavailable or prohibitively expensive, construction projects would grind to a halt and Americans would lose jobs," Senate Majority Leader Harry Heid, D­Nev.. said. 

THE OBSERVER. 







USINESS 
page 7 

SAUDI ARABIA 
OPEC asks for dollar alternative 
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's comments reveal divisions within cartel 
Associated Press 

RIYADH Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Sunday that OPEC's members have expressed interest in converting their cash reserves into a currency other than the depreciat­ing U.S. dollar, which he called a "worthless piece of paper." 
I lis comments at the end of a rare summit of OPEC heads of state exposed tis­sures within the 13-mem­ber cartel -especially after U.S. ally Saudi Arabia was reluctant to mention concerns about the falling dollar in the summit's tina! deelaration. 
The hardline Iranian leader's comments also highlighted the growing challenge that Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil producer, faces from Iran and its ally Venezuela within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. 
"They get our oil and give us a worthless piece of paper," Ahmadinejad told reporters after the close of the summit in the Saudi capital of Riyadh. He blamed U.S. President George W. Bush's policies for the decline of the dol­lar and its negative effect on other countries. 
Oil is priced in U.S. dol­lars on the world market, and the currency's depre­ciation has concerned oil producers because it has contributed to rising crude prices and has eroded the value of their dollar reserves. 
"All participating lead­ers showed an interest in changing their hard cur­rency reserves to a credi­ble hard currency," Ahmadinejad said. "Some said producing countries should designate a single hard currency aside from the U.S. dollar ... to form the basis of our oil trade." 

Producers will negotiate with writers 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Hollywood film and TV writers who've been on a nearly two-week strike against stu­dios will return to contract negotia­tions on Nov. 26, their union and pro­ducers said Friday. 
In a joint statement, the Writers Guild of America and the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers said both sides had agreed to return to formal negotiations. 
The statement said no other details would be released. 
Meanwhile, the writers, who went on strike Nov. 5, would continue on the picket line, said Gregg Mitchell. a spokesman for the guild. 
Some writers applauded the return to talks. "That's fabulous, that's great." said 
Sean Jablonski, a writer for the FX drama "Nipffuck." "You can't get a deal until two sides sit down and talk about it," Jablonski said. 
"It's a good message to hear around the holidays," he said. 
John Aboud, a TV writer and a strike captain, said he hoped a return to talks would quickly lead to a con­tract. 
'Tm delighted to see they're start­ing to move forward and I hope we can wrap this thing up soon," Aboud said. 
It's unclear what pushed both sides back to the table. The strike has been bruising and very public, with writers being joined by actors on picket lines and producers taking out full-page newspaper ads to tell their side of the story. 
Since the strike began Nov. 5, late 
L_________________________________________________________________________________ _ 

Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez echoed this sentiment Sunday on the sidelines of the summit, saying "the empire of the dollar has to end." 
"Don't you see how the dollar has been in free-falll without a parachute?" Chavez said, calling the euro a better option. 
Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah had tried to direct the focus of the summit toward studying the effect of the oil indus­try on the environment, but he continuously faced challenges from Ahmadinejad and Chavez. standoff with Washington 
Iran and Venezuela have over its nuclear program, proposed trading oil in a left-wing Chavez is a bit­basket of currencies to ter antagonist of Bush. replace the historic link to U.S. sanctions on Iran also the dollar, but they had have made it increasingly not been able to generate difficult for the country to support from enough fel­do business in dollars. low OPEC members -During Chavez's opening many of whom, including address to the summit on Saudi Arabia, are staunch Saturday, the Venezuelan 
U.S. allies. leader said OPEC should 
Both Iran and Venezuela "assert itself as an active have antagonistic relation­political agent." But ships with the U.S., sug­Abdullah appeared to dis­gesting their proposals tance himself from may have a political moti­Chavez's comments, say­vation as well. While ing OPEC always acted Tehran has been in a moderately and wisely. 
night talk shows and several sitcoms have gone to reruns. Other shows are counting down the number of episodes they have left before running out of scripts. 
Industry analysts had thought there would be enough scripts to produce shows well into January. But many shows have gone off the air at a faster pace than expected, as cast members and show runners have refused to cross picket lines. 
Compensation for shows offered on the Internet is at the heart of the dis­pute. 
The producers have said it's ofl'ering writers a share of licensing fees paid by Web sites to stream shows. The union has rejected the offer, saying the payments wouldn't begin until six weeks after a show goes online and viewer interest is nearly exhausted. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, November 19, 2007 

Bangladesh cyclone devastates coastal towns 
Associated Press 
I>IIAKA -llundreds of thou­sands of' survivors worn stuc:k Saturday bnhind roads blocked by fallon trnns, iron roofs and thick sludge as rnsnw worknrs fought to roach towns along Bangladnsh 's mast that worn rav­agml by a pownrful eydone that killnd at lmL<>t 1,723 people. 
Tropical Cydonn Sidr, thn dHad­linst storm to hit thn country in a dn<:ade, destroyed tHns of thou­sands of homes in southwest Bangladesh on Thursday and ruinnd m ueh-nended crops just bnfore harvest season in this impoverishnd, low-lying South Asian eountry. More than a mil­lion eoastal villagers were foreed to evaeuatn to government shel­ters. 
The o11irial death toll rose to 1,723 and authorities feared the figure eould rise further as the country works to rncovnr. 
The government scrambled Saturday to join international agnneins and loeal oflidals in the rnseue mission. deploying military helicoptnrs, thousands of troops and naval ships. 
Hescuers trying to get food and watnr to pnople stranded by flood­ing struggled to dear roads that wem so bad they said they'll have to n~turn on bicycles. 
"We will try again tomorrow on bieydes, and hire local country boal<>," M. Shakil Anwar of CAHE said from the city of Khulna. 
Along the eoa'it, 150 mph winds flung small ferries a'ihore like toy boats, cutting oll' migrant fishing communities who live on and around hundreds of tiny islands aeross the area's web of river ehannels. 
Many of the evaeuees who man­aged to return home Saturday found their straw and bamboo huts had been flattened by the storm. 

"We survived, but what we need now is help to rebuild our homes," Chand Miah, a resident of Maran Char, a small island in Khulna clis­triet, told The A'isociated Press. 
Bodies were found among muddy paddy fields and along river channels, said Bishnu Prashad Chakravorty, a local jour­nalist who visited the hard-hit coastal ania of Bagerhat. 
"Advanee warnings from the weather offiee helped us take shelter, but still, the damage is colossal," said Abu llanif, 60, a Bagerhat resident. 

The government has allocated $5.2 million in emergency aid for rebuilding houses in the cyclone­affected areas, a government statement said. 
The German government offered $731,345 while the European Union released $2.2 million in relief aid. The World Food Program was rushing food to the country. 
Bangladesh's interim govern­ment head, Fakhruddin Ahmed, visited some of the affected areas Friday and Saturday and assured cyclone victims of government assistance. 
Bangladesh President lajuddin Ahmed, meanwhile, was expected to visit some of the worst-hit areas in coming days. 
Aid organizations feared that food shortages and contaminated water could lead to widespread problems if people remain strand­ed. 
Television images showed crowds of people scrambling beneath military helicopters as troops dropped food packages through open hatches. 
At least 1.5 million coastal vil­lagers had fled to shelters where they were given emergency rations, said senior government official Ali Imam Majumder in Dhaka. 

Many parts of Dhaka, the biggest city in this poor, desper­ately crowded nation of 150 mil­lion people, remained without power or water Saturday. The storm killed at least four people in Dhaka. 
Child abuse increases vvith presence of live-in boyfriends 
Every case is different, every cohabitation," said Brad Wilcox, parents' marital status or the +Children living in households
Associated Press 
family is different. Some single a sociology professor at the makeup of a child's household. with unrelated adults are nearly mothers bring men into their University of Virginia. Similarly, data on the roughly 50 times as likely to die of inflict­
NEW YOHK-Six-year-old lives who lovingly help raise chil­"Cohabitation has become quite 1,500 child-abuse fatalities that ed injuries as children living with Oscar Jimenez Jr. was beaten to dren when the biological father common, and most people think, occur annually in the United two biological parents, according death in California, then buried is gone for good. 'What's the harm?' The harm is States leaves unanswered ques­to a study of Missouri abuse under fertilizer and cement. Nonetheless, many scholars we're increasing a pattern of tions. Many of those deaths reports published in the journal Two-year-old Devon Shackleford and front-line caseworkers inter­relationships that's not good for result from parental neglect, of the American Academy of was drowned in an Arizona viewed by The Associated Press children." rather than overt physical abuse. Pediatrics in 2005. swimming pool. Jayden Cangro, see the abusive-boyfriend syn­The existing data on child Of the 500 or so deaths caused +Children living in stepfami­also 2, died after being thrown drome as part of a broader trend abuse in America is patchwork, by physical abuse, the federal lies or with single parents are at across a room in Utah. that deeply worries them. They making it difficult to track statistics do not specify how higher risk of physical or sexual 
In each case, as in many others note an ever-increasing share of national trends with precision. many were caused by a steppar­assault than children living with <wery ynar, the alleged or eon­America's children grow up in The most recent federal survey ent or unmarried partner of the two biological or adoptive par­vietnd pnrpdrator had bnnn the homes without both biological on child maltreatment tallies parent. ents, according to several studies boyfriend of the child's mother­parents, and say the risk of ehild nearly 900,000 abuse incidents However, there are many other co-authored by David Finkelhor, men thrust into father-like roles abuse is markedly higher in the reported to state agencies in studies that, taken together, rein­direetor of the University of New whieh tlwy tragically failed to nontraditional family structures. 2005, but it does not delve into force the concerns. Among the Hampshire's Crimes Against nmhra<:n. "This is the dark underbelly of how rates of abuse correlate with findings: Children Heseareh Center. 


McCain refuses to criticize Clinton 
dnbatn and a respectful di'ieussion. pie, like imitating her voice. I'm can't keep track of them. "I
Associated l'ress 
And if they don't, then obviously, serious, I'm not sure what you gain remember John Kerry used to be 
<:OU\B){()()K, N.ll.-Hnpubliean I'm not the person to be their can­by doing that." aceused of being a llip-floppnr. She prnsidential hopeful John MeCain didate," McCain told reporters in The Arizona senator's comments makes him look like an amatnur," on Saturday said he won't follow rnsponse to questions about criti­come days after he faced criticism Giuliani said while campaigning his rivals' lead in taking personal eL'im of Clinton by Republican rival'> for not repudiating a voter in South here. shots at Dmnoeratic front-runner Hudy Giuliani and Mitt Romney. Carolina who called Clinton a McCain said Homney and llillary Hodham Clinton, and that "Legitimate policy differences, "bitch." McCain chuekled in Giuliani can run their own cam­votnrs sneking a candidate who will those should be debated and dis­response to the voter's question, paigns, but he won't follow their do that should look elsewhern. cussed," MeCain said. "But I don't but didn't embrace the epithet. A example. 
"I think pnopln want a respeetful think you should take shots at peo-few minutes later he said he "If people think indulging in per­respecl'i Clinton, a New York sena­sonal attacks and di'iparaging peo­tor and eolleague. ple's eharacter is a way to get the 
His campaign, though, used nomination and win an election, news coverage of the incident to I'm not their guy," McCain said. launch a fundraising e-mail. A ''I'm sure they ean find somebody spokesman for McCain said it else." brought the GOP candidate his sin­Earlier Saturday, McCain called gle-highest day for online dona­for the reimportation of pmscrip­tions. A figure Wa<i not immediately tion drugs from Canada a'i a way to 
' ~ .•
of Styx, Nig_~t Ranger &

available. bring health care eosts under con­
Damn Yankus

Honmey and Giuliani have made trol. Speaking to reporters about a 
Friday Dvc:ember 7 Club Fever • Sooth Bvnd 

critidsm of Clinton a nwjor fi1cus mile from the Canadian bordnr in 
on their campaigns. Homney, in a Vermont, McCain said high drug 
On SALE HOW CJt Morris Box

television ad running in New prices account li>r too much of the 
Otftcv CJnd Tickcrtmasterl 

Hampshire, compared Clinton to eost of health cam and drugs from 
Pacific <oastlladv Prvsqnts

an inh~rn. invoking the specter of Canada eouJd msult in a 16 to 60 
Thv King of the BlullS! 

the Monica Lewinsky scandal that pnrcent discount. clouded Pmsident Bill Clinton's sec­"Drug companins and the lobby­ond term. lie also says her views isl'i they pay in W<L'ihington want to 
BB 

are parallel to Socialist Karl Marx keep your drug prices high. and that her dream would be to Obviously, I w<mt them to bn alliwd­turn the Unitnd Statns' economy abln," McCain said, returning 1<1 his 
KltiG 

into one based on a weak criticism of how Washington European model. works. 

ThorsdGy )<1n0<1ry 31

Giuliani frequently tells voters Until drugs are cheaper, thn mst 
Morris Performing Arts

Clinton simply cannot be trusted. of hnalth earn is going to skyrocket, 
SIILE HOW Cit box nffiirDIII 

Earlier this month, he said her helping to bankrupt Medicare and 
574/135-9190 or views change so frnquently, he Medicaid, McCain said. www.morriscvntvr.org 



Monday, November 19, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

"Go To School In Style" 
NOBODY OFFERS YOU MORE! 
Our off-camyus homes inc{ucfe: Things you'{{jinain our homes: 
• 
High-Speed Internet • Granite Bathroom and Kitchen <;ountertops

• 
Comcast Cable Television 

• Designer Lighting 

• 
Unlimited Local & LongDistance Phone Service 

• Designer Faucets and 

• 
Trash Removal 


Showers 
• Water 

• Hardwood Floors 
• 
Cleaning Services 

• 
Security System 

• 
Fenced Yard 


• 24-Hour Service 




Completely Remodeled 3 and 4 Bedr)bom HomeS Available..! 






'\. 

NOW LEASING FOR 2,\o·roa -2009 SCHOOL YEAR 
\'• 


~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, November 19, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box n9, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notr< Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGEII Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A~s·t: MANAGING EI>ITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NJCWS EnnoR: Karen Lan~ley 
VIEWPOINT EDrtoR: Joey Kin~ 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris I line ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrt•ws 
SAINT MAltY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
1'1101'0 EDITOR: Du.~tin Mennella 
GRAPHIC~ EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
An DI'.~IGN MANAGEII: Kelly Gronli 

CONTROI.l.ER: Tim Sobolewski SvsTJ'.MS AllMINISTRAfOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
('i74) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-(,')27 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 ohscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6.!1-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4'\41 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4.324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
('\74) 6.31-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 ohsnews.1@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
('i74) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du L1c and Saine Mary's Colkge. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed hy policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Ohscrver reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos.~ible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of rhc Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, A~sistanr Managin~ Editors and department editors. Conuncntarit'S, lerrers and columns present the vitws of the atnhors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is availahle to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions throu~h lerrcrs is encouraged. l-etters to the l'.diror must be signed and must indudc contact inlimnarion. 
Questions rrgarding Obumerpolicies should be directed to Editor in CbiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11~o l lh'>l•rvrr (lJSI•S '\•)112--411001 n l'uhh.U•r•l Muudoty thwugh 1-lmiJ.y t"Xcepl duritiS u.un.mcl v.&~;tiUIIIJIC'InKI~ Aq~ltooCupnun w 1l~t• OI1!1Crvcr i\ $1f)(J f,u llllt' ~w.kmi~· yc:;tr; $')') rt1rnnc scmc~lf.'r 
Ihe ( lh.ctvcr '' puhl•lhc.l ,u POSTMA."I'ER 021 '\.~tuh llmins 11~11 ScnJ J.dJrn., 'orrt..:ll•••~ 10 Nuue ll.unr,IN ·16')'\6-0771) ThtOhM"rvtr f'ru,~tK.tlJM••t.q(~· p.ud .&t Nnue D.&mr r.n Bm:771J .md ddduilln.&lmo~ilintcnRilC\ fll4 Sntuh I liuiug ll.tll 
Nm~ Dame, IN 1h'JSfl.u774J 

The llhU!tvcr t\ .1 member nf £he 1\.wxl.uc.ll'r~. All rl."pruducrinn n~hr~ .uc 
r~a~.'I'Yt1J. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Katie Kohler Jackie Fitzpatrick Katie Peralta Lorenzo Hcyes 
Madeline Buckley Ellyn Michalak Graphics Alex Barker Jared Wafer Scene Viewpoint Analise Lipari Lianna Brauweiler 
Global daughters and sons 
Last week's production of Loyal Daughters and Sons drew large audi­ences to Washington Hall and spurred conversation in Notre Dame's dorms 
and dining halls ­ as  
well as headlines in  Andrea  
this paper ­ foeus­ Laidman  
ing on issues of gen­der and sexual vio­lence. And rightfully  High Sounding Words  
so, as U.S.  

Department of Justice statistics cited by Observer reporter Karen Langley on Nov. 16 ("Campus engages sexual violence issues") report that 20 to 25 pen~nnt of American womnn are raped during their time in college. Tlwse numbers make it likely that most of us know someone who has experienced sexual assault, proving the current topic of conversation on campus one that ought to be particularly sustain­abln, engaging and important. 
We should maintain this focus on gender issues not only to better our own campus atmosphere and commu­nity, but also to engage in an interna­tional debate about sexual violencn. Our discussion must extend beyond thn borders of Notre Dame since, as a recent news story indicates, injustices surrounding sexual assault continue around the world. 
While Loyal Daughters and Sons was being pnrformed last week, a 19-year­old woman was jailed in Saudi Arabia -an unexpected consequence of her appeal in a gang-rape case. During the first trial of seven men who abducted her and a male friend and raped both of them multiple times, the woman received 90 lashings for vio­lating laws on segregation of the sexes. She had been in a car with an unrelated man at the time of the attack. 
The seven men received sentences ranging from 10 months to five years in prison at the first trial. This was considered a lenient sentence since their crime was death-penalty eligible under Saudi and Islamic law. In the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Older men declare war. But it is youth that must fight and die. And it is .lJouth who must inherit the tribulation, the sorrow and the triumphs that are the aftermath ofwar." 
Herbert Hoover American president 
new decision handed down by the 
Qatif General Court last Wednesday, 
the defendants' punishment was 
changed -now two to nine years. 
With this change, however, the Court more than doubled the victim's sen­tence, not due to the severity of her own offense, but because of "her attempt to aggravate and inf1uenee the judges through the media," as reported by Arab News. 
The young woman's attorney who won the appeal had his law license revoked in the ruling and was explieit­ly barred from defending his client. lie is adamant that he will appeal this decision: 
"Currently she doesn't have a lawyer, and I feel they're doing this to isolate her and deprive her from her basi<: rights," he said. "Wfl will not accept this judgm11nt, and I'll do my best to continue representing her beeause justice needs to take place." 
The victim's lawyer added that tho decision is astonishing because "jus­tice is supposed to be independent from all pressures as well as personal considerations, be it a feeling towards the lawyer or defendant herself." 
lie said the ruling ref1eets the court's displeasure over the young woman escalating the issue of thfl original sentence, with her lawyer and with judicial authorities who granted the appeal. 
"My elient is the victim of this abhorrent crime. I believe her sen­tence contravenes the Islamic Sharia law and violates the pertinent interna­tional conventions," he said. 
The Saudi lawyer is not alone in thinking that this ruling lies outside of Muslim belief and law, but very much within the current power structure and gender discrimination in Saudi Arabia. Muslim leaders from outside the Middle East have called for a more just sentence, while hundreds of inter­net posts on the topic -many by citi­zens of Saudi Arabia -stress that the ruling is a reflection of the regime and not the country's religion. 
Commentators point to a long list of restrictions women face in a country that is a crueial American ally in the war on terror. Saudi women are sub­ject to a strict dress code, arc banned from driving and need a man's per­mission to travel or have surgery. Their politieal participation is eurbnd, as they cannot vote and can only testi­fy in court if about a private matter that was not witnessed by a man. Those restrictions are eerily dose to those under Afghanistan's Taliban regime-laws that worn condemned at length by U.S. of'fieials and tho Bush administration. 
This ease is just one example of tho level of sexual violence occurring internationally. It is especially alarm­ing not only because of tlw horror of the crime itself. but also bneause of its handling by the Qatif Court and its place inside a country full ol' structur­al violence against women. It is alarming beeausn this country is one c·ontinually eooperating with and sup­ported by our own. It seems that in fighting thn war against tnrror, tho 
U.S. has failed to work against thfl very rna! presence of terror in tho lives of female residents under the rule of an American ally. 
As wn continue our discussion on gender issues and snxual violence at Notre Damn, wn should extend our questions, asking how to improve the global status of women and how to hold our government accountable for the company it keeps. 
Andrea Laidman is a senior political science and peace studies major. Her column's title recalls advice given to John Adams by his wife, Abigail: "We have too many high sounding words, and too few actions that correspond with them." She can be contacted at alaidman@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The changes in our life must come from llie impossibt?ity to live otherwise than accordmg to the demands ofour conscience ... not from our mental resolution to try a 
new form oflife. " · 
Leo Tolstoy Russian novelist 
....-------------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, November 19, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Absolute tnoral code not necessary for tnoral behavior 
I am writing this in response to Nathan Loyd's letter "More to life than sex" (Nov. 16). In the final paragraph of his letter, Loyd offers to the reader a curious critique of moral relativism. He states that moral relativism "questions our ability to deeide that extra-marital sexual activity is wrong." I find it strange that he believes that moral rel­ativism denies us the ability to deeide the morality of certain actions. By claiming that no universal standard of morality exists. moral relativists allow themselves to judge the goodness of actions by whatever standard they ehoose. llow does this stanee obstruct an adherent's ability to deeide if "extra­marital sexual activity" is wrong? Believers of moral absolutism do not get to deeide that extra-marital sexual activity is wrong because this faet would have already been deeided a very long time ago. I believe that Loyd meant to say that moral relativism questions our ability to reaffirm that extra-marital sex is undoubtedly wrong. 
Loyd's final sentence indicates that he does not have a firm grasp of the essence of moral relativism. He writes that this belief "would lead us to ques­tion our ability to say that theft, rape and murder are wrong, if for no other reason than that the people committing these erimes feel fulfilled by doing them." Why should it be an issue for an individual to independently determine the morality of these actions? He states earlier that without an absolute moral eode "we eould have no law." It is unelear whether he means that we would have no law, or if it is possible that we would have no law. Either way I find this view to be extremely disturb­ing. This line of thinking insinuates that without a certain absolute moral eode to guide us, we eould fall into a state of anarchy. I tend to have more faith in people than that. 
Here is a hypothetieal for those who follow an absolute moral eode (e.g. the Ten Commandments): If your eode and all laws eeased existing at this very moment, what would you do? Would you eommit murder or steal from the person sitting next to you? Hopefully you answered no. But why not? There is no eode or authority figure to stop you! I would not eommit these erimes because I eare about humankind and value order in soeiety. Perhaps people ean have their own sets of beliefs as to what is right or wrong without an absolute moral eode to guide them. 
I agree with Loyd when he writes that Christians "have the ability and right to say that a partieular aetion is against [their] moral eode." However, this right should only extend as far as the rights of Muslims, Buddhists, and any other moral absolutists to do the same. 
Kevin Sherrin sophomore Alumni Hall Nov. 18 

Anti-gay message shows problem on campus 
Shirts underline need for student-led GLBTQ group 
At this point, two weeks have passed and many an opinion has been voieed regarding several young men and their "Gay? Go to llell" shirts. but I feel that I ean no longer sit idly and keep silent my opinion on this issue. As the eo-president of Notre Dame's unofficial gay-straight alliance, allianeend, the faet that even one student has taken it upon himself to flagrantly promote hate speeeh on eampus appalls me. The emergence of sueh a shirt highlights just how pressing is the need for a student-led gay­straight organization on this eampus. 
First off. I would like to commend the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs for the alacrity with whieh they addressed this despicable aet. In their Letter to the Editor ("Offering a weleoming home for all," Nov. 9), the courageous students, faculty and staff involved with the Council provide a compelling argument for their plaee within the University administration. I have many friends on the Council, and I sup­port them wholeheartedly for their tireless efforts to make Notre Dame a more tolerant and aeeepting plaee for all students regardless of sexual orientation. 
Despite the great strides that the Core Council has made with the CommUnity sessions for freshmen and their programming for GLBTQ students and their allies, the progress that has been realized thus far is not enough, apparently, to root out blatantly homophobic/heterosexist attitudes on eampus. The only effective way to reform sueh opinions is through student-led education aimed at fellow students. As such, the mission of alliancend is to "create a supportive environment that fosters respect, dialogue and education regarding sexual orientation among the Notre Dam1~ student body." Though I do support the intended purpose of the Core Council, its position as an administrative rather than student organization hampers its efficacy in dealing with such matters. The CommUnity sessions for freshmen are certainly valuable to educate new members of the Notre Dame community on issues of Catholic social teaching, but for many students, exposure to messages of tolerance and acceptance for GLBTQ persons end there. A student-led and student-centered organiza­tion would be, by its very nature, focused on correcting mal­formed opinions of GLBTQ individuals from the ground up. 
The Core Council's greatest disadvantage is its position as an administrative body, whose work is necessarily top-down. i\lliancend or some iteration thereof has applied for official club status through the Student Activities Office for nine of the past 10 years, and has been denied all nine times. While past expla­nations for our denial from Student Activities have ranged from the old citations of Catholic theology regarding sexuality to the new argument that the Core Council makes our organization obsolete because it already addresses the concerns of the GLBTQ community. these allegations are, in the light of the "Gay? Go to Ilcll" shirts, false, and underscore the need for such a group on campus to supplement the work of the Core Council and other groups devoted to promoting the recognition of the fundamental human dignity of all persons in the Notre Dame family. 
Stacey Williams senior McGlinn Hall Nov. 16 

Acceptance of all is necessary 
I would like to further contribute to the cam­pus dialogue about sexuality here at Notre Dame by drawing attention to some concerns raised by Mary Daly's letter ("Campus, Catholicism and homosexuality," Nov. 13). I wholeheartedly agree with her conclusion that the University should offer more support to those homosexual students who wish to live celibate lives in a chaste and healthy manner. I am disappointed that nothing was done to fol­low up on IDND's early effort to provide a cru­cial support to many (often closeted) homosex­ual students who seek help in conscientiously following current Church teaching. Furthermore, I agree with Daly's affirmation of the need to uphold the '"intrinsic dignity of each person,' especially homosexual persons." For this reason I would suggest that the shirts worn by a few students on Nov. 1 that said "Gay? Go to Hell" were not just "inappropri­ate" (as Daly wrote); they were inexcusable. 
Now at this point, I would like to consider further one implication of respecting the human dignity of homosexual persons. The Catechism states that, "Man has the right to act in conscience and in freedom so as person­ally to make moral decisions. He must not be forced to aet contrary to his conscience. Nor must he be prevented from acting according to his conscience, espeeially in religious matters" (CCC 1782). Thus. respecting the dignity of homosexual persons requires that we not pre­vent them from acting in accord with con­science. It is our duty to encourage homosexu­al persons in the formation of their con­sciences such that they are well formed and able to make mature moral decisions (See CCC 1783-1785). 
A few homosexual people at this University take Church teaching very seriously, examin­ing all that it says. After a long process of examining (with many tears and prayers) the interplay of our experiences, Church tradition, scripture, and reason we have decided that we cannot, in good conscience. give full assent to or withhold our assent from the Chureh teach­ing on "homosexual acts". I am happy to dis­cuss how this plays out in my life with anyone who approaches me in goodwill. 
Returning to the point at hand, I would like to call to the attention of the university stu­dents, staff, faculty. alumni, and administra­tion the need to respect the hard work that some homosexual students have put into the formation of their consciences and the judg­ments that they ultimately make. I'm not say­ing that anyone need agree with students who dissent from Church teaching in conscience. Nor should students light-heartedly dissent with a poorly formed conscience. I am calling primarily for a greater trust in the capacity of all students to form and act on their own con­sciences and for a more aetive encouragement that students confidently, but carefully, do so. Sadly, the current campus climate has a ten­dency to silence the open discussion of homo­sexuality, often by blithely quoting the cate­chism on how homosexuals are disordered. It is unhelpful to students who already know what the Church teaches to hear the same restatement of what the catechism says. For those who do not understand, a different and more proactive means of conveying current Church is required. More than anything, we need people to listen before speaking. It is bet­ter to remain silent in ignorance than to speak insensitively and falsely. 
To emphasize my point, I will present briefly the story of Job. Job, in his affliction, insists that he has done nothing wrong before God that would merit the plagues and misfortune that beset him. His "friends," in trying to "help" him, take the conventional stance he has sinned and need only repent so that "life will be brighter than noonday and darkness will become like morning" (Job 11:17). But Job continues (still in good conscience) in his insis­tence that he has done no wrong and ultimate­ly decides to sit in silence awaiting an answer from God. When God does finally answer, he rebukes Job's "friends," saying, "I am angry with you ... because you have not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job has" (Job 42:7). 
I think it is quite clear the parallels Job's story has with all people who struggle with conventional religious teachings and with those that tactlessly assert them. So, I will merely end with a plea that all make an effort to be more understanding of our gay/lesbianlbisexuaVtransgenderedlsame-sex­attracted brothers and sisters. Let us promote an environment at Our Lady's University where all are encouraged to honestly and courageously consider complex moral issues in their lives without fear of judgment, callous­ness, or exclusion. 
Mattan is a member of the Core Council, but is not writing on behalfof the group. 
Brad Mattan senior Keough Hall Nov. 15 



Shortly before Beowulf rips Grendel's 
arm from its socket. the monstf\r begs 
to know the hero's name. Beowulf bel­
lows: "My name is strength! And lust! 
And pownr! I am Beowulf!" The Old 
English epic poem has hit the big 
screens, but with it, director Hobert 
Zemeckis ("The Polar Express," 
' Castaway") brought significant 
· · hange to the story and eharacters wn 
know. 
The movie begins with a celebration 
in llnorot, tlw groat mead hall or 
•Hrothgar. King of the Danes. Hrothgar thony llopkins) is being celebratod glorious drunken fashion for his war ictories. But while gold coins and n lly about the room. Hrothgar's ueen, Woaltheow (Hobin Wright nn), sits at an uncomfortable dis­rathflr disgustnd by the display. Befom long, tlw film transitions slow­y away from the hall to an eerie ountain cavern where noise or the clebration invades tho monster 's quiet abode. Enraged by thn 
ound of the merriment, Grendel 
·.Crispin Glover) bursts into lleorot, hurls a few Danes against the walls, · impales one on a pike and tears a few 
thers in half before coming to an 
brupt stop in front llrothgar. The two 
are an awkward moment -absent om the original toxt -before 
Beowulf 

Director: Robert Zemeckis Starring: Ray Winstone, Angelina Jolie, Anthony Hopkins and Robin Wright Penn 
Grendel bounds away. The meaning behind this previously absent con­frontation is where Zemeckis' "Beowulf' begins to difl"er from the one we know. 
In the morning, Hrothgar orders the hall elosed. When Unferth (John Matkovich), Hrothgar's creepy, coward­ly counselor, asks if they should pray to the Christ-God for protection from the monster, Hrothgar replies, "God will do nothing for us that we won't do for ourselves. What we need is a hero!" Enter Beowulf (Ray Winstone). 
Before the film ends, Beowulf is called upon threfl times to save the kingdom: once for the Queen, twice for the King, and three times for glory. But there is more to this version of the story the film, but it's more than one. Near the end of the tale he asks Wealtheow to remember him as a "man, fallible and flawed." 
Wealtheow differs largely from the original tale. Those changes, however, do not highlight or eome as the result of any flaw; they set her apart from the debauchery of the kingdom. 
Grendel is probably the film's tastiest treat. Zemeckis has taken enormous liberties with Grendel's character, but on the whole, these changes work. Unlike the Grendel of old, this new Grendel has a voiee (he even speaks in Old English) and hints of a pnrsonality. Though he ultimatPly has it coming. he elicits a great deal of sympathy. In a sense, the monster's evils are not the result 
than hand-to-hand of his faults. Hather,
This isn't your 
combat between mon­they are the repercus­sters and men. ancestors 8th, 9th, sions of the lecherous Zemeckis raises new 1oth or 1Ith century revelry of Ileorot, questions as to whose echoes vibrate
Beowulf-well, at
Grendel's origin, as well exponentially in the as Hrothgar and least not quite. poor monster's head, 
Beowulfs enduring mil­itary success. 
Grendel's mother (Angelina Jolie) plays a large role in this new vision of Beowulf as a disturbingly beautiful demon temptress. 
The movie's resolution is no doubt tied to that of the original tale, but because of thematic shifts within the movie, the ending will not make you 
think it should. This isn't your ancestor's 8th, 9th, 10th or 11th century Beowulf ­well, at least not quite. 
Zemeckis' Beowulf is still as physieally strong and super­human as he was 
1.000 years ago, but in those I ,000 years, he's developed a romantic weakness. It's hard to tell exact­ly how many women B If f~Ils for i torturing him with the 
world's worst migraine. 
Like he did with "The Polar Express," Zemeekis has created a film with characters lost between the world of animation and live action. At times, the characters feel more real than they look, and during others -notably the battle sequences -they feel the exact opposite. 
Hcgardless of its faults, there is something darkly beautiful about this animation. In a sense, Beowulf is bet­ter depicted in this half-animated style, because something more human would cause its characters to lose their magi­cal and spectral appeal. Then again, Zemeckis' modernizing of the themes may have done just that. 
Our horo has rhanged much from the classic Beowulf. The story has shifted genres and changed plot tensions. "Beowulf"' has sold out thematically, and just like its hero, the lifm pays a prieP. 

NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, November 19, 2007 BSERVER Notre Dame 28, Duke 7 
Frosh steal show 
Hughes, Clausen have big days as Irish take down Duke 28-7 on senior day 

JENNIFER KANG/The Observer Irish freshman running back Robert Hughes breaks away from Duke defenders during Notre Dame's 28-7 win Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. Hughes ran for 11.0 yards and a touchdown on 17 carries as the Irish earned their second win of the season. 
With the win, the Irish seemed like they would head brought the second down for kids who practice every day
By ELLYN MICHALAK 
improved their record to 2-9 into halftime scoreless. the score. and hardly ever get in there." Sports Writer 
and avoided becoming the first But then Notre Dame came "That was a big momentum Zbikowski, who did not Notre Dame team in 74 years alive. changer going into the locker attempt a pass, rushed four It was senior day at Notre to lose every home game. The The Irish forced two fumbles room," Irish coach Charlie times but did not gain any Dame, but the freshmen stole Blue Devils, playing on nation­in the last 1:17 left in the sec­Weis said. yardage. He handed off to fel­the show Saturday as the Irish al television for the first time ond quarter, which resulted in The Irish scored yet another low senior Travis Thomas, earned their first home win of since 2004, dropped to 1-10 two 25-yard touchdown passes touchdown late in the third who burst up the middle for the season, 28-7 over Duke. on the season. by Clausen -the first to jun­quarter. After a 13-play, 69-17 yards but then lost the ball. Freshman quarterback "lit was a] frustrating and ior David Grimes and the sec­yard drive, Hughes scored After the fumble, Duke Jimmy Clausen threw for 194 disappointing loss. The ond to Kamara -and a 14-0 from 13 yards out with 25 sec­began its first successful yards and three touchdowns, turnovers were lead at onds remaining in the quarter. offensive possession of the while classmate halfback huge like they the half. But the Irish were not fin­game. Sophomore backup Robert Hughes had a touch­always are, and "It gave me an The two ished. quarterback Zack Asack fin­down and 110 yards rushing. our performance opportunity to get those touch­Two possessions Iater, ished the drive by running six Freshman wide receiver Duval on third down, I d o w n Clausen completed a nine­yards for Duke's first and only
guys in there. And I know 
Kamara added a touchdown thought those passes yard pass to Carlson for the touchdown.
for them it means a lot ...
catch. were the two tied for tight end's final home touch­Carlson said the win helped "Their statistics speak for most critical fac­those kids who practice t h e down. Notre Dame's morale. The themselves. Jimmy made some tors in the foot­longest "It's not something I was Irish had lost four straight
every day and hardly
great throws. Robert [Hughes] ball game," Duke touch­thinking about while it was games coming into Saturday.
ever get in there.,,
ran hard and made some coach Ted Roof d o w n going on. That was my last "I think next week, being great plays. And Duval said. "It was cer­throw of offensive play and it's pretty our last game, we would have [Kamara] had a heck of a tainly a great Charlie Weis Clausen's special," Carlson said. been motivated anyways. But catch in the end zone," senior opportunity for us career After gaining a 28-point it's nice to have a little
Irish coach
tight end John Carlson said. "I that didn't work with the lead, Weis decided to give all momentum, and we'll feel think it's a glimpse of some out." Irish. the seniors a chance to play -good Tuesday coming into things that are to come. I Both teams came in with The second fumble came including safety Tom practice and hopefully we can think it's great that they've offenses ranked near the bot­with less than 30 seconds Zbikowski at quarterback. get one next week too," he gotten so much game experi­tom of Division 1-A -and it remaining in the half. The "It gave me an opportunity said. ence. They've been in the heat showed in the first half. Both Irish tried two passes to to get those guys in there," of the battle and I think that squads missed field goals in Kamara in the end zone. The Weis said, "And I know for Contact Ellyn Michalak at will help them next year." the first quarter, and it first was incomplete, but he them, it means a lot ... those emichala@nd.edu 
player of the game 
Robert Hughes 

Notre Dame,sfreshman tailback ran for 1 ro yards and a touchdown ­his first game over the century mark on the ground. 
stat of the game 
0 

Points scored by Duke on Notre Dame's starting defense. The Blue Devils scored with just over a minute remaining in the game. 
play of the !~arne 
David Bruton's second quarter fumble recovery 
The recovery stopped a promising Duke drive and led to Notre Dame,sfirst score ofthe game. 
quote of the game 
"Its like a weight has been lifted." 
Charlie Weis Irish head coach 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 19, 2007 
report card 
A A 
c 

C+ 8 C+ 
B­C+ 8 
quarterbacks: Clausen had his best per­
f(Jrmancn to date. lie looked much 
morn comfiJrtable in the pocket than 
in pn~vious weeks and threw strikes 
on all thrne touchdown passes. 
running backs: Hobert llughes got the 
most carrins and took advantagn to the 
turw of 110 yards and a touchdown. 
Armando Allnn and .James Aldridgp, 
were also efl(~ctive on th1~ h'TOUnd. 
receivers: For tlw second straight week, droppPCI passes wern a problem­so11w in k1~y situations. But Duval Kamara and David Crimes both made nice catches f'or touchdowns. 
offensive line: Notre Damn was bnttnr in short yardage than it had been all snason. but nvPn though Clausen was only sacked once, h1~ was still under pressurn far too often. 
defensive line: lan Williams played well 
in his first start. and Tnwor Laws was 
his usual snlf'. but the Irish only had 
one sa1~k and Duke was able to move 
tlw hall dncnntly on the ground. 
linebackers: Duke's sweeps were much morn efl(1ctivn than they should have been, and Lewis found receivers out of tlw backfield. But the Blue Devils did­n't scorn on the first string defense. 
defensive backs: The secondary ran hot and mid. On some plays, they com­pletely blanketed Duke receivers, whereas on others, Blue Devils ran fh~~~ -although Lewis rarely hit them. 
special teams: Maust punted well for the 
injured Geofl' Price, including a nice 
play to get a kick on· after a bad snap. 
Walker missed a short fip,ld goal, but 
did c~onvert all f(mr extra points. 
coaching: Notre Dame's fh1Shmen ­espeda!Jy Clausen, llughes <md Kamara -showed dramatic improvemPnt in this game. The Irish came out fimd up <md won one for the seniors. 
tNerall: The competition was­

Students, band remain after first home win to cheer seniors' victory lap 
After the "Alma Mater," after the 
"Victory Clog," even after "When Irish 
Backs Go Marching By," Notre Dame 
was still there. 

Not just the foot­ball team, but everything that Notre Dame means. The stu­dents, the band, and even University President Father John Jenkins were still celebrating long after the final whistle blew. 
Everyone in the Stadium was act­ing as one Saturday night-and not just in singing "Notre Dame, Our Mother." Wide recnivers Golden Tate and Robby Parris and nose tackle lan Williams daneed the Irish jig along with the stu­dents. Underclassmen joined fans still in the stands to cheer the seniors dur­ing their victory lap. 
And even when some players tried to go into thn locker room and out of the cold rain they had endured for over three and a half hours. tight end John Carlson callnd players back out of the tunnel to go back to the student section to thank their classmates for stieking out this game -and this season ­with them. 
"It's kind ofour way to show some thanks to them because I feel that they've stuek behind us all year long and we rnally apprm:iate that," tl10 fifth­year senior said. 
And the team didn't just go toward the studenl<>-it joined them. 
Safety Tom Zbikowski, defensive end Trevor Laws and Carl'ion did their own mini-Lambeau Leaps into the student seetion. The studenl'>, desperate for one last souvenir from the Stadium, took their haL<; and wiped Zbikowski's sweat on them. 
Laws, responding to the students' ehants, f(Jllowed Zbikowski into the stands to embrace any student lucky that's what makes Notre Dame great. enough to be in the front row. "!The players] don't feel like they are 


Carlson was smiling like a kid on segregated or on a pndestal," Wnis said. Christmas when "They feel like they he went searching are part of that for an untouched Everyone in the Stadium ~:,rroup, and I think piece of the sec­that our players like 
was acting as one
tion, wanting to to share those
Saturday night -and not
become a more momenl'i with the intimate part of just in singing "Notre students, bneause the celebration. the studenl'i an~ the
Dame, Our Mother." Wide 
That's what it ones that have been
rec.eivers Golden Tate and
was all about. We there for us during were 1-9 and they Robby Parris and nose all these trials and were there with us tribulations."
tackle Ian Williams danced 
the whole time. And even though
the Irish jig along with the 
They stayed out in the team hasn't the freezing ran students. always seemed as the whole game to loyal as the students be part ofus. All to this close relation­the senior students, the whole student ship, it tried to make up for it on body, that's part ofour program, too," Saturday. Laws said. "It's great, and I don't think What a difference a win makes. anywhere else, any other school in the nation has that kind ofsupport. It's just The views expressed in this column a great feeling." are those ofthe author and not neces­
Irish coach Charlie Weis, an alumnus sarily those ofThe Observer. of Notre Dame who spent four seasons Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at in the student section, understands jfitzpa5@nd.edu. 

Irish players raise their helmets to the student body after their 28-7 win over Duke on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
n't thfl bnst, but the Irish dominated statistically and
2.85 
earned their second win of the snason. 
adding up the nuiDbers 
Irish players who saw the field on Saturday. Weis said he tried to play as 
66

many seniors as possible. 
25 In yards, Jimmy Clausen's career-long touch­down pass. Clausen threw two from this dis­tance Saturday. 
Notre Dame wins at home this season. 
1 

Saturday was the first. 
1 Wins by Duke over the past two seasons combined. 
Touchdown receptions by Duval Kamara this season, the most ever by a 
4

Notre Dame freshman. 
0 
Passes thrown by safety Tom Zbikowski in his brief appearance at quarterback 
Saturday. 

Carries by Zbikowski in the five plays he was 
4 

under center lor the Irish. 
Players who have taken a snap from center6 for Notre Dame this year -Jones, Clausen, Sharpley, Bragg, Allen and Zbikowski. 

Monday, November 19, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Bruton, defense dismantle Duke 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
The Irish haven't had many big hits this season -most of their tackles eame when chasing a ball-carrier from behind. 
But safety David Bruton bucked the trend Saturday when he destroyed Duke's Nick Stefanow after the tight end jumped for an overthrown pass in the beginning of the second quarter. 
"It was fun. that was something I haven't done all season as a safety," Bruton said. "It looked like it was sail­ing, so I was going to either pick it or, onee I saw his hand touch it. I was like, 'All right, time to do something like Brian Dawkins or something. just lead with the forearm and let him have it."' 
Bruton's hit was like Notre Dame's performance on defense -one of the best of the season. The only game where Notre Dame held its opponent to f'nwer points was against UCLA and the Bruins' third-string walk-on quarter­back. 
The Irish defense, which has allowed 
32.4 points per game this season, held Duke scoreless until the final 1:12 of the game. By that time, one of Notre Dame's defensive players was taking snaps under center and most of the players on defense for the Irish were walk-ems. 

"I think that they did a really good job I 
Irish defenders Terrail Lambert (20), Kyle McCarthy (28) and Kerry Neal (56)
even when the few times there was a 
scamper after a Duke fumble in Notre Dame's 28-7 win Saturday.
play -they played stout right off the bat. got off the field and turned the ball over a couple of times," Irish coach fairly well in comparison. practicing," Crum said. Charlie Weis said. But Notre Dame's defense stopped The Irish defense, which usually 
Bruton said the defense met the goals them when it counted -Duke did not allows 372.5 yards per game, held it set before the game. reach the red zone until the final min­Duke to 232 total yards in Saturday's 
"Get a lot of three-and-outs, try to get utes. And the Irish defense, which has contest. Notre Dame's passing defense, three turnovers, try to shut the offense been giving up more than 200 yards which was No. 5 in the country and up, and just try to eliminate all big per game on the ground, held a team to allowed 164.9 yards per game through plays," Bruton said. "I feel like we did well under their average. the air, held Duke to 138 yards passing. that today." Weis said he was more concerned Safety Tom Zbikowski said the Irish 
With 2:29 left in the first half, Bruton with playing the seniors near the end of matched Duke's talent well and that recovered a Thaddeus Lewis fumble on the game than with keeping Duke out of Notre Dame's success stemmed from his own 42-yard line. One minute later, the end zone. pre-game preparation. the Irish offense put points on the "I think the defense played well the "I think a lot of it comes down to good board. Moments later, safety Kyle whole game," Weis said. "You don't game plan and scheming pretty well, McCarthy forced Duke wide receiver want to give up a shutout, but I would and I think guys just wanted to make Jomar Wright to fumble, and corner­rather get those kids in the game than sure we got this win and played pretty back Ambrose Wooden fell on the ball worry about the shutout." hard," Zbikowski said. on Duke's 25-yard line. Two plays later, Notre Dame forced punts on seven of The Irish haven't usually had time of freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen's Duke's 13 possessions. Two more ended possession on their side this season, but touchdown pass to freshman receiver in fumbles and one in a turnover on the success of the offense, especially Duval Kamara put the Irish ahead 14-0 downs. Duke ran 15 fewer plays than Clausen and freshman running back heading into the half. Notre Dame and averaged 3.6 yards Robert Hughes, ensured the defense 
Duke also converted four of its 16 per play in comparison to Notre Dame's was well-rested. The offense held the third downs, something Blue Devils 5.2 yards per play. ball for 35 minutes, 11 more than coach Ted Roof said affected the result The wet, slippery conditions also gave Duke's offense. of the game. the defense an advantage. "That is always a plus when you're 
"The turnovers were huge like they "The field was so terrible the whole not on the field," Crum said. always are, and our performance on game, you just have to play and get Laws said the defense enjoyed the third down, I thought those were the around," said defensive end Trevor offensive success from a defensive -as two most critical factors in the football Laws, who had six tackles and a sack in well as team -point of view. game," Roof said. the game. "We just made plays that we "It's always nice when the offense can 
Duke rushed for 94 yards on 27 car­needed to win." move the ball," Laws said. "It's the best ries, its best production on the ground Linebacker Maurice Crum said the defense we ever see on the sidelines, I since it rushed for 95 yards in its 41-36 team had gelled into a cohesive unit say. You watch them move the ball and loss to Wake Forest earlier this season. throughout the season and practiced you're sitting there relaxing on the The Blue Devils averaged just 52.9 well before the game. bench, man, it's a good thing." yards per game and 1.8 yards per carry "1 think it's just everybody being this season, so on Saturday, they ran tuned in and having a great week of Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Irish get third-ever win against Devils 
Williams makes first career start 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
The Irish have faeed Duke just four times before. The pre­vious meeting between the two teams oceurrnd in 1966 when the Irish defeated the Blue Devils 64-0. 
Williams gets start 
Freshman nose tackle Ian Williams earned his first 
career start with the Irish. This season, 27 Irish players started for the first time in their eareers. 
Clausen tosses TDs 
Freshman quarterbaek Jimmy Clausen's 25-yard pass to Grimes marked his longest pass this season. He tied that record 73 seconds later with another pass -this time to fel­low freshman Duval Kamara. 
Laws breaks 100 
Senior Trevor Laws was the fifth Notre Dame lineman to achieve over 100 tackles in a single season. Laws has 105 this season. 
Other Irish players to achieve this honor are Steve Niehaus with 113 in 1975, Ross Browner with 104 in 1977, Melvin Dansby with 103 in 1997 and Jeff Weston with 101 in 1975. 
Carlson reaches milestones 
Senior John Carlson record­ed his second longest career reception with his 41-yard catch in the tirst quarter. His longest reception was a 61­yard touchdown against Michigan State in 2006. 
Carlson's 97 career recep­tions are the second most of any tight end in Irish history. Ken MacAfee holds the record, with 128 receptions between 1974 and 1977. 
Kamara's record 
Kamara's four touchdown receptions this season are the most ever by a Notre Dame freshman. 
Aldridge injured 
Sophomore starting halfback James Aldridge rolled his ankle in the first half of the game. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  0  14  7  7  28  
Duke  0  0  0  7  7  

First quarter No scoring 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Duke 0 
David Grimes 25-yard reception from Jimmy Clausen with 1:17 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 58 yards, 1:12 elapsed. 
Notrf' Dame 14, Duke 0 
Duval Kamara 25-yard reception from Clausen with 0:04 remaining. Drive: 2 plays, 25 yards, 0:14 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 21, Duke 0 
Robert Hughes 13-yard run with 0:25 remain­ing. Drive: 13 plays, 69 yards, 6:02 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 28, Duke 0 
John Carlson 9-yard reception from Clausen with 6:51 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 46 yards, 2:19 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 28. Duke 7 
Zack Asack 6-yard run with 1:12 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 49 yards, 1:12 elapsed. 
statistics 
total yards 

passing yards 

rushing yards 

return yards 

time of possession 


II 
passing 

Clausen 16·32·0 Lewis 16·33·0 
rushing 

Hughes  11·110  Boyle  8·45  
Allen  9-42  Boyette  8-35  
Aldridge  8-27  Harris  2·12  
Thomas  1-17  Asack  1-6  
Jabbie  2·14  Drummer  2-4  
Clausen  7-25  Lewis  6·(-8)  

receiving  
West  4-24  Wright  5·11  
Carlson  3·58  Riley  3·50  
Kamara  2-32  Drummer  3-15  
Grimes  2-26  Harris  2-24  
Allen  2·17  Belle  2-16  
Jabbie  1-17  Boyle  2·10  
Hughes  1-13  Kelly  1-12  
tackling  

Brockington  7  Tauiliili  12  
Bruton  6  Gainey  10  
Laws  6  Rey  10  
Walls  6  Davis  7  


page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 19, 2007 

JENNIFER KANG/The Observer 

It took a whiln, but Notre Dame finally got its first home win. The Irish sent their seniors out in style with a 28-7 home victo­
ry over hapless Duke. Although it was senior day, freshmen stole the show for Notre Dame. Hunning back Hobert Hughes ruslwd for 110 yards on 17 carries and scored a touchdown, while quarterback Jimmy Clauson completed 50 percent of his passes for just under 200 yards and three touchdowns-one of them to freshman widf~ receiver Duval Kamara. The Notre Dame defm1se frustrated the Duke offense, holding the Blue Devils scoreless the first 59 minutes of the game. As the clock ran down. Irish coach Charlie Weis emptied his bench, getting walk-on seniors into the game and inserting safety Tom Zbikowski at quarterback. When the contest ended, the seniors took a victory lap, cheered on by their teammates, the band and the student section. 


Top left, Irish safety Tom Zbikowski lines up at quarterback. Top right, freshman wide receiver Duval Kamara hauls in a touchdown pass. Middle, fift~year senior tight end John Carlson celebrates a first down. Bottom right, freshman running back Robert Hughes fights through traffic. Bottom left, freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen avoids pressure. 
----------~-----~--­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, November 19, 2007 
page 13 

crete monolith and generally causing By TAE ANDREWS an ill ruckus. Scene Editor This was Stanford Hall football. 
And the Griffins would not be denied. 
Birds cirded high above Notre The Griffins descended upon the Dame Stadium yesterday against a Knights like the fierce mythological bleak and dreary autumn sky as the creatures for which they are named, Griffins of Stanford Hall took on the shredding them limb from limb and Knights of Keenan. Icy winds ripped leaving only carrion for scavengers to through the hallowed monument as a pick at and bones to bleach in the dedicated flock of rabid Griffins gath-winter sun. The black-and-green clad ered below, braving the.elements to Griffins left Keenan black and blue, voice their support for team and broken and bitter as they trudged off dorm. the frozen, torn-up tundra of Notre 
Trash and debris from Saturdafs Dame Stadium'$ field in defeat. varsity home finale littered the These were not your father's stands, setting the stage for what Griffins. These were Griffins decked turned out to be a nasty. grimy out in intimidating black and green grudge match against Keenan. This uniforms. These were Griffins with was smash mouth football. This was swagger and verve, not to mention no-guts-no-glory electric play-gridiron. This was makers,spch as payback for a hall On Sunday, the Griffins David Costanzo, 
that has spent far too struck the fear ofGod into Tregg "Lil T" long in the shadow of h · h t ,/' Duerson, Matt 
its brother dorm. t e cowermg ears O; "House of Pain'' 
Stanford Hall has a the Knights in the Templemire and chant that goes biggestofhouses, Notre Rob "Ruthless" "Who's in the house Dame Stadium. Ruth. 
tonight? Stanford! Duerson, at Who's in the house running back, tonight? Stanford! })unched Stanford's in the house oh-my-God, through the Knights' armor and oh-my-God, Stanford's in the house scored a first half touchdown in what oh-my-God." On Sunday, the Griffins would ultimat~Iybe the decisive ... struck the fear of God into the cower-score in the game. Dynamic corner­ing hearts of the Knights in the back Chris Gill sealed the Knights' biggest of houses, Notre Dame fate with an interception of Keenan 
'tadium. quarterback Brian Costello, racing to 
Keenan fans slunk in late with their the Stanford sideline, where team­
cads down and left early like beaten mates mobbed him and he reveled in 
uppies, whimpering with their taJl~.. the adulation of hundreds, if not 
anging between their legs. They · thousands of Stanford supporters. 
t as well have stayed home. In Evet.J~ince the University eonstruct-
PaJit. Keenan wouldJl.O:doub ly ed tht)jolnt residence..hall building 
fo1.1nd a way to thwart St .. d, 19.57, the two dorms have goQe in 
on its usual mix of trickery .··.· different directions. Keenan 
undyrhandedtechtiique. Butn~t at · aboutbe(:o g 
m this<day. ..•·········· · . .. .. . ts P"$tflr 
A rowdy, raucous gr'Ql,t'pofStMford i:}agget:y:Adnrm fu 
l residents pouredinto Notre. g lloy ~~yuts a~d . . . ... • .. < 
e Stadium; sendfng echoes d . . . namtes spend mu()b oftheir ... 
rberaliug throughout the con-· timetraipsing around in neatly pressed shirts, popped collars and impeccable hair parts. 
When it gets warm outside, you can usually count on Keenan men to gather on the quad, clad in their sig­nature muscle cut-off tees, preening, flexing and backslapping each other, to put on a public bench press dis­play show. Sunday's game showed Keenan's true colors, exposing them as a bunch of dorm-land Derek Zoolanders. 
Stanford men, on the other hand, have carried a reputation for being a walk on the wild side. Stanford men have long been known for their bel­ligerent and boisterous behavior. This is the same dorm which onee had a number of its residents arrest­ed during a DisOrientation party. These are the Irishmen your mother warned you about. If Notre Damo dorms were X-Men, Keenan would be Cyclops. Stanford would be Wolverine. 
.It's common knowledge on North Quad that Stanford Hall is the best male dorm on campus. What the Cinderblock Palace of Love lacks in facjlities and commodities, it makes upJor with its athletics, lack of lame facttlr and sheer number of Res Life appointments. 
And lately, we've even beaten KeQnan at its own game: Stanford Hall took home the overall Hall of the Year award Tor 2006. 
So as you stew in the bile of your defeat, Keenan, and nibble at that rather large slice of humble pie we cut for you, as you go to Mass inside whilit is and walk 
property of 
this ruminate 
JARED WAFER I Observer Graphic 


page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 19, 2007 
NFL 

Vinatieri breaks out of slump with game-winner 
Strahan records season-high three sacks to help Giants win and claim the top spot in the NFC wild-card race 
since missing three straight in 
Associated Press 
1999. 

INDIANAPOLIS-Colts kicker When it mattered most, how­Adam Vinatinri spent all week ever, Vinatieri was himself. He ignoring the critit:s and then played through the soreness in drowned out the boos Sunday his plant foot to tie the score at afternoon. 3 with a 27-yarder late in the 
Eventually. lw silenced IW!lry­first half. drawing mock cheers, one with his usual lat!l-game then won it with the 24-yarder magic. that finally brought the crowd to 
Vin<ttinri, last week's goat, its ff-wl. overcame a subpar day to res­"lie's one of the last guys I'd nw the Colts, making a 24-yard be worried about," coach Tony field goal with 4 seeonds left to Dungy said. "I think the law of give Indianapolis a desperately averages will swing back our needed I :{-1 0 victory over way. and I'd be surprised if he Kansas City. misses again this year." 
"Every time you'rn out thme, Clearly, though, the Colts (8-2) if' something bad happens, were missing more than you've got to ho able to shrug it Vinatieri's consistency Sunday. ofT and go bark out thern and Peyton Manning again looked forget about it if you can," ragged with Marvin Harrison Vinatieri said. "Don't lot it linger (bruised left knee) out for the longer than you have to." fourth straight week, and 
For Vinatieri. the Novnmber Kansas City (4-6) took advan­slump had lingored long tage of' Indy's makeshift line. nnough. At halftime, Manning's passer 
lin missed his first field goal rating was only 23.4 and despite over inside the HCA Dome a mastnrful dosing drive to set against New England two weeks up Vinatieri's winning kick, ago. Manning still finished only 16­
Last wenk, he missed a 29-of-32 for 163 yards with one yard atl!lmpt that eould have intoreeption and a 52.0 rating. beaten San Diego. That miss Still, it was good enough to prompted midweek speculation extend the Chiefs losing stream that Vinatieri may have lost his to three. title as the NFL's best clutch "We've got to get to the point kicker. where we stop people," said 
So when he lined up for a 49-Chiefs defensive end Jared yard attnmpt in the first quarter, Allen, who deflected four passes Vinatieri's lirst field goal. The onto the ball with his knees, lost to Dallas for a second time fans greeted him with boos. and was in the backfield almost numbers suggested he actually which stood up to Dungy's chal­before handing Detroit its first When he pushed that kick to the as much as Joseph Dada. outplayed Manning, but the lenge, to tie the score at 10. defeat at home. right, the chorus grew louder. "We've got to win the close scoreboard told Croyle some­Manning finally took the lead "We'll take the 7-3. I'm too and when he pulled his next games." thing else -the Chiefs must get with 6:47 left, marching the tired to worry about how we got attempt, a 3R-yarder. to the left, Brodie Croyle, making his first better. Colts all the way to the Kansas there," Strahan said. "llopefully, llw doeibellevPI rose again. NFL start, was 19-of-27 for 169 "I felt comfortable out there," City 2 before taking a knee we'll get another run going. We 
Sudd!lnly. VinatiPri had missed yards with one touchdown, but he said. "But we obviously didn't three timef) and then giving started one today." 
four in a row, his longest streak he also lost a fumble that set up move the ball well enough. You Vinatieri a chance at redemp­The Lions (6-4) dropped baek­learn something every time you tion. to-back games for the !irst time go out there." this year, and took it hard after 
Indianapolis managed only 73 Giants 16, Lions 10 losing their otlwr three games yards in the first half, marking Miehael Strahan showed lw's by double digits. the first time this season it had still got it, just days before he "Yeah, it's more difficult not producod a first-half touch­turns 36 and in a year he pon­because that is not a better fiiOt­down. Yet thanks to Croyle's dered retirement. ball tPam than us," quartnrbaek fumble and Vinatieri's field goal, Strahan had a season-high Jon Kitna said. "We gave tlwm the Colts were still tied 3-3. three sacks, helping the New the football gamn." 
In the second half. it appeared York Giants beat the Detroit Strahan took ofl'ense to Kitna's the offenses would right them­Lions Sunday to gain the advan­take on thn game. selves. tage in the NFC wild-eard raee. "I honestly thought in thP first 
Manning went to Add<ti eight "From the time he got ofl' the half' that was one of' the worst times on a nine-play drive in the bus, he was very focused," said teams we played that was (J-3," third quarter and Addai eventu­teammate Sam Madison, who he said. "I don't quite under­ally scored on a 3-yard run to had one of the victory-sealing stand why Jon would say that. give Indy a 10-3 lead. interceptions in the final 2:04. "Maybe we'll see them down 
It wasn't enough to satisfy "He was very energetie. lie was the road and if' that's the case, Manning. the Stra of old. He's getting his we'll beat that a-again." 
"We need to start playing a lit­legs under him. Ile's getting his Detroit might need to beat the tle better ofl'ensively and being second wind. NFC North-leading Green Bay more eflicient and not counting "lie's showing he can still play Packers at home on on our defense to hold their the game." Thanksgiving to maintain a ofTense to 10 points," he said. "If New York (7-3) broke a third­realistic chance at making the your defense is holding their place tie with Detroit in the con­playoff's for tho first time sinee oll'ense to 10 points, you ought ference and improved its 1999. to bn able to win the game pret­chances of making the playoll's. . "Is the season over? ty soundly." In the Super Bowl era, 7R.4 per­Absolutely not," offensive tackle 
Croyln answered with a nifty cent of teams that won seven of Jell' Backus said. "It's one stum­pass to Dwayne Bown on the their first 10 games ended up in ble in our path." side of the end zone. Bowe did a the postseason. The Giants leaned on their spectacular toe-tapping dance The Giants lost their first two defense to bloek Detroit's road along the sidelines and hung games, won six straight, then to success. 
AP Giants defensive end Michael Strahan (right) and conerback Kevin Dockery (bottom left) tackle Lions running back Kevin Jones in a 16-10 Giants victory Sunday in Detroit. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Large house available for 2008­2009. 516 N. Saint Joseph, 4 bdrm. 
1.5 bath. 1014 N. St. Louis, 4 bdrm, 2 bath. Very clean homes. 574-276-3176. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3\>.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  PREGNANT OR KNOW  
SOMEONE WHO IS?  
PERSONAL  Do not go it alone.  You do not have to be alone. We  
If you or someone you  want to help. Call our 24 hour  
If you or someone you  love needs confidential  confidential hotline at 1-800-No  
support or assistance,  Abort or visit our web site at  
care about has been sexually  please call Sr. Sue Dunn.  www.lifecall.org  
OP, at 1-7819. For more  
assaulted, visit  information, visit our  Happy Birthday, Hino!  Sow.  
website at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ No Fun Zone.  Papa Bear.  Here  
http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  ments/pregnant.shtml  I'm.  Detlef Schremp!.  Most  
or see our bi-weekly ad in  Powerful Student. Antonin Dvorak.  
shtml  THE OBSERVER.  Kamps.  Enjoy your 21st. buddy.•  

FoR SALE 
3 bdrm/2 bath home for sale $95,000/for rent $900. 706 N. St. Louis. Contact Brad 574-220-8666. 

FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes now showing 08-09 & 09-1 0. 
Bluegoldrentals.com 
Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester sale. $200 P/S just off campus "alumni owned". Bluegoldrentals.com 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, November 19, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE ()ssE RVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA College Football 
AP Poll 
team record 

1 LSU (60) 10·1 
2 Kansas (3) 11·0 
3 Missouri (1) 10·1 
4 West Virginia (1) 9·1 
5 Ohio State 11-1 
6 Georgia 9-2 
7 Arizona State 9-1 
8 Virginia Tech 9-2 
g Oregon 8-2 
10 Oklahoma 9-2 
11 usc 8-2 
12 Florida 8-3 
13 Texas 9-2 
14 Hawaii 10-0 
15 Boston College 9-2 
16 Virginia 9-2 
17 Boise Slate 10-1 
18 Illinois 9-3 
19 Tennessee 8-3 
20 Connecticut 9·2 
21 Clemson 8-3 
22 Wisconsin 9-3 
23 Brigham Young 8·2 
24 Cincinnati 8-3 
25 Auburn 7-4 
NBA 
Atlantic Division 

team record perc. home 
Boston 8-0 1.000 5·0 Toronto 5-4 .556 2·3 New Jersey 4-6 .400 3·5 Philadelphia 3-6 .333 2·3 New York 2-7 .222 2·2 
Central Division 

team record perc. home 
Detroit 6·3 .667 2·0 Milwaukee 4·4 .500 4-0 Cleveland 5·5 .500 2·2 Indiana 4·6 .400 3-3 Chicago 2·6 .250 1·3 
Southeast Division 

team record perc. home 
Orlando 8-2 .800 2·2 Charlotte 5-4 .556 4-2 Washington 4-5 .444 H Atlanta 3-6 .333 3·2 Miami 2-8 .200 0·4 
Northwest Division 

team record perc. home 
Denver 7-3 .700 4·1 Utah 7-4 .636 4·1 Portland 4-6 .400 4·0 Seattle 2-9 .182 0·4 Minnesota 1-7 .125 1-4 
Pacific Division 

team record perc. home 
Phoenix 8-2 .800 3·1 LA Lakers 5-3 .625 3·2 LA Clippers 5·4 .556 3-2 Sacramento 3-6 .333 3-1 Golden State 2-6 .250 1-4 
Southwest Division 

team record perc. home 
New Orleans 9-2 .818 3-1 San Antonio 8·2 .800 6-0 Dallas 7-2 .778 5·0 Houston 6-5 .545 3-2 Memphis 2·7 .222 1·3 
previous 
1 4 6 5 
7 
8 9 10 2 3 11 14 12 13 18 16 
17 
20 19 25 15 24 
NR 
21 
NR 

road 
3·0 3·1 1·1 1·3 0·5 

road 
4·3 D-4 3-3 H H 

road 
6-0 1-2 2·3 0·4 H 

road 
6-0 1-2 2·3 0-4 2-4 

road 
5·1 2·1 2·2 0·5 1·2 

road 
6·1 2·2 5·1 4·5 2·5 

around the dial 
NFL Titans at Broncos 8:30p.m., ESPN 
MLS 


Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Make it two in a row for the Houston Dynamo, the first MLS team to repeat in a decade. 
The men in orange ral­lied with two goals in the second half Sunday to beat the New England Revolution 2-1 in the MLS Cup, securing the win with Dwayne De Rosario's pow­erful 12-yard header in the 74th minute. 
The Dynamo have won the championship both years since the team dis­banded as the San Jose Earthquakes and was reborn in Texas last year, beating the Revolution both 
IN BRIEF 

Federer wins Masters Cup,
claims 53rd career title 
SHANGHAI, China -Top ranked Roger Federer won his fourth Masters Cup title in five years Sunday, overwhelming No. 6 David Ferrer 6-2, 6-3, 6-2. 
It was the third consecutive dominating performance by Federer, who won his 53rd career title -including eight this year -and ran his record against Ferrer to 8-0. 
"It was a nice victory, especially proving it to myself and the world, that I can do it over and over again," Federer said. "This is the year-end tournament that only the best can make it to. For me to win is a fantastic experi­ence." 
Federer collected $1.2 million and a new car for the win, increasing his winnings this sea­son to over $10 million -a record for the ATP Tour. 
times.The Earthquakes also won the title in 2001 and 2003, which makes for a dominant run of four championship rings in six years for several Houston players. 
The Dynamo became MLS' first repeat champi­ons since D.C. United won the league's first two titles in 1996 and 1997. 
The Revolution, mean­while, fell at the final hur­dle for the fourth time. New England lost the 2002 and 2005 MLS Cups in overtime and was beaten in a penalty kick shootout following overtime last year. 
The Revolution were hoping to capture some of the sports fervor that has overrun Massachusetts this vear. The Red Sox won the iNorld Series, and the Patriots and Celtics began the day undefeated. But the MLS trophy will go to Houston again. 
Taylor Twellman gave the Revolution the lead in the 20th minute, but Joseph Ngwenya tied it in the 61st before De Hosario's winner 13 min­utes later. The Dynamo's rally came after coach Dominic Kinnear made a tactical halftime switch, changing from a 4-4-2 for­mation to a 3-5-2 to create more scoring opportunities. 
The game drew 39,859 to the neutral site of RFK 

USA beats Cuba to capture
Baseball World Cup 
TAIPEI, Taiwan -American pitchers scattered seven hits, Jayson Nix and Jason Jaramillo had two RBis apiece and the United States defeated Cuba 6­3 Sunday to win the Baseball World Cup. 
The U.S. took command in the second inning when Jaramillo singled in a run, and Cuban starter Yadel Carrillo walked in two straight batters with the bases loaded to give the Americans a 3-0 lead. 
Jaramillo singled in his second run in the third, and in the next inning Nix homered to put the U.S. ahead 5-0. 
Cuba cut the lead to 5-2 on Alfredo Rodriguez's two-run single with two out in the fifth. Justin Ruggiano singled in a run in the seventh to put the U.S. up 6-2. 
Alexander Kerr's RBI single in the eighth cut the margin to 6-3, but reliever Jeff Stevens shut down the Cubans in the ninth. 
Stadium, with sections of fans decked in orange for the Dynamo, blue for the Revolution and black for the stadium's usual home team, D.C. United. Dismayed that their team wasn't in the final, United's fans poked fun at the pro­ceedings with chants of "bor-ing." 
The game had moments of nervousness common in a championship setting. New England goalkeeper Matt Reis nearly allowed an early goal by misplaying a loose ball directly in front of the net, but otherwise the Revolution were the more settled team in the first half, dominating pos­session for long stretches. 
Jimmie Johnson wins second 
Nextel Cup Championship 
HOMESTEAD, Fla. -Totally calm and cool, Jimmie Johnson left the pre­race drivers' meeting Sunday afternoon flashing the peace sign at people wish­ing him luck. 
Two fingers. 
Two straight championships. 
Johnson became the first driver to win consecutive championships since Jeff Gordon in 1997 and '98, wrapping up the title by fmishing a trouble-free seventh in the season finale at Homestead-Miami Speedway. Matt Kenseth won the race. 
When it was over, he and crew chief Chad Knaus were already thinking about a third. 
"We're just really hitting our stride," Johnson said. "I think that we have a lot of good years ahead of us and we'll be fighting for more championships and certainly winning more races as the years go by, and hopefully be a three­time champion in the near future." 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 19, 2007 
NBA 

Magic hand Celtics their first defeat of season 
Stephen Jackson returns to Warriors after suspension, balanced scoring from starters helps defeat Raptors 
Associated Press 

OHLANJ>O, Fla. -The Boston 
Cnltks' hig thr·pp -and big :{­
point attack -come up short 
Sunday. 

Thn NBA's best-shooting 
team. tlw C1dtics found them­
selvns uncharacteristically 
down 20 points and still trailing 
af'tl'r t.hriH~ quarters. They came 
back and madn it elose, but 
Paul Pierce missed an ofT-bal­
ancl' jumpPr with time running 
out. and Orlando dealt Boston 
(X-I) its lirst loss. I 04-102. 

"We'rp not perf'ecl," said 
Kevin Garnett. who had 14 
points and II n~bounds. "We 
didn't think we wnre going to 
go X2-0. But we are a team of' 
character. WP do play hard. We 
c.lo P!.ay togethnr -just not per­
fed. 

<;arnett, Hay Allen and Pinrce w1we nach awraging 20 points. Only Pinrce topped the mark Sunday, seoring 28 points and knying SIWPral quick runs that brought Boston back. Allen lin­ished with I<J, but had just night points on 4-of'-12 shooting bef'om the fourth quarter. 
"We knew it was going to be a 
tough game on the road -two 
of thn top teams in the East 
right now," Pinree said. 

It was a chance for Orlando 
19-2) to show it deserved the 
confnrcnce's seeond-best 
record. Tlw Magic foreed 20 
Boston turnovers, shot 50.8 
percent and won despite the 
Celtks' 41-28 rebounding edge. 
Perhaps more importantly, they 
didn't collapse when Boston 
made a late run. 

It was the first time a team shot better than 50 percent against the Celtics and the first time Boston trailed at the half and entering the fourth quarter. 
Orlando was up as much as 20, but the Celtics chipped away in the third and fourth quarters. Mounting several small runs, Boston finally claimed its first lead -88-87 -halfway through the fourth on consecutive 3's by Eddie House and James Posey. 
"That's what I said to them after the game -'It's great, guys, that you answered the run again, but some nights it's OK to not let them have a run and just win the game, so I can live to 50,'" said Magic coach Stan Van Gundy. 
Two nights after beating Miami by one, the Celtics lost despite shooting 53.3 percent. 
The Magic went cold early in the fourth, missing five of their first seven shots and going four minutes without a field goal. Howard, swarmed reliably by two or three Celtic defenders on each touch, missed several free throws during the scoring drought. 
But the Celtics missed easy buckets too, and Jameer Nelson hit two free throws to put Orlando ahead 101-97 with 
1:28 loft. Lewis appeared to iee it 1:13 later with two more foul shots, but Hay Allen, who strug­gled from the field all night, drained a 3 with 7.7 seconds left to draw Boston to 103-102. 
Lewis made a free throw, Pierce's shot bounced off the rim and Howard grabbed the rebound to seal the win. 
"The biggest thing for our tnam was that last year when a team made a run we would kind of fold," Howard said. 

"This year, we're trying to stick 
to our game plan, and when 
teams make their run. just calm 
down. don't point fingers and 
stay focused." 

NPison had 18 points and six 
assists. IIndo Turkoglu had 16 
points and six rebounds and 
Keith Hogans scored 10. 

Hajon Hondo scored 18 for 
Boston on 8-of-9 shooting ­
including 14 in the second 
quartnr. 

T,he Celties, off to their best 
start since a 10-0 beginning to 
the 1972-73 season, weren't 
just winning, they were domi­
nating. Othnr than the Miami 
game and a thren-point over­
limn win over Toronto, Boston 
had won nach game by at least 
11. The Celtics' 15-point aver­age margin of' victory was a staggering six points better than tlw second-place Nuggets and llornets. 
"I thought wn matched up prntty good with them, but the main thing is we played good defense against them," Lewis said. 
The Celtics and Magic were the NBA's lif'th and sixth-best 3­point teams. but both struggled from long-range. Orlando was 7 -ol'-25, while Boston shot 4-of­16. 
Warriors 106, Raptors 100 

With Stephen Jackson back from suspension, the NBA's highest-scoring team has another valuable option. 
Jackson scored 17 points, Andris Biedrins had 15 points and 14 rebounds and the Golden State Warriors beat the Toronto Raptors on Sunday. 
"It was fun being back with my team, not only getting a win but being back with my family," Jackson said. "It feels real good." 
Baron Davis had 16 points. nine rebounds and seven assists to help Golden State win its second straight after opening the season with six consecutive losses. 
Kelenna Azubuike scored 16 points, and AI Harrington added 10 for Golden State, which saw all five starters reach double figures scoring. 
Despite the early struggles, the Warriors entered play Sunday leading the NBA in points per game. 
Jackson began the season by serving a seven-game suspen­sion, the result of his guilty plea to a felony charge of criminal recklessness for firing a gun outside an Indianapolis strip club in October 2006. 
"Sitting at home watching the team start off 0-6 was hard," Jackson said. "I couldn't really criticize or critique anybody because I wasn't there so I just had to try to learn from watch­ing from the sidelines and try to stay in shape as best as I could." 
With Jackson back, Warriors coaeh Don Nelson has another option besides Davis to spark his high-energy ofTense. 
"It's good to have Stephen Jackson back in our lineup," Nelson said. "We sure missed him. lie played over 40 minutes but I guess he's well rested." 
Davis also appreciates Jackson's help. 
"We have confidence in him running the offense and me fin­ishing on the back end," Davis said. Now I can be off the ball and I ean linish plays instead of starting and finishing." 
Forward Austin Croshere said 
the 6-foot-8 Jaekson presents 
matehup problems for most 
opponents. 

"Wn don't have a whole lot of guys on the team who can post up like he ean, draw a double­team as well as create off the dribble," Croshere said. "You have to be very awan~ of' Jack wherever he is on the floor. He makes things a little bit easier for guys on the perimeter or eutting to the basket." 
Nelson nxpects Golden State's ofTense to be even more potent once forward Matt Barnes recovers from a dislo­eated finger and second-year guard Monta Ellis improves his passing. 
"It makes it so mueh easier for me as a coaeh," Nelson said. "It gives me more ways to initi­ate the ofl'ense, more guys who can be in a seoring position." 
T.J. Ford seored 29 points for the Haptors (5-5), who have won just twice in six tries at home this season. Ford added eight assists and six rebounds. 
"lin's a handful." Nelson said of Ford. "lie's as dose to (Steve) Nash as anyone I've seen." 
Andrea Bargnani scored 12 points and Chris Bosh had 11 points and 10 rebounds for Toronto. 
Golden State trailed 88-80 after three quarters, but opened the fourth with an 11-3 run that tied it at 91 with 6:39 remaining. 
"We made a spurt at the right time and they dido't," Nelson said. 
Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza 
Interested in IRELAND? Want to study in IRELAND? Want 'to work in IRELAND? 
Information meeting 

GREAT HALL, O'SHAG Tuesday, 27 Nov., 2007 8:00-9:00 pm 
Faculty will be available to answer your questions about courses in Irish Language and Literature and Irish Studies and about the MINOR IN IRISH LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE and the MllVOR IN IRISH STUDIES. 
Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza 
Sponsored by the Departmellt ofIrish Language alld Literature and the Keough-Naughton Jm;titute for Irish Studies 

Monday, November 19, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

!'''''''''''''''''____________,,,•••••••••••••••••••••• ···········--·-····················-··········-······························..·················································································-· ......................................---····-·······--····························-..···-···•····················································-········-·-····-··--·-················-·············-· 
NEW [SPRING 2008] 

POVERTY STUDIES INTERDIS IPLIN RY 
0 
Gain knowledge of how policies, 8 Provide aformal foundation for C) Provide an interdisciplinary context Understand 
how your future civic and structures, and systems cause and your experiences in commur~lty for your personal interactions with political activity and professional alleviate poverty and diminish and engagement, service·leaming, low·income populations and the wolii-in almost any area·will affect foster human capability. and/or cummunity·based research. institutiuns that serve them. on disadvantaged poople and 
cummunities. 

I. 
~UNIVERSITY OF
ENROLL FOR SPRING 2008 PS:l0000/20000 Introduction .to P?y~rtt Studies 
~NOTRE DAME 
FOR INFORMATION AND REQUIREMENTS: .. nd:ed~Uf:p~~~;;ty··~T~~~~i~k@nd:;d';:;'"'~;·b~~'ktn~-n@nd:;;_j"~ 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 19, 2007 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish take 10 of 16 events in second-straight win 
By CHRIS DOYEN Spons Writer 

The Irish mPn worn abln to (~apturn llwir sneond straight dual nwPt victory Friday. dPI'nat­ing Clnwland State 171-124 at tho Holl's Aquatic Center. 
Tlw win eanw in convincing l'ashion, as tlw Irish took first in the op(ming !'our evnnts en route to winning I 0 ol' tlw 16 events. 
.Junior Jpff Wood, sophomore Boss MoorP. junior Sam J>PnciPrgast and sophomorn John l.ytl(~ got things startPd f(>r Notre Damn. taking first in tho 200­yard nwdh•y rPlay with a limP ol' I ::l2.75. LytiP was instrumnntal in tlw victory. Prasing tho lnad hPid by CIPwland Statu coming out of llw final turn. Lvtln addnd another first-plan~ firiish in tim 50-yard l'rPPstyiP, boating out CIPwland Statp's StPvnn GrovP by rwarly a half'-sPrond at 21.04. 
Moon• also look first in llw 200-yard lly. whiiP J>PrHinrgast linishml spwrul in tlw 100-yard backstrokP. Wood srorml points by finishing third in tlw 200­yard and 500-yard l'rnnstyln nvnnts. 
TIH• Irish dorninat<•d tlw 1.000­yard fh~Pstyl<'. taking l'our of the top fivP spots. with freshman MidHtPI Sullivan finishing first. A similar pprf(,rrnarwn camn in tlw 200-yard frnnstylP, wlwn sopho­more MacKPnzin LeBlanc won and frnshman Steven Brus fin­islwd in fourth to join Wood in scoring points fi>r the Irish. 
Notre Dame also swept the top-thrne positions in the 1on­yard backstroke and 500-yard freestyle. Freshman Christoplwr Wills finished first in the 100­yard backstroke with a limn of 52.26, while freshman .Joshua Nosal and junior Bill Bauman tied fi>r second in 53.53. Sullivan won the 500-yard fn~nstyle in 
4:40.97. Nosal took second in 
4:42.76 and Wood finished third in 4:4(~,69. 
Irish divers turned in domi­nant performances, sweeping the lop-three positions in both tho 1-mnter and 3-motnr diving nvnnts. s~mior Sam Stoner won tlw 1-nwtPr event with a scorn ol' :l 12.:lO. while freshman Erie Lnx and junior Michael Bulfin fin­ishml senmd and third, rnspec­tivPiy. Bulfln took the :l-mntnr PVPnl. sroring 347.30. Stmwr linishml second and Lex finislwd third. 
The win moved the Irish n~conl against the Vikings to 24­10 all timn, and 21-2 undnr eur­n•nt lwad coach Tim Welsh. 
Tlw Irish hope to ride th n momPnttlln from two straight wins into the Ohio StatP Invitational, whieh will run from Nov. :w to Dee. 2. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 


NO VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dan1e exits Big East tournan1ent with Louisville loss 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 

Notrn Dame fell in the Big East tournanwnt Saturday to Louisville in the semifinals­a tmun the Irish beat a week ago. 
Af'tnr posting a 3-1 (30-26, 30-24, 23-30, 30-24) victory against firth-seed Cincinnati in the quarterf'inals, the fourth-seeded Irish dropped a 3-0 (30-25, 30-20. 30-27) dt~dsion to the top-speednd Cardinals to be eliminated from postseason play. 
Just six days aftnr losing to Notre Dame by a 3-1 score, the Cardinals got their revnnge by knocking out Notrn Dame for the second straight yt~ar. After leading the first game by an 18-17 
"I Louisville I did change their lineup a little bit against us," sophomore out­side hitter Megan Fest said. "They really took advantage of their really dominant, really tall outside hitters that could hit right over our block. I think the last week­end when we played them, they might have underesti­mated us a little bit. This weekend, they just out­matelwd us." 
Freshman middle blocker Kellie Sciacca led the Irish with a .623 percentage that resulted in 14 kills. Senior captain Adrianna Stasiuk and Fesl checked in with 15 and 11 kills, respectively. 
.Junior outside hitter Tatyana Kolesnikova, senior middl(~ blocker Svetlana Dukule and junior outside 
tally, Notre Dame never got momen­tum back on its sidn. 
Louisville 
( 2 2 -6 ) 
ripped ofT a t:l-7 run to elaim game one. Thn next two ganws were morn of the samn for Notre l>anw; af'tnr thn five­point mark or those 

"/ think that the match against Cincinnati will always be an emotional match for me because I'm playing against my sister. I think that had a lot to do with my individual play. but as a team, everything was really clicking." 
Megan Fesl Irish outside hitter 
hitter .lana Matiasovska combined for 42 kills from the Louisville side of the net. Junior outside hitter Rui Liu led the Cardinals with 11 digs, while sopho­more setter Samantha Dabbs con­tributed with 46 helpers. 
The win against Cincinnati 
games, the Irish rwvnr mus­(I S-1 I) on Friday oxtondod terPd a lnad. Louisville out­tlw Irish winning stroak to hlo(~kPd and out-hit thn Irish. f'ivo matches. After tho first Thn tall ins W<'re I:~ to 4 ganw. whore the Irish worn b I or k s and .:{ 6 ;{ to .2 4 4 in always slightly ahead or hitting JWrcPntagn. Cincinnati, they found thorn-
selves down by a count of 16­18 in the second game. Notre Dame then capitalized on Bearcats mistakes and Fesl scored four kills in a row to dose the game out on a 14-6 Irish run. 
Game three completely turned the momentum toward Cincinnati as the Bearcats out-hit the Irish .300 to .111 in a game where the Bearcats held a 22-12 lead at one point. However, game four turned back to the Irish as they took an early four-point lead. Fesl finished off the match with her 21st kill. 
Along with the work from Fesl, Notre Dame (14-13) was led by double-doubles from its two seniors -Stasiuk and setter Ashley Tarutis. Stasiuk had 20 kills on a .368 aver­age while notching 17 digs. Tarutis had 50 assists and 14 digs of her own. 
Cincinnati was led by 19 kills from freshman outside hitter Stephanie Niemer. Megan Fesl's sister, freshman setter Annie Fesl, helped with 51 assists. 
"I think that the match against Cincinnati will always be an emotional match for me because I'm playing against my sister" Megan Fesl said. "I think that had a lot to do with my indi­vidual play, but as a team, everything was roally click­ing." 
The Irish travel to Tennessee to take on the Volunteers for their season finale Friday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 
Tha~tk..~~vi"5-fo-Jo li~f: 
1. WJte-h ~ fi'V21d(';, 2. ~a+ -fvYke:-1
) . Take-nap 
'f· Work. on ~c-hoo/ app~ 
5. ~volt in fe~t prep! 

Enroll in November and save S125! 
We're celebrating the Thanksgiving season by offering you H7.5 off our comprehensive courses for the GMAT, GRE, LSAT, MCAT, DAT, OAT, or PCAT.' Just enroll between November 19th and November 30'"! 
Classes Are Filling Quickly! 
Don't miss this chance to prep for less! Caii1·800-KAP-TEST or visit kaptest.com to learn more. 
1-800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com I( A pI A N) TEST PREP AND 
:..::.:..:.:... ADMISSIONS 



-----------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------, 
Monday, November 19, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Gray takes 38th in Chatnpionships 
Despite i111prove111ent, 
team championship, while
By MATT GAMBER Willamette's Sarah Zerzan took 
Sports Writer 
home the meet's top individual honors with a time of 20:54. 
Megan Gray closed out her Saint Gray, who battled through a Mary's career with a bang series of injuries during her first Saturday, finishing in 38th plaee at two years at St. Mary's, certainly 
the Division III  made her mark  
National  on  a  rapidly  
Championships, held at St. Olafs  "[Gray's! road to  improving Belles program over  
in  Northfield,  success was never  her four years.  
Minn. Gray improved nearly 1 00 places from her 133rd­ an easy one, but it was one marked with faith, trust,  She became the first Saint Mary's runner to be named to the  
plat~o fmish at last  persistance and a lot  all-MIAA  first  
year's Nationals, and her time of  ofhard work. "  team and qualify  to for  
22:21 put her just two seconds  Jackie Bauters  Nationals, and she helped lead  
behind  Calvin  Belles coach  the  squad,  
College's  which she cap- 
Christina  tained,  to  a  

Overbeck, the runner with whom school-best fourth-place MIM fin­Gray hoped to remain close during ish this season. the six-kilometer race. "Her road to success was never 
Amherst captured the national an easy one, but it was one 
SMC SWIMMING 
Maxwell, who took the title in
Belles vvin first conference 111atchup 
the 200-yard breaststroke and 
By MARIE BUGNITZ Sports Writer 
Winning 134-100, Saint Mary's defeated Albion in its first meet against a confer­ence opponent this season. 
Captain Melissa Gerbeth who won all three of her indi­vidual events, contributed to the win, as well as Lauren Hartman, Casey Niezer, Caroline Arness and Maggie Williams who all won one of their events. 
Gerbeth said the victory shed a positive light on the rest of the season. 
"I am excited to see how the rest of the season unfolds. We currently have a 4-1 record, which is a great start to the season, especially com­pared to previous years," she said. "Based on the rest of our schedule, we should win a couple more meets and hope­fully everyone's times will keep improving." 
marked with faith, trust, persist­
Irish drop tvvo 111eets
ence and a lot of hard work," said 
coach Jackie Bauters, who has developed a close relationship with By JARED JEDICK Gray during their time together. "I 
Sports Writer 
could not be more proud or happy for her to have achieved every­thing she has over her career, and 
Notre Dame showed signifi­especially this year." 
cant improvement but still lost Though the Belles will certainly 
its dual meets to Northwestern miss Gray, who has led the Saint 
and No. 16 Wisconsin this Mary's pack in every race over the 
weekend at Norris Pool in past two seasons, they look to 
Evanston, Ill. remain strong next year with the 
The Irish fell 208-162 to return of current freshmen Sam 
Northwestern and 218-151 to Wieczorek, Catie Salyer and Oaire 
Wisconsin, dropping to 1-5 in McVey, along with current sopho­
dual meets this season. It was more Megan McClowry and sen­
Notre Dame's first meeting ior-to-be Caitlin Brodmerkel, a 
with the Badgers and eighth captain this season. 
meeting with the Wildcats, who "Megan has been a driving force 
have a 5-3 advantage in the in our program, especially in the 
all-time series. past two years," Bauters said. "She 
"We got in a big hole yester­has been a huge asset to our pro­
day and the girls worked really gram and is definitely a class act." 
hard to bring it home tonight," coach Carrie Nixon said. "Our Contact Matt Gamber at 
girls swam some really great mgamber@nd.edu 
races tonight, despite having a slow start to the whole meet. 
Wisconsin is a really tough team so we were up against tough competition." 
Highlighting the weekend for the Irish was freshman Sam 
100-yard breaststroke. Maxwell's 2:15.65 time in the Beating Albion was a huge 
200-yard breaststroke and win for the Belles, the captain 
1:03.31 time in the 100-yard said. 
breaststroke were both season 
"We knew that it was going 
bests for Maxwell and the to be a close meet so we were 
Irish. all very happy to win," 
Freshman Amywren Miller Gerbeth said. "The confidence 
finished third in the 100-yard of our team improves with 
breaststroke in 1:05.46, Notre each win, which is fun to see." 
Dame's second-best time on The Belles will next compete 
the season. in the DePauw Invitation after 
In the 1,650-yard freestyle, Thanksgiving break. 
sophomore Lexie Shue and 
freshman Lauren Sylvester fin-Contact Marie Bugnitz at 
mbugnitz@nd.edu 
ished in the No. 2 and 3 slots, respectively. It was the first time Notre Dame participated in the 1,650-yard freestyle this season. Shue finished with a time of 16:47.67, and Sylvester ended in 16:51.76. 
Freshman Lauren Parisi fin­ished third in the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 
2:01.15. This was also a sea­son best for both Parisi and the Irish. 
Junior Christa Riggins reached a personal season­best, taking second in the 100­yard freestyle with a time of 
51.15. Riggins also finished second in the 200-yard freestyle with a 1:50.62 time. 
The diving half of the team put up impressive numbers. Sophomore Natalie Stitt took second in the one-meter diving competition with a score of 275.55, falling just short of Northwestern leader Leanne Dumais, who scored a 278.80. Notre Dame freshman Heidi Grossman and senior Laura Rings also finished in the top five, placing third and fifth, respectively. 
The Irish hope to get a little rest this week after a long stretch of tough competition. 
"We've had a lot of meets in a row here so having next week off will be great," Nixon said. "The girls are a little beat down and each meet we've had this fall has been really tough so week after week they're swimming as hard as they can." 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Smyth leads team to Tournament bid 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
Junior Patrick Smyth will take his Great Lakes Regional crown to Terre Haute, Ind., 
today,  in  the  NCAA  
Championships  at  Indiana  
State.  

Smyth is coming off the first NCAA Regional title for an Irish runner since 2000, when current voluntcer assistant coach Luke Watson took first in the region. Hot on Smyth's heels in the regional meet was senior Jake Watson, who earned an automatic bid to the NCAA Championships along with Smyth by virtue of his fourth-place finish. 
After finishing one spot away from a guaranteed berth in the Championships in the regional meet, tille entire Irish team received one of 13 at-large bids distributed by the NCAA. 
Joining Smyth and Watson will be seniors Brett Adams, Dan Curran and Mike Popejoy, freshman Dan Jackson and sophomore Jake Walker. 
Adams, Smyth, Walker and Watson all have some NCAA experience ,under their belts after competing for the Irish in last year's meet. The team lin­ished 19th overall last year, while Smyth finished 36th overall en route to earning All­America honors for the first time in his career. 
Michigan and Wisconsin are the teams from the Great Lakes Region who received automatic bids into the nation­al meet, while two other regional foes, Indiana and Ohio State, also received at-large bids. 
The Irish have run in Terre Haute already this season. At the Pre-National Meet on Oct. 13, they finished fifth overall in a field that consisted of several teams that the Irish will face today. In that race, Notre Dame finished behind UTEP, Colorado, North Carolina State and Michigan. The Irish will get another crack at all of those teams in today's meet. 
Individually at the Pre­National Meet, Smyth and Watson posted top-20 finishes, with Smyth placing fifth and Watson finishing 17th. While the site is the same, today's race is 2.000 meters longer than the 8k event run at the Pre-National Meet and is set to begin at noon. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 19, 2007 
10-2 run that made the score 2:16 until guard Melissa 
It was just execution that was 31-26 with 3:56left in the half. Lechlitner sank a jump shot 
the problem." 
WNIT 
Perfect 

freshman forward Becca with 11:27 left. 
The second half saw another continued from page 24 Bruszewski and guard Lindsay Three-point shots by Toliver 
continued from page 24 long Keenan drive that went Schrader each hit jump shots and a four-point play by guard 
7 3 yards in 14 plays before any way, and she is very impres­down the stretch, but Notre i\shleigh Newman helped 
The game started off slowly, Stanford freshman inside line­sive to watch. Whether we were Dame went into the half down extend the Terrapins' lead to 20 
when Keenan recorded the backer Colin McNamara in zonn, man or box, it didn't 38-32. with 4:11 remaining. Jump 
only first down in the first picked off a Castello pass on matter what we did. She was Toliver had 11 points at the shots from Peters and Allen 
quarter on a nine-yard scam­the first play of the fourth going to score." half and had made 4-of-7 field­helped narrow the margin, but 
per by freshman quarterback quarter. Terrapins coach Brenda Frese goal attempts, including three of the Irish couldn't close the gap. 
Brian Castello. After a three­After holding the Griffins to a said shll was happy with her live 3-pointers. Notre Dame finished the game 
and-out to begin the second three-and-out, Keenan got the Toliver's play and eager to see "My teammates were running shooting 44.4 percent from the 
quarter, the Knights pinned ball back on the Stanford 4 7­where she would take the team. the floor really well for me," foul line and 36 percent from 
Stanford on its own 27-yard yard line, but were forced to "We're exeited to see the level Toliver said. "I think that made the field. 
line. It was here that the punt aftnr making just one first that Kristi is playing at, where it able for me to have easy pass­"Defensively, to be able to hold 
Griflins struck. down. It looked like the she's looking in transition, how es. Our post players are the best such a great team like Notre 
After getting a first down, Griffins would finally seal the unsnlfish she's being and the players in the country, so to be Dame to 36 percent from the 
Stanford quarterback Brian deal, but an interception by way shn steps up to shoot the able to go inside-out and have field .... We were just very excit­
Salvi hit freshman wide receiv­Wood gave the Knights the ball ball," Frnsn said. "Since we've wide open shots makes my job ed with what we were able to 
er Torn Smith on a 43-yard with 2:30 left in the game on tippnd ofT the season, she's been easy." do," Frese said. 
bomb, putting the Griffins at the Stanford 37-yard line. At on anothnr level, and it's nxcit­Terrapins guard Laura Harper In contrast, Maryland shot 
the Keenan 2-yard line. Salvi this point, senior captain Hob ing to sen her lead this team." pulled down eight rebounds in 47.4 percent from field-goal 
said after the game that the Iluth and the rnst of his Maryland forward Marissa the first half alone. She finished range and hit nine of their 10 
play -a play-action with a Stanford teammates had plen­Coleman hit four-of-seven from the game with 13. foul shots. 
fake reverse -worked just as ty of rnason to fen) uneasy. But bnhind tlw arc on a night when "Hebounding was something The Irish turned the ball over 
he'd planned it. Huth said this was nothing Maryland shot (JO percent from that we were worried about, only three times in the game. 
"We set it up earlier in the new. 3-point rango. kneping them off the boards," McGraw said her oll"ense played 
game," Salvi said. "We knew it "We've won with defense all "I really likPd to see where we McGraw said. well but her defense left some­
was going to work because year," he said. ''I'll put our understood the ganw plan," Schrader and freshman for­thing to be desired. 
their safety !bit( on the defense out then~ against any­Fn~se said. "In the first half, the ward Devereaux Peters each "We didn't have many 
reverse. As soon as I turned body. I knew we'd get the stop. perimdnr play, tho way wn had 10 points by halftime. turnovers," McGraw said. "We 
around, I knew I had !Smith!." (Our( back (was( kind of to the wnre shooting from thn 3-point Maryland started the second took good care of the ball, we 
Stanford needed just one wall. but when we've had our linn." half by hitting two quick threes, did a lot of the things we wanted 
play to capitalize on the big backs to the wall we've done NotrP DamP kept tlw game one by Coh~man and the other to do offensively. But we still 
gain when senior running back ":ell thi~ ye:~r, so I really was­dosn in tho first half and took a by guard Marah Strickland. A 9-have a lot of work to do defen­
Tregg Duerson crossed the n t worrwd. 24-21 lead when guard Chan~! 2 Terps scoring run, capped by sively and that was probably our 
goal line. The defense came through /\linn sank a layup with 7:32 a Toliver layup, gave Maryland biggest issue." 
Down 7-0. the Knights began as sophomore cornerback r«'maining in the first half. At a 59-43 lead with 14:4:3 to go in 
a comeback attempt. On the Chris Gill intercepted a that point. a 3-pointnr from the game. Neither team would Contact Bill Brink at 
second play of the drive, Castello pass intended for Cokman snnt the Tnrrapins on a make a field goal for the next wbrink@nd.edu 
Castello hooked up with senior Wood inside the live-yard line 
receiver Jon Wood for a 42-to elineh the title for thn 
yard pass, putting his team in Grillins. 
of a Western Michigan defense­the slot on his stomach. 
position to score at the "!We knew] we couldn't let man and deflected over Gill's "I rolled around the corner, kind 
Stanford 24-yard line. After a anything behind us," Gill said.
Sweep 

shoulder. of got hooked a little bit," Thang 
10-yard run by senior fullbaek "We needed to keep everything Irish right wing Erik Condra and said. "On my first shot attempt it 
Joe Pappas, however, the in front of us, make the tack­
continued from page 24 

eenter Mark Van Guilder then kind of fell over, but the puck wa<; 
Knights' drive stalled. les, kenp them in bounds, keep sive zone c:ovPrage." each beat Gill in the last five min­still there so I took another whack 
With 1:40 left in the half. the clock running. If you could The sweep allowed the third­utlls of the second period on the at it." 
Keenan decided to go for it on make a play, don't take a placP Irish to keep pace with No. 1 power play to pad the Notrc1 Dame Western Michigan tied the game 
a fourth-and-three from thn chance, but step up and make Miami and No. 2 Michigan in tho lead to 4-1. Condra beat Gill over at 1-1 with 57 seconds left in the 
Stanford 7 -yard line. Castnllo it and end the game." conference standings, who are his blocker on a shot from the low first when Broncos center Mike 
hit junior Jim Zenker in the With the game over, and the f(nJr and two points. respeetivnly, loft slot, while Van Guilder wristed Lesperance skated down the right 
end zone for what would have championship and chapel won, alwad of Notrl' Damn, nac:h having the puck through trallie and the side unchallenged and stepped 
been the game-tying score, but Huth said this was the perfect lost only once this season. live-hole for the goal. around a diving Pearce to slide the 
the play was called back for ending to Stanford's perfect The Irish were dc~adloc:ked at 1-"Up until a couple weeks ago, we puck in. 
offensive holding and after a season. 1 aller the first period, despite out­were all out there, kind of thinking On Saturday night, Irish fresh­
botched fake field goal, the "It feels awesome to walk shooting the Broncos 11-6, but a a little bit too much. trying to fig­man left wing Calle Hidderwall 
half ended. away from this, the last time three-goal sneond period with a ure out the system," Van Guilder scored the first goal of his career, 
While he credited his oppo­the seniors put the pads on 15-:3 shot advant.age put the gamn said. "But I think it's starting to which tied the game at 1-1 in the 
nents, sophomore captain Pat [with a win,]'' Iluth said. "This away. eome now. it's starting to come first period, en route to the 5-1 
Burns said the Knights' multi­feels great for everybody, we VnNard sc:ornd the fhurth goal of together. We got lines that are win. The Irish outshot the Broncos 
ple missed opportunities fell put a lot of hard work in this his earner and second this season starting to get comfortable togeth-27-11 and scored their third 
mainly on themselves. season. I feel like a lot of peo­when he ripped a shot from the er." power play goal of the weekend on 
"Stanford's defense stepped ple underestimated us all sea­point past Broncos goaltender Irish right wing Ryan Thang put a second-period goal from Thang. 
up when they had to," he said. son, didn't give us our due, but Hiley Gill at 2:16 of the second the Irish up 1-0 at 10:41 of the first 
"Obviously our offensive line we went out here and proved period fi1r the 2-1 lead. VeNard's period when he took a shot to the Contact Kyle Cassily at 
did everything they could. today by beating !Keenan] shot W(L<; (ow, but it hit ofl" the stick glove side while sprawled out in kcassily@nd.edu 
Every once in a while again that we're the best team [Stanford called] the right blitz in Interhall this year." at the right time but there's still no excuse for us not scor­Contact Griffin Dassatti at 
The teams traded three-and­terback Jenny Gargula said. 
ing that close to the goal line. gdassatt@nd.edu
out<> until Cavanaugh received the The Chaos defense had different 
Chaos 

ball on its own 26-yard line and plans, though, shutting out Welsh continued from page 24 procned11d to rip oil' a dock-killing Family's prolific offense. 11-play touchdown drive. With "[Cavanaugh's] defense did a backer Jjzzy Brown. eheers of "Dunn for Heisman" great job," Whirlwinds coach Mike 
"We had two opportunities at echoing from the Cavanaugh fans, Kaiser said. ''I've got to give a lot the goal linn, and we just didn't the junior led the Chaos down the of credit to their defensive line." c:apitalizn," Welsh Family <L<;sistant field and completed thron passes After the game, Land also coach Mark Mihallo said. "We fi1r 31 yards, including a 14-yard praised his defense. muldn't punrh it in." strike to Dolan on fourth and goal. "They were flying around and 
Cavanaugh muldn't take advan­The Chaos convertnd the extra doing a great job of getting to the tage of tlwir big stops. It puntnd point and took a commanding 14-ball," Land said. thn ball and turned it over on 0 lead with two minutes left to A<> the Chaos celebrated on the downs on its only two first-half play. Notre Dame Stadium field, Welsh possc~ssions and the teams ended Welsh Family completnd three Family was left to think about tlw lirst half in a seowlnss tin. long passes on their final drive what went wrong. 
At hall"time. the Chaos got a and moved the ball to the "We did it to ourselves," Gargula hug11 monwntum boost when a Cavanaugh 14-yard line. It was said. "!Cavanaugh] didn't do any­fnw nwrn hnrs of thn marehi ng too little. too late, though, li1r the thing dillcrent, w~~ just didn't play hand arrivPd. instrunwnts in Whirlwinds. and the dock expired to our potential." hand. to inspire Cavanaugh's on their eorneback. Despite the loss, tho Whirlwinds aln~ady raucous fims. Arter thn win, the Cavanaugh r(lmained optimistic about next 
"I think thP fitns snt us apart," fans charged the field, circling season, with several key players, Dunn said. "Look at it, we have around their team and chanting most notably Gargtlia, returning. p rn t~7 mu c: h our who In dorm "Dunn" as the band played the "We're going to come back next hern. llrl2 Ovnrturn. year to finish it ofl"," Gargula said. 
Cavanaugh canw out for the The Whirlwind playnrs, mean­Cavanaugh also looks to field a snc:ond half fin•d up and rnarchnd while, huddlc~d in the eorner of' the strong team next year. Dunn, down tlw liPid on its first drivP. field. For tlw second year in a along with many others, will be Dunn eompiPtnd f(nlr passes f(n· row, Welsh Family ran up an back to def(md their title. 26 yards. and senior Tarah Brown undelimtnd mgular snason only to "We'll definitely be strong," ruslwd tlw ball thrnn times f(,r 15 fall in the playolls. Last year, the Land said. "But we're a deep yards. ( ln third and goal from the Whirlwinds were upset in tho team. We'll lose some players, but ninP-yard linP, Dunn f(lund Dolan sPmifinals. others will step in." in the right side of the end zone "Aller lao;t year, we said that we for a touchdown and a 7-0 Chaos wnren 't going to let that happen Contact Sam Werner at lead. again," Whirlwinds junior quar-swerner@nd.edu 


..... 
Monday, November 19, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
UConn 
continued from page 24 
the Huskies. Akeem Priestly took the kick and Arad head­ed it inside the near post for the early lead. 
Arad stuck again less than 10 minutes later. This time sophomore Mike Pezza took the corner kick, sending a ball to the far post where Arad was waiting for the goal. Pezza led the nation in assists during the regular season with 15. 
"It's not what I tried to do this season, I tried to work hard, win balls, do the other stuff," Arad said. "I was lucky, but the most important thing is that we won." 
The senior midfielder start­ed all 20 games in the regu­lar season for the Huskies without scoring a goal but scored three this weekend, including one in Connecticut's 4-1 semifinal win over Louisville. Arad was named to the All-tournament team and also won the Most Outstanding Offensive Player Award. 
Connecticut opened up a two-goal lead in the last meeting between the two teams Oct. 27. That game, which was in South Bend, ended in a 3-3 tie, but this time around Notre Dame was unable to mount a comeback. 
"Their goalkeeper had a couple big saves at key moments in the game. If he doesn't bring these saves, you know the whole game revolves around goals, but full marks to him for that," Clark said. 
Notre Dame was able to increase the pressure in the second half with five shots on net, but Connecticut fresh­man goalkeeper Josh Ford was ready for each one. 
"The environment helped us, being at home with out field and all our fans behind us," Ford said. 
Ford made a diving safe to deny freshman Jeb Brovsky with 10 minutes left in the first half and several more in the second. He was named the tournament's Most Outstanding Defensive Player, allowing only one goal in three tournament games. 
Senior Chris Cahill started 
the game in net for the Irish but he was replaced in the second half by junior Andrew Quinn. 
"We felt we wanted to play further up the field and Quinn has better feet," Clark said. "He did very well, it was nothing on Chris Cahill, more that Quinn just has excellent feet." 
Quinn made a series of good saves to keep the game in reach, while the Irish looked to pour on the pres­sure in the second half. 
Clark also moved Lapira back to outside midfield and worked Brovsky, Kurt Martin and Tamba Samba in the two forward spots in an attempt to create more chances up front. 
The plan seemed to work when Samba poked one in with a little under five min­utes left on the clock, but the goal was disallowed because Ford had controlled the ball before Samba pried it free for the shot. 
Notre Dame 2, DePaul 1 
No. 11 Notre Dame hung on to a slim lead through an action-packed second half Friday night to advance to the Big East finals with a 2-1 win over No. 19 DePaul at Connecticut's Morrone llield. 
The Irish jumped out to an early lead when sophomore Michael Thomas netted his second goal of the year in the fourth minute. Thomas one­touched a cross from fresh­man Steven Perry and lofted it into the top right corner. 
Perry, who was making his first collegiate start, also picked up his first career points with the assist. Freshmen have played a big role in both of Notre Dame's conference tournament wins this year -forward Josh Thiermann scored the team's lone goal in a 1-0 win over St. John's in the quarterfinal round. 
Perry got the start to give senior forward Joseph Lapira some rest to make sure he was ready to go for the rest of the game. 
"Perry did very well," Clark said. "We wanted to spare Joe [Lapira]'s legs a little bit. It was quite nice." 
The strategy paid off as Lapira pitched in with his team-leading seventh goal in the 67th minute to give Notre Dame a 2-0 lead. Senior Alex Yoshinaga started the play with a shot on net. The rebound bounced to the front of the net and Lapira was in position for the easy finish. 
Lapira.. who was named to the All-Big East first team Thursday night, sparked an aggressive Irish attack all game. He created chance after chance for his team­mates throughout the second half. 
DePaul goalkeeper Brian Visser made several spectac­ular saves to keep the Blue Devils in the game until the very end. Visser was named the Big East goalkeeper of the year Thursday night. 
"He's an excellent goal­keeper," Clark said. "He put on a great show tonight with a few very good saves and handled things well." 
The junior made a diving save in the 82nd minute to highlight his performance, robbing what looked to be a game-clinching goal from Yoshinaga. 
DePaul had scored eight minutes earlier to move within one goal. Sophomore midfielder Erich Reichmann ripped a shot from 30 yards out that sailed past Irish keeper Chris Cahill. 
The Blue Devils kept the pressure on until the final whistle but were unable to produce any more threaten­ing chances. 
Notre Dame was able to use the 33-degree tempera­ture and high winds to their advantage. The Irish have played several of their last games under cold and windy conditions. 
"I thought we handled the game well, getting the ball down and playing," Clark said. "We made some very good chances." 
Note: 
+Senior midfielder Ryan Miller was also selected to the All-Big East first team. Junior defender Matt Besler and Cahill were named to the second team, senior forward Kurt Martin and junior defender Jack Traynor made the third team and freshman defender Matt Armstrong picked up an honorable men­tion. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Illini 
continued from page 24 
however, didn't prevent the Irish from getting scoring chances. 
Minutes into the game, for­ward Kerri Hanks touched the ball to Amanda Cinalli, who replaced Bock at forward. Cinalli touched the ball over to forward Michele Weissenhofer, who dribbled her way into the six-yard box and fired a point­blank shot, but keeper Lindsey Carstens fell to her left and made the save. 
Weissenhofer scored with 
18:26 left in the first half when midfielder Amanda Clark played a through-ball to Cinalli down the right side. 
"It was a really good ball through by AC, she just stepped on the field and tried to make an impact and she did," Cinalli said. "She half. 
Illinois put more pressure on the Irish in the second half and kept the ball in its attacking third for most of the period. The Illini pressure over­whelmed the Irish defense, but Notre Dame did not allow a goal. 
"I was a little disappointed in our composure in the 20 min­utes," Waldrum said. "I don't think we handled it very well." 
Weissenhofer said that the extra man Illinois brought into the attacking third caused the Irish problems. 
"We had to figure that out and put more people on the back," she said. "We just want­ed to get the ball cleared out as fast as possible. There's things we need to work on def­initely for next weekend, but we got it done." 
The defense looked flustered at times and struggled to keep up with Illinois' attack. But Waldrum said the difficulty 
stepped in and they had may
"You've got to be 
won that ball." aid them against
pleased that you're
The Illini North Carolina. defense blocked able to win at this "Maybe you Cin alii's shot, need that kind
level without one of 
b u t of a game,
your key players."
Weissenhofer where. things followed the aren't going the play, found the Randy Waldrum whole time your rebound in way," Waldrum
Irish coach 
front of the net and put her shot past Carstens to give Notre Dame a 1-0 lead. 
"I folllowed to the ball and just placed it," Weissenhofer said. "Actually there was one just like it earlier in the half that I missed, so it was nice that that one went in." 
In the final 10 minutes of the half, the offense started to set up offensive plays, control the ball in the offensive third and create scoring chances. 
With three minutes remain­ing before the break, Illinois midfielder Jackie Santacaterina positioned her­self in front of the net and headed the ball toward the right side of the goal, but Irish keeper Lauren Karas dove to her right to make the save. 
With 1:2 8 to go in the half, Hanks attempted to cross the ball from the right side into the center of the box. The cross deflected off Illinois defender Emily Zurrer and past an unsuspecting Carstens for an own-goal and a 2-0 Irish lead heading into the 
said. "I think 

the positive out of it is as much havoc as they created, I don't think Lauren had much to do. Even as busy as it was around her and in front of her, she didn't really have to come up with any big saves." 
In the absence of Bock, Waldrum moved Cinalli to the forward spot and started Rebecca Mendoza at midfield. The loss of Bock hurt, Waldrum said, but it showed his team's true ability. 
"You've got a player with fourteen goals sitting on the bench, and that takes a lot away from your team," Waldrum said. "You've got to be pleased that you're able to win at this level without one of your key players." 
Waldrum said Mendoza han­dles the ball well and provides stability in the midfield. 
"People look at her size and things and don't expect much from her but she really is a calming effect on our team," Waldrum said of the 5-foot-2 Mendoza. 
Bock and Hanks ensured that the Irish reached the sec­ond round of the tournament with their performances in Notre Dame's 3-0 win over Loyola-Chicago on Friday. Bock scored two goals and Hanks assisted all three. 
With 7:06 remaining in the first half, midfielder Amanda Clark crossed the ball to Hanks on the far side. Hanks headed it across the box to Bock, who controlled it and put it past the keeper for a 1-0 lead. 
Hanks had her 11th corner kick assist with 32:04 left in the second half. Her kick hung in the center of the box for center back Carrie Dew, who charged up the middle of the field and headed the ball into the eenter of the net to score her sixth career goal and put the Irish up 2-0. 
Less than two minutes later, Hanks passed to Bock on the right side of the field. Bock crossed the ball back to the left, past the charging keeper into the left side of the net. 
Notre Dame plays North Carolina at noon on Nov. 24 in Chapel Hill, N.C. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 19, 2007 
MEN'S SOCCER COMMENTARY 
Clark n1isused Lapira vs. UConn 
Wlwn Notm Dame went down 2-0 to Connecticut after 30 minutes in the Big East linal. odds wPre against the Irish making a comebar.k. The lluskies' ddimse has been onn of the stingiest in not just t.lw Big East. hut the nnt.ire nation, t.his seas011 eonc!'ding only 12 goals in 20 ganws entering Sunday's match. 
I lowever, whatevnr chance Notre Dame had of corning hack to tie or win the game likely rest.Pd on the boots or Joe Lapira. NotrP Dame's most explosive oiTtHlsivn play­er -and last year's IIermann Trophy winner-was tlw player who seored two goals knying the Irish eonwback from a 2-0 dnlkit against thn lluskies on Oct. I:{. If anyone was going to I>P ablt~ to dirnd a similar conwbaek Sunday. it was Lapint. 
That's what made Irish coach Bobby Clark's tartical usn of l.apint so confusing. 
l.apint, arguably the fastest and shiftiest player on Notro Damn, is most dangerous when lw gets the ball in open space where he can run at th11 del"nnse. After the first half of Sunday's gamp, though, Lapir<t had found about as mueh opm1 spaet~ as hn inevitably would on the long flight home. 
The problnm was tactical. On Sunday, Notrn Damn 


employed their standard 4-4­1-1 formation in which Lapira plays as a lone target for­ward. while Kurt Martin drops behind him as morn of a holding forward. Given that the Irish had utiliZIJd that for­mation all year with suceess, it's hard to second-gu11ss changing it bnfore Sunday's game. But it was evident by hall'timn that Lapira was not getting the ball against the lluskins defense in the places lw IIONll'd to. 
"We know ILapirallikHs to 
make diagonal runs and got 
behind the defense," 
Connecticut deftmder Julius 
.lanws said. "We just tried to 
keep him in front of us." 
Wlwn Martin dropped back toward midlield, he was usu­ally marked by one of Connecticut's two defensive centntl midlielders lnaving tlw lluskios Hntirn back four to eoncPntratn solely on Lapint. The result was that, instPad of rnceiving the ball bnhind the defense in space, Lapira only saw Uw ball with his back to tho goal -a problem given tho siz11 difTerentials. 
At 5-foot-H, 150 pounds, Lapira was often matehnd up against Connecticut's central defenders Kwame-Watson Siriboe (6-foot-3, 200 pounds) and .Julius James (6-foot-0, 175 pounds). The results were prndietable. 
(;ivnn Lapira's ine1Toctive­nl1ss in the first half, tactical changes were needed for the final 45 minutes. Why not move Martin or another for­ward up top with Lapint fore­ing the Connecticut defense to account for two attackers? Such a move would have drawn attnntion away from Lapira and, perhaps, opened some space for the r11igning 
IIermann Trophy winner to 
work some of his magic. 
Clark's initial adjustment? 
Nothing. 
For the first 30 minutes of the second half, thn Irish attaeknd out of the same 4-4­1-1 formation with similar results as the first half. Ultimately, Clark ended up moving Lapira to outside mid­fielder with 15 minutes to play-seemingly out of desire to give his forward more spaee to work. 
"lie's very fast, and it gave him a diffnrent look," Clark said. 
Why not make the tactical switch sooner, though? 
The move seemed to suc­ceed in giving Lapira more space to work with as h11 receivml the ball in one-on­one situations on tho f1anks with lluskies def1mders. While it's no guarantee that an ear­lier tactical chang11 would have spurred an lrish come­back, it would have given Notrn Dame morn ability to attack out of its most danger­ous formation given the way Sunday's game was playing out. 
Sunday's game was a set­bark on Notre Dame's path to its goal of reaching the Final Four and, ultimately, winning the national championship. If that goal is to ber:ome a reali­ty for the Irish, however, they're going to have to find a way to get to more out of' their top striker. 
The views of this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd. edu 

NO WOMEN'S SOCCER COMMENTARY 
Team needs to in1prove for UNC 
Yns, the Irish t:rushnd Loyola on Friday night. And. yns, tlwy shut out Illinois on Sunday. But thny will have to be even bettPr to havt' a shot of beating
No. 4  Fran Tolan  
North  
Carolina  Sports Writer  
nnxt  
Saturday.  

The T(Lr IIPels show11d why thny an~ the most storied program in thn (".ountry as thny rolled over UNC­<;rennshoro Sunday to reach the third round of tlw NCAA Tournament for the 26th straight year. 
Tlw No. 11 Irish are techni­cally unbeatPn in their last 15 match11s. But despite get­ting credited with a tie against West Virginia last weeknnd, they fell to the Mountainnnrs in a shootout to losn the Big East champi­onship. West Virginia was the only tnam the Irish faced during thnir streak that ean even compare to North Carolina talent-wise. 
And the Tar lleels have been playing terrific soeeer lately. They beat lligh Point 6-1 in their first-round rnatehup and then won 3-1 over UNC-Greensboro. In the second round contest, UNC­Greensboro goalie Katherine Hyan was f'orced to make 11 Tar Heels. The team is No. 26 saves to evnn keep the scorn in the eountry in goals per rospedable. game, despite playing against 

So thn Irish defense and some of the nation's top senior goalie Lauren Karas teams. will have to deliver for the Notre Dame playnd North 
Irish to have  Carolina to a  
any chance when they  The Irish must be  2-2 tie in a preseason  
head to North  more error-free than  match Aug. 19  
Carolina f'or next wenkend's rnatchup. The  they were Saturday to avoid falling  as the host Irish outshot the Tar Ileels  
back line must perform better than it did against Illinois  behind early and allowing the Tar Heels to get the  14-7. But Saturday's game will be played in  
when the unit  crowd into the game.  Chapel llill,  

surrendered 10 shots. In that contest, the Irish were often carelnss, especially as they were often unable to immedi­ately elear balls away in their own zone during the second half. 
The good news for the Irish is that Karas has been per­fect during the team's two NCAA games. Against the lllini, the goalie made a tremendous diving save at the end of the first half to preserve Notre Dame's two­goal cushion. 
But if the defense replicates its sloppy play from the see­ond half of that game, the goalie will have no chanee of stopping the ACC-ehampion and the Tar 
lleels are 
attempting to continue their 
march toward defending last 
year's national champi­
onship. 
The Irish must be more error-free than they were Saturday to avoid falling behind early and allowing the Tar Heels to get tho crowd into the game. Because if the visitors fall into an early hole, their own national title hopes will fall as well. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd. edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Dunn's late three 
seals Bears' victory 
By CHRIS HINE Sporrs Editor 

Baylor guard Lacerious 
Dunn finished with only six 
points, but his dutch 3-point­
er with 32 snconds remaining 
gave the Bears a 65-62 lead 
on their way to a 68-64 win 
over Notre Dame. 

Thn loss d11nied the Irish (2­
1) a chance to avenge their NCAA Tournament loss last season to Winthrop in the finals of Paradise Jam Tournament. 
Irish guard Tory Jackson 
missed on Notre Dame's next 
possession af'ter Dunn's bas­
ket and Baylor (3-01 guard 
Curtis Jerrells. who finislwd 
with 17 points, grabbed tho 
rebound and found guard 
Twenty CartlH for an open 
layup, giving Baylor (3-0) a 
five-point lead with 13 sec­
onds left. Irish forward Bob 
Kurz addnd a pair of free 
throws late, but the damagn 
had been done and the Irish 
lost their first game or tho 
season. 

Notrn Dame will play 
Georgia Teeh today, who lost 
79-7:~ on Sunday to Winthrop 
for third place, while Baylor 
advances to play Winthrop 
for tho title. 

"They're a good basketball 
team," Irish eoach Mike Brey 
said in a post-game radio 
interview. "We felt we w~1re 
going to be in a Big East !type 
game 1. You're frustrated 
becausll you had control of 
the thing and they made 
some big plays." 

Notre Dame led the entiro 
game until a Jerrells 3-point­
er gave Baylor its first lead of 
the night, 61-60 with 3:15 
left. Neither team seored 
until a pair of Hob Kurz free 
throws with 1:33 remaining 
gave Notro Dame a 62-61 

lead. Jaekson fouled Jerrells 
on Baylor's next possession, 
and Jerrells hit one of two 
free throws to tie the game at 
62. 

Irish forward Lukn 
Harangody, who finished with 
a game-high 22 points, 
missed on Notre Dame's final 
possession before Dunn's 
three gave Baylor the lead for 
good. Aside from llarangody's 
9-for-14 performance, Notre 
Dame shot 11-for-45 (24 per­
eent) from the field, ineluding 
a 1-f'or-11 night from junior 
guard Kyle McAlarney. 

"We didn't get great looks for Kyle. People are takeing Kyle away and we've got to look at some things to get him more looks," Brey said. " ... I think the thing he's learning to adjust to, when's he's playing ofT the ball, like Colin Falls was always guard­ed. lie's hugged, he's grabbed, he's frustrated with that." 
At one point in the seeond half, llarangody seored seven straight points for Notre Dame, helping the Irish stave off Baylor, who kept ehipping away at Notre Dame's lead. His layup with 8:30 left gave the Irish a 57-52 lead, but those would be Harangody's final points of the night. 
"They really did a better job taking him away at the end," Brey said. "He gave us 
a groat stretch there." 
Thn Bnars also held the r n b o u n d i ng ed g ~~ o v n r t h e Irish. 41-3H, and wnrn ablo to got 15 second-ehanen points. But what. killed Notrn Damn in thn end, Brey said, was its inability to cover Baylor on thn fast break. 
"Our transition dnfnnsn hurt us," Brey said. "It really hurt us the wholn gamn, but it hurt us tho last six min­utes. Thny ran it down our throat." 
But it was Notre Damn who came out running in thn l"irst half, jumping out to an H-0 lead. Baylor kept closo with thn Irish. but a 10-0 run gave Notre Dame a 32-1 H lnad with 4:50 to play in tlw first hall'. Baylor used a pair of thrnos from Carter and Dunn 
to  pull within 3H-32  at  half­ 
time.  
Forward  Aaron  Bruen  
added 14 and e11ntnr Josh Lomnrs netted 12 for Lhn Boars. who shot 24-for-5H for the ganw. 


Kurz, who was battling flu­like symptoms, added I:~ for tlw Irish on 2-for-1 I shoot­ing, while junior forward Hyan Aynrs added nine. 
Notre Dame 76 Monmouth 
33 
Notre Dame employed a balanced offensivo attack and stingy second-half defense to elobber Monmouth in tho opening round of the Paradise Jam Tournament on Friday. 
The Irish outscored the Muhawks 39-H in the sneond half and forced 16 turnovers on the night. Offensively, Kurz had a game-high 15 points to go along with six rebounds while Ayers chippt~d in seven board and 13 points on 5-for-6 shooting. 
Ayers was also charged with guarding Muhawks guard Jhamar Youngblood ­who scored 27 points in Monmouth's H9-81 ovnrtimn loss to Seton llall on Nov. 11 -when Notre Dame playod man-to-man dnfnnse. Youngblood scored just night points on 4-for-1 0 shooting. 
Notre Damn opnned a 17-4 lead in the first half by hit­ting their first five 3-pointers of the game. MeAlarney had two 3-pointers during that stretch on his way to a 13­point, three-assist perform­ancn. Monmouth eut Notre Dame's lead to 25-22 with 
4:52 remaining in the first half, but McAlarney's third and final 3-pointer of the night ignited a 12-3 Notre Dame run to elose out the half ahead 37-25. 
The Irish elamped down on defense in the second half and used a 16-6 run to open up a 53-31 lead with 10:44 remaining. Kurz had seven points during the run. 
After Youngblood's layup with 10:31 remaining made the seore 53-33, Monmouth didn't score the rest of the game. Monmouth shot only 2­for-23 from the field in the seeond half and lost the rebounding edge to Notre Dame 46-18. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Monday, November 19, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 

DEUCES MANOR 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NAFTI 
1 
rJ 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 



CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Carly Schroeder, 17; Wynton Marsalis, 46; Jean-Claude VanDamme, 47; Martina Navratilova. 51 
Happy Birthday: You may find yourself in a vulnerable position where you must make decisions quickly. It will be important to remain calm. Retreat and become a litlle less available and certainly more cautious about what you say. Your num­bers are 8, 17, 26, 38, 41, 44 
ARIES (March 2l-Apri119): Don't get all worked up over nothing. When one door closes, another will open. Trust m your own judgment and avoid getting angry with the people you are dealing with. Stand tall. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Travel, entertainment, love and romance should just about sum things up for today. You should plan a day trip that will allow you 
to relax, enjoy someone's company and give you a chance to regenerate. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The more involved you become in events, activities or organizations, the better it will be for you from a networking standpoint. Do something to help out the older and younger friends or relatives. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Emotional matters regarding money will surface. 
You should be able to collect old debts or resolve whatever issues arise with friends, neighbors or family members. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You mustn't take life too seriously today. People will come and go and situations will change, so don't dwell on things that really don't matter. Get out and challenge your intelligence, wit and physical endurance. 3 
stars 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Call the shots but don't expect everyone to agree 
with you. Emotional issues can be resolved but only if you get them out into the 
open. You may have to alter the way you do things or the way you live. 5 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may end up second-guessing what you should do next. Don't let someone back you into a corner or pick a fight with you. Use your ingenuity to stay one step ahead of someone who tries to bully you. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel or visiting someone with experience should be on your to-do list. Talk will provide you with information that allows you to move forward. You may have to make a few adjustments. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep everything in perspective and low-key and you will do amazingly well. Don't let a troubled love matter stop you from being productive. Travel will be riddled with delays and frustration. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jau. 19): Your emotions will be close to the surface and staying composed will be difficult to maintain. Guard yourself against people who want to get a rise out of you. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): By nurturing what and who you care about, 
much can be accomplished. Don't let anyone talk you out of your hard-earned cash but do spend a little on yourself. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Think about what you want and go after it. A 
clear-cut method that will enable you to cash in on a good idea will surface. Do 
whatever is required to make financial gains. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are curious, methodical, emotionally intense and always 
trying to get to the bottom of things. You have a tremendous amount of staying 
power, making you difficult to beat. 

Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
-· 
All Rights ReseNed. 
HARCO 
j
I I r
tTECHIC 
J [J
www.jumble.com
tRAMMOT j 
Jumbles: 
Saturday's 
Answer: 
HOROSCOPE 
[] 
WHEN THE:Y M~ ON THE TENNIS COURT AND LATER MARRIED, IT WAS 
A--­

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

SHOWY FOIST LEEWAY GUILTY 
What the family had to do until the air 
conditioner was fixed-SWEAT IT OUT 
EUGENIA LAST 


CROSSWORD 
Across 

Witty sorts 5 Make sense 1 0 Choice word 14 Think tank 
nugget 15 On the lam 16 Gerund, e.g. 17 Bond villain 19 Saw red? 20 Ph.D. thesis: 
Abbr. 21 Gets corroded 22 Bemoan 25 "Beats me" 
gesture 28 Rub out 29 Certain trout 33 Basis of a suit 34 Endless. 
poetically 35 Fraternity P 
36 "Survivor" shelter 37 Some red wines 38 Obey the coxswain 39 Cheroot residue 40 Wings it 41 Place for a 
hoedown 42 Classic blues musician 
441ntuit 45 The "35" in John 11:35 46 Prodded 47 Woods or Irons 50 Flair 51 Laugh heartily 52 Patriarchal gorilla 58 Pond organism 59 Primp 60 Natural soother 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 Lounge in the sun 62 Feel nostalgia, e.g. 63 Grips or Bloods 
Down 1 Faux 'fro? 2 Brouhaha 3 Goo in a do 4 Most mournful 5 Most-wanted 
group for a party 6 Puts on 7 Follow 
everywhere 8 Put to work 9 Part of r.p.m. 
10 "Stop!" 11 Wall Street minimums 12 Fatty treat for 
birds 13 Pulls the plug on 18 Ticket cost? 21 Game sheet 22 Deadly 23 Work up 24 First first lady 25 Germ-free 26 As a result of 
this 27 Patronizes U­
Haul, e.g. 29 Plays for time 30 Gofer's job 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Steve Kahn  
31 When repeated,  41 Nontraditional  50"...  after"  
cry by Shakespeare's  chair style 43 Czech composer  52 U-2 pilot, e.g.  

Richard Ill  Antonfn  53111 temper  
32 Consumed heartily 34 Octogenarian.  44 Go up, up, up 46 Filmdom's Close  54 Grazing ground 55 Carte start  
for one  47 Omani, e.g.  56 Bamboozle  
37 Pole tossed by  48 Fast-food drink  57 Fraternity party  
Scots  49 Makes "it"  setup  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, November 19, 2007 
page 24 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Perfection lost ••• and won 
Chaos ruin Whirlwinds 
Griffins win second unbeaten season in final Battle of the Chapel 
By SAM WERNER By GRIFFIN DASSATTI Sports Writer Spons Writer 
No. 6 seed Cavanaugh defnatnd Though there will be no physi­No. 1 seed -and previously cal change to the chapel shared undnlimtnd -Welsh Family 14-0 by Stanford and Keenan, the on Sunday at Notre Dame residents of both North Quad 
Stadium to claim the women's halls know that the sanctuary Intnrhall dmmpionship. will be very ditlfmmt until next Tlw Chaos, however, didn't fall. think thnir win W<L'i an upset. With Stanford's 12-H victory in 
"Wo delinitoly didn't considnr Sunday's lnterhall Football ourselves underdogs," Cavanaugh championship, it not only won eoaeh II un tnr Land said. "We the title, but also the Battle for came into this game eonlidnnt." the Chapel, mnaning all masses 
l.nd by junior quarterback Katie held for the two dorms in the Dunn, thn Chaos ollfmsn put up coming year will bn held in the 14 poinL<> on a dnlimse that hadn't "Stanford-Keenan Chapnl." bnnn scornd on in it<> past thren Keenan had won the Battle gamns. Dunn thn~w touchdown for as long as Stanford seniors p<L<>sns of nine and 14 yards, both have been at Notre Dame, so to sophomore Erin Dolan. when the Griffins beat the 
Welsh Family's ofl'ensn looked Knights 12-8 in the regular sea­promising early, getting into the son, it looked like the tables had rnd zone twice in the first half. finally turned. But when both The Chaos defense held tough teams won their semifinal and f<1n:nd a turnover on downs games, the Chapel was once and an interception by senior line-WU YUEfThe Observer again up for grabs. 
Whirlwinds quarterback Jenni Gargula throws the see CHAOS/page 20 ball during Welsh Family's 140 loss to Cavanaugh. see PERFECT/page 20 

MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish fall to Huskies in Big East finals 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
STOBHS, Conn. Connnetieut midfielder Dori Arad seornd two goals in the first 20 minutes Sunday, whieh was more than enough for the Huskies to hold off Notre Damn 2-0 and eapture 
their third Big East crown in thP. past four ynars. See Also 
No. 2 
"Clark misused
Connecticut, who now Lapira vs. has seven 
UConn." 
total confer­
page22
ence cham­pionships, attacked the Irish right out of 
the gate, needing only 20 seconds to force its first cor­ner kick. The Huskies had five corner kicks in the game, two of which led to goals. 
"Set pieces win big games," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "It's one of the things we talk about, full marks to point of view it was disap­pointing." 
Connecticut's first goal came in the eighth minute following an Irish defensive miscue. No. 11 Notre Dame turned the ball over deep in its own half and the ensuing play led to a corner kick for 

Connecticut but from our see UCONN/page 21 
----~----======~~============================================================ 
NO WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
Toliver's 25 points lead No. 3 Maryland in win 
.... 

By BILL BRINK Sports Wrircr 
Tho 25-point performancn of Terrapins guard Kristi Toliver led No. 3 Maryland to a 75-59 win over Notm Damn on Friday in the semifinals of the prnsmL<>on NIT 
Toliver scored 25 poinL'i on I 0­of-15 shooting and madB live of' 
seven 3-point attempts. The Terrapins as a team made 12 three-pointers in the game at 
Cc~!l~lgl: Park. Md. . . Shes an AII-Amertcan, for sure, and dntin.itely one of the best point ~-,ruards in the country," Irish eoaeh MuiTet McGraw said after the game. "Wn could not eontain her in 
see WNIT/page 20 
HOCKEY 

leers sweep WMU 
in weekend series 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
No. 10 Notre Dame smoth­ered Western Michigan's offense in a sweep of the lnague opponent this weekend, surren­dering only 23 shots in two games. 
The Irish (9-4, 7-2 CCIIA) defeated the Broncos 4-1 at horne Friday night and then traveled to Kalamazoo, Mich., on Saturday where they won 5­
1. Notre Dame-put 71 shots on nflt in the two games, outshoot­ing Western Michigan 44-12 on Friday. 
"I think [Friday nightl dealt with our forwards' ability to possess the puck, that's some­thing we've been harping on all year -our inability to control the puck," Irish defenseman Dan VeNard said. 
Western Michigan (3-7, 1-5 CCI-lA) was unable to sustain a forecheck in the Irish zone Friday for more than 20 sec­onds at a time, and it went on several 10-minute stretches when it got no shots on Notre Dame goalie Jordan Pearce. The Notre Dame offense, a young unit that ha'i gelled in the last few weeks, scored two even-strength goals in the first game -something lri<>h coach Jefl' Jackson had stressed as one of the team's weaknesses ­and otherwise dominated the Broncos with superb cycling and a barrage of shoL<>. 
"We controlled the tempo J(Jr probably seventy-five percent of the game from the offensive zone perspeetive and our work ethic," Jackson said. "We spent a Jot of time working on that early in the week, and we spent a lot of time working on def~m­
see SWEEP/page 20 
NO WoMEN's SoccER 
Own goal helps ND top Illinois 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
When forward Kerri Hanks didn't have partner Brittany Bock to help her score because of an injury, she decided to 
use the See Also 
opponent's defense "Team needs to instead. 
improve for 
Hanks' 
UNC."
centering pass Jed to page 22 an own-goal by Illinois that put the Irish up 2­0, the final margin in tim sec­ond-round NCAA tournament win Sunday at Alumni Field. 
The Irish, a four seed, advanced to the round of 16, where they will face No. 1 seed North Carolina in a rematch of last year's national championship game. 
Irish coach Handy Waldrum held Bock out of the gamn because of a sore hip flexor. lie said she was scratched right before tho game. 
"She warmed up, but said she didn't feel 100 percent," Waldrum said. 
The Irish kept thn ball in the attacking third for rnueh of tlw first half of' the gamn, but for the most part, Illinois prevnnt­nd them from setting up an offensive formation. This, 
see ILLINI/page 21 





