
THE 
Photo exhibit highlights Kashtnir 
Qazi blends personal experience with global events in presentation 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Fozia Qazi brought the politi­cal plight of Kashmir to Saint Mary's Friday with her photo exhibit, displayed in the Cushwa-J.eighton library. The exhibit. opened with a presenta­tion by Qazi. Qazi is a math professor at Saint Mary's and a fellow in the Center for Womnn's InterCultural J.eadnrship (CWIL). 
"I was very excited when I woke up this morning because this is somPthing very elose to my heart. The people. tl1P. con­rtiet, and the impact it has on 
see KASHMIR/page 6 



Researcher exa111ines riot 111isconceptions 
Professor explains actions of the authorities 
By BRIAN McKENZIE 
News Writer 
Notre Dame sociology pro­fessor Daniel Myers presented a lecture titled "Cops, Protest and Rioting" to a crowd of about 50 people Saturday morning. 
He focused American riots in the 1960s, saying they were often started when white police ol'ficers were accused of misconduct against black sus­pects. Crowds would gather and the situation would spiral out of control because the police had insufficient rein­forcements. 
Meyers wanted to "look at riots and protests and what's behind them in a more serious way," he said. But he said that even the word "riots" was controversial because "many people think it's a pejorative word and it gives excuses for repression. They want to think of it as a rebellion against unjust authority." 
"But I want to take a broad­er view," he said, adding that people tend to think of riots as "enormous crowds. But only 200 of the 4,000 riots in !the 1960sI involved 1 ,000 or more people. Even 15 people can do a lot of damage." Another myth, he said, is that most riots occurred on eollege campuses. However, three 
see MYERS/page6 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 44 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2007 

Fonner ND track star dies in race 
2002 graduate Ryan Shay collapses several miles into U.S. Olympic marathon trial 
By KEN FOWLER News Writer 
Former Notre Dame track star Hyan Shay collapsed and died during the U.S. Olympic marathon trials Saturday in New York City. lie was 28. 
Shay collapsed in Central Park five and a half miles into the race. 
Shay's father told the Associated Press Saturday that doctors diagnosed the runner with an enlarged heart when he was in high school but doctors repeatedly cleared him to run. 
Speakers to address gender issues on ca111pus 
Human trafficking, sexual assault among headline topics to be tackled by panel discussions 
By CLAIRE REISING 
NewsWrirer 
A U.S. State Department report says that approxi­mately 800,000 people are trafficked across interna­tional borders and forced into lives of slavery or pros­titution every year. One in six American women are vic­tims of sexual assault, aeeording to the Hape, Abuse and Ineest National Network. Although these sta­tistics may seem far removed from the lives of Notre Dame students, three campus presentations this week will aim to raise con­versation about the issues. 
The Center for Social con­cerns and the Notre Dame On Sunday, a spokeswoman for the New York City medical examiner's office told AP that the initial autopsy on Shay's body was inconclusive. 
Shay's legacy at Notre Dame is not in doubt. "He was the ultimate competi­tor," Notre Dame Athletic 
Director  Kevin  White  said  
Saturday.  "He had  an  aura  
about him."  

White called Shay "the Brady Quinn of the Olympic sports, that's how big he was around here." 
see SHAY/page 4 
Law School are hosting a panel today on human traf­ficking. Tomorrow, United Nations adviser Gillian Sorensen will speak on the state of women interna­tionally, a n d author a n d activist Jackson Katz will lecture on the male response to violence against women. 
Today's symposium, "Bought and Sold: Human Trafficking and Bonded Labor in the U.S.," will fea­ture "Katya," a human traf-ficking survivor who was asked to testify in front of a House Judiciary Committee on International Legislation, according to Rachel Tomas Morgan of the Center for Social Concerns. Two people who worked on Katya's case, Notre Dame law professor Bridgette Carr and Angus Lowe, Senior Special Agent of U.S. Immigration and Customs, will also speak, as well as junior Katherine Dunn, who learned about human trafficking through service-learning internships. 


"Human trafficking is one of the most pressing issues we have today, and it seems our campus hasn't done much !about it] before," Morgan said. "Trafficking is 
an urgent thing that we need see GENDER/page 6 
2001 NCAA Champion 
in the followin& event~: l 0,000 meters 
2001 ALL-AMERICAN 
in the f..UOwin& e\"t'nl:;.: 10,000 meters 5,000 me~rs (Indoor) 5,000 meters (Outdoor) 
2001 BIG EAST Champion
in the f<Mlmnna IL'venb: 5,000me~n (Indoor) 10,000 meten 
2000 ALL-AMERICAN 
Ul 1M f..t)owiq l''V'I!Ub: 
10,000 me~rs 
to educate ourselves about." 
She said the symposium is timely because Congress is deciding whether to reautho­rize the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000, which allows heavier prose­cution for offenders and pro­vides aid to victims. 
Although human traffick­ing is a global issue, Morgan said, ordinary U.S. citizens should learn how to recog­nize victims in their commu­nities. She said that In the book "Not For Sale: The Return of Global Slave Trade and How We Can Fight It," David Batstone reports that people uncovered human trafficking cases in their 2000 BIG EAST Champion 
in tlle followi113 events: 5,000 meten (Outdoor) 10,000 meters 
1999 ALL-AMERICAN 
in the followi~J3 eVO>nt$: Cross Cmmtry l 0,000 meten 
1999 BIG EAST Champion
in 1M followiq ewnt.: Cross Country 3,000 meten (Indoor) 
School Record Holder: 5,000 meten (Indoor) 5,000 meten (Outdoor) 
lO,OOOme~n 
Graphic by Jared Wafer 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
University tests alert syste111s 
'Tweaking' of e-mail configuration needed 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 
The University performed a successful test of ND Alert, the new emergency communications system, Friday afternoon, an Office of Information Technology spokesman said. 
The trial included the launch of emergency.nd.edu, a portal for ongoing information during any crisis, and a test implementation of the two-part ND Alert notifica­tion system. 
The notification system includes the distribution of emer­gency messages to student, facul­ty and staff phones and e-mail account, as well as a broadcast to any television sets turned on in dorms, common areas and offices. The broadcast is possible through the University's Comcast cable system. 
While the Office of Information Technology (OIT) was still gather­ing and analyzing data Friday afternoon, Jay Steed, executive assistant to Chief Information Officer Gordon Wishon, said the test was an overall success. 
"We had to do a little bit of tweaking for the e-mails going to Notre Dame e-mail accounts," he said. 
OIT workers had to modify the configurations that eontrol earn­pus-wide e-mail distribution, he said. Not all test e-mails were ­
see ALERTS/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, November 5, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Exam.ining heritage 
My f!~trnat group and I. who are all Filipino, were having dinner at Mikados, a local Japannsn restau­rant near campus. Thn restaurant was fillnd with mostly Caucasian studnnts. While 
Eric Sales my group and I 
wnrn hnading 
towards the Photographer
door. a random 
studnn t from 
inside thn 
restaurant shouted out, "Look, it's 
like Chinatown!" 

My frinnd Camille, who is Filipino, and I wnre walking baek to my dorm from breakfast when a mini­van behind us carne to a halt bncausn we wPre blocking the driveway. We moved out of thn van's way and continued to walk on the lawn. Unexpectedly, the van backed up towards the lawn we wnrn standing on and started honk­ing at us. I looked into the minivan and rnaliznd it was two old men that wn did nut rneognize. Camille asked me what his problem was because we wnre obviously out of the way. The driver of the minivan proenndnd to roll down his window and ynllnd. "What did you say?" Camill(~ thnn rnpeatnd to thf~ driver, "What is thn problem'?" Then thn driver shoutnd, "(;o baek to China!" whiln laughing. lin thnn gave us the finger. 
I was thn hall manager of St. 1\dwards llall. which was being usml as a sports (:amp hall two sumrnnrs ago. On thn last day that tlw hall was in use, I was !wiping elwek out thn campers. I eamn back to my room and discovered some­thing writtnn on my whitn board: Go to China. 
My Appalachia Seminar group and I visitiHI Jaime, a nativn Kentuckian who owns a beautiful all wooden horne on the Appalachian Mountains. Arter dinnnr, we social­iznd with Jamin and her extended family. I was having a conversation with Jamie's rwphew who was in tlw fourth grade when he asked. "What typn of money do you use in China?" 
For the last time. I am a Filipino­Ameril:an not Chinese. lluw would you like it if people constantly assumnd you were something you obviously were not? What really frustratns me is that I have dark brown skin and huge f~yes, features not typieal of a Chinese person. If you can't tell, ask. Better yet, edu­eatn yourself by eoming to Asian Allure this Thursday and Friday in Washington llall at 8 pm. I will be thn onn dancing with bamboos and benehns. 
China is an amazing country rich in hnritagn and culture. It is also onn of many Asian countries such as Japan, Vietnam, Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia, India, Korea, and the Philippines. Just because China is the most populace country in the world does not mean all Asians originate from there. Next time you see an Asian and are curi­ous what ethnicity that person is, don't assume that the person is made in China. Just ask. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
Contact Eric Sales at esales@ndedu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives f(,r the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4 541 so we can connect our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS YOUR FAVORITE DICTATOR AND WHY? 





Rick Helffrich  Mary Margaret Skelly  Rashad Carter  Matt Walters  Michael Streit  
junior O'Neill  sophomore PE  sophomore Keough  junior Keenan  sophomore Alumni  
"Grengle. ,  "I don't associate myselfwith  "Julius Caesar. I liked his toga. "  "Mussolini. I like Italian food."  "General Tso. ,  
many dictators. "  




37 
23 


ducers -New Mexico and Texas -are not expected to grow nearly as much, Wells said. 
New Mexico's crop is predicted to be about 80 million pounds, and Texas is expected to harvest 7:1 million pounds, Wells said. 
It's olive picking time at Caltech 
PASADENA, Calif. ­Students at the California Institute of Technology campus were able to for­get rocket science for a day and harvest olives instead. 
Students and faculty put away their laptops Friday 


·to climb 16-foot-high lad­ders, perch in cherry pick­ers and grab the black and green fruit that would oth­erwise stain the universi­tys walkways. 
Their goal is to make some 1,200 bottles of olive oil to raise money for scholarships, staff bonuses and student activities. 
"It's not really just about the olives. It's about every­one working together," said freshman math major Tim Black of Wisconsin, who was one of more than 500 people picking olives. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

HulHung 
sophomore Walsh 
"Mao, because he's Chinese. " 
IN BRIEF 
There will be a showing of a doeumentary followed by a lecture today at 4::10. "Off to War" highlights military life in Iraq. David Cortright, a visiting fellow at tlw Kroc Institute will speak. This evnnt is part of the lliggins Center Labor film series and will be hold in room C­1 00 in the Ilesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Tlw rosary will be said tonight at 6:45 at the Grotto. Thn rosary is said daily. 
Thn women's basketball team will play Ilillsdale tonight at 7 at the Joyce Center. 
Nokuthula Ngwenyama and John Blacklow will present a faculty recital tonight at 7::10 in the Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets for students are $:1. 
"Act with your Integrity and Value Your People" will take place Tuesday at 7 p.m. as part of the John A. Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics. James Owens, CEO and chairman of Caterpillar will speak in Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. 
Irish hockey coach Jeff Jackson will speak Wednesday at Legends for "Chalk Talk." Lunch will be served at noon. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

Drought helping  Ga.  
pecan crop  
ALBANY,  Ga.  - The  

record drought gripping the Southeast isn't all bad news: It's meant nearly perfect weather for grow­ing pecans in Georgia. 
The state is on pace to be the nation's top pecan producer this year, with shellers pi:edicting more than 125 million pounds harvested, said pecan hor­ticulturist Lenny Wells of the University of Georgia's agriculture extension. 
Georgia was the nation's third-leading pecan pro­ducer last year. The nation's two other top pro-
TODAY 


TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
....I 
<C 
(,) 



0 

HIGH 47 HIGH 43 HIGH 50 HIGH 47
.... 

LOW 33 LOW 30 LOW 32 LOW 35 

Monday, November 5, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND professor finds supernova 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame astrophysi­cist Peter Garnavich and a team or collaborators have identified a superno­va caused by the collision of two stars. 
T h e y 
made a detailnd study or the 234th superno­va discov­ered in 2 () 0 (J ' 
c a I I n d 


"2006gz," Garnavich 
and found convincing evidence that the explosion resulted from thn mPrging of two "white dwarfs." The ther­rnon uelP.ar destruction of a white dwarf is called a type Ia supernova and was crucial in the discov­ery or the accelerating universfl and dark energy. 
White dwarf stars are thP remnant cores of stars like our Sun and contain mostly the ele­ments carbon and oxy­gnn. White dwarfs can explodn if their mass is increased and reaches a critical 1.4 times the mass of the Sun. It was believed that type Ia supernovae result from a white dwarf stealing mass from a Sun-like star to reach the unstable mass limit. But supernova 2006gz was different. Two white dwarf stars in orbit about each spiraled together and combined to exceed the mass limit. 
"We have used super­novae to discover dark energy. yet we do not know exactly how the explosions happen," Garnavich said. "11 now looks like thflre are at least two ways of making a type Ia supernova." 
The team studied supernova 2006gz with telescopes in Arizona and modeled the explosion with a computer program developed in Oklahoma. From the first data it was clear that this was an unusual event. The super­nova appeared to be rich in carbon which is rare in most type Ia supernovae. 
"Jose (Prieto, a student at Ohio State University) and I looked at the first spectrum and we both thought there was some­thing screwy with this guy," Garnavich said. 
While carbon makes up most of a white dwarf, it is nearly completely fused to heavier elements in the explosion. 

SMC Bookstore hosts fashion shovv 
By MOLLY LAMPING News Writer 
On Friday, members of the Saint Mary's community walked the run­way at the annual Shaheen Bookstore fashion show, wearing apparel from the fall and winter col­lections. Nearly 40 modeL<> showcased the new line that was made available to the public immediately after the event. 
The fashion show's theme was "A Feminine Twist on the Classic Pmp." 
"Everything we have is kind of clas­sic Saint Mary's, but with an edge," ­said fashion show coordinator Melinda Weleh, a senior. 
Preparation for the event began last spring. 
"We do the buying for the clothing in the spring and thfl summflr," Welch said. "Once we know the clothing, we e-mail idea<> baek and forth and then once we get back to Saint Mary's, we pick a date and find the models." 
The modeL<> for the show are most­ly Saint Mary's students, with a few Notre Dame students. Members of the College's faculty and staff, includ­ing College President Carol Ann Mooney, also participated. 
"This is my third time doing the fashion show," sophomore model Margaret Burke said. "We have a couple of fittings before the show to decide what clothes and accessories to wear, but it's always a lot of fun and I love doing it. It's really fun to play model." 
"Hands down, my favorite part about being involved in the fashion show was walking down the nmway and putting Derek Zoolander to shame," Notre Dame junior Drew Reynolds said. 
Welch was happy with student turnout. "We had a gn~at crowd," she said. 
"Everyone seemed to be having a good time and I think people really enjoyed the clothes." 
In addition to the runway show, there was also a raffie. Raffie items included an iPod shuffie, two Vera Bradley bags, a Vera Bradley haVpurse set and four Vera Bradley book covers. The Bookstore also teamed up with student organization Belles for Books for a "50/50" raffie in which 50 percent of the proceeds went to buy books for underprivi­leged children. 
"The fashion show is a creative way for the Bookstore to advertise," Welch said. 
The Bookstore oftered a 20-percent discount on all clothing items from Friday until Sunday to coincide with the fashion show and release of the new clothing. 
Contact Molly Lamping at mlampiO1@saintmarys.edu 
Details of Justice Scalia's visit corrected· 
Observer Staff Report 
Contrary to what was printed in an Observer article last Tuesday, 
U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia did not request that his appearance at the Law School on Oct. 19 go unpublicized, and neither did the U.S. Marshals, Law School officials said. An Observer reporter's misquoting added to the inaccuracy. 
The Observer wrongly reported that Scalia and the Marshals asked the University to refrain from publicizing the justice's par­ticipation in the Law School con­ference on the separation of pow­ers in the federal government. But law professor A.J. Bellia. the con­ference organizer, made that deci­sion, Bellia and Law School spokesperson Melanie McDonald said Thursday. 
The errors stemmed from mis­information, compounded by poor reporting. McDonald initially told The Observer that Scalia request­ed the appearance to go unpubli­cized. She said she learned after publication of the Tuesday article that it was Bellia's preference. 
Bellia said the decision not to publicize Scalia's presence was his own. Though it was likely easi­er for the Marshals that the appearance was unpublicized, they did not make that request, Bellia said. 
The Observer also misquoted McDonald and Bellia. McDonald did not say that a "mob scene" would ensue if Scalia's appear­ance were publicized. Also, Bellia did not say that "it is the prefer­ence of the U.S. Marshals" that Notre Dame refrain from publiciz­ing Scalia's visit. 


SMC's First Annual Academic Affairs Career Insights Day 
Tuesday, Novem·ber 6, 2007 
A day of insightful panels and networking linking academic majors to exciting careers 
9:30-10:45 a.m. Careers Educating Children 3:30 -4:30p.m. Exploring Careers in Art 4-6 p.m. Alumnae Career Insights Exposition Sponsor: Education Department Sponsor: Art Department Location: SMC Student Center Lounge 
Saint Marys alumnae link their majors to
Location: Madeleva 328 Location: Vander Vennet Theatre 
successful careers: 

Focus: Teaching, Youth Work. and Focus: Museum. Health. and 
Accounting

Charader Development Entrepreneurship 
Art History Biology Business Administration 
11 -12:15 p.m. Profitable Careers in Business 5-6 p.m. Beautiful Careers for Beautiful Minds 
Chemistry Sponsor: Bus. Admin. & Economics Sponsor: Humanistic Studies Communications Location: Madeleva 247 Department Economics Focus: Banking, Accounting. and Location: Madeleva 238 Education Graduate School Focus: Teaching. Higher Education. English Literature and Librarianship 
English Writing Finance 
• Government
2-3:15 p.m. Careers in Timeless Values: Truth, 
History

Justice, & Philanthropy 8:30-10 p.m. Careers & Internships in Writing 
Humanistic Studies 

Sponsor: Philosophy Department Sponsor: English Department 
Management Information Systems
Location: Madeleva 245 Location: Conf. Room D. Student 
Mathematics 

Focus: Journalism. Law, and Center 
Music Philanthropy Focus: Book Publishing, Government Nursing Service. and Summer Internships Political Science Psychology Sociology 
Sponsored by the Division of Academic Affairs and the Board ofGovernance at Saint Mary's College. For ftn1her infixmation call 574.284.4775 or write to the Center tor Career Opportunities at cco@:saintmarys.edu. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 5, 2007 
Who says Deloitte is the #1 place to start a career? 
I 

BusinessWeek, our employees and recent grads, to name a few. In fact. Deloitte ranked 
ahead of 49 companies you probably know by name. Of course, we had something to aim for; we were ranked number three in 2006 And, year after year, we've ranked on other leading lists, including Fortune magazine's "Best Companies to Work For" and Working Mother magazine's "100 Best Companies." If you're wondenng why, it's not JUSt because we offer a strong benefits package, a collaborative work environment, and the opportunity to work with some of the finest clients in the world. What really makes us stand out is our culture of innovation. Take Mass Career Custornization'''. It redefines how careers are built. After all, the one-size-ltts-all approach to the corporate ladder is no way to build the workplace of the future. 
~·l~rs BusinessWeek ranks Deloitte #1 in "50 Best Places to Launch a Career," September 2007. 
.... CAREER See more. To discover your opportunities with Deloitte and find out why BusinessWeek ranked us the best place to start 1:;$ct.lm31 a career, text "NOTREDAME" to 78573 or visit deloitte.com/us/notredame. 
Shay 
continued from page 1 

The 2002 graduate was a three-time All-American in the 10,000 meters and he won the evnnt at the 2001 NCAA Championship meet, giving Notre Dame its first individual outdoor track title since 1954. 
Shay also earned All­Amnrica status in the indoor 5,000 meters, in the outdoor 5,000 mHters and in cross­
country. In all. "Leading up to the "Hight off the he was honored bat, I had a good
2001 NCAA 1o.ooo 

nine times as idea of who he
meter race, we knew

an AII­was." Ameriean. that Ryan would be Hyan Hall 
"Lnading up whose wife,
one of the top 

to the 2001 Sara, was a
contenders and

NCAA I0,000-bridesmaid at nwtnr race, we frankly thought he Shay's wedding knew that Hyan with the former
had what il took to 

would be one of Alida Craig this
win the race. , 

the top con­July -won the tenders and event in an frankly thought Joe Plane Olympic trials he had what it record of
Irish coach 

took to win the 2:09:02. Hall 
cross country and track 

race,  Irish  
cross  country  
and  track  
coach  Joe  Piano said  in  a  

statement released by the Notre Dame athletic depart­ment. "He took the lead after the first lap and then led for the final 24 laps. lie just domi­nated thn field that day and won going away." 
Piann called Shay "the most tenacious competitor I ever had the honor to coach." 
Lukn Watson, Shay's former teammate and roommate, first mnt Shay on Watson's recruit­ing visit to Notre Dame for the very fast and vnry hard," Watson said in a statement released by the Notre Dame athletic department. "Usually at the National Catholic meet, we downplay that event and use it as a chance to get some of the reserve guys some expe­riencn. People were telling Hyan to take it easy, but he just wanted to run fast. He would get frustrated when 
1997  National  Catholic  
Invitational.  
"Hyan knew one  thing: Run  

people told him to slow down. 
earned a spot on 
the U.S. Olympic 
team for the 2008 Beijing Games and said he would dedicate his per­formance there to Shay. 
Alicia Shay is a running star in her own right. She won two individual NCAA titles and held the 10,000-meter women's record while at Stanford with Hyan and Sara Hall. 
Hyan Shay was born on May 4, 1979 in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler I @nd.edu 
Alerts 
continued from page 1 
received immediately Friday afternoon, but Ste~d said there are now no restrictions to NO Alert e-mails. 
The emergency response sys­tem has been in the works since University President Father John Jenkins created a University-wide commit­

tee to address thn issue  "The basic idea is if life and limb are in  "The basic idea is if life and limb  
toward the end  danger, we want to  are in danger, we  
of 2006, University spokesman  have the system and be able to use it. ,  want to have the system and be able to usc it,"  
Don  Wycliff  he said.  
said. The April 16 Virginia Tech  Don Wycliff University spokesman  The Web site will provide detailed ongoing  
massacre  information  
revealed  a  about these and  
need to have a  less severe situa­ 

systematic: way of notifying the tions, such as dangerous weath­University community of any er or class cancellations, Stned emergency, he said. said. Information about 
"We already had some sys­extreme emergencies will also tems available," Wycliff said. be broadcast on channel 2 on "We soon decided we needed TV. something better." All University e-mail accounts 
Write for News Call 631-5323. 
The notification system will only be implemented if there is an extreme emergency present­ing imminent danger, Steed said. These messages will advise recipients about what actions they should take at once and where to find more detailed information about the emer­gency, he said. 
University committees are 
currently discussing what levels of emergency will trigger what response, Wycliff said. 
and phone numbers are auto­matically used by the ND Alert system, but personal cell pholl!~ numbers and e-mail addresses must be provided by the us1~r. 
Many more students than fac­ulty or stall' have provided cell phone numbers for use in the system, Steed said. 
Out of 11,890 students, 89 percent have provided cell phone numbers for the alert system, he said. Twenty-one percent of faculty members and 23 percent of staff workers have provided cell phone num­bers, St()(~d said. IIe said there are 4,995 total faculty and stall' at the University. 
Students can register or update cell and home phone numbers and personal e-mail addresses by contacting the Hegistrar's Office. Faculty and stall' can provide or update their contact information through the Hesourclls tab of InsideND or by contar.ting the OITice of Human Hesources. Heminder e-mails recommending the provision of contact information will be sent to the campus community in the future, Steed said. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangleI@nd.edu 


Deloitte. 
Audit.Tax.Consulring.Financial Advisory 
As used In this document. "Deloitte" means Deloitte & Touche USA LLP and its subsidiaries. P!e~se see www.deloitte.com/usiabout for a detailed description of the legal structure ot Deloitte & Touche USA 
LI.P ~nd 11s sub;idiarie~. 
Member of Oeloitt~ Touche Tohmatsu C<lpytight C 1007 Ol~loitte Ot~v,~oloprnent U.C All f1ght~ m~ervt~d. 

..-----------------------------------------------­

ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 5, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
King Tut's face revealed to the public 
LUXOR -King Tut's buck-toothed face was unveiled Sunday for the first time in public -more than 3,000 years after the youngest and most famous pharaoh to rule ancient Egypt was shrouded in linen and buried in his golden underground tomb. 
Archeologists carefully lifted the fragile mummy out of a quartz sarcophagus deco­rated with stone-carved protective god­desses, momentarily pulling aside a beige covering to reveal a leathery black body. 
The linen was then replaced over Tut's narrow body so only his face and tiny feet were exposed, and the 19-year-old king, whose life and death has captivated people for nearly a century, was moved to a sim­ple glass climate-controlled case to keep it from turning to dust. 
Conservative calls for expulsion 
ROME -Opposition leader Silvio Berlusconi urgP.d Italy to close its borders to Homanian workers and a conservative ally called Sunday for the expulsion of tens of thousands of immigrants amid public out­rage over a wavP of violent crimes blamed on forf'igners. 
PopP BPnPdict XVI added his voice to the d.-batn ovnr thn balance between citizen safPty and trnatnwnt of foreigners. remind­ing authorit.if's that immigrants have both obligations and rights. 
ThP popn wPiglwd in as lawmakers pn~­parml to dPbatn tlw govPrnment's responsP to rPcnnt (Tinw. including fast-track expul­sions of Homanians and other EU citiznns dPPIIlPd dangerous and bulldozing shanty­towns housing immigrants. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Suspect named in store shooting 
PHILADELPHIA -Police identilied a sus­pect and issued a warrant for his arrest on Sunday in the shooting death of an oflicer who walked in on a robbery at a doughnut shop. 
Police Commissioner Sylvester Johnson identified the suspect as John Lewis, 21. Johnson said Lewis was armed with at least two guns and should be considered extreme­ly dangerous. 
Officer Chuck Cassidy, 54, died Thursday, a day after a gunman shot him in the head when Cassidy interrupted an armed robbery at a Dunkin' Donuts. 
Outages continue after hurricane 
BOSTON -Several thousand coastal resi­dents from Massachusetts to Maine faced a second night without power Sunday, and at least two house fires were indirectly blamed on the remnants of Hurricane Noel. 
The storm struck New England with just a glancing blow Saturday, bringing down tree limbs and knocking out power to 80,000 homes. State officials reported no serious injuries or deaths. By late Sunday afternoon, NStar said 17,000 customers remained with­out power. 
"Crews are facing extensive damage to trees and electric Pquipment," NStar spokeswoman Caroline Allen said in a statement. The com­pany expected to restore power to all its cus­tomers by Monday, she said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Students push hate crime legislation 
TERRE HAUTE -Indiana State University President Uoyd Benjamin is promising to help students upset by the discovery of a rope resembling a noose in a campus tree push hate crimes legislation in the General Assembly next session. 
Benjamin, who condemned the Oct. 25 noose incident at the Terre Haute campus, has encouraged students to carry out their plan to circulate a petition on hate crimes legislation. 
"I pledge to work with you in carrying that petition forward to our Legislature and to push for its passage this legislative session," he said in a recent letter to the Tribune-Star. 
Officials are investigating the noose incident as a possible hate crime. 
IRAQ 

Thousands of Iraqis returning home 
Residents repopulate Baghdad neighborhoods as sectarian violence drops 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -In a dra­matic turnaround, more than 3,000 Iraqi families driven out of their Baghdad neighborhoods have returned to their homes in the past three months as sectarian violence has dropped, the government said Saturday. 
Saad al-Azawi, his wife and four children are among them. They fled to Syria six months ago, leav­ing behind what had become one of the capital's more dangerous districts ­west Baghdad's largely Sunni Khadra region. 
The family had been liv­ing inside a vicious and bloody turf battle between al-Qaida in Iraq and Mahdi Army militiamen. But Azawi said things began changing, becoming more peaceful, in August when radical anti-American Shiite cleric Muqtada al­Sadr ordered his Mahdi Army fighters to stand down nationwide. 
About the same time, the Khadra neighborhood Awake:ning Council rose up against brutal al-Qaida control -the imposition of its austere interpretation of Islam, along with the mur­der and torture of those who would not comply. mies as colleagues in even to stand near the gar­to get one of the grants to 
The uprising originated securing what was once the den gate by the street. open a poultry and egg in Iraq's west and flowed most dangerous region of Killings had become rou­shop that his brother would into the capital. Earlier this the country. tine. I stopped going to run. year, the Sunni tribes and And as 30,000 additional work, I was so afraid," he "In Khadra, about 15 clans in the vast Anbar U.S. forces arrived for the said. chatting with friends families have returned province began their own crackdown in Baghdad and on a street in the neighbor­from Syria. I've called revolt and have successful­central Iraq, the American hood. friends and family still ly rid the largely desert commander, Gen. David When he and his family there and told them it's region of al-Qaida control. Petraeus, began stationing joined the flood of Iraqi safe to come home," he 
At one point the terrorist many of them in neighbor­refugees to Syria the streets said. group virtually controlled hood outposts. The mission were empty by early after­Sattar Nawrous, a Anbar, often with the com­was not only to take back noon, when all shops were spokesman for the Ministry plicity of the vast Sunni control but to foster neigh­tightly shuttered. Now the of Displacement and majority who welcomed the borhood groups like the stores stay open until 10 Migration, said the al­outsiders in their fight one in Khadra to shake off p.m. and the U.S. military Azawi family was among against American forces. al-Qaida's grip. working with the neighbor­3,100 that have returned to 
But, U.S. officials say, al­The 40-year-old al-Azawi, hood council is handing out their homes in Baghdad in Qaida overplayed its hand who has gone back to work $2,000 grants to shop own­the past 90 days. with Iraq's Sunnis, who managing a car service, ers who had closed their "In the past three practice a moderate ver­said relatives and friends business. The money goes months, the ministry did sion of Islam. American persuaded him to bring his to those who agree to not register any forced dis­forces were quick to capi­family home. reopen or first-time busi­placement in the whole of talize on the upheaval, wel­"Six months ago, I would­nessmen. Iraq," said Nawrous. who is coming former Sunni ene-n't dare be outside, not Al-Azawi said he's trying a Kurd. 

Astronauts repair solar energy panel 
Associated Press problems. The wing was about complex, about half a football field 
three-quarters unfurled when the away from the pressurized com­
HOUSTON -A spacewalking crew noticed the damage on partments where the astronauts astronaut fixed a ripped solar ener­Tuesday. work and live. gy panel on the international space "Excellent work guys, excellent," The ugly snag involved a guide station Saturday· in a difficult and space station commander Peggy wire, two hinge wires and two dangerous emergency procedure Whitson said, after the wing was grommets. Parazynski first clipped that allowed the crew to extend the locked in place. a hinge wire near the larger tear, wing to its full length. "Before we do the victory dance using a special tool that looked like 
Spacewalker Scott Parazynski let's get Scott safely back to struc­a hockey stick to make sure the installed homemade braces on the ture and then we can all rejoice," panel didn't spring back and hit torn wing and clipped the snarled Discovery commander Pamela him. wires that had ripped it in two Melroy said as the robotic arm The solar panel captures sunlight places as it was being unfurled started driving Parazynski back to to generate electricity, and is alive Tuesday. He then watched as the the station. with more than 100 volts of electric­crew deployed the wing to its full Perched at the tip of a 90-foot ity, possibly as much as 160 volts. 115-foot length. robotic arm and boom extension, "It's a bit of a reach here," 
Astronauts inside slowly extended Parazynski worked at the far left Parazynski said as he stretched to the wing, watching closely for more end of the linked shuttle-station cut part of the guide wire. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 5, 2007 
Kash01ir 
continued from page 1 
the peopln," she said. 
Qazi, who grew up in Kashmir, has personally known tho ef"fects of the mili­tarization of her country. "Several of my frinnds and relatives havn been killed," she said. "My old teaeher ­who was a wonderful teaeher -was stopped by soldiers arter grocery shopping, and asked qunstions. lie held out his grocPrins, saying he was simply shop­ping, so they said he <:ould 
said. 
ller photos display eolored images of everyday life in Kashmir, from the eivilians to the soldiers. 
"IQazi's] images were beau­tiful, and the images of the military seemed like a differ­ent world than the other images," curator Shannon Rose-Riley said. "The daily life seems framed by the mil­itary, so we had to find a way to portray that visually." 
Somn of Qazi's photos depicted a henna tattoo on the arm of a woman about to be married in a Hindu cere­mony and Kashmiri chil­dren running in 

go. lin took a field. Also,
"The daily life seems 

thre<~ steps there are photo-and they shot framed by the graphs of him in the military. so we had to Muslim and hack." Hindu religious
find a way to portray
Kashmir is a practices placed 

region north­that visually." together. west of India Another seg­bordered by ment of her
Shannon Rose-Riley I n d i a . photography,
curator

Pakistan. and China. India and Pakistan each elaim Kashmir as its own. There is a striet borderline between the Pakistan-eontrolled area of Kashmir and the lndian­eontrolled area of Kashmir. Eaeh region is under military occupation. "There are two soldiers for every 10 or 11 civilians in Kashmir," Qazi said. 
Caught in tlw middle of this dispute, are the people ]of Kashmir!." Qazi said. "The civilians are the ones who are suffering now." 
llowevf~r. <Jazi did not want to her exhibit to highlight the violence. 
"I did not want to foeus on the blood and gore. Kashrniris should be known for their resilience," she titled Profiles of 
Courage, does 
not have the 
military back­ground. The photos are por­traits or women who have aided Kashmir in the strug­gle. They inelude a doctor, an engineer, a teacher, and a fisherwoman. 
"Those are to show the role of the women in this conf1ict, that each one is contributing to helping with the eonf1iet,;, Qazi said. "Ordinary, daily life. That is the focus. The idea is that these arc regular folks just like you and me, living through this horrible thing, but trying to carve out a life for thomselves." 
The exhibit will run through rebruar~ 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Gender 
continued from page 1 
communities by noticing strange occurrences in their neighbors' homes. 
"I hope !the symposium] motivates students to take this issue seriously and see it as a problem that happens not only around the world or nation, but is something that could be happening in their own neighborhoods," Morgan said. 
The presentation will be held from 7-8:30 p.m. in the Law Sehool Courtroom. 
On Tuesday, Jackson Katz, an anti-sexism activist, 
Program, which Katz eo­founded, has worked with the U.S. Marine Corps, pro­fessional football and base­ball teams and other college eampuses. 
Hakoczy hopes Katz's ath­letic background will make him relevant for Notre Dame students. 
"We thought that since Notre Dame is a high-profile athletic culture, he would [appeal] not only to the ath­letes, but to a culture that prizes athletics," she said. 
Both Rakoczy and Men Against Violenee president Michael Hedding agree that students usually do not rec­ognize that sexual assault is a problem at Notre Dame, since most 
w i I I "Notre Dame is a place students come address from upper­
where high-achieving 
another middle class
people come in and are
issue that, backgrounds. according focused on competition However, to Heather Redding said
and perfectionism.,
Rakoczy, he has spoken Director of to students the Gender Heather Rakoczy who experi­
Relations director enced sexual Center, too assault or
Gender Relations Center 
few people acknowl­edge: vio­lence against women. His presen­tation, "More than a Few Good Men: A Lecture on American Manhood and Violence Against Women," will begin at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
According to Hakoczy, Katz is "the leading male aetivist in the men's movement to stop violence against women." He provides the unique perspective of being a women's studies major and a college football player. The Mentors in Violence 
harassment. 
"Almost 
everyone had 
a story about being assaulted or harassed," Hedding said. "[Wei see that it's happen­ing, but we just don't acknowledge it. Many peo­ple think that women's movements have sailed and men and women arc equal or pretty close Ito it], but that's not the ease. 
After students hear Katz's lecture, Hakoezy hopes they will have a dialogue about male/female relations, and that, eventually, a training program similar to Katz's will begin on campus. 
"I hope that !Katz] gets our women and men talking to each other about what's going on in campus in a practical way," she said. 
Another presentation, "The State of Women Internationally: Where Arc We and Where Are We Going?" will take place tomorrow at 6 p.m. in the llesburgh Center auditori­um. Gillian Sorensen is the senior adviser to the United Nations Poundation, has a background in public policy, and has worked with non­governmental organizations, said Elizabeth Rankin of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
Although somn students blame tension between males and females on pari­etals and single-sex dorms, Hedding and Hakoczy do not agree. Hakoezy attributes strained gender relations to students' unbalanced lif11 styles. She says students create a "dual identity" by studying hard throughout the week and using the weekend for socializing and sexual release. 
"Notre Dame is a place where high-achieving people come in and arc foeus!ld on competition and perfection­ism. They try to l'it too much into one day, and rela­tionships get compartmen­talized," she said. 
Hedding said students of the opposite sex should be able to establish normal relationships, despite single­sex dorms. 
"You can manage to live in a room without a girl and develop an acceptable rela­tionship with women," he said. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 

Myers 
continued from page 1 
tinws as many riots occurred in seeondary and primary schools than on eoliPge earn puses, he said. 
lie assessPd sPveral theories about what worsPns and allevi­ates riots. liP found that having more polieP ofliePrs per capita ronsistPntly rPduees riots. The "polke capability" is important to establishing order, he said. I lis data sugg~~sll~d that assistive equipment like ambu­lanees, 
stretchnrs "Police administrators tive," he said. 
and water .John Leuck,
l~eta~edtothathave

h o s e s who attended n~d uced the adopted negotiated the presenta­severity of managementhavefound tion, said it was riots. "very even­
much less con.flict." 

"You might handed. It was think that very scholarly, poliee train­David Myers not politicized." ing would sociology professor Leuck, a 
reduen riot­ing, hut it aetually inrrnasnd it," he said. 
Polieo dnpartments using esealatml engagnnwnt polieies try to nstablish order and respond to provocations force­fully. he said. "Then you'n~ asking for a riot," lw said. 
Orw mnthod to prnwmt riots from growing out of eontrol, Myers said, is to negotiate protest routes with protest lead­ers. 
"Police administrators I've talked to that have adopted nngotiated managenwnt have found rnueh less eonfliel," he 
said. 
One rnmnbN of the audience critieizml negotiated manage­ment beeaus1~ police negotiators restrict some streets to faeilitate protests, dosing them to normal traffic. The audif~nee member said that police had the respon­sibility to protect. the rights or eitizens to us<~ publie property even if that requirnd shooting prot1~stnrs. 
Mynrs responded that "there is a tension bntwnon what is right under the law and what will make things better or worse. Sonwtimes we need to take a step back and have a broad perspec­
retired Marine, 
mentioned that 
the Marine Corps trains for riot control because Marines are charged with evacuating Americans from dangerous situations. "All the troops go through it," he said. 
Betsy .Johnson, a Kent State alumna, said the statistics Myers usnd "wenm't quite what you'd expeet or what the media portrays. ThP media tends to focus on the loudest voices and that might not bo the most aceu­rate." 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 


Coffee at tfi'e Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 6 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council inv1les gay. lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality rs assured. 
CURE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
-~---~-----­

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, November 5, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  13,595.10  +27.12  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,500  92  1,717  43,451,295  
AMEX  2,504;78 lht!tl9,~5  

NASDAQ 2,810.38 +15.55 NYSE 10,os2.26 wf3oJ8 S&P 500 1,509.65 +1.21 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,424;45 ·~93;()3 FTSE 100 (London) 6,530.60 -55.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.11 +0.17 151.20 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 0.00 0.00 37.06 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.78 +0.42 54.42 !SHARE RUS 2000 INDX (IWM) +0.49 +0.39 79.53 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.61 -0.070 4.291 13-WEEK BILL +5.53 -0.205 3.500 30-YEAR BOND +1.10 -0.051 4.595 5-YEAR NOTE +2.85 -0.115 3.917 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.44 95.93 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +14.80 808.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 84.70 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 114.595 EURO 0.6889 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9357 BRITISH POUND 0.4787 
IN BRIEF 
New blood thinner rivals competitors 
ORlANDO -A new blood thinner proved 
better than Plavix. one of the world's top­
selling drugs, at preventing heart problems 
after procmlures to open clogged arteries, 
doctors reported Sunday. But the new drug 
also raised the risk of serious bleeding. 
People given the experimental drug, pra­
sugn~l. were nearly 20 percent less likely to 
suffer one of the problems in a combined 
measure -heart attack, stroke or heart­
related death -than those given Plavix, a 
drug that millions of Americans take to pre­
vent blood clots that cause these events. 
However, for each heart-related death that 
prasugrel (PRASS-uh-grell) prevented, com­
pared to Plavix, almost one additional bleed­
ing death occurred. 
"There is a price to pay" for greater effec­
tiveness. Dr. Deepak Bhatt, a Cleveland 
Clinic cardiologist, wrote in an editorial 
accompanying the results, which were pub­
lished online by The New England Journal of 
Medicine and presented at an American 
Heart Association conference in Florida. 
·Writers Guild bargains to avoid strike 
LOS ANGELES -I Iollywood writers were 
back at the bargaining table Sunday in a last­
minute push to avoid a strike against TV net­
works and movie studios over writers' share of 
profits from DVDs and the Internet. 
The battle has broad implications for the way 
llollywood does business, since whatever deal is 
struck by the Wliters Guild of America will likely 
be used a.<; a tmnplate for talks with actors and 
directors, whose contracts expire next Jtme. 
"We'll get what they get," Screen Actors Guild 
President Alan Rosenberg told The Associated 
Press. 
Negotiators were meeting with a federal 
mPdiator Sunday evening in hopes of avoiding a 
strike that writers had set to bngin 12:01 a.m. 
Monday. 
The guild announced sweeping plans to picket 
every major studio in Los Angeles starting at 9 
a.m. Monday, along with Hockefeller Center in New York, where NBC is headquartered. 
UAW reaches agreement with Ford 
Largest auto union forges contract with struggling Detroit-based automaker 
Associated Press 

DETROIT -The United Auto Workers union reached a tentative four­year contract agreement with Ford Motor Co. on Saturday, avoiding the threat of a strike against the struggling automaker, the union said. 
The deal, reached around 3:20 a.m. EDT, must be ratified by the UAW's approximately 54,000 members covered by the contract at Ford. If approved, it would bring a close to historic negotia­tions that have yielded agreements designed to return U.S.-based automakers to profitabili­ty. 
Details of the agreement were not immediately released, but the deal likely will be similar to those negotiated with General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC. 
Those pacts -which were reached after short. strikes against the automakers -include a union-run trust that would take over the com­panies' retiree health care obligations, a lower-tier wage scale for some workers and some job security pledges. dent for human resources members," UAW iority rights. 
In a statement, Ford and labor affairs, said in President Ron Gettelfinger "We made progress in confirmed that the deal the statement. said in a statement. all these areas," he said. includes the retiree health Ford is financially the The deal encourages People who had been care trust fund and said weakest of the Detroit Ford to invest in its prod­briefed on the bargaining the trust is subject to Three automakers, having ucts while addressing the late Friday said that approval by the courts lost more than $12 billion economic needs of union throughout the lengthy and the U.S. Securities last year. The company members, Gettelfinger's negotiating session. bar­and Exchange has mortgaged its assets statement said. gainers were weighing Commission. -including its blue oval "We face enormous the UAW's demand for 
"Though we will not dis­logo -to fund turn­challenges -and we also promises that new vehi­cuss the specifics of the around efforts. have enormous potential," cles will be built at U.S. tentative agreement until The deal came after a UAW Vice President Bob factories against the com­after it becomes final, we bargaining session that King said in the state­pany's desire to further believe it is fair to our lasted more than 41 hours ment. King, the chief downsize its manufactur­employees and retirees, inside the automaker's union negotiator with ing capacity to match and paves the way for world headquarters build­Ford, said the union's lower demand for its Ford to increase its com­ing in Dearborn. goals were to win new products. petitiveness in the United "Our bargaining com­product and investment The people did not want States," Joe Laymon, mittee came through for from the company, get job to be identified because Ford's group vice presi-our active and retired security and protect sen-the talks were private. 

Citigroup Chief Executive resigns 
Associated Press was also expected he would take tive of Citigroup in October 2003. 
a greater role in leading the com­Many shareholders criticized him 
NEW YORK -Citigroup Inc. pany. openly for much of his tenure, as Chairman and Chief Executive In a separate statement, Citi, Citigroup 's stock lagged its peers Charles Prince, beset by the com­which took a hit of $6.5 billion while Prince executed what was pany's billions of dollars in losses from asset writedowns and other called an umbrella model of cor­from investing in bad debt, credit-related losses in the third porate organization. with several resigned Sunday and is being quarter, said it would take an separate lines of business. Shares replaced as chairman by former additional $8 billion to $11 billion closed Friday at $37.73, about 20 Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin. in writedowns. percent below where they were 
The nation's largest banking "It was the honorable course, when Prince became CEO. company announced Prince's given the losses we are now Prince's position looked espe­widely expected departure in a announcing," Rubin said of cially shaky after the company on statement following an emer­Prince's resignation in an inter­Oct. 1 estimated that third-quar­gency meeting of its board. Citi view with The Associated Press. ter profit would decline about 60 also said Sir Win Bischoff, chair­Prince joined former Merrill percent to some $2.2 billion after man of Citi Europe and a Member Lynch & Co. CEO Stan O'Neal. seeing nearly $6 billion in credit of the Citi management and oper­who resigned from the investment costs and write-downs of overly ating committees, would serve as bank last month, as the highest­leveraged corporate debt and interim CEO. Rubin, a former co­profile casualties of the debt cri­souring home mortgages. At that chairman of Goldman. Sachs & sis that has cost billions at other time, Prince said the bank's earn­Co., has served as the chair of financial institutions as well. ings would return to normal in Citi's executive committee, and it Prince, 57. became chief execu-the fourth quarter. 

page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 5, 2007 
Alumni donate $85 million to Madison 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wise. -When he bcH~<une dnan of the University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Business in 2002, Michael Knettnr went looking for a big donor, someone who would give $50 million in exehange for put­ting tlwir name on the school. 
No one was interested. 
So, Knetter decided to do sonwthing radieal: lind contribu­tors willing to pay to keep the school's namn ofT the market. 
After years of conversations, I:~ alumni announced last month that they wen~ giving $85 million in exchange for assur­ancns that the business school would not bn named for any donor for at 
"It is an

h•ast 20 years. million. 
It's the biggest unprecedented act of lie planned an donation in uni­selfless philanthropy. announeement vnrsity history, for a homecom­
I don't know of

and it comns at ing event last a limn wlwn sta­another case where month. but more diums, buildings anything remotely pledgns camn in and wholl~ col­-$20 million
like this has taken 

leges nls1~wlu~re more from four are being place and I hope it is donors in the llanwd for the the start ofa trend." 
final week, then a· higlwst bidder. $5 million prom­"It is an ise just two hours 
Terry Hartle 

unprPcedPnlcHI bnfore hn went 
act of snlrless senior vice president public. philanthropy. I American Council on In an interview, don't know of Kneller said he
Education 

another case whnre anything rPmotely like this has taken plac~n and I hopP it is thn start of a trend," said Tnrrv llartln, sen­ior vice~ prnsid;~nt for thn AmPriean Coundl on Education. "It's t.lw most intnn~sting dnvnl­opnwnt in philanthropy I've snen in tlw last year." 
Han c;oldsmith. a spokns­wornan for thP Counc~il for Advanc~Pnwnl and Support of Jo:ducation. calll'd tho gift "an unusual takP on a long tradi­tion." 
"It's certainly a rww and vnry gennrous approach." she said. 
Tlw donors are all Wisconsin alumni and I 0 of tlwm graduat­ed from thn businnss school. l·:ar.h plmlged at least $5 million to join the partnPrship. Thny include Ab Nicholas. who played basketball for Wisconsin in the IIJ50s. 
"It snnds a message that peo­ple 1~an band togPther for a com­mon causn and they don't need a lot of rncognition," said Nieholas, who foundnd an investnwnt linn and livns in Chnnnqua, Wis. "It's sort of selfless and yet it isn't beeausn the p!H>ple giving thn money feel good about it." 
Nicholas said lw was proud the gift allows the university to kenp its well-respected name. "Tiw Univnrsity of Wisconsin­Madison School of Business. That sounds l{rPat." lw said. 
llartle said many public uni­vnrsities havn markntnd naming rights to law. busirwss and med­ical collngns in th1~ past I 0 years to makn up for lagging tax sup­port. Business schools have bcwn particularly aggressive, with thn majority of tlwm already namnd for donors. 
Busirwss schools at thn Univnrsity of Michigan, the University of Washington and thn Univnrsity of llawaii are among those that have bnen rnnamnd in pnrpntuity to rnmg­nizn onn-timn gift-; ranging from $25 million to $100 million. 
Knettnr said hn approached thrne contributors with the $50 million asking price. 
But when they weren't ready, he changed his approae·h. He said he was bothered that one pnrson would get the name and other donors would be left out. And he learned the price of naming rights was going up and that keeping the name for now would bn a strategic asset. After 20 years, he estimates, the nam­ing rights on the school could bring in $300 million or more. 
At first, donors thought Knetter's idea of paying to not sell the name was wacky. 
Finally, three donors bought into it 1 H months ago. promising $20 million. Pledges slowly grew to $:~0 million, then $40 million, then hit the goal of $50 million and reached $60 
was still trying to 
figure out how to spnnd thn monny, bnyond inen~asing salaries, hiring more faculty and staff. and serving morn students. 
"This thing has succcwded beyond my wildest drnams," he said. 
Tlw final $5 million pledgn eanw fro Milwaukne business­man Sheldon Lubar. who already has a business school named in his honor at UW­Milwaukee al'ter he gave that univnrsity $10 million last ynar. 
"Someorw told me 'You'rn the only person in the United States that's going to have two business schools nanwd after you or not namnd aftc~r you,"' Lubar said. "Well. that even makns it bettnr, donsn 't it." 

Bluffton still coping with tragedy 
Scars remain for Ohio community that lost team in accident 
Associated Press 
BLUFFTON, Ohio -Every day, Bluffton University base­ball coach James Grandey looks at the banners hanging on the outfield fence in left field, staring at five names and numbers. Sometimes, he's joined by his wife and their 10-month-old daughter. 
"It's a place of remem­brance for me," Grandey said. 
The names are of the five Bluffton baseball players killed nearly eight months 
ager Tim Berta, graduated asleep and feel like the road but couldn't attend the cere­was caving in," she said. mony because he was hospi­"He'd wake up gasping for talized with severe head air." lllJUries. He has since Gray's hometown friend, returned home to Ida, Mich., Cody liolp, died in the acci­and undergoes therapy to dent. They were supposed to relearn talking and other be roommates this year. skills. During the summer, Gray 
The rest of the boys, as didn't join his teammates most call them, are trying to when they toured major move forward. league ballparks in 
Some, like first baseman Cincinnati, Cleveland and Greg Sigg, have one more Detroit. season before they go out "lie didn't like being hon­into the real world. He's a ored. lie wouldn't tell me 
student teacher why," Jodi Gray said. "I think 
this fall. he felt bad about going with­
ago when the 'There isn't an hour, Sophomore out Cody." team's bus A.J. Ramthun is School officials have been
a half-hour, that goes 
plunged off a playing football protective, not allowing play­highway by that I don't think again after ers to do interviews about tho overpass in about something. " recovering from crash. Coaches watch for Atlanta, on a broken collar­signs of' stress, sueh as slip­the way to a bone. lie's ping grades or missed class­
James Grandey 
tournament wearing No. 5 to es. in Florida. Bluffton baseball coach honor his team-Everyone has high hopes 
Twenty-eight 
others were 
injurnd. 
No one on the bus escaped without a sear, and they still suffer nagging pains. 
Nightmares and 11ashbaeks are lnss frequent but still haunt players. So does the sight of a car or a truck enm­ing too fast, too close. 
"Thme isn't an hour, a half­hour, that goes by that I don't think about something," Grandey said. "And I'm pret­ty sure that's the same for the rest of the guys. It will be with all of us tlw rest of' our lives." 
Grandey walks with a limp and sometime feels numb­ness in his cheeks, the l'esult of' breaking his right leg and nearly every bone in his face. 
Players injured in tho crash are back on campus this fall at the Mennonite school in the farm country of north­west Ohio. 
All but two are expected to play baseball next spring; one will miss the season after having plates removed from his throwing arm and anoth­er decided not to return to the team. 
The only senior from last season's team, student-man­
mates. for this season -the team 
Some are still finished last season with a 5­
scarred by memories of the 19 record -but first they 
bus Wl'eck. have to get past another Pitcher Brandon Freytag spring trip to Florida, the sp1mt two weeks in France on same destination they were a elass trip in May, but riding headed for last March 2. a swaying train at night Their driver apparently mis­through the French country­took an exit ramp for a high­side was too unnerving and way lane and went ovnr the .he didn't even try to sleep. c~dge of the overpass. Thl' 
When it came driver and his 
time for the wife were killed. 
group to This time, 
board a bus, however, the
"There are still some 
a host family tc~am will take a drove him in kids that don't want plano instead of their ear. to get on a bus. " a bus. 
"A lot of Not going was them had never an option.
Gwynne Freytag 
obstacles Nearly all north­
pitcher's mother 
thny had t~~ ern schools overcome, make the trip, s a i d and canceling Freytag's would put thn mother, Gwynne. "There arn Bluffton team at a big disad­still some kids that don't vantage. want to get on a bus." "You've got to look at it Austin Gray, a junior from a IHtseball perspective," inlieldor, and his family were Grandey said. returning from a camping The team will have a nnw trip this summer when lield this year. Money donat­another driver cut in front of' ed to the s c h o o I a f't e r tlw them. "Austin screamed like accident is being used to a girl," said his mother, Jodi build nnw dugouts, batting Gray, of Lewisburg. cages and a permanent However, Gray's nightmares memorial. A tul'f eompany have stopped. "lie would fall put in a nnw infield for frcw. 
NEW STUDY A5ROAD OPPORTUNITY at Chinese Universit_y of 
Hong Kong 
Arts 
Medicine 5usiness Science Engineering Social Science 
Learn about the possibilities on Monda_y, NOVE:M5E:R 5 at 5:30 PM 117 DEBARTOLO 
No chinese language re9uired 
-~----~---~-----~----~--~---------­
Monday, November 5, 2007 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
MEXICO 
Tens of thousands flee Gulf Coast flooding in Mexico 
Torrential rains continue to overflow river and pummel infrastructure; draws comparisons to Katrina 
Associated Press 
VILLAIIERMOSA -Hundreds of thousands of Mexicans fled a flooded region of the Gulf coast Friday, jumping from rooftops into rescue helicopters, scram­bling into boats or swimming out through murky brown water. 
President Felipe Calderon called the flooding in Tabasco state one of Mexico's worst recent natural disasters, and pledged to rebuild. 
A week of heavy rains caused rivers to overflow. drowning at least 80 percent of the oil-rich state. Much of the state capital, Villahermosa. looked like New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, with water reaching to second­story rooftops and desperate people awaiting rescue. 
At least one death was report­ed and nearly all services, including drinking water and public transportation, were shut down. The flood affected more than 900,000 people in the state of 2 million -their homes flood­ed, damaged or cut off by high water. 
A 1 0-inch natural gas pipeline sprang a leak al'ter flooding apparently washed away soil underneath it, but it was unclear if other facilities operated by the state-run Petroleos Mexicanos were damaged or if oil produc­tion was affected. 
Workers tried to protect 
Villahermosa's famous Olmec statues by placing sandbag col­lars around their enormous stone heads, and built sandbag walls to hold back the Grijalva River in the state capital. 
But the water rose quickly, sur­prising residents used to annual floods and forcing soldiers to evacuate the historic city center. The dikes failed Thursday night, and water swamped the capital's bus station and open-air market. 
Rain gave way to sunshine Friday, but tens of thousands of people were still stranded on rooftops or in the upper floors of their homes. Rescue workers used tractors, helicopters, jet skis and boats to ferry people to safe­ty, while others swam through water infested by poisonous snakes to reach higher ground. 
Calderon met with state offi­cials and flew over the affected areas. The extent of the flooding was clear from the sky ­Tabasco state seemed like an inland sea with only rooftops and treetops protruding from the water. 
"This is not just the worst nat­ural catastrophe in the state's history but, I would venture to say, one of the worst in the recent history of the country," Calderon said Friday during an emergency meeting with state officials in Villahermosa. 
The president ordered the armed forces and federal police to maintain order and prevent looting, and asked residents to remain calm. He canceled a trip to Panama, Colombia and Peru. 

"Once we have passed the criti­cal stage ... we are going to reconstruct Tabasco, whatever it takes," Calderon said. 
Mexicans rallied around the disaster, with people across the country contributing money and supplies. Television stations dedi­cated entire newscasts to the flooding and morning shows switched from yoga and home improvement to calls for aid. Friday was the Day of the Dead holiday, but banks opened to accept donations for flood vic­tims. 
Food and clean drinking water were extremely scarce in Tabasco state, and federal Deputy Health Secretary Mauricio Hernandez warned that there could be outbreaks of cholera and other waterborne diseases. 
"With so many people packed together there is a chance that infectious diseases could spread," he said. 
Officials tested for 600 suspect­ed cases of cholera, but none was positive, he said. The water­borne sickness, which can be fatal, has not been reported in Mexico for at least six years. 
The government also sent 20,000 Hepatitis A vaccinations and were giving booster shots to children to prevent outbreaks, Hernandez said. 

Medical care was difficult, however, because at least 50 of the state's hospitals and medical centers were flooded. 
Hotels, parking garages and other dry structures were con­verted into temporary shelters for those forced from their homes. 
Guadalupe de la Cruz, a recep­tionist at the Hotel Calinda Viva Villahermosa, said the hotel's meeting rooms were being used as shelters for employees' fami­lies. She said the 240-room hotel was completely booked, mostly by people who had fled their homes. 
Many people were headed to nearby cities unaffected by the floods. Highways that weren't covered with water were packed with residents fleeing in cars and on foot. The exodus appeared to be orderly with no reports of vio­lence. 

Notre Dame Seniors DON'T FORGET This weekvou mustreturn vour SENIOR PORTRAITPROOFS! Lauren Studios wi II be collecting proofs in the Dooley Room of the La Fortune from Monday, November 5-Friday November 9 from 9 am-I pm and from 2 pm-5 pm. Please please plan on returning your proofs, making your yearbook pose selection and placing your portrait order at this time. Portraits make wonderful Christmas gifts and are the best possible way to show off your achievement of graduating from Notre Dame. In order to avoid long lines, we have scheduled proof return days by the first letter ofyour last name. If your last name begins with A-E, your proof return date is ll /5, F-J, your proof return day is 1116, K-N, your proof return day is 1117, 0-S, your proof return day is 11/8, T-Z, your proof return day is Ill 9. Remember. you must return your proofs this week in order to guarantee Christmas delivery for your portrait package and that you receive the pose of your choice in your yearbook. Lauren Studios 9607 Business Center Dr. #13 B Rancho Cucamonga, CA 91730 (800) 888-5155 www.LaurenStudios.com  

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, November 5, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Monopolizing values 
P.O. Box n9, Notre D•mc. IN 46556 024 ~mlth Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46156 
EormR IN CllJEF Maddi~ Iianna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken h>wlcr Kyle West 

Ass'J~ MANA<;JNG EDITOR: Kyle Cassity 
Ass'J~ MANA<.ING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
N1·:ws EDITOR! Kart•n L111gley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King 
SPOifl'S EDITORS: Chris Khorey 
Chris I !inc 
SCJ,NI; EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: M.,dclinc Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: jessi<;a Conez 
An DI'.~IGN MANAGER: Kl'lly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
('i74) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 63 1-6')27 
ADVERTISING 
(574} 631-6900 ohservad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
('i74} 631-4541 obsme@)nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574} 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4 543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
~me. I @nJ.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-!!839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 

The Observer is the indq>endent, daily n<-wspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du L1c and Sainr Mary's Collcg<'. Editorial conrcm. including advertisements, is nol governed hy policies of!It<· administration ofeither instinnion. The Ohsc:rver reserves the righ1 to rcfust• adwrtiscmenls bru.cd on comcnt. 
The news is reported as Jccuratdy and objectively as po~ihlc. Unsi!(nt·d editorials rcpr~cnt the opinion of the majority of tht· Ediror in Chid; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edirors and department cdiwrs. Conuuemarics, lcncrs and columns present the views of1hc a111hors .md not nt·cessarily those of'l11c Observer. 
Vi<'Wpoim space i~ available ro all readers. The ft<'C <'xrrcssion ofall opinions through lcners is t•ncouragcd. L<·ttcr' to lht· Editor must be signed and must include wnract inlc>nnation. 
Qumirms Tr'f,flrding Oburvt'r policies should be dirrctrd to fdiror in ChiifMrultlir llrmna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th,· lllowrl"'"• (t:\1'" '\'1!: ; •om •• 1'":·· ' 1 \lou,,I'Y 1ht1111~h l•ncl-1)' nu:pr dur111~ l'LIIIIJII,j • ••l•f'••••' .\ .. ,:.~, •llH•iht(lh.,..I;LI!.~IIKlfurunc.ll.\t(I'IBk 
Ifw t lb'lt'tVI:'I j, puh[r~ltC'<! Jl' Pfl!-o! i\1.>\~'IT.I~ 
ll~; ·.,.,nh \)uun~ot 11.~11 ,r.,.f,Jdri:~•(()ffCI.linll'T<> 
N1oUc ll.unr IN -1(,.,~(~-:-I ·n,cllhw:rwr 
rcuu.lr~o~J 1"'•'..~~ l'olh.i at Notre £lunc r•u l!wt77'lJ 
o111d .~ol.lu•un.11mo~•lu,t:•'ll . ll.!.·lluual.lltlllll~Ho~ll 
J'\;nm Dame, IN 1!t'i'i(,.Oi711 

lite lll·~~rvrr 1' ;j mc:1ul1('1 ttl the ~uu:tl Prn.' All rcpn~<hu:fiutlttNln~ .&rc reo.crvttl. 
At the end of' September, the f'our Hepubliean f'rontrunners for President skipped a debate focused on minority issues. They eited "scheduling con/1icts," yet their web­
site~ reported o~ly Andrea 
~>rdmary. camp~u~n-Laidman 
mg and lundraismg nvents for the day or lligh Sounding the PBS-sponson~d Words debate. Mitt Homncy was at an IIIOP in Sacramento, Calif. Fn~d Thompson was charging $500 per dinner plate in Franklin, Tenn. Hudy Giuliani was visiting one cafe after another in Santa Barbara, Calif. before seeking the endorsement of anti-immigration ex-California Gov. Pete Wilson in Santa Monica. And .John McCain was in New York spf~ak­ing to the conservative lludson Institute (whose President, by the way, has publicly called f'or an American military strike on Iran since the summer of 2006). 
A month later, a different forum brought all of' the Hepublican Party candidates to Washington, DC. Calendars were clear for the second­annual Vahws Voters Summit, an event not to be missed, which culmi­nated in a straw poll won narrowly by Homnny. 
What is most surprising about this convention of' Christian conservative voters is the arrogance and careless­ness of its very name, and the wide­spread use of "values voters" as an acceptable or reasonable term by the American modia and public. 
Such a classification of one pur­portedly like-minded political bloc injures our sense and conception of voters and issues as the 2008 presi­dential election approaches. 
First, as one Washington Post columnist put it over a year ago, who isn't a "values voter?" 
The phrase suggests that only social conservatives vote to further their values. It implies that OIHJ seg­ment of the population, and indeed. OIHJ extreme of the political spec­trum. has a monopoly on moral sin­cerity and importance when it comes to political participation. 
Second, the "values" label seems to apply to a relatively narrow set of issues (namely those surrounding certain life issues, a definition or marriage or family, and religion in the public sphere). So, when conser­vative voters discuss other tenets of their party, like tax cuts or limited government, are they talking about values-free issues? 
By creating the idea of the "values voter," participating social conserva­tives suggest not only that they are more morally conseious than the rest of the electorate. but that certain political issues are embedded with values and ethics, while others lay outside of this realm. This is a dan­gerous framework for the presiden­tial race -one that both parties should feel wary about-but. unfor­tunately, that the social conservative leadership functions within. 
In a piece exploring why the "val­ues voters" crowd isn't rallying behind Gov. Mike lluekabee, a Baptist minister stieking with his first wife and first position on abor­tion (rare qualities amidst this year's pool of Hepublican hopefuls). New York Times columnist Gail Collins writes, "Huckabee's problems say more about the leaders of the reli­gious right than about him." 
Collins continues: "Considerations like who has the most Christian atti­tudes toward illegal immigrants don't register. And the fact that as governor Huckabee spent a lot of time trying to spend money on the needy d()(~sn't go over all that well 
with the ones who believe that God's 
top priority is eliminating the estato 
tax." 
lndeod, tlw d1~ath tax has been a major part of the discussion among the votors who have seiznd both "life" and "values" as their own. 
At tlw Values Voters Summit. the Republican candidates stooped to a competition in pandering, each attempting to prove himself to be the man of tho Christian right. 
Formerly pro-choice and noted Mormon, Homney somehow came out on top. Giuliani did not fare as well (though few expected a brilliant reception f'or the pro-choicn mayor with a tendency to support gay mar­riage and with a marriage record of his own). 
In tho wonks before the Summit, it was the death tax, rather than per­sonal n~eord of soeial conservatism. that was the point in question. 
"Let's kill th1~ death tax!" was the rallying cry of' Mitt Homnoy in New Hampshin~. Hudy (~iuliani took it a step furthl)r: "Let's give the death tax the death penalty!" 
We can't be sure if Hudy's state­ment was values-ladnn or not. But in the context of this piece, it undor­lincs the trend of inconsistencies among America's def'endcrs of life and values. 
Andrea Laidman is a senior politi­cal science and peace studies major. Her column's title recalls advice given to John Adams hy his wife, Abigail: "We have too many high sounding words, and too few actions that correspond with them." She can be contacted at alaidman@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
OBSERVER POLL 

News SJ>Orts Katie Kohler Dan Murphy Josoph Mr.Mahon Lorenzo Reyes 
"It is as impossible for man to
Charlie Weis' future? 
Subrnit a letter
Katie Peralta John Whitty 
demonstrate the existence ofGod 
as it would be for even Sherlock
Graphics Scene 
Holmes to demonstrate

to the Editor at 
Jared Wafer Analise Lipari Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
the existence of
Viewpoint 
Arthur Conan Doyle." 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com
Lianna 
Frederick Buechner novelist 
Brauweiler 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, November 5, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Uproar over Weis'late-gallle decisions 
Weis made right call 
In response to Chris Malherek's "Football, not fans, a disgrace" (Nov. 1) I can only say I partially agree. However, we cannot place the full weight of this season's struggles on the team or oven Charlie Weis. We simply do not have experience. We start double the amount of freshman and sophomore players as our opponents. Our upper classes are small, and the talent is lacking. Weis' top recruits just need some playing time and they will take us back to the top. 
Regarding the Navy game, many Notre Dame fans were upset by Weis' decision to pass the ball on fourth-and-7 late in the fourth quarter when the game was tied. A field goal would have put us up by 3. Why not kick it? Simple: We do not have a kicker that can kick a 41-yard field goal into the wind during practice, so why now? Brandon Walker's longest warmup at that side of the field was 37 yards. Our chances are better when we go for it than when we try to kick. 
Matt Mooney sophomore Alumni Hall Nov. 4 

Athletes owe students loyalty too 
I am writing with regards to the Navy football game this past Saturday. Of course, it was a tough loss and I am sure our team was discouraged and tired after the game. But after we students stood and cheered for over four hours and through three over­times, I think we deserved to have the team raise their helmets to us as they have in years past. This season, it has only been one or two players a game, and after the Navy game it was none. Win or lose, we will always be there cheering because they are our team. I just really want them to give us that one gesture of thanks. We are loyal to them; I wish they showed their loyalty to us. So after the last few games of the season, I really and truly hope that the team revives this tradition. 
The other instance of loyalty I wish to address is to Coach Weis. I know that many students and fans disagreed with his decisions during the game, but that is absolutely no excuse whatsoever for the students to boo when the band played the 1812 Overture after the game. He is still our coach, no matter what. We still owe him respect, if not admiration. Loving Notre Dame football means being loyal when times are bad so that you deserve to be called a Notre Dame fan when times are good. 
Anna Seghetti 
sophomore 
Lyons Hall 
Nov. 4 

9-3 isn't good enough? 
After the season two years ago, Coach Weis proudly announced to members of the Notre Dame community that his 9-3 record wasn't good enough. Well, how about 3-9? That's about as good as this season could turn out. 
There have been all sorts of excuses tossed around for our misfortune this. season, and until this weekend, many of them seemed to be fair. Not anymore. Everyone likes to put the blame on Ty Willingham for our suppressed talent, but getting beaten by Navy has nothing to do with talent. We refuse to believe that they are a more talented team than us. The problem, it seems, is coaching. Many of the calls on Saturday were simply awful. One of our personal favorites was the fake field goal attempt. Here's a great idea: Let's try to run the not-so-quick Evan Sharpley for 15 yards behind the lead block of a kicker. Brilliant. 
Also, if anyone could possibly explain to us why you would not try to kick a field goal for the win at the end of regulation, that would be great. That's terrible decision mak­ing. Absolutely terrible. 
The play calling wasn't the only flaw we saw with the coaching job. How could we not stop the option? What was the defense practicing all week? It's not like Navy did anything surprising. They've been running the same offense for years. Everybody knew exactly what they were going to do, and yet they came in and ran all over us anyway. Coach Weis has been one of the first to admit that coaching has been the biggest prob­lem this year, but we're sick of hearing that. How about you earn your incredibly high salary and start coaching better? 
Tony Ceravolo, Brent Gills juniors Knott Hall Nov. 3 
Time for Charlie to go 
After yet the latest shameful coaching performance by "genius" Charlie Weis, it's clear that it's time for him to leave. This isn't (just) about losing; this isn't (just) about five straight home losses and being on pace for one of the worst records in school history; this isn't (just) about his losing the 43-game winning streak against Navy. 
It's about how unprepared the team looks every week. Navy's offense runs the triple option on every play -why did the defense look confused throughout the first half? Even beyond that, this is about the puzzling and stupid playcalling decisions Weis makes every game. Fourth-and-15 and up by seven? Fake field goal! A one-point lead with 10 minutes left and a successful running attack? Let's pass the ball! Fourth-and-8 with less than a minute left in a tie game deep in the opponent's territory? Go for it! 
Weis is an excellent recruiter: There is no question about that. But good recruiting and good players will never win with horren­dous game plans, schizophrenic depth chart decisions and awful in-game adaptations. The University needs to thank Charlie for his service, and ask him to leave. If he refuses, I'm sure there are enough enraged alumni to buy out his contract. Anything to stop the bleeding. 
Stephen Mann junior Stanford Hall Nov. 3 
Help make a dream come true 

I am writing today to enlist the support of the Notre Dame community to help send one of our design students on the ride of a lifetime. Mallory McMorrow is a senior industrial design student whose dream it is to design cars. Through her hard work and effort, she has become a final­ist in the Mazda Design Challenge on Facebook, and it's up to Facebookers worldwide to decide who will win an oppor­tunity to go to the LA Auto Show and create their winning design in a full size clay model right on the show floor with the Mazda design team. 
The last day to vote is Tuesday. Please log on to Facebook and join the Mazda Design Challange Group to vote. You can vote on both Monday and Tuesday. This would be a huge win for both Mallory and the University of Notre Dame Design department. 
Please help a fellow Domer today with just a few clicks of your time. 
Professor Ann-Marie Conrado Department ofArt, Art History & Design Nov. 4 

Men's behavior not insulting 
This is in response to Marilynn Anater's Letter to the Editor ("Behavior Insulting," Nov. 2). I would like to inform Ms. Anater that she does not speak for all the women of the Notre Dame community or even those of the Saint Mary's community. As a fellow Saint Mary's sophomore and former cheerleader, I must respectfully remind Ms. Anater that cheerleaders, and espe­cially college cheerleaders, choose their activity with the knowledge that they will often be viewed as "objects." Cheerleading is an activity that involves jumping around and screaming in short skirts. It's athletic and impressive, but at the end of the day, men hooting and hollering at cheerleaders is a part of the college football experience that needs to be laughed off. I agree. that men of the Notre Dame community should conduct themselves with class at all times, but accusing them of piggishness for "objectifying" the other team's miniskirt-wearing crew is just wrong. 
I would encourage Ms. Anater to realize that militant feminism is not necessary in every cor­ner of the college experience. As a woman, I took no offense to the actions of the Notre Dame and Holy Cross men in this case. As with all the hooplah over the admittedly humorous and infamous "Russian Bride" cartoon, this is yet another example of people taking things far too personally. Come on, ladies. Lighten up. 
Kelsey Robertson sophomore Regina Hall Nov. 2 


CENE
page 12 
Monday, November 5, 2007 

By CLAIRE REISING 
Scenl' Writer 
In otw hour and 54 minutes, Qutwn Elizalmth I faces unappetizing marriagn proposals, sdwnws to stmtl her throtw, rnligious conflict in l·:ngland, an assassi­nation plot. tlw Spanish armada and a lovn trianglP involving Sir Waltnr Halnigh. 
II' that sounds likn too mueh to include in onP movie, that's probably bnntusn it is. 
While "J•:Iizabnth: The Coldnn Age" providns an Pntl'rtaining array of dra­matically-nnhant·t-d incidents in tlw Virgin ()uenn's rPign. this Sl'C(Uel is no match for its darker, nwre r:reativn predecessor. 
PJ9S's "FiizabPth" l'ocust>d on tpe quenn's asennt to power and cutthroat Ht>naissance 
2004's "King Arthur"
Despite the .fllm 's

polities. UnlikP that l'ilm, than his thoughtful per­tho snqunl's plot thins dun large, impersona I formance in last year's to its largo sroJW. Opt>ning scope, Blanchett "Children of Men." seetws in "Flizaht~th: Tlw Owen becomns little 
manages to provide

Golden Agp" establish mon~ than Elizabethan enmity hntwPPll England a multi-faceted eye-candy as he simul­and Spain, as Spain's King representation of tannouslv seduees the Philip (.Iordi Mollhl quenn atld her lady-in­
Queen Elizabeth. 

dmwunens Flizabeth (Catn 
BlanchNtl as a hen•til' and an illt>gitimatP ruiPr of England. 
Meanwhile, l·:lizabnth facns a growing thrnat from Mary. QuPen of Seots (Samantha Morton), who is next-in-litw for ttw British throtw. To further rom­plicate hor situation, tlw virgin Quenn 
battles an attraction to thn dashing Sir Waltnr HalPigh (CiivP Owen), but 1:an marry only for political -rather than porsonal -n~asons. Tho plot draws from a dncadn of l·:lizaboth 's reign and includes an epic naval battle and a soap opnra-worthy loVP alTair. This constant movnrnent between difTnrent nlnnwnts of tlw plot impPdPs din~ctor Shekhar Kapur's atlPmpts to dnvnlop a foeust~d story. 
Although tho plot lacks intm1sity, viow­ms can nnjoy thn nlahoratn royal eos­tunws and senrwry. Costunw dnsignnr Alnxandra Byrnn, whoso rt\sum11 inc! udns "Finding Nnvnrland," ereatns an impressive wardrobn for Blanchett's ()unnn I·:lizabnth, from the flowing gowns shP woars in court to the suit of armor slw dons as shn rallies thn I~nglish troops. The scmwry mnphasizns tlw grandPur of l~lizaboth 's rPign, aim-
Elizabeth: The Golden Age 

Directed by: Shekhar Kapur Starring: Gate Blanchette, Clive Owen, Geoffrey Rush and Abbie Comish 



ing for glamour over historieal aeeura­ey, and tlw castle rooms are brighter and more spaeious than thoy were in the 199S lilm. 
In addition to the extravagant eos­tunw and set designs, "Elizabeth: The Goldnn Agn" has a strong cast. But the aetors sonwtimns seem constrained in their roles. Geoffrey Hush returns as Elizabeth 'sadviser and spymastnr. Sir Francis Walsingham. In the previous film. Hush's t:onniving, Machiavelli­quoting eharaeter stole sevoral scent~s and gains the audience's n~spect as he becomes indispensible to the new qunen. Whiln he still employs brutal mothods to ensure Elizabeth's seeurity in this film. his acting is less animated, and lw fails to reach his full potential. 
Clive Owen is also underused, and his role as Walter Haleigh is mon~ like his static eharacter in 
waiting (Abbie 
Cornish). 

Despite thn lilm's largt~ and imperson­al seope, Blanehett manages to provide a multi-faceted representation of <)ueen Elizabeth. But her pnrformanee is less dynamic than her previous one. The first role d11pietnd Elizabeth's transfor­mation from an idealistic, passionate young woman into a shrewd, dignified queen, but lwrc tho transformation is alrnady complete. 
Viewers can sympathize with Blanchett's charactflr, however, as her morals conrliet with the actions she must take, making hnr weighty deci­sions dil'fieull. Also, Blanehett powerful­ly shows Elizabnth's inner turmoil when she must relinquish a relationship with Halt~igh to uphold her duties as queen. 
Despite Blanehett's strong perform­anee, Kapur sometimes turns her char­acter into a figurine with exeessive artistic techniques. Several scenes con­sist of a still shot of Elizabeth, with dra­matic ehoral music blaring in the back­ground. If used sparingly, this technique could accentuate the queen's power; with overuse, it loses its effect and bneomes tedious. 
Evon though "Eiizabnth: The Golden Age" has somn strong elenwnts, what could bn a com­ptdling study of Queen Elizabnth's charaeter gets lost in tlw immensity of the plot. Tlw film shows that no amount of glamorous seenery, aetion­paeknd battles or scandalous love affairs can substitute for a streamlinnd plot and solid char­aetnrs. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 
UNORIGINAL 'GANGSTER' CAN'T N 
:Sy RYAN RAFFIN 
Sc~m· Writer 

Unless you live the life of a lwrmit in Wyoming, odds are you've heard of the 1 Ridltiy Sc~ott-di rflct.ed "Arnerkan Gangster." And it is, as you might have guessed, a gangster movio set in Ameriea. The adver­tf~ing onslaught for Jt was ll(tar-unavoid­abltl, cr('ating quite a bit of buzz. Starring Denzel Washington and Russell CrowP, 1 both Oscar wimHWS, l.ht~re Is definite star p()wer helping to build thn hypn. Throw in the ever cliched "based on a true story" taglinH, and it has all the rhaklngs ol' a box office smash. 
None of this matters, though, if the movie itself is bad. Word of mouth ean make or brnak a film. "American Gangster" really breaks no new ground, as the gangstPr genr(l is almost etJmplHt(lly satut·atod ul this point. Luekily, it is fairly solid. maybe even getting some acting nominations at the Aeademy Awards. 
j j 
l 
J 
· 
f 
J 
I 
. 
Washington plays Frank lueas, a self-made heroin kingpin and the Uti~> f~hara{'-I : . ter. It's u very eompt~lling JlOPLrayal () r iii' 
man who takes a business entreprcmeur's 
approach to dealing drugs·~ and becomes I wildly successful as a rnsult. Tho long run time of the film allows for a fleshing out or 1:., 
the character: ll.is rise, rule and f'all are a11 j 
chronidtld lwl'tl in tt flth·ly standard way. ' 
Washington's aeting is superb, bringing complett· belitwability to the aetions of his eharat:ter. 
The businHsslike demeanor he gives ofl' as he carries out his dealings lights up tlw seroen. His cnring attitude towurd his fam­
.iJy holds up through the entire film; not once does it seem anything but genuinn. Thjs is an cxcnllent perfurmaneo that will only add to Washington'~ reputation, though elearly he does not need to estab­lish himself as a quality actor. 
Opposite to the gangster is Hussnll Crowt~ as the alliteratively named Ukhie Roberts, < aby~the-books New York City poUcH officer. Watehing the two work against each other 
without ever crossing paths is intriguing. and their meeting towm·d the end of the t1hn is a fine payoff. noberts faees many diff'iculties in attempting to take down Lucas' empire; his f(~Jlow cops arP-conupt (surprise, surprise) and his opponent has the whole city in his pocket. Hoberts has his share of personal problems, with a mnssy divorce and a nasty ·womanizing streak; it appears the two go hand in hand. . ·· Though Crowe's acting and story are overshadowed by Washington's part, Crowe is quite good nonetheless. It's tough .Jl,Otto rootfor hhll in this role-he's an U#derdogworking in a corrupt system. try. 

NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, November 5, 2007 BSERVER Navy 46, Notre Dame 44 (30T) 
History re~ritten 
Failed two-point 9onversion attempt ends 43-game winning streak over Navy 
Notre Dame and Navy tradedBy PAT O'BRIEN touchdowns in the first over­

Sports Writer 
time and field goals in the sec­
ond. 

Irish senior running back In the final overtime period, Travis Thomas took the handoff Navy struck on a play-action from junior quarterback Evan pass from quarterback Kaipo­Sharpley, bounced to the right, No;J_ ~~~~:1~i.r-:bnhada to slot and was 5'.':~ilrleci by Navy back Heggie Campbell for a 25­defenders at the 1-yard line. In yard touchdown. an instant, college football's Kaheaku-Enhada found longest winning streak against Campbell again for the two­a single opponent ended at 43, point conversion. and the struggles of the 2007 Notre Dame moved the ball Notre Dame football team per­methodically in overtime but sisted. faced with a fourth-and-1 on 
"In the end, we just made one the Navy 5-yard line. Fifth-year more play than they did," Navy senior Travis Thomas broke a coach Paul Johnson said. tackle in the backfield and 
The streak of wins that Notre forced his way into the end Dame (1-8) held over Navy zone. from 1964-2006 struck more of On the conversion attempt, a cord with the fan~ and media Sharpley threw to sophomore than it did with the players and receiver Hobby Parris, who coaches. dropped the ball, seemingly 
"Our senior class was 0-3 ending the game. But the offi­against Notre Dame," Johnson cials called pass interference said. ''I'm just happy that I on Navy defensive back Blake don't have to answer anything Carter, giving the Irish new life else about a streak every time from the 1 1/2-yard line. Weis we play. This team has not lost gave the ball to Thomas one all those years." more time, but the Navy was 
Weis agreed. defense was ready, stopping 
"The streak doesn't mean Thomas and ending the game. anything to me," Weis said. "(We told our players that "We lost to Navy. That's who we Notre Darnel was going to run lost to. Next year, we'll play the ball," Johnson said. "We Navy again. [The streak] is are selling out. We are bringing really not in the player's eyes. all 11, and we just crashed. It's You know what streak they are never in there until it's in worried about? llow many there." games they've lost in a row at For Navy, the end of the home. llow many games we've streak is now here. played since UCLA when last Notre Dame took a 7-0 lead we won. They are worrying in the first quarter when fresh­about the here and now. They'd man tailback Robert Hughes, like to beat Air Force -I think whose brother was shot and that's the streak that they'd like killed a week ago in Chicago, to be on." scampered three years for the 
After Notre Dame forced a Irish score. Navy punt with 2:2:~ remaining "The first time that we get in the fourth and the game down to the goal line, I want to knotted at 28-28, Irish safety get the ball to Robert, and I Tom Zbikowski returned the said that I would give it to him said. "They are a lot bigger Sharpley finished the game score and force overtime. kick 32 yards to the Navy 38-every play whether we scored than we are. What we were with two touchdowns and no Sharpley evaded a blitz found yard line. or not," Weis said. able to do was not have to interceptions on 17 -of-27 pass­tight end John Carlson for a 16­
Faeing fourth-and-8 from the "Fortunately, he got it in on the block them all. You have to give ing for 140 yards. yard gain on fourth-and-14 to opponent's 24-yard line with first one, and I think that it was [Kaheaku-Enhada] some credit Navy started the second half keep the final Irish scoring less than 50 seconds remain­a pretty emotional time." for that. He'd read his way out, on offense the same way they drive alive. ing. Weis chose to send the After a few exchanges of the so there were two guys that we finished the first. It ate up eight "Evan [Sharpley] has a pro­offense on the field, rather than ball that included a fumble didn't have to block." minutes of clock with a 15-play gression, and honestly I'm not having freshman Brandon recovery by senior safety Tom With the score even at 14-14, drive. But senior kicker Joey sure what his progression [was] Walker attempt a 41-yard field Zbikowski and a fake field goal Notre Dame appeared to move Bullen missed the point-after on that play, but he gave me a goal into a light breeze. by the Irish, Navy put the keys the ball with ease as well. Allen attempt, and Notre Dame clung ball that I could catch," Carlson 
"[The kick] was going against in the ignition. jump-started the Irish offense to a 21-20 lead. said. the wind, and in practice The Midshipmen ran the by returning the Midshipmen After the teams swapped The drive sustained while [Walker) couldn't make it from option to near perfection kickoff to the Navy 46-yard missed field goal attempts, Allen ran six consecutive times there," Weis said. "That's why against the Irish. line. From there, Aldridge Navy defensive end Chris for the Irish. Thomas scored we didn't kick it. [We needed to Its first scoring drive lasted pounded the ball down the Kuhar-Pitters recovered a from three yards out to tie it at goI about four more yards." 19 plays and gobbled up more field, and Thomas capped the Sharpley fumble and returned 28-28 with 3:25 left in regula­
On the fourth-down play, than eight minutes of clock in drive off with the first of his it for a touchdown. Kaheaku­tion. Navy safety Ham Vela leaped the first half with Singleton three touchdowns on the day. Enhada ran in the two-point An Irish win, however, was over running back Armando punching it in from the one. The Irish went into the half conversion to make it 28-21 not to be. Allen and sacked Irish quarter­"Truth be told, we are not with a 21-14 after Sharpley Navy. back Evan Sharpley, ending the going to line up toe-to-toe and found freshman Duval Kamara It took a near-miracle for Contact Pat O'Brien at Notre Dame scoring effort. block Notre Dame," Johnson for a 21-yard touchdown pass. Notre Dame to even up the pobrien2@nd.edu 

play of the gamestat of the gameplayer of the game quote of the game 
44 

NO's failed two-point conversion 
''The reason I think it hit all ofus this Years between Navy wins over 
Kalpo-Noa Kaheaku-Enhada 

hard is because we thought we were The Midshipmen quarterback ra~ 
Irish running back Travis Thomas 
playing a team that we could beat. And we didn't." 
Notre Dame. The last time the was hit in the backfield on Notre 
Midshipmen beat the Irish, they 
Dame's second attempt, and Navy well and threw for 8I yards and a 
coach Paul Johnson's option attack had Heisman-winning handed Notre Dame its eighth 
Joe Brockington 

quarterback Roger Staubach. 
touchdown on 6-of-8 passing. 

loss this season. 
Irish linebacker 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 5, 2007 
report card 

c 
A 
c 
8­
c 
D C­C­
F 
quarterbacks: Sharpley played well in his second start, going 17-of'-27 with two touchdowns and no intercep­tions, but made some tactical errors that could have been avoided. 
running backs: The bae~ks were the best part. of tim Irish lineup Saturday, carry­ing thP ball over 60 times for 235 yards and two touchdowns. The only bad monwnt ww; Thomas' failed conversion. 
receivers: Duval Kamant and John Carlson made groat catches for touc:h­downs, but Hobby Parris and David (;rimes dropped important passes. A'i a ~-,rroup, they wem only average. 
oHensive line: The linn had iL'i best game of the season so far, opening up holes on most running plays for backs to run through, but still gave up another four sacks. 
defensive line: The~ lim~ was handicapped from the bl\ginning when nose taekl<' Pat Kuntz went down with a back injury. But it did allow fi~wer rushing yards than Navy's season average. 
linebackers: Brockington and Crum played well defending divns up the mid­dle, but Vernaglia and Hyan struggled to contain out'iidn option runs. Hyan fin­ished the gcune without a t..aek!P. 
defensive backs: The sm:ondary did not dPiimd well against the option, although Wall'i did fbree a fumblo late. They also a.llowed the gamn-winning touchdown cu1d two-point eonversion p1issns. 
special teams: Allen and Zbikowski did well on returns to give tlw Irish good field position, but the kickers eould not bn trusted to make a 41-yard field goal, and missed a 40-yarder. 
coaching: Wnis was outeoaehed, mak­ing r.rucial play-calling mistakes at important times, including not attempting a potentially gamn-win­ning liPid goal in the fourth quarter. 

1.89 
overall: Notre Dame had its best offensive performance, but mental mistakes and poor defense could not keep the winning streak alive. 
adding up the numbers 

Passing yards per game allowed by Navy. 
2 6 5 

The Irish threw for only 140 yards on 17­of-27 passing. 
8 Fourth down conversions Notre Dame attempted against Navy. The Irish converted six of them. 
Combined punts between Notre Dame and 
2 

Navy -both from Navy late in the fourth quarter. 
.286 
Third down conversion percentage for Notre Dame this season -115th in the nation. The Irish went4-of-15 Saturday. 
Sacks the Irish allowed against Navy for a total of 45 allowed all season. Navy had only 
4 

five sacks before the game. 
135 
Rushing yards for Irish tail back James Aldridge -the second 100-yard game this season. Notre Dame had six 100-yard games last season. 
Times Notre Dame has scored 40 or more points this season. The Irish accomplished 
1 

this four limes in 2006 and six limes in 2005. 
Classes Navy has today. The 
superindenlint cancelled classes for the 
entire academy. 

There was a strange theme for Notre Dame after its most historic Joss: No one within the team seemed to care about the history. 
"I really don't care about the strnak," strong salhty Tom Zbikowski said. 
Charlie Weis ­and almost every Notre Dame play­er who was avail­able for inter­views-said Navy's snapping of' eoliege foot­ball's most infa­mous streak did­n't add to the sting of' the triple­ovnrtimo loss. 

"To me, we lost by two points to a tnam in triple overtime. It was one hell of a game, and Navy had one more play than we did," Weis said. "You want to know something? It is roally that simple for me." 
And yet, fiJr the 80,000 fans in the 

Ken Fowler 
Sports Writer 

stadium, the millions watching on lV and the Navy players (though not their coach), the streak was all they could think about. 
But for We is-who eoaches his p1ayers to stay on mesq~age, to never say anything that eould be eonstruod as almost possibly controversial -this is a new level of separation from reali­ty. 
Wnis insists his job as head coach forces him to think only about the next week. Now, that means trying to beat Air Force next Saturday. But that does­n't explain why Weis-and the play­ers he coaches so well -would deny the obvious. The stunned silence belied the proposterous notion that none of the Irish were thinking about ho~ the they became the first Notre Dame team since 1963 to lose to the Naval Academy. 
(.Just think about that for a second. Since the Irish last lost to Navy, John Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, Hichard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Hegan, George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush have all 

Midshipmen celebrate Navy's 46-44 triple overtime win over Notre Dame Saturday -Navy's first win over the Irish since 1963. 

been President of tho United States. 
Then again, there's been only one 
leader of' Cuba in that time.) 
One can't help but wonder ifWeis' publie "business" style hasn't under­mined the emotionaHtspeet that is-so critieal to college football (and evi­denced by every SEC game, ever). 
Weis used the motto "Tradition 
never graduates" but doesn't think 
about his historie ineptitude'? 
Yeah, right. 
Then again, Navy coach Paul 
Johnson also said the strnak didn't 
mean anything to him. lie made the 
claim during the wnek and reiterated 
it Saturday. 
"I don't think you can give them credit fi>r what happened from 1963 on," Johnson said. "I certainly don't want any of thn crodit for it." 
The difl(Jrence bntweem Weis and Johnson, though, is their view of the past. Johnson is trying to break away from it and establish a new legacy in Annapolis; Weis has made a habit of trying to relate with Notre Dame's his­tory. 
And he certainly has shown an undnniablc ability to connect with the past. Weis will go down in history as the coach of the Notre Dame team that sufliwed iL<> worst loss to rival USC. The coach of the Notrn Dame team who lost seven straight games. The mach of the Notm Damn team who had the worst start in school history. Tlw coach of the Notre Dame team whose~ start­ing quarterback on opnning day was benched by halftimn of the first gamn. The eoaeh of the Notre Damn tnam that was shut out by 3S poinl'i twiee and entered it'i final three gamns with the worst ofl'nnse in thn nation. 
And, oh, by the way, the eoach of' thn first Notrn Dame te~arn in 44 ynars to losn to Navy. 
In the magnitudn of sheer awfulness, Weis has put Tyronn Willingham and Bob Davin to shame. 
Then again, hn probably doesn't earn. All Charlie Weis earns about is boat­ing Air ForeP. 
71ze views ofthis column are those (1· the author and not necessarily those(!{ The Obser/Jer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd. edu 

----------------------. 
Monday, October 15, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Running backs a lonely highlight 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's running back combina­tion of James Aldridge, Armando Allen and Travis Thomas was one of the team's lone bright spots in its loss to Navy Saturday. 
Aldridge was the Irish workhorse, running 32 times for a career-high 125 yards. 
"1 am just going in and running hard," Aldridge said. "I am trusting in my linemen, trusting they open up some holes and take advantage of the situation. It is an opportunity game and get some yards and take advantage of it." 
Irish coach Charlie Weis said his game plan was to stick to the running game, ostensibly to exploit Navy's undersized defense. 
"We went into the game figuring we were going to run the ball a whole bunch of times ... with efficiency," Weis said. "And for a good part of ihe day, 
Irish running back james Aidridge runs past Midshipman linebacker lrv Spencer during 
that's the way the game went. We ran 
Notre Dame's 4644 triple overtime loss to Navy on Saturday.
the ball over 60 times, but I think every one of the running backs ran hard. James ran hard. Armando ran hard. Thomas had three touchdowns, but the fifth-year senior leaped over a Robert [llughesl ran hard. Travis ran including one in triple-overtime, on Midshipman and kept his balance to hard. They all ran hard and we got a four carries. He brilliantly spun off a reach the end zone. lot of production out of the run game." defender on the left and scooted right In fact, the only time Thomas ran and 
Allen also notched a career-high, with ·for his first score. On his final touch­did not score was on Notre Dame's 91 yards on 16 rushes -an average of down, which came on fourth down, a failed two-point conversi_on. 
5.7 per carry. defender hit Thomas behind the line, Notre Dame's team rushing average, however, was lower than Navy's oppo­nent average this season. The Midshipmen are in the bottom third of the Football Bowl Subdivision, surren­dering 4.4 yards per carry, despite fac­ing only the 70th toughest schedule this season, according to Jeff Sagarin's col­lege football rankings. 
Notre Dame managed only 3.7 yards per attempt Saturday but moved the ball consistently when it committed to the running game. 
On its third-quarter possession that led to a missed field goal, the Irish ran on 10 consecutive plays and gained 43 yards. The drive stalled when Irish quarterback Evan Sharpley threw incomplete passes on second-and third-and-1 0. 
Despite Notre Dame's 235 yards rush­ing, the Irish total offense remained last in the nation with an average of 208 yards per game. The rushing offense, however, moved out of No. 119. Notre Dame has gained 56.44 yards per game. Duke is averaging 56.11. 
HY PHAM(fhe Observer 
Irish running back Travis Thomas falls into the end zone during Notre Dame's 46-44 triple overtime loss to Navy on Saturday. Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 



Irish offense shows some long-sought life 
Navy under averages John Carlson on fourth­was not to play [Clausen] as
Notre Dame falls to 
The Midshipmen have and-14. a replacement, it was to averaged 450.5 yards a substitute almost like the
2-5 in OT contests 
game, but only managed Red zone struggles running back position," only 338 against Notre Notre Dame could not Weis said. "That was the By PAT O'BRIEN 
Dame. The Irish also held stop Navy once the intent in the game, but Sports Writer Navy to 257 yards on the Midshipmen offense there was never an ebb and ground, which is almost entered the red zone. flow in the game where More points 100 fewer than their aver­Navy scored five times on making the switch was very 
Notre Damn had not age. five attempts once it moved practical." scored morP than 20 points inside the 20. in a singiP game this sea­Freshman scoring More on Hughes soII. The touchdowns by fresh­First downs Weis wanted Hughes to 
The Irish eclipsed that men Duval Kamara and Along with recording lead to Irish in singing the mark in the first half with Hobert Hughes increased their season bests of 235 Victory Marc_b, but it was 21 points on three touch­the total number of fresh­rushing yards and 375 total not to be. downs and three extra man scores to five. The yards, the Irish also "Because our team is a points. other three have berm from notched a season-high 27 very close-knit team, I 
wide receiver Golden Tate, first downs. The previous think that they feel Struggles in OT quarterback Jimmy Clausen high came against Purdue !Hobert's] pain," Weis said. 
The loss drops Notre and linebacker Brian Smith. with 21, "I think !the team] really Dame to 2-5 in overtime feels bad about the outcome games. Fourth down a charm Quarterback substitution? of this game not just for 
Its last loss came in 2005 The Irish converted six Clausen was spotted Notre Dame, not just for the against Michigan State, 41-times on fourth down out of warming up on the side­team, but they feel bad for 44, and the last Irish over­eight attempts, including lines later in the game. Hobert." time win was in 2003 the 16-yard pass from jun­"The intent in this game against Washington State, ior quarterback Evan was to go ahead and play Contact Pat O'Brien at 
29-26. Sharpley to senior tight end both quarterbacks, and it pobrien2@nd.edu 
•
scoring suiDmary 

1 2 3 4 OT Total Navy 0 14 6 B 1B 46 Notre Dame 7 14 0 7 16 44 
First quarter Notre Dame 7, Navy 0 
Robert Hughes 3-yard run (Brandon Walker kick). Drive: 9 plays, 69 yards, 3:20 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Navy 7, Notre Dame 7 
Zerbin Singleton 1-yard run (Joey Bullen kick). Drive: 19 plays, B5 yards, B:04 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 14, Navy 7 
Travis Thomas 1-yard run (Walker kick). ­Drive: 12 plays, 46 yards, 5:57 elapsed. 
Navy 14, Notre Dame 14 
Shun While B-yard run (Bullen kick). Drive: 11 plays, 63 yards, 4:53 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 21, Navy 14 
Duval Kamara 21-yard pass from Evan Sharpley (Walker kick) Drive: 10 plays, 55 yards, 3:54 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Navy 20, Notre Dame 21 
Eric Kettani 1-yard run (Bullen kick failed). Drive: 15 plays, 66 yards, B:23 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Navy 28, Notre Dame 21 
Chris Kuhar-Pitters 16-yard fumble recovery (Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku-EnhCJda rush). Drive: 1 play, 16 yards, 0:00 elapsed. 
Navy 28, Notre Dame 28 
Thomas 3-yard run (Walker kick). 
-

Drive: 14 plays, 76 yards, 6:59 elapsed. 
Overtime 
Navy 35, Notre Dame 28 
Kettani 1-yard run (Bullen kick). Drive: 4 plays, 25 yards. 
Navy 35, Notre Dame 35 
Kamara B-yard pass from Sharpley (Walker kick). Drive: 4 plays, 25 yards. 
Navy 35, Notre Dame 38 
Walker 26-yard field goal. Drive: Bplays, 16 yards. 
Navy 38, Notre Dame 38 
Bullen 32-yard field goal. Drive: 6 plays, 10 yards. 
Navy 46, Notre Dame 38 
Reggie Campbell 25-yard pass from Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku-Enhada (Campbell pass from Kaheaku-Enhada). Drive: 1 plays, 25 yards. 
Navy 46, Notre Dame 44 
Thomas 5-yard run (Thomas run failed). Drive: 6 plays, 25 yards. 
statistics 

total yards 

passing yards 

rushing yards 
·­

return yards 

-
time of possession 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 5, 2007 


Reaching new lows 
Notre Damn was reeling from its worst loss to its biggest rival-a :~S-0 defeat to USC on Oet. 20-but looked for a high note against Navy al'ter a bye week. The Irish and Midshipmen traded scores 
throughout the game, and both squads finished with more than 200 yards on the ground. With fourth-and-Son the Navy 24-yard line, Irish coad1 Charlie Weis opted to try to convert instead of kicking the 41-yard field goal. Irish quarterback Evan Sharpley was saeked, and regulation ended in a 2S-2S tin. In overtime. the Midshipmen seorml first with a touehdown. but the Irish responded. The two teams traded field goals on the other end of the field in the second overtinw. In the third overtime. Navy seored on the first play of the drive and converted the two-point attempt. The Irish seored a touchdown of their own. but running back Travis Thomas was stuffml on the two-point attnrnpt, ending Notre Dame's 43-garne winning streak against Navy. 


CENE
Monday, November 5, 2007 
page 13 

-
-

-
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 5, 2007 
NFL 

Redskins spoil Clemens' first career start in OT 
Vikings improve to 3-5 with victory over Chargers; rookie Adrian Peterson sets single-game record 296 rushing yards 
Portis.
Associated Press 
''I'm ready to carry this team," 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD. N.J. -said Portis, whosn 36 rushes Shaun Suisham unloaded on the were two short of a career high. football with his right leg from 46 ''I've been telling eoaeh that: Just yards out and watdwd as it bare­put it on me." ly floali~d over the crossbar. The loss, the Jets' sixth 
A sqwmknr or not, it was good straight, spoiled a valiant eiTort enough to deliver the Washington by new starting quarterback Hndskins a 2:{-20 overtime victo­Kellen Clemens. The second-year ry over the New York Jets on player, anointed earlier in the Sunday. week as New York's starter in 
"It's a good feeling," Suisham plaee of' Chad Pennington, was said. "You feel likn you eon­23-ol'-42 for 226 yards and a tribut<~d to the team. Thn guys touchdown. He also gained 48 arn working so hard all ganw yards on seven earriBs. and you're orr on your own. "It's just so frustrating at this Wlwn you get an opportunity like point," Clemens said. "We battled that, you li1PI more likn a li10tball so hard for four quarters and player." then the overtime period, and we 
Suisharn's winning kiek was his just camn up short on a kick that lifth lield goal, tying a franchise didn't make it by much." n~eonl. lin kiekNI anotlwr 46-Nnw York couldn't do anything yardnr narlier, along with 11nld after a 39-yard rBception by goals of 40, 22 and 40 yards li1r J erricho Cotehery to open the Washington (5-31. extra period, then Washington 
''I'm glad th<~y all went stuck to the ground on its first through," Suisharn said. "I didn't possession. Portis gained 37 of do anything special." his yards on the drive to get the 
Mike Nugent had two field Hmlskins into field-goal position goals, induding a 30-yarder that and Suisham nailed the winning tied it li1r Nnw York rt-8) with 10 kick for the Hedskins' second sneonds left in regulation. Leon oVf~rtime victory this season.

-
Washington rnturnnd the opening "We knew we had to stop the ki<:kofl" 86 yards for a touehdown, run and we didn't, and that's why beeoming the first Jets player to thn game turned out the way it have at lnast thr<w in a season. did," linebacker Eric Barton said. 
"That's a good way to start a Washington, whieh lost 52-7 at game," Washington said. NHw England last week, fell own on a disputed call. Cotchery paused to set up his bloeks, and rushing this season, a paec that 
It didn't last. The Hedskins behind 17-3 in the second quar­caught a pass from Clemens and sprinted 46 yards up the sideline would smash Erie Dickerson's erased a 14-point dPikit and bPat ter, but Suisham kept the was immediately hit by Pierson for Minnesota's game-elinehing rookie record of 1,808 yards set the Jets for the Pighth time in Hedskins in it. Prioleau and Shawn Springs, who touehdown. in 1983. Dickerson's all-time nine meetings, thanks to the lngs After Barton intercepted Jason forced a fumble. LaRon Landry This rookie doesn't make many record of' 2,105 yards in 1984 is of' Suisham and running baek Campbflll's throw as the Redskins recovered the ball for the mistakes. He simply set<> a lot of also in reach. Clinton Portis. Washington lin­wore driving for a go-ahead seore Hedskins, but Jets coach Erie records. "I set my bar high, because I ished with 296 yards rushing, in the third quarter, the Jets fol­Mangini challenged the call. The Racing to the NFL's single-game know anything is possible when including a season-high 196 by lowed with a turnover of their ollicials upheld the call, saying rushing record of 296 yards at you continue to work hard," 
Cotchery had possession before the midpoint of his lirst pro sea­Peterson said. the ball was knoeked away. son, Peterson carried the Vikings Minnesota (3-5) pressured 
Washington then marched to a victory over the Chargers on Philip Rivers into one of the worst downlield on six plays, capped by Sunday. games of his career and made Portis going over the top for a He didn't realize the signifi­sun1 LaDainian Tomlinson didn't touchdown with 11:06 left. cance of his performance until come close to matching Campbell completed a pass to his benign 3-yard carry took the Peterson's pnrformanee. Antwaan Handle El for a 2-point dock under 60 seconds and sent Tomlinson rushed 16 times f(Jr conversion to make it 20-17. him past Jamal Lewis' 295-yard 40 yards, and Hivers wont 19-!(Jr-
Washington gave the Jets a 7-0 performance against Cleveland in 42 for 197 yards with one inter­lead before most of the fans had 2003 lor the best game a running eeption. lie lost one of his three even settled into their seats. The back has ever had in this league. fumbles, two of which wnn1 NFL leader in kickoff' return "Oh, no. I was out playing ball," dropped snaps. average ran straight ahead, dart­Peterson said. "I wasn't thinking "It's not dnfense or oiTense. It's ed to his left and took off down about the record at all." all of us," HiV11rs said. "Obviously the sideline and into the end There are more for him to pon­we were given plenty of' opportu­zone. lie's the 11th player in NFL der. nities, but we didn't do enough." history to have at least three On 30 carries, Peterson topped San Diego (4-4) lost a kickoll" returns in a season, and 200 yards rushing for the second November game fi1r the lirst time first since Buffalo's Terrence time in one season, a feat no since 2003 and revnrted to the McGee in 2004. other rookie has accomplished. shaky play on both sides or the 
"There's no questioning the Peterson scored two of his ball that led to a 1-3 start. The heart or the desire or the work three touchdowns and gained defense that ranked seventh in ethic of this team," Clemens said. 253 yards in the second half, the leagutl against the run was "We'rn just falling short." helping the Vikings rally from a thoroughly beaten. 
14-7 del1cit. They trailed at the "I have bmm in this league too Vikings 35, Chargers 17 half arter Antonio Cromartie long to use the word embar­
Minutes after Adrian Peterson plucked a missed linld goal out of rassed," coach Norv Turner said. lost a fourth-quarter fumble at the air and returned it 109 yards Quarterback Tarvaris Jaekson the San Diego 20-yard line, the for a touchdown, the longest play got hurt again, and backup 
Redskins safety LaRon Landry breaks up a pass intended for Jets ball was back in his hands. in NFL history. Brooks Bollinger was much bet­wide receiver Wallace Wright In a 23-20 Redskins win Sunday. lie rumbled around right end, Peterson reached 1,036 yards ter in the second half. 
-



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Noue Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifleJs is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per Jay, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

-----~~-­ 
- WANTED  Large house available for 2009-2010. Full renovations completed this year.  Dome Home for sale or rent, quiet wooded area. hll[:>://j.zock.home.comcast.net  PERSONAL  If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  Omelet John, former St. Mary s dining hall cook. invites his friends to visit  
Great location on E Marion.  shtml  him at  
Granger family seeking babysitter for two boys.  Large common areas. 5 bathrooms.  TICKETS  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone  j willys bar and grille  Bistro 933 in the Hilton Garden Inn, most evenings. The  
Once per week.  Also available:  you love needs confidential support  www.jwillys.com Monday: 35 cent  food is Bootylischous.  
either Tues or Thurs afternoons.  5bdrm 2 bath and 3bdrm 2 bath for  WANTED -NO FOOTBALL TIX.  or assistance, please call Sr.  wings Tuesday: $1 tacos Thursday:  
Call247·1194.  2008-2009. Contact  PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570  Sue Dunn, OP. at 1-7819.  happy hour buffet 5-7pm. Now hir- PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME- 
MacSwain@ gmail.com  For more information, visit our web­ ing servers  ONE WHO IS?  
FoR RENT  Blue &Gold Homes  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232­ site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or  Do you need childcare? Lena s  You do not have to be alone. We want to help.  
2nd semester sale. $200  0964. www. victorytickets.com  see our bi-weekly ad in THE  Little Angels has 1 opening. I spe- Call our 24 hour confidential hotline  
Blue & Gold Homes now  PIS just off campus "alumni  OBSERVER.  cialize in infants: 2 blocks south of  at 1-800-No Abort or visit  
showing 08-09 & 09-10.  owned"  ND tickets for sale. Best Prices.  campus. $11 0/week. 261-5435  our web site at  
Bluegoldrentals.com  Bluegoldrentals.corn  574-288-2726.  superproofer.com  Angelena  www.lifecall.org  
---­--~----­ 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, November 5, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 

NFL
College Football Polls 
BCS 
AP 
team team 

Ohio State (60) 1 2 LSU 
1 Ohio State 
lSU (5) 2 3 Oregon 
Oregon 3 4 Kansas 
Oklahoma 4 5 Oklahoma 
Kansas 5 6 Missouri 
West Virginia 6 7 West Virginia 
Missouri 7 8 Boston College 
Boston College 8 9 Arizona State 
Arizona State 9 10 Georgia 
Georgia 10 11 Virginia Tech 
Virginia Tech 11 12 Michigan 
usc 12 13 Connecticut 
Michigan 13 14 Texas 
Hawaii 14 15 Florida 
Texas 15 16 Hawaii 
Connecticut 16 17 usc 
Florida 17 18 Auburn 
Auburn 18 19 Virginia 
Boise State 19 20 Boise State 
Clemson 20 21 Clemson 
Alabama 21 22 Alabama 
Tennessee 22 23 Penn State 
Virginia 23 24 Tennessee 
California 24 25 Kentucky 
Kentucky 25 

NCAA Men's Soccer Adidas National Rankings 
team record previous 

1 uconn (12) 14-2-1 2 2 Wake Forest (8) 12-1·2 1 3 Santa Clara (1) 9-1-4 3 4 SMU (1) 11-2-2 5 5 Virginia Tech 8-1-5 4 6 Brown (1) 11-1-1 6 7 Boston College 10-3-1 12 8 Creighton 9-1-4 8 9 NOTRE DAME 10·3-4 7 10 Indiana 11-4·2 11 
Associated Press 

11 Tulsa 9·2·2 14 
INDIANAPOLIS -No
12 Northwestern 10·3·2 9 
13 Saint Louis 9-2-3 15 
running up the score this 
week. Against the Colts, 15 UCSB 8-3-3 19 
14 Virginia 9·4-2 10 
Tom Brady was content to close out another victory for the New England Patriots by kneeling down three times.
NCAA Women's Soccer 

In what was hyped as the biggest NFL regular
Adidas National Rankings 
season game ever, the Patriots stayed on course for an unbeaten season as 
team record previous 

Brady threw two of his three touchdown passes 
1 UClA (30) 12-1·2 1 
in a four-minute span of 
2 Texas A&M (1) 15-2-1 2 
the fourth quarter Sunday 
3 Portland 12-3-0 6 
to overcome a 10-point 4 North Carolina 14-3-0 7 
deficit and beat Super5 Stanford 11-2-3 5 
Bowlchampion
6 Virginia 11-2-4 3 
Indianapolis, 24-20. 

7 Penn State 14·3·1 13 

The win keeps the Patriots (9-0) on course for the NFL's first unbeat­en season since Miami did it 1972 and gives them the first tiebreaker over Indianapolis (7 -1) in the AFC playoffs. 
"This is the first time we were in a ballgame late," said Brady, whose team had never before trailed in the fourth quar­ter and had beaten its previous eight opponents by an average of 25 points a game. "There wasn't any loss of confi­dence or determination." 
Added New England linebacker .Junior Seau: "We were going against a hostile crowd, an unde­feated team, we took our hats off to them. But we still played well enough to win." 

New England, which had been scoring more than 41 points a game, had piled points on late in several games in which they were far ahead, including last week's 52-7 win over Washington, when they kept playing hard well into the fourth quarter. 
In this contest, antici­pated since the schedule came out last April, they had to work their hardest just to win against per­haps the only team in the NFL close to them. 
"We had an opportunity to do a lot of things," said running back Joseph Addai, the Colts' best offensive player on this day with 112 yards rush­ing and a 73-yard score on a short pass from Peyton Manning. "We left some points squandered and got field goals when we should have gotten touchdowns, but that's the nature of the game. Those guys are good. We'll see them again." 
New England trailed 20­10 after Manning. who threw for 225 yards and a touchdown. scored on a 1-yard sneak with 9 min­utes and 42 seconds left in the game, and the crowd roaring. 

8 Purdue 15-2·2 4 9 Tennessee 13-2·2 12 10 Boston College 10-3·3 14 11 usc 11-2-2 9 12 Texas 12-3-3 8 13 NOTRE DAME 13-4-1 15 14 West Virginia 13-4-1 19 15 Florida Stale 10-4-3 10 16 Santa Clara 10-5-3 11 17 Georgia 14·2·2 20 18 Wake Forest 9-5-3 22 19 San Diego 12·2·3 21 20 Missouri 15-5-0 17 
around the dial 
NFL 
Baltimore at Pittsburgh 
IN BRIEF 

Johnson wins third race in 
a row, takes Nextel Cup lead 
FORT WORTH,-Texas Jimmie Johnson won a dramatic side-by­side duel with Malt Kenseth, grabbing his third straight vieto­ry and, more important. wrestling tho NASCAR Nextel Cup points lead from Jeff Gordon on Sunday at Texas Motor Speedway. 
The reigning Cup champion, who began the day nine points behind Hendrick Motorsports teammate Gordon, moved out to a 30-point lead with two races remaining in the Chase for the championship. 
Gordon, a !'our-time champion, led early in the race, but was no factor in the late going, strug­gling with handling before man­
1 
~ ' I ~ 
I I 
"l 
l 
-

Arizona's Olson takes leave 
of absence, no reason given 
TUCSON, Ariz. -Arizona coach Lute Olson is taking a leave of absence for unspecified personal reasons. 
In a statement issued by his public relations firm on Sunday, the 73-year­old Hall of Famer said the matter was not health related. 
"For the past 25 years, 1 have always given 110 percent to the team and this job," Olson said. "In light of this personal matter, I feel it is in the best interest of the team and the University of Arizona to take a leave of absence." 
Olson said he wanted to "reassure everyone that this isn't a health scare, but rather a personal matter that needs my undivided attention." 
The specific reason was not given. 
"I want to thank everyone in 
Boras selling A-Rod's star 
power over offseason 
ORLANDO, Fla.-After spending a month publiely eampaigning that Alex Rodriguez has baseball's highest value, agent Scott Boras says he's going to be more quiet now that the general managers' annual meetings are about to begin. 
Boras arrived in Orlando, Fla., on Friday to begin setting up for this year's session, which starts Monday and runs through Thursday. A-Rod opted out of his record $252 million, 1 0-year contract v.ith the New York Yankees and figures to set anoth­er high -Boras told the Yankees they ­would have to put a $350 million offer on the table just to get a meeting with Hodriguez. 
"Any discussions as to contract terms is between tho teams and ourselves," Boras 
-

said Sunday. "It's clear ior all of us that we're at that point now where we've got to page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 5, 2007 
8 p.m., ESPN  aging to  squeeze out  a  hard­ advance for their support and prayers  do a lot of work with the teams involved,  
earned seventh-place finish that  and request that the media respect  and we're going to keep the information  
kept the points battle close head­ my family's privacy during this time,"  and the dialogues with the clubs private  
ing to Phoenix next week.  he said.  and confidential as we go forward."  

NBA 

Celtics prevail in OT with Allen's game winner 
Associated Press 
TOHONTO -On this day, at loast, Hay /\lien was the obvious 1:hoice among Boston's Big Thrne to got the ball with the gamfl on thn linn. 
/\linn made the winning 3­pointor with less than 3 seconds to play, and finished with 33 poinL.., in the Celtks' 98-95 over­timn victory ovor the Toronto Haptors on Sunday. 
"!\ lot has bnen said about this tnam, what's going to happen at the ond of games, who's going to take that shot," Allen said. "It's a joy to bn out therP offensively and for the coach to be able to draw up and play and there's three options." 
T.J. Ford tied it at 95 on a 3­pointer with 4.4 snconds left in overtime, but Alhm won it with a 3 from the corner on Boston's final possession. Paul Pierce inbound11d the ball to Allen, who camf1 off a Garnett screen to drain the tiebreaking ba..,ket. 
"That wa<> the play we drew up, for Hay to come ofl"," Pieree said. "Wn had second and third options but the first option wa<> open. We got the ball to him and executed 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -LSU is in posi­tion to play for a national cham­pionship. Oregon isn't far behind the Tigers and unbeaten Kansas is looming. 
Taking advantage of Boston College's first loss of the season, the Tigers moved into second plaen in the Bowl Championship Series standings released Sunday. 
Undefnated Ohio State (1 0-0) is still in first, and could loek up a second straight appearance in

-
the BCS national championship gamP on Jan. 7 with victories against Illinois and Miehigan in its last two games. 
l.Sll (8-1) has at lnast three games left and probably four with the Southeastern Conferenee title game on Dec. 
1. Winning out wuld get the Tigers a spot in the title game at the Superdome in New Orleans. 
That's no lock. 
Third-place Orngon (8-1) and fourth-place Kansas (9-0) are doso nnough to at least have a shot at passing tho Tigers, even if LSU doesn't drop a gamn. 
The BCS could be heading for a repeat of last season, when Ohio State locknd up the top spot thn wonk before Thanksgiving and several teams jostlnd for the other spot over the next two weeks. 
It eame down to Florida and Miehigan and the Gators got the 

-
votns they needed to pass the Wolverines in the final BCS standings. The outcome didn't sit well with Michigan and showed the glaring flaws in the Bowl Championship Series. The system hasn't changed and the problem of trying to ehose between several worthy contenders to play in the title game eould come up again in the eorning weeks. 
LSU has a BCS average of 

our play." The Celtics played without head 
Kevin Garnett seornd 10 of his coach Doc !livers, who left 23 points in overtime and added Toronto early Sunday after his 13 rebounds, giving him double­father died in Chieago. Assistant doubles in both of his games for Tom Thibodeau took over for Boston this season. !livers. 
Toronto chose not to double­"Our thoughts are with Doe and team Garnett in tho extra session, so that makes it special, the fact and he took full advantage. that we were able to win for 
"I knew at some point they him," Thibodeau said. were going to stop doubling," Garnett said the Celtics didn't Garnett said. "I just had to bo falter without Rivers on the patient and get the ball where I bench. wantod it." 'Thib did a great job tonight," 
Pierce added 13 points and six Garnett said. "He's a defensively sound kind of guy." 
Hivers, who addressed the team before leaving prior to the game, remained on his player's minds. 
"We played hard tonight and we're glad to be able to get this win so Doc won't have to worry about the ship not being right," Allen said. 
Allen, who made 11 of 16 shots, passed 17,000 points for his career with his first of two 3­pointers in overtime. lie has 17,004 career point<>. 
Boston held an 11-point lead after three quarters before Toronto rallied behind Bosh, whose ba<>ket made it 78-76 with under 1 minute left. Ford tied the game at 78 with a lay-up with 27 seeonds n~maining. 
Pierce had a ehanee to win the game in regulation but his jumper from just outside the top of the key went wide, sending the game into overtime. 
Allen seored 13 lirst-q uarter points as Boston built a 23-14 lead. The Celtics led 38-31 at the half. 

assists for Boston (2-0), and ,....---------------------------------------.
James Posey had 11. Ford led Toronto (2-1) with 32 points, and Chris Bosh had 19 points and 10 rebounds. 
"I knew tonight was going to be a night where I had to put up a lot of shots because they weren't leaving our shooters," Ford said. 
A game that started slowly ended in a wild finish, with one lead change and five ties down the stretch. 
"Everybody that watehed the game tonight got their money's worth," Allen said. "It was defi­nitely fun to play in and be a part of." 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
LSU jUinps to No.2 in BCS poll; OSU still first 
. 941. The Tigers are seeond in both the Harris and eoaehes' poll, which makes up two-third of a BCS average, and are No. 2 in the computer ratings. 
Oregon's BCS average is .918 and Kansas is at .843. The sur­prising Jayhawks still have a big game against sixth-place Missouri left on the schedule and a possible Big 12 champi­onship game. Winning both would give Kansas' numbers a substantial boost. 
Oklahoma's average is .839. Missouri, West Virginia, Boston College, Arizona State and Georgia round out the top 10. 



Live, learn, and work in the nation's capital 
during the fall or spring semester with the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Wr•SHI-.NG.. tT··.· ,·
~j.-GRAM:.
A, ...., ~ ~-ft _ , ... 
INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE Tuesday, November 6, 2007 163 Hurley, 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Stop by for I<rispy I<reme donuts! 
Deadline to apply for Fal12008 or Spring 2009 is November 15,2007. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; www.nd.edu/-wp 
Monday, November 5, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
.,. 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles season cotnes to an end 
Saint Mary's falls to top-seeded Calvin in a three-game sweep 
kills. Freshman outside hitter conference win at that," sheBy SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Kim Wigboldy had eight, and said. 

Sports Writer 
sophomore outside hitter Sara "More than anything I will Kramer added miss play­Saint Mary's ended its sea­seven. ing volley­
"More than anything 
son this weekend in with a Belles sophomore ball as a loss to top-seeded Calvin in outside hitter Lorna I will miss playing Belle and the MIAA tournament semifi­Slupcyznski had being able
volleyball as a Belle 
nals Friday. eight kills and 10 to compete
and being able to
Calvin, which ended its reg­digs. Junior middle side by side ular season 15-1 in league blocker Kaela compete side by side with other play and ranked No. 16 in the Hellmann added S a i n t
with other Saint
nation, dominated the Belles seven kills and 10 Mary's
Mary's women." 
in a three-game sweep (30-18, digs. women. 30-23, 30-23). Senior setter Being able Calvin advanced to the finals Amanda David led Marissa Gross to play the of the tournament with a Saint Mary~s offen­sport I love
Belles senior 

record of 28-4, while Saint sive effort with 23 at the col­Mary's season ended at 13-18. assists -and had lege I love 
C a I vi n 10 digs on defense is something will always had four -while fellow sen­have fond memories of." players ior Marisa Gross The Belles had an up-and­
"It makes me sad to

with at contributed nine down season with big wins
think that I will never

least seven digs, in their final and surprising disappoint­kills. As a play another regular match in Belles uni­ments, but Gross said she team, the forms. would not trade the experi­
season match at

Knights Gross was emo­ence for anything. 
home, but I am very

offense tional after her final "I enjoy every day that I get had a .234 happy that my last match for the to put on a Saint Mary's uni­hitting per­match in Angela was Belles, who won form and compete with my centage. their last home teammates," she said. "I feel 
a win, and an

Senior match of the season, we have gained some much middle hit­avenged conference 3-0 over Albion on needed momentum in the past ter Molly Oct. 16. few weeks and will finish this
win at that. " 

Krikke had "It makes me sad season strong and with no 1 6 kills to think that I will regrets. My senior season may
Marissa Gross 

and a .304 never play another or may not be the best record­hitting per­Belles senior regular season wise but it has definitely been centage to match at home, but one I will never forget."lead -the I am very happy Knights. Senior outside hitter that my last match in Angela Contact Samantha Leonard at Kristen Kalb contributed 11 was a win. and an avenged sleona@saintmarys.edu 
ID 
Notre Dame 
RUNNING 
Baby-toting Brit vvins prestigious tnarathon 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Paula Radcliffe sat in the stands at last year's New York City Marathon, cheering on her husband and realizing just how much she missed competing. 
She recaptured the thrill of racing at the same event Sunday, but with a new twist ­this time, when she won, she celebrated as a mother, holding her 9-month-old daughter Isla. 
Radcliffe and Martin Lel each pulled away during the final mile to win a second NYC ning neck and neck is nothing new. While this was their first meeting in a marathon, they've had lots of duels on the track and in cross country over the years. 
"I've been there so many times with Gete on my shoulder com­ing into the final 400 meters," Radcliffe said, "and I was deter­mined that this was my turn, this is the marathon this time, and I think a little bit to my advantage the last 400 meters because it's uphill, not like a track race." 
Wami briefly passed Radcliffe 

Marathon title on a cool, sunny in the final mile. But when day with 39,085 runners start­Radcliffe surged back past her, ing. Wami didn't have the legs to
Apartments I 
"''ve really, really missed it," catch up again. 
Radcliffe said. "It's way more "She was just too strong," 
fun than cross training in a pool Wami said. 
:11::::==========1
i or cross training in a gym, and It was still a victorious day for 
I Now Leasing for 2008-2009 
835 Notre Dame Avenue 

Only 3 blocks from campus 
2 Bedroom Apartments Spacious 1,100 sq. ft. Units Off-Street Parking On-Site Laundry Free Internet Central Air 

These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574)234-2436 

To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

that's what it's all about. That's her. By beating Prokopcuka, she 
what keeps me motivated to captured the inaugural World work hard and to cross train Marathon Majors title, worth hard is just getting out there and $500,000. enjoying the atmosphere." Radcliffe took home $170,000 
Radcliffe, the world-record for winning, including a time holder from Great Britain, made bonus; Lei earned $160,000 a triumphant return in her first with the bonus. 
marathon in more than two Robert Cheruiyot, who didn't years. She outlasted Gete Wami run in New York, had already of Ethiopia, who was running clinched the men's title. her second marathon in 35 days. Lei won his second NYC 
Radcliffe won in 2 hours, 23 Marathon, adding to his 2003 minutes, 9 seconds, beating championship. Goumri, who had Wami by 23 seconds. Two-time never run a marathon before defending champion Jelena London, said fasting during the Prokopcuka of Latvia was a dis­Muslim holy month of Ramadan tant third in 2:26:13. limited his training. Because Lei had a better finishing kick Ramadan will be earlier next than Abderrahim Goumri of year, ending in early October Morocco, as they reprised their instead of the middle of the showing in April's London month, he hopes to do even bet­
Marathon, when the Kenyan ter in New York. edged Goumri by 3 seconds. Olympic gold medalist Stefano Or this daY, Lol'; time 0f Baldini of 'taly was fourth 'tnd 
2:09:04 bested Goumri by 12 defending champ Marilson seconds in the first NYC Gomes dos Santos eighth. Marathon without a pacesetter. Seven-time Tour de France Hendrick Ramaala of South winner Lance Armstrong fin­Africa was third in 2:11:25. ished 698th in 2:46:43. 
"What I was doing is, maybe New York has now twice been during the last sprint, some­the site of a triumphant come­times you can lose, sometimes back for Radcliffe. In 2004, she you can gain," Lel said. "So I entered this event less than said, 'Let me try to see."' three months after enduring 
A day after elite distance run­heartbreak at the Olympics, the ner Ryan Shay collapsed and only marathon in eight tries she died during the U.S. men's hasn't won. The image of her marathon Olympic trials in sitting on a curb and crying in Central Park, officials held a Athens after health problems moment of silence for Shay forced her to drop out of the before the start of the men's race was replaced with Radcliffe race. crossing the finish line victori­
For Radcliffe and Wami, run-ously in New York. 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, November 5, 2007
... 

ND SWIMMING 
•
Wotnen capture wtn 
Record impraves to 1-2 zvith victory aver Purdue 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Wri£er · 
The Notrn Dame wornnn on Friday picked up their first dual meet vietory of thn season. 
Tlw Irish dPI'natnd Purdue I 5 H . 5 -I :J I . 5 a t t h n Boi I n r m a k ~~ r A q u a t i c Complex in Wnst Larayette, Ind. 
Tho women's dual mont record improvml to 1-2, but the nwn's rPcorcl dropped to o-:J after tlw squad sufTnn~d dernats at tlw hands or nationally ranknd PurduP (21 1)-~ I 1 and Tnxas A&M ( 171-127). 
Tlw Irish wonwn won II or tlw ((J evPntS and regis­(.ornd six ser.ond-plaen fin­ishns. 
The llli'Pl began with an Irish victory in the 400-yard nw d In y r PI a y, with junior Christa Higgins, freshmen Katie Casey and Sam MaxwPII. and senior Carolirw .Johnson ~~ombining ror a win that would sl'l tlw t0 []{' ro r t lw rest 0 r t h 0 1wening. 
Higgins continued lwr suc­el~ss with vi!'lories in tlw I 00 and 200 .rrnnstyle 1wnnts, in addition to lwr snrond place finish in the 50 frnnstyln. Shn was bnatnn out in that event by fresh­rna n to am rna t1~ Arn ywre n Miller, who finished second to Higgins in the 100 frnestyle. 
Millnr also joirwd .Johnson, sophomore Mngan Farrnll 
KICK START 
and freshman Lauren Parisi to claim victory in the 400 freestyle relay. Farrell notched another victory for the Irish in the 400 individ­ual medley. In addition to their relay victory, Maxwell and Casey earned three individual ti ties. Maxwell took the 100 and 200 breaststroke nvents, while Casey finished first in the 200 lly. Fellow rreshman Lauren Sylvester won the 500 freestyle with a season­best time of 4:54.66. Sophomore Natalie Stitt ~~arned a victory for the divers, taking first in the three-meter dive with a scorn of 269.10. Tlw Irish women are now 4-6-1 against Purdue all­tinw and 2-1 und~H coach Carrie Nixon. The men did not rare as well. Tlw Irish railed to win any nvents against its stifr 
<~ompntition. 
Still, there worn some bright spots, highlighted by the performance or sopho­mon' John Lytle. 
Lytle finished second and thi;·d in tlw 200-and 100­yard freestyle events, ~nspnctively, and he was also part of relay teams that took third in tho 400 rroestyle relay and fourth in the 200 mndlny rnlay. 
Freshman Michael Sullivan earned another second place finish for the swimmers in the I,650-yard rreestyle. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@lnd.edu 
CREW 

Irish disappointed vvith Cal-Sag regatta results 
to come back in the afternoonBy SAM WERNER and defeat three boats that had 
Spores Wri£er 

beaten them earlier. Stone said the unique format of the regatta 
Notre Dame returned Sunday helped his team lix its mistakes from the Cal-Sag regatta disap­and improve. pointnd with its results but opti­"I definitely liked the format," mistic about the future. Stone said. "It allowed us to 
Thn Irish had boats finish regroup after a bad morning eighth, 14th, 16th and 18th in the raee. We eould fix stuff for the morning head raee, with times of allernoon instead of waiting two 
16:19.4, 16:41.1,  and  a  half  or  
16:44.6,  and  three months to  
16:56.2, respec­tively. Wisconsin  "We didn't row very  fix it." The  seeond  
took the top spot  well at all. We didn't  varsity erew fin­ 
in the morning racn, with a time of 15:45.0. Notre  meet our expectations. "  ished 16th in tho morning; but ii, too, rebounded  
Dame's times wern  in the allernoon,  
good enough for  Martin Stone  posting a tim11 of  
all  boats  to  Irish coach  7:03.061), good  

advance to thH afternoon sprints -but not as good as Irish eoaeh Martin Stone had hoped. 
"We didn't row very well at all," Stone said. "We didn't meet our expeetations." 
Stone attributed the weak showing to tough conditions on the course, speeifically a strong tailwind. 
"[The tailwind! caused the boats to move a little faster, and we just didn't adjust well," Stone said. "We made some changes [before the aftnrnoun raees] and the boats rowed a little bit better in the afternoon." 
The Irish did manage to improve slightly in the second series of races. taking one lirst, two thirds, and one fourth-place finish. The boat of coxswain Kelsey Otero, whieh finished eighth in the morning, managed 
I 

Abit ofIreland in your own backyard. 
' s 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice bevera<3es, hearty f()od and lively conversation, Bri_gid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstufFed leather chairs to cozy up by the flreplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterfurd Estates Lod~ hHs hotel rooms at re.asonable rates fbr upcoming ND ttJOtball weekends.) 

enough for third  
place  behind  
Michigan State  
(6:49. 755)  and  Wiseonsin  
(7:02.501 ).  

The third and fourth varsity boats posted times of 7:12.705 and 7:08.940, respectively. The third boat finished fourth in thnir heat, while the fourth crew eame in third. 
After next week's Blue-Gold intrasquad race, the team will head indoors for their winter training. Stone is confident his team will improve and be ready for the spring season. 
"We carne out of last spring and identilied things we've strug­gled with," Stone said. "We've been working on those things in the fall and will continue to work 
·through the winter." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Want to cover NO sports? 
Call Chris at 631­4543, or e-mail sports@ nd.edu 
. -·----~-~-----· 
... ··--·· ··-····--·---~L-HUDELSONffhe Observer 
Notre Dame sophomore Nate Whitaker kicks off after an Irish scoring drive Saturday in the 46-44 loss to Navy. 

'"'· 
Monday, November 5, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Team moves to fifth in Big East over weekend 
Irish take down USF, Georgetown as Big East play winds down 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
After two eonference wins this weekend, Notre Dame jumped into a tie for fifth plaee in the Big East. The Irish share the No. 5 spot with Connecticut and USF. 
Notre Dame took down the Bulls, as well as Georgetown, at the Joycn Center this weekend. The Irish are currently 7-5 against conference opponents and 11-12 overall. 
In Friday's competition. the Irish easily handled Georgetown, shutting them out 3-0 (30-16, 30­20, 30-14). 
Two Irish players earned dou­ble-doubles in the mateh. Senior captain and outside hitter Adrianna Stasiuk recorded 14 kills and 10 digs and senior set­ter Ashley Tarutis pitched in with 38 assists and 10 digs. Junior middle blocker Justine Stremick also helped dominate, she earned 13 kills and seven blocks, while freshman Iibera Angela Puente aided the defense with 13 overall digs. 
The Irish beat the Hoyas for the ninth straight time in series history. The Irish hold a 17-1 series record over Georgetown. 
The Irish trumped the Hoyas with a .395 offensive attack per­centage. On defense, the Irish all took care of business holding the Hoyas to a .031 attack percent­age. 
Notre Dame kept its momen­tum rolling into Sunday's match where it earned a 3-1 win (30­25, 30-24, 21-30, 30-21) pushing their home winning streak to four matches. 
Notre Dame had 72 overall kills against USF. While the Irish earned a .275 hitting percentage in the day's 


match, several Irish players effectively aided offensive play. Freshman middle blocker Kellie Sciacca earned 10 kills while sophomore outside hitter Serinity Phillips and Stremick accounted for most of Notre Dame's kills in the match and Tarutis posted 20 assists. Puente dominated the Irish defense with 18 digs, tying her career best. 
"I think we really had a good mind frame in both of this week­end's matches," Stasiuk said. "We came in to eompete and we really had a lot of motivation to win and get [a] better place for the Big East tournament." 
The Irish will host both Cincinnati and Louisville this earning weekend at the Joyce Center in their season's fmal two conference games. The Irish will then move on to Milwaukee to compete in the Big East quarter­finals. 
"We definitely have to work really hard this week to prepare for next weekend's games," Stasiuk said. "Cincinnatti and Louisville are both really tough competitors." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Tefft, Buck win ITA title 
Doubles pair becomes second ever to win gold at the tournament 
By KATE ARNOLD 
Sports Writer  
The Notre Dame doubles  
team of senior Brook Buek and  
junior Kelcy Tefft captured  
gold at the Intercollegiate  
Tennis Association (ITA)  
national championship hosted  
by Ohio State University at the  
Hacquet Club of Columbus.  
The event was the second of  
three national tournaments for  
the 2007-2008 season. More  - 
than 10,000 players from 600  
schools were involved in the  
ITA qualification process,  
which narrowed to a 32-per­ 
son singles tournament and  
16-team doubles bracket.  
Buck and Tefft beat Duke's  
Granson and Mang in a quick  
8-1 Thursday, moving them  
into the semifinals.  PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer  
On Friday, they played  Junior Kelcy Tefft winds up durin g Notre Dame's 4-3 win over the  
against Marshall's Kellie  Vanderbilt Commodores on Jan.  28 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion.  
Schmitt and Karolina Soor.  
Although they got off to a  Buck said. "She's like my sis­ lone Irish player to compete in  
rough start, loosing the first  ter, and we wanted to win this  the single's tournament,  
set 7-5, they were able to over­ one so bad, since it's my senior  Ciobanu fought hard against  
come the odds and win the  year and I wanted one before I  Georgia Tech's Maya  
match 9-7.  go."  Johansson. She lost the open­ 
On Saturday, Buck and Tefft  Tefft also credited her previ­ ing set 7-5, but came back to  
took on TCU's No. 14 Macall  ous coaches with a big role in  win the second 6-4. She was  
!Iarkins and Anna Sydorska.  the gold medal victory.  finally defeated 7-5 in third  
They won the first two sets  Because the match was  set.  
with scores of 6-4 and 6-3.  indoors. the duo had to change  On Friday, she participated  
The tournament ended on  their approach, defeating  in the consolation bracket,  
Sunday, when Buck and Tefft  Baylor with their short game  besting Pavia Mesterova of  
easily cruised past Baylor's  at the net.  Loyola Marymount in three  
sophomore Lenka Broosova  "Our coach in juniors really  sets. But on Saturday, she lost  
and senior Zuzana Zemenova.  emphasized playing the net,"  her final match in the consola­ 
They won 6-3 and 6-1, becom­ Tefft said. "And since we were  tion quarterfinals to  
ing Notre Dame's second team  indoors, and it's so much  Northwestern's No. 8 Georgia  
ever to win an ITA national  faster, we thought that playing  Rose, 6-1, 6-1. Her career  
championship.  the net would be a good strate­ record now stands at 47-9.  
But it was not the first time  gy against these girls with big  This was the last match for  
this duo has had success  hits. It would be deadly if we  the fall season. The team will  
together.  tried to hang back and bang it  resume competitive play on  
"We've played together for­ out with them. And we both  Jan. 20 at Louisville.  
ever, and we've won five jun­ like to play up at the net too."  
iors title, so it was nice to  Sophomore Cosmina Ciobanu  Contact Kate Arnold at  
finally win one in college,"  started play Thursday. The  karnold2@nd.edu  

Monday, November 5, 2007

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Strong finish for fall season 
-
In the third singles flight, Anderson pulled out anoth­Irish sweep singles freshman David Anderson er win over Fetbroyt 6-4, 5-7. won when William and I 0-8. Stephen Havens also
in Virgina tourney 

Mary's Hichard won in the sec­
Wardell ond flight sin­By KATELYN GRABARAK retired. "Our strength gles draw. Sports Writer Anderson was Daniel Stahl
coach is great.
leading 7-5. 2-and Davis each
The competitive
Notrn Dame f'inished its 0. pulled out wins 2007 fall season by sweeping Fellow fresh­balance on the team in the third William and Mary in singlt~s man TyltH will keep the guys singles f'light. play in Virginia this WPPknnd. Davis squeaked Anderson and
working hard."
Irish coach Bobby Bayliss out a win over Havens were got what lw \\·as looking for; Ben Wirth in the only dou­thn tnarn playnd well from top three sets. Julie Schroeder-Biek bles team to to bo t to m t h r o u g h o u t tlw Davis also fin­Belles coach come away 
four-day tournanwnt. ished Friday 
In singles, junior Brett with a win over IIPlgnson rontinund his domi­Varun Pandit 6-1, 6-2. nating with a win over Santiago Montoya beat Ben William and Mary's /\lex Cullickson 6-0, 6-4. Cojanu 6-4. 7-5. Helgeson On Saturday. Bayliss gav1~ an d s n n io r S h ~~ nva Parb h u Helgeson a rest and played combirwd for Parbhu in a win in dou-No. 1 singles blns ovnr slot. where
"lfelgeson pulled an 
KeziPI lw fell to
abdominal muscle in his
.lurwau and /\mit lmbar Dominic round r~f 16 and it of Maryland. 
l'agon of a./](~cted his play llnlgeson William and rdurrwd for
this weekend."
Mary. ThP doubles play. Irish tPams of wlwrl' hi' David Hoth Bobby Bayliss and Parbhu and St.PphPn lost to lmbar
Irish coach 
llavPrls. and TyiPr Davis and Santiago :VIont.oya also ParllPd doubiPs wins on Friday. 
l'arbhu dPfl'atl'd .lunPau 6­-L l1-0 at No.2 singlns. 
Phillips 
continued from page 24 
ynar-old goalin startnd the gamn aftnr junior rwtmindnr Jordan Pnan:n, who lnads the nation in minutes played. narrwd the Irish to a 7-:~ win Thursday night. 

-
"I wouldn't say lw was a rrnsh­man." Notre Dame delimsnnum Kyln l.awson said of Phillips. "lin lookod gn~at out tlwre. lie was nml ml!lidPnt with the puck. lin was in control of the game at all limns. It took him awhile to got in thorn. but it was nice having him hack tlmrn." 
Th1~ Irish pPrHtlty kill allowed tho shorthandml goal at 16:24 of tho so1:ond pPriod when !.akers loll wing Nathan Perkovkh boat Phillips with a slap shot to the stiek sid<~. Thn goal cut Notre Damn's lead to 2-1 and canw after Irish cnnter Christian llanso11 and dnrtHlSIHlHlll Brock Slwahan wnrP hit with penalties :10 sm:onds apart. 
!Janson rPcoivnd a livP-minuto major and ganw misconduct li,r hitting rrom lwhind. 
"I had orw hand on my stick and I was going in, slowed up but ltlw rl'fPrel'l maybo saw somnthing diiTPrnnt," llanson said. "MaybP rrom his angle it lookod likn I was going in full spnn<l." 
Before llanson was ejected from tlw gamP. he scorl'd a short-handPd goal. his first of thP ynar. I1J: II) into tlw first period wlwn ho bustml into tho Lakl'rs /.OIW and fin~d a shot rrom tho right drcln that boat goalie Brian Mahorwv-Wilson n2 saves) for tlw 1-0-load. Irish coach Jel'f .l;u:kson said he had como doso to removing llanson from tho lirwup prior to this wnnkend. 
"I want lllansonl to be proar­tive and not tentative or reac­tive," Jackson said. "lie has to be morn authoritativo, and that's what he W<L'i this wm~kend. And 
and Boris 
FPI.broyt H-6. 
"lfpJgpson pullnd all abdominal musl'in in his round or 16 match and it aiTP rtl'd his play this past wnPkPnd." Bayliss said. 
when ho plays likP that. he's a lwek of a hockey playor." 
Lawson put Notm I>ame up 2­0 on Lako Superior State {1-4-1. 0-2 CCI lA) when his shot from the right point on the pownr play was ch•llt~etnd by a !.akers playnr ovnr Maho11ey-Wilson's shoulder. 
"Trust me. I'll takn my lucky bounees," Lawson said. "I was just trying to get to the net. They isolate you oil' into the sides, so I was just trying to get to the net. !\little luck never hurt anybody." 
Notn~ Dame scon~d two power­play goals in the ganw and was 5-ror-10 on the man-advantage over tlw weekend. In the previ­ous throe games, the power play went a eombinnd I-ror-24, with nunwrous players soeing time on the unit. 
"It gets frustrating at times becaus<~ power plays aro a little fickle," Jackson said. 
The Irish got another power-

with a win Saturday. beat­ing their opponents 8-(>. 
The Irish swept the singles titles. Parbhu won the first singles 11ight, llavens won the second and Davis won the third. The doubles team of Anderson and Havens also 1:ombined to win the third doubles rtight. 
Notre Dame will now hit the gym for tho winter months before starting thoir spring season on January 20 against tlw Penn Statn Nittany Lions. 
"We will havP inct'ivid uals for two hours a wl'ek. a11d lift and rondition," Rayliss said. "Our strnngth 1:oach is gnmt. Thn eompntitivP balan<:n on thl' team will k<~ep tlw guys working hard." 
Contact Katelyn Grabarak at kgrabark@nd.edu 
play goal when right wing Evan Hankin stufl'ed home a rebound in front or the not to go up 4-1 at 
12:22 of the third period. Notre Dame right wing Erik Condra padded the Irish lead thrne min­utns before that goal when he sent the puck through Mahonny­Wilson's live-hole. 
Condra scored three goals and had three assists in the two­game series against the !.akers. lie had five points (two goals, thn~e assists) Thursday. 
It was the first sweep of' the season li.Jr the Irish, who arc tied for second place in the CCIIA and sit four points behind lirst­plaee, and undefeated. Miami. Notre Dame will travel Friday to play tho No. 1 Hedllawks. who have surrendered only 12 goals in eight games. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

knows she can either draw a foul or turn on you." 
Waldrum said her ability to draw penalties is one of the things that sets Hanks apart from her peers. 
"That's a player that's kind of at a different level," Waldrum said. "She manufac­tured both of our goals today." 
The Irish have now won 12 straight games against Big East opponents and have not lost to any team since a 2-1 
·= 

MATT STENGER!fhe Observer Junior wing Erik Condra scores in a 4-1 win over Lake Superior Friday. Condra had six points in the two-game series. 
Hanks 

continued from page 24 
the side net, but Irish senior midfielder Ashley Jones erased any doubts when she headed the ball in. 
The Irish kept the pressure on Rutgers until halftime before coming out somewhat nat after the break. 
"I thought we played a good 
first half and the second half wasn't as good," Waldrum said. "But good teams find cer­tain ways to win evnn when they don't play their best." 
II a n k s assured an Irish victory by con­

"! thought we played a good first halfand the second half wasn't as good. " 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 

vnrting a penalty kick with 
9:15 left in the contest. i\ftnr getting trippnd and drawing a foul in the box, Hanks calmly slotted thn ball into the right corner of the net to givn Notre Dame a two-goal cushion. 
"lllanksl is really smart about knowing how to usn her body," Waldrum said. "She 
setback against Penn State on Snpt. 2:~. During their current I 1-game win streak, the Irish defense has roeorded six shutouts. 
"The defense has really conw together and beeome a really 
good mix," Waldrum said. 
The Irish will travel to Morgantown, W.Va., for the Big East semifinals friday against Georgetown. Tho lloyas advaneed by defeating Connecticut Saturday. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


Monday, November 5, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
-

MEN AGAINST VIOLENCE PRESENTS: 
America's Leading Anti-Sexist Male Aetiflst 



ac on 

More Than aFew Good Men: ALecture on American Manhood and Violence Against Women 
_A_n educator, author and filmmaker, Jackson Katz 
is internationally recognized for his groundbreaking 
\vork in the field of gender violence prevention 
education with men and boys, particularly in the 
sports culture and the military. He has lectured on hundreds of college and high school can1puses and has conducted hundreds of professional trainings, setninars, and workshops in the U.S., Canada, Australia and Japan. He is the co-founder of the 11entors In Violence Prevention (~IVP) program, the leading gender violence prevention initiative in professional and college athletics. He is the director of the first \vorld\vide domestic and sexual violence prevention program in the United States :Niarine Corps. I-Ie is also the creator and co-creator of educational videos for college and high school students, including Tough c;uise: Violence, 1:Iedia, and the Crisis in :Niasculinit:y (2000), \V'restling \X'ith ~Ianhood (2002) and Spin the Bottle: Sex, Lies and Alcohol (2004). His ne\v book, The ~Iacho Paradox: \X'hy Some ~1en Hurt \Votnen and How All ~fen Can Help, was published by Sourcebooks in 2006. 
Tuesday, November 6th, S PM Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
I I 
? I 
l 
l 
l 
I 
-

President's Office, Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention, Men Against Violence, Gender Relations Center, Gender Studies, Student Government, Graduate Student Union, IDND, Feminist Voice 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 5, 2007 
Unbeaten 
continued from page 24 
lluskins scored mor11 points

-against Blue Division oppononts. "Obviously thny"rn disappoint­lld in not taking the whole lnagllll." Irish coarh Bobby Clark said. "Tho disappointnwnt was not winning tlw league outright boeausn that's what Wll wantml to do." 
In tnrms of sending. hownwr. Notnl DamP losPs little from fail­ing to obtain tlw No. I spot.. Both thn No. I and No. 2 snnds will 
ing point of viow. it's no grPat probiPm." Clark said. "Mnntally, it's such that you'rn going to lw playing a tough ganw orw way or anolhPr. If it was bPtWPPn thP SI'Cond and third snnd, it could annoy bneausP you'd havP to go away for a ganw." 
In tlw lirst half of Saturday's ganw. Notn• l>anw lookPC! liko it would haw no problPm grabbing tlw rngular soason Lilli'. Tlw Irish outshot tlw lloyas ll-0. but nonP linmd tlwir way past (;oorgntown goalknnpnr .loP I>Pvino. 
Tlw second half and ovPrtinw pmiods werP a difli•n•nt story, as <;norgnlown held a IJ-6 advan­tage in shots. ThP lloyas domi­natnd tlw sPnmd owrtimn peri­od, outshooting the Irish 7-2. 
"Wn camn out rnady to play, and wn had maybe four good ehanens in tlw period out of tlw 
Hillsdale 
continued from page 24 
seorml I(J points in I 9 minutns and had two assists, two blocks and two steals. Sehradnr scored Pight points and had four assists in her first ganw sincP thn 2005-06 snason. 
Me<;raw said sPnior ePnter Mnlissa I>'Amir!J will start 

-
against llillsdal!~ in placP of Williamson. D'Amico had I 0 points in IS minutes off tlw lwnrh. 
"WP gavP lwr tlw first start and ID'Amicol will start the rwxt ganw," Md~raw said allPr tlw Sill ganw. "And thPn wP'll dPddn from tlwn1." 
Mr<;raw said tlw rnst of tho 11 shots, but they didn't go in," Clark said. "Full marks to Gnorgetown. Thny certainly negated our play in the second half. and they had some flurrins themsnlves. Tlwy earriod the play in the seeond overtime." 
Claire reforenced the team's travel schodule to explain tho team's porformaneo. 
Tho Irish did not land in Washington, D.C until 1 a.m. Saturday morning. The players wen• required to stay until tlwir dassns ended Friday af'tnrnoon. Saturday's gamn startod at noon. giving tho t11am only 11 hours to pr<'pare after gP.t­ting oiT of the 


Abromaitis and Carleton Seott, also scored their first points in Irish uniforms, both in the last minute of the first half. Prollitt hit a runner at tlw nlbow and Abromaitis nailed a three point­er in the first half, whiln Scott made a jumper from the base­line latP. in thP. ganw. 
"I think it was great to see the young guys get somn opportuni­ties," Kurz said. "They played really well." 
Notre Dame will play its sne­ond and final exhibition game Wednesday against St. Edward's. Brey said the nxhibi­
host a first­"Obviously they're plane. 
round Big Hast "In tlw socond
disappointed in 
tournamPnl half, I fPlt wn ganw. and tlw not taking the wero still-tho eon­only difTPrPilCP whole league. " trolling toam, but for tlw Irish will certainly by tlw lw tlw i r oppo­s1wond overtinw
Bobby Clark 
rwnt. they wnre the "From a sPnd­Irish coach tnam that sonnwd 


to have tlw most erwrgy, Clark said. 
Notre DamP will rP!:nive a bye in tlw lirst round of tho Big East tournamnnt, whid1 bngins Wmlrwsday. and return to action nnxt Sunday whon tlwy host a Big Hast quartnrlinal match at Alumni Finld. 
Notes: 
• 
With its t:onferPnen rncord of 7-0-4. NoLJ·n Damn was tho only Big East team to linish its confer­nru·n sdwdulP t111dof1~ated. Comwctkut linislwd with a con­fnrnrH'O rerord of H-2-1. 

• 
Saturday was Notre Dame's ninth shutout of thn snason. It marks the lifth eonsneutive sea­son that Notro Damn has record­od at least nino shutouts 


Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
starting lineup, comprised of Schrader. senior guards Tulyah Gaines and Charel Allon, and sophomore guard Ashley Barlow. will stay the sam n. 
Mallory seored six points on two three-point shots, the only baskets slw madn in hP.r 16 minutns on thP. l"loor. Mallory will give the Irish a lngitimate outsido threat this SIHtson. something they missnd last year -when no Irish player made more than :B percent of her thrP.o-point attempts. Tho Chargors perinwtor dof'nnso allownd opponents only 4.6 threo-pointPrs per gamo and held opposing tnams to :~0 per­ennt from bPhind the are. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

-
ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 
Irish guard Tulyah Gaines goes up for a lay-up during Notre Dame's 76-60 loss to Rutgers last February at the Joyce Center. 
Blowout 
continued from page 24 

17 at halftime. Tlw Fighting Bees shot just 6-for-:H from the liP.ld before the break. 
"I think we did a gmat job of playing hard defensively, P.spe­eially in the l"irst half," Kurz said. 
In his return from suspen­sion, Irish guard Kyle McAlarney started slow ­missing his !irst four shots. But the guard found his stroke late 
in the first half with two buck­ets in less than a minute. 
"I just wasn't hitting for a while. but I just have to stay wnlident," Mc:AlarnPy said. 
MeAlarney finishnd the game with 11 points on 4-of-11 shoot­ing, along with live assists and two rnbounds. 
"It's good to be ba!:k out thnre with thn guys," MeAiarney said. "I felt wry comfortabln. I'm just happy to be back." 
In addition to Kurz. llillesland and McAlarney, three otlwr Irish players scored in double figures -guard Tory .Ja1:kson with 12, guard Jonathan Pnoplns with 11 and forward I .uke Zeller with 11 points. 
"We have so many guys who can do so many things and on any givnn night it's going to be anotlwr guy's turn to bP. the leading scornr," Kurz said. 
With Pight minutes !ell in the first half. Irish freshman guard Tyrone Nash nntnred the lineup for the first time. He didn't take long to get his first basket, put­ting back a missed shot on his first possPssion. 
Three more freshmen, guard Ty Proffitt and forwards Tim 
tion games providP. valuable experience before the Irish open the rngular season Nov. 12 against Long Island 
Uniw~rsity. 
"We need to play and nvalu­atn ourselves sitting on the samn bench." he said. "We need to figurn out our rotation." 
Note: 
• Kurz was named Notre Damp,'s eaptain bdorn the gam11. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


. ~r--..,to;._ '~":...~~~T..,.a:_;.;.lf;~ ~_, .. .c 7'""I ,..:-. ~c_.,.:;:-~~ -. ~ -•~~.,. ~ <........,. ~···-..-~~ ~~·f'l'"'"'~ ., ••,..,1 :::r"'f..-1"....~...~~~, ... • ,._,(~ "'J""'"•• ..•) 
' ...............,..,.:. 1"l:J -:1,:-J: ~c:-. ........, :1 ~ ..~"'•d' ~v..!'-•'t.ll.•.a.• ...?"-"'\~"'·"'~~<f-"-¥--~~•"'"".,..q«Y "1 t::><Pt...-.~:.l:r.....,, ~-..~~outh '3:-_~,..·n."'.J, .:;:::7./"'-..} 466:::l.V ~.... _.._,"'fc."l&V ""f ~p....-.--~,.!;:p~ 
<~7"4.> !'..::!7"""1-4~Y<> 
Monday, November 5, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

BLACK DoG 
I CAt-l'T E"-T: I C"'-N'T 5"1.-E'.EJ>, 
I CAI-.J'T G-ET THAT SD,Jfr ouT Or MY' HE.AI> :"IJE. AIZ.E T11E r-JAV( M16+1TY MIG-HTY ~MY.. 
DEUCES MANOR 
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
ell, beside the fact that it was only l5 minutes So, after 99 after conunercials, a third of the time th<' llproclu<"•er· was talking about the show and another time they were inren'ie"ing peopk just seen the show for the first time. 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 


JJIJJMJIDibrE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PRIGE 
j 
1 

rx I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
r~iil I I DEIBES ± 
www.jumble.com 
tTHORUG I

J I I [J 
CROSSWORD 
Across 36 Pungent­1 Put out, as a fire smelling 6 Furry TV 37 Expensive tooth extraterrestrial filling material 9 Arouse, as 38 Sport with beefy interest grapplers 14 "In my opinion 39 Admonition to a showboating athlete
15 Place for sheep to graze 42 Notes after do 16 Mrs. Bush 43 Doll's cry 
17 Utensil used with 44 Almost any doo­flour wop tune 18 Perry Mason's 45 What a driver's field license shows 1 9 Out of kilter 
proof of 
47 Makes tough 

Show" intro 48 Understood 23 Fork over 49 By way of 24 Word after show 50 "Cheers" 
or know bartender 25 Bygone Rambler 53 Kid's book with a mfr. hidden character 27 Classic arcade 60 Atlantic or game Pacific 31 Set free 62 Buddhist sect 
20 Old 'Tonight 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
63 Squirrel away 64 Suspect's story 65 Stephen of "The 
Crying Game" 66 Out of favor, 
informally 67 Derby prize 68 The whole 
shebang 69 Activities in 57­Down 
Down Satellite TV receiver 2 Gartield's pal, in the funnies 3 _-friendly (simple to operate) 4 Put money in the bank 5 Poker player's 
headgear 6 Give the O.K. 7 Wife of Jacob 8 Young Bambi 9 Benchwarmer's 
plea 10 The Beatles' 
the Walrus" 11 Wit's remark 12 Celestial bear 13 "Piece of cake!" 21 Rock's Bon Jovi 22 Nita of silent 
films 26 Windsor, notably 27 Father: Prefix 28 Felt sore 29 Oreo's filling 30 Sinking in mud 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Fred Plscop 

31 Hardly cramped 46 Local 55 Walk drunkenly 
32 Director Kazan noncollegian, to 56 Top-rated a collegian
33 Napped leather 

57 Features of 47 Bra's sibling
34 Cybermessages science classes 49 Open to bribery
35 Stadium toppers 58 "Dang!" 50 Suds maker
37 Pesky swarmer 59 5:2, e.g., at a 51 Rights org.
40 Most common racetrack 
U.S. surname 52 Golda of Israel 
61 Muscles to 41 Zero 54 Poet Pound crunch 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Answer here:" rI I I)" rI I I] 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: CRAZE SYLPH JOCKEY DULCETSaturday's 
Answer: What the optician turned into at the party ­A "SPECTACLE" 
HOROSCOPE Eugena Last 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TffiS DAY: Sean "Diddy" Combs. 38; Matthew McCo­naughey, 38; Ralph Macchio, 46; Markie Post, 57 
Happy Birthday: Your strong-willed attitude will keep you on track this year. Ad·­dress any problems and walk away from whatever is holding you back. It's lime to make your mark, do your thing and get on with life. Don't look back. Your numbers are 6, 11, 23. 25, 41,46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Try something new or listen to concepts that may work into your lifestyle and help you earn extra cash. There is always room for improve­ment and change in your world, so open your heart, your home and your mind. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You've got everything going for you. so don't stop short of getting what you want because you are lazy or shy. A great idea can turn into a new, professional opportunity. Take action now. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A creative story may grab the attention of the people around you but, if you tell a fib, you will be caught in the act. Don't lead someone on or make a promise you have no intention of keeping. Children and old people may pose problems today. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Tidy up around home and make plans to entertain friends. a lover or relatives. You'll get interesting information and some great ideas for future consideration. A couple of minor alterations to your living quarters or arrange. ments will make a huge difference. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Start expressing your thoughts, ideas and plans. Be open about what you can deliver and what you will need help accomplishing. Love is in the stars, so do something special for someone who has captured your heart. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Tell everyone what you want, how you see things devel­oping and what your vision is, personally and professionally. The feedback you get will be insightful and help you tighten up your plans and push forward. Don't be dis­turbed if not everyone has your vision. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct 22): Keeping secrets will be difficult. Consider your past before you make a decision about your future. Being creative and using a little reverse psychology will help you get what you want. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will discover that you can do a lot more than you first thought if you take a chance. Not everything has to be perfect. If your premise is good and your plans well-thought-out, you can sell your idea to just about anyone. 4 
stars 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Give yourself a bit of a break. You don't have to impress everyone. It's best to stick close to home and avoid people from your past who have been troublesome for you. Look forward, not back. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec_ 22-Jan. 19): Sort through unf'mished projects and set your pri­orities. Someone you love will respond the way you want to the questions you ask. so don't hesitate to lay your cards on the table. A deal can be struck and opportunities discussed. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will come up with an interesting idea that will help you solve some of the problems lou have been facing regarding money, health or legal matters. Don't take advantage o the one you love or you will have to give up something you were counting on. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love is in the stars and a little romanciog can go a long way if you are attentive, affectionate and CJ,Uick to do the little extras that will make the love of your life happy. Money is headmg your way. Luck is with you. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are stubborn, practical and determined to follow your own path. You are creative and interesting. quick to respond and eager to get to where you want to go. 
.... 
,... 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
-
-

WH!::N TH!:: FARM!:':R BOUGHT TH!:: HUG!:: 5PR!:':AO, H!:: WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

PORTS
Monday, November 5, 2007 
page 24 
-
MEN'S SOCCER 

Squad ends Big East schedule zvithout loss -after Georgetown tie 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
With a 0-0 draw against Ccorgetown Saturday, No. 9 Notre Damn concluded its Big East season undefeated !'or the lirst time in program history. 
But it was not enough to gar­ner the top send in the league's Blue Division. 
The Irish headed into Saturday's contest sitting two points alwad of Conneeticut. the No. I team in the country. Notre Dame's tie against Georgetown, however, combined with the Huskies' 1-0 vietory over Seton llall, left the two teams tied for top spot in the division with 25 points apieee. Connecticut will receive thn No. 1 seed in the Big East tournament because the 
see UNBEATEN/page 22 

Unbeaten 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish open year vvith blovvout 
CHRIS KHOREY Sporrs Editor 
Two Notre Dame forwards fin­ished with double-doubles, and the Irish won thnir lirst exhibi­tion game of the snason, 1 09-53 over St. Ambrosn Friday at thn Joyce Center. 
Senior Hob Kurz had 23 points and 11 rebounds, while junior Zach Hillesland added 12 points and 14 rebounds as Notre Dame jumped to an early lead and never looked baek. 
"We were running," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "We wanted to kflep running and attacking." 
Notre Dame didn't allow St. Ambrose to break into double ligures until the final four min­utes of the first half and led 51­
see BLOWOUT/page 22 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

ND readies for final vvartn-up before regular season tips off 
signs for Notre Dame's season Notre Dame will enter the second in the South Division of utes per game and scored 5.8
Tearn takes on Hillsdale 

in the win -the return of jun­season ranked No. 24 by the the GLIAC. Hillsdale finished points per game. ior guard Lindsay Schrader, the Associated Press. The t1:1am also 19-9 last season and 12-5 in the Although the Chargers scored
in last exhibition gmne 

play of freshmen Devereaux received votes in the USA Today GLIAC. Forward Julie Slot, the 6.2 more points per game than Peters and Brittany Mallory and poll. team's leading returning scorer their opponents last season,By BILL BRINK a tough. aggressive defense. llillsdale will give the Irish a and lone senior, was recently they will have trouble outscor­
Sports Writer 

The Irish forced 37 turnovers in true test of their defensive abili­named to the GLIAC all-South ing an Irish offense that proved 
the game. ties. The Chargers lost only 17.1 Division team. potent in its first game. 
Notrn Dame will play its limd "The press didn't work as turnovers per game last season, Graduation hit the Chargers Sophomore · center Erica prnseason game against good as I thought it would but I fewer than half the number the hard this year -seven lettnr Williamson led the team with 18 llillsdale at 7 tonight, !'our days felt we made that adjustment at Irish forced against the winners return, but seven points in 17 minutes, grabbed al'ter it defeated Soutlwrn halrtime and I felt we looked a Screaming Eagles. more, including all tive starters, six rebounds -all oll'ensive ­Indiana IJ0-:{8 to win its 22nd little bit better in the second Great Lakes Intercollegiate graduated. Despite Slot's pre­and blocked four shots. Peters straight preseason game. half," Irish coach Muffet Athletic Conference coaches season honors, she started only 
There W(~re ph~nty of positive MeGraw said after the game. picked the Chargers to finish two games, averaged 14.1 min-see HILLSDALE/page 22 
HOCKEY 

leers sweep Lake Superior 
Phillips spells Pearce for first career start 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

Fmshman goalie Brad Phillips made his first collegiate start Friday night during a 4-1 win over I.ake Superior Statn, surren­dering tlw lonn goal on a livn-on­thre•~ shorthandnd situation as tlw No. I;{ Irish SW(~pt the two­game sPries. 
Phillips, who was selected in the seventh round by tlw.. Philadelphia Flyers in .June's Nlll. 1\ntry Draft. and thn Notro Dame penalty kill wipl'd out seven !.akers power plays !'or tlw first Irish (h<L 4-1 CCIIA) st~ries swtwp of" tlw season. The 17­
st:c PHILLIPS/pag" 22 


ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Hanks leads attack in tournament win 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Despite playing at less than full strength, No. 10 Notre Dame defeated Hutgers 2-0 in the Big East tournament quar­terfinals Sunday at Alumni Field. 
Irish junior forward Brittany Bock and sophomore midlield­er Courtney Hosen sat out with injuries, and senior captain Amanda Cinalli played despite the death of her grandfather Friday. 
"If we'd have been in a real crunch. we could have used 1 Bock and Hosen l." Irish eoach Handy Waldrum said. "And Cinalli played but she was a littln fatigued, and I'm sure her mind was elsewhere." 
But Irish junior forward Kerri llanks provided enough ol'fensn to overcomn those out­side factors. She notched an assist in the first half then added an insurance goal late in the second. 
Hanks created several good scoring chances early, and the Irish finally converted with just over 12 minutes remain­ing before intermission. 
After Hutgers knoeknd the ball past the end line, Hanks sent the ensuing eorner kick toward tiH~ far post of the Hutgers goal. The ball might have ;llready bNHJ lwadPd into 
see HANKS/page 21 






