
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
STUDENT SENATE 

Majority signs bill to begin senator's impeachment 

By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
The majority of Student Senate members signed a bill Wednesday to impeach Morrissey senator Greg Dworjan, who led a campaign to abstain during the period between the student body president election and the run-off election two weeks ago. 
The Senate's decision was a "statement of signature" rather than an actual vote, student body vice president Bill Andrichik said. The Senate will vote next week whether to remove Dworjan from office, which will require a two-thirds majority. 
Dworjan was found guilty of violating two articles in the Student Union Constitution. 
He used the copy machine in the student government office to make flyers that urged peo­ple to vote abstain in the run­off election, violating a rule that campaigning may not take place on the second floor of LaFortune in the student government office. 
Dworjan also posted the fly­ers without getting them approved by the Judicial Council and the Student Activities Office, which was a second violation. 
The Executive Committee of the Judicial Council decided last week that these two alle­gations were not actual elec­tion violations and sent the issue to the Student Union Ethics Board for considera­tion. 
The Ethics Board voted Tuesday 7-1 that Dworjan's use of student government resources was a violation of ethics and decided in a vote of 4-3-1 to recommend the Senate impeach Dworjan. 
Before the impeachment vote, Dworjan took the podium at the Senate and gave a speech. He asked senators to consider his actions a "foolish 
see SENATE/page 4 

Sex, gender issues examined on, off campus 
Eve Ensler's 'Monologues' returns to community in off-campus venue 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
Against the backdrop of a stark shamrock green wall hung a simple white banner reading "V-Day, Reclaiming Peace 2007." 
Though the room was modest, the message was strong as the 27 "Vagina Monologues" cast members took to the stage Wednesday night in their first produc­tion of the year at South Bend's First Unitarian Church -their new off-campus venue. 
Despite the relatively low turnout of 50 to 60 people, organizer Michelle Lewis said she was "really, really happy with the way it went." Director Sarah Muscarella said she thought Wednesday would be the least popular night, but saw the effect of the move off campus. 
"I think we would definitely have a higher number if 
see VENUE/page 6 

'Sex and the City of God' stirs talk within Catholic context at University 
BySONIARAO News Writer 

A question posed by Sex and the City character Carrie Bradshaw -"Is it possible to be both Catholic and cosmopolitan?" -extended beyond the televi­sion screen to Notre Dame Wednesday night. 
Faith confronted culture in a "Sex and the City of God" presentation, which w.as held in DeBartolo HalL The event grew out of an ad hoc committee on gender relations University President Father John Jenkins created last spring, intended to stimulate discussion on issues raised by "The Vagina Monologues" with a focus on Catholic context. 
"The goal is to bring the insights of the Catholic tradition into a frank conversation of contemporary topics ... at the cusp of the 21st century," said M. 
see GOD/page 8 


Institute gives NO poor grade 
University policies rank low in report 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 
With top athletic programs and consistent academic rank­ings annually in the nation's Top 20, Notre Dame is not used to receiving failing grades. 
However, when the Sustainable Endowment Institute released its annual College Sustainability Report Card covering environmental and endowment practices, Notre Dame received a D­minus -the lowest grade given in the survey. Other insti­tutions that received low grades included the University of Chicago, which received a D-
see GRADE/page 6 



Run to raise funds, remember students 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 
Welsh Family Hall will sponsor its sixth annual Clary, Murphy, Thomas Hun Saturday to honor and raise scholarship funds in memory of three members of the Class of 2002 who lost battles with leukemia during their time at Notre Dame. 
The Run is a SK loop around campus that will begin and end in front of Welsh Family Hall, Welsh Family rector Candace Carson said. 
Start time for the run is 10 a.m., and a post-race prayer service will be held in the Welsh Family Hall chapel around 10:45 in remem­brance of Brionne Clary, Miranda Thomas and Connor Murphy -the three students for whom the race is named. 
Funds for the run are raised through runners'· registration fees and all the money goes to scholarships that are not yet fully funded. 
"Once they are funded, we will be able to award them to three students," Carson said. "The more students that par­ticipate in the event, the faster we can raise money for the scholarships." 
Sophomore Drew Clary, a relative of Brionne, helped to organize this year's run and will attend both the race and 
see RUN/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Musical flavvs 
As Scene Editor, I do a lot of music reviews, which I think are the most difficult. Music is a lot more subjec­tive than movies and literature, because; as Duke Ellington once quipped, "if it 
sounds good, it is good." Yet a lot of really good bands and artists run into problems that are immedi­ately noticeable to even the most casual listeners. 

Here are a few Brian Doxtader examples of bad musical decisions 
happening to Scene Editor 
good bands, and the biggest offenders. 

+ 
Oversinging-As much as I love Led Zeppelin, I could go without hearing Robert Plant yelp "oh yeah, baby baby, ooh yeah" on every single song. A lot of singers can't resist the urge to make sure their presence is known, resulting in some unfortu­nate vocal ad-libs, like Morrissey's yodeling at the end of The Smiths' "The Boy with the Thorn in His Side." This offense is particularly prevalent among groups that have a designated singer who doesn't do anything else. Biggest offenders: Hobert Plant (Led Zeppelin). Bono (U2), Morrissey (The Smiths) 

+ 
Overplaying -This offense comes in two varieties: letting a song go on too long and too much showy musicianship. I remember when "Anthem" came on a classic rock station and my friend guessed that it was by Hush. When I asked how he knew, he replied, "Because it's ten times more complicated than it needs to be." Additionally, I never understood the point of jam bands -films and books get editors, some­times bands need them too. Biggest offenders: The Grateful Dead, The Allman Brothers, The Dave Matthews Band, Phish. 

+ 
Bad lyrics-Here's the com­plete chorus set of Nirvana's "Lithium:" "Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah ... " It's actual longer than that, but you get the picture. Hardly a bastion of lyrical insight. A lot of artists just don't seem to care about lyrics, which is really the only con­ceivable way that we got Gwen Stefani spelling out "bananas." They'd be better advised to go to the "Yellow Ledbetter" route, on which Eddie Vedder sings so incomprehen­sibly that nobody knows what the lyrics are (try doing a Coogle search on it).

+ 
Over-saturation -This one really isn't the band/singer's fault. I liked "Clocks," I liked "Hey Ya!," I even kind of liked "Chasing Cars" the first five or six hundred times I heard it. Nothing is more unkind to a good song than constant, consis­tent over-saturation. Hearing big hits on the radio, in the dining hall, in the mall, in the car, in the dorm bathroom, etc. just kills a song for people ... which is why you hardly ever hear "Hey Ya!" anymore. 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, March 1, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE FIRST PAGE YOU TURN TO IN THE OBSERVER? 


Davide Lionetti Noelle Crooks Justin Perez Jeffrey Kraft John Strong 
sophomore sophomore freshman freshman junior Stanford Cavanaugh Alumni Alumni Alumni 
"International "The Question "J don't read "I read USA "Question ofthe news. ofthe Day." The Observer. " Today. " Day to see if 




Man tries to cash $50K check from God 
HOBAHT, Ind. -Kevin Hussell found out it's not easy trying to cash a check from God. The 21:year-old man was arrested Monday after he tried to cash a check for $50,000 at the Chase Bank in IIobart that wa<; signed "King Savior, King of Kings, Lord of Lords, Servant," Hobart police Detective Jeff White said. 
Hussell was charged with one count attempted cheek fraud and one count intimida­tion, both felonies, and one count resisting law enforce­ment, a misdemeanor. He could face pri<;on time. 
Police were called to the bank after Russell tried to cash the check, which was written on an invalid Bank One check with no imprint, White said. Hussell had sever­al other checks with him that were signed the same way but made out in diflerent dol­lar amounts, ineluding one lbr $100,000. 

''I've heard about God ~-,riv­ing out eternal life, but this is the first time I've heard of him giving out cash," White said. 
Woman finds WWII grenade in potatoes 
HOME -A woman in a town near Naples got an unwelcome surprise when she bought a sack of potatoes at a nearby market, put them into water to peel and discov­ered one of them wa<; a hand grenade apparently Jell over from World War II. 
Olga Mauriello had put the potatoes in a vat of water and had just begun peeling them Tuesday when she found the explosive, covered in dirt, police said Wednesday. 
An alarmed Mauriello, 74, ealled neighbors, who in tum called police. 
Officers detonated the grenade in a park on Wednesday, state police said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

I've been misquoted. " 

IN BRIEF 
Freshmen can vote today in the run-off election for the sopho­more class council. Voting will take place between 8 a.m. and 8 
p.m. Students can access the vot­ing Web site by clicking on a link in an e-mail from the Judicial Council. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre presents 
Agatha  Christie's  "The  
Mousetrap"  on  the  Decio  
Mainstage  Theatre  at  the  

DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The show opens today at 
7:30 p.m., and continues until March 4. Evening performances are at 7::~0 and the Sunday mati­nee is at 2:30 p.m. Ticket prices ar0 $12 for the general public, $10 for senior citizens, NO facul­ty and stalf and $8 for students. 
Legends will host Last Comic Standing tonight at 10. Admission is free. 
Stations of the Cross will be held at 7:15 p.m. tomorrow in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will continue every Friday evening during Lent. 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will perform tomor­row at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Ticket are $6 for the general public, $5 for faculty and staff, $4 for seniors and $3 for students. 
Finals for Bengal Bouts will be held Saturday at 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. Proceeds will go to the lloly Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 



HIGH LOW 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

...I 
<2: 
(.) 


0 


HIGH 38 HIGH HIGH
..... 

LOW 23 LOW LOW 



Atlanta 65 I 51 Boston 38 I 26 Chicago 46 I 34 Denver 37 I 16 Houston 76 I 63 Los Angeles 62 I 44 Minneapolis 30 I 25 New York 43 I 30 Philadelphia 47 I 31 Phoenix 63 I 41 Seattle 44 I 33 St. Louis 56 I 51 Tampa 81 I 65 Washington 50 I 34 
Thursday, March 1, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


OIT maintenance leads to outages 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
The Office of Information Technologies (OIT) recently per­formed maintenance on multiple University systems in advance of a large storage expansion planned for this swnmer. 
The maintenance caused sev­eral services to be unavailable from 7 p.m. Saturday until 8 a.m. Sunday -including Webmail, insideND and WebCT. 
"The planned maintenance this past weekend included a major upgrade to the University's data storage infrastructure," said Dewitt Latimer, assistant provost for orr. "It required the main storage array to be taken off­line, backed-up, removed, replaced, restored and finally tested for quality assurance. This was the first phase of a major expansion of storage planned for this swnmer." 
The maintenance shutdown was the second in the past week. On Feb. 18, OIT upgraded sever­al systems that also caused unavailable services. For many students, these recent shutdowns are becoming a common ordeal. 
While the maintenance shut­downs may be frequent, students should understand that they are in the best interest of the University, Latimer said. OIT maintains more than 370 appli­cations that form a highly inter­dependent information technolo­gy infrastructure that helps run the day-to-day business of Notre Dame. 
"In order to provide maximum uptime with the least impact to campus computer users, we employ two service windows per month," Latimer said. 
These service windows typical­ly occur on the second and fourth Sundays of every month from 2 a.m. to 10 a.m., Latimer said. 
However, when the service window involves a large amount of work -as it did this past weekend -the maintenance window is expanded to ensure all work is done by 10 a.m. on Sunday. 
OIT makes sure not to sched­ule maintenance during speeial events like football weekends, Junior Parents Weekend and alumni weekends, as well as important times of the year like finals week and the beginning of school, Latimer said. 
That leaves little time for the OIT staff members to perform their responsibilities, often caus­ing them to work before 5 a.m. and well into the evening. 
Although students cannot avoid shutdowns, they can be prepared. OIT usually e-mails all students to notify them of upcoming maintenance and posts the information on its Web site. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
Conference to address diversity 
Mooney, Mcintosh to head forums at Saint Mary's during the weekend 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
Diversity will once again become the main topic of con­versation at Saint Mary's this weekend as the Student Diversity Board (SOB) hosts the second-annual Diverse Student Leadership Conference (DSLC), which begins tonight with a recep­tion and address by College President Carol Ann Moo!'ley. 
The Conference will contin­ue Friday and Saturday with workshops throughout the day and a Diversity showcase in O'Laughlin Auditorium at. 7:30 pm Friday. 
The conference is intended to educate students about the different kinds of diversity each person encompasses, conference chair and student body president-elect Kimberly I lodges said. 
"We try to celebrate all kinds of diversity," Hodges said. "We are attempting to educate participants about various modes of diversity, not generalized in a societal norm." 
The weekends workshop titles include "Notre Dame vs. KKK", "HIV/AIDS Disproportionately Represented in African American Populations", "SMC and Beyond" and "Deriving Racial Understanding from our Own Experiences." 
Peggy Mcintosh will deliver a keynote address entitled "How I Came to See I Had White Privilege and What I'm Learning I Can Do With It" at 
4:15 pm Saturday in Carroll Auditorium. 
Conference organizers col­lected pre-registration forms for the past two weeks and students are encouraged to register if they wish to attend the closing banquet, due to a lack of space in the West Wing 
of the Noble Family Dining Hall. Registration has been going on for about a month for members outside of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community. 
The event received a lot of sup­port from the College administra­tion this 
"We try to celebrate all student group kinds of that repr.esents diversity and
diversity. We are 
tries to foster it
attempting to 

through educa­educate participants tive programs and events ­
about various modes of 
as well as sub­
diversity, not 

jects not nor­generalized in a mally encoun­tered on either
societal norm. " 
campus. Hodges said 

Kimberly Hodges she hoped that DSLC chair this year par­
year, DSLC faculty liaison Serita Fritzler said. 
"There's been a lot of posi­tive feedback from faculty," Fritzler said. "They were real­ly willing to send their stu­dents, give extra credits and cancel classes." 
It is also noteworthy that the conference netted a renowned figure like keynote speaker Mcintosh, Hodges said. 
"Pat White [last year's keynote speaker] was amaz­
ing, but being able to go from Pat White to Peggy Mcintosh is a great achievement," Hodges said. 
The conference was created last year when current confer­ence chair Hodges, SDB presi­dent Angeline Johnson and Class of 2006 alumna Claradith Landry felt Saint Mary's needed an event that combined everything SOB discusses -a 
ticipants 
absorb what 

they learn at the conference and workshops and apply that to their own lives. 
"This year, we will be not only able to offer'all that we offered last year, but people will be able to take advantage to that," Hodges said. "It's a new year, and [the confer­ence] is bigger and better this year." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO1@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 1, 2007 


Students bid to dine with campus figures 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
For most students, it isn't a usual evening when you can ask Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman to pass the salt, or ask for seconds from Mendoza College of Business Dean Carolyn Woo. 
But for the highest bidders at the Breen-Phillips Hall Meal Auction Wednesday night, they'll soon have the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to dine with Poorman and Woo, among other campus icons. 
The annual event held in the LaFortune Ballroom auctioned meals with "campus celebrities" to eager students, featured a silent auction and raffied off a football autographed by Brady Quinn -all in the name of charity. 
Auction commissioner Christy Essay said this year's proceeds totaled around $5,600 -all of which will go directly to Meals on Wheels of Mishawaka. 
For senior Jessica Pryor, dinner with Poorman will cost $195 per plate, for 12 plates -her winning bid in the auction. 
"I heard it went for $250 last year, so I was just going to wait and see what happened when it got that high," Pryor said. 
Pryor said the other 11 guests would likely be a "bunch of friends from [Lyons Hall]." The evening includes a buffet in the Main Building and tours of the Dome, the Basilica bell tower and the game­day football locker room. 

Other notable campus figures who omm~d up a night ibr tho pro­gram induded University President Emeritus Father Theodore I Iesburgh. student body president Lizzi Shappell, the aeappella group The Undertones, leprochauns Kmin Braun and Juan Muldoon, Numni Association President Chuck Lennon, Irish basketball eoaeh Mike Brey and former Notre Dame running back Reggie Brooks. 
Winners will enjoy a variety of activities ranging from home­cooked fi>od by auctioned personal­ities to dinner at La..;;aue Grill to ice cream at Coldstone Creamery. 
This year's total of about $5,600 exceeded the average $5,000 the event usually rai<>es, despite a simi­lar turnout as past years, Essay said. 
Dinner with Hesburgh was the highest bid per-plate of the night, at $215 eaeh for four guests, while Pryor's evening with Poorman brought in the largest total of all meals, with $2,340 bid for til(~ total package. 
Proceeds will be delivered to Meals on Wheels of Mishawaka by the end of the week, Essay said. This is the first time tl1e funds have been donated to a toea! organiza­tion. 
"In tl1e past we had donated to the American Diabetes Association, which wa.<> great, but we thought it might be fun to donate to a local organization so we could help out the local community," Essay said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at 
asteiner@nd.edu 
Senate 
continued from page 1 

mistake," ralhor than unothi­cal bnhavior. 
Dworjan said his interpro­tation of the constitution was that it defined campaigning as "any public contact for the solicitation of votes. Personal appearances, placement of posters or distribution of election materials is consid­ered campaigning." 
Dworjan said he did not think he violalod the part of the constitution that pro­hibits campaigning in the Student Union oflicfJ. 
"Does making eopies of posters sound like openly asking for votes? I don't believe it does," he said. 
Dworjan encouraged sena­tors to reexamine the Student Union Constitution, which he said has many naws. 
Senators did spend approx­imately an hour and a half looking over amendments in trod ueed by So nate Oversight committne ehair Chris llollon. Of lhe four res­olutions llollon introduced to amend the constitution, three passed. 
The amendments stemmed from previous discussions in the Snnate. The Snnate unanimously passed a reso­lution to eliminate the presi­dential division budget from the Student Union Board (SUB)'s overall budget and to transfer this budget so it is under the Office of the Student Body President. Previous discussion in Senate meetings said this would streamline the process by which student government can aeeess this money. 
The Senate also unani­mously passed a resolution lhal would allow lho Judicial Council president to sit on the Financial Management Board IFMB). Judicial Council prnsident I.iz Kozlow said this will greatly improve the communication between the two groups. 
"Judieial Council's always asking for more funding," Kozlow said. "We request allocations just like any other student group." 
FMB continued to play a role in Senate discussion, as senators disagreed with the wording of an amendment regarding FMB approvals. Currently, FMB approves requests of $5,000 or five percent of the requesting organization's budget. and student groups only have to wait for FMB approval if their requests surpass that amount. 
SUB manager Pat Vassel said increasing that level to 10 percent would enable his group to book events more quickly, without having to go through FMB. The senators agreed to raise the limit to 10 percent. 
"SUB has a history of being 11seally responsible with who they decide to bring in," Breen-Phillips senator Maris Braun said. "If we decide to give them ten percent, I don't think the Student Union is going to go erazy. I think that SUB's purpose is to enhance daily lil'e." 
The Senate voted 22-1-1 to pass the amendment with the · change. 
The resolution that did not pass was generated by the confusion surrounding the recent student body elec­tions. No ticket received 50 percent plus one of the vote in the primary election. Neither the Liz Brown-Maris Braun nor the Danny Smith­Ashley Weiss tickets secured 50 percent plus one votes in the run-off election either, so in a elosed meeting Feb. 18, senators voted 15-13­according to the pluralities in their respective residence halls -to elect Brown and Braun. 
~ince this process created controversy in the Senate, the Oversight committee introduced an amendment that would change the elec­tion system so a plurality would win in the run-off election. In the event of a tie -which would be very unlikely -the votes would be broken down by dorm, and whatever tieket had the majority of dorms would win. 
Senators disagreed about the wording of a new amend­ment and questioned the purpose of an abstain vote in the run-off election. 
The amendment failed to win the three-fourths vote called for by the constitution regarding election bylaws during election season. Hollon said he would bring up the amendment again after election season. when it 
would  only  require  two­ 
thirds  approval  in  the  
Senate.  

Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Its a whole new place! 
New local ownership & management -Newly remodeled for 2007 -2008 
lafayette Square Townhomes 
424 N. Frances Street 
• 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes ­

• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 


• 
Off-Street Parking 

• 
Washer and Dryer 

• 
Dishwasher 



• 
Central Air 


• 
Security System 




Renting fast -call today for 2007 -2008 

Contact Kramer at (574) 315-5032 or (574J 234-2436 
---------~------~~~----------------------------------------------, 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 1, 2007 · CoMPILED FROM TH r: ()BSFRVER'S WI Rf: SFRVlcrs page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran and Syria tojoin US, U.K. in meeting 
BAGHDAD -Iraq's neighbors including Iran and Syria have agreed to join U.S. and British representatives to discuss the Iraqi security cri­sis at a regional conference March 10 in Baghdad. the government said Wednesday. 
Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said he will be issuing formal invitations shortly to the neighboring countries and the five permanent 
U.N. Security Council members-the U.S., Britain, France, Russia and China -to send deputy foreign ministers or senior officials to the conference. 
Zebari, in a telephone interview with The Associated Press from Sweden, said the Iranians agreed to participate in a meeting with the other neighbors b)Jt "they have some ques­tions" about a separate session that would be held the same day with the five permanent council members. 
Prescription drug abuse skyrocketing 
VIENNA -Abuse of prescription drugs is about to exceed the use of illicit street narcotics worldwide, and the shift has spawned a lethal new trade in counterfeit painkillers, sedatives and other medicines potent enough to kill, a global watchdog warned Wednesday. 
Prescription drug abuse already has out­stripped traditional illegal drugs such as heroin, cocaine and Ecstasy in parts of Europe, Africa and South Asia, the U.N.-affiliated International Narcotics Control Board said in its annual report for 2006. 
Di.c;count medications that seem to be authentic often turn out to be powerful knockoffs concoct­ed from recipes posted on the Web, he added. 
Up to 50 percent of all drugs taken in develop­ing countries are believed to be counterfeit, the board said, citing estimates from the World Health Organization. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Dems seek immigration assurance 
WASHINGTON -Democrats sought assur­ances Wednesday that President Bush will deliver Republican votes for putting illegal immigrants on a path to citizenship and creat­ing a guest worker program. 
The Senate, with Bush's backing, passed a bill last year that did both, but it wilted into campaign fodder for November's midterm elections after House Republicans staged hearings around the country opposing it. 
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez told the committee that Bush is committed to seeing a sweeping immigration bill become law, though they were careful not to wade too much into details. 

Old Man pleads guilty in Mob case 
FORT lAUDERDALE-A 96-year-old mobster accused of overseeing robberies, money laun­dering and bank fraud for the Genovese crime family pleaded guilty to racketeering conspiracy Wednesday, but because of his age, he likely won't be sent to prison. 
Albert "The Old Man" Facchiano, whose arrest record dates back 75 years, used a cane in court and needed a special headset to hear the ques­tions from U.S. District Judge James Cohn. His attorney said he sees a doctor four times a week for back pain, arthritis and other ailments. 
Facchiano pleaded guilty to a Florida charge of racketeering conspiracy and a New York charge of conspiracy to tamper with a witness. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Gas station pumps out water 
HOBART -Jeffrey Crane got something unexpected when he stopped to gas up his pick­up truck-a tank full of water. 
Crane, who filled up at a Marathon Station in Hobart on Saturday, had his pickup towed to a repair shop when it failed to start Monday. He was surprised to discover what the problem was. 
"I have a tank full of water," Crane said. 
Ahmad Mochtar, owner of the Marathon sta­tion, said a cracked seal on a mechanical probe allowed ground water to seep into the northwest Indiana station's gasoline supply late Saturday. 
Lawyers: Padilla unable to cooperate 
Assistant U.S. Attorney says defendant using Al-Qaida training to appear incompetent 
Associated Press 

MIAMI -A federal judge who must decide whether alleged al-Qaida operative Jose Padilla is mentally fit for trial said Wednesday that the for­mer Chicago gang mem­ber hasn't behaved strangely but may not be cooperating with his attorneys. 
"I think everyone would agree that Mr. Padilla is almost polite to a fault," 
U.S. District Judge Marcia Cooke said on the fourth and final day of compe­tency hearings. 
Cooke said that one psy­chologist had found Padilla "gracious," and she said he had not demonstrated any odd behavior or outbursts in the courtroom or while in custody. 
But she also questioned prosecutors about defense lawyers' claims that the 36-year-old U.S. citizen had refused to dis­cuss many aspects of his case. Defense attorneys say Padilla suffers from post-traumatic stress dis­order stemming from iso­lation and interrogation during 3 1/2 years as an enemy combatant at a Navy brig. 
"By refusing to discuss vast sections of his case -is that not in and of itself an inability to assist counsel?" Cooke asked. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney John Shipley insisted there is ample evidence that Padilla has been assisting in his own defense and suggested that "al-Qaida training" was behind his choice not to cooperate on certain issues. Prosecutors con­tend that Padilla, a Muslim convert, attended an al-Qaida camp in Afghanistan that included indoctrination on resist­ance if captured. 
"That is a decision made by this defendant. That doesn't mean he's incompetent," Shipley said. "The issue is whether the defendant has the capacity to assist." 

Anthony Natale, one of Padilla's four court­appointed lawyers, urged Cooke to find Padilla legally incompetent to stand trial and send him to a mental health facility for at least three months. "It is better for this court to afford him an opportu­nity to get competent, to go to a facility where he can get treated," Natale said. 
Cooke did not immedi­ately rule. Padilla's trial is set to begin April 16. 
A psychiatrist and a psychologist hired by the defense concluded that Padilla suffers from post­traumatic stress disorder that impairs his ability to assist l-awyers. A court­appointed psychologist who works for the U.S. Bureau of Prisons reject­ed that diagnosis and determined that Padilla is competent, even if he has some anxiety and anti­social personality prob­lems. 
Prosecutors persuaded Cooke to sharply limit tes­timony by officials from the brig in Charleston, S.C., about Padilla's treat­ment there, arguing that her decision should focus on Padilla's current abili­ty to understand legal proceedings and assist his defense team. 
Padilla claims he was tortured and mistreated at the brig, a claim vehe­mently denied by U.S. officials. 
If Cooke finds Padilla incompetsnt, she has sev­eral options, according to legal experts. Among them would be sending him to a mental institu­tion for treatment -pos­sibly at a secure military base-or have him treat­ed at the downtown Miami prison where he is held in a special unit. 
Padilla is charged with co-defendants Adham Amin Hassoun and Kifah Wael Jayyousi with being part of a North American terror support cell that provided money, recruits and supplies to Islamic extremist groups. They face life in prison if con­victed. 
WEST BANK 


Israel steps up search for militants 
Associated Press 

NABLUS -Israel on Wednesday clamped down on this West Bank city for the second time in a week, confining tens of thousands of people to their homes as troops moved house to house in search of wanted militants. 
In nearby Jenin, undercover troops in a black car shot and killed three mili­tants in a parking lot, including the chief spokesman for the Islamic Jihad group, Palestinian officials said. 
The army has been operating in Nablus, the West Bank's commercial center, since the weekend. Forces briefly withdrew Tuesday, but at dawn, dozens of jeeps backed by bulldozers moved back in. 
In Jenin, Israeli undercover troops in a black car fired at a vehicle carrying three Islamic Jihad gunmen, witnesses said. The army confirmed its troops killed the men, saying they had helped to plan an attempted suicide bombing in Tel Aviv that was thwarted last week. 
Two of the militants were killed instantly, and the third, Ashraf Saadi, was shot and killed after he scrambled out of the ear and tried to escape, wit­nesses said. Saadi was the spokesman for Islamic Jihad, a militant group backed by Iran and Syria, and respon­sible for dozens of suicide bombings and rocket attacks against Israel. 
The army said the troops tried to arrest Saadi but he opened fire on them. Troops returned fire, killing two militants and injuring Saadi. After Saadi fled, continuing to fire, the troops shot him dead, the army said. One sol­dier was slightly wounded by gunfire. 
In the Gaza Strip, Islamic Jihad spokesman Abu Ahmad vowed retalia­tion. Hamas also swore revenge. 

page6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 1, 2007 
attempts to approach the issue of campus sustainability," the
Grade 

report card said. continued from page 1 However, the report card did 
report that there is a research plus and University of Southern center for alternative energies California, which received a D. on campus. 
The Report Card "grades 100 Darcia Narvaez, an associate colleges by looking at college professor of psychology who is greening practices and endow­involved with environmental ment policies,"according to the issues on campus, believes the 
organization's  University  is  
Web site. The  working on sus­ 
grading is on an A to F scale and takes into  "In an emergency response we take the measures that we think  tainability, but does not publi­cize it enough. "We're doing  
account 26 indicators, ranging from green build­ are necessary to protect the public safety."  more than most campuses, but we just don't teII anybody,"  
ing initiatives  Narvaez said.  
to  endow­ Phil Johnson  Some  on  
ment invest­ment policies. These 100  associate director NDSP  campus are not surprised by Notre Dame's  

colleges rep­resent the largest endowments of colleges across the country. 
The highest grade attained in the report card was an A­minus, whieh Harvard University, Stanford University, Dartmouth College and Williams College all received. 
Notre Dame received a fail­ing grade in the categories of Administration, Climate Change, Gr-een Building and Endowment Transparency. Its highest grade of a "C" was received in Investment Priorities. Notre Dame also received a "D" in the categories of Shareholder Engagement and Food & Recycling, with its recycling program being cited as a "good effort." 
"As far as can be deter­mined, the University of Notre Dame has not made any public 

low grade and believe more can be done. 
Narvaez is also a former Executive Fellow in the Dean of Arts and Letters' oflice. 
"l antieipated it because I think Notre Dame has been dragging its feet on these issues," said Andy Weigert, a sociology professor and Fellow at the Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Weigert also believes "more could be done academically in terms of teaching." He would like to see an environmental studies major or minor within the College of Arts and Letters. 
However, Weigert said many initiatives are underway to make the campus more sus­tainable and nco-friendly. 
Last year, Narvaez created an Arts and Letters Environmental Task Force . 
The task force released a call­to-action entitled "Our Environment in Crisis," a docu­ment that discussed the University's ~~nvironmental responsibilities. 
"We need to respond to the environmental crisis, espPcially as a Catholic university," Narvap,z said. 
Anothf1r group formed to lind solutions to thf1 University's environmental issuP.s-the Energy and Environmental Issues Committee. According to its Web site, it was created to "broaden energy and environ­mental awareness, report on Notre Dame green initiatives and advise University leader­ship on em-friendly opportuni­ties." 
In addition to these initia­tives, Narvaez would like to see everyone on campus, from staff to faculty to students, get into a more environmental mindsnt. 
''I'd like evPrybody on cam­pus to have a sustainability mindset in everything they're doing," she said. "They should think about what's good fi>r the environment, human health, society, the globe." 
Weigert, who has taught at Notre Dame since the late 1960's, said it's important that students are mobilized on the issue. 
"If the students got on board, they could have great influence on this issue ... I've seen stu­dents influence become very strong," he said. "You nnP.d a salient issue. Maybe if students could get mobilized, that would move the administration." 
Contact Eva Binda at jbindal@nd.edu 
Hall's signature events." In addition to organizing

Race 

and sponsoring the run, Welsh Family llall remembers
continued from page 1 

its former resident Clary by awarding The Brionne Clary prayer service, Carson said. Memorial Award for sports­"Family members of manship. The Award goes to Brionne and Connor are usu­the "Welsh Fam senior athlete ally in attendance at the who best exemplifies the prayer serv-qualities of ice," Carson sportsmanship, said. "After the passing of dedication and The first run courage, which
these students, all

took place in Brionne held so
three oftheir halls 

2001, when dear," Carson members of wanted to do said. the residence Welsh Family
something to sustain

halls of all presidents, vice
their memories and

throe students presidents, com­wanted to do honor them. " missioners and something to residents have kenp t.he all contributed to
Candace Carson 

memory of planning the 

Welsh Family rector

lhnir elass­event and have 
matns alive and positively contribute to tho Notre DamP community. 
Brionne Clary was a resi­dent of Welsh Family Hall, Miranda Thomas lived in Walsh Hall and Connor Murphy resided in Zahm llall, Carson said. 
"Arter the passing of these students, all three of their halls wanted to do something to sustain their memories and honor them," Carson said. "Welsh Fam initiated the Clary, Murphy, Thomas Hun, and it has become one of our 

volunteered to help on the day of the race. 
"This year Lauren Murray, Lauren Shuttleworth, Amy Saxer, Catherine Reynolds, Georgia Steenberge and Drew Clary have all been instru­mental in organizing the event," Carson said. 
Runners can pre-register for the race today and tomor­row from 5 p.m. to 7 in LaFortune or South Dining Hall. 
Contact Meghan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 



Venue 
continued from page 1 
it were on campus," she said. 
Though not at the 120-person maximum occupi;tncy, the room was filled with a number of· Notre Dame students. But also seated in some of the six pews and seven rows of chairs were members of the greater South Bend community, 

obtain sponsorship and approval just like any other campus event. 
"Father Jenkins liked it last year," Muscarella said. "I talked to him about it." 
Last year, however, Jenkins did question the "graphic" ways the play attempted to achieve its goals. 
Still, after being performed on campus for six consecutive years as part of the anti-vio­l e n c e against women V-
who were in Day cam­
"/feel like it has a
attendance paign, the 
thanks largely to bigger purpose because off-campus 
the off-campus we're allowed to raise setting was v e n u e a change­
money.
Muscarella said. but one that She also said organizers that group of Sarah Muscarella said actual­
local adults came to watch the show from Dismas House, a local nonprofit organization that provides transitional housing and sup­port services to men and women who have been recently released from prison or jail. 
This year's performance had no affiliation with the University and was held off campus because organizers were unable to obtain sponsor­ship from different academic departments on campus. 
Though last year's "Monologues" took place in an academic setting -performed in a classroom in DeBartolo Hall -a whirlwind of debate followed the play when the con­sistency of the message with the University's Catholic char­acter was questioned. Following weeks of debate about academic freedom, University Father John Jenkins decided that the "The Vagina Monologues" would be allowed on campus but needed to 

director ly turned out well. T h e g r o u p raised $235 Wednesday, and nearly all of the funds from the three per­formance nights will go to the YWCA of St. Joseph County, which has the only overnight shelter in the county, Lewis said. "I feel like it has a bigger purpose because we're allowed to raise money," Muscarella said. Written by American play­wright and feminist activist Eve Ensler, part of' the play's intnnt is to donate money to loeal women's charities. "The Vagina Monologues," which began in 1996 as an ofr­Broadway production, is an episodic, theatrical perform;; ance featuring a cast of women sharing experiences and views on the female reproductive organ. The monologues were written after Ensler conducted more than 200 interviews with all different kinds of women. 
Of those monologuPs, Muscarella said that "My Little Coochie Snorcher that Could" -which features a 16-year old girl's lesbian encounter -is among thP more controversial skits. 
"But I think often Ipeople! overlook some of the more meaningful ones," she said. 
Though the play remains rel­atively the same each year, author Ensler usually writes an additional skit to be performed, like this year's "I Was There in the Room." A monologue about Native American women ­called "Crooked Braid" -was an optional selection this year, Muscarella said. 
Also included were "harmless references" to Notre Dame, she said. 
"It felt great seeing different reactions to difl(~rent parts that I wasn't expecting," said senior Ashley Mitchell, who performed the monologue "The Woman Who Loved to Make Vaginas Happy," which she called "exhilarating." 
Mitchell said the play's mes­sage is about "awareness and letting people know that tlwy'm not alone." 
She also said the goal serves to provoke diseussioi1 -some­thing that happens morn when the play is held on campus. 
Still, Lewis said she is pleased with the ofl'-campus venue. 
"I think it's kind of amazing that thn first three rows are pews," she said. 
Senior llamsa Subramaniam, who has seen the show be(i)f'e, said she was "really impressed. 
"All the women in the show are just so strong," she said. "It's a shame that it eouldn 't be on campus." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
Limited time offers for students: $5 off a Delux Pedicure & $5 off a Full Set of Nails 


Haurs: Monday--Saturday 1Ol.lrn-8prn Sundtty 12f:'rn-5prn 
1813 South Bet\d .:Avenue Soutk Bend, 3N 46637 (574) 271-4990 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, March 1, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

12,268.63 +52.39
jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,070 115 2,070 3,912,110,340 

NASDAQNVS£• 
s&PSOO 1,406.82 +7.78 NIKQlfJ~J; . ; .. ·l~iil~·illllll~j]:fil:l!ll~ FTSE IOO(London) 6, 171.50 -114.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.32  +0.14  43.33  
!SHARE RUS 2000 (IWM)  +1.00  +0.78  78.83  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.85  -0.17  19.86  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  + 1.03. + 1.43  140.93  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.82  +0.037  4.550  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.1 0 +0.005  4.995  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.84 +0.039  4.669  
S-YEARNOTE  +0.63 +0.028  4.503  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.25  61.75  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  -14.70  672.50  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.13  102.03  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  118.7350  
EURO  0.7559  
POUND  0.5093  
CANADIAN$  1.1703  

IN BRIEF 
RIAA to amplify piracy· crusade 
LOS ANGELES -The recording industry said Wednesday it was amplifying its legal offensive against online piracy on college cam­puses by sending hundreds of letters warning students they will be sued if they don't accept settlement offers. 
The Recording Industry Association of America said it intended to sue more students and others on campuses in the next three months than it has in the past three years. 
The trade group said it would send 400 let­ters a month to computer users suspected of copyright infringement. 
The letters targeted students at Arizona State University; Marshall University; North Carolina State University; North Dakota State University; Northern Illinois University; Ohio University; Syracuse University; University of Massachusetts, Amherst; University of Nebraska, Lincoln; University of South Florida; University of Southern California; University of Tennessee, Knoxville; and University of Texas, Austin. 
Airbus, Boeing Co. compete for lead 
PARIS -Airbus, steadily losing its market lead to Boeing Co., unveiled drastic plans Wednesday to follow in its U.S. rival's footsteps by cutting thousands of jobs, selling off manu­facturing sites and outsourcing more work to external suppliers. 
Strikes and protests greeted the European planemaker's long-awaited announcement that it intends to shed 10,000 staiT and sell, close or spin off six plants, as it struggles to survive the crippling fallout from a two-year delay to its A380 superjumbo and the weaker U.S. dollar. 
Airbus will sell off or shut down its French Saint-Nazaire-Ville plant and two German sites -Varel and Laupheim -as the company increasingly outsources "non-core" parts, Gallois said. Together, the three facilities cur­rently employ over 3,000 workers. 
Gallois is also seeking partners to back a belated push into carbon-fiber composite tech­nologies by investing in three other Airbus sites that produce fuselage and wing parts: Meaulte in northern France, Nordenham in Germany and Pilton in Britain. 
Bemanke handles first market crisis 
New Federal Reserve chairman carefully monitoring situation on Wall Street 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Ben Bernanke isn't a rookie anymore. He's got a year under his belt as chairman of the Federal Heserve and he's now endured his first market crisis. 
Bernanke trooped to a crowded hearing room on Capitol Hill on Wednesday, the day after the market suffered its worst sell-ofT since the 2001 terrorist attacks, to deliver a simple message. 
He said Fed otlicials were carefully monitoring the sit­uation but so far had not seen anything worrisome in how the market had dealt with Tuesday's sudden decline. 
His performance won praise from the lawmakers, 
·economists and, most importantly, Wall Street investors, who triggered a small rebound in stocks on Wednesday. And unlike his predeces­sor Alan Greenspan, who would occasionally resort to his famously opaque speak­ing style to dodge questions he did not want to answer, Bernanke answered every question in a straightfor­ward way that did not leave his listeners guessing. House Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt, D­S.C., said in an interview after the hearing that stock sell-off had not told the House Budget a slow, deliberate voice with Bernanke had given a cred­exposed any problems at Committee that there prob­his hands folded in front of ible performance by being major banks or brokerage ably wasn'fjust one cause him at the witness table. careful to keep his com­houses and the Fed did not for Tuesday's sell-off. Bernanke let the lawmak­ments "in the bounds of expect the sudden loss of The possible causes put ers know he wouldn't be led what he knows." $632 billion in paper forward by analysts have into publicly contemplating Said Mark Zandi, chief wealth to alter the econo­ranged from a record drop what role Greenspan's economist at Moody's my's performance in a in China's Shanghai index, remarks or any Of the other Economy.com: "He did an major way. a surprisingly weak manu­developments had played in excellent job. He exuded On Wall Street, investors facturing report in the setting off the worst one­confidence." responded by pushing the United States and weekend day point drop since Sept. Zandi praised Bernanke Dow Jones industrial aver­comments by Greenspan 17, 2001, after the terrorist for clearly delivering the age up by 52.39 points to that had raised the possibil­attacks. key messages that the mar­close at 12,268.63, a small ity of a U.S. recession by "I don't think it would be kets were functioning well ga~n but better than year's end. useful for me to try to parse and the Fed's views on the Tuesday's 416-point loss. "There didn't seem to be the movement into the com­economy had not changed. Bernanke succeeded any single trigger of the ponents associated with dif­That was important infor­Greenspan, who had been market correction we saw ferent pieces of news or mation because it let Fed chairman for 18 1/2 yesterday," Bernanke told pieces of information," he investors know the big years, on Feb. 1, 2006. He the lawmakers, speaking in said. 

WellPoint Inc. appoints new CEO 
Associated Press partner with the nonprofit Blue plans that insurers must continue to add ways 
such as joining back office operations as for consumers to learn about the cost 
NEW YORK -Mergers and consumer a way to save money. and quality of the hospitals and doctors 
directed plans will be among the key WellPoint's acquisition interests tran­involved in their care so they can make 
drivers of WellPoint Inc.'s future growth, scend not only just health plans but also good choices. 
said Angela F. Braly, the newly appointed include other related company such as Braly, a 45-year-old mother of three, 
president and CEO of the nation's largest those that sell dental, vision or life insur­will assume the top spot in June when 
health insurer on Wednesday. ance, Braly said. Larry Glasscock retires. He will remain 
"We get talent and scale from merg­Two years ago, WellPoint purchased Wellpoint's chairman. 
ers," said Braly in an interview with The Lumenos, a company that specializes Some Wall Street analysts were sur­
Associated Press, two days after she was consumer-directed plans, products that prised at Braly's appointment, with a few 
named to the job. combine high deductibles with a pool of expressing concern that other executives 
Mergers constitute WellPoint's roots. money to help consumers pay for health that weren't tapped for the post might 
The company was formed in 2004 after expenses. Some experts believe that if leave -most notably WellPoint CFO 
Indianapolis-based Anthem Inc. consumers ·have more of their own David C. Colby. Braly, who is currently 
acquired Thousand Oaks, Calif.-based money at risk, they'll make better health WellPoint's executive vice president, gen­
WellPoint Health Networks Inc. care choices that will ultimately bring eral counsel and chief public affairs offi­
Braly said WellPoint would prefer to down costs. cer, said she expects the speculation 
purchase Blue Cross plans -it is a Blue Braly said that creating affordable about Colby's future to blow over soon. 
Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee health care plans is a challenge for all "l-Ie's been very supportive ...We are a 
in 14 states-but since there aren't any insurers and that consumer directed team," said Braly, who was in New York 
for-profit options available it would plans are one way to create value. to meet Wall Street analysts. "We are 
examine various opportunities. She also "I think we have to maintain a focus on focused on competing effectively in the 
noted WellPoint would explore ways to the consumer," Braly said. But she added market." 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March I, 2007 
God 
continued from page 1 
Cathleen Kaveny, law professor and panel moderator. 
The presentation began with the showing ·of a Sex and the City episode entitled "The Domino Effect," tlwn went to a panel of four faculty members and two students. The title "Sex and the City of God" is "an amalgam of sex and St. Augustine's famous work The City of God," Kaveny said. 
"The Domino Effect," described by Kaveny as featur­ing "characters [dealing] with complex issues-of love, sexuali­ty, commitment and mother­hood," served as a sounding board in comparing contempo­rary issues with faith-based concerns. 
"We don't expect this event to answer all questions, but we hope it will start a discussion and if we do that we'll be very successful," Kaveny said before the episode began. 
Panelists included Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman, Director of the Gender Studies Program Eileen Hunt Botting, Theology Department chair John Cavadini, Law School professor Margaret Brinig, "Loyal Daughters" author Emily Weisbecker and Jennie Bradley, a 2004 Notre Dame graduate currently attending Harvard Law School. 
Each panelist took 10 min­utes to address a specific ques­tion dealing with a certain aspect of Sex and the City with­in the context of a Catholic faith. 
Poorman was asked what he would say to the show's charac­ters if he were stuck in a cab with them on the way to the airport. Assuming they asked for his advice, Poorman said he would tell them he "detect[ed I a profound sadness in all of you." 
"The constant frustration of seeming to have it all and not having what you really want is enough to depress even the most buoyant spirit.... It's time to discover a deeper meaning in [their] lives than living in a rent-controlled apartment, finding the best sushi, and get­ting a fifteen percent discount on gallery art," he said. 
Poorman said the show's characters could alleviate the sadness brought on by relation­ship instabilities and "the pathetic objects of attraction that [they're] associated with" by becoming engaged in activi­ties that go beyond themselves. 
"[The characters need tol reconnect with the God who gave [them] such privileged lives in the first place and spend !their] talents on people who hunger for the bnnefits of ltheirl gifts," he said. 
Botting discussed issues of feminism within the show, addressing whether or not Carrie and her frirmds were actually feminists or just overly affectionatn about shoes. 
"I do think that it is possible to appreciate the beauty of a pair of shoes or a beautiful piece of clothing and nspousn feminist idnals," Botting said. 
Though she would not classi­fy any of thn characters as fit­ting a particular school of thought or "a particular brand of feminism," Botting said the show is able to "snt forth a variety of viewpoints on differ­ent subjeets and forces us to ask tough questions." 
Some of the tough questions, Brinig said, were what conse­quences real womPn would face if they lived like tlw show's characters. 
"When you do things they have eonsequPnces and these women are headed for a num­ber of them," she said. 
Though "tlH~se wonwn seem empowered w.omnn because they have jobs ... bncause they're boautiful and because they're free," they "aren't free to be vulnerable about very much," Brinig said. "They're not free to put sex together with affection." 
Cavadini also said he was concerned by how the show portrayed the role of sex in relationships. 
"It is only when thny ean't have sex that Carrie and Big !Carrie's love interest! have a real discussion," he said. "Only when they feel vulnerable in the face of sickness and death Idol they consider marriage as a likely possibility in the here and now." 
Weisbecker brought a Notre Dame student perspective to the discussion. 
"Students recognizn that tho show represents a romanti­cized version of life in the city," she said. "It's pretty obvious to everyone that these characters and lifestyles are not realistic." 
Although Weisbecker said Notre Dame students realize that lives of promiscuous sex and exorbitant spending are unrealistic, she said Notre Dame has fallen victim in some ways to a "hookup culture." 
"Even though we crave inti­macy and eloseness with peo­ple, we don't necessarily have the time to cultivate it," she said. "Hookup culture is the easy way out." 
Bradley shared her experi­ences on life beyond Notre Dame -out from under the influence of what Weisbecker called "the whole Catholic sex­ual teaching thing" -and how students can remain tru·e to values in environments that do not cater to them. 
Many of her friends who 


engaged in promiscuous snx she said. "strangely fascinating, or had fnelings of regret that they Bradley said her Catholic maybe fascinatingly strange," felt uncomfortable admitting to, identity hasn't caused problems she said. Bradley said, since they worn for her in urban environments, inconsistent with Sex and the and has actually been consid­City's message that says "yns, ernd refreshing. Contact Sonia Rao at women can have sex liko nwn," I think pnople find me srao 1 @nd.edu 



e r 0 



Benefit for the TommyZ9 Foundation, Hannah and Friends, Make-A-Wish 

7:30P.M. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
Doors open at 6:30 

-----~~ 
Thursday, March 1, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 ~ 
============================================================================= 
Kids gain weight at home 
Study shows parents, not school lunches, responsible for poor diets 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The nation's schools -under fire for unhealthy school lunches, well­stocked vending machines and phys ed cuts -may actually do a better job than parents in keeping children fit and trim. 
A study found that 5-and 6­year-olds gained more weight over the summer than dl}ring the school year, casting doubt on the assumption that kids are more active during summer vacai.ion. 
The findings don't reveal what's behind the out-of-school weight gain, but the researchers specu­late it's because the summer months lack the structure of the school year with all its activities and daily comings and goings. 
Doug Downey, an Ohio State University sociologist who co­authored the study, said that for many youngsters, the lazy days of summer may offer plenty of free time to eat snacks and lounge about watching TV or playing video games. 
He said the study seems to point to the need for parents to be more involved, as well as raising the idea of a longer school year and more after-school programs to keep children active. 
And schools should continue their efforts to promote good health, he said. 
"Trying to improve the quality of school lunches, getting the soda machines out of schools -those are still good approaches. But clearly the source of children's obesity problems lie outside of the school," Downey said. 
For the study, Indiana University and Ohio State researchers studied the growth rates of the body-mass indexes of 5,380 kindergartners and first­graders. The data came from a National Center for Education Statistics survey that ran from fall 1998 to spring 2000 in 310 schools ac:ross the country. 
The university sociologists dis­covered that the youngsters' BMis increased on average more than twice as much during summer break compared with the school year. That increase was even greater among black and Hispanic students and kids who were overweight at the start of kindergarten. 
Once kids were back in school, however, the monthly growth rate of their BMis fell, and the growth rate gap between the overall pop­ulation and the minority and overweight groups shrank, the researchers found. 
The study will appear in the April issue of the American Journal of Public Health. 
Betsy A. Keller, a professor of exercise and sport sciences at Ithaca College in New York, said the pattern seen in the study's snapshot of the kids' kindergarten year, summer break, and first grade is "irregular" ahd does not mesh with kids' normal growth in height and weight. 
Keller said it clearly points to a summer gain in fat mass, although she said data from later school years is needed to see if that trend continues. 
Law & .... 
Please join the Law School for its 2006-2007 series of interdisciplinary discussions. All programs begin at 4:00 p.m. and will be held in Law School room 120. 
Thursday, September 28, 2006 
Human Rights and Human Atrocities in Uganda 
Presenter: Todd David Whitmore Depatiment of Theology Respondent Doug Cassel Center for Civil and Human Rights, The Law School 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 
The Biophysics ofLife and Public Policy Disputes: Interfacing with the Scientific Community on Bioethical Issues 
Presenter: Phillip Sloan Program of Liberal Studies Respondent: Carter Snead The Law School 
Thursday, February 8, 2007 
The Other Alien Debate: Biology and Policy ofInvasive Species 
Presenter: David Lodge Department of Biological Sciences Respondent: Alejandro Camacho The Law School 
Thursday, March 1, 2007 
Identifying Tax Effects on Charitable Giving 
Presenter: Daniel Hungerman Department of Economics and Econometrics Respondent: Lloyd Mayer The Law School 
Stor111 causes NASA to postpone launch 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ­NASA on Tuesday postponed next month's launch of space shuttle Atlantis after a hail­storm left hundreds of small dings on the spacecraft's external fuel tank. 
The launch, which had been set for March 15, was pushed back to at least late April to give NASA time to make repairs 
NASA technicians planned to move the shuttle back to a giant hangar as early as this weekend to examine the damage and decide whether repairs can be made at the Kennedy Space Center or whether the tank needs to be returned to its manufacturer in New Orleans. 
"At this point, we don't see anything that looks irrepara­ble, but we really want to get it back to where we can look at it up close," said John 
Chapman, external tank manager. 
The storm Monday lobbed golf ball-size hail at the launch pad, making a ring of hundreds, if not thousands, of dings on the upper reach­es of the 153-foot-tall exter­nal tank. It crushed some foam along wedge-shaped brackets, an area where foam has been known to shed in the past. 
The hail also caused cos­metic damage to more than two dozen tiles along the shuttle's left wing. 
"This constitutes, in our evaluation, the worst dam­age we have ever seen from hail on the external tank foam," said Wayne Hale, manager of the space shuttle pro~ram. "We have had hail a number of times in the past. Hail is not unusual in Florida." 
The launc-h of Atlantis would have to be after a Russian Soyuz vehicle com­pletes a mission to the inter­national space station in the first part of April, putting the next opportunity likely between late April and late May, officials said. 
NASA managers had hoped to fly five shuttle missions in 2007, the most ambitious schedule in five years, and Atlantis' flight was set to be the first of the year. The next shuttle flight after that was set for June. 
Hale said he was confident the goal of five flights could still be met. He said, "There might be some small effect on a couple of later flights, but by the time we roll around to the end of the year, I expect we would be fully able to catch back up." 
During their 11 days in space, Atlantis' astronauts were scheduled to deliver a 35,000-pound addition to the international space station, the heaviest ever, along with a new pair of solar arrays. Crew members were tasked with unfurling the solar arrays, folding up an old pair and conducting afleast three spacewalks. 
The thunderstorms moved quickly and had winds of more than 60 mph. The hail was between a half-inch and 2 inches in diameter and hit only at the NASA space cen­ter. The National Weather Service considers three­quarters-inch hail to be severe, said David Sharp, a meteorologist with the weather service. 
"Most people didn't see thunderstorms, let alone severe thunderstorms," Sharp said. "It only occurred in one location, and that was NASA's Kennedy Space Center complex." 
In 1999, hail from a storm made 650 dings in space shuttle Discovery's external tank, fon~ing NASA to delay a launch and return the spacecraft to the Vehicle Assembly Building. In 1995, space shuttle Discovery was sent back t.o the Vehicle Assembly Building because of fuel-tank damage caused by a pair of woodpeckers that drilled about 200 holes in the rust-colored foam insulation. apparently in an attempt to roost and build nests. 

page 10 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, March I, 2007 
More time offered on driver's licenses 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration will give some states more time to bring their driver's licenses up to the stan­dards required by a new feder­al law. 
Responding to a revolt by gov­ernors, state legislators and members of Congress against the new requirements, the. Homeland Security Department is planning to issue rules Thurs.day that will extend the May 2008 deadline set by Congress two years ago. 
"There is a provision in the law to permit extensions, which we will of course grant to states that need more time," Secretary Michael Chertoff told reporters Wednesday. 
The law, passed in response to the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, requires all states to bring their driver's licenses under a national standard and to link their record-keeping sys­tems. 
"There's vividly in my mind a picture of the Florida driver's license Mohammed Atta carried that he used to get on an air­plane to drive it into the World Trade Center," Chertoff said. "Shame on us if we don't do something to get a handle on what is the principal form of identification used in this coun­try." 
The administration is issuing the rules at the same time the Senate is considering ordering a two-year extension of the dri­ver's license deadline as part of its debate over homeland secu­rity legislation. 
In January the Maine legisla­ture overwhelmingly passed a resolution objecting to the law, and about a dozen other states have also balked at complying with it. Several are expected to pass laws or adopt resolutions declining to participate. 
State officials have been com­plaining about the 2005 law since its enactment, saying Congress didn't give them the money to convert their databas­es or enough time to develop driver's licenses that critics complain amount to a federal ID. 
Privacy advocates also have griped that a national database linking all the states' systems could promote identity theft. 
The digital photo, and possi­bly digital fingerprint, encoded on the ID cards could make them more valuable to identity thieves because they would be more widely accepted, they claim. 
"It's going to be a honey pot out there that's going to be irre­sistible to identify thieves," said Barry Steinhardt, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union. 

'N' word outlavved in New York state 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -New York declared then-word off limits to all races Wednesday in a purely sym­bolic resolution prompted by the common, ca<>ual use of the slur in hip-hop music, comedy and street slang. 
"People are using it out of con­text," said Leroy Comrie, a black city councilman who sponsored the unanimously passed measure. "People are also denigrating them­selves by using the word, and dis­respecting their history." 
New York's resolution is not binding and merely calls on resi­dents to stop using the slur. Leaders of the nation's largest city also hope to set an example. 
Hudis Mata, 21, of New York said it was pointless to ban the word if the city had no plans to enforce it, adding that he thinks it's a violation of free speech. 
"I don't necessarily think people should ban the word, but it's a derogatory term and it shouldn't be used," he said. "It's different from other curse words. It has a history." 
Other municipalities have already passed similar measures in a debate that rose to a fever pitch late last year after "Seinfeld" actor Michael Hichards spewed the word repeatedly at a comedy club in Los Angeles. 
At New York's City Hall, support­ers cheered passage of the resolu­tion, with many of them wearing pins featuring a single white "N" with a slash through it. 
Hip-hop pioneer Kurtis Blow Walker said when the resolution was proposed that blacks needed to stop using the word so "we can elevate our minds to a better future." 
Others argue that use of the word by blacks is empowering, that reclaiming a slur and giving it a new meaning takes away its punch. Oscar-winner Jamie Foxx, for example, said he would not stop using the word, crnd did not see anything inappropriate about blacks using it within their own cirdes. 
But in the uproar ovnr Richards' outburst, black leaders including the Rev. Jesse Jackson and California Hep. Maxine Waters said it is impossibln to papnr over the epithet's origins and ugly histo­ry of humiliating blacks. Thny challenged the public 4nd the entertainment industry to stop using the epithet. 
"I forgive those young people who do not know thnir history, and I blame myself and my generation for not preparing you," Councilman Albert Vann said. "But today we are going to know our histury. We· are not going to retiw to ourselves by anything negative, the way the slave~ master referred to black people, using the n-word." 
New York's action resonated far beyond the city. 
In Miramar, Fla., 27 -year-old Alexa Cabrera said she hopes the resolution will at least cause peo­ple to stop and think about their use of the word. 
"It's a derogatory term no mat­ter who uses it. Like if the KKK uses it, it's wrong, but if 50 Cent uses it, it's OK? I don't understand that," said Cabrera, who is black. 
Dallas bank manager Ed Homero, who described himself a<> black and Hispanic, said he would like to see the spirit of the New York resolution spread until the word's use is stamped out. 
SOUTH KOREA 

U.S. Medalist meets vvith father 
Olympic skier Toby Dawson reunites after adoption 2 decades ago 
Associated Press 

SEOUL -Far from the mountain whern he skied to Olympic fame, Toby Dawson found his family. 
More than two decades after he was lost in a South Korean market and eventually adopt­ed in the United States, Dawson was reunitnd with his father Wednesday. 
They embraced, and Dawson said a Korean phrase he had learned for the meet­ing -"I've bec~n waiting a long time, father." 
Hugging his son at a hotel, Kim Jae-su toarnd up. 
"I am glad to moot my son and see that he has grown up so wonderfully," Kim said. "I am thankful that lw has como to look for me ovnn after such a long time." 
The reunion, whieh ineluded a brother, was made possible by the bronze freestyle skiing mndal Dawson won at the Turin Olympics last year. Tho vietory earned him wide attention in the country of his birth. 
Following the Olympics, dozens of would-be parents came forward t.o claim Dawson was their child, including Kim. But after years of dashed hopes, the 28-year­old Dawson put otT an earlier planned trip to Korea and waited for conf'irmation from genetic tests before traveling here this week. 
Dawson was 3 when he was lost in a market by his mother in the southern port city of Busan, Kim said. A truck driv­er at the time, Kim said it was too late when he got home to start searching for his missing child, whose original Korean name was Bong-seok. Over the next few days, he said he scoured local orphanages but was unable to find his son. 
"I wont to many orphanage houses only to hear that they didn't have anyone like him. They wouldn't. let me come inside and look for him," the 53-year-old Kim said, adding he would search orphanages whenever he had time but eventually gave up. 
'Tm not here to beat him up for what happened," Dawson said, adding that he had a for­tunate life growing up with his adoptive parents, who were ski instruc:tors in Vail, Colo. 
At tlw start of a news con­ference, Dawson gave his bio­logical father a Norwegian skiing sweater that he said signified his upbringing in the sport, which Kim immediately put on. 
Dawson said he plans to use a new foundation he is start­ing in his name to help work to avoid eases like his in the future. 
"Being caught in limbo between two different coun­
tries and not looking like your family is going to be tough," he said. "We need to try to keep our children and work a little bit harder to keep these circumstances from happen­ing." 
Dawson noted how he shared his healthy sideburns with his father, who during the news conference reached over several times to touch Dawson's face while they also held hands. 
"My life until now has been confused," Dawson said. "I looked at my parents and I didn't look like them. Then I also felt if I went to Korea I dido't belong there. 
"I felt like I was still lost, stuck between two different worlds," he said. 
Dawson said he hoped to eventually stage a reunion with all his parents. lie also mentioned again his desire to become a professional golfer within five years, after retir­ing in September from profes­sional skiing. 
Kim declined to talk publicly about Dawson's biological mother. 
Also at the reunion was Dawson's younger brother, 24­year-old Kim Hyun-cheol, who was wearing an earring in his left ear similar to those Dawson has in both ears. All three men wrapped their arms around each other before heading to a family lunch. 


Thursday, Mar5=h 1, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
Gov. removes prison official 
Associated Press AUSTIN, Texas -Gov. Rick Perry removed a leader of the Texas Youth Commission on Wednesday, while the lieutenant governor angrily demanded its 
entire board be fired for the cover-up of sexual abuse of inmates. 
In addition to removing the board's chairman, Perry has asked it to replace the acting executive director with a top offi­cial from the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. The Texas Senate, over which Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst presides, was unex­pectedly scheduled to reconvene late Wednesday to address the concerns. 
The moves come a day after an emotional hearing about investi­gations that found high-ranking ollicials at the West Texas State School in Pyote had repeated sex­ual contact with inmates. 
Perry cannot kick a board member oil'the panel, spokesman Ted Royer said. But his decision to remove Pete C. Alfaro as chair­man sends a strong signal of his displeasure with the agency's actions. 
"This agency has not been headed in the right direction, and that needs to change," Royer said. 
Commission spokesman Tim Savoy did not return a telephone call seeking comment. The Associated Press also left a mes­sage at a telephone number belonging to a Pete C. Alfaro in Baytown, where the former chairman used to be mayor. 
Lieutenant governor's spokesman Rich Parsons said he could not immediately comment on Perry's actions. 
Dewhurst said he made the rec­ommendation over breakfast with the governor and House Speaker Tom Craddick. 
"I want the problem solved," he said. "This is not right." 
Commission facilities house offenders ages 10 to 21 who are considered the most dangerous, incorrigible or chronic. The West Texas State School at the heart of the controversy holds 250 male inmates. 
An internal investigation found 

·112 

SERVING NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
Visit us. on the Web at \oW.tw.mar<:cs.com @200'7 Marco's Franchising, llC 5293(1}-107 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, March 6 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their frieni!S. and supporters to an mtormal gathenng at the Co-Mo 
Everyone 1s welcome and wn!identiahty is assur~d •• 
CURE Ct1Urit!l 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 

that many prison staff members had complained about the abuse to their supervisors and to ofli­cials in Austin, but that for more than a year, no one in charge did anything to stop it. 
A Texas Rangers investigation in 2005 found that the prison's assistant supArintendent and the school's principal had repeated sexual contact with inmates. 
The oflieials involved resigned in 2005. The agency's former executive direetor, Dwight Harris, resigned last week. 
Neither of the investigations has produced criminal charges, though Sen. John Whitmire, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Criminal Justice Committee, said a special prose­cutor is on the case. 
The Senate panel is considering legislation that would create an independent investigator and increase youth corrections staff and training. It also would pre­vent the agency from housing inmates as young as 11 with inmates in their I<ite teens and early 20s. 
• 
Chicken Club 

• 
Veggie 

• 
Pizza Melt 



Inuits say pollution devastating hunting 

Pitseolak Alainga, an Inuit hunter, stands with his dog in lqalit, 
Nunavut Territory, Canada. 
Associated Press 
IQALUIT, Nunavut Territory ­Simon Nattaq lost both feet to frostbite when his snowmobile crashed through the ice, made thin by rising Arctic temperatures. 
All his gear plunged into the water too, leaving him stranded for two days. lie now walks ­and still hunts -with prosthetic feet, and believes God kept him alive to warn the world about global warming. 
"Today I am here because the· creator allowed it," says Nattaq, 61, a eity counselor for Iqaluit, a one-time U.S. Air Force base that is today Canada's northernmost city with 7,000 residents. 
Nattaq and other Inuit, the Arctic people of the United States, Canada, Russia, and Greenland ­in Alaska where they're known as Eskimos -have been warning the world for more than a decade about the shifting winds and thin­ning ice. Hunting patterns thou­sands of years old are in jeopardy. 
"Our way of life is at stake," says Sheila Watt-Cloutier, just nominated with former U.S. Vice President AI Gore for a Nobel Peace Prize for their work on cli­mate change. 
Watt-Cloutier will argue before the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights in Washington on Thursday that the United States, as the world's largest emit­ter of heat-trapping greenhouse gases, is violating her people's rights. 
While for many global warming is a distant threat, for the Inuit its impact is a reality now. "It's about real people who live on top of the world," she said this week before leaving for the hearing. 
The commission, part of the Organization of American States, has no authority over the U.S. gov­ernment. But Watt-Cloutier says she's looking for a moral and political victory, to help make cli­mate change a bigger issue in future elections. 
Nattaq is one of 63 Inuit from Canada and Alaska on the OAS petition she is representing, filed on behalf of the world's 155,000 Inuit. 
An anchor sits as a memorial in Iqaluit's stark cemetery. The field of simple white wooden crosses sits next to the frozen Frobisher Bay, a massive inlet of the Labrador Sea on the southeastern corner of Ballin Island about 200 miles south of the Arctic Circle. 
Alainga pointed across the cemetery from the warmth of his pickup truck. He recalled how the lessons his father taught him, handed down through g(mera­tions of Inuit hunters, helped to keep him alive for three nights and four days without food or water. 
"My father used to teach me how to take a layer of snow ofT frozen salt water and eat only the fresh snow," said Alainga, a 40­year-old father of three boys. "We take the first top half of the snow and we make a ball out of it and put it into our mouths and let it melt. He told us not to chew the snow, he told us to swallow it when it was warm." 
The Arctic is the region of the globe hardest hit by rising tem­peratures. In a major report Feb. 2, a U.N.-sponsored network of scientists said some projections show the Arctic's late-summer sea ice will disappear almost entirflly in the second half of this century, unless emissions are dramatically reduced by such developed nations as the United States, which is responsible for one­fourth of world's greenhouse gases. 
The shrinking ice cap already is forcing the polar bear, seal and walrus to migrate farther north in search of solid ice. Inuit hunters report painful scenes of stranded walrus and seal pups left to die on floating ice because their mothers are too heavy to share the rafts. 
Scientists last December discov­ered the 41-square-mile Ayles Ice Shelf had broken free in just a matter of hours from the coast of Ellesmere Island, 500 miles from the North Pole. The ice shelf was one of six major shelves remain­ing in Canada's Arctic, some packed with ancient ice more than 3,000 years old. 
The Canadian weather service said last winter was the warmest on record there since they began keeping records in 1948. 
Watt-Cloutier hopes to put a human face on the statistics. 
"There's no heartbeat to any of these global negotiations," said Watt-Cloutier, 53, past chair of the highly respected Inuit Circumpolar Conference. "We bring that urgency, that immedia­cy, because we tell the story of the Inuk hunter who falls through the depleting ice, how it's connected to the industries, connected to the disposable world." 
Watt-Cloutier, who traveled only by dog sled when she was a child, fears her 9-year-old grandson could be from the last Inuit gener­ation to know how to read the stars, the wind and the clouds, to hunt the food that keeps them healthy, and the furs and skins that help them survive the ele­ments. 
"Within my grandson's lifetime, he will lose what I had," she said. "The wisdom and answers from our hunting culture may leave us, bAcause the iee is melting so fast." 
r---------------------------------·----------------------------~--------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, March 1, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Gloom and doom in America 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, LN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gouumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kare Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR; Joey King 
· SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 

ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolidrs should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

1k Obscrv<.'r (USPS 599 ~-4000) is pul~islu-d Mom:lay rhruugh Friday cxo:p:r durinv; exam and v-.1carion periods. A su~cription tn The Obkrver is $1 UO fm one academic year; $55 fur one semester. 
The Obscrvtr is published .at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall ~nd addrcs~ corrections w: 
Notre Dame, IN 465-56--0779 The Observer 

Periodical posro~ge paid at Nom: D.une w. Bo<779 and addiEional mailing offkc::s. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nom Damt·, JN 46556-a779 
The Observer is a member ofthe ~odar«l. l'tc:55. Ali reprodu~o:tion rights are ..,N«J, 
''I'm a Sales Hep ... whieh means that my job is to speak to dienL<> on the phone about, uh. quantity and type of paper, whether we can supply it for thmn, and whether they ean pay ... ((Jr it ... and I'm boring myself, talking about it." Thus spoke Tim Canterbury, the self-depre1:ating everyman from the British comndy "The Oflice." Tim pnrfeetly summarizes a com­mon attitude toward the modern work­place: it's dull, boring and unfulfilling. And it's not just the paper merchants who feel that way. 
The show was British. but workers on our side of The Pond share this gloomy sentiment (although the show's American counterpart tones down the dark humor). A survey eonducted by The Conferenee Board -the marketing inliJrmation com­pany that puts out the c:onsumer Confidence Index-found that fewer than half of Americans feel satisfied with their jobs. This marks a low in the 20­year history of the survey. Workers under 25 have the lowest job satisfaction rating --something to look forward to after you leave the shadow of the Golden Dome. 
You would think, as easy as we have it, that we would find more satisfaction in our work life. In an age of unsurpassed wealth, we have more freedom than ever to pursue a livelihood of our ehoosing. You would expeet our pride in work to reach new heights, paralleling our linan­cialluxury--but instead, we have efl'ce­tively trapped ourselves. We have a eon­sumer's market that thrives on the pos­session and consumption of property and material goods. Mass media eontrols our eollective fancies, all our desires align and we all want the same things. More "things" must be produeed to meet our demands, and this whole process rnquirns an economic infrastru(:ture to support it. 
Enter our depressing modern eeonomy, an indisputable force of powerful sway 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

James Dechant 
Foregone Conclusion 

and infinite reach. Its army is tlw work­force, soldiers sporting slacks and white shirts and ties. As we dread our irnpnnd­ing future of dark grny business suits and eold white ofliee walls, where only water­cooler small talk bnmks the monotony of boring days, that futurn has already arrived. All the tneh-snctor eomnwrdals you see on tnlevision advertising an nxeit­ing and hip world of innovation and exdtnmnnt merely paint a pretty fw:n on thn un11neouraging nmlity undnnwath. Thosnjobs aren't hip and young and nxeiting; they dull your senses, stilln your creativity and supprnss your originality. 
Our jobs fail to intnrnst us because they laek human interaction, a problem in turn stmnrning from our decadent afllunnee and unchecked consumption of material goods. The cultural zl\itgeist rPilncts this by spawning sueh dark art as "The Oflice" or the also aptly-narmld 1999 movie "Ofliee Space." That film's anti-hero, Peter Gibbons, has an awakening and realizes his job is boring and his life meaningless. 
"I Iuman beings were not meant to sit in little eubides staring at computer screens all day, filling out useless forms and lis­tening to eight difl'lmmt bosses drone on about mission statement.<;," he moans. 
Peter finds true happiness in the tilm only when he stops earing about work and starts enjoying himself by getting a girlfriend, going fishing and sleeping in. 
"OJlice Space" took aim at the tnch sec­tor's zombifl-likc stupor, and sueeeeded beeause that niehe's "hip" advertisements stray so far from reality that they beeome easy targets for moekery. People like Peter Gibbons-and all Amerieans, these days--hate their jobs. We're so sundered from work ereating objects for a mal pur­pose, so far removed from jobs with a real eonneetion to the serviee proeurnd, that we ean't possibly take prid~ in our work. We never see the faces of the people we serve. When the serviee-eonsumption equation laeks human interaction, when all we do is produee goods to b1J con­sumed and placate our materialist dcsims, when we're constantly mduend to eogs in tho corporate machine, we can never expeet satisfaetion from our jobs and we can't help but be depressed. 
I'm not saying factory worknrs, paper merchants or software engineers are eviL People need money and jobs to suppm1 thnir families. The eeonomy is a created structure, and those are the jobs it ofl'ers. To break out of this eycle ofwork-eon­sume-repeat, wn must end our fixation on thn acquisition of material goods. If we do that, the need for so many faePiess jobs dndines, and the economy shif'ts to adapt. .I ust imagine if every faetory job was turned into a humanitarian ell'ort dedicat­nd toward providing mediral aid to the sick or food to the hungry. Fmvnr DVD players, sure, but much happier workers. 
Why should we eare about this here at Notre Dame'? Because factory workers aren't the onns hoarding thosn material goods-they often don't havn the option. That sin lies at the feet of the upper class, the wealthy, the privileged. We hate to admit it, but at Notre Dame, that means us. We are the ones that must use our gift.<> for others' benefit, with the responsi­bility to ehange our ways and curb our material desires. This change can filter from the top economical strata of society all the way down to the lower fringes -­and maybe then we would start seeing more humanitarian work. 
When you walk around campus ..note all the iPods and fancy phones, the designer dothes and keys to deluxe cars. Imagine how the economy would change if we cheeked our luxury desires. Jobs could foeus more on human interaetion instead of produetion of mass goods. People could find more happiness and more interper­sonal connection in their work. It won't be easy-but as David Brent of "The Office" said, quoting another famous philosopher: "If you want the rainbow, you've gotta put up with the rain." 
James Dechant is a junior studying abroad in Rome this semeste1: Questions, complaints and rude remarks can be sent to jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Kelly Meehan Tim Dougherty Mandy Stirone Ken Fowler Katie Kohler Dan Murphy What event interests you more: Viewpoint Scene Bengal Bouts or Tom Zbikowski's Alyssa Erin McGinn 
upcoming charity fight? Brauweiler Graphics 
Madeline Nies Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Submit aLetter 
"The trouble with censors is that they worry ifa girl has cleavage; they ought to worry ifshe hasn't any."
1to the Editor at Marilyn Monroe actress
1www.ndsmcobserveLcom 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 1, 2007 
page 13 
Have you noticed that the days are growing longer? Not, as we might wish, in total hours per day; that's still stuck at 24. However, we are at least getting a little more bang for our buck in the daylight department. Today the sun rose at an early 7:21 a.m. and won't set until 6:34 p.m. In just ten days, for the second year now we'll be return­Kate ing to Daylight Savings Time and you Barrett can enjoy a late sunset at 7:45p.m. 
FaithPoint

It seems fitting, then, that we're also in the midst of Lent, a word which shares its roots in the word for "spring." Lent was originally associated with the change of seasons from winter to spring, and particularly with the length­ening amount of sunlight in each day. Images of light and darkness are plentiful during Lent, with darkness getting one last try on Good Friday as Jesus hung dying on the cross. As you'll hear in Luke's gospel on Palm Sunday, "It was now about noon and darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon because of an eclipse of the sun" {Lk. 23:44-45). 
This Sunday, however, we will hear of a moment when light takes center stage, when Jesus' disciples get a sneak preview of the glory of the resurrection. On the second Sunday of Lent each year we hear the story of the Transfiguration, when Jesus, along with three of his 
Light in Lent 
disciples whom he has invited along, goes up a moun­tain to pray. Suddenly, Luke tells us, his appearance changed and "his clothes became dazzling white" {Lk. 9:29). Matthew's gospel even says that "his face shone like the sun" {Mt. 17:2). The Transfiguration revealed that Jesus was God in an extraordinary way: God's glory actually shone through Jesus' physical body. 
So why should we care about this reading? It's sort of weird, really, describing as it does a sort of mystical experience Jesus shares with a few of his close follow­ers. Well, let's think about what we know about Jesus. He is God's beloved son, sent to save the world and to lead us all back to the Father. He is not the kind of sav­ior anyone would have ever expected. He is about to go to Jerusalem and experience an absolutely humiliating and painful death. And we know, as the disciples did not yet know, that Jesus rose from the dead to become the light no darkness can overcome. Every baptized Christian, then, as members of Christ's body, shares in that light. During the season of Lent we prepare ­again and again, because it's the work of a lifetime -to renew our baptismal promises at Easter and to live out those promises in our lives. 
Perhaps your mom used to tell you {as mine told me, and as I tell my own kids) that "no one can 'make' you do anything." This universal "mom response" to kids brought to face the music-"I wasn't going to do it, but he made me!"-has been repeated through so many places and generations because our parents, who love us, want us to become who God truly means us to be, not just to follow the crowd to the latest attraction or distraction. If we can imagine that God loves us even infmitely more thah that, and wants us to become a part of the Body of Christ on earth, we can begin to under­stand why the story of the Transfiguration matters; why Lent matters. As the Transfiguration hints at, and the Resurrection tells us definitively, Jesus gives us the power to be light in darkness, which no one can take away from us. Jesus uses the power of love, no matter what happens to him, to save the world, and he gives that to us as well. 
During this Lent as the light begins to push back the night each morning and evening, try contributing your own light to the effort. Become the light of Christ wher­ever you find darkness in the world around you. 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Kate Barrett, director ofresources and special projects in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
PEPYND dinner thanks 
I wanted· to sincerely thank all students who attended PEPYND's fundraising dinner on Tuesday night. We -raised $1,050, pushing PEPY over the $20,000 target for the new school and other education projects. Thank you so much for your sup­port! Your donations will make a major difference in the lives of so many Cambodian children. 
Tim Rann 
senior 
offcampus Feb. 27 

U-WIRE 
You're so vain 
If you are a college student-congratulations. You have more educa­tion opportunity and career prospects available to you than members of your parents' generation. Oh, and you're probably more self-absorbed and conceited than they were, as well. 
That assertion is based on the work of professor Jean Twenge of San 
Diego State University and_W. Keith Campbell of the Staff Editorial University of Georgia. The two researchers examined the responses of 16,475 college students who Brigham Young responded to questions in the Narcissistic Personality University Inventory between 1982 and 2006. They say the The Daily number of students with above-average NPI scores Universe increased 30 percent over 24 years. The trend is dis­turbing considering the effects of excessive hubris. 
As Twenge relates, narcissists "are more likely to have romantic rela­tionships that are short lived, at risk for infidelity, lack emotional warmth and to exhibit game-playing, dishonesty and over-controlling and violent behavior." Ultimately, narcissists tend to lead a less-than ful­filling life. 
Confidence is an essential seasoning in a well-balanced personality. A healthy degree of self-assurance enables us to look future employers in the eye when we tell them about our capabilities, and it can be helpful in developing social relationships. But just like salt, ifit is used too liberally, it can ruin even the most delectable entree. 
Narcissism is no new phenomenon; it existed long before the disorder's namesake Narcissus became enamored with his own reflection in the spring at Donacon, and history is replete with anecdotes of epic megalo­maniacs. King Darius, who fancied himself a god, ordered soldiers to whip the sea when a storm stalled his invasion of Greece. And, in more recent history, Lee Deforest, the self-proclaimed father of radio, tried unsuccessfully to commission his wife to author an autobiography titled "I Married a Genius." Stories such as these illustrate the imbalance indi­viduals face when they can't reconcile reality with their inflated egos. 
Each of us needs to find that golden mean between self-effacement and self-exaltation. Only when we strike that balance are we able to attain the truly happy life. 
This editorial originally appeared in the Feb. 28 edition ofThe Daily Universe, the daily publication at Brigham Young University. The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Are you an iPlodder? 
iPods ought to be called ·mePods. Nothing screams "leave me alone, I'm busy" more than a bundled-up student staring down a sidewalk, earbuds in, listening to some squeal of a song. To dining halls, DeBartolo and dorms we plod, sullen and impersonal faces on con­veyor belt sidewalks. In truth, we plug ourselves in only to unplug ourselves from the world around us: we iPlod. It's a great virtue to be mindful of your surroundings, and what surroundings are more worthy of mindfulness than Notre Dame's? With white wires from our ears, don't we take for granted the sounds, sights and people around us? Do we want to graduate knowing that in ten-minute bouts of iPlodding we have taken for granted the Golden Dome, neglected to hear the pianos playing from the Crowley Hall of Music or ignored a cute and interesting classmate walking right beside us? No, we want to gradu­ate knowing that we've never missed a moment, especially one lost to K-Fed. We most likely iPlod for short-lived escapes from the daily grind. Or maybe iPlodders mistakenly think that they exude some nonchalant coolness. Regardless, I propose we do with a little less stimulation on this cusp of spring and beginning of Lent. As the snow melts and birds sing again, let's wholeheartedly open our ears and minds to all the extraordinary things and people around us. Maybe you're reading this in the dining hall right now, and maybe you're listening to music too. Pocket that pod and talk to the person down the table. I promise you won't regret it. 
Tony Klausing freshman Keenan Hall Feb. 27 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Thursday, March 1, 2007 
DVD REVIEW 

Ferrell's 'Fiction' filled with laughs, love 
ByTAEANDREWS Assistant Scene Editor 

IRS auditor Harold Crick (Will Ferrell) lives a very by-the-numbers life. He tallies everything he does to the exact count and his meticulous daily routine is planned down to the minute with the aid of his trusty wristwatch. 
So naturally, when he wakes up one. day to hear a voice in his head narrating everything he does and predicting his imminent demise, this throws a monkey wrench into his neat and tidy little life. 
Unfortunately for Mr. Crick, little does he know that he is actually the tragic pro­tagonist of a novel in progress. Author Kay Eiffel (Emma Thompson) is writing a book in which Crick is the main character and the events of his life unfold exactly the way she punches them into her type­writer. Unfortunately for him, Eiffel is dead-set on killing him off at the end of her story. 

toood, cookie-baking shop owner around the corner. She slinks and smiles through­out the film in a way that's both cute and sexy. 
What makes "Stranger Than Fiction" work so well is Ferrell himself. Much like Michael Jordan on the '98 NBA Champion Chicago Bulls, Will Ferrell picks and chooses his spots to shine -he knows when to defer to his teammates and when to take over. 
In a surprising move, this film is loss of tho straight-up comedy it's advertised as in the trailers. To be sure, "Stranger Than Fiction" has more than its fair share of funny moments sprinkled in, but for Ferrell fans used to knee-slapping and bee-hawing at every line he drops (and then subsequently regurgitating those lines ad nauseam to friends and family), the film is a change of pace. 
It's often said that real life is "stranger than fiction." Oddly enough, for a film that has a preposterous premise (is it art imitating art imitating life, or is it art imi­tating art determining life?), "Stranger Than Fiction" not only rings true, but is as warm and likeable as a fresh batch of chocolate chip cookies. 
Contact Tae Andrews at, tandrew 1 @nd.edu 

Hilarity ensues as Ferrell yells at his toothbrush, attempts to contact the omnipotent author of his life and holes up in his apartment in an attempt to stave on· death by lying on his futon and doing absolutely nothing. 
In an effort to stay alive, Crick enlists the aid of English professor Jules llibbert (Dustin Hoffman) to help him decipher the plot of his life. Along the way, Harold runs into Ana Pascal (Maggie Gyllenhaal), a bakery owner who he's auditing for tax fraud. 
Pascal eventually manages to free Criek from the doldrums of his hum-drum life with an infusion of love in the form of chocolate chips and TLC. In other words, this anal-retentive calculator joekoy goes from number-crunching to cookie­munching, falling in love with Pascal along the way. 
By awakening the Cookie Monster inside of Crick, she proves the old adage true-"The best way to a man's heart is through his stomach." Or is it, "if you give 
a mouse a cook­
. ?"
1e.... 

Gyllenhaal is very good and strangely attractive as the film's love interest. Although she doesn't fit the prototypical bill of a Hollywood blonde bombshell, she has an endearing appeal as the "girl next door" type, or at least the heavily-tat-
CD REVIEW 

The Ataris' latest album not a 'welcome' addition 
By CHRIS McGRADY Assistant Scene Editor 

Some bands, as they mature, grow into their progressing sound naturally. Like a new pair of shoes, eventually they fit just right. Finally, the music they make they can claim as their own. Other bands try to grow up too quickly and they overdo things. They end up swimming in their music like an oversized sweatshirt you borrow from your older brother. Given enough time, there might be a chance to grow into the right size. 
Only The Ataris haven't grown up yet. The group's newest release "Welcome the Night" has the feeling of just not fitting. This album gives a distinct sense that The Ataris tried to change sound too quickly for their own good. The listener gets the idea that perhaps the group was looking up to its "older brothers" -The Killers. for example -and said, "Yeah, yeah ... we can do that too." The problem is, sometimes it's just best to admit you aren't the same as your older siblings and move in your own direction. The Ataris should have done that instead. 
Realistically, this band shouldn't be making this type of music, not yet. The sound just gives off the feeling that the notes coming from the speakers shouldn't belong to The Ataris. It is natural, and actually great, for a band to maturn over time. The great modern rock bands ­Incubus, The Killers, or (a bit further back) U2 -all changed their sound over the course of their albums. The differ­ence, however, is that with those bands, the change was moderate and slow and eased the listener in until they were ready. 
Even though The Ataris had success as a pop-punk and rock band, they changnd to something completely different over night. This was the band that, at one time, toured with Blink-182 (prc-"Tako Off Your Pants and Jacket") and MXPX and it is clear that the group no longer wants that identity. This is immediately obvious when the CD opens with the driv­en anti-love-ballad "Not Capable of Love," which is the album's first single. A far ery from the punk-feel of The Ataris old work, even the lead singer's voiee soems to have changed. However, this is one of the stronger songs on the album. 
Very expnctedly, 
the best songs on the album are 
TheAtaris 
those that sound the most like the group's old work
Welcome the Night -"The Driftwood 
Sinn" and "The Sanctuary Records Cheyenne Linn" are two tracks that have the same feel as the band's old work. Notiee, how­ever, that the songs arc not 

Recommended tracks: 'The Driftwood Sinn' and 'The Cheyenne 
Line' 

exactly the same. 

The group still shows growth in these pinces, but does so slowly and assurndly. 
Even with all of its flaws, the thing about this album is it really is not bad. In fad, it is very listenable and several of the tracks arc really quite good. The problem with the album is just that it sounds forced. It's like the band is trying to sound like someone else, which isn't necessary. 
Hight from the beginning of the CD, it's obvious that lyrically the album is solid and it is very clear the members of the band -vocalisVguitarist Kris Roe, gui­tarist Marco Peiia, bassist Mike Davenport and drummer Derrick Plourde (formally of' Lagwagon) -are musically talented. However, it's just the feeling that the band is trying to be something they are not, at least not yet, that makes the CD slip from possibly something very good, to some­thing that is just alright. 
Eventually, if The Ataris can somehow daim this sound as its own, the band ean have a fighting chance at being something special. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl @nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, March 1, 2007 
page 15 
TV REVIEW 
Saying farewell to 'The·OC' hard for fans 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
Dearly Beloved, we are gathered here today to memorialize the death of a close friend. Last Thursday brought us, as Seth Cohen would say, to the end of an era as "The OC" aired for the final time. 
If seniors weren't nostalgic enough already about life at Notre Dame quickly coming to a close, the end of "The OC" is another brick being laid down on the path to graduation. "The OC" began four years ago, as the senior class entered Notre Dame as freshman. During that year, "OC" watches were held every Thursday in nearly every dorm on campus. A couple of times there were campus-wide watches held in LaFortune. For that precious hour on Thursday, much of the campus was brought together. People instantly bonded over their mutual love for "The OC." 
While "The OC" fell under the teen drama umbrella, it quickly surpassed oth­ers of its ilk through its snappy dialogue and well-developed characters. "The OC" began with Ryan Atwood (Benjamin McKenzie) coming in off the streets and living with the Cohen family :_ kindhearted public defender Sandy (Peter Gallagher), his loving wife Kirsten (Kelly Rowan) and their son Seth (Adam Brody) -in the posh suburbs of Newport Beach. He quickly learns the perils of party girls, water polo players and the dreaded Newpsies. In the meantime, he falls in love with the girl next door, Marissa Cooper (Mischa Barton), and Seth with Marissa's best friend, Summer Roberts (Rachel Bilson). 
Seth, Summer, Ryan and Marissa quickly became nothing short of pop culture sen­sations. Seth, a lovable comic book geek, in particular became popular as the poster-child for the emo crowd that was just starting to emerge. His quips and pop­culture references rocketed him to a spe­cial place in the hearts of fans. His "Seth Cohen Starter Pack" and invention of "Chrismukkah," a Christmas and Hanukkah hybrid, were instant classics, and both the starter pack as well as Chrismukkah accessories can be pur­chased on sites like eBay. 
The first season was a great success, and fans eagerly awaited to see what would come next for their beloved Newport crew. The second season brought new faces, with the introductions of Alex and Lindsay, as well as Ryan's troubled brother Trey. Although fans held high hopes, "The OC" didn't shine nearly as bright as it used to. Aided by Alex, Marissa experimented with her sexual orientation, Lindsay was (in)conveniently discovered to be related to the Cohens and Trey almost killed Ryan. 
With the beginning of the third season, "The OC" was starting to lose the fans that were so enamored with the show's first season. The charm and character that was such a mainstay of early episodes had greatly diminished. With the death of Marissa at the end of the season, fans left in droves, and the fans that stayed worried about the future of the series. 
At the same time, another show was gaining momentum, one that would even­tually lead to the death of "The OC" ­"Grey's Anatomy." While "The OC" was losing ground, "Grey's Anatomy" was rap­idly picking up a large fan base. When "The OC" returned for its fourth season, it was in direct competition with the medical phenomenon. 

Although few of their fans remained, the show returned to its roots and produced some of the best episodes to date. It was nice to see "The.OC" restore the luster of its brilliant first season. Unfortunately, it couldn't survive against "Grey's." Fox tried to move it to Wednesday, but that placed it against the other titan, "LOST." Fox isn't exactly known for its support of promising young shows (see: "Family Guy," "Arrested Development" and "Firefly") and early in 2007 they declared that "The OC" would be coming to a close. 
The final episode, aired last Thursday, did the show justice, and cemented its legacy. Flashes of scenes from the first season, of Ryan in the Cohen's house for the first time or of seeing Marissa in the driveway, were heartwrenching and nos­talgic for fans. 
Although 'The OC" might be off the air, it will certainly live forever in the hearts of its fans. Horses named Princess Sparkle and Captain Oats, true love atop a coffee cart and the further adventures of Kid Chino, Little Miss Vixen and The Ironist are unlikely to be forgotten, at least in this television lifetime or the next. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
CD REVIEW 
Final'OC Mix' heads for cover with hit songs 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
One of the numerous highlights of "The OC" was the strength and quality of its soundtrack. Each episode used a variety of current hits, as well as songs from less well-known bands that become popular due to their exposure on the show. On top of using these songs as background music, "The OC" frequently incorporated per­formances by bands such as Rooney and The Killers into episodes. 
"The OC Mix 6: Covering Our Tracks" is the final soundtrack collection from the television show. This mix is unique because it is a collection of covers from songs that previously played a role on the television show. 
In each episode of "The OC," the songs are often as integral to the storyline as the dialogue, frequently adding a new dimen­sion or highlighting an element of the plot. Because these individual songs play such an intertwining role with a specific plot 


Various Artists 
The OC Mix6: Covering Our Tracks 
Warner Bros. I Wea 

Recommended tracks: 'Float On' and"Smile Like You Mean It' 
theme song in "The Chrismukk­element, the covers of these songs playing in an episode not only create their own unique moment but also evoke the memo­ries and emotions of when the original song played. Typically whatever is going on in the storyline when the cover is played reflects back on what happened in the series when the song was previously used. The cover songs were mostly used in episodes from the fourth season. 
Josh Schwartz, the creator of ''The OC," claims that "these are the happiest ver­sions of some of the angstiest songs ever written." This is true, in most of the cases. 
The album opens with Goldspot's cover of "Float On," originally recorded by Modest Mouse. While Modest Mouse's ver­sion would typically be considered a happy song, the cover by Goldspot is infi­nitely happier and catchier than the orig­inal version. After hearing the Goldspot version it's diflicult to even remember the tune to the original song. This version of "Float On" was prominently featured in "The Sleeping Beauty," when Taylor tries to be Ryan's sleep therapist. 
Not all of the covers take on a happier spin. Mates of State cov­ered Phantom Planet's smash hit "California" in one of the more depressing songs on the album. Fans of the show will remember this version as the replacement huh?" episode from this last season. Although this song is much less upbeat from the original version, it is still a quali­ty song on its own. 

Similar to the cover of "California" is Tally Hall's cover of The Killers' "Smile Like You Mean It." Tally Hall's version is slower and more drawn-out than the orig­inal version, while still being greatly enjoyable to listen to. Their cover was fea­tured in last season's New Year's episode, 'The Earth Girls Are Easy." 
Not all the covers appear as shiny and new as the aforementioned ones. "Come Into Our Room" by The M's and John Paul White's cover of "Can't Get It Out Of My Head" are hardly arranged any differently from the original versions, and are even slightly weaker than their source materi­al. 
While not everything on "The OC Mix 6: Covering Our Tracks" stands out, there are definitely enough strong songs to make this album a worthwhile purchase. It is also a great way to end the solid col­lection of CDs that make up the sound­tracks for "The OC." 
It's absolutely necessary for fans of the show and those that enjoy the music that defined -and was defined by -"The OC." 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
page 16 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 1, 2007 
NBA 
Shaq takes over as Miami downs Washington 
Iguodala scores 24 points and Willie Green adds 20 more as Philadelphia takes care of business against Phoenix 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Shaquille O'Neal took over the game in the fourth quarter, assuming com­mand of the paint by scoring 10 of his season-high 23 points to lead the Miami Heat to a 92-83 victory Wednesday night over the Washington Wizards. 
In a game without Dwyane Wade, Caron Butler and Antawn Jamison -and with Gilbert Arenas having another poor shooting night-O'Neal became the unstoppable star when it mattered most. He scored all 12 of Miami's points over a 13­minute span, using a variety of moves against helpless Wizards center Brendan Haywood. 
When Eddie Jones hit a 3­pointer with 1:12 to play, it broke the all-Shaq Miami parade and gave the Heat a nine-point lead, essentially seal­ing the game. Meanwhile, the Wizards were absolutely cold at the other end, shooting 7 -for-26 in the fourth quarter of their fourth straight loss. 
O'Neal, carrying much of the load while Wade is out with a shoulder injury, finished 11-for­1 7 from the field and also had 10 rebounds and four assists. He would have scored more had he not missed six of seven free throws. 
Jason Williams also scored 23 points, and Udonis Haslem had 12 points and 16 rebounds for the Heat, who are 2-2 since Wade's injury. Wade is sched­uled to get a second opinion 
Thursday to determine whether he should have season-ending surgery. 
Arenas, basically a one-man band for the third straight game because of injuries to Butler (backl and Jamison (kneel, scored 15 points on 3-for-1 S shooting. He is 14-l'or-61 over his last three games. He missed all eight of his 3-point attempts and has made only 19 of his last 101 3-pointers, a skid that start­ed the day after his 25th birth­day. 
Philadelphia 99, Phoenix 94 
Andre lguodala scored 24 points, Willie Green had 20 and the Philadelphia 76ers never trailed Wednesday night in a win over the Phoenix Suns, who lost on the road to an Eastern Conference team for the first time. 
The Suns won their first 14 on the road against East teams and failed in their bid to become the first team to sweep its road games against the opposite con­ference. It was also the first time the Suns failed to even hold a lead. 
With the Suns playing without Shawn Marion and Boris Diaw, the Sixers were able to pull off their most impressive win of what's mostly been a miserable season. 
Amare Stoudemire had 31 points and 14 rebounds, and Steve Nash scored 23 points. Marion sat out his first game of the season because of a bruised right hand and bruised left 
AP 


quadriceps suffered against Indiana on Tuesday night. Diaw had back spasms. 
So the Suns matched the only other team that finished with one road loss against the oppo­site conference: The 19S2-S3 Sixers who went on to win the NBA championship. And the star point guard on that title tnam? Current Sixers coach Maurice Cheeks. 
Boston 102, New York 94 
Gerald Grenn seorod 10 of his 21 points in the fourth quartor, including sevon straight after Boston had finished blowing a 23-point lead, helping the Coltics beat the New York Knicks on Wednesday night. 
AI Jnfl'erson had 26 points and nine robounds and Paul l'inrco added 24 points for the Cnlties, who have won two in a row for the first time sinco winning fivo straight Dec. 9-1 (>. After that, they lost 25 of 27 ganws, includ­ing 1 X straight lossos that sot a franchiso record and mado a run at tho NBA mark of 24. 
Bajon l{ondo had ninn rebounds and night assists for the Celties in thoir first game in Boston since l'ormor point guard Dennis Johnson died last week at thn age of 52. The Colties observed a moment of silence in his memory, and even former nemesis lsiah Thomas paid trib­ute. 
Quentin Richardson scored 24 and Stephon Marbury had 23 for the Knicks, who entered the night in lOth plaee, two games out of the raee for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Confernnee. 
New York came back from a 23-point deficit in the first half and led 88-87 with just under five minutes left when Eddy Curry, who scored 16, made a hook shot. But Green took over, and he didn't oven need to call on one of the trick shots that helped him win the NBA's slam dunk eontest. 
Utah 104, Memphis 88 
Carlos Boozer had 24 points and 16 rebounds, and roserve Matt llarpring added 25 points to lead the Utah Jazz to a 104­8X vietory ovnr the Memphis Grizzlins on Wednesday night. 
Booznr shot 12-of-16 from the lielei and Harpring was 7 -of-12, helping Utah overcome narly shooting woes and finish the game at 54 pernmt. 
Pau (~asol led Memphis with 2X points and 13 rebounds. But he had only six points aftnr halt~ tirno, missing six of his snven shots. 
Mikn Miller added 17 points for Memphis, while llakim Warrick finished with 13. 
Utah, which trailed by as many as 16 in the first half, pulled even in the third, and put together a 33-10 run spanning the third and fourth quarters to build the lead to 95-77. From there, Utah maintained the advantage for its ninth win in the last 11 outings. 
New Orleans 107, Atlanta 100 
Chris Paul had 24 points, 13 in the fourth quarter, Tyson Chandler added 18 points and 13 rebounds, and the New Orleans Hornets beat the Atlanta Hawks Wednesday night. 
Devin Brown scored 19 points and David West 17 for the Hornets, who began the night a half-game behind the Los Angeles Clippers in the race for the final playoff spot in the Wnstern Conference. 
Joe Johnson led the Hawks with 27 points. Josh Smith had 17 points and nine rebounds. 
New Orleans outscored the llawks 30-12 at the free throw line and sealed the victory by going 7 -of-8 from there in the final 32 seconds. Paul had two big ones with 14 seconds left after Atlanta had gottnn within 103-100 on a 3-pointer by Salim Stoudamire. 
Arter two jumpers by the Hawks' Anthony Johnson had tied the score at 80, the Hornets put together a 10-0 run capped by an alley-oop dunk by Chandler on an assist from Paul. Paul then scored the Hornets' next six points and assisted on another basket. He finished with eight assists. 

Heat center Shaquille O'Neal dunks during the second quarter of Miami's 92-83 win Wednesday night over the Wizards. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
SOUTH BEND-$124,900 1715 Sunnymede Avenue OPEN HOUSE March 4, 2-4:00 p.rn. Minutes to ND! 3 BR-2 BA; whirlpool tub; built-in microwave, dishwasher, finished bsmt FR, fire­place; HW floors; AC, gas heat; wtr softener. Great family neighbor­hood! 574-288-9655. 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER AREAS,BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 
Now leasing for 2007/8. Great houses close to carnpus. 
Anlanproperties@comcast.net 
PERSONAL 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME· ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­BOO-No-ABORT or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
Demetrius, you are hard-hearted & adarnant, but I still love thee I Yr spaniel, Helena UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 

If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. 
For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Going abroad next fall? Want to live off-campus when you return? Looking for a group to sublease our apt to during the spring. Give me a call if you are interested 860-202-2463 
Happy Birthday Curt One more year left on the 'Barna Use it wisely 
Joey, l'rn glad you're still alive. Love, Hino 
Dear Fr. Pete, 
Hope you enjoy the NASCAR story Dale Jarrett would never do that 
Come watch Siegfried hockey crush Fisher tonight at 9:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Alan Bauer is easily one of the worst hockey players to ever lace up a pair. It's gonna be no contest. 
Kvok, You have no clue. 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, March 1, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE ()nsr:RVER'S WIRE SERViCES page 17 
NCAA Baseball Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  previous  
1  Vanderbilt  10·0  1  
2  Florida Slate  13·0  2  
3  North Carolina  7-0  3  
4  South Carolina  8-1  4  
5  Clemson  6-1  5  
6  Rice  9-4  6  
7  Nebraska  5-2  7  
8  Virginia  10·1  11  
9  Oregon  11·2  9  
10  Arkansas  9·3  10  
11  Cal State Fullerton  9-4  8  
12  Arizona State  10·3  14  
13  Pepperdine  10·3  18  
14  Georgia Tech  6-4  15  
15  Miami  6-5  16  
16  Mississippi  6-3  13  
17  Arizona  11·3  17  
18  Wichita State  8-2  19  
19  TexasA&M  11·1  24  
20  Long Beach State  8-4  20  
21  San Diego  11·5  21  
22  Texas  9-6  22  
23  Texas Christian  7-4  12  
24  Auburn  10-1  NR  
25  North Carolina  8-1  NR  

Men's Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 2$ 
team record points 
1 Ohio State 26-3 712 2 UCLA 25-3 742 3 Kansas 26-4 680 4 Florida 25~4 646 5 Wisconsin 26-4 628 6 Texas A&M 24-4 608 7 Memphis 25-3 603 8 North Carolina 24-5 584 9 Nevada 26-2 526 10 Georgetown 22-6 515 11 Southern Illinois 25-5 451 12 Pittsburgh 25-5 447 13 Washington state 23-5 412 14 Duke 22,;'7 303 15 Texas 21-7 272 16 Butter 26-5 222 17 NOTRE DAME 22-6 217 18 Oregon 22-7 181 19 Louisville 21-8 170 20 Air Force 23-7 141 21 Marquette 22·8 137 21 Virginia Tech 20-8 137 23 Vanderbilt 19-9 100 24 usc 21-B 90 25 Virginia 19-8 86 
NCAA Fencing Coaches Poll Top 10 
Men's Women's 
team team 

Penn Stale 1 Penn State 
Ohio State 2 Columbia 
Columbia 3 Harvard 
Harvard 4 NOTRE DAME 
St. John's 5 Ohio State 
NOTRE DAME 6 Northwestern 
Pennsylvania 7 St. John's 
Princeton 8 Pennsvlvania 
Stanford Temple

g Duke 10 Princeton 
around the dial 
PGA TOUR Honda Classic 3 p.m., The Golf Channel 
NBA 
Clippers at Sanies 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
MLB 


Associated Press 

ORLANDO, Fla. Athletes were involved as customers in an illicit steroid distribution net­work that led authorities to raid two Orlando phar­macies and arrest four company officials, a New York prosecutor said. 
Albany County (N.Y.) District Attorney P. David Soares refused to identify any steroid recipients, saying prosecutors were focused on producers and distributors. 
Customers allegedly include Los Angeles Angels outfielder Gary Matthews Jr., according to the Times Union of 
Albany, which first dis­closed the investigation, citing unidentified sources. 
The paper said the names of Matthews, along with former heavyweight champion Evander Holyfield and former baseball star Jose Canseco were allegedly included on customer lists for Applied Pharmacy Services in Mobile, Ala. The two own­ers have been indicted by an Albany County grand jury. 
Matthews, speaking to reporters at the Angels' spring training camp in Mesa, Ariz., said he wasn't "in a position to answer any specific questions." 
IN BRIEF 

Ravens cut Lewis four years
after 2,000-yard season 
Jamal Lewis, whose 2,066 yards rushing in 2003 were the second most in NFL history, was cut by the Baltimore Ravens on Wednesday. 
Lewis was one of several players released as teams maneuvered to fmd salary cap space before the free-agent period started Friday. However, the Ravens said they are still attempting to re-sign Lewis. 
Among the other name players cut were Cincinnati linebacker Brian Simmons; Minnesota quarterback Brad Johnson, a 15-year veteran; and wide receiver Eric Moulds, who played for Houston last season after 10 years as a standout with Buffalo. 
The 27 -year-old Lewis, the NFL's offensive player of the year after his big season, had slipped in recent years and rushed for 1,132 yards last season with just a 3.6 average. His problems were due to injuries and perhaps to a term in prison in the 2005 offseason. 
"I do expect it to resolve itself here in the near future .... Until we get more information, I just can't comment on it," he said Wednesday. 
Canseco's attorney, Hobert Saunooke, told The Associated Press he would be surprised if the former slugger had been a client. 
"I would find it highly unlikely," Saunooke said. "All the steroids that he got were prescribed to him or were from people in the gym. There's never been anything he's gotten online." 
Saunooke added that neither he nor Canseco had been contacted by any investigators in the case. 
Activists, NCAA P-resident 
discuss lack of black coaches 
WASHINGTON -The lack of black head coaches in college football was lamented in powerful language Wednesday by the Rev. Jesse Jackson, NCAA president Myles Brand and con­gressmen from both parties. 
"When African-American coaches do well, we're delighted," Jackson told a House subcommittee. "Only the ignorant are surprised." 
Amid the strong words, however, the solution might come in a subtle threat uttered near the end of the hearing. Perhaps, the point was made, it's time to make Title VII do for black coaches what Title IX did for women's sports. 
"I think it's pretty clear that embar­rassment hasn't been enough," said Richard Lapchick, director of the Florida-based Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport. "One of the things we're thinking about is Title VII law­suits." 
"Just Senator Mitchell," he said, referring to base­ball's ongoing investiga­tion into steroids. 
A message left with Holyfield was not immedi­ately returned. 
The Times Union said investigators found evi­dence that testosterone and other performance­enhancing drugs may have been fraudulently prescribed over the Internet to current and former Major League Baseball and NFL players, college athletes, high school coaches, a former Mr. Olympia champion and another top contender in the bodybuilding com­petition. 

Attorneys for Nifong defend 
procedures in Duke case 
RALEIGH, N.C. -The former prosecutor in the Duke lacrosse sex­ual assault case did not intentionally break ethics rules, his attorneys argued Wednesday as they sought to keep him from being disbarred. 
Attorneys for District Attorney Mike Nifong acknowledged that he made many of the comments the state bar deemed misleading and inflammatory. But they denied that Nifong intentionally withheld DNA evidence from defense attorneys ­the most serious of the ethics charges faced by the veteran prose­cutor. 
"A lot of people ha,ve been rushing to judgment on both the underlying case and this case," attorney Dudley Witt said. "I think you will find that he didn't do anything wrong." 
Nifong's attorneys made the state­ments in a 50-page response to the bar:s complaint. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 1, 2007 
NHL 
Rosters' finalized after trade flurry 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Now that the traded players are in place, NIIL coaches must quickly make them lit. 
Swaps for the playoJf push are only as good as the wins they produce. After a furious day of wheeling and dealing Tuesday, the time has come to bring old and new players together into a cohesive mix for a run toward the Stanley Cup. 
"What we were trying to iden­tify was we needed a little bit more leadership in the room," San Jose Sharks coach Ron Wilson said after the acquisition of top forward Bill Guerin from St. Louis. "We actually don't have anybody on our team, outside of Billy now, who's played on a Stanley Cup chfi.mpion." 
Entering play Wednesday, only seven of the 30 NHL clubs were more than 10 points below the playoff cutoff. Some, such as Edmonton and Florida, fall into that range but used deadline day to work toward the future. 
The rest hope to catch a spark in the fmal five weeks of the reg­ular season. 
"It sends a clear message to our players that we believe in our team," Wilson said. "We think that by adding Bill it makes us even stronger in our push to try and win a Stanley Cup this year." 
Only defending champion Carolina, Montreal and Vancouver were inactive in the final six hours before the swap­ping stopped. Each made deals, however, in the days leading up to the deadline. There were a record-tying 25 trades Tuesday involving 44 players. 
Edmonton created the biggest stir by sending favorite forward Ryan Smyth to the New York Islanders 20 minutes before the deadline. Smyth became the face of the franchise during his 11­plus seasons with the Oilers. 
But his pending unrestricted free agency and the inability for the left winger and the team to reach a new contract in time forced general manager Kevin Lowe to move him. 
Smyth had a tearful goodbye at the Edmonton airport beforn boarding a flight to Long Island on Wednesday. Dubbed "Captain Canada," the 31-year-old Smyth has gone from being tlw most­popular Canadian on a Canadian team to a newcomer in New York. 
"Any time you're with one organization for as long as Hyan has, there's certainly going to be a little bit of sadness leaving an organization that he grew up with," coach Ted Nolan said. "To fly him overnight and get him down here and put a New York Islanders jersey on him, that's not going to make him an Islander right away. 
"It's going to take some time to adjust, to adapt and all the things of a normal learning curve." 
New York paid an expensive price to land Smyth, the Oilers' leading scorer who could walk away at season's end. But by giv­ing up two prospects and this year's first-round draft choice, the deal brought in an impact player without causing a roster ripple. 
"That's one of the things we looked at," Nolan said. "Usually you have to give up one or two players from your roster to make a trade. Sometimes that can have an effect in the dressing room. One thing I have to say about our team, we've got some real good character-type of guys. 
"To make a move like this with no disruption in the room, I think that's as important as getting Hyan here." 
The Islanders faced a similar dilemma as the Oilers. Top scor­er Jason Blake was on the block because of his impending free­agent status and for recently going public with contract demands. 
But New York held onto him, and Blake responded with a hat trick hours after the deadline in a 6-5 victory over Philadelphia. lie has a career-high 32 goals and will be a key factor in deter­mining whether the Islanders hang onto eighth place in thn Eastern Conference and get into the playoffs after a one-year absence. 
,.,...,,....,nneone you love neetls help on, please call. 
011'11C<rer.rtnH support aml assistance at'ai/aMe at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. }ean Len:r., OSF, Student Affairs, l-7407 

• 
Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, Student AHairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 t•Jihh!ltDillon, Campus 1'-'iinislry, 1-7163 

• 
Dt'. Susan Stcibe-Pasalick Counseling Center, l-7336 

• 
A~~ E. Kleva, Healtl1 Services, 1-8286 


Sout/1 Beml Community Resources: 
• 'Wnrne11's Care Center, 234-0363 
• Catholic Charities, 23-l<-3111 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates n1ust be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http:I I osa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due by Friday, March 2, 2007. 

Thursday, March 1, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NASCAR 
Suspended crew chiefs return for special race 
Associated Press 
BRISTOL, Tenn. -Robbie Reiser was so anxious to get back to the track, he struggled to fall asleep. Kenny Francis bat­tled a bit of nervousness. 
The crew chiefs received a temporary respite from their four-race suspensions this week when NASCAR allowed them to participate in the two-day Car of Tomorrow test at Bristol Motor Speedway. Both have been side­lined since Feb. 13, when NASCAR kicked them out of the Daytona 500 in a cheating scan­dal that snared five teams. 
Heiser, crew chief for 2003 series champion Matt Kenseth, and Francis, crew chief for Kasey Kahne, also were fined $50,000 each. Both drivers also were docked 50 points as NASCAR took the unprecedented step of taking points before the season started. 
The crew chiefs will go before an appeals committee next week as they attempt to portions of the penalties -including the points -reduced. But they aren't fighting the suspensions, so the COT test was the first time they have been permitted in the garage. 
"I am a pretty old guy and I have been doing this a long time, and this is going to sound stupid, but I almost couldn't sleep last night," Reiser said Wednesday. 
Forced to miss the season­opening Daytona 500 and Kenseth's win last week in California, Reiser has been fill­ing his weekends by clearing land at his North Carolina prop­erty. He said he occasionally flipped on the races, but strug­gled emotionally to sit through them from start to finish. Daytona was the first race Reiser has missed since the No. 17 team was formed in 1999 ­a streak of 255 races. 
"I don't know how to explain what it was like," Reiser said. "It's like if you are a die-hard Green Bay Packers fan and you are watching the game, are you emotional? Of course. That's how I feel when I watch some­thing I can't be a part of." 
It was mixed feelings on Sunday when team engineer Chip Bolin led Kenseth to victory. 
On one hand, Reiser was thrilled to see his hand-picked crew rally in his absence. But he missed being part of Kenseth's win -the first celebration he's missed in 15 trips to Victory Lane. 
"Our team has been built from family and years of loyal employees, so if you look at our team now, it's probably one of the only teams that's been that way," Reiser said. "Chip's been here since we started the pro­gram. When you look at the core group, that kind of team togeth­er, and you look at it on TV you just think 'That's the way it's supposed to be.' 
"But it's tough not being there. There's no way around that.'' 
So Reiser couldn't wait to get back into the action this week ­albeit briefly. He has two more races to sit out before he's cleared to return for the March 25 race here. 
"Did you ever have a Lab, a hunting dog? The kind you keep in a cage all year long and you only let it out when it's time to go hunting? That was Robbie this morning," Kenseth said. "His tail was wagging and he was ready to go. Came running into the garage.'' 
Things were a little more sub­dued with Francis and Kahne, who were eager to get some work in and get their program back on track. Although Kahne was seventh at Daytona, an engine failure led to his 38th­place finish last week in California. 
The poor finish and the loss of points has Kahne sitting 32nd in the standings right now. 

MLB 
Wainwright, Cardinals back in action after short offseason 
Big leaguers in full swing as exhibition games get under way 
Associated Press 
Adam Wainwright threw the final pitch of last season and one of the first at spring train­ing this year. 
Wainwright, who closed out the St. Louis Cardinals' World Series win in October, opened his bid for a job in his team's rebuilt rotation with three hit­less innings Wednesday in a 6­3 victory over the Florida Marlins. 
Wainwright earned the win on the first day of exhibition play between major league teams. He walked one and fell behind several other batters at Jupiter, Fla. But he still needed only 30 pitches -15 strikes ­to get through the first three innings, facing 10 batters. 

"I did some things well to get some first-piteh outs, but I did a lot of things I'll need to 

'iauterd ·.fllapia. Shrimp and Roma 

Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good Tcfmatoe.s owr Angel Hair Pasta with White Wine & Lemon Dill 5110 Edison Lakes Parkwav Buller Sauct•; Served with 
Mishawaka ' 

Crabmeat-Stuft(~d Mushrooms 271-1692 wvvvv.qdi.com/papavinos/papavinos.htm 
improve on," he said. "All in Isringhausen last October, 
all it was a good first time." allowed no earned run in 9 2-3 
Manager Tony La Bussa postseason innings and saved 
agreed. the clinching games against 
"I thought he was great," La the New York Mets in the NL 
Bussa said. "He was impres­championship series and the 
sive, just the way he has been Detroit Tigers in the World 
since the first day he started Series. 
throwing down here. I mean, "It feels like three days 
he wants that job." away," Wainwright said. "No 
Wainwright will likely be a offseason -I spent a lot of ·starter this season, unless time with these closer Jason Isringhausen has guys. But at the 
"There is no pain at all, no sharp pain, just one pitch where it caught right away," Jenks said. "That is why I called Ozzie out there. There is nothing wrong with it. It is just tight. I couldn't get the exten­sion, and I can't accelerate through the ball because I have no range right now." 
Jenks is in his second full 
year with the 
White Sox. He 

a setback in his rehabilitation same time, my "I feel I haven't said the tight­from hip surgery. Wainwright thinking was it ness had been
proved anything 
filled in for an injured was a million there since he
yet. I have to prove
years away. I'm arrived at spring really trying to myself all over training. forget about that. "Coming into

again as a starter. " 
"I feel I haven't camp there was proved anything a little tightness yet. I have to Adam Wainwright back there, but I prove myself all St. Louis pitcher have been work­
over again as a starter. Hopefully I can persuade some of these guys I'm going to do all right." 
Former Cardinals pitcher Hick Ankiel, bidding for spot on the roster as an outfielder. went 2-for-2 with a two-run single but was thrown out at the plate twice. 
At Tucson, Ariz., White Sox closer Bobby Jenks threw nine pitches in Chicago's opening spring training game before being taken out against Colorado because of tightness in his right shoulder. 
Jenks, who led the White Sox with 41 saves last year and was an instrumental part of Chicago's late season run to the 2005 World Series, was to be evaluated Thursday. 
He faced only three batters in a 12-4 loss to Colorado before manager Ozzie Guillen took him out. Jenks doesn't expect to miss any game action. 
ing all spring to 

roosen the back of my shoulder. I had no inter­nal rotation," Jenks said. "The combination of that and today using bad mechanics of drop­ping my elbow was not good. It caught the back of my shoul­der and tightened it up, but there is nothing to worry about." 
At Port St. Lucie, Fla., New York Mets pitcher Oliver Perez hit a Sports Illustrated photog­rapher on a leg with one of his warmup pitches. His control improved, his results did not. 
Perez walked only one batter in two innings, but gave up four runs and five hits as the Mets lost 5-4 to the Tigers. 
"I got hit pretty good," said the photographer, John Iacono, who was shooting from near the backstop before the game. "At the last minute, I saw it coming. I turned my left leg just enough so I didn't get it head on." 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 1, 2007 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Jesse Jackson upset with lack of black coaches 
Associated Press Hights Act makes it illegal for "Sadly, if the pace of progress been enough to break through coach two years ago, suggested 
employers to discriminate on remains the same, it will be the network that picks a new giving financial incentives to 
WASHINGTON -The lack of the basis of race. approximately 80 years before coach. The president, athletic schools who hire minorities, but black head coaches in college The criticism of the colleges we reach a perc~entago (of director, search committee, several witnesses went in the football was lamented in power­comes after a Super Bowl in coaches) that even approxi­board of trustees and deep­other direction, saying the force ful language Wednesday by the which both teams were led by mates the number of Afriean­pocketed boosters all seem to of law is needed to tear down Rev. Jesse Jackson, NCAA presi­black coaches: Tony Dungy of Americans in the general popu­have a voice, and often they like racial barriers. dent Myles Brand and congress­the Indianapolis Colts and Lovie lation," Brand told the House to play it safe by hiring estab-"History has proven that in men from both parties. Smith of the Chicago Bears. The Subcommittne on lished coaches. order for any significant 
"When African-American NFL has made significant Commerce, Tradn Changing such a progress to be made in eradi­
"When African­
coaches do well, we're delight­strides in hiring black coaches and Consumer culture is diflicult, cating a social injustice, legal ed," Jackson told a House sub­in recent years following the Protection. "This American coaches but Brand doesn't aetion has been the catalyst for committee. "Only the ignorant implementation of the "Hooney is not only unac­think the NCAA change," said Floyd Keith, pres­
do well, we're 
are surprised." Hule," which forces any team ceptable, this is JHHJds is its own ident of the Black Coaches
delighted. Only the 
Amid the strong words, how­seeking a coach to interview at unconscionably Hoonny Hule to do Association. ever, the solution might come in least one minority. wrong." ignorant are so. Change could come in dra­a subtle threat uttered near the But at the college level, there The NCAA surprised." "I think we have matic fashion if Lapchick and end of the hearing. Perhaps, the are staggeringly few blacks in lacks the power all the tools in Keith sueeeed with their plans point was made, it's time to charge. Of the 119 Division I-A to tell its schools placn,'' Brand to file a Title VII lawsuit, which 
Rev. Jesse Jackson 
make Title VII do for black schools. only six have black whom to hiro -said. "What we Lapchiek said could happen in a coaches what Title IX did for head football coaches. There or even whom to activist don't have is tal­year or so. They are looking for women's sports. are even fewer in the lower interview -so ented. superb the right case, one backed by a 
"I think it's pretty clear that divisions: five in Division 1-AA, Brand has sought Afriean-Ameriean discriminated coach willing to embarrassment hasn't been two in Division II and one in to influence them in other ways. coaches brought into the infor­take a stand. enough." said Hi chard Division III. The figures exclude The Black Coaches Association's mal nntworks of athlntic direc­The Title IX lawsuits decades Lapchick, director of the historically black colleges. annual report card on minority tors and others who are making ago revolutionized women's Florida-based Institute for In addition, there are only 12 hiring has addod some trans­thn final recomnwndatious. We sports, and it was the threat of Diversity and Ethics in Sport. black athletic directors in parency to the procnss, and tlw nend to find a w<i.y to open up a lawsuit from Johnnie Cochran "One of the things we're think­Division I-A, and not a single NCAA has set up academies for that dosed eirde." and Cyrus Mehri several years ing about is Title VII lawsuits." major conference commissioner potential coaches. Kansas State athletic director ago that prompted the NFL to 
Title VII of the 1964 Civil is black. But those measures haven't Tim Weiser, who hired a blaek institute the Hooney Hule. 
NBA 
Celtics broadcaster apologizes for sexist remarks about ref 
Associated Press have been insensitive or sexist in 
any way, then I apologize 
BOSTON -Boston Celtics because she worked extremely radio analyst Cedric Maxwell hard to get where she is now, apologized on the air end of quote," Maxwell said Wednesday night for saying that before the Celtics' game against a female referee the New York should "go back Knicks on WEEI­to the kitehen" AM, which is
"Go in there and
after he disagreed owned by with one of her make me some Entercom calls. Communications.
bacon and eggs,
Maxwell made "This really has the comment dur­would you?" been a fire storm," ing the Celtics' he added later. 77-72 victory over Maxwell's
Cedric Maxwell co­
the Houston announcer, Sean
Celtics radio analyst
Rockets on Grande, followed Monday. He sub-the apology by sequently said saying their show "Go in there and make me some would not change. bacon and eggs, would you?" in "We are not changing the way reference to referee Violet we do our jobs because of the Palmer. tendency of media outlets to 
"If I said anything that might present people's comments in a way that serves their story," Grandn said. 

Maxwell deelined further mm­ment following the on-air exehange. 
Jason Wolfe, Entercom's viee president of AM programming and operations in Boston, said the station does not condone Maxwell's comments, which he called a poor attempt at humor. 
"Cedric is an excellent analyst and has been an exemplary employne in the more than 10 years I've known and worked with him," Wolfe said in a state­ment. 
Entereom owns WEE! and WHKO-AM. Celtics games are usually broadcast on WHKO, but Monday and Wednesday night's games were on WEEI. 
Maxwell is a former Celtics player and the MVP of the 1981 finals, won by Boston 4-2 over the Hockets. The team retired his number in 2003. 
Entercom fired former WHKO talk show host John DePetro in November after he called Green Party gubernatorial candidate Grace Ross a "fat lesbian" on the air. DePetro later apologized. 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Laffef1Y.}@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 


Thursday, March 1, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Longhorns edge Aggies in double overtime win 





Saturday May 19. 2007 • 8:00 pm Morris Performing firts Center 
@!fJ~l/t:is 
TickC!!ts go on sale March l. 1001 at 10 am Morris Box Offit<l, Sup12r Sounds in Goshen. Charge by phone 574/135-9190 or onlin12 www.morrisc:12ntC!!r.org Limit 10 Tickets Pczr Pi!?rson! 
again when he drove to the bas­ket for a tying layup at the end of the second, but his shot was blocked by Damion James with 15 seconds left. 
Durant hit three of four free throws in the final seconds to seal the win. 
Law, who finished with 33 points for A&M (24-5, 12-3) got to th'e free throw line with the Aggies down by three with 1.4 seconds left. IIe made the first to pull them within two but was forced to miss the second to give his team a chance to grab the rebound but the final putback was well off the mark. 
D.J. Augustin added 25 points for the Longhorns. James scored 22. 
A boisterous sellout crowd came to see what might have been Durant's last home game at Texas-many expect he'll go to the NBA aftm· this season -but nearly saw Law spoil the party. 
After each of his game-tying shots, Law posed and pointed his right forefinger in the air to the contingent of Aggie fans in the arena's upper deck. 
Maryland 85, Duke 77 
Mike Jones scored 25 points and D.J. Strawberry had a pair of baskets during the decisive second-half spurt Wednesday night to lead No. 24 Maryland past No. 14 Duke. 
Strawberry finished with 17 points for the Terrapins (23-7, 9­6 Atlantic Coast Conference). who have won six straight games -all in the conference ­to firm up what looked to be a shaky NCAA tournament resume only a few weeks ago. 
Ekene Ibekwe also scored 1 7 points, while freshman Greivis Vasquez added 13 points and 12 assists to help Maryland sweep the season series with the Blue Devils for the second time in three years . 
Greg Paulus scored 20 points to lead Duke (22-8, 8-7), which rallied from a 12-point second­half deficit to tie it but couldn't push ahead. 
The"Blue Devils had won four straight since losing at Maryland 72-60, a defeat that dropped the Blue Devils out of The Associated Press Top 25 for the first time in 11 years. 
But the Terrapins -who looked lost at 3-6 in the ACC just a few weeks ago -maintained their February surge with a suc­cessful follow-up to an 89-87 weekend win against North Carolina. Maryland shot 52 per­cent for the game, hit 7 of 13 3­pointers and blocked eight shots while committing just 13 turnovers. 
With the score tied at 64, Vasquez knocked down a hang­ing layup over the 6-foot-10 Josh McRoberts to put the Terrapins ahead for good with 5:11 left. 
Then, after DeMarcus Nelson was whistled for an offensive foul, Strawberry went to work. He first knocked down a 3 from the left wing off a kickout from Ibekwe, then followed with a layup over McHoberts for a 71­64lead with 3:50 left. 
Duke certainly didn't help itself when the game hung in the balaqce. After a jumper from Paulus cut the deficit to 71-66 with 3:35 left, the Blue Devils didn't manage another field goal until Paulus' layup made it 79­70 with 49.7 seconds left. In addition, Paulus and Gerald Henderson each missed the front end of 1-and-ls during that stretch, allowing Maryland to slowly build its lead. 
Maryland pushed the lead to as many as 10 points in the final seconds, punctuating the victory with a breakaway dunk from Ibekwe with 9.4 seconds left. 
Texas Tech 85, Baylor 74 
Jarrius Jackson scored 26 points to lead Texas Tech past Baylor on Wednesday night. 
Jon Plefka had a career-high 22 points for the Red Haiders. His previous high, 19 points, came in a 73-70 loss to Baylor in Waco last month. 
Tech has wins in four of its last five games and needs a victory at Iowa State on Saturday to go above .500 in Big 12 Conference play for the season. 
The loss was the sixth in the past seven games for Baylor (13­15, 3-12). Tech held Aaron Bruce, the Bears' second-leading scorer, to two points. 
Tech (19-11, 8-7) got its biggest lead at 75-62 with 4:56 remaining on a bucket by Jackson. The Bears pulled with­in 82-7 4 on two free throws by Tweety Carter with just more than a minute remaining. They got no closer down the stretch. 
The Red Raiders trailed only briefly early in the game and withstood a couple of runs by the Bears in the first half. Baylor pulled within 53-51 early in the second half and stayed close the rest of the way only because they got the ball inside to Mark Shepherd and Josh Lomars. 
The Bears finished with 42 points in the paint. 
But fouls hurt Baylor. Lomars fouled out with just more than six minutes remaining in the game and Mamadou Diene, another of Baylor's big men, fouled out with about 13 minutes remaining in the game. 
Curtis Jerrells scored 20 points and Carter added 13 to lead Baylor. 
Jackson, Plefka and Martin. Zeno finished with a combined 22 of 36 from the field for 48 points. Together they added 17 points on free throws. 
Tech led most of the first half, and a livid Bob Knight was off the Hed Raiders bench often. In one instance he stalked one ofli­cial all the way to the baseline by the Tech bench to complain about a call. ­
At the break, he remained on the court and shouted at more than one official at center court before he walked off the court to loud applause from Tech fans. 
The Red Raiders were hot early in the opening half. at one point hitting 81 percent from the field. They used a 15-4 run ­including 3-pointers by Zeno, Darryl Dora and Plefka -to go up 21-9. 
Iowa State 69, Nebraska 63 
Wesley Johnson scored a career-high 22 points as Iowa State built a 16-point lead mid­way through the first half, then turned back three Nebraska surges to win Wednesday. 
Mike Taylor added 19 for Iowa State (15-14, 6-9 Big 12), which led the entire second half and held Nebraska to 38 percent shooting. 
The Cyclones led by 11 at half­time. But Nebraska (16-12, 5-9 Big 12) hit four of its first six shots in the second half during a 13-3 run that pulled the Huskers within 39-35 after a dunk by Aleks Marie with 15:40 remain­ing. 
The Cyclones then put together an 11-4 run to take a 50-39 lead on Dodie Dunson's 3-pointer with 9:16left. 
The Huskers came within three on Marie's hook shot in the lane with 2:45 left, but Taylor extended the lead to 60-54 after hitting a short jumper and con­verting the free throw. 
Iowa State took control in the first half with a 21-4 run high­lighted by eight straight points from Mike Taylor, who hit a pair of 3-pointers. Taylor then gave the Cyclones a 20-8 lead with a spinning reverse dunk with 
12:03 remaining in the half. 
Nebraska hit three of its first five shots, then went two for its next 15, falling behind 26-10 with 9:10 left in the half. 
Texas takes down rival for chance at Big 12 title against Kansas 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas -Kevin Durant had 30 points and 16 rebounds to help No. 15 Texas outlast No. 7 Texas A&M 98-96 in double overtime Wednesday night, denying the Aggies their chance to clinch a share of their first Big 12 title. 
The win keeps the Longhorns (22-7, 12-3) within sight of thR conference title, which they can share with a win Saturday at No. 3 Kansas. 
The Aggies' Acie Law forced both overtimes with 3-pointers. His first over Durant with 1.1 seconds left in regulation tied it at 78-78. He did it again when he hit another with 26 seconds left in the first overtime to make it 88-88. 
It looked like he would do it 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March I, 2007 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Ward outlasts Frisch to win St. Ed's showdown 
Captains Stypula and Hansen advance with unanimous decisions 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 

165 lbs -Preston "Punch 
Throwin' Idahoan" Carter def. 
Matt Decker 

Carter had more stamina than Decker and was able to penetrate his defenses for the unanimous win. The first round was intense and filled with aggression as both fighters threw a lot of punches. Decker's left hook kept him out of trouble in the second round, during which both fighters began to tire. Carter took advantage of Decker's exhaus­tion in the third round and landed some big punches to put the match away. 
165 lbs. -Michael Smith 
def. Jon "Duck" Kelly 
Smith advanced over Kelly after the referee stopped the fight in the second round. 
At first Kelly protected his head well from Smith's long reach and strong right hooks, but Smith went to the body, landing numerous solid shots to put Kelly away. 
A hard shot by Smith sent Kelly to his knees in the second round. He continued, but after another barrage from Smith and another stoppage, the ref­eree stopped the contest. 
170 lbs. -Steve "Ogie" Hansen def. Stephen Klein 
Bouts veteran Hansen advanced to the finals, going the distance for the unanimous win over Klein. 
Klein made use of his size and reach advantages with solid defense and body shots, but Hansen landed good shots in the first round. Hansen's left hook was on in the second round -ducking a Klein attempt and coming back with four quick shots. Both fighters boxed well in the third round, landing solid shots to their opponent's head. Klein was somewhat defensive, and Hansen capitalized on opportu­nities when Klein did throw a punch. 
170 lbs. -Conor Mclaughlin def. Joe "Joe-Pacalypse" Hagmann in a walkover. 
175 lbs.-Mike "Double Fist" Lee def. Mike Cimino 
Lee put down Cimino in a thi_rd-round, referee-stopped contest. 
Lee's footwork put him in better position to throw power­ful punches in the first round. Lee had more power and quickness than Cimino. The second round saw some confu­sion over proper etiquette fol­lowing a standing eight count. But there was no confusion when Lee, after ducking a Cimino attack. dropped his opponent to the mat. Lee again took over the match in the third round, which culminated in a barrage of punches and a left hook that forced the refer­ee to stop the fight. 
175 lbs-Andrew "Rage" Massari def. Greg "Busta" Brown 
Massari's left hook worked well in the first round, but it 
was his right that put Brown on 
the mat to advance with the 
unanimous decision. 

In the first two rounds he came out firing, taking advan­tage of Brown's weak defenses . and setting up combos with his hook. The round ended in Brown's own corner, with Massari peppering him with punches. In the third round. Massari boxed more conserva­tively, waiting for Brown to throw his jab and then striking 
back. 
180 lbs. -Dan Ward def. 
Adam "Alpha Fox" Frisch 
Senior captain Ward elimi­

nated Frisch after a thrnn 
round unanimous deeision vic­
tory. 
Ward controlled the first 

round, keeping Frisch on the 
perimeter and pressuring him 
the entire round. Ward's longer 
reach and sharper, quieker 
style benefited him greatly. 
Frisch went on the attack in 
the second round. but got slop­
py, as his form broke down. 
Frisch kept Ward away for 
most of the third round, but 
Ward was still able to take 
advantage of Frisch's weak 
defense. 
180 lbs. -Leo Rubinkowski 
def. John Soltis 
The lefty Rubinkowski used a 

sinister shot to end Soltis in the 
third round when the reff1rred 
stopped the bout. 
Hubinkowski gave Soltis some 

problems with his right-handed 
jab in the first round, a punch 
that set up his strong left cross. 
Soltis landed three consecutive 
rights, but Rubinkowski coun­
tered with a left that knocked 
Soltis off balance. Soltis' 
aggressive style in the seeond 
round f1ustered Rubinkowski, 
btrt Rubinkowski's reach 
advantage prevented him from 
doing any damage. 
Hubinkowski landed a solid left 
that ended the fight midway 
through the third round. 
Heavyweight -Stu "Man 
Eater" Stypula def. Karl 
Kadon 
Stypula joined off-campus housemates Hennig and 

Oglethorpe as he advanced to the l'inals with a unanimous decision victory over Kadon. 
Stypula made up l'or his sizn disadvantage with quick foot­work, dancing away al'ter throwing a punch, before Kadon 's left hit home in the first round . Kadon c11 uId n 't protect himself as well in the second round and Stypula capi­talized. Stypula's left-handed attack seemed to trouble Kadon. Kadon couldn't niTee­tively engage his jab beeause it 
came  on  the  same  side  as  
Stypula's.  
Heavyweight ­ Pat "Third  

Degree" Burns def. Chris Nanovic 
Burns put away Nanovic with a unanimous win. 
Nanovie's weak defense hurt him in this fight. Burns' defense was strong and didn't allow many of Nanovic's jabs to open the door in the l'irst round. Nanuvie's low hands cost him in the soeond round, allowing Burns to land many strong shots to the head. Burns' left hook eaught Nanovie twice in the third round, pausing the l'ight both times. 
Super Heavyweight -Tony "Tiny Bubbles" Cunningham def. Geoff "Wrongside" Spiess 
Cunningham beat Speiss in a split-decision bout that fea­turnd eontrasting styles of box­ing to make it to the supnr­heavyweight !inals for the sec­ond year in a row. 
Cunningham didn't throw many punches; but when he did they wore sharp, accurate and hard. After taking some hard shots in the first round, Spiess became conservative in thn second, mostly limiting himself to jabs and only engag­ing when cornered. Neither fighter landed any decisive punches in the third round, as Cunningham held on for the win. 

Super Heavyweight -Patrick "Funk" Mcinerney def. Cole Davis 
Mcinerney tore through Davis on route to the finals, as the referee stopped the fight in the second round. 
Both fighters made effective use of body shots in the first round. Mcinerney finally got his hook to land in the second , delivnring a powerful shot that bloodied Davis' face. 
Mcinerney did a good job of avoiding Davis' right hook dur­ing the fight, only allowing one to catch his head. Davis' bloody nose caused the referee to stop the fight at the beginning of the second round. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Turtle Creek Apart01ent Homes 
Join us at the Clubhouse on Wednesday, March 7th for a 
"Break 84 Break" Open House 
Delicious GOODIES & Treats 
Enter Our Drawing for: 
$50 Gift Certificate to Houlihan's 1-Pod Shuffle $25 Gift Certificate for 1-Tunes 

1710 Turtle Creek Drive 
liQUAt HOUSING OPPORTUNITY 

South Bend, IN 46637 Ph 574-272-8124 

----------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, March 1, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
CLUB SPORTS 
Men's volleyball falls to No.1 Wisc.-Oshkosh 
Special to The Observer 
The Hoosier-Illini Classical perennially features the best teams in the country, and this year was no exception. Eighteen of the top 30 thirty teams were among the 40 in attendance as the No. 10 Irish traveled to Bloomington to play among the nation's elite. 
The Irish opened on Saturday with pool play, where they were first paired up against the Illinois' B team. Behind the pinpoint passing of libero John Tibbie, Notre Dame made quick work of the Illini, closing the match in straight sets, 25-19 and 25­23. 
Notre Dame's second match was against Western Illinois, who proved to be a much stronger opponent than the Illini. The Leatherbacks caught the Irish off-guard in the first set, taking an early lead and eventually winning 25-19. Notre Dame recovered after the first set loss and controlled the second behind the back row play of Frank Dax. 
Dax gave the Irish the boost they needed, leading to a match-tying second set victory of25-19. 
"Yes, I did play pretty well, didn't I?" Dax said of his sec­ond set performance. 
The momentum carried into the third set as the Irish domi­nated the Leatherbacks, 15-8. 
Looking to finish pool play undefeated, the Irish first had to beat Ohio· State. Notre Dame again started off slowly and was unable to recover in the first, leading to a 25-14 Buckeyes win. The Irish refused to give in and played with ferocity in the second set. 
Crucial blocks late in the 

game by middle blocker 
"Lips" Foresman swayed the 
game and momentum in the 
favor of the Irish, as they tied 
the match up with a set victo­
ry of 25-23. With confidence 
and the momentum, Notre 
Dame easily wrapped up the 
match with a third set victory 
of 15-10. 
After coming out of their 

pool in first, Notre Dame was 
given an opportunity to 
improve their seeding in a 
match against No. 2 Arizona. 
Even though setter .N alan 
Kane -who was later named 
to the tournament all-star 
team -efficiently ran the 
offense, the Wildcat offense 
was too much for the Irish. 
After a hard-fought two sets, 
Arizona came out with the 
victory 'in straight sets, 25-19 
and 25-17. 
Notre Dame opened up early Sunday morning in position to make a run for the champi­onship as the single elimina­.tion tournament play began. Its first round matchup was No. 3 Penn State. Behind the intensity of junior Jamie Ward, Notre Dame willed itself to an easy match victory in straight sets, 25-20 and 25­
16. 
Notre Dame then faced No. 

1 Wisconsin-Oshkosh, the 
defending national champi­
ons. The Irish starte.d the 
match strong, holding an 
early lead, but ran into a 
strong server who rallied off a 
long string of points. 
Momentum shifted into the 
hands of the Titans, who dom­
inated the rest of the set, win­
ning 25-13. The second game 
was a dogfight hom the 
beginning, largely in part to 
the attacking of outside hitter 
Dan Zibton. But the Titans 
proved to be strong enough to 
end the Irish's run towards 
the championship, taking the 
match with a 22-25 second set 
victory. 
Women's Water Polo 
In a big step for its program, 

Notre Dame swept their 
league opponents this· week­
end at the Midwest 
Conference Tournament at 
Bowling Green. 
The first match on Saturday 

was a 14-2 win over Eastern 
Michigan. Bridget O'Neill and 
Cristina Romano led the Irish 
offensively, scoring four goals 
apiece. M.C. Cimino added 
two, and Kat Kennifer, Kristin 
Schmitt, Kelly Horner and 
Katie Godfrey each scored 
once. Goaltenders Betsy O'Neill and Maggie Hyde recorded seven and eight saves, respectively. 
Notre Dame then faced host Bowling Green, and again prevailed 15-2. Schmitt and Romano led the scoring with four goals each, O'Neill added two and Cimino, Godfrey, Horner, Meghan Pearl and Emily Harig each had one more. Hyde made eight saves. 
The third match of the day pitted the Irish against Grand Valley State. Notre Dame once again won easily, upending GVSU 15-4. Romano led the Irish with five goals, while O'Neill and Schmitt each added four to the Irish effort. Kennifer and Harig rounded out the score with one each. Goalie O'Neill came up huge with 16 saves for an 80 per­cent save ratio. 
On Sunday, the Irish played their final game against Western Michigan, again win­ning 16-3. Ten different pla'y­ers scored for the Irish, with O'Neill and Cimino both recording hat tricks. Romano, Pearl and Schmitt each added two, and Kristin Harchut, Ali Schilling, Godfrey, Horner and Betsy O'Neill all had one. Goalie Hyde controlled the cage with three saves. The Irish will face its next compe­tition over Spring Break in Southern California. 
Cycling 
Notre Dame took 10 racers to Ohio State University this past weekend to compete in the opening race of the sea­son. Saturday's. race was a Criterium, a race best described as NASCAR on bikes. 
Meghan Johnson, Jenn Perricone and Elizabeth Israel competed in the 30-minute Women's B's race. Johnson rode strong with the first chase pack and crossed the line with an impressive ninth place finish, gaining confer­ence points for the team. Perricone and Israel finished farther back, but still rode strong for their first race experience. 
Andy Steves, Peter Nistler and Ty Baker lined up next for the start of the 45-minute Men's B's race. Nistler and Baker missed some key moves that prevented them from fin­ishing the race with the pack, but both rode strong for their first B 's race. Steves rode well but a flat tire in the last laps prevented him from contest­ing the field sprint. 
Matt Prygoski, Mike Lavery, Tim Campbell and Neil Griggs lined up next for the Men's A's race. The race got off to a fast start with speeds often over 30 mph. Campbell and Griggs got caught behind slower rid­ers at the beginning and couldn't catch up to the main group. Prygoski and Lavery hung with main pack for the entire 60-minute race. Prygoski finished in 16th place earning Nationals quali­fying points. Lavery crossed the line a few seconds later. 
The road race on Sunday was canceled due to poor weather and road conditions. 
Women's Ice Hockey 
This weekend the Women's Hockey Club traveled to Northbrook, Ill. to compete in the WCHL playoffs, playing four games to reach the championship game on Sunday morning. 
The team started the tour­nament with a game against Quad Cities Saturday morn­ing. Sophomore Margaret Knoedler opened the game with a goal assisted by fresh­men Emily Chappell, which was followed by a heads-up goal by senior Annie Tilton from a shot from fellow senior Julia LaPointe. 
In the s.econd period Knoedler lifted the puck over Quad Cities' goaltender's shoulder on a rebound from sophomore Lauren Beuke for her second goal. Tilton added another goal off of a pass from junior Casey Bouskill. Beuke skated coast-to-coast and scored an insurance goal at the end of the second peri­od, giving Notre Dame a 5-0 lead. The Irish were backed up throughout the game by 
solid goaltending by senior Mindy Stack, who left with another shutout. 
Saturday night's game was hard fought as Notre Dame faced-off against Wisconsin­LaCrosse, a team it had never faced. Chappell,opened the game with a goal off of a pass from Knoedler, which started a rally between the two teams. With only two minutes left in the first period LaCrosse scored two goals, but the Irish did not just sit back and watch. Chappell scored again at the opening of the second period from Knoedler. After a pair of goals from LaCrosse in the third period, Notre Dame respond­ed with a one-timer pass from Chappell to Beuke for the goal.. LaCrosse scored once more, and after pulling the goalie the Irish could not muster another goal, falling 5-3. 
Sunday morning the girls faced Northwestern in the third game of the tournament. Tilton started the scoring for the Irish with a goal halfway through the first period off of a pass from LaPointe. In the second period Beuke found Knoedler in position in front of the net for Notre Dame's second goal of the game. At the end of the second period, Chappell scored off of a rebound from Beuke's shot,-to finish the scoring at 3-0. 
Notre Dame got a second shot against Wisconsin­LaCrosse on Sunday in the championship game. The Irish started strong and scored the first goal in the middle of the second period with a shot from Beuke and an assist from Knoedler. LaCrosse responded at the period's end with a goal, and scored twice more in the third period. 
After getting two penalties within the last two minutes of the game, Notre Dame pulled its goalie and stacked the ice 6-on-3. They were unable to put one in, but the Irish skat­ed away from the tournament in 2nd place, the highest posi­tion the club has ever achieved. 

TRACK 

ALEX WILSON INVITATIONAL 
FRI, MARCH 2ND@ 5:00PM 
SAT, MARCH 3RD @ 10:00AM 

#2 WoMEN's TENNIS 
FRIDAY, MARCH 2ND @ 3:00PM 
SOVTH B:E<:N.O 
Of:tTHOPAEDICS 
vs. TEXAS A&M 
SATURDAY, MARCH 3RD @ 10:00AM. 
vs. TEXAS 
FENCING 

SATURDAY & SUNDAY, MARCH 4TH & 5TH (ALL DAY) 
MIDWEST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIPS 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 1, 2007 
to land some solid punches to the Lawrence Sullivan def. Philip Hicks In a patient and technical first as he tried to avoid his opponent's body and the head. Feduska, a Sullivan, an off-campus junior, round, Me(~ill. <Ul off-campuo;; s1mior, blows. Land connected on some
Se01is 
sophomore from Siegfried, attempt­held oil' I licks' late charge to win was able to bloek well and then counterpunches later in the round. continued from page 28 ed to block many of Perez's blows one of the night's most entertaining countnr with a series of power The second round saw Land con­but failed early on. Feduo;;ka fought fighl'i. hooks. Hodgers, a sophomore from nect with a high percentage of his sAparate for the close victory. back .strong and wao;; able to recu­I licks, a junior from Dillon, could­Siegfried, blocked some of his oppo­body punches. However, Mwez perate some points with a strong n't block Sullivan's early combina­nent's blows, but stayed on the fought back and harmed his oppo­Sagar Navare def. Will Marra surge to end the round. tions in the first, but he snttlnd down defimse throughout the round. nent with his hook. Mwez then 
Navare, an off-campus senior, The second round started with to land some jabs and straights. MeGill continued his masterful bPgan to use his jab efficiently to received a unanimous decision over Perez trying to land some combina­Sullivan came back with a nice footwork and head movement in the land some head shots. Marra in an offensive showcase. tions. Perez's quickness enabled him uppercut~jab combination to fiwee a second round, thwarting Rodgnrs' Both fighters had displayed solid 
The first round started with crazy to retreat from Feduska's punches standing eight count. attack. MeGill shook up Rodgers defense until the final round, as combinations bt~ing thrown by both and connect on some counter Sullivan landed quality punchos to when lm connected his powerful Inti some wild exchanges were shared. fighters, as the beginning minutes hooks. start round two, but lli1:ks wao;; able hook. But Hodgers did not go quietly Both boxers traded punches and became a slugfest. Marra, a junior FPduska came out firing in the to capitalize on a momentary hole in and landed a nice series of one­the close round came to <m end. At from Zahm, was able to land some third, but Perez m<magPd to thwart his opponent's defmto;;e and landod a two's stemming from his jab to end the end of the fight, Mwez took tl1e punches because of his height and the attack and land many ol' his own combination of his own. llicks tl1e rouncl. fight with a split-decision. longer reach. shots. Both fighters tried to knock bloeknd wnll and rocupnratnd somn In tho final frame, both fighters 
The second round started with their opponent out with some points with ellident eountnrpundms traded punches into protected 1631b. some more tactical boxing, as aggressive fighting. Perez worked starting fi·om hio;; jab. dnf(mses. Ao;; the crowd ehcernd to Navare landed several powerful his jab, until both boxers tin~d and I licks eontinm~d to work his jab finish oil' tho dose fight, Rodgers Chris Calderone def. Bryan hooks to go along with hio;; jab. could not muster much power over Sullivan's low hands in the flna.l and McGill ea1:h landed tlmir sharn Marek 
Navare started the third round by behind their punches. round. Behind a fitvorabln crowd, of pundms. Calderone, an off-campus senior, landing some nice jab-hook combi­Sullivan opened up blood from The crowd stood stunned when earned the close victory with a nations that kept Marra at bay. After Chris Hartstein def. Michael Ili1:ks' then. the rnfnmn announced his dneision split-decision over Marek. several more exchanges, Marra's Johnston in what was one of the bolter fights The first round bPgan patiently, corner needed to dear some blood Hartstein, a freshman from lSOib. of'th!1 night. but quickly sped up when a wild dripping from the fighter's nose. Keough, entered the limtl round exchange ensued. Cruderone land­Navare proceeded to land more with a unanimous victory over Tommy Forr def. Alex Gonzalez Bret Shapot def. Mark Bond ed a sorins of jab-hook combina­punches to the face ao;; he punched Johnston. Forr, a senior from Morrissny, Shapot fiJllowed up the drama by tions, but Marek, a senior from his ticket to Saturday's fmals. The fight started sl"owly, until narned a spot in the final round with flying through Bond, a sophomorn Knott, counterpunehed successful­
Harto;;toin was able to connect on a a unanimous decision over from Stanford, in a unanimous ly. 1321b. combination in the first. Jolmston, a Gonzalez. decision. Hound two began with Marek on l'mshman from Dillon, responded The first row1d startnd with both Ao;; both fightnrs traded a sorios the oflcnsive. Calderone was able Paul Oddy def. Chris lee later in the round and proeeeded to boxers trading punches well. Forr or punchns, thny fought an nven to land his share of hooks, but 
Off-campus senior Chris Lee fell land a series of poworful jabs and dli1etively used his height and mach first round. Marek responded with his own short to Paul Oddy, a sophomore hooks. As the bell rang, I larl'itein to land his jab. I lowever, (;onzalez The sneond round started with a series of combinations, including a from Keenan who won unanimous­finished the round on· with a nice fought back with a series of solid wild exchange by Bond, but Shapot vicious punch to the body. ly. one-two. connections. landed a pownrful jab that sent The final round saw both fight­
The first round saw the fighters Johnston tried to gain ground on Forr continued to set up his com­Bond into a standing eight eount. ers patiently seek an opening. exhibit patience, but Oddy displayed his opponent in th.f! second frame binations with his jab in the sm:ond Thn final round began with Bond Calderone was able to land some superior technique, able to avoid with fancy footwork. but I lartstein round. Gonzalez's blocking fighting dnspnratnly to gain poinlo;;. jabs and straights to the head. but many of Lee's punches while land­quickly responded with powerful improvod late in what was a dose I lowovnr, the southpaw eontinund Marek quickly worked tho body. ing several power _punches. Oddy counterpunches. llarLo;;toin landed a round. to land his jab. Thn round endnd in Several punches were traded to also showed great footwork while series of combinations to the head In the final round Gonzalez mn­a series of solid oxchanges, eventu­end the dose match. In the end, earning point'> from the judges early and the body to end the round. tinm~d to draw Forr to the ropes ally giving Shapot the nod. Calderone advaneed to the finals on. In the final round, thr. Keough and land punches. Both fighters witl1 the dncbion. 
The second round started \\-ith a · Boo relied on his quick combina­showed sotn<' fati!,'ltn. but continued 1601b. wild exchange, with Lee landing the tions, but Johnston rnplind with his to trado punches ao;; the boll sound­Alex Duffy def. Nazur Ahmed majority of punches. Ilowever, Oddy own barrage of punches. Both ed. In the end, Forr's consistent jab Ryan Smith def. Joseph Meares The first round bello;; sounded tlm quickly countered with a forceful lighters displayed fatigue after a earned enough points for the Smith, an ofT-campus senior, beginning ol' one of the most tech­combination, causing a standing closP round, but in the end, victory. advanced to the finals with a split­nically impressive fights of the eight count. Hartstein was too m ueh for deeision over Meares in a close night ao;; DuiJY, a sophomore from 
Both boxers seemed to tire in the Johnson. Joey Leary def. Jesse Brawer fight. Dillon, earned his entry into the third round, ao;; Oddy went to his jab Both fighters tried desperatdy to Hound one saw both boxers finals with a split decision win over to consistently land punches. In the 1451b. light their way into thn finals. but patinntly wait for wnak spots in Aluned. end, Oddy's consistent fighting and the honor went to I ,nary, a sopho­their opponent's defense. Smith Round one began with both technique enabled him to advance. Mike Hennig def. Matt Posluszny more l'rom Dillon, who bostnd was thn first to land a string of eon­fighters patiently awaiting their 
Hennig will defend his title Brawer with a split dedsion victory. nnetions. Mearns. a St. Ed's lrnsh­opportunities to attack. Duffy Chris Cugliari def. Connor Cain Saturday after beating Posluszny, a Tho first rounded started with man, also landed some combina­based his attack off of his jab, 
Cugliari earned himself a unani­St. Ed's sophomore, in a unanimous Leary landing some lwad shots tions in what proved to be an even­which hP consistently used mous decision over Cain, an ofT­decision. through Brawer's dnlimsn. Thn agile ly matched, technically sound throughout the match. Ahmed. a campus senior. Poslusmy started the first round Lnary al<>o avoided Brawer's throws. round. sophomore from Keough. dis­
The first round showed both fight­tiring, but Hennig, an ofJ:-campus However, Brawer fought back As the round two bell sounded, played excellent footwork and ers display patience. Cugliari, a senior, landed a fury of punches as strong with a surge of combinations both fighters were back at their blocking skills. freshman from Dillon, defended his opponent tried to retrnat from to nnd the round. tactical styles. Meares seemod to The second round continued in Cain's charges well with nice foot­the attack. Hennig kept Poslusmy Leary played successful dofbnse in bo fighting dnl(msively, while Smith · the same format as the lirst. Duily work and was able to land some off-balance, and the sophomore the second round. continuing to aggressively pursued his opponent. went back to his jab and continu­early jabs. failed to put much behind his efli1ctively block Brawer's pundms. Both continued to trade punches ously landed several to Ahmed's 
Cugliari attempted to not only pimches. The final round started with em~ctively. head. Toward the middle of the work Cain's head in the second Hound two started with I Iennig Brawnr beginning a series ol' punch­Both boxers swung wildly in thn round. the fighters began to round, but targeted his body as well, ferociously charging toward his es in an attmnpt to seom poinlo;; with lao;;t round. Smith used his height to attempt more punches, and at one landing several blows. opponent, landing punches through the judges. With chants of "Jony" land some punches and distance point, Ahmed tried to block Dully's 
Cugliari continued his fine tech­Pozluszny's defimse. Ao;; the round behind him, Leary attnmptod to himsnll' from Meares. The dnfen­arsenal ol'jabs against the ropes. nique in the linal round and landed slowed down, both fighters traded land his jab and then rotroat to sive strategy was dropped and Both boxers had a legitimate some combinations. Cain, who combinations. avoid <my countorpunchns, musing both boxers trad~1d solid punchns. shot at advancing until the final fought back with a sense of urgency, Chants of "Mike" sounded from Brawer to wao;;te some attmnpts. Ao;; Mean~s formed a latA ehargn, but bell. With his masterful footwork was able to connect on several late the crowd in the third round. and a result, the judges gave Leary the could not ovnrtake Smith. and blocking, Dutry was able to punches, but it wasn't enough. the boxer gave his entourage rea­dedsion. land some solid jabs and a power­
son to cheer with several powerful Parfait Mwez def. Hunter Land ful hook against Ahmed. In the 1401b. combinations. He continued to be 1551b. Mwoz took a split decision from end, both fighters were bloodied, the aggressor of the match, but Land, a junior from O'Neill, to but DuftY's persL<>tent jab proved to Kris Perez def. Eric Feduska Poslusmy did not back off, connect­Dan Rodgers def. Andrew McGill march on to the finals. be the difference maker on his way 
Perez, a sophomore Manorite, ing on some of his jabs and In perhaps the biggest upset of the In round one Mwez, a Zahm sen­to the final'>. became the next unanimous winner, straights to keep Hennig at bay. By night, Rodgers knocked ofT senior ior, landed a series of combinations dismissing Feduska. the bell, though, Hennig was the captain and defending champion stemming from his efl"ective jab. Contact Lorenzo Reyes at 
In the first round, Perez was able clear winner. McGill in a split decision thriller. Land retreated around the canvas lreyes@nd.edu 
FREE LACROSSE GLASS TO THE 'FIRST 150 FANS! 

@sg' 
Thursday, March 1, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Football 
continued from page 28 
interview with The Observer from his winter home in Florida. 
Foge Fazio and Tony Yelovich, both former members of Holtz's coaching staff, will serve as Holtz's assistants. Former Irish quarterback Tony Hice, who led Notre Dame to a national title in 1988 under Holtz, will be the captain for his old skipper's squad. 
Parseghian said a slew of his old assistants still live in the area, including Tom Pagna, who now writes for Blue and Gold Illustrated. 
"It's unbelievable how many guys are still in town, and it shows how much of an impact Notre Dame had on their lives," Parseghian said, before quip­ping, "I may petition for more assistant coaches." 
With sophomore Evan Sharpley, freshmen Zach Frazer and Demetrius Jones and early­enrolleR Jimmy Clausen set to bat1.le for the starting quarter­back job this spring, Parseghian said he's excited to meet the future of the program. 
But he's not going to be too involved in the passes they'll throw. 
"I won't be calling any of the plays," Parseghian said with a laugh. "It is a very important time for the building of the Notre Dame football team because the spring practices [are] where you make changes where improvement is needed." 
Parseghian, who coached the Irish from 1964-74, said the media and fan attention for the spring game now is greater than when he was coach, but not by much. He estimated 25,000 to 30,000 people annu­ally attended the Blue-Gold games when he led the Irish. 
"There was always a lot of interest because it was a pre­view of what was to come," he said. 
Tickets for the Blue-Gold game go on sale March 26. 
Notes: 
+ Chik-Fii-A sponsored the 2006 "Blue-Gold Spring Football Festivities," while the 2007 title sponsor will be Home Hun Inn Pizza. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 

Photos courtesy Associated Press 

Above, former Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz leads the Irish for the last time in a 27-20 loss at USC in 1996. Left, former Irish coach Ara· Parseghian celebrates a national title after beating Alabama 24-23 in the Sugar Bowl in 1973. Below, former Irish quarterback Tony Rice rushes in Notre Dame's 36-31 win over Virginia on Sept. 1, 1989. 



page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 1, 2007 
Weglarz 
continued from page 28 
had seen the all-Missouri Valley Conference catcher play numerous times as the skipper of conference rival Evansville. 
"[I knew Schrage) just through playing against him," Weglarz said. 
Despite the team's 2-4 start, the graduate student has been a bright spot thus far. Last Saturday against No. 12 TCU, Weglarz stroked three doubles in Notre Dame's 4-1 victory. 
"It felt good to finally get some hits," said Weglarz, who was 0-for-9 in his first three games with the Irish. "It was really good to win a game. That's the biggest· thing." 
The veteran catcher has also handled a pitching staff that has posted a 3.07 season ERA with a .250 opponent batting average. 
"It's been good to work with [the pitchers], just learning what they want to do in cer­tain situations, what pitches they're comfortable with," Weglarz said of his battery mates. "They've kept us in a lot of games." 
After the Irish allowed just one stolen base in three games last weekend, Schrage said he was impressed by his team's ability to limit oppo­nents' running games. 
"That was one of our goals going in, so that was a real positive that I saw," Schrage said. 
Keeping runners static on the base paths begins with the catcher, and Weglarz is beginning to again feel com­fortable in the role of starting backstop. 

"Coming in, I felt like a mix between a freshman and a senior," Weglarz said. "But it's been a lot of fun." 
The catcher also expressed confidence that he and his teammates will turn around their early-season troubles at the plate. 


"The hitting's going to com~:" he said. "It always does. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
AP 

period, with both defenses stonewalling the offenses. It
Lacrosse 

appeared the game would continued from page 28 advance into sudden-death 
overtime when McKinney net­Kjellman, last year's Tewaarton ted the unassisted goal for the Trophy winner for the best victory. female laerosse player in "Even in a game when we Division I. Kjellman scored 72 faced adverse circumstances, goals in 21 games last season we had the confidence and 
and was named to  focus  to  pull  
her  second  through," Coyne  
straight  AII- said  after  
Ameriea team as a junior. Kjellman is just  "They definitely have a very prolific  Saturday's game. Though sopho­more attacker  
one  of  three  (~[fense."  Jillian Byers net­ 
Wildcat  seniors  ted three goals for  
named to the pre­season All­American team.  Tracy Coyne Irish coach  the Irish, the hero of the game was McKinney. The  

Attaekers Aly Josephs and defender Lindsay Finocchiaro were also named to the lirst team, and Notre Dame will work to contain them as well. 
"They delinitely have a very prolific oiTense," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said Wodnosday. "We know they will got thoir goals, but we also feel very pre­pared defensively that we can counter thoir offensive sots and try to limit their fast breaks." 
The Irish rallied to beat· Stanford 12-11 in double-over­time. 
Notre Dame trailed 11-9 with less than eight minutes left in regulation when junior attacker Caitlin McKinney scored to pull the tnam within one. Senior midlielder Lena Zentgraf thnn scored ofT an assist by McKinney with 4:02 remaining to send the game to extra min­utes. 
Both teams went scoreloss in the lirst three-minute overtime 
junior midfield­
er/attacker scored 

a game-high six goals and was named Big East o!Tensive player of the week for her performance. 
McKinney's play in the clutch has been crucial for the Irish. In victories over James Madison and the Cardinal, she recorded eight goals and an assist. In addition to the game-winner against Stanford, McKinney scored two game-tying goals late in the game against James Madison. 
"Caitlin has really worked hard on her game, and now that effort is being rewarded," Coyne said. "She's earned every bit of success she's had." 
Notre Dame and Northwestern faced off early last season in Evanston. The Wildcats overcame a 9-8 half­time deficit before rolling to a 21-12 victory over the Irish. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Adtnissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staiT, the counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and communication within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus 
Among our candidates, we will seek a Latino Recruitment Coordinator. (Fluency in Spanish will be strongly prefened.) 
We will also seek an Asian Recruitment Coordinator. 
Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity with all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to vvork long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Please Note: Interviews will not be held until late March. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2007. 
Please complete the on-line application at http://jobs.nd.edu to be considered. Requisition # 020070065 

Thursday, March 1, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CROISSANTWORLD 
BLAcK DoG 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

WE'RE HER£ 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
. "THAT '5' WHY 
WE'RE I"Rot.JI> To 
ANNovl'o/c.E THAT 
FoR. THE. FIRST 1t11E IN THE.. HISTo~tY oF 
THE OSCA/lS THIS' 
SHow HAS 'oFflc.tAU.'I' ,;:.ONE G-Jtf EN . 
LIAMMORAN 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=-+.:.+.:;.+=:;..~ 
1J~mtlll 
1111!1 

65 Huge holes 
DOWN 1 Layers 2 Service 3 Rect. divider 4 Hook up 5 They've got 
brains 6 Anthem 
contraction 7 Suffix with spy 8 Response to a 
discouraging comment 9 Swallow 10 End of a line in kindergarten 
11 Matter for government approval 
12 Coward of note 13 One of a historical trio 14 Ron Howard 
media satire 18 Offshore 23 Mrs. 
Shakespeare 25 Chain with 
many links 26 Give a signal to 27 Option for a 
H.s. dropout28 Compensate 29 Fix 30 chic 31 Crude group 32 Rural skyline sight 
36 Exacts satisfaction for 
WILLSHORTZ 
37 One of the  45 Joined (up)  56_ point  
Scraggs in ''Li'l Abner" 38 Not the party type?: Abbr. 39 N.F.L. coach  46 Sort of 47 Flag 50 Chief justice before Hughes  (embroidery stitch) 57 Musically together 58 Contractors'  
Jim 41 Truth  51 Biblical preposition  figs. 60 Fink  
44 Like beds, again  52 Hindu hero  61 One who's  
and again  54 Stiff hair  coming out  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
This is harderto form lour ordinary words. 
than I thought 
NAPCI 
± 
I I [ J I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TALNS 
± 
~ YERSEG 
J I I [] 
www.jumble.com 
DIZAWR 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
[ J I [ J

L..__~_..:.L_..J..._...J..._ __._~L.J suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

"[I I I I I I IJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: POKER CHAFF TRUSTY CROTCHYesterday's 
Answer: What the tailor used to measure the bagpiper lor his kilt-"SCOTCH" TAPE 

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Eric Lindros. 34; Gilbert Gottfried, 52; Bernadette Peters, 59; Gavin MacLeod, 77 
Happy Birthday: Learn lo take the had with the good and your year will turn out better than expected. Just roll with the punches. If you slay true lo yourself. you will have no regrets or backtracking to do at lhc end of the year. Your numbers arc 9. 14. 17. 28. 35, 41 
ARIES !March 21-April19): You have the drive. energy and the ideas lo pul yourself in a number one spot. Opportunities coupled with your responsible attitude will lead to a great deal, prolit or job today. A little self-promotion will go a long way. 5 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): You may nol he thinking far enough ahead lo make a suitable choice today. Take your time and find out what everyone else wants before you make promises, decisions or lake on someone else's responsibility. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't get hung up by what others arc doing. lf you go oul of your way to be unique, you will grah the attention of someone who can help you out. Someone from your past can make a difference to your future. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't trust everything that someone you arc close to tells you. Read between the lines to get to the bottom of a situation thal is brewing. A chance to make a change professionally musl nol be missed due to other people's needs. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be in rare form today. You will he emotional, passionate and very in tune with what is going on around you. Deals can be made, lovers appeased and travel plans· put into motion. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone you don't expect will probably sell you short today. A problem at home may occupy your mind but don't allow this to blind you to the situation going on al work. A money deal can bring you peace of mind. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your timing is impeccable. Don't give up or think that something or someone isn't worth the effort or you will lose out. Travel, communication and networking will all come into play. Educational pursuits will lead to success. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be careful with whom you talk, conlide or make deals. You aren't likely to win if you gel involved in joint ventures. Publishing, Internet exposure, travel and creative pursuits can be rewarding if you go it alone. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You shouldn't be making changes today. There will be enough going on that you have to adapt to without forcing more pressure on yourself. Although you may be drawn to someone who has a big idea or scheme, don't get involved financially. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may run into difficulty with someone you are close to. Try not to be judgmental or to give out too much information. Be a little secretive. Once you have everything in order it will be easier to get approval. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your strength will be what counts today. Don't give in to people, addictions or anything else that will hold you back or slow you down. Someone from your past may try to tempt you. Be strong and you will gain respect where it counts. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You've come a long way and as long as you don't exaggerate, take on too much or overindulge, you can accomplish what you're working toward. Your love life will pick up if you make the right choices today. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are proficient, accomplished and into the here-and-now. You are a doer, an adviser, a leader and an all-round popular person. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Lost it 8 "The Card 
Players" artist 15 Nation born from 
war in 1993 16 Not using liquid 17 ANTE 19 Author of 
"Broca's Brain" 20 Classical 
accusation 21 Dalmatian, e.g. 22 Org. once led 
by George Bush 24 Financially 
sound 26 EARTH 31 The Cowboys of 
the N.C.A.A. 33 Union with 3.2 mil. members 34 ''The Big Trail" or "The Big Sombrero," e.g. 
35 Like some noses 
38 Self-destruct 
40 Name meaning "my God is God" 41 _-Caps 42 Vetoes 43 ERIC 48 Big man in Oman 49 12 meses 50 Go bad 53 German pest 55 Aquarium problem 59 SWORD (or a title for this puzzle) 
62 Home of the Natl. Cryptologic Museum 
63 Remove, in a way 
64 Like brides and grooms, traditionally 


THE 0HSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, March 1, 2007 
page 28 
BASEBALL 

Grad student, catcher gets one lllore chance 
Gaston's injury puts Weglarz behind plate 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
When he graduated from Missouri State in 2006, Matt Weglarz thought he might have played his last varsity baseball game. But after com­
ing to Notre Dame as an MBA student in the fall, Weglarz was asked by Irish coach D a v e Schrage to join the team 

as a backup Weglarz catcher and has since taken on a much larger role. 
"[Schrage! called me in and said he might need another 
bat in the lineup," Weglarz said. 
The Kansas City native was granted an extra year of NCAA eligibility due to a foot injury that wiped out his 2003 fresh­man-season, one that saw the Bears earn a trip to the College World Series. Though he came to Notre Dame understanding he would prob­ably be a role player for the Irish, he jumped at the chance to play another season. 
Now, Weglarz is anything but a backup. When senior Sean Gaston, who started at catcher the past two seasons, was lost for the season due to shoulder surgery, Weglarz became a key to Notre Dame's season plans. 
"After Sean got hurt, I knew I was really one of the only ones who had caught," Weglarz said. 
First-year coach Schragn 
see WEGLARZ/ page 26 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish host No. 1 Wildcats 
Two-time defending champs enter Loftus after crushing Vandy 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

No. 5 Notre Dame will face off against No. 1 Northwestern tonight at 7 in the Loftus Centnr in the toughest test for the Irish so far this season. 
The Irish (2-0) take on tho two-time defending champion Wildcats after squeaking out overtime wins against James Madison Feb. 18 and Stanford Saturday. 
The Wildcats are 1-1 hnading into this battle of lop-l"ivo teams. Northwestern dropped a tough 10-9 overtimn mateh with No. 4 North Carolina Feb. 17 before rebounding with a dominating 20-2 win over No. 18 Vanderbilt Sunday. 
The Irish will hope to contain Northwestern star Kristnn I 
see LACROSSE/page 26 
The Irish celebrate attacker Caitlin McKinney's goal in NO's 12-11 win over Stanford Saturday at the Loftus Sports Center. 
BENGAL BOUTS -SEMIFINALS 
Bell tolls 
Sophomore Rodgers moves onto championship round with victory over McGill 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 

Chris Izaguirre startnd the 129 lb. semifinal round Wednesday by eliminat­ing defending sophomore champion Matt Gelchion by split decision. 
The first round was fairly even. Both fighters displayed very good defen-See Also 
sive tactics, block­ing punches with "Ward outlasts efficinncy. Both 
Frisch to win St.
boxers traded combinations, but Ed's showdown" defense dominat­
page 22 
ed the round. 

The second round was close as well with polished defensive fighting. Izaguirre, a senior from Zahm, was not intimidated by the former success of Gelchion, a FL<>her resident, and the fight continued to be evenly matched as both fighters traded combinations. 
Entering the final round in a dead heat, Izaguirre managed to avoid Gelchion's blows and successfully landed several punches earning him valuable points to 
see SEMIS/page 24 

FOOTBALL 
Ara, Holtz will coach Blue-Gold 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Editor 
Four fresh faces at. quarter­back will work under two living legends. 
Notre Dame announced Wndnesday that former Irish coaches Lou Holtz and Ara Parseghian will serve as the honorary coachP.s for the April 21 Blue-Gold game, the team's annual spring scrimmage. 
Former Parseghian assistant coaches Brian Boulac and Joe Yontci will return to the side­lines as assistants. Former Irish defensive end and College Football Hall of Fame member Hoss Browner will serve as the honorary captain for Parseghian 's team. Browner started on Parseghian's 1973 national championship squad. 
"Of course it will be a privi­lege to come back and to come back on the field again, which I hadn't been on the field since 1974," Parseghian said Wednesday in a telephone 
see FOOTBALL/page 25 


CUJB SPORTS BENGAl BOUTS NCAA BBAU.. NBA MLB NBA 
LLI ~ UW-Oshkosh 2 Steve Hansen Texas 98 Boston Celtics radio Baltimore Orioles Philadelphia 99 
z Notre Dame 0 advances to finals with Texas A&M 96 analyst Cedric Maxwell centerfielder Gary Phoenix 94Cl: Defending volleyball a unanimous decision Texas forward Kevin apologizes for sexist Matthews, Jr. IS Philadelphia forward
.... 

= 
champion Titans beat victory over Stephen Durant scores 30 as remarks made on the implicated in East Coast Andre Iguodala drops the Irish in straight sets. Klein. Longhorns beat Aggies air. steroid ring. 24 points in the 76ers
Cl: 

in double overtime. win. 
!;: page 23 page 22 page 21 page 20 page 17 page 16 






