
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 126 THURSDAY, APRIL 26,2007 
NO drinking habits not affected by ban 
Officials: no decline in alcohol use since '02, but drop in consumption was not purpose ofrule changes 
later, those students have gradu­hoi ingestion for some time, but -a statistic that has remained By MARCELA BERRIOS ated, but their successors are still when they got over their initial "roughly consistent" in the last Associate News Editor upholding that vow, as the num­fear of the new consequences, five years. 
ber of students that used or the numbers of referrals were The University, however, did 
Editor's note: This is the second abused alcohol in 2006 approxi­back on the rise." not expect the 2002 modifications story in a three-part series exam­mate the 2002 figures, the Office Eaton said students quickly dis­to convert students to sobriety, ining the use and abuse of alco­of Drug and Alcohol Education covered that the fines they feared Vice President for Student Affairs hol at Notre Dame, the (ODAE) said Tuesday. were only being levied per bottle Father Mark Poorman said. University's attempts to solve Annie Eaton, an ODAE assess­of alcohol, and "since mostly stu­"It was never our beliefthat the alcohol-related problems and the ment counselor, said the number dents can afford to pay those changes to the alcohol policy future of the campus' drinking of students referred to her office fines," they returned to their pre­would solve all of our problems," culture. dropped immediately after the vious practices. he said. "We have seen some 
announcement of the ban on Associate Vice President of drop in our binge-drinking rates 
In the summer of 2002, Notre liquor -but the lull did not last. Residence Life Bill Kirk con­since the changes five years ago. Dame banned hard alcohol on its "There was a change after the firmed Eaton's observations, say­But there is clearly more work to campus, and infuriated students policy was implemented," Eaton ing approximately 60 percent of be done." said the changes in the said. "Students were afraid of the the disciplinary cases that go Rather than reduce the num­University's policy would not curb consequences in the beginning. through his office every year are their drinking habits. Five years They did cut down on their alco-related to alcohol use and abuse see ALCOHOL/page 6 
Extended NDH hours satisfy diners 
staff has provided "positive
By JOHN-PAUL WITT 
comments" about the change News Writer 
as well. Recent surveys at North 
Grabbing dinner has been a Dining Hall have shown a bit easier for busy students sharp jump in the rating for since North Dining Hall "satisfaction with operating extended its weekday dinner­hours," Kalili said. time by an hour -----: and the The push to extend NOH's ­responses to this change have hours has been in the works been nothing but positive, since 1998, when SDH began North Dining Hall General staying open until 9 p.m., Manager Reggie Kalili said. Kalili said. 
North Dining Hall extended It took so long to implement its hours until 8 p.m. Monday the change, Kalili said, through Thursday after spring because usage statistics break. The extra hour was in revealed that South Dining response to student demand, Hall "wasn't busy enough because South Dining Hall after 7 p.m. to justify having was only open weekdays after both Halls open." seven, Kalili said. Kalili said after taking into 
Reaction from students who account the responses on last use North Dining Hall (NDH) semester's dining hall satis­has generally been positive, Kalili said, and the dining hall see NDH/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

College celebrates SMCTostal 
Canoe race, fireworks included in activities 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 

As Notre Dame hosts its week of AnTostal events, Saint Mary's is celebrating spring its own way -with SMC Tostal, which takes place today. 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Board (SAB). the event will feature henna tattoo and caricature artists, an out­door picnic and a screening of "Dreamgirls" on the Library Green. among other activities. 
This year's event planners, juniors Noelle Whiteside and Cassie Calion, decided to include canoe races on Lake Marion and a firewqrks display over Angela Athletic Facility at dusk, in contrast to last year's "concert-series atmosphere," headlined with a performance by the band Phantom Planet. 
"We decided to have the activ­ities of the day centered around a heritage theme," Calion said. 
Earlier in the semester, SAB sent students a survey regard­ing what they would like to see at this year's SMC Tostal. 

The response to the survey was unfortunately underwhelm­ing, Calion said, but students seem to be positive about the chosen activities nonetheless. 
"We have heard a ton of posi­tive feedback from the student body regarding this year's activ­
see TOSTAL/page 6 
STUDENT SENATE 



Government to focus on action in upcoming year 
Brown delivers State ofthe Student Union Committees establish 2007-08 agendas 
where students truly believe see how they observe the By KAITLYNN RIELY we can use fruitful conver­By KAITLYNN RIELY holiday. Assistant News Editor sation as a basis for con­Assistant News Editor Student body vice presi­
crete, positive changes to dent Maris Braun present­
Delivering her first of student life at Notre Dame." Following student body ed the report for the three State of the Student The prolonged student president Liz Brown's call Community Relations com­Union addresses body president elections in for more student govern­mittee, since committee Wednesday, student body February -a process ment action during her chair Colin Feehan is cur­president Liz Brown urged Brown referred to as a State of the Student Union rently studying abroad in members of the Student "spectacle" -fed negative address Wednesday, London.· Community Senate to shift their focus impressions that the student Senate committee chairs Relations is working on from dialogue to action, government was focused briefed the group on their creating a community­challenging them to produce more on dialogue than on plans for the 2007-08 based Web site that will ta.ngible results for the stu­results, she said. school year. provide a guide to restau­dent body. Brown and student body Lai-Nin Wan, chair of the rants in the South Bend 
"Gone are the days where vice president Maris Brau·n Multicultural Affairs com­area and will give other students only hear about were elected by a majority mittee, said MAC will work information about life and what student government vote in a closed Senate on making Martin Luther entertainment in the com­talked about in their two­meeting after they failed to King Jr. Day a day off from munity, Braun said. hour Senate meeting," win the 50 percent plus one classes, so students will be Academic Affairs com­Brown said. "Dialogue truly of the vote that was free to participate in pro­mittee chair Carol has a place and a purpose required in both the general grammed activities. Wan Hendrickson said she is in student government, but I said she will look at Notre look forward to a year see BROWN/page 4 Dame's peer institutions to see SENATE/page 4 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Words fro111 the base111ent 
Tonight is officially my last night working at The Observer. 
Bizarre, really, to think about a younger, wide-eyed version of myself, mousing into this office for the Frosh­0 Open House. And now, almost Amanda Michaels four years, countless 4 a.m. 
Assistant
nights and more 
News Editor 
than 150 articles 
later, here I am, 
watching as the 
next batch of ambitious reporters 
take the reins. 
I've always balked at the thought of writing an Inside Column about work­ing at The 0 -too meta for my taste -but I feel like, just for tonight, it might be appropriate. After all, of the lessons I've learned the hard way in college, one of the most important came from this basement office. 
A lot of people don't believe how much work the writers and editors here put in. None of these people, however, have lived with me. Or, per­haps, even casually encountered me. 
There was a time -called sopho­more year -when my life was liter­ally not my own. It got to the point when my then-boyfriend would cringe whenever my cell phone rang, know­ing that I was going to be unreach­able for the rest of the night. The Observer was always my top priority, and I staunchly defended my deci­sions to drop everything (and every­one) to work when I was needed. 
And then I got sick. Really sick. But !.wouldn't stop working. I barely slept, I survived on coffee and gum, but I still worked. And I had the peo­ple I loved most in life begging me to stop, to help them, to help myself. 
Somewhere in that mess, there was a breaking point. I honestly don't remember what it was, but since then, I've quit The 0 twice. Effective, clearly. But even though I've kept coming back, each time I've learned how to put more and more distance between myself and this place. I've ·realized that yes, it's all right to tell people 'no' every once in a while. And no, people won't hate you if you don't always say 'yes.' 
And you're rolling your eyes by now. This is all quite melodramatic, l know. But I guarantee that many of you will face the same problem, soon­er rather than later. 
As you start your first jobs, you'll be expected to work longer and harder than the next person. Your boss will ask you to work late, work on Saturday, work on Sunday, work on Christmas ... and many of yo~ will say yes, afraid that it'll mean the differ­ence between a promotion and a pink slip. 
As you start your families, you'll be faced with the choice between board meetings or ballet recitals, conference calls or coughing kids. And what about making time for exercise? Church? Sleep? 
Priorities will only get harder to keep in order as we move through life, so now is the time to try to sort them out. Draw your boundaries, and be prepared to defend them. 
It's a lesson that took me four years to learn. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comacr us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU PREFER PCs OR MACS? 







Genevieve Nield Krystie Traudt Kyle Neary Leo Rubinkowski Tashi Thomas 
freshman sophomore sophomore sophomore junior Breen-Phillips Welsh Family Zahm Stanford Farley 
"PC, because it's "Macs, because "01001101 "PC, because "PC, because I what I know.' they're just so OJJ00001 I'm computer-hate Macs. 
, ,
cute. 01100011., illiterate. 
Ohio judge frees man after Bible quiz 
CINCINNATI -A man arrested on Wednesday for allegedly trying to use a stolen credit card at a drug­store got a break from a judge after passing a sort of Bible quiz. 
When Eric Hine appeared in court this morning, his attorney described him as a church-goer, hoping the judge would set a low bond. 
Hamilton County Municipal Court Judge John Burlew was skeptical and asked Hine to recite the 23rd Psalm. 
He did: all six verses. Some in the courtroom applauded. 

and dressed as Captain America approached her, began to say dirty things and touched her inappro­priately, police said. He then brawled with her boyfriend, authorities said. 
Several patrons who had dressed as the super hero were asked to step outside so the woman could identify the suspect, Frederiksen said. 
She picked out Raymond Adamcik, 54, police said. 
After he was arrested, he tried to flush marijuana down a toilet at a police sta­tion, police said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Burlew was satisfied and released Hine on a $10,0000 appearance bond, meaning he'll have to pay that amount if he doesn't show up for his next court date. 
'Captain America' faces criminal charges 
MELBOUHNE, Fla.-A doctor dressed as Captain America was arrested after groping a woman at a bar and fighting with her boyfriend, authorities said. 
Patrons at the bar were dressed in costumes as part of a bar crawl Saturday night, police spokeswoman Jill Frederiksen said. 
A man carrying a burrito 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
IX 
LLI 
::1: 
!;;: 
LLI 



J)3: 
..... 
<C 
(,) 

.... 0 HIGH 62 HIGH 52 HIGH 57 HIGH 68 LOW 47 LOW 47 LOW 45 LOW 50 IN BRIEF 
Badin Hall will host its annual Badin Breakdown today from 4 
p.m. to 7 on South Quad. 
Leonardo Morlino, professor of Political Science at the Instituto di Scienze Umane in Florence, Italy is speaking on "Hybrid Regimes and Democratization: Is There a Role for the European Union?" today at 4:15 p.m. in Hesburgh Center Room C-103. 
The doeumentarv "Helvetica" will be shown tonight at 7 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art. The 80­minute film examines typography, graphic design and global visual culture. 
The Student Union Board is presenting Flogging Molly in con­cert tonight at 10 p.m. at Legends. The event is open to all ND, SMC and HCC students with IDs at no charge. 
The last AcoustiCafe of the year will be held tonight at 10 
p.m. in the basement of LaFortune. 
SUB will hold a free salsa danc­ing event Friday from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. on Fieldhouse Mall. 
Notre Dame men's soccer will play the Mexican U-20 National team Friday at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. Tickets are $5 for adults and $2 for kids 18 and under. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band will perform Friday at 7:30 p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. For tickets, call 631­2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 73 HIGH 63 LOW 48 LOW 45 
Atlanta 77 I 62 Boston 63 I 43 Chicago 53 I 42 Denver 62 I 33 Houston 80 I 61 Los Angeles 73 I 54 Minneapolis 60 I 44 New York 65 I 48 Philadelphia 65 I 45 Phoenix 93 I 64 Seattle 60 I 44 St. Louis 68 I 55 Tampa 86 I 67 Washington 61 I 55 
Thursday, April 26, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Obstacles block way to U.S. jobs 
International students struggle to find permanent employment, experience after graduation 
mas, Miquiabas said a large 
By GENE NOONE number decide to stay in the 
News Writer U.S. 
"In our experience, most 
international students want 
Job searching may be the option of working in the daunting enough to any sen­United States after gradua­ior on the verge of gradua­tion, knowing they can, in tion, but to those who are most cases, always return to international students, the their home country for task of finding a job in the work," he said. 
U.S. is even more difficult. Many international stu­
Most international stu­dents look for U.S. jobs with dents struggle plans to live when trying to permanently in land a job in the America, while U.S., said senior ''There are not some, like Yacintha enough working Fanardy, hope 
Fanardy, from their U.S. job
visas for the

Indonesia. will give them 
Fanardy is one number of students the experience 
of the who want to keep necessary to University's 275 get a better job
working in the US.,, 
international in their home undergraduate countries. students who, Yacintha Fanardy "I hope to upon gradua­international student find a job in 
tion, face the challenge of finding employ­ment in the U.S. There are roughly 868 international students currently enrolled at Notre Dame, including 593 graduate-level students, said International Student Services and Activities (ISSA) director Bong Miquiabas. 
Although some interna­tional students may choose to return to their countries after receiving their diplo­
the U.S. and 
get some expe­
rience before going home for good," Fanardy said. "Most people would like to get some expe­rience first before going home, and hoping, with that experience, they would be able to get a better job back home." 
Getting that experience is difficult, however, because many employers aren't will­ing to go through extra steps required when hiring a non-
U.S. 
citizen. "This is where the prob­

"Unfortunately, we have lems lie. There are not heard that many U.S. enough working visas for employers are reluctant to the number of students who expend time and money to want to keep working in the hire an international stu­U.S.," Fanardy said. "This dent," Miquiabas said. year, the visa application "Unlike U.S. citizens, inter­process was already over­national students face addi­loaded on the first day of the 

U.S. 
Citizen and Immigration Services (USCIS) permits up to one year of practical training for international students in the United States. If a student wishes to work longer, he must apply to change his citizenship status. To do that, he or his employer must hire an immigration attorney to file for a new visa. 


tional paperwork  application,  so  
that some employers deem  "I hope to find a  they draw  had to a lottery  
excessively bur­densome." For an interna­tional student to get a job in the  job in the US. and get experience before going home for good.,,  to decide who got visas and who didn't." Although many business- 
U.S.,  he  must  es  may  be  
undergo an extensive gov­ernment process.  Yacintha Fanardy international student  reluctant to hire employees because of the  

Even if a foreign student follows every procedure per­fectly, he may still not get his visa since working visas are limited in validity and, for specialized skills, limited in the total number issued in the U.S. each year, Miquiabas said. 
extensive visa 
process, Miquiabas said the time and money are a worthwhile investment, especially for an employer trying to gain a certain international per­spective or appeal to an international market. 
"The Alumni Association and other campus depart­ments routinely ask ISSA to help connect them with international students who possess a certain language proficiency or a geographic background that might be attractive for employers," Miquiabas said. 
Contact Gene Noone at enooone@nd.edu 
page 3 

For:m_er LavvSchool dean dies 
Special to the Observer 
William B. Lawless, former dean of the University of Notre Dame Law School, died Monday in San Francisco after an ill­ness. He was 84. 
A native of Buffalo, N.Y., Lawless was editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer before receiving his law degree from the University in 1944. He did naval service in the South Pacific following his gradua­tion, studied at the University of Buffalo and earned a degree in constitutional law from Harvard University in 1950. 
He was in private practice in Buffalo and served from 1960 to 1968 on New York's Supreme Court before returning to Notre Dame where he served as dean of the Law School from 1968 to 1971. The Law School doubled in size and established its London program during his tenure, which also included the school's centennial celebration. 
The Lawless family has requested that, in lieu of flow­ers, donations be sent to sup-. port scholarships for Notre Dame law students. The address is: Notre Dame Law School Annual Fund, 1100 Grace Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

-------------------------------------' 
NDH 
continued from page 1 
faction surveys, he decided to implement the later hours ­choosing the period after spring break because the number of students who eat after 7 p.m. decreases in the winter months. 
"On nicer days more people are out later and coming to [the dining hall] later," Kalili said. 
The new hours may not be permanent, however. 
Kalili said if enough stu­dents don't take advantage of the later hours this semester, they may not be offered next year. 
While the dining halls track usage patterns electronically, the statistics for this semester will not be analyzed until after the semester ends, Kalili said. 
"We'll see how many people came in prior to [the dining hall] staying open until eight our labor around so we have and see if more people are people here when we need coming in than before and at them and not occur any over­what times," he said. "At the time or additional labor," he 

bottom line, that's what it is -are people 
"/ like how {extended 

using it?" Another hours] spreads out the option under 
eating schedule so 

consideration 
that people eat at

is having later hours up until different times." fall break and after spring 
Jonathan Poelhuis

break, when 
sophomore

temperatures are warmer, Kalili said. 
said. "I don't think it's cost­ing us any­thing at this point, but we'll evaluate this at the end of the semes­ter to see if that assump­tion is true." 
Sophomore Jonathan Poelhuis, a Stanford resi­

Kalili said he was able to dent and frequent visitor of extend North's hours by North Dining Hall lauded the adjusting the labor schedule effects of the extended hours. for dining hall cooks, monitors "I like how it spreads out the and service associates. Shifts eating schedule so that people were changed from 11 a.m. to eat at different times," he 7 p.m. -to 12 p.m. to 8 p.m., said. "It makes coming to the which Kalili said has been dining hall much more fun." generally well received by staff. Contact John-Paul Witt at 
"We've been trying to move jwitt1@nd.edu 
9(espighi & IJ3eetlwven 
Sunday, April 29, 2:30p.m. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center University of Notre Dame 

Featuring Jacqueline Schmidt, piano Respighi: '11u: <Bin1 Paul Johnson: 'TIIC ''Wild Smcu~s al Coole Beethoven. 'J>iano Concalo ':No. 5 
TICKETS: 574-bJI-2800 

'Coradze ryiano Jnstitute 
Saturday, May 12, 8:00 p.m. 

Morris Performing Arts Center Featuring Alexander Toradze and three generations of Piano Studio performers 
Gershwin: :.1 [jot ':Rhythm, <.Rhapsotl!l in 'Blue Copland: <J'iano Coru:afo Rachmaninoff: 'J<hapsody on a 'Theme o{ 'Yaganini Bernstein: ..::-1k$quc Fom ..'A.Jc of../!nxieiy Ravel: 'J>itnw Concerto 
Spring :Jamily Concert 

Sunday, May 20, 3:00 p.m. E:verest-Rohrer Auditorium, Bethel College 
"A Celebration of Youth in Music" 

featuring the Side-by-Side Orchestra and 
Young Artist Competition winners. 

Talented high school musicians from ~jl BOSCH 
h~vrmted fer me

Northem Indiana and Southwest Michigan play alongside our own veteran Tickets $10 Adults Symphony musicians in what has $8 Seniors 65+ 
~ become one of our favorite concerts. and $5 for Kids 

2008 campaign. 
In other Senate news: 
+ 
Last week, the student gov­ernment provided posters for students, faculty and staff to sign messages of condolence for the victims of the Virginia Tech shooting. Brown said 17 posters were filled with signa­tures, and they handed out approximately 600 yards of maroon and orange ribbon. 

+ 
The Senate passed a reso­lution that removed reference in the Student Union Constitution to the defunct Diversity Affairs committee and added the names of the Community Relations, Social Concerns and Multic.ultural Affairs committees. 


Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Brown 
continued from page 1 

election and the run-off elec­tion. 
The subsequent impeach­ment and removal hearings for former Morrissey senator Greg Dworjan -who violated the Student Union Constitution by using the copy machine in the student government office for campaign purposes and dis­playing "Campaign to Abstain" posters without the permission of the Judicial Council or the Student Activities Office ­added to these impressions. 
"Over and over again, I hear criticism of student govern­ment's purported preference for dialogue over taking con­certed action to positively affect student life," Brown said. 
Brown urged the senators and the committee chairs to combat these perceptions. The members of the student gov­ernment can change these negative opinions, Brown said, by "aggressively campaign[ingl for improvements to student life -not by talking about how we can change students' pref­erences, but rather by stimu­lating positive changes that students will have no choice but to notice." 
Brown said she and Braun have created a platform to spur these changes. By center­ing their ideas under five main areas -community relations, social concerns, academic environment, student govern­ment and student life -Brown said they can make changes and improvements that stu­dents will notice. 
In the three and a half weeks since she and Braun took office, Brown said they have already made significant improvements -a rate of progress she said she hoped to continue next year. 
Brown said she and Braun have met with the Center for Social Concerns regarding a community-based curriculum, and said they will work on an action plan for this over the summer. Preparations are also underway for a faculty-student debate series, which will pair students with faculty members to debate current events. 
Brown and Braun are also working with Food Services to explore the possibility of a guest meal exchange program so students can convert their remaining meals for use by their visiting family members or friends. 
Brown said she anticipated that a student government Web site would be created over the summer with message boards and forums so students can have access to their repre­sentatives. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Storage College Partners 
We Pick Up! We Store! We Deliver! www.storagecollege.com E-Mail us at ndinfo@storagecollege.com Simplified Summer Storage! 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
working on plans for promoting the College Readership Program to incoming fresh­men. 
Social Concerns committee chair Karen Koski has been exploring the creation of a global studies minor and said she will continue to organize classes and faculty for the pro­gram. 
Gender Issues committee chair Patrick Tighe discussed planning another eating disor­ders conference next year. He. said he was brainstorming ideas to attract more men to the event, perhaps by featuring a male athletic celebrity to talk about body image. 

Chair Mariana Montes said Residence Life will take a "grassroots approach" to the committee's focus this year. 
She encouraged senators to go to their dorms and survey students about concerns they have with their residence halls. 
University Affairs chair Callie Pogge is preparing for faculty­student debates and said she hopes to get the campus involved in the Rock the Vote 
Coft'l.e and Listen Coft'l.e and Read Coft'l.e and Play Lectio@Eieven 
A Late-Night Cabaa-et foa-the Soul 
11 :00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
April24: A Fireside Chat by FYS Dean Hugh Page Music by Joey and the Matchmen 
Lectio(a)Eleven brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! 
We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser at jcouser@nd.edu or call 631-3923. 
Sponsore<.l by First Year of Studies 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 26, 2007 Corvw!LED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRE SERVJCEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bayrou won't support candidates 
PARIS -They wooed him hard, even leav­ing messages on his cell phone, and on Wednesday he spurned them both. 
Beaten but defiant, the third-place finisher in France's first-round presidential ballot said he would not throw his 7 million voters behind either conservative front-runner Nicolas Sarkozy or Socialist Segolene Royal, the two candidates still fighting for the top job. 
Instead, Francois Bayrou said he will form a new party in the political center, setting his sights on the next election in 2012. 
The decision not to play kingmaker in the May 6 runoff was a major gamble that could reshape France's political future-or kill his career. 
Bin Laden behind February attack 
CAIRO, Egypt -A top Taliban command­er said al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden was behind the February attack outside a 
U.S. military base in Afghanistan during a visit by Vice President Dick Cheney, accord­ing to an interview shown Wednesday by Arab broadcaster Al-Jazeera. 
Bin Laden planned and supervised the attack that killed 23 people outside the Bagram base while Cheney was there, said Mullah Dadullah, the Taliban's main mili­tary commander in southern Afghanistan who has had close associations with al­Qaida. 
"You may remember the martyr operation inside the Bagram base, which targeted a senior U.S. official. ... That operation was the result of his wise planning. He (bin Laden) planned that operation and guided us through it. The operation was a success," Dadullah told Al-Jazeera. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Katrina cruelty charges dropped 
NEW ORLEANS -The state on Wednesday dropped 36 counts of cruelty to the infirm against the owners of a nursing home where 35 people died in the flooding of Hurricane Katrina. 
Salvador Mangano and his wife, Mabel, still face 28 counts of cruelty to the infirm and 35 counts of negligent homicide. 
State prosecutors said the Manganos, who own St. Rita's nursing home in St. Bernard Parish, should have taken steps to evacuate patients before flood waters rose due to the Aug. 29, 2005 storm. 


Texas hit by at least two tornadoes 
EAGLE PASS, Texas -David Sanchez was fixing a car at dusk when the winds began to howl and the rain began to pound his home, like spring storms are known to do around here. 
Suddenly, the dog house flew by. Shingles peeled off the roof. Mesquite trees snapped around him, ripped up by a tornado that cut through this border town Tuesday night. Tornadoes killed at least 10 people in Eagle Pass and across the Rio Grande in Piedras Negras, Mexico. 
"I never pray, and I was praying," the 50­year-old mechanic said in Spanish, as his daughter translated. 
Two Texas elementary schools and a church were wrecked, and hundreds of homes on both sides of the border were damaged or destroyed by at least two tornadoes. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Student charged with making fake IDs 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -An Indiana University student was charged Wednesday with making hundreds of fake identification cards that showed up in at least seven other states. 
Nicholas Richardson, 21, of Bloomington faces a felony charge of counterfeiting and a misdemeanor charge of distribution of false government-issued identification, Indiana State Excise Police said. 
The agency began its investigation last month after seizing dozens of false IDs at local bars, liquor stores and grocery stores. 

ISRAEL 

Olmert rejects ground offensive 


Five-month cease-fire given one last chance to succeed despite smuggling 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM -Prime 
Minister Ehud Olmert and his 
top security chiefs on 
Wednesday rejected calls for 
a massive ground offensive in 
the Gaza Strip following a 
renewal of rocket attacks on 
southern Israel by the llamas 
militant group. 

The decision gave a five­month cease-fire one last chance to succeed, despite repeated warnings by mili­tary oflieials that Barnas has been using the lull in fighting to smuggle large amounts of weapons into Gaza. But Israeli officials warned of "harsh steps" if the rockets keep falling. 
In a separate development, the government's chief watchdog recommended opening a criminal investiga­tion into a 2001 government transaction that involved Olmert before he became prime minister. The announcement further weak­ened the embattled Israeli leader ahead of a potentially explosive inquiry report next week on last year's war with Hezbollah guerrillas in Lebanon. 
Olmert and Palestinian 
President Mahmoud Abbas 
announced the Gaza truce in 
late November, declaring an 
end to Palestinian rocket fire 
and Israeli attacks, including strikes. raid in Gaza for the time service, have warned in 
airstrikes. Eight Palestinians were being. recent months that Hamas ­
Some Palestinian militant killed in fighting in the West "They didn't plan any oper­which has killed hundreds of groups have continued spo­Bank last weekend, and ation," she said. "They decid­Israelis in suicide bombing radic rocket attacks but another was killed in a rare ed to leave all options open." attacks -is preparing for all­Hamas, which leads the missile strike at a Gaza rocket Hamas already has threat­out battle. Palestinian coalition govern­squad. Palestinian officials ened more attacks, with its They say Hamas has used ment, has kept its distance said two civilians were spokesman saying Tuesday it the lull to smuggle some 30 from the violence. According among the dead. was rea;dy to kidnap and kill tons of explosives through to the Israeli army, militants With tensions rising, Olmert more Israeli soldiers. tunnels from neighboring have fired 230 homemade convened an emergency The head of the Egyptian Egypt into Gaza. They also rockets at Israel since the meeting of senior security security delegation, Col. say Hamas has sent militants truce, compared with about officials Wednesday to discuss Burhan Hamad, met to Iran for training. 600 launchings in the five a response. Wednesday with leaders of Senior military officials months before the deal. The Meeting participants said factions, including Hamas, have called for a wide opera­rockets have caused no seri­Israel would limit its activity Fatah and Islamic Jihad, and tion in Gaza to pre-empt ous injuries since the truce. to "pinpoint" operations urged them to maintain the Hamas. Others, however, 
On Tuesday, Hamas said it aimed at halting rocket fire truce. have questioned the wisdom fired dozens of rockets and and other threats -effective­"I explained to them the of sending ground troops into mortar shells toward Israel to ly maintaining its policy of dangers. I hope they are con­Gaza's crowded urban land­avenge deadly Israeli arrest recent months. vinced," he told AP by phone. scape. Similar operations raids in the West Bank, which Olmert's spokeswoman, Senior intelligence officials, since Israel withdrew from is not covered by the truce. Miri Eisin, said there would including the head of Israel's Gaza in 2005 have failed to Israel counted only a dozen be no large-scale military Shin Bet internal security halt the rocket fire. 


FCC orders report on TV violence 
Chairman Kevin Martin wrote in a It also says that technology intend­
Associated Press 

statement accompanying the report. ed to help parents shield their chil­
WASHINGTON -The Federal "Congress could provide parents dren from objectionable program­Communications Commission said more tools to limit their children's ming, such as the V-chip, is inade­Wednesday a correlation exists exposure to violent programming in a quate. between bloodshed on television and constitutional way." The report indicates that Congress violence in real life and that the gov­Among those tools, Congress could could develop a definition of exces­ernment should take action on such require cable companies to sell their sively violent programming but that programming. programming on a per-channel or such language "needs to be narrowly 
The agency released a long-await­family tier basis, rather than only in tailored in conformance with judicial ed, congressionally ordered report pre-bundled packages. precedent." that lays out ways the government As for broadcast television, the Martin has been joined in his push can regulate violence on television -report cites Supreme Court precedent for cleaning up the airwaves by cable, satellite and broadcast. to suggest the agency could regulate Democratic Commissioner Michael 
The report contains suggestions for violent programming much as it regu­Copps, who wrote: "It is not an easy Congress, but it stops short of making lates sexual content and profanity -challenge to develop rules that pass specific recommendations. by barring it from being aired during constitutional muster, but given what 
The commission concluded that hours when children may be watch­amounts to a public health crisis at "exposure to violent programming ing. Or it could create a family-view­hand, I believe it is a challenge that can be harmful to children," FCC ing hour. must be met." 

other changes to the University would, instead, go upstairs and because I've heard stories that you connect his death with the policy campus guidelines, including the host their own dances in their could bring three different girls as changes since the police could not
Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
her ofstudents who consume alco­hol, Kirk said, the changes were made to teach students about healthy drinking limits "through rules and regulations." 
"Residence Life is intimately involved in the students' educa­tion, just like any other depart­ment at the University -second only to the faculty," Kirk said. "And one of the things you'lllearn in college is how to act responsibly and maturely." 
He said the changes in the policy clarified the guidelines his office uses to intervene in cases where a student's use or abuse of alcohol may be destructive. 
"Do [the changes] mean that the use and abuse of alcohol among students have declined?" Kirk said. "No, I don't think so -but I think we are better equipped with the rules and regulations that we have in place to address problems and issues with the use of alco­hol." 
Unfulfilled prophecies 
On March 18, 2002, Poorman sent students an e-mail explaining the upcoming ban on liquor and 
S~int Mary's Col leg¢ .;;.i.Ptograni••!n•·•·oanc~•·i; ···;)· 
presents 

A Dance Concert 
Guest performer 
lim Richard April 26 and 27 

of New York Dance Connection 
at 7:30P.M. 
Guest Choreographer 
April28lisa Frank 
at 2:30P.M. 
Artistic Direction 

lndi Dieckgrafe O'Laughlin Auditorium 
termination of dances inside the residence halls. 
"Hall staffs spend a dispropor­tionate amount of time and energy addressing behavior related to alcohol," Poorman said in the let­ter. 
In the following days, students voiced their dissatisfaction, rally­ing more than 600 protesters out­side LaFortune Student Center to burn copies of duLac, the student handbook, and bear signs that read "Save Liquor." 
A second demonstration brought more than 100 angry stu­dents to the steps of the Main Building at midnight on a week­day. Protesters hurled beer bottles at the windows before scattering at the arrival of Notre Dame Security/Police. 
They also sent Poorman a peti­tion with more than 4,000 signa­tures and a letter that summa­rized the thoughts and objections of the student body, including fears that taking hall dances else­where would threaten dorm tradi­tions and unity. 
Before 2002, dances were host­ed in the 24-hour spaces of resi­dence halls, but Poorman said few students remained in those spaces during the dances. Students 
Tickets: $9-Aclult $8-Senior Citizen 

-t%1­

SAINT 

$7-SMC/ND Staff 
MARY'S 

$6-Student
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 

MoreauCenter.com 


For tickets, visit the Box Office or call (574) 284-4626. 
Castle Point Apartl]lents" 18011 Clfiwe.laud RQad Soutb Bend~ Indiana 
0-F-Fea.ing 
() lndoor/Outdoor*'fJ""•~sJ () Free Tanning.~
:;$: 

.w  
~~ ~'  Heated Pool  W1!J  
\r.~  

~~R I . J ··· .
,, e ax1ng acuzz1 () Gated Community 
rooms -forcing the hall staff to scatter to try to monitor the entire building, he said. The sparse supervision gave way to cases of vandalism, sexual and physical assault and alcohol intoxication across the hall, Poorman said. 
After the changes were announced, students said moving the dances to off-hall venues would drive more students off campus, but the percentage of on­campus students did not change, staying at 80 percent throughout the last five years, according to the Office of Residence Life and Housing. 
"The predictions that students would move off campus because of the changes in the alcohol poli­cy have proven to be mistaken," Poorman said. "Based on my observations and my own experi­ence residing in one of the male dorms, I would say the halls are the same vibrant, spirited commu­nities today that they've always been." 
Junior Fernando Contreras said he has enjoyed every minute in Alumni Hall, the residence hall where he has lived since his fresh­man year. 
"I kind of wish I could see what the Wake used to be like before, 
On Campus Graduation Weekend Special May19-23, 2007 
Come early, stay late, same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $100.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. For reservations call574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 
574-272-811 0 5.74...272-8~14.FAX· www.cppj.com 


Specials! 
Basketball 
your dates to the dance, and about how everyone would get drunk together in the hallways that whole week," Contreras said. 
The Wake, one of the hall's sig­nature traditions, once featured a procession of Alumni residents and pallbearers that carried rec­tor Father George Rozum into the dance inside a coffin, symbolizing the death of the hall's set of laws during Wake Week, he said. 
"Apparently, it was total anar­chy for a whole week," Contreras said. "I mean, the Wake is still fun because it's the thing you do with your dorm, but I bet it would've been insane to be there when it was so wild." 
Despite the taming of the Wake in the aftermath of the revised alcohol policy, he said he "would­n't trade living in Alumni." 
Besides its effects on the long­standing traditions of the halls, student demonstrators in 2002 also said the policy changes would only force students to drink liquor off campus rather than in their rooms -and they predicted the number of accidents and deaths related to driving under the influ­ence ofalcohol would increase. 
One person did die in the fall of 2002 -but Poorman refused to answer all the questions sur­rounding the tragedy. 
On December 12, 2002, fresh­man Chad Sharon disappeared one night after attending a party on Corby Boulevard. He was not seen for two months after that night, until his body was found in Saint Joseph River with a 0.224 blood-alcohol content-almost three times the Indiana limit for drivers. 
"Many believe that after leaving the party alone on a wintry, icy night, he fell into the river and was drowned," Poorman said. "The extent to which alcohol played a role in this accident is not known." 
He said while he did not know the exact circumstances of Sharon's death, he did know "there are dozens of students on college campuses across the nation that die every year because of alcohol poisoning." 
"In a great many instances, these students consumed large quantities ofhard alcohol in a very short period of time," Poorman said. "Banning hard alcohol in the halls was a concrete, practical step we could take as a university to reduce the risk of this happen­ing at ND." 
The changes to the alcohol poli­cy, he said, were not passed to end alcohol consumption on campus but rather to reduce the risk of extreme intoxication by banning drinks that have twice the alcohol content of beer. 
The third story in this series will examine the projected future of Notre Dame's drinking culture in light of national trends and the actions the University is taking to address alcohol use and abuse on campus. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 





Tostal 
continued from page 1 
ities," Calion said. "We're very excited for the event and are praying for good weather." 
While the forecast calls for rain today, this would only affect outdoor events. All of the events in the Student Center will still occur. However, if it does rain, dinner will be moved into the Noble Family Dining Hall, and the screening of "Dreamgirls" will be moved into Vander Vennett theater in the basement of the Student Center. 
In case of rain, the canoe races and fireworks will not occur today, but they will not be canceled completely. 
"The firework display and canoe races will clearly need to be rescheduled for another date sometime before the end of the semester," Calion said. 
The event is open to the Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and Notre Dame communities, and all of the activities are free . 
''I'm really excited about SMC Tostal," sophomore Jessie Sobczyk said. "Although I wish the events were on a weekend so they wouldn't conflict with classes and I could participate in more of the events." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Thursday, April 26, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
StQcks 

Dow 


13,089.89 +135.95
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,272 142 960 3,260,183,553 

S&PSOO 1,495.42 +15.01 
NII<Ka(TflljJf}l~:ii!IIBi·il~iiil!&til.1fl:i 
FTSE. IOO(London) 6,461.90 +32.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +1.33  +0.61  46.31  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +1.4S  +0.32  22.2S8  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -11.28  +0.67  S.27  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.69  +0.20  28.99  
JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU)  +6.09  +0.96  16.73  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  +O.S2  +0.024  4.646  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.31  -0.0 IS  4.820  
30-YEAR BOND  +O.S4  +0.026  4.83  
S-YEAR NOTE  +0.62  +0.028  4.S4  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +1.26  6S.84  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  -0.30  687.40  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +ISS  104.00  
E.xcha  Rates  
YEN  118.6SOO  
EURO  0.7327  
POUND  0.4991  
CANADIAN$  1.1 IS4  

IN BRIEF 
Health insurer's stock falls, profits rise 
INDIANAPOLIS -WeliPoint Inc. said Wednesday its first-quarter profit rose 7 per­cent, but the nation's largest health insurer's stock fell amid Wall Street's concerns over ris­ing costs for its state-sponsored business in two states, including California. 
Net income rose to $783.1 million, or $1.26 per share, from $731.8 million, or $1.09 per share, a year ago, including a penny per share in net realized investment losses. 
Revenue grew 9 percent to $15.08 billion from $13.84 billion in the prior-year period, driven by premium rate increases in the com­pany's local group business, growth in the Medicare Advantage business, increased reim­bursement in the Federal Employee Program, and higher state-sponsored membership. 
The profit and revenue matched the expec­tations of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial, but analysts repeatedly questioned company executives about the costs WellPoint is incurring in its California state-sponsored business. WellPoint shares fell $3.40, or 4.1 percent, to close at $78.84 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Hearst Corp. settles antitrust lawsuit 
SAN FRANCISCO -Hearst Corp. and MediaNews Group, Inc. have settled an antitrust lawsuit initiated by a San Francisco businessman that alleged a business partnership between the two newspaper publishers would create a region­al monopoly on readership and advertising. 
The two companies agreed to rescind an agree­ment to share national advertising, distribution and production in the Bay Area under a settle­ment announced Wednesday with San Francisco businessman Clint Reilly. 
New York-based Hearst, which owns the San Francisco Chronicle, invested $300 million in MediaNews in a complex deal that helped finance the Denver-based publisher's purchase of the Contra Costa Times, Monterey County Herald and San Jose Mercury News last year. 
In the federal lawsuit filed in July, Reilly alleged that the business partnership would limit compe­tition in the regional newspaper market, drive up subscription prices and reduce journalistic diver­sity. He cited the April 2006 cooperative agree­ment between the two companies. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Delta emerges from bankruptcy 
After 6,000 job cuts, nation's third-largest airline reorganizes, restructures fleet 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -It took 
almost two years and 
6,000 job cuts, but Delta 
Air Lines on Wednesday at 
last received the approval 
it sought to emerge from 
bankruptcy protection as 
an independent company. 
On Monday, it plans to be 
reborn, with new shares, a 
resiructured fleet and 
lower labor costs, but with­
out the protection from 
creditors that the court 
provided. 

Atlanta-based Delta Air 
Lines Inc. will again have 
to answer to shareholders, 
who likely will want to see 
results quickly. 

Delta estimates it will be 
worth $9.4 billion to $12 
billion. During its reorgani­
zation, the nation's third­
largest airline slashed $3 
billion in annual costs. 
More than 95 percent of 
creditors voted to endorse 
the plan for Delta to leave 
bankruptcy as a stand 
alone carrier. That plan 
had been put in jeopardy 
by a $9.8 billion hostile 
takeover bid launched last 
fall by Tempe, Ariz.-based 
US Airways Group Inc. 
Delta successfully persuad­
ed creditors to back its 
blueprint to emerge from 
bankruptcy and reject the 
buyout offer. 

Airline industry analyst 
Robert Mann said Delta He said Delta's success delays. Atlanta. Shares in the reor­
was not likely to try to depends on its ability to Grinstein said ganized Delta, with the 
combine with another car­grow its international Wednesday not to expect ticker symbol DAL, are 
rier in the near term. routes, and that its expan­any "immediate action" on scheduled to begin trading 
Industry watchers have sion was by no means Comair since the company again next Wednesday on 
speculated that Delta guaranteed. The interna­has a new board of direc­the New York Stock 
might join with Northwest tional air travel market­tors. Exchange. 
Airlines Inc., which filed place is increasingly com­Delta's board will also "I feel elated," Grinstein 
for bankruptcy the same petitive, especially given choose a successor to Chief said Wednesday. "For the 
day Delta did. • the possibility of more Executive Gerald Grinstein, 47,000 (employees) ... 
Mann said an acquisition competition on routes who plans to retire. they're the ones who went 
was less likely outside of across the Atlantic and to Grinstein, who is 7 4, has through all the angst and 
bankruptcy. China. said the two leading inter­made the sacrifices. It's for 
"That sense of urgency Now that it is leaving nal candidates are Chief them I feel extreme relief." 
has passed, not because it court protection, Delta may Financial Officer Ed Delta's reorganization plan 
really has, but because the sell off its regional carrier Bastian and Chief will give unsecured creditors 
perception is that we've subsidiary, Erlanger, Ky.­Operating Officer James between 62 percent and 78 
dodged that bullet," Mann based Comair, which has Whitehurst. percent of the value of their 
said. "I think it's a decided­received poor marks for Delta will celebrate its allowed claims as shares of 
ly positive event for Delta." lost baggage and flight emergence Monday in new Delta stock. 

Northeast businesses affected by floods 
Associated Press bought insurance. have. 
Being underinsured for a disaster is a "Not until you become a victim or you 
NEW YORK -Many small business common problem for businesses, espe­come very close to losing everything do owners in the Northeast are still trying cially younger ones, said Cathy you decide this is something essential to recover from floods caused by as Weatherford, executive vice president for you that you cannot do without," much as eight inches of rain earlier this with the National Association of she said. month. Those who had flood insurance Insurance Commissioners, an organiza­Flood insurance tends to get the most can recoup some of their losses, but tion of regulatory officials from the 50 headlines, particularly since Hurricane those who never purchased such cover­states, the District of Columbia and five Katrina inundated New Orleans in age are now dealing with the fact that a U.S. territories. 2005. But there is other specialized dis­disaster doesn't have to be a hurricane, Cost is a factor when owners decide aster coverage such as earthquake tornado or earthquake to cause cata­not to ·purchase specialized disaster insurance that many businesses in clysmic damage to a company. insurance; the premiums and California buy, and landslide insurance, 
Insurance industry analysts and peo­deductibles tend to be high because policies that businesses in the Puget ple who advise small businesses say damage tends to be heavy and insur­Sound area of the Northwest should many companies find themselves ance company payouts in turn are consider. underinsured when disasters happen. large. Small business owners without a But a disaster isn't limited to a catas­Many don't have the specialized policies lot of spare cash often decide to take trophe wrought by Mother Nature -a 
that would cover disasters or they have their chances, and hope that disaster fire that destroys a business can be just coverage that falls short in dollar terms never strikes. as disastrous. So a small business of what they need. Or they find they Equally problematic, Weatherford needs to consider whether it's ade­didn't read the fme print about what said, is the attitude of "this can't hap­quately insured for any and all possibil­was and wasn't covered when they pen to me" that many business owners ities. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, April 26, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Shoulda, woulda, coulda 
PO. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR! Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR! Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sh<tron Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER! Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER! Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR! Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(57 4) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Maty's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chiif'Maddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tht-Observer (USpS 599 2-4000) is publi&hed Monday through F(ithly ~-during aam and vacation ~riods. A subscrip\"ion ro The OlRrvuis$100 fQr one:~ year, $55 furnnc~m£Ster. 
The Observer is published at:+ POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Seod address C()ff'C(;tiOM t-o: Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 Th<OI=r= P-triodkal postage paid at Notre Dame P.O.Boxm and additional. milling offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame~ IN 46556-0n9 
The Observer ls a member ofthe Associated Press. All reproduaion righu. are ,&n<d, 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Amanda Michaels Madeline Nies Jenn Metz Sports Mandi Stirone Deirdre Krasula Viewpoint Michael Bryan Alyssa Chris Doyen Brauweiler Scene Chris McGrady 
Quarter dogs cost a quarter; hence the name, "quarter dog." 
To understand this concept, you needn't have fulfilled Notre Dame's six-credit math requirement; instead, you Simply needed a post-midnight Huddle trip. · 
By the end of your collegiate career, aside from accumulating a staggering 120 credits, you undoubtedly con­sumed many a quarter dog. And with mere weeks until graduation, the "what ifs" of the past four years inevitably ereep into the consciences of the senior class. 
If you could do college again, what would you do differently? 
I asked some Notre Dame employees what they thought -what did they wish that the soon-to-be-graduates had done differently? 
"Hot dogs don't have barcodes. You can't scan 'em," one late-night Huddle employee advised. He said that it was not uncommon for you and the other post-midnight inebriated to stumble over to the register and wave quarter dogs in front of the price scanner, then wait for the cashier to announce the total. Aside from your obvious oversight that a quarter dog always costs a quarter, your continued attempts to scan a barcode-less item created quite a scene -one that could've been different. 
One late-night Sbarro employee said she'd seen it all during her shifts, from flying pizzas to people dressed as Power.Rangers. Yet what she saw didn't disturb her as much as what she heard-chats chock-full of the "f-word." So what did she wish that you'd done differently? She suggested, "If you can cuss somebody out without using one cuss word, then that shows 

that you're an intelligent person." 
While Sbarro patrons littered LaFortune with their language, others littered the dining halls -literally. During a typical South or North Dining Hall luneh lunch, you and your fellow students essentially tableeloth­ed table after table with eopies of The Obsnrvnr or the Chicago Tribune. As one dining hall monitor said, "If the monitors didn't reeyele the newspa­pers, the dining hall would be buried under them." 
And the monitors wnren't the only dining hall staffers equipped with suggestions. "I wish everybody would stop eating mustard," one plate­scraping dish cleaner said. According to this rubber-gloved worker, mustard is not the easiest-to-clean eondiment. And what else did she wish you wouldn't have done? Stuffed a napkin in your drink or stuek a fork in your apple. 
And just as forks don't belong inside of apples, banana peels don't bnlong inside of books. Thus the advice of a woman on the Ilesburgh Library's book restoration erew: "Don't use a banana peel as a bookmark." Precedent has proved that it loaves behind a moldy yellow mush. For you of the Internet age, book researeh ean be exeruciating enough -let alone when there's a putrid stench protrud­ing from between the pages. 
Throughout your past years, read­ing for class also proved excruciating. And don't think that your laek of elass preparedness slipped past your pro­fessors. One history professor said that while at the helm of the elass, "You do see a lot of blank stares. It'd be niee to see the students engaged." And how, in this hypothetical "next time around," eould you go about appearing "engaged"? This profes­sor's suggestion: "Well, stay awake." He'd rather you nod along with his leetures, as opposed to nodding off. 
But sleep is an integral part of eol­lege. And class isn't the only unsuit­able plaee to sleep; apparently, lofted beds aren't the best option either. One Health Serviees nurse cited the obvi­ous "germ-sharing" and the not-so­obvious "lofted beds" as two of the guiltiest eulprits of your visits to St. Liam Hall. This nurse's "next time around" solution to the ubiquitous falling-out-of-bunk problem-"just put some padding on the floor." 
Padding is key for eushioning a fall, and as a Notre Dame student, you probably needed some feathering to fall on. While fulfilling your math requirements, you also tottered on a tightrope; four years of eollege ean throw you off of more than just your lofted bed. 
In hindsight, you can clairvoyantly see those words that you should -or shouldn't-have spoken. You ean see what-or whom-you should've paid attention to. You even ean see what you should've disposed of, whether it is those already-been-read newspapers or those bad-for-you rela­tionships. If you could repeat these four years, you'd undoubtedly make some modifications. 
But of eourse, there's plenty that you wouldn't change, regardless of how many ehances you had to re-live eollege. You graduate with at least 120 credits, but to your eredit, you leave with far more life lessons than eould ever be quantified -or even paid for at the Huddle. And I don't know about you, but I like mustard, espeeially on quarter dogs. 
If college is comparable to tightrope walking, then wow -sign me up for the circus. 
Liz Coffey is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at ecoffey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 

-IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 26, 2007 page 9 
Make a good ending 
The end of the semester and-the end of the 2006­07 school year is upon us. Some of you won't be back next year due to graduation, travel abroad or transfer to another school. Others will return next fall tilled with hope for a fresh start to a new year. Whatever your circumstances, it Kate would be easy enough just to Barrett stumble out of here with your suit­cases, exhausted and stressed-out FaithPoint from finals, leaving your post­"packed-for-summer-storage" empty, dingy room and the roommates who used to be your best friends -and who are now driving you crazy ~ in the rear­view mirror. 
Don't do it! Give your best effort towards summon­ing up the energy to say what you need to say. Tell someone you love her. Thank your friends for their kindnesses. Offer forgiveness, or ask for it. Senior week and commencement offer graduates lots of chances to say "good-bye," "thank you," and ''I'm sorry," but the rest of us will have to make sure that such exchanges happen. And as local, national and global events have taught us just recently, there's no point in waiting until some "appropriate" future time to seek peace, express gratitude or offer love. 
.Just this past Tuesday, even as the South Bend community was concluding memorial events for Cpl. Scott Severns, a police officer killed in the line of duty one year ago, Cpl. Nick Polizzotto, also a South Bend officer, died after being shot while responding to a "shots fired" call at a local motel. 
On Monday, nine paratroopers from the famed 82nd Airborne were killed and 20 more wounded when a suicide truck bomber attacked their convoy. Perhaps no more can even be said that hasn't been said already about the shootings at Virginia Tech last week, or about the innocent people of Iraq or Darfur dying by the hundreds each week. 
But don't you hope that Cpl. Polizzotto gave his young son a big hug before he left for work on Tuesday? And the students and faculty at Virginia Tech who died so tragically and the soldiers who gave their lives in Iraq-don't you long to believe that they each had happened to call home or e-mail their moms and dads; that they hadn't just by horri­ble coincidence left unresolved an ugly argument with a friend or family member? 
Time is precious as the last, partial week of the semester approaches. Finals, packing, storage, trav­el and work all contribute to making this one of the less-appealing times of the academic year. But if you have even just a few minutes, think about who you need to call or e-mail or text message or speak to. If you have even just a few more minutes, take a look at some of the letters of Paul in the New Testament. At the time of his writing many people, including Paul, thought that Jesus' return-and the end of the world -was imminent. Paul's letters reflect a concern to help believers figure out how to live when time could be short; when !he "day of the Lord" could come "like a thief in the night" (1 Thes. 5:2). In that same letter, he offers a plea to the Thessalonians that might help us, no matter how challimging it seems at this time of year: "Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all cir­cumstances" (5:16-18). 
God willing, in a few weeks most of you will leave and some of us will stay, under much more peaceful circumstances than those our neighbors and fellow university meml;>ers and armed forces have faced recently. Make a good ending this year. I say "make," not "have," because happy endings-dif­ferences resolved, love expressed, forgiveness received, gratitude articulated-must be intention­al, especially when you have three finals and two papers and a lab and a room to pack up and a sum­mer job to find. 
It's not just going to happen on its own, especially at this time of year. As Paul would say, "Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in the one body. And be thankful" (Col. 3:15). And if you are sorry, or concerned, or thankful, or you love someone ... say so. 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Kate Barrett, dire.ctor ofresources and special projects in the Office of Campus Ministry .. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Wear 'The Shirt' 
"Together As One"-It's a concept play against their past." Any team that has been as powerful as any that walks through the tunnel with­other in history. The strength that out the Notre Dame on their uniform results when many individual parts doesn't play against 11 men every come together as one whole was rec­duwn-they play against 80,000. ognized long ago by ancient armies That's what makes Notre Dame's (anyone seen "300"?), throughout past. That's what makes Notre Dame history by political revolutionaries football special. To bring all the com­and more recently on a less fatal ponents of the Notre Dame football battlefield, in the world of sports. tradition into one T-shirt would be Basketball, soccer and hockey teams basically impossible. What The Shirt know they cannot win without team­Committee 2007 attempted was to work. Kobe can put up 80 in a night, show just a glimpse of what makes but when was the last time the Notre Dame. When all the parts are Lakers won a World Championship? brought together as one, there is No team can win without its entire nothing like it. "Together As One" cast on the same page, working tire­means we, the students, with the lessly toward the same goal. In no alumni, with the rest of the fans, sport is that idea more essential than with all the traditions from the back in football. We all know what hap­of The Shirt, with the coaches, with pens when just one part of a football the offense, defense and special team fails to achieve perfection. teams, standing shoulder to shoul­What sets our school apart from all der, are all impenetrable and others is that the team extends unstoppable. Go Irish. Wear The beyond the players and coaches on Shirt 2007. the field. There are other parts that have to achieve that perfection. In Jason Gott the words of Bob Costas, "There is vice president, The Shirt 2007 the myth, the Stadium in South Dillon Hall Bend, and history's team, Notre sophomore Dame.... In their home, you also April24 
What happened with Affleck-Graves' money? 
Last week my spouse received a let­Dame's preferred lender, Citigroup." I ter from an associate provost congrat­wonder if University President Father ulating him on being named a recipi­John Jenkins, with whom Affieck­ent of the Edmund P. Joyce C.S.C., Graves is said to have discussed the Award for excellence in undergraduate ethics of the appointment, was minded teaching. $1,500 would accompany the to offer the University's help to dis­award. The letter concluded with an burse the reward to charity -or pos­offer of help in facilitating donation of sibly a scholarship fund for indigent the money to a charity, if my spouse so students? chose. (OXFAM America and our Surely Comrade Afileck-Graves did parish on the southeast side of South not need the money? Given his posi­Bend would welcome the assistance.) tion in the Party's apparatus, his 
I mention this after reading the remuneration must rank with the very report in The Observer ("Aftleck­highest on campus. Graves on loan company board," April 
16) of Executive Vice President John Affieck-Graves' $59,000 bonanza: Ann Pettifer compensation for "eight months as a Class of 1976 director for Student Loan Corpor­South Bend, Ind. ation, a lender affiliated With Notre Aprill8 
U-WIRE 

Courtesy has come along way 
Don't get the wrong idea, my fellow It's not a military march. And I'm espe­campus dwellers, for I've been general­cially talking to you -yes, you -the ly pleased with the courtesy I've expe­one who just cut me off even though rienced around this fine institution. you're walking slower than I am. 
I can hardly express just how happy I You're walking slow, and I'm walking am when you hold . . fast; you're free the rest of the day, and the door open for me, David Zugnom I'm already nine minutes late to the or when you San Jose State class where the teacher locks the door acknowle.dge ~y University after 10 minutes, and you still didn't sneeze w1th a God Spartan Daily let me pass by. bless you." All of it When you're in a rush and I've got makes this campus a nicer place to be nothing to do, I promise to let you by ­-it really does. it reminds me how lazy I can be the 
However, any job worth doing is a job rest of the day. worth doing greatly, and so I have a Third suggestion: Shut up when few suggestions for you all to help us you're walking by the open door of a push the envelope of campus courtesy. class that's in session. It makes my 
And, no, as much as I can't stand that professor stutter and roll his eyes vibrating cell phone going off in class every time. I know you're aware of the every couple of minutes, I won't repeat class going on in here because you're the mantra from every syllabus that peering in to see if there are any cute says you should turn the damn thing girls you can check out. If your conver­off. sation about last night's episode of The 
To start (and forgive me, ladies, if Ultimate Fighter is too stimulating to this is just a guy thing), can you please put off for a few seconds, then at least remember to flush the toilet when you lower the volume so your fellow stu­finish up in the bathroom, instead of dents can focus on class. leaving your Honey Nut Cheerios-scent­And finally, please, for the love of ed urine on display for all to appreci­fresh air, keep the smelly leftovers out ate? I just don't get it. of the classroom. 
Every time I walk into a bathroom You know who you are and I know here, I have to flush twice -once for you're reading this. You're a nice guy you and once for me. I know some of and I always listen when you speak up you aren't too keen on putting your in class, but I can smell your chili­spotless hands on the bacteria-covered cheese fries three rows away. handle, so do what I do: Use your I understand the aversion to throw­elbow or your foot. You really should ing food away, but I don't know if that be washing your hands anyways, but can justify the damage it does to our we're taking baby steps here. We'll noses and the focus it takes away from work on that next semester. class. Stash it in a secret spot outside; 
Secondly, I urge you all to start trying give it to a homeless person; whatever to be better pedestrians. I'm talking to you do, keep it away from the class­you, buddy -the one walking down room. the left side of that narrow stairway This is all I ask of you; our courtesy with your eyes on your cell phone. You is strong, but we just need to dot the I's just made 12 people a few more sec­and cross the T's. I'll get off your case onds late to class because they had to the first time I walk into the bathroom sidestep your text-messaging ass. Get and see nothing but water in the toi­to the right like everyone else. lets. 
I'm also talking to all you groups of five, trudging along at an earthworm's This column originally appeared in pace, laughing it up, completely the April 25 edition of the Spartan unaware of the girl who's trying to Daily, the daily publication at San Jose squeeze by without getting a grass State University. stain on her brand new flip-flops. Try The views expressed in this column walking in a bunch instead of an are those of the author and not neces­impenetrable line across the walkway. sarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Thursday, April 26, 2007 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Fracture' breaks mold for murder thrillers 
By JAMES COSTA Scene Writer 

Gore Vidal once said of Los Angeles, "It is unique in its bright horror." And after spending two hours in the the­ater watching Gregory Hoblit's "Fracture," it seems that he's right. It is a gripping film with all the twists and shocks you'd expect out of an LA cat-and-mouse murder thriller. But it's also a lot more: intelligent, witty and far more thought provok­

Fracture
ing than most While Hopkins is movies today. 
electrifying through­
The film's out the film, Hoblit basic premise is. does not overplay his that very suc­role. He also doesDirector: Gregory Hoblit 
cessful aero­not place Hopkins
Writer: Daniel Pyne and Glenn Gers
nautical engi­and Gosling togeth­
Starring: Anthony Hopkins, Ryan 
neer Ted er gratuitously in
Gosling, David Strathairn, Rosamund
Crawford scenes. This is both
Pike, Embeth Davidtz and Billy Burke 
(Anthony Hopkins) attempts to murder his wife Jennifer (Embeth Davidtz). After the cops surround his home, he surrenders peacefully and acts extremely cooperative. He even gives the arresting officers the mur­der weapon. (Don't worry; I'm not giv­ing anything away. You can see all this in the preview.) Yet from here, everything starts to get confusing. A rising star out of the District Attorney's office, Willy Beachum (Ryan Gosling) takes on the case just before he's set to change jobs and join a major LA law firm. The film hits its stride once Beachum and Crawford meet and develop an intense rivalry of mind and cunning, a tension that runs through the rest of the film. 
It is clear that Gregory Hoblit con­structs his film in a genre he has been successful in; the comfort shows. After directing films like "Primal Fear" and "Hart's War," Hoblit again tackles the courtroom drama. However, he does not focus entirely on the courtroom. Rather, he takes the viewer on a journey through the mind of Beachum as he attempts to maneuver his own success and future -as well as the District Attorney's 
office -on the axle 
of the same case. 
a good and a bad 
thing. It is good 
because it ensures that the film cannot be considered just another "Silence of the Lambs," which became famous for the magic between Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter and Jodie Foster as a new FBI agent in the original film. The downside, however, is that the Hopkins and Gosling do share strong scene chem­istry. When they're together, it truly is riveting stuff. 
The film is very stylish and slick in its production, a bit like the recent "Breach," which starred Ryan Phillippe as a fledgling FBI nmployee trying to bring down a major spy within the Bureau. However, the film does not deserve classification as sim­ply "smooth" or "stylish." Sure, it's full of gorgeous camera angles and superb lighting effects, but the movie also addresses serious societal issues in a clever and thoughtful manner. Hather brilliantly, the film juxtaposes the relaxed acting style of Gosling to the rigid and old school style of Hopkins to magnificent effect. While it always seems like Hopkins is perform­ing, the viewer gets the impression that Gosling is mostly being himself. 
Not merely thriller, the intelligent aspect of the film is its treatment of Gosling and his career desires and decisions. Quite applicable to seniors about the graduate and preparing for the real world, the film places Gosling in a situation -in which the choice of to do right or to do wrong is incredibly important. It is not merely his reputa­tion at stake. Rather, it is the reputa­tion of the DA's office and the freedom of Hopkins sitting across the table at the defendant's desk. We witness Gosling undertake a journey that accentuates both the strongest moral rights and the darkest moral wrongs. Where does he come out on the moral scale? I can't tell you, but it's worth a watch to find out. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
'Kingdom of Heaven' rights its course on DVD 
By RAMA GOTTUMl[KKALA Senior Scene Writer 

"The Path to Redemption" is an apt title for the centerpiece of the four-disc director's cut DVD of "Kingdom of Heaven." Boasting a two-hour, 24-minute runtime, the robust documentary is a compelling and lavish look behind the scenes at one of the most intriguing Hollywood failures in recent years. 
The 2005 film was supposed to be direc­tor Ridley Scott's medieval age opus, an ode to noble knights and valiant crusades. On paper, it certainly looked the part. But somewhere along the way, the fihn became hopelessly lost. It was greeted by jeers from critics and apathy from the same audiences that exalted "Gladiator," Scott's Oscar-win­ning Roman epic. Budgeted at $130 million, "Heaven" was razed at the box office, end­ing its theatrical run with a paltry domestic gross of $4 7 million. 

Fortunately, the story didn't end there. In an industry where failure is rarely forgiven, the movie's re-release as a 194-minute cut is an uncommon boon. The new additions, totaling 50 minutes, reveal a vastly different film -the version Scott always intended but never got the chance to show us. 
Where the theatrical cut played like a simple-minded and bombastic rock con­cert, the director's cut feels like a nuanced concerto. Aided by much stronger charac­ter development and clearer motivations, its visual majesty is now matched by a soulful message of tolerance that distances it from the vapidity of other blockbusters, a description that surely haunted Scott and his crew following the film's theatrical ruin. 
Spread over the first two discs, "Kingdom of Heaven" is granted a beautiful video transfer and a roaring soundtrack. Each pristine frame reflects cinematographer John Mathieson's gorgeous photography, which fits a movie that is easily one of the best-looking efforts of Scott's acdaimed career. 
Once again, the special features on this DVD reaffirm Hidley Scott as one of the medium's great enthusiasts. Like Peter Jackson, David Fincher and Robert Rodriguez, Scott is that rare filmmaker who loves to pack his DVDs with comprehensive documentaries, informative commentaries and invaluable peeks at moviemaking magic, a trend that continues here. 

The copious bonus material includes cast rehearsals, storyboards, trailers, deleted scenes and three commentaries with various members of the cast and crew. The best of the trio is easily the first, featuring Scott, writer William Monahan (who won an Academy Award for "The Departed," but was skewered for this script, his frrst) and star Orlando Bloom. All three are separate, but their comments are combined to form one of the most revealing and consistently entertaining tracks in recent memory. 
But the creme of the crop. of this release is "Path to Redemption," a superb and insight­ful piece that charts the film's progression from conception to production to release. Nearly every major member of the cast and crew takes the time to contribute reflections on the movie's formation. There is a genuine love and affection for the projeet in these interviews, which adds greatly to their appeal. 
There were many reasons bandied around for the theatrical demise of "Kingdom of Heaven." Among these were nagging Fox executives who hoped to short­en the story to what they saw as a lean two­hour action-adventure romp. But in doing so they excised much of the film's raw beauty. 
Thankfully, the once-wayward "Heaven" is redeemed with this release. Using the alchemic power of the DVD medium, Scott succeeds in restoring the luster to his tar­nished gem. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 


.--------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, April 26, 2007 
page 11 
DVD REVIEW 
Tragedy of 1The Queen' truly fit for royalty 

l~ffi
sc=&SRnI 
O'Donnell's ABC absence will be a sight to behold 
She also got into heaps oftrouble for what is now referred to as the "Ching-Chong" controversy. On Dec. 5, Rosie made a com­ment in reference to the large amounts pf publicity that "The View" received for Danny DeVito's hung-over appearance after a night oftaking shots with George Clooney. She joked that the event was being talked about asJar away as China and said, "You know, you can in China it's like, 'Ching­chong, ching-chong. Danny DeVito. Ching­chong, ching-chong-chong. Drunk. The View. Ching Chong."' The remarks set off a media firestorm and Rosie subsequently apologized for her tasteless humor. 
At least she apologized that time. 
My favorite celebrity moments tend to be when stars feign knowing about things that they clearly don't understand. Tom Cruise popularized this antic when he informed Matt Lauer how much he really "knows" about the history of psychiatry and psychi­atric treatments. Rosie embarked on a simi­lar crusade during the March 28 episode of "The View" when she promoted her con­spiracy theories regarding 9/11. During her rant she claimed to have a complete under­standing of physics and explained that it was "impossible for [World Trade Center 7] to fall the way it fell without explosives being involved." She concluded, "Miraculously, [for] the first time in history, steel was melted by fire." The magazine "Popular Mechanics" published a point-by­point response debunking each of Rosie's claims. 
On her blog, Rosie wrote that she "read 
courtesy Rosie O'Donnell, second from left, is pictured here with the cohosts of ABC's "The View." O'Donnell is leaving the show in June because of contract disagreements. 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Senior Staff Writer 
Princess Diana's death was a key moment in British history. It shook the foundations of the social hierarchy and threatened the monarchy in a way that . few events before or since have rivaled. Stephen Frears' "The Queen" recon­structs the event in a meaningful and insightful way -the director creates a film that is about a family more than an event, while simultaneously producing what was easily one of the best perform­ances of 2006. 
"The Queen" follows the royal family, led by Elizabeth II (Helen Mirren), as it copes with the tragic death of Diana. The 

Yesterday on "The View," Rosie O'Donnell announced that she and ABC were unable to reach a contract agreement, so she will be leaving the show this June. During the show, creator Barbara Walters remarked that they "have had, to say the least, an interesting year." 
That barely even begins to sum up the number ofcontrover­sies that Rosie started during her brief tenure. 
Most notably was the long-standing feud between her and The Donald. When Trump said he was allowing the luscious Tara Conner to retain her crown as Miss USA, Rosie started a tirade on "The View" that declared him unfit to be the moral compass of today's youth. Not one to just roll over and take a heaping spoonful ofslander, The Donald responded by calling her ugly­among other things. Over the last four months, the two continued to hurl insults at each other, culminating this Monday when, while hosting the Matrix Awards (given to the most accomplished women in media), Rosie concluded a rant about Tnunp by grabbing her crotch and shouting, "Eat me!" 
Truly classy. 

family clings to tradition, refusing public displays of grief (like waving the flag at half-mast). This leads to declining public opinion and also causes conflict with the new prime minister, Tony Blair. Blair believes that the family has to adapt to changing times, which greatly worries Elizabeth and the rest of the royal family. 
The biggest reason to see "The Queen" is Mirren's pitch-perfect performance. Her take on Elizabeth II is at once respectful and complex, with far more nuance and emotional weight than might be expected. Like Forrest Whitaker's per­formance in 'The Last King of Scotland," Mirren's portrayal of the queen brings a historical figure to startling life. 
Unlike "The Last King," however, the rest of the film doesn't bring the key per­formance down. Frears constructed a meticulous recreation of the events lead­ing up to -and immediately following -the death of Princess Di, and his steady control and strong sense of com­position lends itself to a beautiful and complex picture. Some of the symbolism is overwrought and heavy-handed, and some people may object to the portrayal of Prime Minister Blair, but the overall presentation is quite strong. Recently, films of this sort have tended to fall into two camps: a great performance in an otherwise mediocre picture ("Ray," "The Last King of Scotland") and a delicately understated film that supports its per­formances beautifully ("Capote"). Thankfully, "The Queen" falls into the lat­ter category, and while it's not a stone­cold classic, it's much more engaging and entertaining than might be expected. 
"The Queen" is ultimately a film about willingness to adapt to changing times. Unfortunately, Miramax hasn't shown that same willingness. The DVD has fewer features than some discs more than a decade old. The picture is sharp and clear, and the sound (in Dolby Digital 
5.1) is acceptable. There is also an audio commentary track by Frears, writer Peter Morgan and British historian Robert Lacey. Informative and interest­ing, the track is easily the best feature on the disc. 
The featurette "The Making of 'The Queen"' is quite good, but several more features could have easily been added, especially since most of the key people in the film are still alive. It would have been interesting to get the perspective of mem­bers of the royal family, which means that the DVD of "The Queen" squanders its chance to be a comprehensive exami­nation pf not only the film but also its context. It's possible a better edition will someday be produced, but this version should suffice for casual fans. 
"The Queen" is an excellent picture, and its critical acclaim is well deserved. It's a shame that Miramax didn't put more effort into the DVD, since it's obvi­ous the picture was meticulously con­structed. "The Queen" comes highly rec­ommended, but fans big on extra DVD features might be better suited waiting for a more comprehensive edition. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
the whole thing i still believe explosives were used to bring down WTC7." 
Ifyou still aren't convinced as to her com­plete lack of intelligence and taste, then that blog should finish the job. Rosie's daily ram­blings can be read at www.rosie.com. She rarely uses complete sentences (and com­pletely disregards all possible understand­ing of the English language)-it pretty much is whatever loosely constructed thought happened to be in her mind at the time of typing. In a recent entry, she talks about an encounter with the paparazzi: "they lept at the car like i was brittney or lindsay pushing flashing yelling breaking news in america." 
It's the little things in life that we should be thankful for each day. I'm thankful that Rosie has, at least for the time being, been taken off the airwaves. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd. edu 
NBA 

Spurs hold off late Nuggets rally, tie series 
Gooden makes it rain over Wizards in 109-92 win for 2-0 lead; Mavericks even up series after two Warriors ejected 
Associated Press or we're down two, we're 
going to light you until the last 
SAN ANTONIO -Manu whistle blows." Ginobili knew Game 2 would The Nuggets got within 91­have to be different after the 88 on a 3-pointer by Iverson San Antonio Spurs' top three with 45 seconds to play, but scorers delivered less-than­Duncan's jump shot and two stellar performances in the free throws each by Finley and opening-game loss to the Parker put the Spurs on even Denver Nuggets. footing with Denver. 
He was right and the Spurs "We knew they were going to won 97-88 on Wednesday come in with the mind-set that night to even the first-round they let one slip away, or that series. they gave one away and that 
"A sense of urgency is what they were going to come back kept us matching that aggres­and fight," Anthony said. siveness," Ginobili said. "Today "They did what they had to do. we were much more aggres­They took care of their home sive. We fight for loose balls court and now they have to go and boards and that's what on the road." we've got to do every single Game 3 in the best-of-seven gan1e." series is Saturday in Denver. 
It almost wasn't enough as The Nuggets trailed 74-60 the Nuggets cut a 17-point, after three quarters. They fourth-quarter deficit to three were down 82-65, but a 16-5 points with 45 seconds to play. run capped by Iverson's 3­
But Ginobili, Tim Duncan pointer brought Denver within and Tony Parker, who all 87-81 with 3:23 left. It was the struggled offensively in Game closest they had been since 1, were able to help the Spurs 7:11 was left in the first half. hold off the sixth-seeded Nene's dunk with 1:12 left Nuggets, who were looking to made it 89-85. Ginobili scored return home with a second for the. Spurs, but Iverson's road win. second 3 of the quarter made 
Ginobili scored 15 of his 1 7 it 91-88. Duncan's jump shot points in the second half in with 27 seconds to go put the Game 2. Spurs up 93-88. with eight rebounds and seven game before winning the loss. 
"You had two basketball Finley hit two free throws assists. He also helped the series in six. They went back to the formula teams knocking it out and we after being fouled by Iverson Cavaliers hold off a furious But the 6-foot-10 Gooden, that won 67 games in the regular were able to get the lead and with 16.5 seconds left and rally by the Wizards, who who is growing out an 1980s­season and were in synch from hang on," Spurs coach Gregg Parker added two more with clawed within three points in style ducktail hairdo, helped the start. The Warriors hung Popovich said. "We were able 9. 9 seconds left. the final minute. make sure recent history tough, though, until everything to hang on more than any­But it was Gooden's first-half wouldn't be repeated. changed midway through the thing." Cavaliers 109, Wizards 92 flurry -·he scored 15 points in third quarter. 
Duncan led San Antonio with Once he dropped in his sixth just over five minutes -that Mavericks 112, Warriors 99 Dallas already was leading 22 points and five blocked straight jumper, Drew Gooden energized the Cavs and pushed The Dallas Mavericks finally when Terry dribbled into shots. Parker had 20 points spun around and looked over them to the commanding discovered that beating the Jackson, drawing a foul, then and Michael Finley added 14. at Cleveland's bench. Then, he advantage in the best-of-seven Golden State Warriors isn't as kept going into Davis. All three 
"I feel good about our situa­placed his hands in front of his series, which moves to hard as they had made it look. wound up with a technical foul. tion," said Denver's Allen face and wiggled his fingers. Washington for Game 3 on And it's even easier when Davis got another tech, and Iverson, who had 20 points. "I "That's called making it Saturday. Baron Davis and Stephen was automatically ejected, for feel good about being down rain," Gooden said. Gooden normally doesn't Jackson lose their cool. arguing about a foul with 0.2 sec­the way we were tonight and On Wednesday night, Gooden have many offensive plays Jason Terry scored 28 points, onds left in the third quarter. He fighting back. That showed poured it on for the Cavaliers. called for him by Cleveland Dirk Nowitzki had 23 and Josh was smiling and clapping at the them a lot and it showed us a Usually a member of coach Mike Brown, who may Howard led a 15-2 run in the time, although coach Don Nelson lot." Cleveland's supporting cast, have to rethink that philosophy third quarter that sent the was warning hin1 to cool it. 
Carmelo Anthony led the Gooden co-starred with after the forward came Mavericks to victory over the Teammate Matt Barnes tried Nuggets with 26 points and 10 LeBron James by scoring 19 of through on a night when Warriors in Game 2 on covering Jackson's mouth, first rebounds. Iverson added 20 his 24 points in the first half in James was clearly not himself. Wednesday night, evening their with his arm then with a towel as points, Nene had 17 points and leading the Cavaliers to victory Gooden's performance came first-round series. he escorted him to the locker Marcus Camby had 10 points over the Washington Wizards exactly one year after he had Dallas had lost six straight to room. and 18 rebounds. and a 2-0 lead in their first­24 points and 16 rebounds in Golden State dating to last sea­The series shifts to Oakland for 
"Tonight we showed that round series. Game 2 of the Cavs' first­son. The Mavericks even tried a Game 3 on Friday night, and we're going to fight," Anthony James, playing on a tender round series against the new starting lineup in Game 1, there's little doubt the emotions said. "Whether we're down 50 left ankle, scored 27 points Wizards. Cleveland lost that but that only led to a 12-point will remain high. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline tor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SUMMER WORK-$15.50 base­appt. flexible schedules, no exp.needed,customer sales/service, conditions apply,all ages 17+, posi­tions throughout the US, apply now, start after finals, www.workforstudents.com 
Sitter for 11-year-old girl in Granger and sometimes older sisters, 15 & 
17. Days, 30-40 hours/week now through summer. Reply: Linda. Harmon 1 @comcast. net 
Seeking Designer for personal web­site. Call 574-631-5491 & lv. msg. 
FoR SALE 
*NO CONDOS* NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos Minutes from campus Starting in $130,000s 574-252-2427 ndcondos.com Reserve Yours Today! 

3 bdrm,2 bath ranch, finished lower level, all amenities. 10 yrs. old & 1 mi to ND. $144,900. 574-277-2176. 
FoR RENT 
andersonN Drentals.com 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER AREAS.BETTER DEALS. 
BlueGoldRentals.com 
3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for 07/08 school year. On line see rentnd.com or mmm­rentals.com. Contact Gary at Groorns@ourwebspot.net or phone 574-277-4759. 
Condo for rent-walk to NO/SM. Grt loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli. AIC,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 + util. 630-417-8763/ MCL214@aol.com 
Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9. Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896. 
Very large home for rent for next school year. 1 block east of cam­pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4 huge bedrms/3 full baths/large kitchen-lam rm & laundry rm. 3 decks overlook huge fenced yard. Very private & safe! Must see! 239-707-2025. 
New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi,AC, 2 car gar. No pets. $1650/mo plus util. 914-232-3328. 
WALK TO CAMPUS!! JAMISON RESIDENTIAL 3 BDRM 2 BA LUX­URY CONDO. ACROSS B-BALL STADIUM FROM CAMPUS. SLEEPS UP TO 4 STUDENTS. EXCELLENT RENTAL FOR 2 GRAD STUDENTS OR FOR PRI­VACY. CONVERT 3RD BEDROOM TO STUDY. CAB,NET,GAS,ELEC, INCLUDED. $1600 PER MONTH BEGINNING 6/1. CALL MARK @ 310-940-9444. 
1-bdrm apts. Quiet historic neigh­borhood. Laundry & security. $575/mo. 574-532-8718. 
Room in beautiful home overlooking private golf course. 1.2 mi to ND. Privileges include kitchen for light cooking. WID. $275/mo. Call 574­232-7564. Avail. now and/or for 07­
08. Addl room avail for football weekends at $125/night. 
Furnished 1 bdrm apt., 2 mi to NO, AC, non-smoking, no pets. $400/mo 
+ utilities, free laundry, fenced yard. 574-289-9365. 
Storage facility for rent. Close to NO. 1200 W. 6th St., Mishawaka. Video & access control security, climate con­trolled. Summer rate for students. 2 mi north of Marian High School. 5x10 $99; 10x10 $149. Call574-277-1878. 
CHICAGO AREA HOUSING Two custom built riverfront homes for sale or rent. New construction, 10 minutes to Notre Darne. First home has 4 bedrooms, 4 baths, 3500 sq. ft. Second home has 4 bedrooms, 3 baths, 3300 sq.ft. Both have a walk­out lower level with second fireplace and gorgeous views. Must see! Windsor Prop.LLC 574-876-3424 Storage facility for rent. Close to ND. 1200 W. 6th St., Mishawaka. Video & access control security, cli­mate controlled. Summer rate for students. 2 mi north of Marian High School. 5x10 $99; 10x10 $149. Call 574-277-1878. 
Roseland Cottages available 2 bdrm 1ba, walk to campus w/W/0. 574-272-3033 or dpaul@nd.edu 
Two custom built riverfront homes for sale or rent. New construction, 10 minutes to Notre Dame. First home has 4 bedrooms, 4 baths, 3500 sq. ft. Second home has 4 bedrooms, 3 baths, 3300 sq.ft. Both have a walk­out lower level with second fireplace and gorgeous views. Must see! Windsor Prop.LLC 574-876-3424 
PERSONAL 

Adopt: A young loving couple long to share their Hearts and home with a newborn & will provide Endless love. Expenses paid call Eileen & Ed at 1-800-718-6577 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No­ABORT or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assau~ed. visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape to learn about resources at ND and in South Bend. 
Evergreen Self Storage. Both climate and non-climate controlled. Sizes from 1Ox1 0 to 1Ox20. Located in the Princess Way Industrial Park in Granger at 12575 Sandy Drive. Mention this ad and save 10% off your lease. Call574-243-4608 or 
574-272-0618. 




OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 26, 2007 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
Major League Baseball 
around the dial 
NBA 

Detroit at Orlando 8 p.m., TNT Phoenix at LA. Lakers 10:30 p.m, TNT 
NHL San Jose at Detroit 7:30 p.m, Versus 
MLB 


AP Chicago Cubs pitcher Mark Prior, who played only nine games in 2006, will miss the entire 2007 season after he had surgery Tuesday on his right shoulder . 
Cubs lose Prior for entire season 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Oft-injured Cubs pitcher Mark Prior will ntiss the entire 2007 season after surgery on his right shoulder, a setback that isn't expected to finish his once­promising career. 
The 26-year-old Prior had surgery Tuesday by noted orthopedist Dr. James Andrews in Birmingham, Ala. Andrews also worked on Prior's rotator cuff. 
"Obviously, Mark is done for the year," Chicago general manager Jim Hendry said. "From my conversations with (trainer) Mark O'Neal and John Boggs, Mark's agent who talked to Dr. Andrews last 
IN BRIEF 

Stewart unhappy with NASCAR debris cautions 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Two-time champion Tony Stewart likened NASCAR to professional wrestling and accused it of using bogus caution flags to shape races in biting comments made on his weekly radio show. 
Stewart's appearance on his Tuesday night show was his first since skipping a post-race press conference in Phoenix. He dominated Saturday night's race but lost after a late exchange of leads with winner Jeff Gordon. Stewart said he refused interviews to avoid bashing NASCAR after officials threw four cau­tions for debris on the track. 
"It's like playing God," he said on his Sirius Satellite Radio program. "They can almost dictate the race instead of the drivers doing it. It's happened too many times this year." 
Stewart, who said he was fighting a fever and left the two-hour show early, went on to say fans are complaining about debris cautions and NASCAR isn't listening. 
night, Dr. Andrews feels com­fortable that he will still have a career. This is certainly not career-ending." 
"He felt optimistic that he would be able to pitch next year.... At his age, he should not have a problem respond­ing and coming back after a strenuous rehab." 
Hendry said it was way too early to set a timetable for Prior's return or discuss what it means for Prior's future with the Cubs. Prior started his rehabilitation program Wednesday, and it will contin­ue into the offseason. 
Prior has been beset by injuries since his first full sea­son in the majors in 2003. He made just nine starts last year 
Rutgers gives Stringer seven­year contract extension 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. -Rutgers women's basketball coach C. Vivian Stringer will be paid the same base salary as football coach Greg Schiano under a seven-year contract extension announced Wednesday. 
Stringer will earn $450,000 in base pay and could earn up to $500,000 in additional compensation under terms of the agreement, Rutgers said. Schiano signed an extension in February with $450,000 in base pay but a total com­pensation package worth $1.5 million per year. 
The 59-year-old Stringer had one year left on her existing contract. 
This past season, Stringer made a total of $605,800, which included $212,400 in base pay and bonuses of $115,400 for leading the Scarlet Knights to the national title game, where they lost 59-46 to Tennessee. 
The new deal will make her one of the five highest paid women's college bas­ketball coaches in the country. 
for the Cubs after three trips to the disabled list. 
Prior was not on the Cubs' active roster to start this year and was optioned to Triple-A Iowa after limited innings in spring training. He instead went on the minor league dis­abled list. 
At extended spring training in Arizona, he pitched only two innings on April 12 before reporting discomfort in his shoulder. 
"Obviously he had some things wrong physically and he's getting them corrected," Cubs manager Lou Piniella said before Wednesday's game against Milwaukee. "So, this is a step in the right direction." 
The injury was the latest 

Rams trade fifth-round pick for Chiefs speedster Hall 
ST. LOUIS -The St. Louis Rams' long search for a return man ended Wednesday when the team acquired Dante Hall from Kansas City in exchange for a fifth-round pick in this weekend's draft. 
"We have filled a need with one of the top players in football at his spe· cialty, returning punts and kicks," Rams coach Scott Linehan said. "Dante will fit nicely on our special teams and can be utilized as a receiver in certain situations." 
The trade could have draft-day implications. The Rams had expressed strong interest in Ohio State's Ted Ginn Jr., as much for his return ability as for his resume as a receiver. St. Louis also has several needs on defense. 
As part of the trade, the teams swapped positions in the third round -the Chiefs moving up to 82nd overall, the Rams down to 84th. 
problem for the struggling team. The Cubs, who have not reached the World Series since 1945, made many major changes in the offseason yet began the day in last place in the NL Central with a 7-13 record. 
Kerry Wood, who teamed with Prior to nearly pitch the Cubs to the NL pennant in 2003, is back on the disabled list with tendinitis in his shoul­der. Uke Prior, Wood has been sidetracked by injuries . 
Hendry said Wood might resume throwing this week. Wood has not pitched since a spring training appearance on March 25 when his arm felt weak and then stiffened up the next day. 
American League East 
team  record  perc.  last 10  
Boston  12·7  .632  7-3  
Baltimore  11-9  .550  1-3  
Toronto  10-10  .500  4-6  
Tampa Bay  9-11  .450  5·5  
NY Yankees  IJ.11  .421  4-6  

American League Central 
team record perc. last 10 
Cleveland 10·7 .588 6·4 Chicago Sox 11·8 .579 6·4 Minnesota 11-9 .550 5·5 Detroit 11·9 .550 5·5 Kansas City &-14 .300 3·7 
American League West 
team record perc. lastlO 
Oakland 11-9 .550 7-3 LA Angels 10-10 .500 4·6 Texas 8-11 .421 4·6 Seattle 6·9 .400 3·7 
National League East 
team record perc. last 10 Atlanta 13·7 .650 6·4 NY Mets 13·7 .650 6·4 Florida 9-11 .450 3·7 Philadelphia 8-11 .421 6·4 Washington 6-14 .300 4·6 
National League Central 
team record perc. last 10 
Milwaukee 13-8 .619 7-3 Cinclnattl 10·10 .500 4-6 Houston 9-10 .474 5-5 Pittsburgh 8-10 .444 4-6 St. Louis 8-11 .421 3-7 Chicago Cubs 8-13 .381 4-6 
National League West 
team record perc. last 10 LA Dodgers 13·7 .650 6·4 San Diego 1NI .600 &-4 San Francisco 10•8 .556 8-2 Arizona 10·11 .476 3-7 Colorado 9-13 .409 4-6 
Women!s FILA Colle 
1 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
17 
18 19 
20 

Tennis Rankings 
team 
Stanford Georgia Tech Georgia Florida Northwestern NOTREDAME Clemson Seutherh Caifomia Miami (Fla.) California 
UCLA 
Nerth Carolina William and Mary Vanderbilt Baylor Fresno State Wake forest Florida State Arimna State Tennessee 

GB 
1.5 2.5 
u 
4 
GB 
.5 .5 5.5 
GB 
1 2.5 2.5 
GB 
4 4.5 7 
GB 
2.5 3 3.5 4 5 
GB 
1 2 3.5 5 
aug. 
.94.18 88.99 87;40 84.35 80.83 79.70 
79.18 
77.53 74.51 73.90 70.77 
70.38 
60.00 
59.82 57.48 57.07 48.27 
48.06 
45.86 
44.92 
MLB 

Marlins rally in ninth for comeback victory 
Phillies win fifth straight ofseason over Nationals; Sheets injured in 9-3 loss to Cubs; Rockies pound Mets with 20 hits in win 
Aaron Boone said, "and then win start since moving into the rota­
Associated Press in the last 15 or 20 minutes." tion after ace Brett Myers was Tim Hudson was masterful for The ninth began with consecu­sent to the bullpen to bolster a eight innings. Against the feisty tive ground singles by Miguel struggling relief corps. Florida Marlins, that wasn't Cabrera. Cody Ross and Boone to Lieber tossed 5 2-3 scoreless enough. load the bases. innings at Cincinnati last Friday. Miguel Olivo scored the win­"Three straight groundballs in The veteran right-hander ning on a passed ball to cap a the ninth -not one was close to allowed three runs in 2 1-3 four-run rally in the ninth inning anyone," Braves manager Bobby innings in the bullpen, but has a against Hudson and Bob Cox said. "It was the most amaz­1.54 ERA in his two starts. Wickman, and Florida beat the ing thing." Myers pitched a scoreless Atlanta Braves 4-3 Wednesday Wickman (1-1) came on, and eighth to preserve a four-run night. Olivo lined his first pitch for a lead before Rollins connected to Hudson had a career-high 12 two-run double. Joe Borchard make it 9-3 in the bottom half of strikeouts and took a six-hit was intentionally walked to the inning. shutout into the ninth before the reload the bases. Utley had three singles and two ball began to bounce the Marlins' Wickman fell behind Josh doubles for his first career live­way. Willingham 3-0, then struck him hit game. "When you get lucky, you win out swinging. But with third John Patterson (0-4) retired games," said Alfredo Amezaga, baseman Chipper Jones playing the first two batters in the third whose flared single tied the in, Amezaga looped a RBI single inning before Utley doubled off score. over him to tie the game. the left-field wall. Lel't fielder "I feel bad for Hudson that he "The Amezaga at-bat killed Robert Fick turned the wrong doesn't win the game," Olivo us," Hudson said. "Wicky could­way on the ball, though he prob­said. "But that's baseball." n't have made a better pitch, and ably didn't have a play. Hudson gave up singles to the he hit it about 80 feet for a hit." Howard then snapped a 1-l'or-9 first three batters in the ninth, With the count 1-1 to Dan slump with his third homer to then departed after throwing 112 Uggla, McCann failed to handle give the Phillies a 3-0 lead. pitches. His ERA, a major Wickman's pitch, and the ball Howard hit a straight fastball But thn f'irst-place Brewers low as .135. league-best 0.62 ERA to start the went to the backstop. Olivo slid into the right-field seats. The weren't going to take any "I know what I can do," the game, nearly doubled to 1.22. home, and the Marlins erupted reigning NL MVP is hitting .213 chances, so Sheets left. In came Hockies center fielder said. "I "For me, it's the most disap­in celebration. with 23 strikeouts in 61 at-bats. Elmer Dessens, who gave up five know what I have. I just need pointing loss of the season for The stunning turnaround pre­The Phillies scored three times unearnnd runs. to work hard on my game." us," Hudson said. "I felt as good vented Hudson from improving in the sixth to extend their lead "It wasn't that it was excruciat­Restored to the top of the as I have all year. But it stings to 4-0. to 7-2. One run came in when ing, by any means," Sheets said. batting order on Wednesday, that we didn't win the ballgame." "We kept saying, 'We're going second baseman Honnie Belliard "There was really no sense in Taveras had five of Colorado's Olivo doubled home Florida's to get him. We're going to get dropped Shaw~ Victorino's popup pushing through it and taking season-high 20 hits as the first two runs. With one out and him."' Ross said. "It was a little to shallow right field for an error that chance right now, especially Rockies broke out of an offen­the bases loaded, he scored with­later than I anticipated." with the bases loaded. Utley fol­with the weather the way it sive drought in a rout of the out a play when a sinking fast­The Braves began the game lowed with a two-run single to was." New York Mets. ball eluded catcher Brian tied for NL lead 26 homers. and left. Milwaukee's Ned Yost, manag­Todd Helton had four hits McCann. their first three batters hit the Lieber retired the first nine ing his second game wafter and three RBis and John "I just dropped it," McCann ball nearly 1,200 feet. Johnson batters, getting all five of his breaking his broken collarbone Mabry added a three-run said. ''I'm not going to make any led off with his fifth home run, strikeouts. But Felipe Lopez sin­while running near Wrigley Field homer for the Rockies, who excuses. I have to catch it." Edgar Renteria flied out to the gled to start the fourth and on Tuesday, said Sheets will be salvaged the victory after man­The unearned run was the first warning track, and Jones hit his Belliard followed with an infield re-evaluated Friday. He wasn't aging just one run in each of run off Wickman this season, and seventh homer. Diaz ended an 0-single. After Ryan Zimmerman sure whether Sheets will miss his the first two games of the the blown save was his first in for-1 7 skid with his second hit into a double play, Dmitri next start. series against the Mets. seven chances. homer in the second. Young looped a single just past The Brewers' weary bullpen Twice, Taveras beat out "All I had to do was get three second baseman Utley's glove to yielded 12 of Chicago's 16 hits bunts to energize big innings outs before they scored three Phillies 9, Nationals 3 cut it to 3-1. Austin Kearns fol­and all nine runs. The Cubs' for the Rockies. runs," Wickman said. Jon Ueber is far more produc­lowed with an RBI double that offense benefited from Sheets' "When I was benched, I Instead, Florida took the series tive as a starter than reliever. nearly cleared the center-field departure. worked real hard with the hit­2-1, and the Braves lost for the Lieber limited the Nationals to fence to make it 3-2. "Hopefully he's OK now. But it's ting coach," Taveras said. "It 12th time in their past 17 games two runs in six innings, Chase never fun facing him. He's a worked for the better. I was Miami. Utley was 5-for-5 with three Cubs 9, Brewers 3 great pitcher," said Lee, who hit ready to play. You want to have The Marlins' Scott Olsen gave RBis, and the Philadelphia Cliff Floyd can sleep easy, at his first homer since Sept. 11, a good at-bats. You want to con­up homers to three of Atlanta's Phillies beat Washington least for one night. A stream of fifth-inning drive off Matt Wise. tribute." first seven batters -Kelly Wednesday night for their fifth losses had left one of the newest Lee, batting .393, got the silent Manager Clint Hurdle saw Johnson, Jones and Matt Diaz. straight win. Chicago Cubs tossing and turn­treatment from his teammates in the difference. Olsen then settled down and Jimmy Rollins hit his NL-lead­ing, unable to get his rest. the dugout after his first homer "He was much more polished went eight innings, striking out ing eighth homer and Ryan ''I'm going to sleep like a baby came more than three weeks at the plate today," Hurdle 
10. Howard added a two-run shot, tonight," Floyd said Wednesday into the season. said. "It's not many days you "It was only three runs early," helping the Phillies (9-11) move after he and Derrek Lee had four "Honestly, I haven't been too show up at the ballpark and 
Olsen said. "A lot can happen." closer to .500 after a terrible hits each to pace a victory over worried about it," Lee said. "I have five hits." It did -but not until the ninth. start. the Milwaukee Brewers. feel really good at the plate and For the Rockies, it was a wel­"We got dominated for Lieber (1-0) gave up five hits, Milwaukee lost ace Ben Sheets like I said, home runs are mostly come change. The team has 
absolutely two hours," Florida's striking out five in his second to a groin strain in the third by accident. And today it just been struggling offensively and inning. The Cubs then stopped a happened to be a higher pitch a measure of that was Mabry's three-game losing streak, using a and got into the air. My home three-run homer in a five-run five-run fourth inning that runs are going to come." third inning against Mike matched their run output of the Ted Lilly (2-2) allowed two Pelfrey (0-2). previous two games. They are runs -one earned run -and It was just the eighth homer still just 4-9 at Wrigley Field. six hits in seven innings. all season for Colorado, lowest 
"Sometimes it's a little diflicult After Dessens (1-1) replaced team total in the major to play at home. The expecta­Sheets, the Cubs scored quickly, leagues. And the five runs in tions are a little higher," Floyd helped by an error by shortstop one inning were more than the said. "I told myself to have some J.J. Hardy, which made all five Rockies had scored in any fun and get ticked ofT at the runs unearned. game in the last week. The pitcher, not yourself. You know "J .J should definitely make that team had scored more than what I mean? It's amazing how play. And when you don't, you five runs in a game just five things can turn around if you put have to lind ways to cover it up. times in 21 games before a little focus, a little anger into We just didn't cover it," Yost said. Wednesday some things." Aramis Hamirez walked and, "We needed to come out and 
Sheets pitched three scoreless one out later, Hardy couldn't play a good game, bust out innings before leaving. In the come up with Jacque Jones' with the bats," Hurdle said. bottom of the third, hn reached grounder. Mark DeRosa hit an "Mabry's home loosened us down to tag out Hyan Theriot at RBI single, Felix Pie blooped a up a bit, no doubt." third base, but actually got the single that loaded the bases and Josh Fogg (1-1) retired the injury after the !imtl pitch of' the Theriot delivered a two-run sin­lirst nine New York batters and inning on a chilly and damp 44-gle. Floyd followed with a two­contributed a pair of singles. degree day. run double. He scored twice as the Rockies 
"I didn't necessarily feel it on roughed up Pelfrey. the pitch. It grabbed when I Rockies 11, Mets 5 The Mets' first-round draft turned to look on that last Benched for two days, Willy choice blamed himself. ground ball," Shnets said. "I Taveras languished in the "I just kept throwing fast­don't recall doing anything. I'm Colorado. dugout, trying to find balls." Pelfrey said. "They kept sure the elements probably his way out of a slump that had hitting it and I kept throwing it. played a part in some of that." dropped his batting average as Maybe I'm too stubborn." 


Thursday, April 26, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Please join Fr. Jenkins 
for a discussion of Pope Benedict XVI's Encyclical ... 



FRIDAY. APRIL27 

...  4:00 p.tn.  Opening Mass at Alumni Hall Chapel (Fr. Jenkins presiding)  
5:15p.m.  Reception in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies  
6:15p.m.  Opening remarks from Fr. Jenkins  
•••  6:30 p.n1.  Keynote speech from Ms. Brosnahan followed by panel discussion  

SATURDAY. APRIL28 
... 

9:00a.m. Breakfast buffet in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
... 

9:45a.m. Keynote speech from Fr. Anderson followed by panel discussion 
11:00 a.m. Concurrent presentations of student papers (including roundtable discussions with faculty and students) 
Noon Lunch in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies -1:00 p.m. Continue with concurrent presentations of student papers 
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS 

... Ms. Mary Brosnahan, director of the Coalition for the Homeless in New York City and a 1983 graduate of Notre Dame The Very Reverend Phtlip Anderson, O.S.B., Prior of Our Lady of the Annunciation of Clear Creek Monastery 
nd.edu/encyclical 
~UNIVERSITY OF f-or catering estimates, please email godislove@nd.edu and indicate your attendance. ~NOTRE DAME 
OLYMPICS 

Six Austrians receive lifetime Olympic bans 
Associated Press 

BEIJING -It took more than a year to punish anyone in the doping scandal that shook the Turin Winter Olympics. When the verdicts came down Wednesday, the penalties were unprecedented. 
Six Austrian cross-country skiers and biathletes received lifetime bans from the Olympics for involvement in an organized blood-doping scheme -the harshest sanctions given to ath­letes by the International Olympic Committee. 
And the case isn't closed yet. Next month, the IOC will inves­tigate the role of Austrian coaches, officials and doctors. 
It's the first time the IOC has disqualified athletes for doping violations without positive tests, and the first time athletes have been banned by the IOC for life. Based on evidence seized in Italian police raids, the Austrians were found guilty of possessing prohibited sub­stances and taking part in a doping conspiracy. 
"It is a milestone," IOC spokeswoman Giselle Davies said. 
The results of the Austrian athletes from the 2006 Games were annulled, although none won medals. 
Those banned were cross­country skiers Martin Tauber, Juergen Pinter, Johannes Eder and Roland Diethart, and biath­letes Wolfgang Perner and Wolfgang Rottmann. The six are ineligible for accreditation in any capacity at the Olympics ­as athletes, coaches or officials. 
"The severity of the sanctions is motivated by the fact that these cases go further than straightforward possession of prohibited substances and methods and are clear instances where a network, including athletes, colluded to manipulate blood and to engage into doping practices," the IOC said. 
The IOC action applies only to Olympic competition. It would be up to the Austrian and inter­national ski federations to sus­pend the athletes from non­Olympic events. 
IOC vice president Thomas Bach, a German lawyer who led the internal investigation, said the probe will continue with hearings for non-athletes next month. He did not identify them. The IOC can also ban coaches and other accredited 
team  personnel  from  the  
Olympics.  
Also  Wednesday,  the  IOC  

executive board endorsed presi­dent Jacques Rogge's proposal for a Youth Olympics starting in 2010 for athletes aged 14-18, and reiterated that the IOC won't pressure China on human rights or other political issues ahead of the 2008 Beijing Games. The three cities vying for the 2014 Winter Games -Pyeongchang, South Korea; Salzburg, Austria; and Sochi, Russia -made public presen­tations with less than three months before the IOC vote. 
Italian police raided Austrian team lodgings outside Turin on Feb. 18, 2006. The move fol­lowed a tip that former Austrian coach Walter Mayer, who was implicated in a blood-doping case at the 2002 Salt Lake City Games and banned from the Turin Olympics, was in the area. 

Mayer fled after the raid. lie crashed his car into a police roadblock after crossing into Austria, ending up briefly in a psychiatric hospital. 
In tandem with the police action, Olympic drug-testers conducted surprise doping cheeks on 10 Austrian athletes. The tests came back negative, but the IOC said it would contin­ue its investigation based on the police findings. 
The IOC received the report from Italian investigators this year, and a three-man discipli­nary panel held two days of hearings on the case this month in Lausanne, Switzerland. All the Austrian athletes who were asked to appear deelined. 
The Italian police report, as quoted by the IOC, detailed a stunning array of doping prod­ucts, methods and equipment. Police found syringes, needles, blood bags, butterfly valves for intravenous use, bottles of saline and devices for measur­ing hemoglobin levels and determining blood groups, as well as the banned substances hCG and albumin. 
The police report said one athlete, Rottmann, even threw a plastic bag out his window dur­ing the raid that contained illicit materials. 
"What is remarkable is that all this material was in posses­sion of the athletes," Bach said. 
Sign up for the Lectio@Eieven 
READING SLAM! 
Tuesday, May 1 
10:30 pan • Midnight Recker's 
A five·aninute public reading of any text could win you a $200 gift certificate to the Haananes ND Bookstore! 
Musical interludes by: D'Oscar Erin Duquette 
Lectio@Eieven A Late-Night Cabaret for the Soul 
For more information or to sign up: Jonathan Couser (574) 631-3923 or jcouser@nd.edu 
Sponsored by First Year of Studies 
NBA 
Pacers coach Carlisle fired after four seasons 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Now that coach Rick Carlisle is out as the coach of the Indiana Pacers, the team needs to figure out what is next. 
Carlisle was fired Wednesday after four tumultuous years lead­ing the Pacers, after a season in which the team failed to make the playoffs for the first time in a decade. 
The Pacers finished the season 35-47, their worst since 1988-89. Indiana was 29-24 shortly after the All-Star break, but lost its next 11 games to fall out of the top eight in the Eastern Conference. 
Carlisle said he enjoyed coach­ing the team but understood that it was time for the Pacers to hear a "new voice." With the first major postseason move out of the way, team president Larry Bird said anything is possible ­and the new coach might have to adjust. 
"We don't know the direction," he said. "We have an idea, but if there's something out there that can be a major trade, we'll prob­ably do it if it benefits us. He's got to understand going in that we will trade any one of these players, and it might not be what he likes, but he's got to know that going in." 
"Any of these players" includes forward Jermaine O'Neal and point guard Jamaal Tinsley, the team's top commodities. O'Neal says he's not interested in being part of a rebuilding project and Tinsley could follow Ron Artest and Stephen Jackson as Indiana players traded following off-the­court offenses. 
O'Neal averaged 19.4 points, 
9.6 rebounds and 2.6 blocks in one of the best seasons of his 11­year career. He's a six-time All­Star who finished third in fan voting this year for the Pacers' 40th anniversary team. 
But O'Neal missed 13 games with various injuries and illness­es. He underwent surgery Wednesday to repair a meniscus tear in his left knee that hobbled him the last two months of the season. He has missed 82 games the past three seasons -an amount that equals an entire regular-season's worth of games. 
Tinsley had one of his best sea­sons and was more durable than usual. He averaged 12.8 points and 6.9 assists in 72 games, the most games he's played since 2002-03. 
But Tinsley's off-the-court problems include a felony charge he faces from a February bar fight in Indianapolis. He also was present in October at a fight out­side a strip club that has Jackson facing charges for firing a gun. 
Bird's pledge to continue to crack down on such behavior puts Tinsley's status as a Pacer in jeopardy. 
Thursday, April 26, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Brown 
continued from page 20 
remember a guy whose worked harder in the past," Frank said. ''I've never seen a guy who works as hard as this guy when it comes to recruiting. He's con­stantly on the phone, he's con­stantly [text messaging] and he's staying on top of the top defen­sive players plus everybody he has within his own particular reach." 
When he first arrived, Brown had to battle the image that the 3-4 personnel system he planned to implement with the Irish was going to affect potential recruits negatively. A defensive end, Justin Trattou, went back on his verbal commitment to the Irish because of the defensive switch. 
But since then, Brown has been able to turn this image into a positive one, emphasizing the flexibility of the 3-4 system to attract recruits of different sizes and body types. 
"He had to let everybody know, 'This is my defense, this is my philosophy, and this is why things are going to change at Notre Dame.' I think he had to get that message out there," Frank said. "And the only way he was going to do that without showing them on the field . . . is to get on the phone and talk to as many of these top guys as he can and explain to them, 'Here's why we like you, and here's how we think that you can help us on defense, and here's where we envision you playing.' He's done an outstanding job of communi­cating that message and getting these top, top players interested in coming to play for him." 
Frank said he believed the four recruits Brown has nabbed so far would have had more schools coming after them if it was later in the recruiting process and other coaches had the chance to look and evaluate them. 
But regardless of who he has coming in, Brown's success in the recruiting game will hinge upon how Notre Dame's defense -a defense that finished 61 st in total yardage allowed last sea­son -progresses this season. They may not be one of the tops in the country, but if they can show significant improvement in stopping big plays, or as Brown likes to call them "explosives," and getting some "explosives" of their own, Brown and his defense could build the founda­tion for getting the Irish defense pointed in the right direction. 
Then, maybe those recruits who Brown went out of his way to see Saturday will walk with him inside the tunnel and into Notre Dame's locker room. But even if they do not decide to come to Notre Dame, it will not be because Brown failed to try hard enough to get them here. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


NHL 
Sabres knock off Rangers 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -Ales Kotalik and the Buffalo Sabres provided an answer to anyone questioning whether they are the elite team in the NHL. 
It's a response that came through loud and clear in a 5­2 victory over the New York Hangers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference semifinal series on Wednesday night. 
"I think we showed every­body we were ready," Kotalik said. "A lot of things were said before the game, and we made sure we showed to respond not in the paper but on the ice." 
Kotalik was referring to Rangers coach Tom Henney's comments suggesting the top­seeded Sabres weren't the league's "cream of the crop." 
"Yeah, obviously, everybody heard it," Kotalik said. "We talked about it. It's a good thing." 
Thomas Vanek scored twice and Kotalik once during a three-goal second-period that broke open a scoreless game and put the Sabres in control. 
It was a vintage outburst ­Buffalo scored three times on four shots in a 4:05 span ­for a potent Sabres team that scored a league-leading 308 goals in the regular season. And it erased whatever linger­ing memories the Sabres had after they were inconsistent in dispatching the New York Islanders in five games in the first round. 
"When we finally got that first one past (goalie Henrik Lundqvist), it was, 'All right,'" Sabres co-captain Daniel Briere said. "For us, it gave us confidence and we just kept attacking." 
The five goals were the most the Sabres have scored this postseason and we.re one short of the total the Rangers allowed in a four-game, first­round series sweep of Southeast Division champion Atlanta. 
Game 2 of the best-of-seven series is Friday at Buffalo. 
Jason Pominville and Drew Stafford, with an empty-net goal, also scored for the Sabres. 
Marcel Rossa and Brendan Shanahan scored third-period goals for New York, which never got closer than two goals in the final 20 minutes. 
"Mentally, we weren't as sharp as we needed to be, and not as sharp as we'll be next game," Shanahan said. "I don't know if they outplayed us, but they outperformed us." 
The Rangers went 1-for-5 in power-play chances, but failed to score during a 2-minute, two-man advantage early in the third period. 
"We haven't played in a while and it really showed," Renney said, noting the Rangers played their first game in a week. 
Rust wasn't the only prob­lem. New York had difficulty keeping up with the Sabres' depth and speed. 
That was apparent when the Sabres finally got one past Lundqvist, who was otherwise sharp in stopping the first 23 shots he faced. 
Vanek opened the scoring 14 minutes into the second peri­od with a power-play goal. Parked in front and a step ahead of defender Daniel Girardi, Vanek was in perfect position to deflect in Dmitri Kalinin's shot from inside the blue line. 
Buffalo's fourth line struck for the next goal when Kotalik, set up by Adam Mair's pass, split two defenders and 
snapped a shot from the right 
circle that beat Lundqvist high 
on the far side. 
Vanek capped the surge 
when he got by Karel 
Rachunek at the Rangers' blue 
line, drove in and around Paul 
Mara, and scored on a 
defenseless Lundqvist. 
"We've been known when 
we can get a couple of quick 
ones, we can get the third one 
fairly soon after that," Sabres 
coach Lindy Ruff said. "We 
said, 'Let's keep attacking.' 
That looked a lot like the team 
that played most of the year." 
Ryan Miller stopped 32 
shots, having his shutout bid 
foiled when Rossa beat him 
with a one-timer with 9:16 
left, briefly cutting Buffalo's 
lead to 3-1. 
Miller's best save came a 
few minutes earlier during the 
Rangers' two-man advantage, 
when he snagged Shanahan's 
shot despite being screened by 
New York's Sean Avery. 
"We have the utmost respect 
for our opponent," Renney 
said. "We'll be well-organized 
and well-prepared." 
The Rangers welcomed back 
Rachunek, who had missed 16 
games with a sprained right 
knee. But New York then lost 
Michal Rozsival, the Rangers 
top offensive defenseman, 
who didn't return after hurt­
ing his leg early in the second 
period. 
+ Notes: Renney listed Rozsival as day to day.... The 
·Sabres have won five consecu­tive series-openers, dating to last year. That is important since Buffalo is 1-13 when los­ing Game 1 of a best-of-seven series.... With Rachunek back, D Thomas Pock was scratched after having three , assists in four games against Atlanta. 
Pollock 
continued from page 20 

working its way up the Big East standings after a rough start. 
Notre Dame (22-18, 6-8 Big East) took two of three from West Virginia at home last weekend and travels to conference leader Rutgers this weekend for three games over two days. 
For his part, Pollock is second on the team with a .360 batting average, has whacked three home runs and has 23 RBis. 
He has also personally scored 28 runs, a number that would be higher if it weren't for Notre Dame's struggles with runners in scoring position this season. Clutch hitting has been a thorn in the Irish side for much of the year. Late March -when Notre Dame stranded 38 runners in three games -was the low 
point. Pollock said Lilley has 
But Pollock knew the team helped him make the transi­would come out of it -tion. which it has. "He knows the ins and 
"It seems like things are outs of playing third base," really coming he said. "He's together," always helping Pollock said. me with where
"It's still a work
"Upperclassmen to play and like [first base­in progress. I'm things like that man] Mike Dury which I haven't
just trying to get
and [centerfield­mastered yet."
comfortable."
er I Danny Still, Pollock Dressman are said the funda­getting big hits." A.J. Pollock mentals are Another strug­pretty much the
Irish third baseman
gle for Pollock same. this year has "You field the been adj ustin g ball, and you to a new position. All throw it," he said. through high school, he Notre Dame was sched­played shortstop, but when uled to take on Valparaiso he arrived at Notre Dame, Wednesday at Frank Eck the coaching staff decided to Stadium, but the game was put former third baseman rained out. Brett Lilley at shortstop and The team will leave Friday move Pollock to third. for New Jersey for its week­
"This is the first time I've end series with the Scarlet played third base," Pollock Knights. said. "It's still a work in progress. I'm just trying to Contact Chris Khorey at get comfortable." ckhorey@nd.edu 

NHL 

Ducks upend Canucks 5-1 

AP Vancouver goalie Roberto Luongo watches a shot go past him in the third period Wednesday night. Anaheim defeated Vancouver 5-1 Wednesday in the Western Conference semifinal game one. 
Associated Press 

ANAHEIM, Calif. -Andy McDonald had his first career hat trick and assisted on another goal as the Anaheim Ducks opened their first series against the Vancouver Canucks with a 5-1 victory on Wednesday night. 
After Jeff Cowan gave Vancouver a 1-0 lead at 7:07 of the first period, the Ducks responded by scoring three times -twice by McDonald ­on their first nine shots against goalie Roberto Luongo. 
Teemu Selanne had a goal and assist during the outburst, and Chris Kunitz assisted on all three goals. 
Jean-Sebastien Giguere fin­ished with 26 saves for the Ducks. 
Ryan Getzlaf gave Anaheim a three-goal pad midway through the final period, and McDonald capped the scoring on a shot from just right of the crease when the Ducks had a two-man advantage with 52 seconds remaining. 
"It's pretty exciting," McDonald said of his first hat trick, playoff or otherwise. "It's just nice to be able to con­tribute. The first game is always tough in the series. I am pretty fortunate to be able to play with such great play­ers." 
With the first multi-goal playoff game of his career, McDonald tied the Ducks' record for most points in a postseason contest and became the second player to have a hat trick. Jaffrey Lupul had a four-goal game last May against Colorado in Game 3 of the conference semifinals. 
The second game of this series is Friday night in Anaheim before the best-of­seven Western Conference semifinal series shifts to Vancouver for games Sunday and Tuesday. 
Luongo faced 31 shots as the Ducks kept the pressure on by crowding in front of the Vancouver goal. He was replaced by Dany Sabourin after Getzlaf's goal, and Sabourin faced six shots and gave up McDonald's third goal. 
"He's a great goaltender," McDonald said of Luongo. "We had to have a good night. We moved the puck around and used our speed." 
After starting the game rela­tively slowly and with the Canucks on the attack for the first few minutes, the Ducks quickly shook off the rust. 
Anaheim hadn't played since wrapping up the opening series against Minnesota last Thursday. The Canucks didn't really get a day ofT. They had taken a :~-1 lead in the series against Dallas, but lost the next two before finally con­cluding the series with a Game 7 win on Monday night. Tuesday was a travel day. 
Notching the first multi-goal and four-point game of his playoff career, McDonald scored his second goal of the night to give the Ducks a 3-1 lead at 19:11 of the opening period. 
On a 2-on-1 rush, Selanne skated down the right side, waited for the defender to commit toward him, then slid the puck across to McDonald. The Ducks' center beat Luongo with a shot between the pads. 
Pitch 
continued from page 20 
"I just focused on working really hard and trying to become one of the best." Notre Dame was Bargar's last scheduled college visit, and it made the biggest impact on the high school star. 
"I loved all the girls here and fit in well with them," Bargar said. "I couldn't pass up an opportunity like Notre Dame, it's an amazing place." 
Bargar was a key addition to the Irish pitching staff in 2006, pitching second in the rotation and finishing with a 15-9 record. Bargar was named to the Big East honor roll that season and had an ERA of 
2.92. Highlighting her rookie season was an eight-inning no-hitter against Big East rival Connecticut in April 2006, the first in Irish history. 
Assuming her role as the ace of the pitching staff this sea­son, Bargar has continued to elevate her performance and succeed. A power pitcher who has always been able to rely on her velocity, Bargar has 
Hope 
continued from page 20 
second baseman Maureen Healy said. "We're eager to put into play whatwe've been practicing." 
The Belles and the Flying Dutch are evenly matched, but Saint Mary's has some slight advantages. While Hope junior Jessica Regnerua is hitting .540 in 87 at bats, the Belles (.353) top Hope (.326) for team batting aver­age in the league and have a solid and consistent hitter in freshman outfielder Ashley Peterson, who is hitting .430 in 86 at bats. 
The Belles also have a stronger pitching lineup than the Dutch. Saint Mary's soph­omores Kristin Amram and Calli Davison combine for a 
2.35 ERA, which is second in the league. The Dutch are third in the league with a 
2.38 ERA. 
Both teams' best pitchers have winning records: Amram (1.06 ERA) is 8-4, while Dutch freshman pitcher Deidra Enochs (2.00 ERA) is 8-5. Amram and Davison have held their opponents to low batting averages -125 become more effective this season by adding more pitches to her arsenal. 
"I've learned a couple new pitches that have made me successful this year, including a drop and a changeup," Bargar said. "As well as physi­cally, I've developed mentally and become much more men­tally tough." 
Bargar leads Notre Dame and the Big East with 16 wins and 176 innings pitched and is second in the conference with 174 strikeouts. She has pitched 19 complete games for the Irish, all while holding opponents to a .233 batting average. 
Although only a sophomore, Bargar has evolved into a leader ori Notre Dame. 
"As a pitcher, we set the tone of the game," Bargar said. "I have to come out from the first inning on and have a positive start and lead by example." 
Bargar will start for the third-place Irish in a crucial doubleheader Sunday against Big East leader No. 17 DePaul. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
and .260, respectively. Opponents bat an equally low .250 against Enochs. 
Healy said execution of play will be the edge the Belles have against Hope. 
"Doing the little things like stringing hits together and not leaving runners on base !will give the Belles the advantage)." she said. "Hopefully luck will be on our side too." 
The Belles will look to slug­gers senior Sarah Miesle, sophomore catcher Ashley Fusaro and Peterson to widen the gap between the Belles and Dutch similar offenses. Miesle is second in the league with 33 runs and third with 32 runs batted in. Fusaro is second in the league with seven homeruns and fifth for runs batted in (29). 
The Belles hope to ride momentum from sweeping the last three teams they've faced-Goshen, Olivet and Albion. 
"We're going to continue what we've been doing the last three games and win every inning," Healy said. 
The Belles will take on Hope today at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Thursday, April 26, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 
THE ).JitJTE.NM Wii 's U!JoJT!lDLL.tlt KM SE.EN C.RITICI:z.Eb A'> A C.lotE.AP 6-!.KI'IIC..K Tu SELL A SHobl)'r" C..6NSOI..C.. IN ~S?oiJSE, Nlt-JT&,It>o I~ RE.LEAS!t.lG-A SL.E.W oF NEW' G-AMES SUoWCA~IIIJir THE WiiMOTEs VERSATILITY. 

LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JJ1JJWJ111JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
THILG 
I I I 

©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
l;~;fl)
tINTADE. 

J I I 
www.jumbte.com 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: KNELL THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 

by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


WHAT TH!:: PUPILS !::XP!::RI!::NC.ED WH!::N THE:Y FAIL!::D TH!:: MULTIPLIC.ATION T!::ST. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

TOOTH SLUICE KERNEL 
Answer: When the errant shot hit the green, the golfer said it was -A "STROKE" OF LUCK 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

j 

CROSSWORD 
Across 37 Private affair? Brazilian dance 40 Marvel Comics hero
7 Matters of inti. concern 41 Affirmed's 1978 Triple Crown
13 Snares arch rival 
14 Kaplan course, 42 Prior to, in
briefly verse 16 Cause for a 43 Evidencessiren exposure to 11 Accumulator 
ultraviolet light 18 Agent 
44 Waterspout 19 Greyhound 
45 Missile from a 

fare? 
prankster 21 Sammy Davis 
47 Period of years Jr.'s" Can" 

48 Bruiser 22 Sound 
50 Big, in adspeak 23 VW front? 
54 Deer 24 Kind of number 
56 Prefix with 25 Sink 
meter 21 Gen 
58 Ribald BBC 30 Fishing hook comedy, with a handle informally 31 Teachers' org. 59 Fix firmly 34 Bring into 61 Ump's call harmony 63 Moon of Saturn 36 High: Prefix 64 Disparage 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

65 "Shifting gears a little" and others 
66 Spicy cuisine 
Down 
Actress Kelly  
2  Cover in the  
kitchen  
3  1738 Handel  
opera set in  
Persia  
4  Brit's  
exclamation  
5  Top of a clock  
6  Wrap up by  
7  ''The faster the  
better''  
8  66-Across  
snack  
9  Abbr. after a  
comma  

10 Nimble 11 Like some 
questions 12 Checks in on 13 Upbraids 15 Menu heading 20 Monopoly 
square 23 Army NCO 26 Kind of battery 28 Vance Air Force 
Base site 29 Shoot over 30 Hootenanny 
participant 31 Informational sign on an 
Interstate 32 Some vets 33 Tilted 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Peter A. Collins 

35 Output from 49 Classic name in 56 "Women and Washington Milwaukee Love" author Irving brewing Shere 
38 Hosp. workers 51 Prior to, in 57 Son of Seth verse
39 Cai-Nev-_, 58_ Cross, Nev. 52 Popular James antianxiety drug Patterson 
46 Globe with olive detective

53 "Yeah, sure!"
branches, for so Sun Devils' sch. 
the United 55 Tennis star Nations Rusedski 62 Suffix with pent-
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). . Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

.. 
-CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jacob Underwood, 26; Renee Zellweger, 
37; Hank Azaria, 42; AI Pacino, 66 

Happy Birthday: You have added drive and determination this year so don't let it go to waste. You will be fortunate when it comes to gifts, winnings and investments. Rethink your commitments. Your numbers are 5, 13, 20, 28, 29, 40 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Being on edge will make everyone around you 
nervous. Travel a short distance if it will help you close a deal. 3 stars· 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Do whatever it takes to deal with problems you face with an institution, government agency, bank or large corporation. You will be able to put matters to rest. Don't let anyone pressure you. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Working within a group will tum out better than you imagined. Your ability to pick up the loose ends and tie everything together will lead to your victory. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Focus on love not money and work today. You have 
to let some things go if you don't want to work yourself into a fury. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel, excitement and adventure will highlight your day. Get involved in whatever interests you and you will find a way to make more money doing something you enjoy. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Home, family and building a healthy and strong base should be your goal. Renovations and dealing with contractors is never easy but today you can get things done to your specifications. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stick to your basic principles and you won't go wrong. Someone may try to lead you astray but, if you follow your intuition, you will stay on track. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Consider what you can do to make improvements to your lifestyle. Strive for greater balance in your life if you want to feel better. Creative ideas will come to you and must be developed. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your focus should be on yourself, your home .., . and family. Money is headed in your direction--be prudent. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It won't matter how much talking you do, actions 
will speak louder than words. Stop talking and start doing. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your spark and enthusiasm will ignite everyone around you today. A chance to put one of your creative ideas to the test will be impressive. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone may question what you are doing. Don't 
let it cause you to make a mistake. Readdress your goals. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are determined to stay in control. You are quick to respond and unwilling to stop short ofsuccess. You are original, expressive and quite entertaining. You are security-minded and bu~iness-oriented. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor jim, eugenialast.comfor confidential 
consultations 

" 
... 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, April 26, 2007 
page 20 
ND SOFTBALL 

Pitching in blood, Bargar steps into leading Irish role 
. 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

In a sport where its athletes aren't known for their tough­ness, Notre Dame pitcher Brittney Bargar stands out. 
The sophomore workhorse, who leads the Irish in innings pitched and complete game~. once took a hard line drive off her face in a high school game. When her concerned 
BASEBALL 

Notre Damefreshman 
A.f. Pollock has had no trouble adjusting 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 

A.J. Pollock has always been confident. 
Soon after he arrived last fall, a freshman just months removed from batting .462 his senior season at Regional Hebron Andover and Marlborough (RHAM) High School in Hebron, Conn., Pollock was sure he would be in the Notre Dame starting lineup come spring. 
"I wanted to win a spot, and after the first couple weeks I knew I could play with anybody," he said. 
Now, at the end of his first year in South Bend, Pollock is the everyday third base­man and second hitter for an Irish team that is slowly 
see POLLOCK/page 18 
coach and teammates rushed out to help Bargar, she calmly jumped back up into the pitch­ing circle and faced the next batter. 
Pitching runs deep in the veins of the Bargar family ­Brittney's father Lance played baseball and pitched on the collegiate level as well. 
"I started playing softball because of my dad," Bargar said. "lie would always tell me stories about his games, and it made me interested." 
Bargar picked up sof'tball at age eight, at first playing with her father and then joining a recreational league. She showed talent on the rubber from an early age and made an immediate impact as a freshman at Corona High School in California. Named team co-MVP as a freshman, Bargar was an integral part of a very successful Corona team. 
"My high school career was amazing," Bargar said. "We were very talented, and I got to play with a bunch of girls I loved and became best friends with." 
The Corona team and Bargar had their best season in 2005, in her senior season. Ranked as high as third nationally, Corona reached the finals of the California Interscholastic Federation tournament. As a senior Bargar garnered sever­al individual awards, including Riverside County player of the year. For her high school career, Bargar posted a sparkling ERA of 0.39, and tal­lied a 66-18 record. 
Despite Bargar's dominance in high school, the hurler said she hardly thought about her future in softball until scholar­ship offers started coming in. 
"I didn't really realize what my future held," Bargar said. 
see PITCH/page 18 
Fresh face 

SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles and Hope square off 
By REBECCA SLINGER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will take on Hope today to preface what will be a competitive MIAA conference tournament. 
The No. 4 Belles (20-6, 5-5 MIAA) and No. 2 IIope College (21-8, 9-1 MIAA) face off this afternoon at Gainey Field. The Flying Dutch have 
a .833 winning percentage in the conference, while the Belies are .500. 
If inclement weather does­n't cancel the game again ­the matchup was originally scheduled for April 4 -the Belles will finally have a chance to show I lope exactly why they are contenders for the MIAA championship. 
"IThe delay in playing Hope] has given us more time to prepare," freshman 
see HOPE/page 18 


FOOTBALL 

Brown works hard for nevv defensive recruits 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
A<> the rest of the Irish made their way into the tunnel after Saturday's Blue-Gold game, defensive coordinator Corwin Brown decided he would take a little detour on his way to the locker room. 
Brown cut through the slowly moving herd of blue and white jerseys, and the significantly less intimidating mass of reporters gathered outside the tunnel, to say "hello" to a few people -the potential recruits at Saturday's intra-squad game. 
Brown has been hard at work this spring getting the word out to prospects that he is building Notre Dame's defense into a national force. 
And so far, Brown's hard 

work on the recruiting scene has yielded success. 
At this point last season under former defensive coordi­nator (and resident scapegoat) Rick Minter, the Irish had no recruits that verbally commit­ted on the defensive side of the ball. 
This season under Brown, four defensive prospects ­defensive tackle Sean -Cwynar, defensive end Darius Fleming, and linebackers· Anthony MacDonald and David Posluszny have said they plan to attend Notre Dame for the class of 2012. Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for irisheyes.com, said Brown's work ethic is a big part of his early success. 
"As somebody who follows this very, very closely, I can't 
see BROWN/page 17 







