
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 115 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11.2007 
Week addresses sexual assault 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
Incidents of sexual assault do happen on Notre Dame's campus, said Men Against Violence president Alex Chapeaux, and this year's Sexual Assault Awareness Week should educate students about the problem and inform them of prevention strategies. 
This is the third year Sexual Assault Awareness Week has been held at Notre Dame since its inception by the Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention under former stu­dent body president Lizzi Shappell. 
"It's important to recognize 
that Notre Dame has a prob­lem like many other campus­es, and it's important to address that problem, like any other campus," Chapeaux said. 
The week will feature sev­eral major events designed to "raise awareness" about sex­ual assault at Notre Dame, said senior Emily Weisbecker, the president of Feminist Voice and a staff member at the Gender Relations Center. 
Weisbecker wrote "Loyal Daughters," a play performed last semester that used real stories told by Notre Dame students about sexuality and sexual violence. "Loyal 
see WEEK/ page 4 

~olin Quinn dishes about"SNL" days 
"I did stand-up for my audi­tion, but got hired as a writer," Quinn said. "[I got the job] because I knew somebody. I was just in the right place at the right time." 
Famous for his Clinton sex scandal jokes, Quinn joked that preparing the Weekend Update was easy while President Clinton was in office. 
"I would read the papers all week and try to find the hot stories of the week -the only problem was if some­thing happened on Tuesday, [David] Letterman and [Jay] Leno would ruin it by the time they got to me," Quinn joked. 
Quinn said some of his favorite sketches on "SNL" included Will Farrell as the voice in modulation character 
see QUINN/page 10 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Politician discusses Mexico 
Cooperation is vital, prominent leader says 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
The man who ran for the Mexican presidency three times and served as head of the government of Mexico City, as a senator and as a governor brought more than 30 years of insider experi­ence to the Hesburgh Center Auditorium Tuesday where he talked to students and professors about Mexico's present political climate. 
One of the country's most prominent political figures, Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, deliv­ered the lecture "A Progressive Agenda for Mexico," touching on the coalition of left-wingers in Mexico, the relationship between the country and the United States and its role in Latin America. 
In the aftermath of the con­tested presidential elections in 2006, Cardenas said politi­cians needed to put aside dif­ferences and personal agen­das to cooperate with each other and improve the land­scape of Mexican politics. 
"Now is the turn of politics, of conscious and serious poli­tics, to forget our differences and injured prides," he said. "Our interests must now focus on Mexico's future." 
As one of the founders of Mexico's Party of the Democratic Revolution (PDR) -one of the country's three 
see MEXICO/page 6 

SUB series features former actor, writer 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
With his Brooklyn accent and gruff manner, former "Saturday Night Live" star Colin Quinn has kept audi­ences entertained for years ­and he managed to do just that Tuesday night as part of the Student Union Board's SNL Speaker Series. 
Quinn opened up his lecture in DeBartolo Hall to a ques­tion and answer session ­giving students the opportuni­ty to grill him on his days as a writer and cast member of SNL. 
After writing for the show "In Living Color" Quinn was hired as a writer for "SNL." 
Energy use appears consistent 
Earlier Daylight Saving Time change seems to have no effect on campus 
By AARON STEINER · News Writer 
In an attempt to reduce 
energy consumption and 
generate savings, a federal 
energy act moved Daylight 
Saving Time to the second 
Sunday of March, four 
weeks earlier than usual 
this year. Major utility com­
panies and energy 
providers, however, saw lit­
tle change in energy usage, 
according to national media 
reports -and that may be 
the case at Notre Dame as 
well. 
The University's usage 
patterns from this March 
are difficult to compare to 
see DST/page 9 

Forum .addresses local 
poverty, family issues 
Saint Mary's students organized local panel 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
Students in Saint Mary's social work program hosted a community forum Tuesday addressing current issues per­taining to families and chil­dren. 
The forum -presented and planned primarily by the 18 students in the social work major and anthropology pro­fessor Frances Kominkiewicz's Human Behavior and the Social Environment class ­addressed violence, poverty and education in the Michiana area. 
"The forum is a way to bring the community together and to connect them with the peo­ple in the community who are out there to help," sophomore social work major Deanna Molosky said. "We want to make them agents of change." 

This year's forum was enti­tled "Empowering the Community: Become an Agent of Change; A discussion of vio­lence, poverty and education affecting the children in our community." 
Students in the class chose the panelists based on their experience in the social work field and their ability to impact the lives of the chil­dren of the community, sopho­more Katie Putz said. 
Speakers for the forum included Nikki Gonzalez, a 
see FORUM/page 9 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

10 Questions 
Over Easter break, I had the rare privi­lege to sit down with Orris Wilson, who describes himself as one ofthe "greatest things the law school has ever produced." 
Wtlson, a  
University ofMiami  John-Paul Witt  
alum, is in his sec­ 
ond year at Our  News  
Lady's 'Colegio de  Production  
Leyes.'  Editor  
JPW: Explain  
your life philosophy  
-what are 'smokies?'  

Wilson: I picked up the word from one of my favorite professors, Tex Dutile. He used the word during a discussion where he spoke about Maine Lobsters and con­spiracies centering on i-Pods. It's a way of life. 
JPW: What is the best way to attract 'smokies?' 
Wilson: Youjust gotta live your life like Tex. You've got to put yourself out there -you've got to gym it up, flash it up and juice it up. 
JPW: What's the main difference between girls in Miami and girls here? 
Wilson: I think the girls at Notre Dame are much more well-rounded. I'll always have a place in my heart for Miami girls. Miami produces the most beautiful girls in the world. I prefer Notre Dame girls, though. 
JPW: And what about men? 
Wilson: I think the same thing holds for guys. They're well-rounded at Notre Dame, more athletic. I definitely think of myselfmore in the mold ofa Notre Dame guy. I live in St. Ed's so that makes me a Stedsman-the true gentlemen on cam­pus. 
JPW: You've called yourself someone who will work for "a big timer at a big time law fim1 making big time money" Is that all you want in life? 
Wilson: Honestly, it's one ofthe main reasons I came to law school, but it's not all I'm looking for. I want to be a family man one day. You could say I have politi­cal aspirations. I thought Notre Dame would be great because it would educate me legally and spiritually. 
JPW: How has Notre Dame helped you grow in your faith? 
Wilson: I was confirmed at Notre Dame through RCIA. In all seriousness, my sponsor just passed away, Ryan Rudd. I miss him a lot. It's been rough for me. God bless him. 
JPW: What does the law school need to improve? 
Wilson: First, we have to increase our position in the rankings. It's very impor­tant. It helps attract a qualified student body. 
JPW: How would this occur? 
Wilson: We need to have more law stu­dents in big-time firms because it increas­es our employment statistics and the median salary. I think the employment factors killed us. 
JPW: How do you feel about the faculty? 
Wilson: I think they are one ofthe strongest things the law school has going for it. Some professors really contributed to the person I am today-Tex. VJ, Professor Moo and Kaveny. Many like to nuke her, give her cheap shots, but I think she's a genius. 
JPW: F.inally, sum up 'Chris Wilson, the man, the legend'? 
Wilson: Whoa. Wow. The lyrics ti·om "Mack the Knife" and a recent hit from MIMS pretty much sums it up. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at ju•itt 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Tlie Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 11, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS YOUR FAVORITE SNL CHARACTER (OR ACTOR), PAST OR PRESENT? 







Brendan Ryan junior Keough  Elisa Suarez junior Ciwanaugh  Kyle Bibby junior Alumni  Kyle Ricketts sophomore Alumni  Mike Schubert junior Alumni  Scott Hurely sophomore Alumni  
"Robert Goulet  "Debbie Downer,  "Harry Carrey  "Hans and  "Sean Connery."  "Spartan  

-would you because did you -ifyou were a Franz, because hire a clown to know that hot dog, would they're fix the john?" reading you eat pumptastic. ,, 
newspapers yourself?" 
increases your risk ofcancer (waah, waah)? 

enforcement. How can I hold officers accountable if I don't hold myself accountable?" he said. "''m satisfied I'm doing the right thing." 
Kocken issued himself a ticket March 27 for an unsafe lane change, three weeks after he had rear­ended a suspected speeder after that driver slowed to turn. Neither the deputy who completed the acci­dent report nor the Brown County district attorney's office felt that Kocken deserved a citation. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
City to sniff out bad smells 
OGDEN, Utah-The city may be looking for a few good noses. When it meets Tuesday, the City Council is expected to set a public hearing for a law that would create a committee to sniff out objectionable odors. 
Ogden's chief administra­tor, John Patterson, said the city is not singling out a specific company for enforcement. But there have been complaints about a pet-food factory, American Nutrition Inc. 
Despite promises, American Nutrition has failed to install an exhaust 
scrubber on three ovens that bake treats for dogs and cats, Patterson said. 
"Stench is not the lasting memory that we want peo­ple to have in Ogden," he said. 
Councilwoman Dorrene Jeske said an ordinance is overdue. 
Sheriff writes his own ticket 
GREEN BAY, Wis. ­Brown County Sheriff Dennis Kockcn didn't have to write himself' a ticket. But he says it was the right thing to do. 
"As sheriff', I'm held to the highest standard in law 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0:: 
LLI 
:::t: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 

~
....I 
c:( (..) 
...I 0 HIGH 45 HIGH 40 HIGH 50 HIGH 57 LOW 35 LOW 30 LOW 32 LOW 45 
cheerleaders, because there's an Indian in my teepee. ,, 
IN BRIEF 
A film and discussion titled "Who Needs Sleep?" will take place today at 7 p.m. in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Director Haskell Wexler will discuss his film. This is a free event. For tick­ets call the DeBartolo Ticket Office. 
There will be a screening of 'Loyal Daughters' today at 
7:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of Mendoza. Organizers will ask for a $3 donation to be given to South Bend's S.O.S. Rape Crisis Center. 
The Student Union Board (SUB) will hold AcoustiCafe Thursday from 10 p.m to 12 in the basement of LaFortune. This is a free event. 
Journalist Judy Woodruff will give the Red Smith lec­ture, entitled "Are Journalists Obsolete?" She will speak Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Heshurgh Library Auditorium. 
Owen Smith, a '95 Notre Dame graduate, will perform his comedy act Friday at Legends at 10 p.m. Admission is free. 
The Spring Run will take place Saturday. Participants can run either 5-K, 10-K or do the 2-mile walk. The races will start from Legends at 11 
a.m. Runners and walkers can sign up at RecSports for $10 prior to the race and for $15 the day of the race. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an euent to obsnews@nd.edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 48 HIGH 52 LOW 30 LOW 35 
Atlanta 64 I 49 Boston 48 I 33 Chicago 45 I 34 Denver 56 I 31 Houston 86 I 65 Los Angeles 66 1 53 Minneapolis 37 1 30 New York 51 I 35 Philadelphia 52 I 36 Phoenix 88 I 61 Seattle 55 I 36 St. Louis 54 I 45 Tampa 81 1 67 Washington 55 1 36 
Wednesday, April 11, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group discusses goals for 111e111bers to pursue 
By SONIA RAO News Writer 
Members of the Council of Representatives (COR) dis­cussed what they hoped to accomplish during their terms, which began just last week, at their meeting Tuesday night. 
Student body president Liz Brown asked members for sug­gestions for the COR agenda. Brown said COR may be help­ful in discussing how to plan a faculty-student debate series, an initiative she presented as part of her platform in her presidential campaign. 
"We would have five or six debates about contemporary topics in a very public venue such as the Main Lounge in LaFortune," she said. 
Brown said members would probably discuss the details of the series within the next few weeks. 
Student body vice president Maris Braun suggested that redevelopment plans south of campus -a project planned by the University and now headed by Kite Realty, expect­ed to break ground by the end of 2007 -"has some potential for student government to have a major impact." 
Members could work on allowing Domer Dollars to be used in restaurants, she said. 
Though there were few new incentives for the COR agenda introduced at the meeting, Brown encouraged members to continue to think of ways to improve student life and bring those ideas forward during meetings throughout the year. 
Brown and Braun continued to lay the personnel ground­work for their administration. 
Junior Anthony Dayrit was approved to be vice president of Peer Advocacy. In this posi­tion, Dayrit Will be responsible for coordinating and training peer advocates. 
Judicial Council president Ashley Weiss said she is "confi­dent in Anthony's ability to lead as vice president of Peer Advocacy." 
"He is the best person for the job," she said. 
Dayrit said he plans to reju­venate the program, which has not been utilized as much in past years. 
"We created a poster and we hope to have a banner created that we can use at Activities Night," he said. "We plan to talk to rectors, hall staff, and freshmen about getting the word out so within the first few weeks of school students will know about the program and how to use it." 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 



Law student dies of cancer 
Special to The Observer 
Ryan Rudd, a third-year student in the Notre Dame Law School, died at. 2:45 p.m. Saturday after a short battle with cancer. He was 31. 
Rudd, from Crestline, Ohio, was diagnosed with adeno­c~rcinoma in early March and had been treated at the James Cancer Hospital at Ohio State University, where he died. 
His juris doctor degree will be awarded posthumously at Notre Dame•s Commencement exercises May 20. 
Visitation will be Wednesday from 2 to 4 p.m. and 7 to 9 p.m., with a vigil service at 8:30 p.m. at the Mark A. Schneider Funeral 
Home, 223 W. Main Street, Crestline, Ohio. A Mass of Christian Burial will be cele­brated at 11 a.m. Thursday at the Most Pure Heart of Mary Catholic Church, 29 West St., Shelby, Ohio, with burial fol­lowing at Greenlawn Cemetery in Crestline. Plans for a campus memorial are pending. 

Psychology profs avvarded honors 
American Educational Research Association recognizes scholars' book 
Special to The Observer 
Daniel K. Lapsley and Darcia Narvaez, members of the psy­chology department faculty at the University of Notre Dame, have been selected as the 2007 Book Award recipients by the Moral Development and Education Special Interest 
Group  of  the  American  
Educational  Research  
Association (AERA).  

The honor recognizes Lapsley and Narvaez, for their 2004 book "Moral Development,. Self, and Identity." The award was presented Tuesday at the AERA's annual meeting in Chicago. 
A compilation of essays from a distinguished interdisciplinary and international panel of schol­ars, the volume uses as a point of departure the seminal writ­ings of renowned moral psychol­ogist Augusto Blasi. His studies on moral cognition, the develop­ment of self-identity, and moral p.ersonality transformed research agendas and are rec­ognized as a starting point for all discussion in moral psycholo­gy. 
Lapsley, who earned his doc­torate in educational psychology from the University of Wisconsin, returned to Notre Dame as a professor in 2006. He previously served on the University's psychology faculty from 1983 to 1991. His research focuses on topics in adolescent social cognitive and personality development, including work on adolescent invulnerability and risk behavior, narcissism, sepa­ration-individuation, self, ego and identity development and college adjustment. 
A fellow of Notre Dame's Institute for Educational Initiatives and research director of its Center for Ethical Education, Lapsley also teaches in the ACE program. He is the author of the book "Moral Psychology" and serves on the executive board of the International Association for Moral Education. 
Narvaez, the executive direc­tor of the Center for Ethical Education, came to Notre Dame as an 'assistant professor in 2000. Before completing her doctoral degree at the University of Minnesota, she taught K-12 classroom music and middle­school Spanish. Narvaez, who also holds a master's degree from Luther Northwestern Sem,inary, researches issues of moral cognition, moral develop­ment and character education. 



FREE CLINIQUE GIFT 
ONLY AT MACY'S! WITH ANY CLINIQUE PURCHASE OF 21.50 OR MORE 
*ONLYAT MACY'S 

Every product in your bonus is a top pick of ELLE Magazine. A$40 value, your FREE gift includes: ·True Bronze Pressed Powder Bronzer with Brush • 7-Day Scrub Cream Rinse-Off Formula 
• Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion· Glosswear For Lips in Cosmic Pink ·MoistureSheer Tint SPF IS· Cosmetics Bag· ELLE Magazine special subscription offer: 
12 months ofELLE Magazine for $6. It's like getting 10 issues FREE. Compliments of Clinique. 
Do your skin afavor. Clinique. AllergyTested. 100% Fragrance Free. 


Quantities limited. One per custome1; please. Offer ends April 22. 2007. While supplies last Ail returned merchandise 

NEW! Continuous Rescue 
NEWI Ail About Eyes Rich must include free gift(s). 
i\nrioxidant Moisturizer Luxurious, moisture-r1ch formula Available in 3sk1n·typed formulas. .calms puffiness with botanicals. 39.50. 05 oz. 27.50. 



Clinique Happy  NEW! LIMITED EDITION  
Ahint of citrus.."'. wealth of Rowers.  Fresh Bloom Allover Colour  
Amix ofemotions. Wear it and be happy.  Create asheer. subtle radiance  
Perfume Spray 3.4 oz. 49.50.  that looks fresh, stays fresh. 29.50.  

*

*mocys 
macys.com 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 11, 2007 
Hammes-Mowbray Hall, Weisbecker said.
Week 

"The RAD program consists 

continued from page 1 
Daughters" was shown Tuesday night in Mendoza. 
Weisbecker said the week is about opening students' eyes to realize that fellow class­mates may have been victims of sexual violence. 
"We feel like Notre Dame is really safe and in a 'bubble', but it's important for us to realize how to protect both ourselves and our friends from violence," she said. "Also, this week will educate those who have been assault­ed and aren't aware of the resources on campus." 
A 'Take Back the Night' prayer service, march and speak-out will be held Wednesday at 8 p,m. at the Grotto. Afterward, refresh­ments and counselors for 
those in need will be avail­able in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. 
'Take Back the Night' mir­rors similar events that take place in cities and on college cam­puses across the country, Assistant Rector of Breen-Phillips Hall Elizabeth Moriarty said 

of basic self-defense and learning how to be aware of your surroundings," Weisbecker said, "It's impor­tant that we publicize resources like this that teach how to prevent aS'saults." 
The week's organizers will stage a demonstration between DeBartolo and Fitzpatrick Halls Friday between 11:30 and 11:45 a.m. to commemorate the "one in four women who will be the victim of an attempted or completed sexual assault by the time she graduates," Moriarty said. 
The week will conclude Saturday with a dinner and discussion sponsored by Men Against Violence, Chapeaux said. 
"[The] Men are having a dinner at the end of the week 
"Jt,s almost a guarantee that everyone on this campus will know someone who is a survivor ofsexual 
assault.,, 
Alex Chapeaux president Men Against Violence 
in an e-mail to The Observer. 
'"Take Back the Night' began as a movement to protest the violence that women experienced while walking in public at night, but has grown to encompass all forms of violence, especially sexual assault," Moriarty said. 
The march and the speak­out are designed to "bring the community together" and allow survivors of sexual assault to share their stories, she said. 
To educate students about ways they can prevent them­selves from being victims of sexual assault, tactics for Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) will be taught by Notre Dame Security/Police officers Thursday at 7 p.m. in to enter into dialogue and brainstormin-g about what it means to be a man at Notre Dame -the good and the bad," Chapeaux said, "Both men and women are victims, so both need to stand up against sex­ual assault." 
The week may seem geared toward women, 

Chapeaux said, but he encouraged men to partici­pate as well. 
"It's almost a guarantee that everyone on this campus will know someone who is a survivor of sexual assault," Chapeaux said. "Think of your mother, sister, daughter or friend that might be a vic­tim and might not have other­wise had the courage to tell their story." 
Sexual Assault Awareness Week is sponsored by student groups Feminist Voice, Men Against Violence and the Identity Project of Notre Dame, as well as the Gender Relations Center and Student Government. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 


EXPERIENCE AFULL LIBERAL ARTS EDUCATION 
E.xplore the Progratn of Liberal Studies 
Applicatiolls Due Apri/17 
(available on-line) For Further Information See: lvww.nd.edu/~pis 


r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 11, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Serbia ruled not guilty of genocide 
THE HAGUE, Netherlands --The United Nations' highest court ruled Serbia was not guilty of genocide against Bosnian Muslims in the 1990s even though the judges never saw the full records of meetings by top Serbian political and military officials at the time, lawyers said. 
Was there a smoking gun in the documents that was missed by the International Court of Justice in the February ruling? 
"This is one of the things we just do not know," Phon van den Biesen, one of the lawyers repre­senting Bosnia in the case, said Tuesday. "We had the strong impression that they could be rel­evant for the court to see." 
The judges at the world court sifted through documents, pored over Yugoslav war crimes tri­bunal cases and heard hours of testimony before issuing the landmark judgment in Bosnia's geno­cide case against Serbia. 
Crews work to clean major oil spill 
SANTORINI. Greece --Cleanup crews struggled to avert a major oil spill Tuesday on one of the Mediterranean Sea's most pic­turesque destinations after a sunken cruise ship leaked dozens of tons of oil off the resort island of Santorini at the start of the summer tourist season. 
Greek engineers expressed hope they could prevent an environmental disaster as crews fought to siphon up fuel from the Sea Diamond, which went down Friday after hit­ting a submerged reef. A French passenger and his daughter were feared drowned and nearly 1,600 people--mostly U.S. citizens-­were safely evacuated. 
Vassilis Mamaloukas, an environmental engineer leading the cleanup, said the spill was largely contained but the oil remained a threat to the resort. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Teen accidentally shoots gun in class 
CHICAGO --A high school student passed a handgun to a classmate inside a Chicago classroom Tuesday when it accidentally dis­charged, striking both in the leg, police said. 
The two teens, both 15, were taken to hospital in "criticaVserious" condition, the Chicago Fire Department said. Police initial­ly said the students were in good condition. 
The boys were sitting in the back of a sci­ence classroom at the Chicago Vocational Career Academy on the city's South Side around 2:15p.m. when the gun discharged. One was struck in the thigh and the other near the knee, said Robert Lopez, an assis­tant deputy police superintendent. 

NASA sets new launch for Atlantis 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. --NASA will try to launch Atlantis on the first space shuttle mis­sion of the year in early June, almost three months later than originally planned, so that technicians can finish repairing its hail-dam­aged fuel tank, officials said Tuesday. 
The new launch date now was set for no earlier than June 8. 
NASA managers had been studying for weeks whether to finish repairing the tank and use it for Atlantis' mission or swap it out with another tank. 
But NASA managers said they were pleased with the progress of repairs that already have been made. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Trustees review presidential hire 
INDIANAPOLIS --Ivy Tech trustees next week will review their decision to hire an Anderson businessman as president after the state's public access counselor determined the board had acted illegally in selecting him. 
The board will discuss the hiring of Thomas J. Snyder as the president of the state-supported community college at its April 19 meeting in French Lick, Vice Chairman Jesse Brand said. 
"Personally, I don't foresee a different out­come," he said. "I know that I'm still com­fortable with the process that we followed." 
MOROCCO 


Terror suspects blow themselves up 
Threr: men flee with explosives; fourth shot by police before detonating bomb 
Associated Press 
CASABLANCA --Police surrounded a building in Morocco's largest city where four terrorism sus­pects were holed up Tuesday, forcing three of the men to flee and blow themselves up with explo­sives. The fourth was shot by police as he was appar­ently preparing to deto­nate his bomb. 
A police officer was killed in the operation and a young child was injured, officials said. 
The explosions in Casablanca, weeks after the bombing of an Internet cafe in the city, promised to further rattle the North African kingdom whose first high-profile brush with Islamic terrorism came in five suicide bomb­ings in the city in May 2003. 
Moroccan authorities 
responded to those 
attacks, which left 45 peo­
ple dead, with the arrest 
of thousands of alleged 
Islamic militants _ some 
accused of working with 
al-Qaida to plot strikes in 
Morocco and abroad. At 
least two of those killed 

Tuesday were suspected of 
links to those attacks. 

The suspects were all allegedly connected to the Mohamed Rachidi. then blew himself up because he was not March 11 bombing of the A second man appeared hours later as police were authorized to speak pub­Internet cafe -an attack to be on the verge of deto­searching for him, accord­licly. The official MAP that killed the bomber, nating explosives, fum­ing to another officer at news agency said the blast Abdelfettah Raydi, and bling with his clothes, the scene, who also injured five people. It gave four others. when a police sniper shot refused to give his name. no etails. 
Tuesday's violence start­him, officials said. The He was identified as Investigations into the ed when police, acting on suspect, who later died of Ayyoub Raydi, the brother March 11 cafe bombing a tip, surrounded a four­his wounds, was identified of the Internet cafe led police to a wider sus­story apartment building by police as Mohamed bomber, the Interior pected plot to attack the in the working-class Hay Mentala. He was carrying Ministry official said. port in Casablanca, as well Farah neighborhood of nearly nine pounds of The police officer was as police stations and Casablanca where the sus­explosives, said an killed and another seri­tourist sites in Morocco. pected terrorists were Interior Ministry official ously injured when Ayyoub The group had amassed holed up, officials said. who also asked not to be Raydi detonated his explo­dozens of homemade 
One of the suspects fled named, citing ministry sives, the official said. A 7-explosives at a Casablanca to the roof, where he blew policy. year-old boy was hospital­apartment. himself up, said a police Mentala and Rachidi had ized with minor injuries. In last month's blast, official on the ·scene who both been sought by police In the evening, the Abdelfettah Raydi detonat­refused to give his name, for alleged involvement in fourth suspect detonated ed his charge when the saying he was not author­the 2003 suicide bomb­his explosives in the mid­cybercafe's owner caught ized to do so. Morocco's ings, the Interior Ministry dle of a boulevard, said a him surfing jihadist Web official MAP news agency official said. police official who spoke sites. He was killed and identified that bomber as The third suspect fled, on condition of anonymity four others were injured. 


Senators fight Bush on stem cell bill 
year." ed number of stem cell lines that
Associated Press Assuredly not this year. were in existence before the day of WASHINGTON -Senate support­President Bush, who cast the only his announcement. The administra­ers of embryonic stem cell research veto of his tenure on a stem cell bill tion's goal was to satisfy calls for refused to take another no for an in 2006, quickly made it clear this funding of scientific research with­answer Tuesday, advancing politi­year ·will be no different. The bill out offending anti-abortion conser­cally popular legislation that is "would use federal taxpayer dollars vatives who had helped elect him to assured of passage, yet doomed for to support and encourage the the White House. the second straight year to a veto destruction of human life for The bill's supporters concede they that Congress cannot override. research," the White House said in are short of the votes needed to "This bill eventually will become a written statement. override a veto, but appeared eager law," vowed Sen. Dianne Feinstein, Stem cells are created in the first to confront the president again on D-Calif., as debate opened on a bill days after conception, and are typi­an issue with strong public backing. to loosen federal funding restric­cally culled from frozen embryos, "If we did everything based on tions on research that supporters which are destroyed in the process. veto threats by the president, we say offers hope for treatment of The legislation would overturn a would never get anything done numerous diseases. policy Bush established in 2001, around here," said Jim Manley, a "If not this year then next year. If when he said federal funds may spokesman for Senate Majority not next year then the following only be used for research on a limit-Leader Harry Reid of Nevada. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, Aprilll, 2007 
the road ahead." limitations and flaws before gruities. riorated considerably, The road ahead for the these plans are implemented. Cardenas then reiterated Cardenas said.
Mexico 

PDR. a left-of-center liberalist continued from page 1 organization, could include 
plans to boost the Mexican dominant political parties -economy through the integra­Cardenas said PDR politicians tion of indigenous groups to needed to collaborate with the country's trade networks 
the administration  and  the  
of President Felipe Calderon, despite  "Terrorism  expansion of the  
claims his elec­toral victory was fraudulent. The PDR presi­dential candidate,  problems in the United States have nothing [to dol with Mexican relations.''  N o r t h American T r a d e Agreement (NAFTA) to  
Andres  Lopez  resemble  
Obrador, lost the elections to Calderon by  Cuauhtemoc Cardenas Mexican politician  the model implement­ed by the  
approximately one  European  

percent of the votes, accord­Union, Cardenas said. He rec­ing to the PDR Web site. ognized, however, the party's 
Only through cooperation among dissenting congress­men and elected officials, Cardenas said, can Mexico effectively battle its problems with unemployment, the widening gap between the haves and the have-nots and mass emigration to the United States. 
He called the inflow of Mexican immigrants to the United States "the most important migrant flow on the planet." 
More than three million Mexican workers crossed the northern border without authorization in 2006, Cardenas said, and more than 26 million are already estab­lished in the United States. 
Higher walls along the southern Texan stateline, increased border patrols and labeling the immigration situ­ation a matter of national security will not result in a solution for either side, he said. 

"We have to understand that border security and the war on terrorism are not the same thing, and they should be faced with different means, Cardenas said. "Terrorism problems in the United States have nothing [to do] with Mexican relations." 
He said he hopes American citizens will recognize the contributions of Mexican immigrants to the United States economy and will see the two countries' desires to arrive at immigration policies that consider both sides. 

Cardenas said that while the United States should not slam its door to the immi­grants, Mexico should work to improve the unemployment conditions that tend to drive people away. 
He refuted claims that Mexico may not be interested in improving its own atmos­phere because the substantial amount of remittances that arrive from workers in the United States are a steady source of national income. 

"Remittances are important to the Mexican economy, but we would prefer that income to be generated within Mexico," Cardenas said. 
Freshmen Justin Perez said he was impressed such a prominent Mexican politician had visited Notre Dame but said he wished Cardenas had spoken more about the rele­vance of remittances to the immigration debate. 
"He almost left remittances out of the equation until someone asked him about them," Perez said. "I under­stand that this lecture was only intended to give a brief overview of the different challenges facing Mexican politics, but I still hoped he would offer more specific insights as opposed to gener­alized observations regarding "There are many Lefts in his earlier point, saying the Mexico and therefore, there Mexican Left needed to put its 
are many PDRs,"  own  differ- 
he said,  refer­ ences  asides  
ring to the inter­ "Remittances are  and  work  
nal disagree­ments and opposing view­points that hin­ important to the Mexican economy, but we would prefer that  together to guarantee a better future for the coun­ 
der the party's efforts. Senior Gustavo  income to be generated within Mexico."  try. The future of the coun­ 
Rivera pointed out the support a faction of the  Cuauhtemoc Cardenas Mexican politician  try, he added, should not forget to  
PDR  has  lent  include  the  
gubernatorial  rest of Latin  

candidate Ana Rosa Payan, a America in its agenda. In the right-winger, during her past decades, Mexico's rela­ongoing campaign as one of tionships to the countries the PDR's multiple incon-south of its border have dete-

This way up. 
Start at Ernst &Young, and your career is headed in 
the right direction. With our award-winning training 
programs. you'll have the resources you need to 
enhance your skills. It's an environment that 
promotes your personal and professional growth 
and success. So there's only one way to go-up. 
Visit us on campus or at ey.comjusjcareers.
LLI 
F()lUUNE'

100 BEST

z COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 
0 
"The last administrations have paid no attention to the maintenance of the relation­ship between Mexico and the rest of Latin America," he said. 
"In South America, many countries think Mexico is integrated to the north and doesn't have any responsibili­ties to its southern neighbors. We need to work on our eco­nomic and political relations with the Latin American countries. It's a task that will require time and work but we cannot stay detached from the south." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

THE QgsERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, April 11, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET 
RECAP 
Dow 
12,573.85 +4.71
jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,999 133 1,251 2,515,202,704 

NASDAQ 2,477.61 +8.43 
NYSE.t# ;... • ~Cifli9~1Uil~l!l!'l11f:l!l;:la~:4111 
S&P 500 1,448.39 +3. 78 
NIKI(EI(TokfllrJfl,~ii'i~I;IIItlr;;;:l;: !:;iill:i:ir~~~)llil 
FTSE IOO(London) 6,417.80 +20.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.00 +0.00 5.93 
INTEL CP (INTC) +2.89 +0.58 20.68 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) +0.52 +0.23 44.68 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.80 -0.21 25.99 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) 
+0.12 +0.17 144.61 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE -0.44 -0.021 4.724 13-WEEK BILL -0.1 0 -0.005 4.880 30-YEAR BOND -0.20 -0.0 I 0 4.906 5-YEARNOTE -0.62 -0.029 4.631 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.38 61.89 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.60 681.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.88 101.75 
Excha Rates 

YEN 118.9350 
EURO 0.7447 
POUND 0.5058 
CANADIAN$ 
1.1472 
IN BRIEF 
Newspaper employees take buyouts 
ATLANTA -Forty-three newsroom employ­ees at The Atlanta Journal-Constitution have opted to take buyouts offered by the paper as part of a restructuring, a spokeswoman said Tuesday. 
The changes come as the Atlanta paper, like other newspapers, adjusts to major shifts in news consumption and advertising spending on the Internet. 
There were up to 80 staffers among the 475 full-time newsroom employees at Georgia's largest newspaper who were offered the buy­outs in February. 
Most of those who have accepted the buyout will leave the newspaper on June 30, but some may be asked to stay longer to help pro­vide continuity for the paper, spokeswoman Mary Dugenske said. 
The voluntary buyouts were presented to employees who are at least 55 years old and have more than 10 years at the paper. 
There will be no involuntary layoffs. Some staffers who remain may be asked to take on new roles at the paper, Dugenske said. 
The newspaper has said it plans to revamp its operations, including cutting its circulation area and focusing more on digital news. 
Employees who opted to take the buyout will receive two weeks of pay for each year worked at the paper, up to 52 weeks. 
Google spreads Darfur awareness 
WASHINGTON -Google is using its popular online mapping service to call attention to atrocities in the Darfur region of Sudan. 
In a project with the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, inaugurated Tuesday, the Internet search company has updated its Google Earth service with high resolution satellite images of the region to document destroyed villages, displaced people and refugee camps. 
Google Earth allows those who have down­loaded its free software to focus on satellite images and maps of most of the world. When users scan over the Darfur region, where the United Nations estimates that more than 200,000 people have been killed and 2.5 mil­lion displaced in four years of carnage, Google Inc. hopes to attract their gaze with icons. 
Cuomo challenges loan practices 
Companies, university officials involved in $85 billion industry may face charges 
Associated Press 

ALBANY -It was a call 
from an industry whistle­
blower that first drew New 
York Attorney General 
Andrew Cuomo's attention to 
dubious practices in the stu­
dent loan business. 

While various authorities 
have been examining the 
issue for about a year, 
Cuomo became interested 
after a lender trying to break 
into the business told him 
that a few loan companies 
dominated the lucrative 
market. Cuomo, who would 
not name the whistleblower, 
saw it as an antitrust issue 
and started asking questions. 
"For me it became real 
when I talked to lenders who 
couldn't get into the market," 
Cuomo told The Associated 
Press Tuesday. "You can be a 
lender who wants to com­
pete and have a better prod­
uct, but you just can't get to 
the students.... The schools 
are controlling the access to 
the students." 

Two months after launch­
ing the case, Cuomo believes 
cozy arrangements between 
colleges and the companies 
that lend their students bil­
lions of dollars are far more 
widespread than even he 
anticipated. Cuomo wouldn't 
divulge where the burgeon­
ing investigation is headed 
next, including whether 
more subpoenas are on the 
way, but said his investiga­ments that benefited schools, loan prices caused by rev­lege financial aid officers. 
tion of the $85 billion indus­financial aid officers and enue sharing agreements, On Tuesday, two more 
try could lead to criminal lenders at the expense of Cuomo said. The schools will school officials joined a 
charges against high-rank­students. return money to students growing list of those who 
ing officials at both lending Investigators found that who took out loans during have been placed on leave 
companies and universities. many colleges have estab­the time the revenue sharing for possible ties to lending 
"This is like peeling an lished "preferred lender" agreement was in effect. companies. onion," Cuomo said. "It lists and entered into rev­Students will be refunded Widener University in seems to be getting worse enue sharing and other based on the amount they Pennsylvania placed Walter the more we uncover. It's financial arrangements with were loaned. Cathie, the dean of financial more widespread than we those lenders. Some colleges On Monday, a loan compa­aid at Widener on leave. originally thought ... More have "exclusive" preferred ny that has been at the cen­Cuomo's office said Cathie schools and more lenders at lender agreements with the ter of the investigation, CIT was paid $80,000 by Student the top end." companies. Group Inc., placed three top Loan Xpress since 2005. 
Cuomo is investigating So far, six schools, includ­executives at its Student Investigators said they also alleged kickbacks to school ing the University of Loan Xpress division on paid believed Cathie had an officials who steered stu­Pennsylvania and New York leave following allegations of agreement with the company dents to certain lenders. His University, have agreed to stock transactions with a to market its services to investigators say they have reimburse students a total of high-level U.S. Department graduate schools, receiving found numerous arrange-$3.27 million for inflated of Education official and col-fees based on loan volume. 

Lower summer gas prices predicted 
Associated Press Ion for the month of May, then $2.80 last week. Prices across much 
decline. Last summer's peak was an of the West Coast have been over $3 
WASHINGTON -Drivers may fmd average of $2.98 for the month of a gallon. gasoline a little cheaper this sum­July. Gasoline prices normally increase mer compared to last, despite a 64-"We think the forecast is about on in advance of the April-to­cent-a-gallon jump since January. track," said Geoff Sundstrom, a September heavy driving season, 
The Energy Department said spokesman for AAA. He said based but this time the price climb came Tuesday that the recent sharp rise on current market trends he doesn't shockingly early _ in the dead of in gasoline costs is likely to slow in see another summer of $3 gasoline winter. the coming weeks with prices aver­nationwide. The government attributed the aging $2.81 a gallon over the vaca­Prices have soared beyond $3 in unusual early price surge to higher tion driving season, about 3 cents each of the last two summers: crude oil prices, unplanned refinery lower than last spring and summer. During Hurricane Katrina in 2005 outages, declining imports from 
But the Energy Information that disrupted Gulf Coast supplies Europe and an increase in demand. Administration forecast is anything and last July when the Israeli inva­"Although gasoline prices began but assured. sion of Lebanon caused crude prices their seasonal increase about a 
Only a month ago, the agency said to spike to $76 a barrel with $3-plus month earlier than usual, the rapid it believed the cost of regular-grade gasoline quick to follow. rate of price increase is projected to gasoline would peak in June, aver­The forecast assumes no new slow over the next few months," aging $2.67 for the month, a price international crisis this summer. said the energy agency. already eclipsed last week. Since January, the price of regular Despite the higher prices, 
The latest forecast calls for prices grade gasoline has gone from a motorists show no signs that they're to peak with an average $2.87 a gal-weekly average of $2.16 a gallon to staying off the roads. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 11, 2007 

At the Easter Vigil this past Saturday night, these 10 members of the Notre Da1ne comn1unity \Vere fully initiated into the Catholic Church. At this liturgy, these I 0 received the sacraments of Baptism, Confin11ation, and Eucharist. Please join us in congratulating them and w·elcoming then1 into our faith community. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 


Wednesday, April 11, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS ·NEWS page 9 
DST 
continued from page 1 
the same time period in previ­ous years, Utilities Director Paul Kempf said. 
"It's difficult to look at just a snapshot [in comparison]," Kempf said, due to a variety of variables, including growth at Notre Dame. " ... We have more buildings, more people than a year ago, and it's difficult to create a growth factor for this." 
From the records available, energy consumption levels increased in March this year by a few tenths of a percent, Kempf said. In March of 2006, the University used just under 11 million kilowatt hours -a 
At Ernst & Young our commitment to your personal growth and success will get you moving in the right direction. Congratulations and welcome to our incoming class from the University of Notre Dame. 
eyocomjus;careers 
Amanda Bode, Intern Thomas Bradley Brett Brennfleck Patricia Bueso Mary Bulfin, Intern Leigh Chapman, Intern Kyle Charters Samuel Chen, Intern Janet Claseman,/ntern Todd Coffey Timothy Dennig Kelly Donovan, Intern Elizabeth Elverman, Intern David Finn Bradley Fleming Elizabeth Frecka, Intern Brian Gerspach Diana Gonzalez, Intern David Grabosky Robert Hallman Patrick Hoffman Houston Hum Richard King Meghan Krippinger, Intern 
figure that increased to just more than 11 million hours this March, Kempf said. The differ" ence was 32,000 kilowatt hours. 
"I can't say that we noticed anything uniquely different for the month of March this year," said Kempf, who explained he was skeptical of the time change from the start. 
And since metering accuracy allows for a one percent error, "it's too close to call, too close to say anything definitive," Kempf said. 
Besides a growing University, Kempf said another factor the calculations don't account for is weather. He said data on the number of heating/cooling days for the most recent month of March is not yet available. 
"Extreme weather will change energy usage," Kempf said. "Anytime you [deviate] from a benchmark temperature of around 55 degrees, you'll need to either heat or cool buildings." 
Both heating and cooling will affect the energy usage pat­terns, he said. 
At Notre Dame, major energy consuming areas include research spaces, Kempf said. Circulation systems in these spaces must constantly gener­ate fresh air and cannot pro­vide re-circulated air like many of the other circulation systems on campus. 
The amount of energy used by the University in March ­around 11 million kilowatt hours -is as much as 11,000 
Gregory Kucaj Thao le Nguyen Edward Lerum Kathryn Marcuccilli, Intern Elizabeth Mathisen Christopher McEntee James McMahon John Millhouse, Intern Christopher Petersen Lauren Petrozziello, Intern Katlyn Regan Megan Regan Ellie Rhee Kimberly Rodriguez Julie Rose, Intern Noreen Sherred, Intern (St. Mary's) Jason Shontz Matthew Smith, Intern Nicholas Tessalone Jay Vanden Berg, Intern Nina Wiese, Intern Pei-An Wu Matthew Wynne, Intern Xi Zhong 
times what's used in the aver­age American home. That fig­ure is 800 to 1,000 kilowatt hours a month. 
The Energy Policy Act of 2005, signed by President Bush in August of that year, was designed as an attempt to com­bat growing energy problems through numerous initiatives, including the change to the Daylight Saving Time schedule. Congress will evaluate the effects of the time change and has the ability to revert to the previous time schedule by spring of next year. The provi­sion in the Energy Policy Act amended the Uniform Time Act of 1966. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Foru01 
continued from page 1 
social worker employed by the office of Congressman Joe Donnelly, Jessie Whitaker, director of the LEND Homeownership Center in South Bend and Warren Outlaw, director of the Educational Talent Search Program at Notre Dame. Others included Mark Geissler, a South Bend Community School Corporation social worker, Pastor Hardie Blake, a mem­ber of redevelopment com­mission for South Bend and Lilia Periquet, part-time fac­ulty member and field instructor for the Saint Mary's Social Work program. 
All the panelists shared their unique experiences related to the discussion and many of them incorporated stories of their work with undocumented citizens. 
"People think that those who come over from other countries are immediately able to get Social Security benefits, Medicare and Medicaid," Gonzalez said. "This is very untrue, and the population that this most affects is our children." 
When a child is born in the United States, then he or she is a U.S. citizen, Gonzalez said. If they have parents who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents, then they do not get the federal benefits because they do not have a legal resident petition­ing for the aid on their behalf. 
Periquet agreed with Gonzalez and said those who check in to the Sister Maura Brannick Health Center must be at least 150 percent below the poverty level. 
"People who are accepted to our clinic are those who do not have any insurance and are not qualified for insur­ance," Periquet said. "Due to those requirements, the chil­dren that we have [at the Center] are the children of undocumented people in our community." 
Many of the problems pre­sented at the forum involved the education of children. 
"Children can go to school, but when they graduate from high school, what do they do?" Periquet asked. "Education is one way to get out of poverty, but if you don't have the money to pay privately for a college educa­tion, you can't get an educa­tion." 
The panelists also said there needs to be a change in how those mired in poverty think. 
Blake, who runs a parent­ing course for fathers at Ivy Tech Community College, said the intention of his program is to shift a parent's priorities so that he thinks of his chil­dren first. 
"Our emphasis is on the children and we try to get the fathers to understand that," Blake said. 
The class plans the forum annually, although it was not held last year because Kominkiewicz took a half­year sabbatical leave. In past years, the department has won awards for its extensive efforts in the area of geron­tology, the study of aging. But for the past two forums, the students have decided to address issues affecting chil­dren and families. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, April 11, 2007 

Quinn 
continued from page 1 
and the Hulk Hogan Talk Show. 
"There were so many things that were funny, but a lot of sketches didn't get on -that's what would kill me the most," he said. "A lot of the best sketches came when people were screwing around and peo­ple would say, 'you should do that on the show'." 
Quinn also said he felt "SNL" was often overproduced because each sketch is con­stantly being rewritten. 
"By the time [a sketch] is on the show, whatever magic it had is gone -during the process it loses a lot." 
Quinn said it took a lot of work to get his comedy career up and running. 
"I grew up in Brooklyn. I was always the class clown-type personality. Everybody thought I should be a comedian," Quinn said. 

He said after attending col­lege for a year, a friend of his suggested that they brave the comedy world together. 
"Immediately I was like, 'wow -this is exactly what I'm sup­posed to be doing,"' he said. 
Quinn described some of the struggles that amateur comedi­ans face when they are first starting out. 
"The first night I did [stand up). the MC said, 'you're a nat­ural -come back in a year.' It takes at least a year to get going -that's how you get started in comedy, doing it every night," Quinn said. "It's harder to do it now because there's just so many comedians -when I started it was a lot easier." 

Of the current "SNL" show, Quinn said, "I haven't watched it -but it looks pretty bleak. I've seen some funny things on it but I haven't really watched the show. I don't even know who's doing Weekend Update now. Once you're there you just can't watch it." 
When asked about his current projects, Quinn said jokingly that he thought the bowling alley in South Bend would make a good comedy room. He said he stays busy doing stand-up acts and categorizing all of his material. 
''I'm taking all my material over the years and categorizing everything into race, religion immigration. And I'm going to put it out into CDs," Quinn said. ''I'm always writing. I'm psy­chotic. I write all the time." 
He spends so much time writ­ing, in fact, that he said he refuses to be in anything. 
"When I was on "SNL," Mike Myers wanted me to be in Austin Powers. l told him, 'That's great, but I'm working on my own stuff.' That was the only time it really bit me in the ass." 
Quinn said that it is "individ­ual moments" that inspire him comically. 
"It inspires me when I see people pull something off that's funny, and it's just subtle," he said. "I feel like you have to actively pursue what's going to inspire you. It's there but it's so delicate. 
You can't rely on a person ­it has to be those moments." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 


NTSB urges safety changes 
Air traffic controllers need more break time, Transportation Board says 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Federal safety investigators urged regu­lators Tuesday to provide air traffic controllers with more time off between shifts to pre­vent dangerous fatigue. 
The National Transportation Safety Board issued two safety recommendation letters designed to reduce fatigue and improve vigilance of controllers. The recommendations were based on its ongoing investiga­tion of the Aug. 27 Comair crash that killed 49 people on take-off from Lexington, Ky., and on investigations of 10 ear­lier crashes or close calls. 
Without reaching conclusions on the causes of the Kentucky crash, the board noted that the controller who cleared the Comair Bombardier for the early morning takeoff had only a two-hour nap during nine hours ofT before his shift. The board said the controller did not notice the plane had turned onto the wrong runway -one too short for a commercial jet -because, the controller said, he had turned away from the window to perform an adminis­trative task. 
The board said fatigue played a role in these dose calls: 
+At Chicago's O'Hare airport on March 23, 2006, a controller working on four hours sleep cleared two jetliners to take off on the same runway. 
+ 
At Los Angeles International on Aug. 19, 2004, a controller with five to six hours sleep cleared one jet to take off from a runway another jet was about to land on. 

+ 
At Denver International on Sept. 25, 2001, a controller working with 60-90 minutes sleep allowed a cargo jet to take off from a closed runway with construction equipment at the end. 

+ 
At Seattle-Tacoma International on July 8, 2001, a controller with three hours sleep allowed a jetliner to taxi across a runway another jet was landing on. 


The board urged the Federal Aviation Administration and the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, which represents air controllers, to cooperate to revise work schedules "to pro­vide rest periods that are long enough for controllers to obtain sufficient restorative sleep" and to modify shift rotations "to minimize disrupted sleep pat­terns." 
"We'll certainly take a hard look at scheduling with the union, but many of the sched­ules that we have in plaee are at the request of our employ­ees," said FAA spokeswoman Laura Brown. She said the eon­tract calls for at least eight hours oft" between shifts, but the FAA negotiates how controllers rotate through shifts with union locals at eaeh facility. 
"This is a very welcome report," said Doug Church, spokesman for the controllers union. "We're ready to meet tomorrow morning. This discus­sion has to be had and goes to the core of aviation safety.'' 
Negotiations on a new con­tract broke down in April 2006, and the FAA imposed work rules last September, Church said. 
"They wanted to take back the ability to control the sched­ule. There is an understaffing problem and controllers are being asked to come in for mandatory overtime," Church added. "The FAA did away with ability of controllers to use sick leave if they are not rested enough," as the previous con­tract allowed. 
The board praised the FAA for researching fatigue but flayed the agency for failing to act on it. The board noted the FAA had not acted on a recom­mendation by its own fatigue researchers in 2001 to evaluate work schedules at its facilities to provide longer rest periods. 
"Little progress has been made to revise controller-sched­uling policies and practices in light of the latest research fmd­ings," the board wrote. "Because of the lack of FAA action on this issue, controllers frequently operate in a fatigued state and the action needed now must go beyond simple evaluations." 

.-----------------------------------------­
Wednesday, April 11, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
INSTITUTE for 

La.tino studies 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
WHY CHOOSE A MINOR OR A SUPPLEMENTARY MAJOR IN LATINO STUDIES 
AT NO? 




Run to Rebuild 
A Benefit for "Rebuilding Together" 
Join RecSports & Food Services in the annual Spring Run 

J5A10itRUNS 
PLUS 
2 ILl WALIC 
Saturday, April 14, 2007 

11:00 A.M. Race will begin at Legends 
Opens at 10:00 A.M. 
Refreshments & T-Shirts to all Finishers Register in Advance at RecSports $10.00 In Advance or $15.00 Day of Race Advance Registration Begins 3/26, Ends @ 5:00 p.m. 4/13 
Student and Staff Divisions 
Changes in American demography make it imperative for professionals and Leaders, in allfields, to understand the politics, economics, and cultures of the US Latina/Hispanic community. Health professionals, for example, are already implementing programs tailored to the needs of US Latinos/Hispanics; the private sector is recognizing their growing purchasing power; and policymakers and political leaders have come to realize that Latinos/Hispanics may play a decisive role in the US electoral vote. 
The minor or the supplementary major in Latino studies will deepen students' knowledge of the cultures, art, history, literature, religious life, political expression, and public policy issues of nearly 40 million Latinos/Hispanics in the United States. 
The programs encourage research into new issues such as changing immigration patterns, remittances, emerging transnational communities, and cultural flows between Latinos/Hispanics in the United States and their families' countries of origin. 
While the emphasis is on domestic communities, consideration of globalization, immigration, and border issues introduces an international dimension. 
For more information contact: 
Yolanda Lizardi Marino, 
Director of Academic Affairs, 
Institute for Latino Studies, 
230 McKenna Hall; 
(574) 631-0940; 
or at ymarino@nd.edu. 
Johnny Cash'shome destroyedby flames 

Associated Press 

HENDERSONVILLE, Tenn. -Johnny Cash's lakeside home, a showcase where he wrote much of his famous music and entertained U.S. presidents, music royalty and visiting fans, was destroyed by fire on Tuesday. 
Cash and his wife, June Carter Cash, lived in the 13,880-square-foot home from the late 1960s until their deaths in 2003. 
"So rriany prominent things and prominent people in American history took place in that house -everyone from Billy Graham to Bob Dylan went into that house," said singer Marty Stuart, who lives next door and was mar­ried to Cash's daughter, Cindy, in the 1980s. 
Stuart said the man who designed the house, Nashville builder Braxton Dixon, was "the closest thing this part of the country had to Frank Lloyd Wright." 
When Cash moved there, the road was a quiet country lane that skirts Old Hickory Lake. Kris Kristofferson, then an aspiring songwriter, once landed a helicopter on Cash's lawn to pitch him a song. 
The landmark video for Cash's song "Hurt" was shot inside the house. 
"It was a sanctuary and a fortress for him," Stuart said. "There was a lot of writing that took place there." 
Richard Sterban of the Oak Ridge Boys lives on the same road as Cash. "Maybe it's the good Lord's way to make sure that it was only Johnny's house," Sterban said. 
The property was pur­chased by Barry Gibb, a mem­ber of the Bee Gees, in January 2006. Gibb and his wife, Linda, had said they planned to restore the home on Old Hickory Lake and hoped to write songs there. They had not yet moved in to the home. 
Dixon built the three-story house in 1967 for his own family, but Cash fell in love with it. Dixon was reluctant to sell, but Cash kept after him. 
"It was a very, very unusual contemporary structure," said Cash's brother, Tommy Cash. "It was built with stone and wood and all kinds of unusual materials, from marble to old barn wood. I don't think there was a major blueprint. I think the builder was building it the way he wanted it to look." 
The younger Cash said many holidays and family get­togethers were spent at the house. And while Johnny and June also owned a house in Jamaica and a second house in Tennessee, they considered this one to be their home. 
"Johnny and June lived there the entire time they were married," Tommy Cash said. "It was the only house they lived in together until they both passed on." 
The fire, in this suburb about 20 miles northeast of downtown Nashville, started around 1:40 p.m. Fire trucks arrived within five minutes, but the house was already engulfed in flames, Hendersonville Fire Chief Jamie Steele said. 
Just a few hours later, there was almost nothing left except brick chimneys and the steel frame. 
The cause is unknown, but Steele said the flames spread quickly because construction workers had recently applied a flammable wood preserva­tive to the exterior of the house. The preservative was also being applied inside the house. 
No workers were injured, but one firefighter was slight­ly hurt while fighting the fire, Steele said. 
Cash's long career, which began in the 1950s, spanned rock 'n' roll, folk and country. His hits included "Ring of Fire," "Folsom Prison Blues" and "I Walk the Line." 




E·WORD 
·EMY 
Corpus Christi 
Dir. of Campus Ministry 
Master's degree in Catholic Theology, 3 yrs. exp. & Spanish fluency prefd. Send resume to deleona({V,iwacc.org or fax 361-883-2185 www.1wacc.org 
THE OBSERVER 










IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, April 11, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Unconstitutional government 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER &.GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63!-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
. ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudenrs ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisemenrs, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Edito(, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMattdie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obsc£Vcr {USPS 5991-4000) is published Monday through Friday a<:ept during exam and vacation ~riods. Asub:!icription ru The Observt'r is $100 for one acad<:mic year; $'55 for one semesr<:r. 
Th Obsotrver is. publiilicd at: POSTMASTER 024 Somh Dining HaU Send address rotrt:crimu. tu; Not.rt: Dame, IN 465'56--0779 The Observer Perlodtcal pos£age paid ~t Notte Dame P.O. Box 779. and additional mailing offices. 024.South Dining fuJI 
Notre Dame, IN 46556..0779 
The Ohservt:r ~a mcmhc::r ofth~ A'iSociar«< Pn::s:.. AJl reproducrion riglus arc reserved. • 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Dan Murphy Emma Driscoll Greg Arbogast 
Viewpoint Gene Noone Kara King Scene· Graphics Tae Andrews 
Jeff Albert 

It is difficult not to notice the unprece­dented amount of accusations leveled at President Bush claiming that he is destroying the Constitution. Many Democrats, and increasingly Hepublicans, right­fully charge him with illegally wire­tapping American citizens without a warrant, illegally restricting speech with the McCain­Feingold Campaign Fina,!lce Heform bill, and illegally holding "unlawful enemy combatants" indefi­nitely without trial or charges. 
Even Hay Charles could probably see the truth in some of these charges. The Fourth Amendment requires a warrant to search a person or his property, yet the president approved many such war­rantless searches conducted by NSA in obvious contradiction to both the Constitution and statutory law. Indeed, he intentionally ignored the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISAl passed by Congress in 1978, legislation that prevented the Executive Branch from conducting surveillance without court supervision. McCain-Feingold restricts political speech just before elections, the time when free speech is rieeded most. The Fifth Amnndment reads, "nor shall (the accused) ... be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law" -yet this is exactly what Bush claims the right to. do when he designates people as "unlawful enemy combatants" and holds them indefinitely. Bush's blatant disregard for the protections enshrined in the Constitution is sickening, and politicians who criticize the administra­tion's actions on these matters as unconstitutional deserve praise. However, it is ironic that those who claim such fidelity to the Constitution on civil liberties matters completely neglect it in budgetary matters. 
The founding fathers wen'l dearly wary of overbearing government, hav­ing just waged a successful war against such a government. They believed, as the Declaration of Independence states, 

Mark Poyar 
Actual Common Sense 
that all men have "unalienable rights" and that to secure these rights, "govern­ments are instituted among men." They also knew that government itself is often the greatest offender of the rights of the people. Consequently, the Constitution sought to minimize this danger by placing strict, easily under­stood limits on what the newly created federal government could do. The Bill of nights spelled out some of the rights of the people, supposedly protecting them from infringement by the federal gov­ernment. 
The Constitution created a federal government of enumerated powers. Article 1, Section 8 clearly lists these powers of Congress, defining the areas in which Congress has the authority to act (to raise and support armies, for example). James Madison, the "father of the Constitution," stated that "the pow­ers delegated by the proposed Constitution to the federal government are few and defined." The 1Oth Amendment also confirms the point: "The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibit­ed by it to the states, are reserved to the states respectively, or to the people." Therefore, Congress can only act in matters where the Constitution gives it express authority to do so; any lawmak­ing or spending by Congress on objects outside of its limited scope of powers are unconstitutional. 
The US federal budget for 2007 is roughly $2.8 trillion dollars. or this, about $585 billion (21 percent) goes to Social Security, $395 billion (14 percent) to Medicare, $365 billion (13 percent) to Unemployment and Welfare, $275 bil­lion (1 0 percent) to Medicaid and other health related programs, and $90 bil­lion (3 percent) to Education and Training. It is obvious from the previous analysis that Congress may only legis­late within its enumerated powers; if it spends money on something outside of its powers, then it is acting unconstitu­tionally. What specific enumerated power in Section 8 grants Congress the power to spend money on any of any of the programs previously mentioned? Clearly, no enumerated power·gives Congress the power to legislate in any of these areas. Furthermore, Madison once said in regard to proposed federal aid to refugees that he could not "undertake to lay my Linger on that arti­ele of the Constitution which granted a right to Congress of expending, on objects of benevolence, the money of their constituents." Therefore, these programs (which constitute more than 60 percent of federal spending) are uneonstitutional. 
It is a mark of how far America has strayed from the Constitution that both major parties openly support these pro­grams. Entitlement spending alone­which includes Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid-constitutes a whopping 45 percent of all federal gov­ernment spending. Both parties, although they would never openly acknowledge that they couldn't care less about the Constitution, are enthusi­astic supporters of entitlement spend­ing. 
Those who rightfully accuse the presi­dent of constitutional violations want to have it two ways. On one hand, they swear loyalty to the Constitution and claim that the president is violating its provisions. On the other, they are no less reluctant than a dog after eating Taco Bell to defecate all over it in budg­etary matters. For members of the Legislature who are required to take oaths to uphold the Constitution, their double standards are pathetic, not unlike Ohio State's football player grad­uation rate. 
There is only one member of the Legislature who truly respects the Constitution. Hop. Hon Paul of Texas. who is also running for president, asks himself a simple question before voting on any piece of legislation: does the Constitution give Conw;es;>.p(\rrnis,'>i!'HJ to legislate on this matter? If the answer is "no," then he votes "no." It is that simple. It is question that all con­gressmen should ask before voting. 
Mark Poyar is a junior finance major and vice president ofthe College Ubertarians. Their Web site is http://ndlibertarians.blogspot.com. He is currently studying abroad in England and can be contacted at mpoyar@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Submit a Letter to the Editor or Guest Column to viewpoint.l @nd.edu 
or online at www.ndsmcobserver.com. Letters to the Editor should be no more than 350 words in length. Guest Columns should be no longer than800 words and must include a byline with name, year, and t include the author's 

Submissions must be in by 3:00p.m. to be considered for publication the next day. 
OBSERVER PoLL 
Do you feel the Notre Dame Law School is well respected? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit aLetter ~ to the Editor at 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"1/e felt that his whole life was some kind of dream and he sometimes wondered whose it was and whether they were enjoying it." 
Douglas Adams English author 

r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 11, 2007 page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
McDaniels goes too far 
This letter may arrive too late to be relevant, and may do noth­ing but prolong the beating of a dead and rotting horse of a topic. But the fact remains that I have not had much of a problem with the content of "Kaleidoscope McDaniels" until the appearance last week of a strip dealing with heightened admission standards. Now, as a gremlin with a 3.66 GPA who rowed crew in high school, as one of the hundreds of Katherines on campus (though thankfully one who ·has never gone by Katie), as a product of the University standard-raising of 2005/2006, I would like to encourage Liam Moran to go ahead and heighten his personal standards of female acceptance. 
First, I would like to apologize to Moran that myself and my fel­low gremlins, those of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alike, do not always spend the time and energy necessary to make our­selves attractive enough for his liking. I know that I go on choco­late binges during difficult papers and sometimes fail to exercise them off the next morn­ing, that I'm too busy to straight­en my hair every day, that I do try to look decent for class but don't always put forth enough effort. I acknowledge that habits such as mine are not uncommon, and so, in short, I apologize that many women here are too human to please Moran. 
But despite this tragic short­coming of ours, I advise Moran not to give up hope, to hold on to his own high standards and seek his ultimate partner elsewhere. There must be plenty of girls in the world who would suit him, girls who have not allowed thoughts to enter their heads and spoil their "great assets," girls who devote their lives and minds and hearts and souls to the culti­vation of their own sexiness. 
One day, it will be possible for male students like Moran to leave this school --this wretchedly ugly institution whose female students actually think and feel and live --and find wives who are so occupied with their own appearances that they haven't the first idea how to boil an egg or hold a baby, let alone find an integral or write a thesis state­ment. 
I hope that Moran is strong enough to hold out for such an ideal "woman" and that, until he finds one, he fortifies himself by fantasizing in front of late-night MTV. I hope that in the course of their subsequent marriage, she talks entirely in chatspeak, never opens a book, makes a complete mess of his household and spends all of his income on shoes. I hope that he ultimately initiates a revolution at Notre Dame, in which boys like himself follow his example, clinging to their similarly high personal standards despite the University's oppressive attempts to "forcibly lower them" by "raising" its own. And I hope that I'll personally feel the effects of this revolution. I hope that as its supporters are snapped up by the second-rate Paris Hiltons of the world, I will be forced to take my pony tail, jeans and big words elsewhere. 
Ultimately I hope, if only for the sake of all our offspring, that women like me are abandoned by Moran and his followers and left with men of "lowered standards." God grant that we all find who we deserve. 
Katherine Khorey freshman Pasquerilla East Hall AprillO 
uWIRE Sinking irito culture leads to true understanding 
Change is good. Sometimes. 
This is how I often feel when I move to dif­ferent countries. My first experience leaving home in Thailand was going to boarding school in England when I was eight years old. It was a 180-degree 
Rainy
change to a new and 

Phrompechrut
completely different environment: the peo­
Ohio
ple, food and even the 
University
air were different. 
Post
I don't remember much from the experi­ence except the feeling that I was in a differ­ent world. My second time going abroad, however, was to Texas at the age of 16. I had no idea that people living on separate sides of the globe could have such different beliefs. I couldn't understand people there at first --it was both the accent and the ideas. 
I lived with an American family, and my biggest problem was telling them about my discomfort with things. Back home, telling someone you didn't like something they were doing hardly ever solves a problem. 
A major incident for me was being taken to church because my host family thought I was Baptist. When I finally said something after four months, they allowed me to stop going to church. 
I think that when someone sinks himself or herself into a completely different culture, he or she can thoroughly understand it. That understanding leads a person to appreciate what he or she has, see what he or she may not have, and look at life differently. 
In my case, I learned --after changing families twice --that if I wanted to have a good relationship with my host families, I needed to express my discomfort when it was present. And I learned to appreciate being able to tell someone I was unhappy with something they did. 
One of my good friends who went to Ghana for two weeks said one of the most valuable experiences she had was seeing people who had nothing offer her so much. It made her appreciate what she had and want to give more to others. 
It's sort of like using a Mac versus using a PC. Mac and PCs are both computers, and they both have functions that can suit your needs. But the question is which one you like more. You can't really decide without trying both. 
The problem is that the opportunity to travel is not always possible. According to statistics from the Office of Education Abroad Web site, 1,063 people studied abroad during the 2004-05 academic year. This is a significant increase from the 317 people who studied abroad in the 1995-96 academic year. 
But even with the rising number of study abroad students and factors like cheaper plane tickets, some people have never been to another country. More importantly, a per­son might not get to fully experience a dif­ferent culture even when he or she is in a different place. 
I had always thought diversity was mostly good because it made people more tolerant of difference. But I thank the diversity at OU for also allowing me to experience a new culture without having to go somewhere else. Through the presence of 1,050 interna­tional students and an average of two cul­tural events each quarter, I have been able to continue learning about different cultures without traveling anywhere else. 
Though people might act different when they are in another culture, their beliefs are always with them and can be seen through their actions. And though I might be catch­ing only glimpses of other cultures, I feel that I'm getting to see the real thing. I think learning about another culture starts from bits of such experiences, and that's when I can begin finding out whether Macs or PCs suit me better. 
This column first appeared in the April 10 edition of The Post, the daily paper at Ohio University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, April 11, 2007 
REVIEWS By ERIN MCG 
Plenty of blood, numerous storylines istic fashion. Limbs are Freddy Rodriguez capa­scares and laughs are featuring, among other hewn apart and heads bly handles the male at the heart of the things, a government are blown off in such a lead and is perfectly "Grindhouse" opening experiment gone horri­way that the men of stoic compared against film, "Planet Terror." bly awry. In addition, Monty Python would be McGowan's emotional Robert Rodriguez's the film's eclectic proud, as all the limb-dancer. Tarantino also zombie horror lopping puts the manages to make a film is a non-stop PLANET TERROR inimitable Black cameo in the frlm and is adrenaline rush. Knight sequence enjoyably revolting as a The shoot-em-up to shame. crude and cruel soldier, zombie romp bal­However, the but to his discredit it is ances multiple story­ensemble features truly unforgettable nearly impossible to lines with a very appearances from effect is the iconic forget that it's him on tongue-in-cheek heavy-handed military image of "Grindhouse" screen. approach. men (notably Bruce -Cherry's prosthetic "Planet Terror" direc­
"Planet Terror" is Willis and Quentin leg that Wray fashions tor Robert Rodriguez successful not only as Tarantino), an unsavory for her out of a machine deftly handles his film, an homage to the grind­scientist (Naveen gun. Although and it is obvi­house flicks of the '70s, Andrews of "Lost" that is some­[. ..] the truly ous how much but it also retains the fame), in addition to an thing that unforgettable he genuinelyfun spirit of such classic abusive doctor (Josh actual grind­.rr. . h wants the film zombie franchises as Brolin) and his wife house movies eJJect zs t e to be fun for George Romero's (Marley Shelton), who is would never iconic image of the audience. "Dead" series or the trying to leave him. have been "Grindhouse" Once the movie Italian-made Fulci's Although it is present­able to accom­_ Cherry's begi~s rolling it "Zombi" films. ed in the style of a B­plish, it truly contmues to 
In "Planet Terror," level movie, the film's keeps with the prosthetic leg c o n s t a n t 1y poisonous gasses are witty script, pulp style spirit of the that Wray build with_ a_n released into the atmos­and high-budget make genre in its 
fashions for absolut~ mtm­

phere, turning the it a far superior product flashy combi­mum Ill lag townspeople of Austin. when compared to oth­nation of sex her out ofa time between Texas into gut-wrench­ers of its kind. Even and violence. machine gun. the more excit­ing zombies. though the The acting is ing moments. The film fea­Director Robert film is full purposely comical and This results in an tures Rose of outra­greatly overplayed. absolutely mammoth,
Rodriguez deftly 
McGowan as geous spe­Even better, the actors snowballing rollercoast­
handles the film, 
Cherry Darling, c i a I handle their roles with er ride of gore and a go-go dancer and it is obvious effects, great enthusiasm -explosions. and aspiring "Planet you can tell that they're As a whole, "Planet
how much he 
stand-up come­Terror" having fun onscreen. Terror" is a never-end­
genuinely wants
dian who hap­manages Rose McGowan easily ing gross-out and blow­pens to meet up the film to be fun to retain a steals the show with up of a film. It knows with old love very rudi­her role as Cherry and how awesome it is, and
for the audience. 
interest El Wray mentary is consistently enter­it laughs at how fun it is (Freddy Rodriguez, of quality about itself. taining -even more so -making it all the no relation to director Although there is a ton once she loses a leg. more enjoyable for the Robert) and is forced to of stylized gore, the The brief appearances audience. Just be pre­team up to fight back bright red goo oozing by both Bruce Willis pared to be exhausted snarling hordes of and splurting every and Stacy Ferguson by the end. bloodthirsty zombies. In which way is comical by (Fergie) are perfectly typical zombie movie its very nature and is played out in a very Contact Erin McGinn at fashion, the film has enjoyable in its unreal-stereotypical fashion. emcginn@nd.edu 


Rose McGowan blows away audiences as the smoking-hot Cherry Darling, a go-go dancer who loses her leg to zombies. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, April 11, 2007 
page 15 
N N AND TAE ANDREWS 
If movie theaters had seat go. Instead, QT employs herky­on display, who cares? At one 
belts, you would want to strap in jerky stop-and-go pacing as he point or another, Hollywood hot­
for "Death Proof' -it's one heck lets the engine idle on "Death ties Rosario Dawson, Rose 
of a wild ride. Even though you Proof' with signature stretches McGowan and Mary Elizabeth 
can't click it after of dialogue, then Winstead all spend some quality 
screen time. In particular,
buying your ticket Kurt Russell rocks as revs the film up
stub, you might to its breakneck Sydney Poitier sizzles onscreen 
want to at least Stuntman Mike, a conclusion. as "Jungle Julia," a sassy no­
hold onto the arm creepy yet charismatic "Death Proof" nonsense radio host who runs 
rests or some-comes equipped afoul of Stuntman Mike while 
thing when direc-serial killer with a with many of the showing her out-of-town friend 
t o r It w i s t e d taste for vehicular a c c e s s or i e s Arlene (played by Vanessa 
genius/madman womanslaughter. we've all come to Ferlito) a good time. 
Quentin Tarantino know and love Much like Uma Thurman's 
hops behind the over the years. character The Bride in 
wheel to present his idea of a Tarantino doesn't disappoint Tarantino's two-part jaunt "Kill 
horror movie. with diner dialogue reminiscent Bill," "Death Proof is full of 
Burning rubber, wheeling and of "Reservoir Dogs" and a vin­femme fatales, as several of 
dealing death at every turn, tage soundtrack groovier than a Stuntman Mike's victims develop 
Tarantino's latest delivers as a bag of Ruffies potato chips. a healthy case of retaliatory road 
horror film fueled by pure pop-At times, Tarantino does fall in rage and take a crash course in 
corn cinema -you can't help love with the sound of defensive driving to 
but wince, scream and squirm ,. his own ·cinematic kick the serial killer 
Tarantino doesn't 
on the edge of your seat as he voice. At one point, to the curb. Tracie serves up sequence after QT's love tendency to disappoint with Thoms packs some sequence of heart-racing chase get cute with his dia­diner dialogue girl-power punch as scenes and can't-look-away ter-Iogue leads him to Kim, who's basical­
reminiscent of 
ror. include a bit in which ly Tarantino's 
Kurt Russell rocks as several of the charac­"Reservoir Dogs" female equivalent 
Stuntman Mike, a creepy yet ters quote fragments and a vintage of Samuel L. 
charismatic serial killer with a from a Robert Frost Jackson: a token
soundtrack
taste for vehicular worn-poem. Although his black woman who anslaughter. Stuntman Mike wordplay doesn't snap groovier than a drops mother f­stalks his nubile victims by quite as much as it bag ofRuffles bombs with prowling around in his black normally does, aplomb. In addition, 
potato chips. 
muscle car, replete with growl-Tarantino's love of stuntwoman Zoe 
ing engine, skull and crossbones long-winded anec-Bell shines as her 
and a whole lot of ponies under dotes remains fun despite not character by the same name and 
the hood. Due to his job and for-having a point or really going may actually be "Death Proof' 
tunately for Mike, his car has anywhere. His uniqe insight into after her stunts in a series of 
been reinforced so that no mat-the wide world of women death-defying moves and high­
ter how bad remains an speed hijinks in one of the film's 
he totals his DEATH PROOF interesting two major chase sequences. 
wheels, he'll experience, Due to Quentin Tarantino's 
survive -giv-as he dark genius and flair for the 
ing the film its attempts to unusual, the tires never fall off 
title, "Death Proof." delve into one of the great mys-this wild ride as "Death Proof' 
Unlike his buddy Robert teries of the universe, the female zooms to its hair-raising (and 
Rodriguez, who directs his half ·psyche, through a series of "girl satisfying) ending. 
of "Grindhouse" with a lead foot, talk" conversations from the 
Quentin Tarantino doesn't go film's many female characters. Contact Tae Andrews at 
pedal-to-the-metal from the get-However, with the babe parade tandrewl@nd.edu 
courtesy of mov1ewem.cc>m courtesy 
as El Wray, Cherry's mys­Stuntman Mike (Kurt Russell) stalks his victims by prowling r from hordes of the undead. around in his specially-made "Death Proof" muscle car. 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, April 11, 2007 

By BRIAN DOXTADER Senior Staff Writer 

Haskell Wexler, winner of two Oscars and widely considered one of the most influential cinematographers of his time, is coming to Notre Dame to present his latest film, "Who Needs Sleep?" Scene senior staff writer Brian Doxtader held a phone interview with Wexler in anticipa­tion ofhis arrival. 
What is the film that you are screen­ing here, and what is it about? The name of the film is "Who Needs
--
Sleep?" and it's a documentary I complet­ed about seven months ago. I'm a work­ing cameraman, and there's a "secret sit­uation" that happens in show biz, which everyone thinks is exciting and entertain­ing. As a matter of fact, routine work on films and TV is 14, 15 hours regularly with very little time between. My investi­gation of this started when a friend and assistant cameraman fell asleep at the wheel and killed himself driving home after a 19-hour day. That's essentially the film. 
Why is this now an important issue? 
I worked on the documentary you saw over the period of a number of years, and over those years the hours increased and the research on how important getting a decent sleep is to your health and safety has increased. Medical research shows that cognitive ability is impaired, so really when they work you long hours, you're paying overtime for inferior work and for dangerous work, because oftentimes the work of a cinematographer is very dan­gerous. We work from camera-cars, from cranes, in physically dangerous situations with heavy equipment. It's a serious mat­ter of safety. 
How is this serious matter being addressed? 
Of course, all kinds of organizations, especially those within the federal gov­ernment, have now pointed out that about 70 percent of car crashes are from fatigued drivers. Unlike alcohol or drugs, it's difficult to diagnose when the cause of a crash is fatigue, but they're now deter­mining that "falling asleep at the wheel" is a chief cause. They do this by flrst rul­ing out drugs, alcohol or mechanical fail­ure. Then, in most of these accidents, they also determine that there are no skid marks. When you fall asleep at the wheel, as I have done (and frankly, all my co­workers have done), you just sort of drift ofT, because you don't know when you're sleep-deprived. 
How else has this matter personally affected you? 
Disruption to your family life is immense. People with kids go into work on Friday morning and get home Saturday morning -if you have kids, their time ofT is the weekends and you're most going to be a basket-case trying to catch up on sleep on those weekends. Since I finished the fllm, the situation has gotten worse. But because job situations are tight, people don't want to speak out about it because they're afraid that employes will just say, "Well, we'll flnd someone who can cut the mustard." 
How is the film being received within the industry? 
It's interesting because "Who Needs Sleep?" was screened at the Sundance Film Festival. Critically it was applauded, but when industry distributors were there, nobody bid on it. I asked one of the industry people that I know, "How come something that's being so well-received won't be bought?" and he said, "Well, it's viewed as 'industry-unfriendly.'" Of course, I got tremendous response from workers -I've gotten hundreds of emails, and the fllm's reputation is grow­ing worldwide. There has been a lot of progress, with things like insurance com­panies and lawsuits. But really, there have been a lot of accidents on the set and ofT. People in the business, the work­ers who are on the set, know that it costs more to work those longer hours because your productivity drops drastically. 
What are you looking forward to about being at Notre Dame? 
I don't want to just come and air my big beef about a particular problem. I want people to know that it's great to be inter­ested in film, and I hope people see that. 
How did you get started in the indus­try? 
When I was really young, I made small movies at a time very few people had movie cameras -we're talking about 1937 here. I was in the war for five years, then I went to make documentaries. I was an assistant on the newsreels before tele­vision and gradually got to work on fea­ture films as an assistant out of Chicago. It was a di!lerent time -to be upwardly mobile was easier then, I think. 
Are there any directors you've worked with, or films that you've worked on, that have been particularly memorable? 
I liked working with John Sayles. I par­ticularly enjoyed working on a film with him called "Matewan," which was nomi­nated for an Oscar !Writer's Note: in 1988 Wexler was nominated for a Best Cinematography Oscar as well as for the American Society of Cinematographers Award for Outstanding Achievement in Cinematography for this film.] I worked with Hal Ashby for a long time and Norman Jewison in the early days. I sort ofprefer to direct now and am doing doc­umentaries. When Sayles has another film, I'll probably do that. 
How do you think the industry has changed since you've entered it? 
Everything is more corporatized. Everything is more quantifled and they want, at least out of cinematographers, someone who is fast and makes an acceptably good picture and gets along with people. With video and hi-def, there are always producers and marketing peo­ple hanging around the monitors with their opinions on how things look. There are some terrific filmmakers out there, of course. It's shocking how many good films are made. 
What films or people have influenced you the most? 
Early on, I worked under James Wong Howe, who was a director of photogra­phy. I shot second-unit for him on "Picnic." He was a big influence on my photography. A lot depends on the script, though. 
What other projects have you direct­ed, and what upcoming projects do you have in store? 
Besides "Medium Cool," I've directed a film called "Latino," which I wrote and directed, and it's a pretty good-looking film. I've also shot in combat areas, with the Contras and the Sandinistas in Nicaragua. I'm working on a thing for HBO. Previously, I shot "Big Love" for them, which was a really good experi­ence. I also shot a film for them called 
JEFF ALBERT I Observer Graphic 


Haskell Wexler 
Who Needs Sleep? (2006) Wednesday, April11 7:00pm 
"61*" which was directed by Billy Crystal. On directors, I really like Billy Crystal ­he's a great director and a decent human being and a good actor. In "Who Needs Sleep?" he talks about working on "61*." 
Is working on television a lot different than working on features? 
Depends on the television. Except for sitcoms, in general, television hours are very long. In general though, I would say that television is a lot like features nowa­days, except for a few very complex fea­tures, which have a lot more scope to them. Photographically, when you're shooting features you do a lot more cov­erage and wider shots. When you shoot for television, everything is very tight, because you have to think about things like screen size and the TV size. 
Would you say you have a particular style or approach to your cinematogra­phy? 
No, I don't think so. Some people say that, but I try to make the style flt the film. There probably is some perceptive person who looked at all the fllms I've shot and could say, "This is his style," but I couldn't say that about myself. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of whoneedssleep.net Haskell Wexler's latest documentary "Who Needs Sleep?" is a commentary on the negative effects of sleep deprivation and excessive working hours. 
,_ 

-----------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 11, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

MAGNIFICAT 
MAGNIFICAT IS AN ENSEMBLE OF VOICES AND INSTRUMENTS SPECIALIZING IN MUSIC OF THE EARLY BAROQUE ERA. 
FRI, APR 20 AT 8 PM LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL TICKETS: $25, $20 FACULTY/STAFF/SENIORS, AND $10 ALL STUDENTS 


THU. APR. 19 AT 7 PM 
PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE 
FEATURED GUESTS 
VICTOR HERNANDEZ CRUZ, POET DONALD W. SAVOIE, MUSICIAN 

POETRY IMUSIC ICOFFEE I CONVERSATl0!\1 

DIRECTOR HASKELL WEXLER 
IN PERSON AT THE BROWNING CINEMA 
Who Needs Sleep? (2006) Wed, Apr 11 at 7 pm 
Medium Cool (1969) Thu, Apr 1 2 at 7 pm 
Haskell Wexler is scheduled to be present at both screenings 
8 PM 

BROWNING 


CINEMA 
Who Needs Sleep? (2006) Director Haskell Wexler is scheduled to be present Directed by Haskell Wexler NR, 78 minutes 35mm Print Wed, Apr 11 at 7 pm 
Medium Cool (1969) Director Haskell Wexler is scheduled to be present Directed by Haskell Wexler R, 11 0 minutes 35mm Print Thu, Apr 12 at 7 pm 
The Devil's Backbone (2001) Directed by Guillermo Del Toro R, 106 minutes Spanish language with English subtitles 35mm Print Fri, Apr 1 3 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Treasure of the Sierra Madre (1948) PAC Classic 1 00 Directed by John Huston PG, 126 minutes 35mm print Sun, Apr 15 at 4 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
-
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, April 11, 2007 
MLB 
Cubs rally falls just short in loss to Houston 
Red Sox rough up Seattle pitchingfor 14 hits, Beckett pitches seven innings ofone-run ball in 14-3 opening day win at Fenway 
Associated Press Getting a boost when the brated its home opener with a Astros scored three in the first victory on Tuesday in the 
CHICAGO -Houston's Chris inning, Sampson extended his Mariners' first game since a Sampson needed only 64 pitches scoreless streak against the blizzard snowed them out of for five shutout innings against _ Cubs to 12 innings dating to last four straight in Cleveland. the Chicago Cubs, who seem to season, giving up six hits. "They were put in a tough sit­be numbed by the cold-at the And the starter's role seems to uation for the last four days," plate and in the field. suit him. In his first four major Red Sox manager Terry 
If Sampson's calf muscle had-league starts, Sampson is 2-1 Francona said. "We had an n't tightened up while he was and has allowed just one earned advantage, and we took advan­running the bases, he .could run in 19 2-3 innings. tage. Hopefully that will work have pitched a little longer on "Sampson did a nice job of for a couple days." another windy day at Wrigley making good pitches and our Jason Varitek and Kevin Field. hitters put some runs on the Youkilis each had three of 
"Believe me I didn't want to board early," Astros manager Boston's 14 hits, and J.D. Drew come out of the game, but for Phil Garner said. "They're talk­homered in his first game for the long run it was the best ing about Chicago's offense has­Boston at fenway Park. Josh decision," Sampson said after n't broken out. Well, our offense Be.ckett (2-0) pitched seven the Astros' 4-2 win. "It's fine. hasn't broken out, either." innings of two-hit ball, striking Pitching, walking, all that does-Blanked on three hits through out eight and allowing one run. n't bother it. When I try to run eight innings by Sampson, Rick while retiring his last 15 batters. on it that's when it starts getting White and Chad Qualls, the Boston also hit seven doubles pretty sore." Cubs scored two runs in the and drew seven walks. 
Sampson {1-0) allowed three ninth with four hits off Dan "We pulled out the whupping singles in his fourth major Wheeler. Derrek Lee and Mark sticks today," Beckett said. league start, his first this sea-DeRosa had RBI singles before "They've been ofl' for a while. It son, and the Astros beat the pinch-hitter Matt Murton's maybe af'f'ected their pitchers Cubs for a second straight day. game-ending popout with two being able to throw strikes. You The game featured three errors on. can't go through our order and by Chicago shortstop Cesar walk guys. You're going to get Izturis, a former Gold Glove Red Sox 14, Mariners 3 burned." winner. The Red Sox welcomed the Weaver (0-1) was dismal in his 
"It was tough today. It's part of Seattle Mariners to Boston with first outing since pitching eight the game, errors," Izturis said. a whole different kind of storm. innings of four-hit ball in the Robertson {2-0) allowp,d no on it and see what they can do "You have to forget about today Pelting World Series star Jeff final game of the St. Louis runs and four hits, struck out with it," he said. "If it was rou­and come back tomorrow with a Weaver with seven runs in the Cardinals' World Series victory five and walked one in 7 1-3 tine soreness, I would still be new mind." first two innings, Boston ceJe-over Detroit. He allowed seven innings. The lef't-hander is 2-0 out there throwing. It just kept 
runs, seven hits and two walks, with a 1.35 ERA in four starts getting tighter, and I didn't want throwing 70 pitches in two against Baltimore dating to last to keep pushing it." innings. season. Wright said that kind of tight­
The Mariners also helped out "He just mixes pitches well. ness is consistent with the feel­with errors by lef'tfielder Raul He had a good sinker, a good ing he's had in the past when Ibanez and shortstop Yuniesky slider and mixed in some experiencing shoulder prob­Betancourt while managing just changes," Detroit manager Jim lems. The right-hander spent two runners against Beckett. Leyland said. "He's a bulldog, half the 2005 season on the dis­
"Yeah, we played like we had­you know, and he's a real tough abled list with a right shoulder n't played in four days today," competitor." strairr and missed much of the Mariners manager Mike In the pivotal sixth inning, 2002 season with the same ail­Hargrove said. "We pitched like Wright (0-2) gave up an infield ment. it. We swung the bats like it. We hit and a walk before summon­Obtained by the Orioles in an played defense like it. We should ing Orioles trainer Brian Ebel offseason trade with the New be better tomorrow." from the dugout. Aftp,r a brief York Yankees, Wright came in 
discussion, Wright left with stiff­with a 15.43 ERA after getting Tigers 3, Orioles 1 ness in his right shoulder. rocked by Minnesota last week 
Nate Robertson was throwing Wright said he began to feel in his Baltimore debut. He brilliantly, yet he was locked in stiffness when he started throw­issued five walks· in 2 1-3 a scoreless game when ing in the tifth inning. Because innings against the Twins, but Baltimore Orioles starter Jaret he has a history of shoulder he did not walk a Detroit batter Wright walked off the mound problems, Wright knew it until the sixth. with an ominous shoulder wouldn't be prudent to test his Orioles manager Sam Perlozzo injury. arm any further on a chilly night replaced Wright with Scott 
Minutes later, a throwing at Camden Yards. Williamson, who. had not error by Brian Roberts provided "I know if I kept going that I pitched since opening day in the Detroit Tigers with all the could probably really hurt it. I part because he was dealing 
Cubs left fielder Matt Murton watches as he pops out to end runs they needed Tuesday night just want to give myself a with the aftereffects of a bout the game in Chicago's 4-2 loss to Houston Tuesday. in a victory. chance to let the doctors work with bronchitis. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. ar rbe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 


WANTED 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. $15.50 base-appt. flexible schedules, no exp.needed, customer sales!serv­ice, conditions apply, all ages 17+, positions in all of Indiana & Michigan, 273-3835. www.work­forstudents.com 
SUMMER WORK-$15.50 base­appt. flexible schedules, no exp.needed,customer sales/service, conditions apply,all ages 17+, posi­lions throughout the US, apply now, start after finals, www.worklorstu­dents.com 
FoR SALE 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER AREAS,BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 
•No CONDos• NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos Minutes from campus Starting in $130,000s 574-252-2427 ndcondos.com Reserve Yours Today! 
Cute House $59K-near ND,3BR,wd flrs,2BA,garage,zen Garden by architect,deck,alarmsys,lireplace,re nted@$650. 614-353-5889 

FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com 
3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for 07/08 school year. On line see rent-nd.com or mmmrentals.corn. Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb­spot. net or phone 574-277-4759. 
RENTLIKEACHAMPION 3-5 bdrms avail for 07-08. $250/bdrm. Call 312-545-5123 or email mitchell.58@ nd.edu 
Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli. A/C,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 + uti!. 630-417­8763/MCL214@ aol.com 
4 Bedrooms 2 Baths Swanson Highlands; Central Heating & air; remodeled appliances; $1250/mo; Responsible parties, students OK. 574-243-2778 
Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9. Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896. 
Very large home for rent for next school year. 1 block east of cam­pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4 huge bedrrns/3 full baths/large kitchen-lam rm & laundry rm. 3 decks overlook huge fenced yard. Very private & safe! Must see! 239­707-2025. 
3BR House-near ND/food/bus,2BA,garage,zen gar-den,deck,alarmsys 614-353-5889 $675 2 bdrm home close to ND. Avail Now. $650/mo + utilities. Call Peggy 269-687-3096. 
New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi,AC, 2 car gar. No pets. $1650/rno plus uti!. 914-232-3328. 
For rent: Nicest house in area. 4 bedrooms,A/C, security. 5 blocks from campus. 289-4071. 
2-6 BDRMS HOMES.GREAT RATES. 574-329-0308 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. 6-bdrms & 3 bdrms still available for 07-08. Call Cosima 277-1875. bumbaca­houses.com 


PERSONAL 

Helena: Y do Lysander/Demetrius love u now? Hermia UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments!preg­nant.shtrnl or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confi­dential hotline at 1-800-No-ABORT or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
Adopt: A young loving couple long to share their Hearts and home with a newborn & will provide Endless love. Expenses paid call Eileen & Ed at 1-800-718-6577 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments!rape to learn about resources at ND and in South Bend. 
Professional couple to house sit lor summer. Saving to buy home. iiiD references. Dave 574-204-2877 aft 6p 
Oberon: Houston, we have a prob-lam. Puck 
Tim Hudson = fantasy stud 
MLB Predictions: NL East-New York Mats NL Central -Houston Astros NL West -Arizona Diamondbacks AL East -New York Yankees AL Central -Cleveland Indians AL West -LA Angels NL Champion -New York Mets AL Champion -New York Yankees A SUBWAY SERIES!!! World Series Champion -New York Mets 
After much careful consideration, there was nothing deemed funny enough to occupy this hallowed space of Observer Personals. Thank you all for your understand­ing 






OUND THE NATION 
----·--l 
~ 
' ' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' ' 
' 
' 
' 
Wednesday, April 11, 2007 
Major League Baeeball 
American League East 

team ..record .perc . last 10 GB Toronto 4·2 .667 4~2 Boston 4·3 .571 4·3 .5 New York 3·3 .500 3"3 1 BaiUmore 3·4 .429 .3•4 1.5 Tampa Bay 2·4 .333 2~4 2 
American League Central 
team record perc. lastlO GB Minnesota 4·2 .667 H Cleveland 2-1 .667 2·1 .5 Detroit 3·3 ;500 3-3 1 Chicago 3·3 .500 3-3 1 Kansas City 2·5 .286 2·5 2.5 
American League West 
team record perc. last 10 GB Los Angeles 5·2 .714 5-2 Seattle 2·2 .500 2·2 u Texas 3·4 .429 3-4 2 Oakland 3·5 .375 3-5 2.5 
National League East 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
Atlanta 5·1 .833 5·1 New York 5·2 .714 s~z ;5 Florida 5·2 .714 5-2 .5 Washington 1·6 .143 1-6 4.5 Philadelphia 1-6 .143 1-6 4.5 
National League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Cincinnati 4·3 .571 ~3 Pittsburgh 4·3 .571 ~3 Milwaukee 3-4 .429 3·4 1 St. Louis 3-4 .429 3-4 1 Houston 3·5 .375 3-5 1.5 Chicago 3·5 .375 3-5 1.5 
National League West 

team record perc. last 10 GB Arizona 6·2 .750 6-2 San Diego 5·2 .714 5-2 .5 Colorado 4·3 ;571 4•3 1;5 Los Angeles 4·3 .571 4-3 1.5 San Francisco 1-6 .143 1-6 u 
NCAA Men's Lacrosse Inside Lacrosse Top 20 
team points prim: 
1 ComeII 359 1 
2 Virginia 335 2 
3 Albany 328 3 
4 Duke 310 4 
5 Princeton 281 5 
6 Georgetown 269 6 
7 Maryland 252 10 
8 Navy 226 1 
9 North Carolina 204 11 
10 Johns Hopkins 200 9 
11 NOTRE DAME 175 NR 
12 LoyolaMd 159 NR 
13 Bucknell 138 NR 
14 UMBC 112 NR 
15 Towson 102 12 
16 Drexel 85 NR 
17 Syracuse 51 NR 
18 Delaware 44 14 
19 Stony Brook 33 NR 
20 Rutgers 25 NR 
around the dial 
NBA 
Orlando vs. Detroit 8 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 
Seattle vs. Boston 7:05 p.m., ESPN2 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 19 
NFL 


Associated Press 

NFL commissioner Roger 
Goodell vowed to draft a 
revised conduct policy with 
harsher penalties for play­
ers who get into trouble 
with the law. Cornerback 
Adam "Pacman" Jones and · 
wide receiver Chris Henry 
learned it wasn't just talk. 
Jones of the Tennessee 
Titans has been suspended 
for the entire 2007 season 
and Henry of the 
Cincinnati Bengals has 
been banned eight games 
for violating the league's 
personal conduct policy 
and engaging in conduct 
detrimental to the league 
on numerous occasions, 
the NFL announced on 
Tuesday. 

Each player must earn the right to be reinstated. 
"We must protect the integrity of the NFL," Goodell said. "The highest standards of conduct must be met by everyone in the NFL because it is a privi­lege to represent the NFL, not a right. These players, and all members of our league, have to make the right choices and decisions in their conduct on a con­sistent basis." 
Goodell conducted hear­ings with Jones and Henry last Tuesday after meeting with a newly formed play­ers advisory committee that worked with the league in formulating a 
IN BRIEF 

Duke lacrosse players await 
possible end in assault case 
RALEIGH, N.C. -The three men indicted in the Duke lacrosse sex­ual assault case could learn this week whether state prosecutors plan to bring them to trial or drop the charges, a person close to the case said Tuesday. 
The attorney general's office, which has said for several weeks it was close to completing its investigation since taking the case from the district attorney, has wrapped up the additional inter­views, said the person, who spoke to The Associated Press on a con­dition of anonymity because a for­mal announcement has not been made. 
A spokeswoman for the state attorney general's office said Tuesday no announcement in the case was scheduled. No motions or court papers were filed in the case on Tuesday. 
new player conduct policy. 

Disciplining players who get into trouble with the law topped the agenda at the league meetings last month. Goodell made it clear then that he intended to adopt a policy that would allow the league to impose harsher and quick­er discipline to players who encounter off-the­field problems. 
The first ones to feel the teeth of the new policy were Jones and Henry, col­lege teammates at West Virginia whose two-year 
pro  careers  have  been  
marred by arrests.  
"Your  conduct  has  

brought embarrassment and ridicule upon yourself, 
Hall of Fame coach Wooden 
may leave hospital Thursday 
LOS ANGELES, C.A. -Former UCLA basketball coach John Wooden could be released by Thursday from a hospital where he has been treated for a reaction to a combination of medications. 
The 96-year-old Hall of Fame coach has been in a Los Angeles­area hospital since Sunday when he began suffering symptoms sim­ilar to those he experienced a year ago when he was hospital­ized for divertiGulitis, an inflam­mation of pockets in the colon. 
Wooden's daughter Nan Muehlhausen said her father was doing well and walked around "a little bit" Tuesday. 
"We think he might be released from the hospital tomorrow or Thursday and then Dad needs plenty of rest to build back his strength," she said in a state­ment. 
your club, and the NFL, and has damaged the rep­utation of players through­out the league," Goodell told the players in a letter released by the NFL. "You have engaged in conduct detrimental to the NFL and failed to live up to the standards expected of NFL players. Taken as a whole, this conduct warrants sig­nificant sanction." 
Jones has-been arrested five times and questioned by police five other times since being drafted sixth overall in 2005. He still faces felony and misde­meanor charges of obstructing police in Georgia from an incident in February 2006. 

Rutgers women's basketball 
team to appear on Imus show 
PISCATAWAY, N.J.-The Rutgers women's basketball team blasted radio host Don lmus Tuesday for "racist and sexist remarks that are deplorable, des­picable and abominable" and agreed to meet with the embattled radio host. 
Starting Monday, lmus will be sus­pended for two weeks for calling the players "nappy-headP.d hos." 
Rutgers players, who had not spoken publicly until Tuesday, called his com­ments insensitive and hurtful but reserved judgment on whether he should be fired until after they meet him. 
"Unless they've give~ 'ho' a whole new definition, that's not what I am," said Kia Vaughn, the team's .sophomore center. 
Calls for lmus' dismissal have been growing since he made the remarks about the team, which includes eight black women, a day after the team lost the national championship game to Tennessee on April 3. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 11, 2007 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Durant seeks Texas-sized success in NBA 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas -By the look of his Texas tank top and shorts, Kevin Durant might have fooled someone into thinking he'd changed his mind. Was it a hint he might stay in college? 
No chance. The kid is leav­ing for the NBA. 
Durant, an 18-year-old freshman and The Associated Press Player of the Year, said Tuesday he will leave the 
"/ don't want to be
Longhorns to much candy, who enter the June just a player in the was so down hum­draft, bringing a ble he'd keep stats
NBA. I want to 
quick end to at team man­
have an impact."
what was a agers' pickup short but spec­games, said he's tacular college Kevin Durant ready to matchup career. up with Kobe
Texas forward 
leave college -are consid­ered the likely first two picks. 
"I know I'll be one of the higher picks. It doesn't really matter if I go one or two as long as I go," Durant said. 
Durant's parents, Wayne and Wanda Pratt, said his year in college was invaluable. 
"The University of Texas has been very good to him," Wayne Pratt said. "He's matured a lot." 
So much so that the player 
whose diet often 
consisted of too 

"I just thought it was time to go," Durant said at a news conference to announce his decision. "It's been my dream for a while. I felt I was ready." 
After an All-American sea­son in which he swept the major player of the year awards, few expected Durant to stay at Texas. 
Now the question is whether 

he'll be the first player draft­
ed. Durant and Ohio State's 
freshman center Greg Oden ­
who has not yet said if he'll 
Bryant, Tim Duncan and the rest of the NBA's best. 
"You trying to scare me?" Durant said. "It will be a chal­lenge ... I don't want to be just a player in the NBA. I want to have an impact." 
Durant's attire at his news conference suggests he never wants to leave the basketball court. 
Announcing a pro career sure to bring millions of dol­lars in playing and endorse­ment contracts might call for a new suit or at least a show­er. 

Instead, Durant's skinny arms poked out of his practice uniform as he sipped on a sports drink. He looked some­what eager to get back on the court for a pickup game with his teammates when he was done answering questions. 
''I'm still a part of this team," Durant said. 
''I'm proud of him," point guard D.J. Augustin said. "I saw what he was going through. I know it was a tough decision." 
Durant was one of the coun­try's most heralded recruits when he arrived on campus. An NBA rule change required players to be 19 and out of high school for a year before 
they could enter the draft. Durant was a dominant force in college from the start. The Big 12 player and fresh­man of the year, He averaged 

25.8 points and 11.1 rebounds -one of three players in the country to average more than 20 points and 1 0 rebounds. 
He shot 4 7 percent from the field, 40 percent from 3-point range and 82 percent from the foul line. He led the Longhorns in steals and blocked shots and scored at least 30 points a Big 12-record 11 times. 
lie led Texas, which started four freshmen, to a third­place finish in the Big 12 and to the second round of the NCAA tournament, where the Longhorns lost to Southern California. The Longhorns fin­ished 25-10. 

"What he has accomplished this year has never been done," coach Rick Barnes said. "Everybody goes to col­lege to better themselves. Very few get to see their dreams come so early in life." 
Durant made his decision last weekend when he was in Los Angeles to receive John R. Wooden Award. Although word leaked out Monday night, Durant said he didn't tell his coach or his team­mates until Tuesday. 
He didn't really think about the magnitude of it all until he had a quiet moment by him­self in his room. 
"I just started smiling," Durant said. "It's been my dream since I was young." 
JUST THE FACTS ABOUT OPERA NOTRE DAME® 
TOP TEN REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD GO SEE OPERA NOTRE DAME 
10.) Even though the singers will have wild hair styles, none of them will be Sanjaya. 
9.) Many of the Seven Deadly Sins will be featured, and it won't even be a football weekend. 
8.) The excuse "My paper is late because I was so moved by the beauty of the opera performance" might actually work. 
7.) You get sets, costumes, a cast of 30, and an orchestra of 20 for less than a cup of mochafrappawhatever. The culture is free. 
TO BE CONTINUED ... 

Texas freshman forward Kevin Durant, the Associated Press Player of the Year, announced Tuesday he will enter the NBA draft in June. 

Winners in the drawing for NORM/CORE Surveys 
The Office of Alcohol and Dmg Education would like to thank all students that 
participated in the NORM/CORE Surveys. The winners ofcash prizes for completing the 
survey were: 
John Lentz 

Nathaniel Hollingsworth 
Katie Weber 
James Flatley 

David McCormick 
Sarah Ponto 
Jessica Allen 
Gene Leyden 

Wednesday, April 11, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NBA 

Regular season crown is not sufficient for Dallas 
Mavericks still find motivation from 2006 playoffdisappointment 
Associated Press DALLAS -The Dallas Mavericks can call themselves the best team in the NBA in 2006-07. "That and a dollar," team owner Mark Cuban said, "leaves you with a dollar." Dallas has won 64 games with five left. Winning them all would tie the team for the second-best record in league history. Even if the Mavs lose them all, they're still guaranteed the most wins in the league this season and the most in team history. They've also secured the top seed in the playoffs, another franchise first, and they've won only the second division title in their 27 seasons. While everyone is proud of they've accomplished, nobody is making a big deal out of it. Not after being halfway to the cham­pionship last year, then blowing it with four straight losses. That's why there were no more victory smiles than usual following a 96-86 win over the Los Angeles Clippers on Monday night. Half the team already was up the tunnel when the public­address announcer mentioned that the win clinched the No. 1 
seed. It drew a revived ovation from fans who apparently also had to be reminded about the accomplishment. 
"Our emphasis is on improv­ing -each game, each practice, getting better and positioning ourselves to get back to the finals," point guard Jason Terry said. "I haven't gotten over (last year) yet. Finish -that's our motto this year." 
Still, there's something to be said about having the best record in the entire league. Even just being the top seed in the tough Western Conference is enough of a challenge to have been worth setting as a presea­son goal. 
"We've never talked about it," coach Avery Johnson said. "All we do is go out every night and try to meet certain criteria offensively and defensively. Then, after 82 games, we see how we've met that criteria. If you make the playoffs you have a chance to win the champi­onship." 
His point is proved by last year, when ballas made the finals as a No. 4 seed in the West and Miami was seeded second in the East. 
Johnson also noted what hap­pened in 1995, when he was playing for San Antonio. The Spurs won a league-best 62 games but lost in the conference finals to sixth-seeded Houston, which won only 4 T. The Rockets went on to sweep Orlando in the 

These are tV\e LucR.tj ~V\, wltto V\ave beeV\, tV\,vtted to tV\e uwts C.t1A-SV\~ 
Chris Barron Andrew Baker Amy Burke Jay Branham Emmanuel Bello­Ogunu Mike Bradley Beau Biron Kyle Carter Kevin Conroy Ryan Colabello Ryan Crane Sheldon Dutes Joe DeMott Michael Erena Casey Engelbert Zach Fogarty Scott Feister 

Sean Gaffney Pat Higgins Chris Higgins Rob Hellauer Matt Herrmann Billy Irwin Kenny Jackelen Mike Kelly Drew Klein Brian Kastenholz Pat Lloyd Nathan Marsh Mike McGrory David M.ezzanotte Adam Millera Matt Maguire Hugh Monahan Lou Marach Shawn McNeilly 
finals. 
"I just think if you are the best team, you're going to win the championship," Johnson said. 
The best part of being the No. 1 seed is having home-court advantage in every round of the playoffs. Ultimately, that means that if any series comes down to a Game 7, that game would be in Dallas. 
Cuban half-jokingly said that could make him some money. But he also knows his team did just fine on the road in the play­offs last year, winning three series on rivals' courts, includ­ing a Game 7 in overtime against the top-seeded Spurs. 
"All things being equal, you want it," Cuban said. "It's to your advantage. There's no down side to it. But you still have to play good basketball." 
That's something Dallas hasn't been doing lately, at least not to Johnson's standards. The Mavericks have lost twice and been in several way-too-tight games since a 6-0 rod trip that pretty much locked up the top seed. 
"I don't know if we're the most talented team, but when we're playing well, I think we can be pretty good," Johnson said. "The team that I've been seeing over the last week or two is not a deep team. There is a team that was on a six-game road trip about two weeks ago, that was a pretty good basket­ball team." 

As much as Johnson wants to work out the kinks and get his team playing like that again, he knows he must wait until the playoffs. Rest is more important now. 
He laughingly threatened to fine Dirk Nowitzki and Jerry Stackhouse if they tried board­ing the team plane Tuesday, forcing them to miss a game Wednesday night in Minnesota. More players are likely to miss time down the stretch, including center Erick Dampier, who left Monday night's game in the 
Scott "the giant" Mullen Eric Macke Dave McBride Scott McBride Matthew Napierski Andrew O'Donnell Mike Podlasek Kevin Partington Jimmy Petrocelli Andrew Piotrowski Mark Quaresima 
Cipriano Rivera Jim Redden Tim Reidy Pat Reidy Tom Robertson Scott Rice Brier Steenberge 

opening minutes because of a shoulder strain. 
With two West Coast games on back-to-back nights to close the season, don't be surprised if rookies Pops Mensah-Bonsu, Jose Juan Barea and Maurice Ager log heavy minutes. 
"It's nice to know that we've established ourselves with the ability to play good basketball," Cuban said. "Now. can we play our best basketball during the playoffs? The best record is a reflection that we can. Hopefully that's how it will turn out." 
Mike Sullivan Seth Suttan John Soltis Dennis Oliver Slater Kris Tracy Joe Tsai Conor Troy Charlie Voelheim Jake Wilson 
-


-
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 11, 2007 
NFL 

Colts in support of stricter player conduct code 
Associated Press  you conduct yourself, and it's a  "I think the commissioner is  Hhodes, who has since signed with  Irsay has had to deal with his  
big responsibility. It's a privilege  trying to make a statement and I  the Oakland Haiders as a free  own demons, too. In November  
INDIANAPOLIS - Indianapolis  we take seriously, and for me, it's  think it's good," Dungy said. "I  agent, pleaded guilty to reckless  2002, he acknowledged a prior  
Colts owner Jim Irsay believes  something that's bigger than the  think we need that.  I think  driving after prosecutors dropped  addiction to hydrocodone, blaming  
NFL players must do more than  game."  down the line, it  drunken  driving  it  on  several operations and  
simply win games. He thinks they have a responsibility to behave properly on and off the field.  Under the new guidelines, teams will be disciplined when employees, owners or players vio­ will help us." From June 2006 through their cham­ "! was always raised with the  charges. Dungy later called that a disappointment.  chronic pain. He sought treatment at rehab centers in Indiana and Arizona, and he believes that for  
On Tuesday, hours after NFL  late the league's personal conduct  pionship victory in  belief that ifyou  Since  then,  the new policy to be effective it  
commissioner Roger Goodell announced a stricter conduct code for players and team  policy. Players could face longer suspensions and the loss of more money. Goodell did not say specif­ early February not a single CoiL" player was arrested, and  had character guys, you'd win. "  defensive lineman Darrell Reid was arrested on suspi­ must offer players more help. "These are young men and when mistakes happen they need  
employees, the Super Bowl cham­ ically how he would hold teams  in the week leading  eion of possessing  to A) have consequences and B)  
pions wasted no time in backing  responsible, but stripping them of  up  to  the  NFL's  Jim lrsay  marUuana and for­ have an opportunity to learn fh>m  
the effort. "Kids look up to these players  draft choices is considered one of the most ell'ective ways to do so.  biggest game, the Colts also managed  Colts owner  mer defensive back Dexter Heid was  it," Irsay said. "I think it's impor­tant to have a situation where  
and what's really importan1 are  In Indianapolis, the move was a  to avoid potential  arrested  on  gun  there is a penalty of nonplay com­ 
the messages you send to the  welcome change for a team that  distractions that have dPrailed  and drug charges. Two other play­ bined with nonpay. I think both  
young people because they're our  prided itself on winning last  other eonference champions.  Prs who had previous serapes with  combined are very important in  
future," Irsay told The Associated  year's championship in what  The offseason, however, has  the law, cornerback Nick Harper  terms of a deterrent."  
Press. "We're put in a sacred and  coach Tony Dungy called "the  been a different tale.  and safety Mike Doss, also have  Irsay believes the announce­ 
special position to show kids how  right way."  Super  Bowl  hero  Dominic  left as free agenl.,.  ment Tuesday will help.  

SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles take one of two against Calvin 
By BECKY SLINGER 
Spons Writer 
Saint Mary's continued MIAA play by splitting a doubleheader with No. 8 Calvin Tuesday after­noon in two extra-inning thrillers. 
"We were kind ofsqueaking by," junior captain McKenna Corrigan said ofthe team's performance. "It shouldn't have been that close." 
In Calvin's first MIAA game, the Belles handed the Knights a 2-1 loss. Calvin exacted revenge in the second game, beating the Belles 4-3. The Belles now have an over­all record of 14-4 and a confer­ence record of 1-3, keeping them in seventh place while Calvin moves to fifth in the MIAA. 
Sophomore pitcher Calli Davison helped the Belles to their first conference win, allowing five hits and just one run in Calvin's 30 at-bats. The Belles jumped out to an early lead when freshman cen­terfielder Ashley Peterson scored in the first on Sarah Miesle's sin­gle. 
Calvin junior catcher Samantha Ehlert had the Knights' only run in the seventh inning after sopho­more shortstop Loren Scarbrough doubled. 
In the extra frame of the eighth inning, Peterson got things started again by leading it off with adou­ble to right-centerfield. With Peterson on second, freshman second baseman Mo Healy singled to right center to drive in the go­
-
ahead run at 2-1. Calvin failed to convert its two hits in the bottom half of the inning for runs, and Saint Mary's escaped with the win. 
The Belles jumped out to a strong start again in the second half of the double dip. Sophomore catcher Ashley Fusaro scored an . unearned run in the second and Davison scored an unearned run in the third for the 2-0 lead. The Calvin hitters finally found their rhythm, scoring one run in the fourth and two runs in the fifth. Calvin junior centerfielder Ruth Diemer scored in the fifth on a wild pitch. 
The Belles sent the game into extra innings after they tied the game 3-3 when Peterson scored on a sacrifice fly off Healy's bat in the bottom of the seventh. In the eighth, Calvin senior leftfielder Erin Conrad scored to push the Knights to their first MIAA victory. 
"We had the opportunities, but we just couldn't do it," Corrigan said. "We tried to squeak by like we did in the first game, but we just came up short." 
Corrigan said the team hasn't given up on their conference schedule. 
"We still have a lot of confer­ence ball to play," she said. "We're still going to keep the same goals and do our best to achieve them in our remaining time." 
Contact Becky Slinger at rslingerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Saint Mary's swept in Dairyland 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
While the Belles' confer­ence record may still be per­fect, their trip this weekend to Madison resulted in three losses to top Wisconsin teams. 
"We played against really tough teams this weekend," senior captain Kelly McDavitt said. "Some of us were able to rise to the occasion and win matches, but we all learned something from the tournament." 
In the first match of the weekend, the Belles fell 8-1 to player Erin Fekete in two straight sets. Playing in the fifth singles spot, junior Cassie Quaglia fell in two sets, 7-5 and 6-1, to UWL player Carlie Bohrman. In the final singles match, UWL player Sarah Schoenwaelder defeated Belles senior Grace Gordon. 
During the day's doubles play, McDavitt and Gebert first fell to Tellefsen and Hiedel 8-4. The Belles' No. 2 doubles duo of O'Brien and Gordon fell 8-1 to Benn and Fekete, and the freshman duo of Erin Kaplan and Rubino also fell 8-1 to Schoewaelder 
and Tornow. 
The Belles 

the University of "This tournament seemed to have Wisconsin-La better luck in
was a great
Crosse, a team the second
opportunity for 
ranked No. 29 in match of the day the nation. our team." against the While McDavitt University of lost in straight Wisconsin­
Kelly McDavitt 
sets to UWL Whitewater.
Belles senior 
player Angie Riedel in the No. 1 singles spot (6-1, 6-1). standout Camille Gebert earned the only win for Saint Mary's in the No. 2 spot, defeating Rachel Benn (6-2, 6-4). 
In a close third match, freshman Lisa Rubino fell to UWL player Julie Tellefsen. After winning the first set 6­3, she lost the following set by the same score and even­tually the tiebreaker to give the match to Tellefsen. 
In the No. 4 spot, senior Tara O'Brien fell to UWL 



Northwestern 

Though they lost 
the match 5-4, they dominated singles play, winning four of the six matches. 
McDavitt won her match against UWW player Nicole Stamm. Rubino won her match against Kara Theis in dramatic fashion with a 10-7 tiebreaker. 
In the No. 4 singles spot, O'Brien fell in two straight sets to UWW player Kara Amundson. In the final sin­gles match, Gordon clinched the win in a tiebreaker after winning the first set 7-6 and 
• 
Courses in 57 subjects 

• 
Pre-Law Summer Institute 

• 
Summer Writers' Conference 

• 
Summer Study Abroad 



losing the second set 1-6. 
The Belles fell apart during the matches' doubles play. After Stamm and Theis first defeated McDavitt and Gebert 8-6, Belles players O'Brien and Gordon fell 8-4 to Farrar and Dawson. In the final match of the day, Kaplan and Rubino fell to Kara Admundson and Brittany Aering 8-5 to complete the sweep. 
In the weekend's final match, University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire took four of the six singles matches to secure a 7-2 win over the Belles. 
The Belles only two wins of the match came in singles play from McDavitt and Rubino. 
During the match's doubles play, the Belles were swept once again. The freshman duo of Kaplan and Rubino fell in the final match of the day 8-5 to WEC players Deprey and Courtney Lynne. 
"This tournament was a great opportunity for our team," McDavitt said. "I think all of us on the team learned something about our game. We now know what we need to improve for our match against Tri-State." 
With an overall record now of 7-9, the Belles will travel today to Angola, Ind., to play Tri-State University and try to maintain their undefeated conference record. The match will begin at 3 p.m. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
• 
Summer Institute in Negotiation 

• 
Summer Field Studies 


• 
Green City: A Field Study in Chicago 


Registration opens April 9 • Classes start june 18 Request a catalog or visit us online today! 847-491-5250 • www.northwestern.edu/summer 
-
Wednesday, April 11, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Shutout moves streak to 16 
Notre Dame picks up two more wins over Indiana and Ohio State 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Ediror 
No. 2 Notre Dame extended its dual match-winning streak to 16 with 7-0 victories over No. 33 Indiana Saturday and No. 50 Ohio State Monday. 
"We went through a little 
stretch where we right," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "But we did­n't play like we could, but the last two weeks we've been back playing well again." 
Over the past few weeks, the Irish have weath­ered injuries to 
played all 
freshman 

seniors Christian and Catrina Thompson won both of their matches. Notre Dame's new No. 2 doubles team of fresh­man Kali Krisik and sopho­more Kelcy Tefft also knotted a pair of victories to improve to 5-0 since playing together. 
Freshman Cosmina Ciobanu played with sophomore Katie Potts against Indiana and won 8-6 over Erin Clark and Brianna 
"All the doubles Williams. Ciobanu then paired with
teams looked very 
Rielley against the

good.,, 
Buckeyes. The duo defeated Ally 

Jay Louderback Mueller and Keesey 8-1.
Irish coach 
Colleen Rielley and junior Brook Buck to keep their streak going en route to a 21-1 overall record. Buck sat out again this weekend with an undisclosed injury while Rielley, who played in Notre Dame's previous match against Purdue last Tuesday, sat out the Indiana match with the flu. 
"[Colleen] can't catch a break. But she played against Ohio State. She played really well in the doubles, but a little rusty in the singles," Louderback said. Rielley won her singles match against Christina Keesey of Ohio State 6-4, 5-7, 1-0 (11-9). 
The injuries have forced the Irish to switch their doubles pairings, but Notre Dame has­n't missed a beat. 
The All-American team of Louderback was 
pleased with his doubles teams' performances given the success the Hoosiers had against No. 9 Northwestern. 
"Doubles looked good. All the doubles teams 
looked very good," 
"They,ll be gunning
Louderback said. season Friday. "Indiana's doubles for us. I Notre Dame previ­are good. They guarantee it.,, ously beat the won the doubles Wildcats 4-3 in the point two days semifinals of the 
Jay Louderback
later against ITA National Indoor Northwestern." Irish coach Tournament Feb. 4. 
Laura McGaffigan, Thompson survived two tiebreakers to win 7-5, 6-7 (5-7), 1-0 (10-4). She had an easier time with Ohio State's Ally Mueller, win­ning 6-2, 6-1. 
Tefft dropped just four games in her two matches. She improved to 16-3 in dual matches this season and has won her last seven. 
Ciobanu kept her perfect streak going, improving to 22-0 in dual matches with a pair of victories. Krisik also has an unbeaten streak of her own going. 
Since entering the lineup after the injuries to Buck and Rielley, Krisik has won all six of her matches. Potts, who played in place of Rielley against Indiana, won her sixth dual match of the season with a 6-2, 6-4 victory over Lindsey Stuckey. 
The Irish will face No. 9 
Northwestern for 
the second time this 

In singles play, No. 26 Catrina Thompson won her match over Indiana's Alba Berdala Saturday 6-0, 6-2 and survived a first-round scare against Ohio State's Julie Blackmore to pull off a 7-5, 6-1 victory. 
Christian Thompson won both of her matches from the No. 2 slot. Against Indiana's 
The victory lifted 

the Irish to their first-ever finals appearance in that tournament. 
"They'll be gunning for us. I guarantee it," Louderback said. "It's going to be a good match." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
TRACK 

Meet cancelled due to inclement weather 
Irish look forward to stiffcompetition next weekend in California 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
The Indiana Relays, which were scheduled to take place this weekend in Bloomington, were cancelled due to the unusually cold weather. 
Bloomington experienced similar weather to what South Bend has dealt with, 
assistant coach John Millar said. 
"We talked to the schools and decided it was­n't worth the effort," he said. 
Millar said the cancella­tion will have mixed effects on the team. 
"I think it helps some, and I think it hurts others," Millar said. "It 

top athletes from power­houses all across the coun­try. 
However, Millar said the cancelled meet this weekend hurts the athletes who don't get as many opportunities to compete on a regular basis. The smaller format of the race would have allowed for many of those athletes the chance to show what they can do. 
Millar does believe that despite losing one more chance to compete, the can­celled meet should not have a drastic impact on mem­bers of the team who are 
"We have enough competitions coming up. Those that will qualify for the NCAAs will do it. ,, 
John Millar Irish coach 
allows the people going to the Mount SAC Relays to get a little rest and a little train­ing. They would not perform well in those conditions any­way." 
The Mount SAC Relays start next Saturday in Walnut, Calif., and annually draw some of the nation's currently bat­tling to qualify for the end of year Big East and national tournaments. 
"We have enough compe­titions coming up," he said. "Those that will qualify for the NCAAs will do it." 
The Irish squad will split up this week­end as many of 

the top runners will travel west for the Mount SAC relays, while other members will remain in the Midwest to compete at the Indy Relays which start Friday afternoon in Indianapolis. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
-
-
BALLIN' 
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR THE BEST JOB ON CAMPUS? 

Look no further! The Development Department 
Phone Center is seeking students with 
excellent communication skills, enthusiastic 
attitudes, and a love for and knowledge of
Notre Dame 

ANNUAL FUND Notre Dame. 
EVENING STUDENT CALLER 
CAMPAIGN STUDENT CALLER 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Call alumni, parents, and friends on behalf 
Call alumni. parents, and friends on behalf of 
of Notre Dame's Annual Fund. 
Notre Dame's Development Department. 
. 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
. 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
. 
GREAT ENVIRONMENT 

. 
GREAT ENVIRONMENT 
. 
EVENING HOURS 

. 
FLEXIBLE DAY & EVENING HOURS 
. 
PAID TRAINING 
. PAID TRAINING 
. 
MERIT PAY INCREASES 

. 
NO SOLICITATION CALLS 
. 
SUMMER, FALL. AND SPRING 
. 
SUMMER, FALL, AND SPRING 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE 

POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Questions? Contact Moira Madden or Mark 
Questions? Contact Lori Rush, Phone Center 
Seller. Assistant Directors of the Annual 
Coordinator, at pcspirit@nd.edu or 631-7935. 
Fund. at ~hcenter@nd.edu or 631 -3152. 

Jim Murphy works on his follow through and his dance moves during a Bookstore basketball game April 3. 
~--------------------------------------------------------, 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 11, 2007 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish grab fifth place thanks to final round 
N agazaki shoots par Tuesday to lead team in Indy Invitational 
By LORENZO REYES Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame came from behind at the Indiana Invitational to grab a fifth-place finish thanks to a strong per­formance in Tuesday's final round. 
Monday afternoon was sup­posed to feature two rounds of golf, but inclement weather moved the start time back sev­eral hours only allowing a single round. Rather than playing the full 54 holes, the tournament was shortened to 36 with the final round played Tuesday afternoon. 
Notre Dame shot a plus 14 
(302) in Tuesday's fmal round of play to finish with an overall score of 612. 
The Irish nearly missed a top­three spot, coming in two behind Oregon which fmished in fourth with a 610 and only three behind Illinois who held on for the third-place finish. 
Michigan came away with the victory after shooting a tourna­ment-best plus seven (295) in the last round to come from behind. 
Once again, senior co-captain Noriko Nakazaki was the best golfer for the Irish with her three-over-par 7 5 on the first day of the tournament. Only three strokes off the lead head­ing into the final round, she posted an even-par 72 to finish in a tie for second place with senior Rachel Meikle of Michigan State. 
Illinois junior Seul Ki Park took first place honors at the invitational. Nakazaki matched Park with her second round, but could not overcome the three­stroke difference from the first day of play. Nakazaki's gem marked the highest finish of the season for the Irish. 
The Irish also capitalized on solid performances from their rookies. Freshman Annie Brophy claimed her first top-1 0 finish of her career by tying for ninth place with a seven-over par 151 (77-74). Freshman Kristin Wetzel equaled her classmate's two-over par on the day and eventually finished with an 11-over par 155 (81-74). 
Julie Kim completed the freshman trio and finished fourth for the Irish with rounds of 78 and 82 to give her a 16­over par showing, good enough for a 57th-place tie. Rounding out the Notre Dame lineup was sophomore Lisa Maunu, who clubbed a 19-over par 163 (80­83). 
The solid Irish performance at the Indiana Invitational is a great tune-up heading into the 2007 Big East championships. Notre Dame will challenge its conference rivals in Louisville at the Oxmoor Country Club April 23-24. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 



Isban notches top-20 finish 
Senior captain leads the way as Irish defeat Baylor and Washington 
them in the Golfweek rankings
By FRAN TOLAN 
prior to the weekend matches. 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame senior co-cap­tain Cole lsban's eighth top-20 At the Boilermaker finish of the season helped the Invitational Saturday and team finish in a tie for eighth Sunday, the Irish defeated two place in the 15-team field. The opponents that were ahead of finish gave the No. 57 Irish 

Senior co-captain Cole lsban tees off during the Fighting Irish Gridiron Classic Oct. 10. 
key  victories  over  No.  31  
Baylor  and  No.  34  
Washington.  

The Irish missed a top-five finish by only two strokes. Indiana and Ohio State tied for sixth one stroke ahead of Notre Dame, and Michigan took the fifth spot with a score of 608. Michigan State was the overall winner. finishing with a 593. 
lsban led the way for Notre Dame with a six-over par 150, putting him in 15th place for the tournament. 
Sophomore Josh Sandman, meanwhile, finished in a tie for 24th place with an eight­over par 152. Including the fall season, Sandman has now placed in the top 25 at seven of 10 Irish tournaments this academic year. 
Junior Greg Rodgers, who was playing in his first tour­nament of the spring, shot a final-round 72 and finished in a tie for 36th place with a 10­over par 154. The score was Rodgers' lowest final of the year so far. 
Senior co-captain Adam Gifford and freshman Doug Fortner rounded out the field for the Irish, carding respec­tive overall scores of 11-over par 155 and 15-over par 159. 
Next up for the Irish is the Kepler Intercollegiate, which is hosted by Ohio State at the Scarlet Golf Course in Columbus, Ohio, this Saturday and Sunday. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
-
-
GET ANTIBIOTICS FROM YOUR DOCTOR, 
NOT YOUR CHICKEN.  
We're serving naturally raised chicken that doesn't require a prescription.  
In fact, the chicken and pork we serve in Mishawaka  
are free of antibiotics and added growth hormones,  
fed a vegetarian diet and raised humanely.  
We think meat raised this way, naturally, tastes better.  
Serving naturally raised chicken is another step in our  
ongoing Food With Integrity journey ­bringing you the best ingredients from the best sources.  C~ipotle  
-SERVING NATURAllY RAISED CHICKEN IN MISHAWAKA­ MEXICAN GRILL  
MAIN  &  DOUGLAS  

Wednesday, April 11, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Cincy 
continued from page 28 
with an RBI and a run scored but his teammates got just three hits in 27 combined at bats. 
Notre Dame has hit just .240 in the eight games start­ed by Phelps (4-3) this season. The team is now 3-15 when scoring four or fewer runs. 
Notre Dame 9, Cincinnati 5 
Notre Dame salvaged the final contest of the three­game weekend series behind a five-run third inning and a big day from sophomore ·sec­ond baseman Jeremy Barnes. 
Barnes went 4-for-5 with an RBI and three runs scored as he raised his season average from .247 to .276. 
In the third inning, first­pitch singles from A.J. Pollock, Ross Brezovsky, Barnes and Mike Dury chased Bearcats starter Michael Hill. The Irish touched up the sophomore righthander for seven runs in just 2 1/3 innings before he was pulled. Dressman, Barnes, Dury, and freshmen Ryan Smith and Michael Wright all knocked in runs for the Irish in the big inning. 
Sophomore righthander Kyle Weiland got a no-deci­sion in his first career start for the Irish. Weiand was charged with four runs on seven hits and two walks. 
Junior righthander Joey Williamson replaced Weiland and did not allow an earned run in four innings of action. Weiland struck out four and got the win to improve his record to 2-2 on the season. 
Senior righthander Jess Stewart worked the final two innings for the Irish, record­ing his first save of the sea­son. 
The Irish improved to 14-16 overall and 2-6 in Big East play. Cincinnati, which left 17 runners on base in the game, full to 17-14 overall and 4-5 in conference play. 
Notre Dame 3, IPFW 2 
The Irish were held hitless by IPFW starter Stacy Herrold through four innings before reaching the sophomore righthander for three hits and the game's two decisive runs in the fifth inning of a 3-2 vic­tory over the Mastodons at Frank Eck Stadium Tuesday evening. 
Host Notre Dame, which improved to 15-16 with the win, pushed across a run in the second inning to take the early lead. Designated hitter Matt Weglarz, a graduate stu­dent, walked and senior cen­terfielder Danny Dressman reached on an error by the pitcher Herrold. With the run­ners on second and third, Mike Dury 
grounded out to third, scor­ing Weglarz. 
IPFW tied the score at 1-1 in the fifth when Mike Dury misplayed a grounder with runners on second and third. 
"It was a tough play on a ball in the hole," Irish head coach Dave Schrage said of Dury's error. 
But Dury redeemed himself in the Irish half of the inning as he drove a double off the left field wall to score sopho­more second baseman Jeremy Barnes, who had reached on a single to center. Dury moved to third on a sacrifice bunt by freshman catcher Ryan Smith, then scored when freshman rightfielder Michael Wright laced a single past IPFW jun­ior first baseman Nick Millspaugh. 
"We moved Dury down to the seventh hole [in the bat­ting order] tonight and he 
came through for us, Schrage said. 
Sophomore lefty Sam Elam got the start for the Irish and held IPFW scoreless for his four innings of work. 
"One of the most encourag­ing things I saw today was Sam Elam's performance," Schrage said. "He's a guy we could really use down the stretch [of the season]." 
IPFW threatened against the Irish bullpen in the sev­enth and eight innings but both rallies were snuffed out by stellar defensive plays by the Irish. In the seventh, the Mastodons put runners on first and second against Irish freshman lefthander David Mills. With two outs, IPFW junior centerfielder hit a line 
drive into shallow left field. But Irish leftfielder Ross Brezovsky charged hard and made a diving catch to bail out Mills. · 
In the eighth, the Mastodons again put two men -on, this time with one out against Irish junior righthander Tony Langford. The Irish then turned a 4-6-3 double play to squash IPFW's scoring chance. "Our defense played very well tonight," Schrage said, whose club allowed three unearned runs in each of its two losses to Cincinnati this weekend. 
Langford also worked the ninth for the Irish to record his first save since the 2005 season. IPFW pulled to within 3-2 in the inning on a walk, a balk and two wild pitches, but Langford struck out the final two Mastodons to close out the victory. 
Sophomore righthander Brett Graffy (2-2) got the win for the Irish by giving up one unearned run while pitching the fifth and sixth innings. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Eagles 
continued from page 28 
Bargar allowed only one hit and a walk in four innings pitched and chalked up four strikeouts. In relief, Fuemmeler was credited with the loss on three innings pitched, allowing three hits and two runs. 
Early in the second inning, Bargar faced some resistance with a leadoff single. After a sacrifice bunt and a fielder's choice, Eastern Michigan threatened to take an early lead, until Bargar struck out the last batter to end the chance. 
In the bottom of the second, the Irish notched their first single when freshman Heather Jackson ripped a shot to cen­ter field. But nothing came of the hit, as the side was quick­ly retired. 
Notre Dame led off the third with a single from sophomore Erin Glasco. Once again, the Irish could not capitalize and went to the top of the fourth in a scoreless duel. 

Split 
continued from page 28 
The Blue Devils went on a 10-1 run that included a stretch of nine straight goals and went into halftime in con­trol of the game with an 11-4 lead. The Irish were unable to make up much ground in the second half, never cutting fur­ther into the Duke lead than seven goals. 
The Notre Dame defense, which entered giving up only seven goals a game on its four game win streak, could not contain Duke's offensive stars. The combination of Blue Devils senior Kristen Waagbo, junior Caroline Cryer and sophomore Carolyn Davis net­ted 14 of the goals. Waagbo tallied four goals and two assists, and Davis and Cryer put in five goals each. 
The Irish were led offensive­ly by sophomore Jillian Byers with four goals. Senior Kaki Orr also contributed two goals and an assist for Notre Dame. 
The Blue Devils outshot the Irish 33-22. 
The Irish were able to rebound Saturday with a win over California (5-4). The Golden Bears got off to a fast 
After the pitching change was made in the fifth, Eastern Michigan senior Lauren Clark brought in the first run of the game with an RBI single up the middle. Later on in the sixth, the Eagles added an insurance run for the 2-0 lead. Freshman Jenny Scherer brought in the second run of the game with a sacrifice fly. 
In the bottom of the sixth inning, senior Stephanie Brown continued her nine­game hit streak with her first home run of the season over the right-field wall to cut the lead to 2-1. It was the last threat the Irish offense could muster. 
Notre Dame also announced that it has rescheduled its contest against Valparaiso to April 19 at 5 p.m. 
Notre Dame will travel to Chicago to face No. 16/1 9 DePaul Thursday in a double­header. The second game is a make-up from earlier this sea­son and it will be a face-off between the last two unde­feated teams in the Big East. 
Contact Bill Brink at 
wbrink@nd.edu 
start, taking a 5-2 lead in the first half as the Notre Dame woes continued. 
The Irish then clicked offen­sively, scoring six straight to take an 8-5 lead into the half. Notre Dame built up a seven­goal lead midway through the second half and kept California in check down the stretch for the 16-11 win. 
The Irish continued their offensive balance, with six dif­ferent players scoring two goals or more. Sophomore Jane Stoeckert led the Irish with six points on three goals and three assists. Junior Mary Carpenter added a career­high three goals, and Byers, McKinney, Heather Ferguson and Megan Murphy each had two. 
Senior Laura Cavallo led the Golden Bears with four goals and an assist. Madeleine Dale also scored twice, and five Cal players notched single goals. 
Notre Dame outshot California 39-23, and goal­keeper Erin Goodman had five saves for the Irish. 
The Irish will return to Big East play Saturday, finishing ­up its five-game home stand with a match against No. 11 Georgetown. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mhryan@nd.edu 


PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer Sophomore attack Jillian Byers drives to the net for one of her four goals in a 15-7 win over Duquesne April 1. 
-
-
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 11, 2007 
Awards 
continued from page 28 
been [in St. Louis] with my team­mates. That would have made the weekend perfect -being able to compete -but it's defi­nitely a good step forward for Irish hockey," Brown said. "Hopefully, that will help to open some eyes in the college hockey world." 
Brown, who was Jackson's first player to advance to the final three in Hobey balloting, was only the second Irish player to advance to the top 10 for the award in school history. 
"I told him afterward he's my player of the year. So as long as he knows he did the best job he was capable of doing, it puts a positive reflection on the University and the program," Jackson said. "He's done a tremendous job and should be proud of that." · 
The American Hockey Coaches Association announced Tuesday that Jackson would be awarded the 2007 Spencer Penrose Award for the top Division I hockey coach at an awards ban­quet April 28 in Naples, Fla. After two national champi-. onships and four CCHA playoff championships with Lake Superior State in the early 1990s, it is the first time Jackson earned the prestigious honor. 
"[The Spencer Penrose] is a positive reflection of this group of kids and this coaching staff," Jackson said. "It's a tremendous honor, and it's obviously some­thing that I'm humbled by." 
In only his second year at the helm for the Irish, Jackson guid­ed a Notre Dame team that had won just five games two years ago and 13 games last season to an NCAA-high 32 wins, a league 
Twenty 
continued from page 28 
same with Keckley and Bass defeating Epkey and Perdomo 9-7, Parbhu and Helgeson defeating Phillips and Jorge Rodriguez 9-8 (5), and Bass and Roth defeating Epkey and Vallee 8-4. The win from the Parbhu and Helgeson duo was especially impressive, as it was 
-
the first time the two had played doubles together during the 2006-07 season. 
"I thought a number of guys came out of the box quickly in singles and did a good job of getting momentum and winning matches in a timely fashion to take pressure off of the other guys. Both [Bass and Parbhu] did a good job of playing up on the baseline and keeping the ball deep and moving their opponent around," Bayliss said about their win. 
The experience for the team, however, was just as important as the win according to Bayliss,
-as the Irish are quickly approaching tournament time. "It was very good for us to get a win and it was very good of us to get the match experience," Bayliss said. The next match for the Irish will be at home against Kentucky this afternoon at 3:30 p.m. Kentucky(13-12, 3-7 in the SEC) has a very deceptive record. The Wildcats have one of the nation's toughest sched­ules, having played five top-10 opponents, with Notre Dame making six. They have not just played tough competition, they have also come out victorious. They beat now No. 15 Alabama 
-
regular season championship and a league playoff champi­onship this year. It was his eighth season behind a college bench, where he owns a 227-78­32 (.721) record. 
He defeated Rick Comley of national champion Michigan State and Joe Marsh of St. Lawrence for the award. 
The Lowe's Senior CLASS award goes to the senior stu­dent-athlete who has shown loy­alty to his or her school during their athletic careers. The coaches, media and fans who vote for the winner take in to consideration work in the class­room as well as in the local com­munity, along with the player's performance on the ice. 
Prior to this year the honor was only given in basketball, but the program expanded this sea­son to include hockey, baseball, softball and men's lacrosse. 
"Being the first recipient of the award is a very prestigious honor. It's a great feeling to be recognized like that," Brown said. 
During his four years at Notre Dame, Brown involved himself in the South Bend community, where he participated in the Buddy Walk to help children with Down's syndrome and skat­ed with the local Boys and Girls Club. 
The Stoney Creek, Ont., native has also made a big impact between the pipes for the Irish during his career. Brown set school career records for most shutouts (12), lowest goals­against average (2.32) and best save percentage (.916). His 55 careers wins left him just one win shy of the program record set by Lance Madson, who played from 1986-90. 
Brown picked up more than half of those wins this year, fm­ishing with a record of 30-6-3 ­
earlier in the season 4-3 and recently defeated South Carolina 4-2 over the weekend. 
"They are obviously an SEC team so we expect a tough match. We played them fre­quently in the past so we are excited to renew the rivalry we had," Bayliss said. 
The Irish are unblemished so far this season at home with an 8-0 record. This is bad news for the Wildcats, who have struggled on the road to the tune of a 1-7 record. 
The key for an Irish victory should be strong play at the top singles positions where the Irish boast three ranked players at the top of their roster. 
"I think that if we can get wins in the top half of their line­up we'll have a good chance because that's where they seem to be strongest. Starting off with some wins up high will really help us," Bayliss said. 
He also added that their No. 1 singles player, No. 90 Bruno Agostinelli (19-5), has a strong backhand and could potentially cause problems for Bass if he was not careful. Also, their other top players -Marcus Sundh and Peter Bjork -who both boast team best 4-4 records in the brutal SEC, can be very dangerous. 
The Irish need to make good use of their match opportuni­ties; the match against Kentucky is their second to last before starting the Big East tournament and then moving on to the NCAA team and singles/doubles tournaments. With so little time left to pre­pare and gain match experi­ence, matches like these are precious for the Irish. 
Contact Jay Wade at jwade@nd.edu 

Irish goaltender Dave Brown stops a shot during Notre l;>ame's 3-1 win over Alaska Dec. 2. Brown received college hockey's first-ever Lowe's Senior CLASS award Saturday night. 
more than any other goalie in the country. His 1.58 goals­against average was also tops in the nation, and his .931 save percentage was second only to Kevin Regan of New Hampshire 
Those numbers earned him a spot as one of two goalies select­ed for this year's RBK Hockey West Team first team All­America. Brown becomes the eighth Notre Dame player to garner All-American honors in the program's history and the first to make the team since defenseman Benoit Cotnoir in 1999. The last Irish player to be · named to the first team was Kirt Bjork in 1983. Bjork had 29 goals and 34 assists in his senior campaign that year. 
''I'm very proud that I could make that contribution to Notre Dame hockey, and hopefully it is a sign of things to come for some of the younger guys we got here," Brown said. . 
Brown is joined on the western first team by Michigan defense­man Jack Johnson and forward 
T.J. Hensick, North Dakota line­mates Ryan Duncan and Jonathan Toews and Minnesota defenseman Alex Goligoski. Four more CCHA skaters were select­ed to the second team, which gave the league seven out of the 12 western team selections. 
Brown is currently working out with teammates in prepara­tion for a professional career. The graduating senior was drafted by the Pittsburgh Penguins after his freshman year and has until August 15 to sign a contract with them before becoming a free agent. 
Meanwhile, Brown will leave a hole in net for the Irish larger than any five-hole he may have flashed to opposing shooters. 
"Anytime you lose a player of that caliber and experience, it's always difficult to replace him," Jackson said. "You don't replace him, you just hope [goalies] Jordan Pearce, Tommy O'Brien and incoming freshman Brad Phillips ... take it upon them­selves to fill that challenge." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Hey guys!  
Got 3 weeks?·  The summer session is open  
Get 3 credits!  to you too!  

Get summer credits ... and still have asummer break. 
Saint Mary's offers an intensive three-week summer session that lets you get the credits-and the break-you need! The Saint Mary's summer session offers courses on a variety of topics including audiology, pottery wheel, Islam, human anatomy, dance, theatre, sociology, music, and more. 

-tit­

SAINT 

MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 

SUMMER SESSION 2007-MAY 22-JUNE 8* 
* Five weeks required for select courses. 
For complete information visit www.saintmarys.edu/ ...summer or call (574) 284-4560. 
For additional information on study abroad opportunities visit www.saintmarys.edu/...cwil or call (574) 284-4263. 
Applications will be accepted through May 18. 

Wednesday, April 11, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

CROISSANTWORLD 
"'T"H£. ~uc.K E.. CHEESE GtANT 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

BLACK DoG 
WELC-bt1'E. To THE. ANI'I\IAL ND STATV,l.RY C..OilF~. 
f.'v~ G--DT Af\1 IMPoltTArJr ITE.M otl THE I*E~P.l 11115' YEAR. AS Yov I(NDIJ, 'f11E 
c>F MoSES HM l3E.~ A Lrf e>F Fffl.£ 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
LIAMMORAN 


!),NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

10 Ballpark near La Guardia 11 "Locksley Hall" poet 12 "Delta of Venus" genre 13 "Holy Toledo!" 21 Perfumer Nina -:::+":""t-:-t 22 Wasn't colorfast 26 Silent go-ahead 
29 Phil who sang "Jim Dean of Indiana" 
30 Employed busily 32 Virginie, e.g. 
60 Goddess depicted with a cow's horns 
61 Wares encountered by Simple Simon 
62 Wee hour 
63 Risk 
64 Vaulted area 
65 "Ally McBeal" 
role 66 "Much" preceder 
DOWN 1 Like this 2 Handel oratorio 
about a biblical woman 3 House of Charles I and II 4 Pulitzer-winning 
Ferber title 5 Sudden, swift and brilliant 6 Drops the ball 
7 Like a trampoline's surface 
8 " directed" 
9 Powdered wig 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Elizabeth c. Gorski 
33 Neil Diamond's 40 "Cut down on 51 Smoother Said" between-meal 
53 Swiss miss34 Book after snacks," e.g. 

Proverbs: Abbr. 43 Greenwich 55 AllayVillage sch. 
36 They're felt in 56 City south of
44 Draw (off)
mid-April Moscow 46 Bob Dole, e.g.
37 "Try it!" 
57 It's worn by

47 One of the 38 Marry Gandhis 
some Libras 

39 It's south of Eur. 48 Camp meals 58 Air-testing org. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JUMBLE 
JJIJJMIID)1J!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
POAYS 
1 
rJ I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~~r-b 
I YARPOD ±
I I r J 
www.jumble.com 
I MUNCOL j
I I r (] 

Answer here:" rI I I)" AND rI I] 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: UNWED FATAL STYMIE ARTFUL Answer: What happened when she spelled the word right -SHE WAS "LEFT'' 
EUGENIA LAST


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Haley Joel Osment, 19; Mandy Moore, 23; Ryan Merriman. 24; Steven Seagal, 56 
Happy Birthday: Gauge situations and conversations carefully this year. You aren't likely to receive the help you require, so prepare to do for yourself. Once you learn to totally deal with each issue as it arises, you will discover it ha' always been other people holding you back. If you rely on yourself, the possibilities are endless. Your numbers are 3. 16, 19. 28. 33,41 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Travel, communication and networking will all lead to advancement. Follow through with your plans and present your ideas. A serious look at exploiting what you do in a new way will work wonders for you. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Realize that not everyone is ahead of you and you can take a little time to think matters through ihoroughly. Someone will come to your rescue when you need help but may want a piece of the action in return. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't be fooled by someone offering you something thai may not live up to what he or she is telling you. Someone from your past is heading back into your life. Call and make the connection. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can open up doors that will lead to bigger and better opportunities today. A chance to do something different or to start a little business of your own on the side should be in the works. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Why are you playing when you should be industrious? You have so much potential to actually get ahead if you are on top of things. A chance to hook up with someone who can complement your talents is present. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can win the prize or go the distance or even overturn a decision that was made if you push the right people. At the same time, there will be no recourse once you step over the line. A relationship may be in jeopardy. 5 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone is likely to give you a hard time if you have been spending too much time doing your own thing. Rethink your strategy, especially if you are not 100 percent sure you want to pursue a partnership that is being offered. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Think, plan and organize but don't let others do these things for you. Stay in control or someone more aggressive will take over and take credit. Set the guidelines and give everyone an outline of what you expect. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Pick and choose wisely to whom you will listen today. Someone you least expect will lead you in the wrong direction while someone you don't know but who has experience, will give you the input you require to make the right decision. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Now is not the time to lose your cool. You will be a 
little on edge regarding a deal or partnership that means a lot to you. Don'tlet someone 
or something from your past intervene. Finish what you start today. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have to make some serious decisions if you want to keep things amicable. Someone may tempt you to do something you shouldn't take part in. Discipline will be required. Trust in your ability to say no. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll have a hird's eye view of what is actually taking place that could potentially dismantle something you want to pursue. Move fast and you may he able to do a little damage control and save the day. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You act on impulse with an incredibly inventive way of doing things. You are easy to like but dinicult to compete with. You are detennined. worldly and courageous. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astrolllMce.comfor fun. eugenialast.comforconfidentia/ consultations 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source ofinfonnation on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible li11kJq ~~.twq campuses. Please go to www.ndsmcobserver.com/subscriptions and sign up tC>:;;fec~ive The.Observer in your home. 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHEN THE: BROTH­E:RS' PIL-L-OW FIGHT E:NDE:D, IT WAS--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
~--• 
-
ACROSS 
1 _Willard, heavyweight champ dethroned by Jack Dempsey 5 Got together 
I0 Pot-au-feu 
14 "Lord, it is good for be here" (words of Peter to Jesus) 
15 Wipe out 16 Two-handed sandwich 
17 Check writer's record 
18 More genuine 
19 Sufficient, once !0 Establishment with spicy sauces !3 Brazilian-born bandleader Mendes !4 Cousin of reggae 
25 Yang's counterpart 27 Table scrap 28 Harvest 
31 Romanian composer Georges 
33 Eaves dropping? 35 Prey for a 
hognose snake 36 Martial art 39 Sistine Chapel 
figure 41 Right triangle 
ratio 42 Country cuisine 45 Mid sixth-
century year 46 Rapper Lil' _ 49 Yank's foe 50 Poodle's cry 52 Colorless gas 54 Finish the job 58 Sundance Kid's 
lady 59 One of the Marx brothers 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, April 11, 2007 
page 28 
HOCKEY 

Kings of the rink 
Jackson, Brown earn postseason accolades for record-setting year 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sporrs Editor 
The long list of firsts Notre Dame racked up this season most likely came to a close this weekend when head coach Jeff Jackson was named Division I national coach of the year, sever­al days after senior goaltender Dave Brown received both the Lowe's Senior CI.ASS Award and first team All-American honors. 
The news of Brown's awards came during a busy last weekend in St. Louis at the Frozen Four, where the senior goalie was present as one of three finalists 

..,. __ for the Hobey Baker Memorial Award. The honor, however ­college hockey's highest -went to sophomore forward Ryan Duncan of North Dakota. "I would have loved to have 
see AWARDS/page 26 


ND SOFTBALL 
Win streak ends with EMU loss 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's 10-game win streak was snapped at Ivy Field Tuesday in an out-of­conference 2-1 loss to Eastern Michigan. A doubleheader was scheduled, but after the first contest, both coaches met and decided that they would postpone the second match. 
Eastern Michigan senior Aimee Woodrum allowed only one run and three hits in a complete-game gem, improv­ing her record to 5-5. 
The Irish pitching, however, also showcased some talent' on the field with excellent performances from sopho­more Brittney Bargar and senior Kenya Fuemmeler. 
see EAGLES/page 25 
BASEBALL 

Irish recover after dropping two due to errors 
capitalize on a strong start by triple to right field by Bearcats batting charts with a .396 sea­ing error allowed the Bearcats By FRAN TOLAN senior Dan Kapala as they first baseman Neall French. son average. to break a 3-3 tie. 
Sports Writer 

stranded 13 runners and could French, a fifth-year senior, Cincinnati sophomore left­not hold on to a 3-0 first went 3-for-4 in the contest. Cincinnati 4, Notre Dame 3 hander Dan Osterbrock got the 
The Irish surrendered three inning lead. Cincinnati sophomore For the seventh time this complete-game victory and unearned runs in each of a Kapala allowed just one righthander Steve Blevins season, unearned runs proved held the Irish scoreless after pair of 4-3 losses to Cincinnati earned run in six innings, improved to 5-4 on the season. to be the difference in an Irish regaining the lead in the sixth in the first two games of their dropping his season ERA to Blevins went eight innings and loss. to improve his record to 5-1. weekend series at Marge 1.46. He surrendered five hits threw 141 pitches before being Sophomore righthander Osterbrock allowed five hits Schott Stadium. On Sunday, while striking out three. reliev(ld by junior Billy Welsh, David Phelps went all eight and did not walk a batter 
-
visiting Notre Dame rebounded But in the bottom of the fifth who recorded his fourth save innings for the Irish, finishing while striking out seven. to take the final contest 9-5. inning, Kapala's own two-out by working a scoreless ninth. with seven strikeouts and just Irish senior centerfielder throwing error opened the Senior shortstop Brett Lilley one earned run. Danny Dressman went 2-for-4 Cincinnati 4, Notre Dame 3 door for a Cincinnati rally that went 3-for-4 with a run and But Irish catcher Matt The Irish were unable to culminated in a three-run moved to the top of the team Weglarz's sixth inning throw-see CINCY/page 25 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

ND bounces back with win 
Late surge leads Irish to victory over Cal after falling to Duke 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sporrs Writer 
No. 13 Notre Dame salvaged an earlier loss in the week when it defeated California 16-11 at home Saturday, after losing to No. 4 Duke Thursday. 
The Irish (10-3) began the wt)ekend with a 20-10 loss to the Blue Devils (10-1). After jumping out to a 3-1 lead in the first minutes of the game, Notre Dame was overwhelmed by the powerful Duke attack. 
see SPLIT/page 25 


MEN'S TENNIS 

Tearrt reaches :milestone by beating Ball State 
ByJAYWADE SportS Writer 

No. 6 Notre Dame shook off the cobwebs after its match Saturday at Southern Methodist was cancelled due to weather, by defeating Ball State 7-0 in domi­nant fashion Tuesday. 
Ball State (8-11) has now lost to the Irish 17 consecutive times. With the victory, the Irish (20­
3) gained their first 20-win sea­son since their 2001-2002 cam­paign, and the 14th in program history. Also, along with the vic­tory, No. 9 Stephen Bass (29-9; 18-3) moved to fifth on Notre Dame's all-time win list when he defeated Joe Epkey 6-2, 6-2. No. 
51 Sheeva Parbhu (26-10, 16-4), who deafeated Aaron Phillips 6­0, 6-1, also jumped a place on the all-time list to reach the 1Oth spot. 
'They both have made major impacts in Notre Dame tennis, and the thing about both of them is the amount of improvement that each has made after coming to college," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
Rounding out the rest of the singles victories were No. 114 Brett Helgeson, Barry King, Ryan Keckley and Andrew Roth. Roth blanked his opponent Joe Vallee 6-0, 6-0. 
In doubles, it was much the 
see TWENTY/page 26 











