
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 41: ISSUE 108 WEDNESDAY. MARCH 28.2007 

muggles with adivisrn,apathy 
By ElLEEN DUFFY and 
MEGHANWONS 
News Writers 
Editor's Note: This is the first article in a three-part series examining activism at Notre Dame: its current role on campus, how that role has. changed and what those changes mean for the future. 
With the war in Iraq poten­tially stretching on longer than the one in Vietnam over 30 years ago, last week's fourth anniversary of the United States' invasion shone a spotlight on college cam­puses -once the sites of passionate anti-war activism. 
At Notre Dame, the only protest that took place last week was organized by mem­hers of the Catholic Worker movement -a group from outside the University. While students were involved, the lack of major student organi­zation for the event seemed to reinforce the stereotype that Notre Dame lacks activism. 
To many, the question remains whether or not Notre Dame students are making their voices heard when it comes to human rights, the war in Iraq, the genocide in Darfur and other pressing concerns of today's genera­tion of college students. 
But to some students like junior Stuart Mora, a mem­ber of Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) who is also active with the South Bend Center for the Homeless, loud arrest-focused protests are 
see ACTMSM/page 4 



Community discusses disabilities 
Author Abeel addresses dyscalculia, life without comprehending numbers 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
After being diagnosed with dyscalculia -a sequential learn­ing disability -at age thirteen, Samantha Abeel has written two books, earned a Master's degree in Social Work from the University of Michigan and become a motiva~ tiona! speaker. 
Abeel delivered the Disability Awareness Month keynote speech Tuesday in DeBartolo, focusing on her experiences with her learning disability and its influence on her life. 
see ABEEL/page 9 


Office of Disability Services assists in classrooms, exams 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
When junior Molly Rivard was six years old, she was diagnosed with dyspraxia, a motor skills disability that can make movements and ges­tures associated with coordination -such as writing -difficult. 
"Yes, I do have a disability," said Rivard, a history and Irish studies major who hopes to continue her education after graduating from Notre Dame. "But that does not make me different. I just have to do things differently." 
Rivard described the disability as 
see DISABILITY/page 6 


Students report two sexual assault cri111es 
Incidents affect ND and SMC campuses 
By KATIE KOHLER Sainr Mary's Ediror 
Police are investigating two separate incidents of reported sex offenses -one involving a Notre Dame stu­dent and the other involving a Saint Mary's student. 
The incidents, a fondling sex offense and sexual assault, both were reported Sunday night to Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP). 
In the case of the sexual assault, a Notre Dame stu­dent reported an acquain­tance committed the crime, according to an e-mail to students Monday. The e-mail said the assault occurred on campus Saturday. 
The Observer was not able to reach NDSP officials Tuesday. 
In the second case, a Saint Mary's student notified NDSP at 8:15 p.m. Sunday after a man approached her and a friend at State Road 933 en route to the Grotto. The man, who was on roller blades, inappropriately touched the student, who was not injured, as he passed by, the e-mail said. 
"The suspect was 
see NDSP/page 3 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Kelley part of attorney removals 
ND law professor serves as deputy to White House counsel 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
As controversy continues to brew around Attorney General Alberto Gonzales' handling of the recent U.S. attorney firings, a Notre Dame 
law professor has quietly found his way to the center of the investi­gation. 
"Late in the afternoon on Dec. 4, a 


deputy to Kelley Harriet E. Miers, then the White House counsel and one of President Bush's most trusted aides, sent a two-line e-mail message to a top Justice Department aide," begins a March 14 article in The New York Times. '"We're a go,' it said, approving a long­brewing plan to remove seven federal prosecutors considered weak or not team players." 
That deputy is William K. Kelley, who left the Law School in the spring of 2005 to take a presidential appointment. Since then, he has served as White House deputy counsel in what Notre Dame law professor Richard Garnett called "a posi­tion of great responsibility." 
"We're good friends," Garnett, who is at the University of Chicago this semester as a visit­ing professor, said Tuesday. "He 
see KELLEYIpage 8 


Copy Shop to close after 18 years 
By KATE ANTONACCI Senior StaffWriter 
After a nearly two-year-long legal battle, The Copy Shop in LaFortune will permanently close its doors Friday, marking the end of 18 years of operations. 
"This letter is one that I never anticipated having to write,'' Tim Wright, president of Copy Wright, Inc. and owner of The Copy Shop in LaFortune, wrote in a letter available to any visitor to the LaFortune shop. 
The letter, dated Monday, details the reasons for the business' clos­ing -namely the cost of the law­suit between The Copy Shop and the University. 
While Wright had hoped to con­tinue business operations during 
see SHOP/page 6 


Tim Wright, owner of the Copy Shop at LaFortune, announced Monday that the shop will close Friday due to legal costs. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------­page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Love is in the air 

Before I arrived at Notre Dame, I thought nothing would excite me more than passing by Brady Quinn on campus or doing the jig at a home football game. Then again, I had never experi­enced winter in Eva Binda Northern Indiana before (schools 
News Wire

close at the 
Editor

chance of snow in Washington DC). Therefore, seeing the sun again and experiencing temperatures above 60 degrees could not have been more exciting or welcome this week. 
I noticed how campus suddenly came to life. Students were playing lacrosse, frisbee and even bad­minton out on North Quad. Grills were broken out by a couple of dorms. Music was blasting from dorm room windows. A couple of female students got very excited and even broke out the bikini tops for some sunbathing. 
One of my friends remarked that campus really felt like college now with the large number of students hanging around outside, instead of hiding in their dorm rooms to keep warm. It looked like the pictures you see in the brochures sent to prospective student. 
Another thing I've noticed in addi­tion to the quick transition into shorts and skirts is the romance. Sure, there are those slightly awk­ward SDH dates and completely awkward good-byes outside girls' dorms at parietals all year-round, but suddenly, it seems people are just more affectionate. 
Walking around campus today, I couldn't help noticing the rise in couples holding hands on the way to class or sitting on benches showing PDA. I mean it's not quite "The Notebook" or anything, but it's still kind of sweet. Everyone just looks a little happier. 
I've even noticed this new phe­nomenon among people I know ... the person who never admits to lik­ing anyone, suddenly blushing and participating in PDA with someone. Or, on the other end of the spec­trum, the person who goes through potential love interests like profile pictures on Facebook, actually talk­ing about having found that special someone and maybe, just maybe, settling down soon. It's all quite amusing and it's okay to make a lit­tle fun of them, but at the same time, it's also kind of sweet and makes me smile. 
Whatever the case or wherever you fall between the two, I've come to believe that there's more in the air than just warmth. There might be some love in the air. 
And so, Notre Dame, forget (just for a moment or you may fail out) about trying to solve integrals that seem impossible, writing papers that you don't feel like writing and reading course packets and chap­ters that never seem to end. In the words of the Beatles, "Nothing you can do but learn how to be in time. It's easy. All you need is love." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd. edu 

CORRECTIONS 

In the March 27 anicle enrit!ed, "NDSP arresrs, cites ROTC protesters," it was stated rhat rhe Ariny ROTC Barralion declined to commenr. There was a miscom­munication in rhe ROTC office and Army ROTC Barralion designated spokesman Major Gary Masapollo was never informed rhat he had been con­tacted. The Observer regrets rhis misunderstanding. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 28, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR BIGGEST PET PEEVE? 



word that's on make decisions middle ofa own. the top ofyour at Starbucks., lecture., tongue. , 

DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer 
U~andan master's student Denis Okello, Notre Dame Millennium Development lmtiative Director Father Bob Dowd and senior Colleen Mallahan made up the panel for Tuesday's "What is Our Role?" session focusing on Notre Dame's current and future role in Africa. 
OFFBEAT 

Dog performs 'Heimlich' her chest, she said Toby Wisconsin River have been on owner, saves life noticed and got involved. removed to reduce alleged 
CALVERT, Md. -Toby, a "The next think I know, sexual activity and provide 2-year-old golden retriev­Toby's up on his hind feet more sun for nesting tur­er, saw his owner choking and he's got his front paws tles, the state Department on a piece of fruit and on my shoulders," she of Natural Resources says. began jumping up and recalled. "He pushed me to "These willows just down on the woman's the ground, and once I was became a cruising area for chest. The dog's owner on my back, he began people looking for sexual believes the dog was trying jumping up and down on activity out there," Steve to perform the Heimlich my chest." Colden, the Lower maneuver and saved her That's when the apple Wisconsin State Riverway's life. dislodged and Toby started property manager, said 
Debbie Parkhurst, 45, of licking her face to keep Monday in an interview· 
Calvert told the Cecil Whig her from passing out, she with The Capital Times of she was eating an apple at said. Madison. her home Friday when a The nude beach has been 
piece lodged in her throat. Trees removed at beach used by naturists for more She attempted to perform to curtail sexual activity than 50 years. the Heimlich maneuver on MADISON, Wis.-Willow herself but it didn't work. trees lining the Mazomanie Information compiled After she began beating on nude beach on the from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
0::: 
L&.l 
:::1: 

!;;: 
L&.l 
~ 
....I 
<C 
(.) 




....0 HIGH 53 HIGH 64 LOW 40 LOW 49 
Tazi Shortey  Jon Carifo  Nicole Overton  Lance Ladendorf  Sarah Lesniak  
freshman Lyons  freshman Stanford  freshman Breen-Phillips  sophomore Kennan  freshman Pasquerilla East  
"When you can't think ofa  "People who take too long to  "People who walk out in the  "PDA ... including my  "When people drop trash and  


don't pick it up it makes me cry and die inside. , 
IN BRIEF 
Ruth Messinger, President of American Jewish World Service, will give the lecturer "Bearing Witness: Crisis in Darfur" at 8 p.m. today in the Eck Visitors Center Auditorium. 
Judge Victoria Marina de Aviles will deliver a lecture entitled "El Salvador Reform of the Judiciary" Thursday at 8 p.m. in Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The lecture will be in Spanish, but an English translation will be available. The event is sponsored by Latin American/North American Church Concerns (LANACC) in the Kellogg Institute. 
Howard Schultz, the founder and chairman of Starbucks, will deliver the 2007 Frank Cahill Award Thursday at 7 
p.m. in Jordan Auditorium in Mendoza. His lecture is enti­tled "Entrepreneurship and Ethics." 
Married lecturers and schol­ars James Whitehead and Evelyn Eaton Whitehead will give the lecture "Spirituality and Sexuality: The Marriage of Eros and Grace" Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary's. 
Ceyl Prinster, a 1976 Notre Dame graduate and executive director of the Colorado Enterprise Fund, will deliver the lecture entitled "Building a Balanced Life: Strategies for Combining Career and Family" Thursday at 5 p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 


HIGH LOW 

58 44 


62 44 

HIGH LOW 

.-------~-------~­
-------------------, ---,-----­
Wednesday, March 28, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Appointees approved for leadership roles 
BySONIARAO 
News Writer 
· Several student government appointees were approved for the 2007-08 term during the final meeting of 2006-07 Council of Representatives (COlO members Tuesday. 
Michelle Byrne, Phil Boss, Ashley Weiss, Christopher Tillett. Eva Binda, Sheena Plamoottil, Michelle Zaldana and Emily Cooperstein wnre all approved to assume lead­ership roles of various student government organizations that arn represented within COH. Each was prnsented to COH members along with a letter of rncommendation. 
.Junior class president-elect Bob Reish presented Michelle Byrne as the class of 2009 sec­rntary. Byrne tahs the posi­tion, which is one of four posi­tions on the class voting ticket, as secretary-elect Callie Pogge "will be unable to fulfill her duties becausn of other inter­ests within Notrn Dame stu­dent government," Reish said. 
Rnish said Byrnn is "quali­11nd, dedicated and hardwork­ing," and he noted she has had various leadership roles ineluding those as Cavanaugh's IIall representa­tive, spiritual committee chair and Cavanaugh Hall president. 
Current Student Union 
Board (SUB) manager Patrick 
Vassel presented junior Phil Ross as his nominee to contin­ue leading SUB next year. 
"Phil is far and away t,he best candidate for the posi­tion," Vassel wrote in his let­ter of recommendation. "He has demonstrated tremendous time-management skills as well as innovative creativity and constant professionalism. His past leadership experi­ences exemplify the combina­tion of hard work and fun that are central to the mission of SUB." 
Current Judicial Council president Liz Kozlow nominat­ed junior Ashley Weiss as her successor. 
"Over the past year, she showed enthusiasm and dedi­cation for Student Government by working as the Chair of the Student Senate Committee on Gender Issues where she over­saw and coordinated both the Eating Disorders Conference and Sexual Assault Awareness week," Kozlow wrote. 
Kozlow also noted that Weiss ran for the elected position of student body vice president earlier in the year, which would serve as valuable back­ground. 
Kadcja Gaines, chairwoman of the Financial Management Board, announced her nomi­nation of freshmen Christopher Tillet and Eva Binda to the Assistant Student Union Treasurer positions. 

Gaines said she interviewed eight people for the position and Tillet and Binda were the most qualified. 
Binda is a news writer for The Observer. 
Student body president-elect Liz Brown pn~sented her nom­inations of Sheena Plamoottil, Michelle Zaldana and Emily Cooperstein as next year's chief executive assistant, stu­dent body secretary and aca­demic delegate, respectively. 
All three have extensive background in student govern­ment and have excelled in 
leadership positions, Brown said. 
In other COR news: 
+ Members approved a COR Collaboration Fund Appeal for the 30th BCAC Fashion show, sponsored by Walsh Hall, Freshman Class Council and the 01'11ce of Admissions. The group requested $757.79 in order to provide food, raffle supplies, .copy expenses and the venue. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 
page 3 




NDSP 
continued from page 1 
described to NDSP as a college-age, white male, skinny build, wearing a blue T-shirt and black jeans. black roller blades and a black hat with a white t-shirt pulled over his head," the e-mail said. 
Saint Mary's Security did not return phone calls from The Observer Tuesday. 
NDSP's e-mail encour­aged students to report information on crimes, suspicious activity and emergencies to 9-1-1 and to contact NDSP with any non-emergency assistance on campus. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO1@saintmarys.edu 




Lafayette Square Townhomes 
ATTENTION: STUDY ABROAD STUDENTS!!! NOW OFFERING HALF-AR LEASES!! 
lafayette Square Townhomes 
• 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 


It's a whole new place! New local ownership & managment Newly remodeled for 2007-2008 

www.kramerhouses. com 

Renting fast -call today for 2007 -2008 


Contact J<ramer at f574J 315-5032 or f574J 234-2436 
..------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 28, 2007 

Activis01 
continued from page 1 
not the only effective ways to 
show activism. 
For Mora, student partici­pation in "concrete things" ­such as service projects at home and abroad through the Center for Social Concerns· and the high number of hours Notre Dame students spend volunteering -is proof that activism is "still here [on campus] and maybe stronger than ever" in a dif­ferent form. 
"I think activism has changed," he said. "I don't think we have the marching around with placards any­more ... I think people are looking to do more concrete things." 
But just before spring break, it was that "marching around" activism that was seen on Notre Dame's cam­pus. 
Soulforce, a national gay rights group, stopped at Notre Dame as part of its cross-country Equality Ride, a 32-stop bus tour intended to protest the intolerance of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people that it believes occurs at Christian colleges. 
After University administra­tors denied the group's request to visit in the fall, cit­ing a policy that reserves such demonstrations for members of the campus com­munity, Soulforce members notified Notre Dame that they would nonetheless arrive March 8 -and they did. 
The 25 riders marched into LaFortune and were soon met with Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) offi­cers who, when Soulforce members refused to cease and desist, issued trespass notices to six group members for restricting foot traffic, speaking in loud voices and interfering and disrupting normal business activity. Trespass notices, said Assistant Vice President of News and Information Dennis Brown, carry with them a request never to return to campus, 
The next morning, March 9, six group members attempted to walk down Notre Dame Avenue with a wreath, intending to deliver it to the statue of Tom Dooley, a gay military hero and Notre Dame graduate. Near the vicinity of the old post office, the mem­bers were again stopped by NDSP and this time issued arrest citations, with a likely request to appear in court. Brown said policemen then gave the group a ride back to their bus. 
"We checked with other universities where Soulforce had conducted its activities. We're aware of what [the group's] objectives are," Brown said. "Now they're able to publicize that they were arrested at Notre Dame, which is sort of their goal." 
Soulforce -which counts many college students among its members -has continued to face resistance and arrest at subsequent stops on its Equality Ride. A handful of Notre Dame students took part in the Soulforce event, but many campus activist groups seem to favor talking, if not yelling, about their causes -and many are lis­tening. 
CLAP has staged protests and written reports in sup­

port of a "living wage" of $12.10 an hour for every employee at Notre Dame. 
The Progressive Student Alliance (PSA)'s "Week of Action" brought Liam Madden, an honorably dis­charged marine and leader in the anti-war movement, to DeBartolo Hall -and 170 people flocked to hear him. Another of the week's events, a talk on the correlation between biology and homo­sexuality, drew a standing­room only crowd. 
Sophomore Michael Angulo, vice president of the PSA, said he received good feed­back from students and facul­ty regarding the "Eyes Wide Open" exhibit displayed on South Quad to raise aware­ness about the Iraq War. 
The display was brought to campus by the PSA through the American Friends Service Committee (AFSC), which organized the traveling exhibit and supplied the pub­lic display of boots honoring each U.S. military casualty. The exhibit featured a field of shoes, a multimedia display exploring the "history, cost and consequences of the war" and a Wall of Remembrance to memorialize the Iraqi citi­zens killed in conflict, accord­ing to the AFSC Web site. 
"It's really important to have an attitude of reaching out," senior Katie Rose Hoover said of promoting awareness and education about issues on campus. "Rather than being exclusive to people who share the same ideas, values and mindset." 
Hoover, an active member of the Notre Dame Peace Fellowship, Amnesty International and CLAP, said that such groups are making an impact. She also said cam­pus activists have changed her own attitudes about many issues. 
While Notre Dame has his­torically been identified as a campus lacking activism, jun­ior Katie McHugh -a mem­ber of both PSA and CLAP ­thinks the University is underrated in terms of activism. 
"We have many politically­minded people on this cam­pus, as political science is the most popular major in Arts and Letters, as well as a peace studies program that may be the most well­respected in the nation," she said, adding that Notre Dame has one of the best collegiate social concerns centers. "There is a deep-seeded obli­gation [among Notre Dame students] to help those in need around the world and in the South Bend community." 
Still, that obligation doesn't inhabit a large portion of Notre Dame students. 
Angulo said he thinks Notre Dame students are not neces­sarily apathetic, but that oftentimes they "don't have a forum" to express their con­cerns and discuss issues of social justice in constructive ways. 
The bureaucracy of Notre Dame and the University's history of not being an activist campus, he said, are two big hurdles for students involved in efforts such as the ones the PSA advances. McHugh said she questioned whether "the real problem isn't apathy, but bodies of administrators that silence the beginnings of discussion or controversy on campus." 
Both PSA and CLAP some­times feel "hushed" by Student Activities, which takes measures to prevent 
controversy, she said. PSA workers' rights because they tomorrow will examine the was put on club probation a were denied permission by historical context of activism few years ago for illegally Student Activities." at Notre Dame. handing out condoms, she said, and CLAP "was not But the levet of activism has Contact Eileen Duffy at allowed to hand out coffee, varied over the years. The eduffyl@nd.edu and Meghan donuts and information on second part in this series Wons at mwons@nd.edu 

Asian Summer Language Grant Program 
Deadline is J\tlarch 30, 2007. 
The Center for Asian Studies is sponsoring a competition for undergraduates and graduate students who wish to study an Asian language not currently offered at Notre Dame. The program selected can be either in the U.S. or a foreign country. 
It is expected that such study will contribute to the student's further education at Notre Dame. In most cases, language classes will be counted for academic credit at Notre Dame. The competition is not open to ser:~iors or graduate students completing their degrees. 
Applications at www.nd.edu/-cas 


Essay Prize in Asian Studies 
Deadline is April 9~ 2007. 
Two prizes of $100 each will be awarded for the Best Undergraduate and Best Graduate Essay. Essays should focus on Asia or Asian American topics. 
Undergraduate submissions should be no longer than 20 pages. Graduate submissions should be no longer than 30 pages. 
Submit three copies (two without author information) to: 
Center for Asian Studies 210 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
1-0487 
www.nd.edu/-cas 
*-1­
J~~ 
~ 

UNIVERSITY OF 

NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Nominations for the 



Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy A ward, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 1 04 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline 

Monday, Apri19, 2007 


-----------------~---------------------.. 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 28, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Rice pushes Israeli-Palestinian talks 
JERUSALEM -The Israeli and Palestinian leaders will meet every two weeks for discus­sions aimed at paving the way for a final set­tlement to the Middle East conflict, officials said Tuesday, a small sign of momentum for the latest U.S. push to restart peace efforts. 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice announced the planned meetings at the end of a swing through the region, her fourth in as many months. Although the talks will begin with day-to-day issues, they signaled a deeper U.S. commitment to bringing the sides together after a six-year lull in peace efforts. 
"The Israelis and Palestinians are taking the initial step on the path to peace, and the American role will include helping them to overcome obstacles, develop new ideas and rally international support for their efforts," she said. 
Italian troops to stay in Afghanistan 
ROME -Premier Homano Prodi's govern­ment won a Senate vote Tuesday to keep Italy's troops in Afghanistan, despite increas­ing concerns over the worsening security sit­uation in the country. 
The 180-2 vote -with 132 abstentions, which in the Senate count as "no" votes ­gave final approval to a government decree that provides funding for all Italian missions abroad. The lower house of parliament approved it earlier this month. 
Italy has about 2,000 troops in Afghanistan, deployed between Kabul and Herat, far from the more restive south of the country. But a series of small incidents involving the Italians and heavy fighting elsewhere in the country are heightening concerns in Italy over the troops security. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

U.S. war exercises in Gulf warn Iran 
ABOARD THE USS JOHN C. STENNIS ­American warplanes screamed off two aircraft carriers Tuesday as the U.S. Navy staged its largest show of force in the Persian Gulf since the 2003 invasion of Iraq, launching a mammoth exercise meant as a message to the Iranians. 
The maneuvers with 15 warships and more than 100 aircraft were sure to heighten tensions with Iran, which has frequently condemned the U.S. military presence off its coast and is in a faceoff with the West over its nuclear program and-its capture of a British naval team. 

Bad veteran care causes resignation 
PHOENIX -The head of the Arizona Department of Veterans' Services resigned in the wake of an inspection that found shortcomings in care provided by the state's nursing home for military vet­erans, Gov. Janet Napolitano said Tuesday. 
Napolitano's announcement that she had accepted the resignation of Patrick F. Chorpenning came one day after she removed him from direct responsibility over the facility and ordered an immedi­ate review of the home in Phoenix. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Diverted plane not a threat to crash 
GARY -A review by the Federal Aviation Administration of a SkyValue jet that divert­ed from Gary to South Bend determined the plane never was in danger of colliding with other aircraft, a spokeswoman said Tuesday. 
Elizabeth Isham Cory said radar and voice data on SkyValue Flight 512 from Mesa, Ariz., on Friday determined the jet never got any closer than 6 miles to another plane. 
"There was never anything out of the ordinary. There was never an issue of the two planes getting too close. There was never an issue of it being a near miss. It was just some regular, normal procedures," she said. 
Cor-APILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S w1 RE SERVJCES page 5 

Senate sets Iraq withdrawal timeline 
Democrats' plan draws ire ofCongressional Republicans, White House, Lieberman 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Defying a veto threat, the Democratic-controlled Senate narrowly signaled support Tuesday for the withdrawal of U.S. combat troops from Iraq by next March. 
Republican attempts to scuttle the non-binding timeline failed on a vote of 50-48, largely along party lines. The roll call marked the Senate's most forceful challenge to date of the administration's handling of a war that has claimed the lives of more than 3,200 
U.S. troops. 
Three months after Democrats took power in Congress, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said the moment was at band to "send a message to President Bush that the time has come to find a new way forward in this intractable war." 
But Hepublicans -and Sen. Joseph Lieberman, an independent Democrat ­argued otherwise. 
John McCain, R-Ariz., a presidential hopeful, said that "we are starting to turn things around" in the Iraq war and that a timeline for withdrawal would embold­en the terrorists in Iraq and elsewhere. 
The effect of the timeline would be to "snatch defeat from the jaws of progress in Iraq," agreed Lieberman, who won a new term last fall in a three-way race after losing the Democratic nomination to an anti-war insurgent. 
Bush had previously said he would veto any bill con­taining the timeline, and the White House freshened the threat a few hours before the vote on Tuesday. "This and other provisions would place freedom and democ­racy in Iraq at grave risk, embolden our enemies and undercut the administra­tion's plan to develop the Iraqi economy," it said in a statement. 
Similar legislation drew only 48 votes in the Senate earlier this month, but Democratic leaders made a change that persuaded Nebraska's Democratic Sen. Ben Nelson to swing behind the measure. 


Additionally, Sen. Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, a vocal critic of the war, sided with the Democrats, assuring them of the majority they needed to turn back a chal­lenge led by Sen. Thad Cochran, R-Miss. 
The debate came on legis­lation that provides $122 billion to fund the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as domestic priorities such relief to hurricane vic­tims and payments to farm­ers. 
Separately, supporters of an increase in the minimum wage readied an effort to attach the measure to the spending bill, along with companion tax cuts that Republicans have demand­ed. The House and Senate have passed different ver­sions of the bill but have yet to reach a compromise. 
The House has already passed legislation requiring troops to be withdrawn by Sept. 1, 2008. The Senate vote assured that the Dem ocr a tic-controlled Congress would send Bush legislation later this spring that calls for a change in war policy. A veto is a cer­tainty, presuming the presi­dent follows through. 
That would put the onus back on the Democrats, who would have to decide how long they wanted to extend the test of wills in the face of what are likely to be increasingly urgent statements from the admin­istration that the money is needed for troops in the war zone. 
"Frankly, I think we'd like to reach out to the president . . . and say, 'Mr. President, this is not a unilateral gov­ernment. It is a separation of powers, and the Congress of the United States is assuming review,"' House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer of Maryland told reporters as the Senate debated the war. 

Reid also referred to the president at a news confer­ence. "I would hope that he would be willing to work with us in coming up with some language that both (houses of Congress) could accept. At this stage, he has been very non-negotiable. So we'll see what happens," he said. 
As drafted, the legislation called for troop withdrawal to begin within 120 days, with a non-binding goal that calls for the combat troops to be gone within a year. 

Americans die in Green Zone attack 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Two truck bombs shat­tered markets in Tal Afar on Tuesday, killing at least 63 people and wounding dozens in the second assault in four days on a predominantly Shiite Muslim city hit by a resurgence in violence a year after it was held up as a symbol of 
U.S. success. 
After the bombings, suspected Sunni insurgents tried to ambush ambulances carrying the injured out of the north­western city but were driven off by police gunfire, Iraqi authorities said. 
The carnage was the worst bloodshed in a day that saw attacks across Iraq. 
A major Sunni Arab insurgent group reported its military leader was slain outside Baghdad, an assault likely to deepen an increasingly bloody rift between al-Qaida in Iraq and opponents of the terror group in Sunni communi­ties west of the capital. 
In Baghdad, a U.S. soldier and an American working as a U.S. govern­ment contractor were killed by a rocket attack on the heavily guarded Green Zone, U.S. officials said. Another con­tract worker suffered serious wounds and three were slightly wounded. A sol­dier also was wounded. 
The last known U.S. death in the Green Zone, site of the U.S. Embassy and Iraqi government and parliamen­tary headquarters, was in February when an American contractor was killed in a checkpoint shooting in the Green Zone. 
It was the second rocket attack on the zone in less than a week. A Katyusha rocket exploded just 50 yards from U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon as he spoke with reporters there Thursday during an unannounced visit to the city. 
U.S. soldiers, meanwhile, foiled two suicide truck bombers trying to attack their base in a small town 50 miles west of Baghdad and killed as many as 15 attackers, the military said. It said eight soldiers suffered wounds, all but one of them slight, during the firefight in Karmah. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 28, 2007 
"A lot of it deals with information Associate Director of Admissions special accommodations for test­working students." 
processing.... There are some Alisa Fisher said. ing and extended time in an alter­For Rivard, her academic expe­
Disability 
continued from page 1 
a problem with the neural com­munication between her brain and motor muscles -something that her mother noticed when Rivard had trouble crawling as a baby -that leads to difficulty writing. 
But Rivard is not left alone at the University to deal with her disability. She is one of the more than 200 students who receive services at the Office of Disability Services. 
Approximately 140 of the 200­plus students are learning dis­abled or suffer from Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), Coordinator of Disability Services Scott Howland said. 
Saint Mary's Disabilities Specialist Iris Giamo said the Disabilities Resource Office at the college serves approximately 75 students both for learning disabil­ities and for ADHD. 
Students come to the College and University with an array of learning disabilities, including dyslexia and other disorders, Howland said. 
"It's a variety," Howland said. 

students with dyslexia -there are some [disabilities] that are more related to spatial issues." 
Howland said the disabilities primarily involve the time it takes to process information. 
"It might take [students] longer than their peers to complete their homework, or get their reading assignments done," he said. "That's always a challenge, bal­ancing that ... with everything else that's going on." 
But those are the issues associ­ated with just studying, he said. 
"In the classroom, probably the biggest challenge they have relates to exams," Howland said. "We have a lot of students that do need accommodations." 
When she applied to Notre Dame, Rivard included a note about her disability. 
"I did notify them in that section [of the undergraduate applica­tion], 'If there's anything else you'd like to tell us,' that I [was diagnosed with a disability]," Rivard said. 
And though Rivard is not alone in acknowledging a physical or learning disability, the number is low, hovering at about one per­cent of the applicant pool, Senior 
That percent constituted 206 of more than 12,000 applicants dur­ing the 2005 to 2006 admission year, Fisher said. 
Fisher, who also serves as the liaison between the Office of Disability Services and the admis~ sions office, said there has been a slight increase year-to-year of stu­dents who apply and disclose they have a learning disability, as more people feel comfortable doing so. 
"If they want to tell us, we encourage that," Fisher said. "The more information we have about your academic perform­ance, the better we can under­stand if you struggled with some grades." 
Fisher said that while the University does not discriminate on basis of disability, it will take such a disclosure into account when reading an application. 
When looking at a student's record "from the point from when [the disability] was discovered to getting some help," a visible improvement in the student's per­formance is often seen, she said. 
Since being admitted, Rivard has utilized functions the Disabilities Services office offers including having a note taker and nate location. 
"For me, it's about becoming ·more independent. I have to be an advocate for myself," Rivard said. "I have to go to my teachers to ask for accommodations, and I have to let Scott [Howland] know ifl need a note taker." 
Howland said most of the stu­

dents with learning disabilities he 
serves utilize test-taking accom­
modations and note taking servic­
es/classroom assistance. 
In addition to providing services 

similar to those of Howland's 
office, Saint Mary's offers services 
including instruction on study 
skills and technical skills tailored 
to needs of the learning disabled, 
Giamo said. 
In the 11 years Howland has 

been at Notre Dame, only "a few" 
students have not graduated as a 
result of a learning disability and 
other related issues, he said. 
Giamo said that in her two and 

a half years at Saint Mary's, she 
hasn't seen any students drop out 
-and has seen plenty succeed. 
"I think with a lot of support 

from professors, administrators, 
this office and their parents, they 
are successful," Giamo said. 
'They have to be extremely hard­
rience at Notre Dame has been relatively normal and successful, given her disability. The environ­ment -especially with profes­sors, she said -is typically an understanding one. 
But Rivard said there is one response she often receives from friends and peers when she tells them she has a disability. 
"They say,-'But you're so smart,"' Rivard said. 
Such a comment, she said, can be disappointing since her disabil­ity has nothing to do with intelli­gence. 
"Lots of people who have dis­abilities have been very smart," she said. 
Giamo agreed that there is a stigma associated with learning disabilities -which leads some to feel "a little embarrassed" or "inferior" -even though intelli­gence is not related. 
Still, Giamo said she feels there is a "growing awareness" of the issue and credits events like Tuesday's keynote address for providing a more personal look at learning disabilities. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Shop 
continued from page 1 
the litigation, the costs of the process have drained the com­pany's cash flow to "the point where the business can no longer support itself," the letter said. 
University spokesman Don Wycliff said the University could not comment because the case "is in litigation." 

The dispute between Wright and the University revolves around the "option to renew" clause in the lease for The Copy Shop's space. 
Originally added to the store's lease in 1989 by former owner Dan Foley, the option gives the owner an explicit option to renew the lease until the owner decides he or she does not want the space anymore or until a rule of the lease is violated, Wright said in a Nov. 21, 2005 article in The Observer. 
But in early 2005, Wright was notified that the University "did not accept our offer to renew." 
"I sent them a letter and I said this was not an offer. It was the exercise of an option. That's the basic dispute that the University was involved in with us when they filed their com­plaint," he said at the time. "They said it was an offer, we said it wasn't." 
In August 2005, the University filed a suit in the St. Joseph Circuit Court in Mishawaka against Copy Services Inc. ask­ing the court for immediate pos­session of the property in the basement of the student center. Copy Services Inc. operates under the name The Copy Shop. 
The issue was brought to the Indiana Court of Appeals, which ruled against the Copy Shop. 
"We are in the process of moving the dispute to the next level, the Indiana Supreme Court," Wright said in the letter. 
Wright has operated The Copy Shop, an independent business not affiliated with the University, since 2001. 
In his letter, Wright said that the University intends to "termi­nate our campus lease and, in effect, sell our business to Kinko's." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND RELIGIOUS V ALlJES IN BUSINESS 
~ 

•­:>""" 
~-~· 

INSTITlJTE FOR ETHICAL BUSINESS WORLDWIDE 
. ...... 
@? 
~ 

Student International Business Council 
~ 

HONOR & PRESENT 
Ho~ard Schultz Chairman Starbucks Coffee Cotnpany 
with the 

Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Award for Business Ethics 
& 

the 2007 Frank Cahill Lecture 

""Entrepreneurship and Ethics,, 
Thursday, March 29, 2007 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 7:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. 
TriE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Wednesday, March 28, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

12,397.29 -71.78
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 9 9 9 I 56 2,245 2,687,688,8 I 6 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I 
PRICE 44.99

NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ)  -0.70  -0.31  
S&P RECEIPTS (SPY)  -0.24  -0.34  
CMGIINC (CMGI)  -2.81  -0.07  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -2.57  -0.16  

142.86 2.42 6.06 
Treasuries 
I0-YEAR NOTE +0.55 -0.025 4.612 
13-WEEK BILL -0.20 -0.0 I 0 4.920 30-YEAR BOND +0.54 +0.026 4.809 5-YEARNOTE +0.42 +0.019 4.497 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.02 62.93 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.40 662.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.68 I 0 1.60 

Excha Rates 
YEN 117.4050 
~­
EURO ).7488 POUND 
0.5086 CANADIAN$ 
1.1564 





IN BRIEF 
Atlantic City card dealers form union 
ATLANTIC CITY -The parent company of Caesars Atlantic City has decided not to chal­lenge a vote by workers to form a union, granti­ng casino dealers in Atlantic City their first union in 25 years. 
The deadline for Harrah's Entertainment Inc. to challenge the March 17 unionization vote was Monday, according to the company and the United Auto Workers, which is representing nearly 900 Caesars dealers, keno and simulcast employees. 
The workers voted 572 to 128 to become part of the UAW. 
The union said it was notified by the National Labor Relations Board on Tuesday that the board had certified the results of the election, clearing the way for collective bargaining at Caesars. 
"This is another important step in winning a strong voice for casino workers in Atlantic City," said Elizabeth Bunn, the .union's national secretary-treasurer. "We're proud to assist workers at Caesars, Trump and all Atlantic City casinos in this historic citywide organizing effort." 
Caesars workers will elect a bargaining com­mittee in the next several weeks. · 

Stocks fall as pessimistic data released 
NEW YORK -Stocks stumbled Tuesday as investors grew wary when new data raised the possibility that the nation's weak housing mar­ket would seep into the broader economy and crimp consumer spending. 
A housing index released Tuesday by Standard & Poor's showed that prices of single­family U.S. homes fell in January compared to a year ago, in their worst showing since January 2004. Also, Lennar Corp., one of the nation's largest homebuilders, said its first-quarter profit plummeted 73 percent and warned that it prob­ably won't meet its 2007 earnings guidance. 
Wall Street has been nervous lately that a drop in housing values will further weaken sub­prime mortgage lenders, who make loans to people with poor credit, and make consumers feel less wealthy and rein in spending. Consumer spending makes up about two-thirds of U.S. economic activity. 
The Conference Board said Tuesday that its March consumer confidence index fell to 107.2, the lowest level since November and a 

Consumer confidence index falls 
Rising gas prices, declining home values prompt greater than expected decline 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK  
Consumers sent up a warn­ 
ing signal in March that  
rising gas prices, falling  
home values and a volatile  
stock market could hurt  
spending in the coming  
months, a widely watched  
index showed on Tuesday.  
The New York-based  
Conference Board said that  
its Consumer Confidence  
Index fell to 107.2, down  
from the revised 111.2 in  
February. Analysts had  
expected a reading of 109.  
The March index was the  
lowest since November  
2006 when the reading  
was 105._3.  
"Apprehension about the  
short-term future has sud­ 
denly cast a cloud over  
consumers' confidence,"  
Lynn Franco, director of  
the Conference Board  
Consumer Research Center,  
said in a statement.  
"The recent turmoil in  
financial markets coupled  
with the run-up in gasoline  
prices may have con­ 
tributed to consumers'  
heightened sense of uncer­ 
tainty and concern. The  
direction of both compo­ 
nents over the next few  
months bears watching to  
determine whether this  
decline is just a bump in A woman looks at sale signs in the window as she walks past a downtown Portland, Ore.,  
the road or something store Tuesday. Consumer spending may fall because of rising gas prices.  
more substantial," she  
added.  after a four-month climb  increase fell to 29.3 per­ start to the spring selling  
Economists closely moni­ doesn't mean that shoppers  cent from 39.9 percent.  season. But a slowing econ­ 
tor consumer confidence  are suddenly going to stop  Meanwhile, the report  omy, particularly a weak­ 
because consumer spend­ spending, but he said it is a  also showed that con­ ening housing market,  
ing accounts for two-thirds  "warning sign."  sumers expect the inflation  could challenge shoppers  
of all U.S. economic activi­ "Everything is consistent  rate on the goods they buy  in the months ahead.  
ty. Confidence had been  on the uncertainty," Naroff  to increase by an average  Rising defaults and delin­ 
climbing, helped by con­ said, noting that if con­ rate of 4.9 percent over the  quencies in mortgages to  
sumers' faith in the job  sumers are questioning  next 12 months, up from  people with poor credit his­ 
market.  what is going on, they are  4.6 percent in Februar~  tories and fewer home  
The Present Situation  also going to be question­ Franco noted that such a  equity withdrawals that  
Index, which measures  ing their future purchases.  spike usually is consistent  give consumers extra cash  
how shoppers feel now  The Conference Board  with an increase in gaso­ could curtail spending.  
about economic conditions,  report -derived from  line prices.  The latest report on  
increased slightly to 137.6  responses through March  The Conference Board  housing, released Tuesday  
from 137.1 in February.  21 -showed increasing  report was a bit sobering  by Standard & Poors, fur­ 
The Expectations Index,  anxiety about the stock  for retailers and other  ther dimmed hopes for a  
which measures con­ market and inflation.  businesses that rely on  rebound in the market.  
sumers' outlook in the next  Those expecting the stock  consumer spending.  Prices of single-family  
six months, declined to  market over the next 12  The arrival of warmer  homes across the nation  
86.9 from 93.8.  months to decline  weather this month -fol­ depreciated in January  
Joel Naroff, president of  increased to 30.7 percent,  lowing an unusually cold  compared to a year ago,  
Naroff Economic Advisors,  from 16.7 percent in  January and February - the weakest results in more  
said that a one-month dip  February. Those expecting  has helped the nation's  than 13 years, according to  
in consumer confidence  the stock market to  retailers catch up to a slow  the S&P housing index.  

UAW leader reasserts strike threat 
Associated Press center, union members debated holding company and awaiting sale or 
DETROIT -Ron Gettelfmger didn't whether they should give anything back closure, and he said there are times mention concessions in his opening to companies, especially those who have when concessions may be necessary to speech to the United Auto Workers' bar­granted bonuses to executives. keep a plant competitive. gaining convention Tuesday, but many "The upper management continues to While he, too, is upset with executive others were speaking the word in and get their bonuses. They continue to take bonuses, he wouldn't rule out giving out of the meeting hall. work overseas no matter what the back something to save a plant from 
The UAW president, facing what worker does," said Phil Doyle, a dele­closure or help a troubled company. many say will be the toughest contract gate from an Allison Transmission plant "We've always been about keeping a talks with the Detroit Three automakers near Indianapolis who is against granti­company viable so we can earn decent in union history, warned companies that ng any wage cuts, health care givebacks wages," said Bryan. the UAW would strike if necessary, and or other concessions. The two men represent conflicting he reassured members that it would But Dennis Bryan, a delegate who views among the 1,500 or so members protect their interests as retired from a former Ford Motor Co. attending the two-day convention, and DaimlerChrysler AG places its U.S. unit and Visteon Corp. plant in Saline, said they al~o present a challenge to up for sale. the union hqs to be flexible according to Gettelfinger as he leads the union into 
But across the street and on the floor a particular plant's situation. the formal start of bargaining with the of the downtown Detroit convention Bryan's former plant is now part of a Detroit Three this summer. 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 28, 2007 
daily basis," Tidmarsh said. But despite the position's
Kelley 
heavy workload and the stress 

continued from page 1 
has not, as you can imagine, said a word to me about this stuff." 
This "stuff' is the escalating Congressional investigation of Gonzales, who is accused of covering up his role in last year's dismissal of eight U.S. attorneys. Criminal charges haven't come into play, since "the U.S. attorneys are appoint­ed by the president. They serve at the will of the president," Notre Dame law professor Jay Tidmarsh said Tuesday. 
That means "it's not a mys­tery" that when a president comes into power, he replaces the attorneys as he chooses, Tidmarsh said -it's legal, and expected. But while political considerations may play into the initial appointments, the recent firings have raised ques­tions. 
"There's potential taint involved in someone replaced for political, rather than per­formance considerations," said Tidmarsh, who explained that Gonzales' denial of involvement in the situation has generated concern. "This is always true: It's the cover-up, not the actions, that get someone in trouble." 
Last week, a House Judiciary subcommittee authorized sub­poenas for several Bush aides, including White House political adviser Karl Rove, Miers and Kelley. Tidmarsh said his under­standing was that the subpoena was issued, but not yet served. Bush has denied Congressional requests for formal testimony from the aides. 
Garnett said he could not ana­lyze the situation or Kelley's chances of being called to testi­fy, because he did not want any­one to mistakenly believe Kelley had spoken to him about the investigation. 
Kelley's executive assistant in the White House counsel's office did not return Observer phone calls Tuesday. 
While Kelley's role in the con­troversy is still hazy -. "Years as a lawyer lead me to be very skeptical of one e-mail," Tidmarsh said -that may be due partly to the nature of his job. 
"The counsel's office in the White House has a really broad portfolio," Garnett said. "They're not the personal lawyers for people in the White House." 
Instead, the counsel advises the president on a wide range of legal issues. The deputy coun­sel's job entails "advising the Counsel and the President on decisions to sign or veto legisla­tion, ethical and conflicts ques­tions, executive appointments and judicial selection, Presidential pardons, and law­suits against the President in his official capacity," according to the fall 2005 issue of Notre Dame Lawyer magazine. 
''I'm sure there are a thou­sand things that pass across Professor Kelley's desk on a 
of a Congressional investigation, both Tidmarsh and Garnett said there were clear reasons ­besides prestige -that a law professor would take this job. 
"It is certainly an important position in government -l think many lawyers feel a call to public service," Tidmarsh said. "For Professor Kelley, I think that certainly is true." 
Garnett said Kelley was "hon­ored and pleased" to take the job, given the importance of the appointment. 
Kelley, a tenured member of the Notre Dame faculty who has been at the University since 1995, clerked from 1987 to 1988 for former federal judge Ken Starr on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. The next year, he clerked for Chief Justice Warren 
E. Burger and Associate Justice Antonin Scalia. 
From 1991 to 1994, he served as assistant to the solicitor gen­
eral  at  the  Department  of  
Justice in Washington, D.C.  
Kelley's  appointment  to  

deputy counsel "was kind of natural," Garnett said. "It prob­ably wasn't all that surprising. ... He would have been on everybody's list." 
Kelley is the second Notre Dame law professor to serve in President George W. Bush's administration. Professor Jimmy Gurule worked as the Treasury Departm·(mt's under­secretary for enforcement from 2001 to 2003. 
Those kind of appointments, said Associate Vice President for News and Information Don Wyclifl', make professors "more valuable faculty members." And that's why the University was willing to grant Kelley a leave. 
"In cases where a faculty member is invited to do some­thing special that adds to his or her credentials ... essentially what they can do is go to their dean and request a leave of absence, an unpaid leave, and negotiate the terms," Wycliff said Tuesday. 
When Kelley received the appointment, "his first concern was fulfilling his obligations to the class he was then teaching," Dean of the Law School Patricia O'Hara said in an e-mail Tuesday. 
"I encouraged him to accept the appointment, and l recom­mended approval of a leave of absence from the University," O'Hara said. "With my permis­sion he made arrangements to complete the course by teaching the class sessions on an acceler­ated calendar." 
O'Hara said the Law School would benefit from Kelley's return. 
"Professor Kelley is an out­standing teacher and scholar in the areas of constitutional law, administrative law and federal courts, as well as a valued col­league," she said. "I am hopeful that he will choose to return to the Law School for the start of the 2007-2008 academic year." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

~!J}J 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 
www.womenscarecenter.org 

.-------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 28, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions stafT, the counselor is expected to n1ake an important contribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by n1anaging relations \vith the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alutnni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and communication \-Vithin the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions. 
There are currently three counselor positions available on our staff for 2007-2008. 
Atnong our candidates, vve \-Vill seek a Latino Recruitment Coordinator. (Fluency in Spanish \-Vill be strongly preferred.) We \Vill also seek an Asian Recruitment Coordinator. Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity ·with all aspects of student life at 
Notre Dame. Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the \villingness to work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mon1.ings. 
Please Note: Interviews will be scheduled after Easter. Preferred start date is July 1, 2007. 


Abeel 
continued from page 1 
Abeel's mother, Betsy, also spoke about the struggles of raising a child with a learning disability and how to creatively face these challenges. 
Dyscalculia makes under­standing numbers nearly impossible for Abeel, a struggle that has affected both her aca­demic life and her everyday life. 
COME SEE WHAT'S NEW AT TURTLE CREEK!! 
We're Renovating AGAIN! New POOL-HEATED!! New LANDSCAPING 
New BASKETBALL COURT 
574-272-8124 
Office Hours: 
M-F9AM-7PM SAT 10AM-4PM SUN 12 PM-4 PM 
(5) 
E:OVAl HOOSlNG 
OPPOUUNtTY 
"My sense of time is some­thing that I struggle with," Abeel said. "Often times, I can't tell the difference between ten minutes and an hour." 
Dealing with money, following cooking recipes and keeping score while playing games have also been difficult, Abeel said. 
She explained that she can write the number ten and she can name the number ten, but she has no concept of how much ten is. 
Both Abeel and her mother 
stressed the importance of cre­ativity in developing coping skills for learning disabilities. 
Abeel, who wrote Reach for the Moon at age fifteen and has also published My Thirteenth Winter, said she has always succeeded in English and cre­ative writing courses. 
The gap between her verbal capabilities and her mathemati­cal capabilities made it difficult for elementary school teachers to pinpoint her disability. It was not until she reached sec­ond grade that Samantha was tested for disabilities, but her parents were told not to worry and that her math and verbal ski~}s would eventually "even out . 
However, her learning dis­ability began to take an emo­tional and psychological toll on Abeel. 
"By the time I was in fourth grade, I was extremely with­drawn socially," she said. "I looked like I belonged . . . but I didn't feel like I belonged." 
The transition from elemen­tary school to middle school in seventh grade was even worse. 
"Seventh grade was the worst year of my life," she said, describing how she could no longer rely on the coping skills that she used in elementary school to get through her daily life. Those skills included fol­lowing the rest of her peers to know when to switch classes. 
"I was in a regular algebra class, and I could barely add," she said. 
In eighth grade, Abeel was placed in some special educa­tion classes. 
"Special education changed my life," Abeel said. "It was the best thing that ever happened to me, because for the first time in my life, I could raise my hand and say I didn't get it and nobody else did either." 
It was around this time that Abeel began to realize that her disability was out of her hands. 
"What a relief to know that it wasn't my fault," she said. 
Abeel went on to Mount Holyoke College, but found her­self doing homework constantly and having panic attacks. At that point, Abeel began to see a counselor. 
"It helped me to start a dia­logue with somebody who was not a part of my life," she said. "I was not allowing myself to be learning disabled ... I was expecting myself to reach or attain these perfect goals." 
She now realizes that accept­ance is a continuous, ever evolving project. 
"Acceptance is such a huge part of it, but it's a process too," she said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

Please complete the on-line application at http://jobs.nd.edu to be considered. Requisition # 020070065 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, March 28, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Pilgrimage to Washington 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRAIOR.: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAIO!U Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (57 4) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial coment, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insritution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on contenr. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and depanment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofTbe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observa-(USPS 599 2-4000} is publl!ihed Monday through Friday ~pt during exam and vacariJ:Jn periods. A subscription to The Observ~ is $100 for one ;teademic year; $55 fur ~me scmc:su~r. 
Tht Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address 'orreccions ro: Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.:O. Box779 and additional mailing offkc:s. 024 Sooth Dining Hall 
Notre D<l.me, lN 46556-on9 

The Ohscn'l:t is a member ofrhe Associated Ptes:i. All ECproduet:ion rights are rcsaved. 
I spent my spring break as a partici­pant in the Center for Social Concerns' Washington Seminar. I, like most of you, watched School House Hock in middle school and took government class in high schoo~. I zach even. re';lember a ht-Einterz 
tle b1t ol James Madison's Federalist BulletproofPaper No. 10. But I ideas didn't truly under­stand the American political system, until I spent a week in Washington, D.C. I wish I could convey to you the intrica­cies of our system, but I know my explanation will be far from sufTicient. I can only suggest that you visit our nation's capital. Washington, D.C. should be America's Mecca. Every adult of voting age has an obligation to visit it at least once in their lifetime. Sit in on a hearing, visit your congressman's office or drop in on one of the myriad of pub­lic policy lectures that occur every week. 
Unlike the Muslim who returns from Mecca with a renewed faith and greater devotion to God, I found myself leaving 
D.C. with a sense of despair in the American political system. My idealistic vision of intelligent, well-meaning diplomats was quickly supplanted in my mind by a conglomerate of special­interest groups, lobbyists and politi­cians scrambling for their own piece of the pie. As I traveled around D.C., I began to realize that most people in politics care about one thing -advanc­ing their own personal agendas. or course, they never frame their argu­ment as such. They always state their personal agenda in a way that aligns with the common good. For example, if you ask a certain Senator from 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Oklahoma how he can claim to be a small-government conservative when he continuously supports subsidies for the oil and gas industry, he'll reply by stating that strong domestic production is essential for "national security" rea­sons. It has nothing to do with the fact that his constituents benefit immensely from federal subsidies. It's all about national security, a public good. 
Perhaps more appalling than the self­interestedness of politicians was the way they advanced their agenda. I don't think any of the people we met with ever outright lied to us, but a sly dis­honesty permeated from many of the conference rooms. They only told one side of the story, or they cited a non-sci­entific report put out by a biased inter­est group, or they responded with the Potomac Shuffle; that is, talking around a question without ever giving a direct answer. It wasn't sufTicient for everyone to just sell themselves. They also had to shoot down conflicting ideas, hold per­sonal vendettas against opponents and turn what was already menial debate into ad hominem attacks. The fight to obtain influence and politieal stardom makes for great drama. As one of my fellow Seminar participants put it, "Washington is just like Hollywood, except the people are uglier." 
Once I understood how Washington works, the Abram off scandal, the Libby indictment and the Gonzalez hearings didn't seem so anomalous. By the end of the week, I began to wonder why our political system is a haven for such ugli­ness. None of the people we met are inherently bad, and I think many of them probably came to Washington as idealistic, principled persons. But at some point in their careers, they began to sacrifice their principles for self­interest. They wavered to keep their job, to appease their constituents or to secure more funding. Little by little, their integrity eroded away until they are now at the point where they no' longer realize how far they have strayed from their principles. They've begun to believe whole-heartedly in their mission, even if it is based on dis­honesty. 
Don't take my cynicism to mean that everyone in Washington is narrow­minded and self-serving. We had the chance to meet with several nonparti­san groups and a few honest congress­men. Unfortunately, they seemed to be the exception rather than the norm. 
One night we had dinner with a Notre Dame grad who works in the Pentagon. He told us that he had at one time considered the priesthood, until one of his friends convinced him other­wise. "We have enough ethical people in the priesthood," his friend told him. "What we need are ethical people in government." If you get a chance to embark on a Haij to D.C., walk around the Washington Monument seven times and pray for more ethical government leaders. Or at least pray that we may have the good sense to elect them. 
Zach Einterz is a junior majoring in economics and environmental sciences. He has turned to politics after giving up on an unsuccessful sports career. Contact him at zeinterz@nd. edu. To learn more about the College Libertarians, visit their website at www.nd. edu/-liberty. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ALL PRE.SCRlFriONS,..VALIUM~ 
TR1CHLOROETHA'NOL,TR1CHLORO­
'1'1:-IANK GOD SHEDlD1KT 
ACE.TIC ACIDJ DIPHENHYDRAMlNR 
'TAKE ANY 1LL'EGA.L. 'DRUGS! 




HYDROCHLDR1DB1 KLONOPIN1 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL
Kate Antonacci Dan Murphy Jennifer Metz Greg Arbogast What is your take on
John Tierney Dan Maloof Viewpoint Scene activism at Notre Dame? Kara King Tae Andrews 
Graphics Sean Sweany Jeff Albert Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit aLetter 



to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Quo~E OF THE DAY 

"My own business always bbres me to death; I prefer other people's." 
Oscar Wilde Irish dramatist 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 28, 2007 page 11 
Examining Fair Trade on campus 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Protest questioned, reaction praised 
I write to support the University's decision to dis­perse the Catholic Worker protesters on Monday. Their coming to Notre Dame and their accusations are truly troubling to me, and I think should raise questions as to the Catholic Worker movement's appropriate place within the Ch,urch. 
Clearly, the protesters are extraordinarily misled as to the implications the presence of the ROTC at Notre Dame has for our University. It is absurd to presume that simply because an ROTC program exists on our campus that the University also sup­ports any war that the United States enters into. Were it the case that the University officially sup­ported every position of every program on campus, it would have many conflicting views. The Catholic Workers conveniently did not mention the University's strong Peace Studies program, nor did they mention the work the well-funded Kroc Institute does. 
Further, who are they to protest a program at Notre Dame? They have no ties to the University, except for a shared faith, and they are not affected 

Nothing wrong with our 'Reputation' 
Twenty. Eight. Zero. Twenty is the number of dollars I will pay Megan Rybarczyk ("Our reputation: a sober reality," March 
23) to transfer to a different school. Eight is the num­ber of times I vomited over spring break. Zero is the number of times I regret vomiting during spring break. 
Ulysses S. Grant was able to win the Civil War and serve as the 18th President of the United States of America all while being a world renowned booze hound. The most important thing Notre Dame students have to worry about is what time to go to the dinning hall. I think we can handle a little moonshine every now and then without killing ourselves. 
If God did not want us to partake in the miraculous golden goodness that is beer, then Jesus would not have turned gallons of water into wine at Cana. It is a little known fact that most of the apostles started hanging out with Jesus because of His ability to con­jure happiness out of thin air in the form of crunk juice. 
Trying to convince college students not to drink makes less sense than the Church of Scientology. As at all by there being an ROTC program here. The University's policy regarding protests is a sound one -if we were to let every group wishing to protest come to Notre Dame, we would be bombarded by all sides with fringe groups like the Catholic Workers. Such a scenario would produce chaotic results and · severely impact the capacity of our University to function. 
All that said, the protest should never have occurred in the first place. The Catholic Worker movement does good work with the poor and the oppressed in our country, even in South Bend. I think that should be the need that the Catholic Workers fulfill within our Church. I encourage those involved with this movement to continue to do the good work it does in these areas, and to end such needless and unproductive protests. 
Christian Hoeffel 
seruor 
St. Edward's Hall 
March27 

you may or may not know, the term "townie" is nqt unique to Notre Dame. It has been used by millions of collegians for decades as a way to describe the dis­gruntled local citizens. They are only disgruntled because they see the fun we are having and.arejeal­ous that they cannot partake. Anyone who has visited a friend at a state school can testify to the fact that the party scene at any one of them makes Notre Dame look like a 16th century monastery. If the NCAA decid­ed to make drinking a Division I sport, they would bar Notre Dame from competition on the grounds of lame­ness. It is therefore imperative that everyone takes the exact opposite advice of Rybarczyk's prohibition remi­niscent letter. We must work diligently to rebuild our reputation in the eyes of our fellow undergrads across the nation and attempt to put the "Fighting" back in the Fighting Irish. 
Patrick McMaster sophomore Siegfried Hall March 27 
'Moses' needs further analysis 
Most students, faculty, and visitors to campus shuffle by the large statue ofMoses near the library without giv­ing much thought to Moses, his story, or what the statue means for Notre Dame and the broader community. Thus, I commend Xavier Lebec for reflecting upon this and sharing his conclusions with us ("'First Down Moses' underlies negative attitudes toward other religions," March 27). Yet, I am not as quick to agree him, because I feel he unfairly analyzes the story of Moses, unduly attacking Judaism and Christianity. 
One must read the book of Exodus as a whole to gain a good understanding ofthe events contained within its chapters. To the modern ear, God's actions may seem rather cruel and unmerciful. Chapters 7-12 recall the ten plagues God sends upon the Egyptians, the last being the death of the first born son of every household. It seems unjust that innocent Egyptian citizens were subjected to these horrendous afflictions simply because Pharaoh would not free the Israelites. Again, in Chapter 14, we read ofhow God drowns the pursuing Egyptian army in the Red Sea, so that the Israelites may escape. Do not these actions seem incongruous with the later command­ment God gives in Chapter 20, "Thou shall not kill?" 
However, closer inspection reveals that these accounts cannot, in fact, be equated with acts of modern day ter­rorist groups. The Israelites were a people unjustly enslaved by the Egyptians, and God, through Moses, commanded them to be freed. After increasingly severe plagues did not persuade the Pharaoh, God urged Moses to lead the Israelites to freedom and aided in their escape. The violence brought upon the Egyptians is root­ed in the stubborn tyrannicism oftheir leader, just as the violence brought upon the Israelites is rooted in their idolatry of a man-made golden calf. 
Likewise, Moses was not squelching another religion when he destroyed the golden calf: he could served that end more effectively by destroying the religious artifacts of the Egyptians. Rather, he was calling his people back to their God, from whom they had strayed. Moses was not a terrorist, nor a wager ofjihad, nor a religious bigot who sought to violently destroy other religions. He was a simple man, with a speech impediment, whom God called to do great things for the Israelites. And, at the very least, he did a good job of signaling a first down. 
Chris Spellman 
sent or 
offcampus 
March27 
Fair Trade, also known as alternative trade, refers to a voluntary certification program with requirements for both pro­ducers and distributors. Working through producer cooperatives, Fair Trade seeks to raise the living and working conditions of Carolyn Woo small producers of 
Guest

handicrafts and com­
columnist

modities located most­ly in the global south. 
Coffee is the first commodity to receive fair trade labeling. Fair Trade certification stipulates that coffee producers will receive a premium that exceeds market levels. These prices ($1.21 for a pound of arabica coffee, additional15 cents for organic cof­fee, and a social premium of 5 cents) have enabled farmers to remain on their land, improve sanitation and water supply in their homes, build bridges and roads, establish medical clinics and build schools for their children. 
Beyond coffee, other Fair Trade certified commodities include tea, cocoa, banana, rice, sugar, honey, fruits, nuts, juice, vanil­la, olive oil and others. Recently I received an e-mail on Fair Trade sporting goods. The Europeans are further along in the Fair Trade movement, distributing 60% of the global output. In the United Kingdom alone, 2,500 product lines are certified Fair Trade. The U.S. is growing faster at rates of about 40% per year. Fair Trade coffee is served in 80 million U.S. house­holds and available on 400 campuses. 
Fair Trade, despite its good intentions, has critics. These cite over-supply of coffee beans as the cause of low market prices. By artificially raising the price, Fair Trade prevents necessary adjustments and diver­sification into other crops. The higher price would entice other producers, thus exacer­bating the surplus problem. Critics see such price protection as providing little incentive for improvement. Fair Trade may breed dependence of small producers on the charitable instincts of consumers who may be fickle. Others have argued that the stipulated prices are too low to make a big difference. Some critics point out the dis­proportionate positive publicity large cor­porations gain when they make seemingly token commitments. Others caution that the gains to Fair Trade products may not accrue to producers but to retailers who use this as a marker for price-insensitive consumers. Most are concerned that inter­ventions to the free market are inefficient and nonproductive. 
Fair Trade certification is structured for the potential to achieve long-term gains in the form of enhanced competitiveness of producers and environmentally sustainable approaches to agriculture. To qualify, pro­ducers must be small family farms organ­ized into politically independent demo­graphic associations and committed to eco­logical goals. Certified distributors· must buy directly from Fair Trade certified growers at stipulated prices and contract for periods longer than one growing cycle. In addition, the distributors also provide pre-financing equal to 60 percent of the contract value. . 
These arrangements provide funds for cooperatives to invest in better facilities for storage, processing, quality control, trans­portation and so on. Some cooperatives hire technical experts to improve their crops, develop new products, get market information, and provide leadership train­ing. The producers, through more stable and higher cash receipts, gain access to credit and increase their bargaining lever­age with government, development agen­cies and NGOs. Divine Chocolate, distrib­uted by Catholic Relief Services and the first farmer-owned Fair Trade chocolate brand, offers a model of empowerment and a vision of what is possible. The farm­ers from the Kuapa Kokoo cooperative in Ghana supply the cocoa, serve on the board of Divine Chocolate, participate in decision-making and share in the profits of the company. The other focus of Fair Trade is environmental sustainability. Dangerous chemicals listed by the International Standards Organization cannot be used in Fair Trade products. Transfair (a Fair Trade labeling organization) reports that approximately 85 percent ofthe Fair Trade coffee in the U.S. is certified organic. 
With respect to concerns about free mar­ket interventions, Fair Trade is not as dis­connected from current market practices as some have worried. No market is com­pletely "free," as evidenced by the tax credit for the Prius, minimum wage stipu­lations, tariffs on certain imported prod­ucts, subsidies for various commodities, regulations on·product safety, environmen­tal standards, ingredients that are banned, employee benefits, etc. Fair Trade options go up against regular products and are not exempt from competition even within their own class. For coffee alone, there are approximately 200 grower associations from 24 countries listed on the Fair Trade registry. Fair Trade products also vie for market distinction through prestigious awards from Food and Wme magazine and other food and beverage reviews. 
Moreover, in Economic Justice for All, the U.S. Catholic Bishops state that "the economy should work for people, and not the other way around." Catholic Social Teaching reminds us that where we stand with God depends on how we stand with each other. As consumers, we are moral agents, not just economic agents. Fair Trade offers a non-violent, non-political option to level the playing field for produc­ers in the global South and to give a hand, not a handout. 
This essay would not be complete with­out passing on a recommendation for my favorite coffee, Green Mountain Island Coconut-Fair Trade certified. 
Carolyn Y. Woo is the Dean ofthe Mendoza College ofBusiness and a Professorfor Entrepreneurial Studies. She can be contacted at Carolyn. Y.Woo.5@nd. edu 
The vieuts expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, March 28, 2007 
-~ 

'TMNT' REBOOTS POPULAR FRANCHISE 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Senior Staff Writer 
"TMNT" is a reunion only the movies could arrange. Like so many treasured gems from the '80s, "TMNT" takes a laughably delightful premise and reminds us why we fell in love with it in the first place. 
Or not. If these heroes in a half-shell failed to endear themselves to you a decade ago, there's a good chance "TMNT" can't redeem them now. Fortunately, writer/director Kevin Munroe and his creative team never confuse their film for high art. This latest movie, like all three that preceded it, caters exclusively to the fans. And it's better oif for it. 
"TMNT" plays out like a run-in with four dear childhood friends. Like most pleasant memories, they're just like we remember them. Mostly. 
After defeating Shredder and saving feudal Japan, our heroes have grown apart as a family. Leonardo no longer leads, instead traveling the world to hone his leaving plenty of angst to drive the story forward. Plus, it's nice to know how these turtles get the bank to fund their pizza habit. 
Aided by perennial favorites Casey Jones and April O'Neil, the turtles need to wrangle 13 mythi­cally ugly beasties and thwart four stone villains in their attempt to achieve -surprise, surprise ­immortality. 
Like its predecessors, "TMNT" never flexes a muscular plot. It's more like what turtle stew tastes like, I imagine. Thin and sloppy, the plot is completely in service of its characters. The best moments in the movie come when the tur­ties act like a family. They relax, joke, squabble and roughhouse together just like they did 15 years ago. 
In a long-running franchise, fans develop expectations for their heroes. A giant turtle nut himself, Munroe wisely takes all these moments, splashes them into a blender and whips up a green pot­pourri that borders on recycling, but without the boredom that sets in from having seen it all before. He never crosses that line because 
fighting s~ills. • ••~.· we really have 
·

Raphael IS as 
cool but crude as ever, ignor­ing orders as often as he cracks heads. He's gone ronin, roving the rooftops of New York as a more brutal vigilante called The Nightwatcher. 
Donatello and Michaelangelo are now the breadwinners of the family. Working from home as a tech support consultant, Donnie still does machines. Mikey is a party dude. Literally. His alter ego, Cowabunga Carl, is a popular but abused MC at birthday parties for kids. Meanwhile, Master Splinter waits for the inevitable reconciliation between his four sons. When he's not meditating, the radical rat spends his days watching soaps. 
These are all fun touches that ease us back into the franchise, ·• never seen the 
•··· turtles quite 
•·· like this. 

As he's done before, Raphael needles Leonardo mercilessly, cui­minating in a spectacular rooftop fight. In a moment made for the movies, rain starts pouring down as they prepare to face off. Inspired by the very best Hong Kong martial arts films, they leap, chop, parry and lock weapons in a dizzying sequence that was never possible in the restrictive live­action escapades. 
For the first time, a turtles movie succeeds in putting the "N" in "TMNT." Jim Henson and his puppeteering posse did an admirable job dropping the turtles into the New York of the '90s. "TMNT" shows us that they shouldn't have been realistic in the first place. 
The goofy replaced with superb art d inspired visual has been build to skills. M California is stockier brothers, brooding 
Even New we last re rooftops are 
Pixar is computer frame of its der loving recent compe Season," "Ov "Meet the the closest looks to the 
Consider film's day again, we in their sewer retiring a villain' to his wall of f shelves are all 1 mythic past. Sl and staff, the • fateful TGRI can scepter are all tb 
Shots like the loving details, ' fans. "TMNT" string of them 
half-shell "Turtles" ment, with camp of the great film, but any less fun. 
Through makes it fond he is nostalgic why we and played good seeing 
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Raphael, left, and Leonardo battle each other in the rain film marks the first time the Turtles have sprung into action on the big screen since 1993. 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, March 28, 2007 
page 13 


Action figures of the Turtles went through many designs and looks through the years, often with customizable weapons and accessories. 
suits are gone, CGI, ection and an !e. Each turtle 
a distinct body personality and · as lean as a dude, while Raph bulkier than his 
his role as the 
is cooler than mbered it. Its ttered with fire 
rs and sky­come in hand across town. 
uted king of tion, and every reflects its ten­Far more than tors like "Open the Hedge" or ," "TMNT" is 
tyle, scope and gold standard. scene near the . After saving the d the turtles back lair. Splinter is 

armored helmet 
e. Lining the e icons of their dder's helmet 
mnants of the and the time 
, with all their toasts to the an 87-minute adds to the It echoes the first tone and senti­of the breezy sequels. It's not a t never makes it 
"TMNT," Munroe antly clear how ,this quartet. With ·on, he reminds us dour favorite one tr-nd. Man, it feels 
turtles. 
,Gottumukkala at edu 
VINTAGE 'NINJA TURTLES' FILMS IN PERSPECTIVE 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
With a love of pizza and cries of "Cowabunga!" the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles are icons of a generation. With the film release of the newest addition to the· Turtles universe, it's important to remember the earlier films that made our younger eyes glow in wonder at the heroes in a half shell. 
Released in 1990, "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles" promised our Renaissance-named heroes as "lean, green and on the screen," and it cer­tainly impressed every six-to-10 year old in the country. With the Turtles fighting their archrivals, the Foot Clan, they hid in the sewers of New York and delivered their own brand of justice all the while being led by the sagacious Splinter. With the aid of the cocksure Casey Jones and beautiful reporter April O'Neil, the vigilante Turtles bat­tled the evil Shredder. 
Starring Elias Koteas and Judith Hoag as Casey and April respectively, this film was panned by critics but loved by a generation. The suits the turtle actors wore left something to be desired in terms of matching lip move­ment and voices but they did their job well enough for a fan base raised on 


TURTLE TOYS THROUGH THE YEARS 
By NATE HOGAN Scene Writer 
The perhaps unfamiliar names Groundchuck, Walkabout and Dirtbag all have one thing in common. They are all the names of obscure charac­ters from the original line of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles action figures. When the TMNT cartoon came out in 198 7, it captured the hearts of American youth and simply screamed merchandising. In the following year, Playmates Toys released the first line of a long chain of action figures for the TMNT cartoon and beyond. This release featured the classic characters anyone of our generation associates with the Ninja Turtles. This would be the classic four -Leonardo, Donatello, Michaelangelo and Raphael -plus their master, Splinter. Their compadre and confidant April O'Neil was also included. The Shredder, a Foot Soldier, Bebop and Rocksteady rounded out the line by providing a basis of villainous characters to pit against the gnarly four. 
These figures possessed great detail for the time and came with numerous accessories that added to their playa­bility. Shredder and Splinter even fea­tured cotton capes, which one could take the liberty of removing and giving to more worthy characters if one so chose. (The fashion trend in "The the cartoon version. 
Following the success of the first film, "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the Ooze" was released the following year. The sequel delved into the origins of the Turtles, introducing the radioactive material that trans­formed them from mere house pets to the league of headband-wearing crime fighters they were to become. The introduction of two new villains, Tokka and Rahzar, added to the fantastic nature of this film. 
More light-hearted than the first film, "Turtles II" features the famous "Go Ninja, Go!" sequences performed by the inimitable Vanilla Ice. A rather unneed­ed and out of context scene, this nonetheless became the unofficial tag line of the film. With ninjas a-go-going and animals and men alike finding new power in the "ooze," this movie was, like its predecessor, panned by critics but loved by fans. With its bouncing music and light-hearted tone, this was the children's film producers had been looking for. Unfortunately, with the third film, they went a little too far . 
"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III" saw the Turtles travel back in time to feudal Japan with the aid of a magic scepter found by April. With poor pro­duction values, "TMNT III" saw the franchise take a nose-dive into the 
Incredibles" of not wearing capes does not apply to action figures, as a cape makes any figure infinitely better.) 
As the cartoon gained popularity, Playmates capitalized by continuing to release new figures. Characters from the show earned their immortality in plastic, such as the Cajun-accented Leatherhead, the Rat King and vigi­lante sports enthusiast Casey Jones. Jones featured what were arguably the greatest accessories ever: a golf bag which could go over his shoulder, complete with a golf club and two baseball bats for beating criminals into submission as he attempted to rid the world of bad sports. 
At this point, Playmates decided to branch out a little and began provid­ing their young market with a plethora of creative stimuli. In addition to sell­ing characters from the show, they released the original four with out­landish outfits as well as completely new characters who never even saw screen time. This opened the doors for imagination, allowing the owner to create the back story and personality of the figure, since no one actually paid attention to the canned history on the back of the figure's card. 
As mentioned before, Playmates released variants of the original turtles in every costume imaginable. To put this in perspective, from 1988 to 1995 Playmates released more than 30 fig­ure variants of Leonardo alone. These ridiculous. The Turtles had to battle weapons dealer Walker and the Japanese Lord Norinaga in order to prevent a war from breaking out. Granted, it is a children's film, but by 1993, fans of the Turtles were only get­ting older and yet the third film pan­dered to a younger audience than the second. While adding some memorable scenes to the canon, the third install­ment couldn't match the dark mis-en­scene of the first film, nor the happy­go-lucky innocence of the second. 

... ,, 
In the end, the early '90s Ninja Turtles trilogy represents only a small fraction of what the Ninja Turtles are. With the release of the original comic books, the franchise was born, and, fol­lowing those, the cartoons, toys and video games garnered a legion of chil­dren all over the world. Thankfully, the film tradition that began almost two decades ago is still alive and well. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 


included such greats as T.D. Tossin' Leo, lieutenant Leo and the ever-pop­ular Classic Rocker Leo. As interest began to wane, Playmates toned their production down, yet continued to steadily release figures based on the 1987 cartoon through 1997. 
The TMNT property was reinvigo­rated with the release of a new car­toon in 2003, after a failed revamp in 1997 known as· the next mutation. Of course a new line of figures was released to accompany the 2003 car­toon. These new figures were the same old characters, but with a much edgier look. The increased articula­tion, superior paint jobs on characters and weapons and increased detail in both the accessories and expressions hooked kids of a new generation on the characters. Not only was the car­toon better looking than ever, but the figures looked as if they were lifted straight from the television and put in the arms of the imaginative viewers. 
Fans of the original cartoon can appreciate the updated representation of their favorite classics in plastic, while recalling a time when figures opened their playtime up to tjle whims of the imagination. Cowabunga, dude! 
Contact Nate Hogan at nhogan2@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, March 28, 2007 

BAY'S 'TRANSFORMERS' MORPHS INTO SUMMER BLOCKBUSTI!R 
By SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editor 

The "robots in disguise" are back. The iconic, shape-shifting robot char­acters of the "Transformers" world return to the big screen this summer in an epi.c film creators hope will reinvig­orate and re-launch the franchise. 
Launched in 1984 as a combination toy line/comic book series that quickly spawned a popular animated series, Transformers earned a spot in the minds of youths around the world as a fun, action-packed story about the basic premise of good versus evil. The unusual and imaginative "wow factor" of Transformers rests in the fact that the characters can transform into objects such as cars, planes or animals, lending the "Robots in disguise" and "More than meets the eye" taglines. 
The basic premise of Transformers pits the intrinsically good Autobots ­led by the benevolent Optimus Prime ­against the evil Decepticons -ruled by the tyrant Megatron -in a search for new sources of energy on Earth, as resources on their planet Cybertron have run out. This basic plot, which has survived many years and changes to the Transformers universe, has always been the main focus of the series, especially on the big screen. 
The first film adaptation of the show -"Transformers: The Movie" ­debuted in 1986 as an animated pic­ture that fit into the storyline of the animated television show that aired from 1984 to 1987. The film and TV series maintained the comic book look of the Transformers and remained pop­ular throughout the 1990s. While often over-the-top and unrealistic, the ani­mated programs were popular enough to sell millions of toys to fans, thus ensuring their popularity and longevity. 
By 1996, however, the Transformers world was in need of a facelift and cre­ators devised a new line of toys and tel­evision shows called "Beast Wars." This took the traditional characters and gave them completely animal forms. Whereas the original Optimus Prime morphed into a semi-trailer truck, his Beast Wars counterpart was an ape named Optimus Primal. 
The Beast Wars line also eventually died out and Transformers faded fr-om the public consciousness until a state­ment in 2005 announced that a live­action film would roll into theaters in 2007. When Michael Bay was attached as director, Transformers fans experi­enced both delight and anguish. 
There was no doubt that thrilling, epic action scenes would be present, but the big question was whether "Transformers" would follow the likes of Bay's critical flops such as "Pearl Harbor" and "Armageddon" or if it would become at worst a decent film such as "The Island." 
As the release date draws near and more production photos and stories become available, it seems that "Transformers" will be more like "The Island" -combining an effects extrav­aganza with a compelling storyline. A strong cast of supporting actors includ­ing Jon Voight, John Turturro and Bernie Mac join up-and-coming lead actor Shia LeBeouf ("Holes") in per-forming what has been rated an intelli­gent script. 

As with previous rehashes of the Transformers franchise, the new film will bring a new look to the robots. Gone is the boxy, old-fashioned look of the 1980s, replaced with a sleek, smooth style more befitting the 21st century. 
Bay insisted that every mechanical part of the machines and their trans­forming motions be as realistic as pos­sible so as to lend a credibility to his film that was sometimes lacking in the cartoons. The CGI will also have a level of detail never before seen, as Bay has boasted that it takes 38 hours to ren­der a single frame of animation. 
These stringent standards for the "Transformers" movie accompany high expectations held by a caring and loyal fanbase. These fans will subject the film to intense scrutiny and criticism not out of cynicism, but from a desire for the material to hold up to its beloved predecessors. 
Only when the film is released July 4 will we know if Bay's movie is more than meets the eye. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
RESTORED CLASSIC SHAKES OFF RUST ON DVD 

The recent two-disc special edition DVD of "Transformers: The Movie" features a lenticular cover which shows both the above images when rotated in the light. 
looks and sounds better than ever before. that accompany films no more than six or 
The second disc is loaded with special eight months old. features that eater to both mild and hard­Welles' scorn for "Transformers" seems core fans. Chief among these are three justifiable. After all, this was the American thorough featurettes on the controversial legend who co-wrote, directed and starred death of Optimus Prime, the film's ensem­in "Citizen Kane" at age 26. Like the char­ble cast of characters and the impressive acter he played in his final role, he was a stable of voice talent (which included big toy in a world of smaller toys. He may celebrities like Leonard Nemoy, Casey not have respected it. But his imposing Kasem, Judd Nelson and Welles). presence added gravitas to a film that took 
This DVD is an impressive set for an ani­itself seriously and continues to be remem­mated movie already two decades old, bered for it. especially one that was neglected upon its initial release. It's inspired and exhaustive, Contact Rama Gottumukkala at unlike most of the bare and subpar DVDs rgottumu@nd.edu 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Senior SraffWrirer 

Orson Welles hated his final role. He thought so little of it he couldn't even recall the name of the character he voiced. "I play a big toy who attacks a bunch of smaller toys," Welles said cryptically of the movie. 
For the record, he was mostly right. His character, Unicron, is an insatiable, planet­devouring robot that threatens the whole galaxy in "Transformers: The Movie," an animated classic from 1986. Like the proj­ect as a whole, Unicron was dreamed up for the sole purpose of selling more Transformers toys, the white-hot phenome­non of the '80s. Whether he wanted to or not, Welles helped fulfill that goal admirably. 
More surprising, though, is the film's cur­rent cult status among children of the '80s. When it was released, it was marketed so poorly that it was out of theaters before kids even knew it was made. Critics reamed it for its dark and violent tone. No Transformers had died on the kid-friendly ani­mated show, yet they were dying by the dozens in the movie. The most egregious violation of all, according to naysayers, was the gutsy choice to kill off the noble Optimus Prime, heart and soul of the series, midway through the film. His death was short-lived, but its impact was not. 
Twenty years later, hindsight has been much kinder to the film. In many ways, the movie was ahead of its time. In the '90s, shows like "Batman: The Animated Series" won Emmys for their grim, gritty approach to superheroics. But never before had ani­mated fare, especially one with the enor­mous fan following that the Transformers enjoyed, gone this dark. 

As a movie, "Transformers" worked per­fectly well for what it was: an intergalactic adventure that juggled its sizable cast of characters with ease. The first act of the film is one of the strongest of any animated movie outside of the Disney banner. The evil Megatron launches a devastating attack on the Autobots, only to be halted by the arrival of Optimus Prime. 
Robots on both sides suffer grievous injuries and die. The Autobots are left with­out a leader after Prime's death. Hope is tenuous. And Unicron looms in the dis­tance, ready to devour all. The second and third acts suffer in comparison, but charac­ters change, mature and are redeemed. Heroes rise to the occasion, and robots on both sides live to disguise themselves and fight another day. 
On the cusp of Michael Bay's $150 mil­
lion live-action film, 
Sony BMG has dug deep 
into the Transformers 
archives and has 

released a two-disc spe­cial edition DVD to coincide with the ani­mated film's 20th anniversary. 
Prior to this release, the widescreen ver­sion of the original theatrical release had never been available on home video. This release contains both widescreen and fullscreen versions, the latter of which has been available on video tape for years. With a remastered and color-corrected image and cleaned-up audio, the movie 
Wednesday, March 28, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

FRI. MAR. 30 AT 7 PM THU. APR. 19 AT 7 PM 
PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE 
FEATURED GUESTS FEATURED GUESTS 
NAOMI AYALA, POET VICTOR HERNANDEZ CRUZ, POET RICHARD BLANCO, POET DONALD W. SAVOIE, MUSICIAN DONALD W. SAVOIE, MUSICIAN 
POETRY M U S i C 
BROWNING 
CINEMA 
The Decalogue (1989) PAC Classic 1 00 Directed by Krzysztof Kieslowski NR, 110 minutes /each, two parts Polish Launguage with English Subtitles Voted into the Vatican Top 15 Films for Religion In ten parts, based on the Ten Commandments Rare 35mm screenings! Thu, Mar 29 at 7 pm Fri, Mar 30 at 7 pm Sat, Mar 31 at 3 pm and 7 pm Sun, Apr 1 at 4 pm 
Sisters of the Gion (1936) Directed by Kenji Mizoguchi NR, 95 minutes Japanese language with English subtitles NEW 35mm Print! Thu, Mar 29 at 1 0 pm Fri, Mar 30 at 1 0 pm 
Ben Hur (1926) Directed by Fred Niblo NR, 143 minutes 35mm Print Live piano accompaniment by Dave Drazin Thu, Apr 5 at 7 pm 
FILM LINE: 631·FILM 
-

~­
--------------. 
1 page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 28, 2007
I I 
NBA 
Cavs clinch playoff berth with win over Pacers 
Mavericks take 21st consecutive game against Hornets, Lewis scores 21 points in fourth to beat Timberwolves 
Associated Press said, "but really, when it gets down to it, they're the ones on 
INDIANAPOLIS -LeBron the floor playing. If you have a James led with words, then he team that decides to take own­led by example. ership of what they're doing, 
After kicking coach Mike then the sky's the limit." Brown out of a team meeting Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored Tuesday morning, James had 23 points for the Cavaliers, 26 points, seven rebounds and who shot 52 percent from the six assists as the Cleveland field. Cleveland outrebounded Cavaliers beat the Indiana the Pacers 43-33 and Pacers 105-94 to clinch a play­outscored the Pacers 27-19 off berth. from the free throw line. 
Cleveland had lost three of Indiana's Jermaine O'Neal four after an eight-game win­did just about everything but ning streak, but pulled within scrub the floor at Conseco 2 1/2 games of Detroit in the Fieldhouse the past two games, race for the top seed in the but the Pacers didn't reward Eastern Conference playoffs. It him with a win. was the opener of a five-game O'Neal scored 32 points, his road trip for the Cavaliers, second straight game with who won the season series more than 30. He was coming with Indiana 3-1. off a 39-point game, the sec­
The Cavaliers came out ond-best scoring effort of his focused after the meeting that career, in a 92-90 loss to James led on Tuesday. Chicago on Sunday. He fol­
"This is my team, that's my lowed it up Tuesday by shoot­responsibility to make sure ing 11-for-18 from the field everyone's on course," James and 10-for-10 from the free­said. "There can be a lot of dis­throw line. tractions on a five-game road "He's been a horse and a Hornets hearken back to the get better as a team going on Rashard Lewis led Seattle's trip." warrior," Indiana coach Rick times when they beat the this road trip. In the playoffs, comeback with 21 of his 35 
Brown didn't mind his star Carlisle said. "He's played Dallas Mavericks. you need wins on the road," points in the fourth quarter. player becoming more vocal. through a lot and he had a Not against a team so proven Howard said. "We've kind of Earl Watson set a career high 
"We can help them and put mammoth game tonight." at establishing and extending proven to ourselves right now with 24 points, while Chris them in spots, coach them, winning streaks. that we can get wins on the Wilcox also finished in double continue to show them where Mavericks 105, Hornets 89 Josh Howard had 25 points road." figures with 19. they're wrong, where they're Even a throwback night and 10 rebounds, and the The Hornets haven't beaten The loss was a serious blow right and so forth," Brown couldn't help the New Orleans Mavericks beat New Orleans Dallas since the turn of the to Minnesota's playoff chances, 
Tuesday night for their 21st century, the longest losing as the Wolves entered Tuesday straight victory over the streak for one team against an 3 1/2 games back of the eighth Hornets. opponent in the NBA, NFL, playoff spot in the Western 
For a team that's already NHL or Major League Baseball. Conference. Instead of gaining become the flrst in NBA history The Mavericks' last loss in the ground, Minnesota was left to to have three winning streaks series came on Nov. 17, 1999, contemplate its biggest blown of 12 games or longer in a sin­in Charlotte. lead in the history of the team, gle season, it was also the sev­surpassing a 22-point blown enth straight win for the Supersonics 114, lead to Dallas on December 18, Mavericks and their sixth in a Timberwolves 106 2001. The Wolves' biggest row on the road. Instead of putting away blown advantage this season 
"It was really a fun trip, Seattle, the Minnesota was 17 points against obviously. We're trying to work Timberwolves gave away the Charlotte on Feb. 21. hard offensively moving tho game -and maybe their "For some reason, I didn't ball, and everybody's making (:hance to make the playoffs. initiate and keep us together shots," said Dallas forward Up by 25 points with five down the stretch, and that Dirk Nowitzki, who scored 15 minutes left in the third quar­bothers me," Wolves forward points while shaking off an ill­ter, Minnesota was outscored Kevin Garnett said. "We got a ness. "It was a fun trip." 51-18 the rest of the way and great lead, but in the second 
Jason Terry added 19 points 25-2 to end the game, losing half I didn't keep us aggressive and seven assists, and Devin to the SuperSonics on like we should have." Harris scored 14 points for Tuesday night after the biggest Instead, Lewis was the Dallas. The Mavericks are blown lead in franchise history. aggressor for the final 12 min­already past halfway to an "It's been the same thing all utes -attacking the basket on unprecedented fourth 12-game year," Minnesota coach Randy offense while slowing Garnett winning streak. Wittman said. "We play the on defense. 
Dallas needs only one more right way for three quarters.... "We went to him at the end win to match the franchise We either don't respect the of the game when we had to record of 60. set in 2002-03 game or don't respect the have them and he came and matched last season. opponent. It comes back to get through," Seattle coach Bob 
"We just knew we wanted to you every time." Hill said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 


WANTED FoR SALE 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. $15.50 *NO CONDOS* NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath base-appt. flexible schedules, no condos Minutes from campus exp.needed, customer sales/serv-Starting in $130,000s 574-252­ice, conditions apply, all ages 17+, 2427 ndcondos.com Reserve Yours positions in all of Indiana & Today! Michigan, 273-3835. www.work­
forstudents.com 
NEED A SUMMER JOB? Camp Tannadoonah is hiring 2007 camp  FoR RENT  
staff. Have the best summer of your  
life! Visit www.tannadoonah.org  andersonNDrentals.com  

Join the JanSport team! JanSport is BETTER HOMES,BETTER currently seeking Student AREAS,BETTER DEALS. Ambassadors during Fall 2007 for BlueGoldRentals.com an on-campus paid internship. For more info on the position visit: Now leasing for 2007/8. Great www.jansport.com/students Or houses close to campus. email: jason_lucash@vfc.com Anlanproperties@ comcast.net 
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING. 6­ 1 bdrm apts available summer & fall  Condo for rent-walk to NO/SM. Grt  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME·  
bdrms,2 full baths,2 full kitchens, big  07. 1 mi to NO in quiet historic  loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli.  ONE WHO IS? You do not have to  
savings for 2 & 3 yr. lease. Visit our  neighborhood. $575/mo.  A/C,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 +  be alone. We want to help. Call our  
website Bumbacahouses.com or  Laundry/Security. Call 574-532­ util. 630-417­ 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­ 
call Cosimo at 277·1875.  8718.  8763/MCL214@ aol.com  800-No-ABORT or visit our website  
at www.Jifecall.org  
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING. 6­ Beautiful 3-story townhouse over­ 
bdrms,2 full baths,2 full kitchens, big  looking river, 1/2 mi. to NO.2  Flute, Snout, Starveling, Bottom,  
savings for 2 & 3 yr. lease. Visit our website Bumbacahouses.com or  decks, large windows, 3 bdrm, 3.5 bath, 2,000 sq.lt., 2-car garage,  PERSONAL  Snug: must work out production issues 2nite in woods. B there. Q  
call Cosimo at 277-1875.  $1500/mo OBO. Avail. April 1. Call  

Ben 574-302-7415. 
3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for 07/08 school year. On line see rent-Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9. nd.com or mmmrentals.com. Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb-Call Anlan Properties at 532·1896. spot. net or phone 574-277-4759. Very large home for rent for next 
Large 2-bdrm condos, 18027 & 18041 Bulla Rd. Call574-233-4590. RENTLIKEACHAMPJON 3-5 bdrms avail for 07-08. $250/bdrm. Call312-545-5123 or email mitchell.58@ nd.edu 

school year. 1 block east of cam­pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4 huge bedrms/3 full baths/large kitchen-lam rm & laundry rm. 3 decks overlook huge fenced yard. Very private & safe! Must see! 239· 707-2025. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Adopt: A young loving couple long to share their Hearts and home with 
Do not go it alone. a newborn & will provide Endless Jove. Expenses paid call Eileen & 
If you or someone you love needs Ed at 1-800-718-6577 
confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-The Olde Grove Farmers will expe· 7819. rience a famine 
For more information, visit our web Gumby =2008 Big East Player of site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart-the Year 
ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Las Superestrellas van a ganar el Observer. titulo en Ia liga de Stanford Hall 
--------------, 




OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, March 28, 2007 Co.rv\PlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 

NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pet. GB 
Toronto 38-32 .543 

New Jersey 32-38 .457 6 
New York 30-40 .429 8 
Philadelphia 28-42 .400 10 
Boston 21-49 .300 17 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pet. GB 
x-Detroit 45-25 .643 Cleveland 42·2S .600 3 Chicago 42·30 .583 4 Indiana 31·38 .449 13.5 Milwaukee 25·44 .362 19.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pet. GB 
Miami 38·32 .543 Washington 37-32 .53& .5 Orlando 33·3S .465 5.5 Allanta 27-45 .375 12 Charlotte 26·45 .366 12.5 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pet. GB 
x-Utah 46-24 .657 Denver 35·34 .507 10.5 Minnesota 30-39 .435 15.5 Portland 29·42 .408 n~5 Seattle 27-42 .391 18.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pet. GB 
y-Phoenix 53-17 .757 LA Lakers 38-32 .543 15 LA Clippers 34-36 .486 19 Golden Stale 33-39 .458 21 Sacramento 30-40 .429 23 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record pet. GB 
x-Dailas 58-11 .841 x-San Antonio 50-20 .714 8.5 x-Houslon 45-26 .634 14 NO/Okla. City 32-38 .457 26.5 Memphis 17-54 .239 42 
x -clinched playoff spot, y-clinched division title 
Baseball America College Poll 
Team Record Prev. 
1 North Carolina 2·1 2 2 Clemson 3·0 1 3 Vanderbilt 6•0 4 4 South Carolina 5·1 3 5 Arkansas 6·2 6 6 Rice 5·4 7 7 Virginia 4·1 8 8 Florida Slate 9-0 9 9 Oregon Stale 9·1 10 10 Cal State Fullerton 7-2 12 11 Miami 4-4 5 12 Wichita State 1·2 11 13 Texas 6·5 14 14 Atizona State 7-3 13 15 UCLA 6·4 15 16 Geogia Tech 3·3 16 17 Oklahoma State 5-1 17 18 San Diego 9·4 18 18 Nebraska 3-1 19 20 Pepperdine 7·3 23 21 Tulane 4·2 22 22 TCU 6·1 24 23 Winthrop 7~2 25 24 Mississippi 4·1 NR 25 Evansville 3-3 21 

around the dial 
NBA 

Houston vs. LA Clippers 
10:00 p.m., ESPN 
SWIMMING 


Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia -Michael Phelps stood on deck with 50 Cent blaring in one ear, a steely deter­mination in both eyes. When his name was announced to the crowd at Rod Laver Arena, the young American did noth­ing more than stare down the strip of water at his feet. 
Next door at the warmup pool, Phelps' teammates stopped what they were doing -even those who had races of their own coming up at the world championships. They had to see this one for them­selves, so they paused to watch it on a big screen. 

"I had a thought in my head," Aaron Peirsol would say later, "that this was going to be one of those legendary races." 
With four laps of the pool Thursday night, Michael Phelps wiped out Boogie and took down the ghost of Thorpedo, leaving little doubt that we're all getting the privilege of watching the greatest swimmer ever to hit the pool. 
"You just can't count him out of any race that he's in," said Mark Schubert, head coach of the U.S. team. "He's obviously on a mission. He's going to be real special here -and 
IN BRIEF 

Kerry argues ~ainst DireclV Extra Inn1ngs deal in Senate 
WASHINGTON -Sen. John Kerry urged Major League Baseball on Tuesday to hold off on a deal to put the sport's "Extra Innings" package of out-of-market games exclusively on DirecTV Group Inc. A top base­ball official declined to agree, with opening day less than a week away. 
Kerry, D-Mass., made the push at a Senate Commerce Committee hear­ing on behalf of subscribers to cable TV and EchoStar Communications Corp.'s Dish Network who had received the package previously. 
The dispute concerns which homes will receive baseball's new television network in 2009. DirecTV, a satellite service, has agreed to carry that package as part of its deal. The com­pany would also receive an equity stake in the channel. 
"What's the matter with that?" Kerry asked Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operating officer. 
he's going to be real spe­cial a year from now." 
Phelps already is special, of course, his legacy cemented by performances such as his six-gold, two­bronze medal haul at the 2004 Athens Olympics, or his five world records ­two of them in different events on the same day ­at the 2003 world champi­onships in Barcelona. 
But a magical swim Tuesday night in the 200­meter freestyle might have been the best yet, a swirling symphony of wind-milling arms, flap­ping feet, somersaulting turns and rocket·like bursts just beneath the water line of the tempo­
-
rary pool. 
"I will say," Phelps allowed, "everything was pretty close to perfect in that race." 
On a night when four world records fell, three of them to the powerful U.S. team, no one stood out more than the 21-year-old who loves hip-hop music, video games and a pet 
bulldog that he had  to  
leave  back  home  in  
Michigan.  

The 200-meter freestyle record was one of swim­ming's hallowed marks, the time of 1 minute, 
44.06 seconds set six years ago by Australia's Ian Thorpe, the iconic "Thorpedo." 
NFL owners vote to make 
replay rule permanent 
PHOENIX -Replay is here to stay in the NFL. 
League owners voted 30-2 on Tuesday to make the video replay system to aid officiating a permanent tool. All but three stadiums will be equipped with high-definition equip­ment and will be recabled before the upcoming season. The stadiums being replaced in Irving, Texas, Indianapolis and East Rutherford, N.J., will not get the updates. 
"It's a long time coming," said Atlanta Falcons general manager Rich McKay, co-chairman of the competition committee that recom­mended the change. "It made sense to us this year to do it. Instant replay is an accepted part of the game. It's what we are. There was not really much discussion about it." 
Cincinnati and Arizona voted against the proposal, as they nearly always do on replay issues. 

Williams U.Pends Sharapova
in Sony Encsson Open 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -Serena Williams bounced the ball at the baseline, eager to serve. Maria Sharapova stood with her back to the court, frowning at her racket and in no hurry to continue. Sharapova finally took her posi­tion, and the rout resumed. 
There was no slowing Williams on Tuesday. In a result reminis­cent of the Australian Open final, she beat the top~seeded Sharapova 6-1, 6-1 to reach the quarterfinals of the Sony Ericsson Open. 
"Once she gets up in the set or in the match, she seems to steam­roll," Sharapova said. 
The match was only the third for Williamf:l since she defeated Sharapova 6-1, 6-2 in Melbourne two months ago. Williams bristled when asked if she expected such an easy rematch. 
,------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 28, 2007 
TENNIS 

Twice beaten, Federer find~ new nemesis 
Associated Press never should have lost," before serving a 15-month said. "I'm just trying to enjoy when asked if she anticipated 
Federer said. doping suspension, and he the moment. For me it's like a such an easy match. 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -The defeat ended his bid for had to qualify for the Key dream." "Haven't you learned that I Standing near the net, look­a third successive Key Biscayne draw. Wi'lliams, who defeated expect the best of myself?" ing up at the ball coming Biscayne title, while Canas ''I'm surprised because I Sharapova 6-1, 6-2 in the she said. "If I'm playing well, almost straight down in the improved to 3-0 this year beat two times the No.1 in the Australian Open final, this then anything can happen. I twilight, Roger Federer hesi­against top-10 players. lie world. Heally, I don't know time won by an even more believe there could be a simi­tated. was ranked as high as No. 8 what is my secret," Canas lopsided score. She bristled lar score if I'm playing well." 

Wednesday, March 28, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 


THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
Terroris1n in Europe: 
Lessons for the U.S. March 29, Thursday 4-6:30 pm Eck Visitors' Center Auditorium A symposlium with Asma Afsaruddin 
Associate Professor, Arabic and Islamic Studies, Notre Dame 
Michael Clarke 
Professor of Defence Studies, King's College, London 
Brian Feeney 
Head of Department, History, St. Mary's University College, Belfast 
William Rapp 
Europe Issue Manager, Directorate of Intelligence, CIA 
A. James McAdams 
Moderator and Director, Nanovic Institute www.nd.edu/-nanovic 
~ 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
TH£ LAW SCHOOL 
JOURNAL OF LEGISLATION ANNUAL SYMPOSIUM 
ELECTION AND LOBBYING REFORM: 
CAN CONGRESS REALLY CHANGE 
THE POLITICAL SYSTEM? 
Thursday, March 29th 9:00a.m. -12 p.m. Law School Courtroom 
FEATURING 
Lloyd Hitoshi Mayer 
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL What's in a Name?: The Wisconsin Right to Life Case and Deciding When an Issue Ad is Not an Issue Ad 
William v. Luneburg 
PROFESSOR, UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH SCHOOL OF LAW Can Lobbying Disclosure Really "Deliver?" 
James Tucker 
ADJUNCT PROFESSOR, ·BARRETT HONORS COLLEGE, ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY Preventing Discrimination or a Scarlet Letter? Federal Oversight under the Recently Reauthorized Voting Rights Act 
Thomas Susman 
PARTNER, ROPESANDGRAY, LLP Ethical Lobbying and the Challenge of Reciprocity 
Moderated by Professor Alejandro Camacho 
MEN'S TENNIS 

ND looks to extend streak against MSU 
Irish, winners of ten straight matches, to face rival Spartans 
ByJAMES WADE 
Spcirrs Writer 

No. 5 Notre Dame will try to extend its longest winning streak in five years against rival Michigan State in East Lansing today at 2:30p.m. 
The Irish, who are fresh off a dominant 7-0 victory over Purdue this weekend, have 
not  lost  in  their  last  10  
matches.  
But Michigan State is  no  

slouch. The Spartans are coming off a recent double­
forced to play indoors again after starting their outdoor circuit. The indoor game has a faster pace with a different rhythm than the outdoor matches for which the Irish have been preparing. 
"I think the biggest thing is where the match will be played -will it be inside or outside," Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. 
There are also a few of interesting matchups within the contest -Notre Dame's No. 1 singles player, national No. 8 Stephen Bass, barely won in a closely contested tiebreaker last year against Michigan State's Nick Rinks. Rinks has continued to play well this season as well. He is the reigning Big Ten player of the 
header against 'They serve big week and has Bradley and won 12 consecu­
and are very
Valpar_aiso in tive sets dating which they won aggressive around back to March 7-0 and 5-2, the net.'' 10. respectively, Another match putting their of interest is the
Bob Bayliss 
overall record at No. 1 doubles 9-10. Irish coach matchup between 
W h i I e Michigan State's record is not quite up to par with Notre Dame's 16-2 mark, the Irish have strug­gled against the Spartans in the past. Two years ago, an Irish team ranked in the top 25 barely escaped East Lansing, having to win four three-setters to claim a victo­ry. 
But the outcome of today's match may depend on factors other than normal tennis skills. The weather report in East Lansing is forecasting rain with a high of 50 degrees. If the weather is as predicted, the Irish will be 
Notre Dame's 

Sheeva Parbhu and Ryan Keckley and Michigan State's Rinks and Adam Monich. 
"They serve big and are very aggressive around the net, and they have beaten us more than we have beaten them in the past," Bayliss ·said of the matchup. 
Bayliss said he feels there is no added pressure on the Irish because of their current win streak, and his main focus in on leaving East Lansing with a win. 
Contact James Wade at jwade@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 28, 2007 
for Toledo this season has been first baseman Leslie Strong.
Ho01e 
continued from page 24 
record. 
Offensively, senior center­fielder Stephanie Brown should cause trouble for Toledo. Leading the Big East in on-base percentage at .487, Brown has come up big for the Irish in the leadoff spot. Brown is second in the conference in batting aver­age at .412. 
The Rockets have struggled to start the season and head into South Bend on a three­game skid. Pitching woes have been the main source of Toledo's struggles -the Rockets have given up an aver­age of 6.8 runs per game. 
One of the few bright spots The junior has batted .370 on the season, including four homers and 11 RBI. Aside from Strong, however, the Rockets have also struggled to produce on the offensive end -no other batter is hitting over .250. 

The game against Toledo is an out-of-conference break for the Irish, who will return to Big East play this weekend with doubleheaders at home against Pittsburgh and Syracuse. The Rockets begin Mid-American Conference pl11y Saturday against Buffalo. 
No Irish players were avail­able for comment prior to the game. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Irish sophomore Beth Norway swings at a pitch during Notre Dame's 9-1 win Sunday over Seton Hall at Ivy Field. 


Congratulations to John Cooney and Alex Renfro of Alumni Hall for finding the Morrissey Manor 
Medallion. Thanks to all for participating, and good luck in next year's Medallion Hunt! 
The 2007 Manor Medallion was found on the tenth floor of the Hesburgh library. It was placed in a hollowed out 
N.D. phone book and set next to "One for the Gipper :George Gipp, Knute Rockne and Notre Dame" (call number: GV 939 .G53 C47). 
2007 Morrissey Manor Medallion Hunt Clues 
Blue and Gold jerseys will lead to the find, Father Vierling's riddles will mess your mind. Ninety-three days of planning went in, But only nine strides, enough to win? 
Ghost of the Gipp could help you discover, What these five clues are meant to recover. Yet in the end, you won't need them all. By day number three, the answer could fall. 
Rockne's house is now Charlie's heaven It's seen great teams like the squad of '47. A bit of football history, and the answer's complete But you must go undercover to accomplish this feat. 
Here you can find the last missing link Our legend is forever engrained in ink. Follow the horsemen and rear up your stallion Behind the word of life, lurks the medallion! 
Obvious capitals and explicit numbers are in line Put them together and your call number looks fine. We've done all we can to help you look, Now get off your bum and find that book! 
UNLOCK A WEALTH OF POSSIBILITIES. 
Use the equity in your home to take a vacation, consolidate your high-rate debt, make home improvements, or anything else! 
Our PRIMEquityAdvantage Line-of-Credit offers great low rates. Plus when you open one, we'U give you a $100 Visa® Gift Card!1
4
.90%APR* 
Apply today! 

6-Month Introductory Rat(' 

r_~ NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/631-8222. 800/567-6328 www.ndfcu.org 

A ReadingbyBookerNominatedIrish No1Je!isr 

Author of critically acclaimed novels such as The Butcher Boy (1992) and Breakfast on Pluto (1998) 
•~ea !
k ...... /.:r.-s I 
tl 
11

Pl • 
Ute 
-1 
.V~;·u.-}(,,.k 
1'im~.r 
Notablt., 
l:Jo<•k 

7!0bp.til~~' Thtit..sday., March ·· McKennaA 
Sponsored by the Keough-Naughton Institute f(Jr Irish Studies and the Creative Writing Program 
Wednesday, March 28, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
"It was more a matter of him their players for the final jump taking that next step as a play­to the top league. 
Babin 

er, as a defense-"With the way 
continued from page 24 
really worked to develop his game in a more complete fash­ion than just be run-and-gun all the time," Jackson said. 
Babin led the Irish defense in points this season with a career-high 22 points (two goals, 20 assists) on a blue-line unit that surrendered only 1.63 goals per game -the best in the nation. 
"He always had the ability, and it was just a matter of him playing that ability with a little more concentration on how he plays the game," Jackson said. 

man. This year he just came in much 
"With the way the 

more determined 
and focused to game is today, I become a com­think he could have 
plete player." 
a chance to make

Jackson said he 
[an NHL career]."

expects Babin to play in the AHL for "a good year, 
Jeff Jackson 

maybe two" ­
Irish coach 

depending on the depth of the Carolina defense 
the game is today, I think he could have a chance to make [an NHL career]," Jackson said. 
Babin is the first Irish player from the senior class to sign a pro contract, although defense­man Wes O'Neill and goalie Dave Brown were draft­ed by the Islanders 
and the time it takes him to and the Penguins, respectively, adjust to the professional in 2004. game. The AHL is the minor league directly below the NHL, Contact Kyle Cassity at in which teams develop most of kcassily@nd.edu 


Run to Rebuild 
A Benefit for "Rebuilding Together " Join RecSports & Food Services in the annual Spring Run 


JKII10ICRUNt 
PLUS 2 ILl WALIC 
Saturday, April 14, 2007 
11:00 A.M. Race will begin at Legends 
Opens at 10:00 A.M. 
Refreshments & T-Shirts to all Finishers Register in Advance at RecSports $10.00 In Advance or $15.00 Day of Race Advance Registration Begins 3/26, Ends @ 5:00 p.m. 4/13 Student and Staff Divisions 
Castle PointAp.artments... 18011 Cleveland Road South Bendt In9litHa 
o~~ea.ing 
411. 

Free Tanning·~ w 
Heated Pool Relaxing Jacuzzi Gated Community 
LAURIE HUNTfThe Observer Notre Dame defenseman Noah Babin holds off a Ferris State forward during a 2-0 Irish win Feb. 24 on senior night. 
CMU 
continued from page 24 

six different players knocking in a run. The game marked Stewart's first start for the Irish since a March 9, 2005 loss to Coastal Carolina. 
Senior first baseman Mike Dury got the Irish on the board in the bottom half of the first, hitting a two-run home run to left field after freshman third baseman A.J. Pollock drew a walk. The homer was Dury's team-leading sixth and gave him 16 RBis on the season. 
Stewart retired Central Michigan in order in the sec­ond before Joey Williamson pitched three scoreless innings in relief. 
"[Williamson] did a great job," Irish head coach Dave 

514nt2~2;r61i•1··0··· 
574-272-8.114 FAX 
WW:!'fi··GQ;Q~t·CQQ;)... ~ Specials! 
Basketball 
Schrage said. "I thought it was his best outing of the season." 
But the Irish couldn't claw back into the game and scored only twice more. They mount­ed rallies in the sixth and sev­enth innings, but in both cases their efforts were squashed before they could inflict enough damage to even the score. 
"We were hitting into some hard luck today," Schrage said. 
With one out and the bases full in the sixth, Central Michigan third baseman Noah Lankford dived to stop a hard grounder off the bat of Irish left fielder Ryan Connolly, before stepping on third and firing to first to complete an inning-ending double play. 
"Ryan couldn't have hit that ball any harder," Schrage said. "Things just weren't falling for us." 
In the seventh, the Irish took advantage of two walks and two wild pitches to scratch out a pair of runs, but pinch hitter Ryan Smith grounded out with the bases loaded to end the threat. 
"We're still waiting for the two-out clutch hit," Schrage said. 
The Irish left 11 runners on base in the game after strand­ing 14 against South Florida Sunday. 
"We're getting enough guys on base, enough opportuni­ties," Schrage said. "Hopefully, things will even out for us." 
Senior right-hander Kurt Lauscher got the win for the Chippewas, working six-plus innings and surrendering four earned runs while striking out four. 
Senior James Ricchio worked 2 1-3 scoreless innings to record the save. Central Michigan shortstop Jeff Helps went 2-for-4, including a two­run single in the eighth that sealed a win for the Chippewas after the Irish had cut the deficit to two in the seventh. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
-

,----­
~ 
•
•
. 
~· 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 28, 2007 
pounds heavier than the pounds. and Will Yeatman and incom­duction of Notre Dame tight prospect. Hudolph is considered one of ing freshman Mike Ragone. ends over the last two years ­
Rudolph 
"He's going to have to put on the top prep tight "Coach Weis specifically senior John Carlson 
some weight," Frank said. ends in the nation loves tight ends, and former Irish standout
continued from page 24 
"We'll see if he can keep that and was rated the "/Rudolph! is a tall, especially if they Anthony Fasano, who is now Like Carlson, Rudolph is a speed." top overall can get [down the with the Dallas Cowboys. 
athletic kid with 

standout on the basketball court as well as on the football field. 
"[Kyle] is an outstanding ath­lete," Frank said. "He's a tall, athletic kid with great hands." 
Frank said Rudolph is faster than Carlson, though the cur­rent Irish tight end is 25 
Battle 
continued from page 24 
"More than the players them­selves, it's just how they run the operation," he said. "The first part of being a quarterback is being able to take the playcall, call it in the huddle, get to the line of scrimmage and just run the operation." 
Of the four, only Sharpley has taken a snap during a contest, playing in parts of eight games. Sharpley mostly handed off dur­ipg those times, completing 1-of­2 passes for seven yards in his Irish career -not exactly sig­nificant experience. 
But even though his playing time is extremely limited, Sharpley still has one more year in Weis' system than any of the other quarterbacks. 
"If there's anyone that has an obvious, slight advantage through experience it would be [Sharpley]," Weis said. "Not nec­essarily playing time, but the fact that he was around me a lot when I was talking to [former Irish quarterback] Brady [Quinn]." 
Despite Sharpley's experience within the program, Weis said he is giving equal attention and "exactly the same" coaching to all four quarterbacks. One of the ways Weis has kept the coach­ing so equal is by teaching the system from the very beginning. 
The equal coaching is espe­cially beneficial for Clausen, the only quarterback to have spent no time in the system so far. 
"I think he's made some progress and we've seen some encouraging signs, but it's way too early for me to be jumping on anyone's bandwagon," Weis said of the freshman. "He's done some encouraging things in the first four days." 
Weis also explained how Clausen is at no disadvantage because he is a freshman. 
"We're kind of starting from scratch, so he's not really behind on that end because I'm installing everything as if they're hearing it for the first time," Weis said. "But he doesn't have the luxury of having heard the terminology or running the whole operation before in this Players cannot sign binding prospect in the fieldl," Frank said.
great hands." 

letters of intent until February. Cincinnati area by "Guys that can get 
Rudolph has his senior year Ohio High maga­past the lineback­of high school in front of him, zine. He would join Mike Frank ers really open up and Frank said that another an already deep the vertical passing
lrisheyes.com 

year in the weight room would roster of young help him prepare for college tight ends at Notre football. lie said Rudolph could Dame, including current nsmg enter college as heavy as 250 sophomores Konrad Heuland 
system." 
During the spring practices, Weis has been at the lead in coaching the quarterbacks, along with quarterbacks coach Ron Powlus and ofl'ensive coor­dinator Mike Haywood. 
But after looking at the four for a week, Weis still hasn't seen. "it" -an intangible to separate one quarterback from the rest. 
"Let's let them get through shell shock first," he said. "They're getting a lot of coach­ing, they're getting scrutinized. They know that this is a compe­tition and everything they do is part of the evaluation." 
Adding to the pressure for the quarterbacks is their general inexperience at the college level 
something especially 
poignant at a school with the media attention and tradition of Notre Damn. 
"There's a lot of pressure on these guys right now," Weis said. "Throw on top of that the fact that nveryone in thn free world knows who's going to be the new quarterback at Notre Dame." 
Weis remains optimistie about his team's quarterback, even if right now isn't the right time to find answers. 
"I think we'll lind out early on if somebody has that something whnn the time comes," lw said. "But right now I think it's really early in the evaluation." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL WEEK 
March 26-31 , 2007 

A week celebrating the talents and traditions of the international community here at Notre Dame. 
1 
i nternat'iona1 students from 
+ 100  countries  
+1435  study abroad students  in  
+ 35  countries  
+ 42  cultural  clubs  
...... .......  I.  AtND  

CALENDAR OF EVENTS at vy~'!Y_cnd.edtJ/c:clli~JJststiva!JJ.tm 
The NO dining halls will serve international fare throughout the week. Look for international activities across campus, as well as book and arts displays in the Hammes Bookstore, Hesburgh Library, LaFortune, and the Residence Halls. All welcome to attend these IFW events! 
game." 

Frank said Weis' success in recruiting tight ends has been a product of the pro­
"If you continue to put guys in the NFL and you continue to throw to the tight end the way Weis does, kids realize there are a lot of opportunities at Notre Dame," Frank said: 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
ATRIA SALON2 
Specializing in color 
271.8804 
Thinking blonde? So are we. 
Highlights & Cut............ $79.00 Color, Highlights, Cut... $79.00 
Promotion starts March 21•LAprii101h, 2007 
MUST PRESENT AD TO RECEPTIONIST BEFORE SERVICES ARE PERFORMED. 
*Certain restnctions apply. 
Official Goldwell Salon: Atria Salon2 2039 South Bend Ave., South Bend, IN 46637 • 271.8804 

Islam, My Life, and the "Clash of Civilizations 
An engaging and entertaining presentation by a mining town's son. 
Alex Kronemer, Co-Producer of the PBS Film, 
Muhammad: Legacy ofa Prophet 
and c<rfounder of Unity Productions Foundation (UPF) 
Born in a small town in Western Pennsylvania, Alex will share stories from his unexpected life, and his work to promote peace through the media. Clips from his forthcoming films, The Rise and Fall of Pluralism in Medieval Spain and A Prince 
Among Slaves-The True Story of an African Prince Enslaved in the American South will be shared. 


Wednesday, March 28th, 2007 
7:00pm at Browning Cinema DPAC (FREE & open to public) 
Alex Kronemer, who grew up during the 'rust belt' era, went on to earn a Master's Degree from Harvard University in theological studies and is a frequent writer and lecturer on religious diversity. He has published essays in numerous newspapers and journals and has been a CNN commentator on several occasions. Mr. Kronemer has also served a one-year appointment at the Bureau of Human Rights in the U.S. State Department focusing on U.S. foreign policy and Islam. 
Sponsors: Muslim Student Association, FTT, CM, ISSA, Sociology, St. Mary's CM & OMA 
This event is part of the International week. 

-

. 

Wednesday, March 28, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

Puzzle by Paula Gamache 

35 "Ciao" 43 Modern, to 49 Mortise's mate 
CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

BLACK DoG 
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
LIAMMORAN 


.--:-+;.:.+:-+.:+.:1 32 Picasso's "Colombe !leurs" 
,-:.t-:=+=+:=-i 33 Takes a powder '==!,==!:==!=d 34 Pre-noon time 
61 Off 62 Their milk is used to make 
Roquefort 63 Corrida cries 64AII in 65 Completely lose 
patience 
DOWN 1 Terril 2 Part of B.C.E. 3 Full-count cry 4 Harmony 5 Contents of 
some hookahs 6 Playwright 
Fugard 7 Of the flock aAli-day hike 9 Court 
conference 1 0 Expression of 
annoyance 11 U.F.O. pilot 12 Charlotte 
Corday's victim 13 Other side 21 'acte 22 In the distance, 
poetically 23 Egypt's Sadat 24 Cabinet 
department 28 Spot for a scene 29_Walton, 
author of ''The Compleat Angler'' 
30 Like the eye of a hurricane Mahler 38 Police rank: 44 "The Spirit of
Abbr. 
Australia" 40 Original sloganeer Enterprise 
46 Author Calvinanavigator 
47 Diego Rivera 41 Cravat 
work 
adornments 
48 Snip what's 42 Captivate superfluous 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
WILLSHORTZ 
52 Sunroof alternative 
53 ''The Report," 1976 best seller 
54 Matures 58 Roll call vote 59 Nile biter 
JUMBLE 

JlfJJMID11rE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HYSYL 

rJ 
1 

©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
i~~r~) 
tTRYDAW I

IIJ I I 
www.jumble.com
tDANUSE j

J r cJ
1 
A: 

IT rI I J "r I I I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's  I Jumbles:  BOOTY  SCARF  BENIGN  ARCTIC  
Answer:  When the financier studied the mer ger, he  
found it  -"ABSORBING"  

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mariah Carey, 36; Quentin Tarantino, 43; Xuxa Meneghel, 43; Michael York, 64 
Happy Birthday: You will have a year with plenty of opportunities and setbacks. An openness and entrepreneurial attitude will help you jump into the limelight. This is not the year to waste your time on anger or revenge but to see potential in what's being offered and go for it without hesitation. Your numbers are 4, 6, 13, 19, 20,38 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Deception is prominent in your chart today. lfyou feel the least bit suspicious, don't make a comment or decision. Someone may be trying to trap you into divulging information that may harm you in the future. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You can write your own ticket today ifyou go about things diplomatically. You will be able to come up with solutions and help people who will be indebted to you. A problem with someone in your family may require your attention. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You must be careful not to become so exuberant that you lead someone down a path with no ending. A relationship problem may get out hand if you are too aggressive. ~· CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have everyone in your comer so don't hesitate now when you can gain the most. Take advantage of business travel opportunities. Plan a social evening to celebrate your day's victory. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Spend time fixing things up around your home. This is a great day to look at real estate or to invest. A chance to become involved in a business partnership looks good. Set careful rules and boundaries. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll be drawn into some interesting conversations today but be careful not to be a know-it-all. A dispute could break out, leaving you in a precarious position. A creative idea you have will go over well at work. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make some significant headway in your professional goals. An innovative approach to something you've been doing will bring new life and meaning to your work. Communication, travel and keeping things in perspective will pay off. * • • SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Social or industry events will lead to a chance meeting with someone who will lift your spirits. You will realize what you've been missing all along and will enjoy expanding your thoughts with people who have something interesting to offer. ••••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be fooled into thinking that everyone is on your side. Emotional matters will escalate if you decide to deal with them today. It may be a good time to cash in an investment. * * CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): There is money to be made if you are quick to react to a new idea or project. Take the lead position. Today is all about progress and taking action, something you do very well. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): You will be haunted by something from your childhood. Be honest with yourself and you will be able to overcome anything you face. Straightforward, honest action will be what saves you from making matters worse.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The truth will be discovered and, if you have been embellishing, you can expect to have to 'fess up. There will be lots ofdisappointment from those who have trusted you. Put pending problems behind you and move on. 
Birthday Baby: You have a fabulous imagination and a highly intuitive perspective on life and the people you deal with. You are unpredictable, sensitive and somewhat of a dreamer. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fon, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

--
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
That's a bit 
too strong, Harry 
WHY THE: E:DITOR RE:JE:C.TE:D THE: ITALIC. HE:ADLINE:. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Own (up to) 5 Freezes 

10 Hardly racy 14 Chichi 15 Old lntellivision 
rival 16 Bator 17 Hoedown site 18 Recoiled 19 Place for studs 20 Hurricanes or 
Lightning 23 Suggest, as a 
price 25 Zip 26 Ship sent for 
breadfruit in 1787 27 Blasts of the past 29 "Out of the question" 31 Links obstacle 33 Valentine and others: Abbr. 36 Periodic table abbr. 
37 Actor Kilmer 
38 -Ball (arcade game) 
39 Royale of old autodom 
40 Device patented by Thomas 
Savery in 1698 
44 Sharp-witted 
45 You can take it 
with you 
46 Pierce with a point 
49 Horned Frogs' sch. 
50 Opposite of great, to Burns 
51 Put more pressure (on) ... or a title for this 
puzzle? 
55 Stuck, after "in" 
56 Turner autobiography 57 "The Naked Maja" artist 60 Turner who was called the Sweater Girl 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


.--------------------~---~ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, March 28, 2007 
page 24 
HOCKEY 

Babin signs contract with Carolina, will dress inAHL tonight 
tonight for the Albany River Crunch tonight with 11 games defenseman Kyle Lawson. Ron about Noah. And he said theySenior defenseman is Rats, Carolina's affiliate in the remaining in the regular sea­Francis, director of player were looking at free-agent American Hockey League, son. development for Carolina and a defensemen, and I knew there
first member of class 

Jason Karmanos, vice president "Noah has exceptional skat­23-year NHL veteran, visited was a pretty deep interest 
to begin pro career and general manager of the ing ability, which is extremely South Bend several times there." Hurricanes, announced important in the game today," throughout the season to check Jackson said Babin generated Monday. Karmanos said in a news up on Lawson and in the interest from the pro team with 
Babin, who arrived in Albany release. "That, combined with process was struck enough by his naturally strong skating and
By KYLE CASSILY 

Tuesday, will begin his two­his strong work ethic, gives him Babin's play to sign the puck-handling abilities, but his
Sports Writer year professional contract with a solid foundation to start his undrafted senior. work in the past few years on the start of the 2007-08 season pro career." "I know that after the first his play without the puck is Notre Dame senior defense­but will spend the remainder of The Hurricanes became time, he was coming in specifi­what will help him make a man Noah Babin signed a two­this year's AHL season in interested in Babin through cally to see Lawson and his career in the NHL. year contract with the NHL's Albany before he graduates another Notre Dame player -development," Irish coach Jeff "I give him credit, because he Carolina Hurricanes and is from Notre Dame in May. The Carolina seventh-round draft Jackson said. "[Francis] and I expected to be in the lineup River Rats play the Syracuse pick and Irish freshman spoke several times and talked see BABIN/page 21 
fOOTBALL 
Weis sees no standout in four-way battle to replace Brady Quinn 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
One week into the spring sea­son, Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis has given no indication that he's ready to say-or if he even knows -if any of the four Irish quarterbacks vying for the starting job have separated themselves from the pack. 
The four competitors to be Notre Dame's lead signal-caller next year are early-entry fresh­man Jimmy Clausen, rising sophomores Zack Frazer and Demetrius Jones and rising jun­ior Evan Sharpley. 
One of the main traits Weis said he is looking for in his quarterbacks is their ability to lead the offense. 
see BATTLE/page 22 

Fantastic four 
BASEBALL 

ND nine lose third straight 
Chippewas score six runs in first inning en route to 8-4 win 
By FRAN TOLAN

-
Sports Writer 
Central Michigan pushed across six runs in the first inning and never looked back in an 8-4 triumph over Notre Dame at Frank Eck Stadium

-Tuesday. Irish senior right-hander Jess Stewart, who came into the game with a 2.76 ERA in 10 appearances as a reliever this season, took the loss after giving up eight hits in the opening frame. The Chippewas sent 11 batters to the plate in the inning, with 
see CMU/page 21 



Cincinnati tight end expected to add name to list of2008 recruits 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 

Kyle Rudolph, a 6-foot-7, 235-pound junior tight end from Elder High School in Cincinnati is expected to announce his verbal commit­ment to Notre Dame today. 
Rudolph would become the fifth verbal commitment for Irish coach Charlie Weis' 2008 recruiting class, joining defen­sive tackle Sean Cwynar, wide receiver John Goodman and offensive linemen Braxton Cave and Mike Golic, Jr. 
Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for Irisheyes.com, compared Rudolph to current Notre Dame tight end John Carlson. 
see RUDOLPH/page 22 

Bargar and Co. look to stay unbeaten at home 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will look to con­tinue its winning ways at home tonight at 6 p.m., facing off against Toledo at Ivy Field. 
After winning five in a row at home last weekend, the Irish (14-12) attempt to stay unbeat­en on their own turf against the Rockets (4-14). The red-hot Notre Dame pitching staff, which has led the way during their win streak, should chal­lenge the slumping Toledo club. 
In their five home wins, Irish hurlers have posted an earned­run average of 0.66. Leading the way for the Irish has been sophomore Brittney Bargar, who was named Big East pitch­er of the week Tuesday. 
Bargar went 3-0 with wins over IUPUI, St. John's and Seton Hall. The righty allowed only two runs in her three starts, shutting out St. John's and pitching complete games in all three contests. Bargar also struck out 20 batters in 20 innings on the weekend, bring­ing her season total to a team­leading 109. 
Freshman Heather Johnson, one of Notre Dame's offensive leaders during the streak, was also named to the Big East honor roll for the week. ln the five Irish wins, Johnson batted .538 with five doubles and six HBI. The infielder posted a pair of three-hit games -including three doubles against Seton Hall, matching a Notre Dame 
see HOME/page 20 

-



