;.::. 
j 
page 2 The Observer + IN FOCUS Friday, December 14, 2007 
Index 
Notre Dame Page3 
The Office of the Student Body President 

Page4 
Student Senate, Faculty Senate 

PageS 
Council of Representatives, Student Union Board 

Page 6 
Campus Life Council, Graduate Student Union~ Financial Management Board, Club Coordination Council, Hall Presidents Council, Class Councils 
Saint Mary's 
·~ ·,;~:?. 


Rage 7~~ 
·Stlldet:tt~~ody 
Presl• and Vice Presidltnt Board of Governance 


PageS 
Student Activities Board: Resltten~ ~all Assocl~tlon, 
Student ,DIVersity Board, Student Academic Council, Class Boards 

In Focus Staff 
Karen Langley Kaitlynn Riely Marcela Berrios Julie Grisanti 

Women fill upper tiers of government 
Student body president, vice president, chiefexecutive assistant and six ofnine Senate chairs arefemale 

Coordination Council 
gender continues to come from the committee with Patrick Tighe.) they am not seeing a split gender By KAITLYNN RIELY University's female alumnae, Brown said she was "pretty ticket or a two female tickPt," lm 
In Focus Writer 

Brown and Braun said. The fact wary" when she realizod how said. "They are seeing what this that two women are the represen­many of the top leaders in student eandidato can do for the student 
The election last spring of liz tatives of the student body means government were ((~male. body. and I think that's the right Brown and Maris Braun marked less for current students than it "I have live brothers," she said, direction." the first time the Notre Dame stu­does for women who were at "so I grow up in a mai11-dominatPd Senior Carol llendrickson is the dent government presidency and Notre Dame shortly after it environmPnt." Senate Aead11mic Affairs commit­vice presidency have both been became co-educational, Brown Sophomore Ian Secviar, one of tee chair. and has served on stu­filled by women. The University said. For them, the fact that two only three men who serve as dent government in some capacity eommunity and especially female women are at the helm is a huge chairs of Student Senate commit­since she was a freshman. She alumnae celebrated the historic accomplishment. tees this year, has never been at said she thought it was simply election, a moment they suggested "The Notre Dame they experi­Notre Dame under a male student chance that most of the top-tier showed how far the University has enced was that women weren't body president. Last year, Lizzi positions were filled by' women come since becoming coeduca­the majority, and having a female Shappell served as president with this year. tional in 1972. president and vice president was vice president Bill Andrichik. Dave "I think it's great that we've 
Braun said she was aware there unheard of, so that feedback is still Baron was president the year overcome that barrier of not hav­was "a lot of hoopla or hype" when overwhelmingly positive," Braun before Secviar became a student ing two women or three women a..'i they were elected. said. "It's still wonderful." at Notre Dame. the executives,'' she said. "But I 
"Jjz and I stressed from the Since Brown and Braun "When I first sat down in the really think it's important to have a beginning that we hoped our gen­assumed office last April, they room with everyone, I was like, balance." der was the least interesting thing have selected many women to the 'Wow, we're the only three guys Brown said when she and Braun about us," she said. top-tier positions of student gov­here,'" Secviar said, referring to were selecting Senate chairs and 
They said they wanted their ernment. Sheena Plamoottil Patrick Tighe and Colin Feehan, their chief executive assistant, peers and the administrators and became their chief executive assis­the two other male Senate com­they were not looking for a certain faculty at Notre Dame to focus on tant, the No. 3 position under mittee chairs. male to female ratio or to fill quo­their capabilities as leaders rather Brown and Braun. Michelle "I fmd it very refreshing," he tas, but were seeking the most than their gender. Brown said they Zaldana and Kadeja Gaines serve said. qualified people. were initially greeted with com­as secretary and treasurer, But Secviar said he didn't think "I think hopefully we are in an ments about the historic note. respectively. gender made much of a differ­era now, where gender is not a top Since taking office, however, she Carol Hendrickson, Brenna ence, instead pointing out the issue anymore, and it's really and Braun have felt their perform­Doyle, Ninny Wan, Mariana strong leadership skills of the who's the most competent and the ance has been judged based on Montes, Karen Koski and Callie female executives. most qualified," she said. their leadership, without consider­Pogge lead six of the eight commit­"It's nice to see that people are ation to their gender. tees in the Student Senate. (Doyle putting it in the back of their Contact Kaidynn Riely at 
Most of the attention to their co-chairs the Gender Relations minds when they are voting -kriely@nd.edu 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT? 




Adam Gadzinski  Carly Torres  Deanne Munoz  Patrick Brown  Patrick Connors  Zach Elnterz  
senior Morrissey  sophomore Farley  freshman Welsh Family  senior Morrissey  junior O'Neill  senior Morrissey  
"Student government? We have one?"  "/haven't heard anything about them, but I'm sure they've done a wonderful job."  '7 think student government is clutch."  ''I'm always impressed with /former] senator {Greg] Dworjan 's great ideas."  "Who's our president?"  "Vote Democrat. "  

Editor's note: The Observer is publishing a comprehensive review ofthe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student g()llernments. This issue ·s intended to illustrate for students what el&cted officials are doing in their nam&, so they can enter the election season fully informed. llts intent is to provide an illuminating, unbiased assessment ofthe state ofthe Student Union. 
Friday, December 14, 2007 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 3 
OFFICE OF THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT 


Leaders respond promptly to student issues 
Brown, Braun win broad confidence by smoothly handling unexpected problems, like party permit ordinance 

By KAITLYNN RIELY 
In Focus Writer 
From the time they took office April 1, Uz Brown and Maris Braun have worked to fulfill the requirements of their positions by representing undergraduate stu­dent interests, responding to stu­dent opinions and maintaining regular communication with the student body. 
Brown and Braun came into otlice under unusual circum­stances. Neither they nor their opponents in the run-off election last year received the required 50 percent plus one of the vote need­ed to win, so the decision about who would lead the student body was made in a closed meeting of the Student Senate. 
Brown and Braun emerged vic­torious, but without the strong backing of a majority of students. 
They did not let this deter them. 
"Since it was such a close elec­tion, that's motivating to me," Brown said in April. "We have to step up on our game and prove that the right decision was made in the end." 
The test 
In August, Brown and Braun erased any doubt about whether they could handle their positions. 
While most students were still immersed in summer jobs and internships, the pair took action on an issue of undeniable rele­vance to their constituents: an ordinance proposed before the South Bend Common Council that would require residents of board­ing houses to notify the city before hosting an event at which more than 25 people would have access to alcohol. 
The ordinance defined a board­ing house as a building in a resi­dentially zoned area in which more than two non-related people live. Its requirements would thus affect the many upperclassmen living off campus as well as any students who would spend time at their residences. 
The student body president and vice president sent an e-mail to all students Aug. 4 to notify them of the proposed ordinance and state their intention to fight it. 
Student response to the ordi­nance flared on Facebook and other online message boards. As students began their return to campus, the issue dominated campus discussions and the edito­rial pages of The Observer. 
Brown and Braun could have let themselves be cast by the Common Council and local press as angry students defending their right to party without concern for neighbors. 
Instead, the pair displayed pro­fessionalism and integrity in meetings with Council members, listening intently to all sides of the issue. Their goal was to remove the permit process from the ordi­nance and seek other ways to address concerns about disorder­ly parties. 
Brown warned students that their behavior at off-campus par­ties would determine her bargain­ing power with the Common Council. Through Student Senate meetings and a letter to The Observer, she asked students to be respectful of their South Bend neighbors. In coming weeks, Council members cited an improvement in behavior. On Sept. 24, they passed a revised ordinance that did not enact a permit process, though it included language for possible future implementation. 
The passage of the revised ordi­nance was a major success for Brown and Braun. The alacrity they showed during the ordinance debates has been characteristic of their approach to pressing issues. Braun recognized this when she and Brown spoke recently with The Observer. 
"A lot of how I would rate Uz's and my success is how we've responded to unforeseen events," she said. "We've been able to think on our feet, and I think that's helped us out a lot, as things have arisen that were not planned for." 

Moving on 
It would have been easy for Brown and Braun to become com­placent after the successful out­come of the ordinance exchange. 
But Brown and Braun have not slowed in their attentiveness to student concerns. Through their own initiative and with collabora­tion from Student Senate commit­tee chairs, they tackled the down­sizing of the student ticket exchange program and the jump in the price of course packets. Student government made some progress on both, and Brown and Braun said they are confident changes to the exchange program and the course packet distribution and pricing system will be imple­mented. Brown said it appears the student ticket exchange program will be open to more games than this year, when students were only allowed to exchange tickets for the Notre Dame-USC game. 

Senate Academic Affairs com­mittee chair Carol Hendrickson said course packets for Arts and Letters classes will not be sold from the bookstore next semester. Other course packets will still be sold from the bookstore, she said. 
Hendrickson had been told that there will be changes next semes­ter regarding course packets still sold through the bookstore, but she was not sure what those changes would be. Hendrickson also spoke with the Hesburgh Ubrary about increasing use of e­reserves. The library has said it will be able to accommodate an increase in e-reserves in January. 
Brown and Braun are attuned to the opinions and interests of the student body, as they demonstrat­ed this fall, when they suggested that students wear green on a designated day in support of the flailing football team. Though the gesture did little to improve the team's fortunes, it showed that Brown and Braun consider vari­ous ways to engage their con­stituents in University issues. 
Brown and Braun first demon­strated their ability to respond quickly and thoughtfully after a gunman killed 32 students at Virginia Tech last April. They led a discussion among senators about how the Notre Dame community could express its condolences after the massacre. Their compas­sionate approach to an issue that rocked not only Virginia Tech, but college campuses across the country, came two weeks after they had entered office. 

Moving from dialogue to action 
Though unexpected problems have taken up much of their time, Brown and Braun have still acted quickly to fulfill their campaign promises. 
Shortly after she took office last year, Brown, who served as chief executive assistant in last year's Uzzi Shappell-Bill Andrichik administration, urged student government to move past dia­logue toward action to make "con­crete, positive changes to student life at Notre Dame." 
Brown. and Braun set the stan­dard for action at the first Student Senate meeting of the 2007-08 school year, when they announced that two of their campaign goals had come to fruition. The conces­sion stands at Notre Dame Stadium and at the Joyce Center 

page 4 The Observer + IN FOCUS Friday, December 14, 2007 
STUDENT SENATE 


Senators begin engaging in productive dialogue 
By KAJTLYNN RIELY 
In rocu' Writt·r 
The 2H rPprl'snntatives who sit on tlw Student Senatn have nwshed well this year with the top three leadnrs and thn nine eom­mittnn chairs, allowing li1r produe­tivn dialoguP and Pll'm~tive resolu­tions. 
Tho ingrndim1Lo.; that make a sue­CI~ssful Student SPrHttl' are vocal senators who will spoak their mind about issw~s. studnnt body president Liz Brown said last week. 
When the Brown-Braun admin­istration began in April, the sena­tors se1m1ed lwsitant to challeng­ing idl'as proposl'd by the top t.hrne executivns or the eornmitte1~ chairs. Brown said wariness on the part of the senators is typical at tlw bnginning of tlw Ll~rm. 
Last. April, Brown made the first of throe State of tlw Studl'nt Union addrnsses l'Pquin~d by tlw Student Body Constitution. Slw told serm­tors to move from dialogue to action. Slw and studl'nt body vien pn~sidnnt Maris Braun sl't the tone lill' action at tlw lirst Senatl' meet­ing this yl'ar. wlwn tlwy announ1~1'd that two of tlwir cam­paign goals had alrl'ady bm~n nwt -t.lw introduction of DornPr Dollars in tlw Stadium and Joycl' CPntPr and t.lw !TPation of a guest Illl~alnxdwngP program. 
Frivolous discussion about nwaningless or ill-preparod reso­lut.ions is indnl'd a waste of time. But Brown and tlw sl'nators must n~mmnbPr that sl'nators need to Pngagl' in productivn dialogue if tlwy arP t.o stimulatl' nf'w ideas and im pro vi' old onPs. 
At tlw first nwl'ting of the Studl'nt SnrHttP last April, Braun nrH~ouragnrl tlw sPrHttors and the committne chairs to activnly nngagn in tlwir administration. 
"Jnncourage you to always voiel' your point ofviPW, no matter what. The point of SmmtP is to ernate convnrsation and dPimte." Braun said in April. "SI'natl' has the capability t.o gPt a lot donn, and Liz and I would n•ally likn to sen that happen this year." 
Senators have moved from their initial lwsitancn to <Lo.;k qunstions and argun opinions to greater engagm111mt in dialogun and dPbatP, to t.ho bnnPfit. of thll entire Senate. 
When Antdmnk Allitirs chair Carol llendrickson first presented a rnsolution that urged faculty mmnbers to increase use of elec­tronic rnserves, in place of more expensive eourse packclo.;, many senators opposed the resolution, mostly bm:ause of language that stated a switch would be environ­mentally friendly. Many studonlo.; would still print out the pages from the olectronic reserves, they argued. 
Ilendriekson was able to collect enough li~edback from senators to draft a revision of the resolution that omitted reference to the envi­ronment. The resolution's passage 
shownd  how  legislative  input  
improved  tho  resolution's  e!l'ec­ 
tivmwss.  

Purposeful dialO!,''Je again pro­duced tangible results when Siegfried senator Jim Lockwood proposed his amendment to die­tate presidential responsibilities. 
Lockwood present!ld an amend­nwnt outlining the way in whieh the student body president should interact with the Community/Campus Advisory Coalition, or CCAC. The CC/\C is a group created by the South Bend Common Couneil composed of' rep­rnsentativns from the city and mmmunity, as well as Ii·om tlw administration and student bodies of local collnges. It W<Lo.; created by tlu~ South Bend Common Couneil in late Septembf~r as part of' the resolution to the debates about rnquiring student rentnrs to rngis­ter large parties with tho dty. 
Tlw CCAC is intended to li1ster dialogue about problems bntween collegns and the wider community. Notn~ I>ame'!i student body presi­dent was invited to atl!md meet­ings of the CCAC. 
Lockwood's original resolution wao.; well intentioned and filled a void in the Student Body Constitution, but it contained strin­gent language that dictatnd exact­ly how the student body president should interact with the CCAC and what he or she should report back to tlw Student Senate. 
Many senators and ehairs spoke against the specilicity of the ammulment. bloeking it.:; p<L<;sage. Senatn Ov!lrsight chair Ian Sf~cviar rnworked the amendment in his comrnitten and presented it to the Smmtn a second time. The sena­tors' dialogue allowed efl'eetive revisions and resulted in an amendment less restrictive of the student body president's aetions. The rosolution·p<L.:;sed. Sinee August. several senators 
have strengthened their participa­
tion in Senate meetings. Some, like 
Fisher Hall's Stephen Bant and 
Lyons Hall's Kelly Kanavy, have 
presented resolutions on course 
paekel'> and on University divest­
ment from Darfur to the Senate on 
behalf of the eommittne chairs. 
If the Student Senate is to be 
effective, senators must take deep 
personal interest. Senators must 
provide a eheck on exeeutive 
members and committee chairs by 
questioning them about the accu­
racy and meaning of resolutions. 
They should also bring to the Senate's attention any issues stu­dents are discussing in their dorms, as some senators have started to do in the last lew meet­ings. If they continue this next semester, they can help student government better address the concerns of its constituent<;. 
The committee chairs have done well taking up Brown's call for action. They have created pass­able resolutions and organized student events. Secviai· and Hendrickson have been oul.:;tand­ing as chairs of tho Oversight and Aeademic Affairs committnes. Secviar's releasn of' thn revised Student Body Constitution has linally rid the documPnt of its prn­vious errors and discrepancies. 
Ilendrickson took great initiative in addressing the spikt1 in course paeket priees this year. !fer dogged determination to prevent price gouging of eoursn packets came across in the PowerPoint presenta­tions and the statistical assPss­menL'> she made to the Senate. 
The ehairs must display thor­ough knowledge about thP intent of and research behind their reso­lutions. A number of resolutions passed this semester, including a Multicultural i\fl'airs letter to University President Father John Jenkins encouraging increased recruitment and retention of minority faculty and a Hesidenee Life committee resolution to the Oflke of Hesidence Life recom­mending improved workout facili­ties, had preventable holes in logic or research. To maximize impaet, chairs must solidify resolutions before presenting them to the Student Senate. 
If the Senate eontinues to have productive discussion and produce meaningful resolutions, it can accomplish a great deal this year. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Grade: A-
Productive dialogue among senators and chairs has led to an efficient semester. Senators should continue bringing their dorms' perspectives to Senate business. Committee chairs have taken Liz Brown's charge of action seriously. They should focus on bringing forth more resolutions -but only after solid research and preparation. 
Multicultural Mfairs : C+ The committee has yet to make real progres..o.;. Tim Senate approved a let­to University President Father John Jenkino.; encouraging him to prioritize 
· ority fiteulty recrui1ment and retention. The lettcr had good intention'>. ut chair Ninny Wan provided no researd1 showing wh?' or how Jenkins ould achieve this. The committee's Native 1\rneriean exhibit W<L'> a good idea. ut Wan's goaJ to canml cla.:;ses on Martin LutllCr King Jr. Day hao.; not gone oothly. Look for the committee to in.:;titute a day ofservice mst.ead. 
Community Relations: /\-. The rnmmittee was overshadowed 111is year by the effort.<; ofUz Brown an 
aris Braun. Chair Colin Feehan quietly led tlm conunittee in other proje hile Brown and Braun addressed the South Bend Common Council's p 
rmit ordinance. His group's aceomplishmenlo.; include a voter rogistratio "ve, a community block party and <Ul olk.ampus legal aid clinic. Nl:'x ,mestcr. look for the Taste of South Bend. a food-1a'>ting event. Feehan's ian to create a community-based eurrieulum with the Center lbr Soda! 
Coneems will be a challenge to aecomptish by April. Gender Issues: B 
1}'pieally, this committee has achieved il'> greatest aeeompli.:;hments in tl1e prtng semebier. Chairs Pa1rick Tighe and Brmma Doyle, an Observer ad xocutive, changed tlw name of last year's Eating Diporders Conlcrencc to e Ilealtl1 and Body Image Confereneo to appeal to all genders. The event is ,heduled for March. The committee quietly staged a sexual a<;sault awarP­<'SS week tl1is fhll to correspond witl1 Loyal Daughters and Sons. 
University Mfairs: i\ Unlike many student government-spono.;ornd events, tl1e committee's stu­ent-faculty debate series has attracted student interest. Senate p<L<;sod a res­lution sponsored by Callie Pogge's mmmittcn to urge the University to ledge to roduco greenhouse gas omission-; by 2015. Poggo ha-; gone green. he organized a sur,cessful Energy Week ;:md said she plan.:; to launeh an 
,nvironmental rmnpaign next semester. !lor bigg<'st battle may be linding an on-campus location for r.abs to pick up student.:;. Academic Mfai.t'S: i\ 
Carol Hendrickson's leadet'Sl1ip has been impressive. She addressed stu­ent conc,crns about a hike in course packet plic~s by speaking to adminis­ators. She told senators it appeared that course packet costo.; will be down ext year. Her conunittee also passed resolution<> rec,ommnnding r.~ult · creases their use of e-reserves and <L'iked tl1e Oflke of Information echnologies to rxeate an o~e ?e~sit system for ptint quo1a<;. 
SociaJ Concerns: B Chair Karen Koski ha.:; done a good job !Xlnting up with new initiatives fot e Social Concerns mmmittoe to tackle. induding a resolution c:ommendin n University for divesting from compru1ies that suppmi tho Sudanese gov­rnment while hun1ru1 rights violations continue in the country's Darli ,gion. Koski needs to improve prl:'sentations to win the attention mul nntlm­'asm ofother senators. 
Residence Ufe: C Residence Life must retbcus il'> agenda on achievable goal.:; backed b arch. The University is milikcly to make law1dry free in dorn1s. Chai artana Montes r.uc.r,ceded. in rer,ommending tlmt more emergency call sta­"ons be added on campus, but a rer,ommendation to improve exercise facil­"ties in the residence hiills, though well-intentioned, looked solid research. · , Oversight: A· Chair Ian Secviar has shown impressive lmowledge of the Student Uod 
Constitution. His committee's relea<ie of a revised Con.:;titution may proven "sunderstanding that arose last year from errors in the doewnnnt. owever, Secviar must be careful not to over-revise the Con<>titution. At 
ecent meeting, he proposed a resolution that would redefine the vote to · . The Senate must not stifle progress with quibbles. 
FACULTY SENATE 


Men1bers discuss Catholic recruitment, Academic Articles 
By MARCELA BERRIOS In focus Wril~r  appointment and promotion of faculty and other issues or rele­vancn to !'aeulty members,  members were presented with an Office of the Provost report detailing the conclusions of an  maintain an environment where faculty of other faiths and none are included as full  recruiting Catholic faeulty, Jessop said. "This is a very constructive  
Jnssop said. Every 10 years the  ad hoc eommittee of professors  members of the community."  and  collaborative  discussion  
This year, tho Faculty Senate  Academic Couneil reviews and  and  adminis- Jessop  said  dur­ between  the  faculty  and  the  
has actod as a true liaison between prol'ossors and admin­istrators. It has Pngaged prorni­ considers amending the Articles. When the Acadmnie Couneil requested recommen­ trators gath­ered to address the  'This is a very constructive and  ing that meeting that many faculty members would be  administration," Jessop said. "It's not like 'us' versus 'tlwrn.' It's a dialogue, and a very open  
rwnt issues, such as revising the  dations  from  the  Faeulty  decreasing  collaborative  uneasy  with  the  one.''  
Acadomic Art.idos and consid­l'ring University efTorts to recruit more Catholic profes­ Senate, the senators started talking to their constituencies about it.  percentage of Catholic fac­ulty at Notre  discussion between the faculty and the  idea of Notre Dame moving away from hiring on academie  Besides collecting feedback from professors about thP Academic Articles and tlw  
sors. that will afTect  both facul­ Thn  Senate  proposed  seven  Dame  and  administration. "  merit.  lie said  the  rnport on the hiring of' Catholic  
ty and tho University  for years  revisions to the Council, which  consider  Senate  has  been  faculty, the Senate has also dis­ 
to conw. The senators lwgan the year proposing anwndnwnts to tlw  will deliberate in January. One of tlw Senate's proposals con­eerrwd t.he notice period the  University reaction. T h e  Colin Jessop Senate chair  gathering feedback from its eon­stituents and is  cussed ways to improve the ef'fi­eieney of' Teaeher-Course Evaluations (TCEs). Jessop said  
Univnrsity's A1:adernie Articles,  University must give before dis­ University  seheduled  to  pres- the  senators  are  looking  into  
whieh arn "like a loose contraet  missing a faculty member.  must  of  ent  recommenda­ online TCEs that eould  be  tai­ 
lwtWl~l' n  tlw  l'arul ty  and  tho  The senators have also reaet­ course  appoint  leaders  who  tions  to  University  Provost  lon~d  easily  to  bettor  evaluat1~  
administration,"  said  Senate  od  to  University  plans  to  beliPve  in  the  necessity  and  Thomas Burish Dec. 12.  different disciplines and  cours­ 
Chair  Colin  .Jessop,  a  physics  increase  recruitment  of  value of Catholie hiring. both as  Before  spring  break,  the  es,  
professor.  Catholic faculty.  deans  and  chairpersons,"  the  Senate  hopes  to  finalize  a  
Tlw  Articles  outline  the  At the semester's final Faculty  report  said.  " ...  (Bull  it  is  report on its official recommen­ Contact Marcela Berrios at  
Univnrsit.y's  standards  for  the  Senato mneting Nov.  7. faeulty  imperative  that  the  University  dations  to  the  Provost  about  aberrios@nd.edu  

Friday, December 14, 2007 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 5 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 



Members weigh in on ticket exchanges, voter turnout 
Brown's advisory board discusses endorsing pro-immigrant U.S. Senate bill, apathy in student government elections 
By JOHN TIERNEY In Focus Writer 
Members of the Council of Hepresentatives (COR), an advi­sory board to student body pres­ident Liz Brown, have thought outside-the-box in football tick­et discussions and have shown a willingness to stand up against ideas put forth by Brown and vice president Maris Braun. 
The Council has advised Brown throughout the semester, pushing for the creation of a 
new ticket-exchange system for home football games. Members unanimously sug­gested student-run lottery systems, similar to the USC lottery earlier this year. as a potential solution. They have been, howev­er, more hesitant to agree on how to distribute the exchanw~d tickets in a way that would prevent. or at least limit. the students' ability to scalp their tickets. 
The excessive scalping of unused football tickets was precisely the cause for the discontinu­inally scheduled for Sept. 20, became the center of a small controversy after Brown and Braun sent an e-mail to the stu­dent body encouraging students to wear the green T-shirt in sup­port of the football team. 
After many people told them their request conflicted with a previously scheduled national solidarity day with the "Jena 6," Brown and Braun sent out a second e-mail encouraging stu­dents to wear black instead in support of six Louisiana African-American teenagers in 
The Council cited a lack ofawareness of voting procedures as a possible cause for low voter turnouts in previous years but failed to consider the possibility that the minimal student participation in the elections may be attributed to the students' lack offaith in the elected officials' efficiency in improving student life. 
the middle of a racially charged trial. 
Brown and Braun said they were aware of the trial but not that Sept. 20 was designated as a Jena 6 sol­idarity day. 
"It was not the intention of Student Government to plan a day in support of NO Football on the same day as a national move­ment to support the Jena 6," the second e-mail said. 
While the oversight was 

ation of the Ticket Office's ticket exchange program earlier this year. A single exception was made for the USC game, as many students would be leaving campus for fall break. 
Some Council members sug­gested printing the name of the person to whom the ticket is sold on the ticket itself and plac­ing age limits on ticket buyers as ways to prevent scalping. 
COH members kept the rela­tionship between the student body and the ticket office in per­spective, as most of them acknowledged that the Notre Dame ticket of'lice does a lot more for students than ticket offices at other major universi­ties. 
Another football-related item that made its way to the COR agenda this semester is The Shirt. 
The Shirt Solidarity Day, orig-corrected, and The Shirt Solidarity Day was rescheduled for the following day, the error made Brown, her advisors and Brad LeNoir-president of The Shirt Project -seem out-of­touch and unaware of current events. 
The Council again talked about The Shirt in November when it had to approve Jason Gott as the new president of the project and discuss the potential national expansion of the The Shirt. 
During its most recent meet­ing, COR members discussed a campaign to increase voter turnout at the next student body president elections on Feb. 10. The Council cited a lack of awareness of voting procedures as a possible cause for low voter turnouts in previous years but failed to consider the possibility that the minimal student partie­ipation in the elections may be attributed to the students' lack of faith in the elected officials' efficiency in improving student life. 
The Council's continued over­sight of this growing sentiment will only further the perception that student government is not only useless but also out-of­touch with the student body. 
Some members, however, did combat the latter perspective by asserting that student govern­ment should consult with stu­dents before officially support­ing the DREAM Act on behalf of the student body. The DREAM Act is a U.S. Senate bill that would grant the qualifying chil­dren of illegal immigrants tem­porary legal status to allow them to attend college or serve in the military. 
While many members argued that national political issues are not the domain of student gov­ernment, Brown and Braun insisted it is the duty of student government to support projects that stand for what is right, even if they are not directly rel<tted to the University and without regard to the opinion of the student body. 
Some members pointed to clubs on campus that could sup­port the DREAM Act and said those organizations exist at Notre Dame as a resource for 
students  who  wish  to  support  
those specific causes.  
But  Brown  and  Braun  

remained steadfast in their belief that supporting the DHEAM Act is the right thing to do. They cited the example of University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh and his support of the civil rights movement as precedent at Notre Dame for taking action in a similar context. 
In other meetings, COR mem­bers also approved parliamen­tarian Tyler "T.J." Smith Oct. 2 and held closed-door budget discussions on Oct. 1 7 and Dec. 
4. Besides its role as Brown's sounding board, COR is also responsible for approving stu­dent government appointments and any changes to the Student Union budget. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 

Grade: A 
The Council of Representatives is an advisory body, not a legislative body; therefore, it did not produce ma~y tangible results this semester. However, many council members showed a willingness to think creatively in working with the ticket office and to stand upto their administration in its attempt to support•the DREAM Act. COR members took advantage of their platform to get their opinions heard by Brown and Braun. 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 


Home games, scheduling issues thwart lectures, concert plans 
By MARCELA BERRIOS In Focus Writer 
Scheduling conflicts kept the Student Union Board (SUB) f'rom bringing big-name musicians and spnakers to eampus this fall, SUB manager Phil Boss said. 
SUB is chargnd with providing the student body with social and cultural programming. Hoss, a senior, said the ~-,rroup is having a slow y11ar with few guest sp11akers. lew small-to-medium-sized shows and no large concerl'i. 
Old staples like SUB movies and AcoustiCafe seemed to be the only SUB evnnl'i happening this semes­ter. 
Ross said the laek of evenl'i was beyond SUB's control. An intense home game schedule is to blame. 
With only six non-football week­ends to work with before December, Ross said SUB was unable to book a major musical act to perform on any of the open nights. 
Last year, SUB brought singer Ben Folds to campus for a sold-out concert at Stepan in November. 
This year, football schedule con­straints forced the group to focus on smaller events in smaller ven­ues, like the Dec. 1 presentation of band The Format at Legends. Ross said about 750 people packed Legends above capacity during the concert. 
Legends was also the site of another SUB hit this semester, a show by comedian Ben Bailey on Oct. 5. 
Scheduling conflicts have per­sisted with other potential speak­ers and artists SUB spoke to this fall. 
"None of them carne to fruition," Ross said. "Either their schedules wouldn't allow it or ours would­n't." 
Ross said he and his colleagues expect that to change in 2008. They're still in talks with some of the speakers that fell through this fall, Ross said, and they're looking into new ones as welL 
With an election year around the corner, he said SUB has consid­ered focusing on political speakers next semester. Earlier this semes­ter, the group focused on bringing artistic speakers to campus for the Notre Dame Literary Festival, which featured a poet, a novelist, a journalist and a writer for "The Simpsons." 
Throughout November, SUB and the Creative Writing Program teamed up to host workshops, readings and question-and­answer sessions featuring the vis­iting writers. Ross said he saw the numbers of students at the events grow as the month progressed. 
"The first couple of speakers had smaller crowds than the later ones," Ross said. "And that could've just been that the festival had gained momentum by then, but maybe we just needed to do a better job promoting the events early on. It's always tough getting students to notice and attend these things on weeknights so you really 
. need to publicize them well. And that's something we'll be working on next semester." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

Grade: 

·B-
Home football games ade weekends busy this 
semester, but SUB could have held other fun events, like last spring's SNL speaker series, in place of a major concert. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + IN FOCUS Friday, December 14, 2007 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



Task forces yield few results 
In brief meetings, members ponder green summits, Honor Code 

By JENN METZ In Focus Writer 

The Campus life Council (CLC), composed of three task I!Jrces, laid out specific goals for the year, but as the semester eomes to a dose, the !-,>Toup has yet to pass a rnsolution. 
Though task foree leaders elaim to be making progress in their individual meetings, so far the Council's biweekly meetings have lastml. on average, just 15 minutes, with the exeeption of an hour-long presentation by University Architect Doug Marsh. Hesults of the ta..'ik fim:e meetings havo yet to be seen. 
Chief executive assistant Sheena Plamoottil. who heads the Task Force on Campus Environment. has proposed a sories of three green summit<; to ra.ise awareness of environmen­tal issues on eampus. 
Though the summit<; have the potential to be very successful, lack of publicity and wordination of sdwdules with reetors and other crucial attendees have ren­derod them somewhat inell'ec­tivn. 
One of the group's only sueeess­es so far this year has been Marsh's presentation explaining the Oflice of the University Architect's tenet<; for expansion. 
The third green summit, cur­rently scheduled to take plaee on .Jan. 21, should be reseheduled to avoid conflict; hopefully Plarnoottil will be able to fi>eus on other task force goals, like the amount of food wasted in the din­ing hall and campus ener!-,'Y efli­dency. 
Student body vice president Maris Braun leads the Task Force on Student Development. Three of the group's outlined goals include the ereation of an llonor Code awarnness week, exploring problems of student gambling and fostering better gender rela­tions during Freshman Orientation activities. 
The task force is eapable of addressing some of these issues. However, after spending the majority of the semester present­ing on the Honor Code initiative, Hraun announeed she would be passing it off to the University Code of Honor Committee beeause she believed its goals fell under the responsibilities of the Ollice of the Provost. 
Braun and her task force need to start producing results. Hesolutions on their initiatives eould have potential, but so far, no progress has been seen. 
If the Council hopes to make an impact on gender relations for next year's Freshman Orientation, the task foree must start taking real aetion to pursue its goal. 
The third CLC task force, the Task Force on Community Helations, works in contaet with the Student Senate committee of the same name. Headed by Keenan senator Gus Gari, the task li>ree has been pursuing the ereation of a Notre Dame version of the Good Neighbor Guide, a University of Yrrginia pamphlet outlining relations between stu­dent<; and the greater community. 
For the last several meetings, Gari has said the task force has been making progress on the pamphlet, but at the end of the semester, the eontent'> have just been finalized and production has not started. 
The Community Relations task Ioree is also looking to improve transportation to and from earn­pus. If tangible plans had been formed this semester, at least experimental changes eould have been implemented to improve student transportation next semester. However, like the rest 


Grade: C 

Though'the members of the Council have outlined initiatives and goals, the result of their work has yet to be seer{ in the passing of a resolution. 
of the Couneil, the task foree has spent most of its time in talks. 

Gari has done a commendable job conducting researeh on peer university policies regarding campus relations with the greater community, but the task force needs to step it up next semester. 
CLC members offer a unique perspective on student life with its mix of students, reetors and staff. But the Couneil is at the same place it was last year at this time -no resolutions have been passed and matters have been deferred to other committees. The task forces need to stop talk­ing and start doing. 
Student body president Liz Brown needs to use the meetings more effectively and figure out what the CLC ean aeeomplish in addition to its already-outlined objectives. Excluding the meeting with the arehitecture, the bi­weekly meetings have added up to about an hour and a halfs worth of task foree presentations, and the Council has failed to dis­euss any new business. 
She recently called for task force leaders to make reeommen­dations to the Office of Student Affairs, which could have some impact on student life. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

Government in brief... 
Graduate Student Union examines teaching 
The Graduate Student Union is an eleeted body aimed at repre­senting graduate students' inter­ests, promoting educational stan­dards and facilitating interaetion between graduate students and the University eommunty. 
This year, the GSU has focused on improving graduate life and career development. One such action was the funding of trips to professional conferenees for graduate students. The GSU also hosted numerous social activities, ineluding a charity gala and for­mal danee. 
The GSU condueted a survey of every graduate academic depart­ment to compile the best teaehing styles and techniques. 
The GSU, whieh represent<; only graduate students in Arts and Letters, Engineering and Scienee, has worked with other graduate organizations at Notre Dame. 
The GSU maintains a presence in the Academic Council, the Graduate Council and the Faculty Senate. 
-Dauis Rhorer. Jr. 


Financial Management Board allocates funds 
The Financial Management Board (FMB) is a student-operated oversight eommittee responsible for monetary distribution to vari­ous University organizations. 
The board oversees The Shirt Project, approving all parts of the design and manufacturing phases and ensuring prolltability. 
The board also manages The Shirt Charity Fund, which is finaneed by half the revenue gen­erated from The Shirt sales and is available to Notre Dame student'> to help pay for medieal bills. 
The board recently completed it'i annual spending review through whieh it holds aeeountable all organizations receiving funds. Additional funds needed by organ­izations were allocated at this time. 
In April, the board will review budgets for all major student organizations, induding the CCC, for the 2008-09 school year. 
Kadeja Gaines, the Student Union trea">urer and head of the Financial Management Board, said dubs and organizations have been spending responsibly this year. 
-Davis Rhorer. Jr. 


Club Coordination Council facilitates activities 
Drawing from student activity lees and one third of the revenue from The Shirt, the Club Coordination Couneil (CCC) was able to allocate $280,000 to about 225 dubs last year, aceording to CCC president Paul Robbins. 
The CCC indudes six dillerent divisions: aeademie, athletie, eul­tural and special interest, soda! service and performing arts. The eouncil allocates funds based on appeals and reports of dubs' progress from the past year and plans for the future. 
Although there are already more than 200 clubs on eampus, Robbins said new dubs are ereat­ed to fullill still-unmet needs and interest<;. Last year, the Soeial Justice in American Medicine club wa'i formed. New organizations reeeive probationary status for a year. 
CCC's futurn goals include streamlining appeals for funds with online forms and databa'ies and making dubs more aware of the CCC's services. 
"It's a eonstant goal to try to keep the clubs informed that we're a resource for them," Robbins said. 
-Claire Reising 


Hall Presidents' Council promotes pep rallies 
Despite a 3-9 football season, Hall Presidents' Couneil eo-ehairs Lauren Sharkey and Andy Hellmuth said they were pleased with dorms' turnout at pep rallies and student involvement in dorm activities. 
Sharkey said the suceess at pep rallies was partially due to enthusi­asm from host dorms. 
"We tried to keep the quads together, so there was rivalry Iat the pep rallies]," Sharkey said. 
In addition to hosting pep rallies, the HPC allows hall president'> to exchange dorm information, and the eouncil allocates money to dorms' signature events. 
Sharkey observed more involve­ment in a variety of dorm event<; this year, sueh as the Knott Hodeo and various speakers. 
"What we look forward to is more and more dorms getting involved in activities that aren't usual," she said. 
Hellmuth said in the futurn he hopes to see more multi-dorm events, such a'> Dillon and Alumni rivalry week. He said although brother-sister dorms foster inter­dorm activity, there is little collabo­ration among dorms of the same sex. 
-Claire Reising 

CLASS OF 2008 COUNCIL 
With nearly hall' its class living ofT cam­pus, the Senior Class Couneil has organ­ized events to draw students back. 
The Couneil began the year with its traditional Margaritaville beach party. Other events included the Council's Millennium Development golf outing and a wine tasting at Legends. The group has also put together several e!><>king semi­nars, geamd toward "helping students move from college into the real world," Couneil pmsident Bridget Keating said. 
Most of the Council's work focuses on S!mior Week, the week between finals and graduation. "Beeause it's so large, it 
really requires  our  attention  all year,"  
Keating said.  
-Joseph McMahon  


CLASS OF 2009 COUNCIL 
The Junior Class Couneil has focused on organizing and publicizing class events. 
According to Council president Bob Reish, the group is working on making its Web site more useful, so that students will only have to look at the site to see what events are going on. 
"One of our main goals is increasing communication between the officers and the eouncil to the entire class," Reish said. The new site also includes an online catalog selling Junior Class Couneil mer­ehandise. 
In addition, the Council gave on-eampus students the ehance to send care pack­ages to their friends studying abroad by eovering all shipping costs. 
-Joseph McMahon 

CLASS OF 2010 COUNCIL 
The Sophomore Class Council has organ­
ized a number of events to further involve 
its ela5s in campus life. 
The Council recently formed the 
Sophomore Spirit committee, whose goal, 
according to president Grant Schmidt, is to 
"represent the sophomore elass and pro­
vide support for sophomore athletes." The 
committee is working on the sophomore 
dass formal, a "prom-esque" danee to be 
held in South Dining Hall second semester. 
The Council also held a formal dinner in 
the Stadium Press Box with Vice President 
of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman 
that was attended by 120 students. All pro­
ceeds went to charities benellting schools 
in Africa. 
-Joseph McMahon 


CLASS OF 2011 COUNCIL 
Though members of the Freshman Class Council are still getting used to earn pus, they have already organized well attended events. 
The Council saw success with it'> Freshman Class Rosary at the Grotto, Council president Kate Clitheroe said. A large portion of the class attended the serv­iee. 
In addition, the Couneil is currently work­ing on organizing several dances as well as creating the freshman elass T-shirt. 
However, the Couneil is still working on establishing leadership roles and letting freshmen know about the events it is organ­izing. "We need to get ourselves organized so we ean get our names out there," Clitheroe said. 
-Joseph McMahon 

Friday, December 14, 2007 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 7 
SAINT MARY'S STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT 
Hodges, Payne emphasize communication 
By KATIE KOHLER In Focus Writer  Hodges and Payne built from past experience with the Student Diversity Board.  importance of their executive support system. "Now that we were able to  the community abreast of campus events at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross.  "We must get the new board ready for next year and make sure things are in order," Hodges  
Hodges, the first black student  touch on each of our campaign  "By getting our name out in the  said. "Kelly [Payne] is working on  
When  Kim  Hodges  and  Kelly  body president in  issues,  we  can  community,  we  can  bring  more  changing the fiscal policy for stu­ 
Payne assumed their roles as stu­dent body president and vice  College history and former vice  "We need to focus  dig even deeper next semester,"  people to campus," Payne said. The executive branch also co­ dent government and looking to increase funds."  
president, they began the  term  president  of the  outside the Saint  she said.  sponsored  a  number  of events  They will also continue tradi­ 
with a focus on increased com­munication between students, administrators and alumnae.  Student Diversity Board, said she has worked  Mary,s microcosm and more on the issues  The two rec­ognized the development of  this year to increase club aware­ness of BOG resources. Such events have included Food for  tions like Heritage Week and SMC Tostal, the College's biggest annu­al event. This year, SMC Tostal  
In the fall semester alone, the duo has accomplished all of its campaign promises to some  throughout presidency address  her to the  facing our community on a larger scale. ,,  leadership among their board members.  Thought, a regular forum about student government; Booze, Bands and Boys, an orientation  will feature a performance by singer Colbie Cailatt on AprillO. Hodges and Payne attribute  
degree, !lodges said. "In one sense or another,  we  issues most important to the  Kim Hodges  "They need our  don't hand­ event for freshmen; the Student Diversity Board Bonfire; and the  their success thus far to dedica­tion and teamwork.  
already accomplished everything in our platform," she said. "We  overall student body while con­ student body president  holding and nur­turing," Payne  Saint Mary's Shirt. Next semester,  Hodges  and  'The dedication has two parts: our dedication to deliver and our  
are lucky our boards are so inno­ tinuing  to  foster  said. "They have  Payne are turning their focus to  board's dedication  to  carry  out  
vative and creative. From the first  awareness of diversity issues.  the skills they need to get things  policy.  They  intend  to  make  what we envisioned last year and  
years  to  the  senior, they  have  "I knew taking this position as  done."  changes to the new general edu­ building off that," Hodges said.  
given us so much to work with."  student body president that my  cation  requirements  at  Saint  
The  pair  ran  on  a  campaign  spectrum  can't be  so  narrow,"  Promises delivered  Mary's, the BOG constitution and  Contact Katie Kohler at  
that ineluded increasing diversity  she said. "I looked at the well­ Hodges and  Payne succeeded  the BOG handbook.  kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu  

and continuing College traditions; improving communications between students, alumnae and administration; altering the for­mat of Board of Governance meetings to make them more focused on specific issues each week; and increasing focus on programming and retention. 
While campaigning, Hodges and Payne put strong emphasis on connecting students to student government, student government to administration, and students to administration. They have done so in different ways this year. 
"Everything is about connecting important groups on campus," Payne said. 
The first annual Career Insights Fair in November welcomed alumnae to campus, and various ad hoc committees on general education requirements and din­ing services worked with the administration. 
being of everyone on campus and broadened my spectrum." Hodges focused on bringing to 
campus  a  greater  variety  of  
groups,  people  and  events  to  
increase  student  awareness  of  
issues beyond Saint Mary's.  

"I went in with a diversity of thought behind how I present my skills and leadership abilities on campus," she said. "We need to focus outside the Saint Mary's microcosm and more on the issues facing our community on a larger scale." 
Last March, Hodges and Payne won the election by only 37 votes. They said the narrow margin of victory has not affected their atti­tudes for the term. 
"When you run, you have to have high expectations anyway," Payne said. "One vote or 100 votes. We knew what we had to do this year." 
Hodges also recognized the by including the talent of election opponents in their administra­tion. 
After seniors Annie Davis and Courtney Kennedy were the first ticket eliminated, they publicly endorsed the Hodges-Payne tick­et. After taking office, Hodges and Payne welcomed Davis and Kennedy as executives on the Board of Governance. 
"Having Annie [Davis] and Courtney [Kennedy] on our board brings a lot we didn't have," Hodges said. "They are helping us to achieve more unified goals." 
Davis and Kennedy also brought to the administration experience in College-wide gov­ernment, as each had the Board of Governance credentials Hodges and Payne lack. 
Hodges and Payne teamed up with the South Bend Tribune to be a part of inthebend.com, a multimedia Web site used to keep 




Grade: B+ 
While they lacked BOG experience prior to the elec­tion, Hodges and Payne surrounded themselves with experienced members on the board, which helped them create a support system ready to act. While many of their ideas are in the process of expanding, it is admirable that each of their cam­paign promises has been introduced to some degree this semester. Hodges and Payne accomplished a lot with great student support and without much resist­ance from the administration. However, their biggest challenges are yet to come, as they set out to focus on policy changes in the spring semester. 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group encourages student involvement, funds events 

Members organize monthly feedback forums, College-specific The Shirt, discuss extended coffee shop hours 
"I think this year BOG is try­Residence Hall Association, the board to reduce the world outside the College.
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY ing much harder to connect Student Activities Board, forum's frequency. "I would like to see BOG 
In Focus Writer 
with the students to hear their Student Diversity Board and really raise awareness about concerns and voice them to each of the four class boards. Higher attendance the importance of being 
Members of the Board of the administration," said BOG meets weekly at 5 p.m. in While some of the events engaged with the students, Governance have encouraged Sarita Fritzler, BOG chief of the second floor of the Student have produced low numbers, involved and informed," students to become more staff. Center. many have exceeded expecta­Fritzler said. involved in campus events By increasing communica­The Board is responsible for tions, Fritzler said. Fritzler also said she wants throughout the current term. tion, BOG can be a more effec­co-sponsoring events, plan­The launch of the Saint BOG to help inform students of 
Student body president Kim tive tool for students, she said. ning new activities and repre­Mary's version of "The Shirt" the upcoming 2008 presiden­Hodes and vice president Kelly "We wanted to work to con­senting the student body to had a turnout of close to 100 tial election. Payne stressed establishing nect the student body to BOG," faculty and staff. students, and scores attended Co-sponsorships are another strong relations between the Payne said. the co-sponsored pep rally at large part of BOG's goals. The main groups on campus, from The Board consists of 26 Board challenges Notre Dame. board receives funds to dis­the administration to alumnae commissioners, representing Poor attendance at many However, despite the low tribute among clubs and and students, and surrounded various campus organizations BOG-planned events has attendance of other events, events. Most of the clubs ask­themselves with a board com­and class boards. Groups rep­forced the board to plan less ways to improve turnout are ing for money will send repre­mitted to the same goals. resented include the frequent activities and look for not being discussed thorough­sentatives to appeal to BOG 

Grade: B­
BOG has been working hard to increase student involvement in activities and events on campus. While several events were well attended, others were not, and more work could be done to explain low student attendance. While the board seems will­ing to work with students to allow them to express their ideas and opinions about the campus, the attendance issue needs to be resolved. Not much work has been done to work toward the board's goals, but there is potential to do so next semester. 
new ways to entice students to attend. 
The board has been making attempts to give students a way to express their ideas, but the results have not always been what they had hoped for, Fritzler said. 
The Food for Thought monthly forum is one of the ways BOG hoped students would be able to express their ideas. 
Food for Thought, which originally was intended to occur weekly, is a discussion session that focuses on the­role of BOG on campus and offers an opportunity for stu­dents to voice any concerns they might have. But a lack of interest in the event caused ly at meetings. 
Discussion at meetings has centered on co-sponsorships and a partnership with Sodexho, the food service provider for the College, to make changes to policies already in place. 
The board's most notable change allowed students to bring backpacks into the din­ing hall during lunch hours. The menu has also changed to cater to student requests. 
Extending Cyber Cafe hours was also at the repeated request of students. 
Engagement 
The board is trying to get the student body engaged, in both the College community and the and to answer questions for the commissioners about why the funds are needed. 
Payne also discussed future plans to raise money for BOG. She has been talking to Vice President for Student Affairs Karen Johnson about invest­ing the board's money so it can create a rollover fund for ­next year. With more money, BOG can do more things for the students, Payne said. 
"More programming and fundraising has taken place this year in an effort to con­nect the student body more to student government, especial­ly BOG," Hodges said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnOl @saintmarys.edu 
Friday, December 14, 2007 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 8 
STUDENT DIVERSITY BOARD 




Group raises awareness of disabilities, hunger 
Spring agenda includes first-ever women's appreciation week, student leadership conference on immigration, green issues 
By MANDl STIRONE 
In focus Writer 
The Student Diversity Board (SDBI has the ambitious purpose of facilitating understanding and cooperation among all Saint Mary's students while embrac­ing the dill'ernnces that make each of thmn unique. 
With programming that seeks to appeal to people of all races, disahlml or not. pro•immigra­tion or not, and from every background. board president Abby llnnchy said she thinks this ytiar's hoard has built on the sucet~ssns of its predecessors. 
llenchy's vnry young board has bonn putting in a lot of effort to gnt tho board's events and messages out to students, she said. Almost half of the board is made up of first-year students -age is nothing but a number, she said -and the freshmen have really been "stepping up." I lenchy said the young leader­ship has contributed immensely to the board's successes this year by effectively promoting the group's events, like the annual SDB bonfire in October. 
The bonfire. held indoors due to rain, was the board's "way of kind of welcoming the student body baek to school," she said. "It hasn't been outside in two or three years becausfl of rain." 
But the event was a success nonetheless with a turnout of about 100 people, Henchy said. 
The SDB also hosted another annual event this year, the Hunger Banquet. While the ban­quet usually focuses on global poverty and hunger in general, this year organizers "focused on local poverty in the U.S. and then related it to world hunger," Henchy said. 

Last week the board held Disabilities Awareness Week. an multi-day event with various activitifls to raise awareness about the struggles of people with different disabilities. The board members hosted a deaf culture elass, which about 40 people attended, and an eye­glass and sunglass drive that "has actually been a really big success," Henchy said. 
The success of Disabilities Awareness Week prompted her and the board to plan another awareness week, one dedicated to women's appreciation. 
"We figured we're an all­women's college," Henchy said, "and it's never been done before." 
Details have yet to be worked out, but the Women's Appreciation Week is set for March 10-14. 
The board is simultaneously planning its biggest event, the Diverse Students Leadership Conference, which will be held Feb. 13-15 and will focus on environmental justice, immigra­tion, and women in business, she said. 
One major goal for the confer­ence's organizers this year is that "they want people to realize it's student-led," Henehy said. But they also hope to "step it up from last year" and have a big­ger turnout, she said. 
"[Wei want to raise more awareness on Saint Mary's earn­pus," she said, "It should be much better than last year. We are hoping for more ]students] than last year." 
The rest of the board's agenda includes two potential service projects for students next semester, she said. Members arc organizing a drive and a service opportunity that ean get stu­dents to work hand-in-hand with people from the local com­munity, llenchy said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Governmenf~in brief... 
Residence Hall Association holds events Student Activities Board plans activities 
Thn Hesidence Hall (NHI-111), in which students can The Student Activities Board type musical act, and CL Association (HIlA) has tried to nominate people they feel have (SAB) has already accom­Lindsey, a Facebook safety lec­(Teate new programming this positively afl'ected residence life plished its main goal of hosting turer, on campus. year that will benefit the stu­on campus. There will be a ban­successful and well-attended "SAB is given a substantial dent body and improve resi­quet to honor these llilminees events at Saint Mary's this year, amount of Saint Mary's stu­dence life on eampus. during the spring semester. SAB president Cassie Calion dents' activities fee every year, 
The HHA hosted activities like For next semester, RHA has said. so we take planning activities the "Go Belles" tailgate, an many activities planned, includ­The group has planned multi­that meet students' interests event to support Saint Mary's ing the Saint Mary's All School ple events to accommodate very seriously," Calion said. athlnties and make people Formal and Little Sibs week­particular interests of the stu­All of the group's events have aware of the risks associated end. dent body such as the Jamaica been very well attended, Calion with akohol use. They held a The Saint Mary's Formal will Shaka, the annual event which said. Hall Spirit week prior to the be held at the Palais Royale in closes Freshman Orientation, SAB is also planning its Duke pep rally, which Saint downtown South Bend in and the Twilight Tailgate, biggest event of the second Mary's hosted. RIIA also February. which celebrates the last Notre semester -SMC Tostal, which brought Erin Weed, the founder In Mareh, Little Sibs weekend Dame home football game with occurs each spring. This year, of the Web site will bring siblings of Saint dinner and a movie, prizes, cot­SAB is bringing singer Colbie girlsfightback.org, to speak on Mary's students to campus to ton candy and caramel apples Caillat to campus to perform at campus. take part in fun activities. on the library green. the event. 
The HilA created the National The group has also hosted Hesidenee Hall llonorary -Liz Harter Recycled Percussion, a STOMP--Liz Harter 

Academic Council builds alum network Senior works with Board of Trustees 
Tht~ Student Academic they ean show their students As a student trustee sitting on ring at Saint Mary's," Cotta said. 
Couneil (SAC) includes a stu­of the AHN," Payne said. the Saint Mary's Board of Since becoming student dent reprnsnntative from each The AHN allows students to Trustees, senior Cate Cetta is a trustee, Cetta has atttmded a major at the College. Its access alumnae in formation full voting member of the Board June retreat and the Jirst f(>rmal biggest projntt this year is the for postgraduate employment who also sits on the Board of meeting of the Board in October. studnnt ad hoc General or mentoring. Governance. Cetta's primary She will attend one meeting in Edt11:ation Committee, which SAC also sponsors "Major of responsibility is giving the Board February and another in April. is working to revise the gen­the Week." This fall, art, student input on important dBci­"My experience has been amaz­eral nducation n~quirements political science, business, sions. ing," she said. "I have been so at llw College, student body soeiology and modern lan­Each spring, a student trustee fortunate to meet and work with vien prnsidnnt Kelly Paynn guage departments have is chosen from the rising senior people who truly love and want said. taken part in this event. class. to make a dill'nrnnen at Saint 
"Our goals for next semns­SAC is also planning a "My main goal is to deepen the Mary's." tnr includn a large implemen­Dinner with the Deans for connection of the students with The student trustee is chosen tation of service learning students to meet the deans the Board members through through an application proenss within llw majors and and discuss concerns about events that will bring the two and a series of intnrvinws and is 
installing tlw Alumnae aeademic lifn at Saint Mary's. groups together in settings open to all rising seniors. Hnsouren Nt~twork on depart­where they are able to talk ment advisors' computP.rs so -Katie Kohler about the exciting things occur--Katie Kohler 


FIRST-YEAR BOARD 

SOPHOMORE BOARD 
The Sophomore Board has focused o 

draising to help children with cancer. he cla<;s raised money for the "light ight" walk tor leukemia patients earlie 
fall and hopes to plan a fundraiser to Darfur next semester, presiden 
:amille Gerbert said. One of her goals, she said, is to plan even at bring the sophomore da'iS together 
·omething she has tried to achieve by wei oming suggestions from of all her dass ates, rather than just those of people o 
tho board. She said it's important for her aintain a board that asks for fcedbac oughout the year to be able to org<miz vents that appeal to more students. 
JUNIOR BOARD 

SENIOR BOARD 

The Senior Board kicked ofT the year 
wi 
e second annual "Let Your Si<>ter Pick Yo 
r" dance, president Colleen Kielty said. Another big event lor Uw board this f~ as Senior Dads' Weekend, held in October. 
activities induded arden Night, a golf outing and "watehin beat UClA" at t.hc College Football II f Fame, Kielty said. 
The board is al<;o selling a Saint Mary' ookbook tor $10 to collect funds lor th. ollege's ongoing "12 Days of Christma<> 
Senior Boal'd is currently planning th .nior Formal, which might bn held at the ew Hilton Hotel on campus, KiPity said. 
-Mandi Stiron 





